

tgiS
V
a
M
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
fW!
o Uff
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.O,
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3741
Wednesday, October 24, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Ely Cathedral,
Cambridgeshire’s
“Monarch of the Fens”
TTHE history of Ely in East Anglia
A began more than twelve hundred
years ago when Etheldreda, a Saxon
princess, founded a nunnery on the Isle
of Ely in 673 and became the first
Abbess. The community rapidly grew in
wealth and importance, and attracted the'
attention of Danish invaders, who
destroyed the church and foundation in
870. One hundred years later Ely was
visited by St. Dunstan, who restored the
buildings and established a Monastery
for Benedictine monks. Under the
leadership of Hereward the Wake, Ely
became the last stronghold of the Saxons
against the Normans under William the
Conqueror, who was unable to set foot
in Ely until six years after the Battle of
Hastings. Throughout the Middle Ages,
after the death of St. Etheldreda, pilgrims
flocked to her shrine at Ely and filled the
monastic coffers with their offerings.
As a result of this wealth the building
of a great church was commenced in
1083 by Abbot Simeon ; this became the
seat of a bishop in 1109, and during the
next seventy-four years building con-
tinued until 1183, when the present
Cathedral was completed, except for the
central Octagon, which was added in
1322. This vast edifice is the third
longest church in England (537 feet), and
is exceeded in length only by St. Alban’s
and Winchester.
The massive western tower is 217 feet
in height, but perhaps the most remark-
able feature of Ely Cathedral is the great
central Octagon, which is recognised as
the supreme achievement in the whole
range, of Gothic architecture. It was
built by Alan de Walsingham to replace
a Norman tower which fell in the year
1322. Excavations to a depth of eighteen
feet were carried out, and upon a founda-
tion of sandstone rock the eight massive
columns were raised and surmounted by
a lacelike Gothic dome which is the only
one of its kind in existence. The
richly decorated interior has many fea-
tures of great beauty and interest; on
one of the many tombs is a mosaic made
from materials originally intended for the
tomb of Napoleon.


Wi -Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- ——• CU T HERE AND MAIL mmmmm ~~’~’
1 To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
| Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
I
I
Address .
(5.8.25 X)
Age
The Red Page
SISTER KENNT.
In doing her autobiography And They
Shall Walk (Hale) in collaboration with
Martha Ostenso, Sister Elizabeth Kenny
has assured its success as an American
success-story. No doubt it is Miss
Ostenso who is responsible for the refer-
ence oji page 252 to Dr. Evatt as a
“veteran Anzac,” but for the most part
the Australian personality of our lady of
succor wins through words as through
wards, and her struggle for recognition
has been strong enough not to wilt under
dramatisation.
Sister Kenny was one of the 11 children
of a veterinary surgeon from county Kil-
kenny who had married a Hunter River
girl and settled on a station at Spring
Vale in the New England district of N. S.
Wales, later moving to the homestead
portion of Headington Hill, a huge sub-
divided property on the Darling Downs,
Queensland, and, round the turn of the
century, to another, near-by, estate.
As a child, she was taken 40 miles by
horse and buggy to have young Dr.
Aineas McDonnell fix a broken wrist;
and thereafter became the surgeon’s
friend, and studied anatomy with her
little brother Bill in books lent by the
doctor. In 1907, when staying with her
grandmother in N. S. Wales, she helped
the fanners of the district to deal with a
glut by organising sales of produce to
Queensland ; and the feeling of having
done good extended to a desire to do
better —in India, as a missionary. Dr.
McDonnell suggested that a knowledge
of nursing would be helpful to a
missionary, so young Miss Kenny began
her studies in a private hospital.
On a day when she was to go to picnic
races with a young man called Dan, a
call came for aid to a woman in premature
labor, some 20 miles away. Her young
man offered to drive her there, but she
said a horse and buggy could not make
it. Thereupon he suggested that she
should decide whether to marry him or
her profession, upon which she went back
to the house to change her clothes for
the ride out to her patient, to an accom-
paniment of Dan’s buggy grinding “as
though in swift rage out of the driveway.”
It was not long, then, before she was
treating her first case of paralysis, known
in the outback as “the cow disease”;
I knew the relaxing power of heat. I
filled a frying-pan with salt, placed it over
the fire, then poured it into a bag and
applied it to the leg that was giving the
most pain. After an anxious wait 1 saw
that no relief followed the application. I
then prepared a linseed-meal poultice, but
the weight of this seemed only to increase
the pain.
At last I tore a blanket made from soft
Australian wool into suitable strips and
wrung them out of boiling water. These I
wrapped gently round the poor, tortured
muscles. The whimpering of the child
ceased almost immediately, and after a few
more applications her eyes closed slowly
and she fell asleep
After a short while, however, the little
slumberer awoke fretfully, and cried out,
“I want them rags that wells my legs!”
When she reported this, and six or
seven other cures, to Dr. McDonnell, he
was astonished, and said (in rather
surprising prose):
“You are going to know heartbreak and
humiliation. Sorrow will be your lot from
this day forward. But if you have the
courage to carry on, a great reward will
be yours. The great cities of the earth
will bid you welcome.”
By 1913, Nurse Kenny had a cottage
hospital at Clifton, near Nobby on the
Darling Downs, and there she was hand-
ing out her treatment when World War I
demanded her attention. Wounded in
the knee in France in the spring of 1915,
Nurse Kenny returned to Australia, and
joined a sea-transport unit, nursing troops
on the way home to Australia, shuttling
to-and-fro on transports for the rest of
the war. At the end of 1916, General
Featherstone promoted her from Staff
Nurse to Sister.
From her valuable war-service riVo
irrelevancies stand out: the time when
she was first in London, and sat unclothed
in a second-hand shop waiting for a friend
to bring her another suit of clothes, the
suit she had been wearing having been
sold to buy tickets to Surrey for three
Australian soldiers who were short of
cash; and the remark of a fellow-nurse
on a sunset on the Panama Canal: —-
“Isn’t it wonderful! All blue and green
like a bruise!”
Sister Kenny was back in Europe soon
after the war, to get attention for a
fluttering heart; and again to patent and
get produced a stretcher of her invention ;
then she set up a paralysis clinic in
Townsville, financed by royalties from
the sale of her “Sylvia Stretcher”:
I erected an awning in the backyard of
a home in Townsville. Beneath it, on the
earthen floor, I placed a sturdy table and a
zinc bathtub. An old kerosene-tin hung
from its chain over the gallery fire. I went
about my work, removed from the world.'
My little group of seventeen was made
up of victim? of infantile paralysis, cerebral
diplegia and birth palsy. My assistants
were the parents of the afflicted children.
But soon the news of Sister Kenny’s
cures travelled, and health authorities
were worried by people “telephoning
them to inquire into ‘this thing’”; and
Sister Kenny’s battle of wards began,
with demonstrations before sceptical
doctors in Queensland, N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, London and throughout America.
Throughout this long story of disapproval
and adverse reports by commissions-to-
investigate, the same pattern emerges.
The doctors show interest, and even a
kindly wish for the success of the experi-
ments, until Sister Kenny speak® to them
of “spasms.” Then they become seized
with a curious paralysis. A report of
her reading a paper to a “most distin-
guished” group of British doctors at
Queen Mary’s Hospital, Carshalton,
seems to summarise medical reactions
everywhere:
The orthodox theory, I pointed out, was
that the muscles affected were flabby and
flaccid, while mine was based upon the
idea that their condition was attributable
to spasm. When I mentioned the condition
of spasm, the chairman declared, “This is
a new one on us. What do you mean?”
When I tried to explain, the chairman
gave me a look of polite tolerance, booked
his thumbs in his sleeves and walked 1i
the window, where he stood gazing out.
The other members of the committee fol-
lowed his example. There was a window
for each of them, fortunately, while I must
content myself with viewing the creases in
the back of their trousers
In the settlement of the difference be-
tween Sister Kenny and the doctors, this
seems as far as it is possible for a literary
reviewer to go. They say “soft.” She
says “stiff.” She gives details throughout
the book of patient after patient pro-
nounced by the doctors incurable who,
after her treatment, gets up and walks.
The doctors, perhaps naturally enough,
take no notice of the ungrammatical
testimony of children aboift a method
which “wells their legs.”
Even in America, at first, Sister Kenny
got the run-around. The secretary of the
Council on Physical Therapy of the
American Medical Association said: .
“I don’t understand just what it is you
want. 1 was under the impression that you
belonged to some religious order and had
something to sell.”
But she also encountered “the
American characteristic of not letting the
other fellow get away with anything that
might be of value” ; a relatively few
demonstrations convinced them that she
had something, and they quickly secured
money from the National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis to defray Sister
Kenny’s personal expenses, and the
Minnesota observers reported;
“We have no hesitation in saying that
this method will form the basis of ail future
treatment... .Absolutely no deformities
have materialised... - They were more limber
than they were before they had the
disease Fifty-five per cent, full recoveries
were registered in 32.6 days.”
Contrast such statements with the one
(hat appeared in the Australian report:
“Her abandonment of immobilisation is a
grievous error, and fraught with great
danger—especially in young children who
cannot co-operate in re-education”....
At the same time, Sister Kenny was
still open to attack. She was taken to
what would appear to the ordinary
observer to be an extreme case:
I found it was impossible even to push
the boy into a sitting position. His spine
had an S-curve; one leg was apparently
shorter than the other; he wore two long
leg braces and a body jacket; his feet and
toes were deformed; the thumb of his left
hand was supported and he had an air-
plane splint on the arm; he had apparently
no triceps of the right arm or quadriceps
on one leg, no abductors or adductors. He
was unable to stand alone. His hamstrings
were short and quite useless.
Sister Kenny got him from his home
into “one of the most comfortable and
up-to-date hospitals it has ever been my
good fortune to know” ; whereupon “two
very prominent orthopaedic men of the
city” told the manager of the hospital
that “if he didn’t get rid of that quack
the hospital would be ruined.” The
manager supported Sister Kenny; the
boy’s deformities disappeared; “function
was restored to every muscle of his body,
he grew stronger week by week,” and
later he “became a student at the uni-
versity where he had to climb three flights
of stairs daily to his different class-
rooms.”
And in the early stages. Sister Kenny
would come to work in the morning to
find that patients whose spasms she had
relaxed had had them returned, and
intensified, by suspicious authorities who
had applied “muscle tests.”
However, these obstacles were over-
come, and, as Sister Kenny says herself:
“My days are now full to overflowing
with recognition from the halls of learn-
ing.” In July, 1942, “National Founda-
tion News” set a medical seal upon her
theory of “muscle spasm” ; in September,
1942, the American Congress of Physical
Therapy awarded her its Distinguished
Service Gold Key; at the same time she
received the “Parents’ Magazine Medal”
for “Outstanding Service to Children” ;
in December, 1942, Minneapolis Public
Welfare Board dedicated the Elizabeth
Kenny Institute; in January, 1943, the
Variety Clubs of America awarded her
their 1942 Humanitarian Medal; in June,
1943, the University of Rochester, New
York, made her honorary Doctor of
Science; in the same month New York
University made her Doctor of Humane-
Letters ; and she travelled to this
ceremony in a special carriage ordered
by President Roosevelt, with whom she
had lunched the previous day at
Washington,
HEART OF LIGHT.
Oh let the magpie blow
Full round days like drops of dew
That ring the earth and dome the sky
And tremble lest they spill
Drenching in cloud-burst sunshine our
high hill.
In heart of dew we lie
Drowned in brief immortality
And watch our fair-haired children
p . lay
While the bird in the nest
Feels her eggs warm and aching at
her breast.
Oh lock these days around
When to a gentle oneness bound
Hearts and little children play
And let such days atone
For those when we are many and
alone.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL
Gunther's MacArthur.
John Gunther in his Riddle of Mac -
Arthur (Hamish Hamilton) is again able
to produce a work calculated to please
everybody—in parts. It does ample justice
to General MacArthur’s greatness, and
it traverses all the alleged sillinesses and
weaknesses of the General’s conduct and
character in a manner calculated to please
the General’s enemies and save Mr.
Gunther’s face if he should be proved
by events too optimistic, Mr. Gunther
sums up on' the General:
MacArthur’s chief defect as an adminis-
trator is that he tries to do too much
himself. Like most clever people he is
inclined to be distrustful. He wants to
keep everything close in his own hands,
and he passionately loves detail. He him-
self makes the decision even on such a
matter as, say, whether or not a visitor
will be housed at the Hotel Imperial, or,
if not, where.... His approach during a
discussion is that of a judge; he probes
with questions, provokes varying answers,
never says no without reasons, and despises
those who agree with him too easily.
This is not the impression of other
people. The writer of this review found
General MacArthur very human, as ready
to reminisce as most men of his age,
unusually frank and unguarded in express-
ing personal opinions of men and events
and just as ready as most reasonable men
to exclaim that he was damned if he
knew. And if he did immerse himself
too much in detail there was nothing to
indicate it in his surroundings or habits
of life.
As for Japan, Mr. Gunther seems un-
able to think of Asian problems except
in material terms, i.e., in terms of more
and richer food, vacuum-cleaners, a 40-
hour week. This approach leads him to
deduce, as Australian Labor politicians
have deduced, that “the bulk of the people
of Asia want two things above all; First.
economic amelioration. Second, national
freedom. After that come a host of
other desiderata, such as education, land
reform, political stability, public health,
emancipation of women, various social
loosenings, and so on, which could not
be minimised. But the first two are those
that count.”
Actually a band of European-educated
politicians, aping the West, profess in all
Asian lands to need these things. But
they do not preach them to their own
people because most of them would hate
to see them come about. What they do
preach is Moslem or Hindu hate of the
Christian or Yusufzai hate of the Hindu
or Hindu hate of the Pakistanian. The
basic mainsprings of the urges of Asia
are mystical and religious still in the older
races and products of the racial mind as
applied to economic circumstances in the
Far East. Such is the distortion
of current history that a Dyer inci-
dent in which a few rioters were destroyed
to save a host of lives received much more
horrified world notice than all the wanton
and grisly massacres of the months during
which India and Pakistan were exchang-
ing nationals.
The naivete which produces Mr.
Gunther’s outlook is evident in his con-
clusions about what must be done by the
150,000,000 civilised Americans to salve
the future for perhaps 1,500,000,000
savage Asians who are unable to solve
their own problems:—-
American policy in Asia should be to be
on the side of the Asian peoples.
One might ask, in relation to India,
which Asian peoples—the one who want
to wipe out the Hindus or the ones who
want to obliterate the Moslems? Which
Asian people are they to side with in
Burma between the Red Commos, the
White Commos, the Karens, the official
Burmese Government-wallahs or the what-
nots who have all been busy trying to
wipe each other out during the past few
months? And which Chinese —the
Chinese people supporting Mao or the
millions who still support Chiang Kai-
shek covertly and who would welcome
him back?
M. H. E.
Reviewed Briefly.
Wasa-wasa: Harry Macfie and Hans
G. Westerlund (Allen and Unwin),
Translated from the Swedish by
F. H. Lyon, this true story of adventure
in Alaska in the gold-rush days is some-
thing of a literary curiosity. Macfie is
descended from a Scottish Highland
family which emigrated to Sweden in the
first half of the 19th century and he him-
self emigrated to America in 1897.
Recently he wrote his own memoirs,
Westerlund turned them into “correct
Swedish ' and Mr. Lyon has turned them
into English. No doubt some of the
flavor of the original MSS. is missing
from this third-hand version, but it makes
a rich, exciting and authentic story of
Indians calling up moose to be shot, gold-
thieves and gamblers, and Macfie and his
Scottish companion Sam Kilburn stumb-
ling through snow-storms to spend the
night in an Eskimo village deserted the
previous year because of an epidemic of
smallpox. With much more of the kind
of thing you expect from the days when
Alaska really wasa-wasa Alaska.
* * * *
The Weed Problem: F. C. King
(Faber). This is a delightful piece of
scientific heresy, worth reading as such,
although it is chiefly meant as a practical
handbook for the gardener. Mr. King
believes that garden plants and weeds
like to live together and that it is healthy
for them to do so, as in the larger view
of human society the criminal and the
crank may be necessary to provide not
only variety but vitality. The weed, he
says, is not necessarily stealing the crop’s
nourishment but may even be contribut-
ing to it, so that sometimes when a crop
is not doing well you should “plant weed
seeds”; the important thing is to let the
crop have its natural “green carpet”
around it and not to keep annoying the
topsoil with the spade and the hoe—a
most comforting doctrine.
* * ♦ *
Leaves from a Doctor's Life: Sir
Philip Panton (Heinemann). A wise,
tranquil and quietly amusing autobio-
graphy. Sir Philip is the grandson of
W. P. Frith, who painted the famous
“Derby Day,” and he opens with some
anecdotes of the artist’s friends, Dickens
and Thackeray, and a curious story of
Frith’s meeting in a railway carriage the
“ghost” of a young lady whose portrait
he was going to paint from a photograph.
Then to Cambridge, where a don remarks
at dinner, “Isn’t it terrible about these
burnings?” and Sir Philip discovers that
he is referring to the Inquisition. Then
to the Highlands, where he meets a
Gaelic-speaking giant who had won fame
in a London music-hall as “the Russian
giant.” Then to St. Thomas’s for a story
of an Australian student of midwifery
who used to seduce and then poison
women in the neighborhood and was
eventually hanged. Then medical stories,
including one of a girl who gave herselt
“blue fits,” immensely impressive to her
family, by painting her face with methy
lene blue powder. And finally a chapte
in which the author discusses telepatn)
and the possibility of exploring past tin*
on the lines suggested by W. I. Dunne,


Leather Sheath illustrated
below priced at only 2/- extra.
&
%
m
mk
|
«aks
-
m
- v
21/G
£1
c*
' TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
ds
m ffi
New Combination Knife Set, 36/-
This new combination knife set is complete with a very strong leather sheath and the
blades are made from William Rogers high-grade cutlery steel. Large
knife, five-inch blade and three-inch skinning knife. Both knives have
laminated leather handles with brass guard. Price complete, 36/-.
16/6
17/6
15/6 W 22/6
Knives— helpful companions for
fishing — hunting—bushwalking . . .
William Rogers six-inch scimater blade
with shaped leather and brass laminated
handle, brass guard. Priced at only 22/6 ca.
“The Boone,” manufactured by Wade
and Butcher, a top grade Sheffield steel
four-inch blade knife. Blade has raised
rasp back, leather, brass and fibre laminated
handle. Price, 21/6.
true blades, strong handles
Hunting knives from 15/6
Hunting and skinning knife, “The Dorko” five-inch Solinger steel blade, made
in Germany. Laminated leather and brass handle. Price, 15/6.
“The Stag” high-grade German steel knife with blood letting groove. Five-inch
blade, horn handle with brass guard. Price, 16/6.
The “Nest” Southern and Richardson, Sheffield, England. Five-inch broad blade
with laminated leather and brass handle fitted with brass guard. Price, 17/6.
h m - mSRSSWSBSm 9
WmM Ml wwi pi
■■■■l
*
■HI
. A
■
u,!
.*•••■ • •■ : '
mm
r .
mh
! -,T ' ' , „
■ ■
. .
Ha.
:; -.'.V
SJ
wmm
wm
' ■• -"
...
William Rogers narrow blade o£
finest grade Sheffield steel.
Shaped leather laminated
handle, brass guard. Price, 17/6.
William Rodgers three - inch
blade, mirror finish steel
with leather laminated handle,
14/6. Leather sheath at 2/-.
Clasp knife with two blades ol!
German steel. Made with metal
staple to attach to any belt.
Priced at only 4/9 each.
KNIFE DEPARTMENT—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. ’PHONE M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


WERES NOOTHE
CAR JACK
LIKE IT/
<3
HUDSON
O
I
1
Jl
LIFTS THE BUMPER AND WHEEL
AT THE SAME TIME.
lor SAFETY SAKE
YOU NEED THE
VESTA TRIANGLE
Safety
CAR JACK
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
• Lifts wheel off ground in less time than any
other car jack.
• Will jack up car on hill, on steep camber, on ice,
in deep mud.
• Will not slip or slide—car cannot fall off jack if
properly used.
• Will operate with a 2£in. clearance.
• Is all-in-one assembly—no loose parts—nothing
to lose or leave behind.
• Has no oil to leak out—will last a lifetime.
• Is very easy and absolutely safe to use-
minimum effort required.
• Will not scratch or mark the car or bumper
bars.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE MAKERS OF FAMOUS VESTA BATTERIES
SEC MOW
SAFEandSIMPLE
IT IS TO USE
■
* - • ■,
m
m
m: .
iliiiiii
wsmmmmS m
**,> V
W'vMim
tern
m
s
m
m m
ini
mm
. ' ■ _______ : ____
40
t
ft
¥
S 5!
i
S
• Ideal for women drivers and well-
dressed motorists.
• Crawling under the car unneces-
sary.
• Fits into boot of any car. Length
31in. Weight 13lbs. (unpacked).
No matter what type of jack
you have—you need the Vesta
Safety Car Jack.
The Vesta Safety Jack can be made
to work on any make of car—except
those with flimsy bumper bars.
Ask your Garageman for a demon-
stration on your car.
FOR SAFETY SAKE ...
N.R.M.A. Road Patrols are equipped
with Vesta Safety Jacks.
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
TO VESTA PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.,
Box 1 3. P.O. Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please forward, without obligation, full infor-
mation of Vesta Safety Car Jack.
Name
Address
State . .
Bltn. Ad. 4/5 1


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3741
Wednesday, October 24, 19S1
THE LION-TAMER.
“I tell you he won’t bite, Farouk. I know.”
“Maybe, Moussadek. But he could give me a nasty suck.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H, K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252~George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
j M , e -j OU c ne ' n • .
SSSS T-dl^ksL«:?%k nSb, ‘ n ‘-
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AUSTRALIA'S DANGER.
The Egyptian and Persian crises, com-
bined with the assassination of Liaquat
Ali Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan,
should provide the decisive proof for
Australians that there are issues of more
importance in their lives than the
Caulfield Cup.
The whole Moslem world is aflame
under Arab League inspiration. Our
lines of communication with Europe are
actually threatened. If Egypt succeeds
in ousting the British it also succeeds in
ousting us. The Suez Canal may be
closed for war purposes to every kind of
transport. Our air-routes to Britain will
operate subject to the whims of the
irresponsible and hysterical Governments
of Persia and Egypt, and when Lawrence’s
old friend Nuri Pasha goes in Bagdad, to
those of an equally hysterical Iraki Gov-
ernment.
Those Governments in turn will
become subject, if they are let alone, to
fanatical sects such as the murder gangs
which have deprived Transjordania,
Persia and Pakistan rulers of their lives
within a few months. These gangs,
powerful because of their ostensibly
religious origin, will go to any length to
oust all Christian influence from their
countries, and they seem to be playing
With, or inspired by, Moscow, which is
only too eager to encourage and serve
any bloc ready to create chaos in areas
which Russia covets.
The departure of the British from the
eastern shores of the Mediterranean and
the Indian Ocean would mean that even-
tually Russia would find an excuse for
taking possession. And when the time
seems ripe there will be no qualms on
the Kremlin’s part about resorting to
arms, and no lack of excuses. Stalin will
merely discover one morning that the
perfidious Persians or Egyptians or
Irakis, or all of them, are about to attack
Soviet Russia; or he will find that they
need protection from something or
another, and in a few hours the Red
Army will be rollicking through Tehran,
welcomedl as usual by a delighted popu-
lation who will throw roses—or else.
Added to this, the East Asian area is
becoming worse instead of better. The
Korean war has ceased to be a mere
local affair. It is large-scale war. The
forces engaged on each side are larger
than those in the African zone at the
time of Alamein.
The equipment is now modern and
extensive on the Chinese-Korean side.
Last week saw the first conflict in history
in which more than 100 jet aircraft were
concerned on the two contending sides —
with heartening results, according to the
American communiques, since the
losses of the much-advertised Russian
M.I.Gs. were very heavy.
Every European and American country
involved has been compelled to put fresh
troops into the field within the past three
months. Australia will soon have a
substantial forge there with its
77th R.A.A.F. squadron, its aircraft-
carrier and little ships and its
two battalions and ancillaries and base
support. If all were totted up it might
well be found that back to the supply-
lines at home something like 30,000
Australians will be engaged in fight-
ing in, or supplying and carrying for, the
Korean war. Yet it excites in this country
less interest and concern than the next
cricket-match or the odds on Chase Me
Charlie at a suburban race-meeting.
Korea is treated as a sideshow by com-
parison with sport, to which Sydney
daily newspapers devote more space than
to any other type of news. The casualty-
lists awake no general feeling of pity or
alarm. The wicked and insidious Com-
munist-party propaganda alleging against
the American command under which our
troops are serving all the same thread-
bare atrocities which Moscow propagated
against the Japanese and Germans gives
rise to neither action by the Common-
wealth Government nor indignation in
the public at large.
The Communist Press has charged
General Ridgway’s armies during the past
few weeks with bayoneting babies,
destroying civilian homes as a general
policy, torturing and burying women
alive and indulging in bacteriological war-
fare. It has used the names of Australian
and American prisoners -of - war to
“confirm” its vile charges in obviously-
faked interviews. But nobody takes the
slightest notice. There has been neither
criminal prosecution nor public outcry.
The same sort of thing in the last war
would have led to the manhandling of the
propagators of it, but the soldiers in
Korea are apparently regarded as some-
thing remote and detached from Aus-
tralian life and security, an adventuring
force applied to some vague purpose of
the Government in which the body
politic of Australian electors has
personal stake.
The truth is far different. The shape
and timing of events in Asia fill strategists
with alarm. They are rapidly taking form
along lines which every student of
Russian purpose has learned to dread in
the creation of two war areas, one at
each end of Asia so as to put the peaceful
or would-be peaceful centre of southern
Asia in a pincer between the best point
of Russian access in the Middle East in
Persia and the Suez area, and the best
point of access in the Far East, Indo-
China, with spearheads aimed at every
vital point for a world war conducted in
Asia.
If the Russians have designed a geo-
graphy of conflict to embarrass the
Western Powers to the limit they could
not have done better than is being done
in the development of events at present.
First, China has been secured for Com-
munism, and, on the excuse of what
seemed to be at first a local outbreak,
Communists have succeeded in concen-
trating large Western forces in Korea,
where they must be kept unless the West
is to lose face completely in Asia. That
battle area is also a convenient area for
the Russian bloc to assemble in for
ultimate attack on Japan if necessary.
Next a condition of war is maintained in
Indo-China, which gives excuse for the
assembly of large non-engaged forces on
the Chinese side of the border in a situa-
tion convenient to threaten Malaya and
its rubber and metals and to feed help
into the Vietminh and Malayan Com-
munist fighting areas as a preliminary to
something greater than the assassination
of High Commissioners when needed.
Lastly, the Moslem opinion is being
fanned into flame against the Europeans,
both in Asia in the area where Moscow
covets access to the Indian Ocean and
in Africa, where it has been calling for
a share in the control of the former
Italian areas.
The Middle Eastern areas affected by
the present troubles are those which were
to be deeded to Russia by the unrealised
agreement discussed between Molotov
and Ribbentrop in 1940 and actually
embodied in a draft treaty in which the
U.S.S.R., Germany and Japan were con-
cerned, the South Pacific and Indo-China
and the Philippines to be the last country’s
share of the booty.
All the troubles now seething in Asia
are quite consistent with a set plan made
to suit the Kremlin to clear the ground
for world war, with the communications
between Europe and the Western Powers
of the Pacific and Far East cut, and with
the Western Allies compelled to fight at
points which it wifi, be most difficult to
serve with men and material because of
their distances and isolation ; and under
conditions which might force the West
to let India and Australia and various
parts of Asia now in their hands or avail-
able to them for trade fall unresisting
into the arms of the Communist bloc or
some ambitious Asian Power.
Australia is one of the countries immi-
mently in danger if this plan is in being, if
only for the reason that its resources at
present do not make it worth the keeping
to hard-pressed allies with whom the
prime need may be shipping and air
transport. Without these from outside
sources Australia is completely hamstrung
and helpless, like a man who has
lost his legs, since, because of sloth,
extravagance and industrial dislocation,
we have next to no ships of our own
and no means of getting them in a reason-
able time.
The Commonwealth Government has
a sense of realities, but this does not seem
to be shared by a Press or by a Parlia-
ment which has spent the last fortnight
on a Budget debate devoted to petty
vote-catching which is calculated to
make any decent Australian blush. The
public has no appreciation of its danger
or of the steady drift of the world from
the partly cold and partly active war in
which we are already engaged into a
planned world carnage for which the
U.S.S.R. has been grooming itself and
its allies since World War II ended.
Australia in all its glory of inflation
is like a fat man who has laid himself
down in the shade with a notice on his
breast saying: “Please kick me —I am too
tired and overfed to resist.”
Crimes Act and Commas.
The industrial provisions of the Crimes
Act are virtually limited to offences
against the carrying-on of trade and com-
merce overseas and among the States;
whereas in its Anti-Red Bill (rejected
at the September referendum) the
Government’s aim was to prevent
the commission of treasonable and
seditious offences before they are com-
mitted, and not merely to punish them
afterwards. It made no provision for
imprisoning Communists, being concerned
purely with restricting their activities and
employment.
The “Labor” Opposition is now com-
mitted up to the hilt by its “No” campaign
to approve any procedure by the Govern-
ment under the Crimes Act on a test case.
If Ministers entertain any doubts about
the efficacy of the Crimes Act, it is no less
their duty to put that existing statutory
machinery to the test at the first oppor-
tunity ; and further —which also was
conceded by the “Labor” leader during
the referendum campaign—to amend the
Act if it should prove inadequate for this
purpose.
The provisions of the Crimes Act to
which the Communist party has, in a
widely distributed official pamphlet,
objected are obviously the ones which
the Government must rely upon. The
Communists demand repeal of Sections
24, A to E, of Part II dealing with
sedition —seditious enterprises and sedi-
tious words published in furthering a
seditious intention —and Sections 30,
A to J, covering unlawful associations.
The first group of sections so selected
defines seditious intention (24A) as one
to effect any of the following purposes;
To bring the Sovereign into hatred or
contempt; to excite disaffection against
the Government or Constitution or Parlia-
ment of the United Kingdom, of the Com-
monwealth of Australia, or of any of the
King’s Dominions; to excite attempts to
procure alteration other than by lawful or
constitutional means of any matter estab-
lished by law of the Commonwealth; to
promote feelings of ill-will and hostility
between different classes of his Majesty’s
subjects so as to endanger the peace, order
or good government of the Commonwealth.
An indictable offence is committed by
any person guilty of
Engaging, or undertaking to engage, or
conspiring to carry out, or counselling the
undertaking of, a seditious enterprise
(24C), or who writes, prints, utters or pub-
lishes any seditious words (24D). An
accused person cannot be convicted on the
uncorroborated evidence of a single
witness. Maximum penalties on convic-
tion are on summary prosecution 12
months’ imprisonment and/or £lOO fine,
and on indictment three years’ imprison-
ment (24£).
In the second group of sections which
the Communists resent, Section 30A de-
clares to be an unlawful association any
body of persons, incorporated or unincor-
porated.
Which by its constitution or propa-
ganda or otherwise advocates or en-
courages overthrow of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth by revolution or
sabotage, or the overthrow by force or
violence of the established Government of
the Commonwealth or of any State or
of any other civilised country, or the de-
struction or injury of Commonwealth
property or of property used in trade and
commerce;
Or which is or purports to be affiliated
with any organisation which advocates or
encourages these things;
Or which advocates or encourages the
doing of any act having or purporting to
have as an object the carrying out of a
seditious Intention;
Or which is declared by the High Court
or by the Supreme Court of a State to
be an unlawful association;
Or any branch, committee or institution
or school under the authority or apparent
authority of an unlawful association.
Under Section 30AA the Attorney-
General may apply to the High Court or
to a State Supreme Court for an order
calling upon any body of persons to
show cause why it should not be declared
an unlawful association.
Section 30J, dealing with industrial dis-
turbances, says
If the Governor-General is of opinion
that there exists a serious industrial dis-
turbance prejudicing or threatening trade
and commerce he may make a proclamation
to that effect, during the operation of
which any person who takes part in, in-
cites to, or urges a lock-out or strike (a)
in relation to employment in or transport
of goods or passengers in trade and com-
merce with other countries or among the
States, or (b) in relation to employment in
or connection with the provision of any
public service by the Commonwealth or
any department or public authority, shall
be liable on conviction to one year’s im-
prisonment and (if not born in Australia)
to deportation.
Section 3OK extends the offence to
any person who by violence to the person
or property of another, or by spoken or
written threat or intimidation of any kind,
or without reasonable cause or excuse
by boycott or threat of boycott of person
or property, obstructs or hinders the pro-
vision of or employment in any transport
service or any public service.
In spite of its many provisions the
Crimes Act, as its title implies, deals only
with defined crim~' It falls short of
what the Menzies Government sought to
achieve in its referendum: the right to
prevent crime and industrial sabotage by
“declaring” Communists and removing
them from positions where they could do
great harm.
The Demagogue.
Dr. Evatt’s observations in Parliament
last week are calculated to provide aid
and encouragement to all Britain-baiters
in the Middle East. That is a natural
deduction from the comments, offered
without any time taken for considera-
tion, by the Leader of the Opposition on
the statement made by the Prime Minister
concerning the highly-inflammable events
on the Suez Canal and in the Nile delta.
Mr. Menzies’s statement, repeatedly
sought from him by members on previous
days, was factual and carefully-weighed.
It came after the British Foreign
Office had declared that the British Gov-
ernment and its troops in the Suez Canal
zone would not abandon a peaceful and
lawful position under threats of violence,
“would stand on our treaty rights until
a satisfactory arrangement can be reached
with Egypt within the framework of a
Middle East Command,” and would, in
the face of similar threats, “resist any
alteration in the status of the Sudan.”
It came also at a time when Britain is
striving at U.N.O. to bring the Persian
Premier to negotiate a settlement, within
U.N.O. or outside it, of the Persian oil
dispute.
Nobody in Parliament and few outside
Parliament can be ignorant of the great
risk to world peace presented by the
arrogant Egyptian demand that all British
shall clear out of north-east Africa forth-
with. The alarm-bells have brought
America and France promptly to Britain’s
side. The British Government as in duty
bound —and as Australian “Labor”
leaders have often enough insisted it
should—consulted the Australian Gov-
ernment on proposals for a new Middle
East Command, embracing all Powers
interested. Mr. Menzies said that his
Government, making scrupulous reserva-
tions concerning Parliamentary approval,
agreed to support and assist in these
measures. Obviously the Government’s
desire was, and is, to give both in loyalty
and in self-interest any diplomatic back-
ing from Australia which would assist
Britain in bringing the Egyptian Govern-
ment to its senses.
Dr. Evatt himself began by saying that
he “agreed in substance.” But he then
said that the way to settle the Egyptian
dispute was to take it to U.N.O. —and
even quoted Korea as an example of the
way to do it!
There can be no greater provoca-
tion to another general war than
the propaganda that Britain is pulling
out of the Middle East and no
greater warmongers than men of
influence in the British Common-
wealth who spread it. Ignoring the plain
truth that it is not Britain but Britain’s
enemies who are trying to “alter inter-
national status” by force. Dr. Evatt found
fault with the Prime Minister’s statement
because
he tends to forget that no alteration in
international status can take place in the
world today except through the recognised
organisation of the United Nations;
and because of his own “indirect assump-
tions” that Mr, Menzies supposed “the
British Government should have sent a
gunboat to take possession.” Dr. Evatt’s
statement that “British troops are there
and Britain is allowed to keep them
there” appears to assume that there is
no dispute on that point. In face of riot-
ing by great mobs of inflamed and armed
Egyptians the proper recourse, he said, is
to the United Nations.
There is not one word of reference to the
United Nations in Mr. Menzies’s state-
ment, except to the dispute in Iran. Aou
cannot settle disputes by making demands
to the countries concerned. You must
take them to the United Nations.
In his day as Minister for External
Affairs Dr. Evatt went on record in
Parliament as holding that reference of
disputes to the United Nations was futile
because the Security Council could do
nothing to settle them. In the light of his
own experience and as a King’s Privy
Councillor he must know that what he
was talking in Parliament last week was
mischievous nonsense. What could
U.N.O. do with all its pious resolutions
to settle the disputes in Palestine or
Kashmir? They remain running sores
today. What has U.N.O. been able to
do with the Persian oil dispute after
Britain referred it? Egypt has ignored
for two years a U.N.O. “peace mission
in Palestine and still blockades the Suez
Canal in defiance of U.N.O.’s directions.
Throughout the British Commonwealth
of Nations Dr. Evatt’s is the only repre-
sentative public voice raised on behalf of
a policy of scuttle in face of hostile chal-
lenge, however insolent. This attitude
by a party leader is preparing a rod of
scorpions for the back of White Australia
in the day when the status of the British
race is challenged—and Dr. Evatt s Asian
friends have already challenged it in this
continent also.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australia and Egypt.
The Suez Canal is so important to the
security of the world that even the
flatulent Attlee Government has found it
impossible to give it away, though, judg-
ing by their speeches at the time of the
treaty revision in 1946, Dr. Evatt and
his colleagues might have done so —they
then expressed themselves willing to leave
the whole matter to the British Govern-
ment, which at one stage showed a strong
tendency to evacuate its troops.
When the treaty was concluded origin-
ally in 1936 the Dominions were fully
consulted and the Imperial Committee of
Defence discussed the situation. The
result was that the treaty had the firm
backing of the whole of the British
countries east of Suez, an area which
holds six-sevenths of the population of
the now-weakened British Common-
wealth. Australia, represented by Sir
Earle Page, demanded an assurance of the
perpetual safety of the canal, and it was
in consequence of Australia’s pressure
in particular, backed by the knowledge
of the value of the canal in the First
World War, that Articles 8 and 16 were
included in the treaty, which was signed
only when each Dominion Prime Minister
had specifically agreed to the text.
Article 8 provided that “in view of
the fact that the canal, whilst being an
integral part of Egypt, is a universal
means of communication as also an essen-
tial means of communication between
the various sections of the British Com-
monwealth,” it should be agreed that
“until such time as the Egyptian Army
was in a position to ensure by its own
resources the liberty and entire security
of the navigation of the canal,” the
British Commonwealth should have the
right to station forces in Egyptian terri-
tory with a view to defending the canal
in co-operation with Egyptian forces.
It was specified that “the presence of
these British forces shall not constitute
in any manner an occupation and will
in no way prejudice the sovereign rights
of Egypt.”
They merely are there to protect some-
thing vital to world security and not of
Egypt’s making or maintenance, and are
stationed in Egyptian territory for Egypt’s,
as well as everybody else’s, protection.
Article 16 provided that any time after
10 years either party might ask for
negotiations to revise the treaty, and that,
in the case of inability to agree, the
matter should be referred to the League
of Nations. It was in accordance with
this section that the treaty was revised in
1946 and British troops confined to the
actual canal zone. Egypt already has
before U.N.O. requests to settle her
“grievances” which U.N.O. characteristi-
cally has referred back to Egypt and the
U.K.
Mr. Menzies has announced that Aus-
tralia has agreed in principle to take
part in the Middle East command, and
it would be a gross betrayal, in view of
the fact that the principles behind the
purpose of the command were established
on our own initiative, if it were not made
clear that the Commonwealth will back
the British determination to stay in the
Suez area with troops and naval and
air units if necessary. Mr. Casey, on his
way to the Paris Conference of U.N.0,,
is to talk the situation over with the
Egyptian Government. Having been
British Minister of State in the Middle
East, he knows both the personalities in-
volved and the condition of affairs in
Cairo, and it is to be hoped that the
Cabinet has given him authority to take
a strong stand.
Finnan for St. George.
Prices Minister Finnan of N.S.W. is an
aggrieved man, and with reason. He has
been for three months (barring a short
absence on holiday) directly responsible
for freezing prices in the McGirr State,
with consequences which he and his
Premier alleged would demonstrate
what “Labor” price-control could do in
stopping rising costs if only the rest of
Australia had co-operated.
For three months the N.S.W. Govern-
ment did freeze prices. And now the
Commonwealth officials who collect price
statistics for the quarterly basic-wage
computation on the C-index purport to
have shown that N.S.W. prices were not
frozen at all, but rose higher than ever
and much higher than in any other State.
Mr. Finnan is naturally very angry. He
has not only been made to look silly, but
he has made the whole “Labor” patent
remedy for inflation look silly, too. Rigid
price-control is “Labor’s” sure-fire cure
for inflation, and Mr. McGirr deliberately
set out to prove it with a clamping-down
of all prices over a full basic-wage
quarter. The experiment was a ghastly
disaster, especially for a long-suffering
community.
Mr. Finnan thinks there is something
fishy somewhere, and the unhappy
result will not be an unmixed evil if
he follows resolutely the scent he thinks
he has detected —that “the system of col-
lating prices for basic-wage purposes is
grossly defective.” He may not be able
to vindicate the power of Government
price-controls to defeat a blackmarket;
but he would perhaps be able to dis-
cover that the C-index, among other
shortcomings charged against it, has for
years been stuffed by excessive figures for
cost of some goods which the basic-wage-
housewife supposedly buys.
In the averaging of prices over a range
of qualities, or in the selection of a
quality (how tempting to make it the
best!) as that which the basic-wage-
housewife favors, there would seem to
be plenty of loopholes for an official’s or
a retailer’s discretion. It is a fact that
the C-index statistics record basic-
wage families as using (for instance)
nothing but the very best linen for tea-
towels, and that once the best in any line
has been admitted (long, long ago per-
haps) to the index, it must stay there for
ever for consistency sake?
Somebody somewhere is due to break
a lance with the Arbitration Court’s col-
lators of statistics for exposure of exactly
how the C-index is in practice compiled.
The matter has become far too serious
to be left for longer in the dark. Mr.
Finnan might well put on St. George’s
armor and dedicate himself to the feat.
From Suez to Kumson.
“Ek Dum” on the war fronts:
With the election imminent in the United
Kingdom, British troops are fighting on one
front at the eastern end of Asia and preparing
to fight at the other end, 8000 miles away,
along the Suez Canal.
There are about 60,000 British troops in the
British Canal Zone, but they would be little
enough if a real enemy hove in sight, especially
if Arab League countries other than Egypt
were involved. This force is being increased
by the arrival of parachute troops in limited
numbers from Cyprus and by a couple of
British cruisers—Liverpool and Gambia —the
latter already at Port Said, and the former
following with destroyers.
Generally speaking, however, the Egyptians
are better at rioting and running than fighting.
They have killed some Britons in riots, but so
far the one skirmish on an army level, on
October 17 at the El Ferdan Bridge, was not
very auspicious for Egyptian arms.
The bridge crosses the canal between Al
Kantara and Ismailia, where the railway from
Benha junction north of Cairo bends to run
up the canal to Port Said and crosses to join
the main line to Calais via Istanbul. It is a
region well known to Anzacs of World War 1,
since the second Anzac contingent passed up
the canal (with the Australian submarine AE2
awash behind), on the eve of the first fight
there against Djemal Pasha’s Turks on Feb-
ruary 2-3, 1915, when the Maorilanders were
blooded and our 7th and Bth Battalions arrived
at Ismailia from Mena too late to join in the
brief bit of fun. The British hold on the
El Ferdan Bridge cuts off Egyptian troops m
the Israel border region towards Gaza and
establishes control also of rail communication
with the Palestinian region.
British H.Q. on the Canal Zone, where
Lieutenant-General George Erskine holds his
command under General Sir Brian Robertson,
C.-in-C. Middle East, and lately Commander
of the British forces in Germany, are at Fayid,
half-way up the Great Bitter Lake. With it
sits H.Q, of No. 205 R.A.F. Group. There is
a bomber group at Shalufa, near the Red Sea
end of the canal, a transport group at Kabrit,
on the Little Bitter Lake, and a fighter station
at Deyersoir, at the Port Said end of the Great
Bitter I
The H.Q. of Middle Eastern Air Command
is at Ismailia, a city which has grown out of
recognition since Anzac days. Much as the
Asian peoples profess to hate the British, it
is always certain that a huge community of
haters congregate wherever a British flag is
hoisted to cast a shadow of protection and
prosperity.
Up to October 22 the only fighting the Egyp-
tians had done was with their tongues and
with sticks and stones, and there seemed little
readiness in Cairo to give practical significance
to the text of the slogan carried at a safe
distance by sympathisers in Damascus, who
demanded that somebody should “give us fields
for martyrdom.” Pure Egyptians prefer bak-
sheesh. But, meantime, there is a tentative plan
afoot to boycott British goods, a plan which
every Alexandrine trader will relish, since it
will lead to the biggest blackmarkets the world
has ever seen.
The farcical armistice negotiations in Korea
continue to make “nice progress” in arranging a
new meeting in a new neutral zone. Peace
treaties after great world wars have been
negotiated with scarcely more flummery. While
the argument droned on spearheads of three
U.N.O. divisions had driven within a mile or
so of Kumson, the great central supply-base
of the Chinese-Korean forces 30 miles north
of the 38th Parallel. Generally speaking, the
operations of the past fortnight are now com-
plete, and all troops are conditioning them-
selves for the Korean winter. The advance has
been especially interesting by reason of the
foretaste it has given of the new forms of
warfare which swaddies may expect to enjoy
in World War 111 when it comes to full fruition.
One is the extended use of specially-prepared
liquid napalm, which is decanted from aircraft
in thousand-gallon-tank lots along enemy
trenches and bunkers, an aircraft loaded with
fuse-matches following to light up, This device
should greatly add to the variety of trench
warfare. It seems that the only place in which
the unfortunate P. 8.1. will be safe in the next
carnage will be the bottom of the Pacific.
Fish and Chips.
Fish: It was here noted (B. 10/10/’5l)
that fishermen on the •Tweed River,
almost on the N.S.W.-Queensland border,
were told that they couldn’t sell their
catch unless it first went to the N.S.W.
Government fish-market at Byron Bay, 60
miles south, and that they couldn’t sell it
in Queensland unless it was first sent to
the Queensland Government fish board.
For their part the fishers announced
that they proposed to send fish to Queens-
land without reference to either authority,
and would rely on Section 92 of the
Commonwealth Constitution, which pro-
vides for freedom of inter-State trade,
for their right to do so.
Before either board could do anything
about the Tweed rebels the High Court
ruled that the fish boards must keep their
hands off fish being sold inter-State.
Appellants were Cam and Sons, trawler
operators, who had been refused a
restraining order against the N.S.W.
Chief Secretary in the N.S.W. Equity
Court. The High Court held that the
N.S.W. Fisheries and Oyster Farms Act
did not apply to inter-State sale of fish.
Chips : A different fate befel an
appeal by Carter and Sons, Queensland
produce merchants. A firm, Long and
Co., situated in the village of Jennings
(which lies athwart the N.S.W.-Queens-
land border near Wallangarra), whose
office is in N.S.W., whereas the post-office
is in Queensland, bought 60 bags of
potatoes from a Queensland grower at
Lowood (Q.) and sold them to Carter
and Sons, who were fined £l5O for a
breach of the Queensland Marketing Act,
This provides that potatoes grown in
Queensland can’t be sold in Queensland
except to the Potato Board. Carter and
Sons went to the High Court, claiming
that because their deal was with a firm
situated in N.S.W. it was subject to the
rights embodied in Section 92. If the
appeal had been upheld it would have
made all State marketing Acts invalid,
consequently every Government except
the Adelaide one rushed to the fray, and
the 60 bags of spuds gathered a galaxy
of legal talent.
There was no need for alarm. The
High Court dismissed the appeal, rightly
enough, since there was no real inter-
state trading involved in the deal.
No remarks were heard after the Fish
case. After the Chips case Queensland
Potato Board chairman recommended the
board to use its “new powers.” These
were rushed through Queensland Parlia-
ment the other week, and give control
boards literal dictatorship over farmers.
There are 21 such boards in Queensland ;
it will be interesting to see what happens
to the first to try its “new powers.”
One other result came from the Chips
case. It put Jennings where it had never
been before—on the map.
Ship's Visitors.
“Macnell” on ship’s visitors:
British carrier Glory has tackled just about
everything in Korea, from trains and troops to
bridges and bunkers —but her company, to coin
a phrase, ain’t seen nothin’ yet. Their ship
will be open to visitors in Sydney.
Second, possibly, to Matapan in destructive-
ness, this exercise of the rights of public
ownership can be both trying and humorous —
depending on whether you are a gunnery- or
engineer-officer or bos’n, with stores on your
slop-chit, or a comparatively unattached snotty
or A.B. with an eye to targets for tonight.
Still, visitors’ day does to some extent lessen
the ignorance of the Navy’s owners on its
customs. My sister-in-law was intrigued to
learn we wore pyjamas—apparently she thought
we tumed-in in hammocks and oilskins. 1 well
remember the ordeal of afternoon-tea time in
the dog-watches; the staring crowds gathered
round the mess-tables, the surreptitious nudges
and whispers. As one three-badgeman growled:
“Makes a man feel like a lion in a zoo!”
Once a father and three young sons were watch-
ing us feed. They were silent a moment, till
one jacksprat tugged his father’s arm and piped
up wonderingly: “Look, Dad —they eat just
like us.”
Destructiveness was mentioned. Newcastle
was the port, with the ship thrown open to
visitors, and, it seemed, half the city’s kids.
I was stiff enough to be officer of the day. As
the stream of junior devils swarmed aboard I
consoled myself with a nice piece of forethought
—I had posted sentries at all strategic points.
Sentries? I should have rigged radioactive
fences. One lad, having apparently missed his
Tarzan serial at the pictures, was caught up
the foremast, 10ft. from the wireless-aerials,
just before the operator, ordered to send a
signal, pressed his key and flooded the copper
wire with enough lightning to have blown the
kid home again. Another was hauled out from
beneath the funnel-cover; a chimney-sweep was
a Snow White by comparison. I wish I could
have been there when he got home.
Then the gunner’s-mate drew my attention to
the gunnery-control-director above the bridge.
That delicate bit of machinery was my action-
station, and I felt in my bones the shock as it
careered round and crashed, shuddering, against
its training-stops. It was well on its way to
the opposite bearing before its embryo layer
and trainer could be hauled out. The bridge
was a bedlam. All its score or so of telephones
and voice-pipes were in vociferous use. One
spark had found a crony at the other end of
his speaking-tube—three decks down in the
engine-room. His delight was moving to hear.
Above the shouts and screeches and whistles,
like the tolling of church-bells accompanying
the abandoned joy of a cheering populace, there
rose from the wheclhouse below the protesting
but unceasing clangor of the engine-room tele-
graphs, echo to the faint peals from the engine-
room repeats far below. The gunner’s-mate’s
roar, urged from the bottom of his good gun-
nery heart, soon fixed that.
There are, of course, the usual chestnuts from
the wiseacres. “What time is it by the starb’d
watch?” “Are there any eggs in the crow’s
nest?” “Is the First Dog tied to the Last
Post?” You answer these according to whether
the face asking them is fair or foul.
As mess-decks in the Grey Funnel Line com-
prise living, eating, dressing and recreational
quarters, and as they’re all open to inspection,
you pull on your shoregoing pants in the fo’c’sle
locker, in the midst of brooms, scrubbers, bits
of cable and buckets of lime.
But all is not agony; the sea looks after its
own. Remember those war-loan trips down the
bay? In a destroyer at the time, the crowd,
filled with patriotic fervor and the excitement
of novelty, left the pier in great spirits. Half-
way down the bay she met the long-’uns coming
in, backed by a conniving nor’-easter. She took
up her usual corkscrew motion, dipping her
nose and throwing ’em back in sheets of flung
spray. One green-faced cove on the bridge
gulped to the captain: “I paid £5O to get on
this blasted ship; I’ll pay a thousand to get
off it!”
Beer-money Is Friendly Cash.
The legal term “überrima fidei” implies
that the utmost good faith exists be-
tween the parties to a contract. In the
Sydney beer-trade the good-faith
schooners are apparently not only filled
to the brim, but running over. Loans
of thousands of pounds are sought and
given or offered and accepted without so
much as “a scratch of a pen” as security.
As to repayment —well, that is a matter
of minor importance; the main thing is
that where there is a man or woman with
a few thousand lying idle and a hotel
licensee—or prospective hotel licensee —
is in need of a thousand, the money just
seems to flow naturally from one to the
other.
That, at any rate, is the first impression
gained from a study of last week’s evi-
dence at the royal commission on liquor.
First impressions are, of course, not neces-
sarily reliable.
When the hearing was resumed in Sydney
last week the interests of Abraham Gilbert
Saffron in hotel licences were again under
investigation. Saffron was questioned about the
transfer of the licence of the West End Hotel,
Balmain, to his brother Phillip. He admitted
that he retained a one-third interest in the hotel
and that this was not disclosed to the Licensing
Court. Asked whether he had any interest in
the Civic Hotel, of which Harold Taylour was
the licensee, he replied that he did not know
whether “no” would be the correct answer; he
thought it would.
When Mr, Justice Maxwell asked for further
explanation. Saffron said;
There was a £4OOO loan. I was to receive
25 per cent, of the hotel’s profits in lieu of
interest until the £4OOO was returned.
He said the arrangement had been made on
February 26, but there was no document to
prove it. He had not told the Licensing Court
of the loan because he “thought they frowned
on it.” He was not sure how the question
of the loan cropped up between him and
Taylour.
His Honor: Did he ask you for the
money?
Saffron: Your Honor is getting a little
technical.
His Honor: I’m just trying to extract
the truth, if that is being technical.
Saffron: I might have asked him how
much he needed, I’m not sure.
Mr. Dovey (assisting the Commissioner):
Would you be good enough to explain how
you were prepared to part with £4OOO
without the scratch of a pen to a man you
knew only socially?—! have known him for
some years.
After Saffron had remarked that “if you
have to get documents to protect yourself
it is not worth doing business,” Mr. Dovey
asked why he had a document with Kornhauser
(licensee of the Cumberland Hotel, Bankstown),
Saffron replied “That was a partnership.”
His Honor: Oh, Mr. Saffron. You will
have to do better than that.
A little later his Honor said, “I suppose yod
realise that it looks as if Mr, Taylour is a
‘dummy’?” Saffron answered, “That is not
the case.”
Taylour’s story differed slightly from that of
Saffron. He denied that he was a dummy and
that anyone else had an interest in the hotel,
but admitted that someone had an interest in
the profits. He had borrowed money “that is
to be paid back from the profits.” Saffron
had arranged the loan and the money had come
from the licensee of a hotel at Mortdale. He
did not know which one. The licensee was
Saffron’s sister. He had not paid back any
of the loan.
Mr. Dovey: This commission has been
informed that the arrangement is that you
undertook to pay to Saffron in lieu of
interest 25 per cent, of the profits of the
hotel from time to time. In addition you
would be liable to repay the £4OOO. That
is what Saffron says the arrangement is.
Taylour: The arrangement was that I
refunded the money from 25 per cent, of
the profits.
Later Taylour told the commission that
during the luncheon adjournment he had learned
from Saffron that they had been at variance in
their evidence. Mr. Dovey asked which was
the correct version.
Taylour : His is more nearly correct than
mine.
After Taylour had said he did not know how
much beer he had in stock at the Civic the
commission arranged for a court officer and a
brewery representative to go along with Taylour
to count the stock. Later the officer reported
a total of 5785 bottles, about half of which
o Continued on next page.)


4204
Kee P to
CRAVE Na
~7ft£4f ‘Heveb
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
mm
wmm
mmm
.
• • . '.v
was in a locked compartment off the main
cellar. Taylour explained that he was building
up a Christmas stock.
Mrs. Beryl Frack, sister of Saffron, admitted
that when she applied for the licence of the
Mortdale Hotel she did so on behalf of her
brother. She had put no money of her own
into the hotel and she had not been telling the
truth when she told the Licensing Court that
£5OOO of her own savings would be invested
in the lease.
Phillip Saffron, brother of Abraham, told the
commission he was the licensee of the Hotel
Phillip, in King-street, and that he was the only
person financially interested in it. After admit-
ting that he had told some lies to the Licensing
Court because “it was my chance to get on,”
he was questioned about money he had
borrowed from Mrs. Brunen and Henry
Edwards; £4OOO and £2OOO respectively. He
said he had given each lender a dozen post-
dated cheques to provide for monthly payments
off the loans. The first cheques were due on
September 1 but none had yet been presented;
he had told them he would be “a bit uphill
for a start and had asked for a little grace.”
They had agreed. Mrs. Brunen wanted no
interest for her loan; he wanted to pay Edwards
3 per cent., because he wanted “to put it on
more businesslike lines with him.”
Mr. Dovey: Do you really believe these
people have no interest in your hotel? —I
don’t believe. I know. I’m certain.
Saffron told the commission that the hand-
writing on the cheque-butts (produced) was that
of his brother Abe, who had written them
“because he is more brilliant at finance than
I am.”
Saffron: He came to the hotel to see
how I was getting on. He said he would
work out the cheques for me and write them
out. He started them, and 1 carried on.
Mr. Dovey: You still say ydtir brother
has no interest in the hotel? —Yes.
After an adjournment Saffron said he had
been in touch with Edwards and Mrs. Brunen
about the September and October cheques.
Edwards had told him he thought two months’
grace had been asked for; Mrs. Brunen said
she had presented the cheques on October 5.
When the commission questioned Mrs. Brunen
about the loan she said that the two cheques
had been banked on October 3. Asked why
she had started a new deposit-book for the
two cheques when her old one was not filled,
she said she “just wanted to keep these cheques
separate.”
Henry Edwards told the commission he had
lent Abe Saffron £3500 in 1948, Saffron giving
him an undated cheque as security. £l5OO of
this had been repaid. He had also lent Phillip
Saffron £2OOO. Money for the loans came from
lottery wins.
David Blank, company director, said he was
not interested as an individual in any premises
licensed under the Liquor Act. He was a
shareholder in Grand National Proprietary, Ltd.,
which was interested in the Olympic Hotel,
Liverpool-street. His father was the only other
shareholder; his own shares were in his mother’s
name. The Tasman Hotel Pty., Ltd., owned
the freehold of the Inverell Hotel. The share-
holders were E. F. Muller and J. McLeod.
McLeod held his shares in trust for Blank.
Mr. Dovey: Who is he? —A retired
builder. —He is just, to use plain language,
a blind?—Yes.
Blank said his father and Muller also held
the shares in the House of Hayes, Ltd. He
himself had made advances to the company,
but he was not sure of his exact financial
interest. Muller and Md eod were the share-
holders in Walder’s Manchester Pty., Ltd.,
Muller holding his shares in trust for Blank
and his father. It was “utterly absurd” to
suggest that John Woolcott-Forbes had anything
to do with his affairs. He had invested moneys
in companies with which Forbes was connected,
“but that is where it starts and finishes.”
Asked why he had used McLeod as a “blind,”
Blank said he thought it would be wiser
because:
It saved the unnecessary trouble of explain-
ing to the Licensing Court ail the explana-
tions I am giving to you today, with the
resultant publicity,
William Blank, father of David, was examined
regarding his interest in the companies men-
tioned. He said it was his money in all of
them. His son had put in nothing, nor had
anyone else. .Lately he had left arrangements
to his son and to “Mr. Muller, my confidential
accountant.” After further questioning Blank
said his son had an interest in some of the
companies.
Mr. Dovey: Your belief was that the
Licensing Court might not approve any
company in which your son David Blank
was a shareholder? It was for that reason
that the interest in those companies was
concealed? —Yes.
Recalled, David Blank gave further evidence
about his interests in various commercial ven-
tures —a salvage company in Darwin, disposals-
stores in George-street and a theatrical com-
pany, Ziegfield Productions. These, he said,
had no connection with any of the hotel com-
panies.
Asked whether he had advanced money to
anyone in the hotel business, he said “none
at all,” but when the question was repeated
he admitted lending £2OOO to Abraham Saffron
“some little time alter Easter, 1949.” He said
that when asked the previous day this loan had
completely slipped his mind. He had lent, the
money just after he won a big double. Saffron
had not told him what it was wanted for. He
had received a document —he thought from
Saffron’s accountant. This would be among his
papers.
Mr. Dovey : Where are they?—-They could
be at Salvage Stores or at the House of
Hayes.—Or at a dozen other places?—No;
the only other place would be my home.
The commission adjourned for the weekend
after hearing evidence from a couple of wit-
nesses whose testimony Mr. Dovey described as
“excellent illustration of complete disclosure
having been made to the Licensing Court.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Britain goes to the polls tomorrow,
although it will be Friday before the
results are known in Australia, Count-
ing will begin at about 7 a.m. Friday
(Eastern Australian time) and by midday
it should be apparent whether there is
to be a change of Government. At that
stage in 1950 Labor held a lead of 61
seats out of the 300 then decided, and
this was ultimately whittled down to
seven. The first results in are usually
from the boroughs— county figures, less
favorable to Labor, are received later —
so that unless the Attlees build up a use-
ful lead by the time the halfway mark is
reached they have little chance of finish-
ing in front. On the basis of last year’s
figures this means that if Labor is much
less than 60 seats in front when count-
ing ceases on the first night (1 p.m. Fri-
day, E.A.T.) Britain will have called a
halt to Socialism.
The latest British Parliament lasted 19
months, but it was by no means the
shortest; in the last half-century there
have been three that didn’t see the year
out. Asquith went to the country in
1910 less than 10 months after a general
election, and was returned with his num-
bers virtually unchanged, and in 1923 and
1924 Conservative and Labor minority
Governments in turn tried unsuccessfully
for a vote of confidence from the electors
—Baldwin after 361 days in office and
Ramsay MacDonald after 266.
In his reply to the Prime Minister’s
statement on events in the Middle East,
Evatt accused Menzies of indirectly
criticising the Attlee Government for its
handling of the Persian dispute. His
accusation was based on the P.M.’s re-
mark that Persia had gambled on the
1921 Russo-Persian treaty which permits
Russian forces to enter Persia if other
foreign troops do so. A few minutes
later the Doc, was taking Menzies to
task because his statement on Egypt con-
tained no reference to the United Nations.
Evatt can’t have it both ways. If the
Egyptian dispute was to be referred to
U.N.O. it was Attlee’s job to do it, not
Menzies’s. If Menzies had suggested such
a move he would have been criticising
the British Government’s action. As it is,
Evatt, in attacking Menzies on this point,
was attacking Attlee,
In order to leave no doubt on the
matter Bert himself appealed to U.N.O.
at the weekend —presumably in his capa-
city as President Emeritus. Lake Success
had already shelved the Persian problem
and was well aware that Egypt had for
more than two years defied appeals from
U.N.O. to lift its illegal blockade of
Israel and to cease interfering with ship-
ping in the canal.
One thing brought out by the N.S.W.
royal commission on liquor is that night-
club proprietor Abe Saffron is definitely
not the hero of the old conundrum com-
mencing “Brothers and sisters have I none.”
Casey was under full sail with his
statement to the House of Reps, on estab-
lishment of a joint committee on foreign
affairs. A voice was suddenly raised from
the seat where two deaf members sat
together—Drummond and Billy Hughes,
Billy’s hearing-aid plug, connecting with
the House broadcasting system, had come
out. “The bloody thing’s come off.”
His neighbor was trying, vainly, to fix it.
“Stop your bloody messing about,” came
Billy’s voice. “If you want to play I’ll
buy you some toys.” As the whole House
gave itself to laughter and Casey stopped
and stared, Billy, suddenly aware that his
voice was ringing around the Chamber,
bent up in laughter himself, shoved the
plug in and held it, and the business of
the House went on.
On this day in 1860 the citizens of
Adelaide gave John Macdouall Stuart a
public breakfast, in appreciation of good
work done in exploration through the so-
called “Dead Heart.” If the prices of
eggs and bacon don’t stop rising it won’t
be long before even private breakfasts
will become a memory.
Neatest comment on the surrender of
the Queensland and New South Wales
Governments on the butter argument
came from Lairy Anthony: “Mr. Gair
and Mr. McGirr have grudgingly done
in October what they should justly have
done in July.”
In the midst of celebrations of its sixth
year of life, (he completion of its great
new glass-house headquarters in New
York —filled with officials on princely
salaries free from income-tax —the
“United” Nations has just listened to a
report of failure from its special repre-
sentative to produce a peaceful com-
promise over Kashmir between India and
Pakistan, and solemnly recorded its in-
ability to deal with the Anglo-Persian oil
dispute, “The merits of the case were
submerged,” says the New York “Times,”
“by fear of causing trouble or doing
something unpopular.”
Bumping-up of the price of wheat for
stock-feed from 7s. lOd. to 16s. Id. a
bushel, which will cost the taxpayer a
£4-million-a-year subsidy to the poultry-
farmers, ought to put an end to the sale
of musty, mouldy, bleached and pinched
grain and cocky-chaff which has passed
as chook-fodder in recent years.
Pig-raisers are protesting because the
Federal Government won’t pay them a
subsidy to enable them to buy wheat at
16s. Id. a bushel for pig-feed. But wheat
isn’t particularly good pig tucker. If the
new price encourages more growing of
maize and sorghum for pigs the industry
and the country will be a lot better off.
Announcing that Queensland public-
service employees had increased by 13,000
since 1940, Acting-Premier Gair said the
railways had most of them, railway staff
having jumped from 18,067 to 26,827 in
the period. Why this should be is a
mystery, since the State runs even fewer
trains now than it did then. Even the
lopping of four hours from the working
week doesn’t justify an increase of that
magnitude.
Broken Hill, fabulous lead-bonus and
all, had better look to its laurels. In the
matter of prices of living commodities
broken Sydney is on the point (accord-
ing to the basic-wage computers) of over-
taking it as the most expensive living
area on the map.
Peter McPherson, a Dorrigo (N.S.W.)
bullocky, sought a discharge from bank-
ruptcy and asked to be excused from
going to Sydney to appear because “the
thought of having to make a trip to that
strange and wicked city fills him with the
greatest forebodings.” The judge saw his
point and granted the discharge. Well,
it’s all very fine for McPherson, but what
about the poor unfortunates who have to
live in the place?
Private road- and air-transport opera-
tors in Queensland run profitable
businesses—for the Queensland Govern-
ment It took £660,115 from them in
passenger- and freight-taxes last year—
taxes imposed, not for any services
rendered, but purely because they com-
pete with the Government railways.
Writing from London for a Sydney
paper, a scribe told his readers:
Labor’s major danger is public indif-
ference apathy and a small total vote
always strongly favors the Right wing in
this country....A 60 per cent, total vote
is almost sure-fire for the Tories, but an
85 per cent, vote, with well over a million
Liberal votes swinging, could put Attlee
track with a reasonably good majority.
Presumably he based his argument on
something, but it couldn’t have been
upon a study of the last two elections.
In 1945 there was a 72 per cent, poll,
and Labor secured the handsome
majority of 140. Last year 84 per cent,
voted and Labor’s majority was reduced
to seven.
While a royal commission in Sydney
was probing the secrets of the liquor
trade a keg of beer exploded in an
Adelaide hotel. Coincidence, telepathy,
strong beer or weak barrel?
There’s no pleasing some people.
When the Government put its holding of
A.WA shares up for sale at 455. Opposi-
tion members complained that the shares
were being sacrificed at below market-
price. Now the shares are down to
425. 6d. the cry is that the price was
“artificially maintained for some time
before the sale.”
U.S. Congress last week voted another
£5,840,000,000 to the year’s Budget, mak-
ing the total £40,717,000,000 for the year,
an all-time record. Income tax for in-
dividuals goes up 11-12 p.c., sales tax
on liquor, household appliances and
luxuries is increased, and there is new
excess-profits tax in some industries. The
Budget, in fact, is fully in line in prin-
ciple with the Fadden and Canadian
Budgets. But so far there has been no
squeal either from Dr. Evatt or the
“S. M. Herald.”
Another advocate of the school of
thought which believes a community can
gamble itself into prosperity has arisen
in Victoria, where T. Hayes, “Labor”
M.L.A. for Melbourne, is urging the
legalising of off-the-course betting and
the introduction of a State lottery “to
save Victoria from poverty.” Adelaide
had legalised betting-shops for years, and
was glad to get rid of them. As to State
blotteries as a means of keeping State
finances out of the red, Mr. Hayes should
try to look in at the next Loan Council
meeting, where he would see —provided
both are still on deck—Mr. McGrrrrr
striving to outdo Mr, McDonald in pro-
testations of penury.
N.S.W, Transport Minister Sheahan
told the Sydney Parliament the other day
that the £1 million or more collected
annually in road-tax from road hauliers
ought to be used for road-building and
-maintenance instead of being paid to the
railways, and he is urging the McGrrrrr
Cabinet to put it to that purpose. If it
does so it will correct a long-standing
abuse of power.


rp^
1945
«
*° u Jl '
1947
r ,« i
1949
\\v
1951
THE CALLERS—AND THE TUNES.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Eggsa”: On the day the posters found
there was more than corn in Egypt, a
George-street barrow was heaped with
the cheapest onions Sydney had seen since
the last Jap consignment. Which was
just what was on the old lady’s mind
as she hesitatingly asked, “Are these
Japanese onions?” The barrowman may
have been trying a leg-pull, or even telling
the truth, or perhaps he hadn’t caught
up with the news; “No, m’am,” he re-
assured her; “they’re Egyptian.” It
looked as bad a bit of timing in inter-
national affairs as the Gyppos’ own in
challenging the British Government in
the midst of a general election, but evi-
dently the loyal old soul, happily taking
a pound, hadn’t caught up with the news
either. If, when she does, she still can’t
agree in principle with the Bard that an
onion by any other name smells no
different, there’ll apparently be nothing
else for it but the doubtful alternatives of
the garbage-tin or U.N.O.
* * * *
“Macaim”; My nomination (of myself)
as a candidate in the British general
election tomorrow (Oct, 25) having been
thought of too late, I can now only stand
and wait on the result in surely the most
momentous seat of all, one on which
every eye in Britain (if not in the world)
will be turned also. I need not say that
I refer to the seat of Haltemprice.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Perhaps oversight and not
cowardly evasion is responsible for the
fact that my dictionary does not mention
the word “worn,” but I’m begining to
w'onder. The perplexity started when the
Service Page gave an answer: “The White
Ensign is worn” ... I don’t doubt the
authenticity of the
nautical term;
still, to a land-
lubber it sounds
strange that a ship
can wear a flag.
On top of that
came a radio
advertisement for
some adhesive
preparation ask-
ing, somewhat
personally: “Do
you wear false
teeth?” A shop-
assistant further complicated the problem
by informing a customer, in my hearing,
that “You don’t see the short curtains
now, full-length drapes are being worn.”
Then, to tangle everything up completely,
two women seated behind me in a train
began discussing a friend’s home, winding
up with: “Mind you, I’m not saying that
a big back veranda wouldn’t be useful,
but verandas are not worn these days.”
* * * *
“Becks”: Australian mobs become
noisy and vocal at times, but when they
start shouting they are usually content
with short, snappy slogans such as, “Give
’em a go,” “Have a hit” or “Put Miller
on.” A Melbourne football crowd may
exhort the umpire to “Put y’r glasses on”
and Sydney punters, incensed at the
favorite’s failure to run a place, may
urge the stewards to “Rub ’em out!”
More often, both at sporting events and
at political gatherings, the best that can
be raised is a full-throated “Booh!” Even
when the Commos organise a “spon-
taneous” demonstration the shouting is
usually of the order of “Down with
Menzies,” “Ban the Atom Bomb” or
“Hands off Korea” (or whatever country
is, for the moment, sacrosanct in the
eyes of Moscow), They do things much
better abroad. Any South American city
can, at a moment’s notice, stage a demon-
stration of “students” capable of shout-
ing slogans running into half a para-
graph. Even the Gyppos can beat us at
the game, as witness die carefully-worded
cry which, the cables tell us, was shouted
all the way from Cairo station to Nahas
Pasha’s house: “We have finished work-
ing for the British. Down with England,
America, France and Turkey—lmperialist
nations.” And to think that when the
Diggers were in Cairo the best they could
manage was “Imshi.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: In my young days we were
taught that whereas sporting and public
meetings, beer-parties, weddings, picnics,
appointments, elections and other pre-
arranged events could “take place,” the
same could not be said of deaths, storms,
fires, collisions and other accidents. These
occurred. Modern journalese apparently
hasn’t time to differentiate, as we fre-
quently read that “the death took place”
“ Don't sulk. I'll take the ear-rings off if you still Want me to pose.”
or “the accident took place,” though
seldom that “a wedding occurred.” The
prize for this confusion of terms, how-
ever, must go to our oldest daily news-
paper, which, the other day, quoted an
eminent clergyman as saying “then the
occurrence in this valley took place
again.”
* * * *
“Mullum”: It’s not really the blaring
of radios which drives “Bo” away from
the popular beaches (B. 10/10/’51);
rather is it the proximity of so many
young people enjoying their youth. The
“Lucy, I could sit here with you for ever.”
young folk have not yet discovered the
joy of browsing through old memories,
lightly tinted by what might have been.
They are too busy making memories. Un-
fortunately, the nearness of happy, vigor-
ous youth, as on the beach on a Sunday
afternoon, is too real to allow our
memories to drift along; it merely brings
a stabbing regret that our own youth has
passed, and suggests joys that we will
never again claim. So, on Sunday after-
noon, I head for the less popular resorts
where “Bo” and other “peace-seekers”
can forget that they are not as young as
they used to be.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Peter Simple”: I also pulled a train
communication-cord when I wanted to
get out at Cootamundra (B. 10/10/’5l),
but the train didn’t stop until it reached
Junee, about 30 miles further on. The
S.M. at Sydney Central station promised
that the Melbourne express, listed to “set
down passengers if required,” would be
stopped for me, and I mentioned it to the
driver at Goulburn, but despite all that
the train dashed through 'Coota at 50
miles an hour. I ripped off my shoe and
smashed the glass in the communication-
cord box, but the only response to my re-
peated pressing of the button was the
sniggers of the other passenger in the
compartment, who told me, quite unneces-
sarily, that we would be in Junee in less
than an nour. At Junee I found there
would be no train to ’Coota for 12 hours,
so a taxi at four pounds ten was the
only answer. 1 got a receipt from the
taxi-man and sent it to Sydney with the
full story of the happening. In due course
the Railways came good, and I got my
four and a half quid back. But that was
before the days of transport deficits!
* * * *
“Eve”: Prowling up to Sydney’s
“Cross,” I paused near a gents’ hairdress-
ing saloon, just to watch the bright types
of youths who were queueing up for a
“hair-style.” A New Australian passed
by, lifted a knowing eyebrow towards the
youths and chuckled to me, “They are
what you call the botches, yes?” I’m no
widgie, but 1 reckon he was on the right
track.
* * * ♦
“Exdig”: Italians made a name as
eager surrenderers (B. 3/10/’5l), but in
the First World War, towards the close,
some of the Germans, too, were anxious
to become prisoners. At Holebeke, in
front of the Messines Ridge, a hands-
upper, a surly-looking chap, came to us
bearing several blankets and half a dozen
bottles of bock as peace offerings,
Again, I saw a Hun who had
simply been directed back from the front-
line post where he had surrendered, look-
ing for someone to make him a prisoner
officially. I obliged and took him to the
guard, for which he thanked me
profusely. We had a few surrenderors
ourselves. The most spectacular was
Murphy, who, because of his nervous
uselessness, was kept on back-of-line
digging, but by some mistake was put into
an advance party. Driven to a fit of
madness which overcame all fear when
the Germans opened fire, he charged the
whole German Army yelling and brand-
ishing his spade. The enemy did not fire
at him and he disappeared into their
lines. The classic story is that of a
Digger, anything but a hero, who, after
he had been reported missing from a
patrol, came back to the lines bringing a
prisoner. He said frankly that he had
found the Hun in a shellhole where he
had dived for shelter from a machine-gun
burst; and the two, deciding that they
had no personal quarrel, had agreed to
toss to see who should be the other’s
prisoner. “And you won?” asked the
interrogating officer. “No blanky fear
—he did,” said the Digger.
♦ * * ♦
“Curate’s Egg”: That the way of the
arms-inspecting officer (B. 3/10/’5l) is
beset with perils is proved by the ex-
perience of the new loot, whom Rein-
forcements Depot sent to inject a jarring
note into the lotos-eaters’ life our platoon
had enjoyed for some months on an
isolated stretch of Cape York Peninsula
in 1944. We conformed to Shakspeare’s
concept of soldiery in two respects —we
were bearded like the pard and full of
strange oaths —but we knew something
more than that would now be necessary.
An hour’s feverish activity involving the
demolition of the housing arrangements
of some 30 wasp families put our rifles
in some sort of inspection-order, but the
loot refused to be fooled. He paused
before Rusty, into whose ammunition-
pouches he shot an exploratory forefinger,
which, a split-second later, he withdrew
with loud howls. A man-size Cape York
centipede was adhering to it by the busi-
ness end.
* * * *
“D.L.A.”: One shortage of the “good
old days” not mentioned by “Ike Hollar”
(B. 12/9/’5l) was scarcity in tea supplies
as a result of the Opium War between
Britain and China in the early eighteen-
forties. China was then virtually the sole
source of tea ; the Ceylon and Assam
plantations were not then developed. The
dearth of tea was a serious problem to
sheep men, who then relied on shepherds.
These shepherds were a hardy race, used
to lonely and frugal living conditions, but
they were not prepared to do without two
things—tea and “baccy.” A squatter
who could provide tea could pick and
choose his shepherds. One unable to get
an adequate supply soon lost his men.
NO HORSE SENSE.
“A sporting writer points out that even after years
of training, during which they lead Spartan lives,
many horses still kick themselves during a hard race,
particularly in a big field.”
The life of the racers
Is not one, I’d say, sirs,
You’d rightfully term beer-and-skittles.
With faces like fiddles
They’ve very thin middles —
They can’t go the hog on the “vittles.”
They’re up with the dawning,
All grumbling and yawning
As we’d be if we had to do it,
Then round a track tearing,
Which must be quite wearing—
Just so that some docker may view it.
•
Their lives regimented,
All horseplay prevented—
Sedateness from them is expected—
They train like a harrier
To bolt from the barrier,
Which gives ’em that look so dejected.
Could they speak they’d be nay-ing
Suggestions for “staying,”
Declaring: “These distances irk us.
We’ve had all this scrambling,
We’d rather be ambling
With milk-ohs, or jog in a circus!”
With trappings they’re furnished,
They’re scrubbed and they’re burnished
Till coats are like satin a-gleaming,
Their vices abolished,
Their teeth picked and polished—
They’ve no time for dozing and dreaming;
No free paddock-strolling,
And even sand-rolling
Is subject to strict supervision.
They’re tugged back or spurred on;
They lose, and the herd on
The inside yell out their derision.
Success, for some, hinges
A lot on syringes
That will, for the time being, buoy them.
The dame in the laces
Says “I love the races—
I’m sure that the horses enjoy them!”
Though they kick themselves badly
While rushing round madly.
In this from the punter they differ.
He boots himself after.
Which causes horse-laughter—
But which, moke or man, is the stiller?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Sebak”: It is doubtful whether the
vicar of St. Stephen’s, Burnley, Lanca-
shire, realised that his outburst was going
to be snapped up as “news” by papers all
over the world when he described people
who throw confetti as “ignorant louts
making a filthy mess,” but many an Aus-
tralian cleric will secretly applaud his
sentiments. In our district, a gentle re-
minder to the congregation, “Please
refrain from throwing confetti in close
proximity to the church,” has become as
much an appendage to the marriage cere-
mony as the ritual of kissing the bride.
Still, old traditions die hard, and some
ministers arrange to have a stalwart of
the church stationed at the deadline to
repel bombardiers. But no such precau-
tion was taken at the last wedding I
attended. Before the bridal party trooped
to the vestry the cleric got in with a
newy: “The congregation will please re-
main seated until the bride and ’groom
leave the church. It is eitiquette that
the bride should be the last to enter a
church and the first to leave.” In the
face of that not even an “ignorant lout”
could sneak out to take up a strategic
position. Result: A bottleneck at the
door as the bridal party emerged. The
“filthy mess” was in the taxis.
* * » *
“Taswegian”: That joke-block of the
woman asking the doctor to listen to her
heart-beats through the earpiece of the
phone (B. 26/9/’5l) took me back 20
years to the power-station where I was
acting as junior-operator. Each morning
just before eight we rang a near-by sub-
station, told them to stand by for the
eight-o’clock time-signal, then left the
receiver off the hook. It was a wall-type
instrument with separate earpiece, and
generations of operators had carefully
instructed new hands about how to stand
the receiver: not on its broad end, be-
cause then the bloke on the other end of
the line might not hear the whistle. The
youngster I broke in wasn’t rated a star
apprentice, but it was he who pointed
out that the sound went through the
mouthpiece.
* * * *
“Metax”: Cabled reports have it that
an electric field exists around broad-
beans. This is the best news for a long
time on the power position. It may be
easier and quicker to harness a few
paddocks of broad-beans to our wires
than to wrestle with the almost impos-
sible problem of enlarging power-supply
systems fast enough.
* * * *
“Soc”: A fruit-tree catalogue gets a
seasonal mention in the British Press for
its description of a variety (unspecified)
“appropriately renamed Winston”:
Very thick skin. Remains firm until the
end of its season. Sweet, though slightly
bitter. Juicy. Prolific. Upright. Fruit
hangs tightly to tree after leaf fall.
Wonderful keeper. Late bloomer.
Of course, if they happen to want a new
name for a prune or a quince....
* * * *
“Bass”: An attempt by 2000 racegoers
to cash in on what looked like easy money
at a racecourse (B. 19 /9 / ’5l) isn’t an
argument against my contention that the
public is basically honest. What else
would “Sgt. A.” expect on a racecourse?
The people are there for one purpose—■
to back their wits against someone else’s.
Even honesty needs its holidays, and it
takes them in gambling-dens. Now I’ll
wager that those people who knowingly
made false claims would not attempt to
defraud a storekeeper. For that matter,
very few of them would go back on a
gambling debt, and they’d lynch a welsh-
ing bookmaker. “Sgt. A.” has produced
an argument, not against public honesty,
but on the demoralising influence of race-
courses and lotteries.
♦ * * *
“Irving”: The Swedish Supreme Court
is deliberating whether a hypnotist, the
second of whose female friends was found
gassed within two months, is guilty of
murder by suggestion. The prosecution
“Come on! Come on! They're sharp enough now!"
alleges that the two women suicided while
under a spell cast on them by the defend-
ant. A British court would give such a
Crown case short shrift, and most psycho-
logists would classify the suicides as
examples of feminine-behavior patterns —
the inability of the victims of unrequited
attachments to accept defeat in an
emotional conflict and their fleeing by
the handiest escape route. Being less
erudite, I find it difficult to discount the
case of the Swedish prosecution, in the
recollection of the trial of a Torres Straits
Island purri-purri man, whose clientele
comprised mainly Binghi belles suffering
from unreciprocated passion. The clients
all admitted surrendering their charms to
the magic man in the course of the con-
sultations, a step which, in the absence
of hypnotic suggestion, would have been
inexplicable, since the withered old magic-
merchant was the antithesis of a black
Adonis, and his services in every case
had been requisitioned with the specific
motive of awakening the regard of a
more eligible young buck.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”; Vic. Game Department is
upset about reports that Newstralians are
knocking over kookaburras for the pot
and proposes to police “areas where New
Australians have settled.” There’s nothing
new in this. Over 25 years ago Italian
and Maltese migrants decided that “ha-ha
pigeons,” being friendly and plump, were
good targets, and over poor old Jacky
went —especially in parts like
lower Gippsland and the
Goulbum Valley. Still,
there’s this to be said:
Whereas the newcomers shot
to eat and were content with
a bird or two, far more
damage was —and still is—
done by the lout with shot-
gun or pea-rifle who downs
everything with feathers on
and boasts of the heaps of
uselessly killed birds he
leaves behind.
♦ * *
“Vingter”: In limiting the
use of the term “half-inched”
to old Mildura, “Clooter”
(B. 10/10/’5l) is overpro-
prietorial; the rhyming-
slang derivative of “pinched”
is known Australia-wide.
Incidentally, the term
“pinched,” though commonly
and always unjustly branded
as slang, is highly respec-
table. Originally it meant
to “nip,” and, since “nip”
is dictionarily defined as to
“detach by pinching,” the
term is forceful as well as
legitimate. Another expres-
sion indicating acquisition
by devious means is “to
cabbage,” which would be branded
as slang if used today, despite its Simon-
pure ancestry. It appears in the first
English translation of Don Quixote in
the chapter devoted to “Sancho Panza’s
Judgment” against the merchant who
charged his tailor with “cabbaging” some
of the cloth supplied by the plaintiff.
* * * *
“Ceg”: When a country bank-
manager became ill and had to take a
six-months holiday a relieving-officer
took over his house. It was a nice home,
but the walls of the dining-room were
plastered with photos of various mem-
bers of an extensive family who had
“passed over.” They were all there,
some in groups, others singly, and many
of rather forbidding appearance. Local
rumor had it that all this portraiture was
involved in the business of talking to the
spirits of the departed. The relieving
bloke and his missus did not fancy eat-
ing their meals for six months in the
company of ghosts, so all the portraits
were taken down and stowed away, A
careful note was made of the positions
of the portraits, but somehow when the
time came to put them back two were
misplaced, resulting in a husband and
wife being put together instead of at
opposite ends of the room. As these two,
in real life, had been on cat-and-dog
terms, the two spirit-rappers were much
intrigued when they noticed what had
occurred. They were quite satisfied there
had been some occult manifestation
during their absence and that the once-
quarrelsome couple had effected a happy
reconciliation on the other side of the
veil.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Ray Whiting’s drawing of
the two Diggers whose pots have just
been carried off by a shell recalls the
time when a company of the 2/11 bat-
talion in the Western Desert captured a
cache of Italian wine. Even those thirsty
warriors couldn’t cope with the quantity
available, but they went down trying.
Next morning they woke with thick
heads and every container within reach
filled with grog. A section of them were
sitting up on a sandy rise having corpse-
revivers when they were annoyed by a
couple of fast-flitting fireflies that kept
buzzing past them. It was only after
several bad-tempered swipes had failed
to stop the little pests that it dawned
on someone that the things were uncom-
(OFFICERS
ONLY I
“They can have her."
monly fast for flies. A moment later a
group of ground-hugging infantrymen
were sobering rapidly; the flies were
tracer-bullets from an enemy machine-
gun.
* * * *
“Mons”: I must dispute “Cauboy’s”
statement that September marked the
jubilee of the cinematograph industry in
Australia. Moving-pictures were shown
in Sydney as early as September, 1896.
Carl Herz, on Saturday, Sept. 19, 1896,
showed among other things a view of
London Bridge with its heavy traffic, and
on September 28 Maurice Sestier opened
the first theatrette at 237 Pitt-street, where
several pictures were screened at given
hours through the day at a charge of Is.
per seance. Mr. Sestier took several
scenes while in Sydney and, visiting Mel-
bourne during the Cup festivities, he
recorded various incidents at Flemington
which were later screened in Sydney.
Captain Perry, of the Salvation Army, was
one of the early operators; A. J. Perier
“took” the Cup in 1897. During the
Commonwealth Celebrations in January,
1901, the big procession was recorded
and was later shown at Her Majesty’s
Theatre during the run of the production
“Australis.” The arrangements for the
taking and exhibiting were in the hands
of Baker and Rouse (later to become the
Kodak firm) in conjunction with the
Government of N. S. Wales.
* * ♦ ♦
“W.P.T.”; If the sale of all wildflowers
and shrubs is prohibited, as has been
seriously suggested, Katoomba and other
Blue Mountains towns will lose the trade
in one of their most interesting novelties.
Quaint little figures ranging from a kilted
Highlander to a bride are made from the
quaint little Blue Mountain devils, and
sold to tourists. The quaint heads, which
grow in abundance on prickly shrubs,
bear a striking resemblance to the tradi-
tional devil’s head.
“Hoppy”: Not long after newchum
Adrian arrived at the mine the foreman
had to do a spot of reprimanding owing to
the bad habits he was accumulating from
observation of old hands of the smart
type. After that things went along
smoothly for a while until, one warm
smoke-oh-time, he settled into a shady
nook in a stack of Oregon, leaving his
trusty long-handled pal lying beside the
drain in which the flow of tailings re-
quired regular attention. An irate boss
found the slumbering worker, half-eaten
crib at his side, and some hard words
were spoken: “You can go this time with
a warning, lad ; it’s a week’s suspension.
Next time I speak it’ll be the sack from
the field.” “Do you mean I needn’t come
to the job for a week?” said Adrian,
running his hands through long hair.
“Will it be all right if I take another
week off? Then I could dash down to
Melbourne to see my girl,”
* * * ♦
“Squid Shay”: From Northern
Rhodesia comes the story of a location-
superintendent who was appealed to by a
wrathful native woman. She had come
home after a holiday to find she had been
deposed from her status of spouse. The
husband was sent for and admitted the
allegation was quite correct, but claimed
the transaction was perfectly legal. How
was that, he was asked. Well, hadn’t
he transferred the marriage-certificate by
crossing out the name of Wife One and
writing in that of Wife Two?
“Looby”: The radio blared the mono-
logue-of-the-hour, which starts with
“Blackouts are expected within thirty
minutes in the following areas.....” This
brought a cheer from the boss of the
house. “Hooray!” he yelled. “That
means money saved.” He flourished a
newspaper announcing a rise in electric-
light charges. Just to cruel the grin on
his dial, one of us said that candles and
kerosene were also soaring in price. When
last seen he was chewing his nails, gaz-
ing morosely into space and muttering
“And I suppose it’s not worth while even
going to Alice Springs to live. The cost
of camel-bridles is probably going up,
too.”
* * * *
“Swelpme”; Standing before a city
shop-window I found myself reflecting
wistfully that I was born a generation too
early. The window was full of toys.
There was a huge model locomotive —a
poem in enamel and glittering brass
featuring a bell-mouthed funnel, cow-
catcher and the magic letters “U.P.R.”
Smaller railways ran in all directions,
under bridges, through level crossings, be-
side platforms—everything to scale and
complete to the last detail. My eyes
gloated on model cars, trucks, aeroplanes,
a magnificent speedboat and a traffic cop
on a motor-bike that shone a beam from
its headlamp. Farms with every kind of
livestock and machinery ; circuses present-
ing performing elephants, clowns and the
fair equestrienne—apparently for the
benefit of Robin Hood and his merry
men. Indians had a paleface tied to a
burning stake, but succor seemed at hand
from a posse of cowboys with lariats
swinging. I felt my trigger-finger itch for
a shoot of a pair of ornamented six guns
such as Bill Hart might have toted. And
in the midst of my nostalgic feasting a
boy close to me querulously entreated his
father: “Aw, gee, Dad, come on!”
AT THE MARKETS.
See the vegetable family
All sitting down in company:
Mr. Parsnip, lithe and lean,
Young Shallot, spruce and clean,
Mr. Carrot —ruddy bloke,
Sallow, dwarf-like Artichoke,
And, aristocratically,
Lord and Lady Celery.
There’s Mr. Spud in dusty clothes —
An ’omely bloke; no furbelows,
Mrs. Cabbage, buxom dame,
Frills and flounces round her frame,
Cauliflower, overdressed.
Showing a creamy, laundered chest,
Councillor Pumpkin, broad of thigh,
The Turnips, each with purple tie;
And see. Miss Lettuce takes the eye.
Shaking hands with passers-by.
Look at florid-faced Beetroot,
Loudly dressed from head to foot,
The Onions, in their silky-brown,
Brussels Sprouts in modest gown;
Timid Parsley bending low,
Pea and Bean, both free of show;
And look, with pearls upon her dress,
Quiet little Watercress,
And there’s that graceful fellow Leek,
Snow-white collar, tall and sleek,
Cousin Garlic in satin dress,
Young Radish, in his gaudiness,
And that swell—quite Public School —
Mr. Cucumber, calm and cool,
And Mint, and Sage, and little Thyme,
To add their savor to this rhyme;
Not forgetting, on his barrow,
Mr. Vegetable-Marrow.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blime”; Carefully I spread the form
and began to fill it in. “Land referred
to: Allot., Sec., and Parish. Registered
number of Title(s), Volume and Folio
Numbers.” That information had cost
me a 14-mile ride to the bank and a half-
day in time. With a sigh, I proceeded.
“Is land freehold or Crown leasehold?
Is title in your own name? If not,” etc.
“How much of boundaries adjoins un-
occupied Crown land, or is separated only
by a public road therefrom?” Down both
sides of the foolscap-sized form I went,
leaving out four or five of the more
intricate questions which, luckily, did not
apply in my case. Then: “Rough sketch
of land must be shown hereunder, with
fencing lines indicated by distinctive
markings. State whether such lines,” etc.
“If not, what provision,” etc. I found
a fairly straight stick, and did what I
could about it. Next: “I hereby agree:
To erect within 12 months of delivery.
To maintain in a proper state of repair,
and not remove without consent of Lands
"Don't tell me you've got an airlock in your pipe again!"
Department.” With the double-page com-
pleted came the declaration on truth of
information supplied, full name, occupa-
tion, postal address and signature of
witness. Another sigh. I’d have to ride
over to Edwards’s to get it witnessed. Ah,
well, at last it was nearly ready for post-
ing. I glanced again at the words,
“Should my application be approved, I
hereby agree to remit in cash, on demand,
the full price,” etc. So now there is at
least a chance I might eventually buy a
coil or two of Australian wire-netting
for my farm.
*■* * *
“The Bunyip”: That a dog tends to
acquire the ways of his boss, and vice
versa, needs no elaboration on this page,
but it doesn’t always lead to
such social embarrassment as
befell the Judsons at the cele-
bration at our hall. It being
Jubilee year, the time was ripe
for revival of how a bloke
named Macquarie or some-
thing had chosen the site for
the old township back in the
days when such a choice was
simpler than it is now, and the
ancients of the tribe had de-
cided that this should now be
recorded in concrete as well as
story. The function was a
very happy one; old friends
met who rarely see each other
between funerals ; all the visit-
ing dignitaries said the right
things, and the ladies lived
up to their reputation for
putting on a mighty feast
under the modest title of
“afternoon-tea.” It was when
the party surged out from this
that a momentary hush fell
over the proceedings. The heir
to the Judson acres, now
rising four, had been owned
by a sawn-off brindle mong since he
could crawl, and the two of them were
busy at the neat, new obelisk ; but it
was Stumpy who was trying to read the
inscription, while Judson Junior was
attending to its irrigation.
* * * *
“G.V.K.”: He was long and lean, with
a look about him that beer was the only
thing he wouldn’t handle carelessly. An
acquaintance greeted
him with “Hullo,
Charlie, thought you
were working over
at Eildon Weir?” “I
was,” he replied.
“Started there an’
put in a week, and
when I got me first
pay there was a note
in the envelope sayin’
‘Your services no
longer required,’ and
three flamin’ photos of me leanin’ on the
shovel! Fancy keepin’ some lazy cow
with nothing else to do but walk about
taking photos!”
* * * *
“Lignum”: As “Mat’s Mate” remarked
(B. 3/10/’5l) “most of us sort of want
mermaids to be true,” but few realise
that, except for hairlessness and a seal-
like physiognomy, the female dugong
conforms to the legendary concept of the
mermaid. And even the lack of beauty is
only skin-deep. The dugong skull so
closely resembles its human counterpart
that the discovery of one in an N.T.
Binghi camp some years ago led to arrests
by police who were in search of a missing
white man. When the female dugong
reaches maternity the resemblance to the
human species reaches its height. The
youngster is carried under a protective
flipper, nuzzled against the breast and
beefs like a six-months-old when detached
from its source of nutriment. The tactics
of a dugong mob in the face of shark
attack hark back to the days when, in
obedience to the herd instinct, humans
banded in groups against the sabre-
toothed tiger. The bulls form a pro-
tective cordon, in the centre of which the
females, each clasping her offspring to the
breast, remain till the danger is passed.
Undoubtedly the dugong is the base of
the merfolk legend.
“Here she is again! Point the bone at her — quick!"
“Shadow-chaser”: Each evening at
milking-time my cat sat patiently on the
bench knowing I’d fill her tin from the
first cow milked. And each evening a
well-grown hare emerged from the tim-
ber, paused a moment, took a quick look
around and made for the wheat-field. He
followed a well-defined course, always
crossing where the bottom rail sagged
down and the second rail arched up-
wards. Then one evening puss left her
milk untasted, walked along the fence
and took up a strategic position on the
arched rail. When, her quarry was sighted
she carefully tried her footing, each foot
in turn, flattened herself, and when the
hare passed through the fence dropped
neatly astride him, grabbed a mouthful
of skin and hare by the neck and pre-
pared to ride out the storm. The
astonished speedster turned on a fine
exhibition of plain and fancy bucking,
but pussy hung on grimly, relying on
her weight to wear him down. Finding
his best circus tricks unavailing, the
desperate hare showed he could think as
quickly as he could move. He dived back
under the bottom rail —not between bot-
tom and top rails as was his custom —and
scraped his rider off and departed intact
except for a mouthful of hair.
* * * *
“Columba”: During the recent drought
in the Burnett (Q.) district we reluctantly
felled three 60ft. bottle-trees. After we
had loosened the bark with an axe all
along the trunks, 50 dairy cows eagerly
attacked the sweet, juicy pith, each
hollowing out a neat hole for herself. In
the bull paddock we felled another, and
Cowslip’s Noble Lad started on one side
of the lOft.-through bole and ate his way
through to the other. It took him a fort-
night of solid eating to polish it off.
* * ♦ ♦
“Heresone”: I assume that “Wippe-
gong” (B, 3/10/’5l) lives in an avian
backwater untouched by modern pro-
gress. In this Queensland fastness the
birds are really machine-minded. As the
tractor roars up the lane on a frosty
morning every fence-post supports a
maggie, warbling in anticipation of a real
tuck-in. By the time it is hitched to the
plough a flock of peewees has arrived
from nowhere. These are the boldest;
intent on a juicy morsel, they often miss
death under the tractor-wheels by inches.
As the morning wears on many others,
from larks to hawks, hop in for their cut.
I have counted up to 17 species in the
one field. The Kelly clan surveys the
scene for some time before venturing
closer. Ever wary, they seldom come
within 40 yards, so the more respectable
birds don’t leave much for them. But
the black scoundrels come into their own
at planting-time. Their beaks make short
work of the newest cornsack, and they
take a delight in spilling more grain than
they eat. If “W.” gives me his address
I will pass it on to them and hope they
take the hint. But if it is all the same
to him I will keep the others. As he
says, they are good company.
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”: The seeker in the
“Service Column” (B. 3 /10/’5l) who
asked “What kind of nest does the honey-
-**ter build?” deserved the vague answer
he was given. There are several score in
the family, from cackling fowl as big as
pigeons to little gems not much heavier
than tomtits; and whilst they do mostly
make “open, cup-shaped structures”
there is such variety amongst these that
you could be forgiven for doubting the
relationship of the builders. Of those
that suspend the nests, bark and horse-
hair are popular for taking the strain,
and some of these are so flimsy that you
can see the eggs through them; others
of the group—the inland spiny-cheek is
an example—make a beautiful purse of
the best Merino they can find, so deep
that no wind could spill the eggs, and
from which only the hen’s tail and beak
protrude when she is sitting. Some set
up home in a swaying, pendulous tuft of
leaves away out on a high gum—you’ll
find the black-chinnes there; but the
beautiful yellow-tufted prefers a more
stable site, and you’ll come across him
in a firm fork often within a foot of the
ground. Two of them usually found to-
gether on the heathlands —the white-
bearded and the tawny-crowned—build
nests that are identical till you look
inside; one selects the grey fluff
from seeding “drumsticks,” for lining,
while the other plumps for that
red-brown velvet from old “bad banksia
men.” One of the largest, the blue-faced,
is a bit of a drone; he prefers an old
babblers’ nest to scrounging the material
to start one of his own —and these days
there are amongst the lords of creation
those who wouldn’t blame him. You
could go on listing the differences ad lib.,
until “the honeyeater” would almost
appear to furnish as much variation as
the whole of the bird-world; to describe
one nest as typical of the family is much
the same as saying that Homo sapiens
mostly lives under a roof.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Slim”; Charlie, the stacker at the
timber-mill, had just finished a savage
description of a former employer’s tight-
fisted ideas of mill-overhead and his
method of beating it by long hours and
small pay, when old George, the fireman,
chipped in. “Well, son,” he said. “When
I first started here forty years ago we
kicked off at half-past six of a mornin’
and finished when the sawyer couldn’t
see the stops, and then the boss would
come around and tally the splinters in
our hands. He’d dock the cost of them
off our wages every six months!”
* * * *
“Kelms”: When Ted spoke of starlings
in W.A. —he claimed he’d seen thousands
of them—l thought tolerantly of an old
man’s failing memory, and made a mental
note to place reservations on his
reminiscences of the early days. But
when Bill and his wife, who spent her
youth in the south-west, said there were
flocks of starlings around Katanning, I
thought it worth investigating. There
are no starlings in W-A. —the police
turned out in strength a few years back
when a pair flew off a ship at Fremantle,
and shot them both —but it seems there
are flocks of birds which are known
locally as starlings. I think they’re wood-
swallows. There are two varieties in
sou’-Westralia —the black-faced wood-
swallow near Perth, and the dusky one
further south —and seen in flocks they
could easily be confused with starlings.
About 7in. long, they’re grey-brown with
black wings and tail; and they’re
remarkable for the way they cluster
close together at dusk. I’Ve seen
them in swarms hanging beneath
a bough like a big black bee-
swarm, a trick they’ll also adopt during a
sudden shower. A flock of these birds
alighting in a field could look remark-
ably like starlings, and I think these are
the birds Bill has in mind.
LACHLAN BEEF, FOR EXPORT
ONLY.
Where along Lachlan reedbeds glisten
And the fantail whitens all the shadowed air.
Come Friday on to Sunday, Thursday to
Monday,
The crossing timbers listen, listen,
For Herefords tramping over.
Shoulders broad as their breed of old,
Though horns diminished,
And quiet eyes as that quiet country,
The weekend mob moves down,
The Tupra Station mob,
From Oxley to Balranald.
It will be the same mob next week in perfect
trim —
Their red habits and white-wimpled throats
Moving forward in order like a school of girls,
Or an incredible convent of nuns.
As at crossroads
(Where no crossroads are)
An iguana takes the right of way,
His yellow, new-grown skin held high in head
and tail,
And feet that scar the sand;
And the Hereford stream of red and white
Takes up again, moves in a steady swirl,
And dust whirls time
To a standstill;
But the Hereford man is home.
Friday to Sunday the mob tramps past
The tombs of those who ran out of time
In this hollow land:
Thomas Douchy, the boy of ’sixty-three.
And his father, Thomas, of ’seventy-seven.
One caught a great Murray perch and grassed
it on the reeds;
And that was his immortality for years
After his name had slipped from the tip of
our tongues
To Tommy So-and-So buried at Lachlan
Crossing
Near Oxley, father or son.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“Fairf”: Discussion on the proposed
tour by Princess Elizabeth and the Duke
of Edinburgh started it. Lank remembered
the gala occasion when the King and
Queen —then Duke and Duchess of
York —arrived in Sydney nearly 25 years
ago. “As part of the celebrations an
evening paper gave a prize of two
hundred quid for the best song about
Sydney,” he enthused. Peter snorted.
“Fancy making a song about that hole! ”
he growled in the voice of Westralia.
“All I ever say there was old women
tryin’ to doll’up like young ’uns and
spielers lookin’ for someone to take
down.” Lank gave him a “Silence Serf”
stare and continued: “Wasn’t a bad song,
neither. Went somethin’ like this.”
Softly, but with singular lack of melody
he crooned: “O ho Sydney I love you,”
(Pete squirmed) “O ho Sydney I do.
I love the smiling skies above you ...”
The voice of the unbeliever chipped in :
“Smiling skies! When last summer they
had about three sunny days.” But the
songster had gone on to: “Wherever I
may look there’s a cranny or a nook.”
The next line should have been “Where
your storied romance grew,” but it was
never uttered. “You mean there’s a
granny or a crook,” corrected the bloke
from, fhe West. And that’s how the fight
started.
< * * * *
“Old-timer”: The Balranald road
shimmered in the heat and the rider who
appeared on it seemed to waver and flow,
more like a shadow than material sub-
stance. The group outside the post-office
peered into the heat, and Pocketknife
said doubtfully, “Looks like that big
chestnut of Dobey’s.” Half a minute later
Little Curl remarked, “No, that’s an
ambler. Dobey’s chestnut never knew
how t’ amble.” Seconds passed, while
the apparition up the road gradually en-
larged itself and took on more definition.
“Ha,” exclaimed Pocketknife, “it’s Sid
Bennett on that Wishin’ Cap colt he got
from Kulkyne.” “Where’s y’r eyes?”
demanded Little Curl. “Sid Bennett ain’t
half that size.” “How can y’ tell what
ruddy size he is, in this heat an’ glare?”
Pocketknife retorted. “You’re all blind
an’ barmy,” put in Big Fleming slowly.
“If that ain’t ol’ McGinty on his black
scrub-horse I’ll buy the drinks” —— Just
then two small boys and a little girl came
from the post-office, glanced up the road
and the eldest said, “Gee, there’s Billy
Fisher’s auntie out ridin’ again on Billy’s
grey pony. Gee, I bet Billy’s goin’ crook
an’” But by then the bushmen
were dragging Fleming into Medley’s bar.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
“Herbert Dawson”: In my experience
wounded snakes bite themselves (B.
3/10/’5l) only when their backs are
broken, and then always below the break
and for a very good reason —and I antici-
pate some of the Council’s funny men by
adding that I don’t mean the injured
wriggler rips the hooks in to make the
tail keep up to the lead. He is doing so
because he is paralysed in all his person
below the break. He is trying to escape
and in the part of him that can feel
realises that some dead weight is hanging
on and keeping him back. He may even
take it for another snake attempting to
swallow him tail-first (contrary to the
regulations in such case made and pro-
vided), and very excusably feels peeved
and takes the only means he thinks avail-
able to him to rectify the matter.
« * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: My neighbor had a
pair of zebra finches —male and female—
in a cage with a love-bird and a canary,
and wondered why they didn’t breed. At
my suggestion she placed them in a
separate cage. Within a week they were
nesting, and soon afterwards an egg was
in the nest. Now she wants to know how
the hen managed to postpone laying until
they had their own home, and I wish I
could tell her. It is known that the
pituitary gland secretes a hormone which,
by acting on the testes and the ovaries,
determines the breeding season, but what
stimulates the pituitary? Nature pro-
vides that the young will hatch out at the
most propitious season for them, so she
“Now these are the choice cuts.”
must arrange that, some few months
before that, something affects the pituitary.
That stimulant could be any of a variety
of agents, of which light, acting on the
eye, is perhaps the most likely. Birds
which nest soon after the first rains are
probably affected by decreasing light;
spring-nesting birds will react to increas-
ing light. Perhaps the first rains, or the
sight of the new green of winter, may
have some effect. So may humidity or
temperature, or richer food. Birds can
be made to breed out of season by pro-
viding them with more light, and there
have been occasions when out-of-season
weather has brought out-of-season breed-
ing. Some species can skip a breeding
season if conditions are unfavorable, and
it seems that zebra-finches, at least, are
affected by the company of strangers.
Now, how would that affect the pituitary?
A $ * *
“V.C.”: About 80 years ago my wife’s
grandfather and his brother-in-law
moved sheep from their property at Robe,
near Mt. Gambier, on to Kangaroo Island.
The experiment was a failure; but the
story has a sequel. A grandson of the
brother-in-law visited the island recently ;
he was very interested to find two moun-
tains —Mt. Stockdale and Mt. Taylor—
named after those early experimenters.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Terlo had a small bit of a
place in n.-e. Victoria ; a few cows, a
few pigs and a few acres of vines ; and
he made wine. It was pretty crude stuff,
but he loved it in large measure, and
was happy until he became plagued* with
a rash and terrific itch which brought
him to the doctor. The med., when he
got the shirt off the scored and bleeding
back, asked him how he had got himself
into such a mess. “Well, I make-a da
good ‘scra-atcher,’ ” Terlo replied as he
produced a bloodstained tack-studded
lath. “You’ve got to give up the wine,
Terlo, or I can’t cure you,” said the
doctor. “Give up da vine!” Terlo
squealed. “Give up da good vine! Na!
Na! I’ll scra-atch.” He was back in a
week, in a worse mess, but with a
demijohn as a peace-offering to the
doctor, and a compromise: “You give-a
just da leedle medicine,” he wheedled.
“Then I give up just da leedle vine, yes?
And then I have just da leedle scra-atch.
Jake-a?”
♦ * * •
“George”: Annie, the lubra, found a
new-born kid which had been abandoned
by its mother, and brought it up to the
house. “Missus,” she said, “might be
you gib me some milk, him proper weak
one.” Missus obliged, and Annie poured
the milk in a dish, then pushed the kid’s
nose and mouth in. The kid went for
Annie’s finger held under the milk, and
blissfully sucked for several minutes.
Annie then pulled its head out, picked
the kid up by one front leg and pro-
ceeded to jerk it violently up and down.
Missus protested that such treatment
would make the kid sick, to which Annie
replied: “No more, Missus, this make
him proper good one, all that tucker go
down longa bottom!” She then let the
kid have another drink and repeated the
milk-shake performance. After a final
shaking the lubra felt its bulging little
sides and announced: “Him full up now,
make him proper strong one!” Spartan
treatment, perhaps, but that kid has
certainly thrived.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Scene: Bank of the
Ovens River; Mat drowsing against a
log, me on my back in the shade above
him. A man comes down the bank and
eyes us. Man: “You blokes lookin’ for
work?” Mat: “No.” Man; “That
your camp up there?” Mat: “Yair.”
Man: “An’ you’re not lookin’ for work?”
Mat: “No!” Man, mystified: “What
you doin’ here?” Mat; “I told y’.”
Man: “Y* told me?” Mat: “Yair.”
Silence. Man: “When did y’ tell me?”
Mat: “Just now.” Another silence.
Man, indignant: “About all y’ve said has
bin yes an’ no. I asked was y’ lookin’
f’r work an’ y’ said y’ wasn’t; then I
asked what y’ was doin’ an’ y’ said y’
told me. Whadda y’ mean?” Mat sits
up: “I ruddy well told y’ when y’ wanted
t’ know if we was lookin’ for work an’
I said we wasn’t. Well, that’s what we’re
doin’, y’ dope, not lookin’ for work!
Now, blow off an’ talk t’ someone else —
I’m tired.” Man looks wildly from Mat
to me, then goes away, watching us care-
fully.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”; ’Way back in the days when
brickies built tall chimney-stacks on a
piecework basis —so much a foot—
Stumpy and his long mate took on dupli-
cating the 90-footer at the brickyard.
They were both good toilers, but, in the
best traditions of the trade, apt to get
thirsty at odd times through the week.
However, every pay-day noon on
Saturday—they would drop the tape from
the top of the work to the manager
standing at the base, and, strangely, the
measurement always justified a good
“draw.” A man needs a head for heights
to be able to climb up the built-in rungs
inside the stack, finishing away up on a
tiny scaffold like an island surrounded
by space. The manager wasn’t built that
way; that’s why he didn’t know Stumpy
always contrived to screw up a few feet
of tape in his hand before dropping the
leather case to the bottom.
But the day of reckoning
arrived. According to the
payments made, the new
stack should have been as
high as the old one; it wasn’t
—by a full 10ft. Stumpy
declared it was an optical
illusion and vowed that the
tape didn’t tell lies. With a
thoughtful look on his face
the trump ordered the works-
carpenter to make a large
wooden square and nail a
batten across at equal dis-
tances from the corner. Hold-
ing one side on the ground
and the other upright, the
manager retreated until a sight
along the batten tipped the top
of the stack. The measure-
ment from that spot, along the
ground to the base of the
chimney, gave him the height.
“Y* know,” mourned Stumpy to his mate
as they worked off the dead horse,
“education’s a curse!”
* * * *
“W.M.H.”: Mass suicide of Norwegian
lemmings (B. 26/9/’5l) is only a popular
legend; the truth has never been sub-
stantiated, and nobody has ever seen
these frenzied death-marches; in fact, it
is hard to find anyone with a picture
showing more than one drowned lemming
at a time. What actually happens is the
lemming population periodically builds
up to saturation-point; when they eat
out their mountain habitat they swarm
down to the plains. Considering the
topography of Norway and the propor-
tions of the plague, there is nothing re-
markable about finding dead lemmings
floating in fiords. Yet it is upon this
evidence that these little black-and-yellow
rodents, which look like guinea-pigs with
the mumps, have become heroes of a
fairy-tale regarding their allegedly noble
self-destruction. Their overpopulation
ends with disease, the exhaustion of food-
supplies and the toll taken by preying
birds and animals. The cyclic rise and
fall in rodent populations is not uncom-
mon, and there is no reason, scientific or
otherwise, to believe that lemmings are
any more foolish than others of their kind.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: The utility came to a halt beside
the tree beneath whose branches the tired-
looking individual reclined. The driver
got out. “You notice anyone take that
brindle calf that was tied up to the post
on the other side o’ the road?” he asked.
The recumbent one opened one eye.
“Yair,” he said. “How long ago?” The
other screwed up his face with the agony
of thinking. “Might ’a’ bin ten minutes
ago, or could ’a’ been an hour,” he re-
plied. The ute-driver’s brows came down.
“Did you see who it was?” he asked.
“Two blokes drove up and untied the
calf, put him in an’ drove away.” “What
in—car or truck?” The comatose gent,
looked pained. “Listen,” he said, “I
noticed ’em put the calf in. I ain’t got
eyes-all over me head. Whaddayer think
a bloke is—Sexton Blake?”
* * * *
“Villefair”; Strange how birds of
the same family have diverse ideas when
it comes to home-planning. The rosella
chooses a stump with a hole in the top
down which she can drop vertically. Her
little cousin, the budgerigar, is more
practical; she goes for a weatherproof
domicile with the entrance in the side.
I used to wonder how the bush-
budgerigar succeeded in finding a hollow
tree with a suitable side-entrance; now
I think I know. Last year I put nest-
boxes in my aviary—one for each hen
and a couple extra to allow for tastes.
Immediately the fights started. With true
feminine cussedness two hens would
select the same nest and nearly murder
each other before ownership was finally
established. Even then it was an uneasy
peace. As soon as the respective
youngsters were pushed out to be fed
by their fathers, die fight for possession
of the original box was on again. After
one hen had a wattle bitten off, never to
grow again, and another had lost more
blood than it seemed possible in such a
small creature, I remoyed the nests.
Tranquillity descended instantly. But
with the approaching mating season the
birds have developed a new habit, A
circular hole funnelling in from 2in. in
diameter to lin. has been chewed through
“Just Waste of time — what's the good of
sums and spelling to a dirt-track rider?”
a board lin. thick. At another place a
hole was started, then left. Where the
hole was taken right through, the aviary
backs to within 2in. of a brick wall and
the hoards sound hollow when tapped.
The side that carries the unfinished hole
has no such sound. Apparently instinct
suggested that where there was a hollow
there should be a nesting-place.
LYRE-BIRD.
The track, from winding, turns
steeply down, defines
its way through tall tree-ferns,
myrtles and turpentines.
The cold green gloom receives
its lead. In silence bound,
the dark glint of the leaves
screens the water’s sound;
when from some piercing cold
clear source a showering spray
of notes is flung to hold
me, frozen, in the way.
Silence. Held as stone,
I strain with sight to guess
that voice. Water alone
speaks from its dark recess.
Comes, fronj a chuckling throat,
a low “chirr, chirr.” The black
leaves glint. A drawn-out note
ends in a shattering “crack.”
Then all the glinting crowd
of leaves, the rocks, the throng
of trees are filled and loud
with storm of staunchless song.
Burning to see and know,
I move. I step upon
dead brush. The source, the flow
is cut, the spirit gone.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
It costs less when Experts manage your Estate..
■EFFICIENT management of an Estate is
*■“' dependent on the wisdom and experience of
the Executor or Trustee. In unskilled hands,
wastage and unnecessary expense may cause con-
siderable loss. The relatively small cost involved
in appointing the Union Trustee as your executor
may be more than olfset by the careful, economi-
cal management of your Estate.
The specialised knowledge of a group of experts
in every sphere of Estate administration is
permanently available.
Charges, limited by law, are exceedingly moderate.
A confidential interview can be arranged to meet
your convenience.
Phone, call or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees .”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St..
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 188 S)
St., Brisbane
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Aust. Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.j
r Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. lie .
May, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
45 392,186 15,750 7 p.c. = 814,037 3,420,269
Loss, sale of assets, £7,792 .. 3,412.477
46 402,578 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 3,485,268
From inner reserves, £823,360 .. 4,308.628
47 475,761 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 4,454,602
June,
From inner reserves, £135,414 .. 4,590,016
48* 472,320 15,750 8 p.c. = 358,899 4,687,687
Net unexplained additions, £97,446 4,785,133
Share premiums, £650,503.. .. 5,435,636
Exchange surplus, £79,433.. .. 5,515,069
49 542,435 15,750 9 p.c. = 423,949 5,617,805
Reserves capitalised, £780,577 . . 4,828,228
Less exchange adjustin'!, £11,599.. 4,816,629
Net unexplained add’t’ns, £95,289.. 4,911,918
oO 599,573 16,760 9 p.c. = 444,060 5,051,681
Exchange surplus, £417 .. .. 5,052,098
Share premiums, £146 .. .. 6,052,244
Profit sale assets, £4621 .. .. 6,056,865
Unexplained addition, £170,994 .. 5,227,859
61 « 7 if’ o7B 15>75 ° 9 P-c. = 603,877 5,362,310
* Subject to intangibles, now £2,419,968.
t Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
In a rapidly - expanding post - war
economy, spurred by inflation, short-
ages of manpower and materials and low
interest-rates, the immediate return from
equity shares lost much of its former
significance in assessing their market-
value. Instead, investors have looked
largely to the possibility of new share-
issues on favorable terms, and/or to
increases in the dividend-rate, to lift the
initial return on their original outlay and
to provide a capital gain as a hedge
against inflation. Now tighter capital and
credit controls, the hardening of interest-
rates, increased taxation, lower wool
prices, allocation of essential materials
and other influences have combined to
modify, or delay, earlier expectations, with
a consequent easing of share prices gener-
ally.
Over the six years to the close of last
accounts, paid capital of this big indus-
trial organisation increased by £2,223,393,
of which £789,577 was bonus scrip and
the balance cash, which also brought with
it £650,649 of share premiums. Obviously
the story has been one of marked expan-
sion, and the growth is not yet complete.
50 in April last the board asked the
control authority for permission to get
in still more share capital. But it was
not until August 15 that those on the
register were offered 894,448 new £1 ords.,
two for 15, at a premium of 20s. each ;
total £1,788,896. This is “considerably
less than will be required to carry through
our full programme of expansion....
and we must revise our plans to some
extent,” the chairman says.
Amid all these cross-currents the price
of the ords. fluctuated between 85s. and
70s. 9d. cum rights. The ex-rights figure,
which fell to 575. 6d. in Sept., stood at
595. last week. The immediate return at
595. is 3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. In-
cluding the new issue, net tangible cover
is visibly 275. 9d. The well-protected
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
The parent (holding co.) and its 22
subsidiaries operate in 17 different indus-
tries, ranging from glass—the backbone
of the business—to plastics, refractories,
fabricated steel, tools, etc.; and activities
spread throughout the Commonwealth,
out over the Tasman to New Zealand
and north to Singapore. Earnings have
stepped up with the growth in plant
capacity, which still lags behind the
order-book. Expanding turnover has
taken care of the growth in costs. Chief
bottlenecks have been shortages of coal
and labor.
Last term all the offshoots contributed
to the pool except one, which made a
loss of £20,335. The improvement was
principally in the glass section, to which
big new bottle-making plants at Sydney
and Melbourne and the new factory at
Hobart contributed substantially. The
Singapore factory, which came into
operation in 1948, “continues to operate
satisfactorily.” After allowing £876,279
(down £9595) for depreciation and what-
ever was considered necessary for taxa-
tion and contingencies, the net result
benefited by £154,505, reaching £754,078.
That covered the pref. div. and 11 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 11.8, 11.2,
10.1, 10.3 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1947. And
it leaves out of the reckoning a net un-
explained addition of £170,994 to con-
tingencies, etc. So the 9 p.c. div. was
probably a more comfortable matter than
it looked on bare p. and 1. figures.
The year’s total expenditure on fixed
assets exceeded £1,600,000, the net growth
being £789,176, Stocks increased by
£570,930, book debts by £644,551 and
shareholdings, etc., by £127,076:
Consolidated Balance-sheet Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £5,109,856 £6,875,511 £6,884,625
Outside interests* 63,605 60,018 61,333
Sundry crcditorsf 1,712,868 1,831,822 3,347,921
Final divs. . . 252,575 246,743 335,543
Freehold . . . . 1,761,349 1,937,237 2,283,988
Plant, etc. . . 2,574,301 2.847,743 3,290,168
Shares, etc. . . 1,133,181 1,127,568 1,254,644
Stocks . . . . 3,289,811 3,836,140 4,407,070
Debtors . . . . 1,215,855 1,457,798 2,102,349
Bonds, cash, etc... 363,033 375,344 126,677
Intangibles . . 2,416,748 2,416,871 2,419,968
Inter-co. balancej 2,231 66,165 106,868
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision, etc. J Due to differences in balance date.
To help meet the outlay the co. went to
its bankers and others for £1,516,099 and
drew upon cash, etc., for £248,667. The
contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£4,207,274) was £511,011.
The programme ahead includes a new
glass-works at Brisbane, expected to come
into production in March next, addi-
tional furnaces at Adelaide and Perth,
completion of the new works at Christ-
church (N.Z.), where glass-containers,
pressed- and blown-glassware and corru-
gated-fibre board are to be turned out,
and erection of a crockery-making
factory at . Melbourne, where approval to
build is still awaited.
The new share-issue already referred
to will lift paid capital to £7,780,308 in
175,000 9 p.c. cum. prefs. (a reminder of
the dear-money days of the 1920’5) and
7,605,308 ords. The pref. div. and 9 p.c.
to the ords. will then call for £53,850 less
profit than was claimed last term.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
( Dividends ,
A Pref. B Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.*
£ £ 41 £ £
1944.. 45,365 11,724 8,610 71 p.c.= 21,215 88.330
1945.. 42,046 11,724 8,610 7| „ ~ 21,216 88,826
1946.. 51,452 11,724 8,610 71 „ „ 21,215 98,729
1947.. 53,664 11,724 8,610 7i „ ~21,591110,468
Share premiums, £42,052 .. .. 152,520
1948.. 60,457 11,724 8,610 7i „ ~ 24,781 167,862
1949.. 55,519 11,724 8,610 7J „ ~ 27,034 176,013
To contingencies reserve, £lO,OOO .. 186,013
1950.. 67,074 11,724 8,610 7 \ p.c.= 27,033 205,720
Revaluation assets, £378,720 .. 584,440
1951.. 102,413 11,724 8,610 10 p.c.= 56,250 610,269
* After deducting goodwill ( £42,070), written out
of accounts in 1951.
The co. trades mainly in women’s and
men’s clothing, furniture, furnishing-
drapery, etc., partly on a t.-p. basis.
Headquarters are in Melbourne, but most
of the business is done through a chain
of 42 shops scattered throughout all States
except Queensland. Expansion, the key-
note of accounts since war ended, became
more marked last term, when the old-
established business of A. Cunningham
and Sons, Elizabeth-street, Hobart, not far
from the co.’s main store there, was
bought a couple of months before the
books closed. The overall price isn’t
mentioned, but £81,075 was paid for the
freehold. The intention is to operate
Cunningham’s as a furniture and furnish-
ing-drapery store, etc. In the same city
a property in Bathurst-street, bought
earlier in the term for £8865 to tempo-
rarily house the furniture section, is to
be sold, and so is the vacant land in
Murray-street, bought in 1947 for £60,000,
and on which the co. originally intended
to build.
In July the Economic building at the
corner of Hay- and William-streets, Perth,
adjacent to the co.’s own freehold, was
bought for £353,500. It is proposed to
sell the old freehold, for which £130,000
was paid just after the war, and make the
Economic building the co.’s headquarters
in Perth. A couple of months earlier
Peerless Modes Pty., Ltd., mantle manu-
facturers, Flinders-lane, Melbourne, was
taken over at an unstated figure. The
manufacturing section has been sold, and
the premises are being converted into
buying and administrative offices pre-
paratory to transfer to the co.’s registered
office from Bourke-street. The co. also
bought the freehold of its Cessnock
(N.S.W.) branch for £5707. And arrange-
ments are in hand to open a buying office
in London, where the co. has previously
operated through agents.
To give “a more accurate picture” of
their worth, 21 of the co.’s older free-
holds were independently revalued during
the year and written up in the books by
£378,720, of which £42,070 was used to
rub goodwill out of the accounts. There
is no mention of any intention to issue
bonus scrip against the balance of this
reserve, nor does the ’overall position
provide sound grounds for doing so.
The year’s turnover increased by over a
million pounds, reaching a record, but
unstated, figure. Net earnings were
£35,339 stronger at £102,413. That was
after allowing £115,703 (up £85,681) for
taxation, which covers the increased rate
announced in the Budget. The £102,413
was enough to pay pref. divs. (together
£20,334) and show approximately 14.4 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 13,
9.8, 12.1 and 11.6 p.c. back to 1947. The
div., steady at 1\ p.c. for the eight pre-
ceding years, was lifted to 10 p.c., and
the £25,829 that remained raised reserves
to £610,269.
Early in the term £202,058 of fresh
ord. capital was gathered at par. It
was not enough, and £502,920 was added
to mortgages (mainly on account of un-
paid balances on freeholds), £255,511 to
the overdraft and £84,395 to the amount
coming to trade creditors;
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital . . £650,932 £650,932 £650,932 £852.990
Mortgages .. 258,000 400,000 400,000 902,920
Overdraft . . 134,210 116,943 343,234 598,745
Creditors .. 49,634 77,920 90,525 174,920
Tax provision 45,500 40,500 30,000 116,000
Final divs. .. 23,684 23,684 23,683 45,323
Freeholds .. 460,111 474,402 526,235 1,369,289
Leaseholds .. 11,901 14,869 26,895 42,942
Plant . . 66,524 90,164 131,261 168,279
Stocks . . . 414,583 521,382 545,462 1,004,998
Debtors . . 369,060 373,687 508,666 704,792
Cash, bonds.. 7,634 11,488 5,575 10,867
Including revaluation, freeholds increased
by £843,054, stocks by £459,536 and book
debts by £196,126. The board says stocks
appear at a safe figure, and that
customers’ accounts are healthy. Still,
when the books closed there was 225, lOd.
of outside money in the business for
every pound belonging to shareholders.
To ease the position £312,500 of fresh
ord. capital was issued at par shortly
after the close of accounts, thus lifting
paid capital to £1,165,490 in 167,475 A
and 123,015 B 7 p.c. prefs., all of £1
each, and 3,500,000 ss. ords. On that lot
the pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the ords.
would call for only £5421 more profit than
was claimed fast term.
The market sums up the risks by pricing
the ords. at 7s. 6d. to return 6.7 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. At 275. 9d. and
265. the A and B prefs. yield 5 p.c and
5.4 p.c. respectively. Including the new
capital, net tangible cover is £lO 13s.
A’s, £l3 Is, 6d. B’s and Bs. 6d. ords.
Caesar Fabrics, Ltd. (Sydney)
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. t Ordinaries serves.*
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, £30,997 .. .. 47,445
1949 .. 39,770 10 p.c. = 18,478 68,737
Unexplained additions, £1067.. .. 69,804
1950 .. 59,093 10 p.c. = 22,500 106,397
Net unexplained additions, £223 .. 106,620
1951 .. 74,848 625 10 p.c. = 22,500 158,343
* After deducting intangibles (now £708).
Since the public became interested in
this now 26-year-old and well-handled
importer of cotton fabrics, etc., the busi-
ness has stepped along in fine style, far
outpacing its earlier performances. It
was to soften the blow from punitive
private-co. taxation and qualify for Stock
Exchange listing that 53,620 new £1
shares were offered, and snapped up, at
365. 6d. each early in 1949, thus raising
paid capital to £225,000 —most of the
remaining £171,380 is held by the Waltons
(who built the business up) and Bakir-
gians, of Sydney and Manchester (Eng.),
and their friends
Chief profit-earners are three lines of
Caesar cotton-fabric products, made by
the Bakirgians, and for which the co. is
sole importer and distributor in Aus-
tralia. Other contributors to the pool
are a small woollen and worsted weaving
plant, installed during the 1930’5, two
small but growing subsidiaries in
Adelaide—Caesar Fabrics (S.A.), Pty., and
Herald Clothing Co., Ltd. —and other
imported cotton piece-goods.
Net earnings averaged £33,474 for the
decade to mid-1948, after allowing for
taxation on a public-co. basis. For the
three years since, the average was £57,903,
thanks largely to the rapid growth of
turnover and other favorable trading
conditions created by world-wide infla-
tion, the gains from which have out-
stripped the advance in costs.
Last term opened with a strong seller’s
market and prospects of shortages, but
finished with the first real buyerVmarket
conditions to be experienced in 12 years,
the chairman says. Still, net earnings
stepped up by £15,755, reaching £74,848.
That was enough to cover a full year’s
pref. div. (£3750) and show 31.6 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 26.2 p.c, and 21.5
p.c. for the two preceding terms. Owing
to the effects of capital and credit restric-
tions and of higher sales-tax, the extra
cost of carrying stocks and book debts
will have to be borne at the expense of
undistributed profits. So the div. remained
at 10 p.c., and the cautious board intends
to keep it there until the prop for capital
is further strengthened. The £51,723
(69 p.c.) of the year’s profits ploughed
back into the business lifted reserves to
£158,343 in excess of the small amount
of intangibles (£708).
And the co.’s freedom of manoeuvre in
both buying and selling markets was
further increased by the £75,000 of fresh
5 p.c. pref. capital, gathered shortly
before the close of accounts, and by the
temporary deduction of stocks (down
£11,679) and debtors’ balances (down
£116,175):
1948.* 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £171,380 £225,000 £225,000 £300,000
Loans . , ■ 56,957 48,441 65,715 127,469
Sundry creditors 102,941 159,734 378,992 190,650
Tax provision 25,600 19,500 39,000 60,000
Final div. .. 11,087 11,250 11,875
Freehold . . 11,458 11,458 11.344 14,410
Plant . . 11,472 12,730 31,912 32,763
Stocks . . 268,403 369,460 490,171 478,492
Debtors, etc.. . 136,108 152,839 288,310 172,135
Cash, shares, etc. 5,124 19,023 4,618 150,538
Intangibles .. 710 729 697 708
* Prospectus figures.
The holding of cash, etc., increased by
£145,920, and £188,342 was slashed off
the amount coming to trade creditors,
etc. Loans (up £61,754) are mainly from
shareholders. The year’s improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£411,171) was £123,029.
The scrip has been little affected by
the recent weakness in the sharemarket.
Since the beginning of 1951 the ords. have
fluctuated between 445. 3d. and 435. At
the lower figure the return is 4.6 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 345. Id. The prefs., all held by the
M.L.C., are earning a lot more than their
keep.
Southern Kinta Consolidated
One of the biggest tin-dredging con-
cerns in the British Commonwealth, the
co. owns some 9000 acres in the Kinta
Valley, Malaya, and 2000-odd acres in
Siam, which is not equipped. Of its nine
dredges seven are operating again, the
eighth is being rehabilitated and the ninth
has yet to be rebuilt. The seventh


m
id...... A
...acadmfi
and iStm
| Mtddmty
The "PERFECT POLIC1” of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accident or specified illness —and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY J.TD
Tl UNT E ft AND BufrH STREETS. SYDNEY
For SALE
Great Northern Freehold Tin Co. Ltd.
Mineral Freehold, area 60 acres, Herberton, together
with 1 0 head Stamper Battery complete with Mining
Machinery, Plant, B. & W. Boilers, etc. Three Mining
Shafts equipped.
If not sold as a going concern within a reasonable
time, separate lots will be available to meet buyers’
requirements.
Lists on application to
SECRETARY
Great Northern Freehold Tin Co. Ltd.
BOX 353 E,
G.P.0., BRISBANE
Bauds
Maintains low prices
in newest Gift Book
Hurry! If you’re
not on our country
mailing list, send this coupon at once.
We ll send you Proud’s new Gift Book. It s
just out ... in time for your Christmas shopping
by mail, at present low prices.
CUT AND POST TO-DAY
THE MAIL ORDER MANAGER,
proud's, box 1502, g.p.0., Sydney
Please send in time for Christmas shopping at present
low prices, a free copy of Proud’s Gift Book.
NAME.
ADDRESS..
—.STATE.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents ami
Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription... L ._.„ 22/6
Telephones: B 9573, B 6232,
B 6130
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
“ Many men should wear
the Linia Belt”
-fr
r\
w
writes an eminent
Physician
** I have established after a
number of X-ray examinations,
a considerable improvement
with those of my patients who
had adopted this belt. It
supports the abdominal organs,
reinforces the muscular wall
and creates a corrective
massage. It affords a sensation
of immediate ease and vigour"
Write today for free illustrated
booklet A. 21 at the address below.
oeii
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Australia only by
of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. Cl. Tel.: FA 8357
Open Saturday mornings
Branches throughout the British Isles and the Continent
'My daughter-in-law
taught me how to
entertain
easily and
inexpensively 9
<9*
rb
Since Nancy showed me how Vickers Gin can be
the basis of quick-and-easy refreshments, 1 ask
my friends in often, for cards or a chat. With
Vickers Recipe Book as a guide even a novice like
me can shake up delicious cocktails sweet or
dry and mix cool, pleasant, long drinks. Take
my advice, make Vickers Gin your standby for
hospitality.
Vickers gin
201 years of Tradition 1750-1951
A note to The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., Box 659 G, Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, will bring you
a FREE copy of the Vickers
Recipe Book containing over 50
tested recipes for cocktails and
long drinks. Write for your
copy today!
VG 52/1*
(formerly the Changkat dredge)
began digging in November last.
About 10 p.c. more ground
was handled for 867 fewer tons
t.o. during the 12 months to
March 31, 1951:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons,
t.o. t.o. t.o. t.o.
Kampa Malaya 313 377 552 699
Chemor .. 418 286 387 463
Kinta.. .. 283 413 683 683
S. Kampar .. 304 2526 3054 1964
Total .. 1318 3602 4676 3809
The drop in recoveries was due
to the above - average - grade
ground worked in the previous
year. Actual yardage and
average values and costs are not
published in the report.
It was the high price of tin
that more than looked after the
rise in costs and enabled
£294,424 more profit to be
shown and the div. to be raised:
Gross Divs.*
Mar., Earnings. Exes. Profit. 3 p.c.
’47.. 92,128 84,758 7,370 5,873
10 p.c.
’48.. 504,913 449,134 55,779 52,910
22$ p.c.
’49. .1,525,737 1,213,032 312,705 119,047
30 p.c.
’5O. .2,085,043 1,674,650 410,393 158,730
40 p.c.
’5l. .2,797,278 2,092,461 704,817 205,026
* Rate of div. is gross rate declared, the
amount is net after payment of U.K. tax,
now 9s. 6d. in £.
Last term’s exes, include export
duty (£404,885), depreciation
(£202,815), cost of river diver-
sion (£13,001), emergency exes.
(£11,808) and taxation (£840,000).
The £704,817 of profit was 73.2
p.c. on the £962,000 of paid
capital as against 42.6 p.c. for
the previous term. The nominal
or gross rate of dividend was
lifted from 30 p.c. to 40 p.c., but
British income tax (now 9s. 6d.
in the £) reduced the net rate to
shareholders to 16.5 p.c. and 21.3
p.c. respectively. In Australian
currency the 21.3 p.c, is worth
26.6 p.c. at current rate of ex-
change. Of the £499,791 of
profit that remained, £145,000
was written off restoration exes,
(now £421,775), £230,000 was
earmarked for river diversion
work and £lOO,OOO was set aside
for contingencies.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £3,234,649
(£2,323,506 was cash) and
current liabilities £447,125. There
was also a Government rehabili-
tation loan of £564,090, against
which is to be set the co.’s war-
damage claims (amount not
stated), which have been assessed
but not yet paid.
Apart from the possibility of
war and its unpredictable con-
sequences, two other imponder-
ables for investors are the price
of tin and dividend limitations —
the co. is registered in London.
The British Government pro-
poses to limit co. gross dividends
to the average rate paid for the
two years before July 27, 1951.
The Malayan Chamber of Mines
has asked for exemption from
this unjust Socialist freeze for
cos. operating in Malaya but
registered in London. And there
the matter stands for the
moment.
During 1951 the London
average price of tin rose from
£S6OO for January to £BllO4 for
December, the average for the
year being £5745 18s. as against
£SS4B for 1949. The figure
reached a peak of £81470 for
February, 1951, fell to £8866 for
July and then rose again, reach-
ing £BlO2B 15s. on Oct. 17. The
big rise and fall was due largely
to American buying on stock-
pile account, which ceased in
March last. The recent recovery
is attributed mainly to activity
of European buyers. However,
the key to the future price of
the metal is what America
regards as a “reasonable price.”
Washington officials seem to be
thinking in terms of £BBOO-odd
a ton, while trade opinion
suggests something nearer the
£BlOOO-mark.
On Sydney ’Change the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares have a fairly
steady market around 16s. each.
Holders of more than 60 p.c.
of the shares in the nine tin-
dredging cos. which proposed to
merge their interests in Consoli-
dated Tin Dredging (B.
17/10/’5l) have approved the
scheme. Since only 51 p.c.
approval was required, the
merger is thus assured. The
holding co. will pay partly in
cash and partly in shares, details
of which have been previously
published in these columns. The
cash payment, aggregating about
£1,175,000, will be tax-free,
being a return of capital. Cur-
rent quotations for shares in
the merging cos. indicate that
the market is valuing the Con-
solidated co.’s 10s. shares at
barely ss. each. Many of the
3500 shareholders involved in
the merger consider that a pros-
pectus, or some sort of state-
ment, indicating the financial
return that might be expected
to follow the merger under
existing conditions, should have
been issued. On the basis of
recent dredging returns, in-
formed quarters expect the con-
solidated interests to earn suffi-
cient to pay, say, nearly 15 p.c.
Obviously the market considers
the risks now associated with
tin-dredging in Malaya to be
substantial.


■
*?v<
0?
m
&
&
FLOR
P5O/55
sSS
VaF*!
WSTAN
COOMBE COTTAGE, VIB.
Coombe Cottage, at Cold •
stream, on the Healesville
Road, Victoria, was the
much-loved home of the
late Dame Nellie Melba. To
it she returned whenever
freedom from her musical
obligations made it possible.
The inscription on the
Coombe Cottage clock
tower, “East, West, Home's
Best,” certainly emphasises
her love of home.
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
7960-7-50 -
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Leaping Basic Wage
A year or so ago the Com-
munists were seeking a basic
wage of £lO a week. When the
unions went to court the rate
was under £7. A “loading” of
£1 a week was granted, which
was in addition to cost-of-living
adjustments. Now, from the
first pay period of November,
the average capital-cities basic
wage will be £lO a week, with
McGirr’s Big City topping the
inflationary score at £lO 7s.
Over the last 12 months the
average basic wage has risen by
about £3 a week. Of that, £l, as
said before, represents a “pros-
perity” loading, or something of
the kind, and is not a result of
the increased cost of living.
But there isn’t the slightest
doubt that the £1 a week in-
crease was the cause of some of
the subsequent increased cost of
living. Like the 40-hour week,
this Commonwealth Arbitration
Court award has added fuel to
the already-raging inflationary
fires. The principal causes of
our inflation are underproduc-
tion and too-high consumption.
But the 40-hour week and
“prosperity” wage-loadings have
only accentuated the strain on
the economy caused primarily
by those two factors.
No doubt the Arbitration
Court’s discretionary powers in
considering economic factors in
the community are limited. But
the time has surely come when
the effects of political redistri-
bution of incomes must be taken
into account in considering not
only whether industry can pay
a certain wage, but also whether
it can produce the goods to
satisfy the increased purchasing-
power.
On the basis of present bene-
fits, social-service distributions
are now at the rate of £143 mil-
lion a year, and appropriations
from revenue to the National
Welfare Fund are estimated at
£lB5 million, or about £23 a
head of the population. Per
wage-earner it represents over
£6O a head, and it mostly comes
from the higher-income groups,
"Is that complete with wheels?"
which are normally investors as
much as they are spenders. Re-
cipients of social-security bene-
fits are almost invariably prompt
spenders, not savers.
With taxation now taking
roughly 30 p.c. of the national
income, and most of the income-
tax being levied from the pro-
prietary side of industry, it is
necessary for our arbitration
system to take a much broader
view of economic conditions
than hitherto in making its
awards. And it might be better
if certain fundamental economic
factors were taken into account
as a matter of course in arbitra-
tion cases and not left to the
advocates before the court. No-
thing is more wasteful of time
than economic .air-beating by
counsel who do not wish to see
the other fellow’s point of view,
and who perhaps know nothing
of economics anyway. Far better
for a Commonwealth expert to
be consulted, as a matter of
routine, in every case where a
fundamental issue is involved
and the award on it will be the
precedent for other awards as
well as the start of many dif-
ferent economic reactions.
The leaping basic wage is with-
out question a major national
problem at the present time.
Ponderous legal machinery is
being set up in Canberra to help
on the vital production side of
things, but it will take some time
to operate effectively. It is in
respect of production that our
greatest efforts should be
directed, since we want increased
production as much as we want
economic stability.
But we should at the same
time look into the “bookkeep-
ing” side of things just to see
that we are not giving inflation
avoidable assistance there. The
Fadden Budget has been de-
signed to check inflation. It is
possible that the method of cal-
culating, or arriving at, wage-
rates needs some overhaul as
well. We have a vastly more
complex economy than we had
20 or 30 years ago, and what
was near enough in 1921 may be
far from adequate today.
The next six months may be
critical in Australia. The pinch
of this latest wage-increase will
be felt by industry on all sides,
and the tendency is for price-
control to defer the passing-on
of wage-costs to wage-receivers.
The effect of the rise in “real”
wages on industry over the past
few years has been heavy indeed.
Industry has been sapped of
much of its strength through the
effect of inflation on deprecia-
tion provisions and the shrinking
proportion of the national in-
come that it is being allowed to
retain. And while the trend of
costs, as seen in the basic-wage
movements, is still a rising one,
prices for some of our principal
exports have fallen from their
recent peaks. The squeeze in
some sections of industry, espe-
cially those short of finance and
raw materials, may be hard to
take.
Associated Oilfields (Roma)
More money is being got in
for the search for oil at Roma
(Q.). The four associated cos.
(Roma Blocks, Roma North,
Kalimna and Australian Oil
Development) are accepting
750,000 10s, shares paid to 3s.
in a new float for prospecting
permit No. 679, and the public
is offered a million 10s. shares,
payable 3s. on application. The
vendors’ shares are not transfer-
able until after October, 1952.
The new flotation is Associated
Australian Oilfields, No Lia-
bility, and the public issue has
been underwritten by Wallace
H. Smith and Co., Melbourne
brokers, at a commission of 2d.
a share. The co. will kick off
with £150,000, less about £lO,OOO
preliminary expenses, in hand ;
out of the net £140,000, £75,000
is earmarked for the acquisition
of drilling plant, etc., from
Enterprise Exploration Co. and
fittings and fixtures from other
sources. Working capital, “in-
cluding provision for testing the
leases,” is shown at £65,000.
The prospectus says “it is
estimated that the initial pay-
ment of 3s. a share on applica-
tion will provide sufficient funds
to purchase all the essential
plant and installations and com-
plete the drilling of the first
well.” (Being a no-liability com-
pany, shareholders may forfeit
their shares rather than continue
paying calls if they so desire.
This applies equally to the ven-
dors’ shares.)
D. A. Pitman, consulting
geologist, strongly recommends
that drilling be commenced “on
the structure indicated by the
Commonwealth Government’s
investigations situated between
Warooby Well and Hospital
Hill, Roma ; and to further test
the area in the vicinity of Block
16, Roma Blocks Oil Co.’s wells,
and also in the vicinity of peg
No. 314, as shown in gravity
survey.” He also says that the
re-testing of No. 4 well should
be undertaken.
The prospectus stresses the fact
that crude oil or petroliferous
gas, or both, have been struck in
sixteen of the 42 wells drilled
since 1900. In five out of these
sixteen bores the quantities pro-
duced are described as “en-
couraging.”
It should be realised, however,
that only one of these wells has
produced a measurable quantity
of crude oil, and the total yield
of that is not recorded as being
more than 30 barrels. Another
well is stated to have produced
gas from which a total of about
85 barrels of “distillate” and 850
barrels of casing-head spirit were
condensed. The Oil Search well
at Warooby is quoted as having
produced 600,000 cubic feet Of
gas, with a content of about
three barrels of casing-head
spirit, daily.
The really important point
about these figures—none of
which approaches commercial
quantities—is that they were
sporadic, and dropped away very
quickly whenever continuous
production was attempted. Roma
soon found that out to its cost,
and the history of this field has
many points of resemblance to
that of unsuccessful oil ventures
the world over.
The impersistence of the
yields of oil and gas is, in fact,
a most unsatisfactory feature of
the Roma wells, and seriously
reduces hopes of commercial
production. The figures, taken
as they stand, indicate reservoirs
of very limited lateral extent
and of small thickness and sepa-
rated by beds lacking in porosity
or permeability, or both.
As to the geophysical data,


CRONULLA'S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTEILA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
LB 5933
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
osnmvAN
■v WTOwa
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
. BRISBANE
(AMD AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 7878.
Head Office; 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
%
•S-
-MAXIM’S EXPERIMENTAL AEROPLANE 1894
Construction: Tubular steel framework built up on wheeled platform running on
tails. Fabric-covered octagonal mainplane, with subsidiary biplane wings. Eleva-
tors fore and aft. Dimensions : Wing span 104 ft. Wing area 4,000 sq. ft. Overall
length 120 ft. Wing loading 2 lb. per sq. ft. Weight; Ali-up weight 8,000 lb.
with three passengers. Power Plum : Two compound steam engines giving 180
h.p. each at 320 lb. p.s.i. and 375 r.p.m. Naphtha fired boiler. Engine and boiler
equivalent to 9 lb. per h.p. Airscrews : Two 18 ft. diameter, 16 ft. pitch two-bladed
propellers giving 2,100 lb. thrust. Performance: Guard tails limited the rise of
the aircraft to 2 ft. 10,000 lb, lift was developed at 40 m.p.h.
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing
fuelling service symbolised by the green
and yellow colours of the
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO., LTD.
A
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
Cut Irrigation costs —and work —by one third
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
WITH
|®fS
m?
'm
m
ALUMINIUM
SPRAY SECTIONS
Only half the weight of
ordinary piping. Rainbow's
Aluminium sections save
your precious time and
labour. Rustless, seamless,
the 24ft. sections may be
used for all water pur-
poses and are supplied
with flexible couplings and
non-flexibie underground
joins.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS GIVE
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25*
So right a child can carry a 24f*. section with ease.
dsf
POWERFUL SPRAY HEADS
Throw a fine
over an area
square, or a
spray up to
square.
spray
48 ft.
heavy
72 ft.
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordi-
nary outlet, but does
the work of hydrant as
well! Simple to operate,
this practical unit give*
trouble-free operation,
reduces obstruction m
outlet and main.
ds
J
Worked in a bad
and socket principle,
the Rainbow coup-
ling is easy to con-
nect and disconnect,
provides a positive,
watertight joint in
any direction better
than 25°.
STURDY ANGLE IRON
STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24-ft, section. Absence
of crossbars in tali stands
eliminates interference to
growing vegetation.
A
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone BU 3425.
Branch Offices: C. Jones. Griffith; C. Beaumont. Mildura; C. Beaumont . 54 King
Street, Melbourne; 230 Sheridan Street, Gundagai, N.S.W.; Mr. . eacoc ,
Street, Muswellbrook, N.S.W.
Distributors: Waugh and Josephsou Pty. Ltd.. 102-124 Melbourne Street. South
Brisbane; Ralph Curry, 24 Light Square. Adelaide; F. C. Korwill, 68 Hobbs Avenue,
Nedlands, Perth.
New Zealand Agent: Freshflelds Limited, 118 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
60/83.11
the little information given in
the prospectus indicates that the
interpreted subsurface contours
belong to a buried landscape of
hills and valleys in the basement
complex and that they have no
structural significance. For this
reason it is hardly legitimate to
claim that they are “domal,” as
is done in the prospectus.
As the geophysical survey,
supervised and financed by
the Commonwealth Government,
was directly responsible for this
attempt to resuscitate the Roma
Pool, it is remarkable that only
a few excerpts are reproduced in
the prospectus, although the
Pool consulting geologist is
responsible for a technically
vague resume of the data ob-
tained and their interpretation.
Oil, like so many other things,
is where you find it. But the
superficial attractiveness of the
Roma field, while perhaps
tempting to the layman, is belied
in many ways by oil-geological
experience. Roma is a gamble
for the man who can afford to
lose, or. for those who put
money regularly on horses or
into lotteries.
Tax Rates Compared
Maorilanders comparing their
reduced tax scale with Aus-
tralia’s stiff emergency levy have
been left wondering what Aus-
tralians are complaining about.
Even without taking into
reckoning the difference in the
pounds, which would make
things look a lot worse for New
Zealand, there’s a gap between
scales on opposite sides of the
Tasman that’s still a long way
from being bridged as they move
a step or two closer together.
This hits the main body of N.Z.
taxpayers, from £5OO to £2OOO,
hardest, because that’s where
the contrast is sharpest, and it’s
easy to understand the drift of
engineers, scientists, architects,
technicians and others with skill
and training who find Australian
incomes, after tax, too strong a
magnet to resist.
It’s not just the difference in
tax scales that gets them, but
skill and knowledge command
higher pay in the Common-
wealth. There’s a double gain
in migrating, and this is robbing
Maoriland of professional men
and science graduates.
Here are the proposed new
N.Z. and Australian taxes, with
the British scale for comparison,
on incomes from personal exer-
tion for taxpayers with de-
pendent wives:—
In- Aus-
come U.K. N.Z. tralia.
£ s. £ s. £ s.
£lOO .. 11 18 7 10
£l5O .. 11 18 11 5
£2OO .. 11 18 15 0 -
£250 ~ 13 8 18 15 1 14
£3OO .. 19 8 22 10 42
£4OO .. 41 8 30 0 12 9
£5OO .. 63 8 51 7 24 5
£6OO .. 93 8 75 7 38 17
£BOO .. 169 8 127 10 76 3
£lOOO .. 245 8 185 2 121 18
£l5OO .. 435 8 357 10 271 17
£2OOO .. 625 8 566 17 469 8
£3OOO .. 1212 18 1088 15 964 0
£4OOO .. 1862 18 1748 2 1550 7
£5OOO .. 2562 18 2483 2 2224 14
Note: U.K. taxes include National
Insurance Contribution, £ll Bs. N.Z.
include social-security charge, tax-
surcharge 10 p.c., and flat-rate rebate
£l5. Australia’s scale takes in the
new 10 p.c. levy.
There’s a pretty wide margin
here in Australia’s favor.
N.Z.’s scale is inflated by the
Is. 6d. in the £ to carry the
“welfare State,” and this comes
back to Maorilanders, partly re-
distributed, in cash benefits for
the aged, children, health and
sickness, widows and war pen-
sions that tot up to more than
a million a week. But Australia,
too, has a “welfare State,” and
until recently it had a special
“social-security” charge. It is
now merged with the general tax.
Ross & Glendining, Ltd.
Maoriland’s only industrial
co. with a million-odd in cash
reserves —Ross and Glendining,
Ltd., the pioneer textile firm —
has cast off its long tradition of
family reserve since the doors
were thrown open for investors
to come in during the past
twelvemonth.
Its share-issue of 356,250, at
15s. premium (price 355.), was
the big event of 1950, and as the
lion’s share of the rights went
at Bs. there’s a 10s. gain at to-
day’s price of 535. for the
shares. Capital, now £950,000,
is handsomely covered by
£BOO,OOO in general reserve,
£224,269 in share premiums and
£107,082 floating funds, at latest
stocktaking (July 19), and there’s
nothing to hinder the co. from
making a bonus handout of the
premium account and a slice of
other reserves any time it wants
to. Perhaps, with its roots deep,
it will wait a bit, and might even
hold its horses to make a big
splash in its centennial year
(1962), only a shade over a
decade off.
Hidden reserves, which are
almost nakedly exposed in a
total of only £386,016 for fixed
assets that couldn’t be replaced
for a mint of money, must rank
as the biggest for any co. with
less than a million capital on
either side of the Tasman. Its
Roslyn worsted and woollen
plant, near Dunedin, is only one
of a dozen factories, most of
them major ones, with straw and
felt hats, footwear and card-
board-box plants to add variety
to its main enterprise, which is
in the woollen and clothing field.
In the last nine years alone
£400,000 has been sunk in
extending and modernising its
manufacturing chain and the
wide distributing network linked
to it. After a long record as an
8-percenter, in spite of ups and
downs, the co. lifted the rate to
10 p.c. in its latest red-letter
year, and nearly covered the div.
twice over with tax-paid profits
of £175,362. It’s had its share
of production and distribution
headaches, what with overfull
employment and bottlenecks for
materials, but any one of the
highly capitalised millionaire
cos. launched in New Zealand
in the past decade would be well
satisfied with much less than
half its prosperity.
Since Australia stole a march
on New Zealand by touching
John Bull for a big rise in meat
prices, Maoriland producers’
already-shaken faith in bulk-
marketing contracts has been
nearly shattered. So long as
Australia and N.Z. were in com-
pany and shared the sacrifice to
help the Old Man, M.L. was
prepared to tolerate low prices,
but in isolation things look dif-
ferent. Now N.Z. can see no
case for holding it down to the
7j p.c. annual limit for export
price rises any longer, and is
counting on a rise equal to Aus-
tralia’s. There are two wrongs
to be righted—to put N.Z. on
equality with other suppliers to
J.B. and to restore the balance
between import and export prices
that has been tilted fairly steeply
against N.Z. for years past. The
Ottawa shadow has vanished
elsewhere, but it still lingers in
the lopsided trade set-up that
robs Maoriland exporters of mil-
lions yearly, and their leaders are
telling them it’s time they used
their strength as sellers to get
better terms.
* * * *
The borderlands between
theory and practice are nowhere
as large or as long-neglected as
in the science of economics.
Mr. F. Sewell Bray, senior
Nuffield Research Fellow of
Applied Economics at Cam-
bridge, makes an effective plea
and sets a practical example to
stop this dangerous neglect in
his book The Accounting Mis-
sion. Honest in his conception
of the objects of accountancy
and faithful to the aims and
ideals of economics, the author
attempts a synthesis of some of
the more modern developments
in these two fields, and, although
of necessity short, there is no
sidestepping of difficult issues—
e.g., the famous Keynesian for-
mula Y=C + I takes on a new
and interesting form at his hand.
The book is well illustrated with
examples. Moreover, originally
prepared as lectures (and unified
by the Commonwealth Institute
of Accountants), each chapter is
a complete treatment of its sub-
ject. And there is a notable
absence of complicated expres-
sion, making for easy reading.


The Letters of Rachel Henning
• [These letters begin in 1853, when Biddulph, Rachel Henning's only
ii (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
Kachel and her sisters Henrietta (“Etta” of the letters, who had married
,v* e , . W ’ BoyFe August, 1851) and Amy were thus separated, for
the time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
In August, 1854, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
M^ ellna Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
. lelbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six days
. ? ohel and Amy ' went to Appin, in N.S.W., where their brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
t»os, and while Biddulph was establishing a new place on Bulli Mountain,
Rachel, decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1856.
one left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends and relatives In England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Eiverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on lebruary 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulph and
Annie, went to live in North Queensland, which was just being developed.
This is the twelfth instalment of the letters.]
Exmoor,
March 4, 1 864.
My Dearest Etta,
We have a regular mail
now, but we have hardly
felt the benefit of it yet,
for owing to the floods the roads
have been impassable, and even
the steamer was stopped at
Rockhampton for three weeks.
The Fitzroy was a mile wide,
and coming down such a torrent
that no vessel could go down
the current for fear of being
swept on shore or against sand-
banks.
Such a wet season as this was
never known within the memory
of jthe oldest inhabitant; that is
to say, for about five years. I
suppose it is the counterbalance
to the drought of last year. Be-
sides various thunderstorms and
minor rains about three weeks
ago, it poured incessantly for
three nights and two days, real
tropical rain, and accompanied
on the second day by a perfect
hurricane of wind.
The “Station Creek,” which is
generally a small stream, came
down a roaring river; such a
“He came upon the body of a man.”
torrent that it carried away and
swept down with it the whole of
the paddock fence which crossed
its bed, though it was built in
that part of entire trunks of
trees, large thick ones, too.
What we call the “Little Creek,”
which runs into the other, over-
flowed the whole of the flat at
the bottom of the hill and
formed a lake. Both the creeks
have plenty of rocks in them,
and the roar of waters all round
us was something fine,
especially when we were quite
safe from them ; for nothing but
an unusual deluge would reach
us at the top of this hill.
A few old sheep, about
twenty-five, I think, died from
the continual cold and wet.
Some iron was blown off the
roof of the store, and the drays
were stopped for three weeks on
the bank of the Bowen; and
that is all the harm we took by
the rain. Exmoor is a capital
run for sheep, as besides the
rich plains where they can feed
in dry weather there are plenty
of dry stony ridges where they
flourish when it is wet.
But on some of the low-lying
runs in the Broad Sound country
the losses have been frightful.
At Fort Cooper, seventy miles
from here, two thousand sheep
were washed away by the sudden
rise of a creek, and most of the
other stations to the southward
have lost great numbers. At Mr.
Palmer’s station on the other
side of the Broken River he had
left two men to take care of the
place while he went to Sydney;
and these unfortunates were
short of provisions when the
flood came, and there they had
to stay for a fortnight, hemmed
in between the Broken River and
the Dart, with nothing to eat
except meat. They were obliged
to kill the calves, as it is a cattle-
station, and eat as much as they
could while it was fresh; for
they had no salt.
The moment the current was
a little abated they contrived to
swim the river, and get over
here, one of them very ill with
scurvy. He soon recovered
under the influence of the kitchen
physic, but the Irish family we
have as servants were so
alarmed at the idea of getting
scurvy also, though there is no
earthly reason why they should,
that the two little girls for some
time devoted their leisure to
picking “pig-weed,” rather a
nasty wild plant, but supposed
to be exceedingly wholesome,
either chopped up with vinegar
or boiled. John, the cook, used
to boil a large milk-bucket full
of it every day and administer it
to the kitchen in general by way
of vegetable.
There are generally twelve or
fourteen people who have their
meals in the kitchen, and I
wonder the said John does not
go distracted. Our Irish family
number six, and there are two
shepherds, a bullock-driver and
two or three blackboys besides.
The blacks are not allowed to
dine with the white aristocracy.
They “takes their meals in the
wash-’ouse,” or, in other words,
on a bench outside the kitchen
door.
To the north, the floods have
done great mischief. The
Burdekin River overflowed the
country for miles, and there are
reports of herds of cattle being
carried away, but they are
probably exaggerated, as cattle
have more sense than sheep, and
can generally take care of them-
selves. It is certain, however,
that the township on the
Burdekin to which the steamer
runs (for the river is navigable
some way up) was nearly all
washed away. The steamer had
just brought up supplies for the
squatters about there; and
these, being left on the quay,
were all lost. So there is every
probability of a scarcity of pro-
visions in those regions.
There were two small, vessels
anchored in the Burdekin when
the flood came on. One of these
was washed from her moorings
and carried away into the bush,
where she now lies high and dry
among the gum-trees. A man
on board jumped into the water
to try and save her, and was
taken down and killed by an
alligator. Only one tent was
left standing in Port Denison.
A great part of the population
there dwelt in tents; and very
desirable abodes they must have
been in that wind and rain.
All this rain has still further
delayed our visit to Sydney by
delaying Biddulph’s journey to
the Flinders. He talks of starting
next week if there is no more
rain. I suppose he would be
home about the end of April,
and in that case we might start
from here about the middle of
May; but it is impossible to
reckon on very long before-
hand. On a station so many
things turn up which require
immediate attention.
It is just as well that we were
not going in February, for
unless we liked to swim the
Bowen on horseback or to cross
in a bark canoe we could never
have got to Port Denison. Bid-
dulph crossed the Bowen in a
canoe last weekend, and he said
he took off his boots before
starting, fully expecting to have
to swim for it, such was the
leaky state of the boat. By the
same token, he left his spurs in
the canoe and lost them.
Biddulph is- just the same
careless mortal as to small pro-
perties that he used to be. The
country round must, I think, be
supplied by the knives he loses.
A shepherd brought in two silk
handkerchiefs the other day
which he said the master had
used on two different occasions
to tie up hurdles with, and left
behind him; and the disappear-
ance of whips, saddle-straps,
saddle-cloths, hobbles and all
minor articles of saddlery is
something marvellous. But that,
I believe, is always the case on
a station. Everybody takes what
is good in his own eyes, saddle-
straps especially.
We got the mail a few days
ago after a month's delay. All
the English papers came, but as
I said before, no English letters.
We have written to Sydney, and
asked them to forward the
February and March letters. We
have come to the end of the
summer, and though it has been
a wet one it has been a very
cool one and nobody seems any
the wgrse for it, though it is
said that people .feel the second
summer more than the first in
a tropical climate.
I do not suppose we have had
what you would call much rain
in England. We often have none
for a fortnight or three weeks,
but when it does come it is in
such torrents that it floods the
rivers and makes the roads im-
passable. We have not been
riding much lately, the roads
have been so heavy; but the
lambs and I have been walking
every evening and very beautiful
the evenings are now. I often
go a short way in the bush
before breakfast, too; and the
early mornings are, if possible,
better than the evenings.
All the gum-trees are in
blossom now. Such masses of
white flowers; and when the
dew is on them they smell like
honeysuckle. I go and sit under
a flowering gum-tree and watch
the lambs feed and they come up
in their turns to be petted and
have their noses rubbed!
“Beauty,” one of my last year’s
pet “lambs,” is now grown a
very handsome sheep ; and she
yesterday presented us with a
lamb of her own. Such a pretty
little creature.
I often think I would much
rather stay here than go down,
I know I shall often wish I was
feeding the lambs in the
beautiful bush when I am grind-
ing about the Sydney streets
shopping, or trying to keep
Amy’s children quiet at
Bathurst.
I wish I had some letters from
you to answer, but we cannot
hear for a fortnight, and that
only provided the river does not
rise again. How I wish I could
see you all, instead of hearing
from you only! Now I must
say goodbye, dearest Etta. My
kind love to Mr. Boyce, and
Constance, and Leighton—but
they cannot have the slightest
remembrance of me —and with
very much love to yourself,
believe me, my dear Etta,
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
p.s. March 5. I finished my
letter rather in a hurry yester-
day, expecting the postman to
come; but he did not arrive ;
and as it poured all last night, he
is not very likely to make his
appearance today. It is a
beautiful morning after the rainy
night, and I have been paddling
about in very old goloshes ever
since breakfast to enjoy it. This
hill is so gravelly and stony that
it never remains wet, but the
long grass is just damp enough
to be cheerful. I have taken
the lambs out to feed, and left
them enjoying the short grass
on a dry ridge while I went
down to survey the creek, which
rose about five feet last night,
and looks very fine this morn-
ing tumbling over the rocks and
sweeping round the sandy
points, much wider than the
river at Bathpool. In the last
flood it hollowed out a hole in
its channel about eight feet deep,
which is a source of great rejoic-
ing to all the inhabitants of
Exmoor, as they go there to
bathe. I often wish we could
bathe, too. There are some
beautiful flowers out by the
creek this morning, almost like
a wild holly border, large pure
white blossoms with a crimson
eye ; but they die off in an hour
or two. The different kinds of
convolvulus are most beautiful
of a damp morning like this. It
is to be hoped the postman will
come today or you may have
more “last words” inflicted on
you. Goodbye once more, my
dearest Etta.
Exmoor,
March 23, 1864,
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
I received your November
letter a few days ago, and one
from Etta also, for both of
which I am very much obliged.
Four months seems a long time
for them to have been on the
road. I know our letters must
reach you most irregularly, but
though we have a mailman we
have no bridges, and when the
two rivers are up that are be-
tween us and Port Denison (and
they have been so more or less
ever since January) the letters are
sure to be delayed.
I have heard from Sydney by
this mail of the safe arrival of
my case. Mr, Hirst has taken
charge of it and stored it safely
in his office till we come down.
When that will be I am less
capable of saying than ever.
Biddulph has not started for the
Flinders yet. He has been wait-
ing this three weeks for Mr.
Taylor’s return ; and Mr. Taylor
has not made his appearance yet.
We are getting almost uneasy
and wondering what has become
of him. He certainly may have
been unable to cross the river all
this time. Now Biddulph talks
of starting before he comes
back, and if it does not rain
much, may go next week.
We are not likely to go to
Sydney till June at the earliest,
and I think it will very probably
be later. I cannot say that I
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and settled permanently
in Australia in 1861.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddnlph.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1853,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDUEPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
his married cousin Eindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Eater he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rlxon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 255. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. Bought Marlborough
station <64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on tho Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Eydia Henning (nee
Biddnlph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
EINDON BIDDUEPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDUEPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. s. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddnlpbs. WIEEIAM
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


Th« ALL-BRITISH
(onwouffieijait
./crv
O&nd, lAe
Crreaki/
N?5B
57/6
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
25/-
TO
70/
70
N°
30 A
7ke 7*en u/itk
the THaAvehtauA
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD, LONDON
S. W, RAMSAY, MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
\
frusade
r
K-'
%
ill
1
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
care much about it myself. I
like this place far better than
Sydney, which I always find
very dull, Annie does not care
to leave Mr. Hedgeland, so we
must endure the delays with
great equanimity, especially as
the weather is getting very
pleasant now. All the heat over,
and though there is more rain
than could be wished, the fine
days are beautiful.
I am sorry not to be able to
get at my case all this time, but
I shall be all the more glad of
my things when I do get them.
The worst of our long stay here
is that we really are getting short
of garments, boots especially;
and I am sure you would laugh
if you could see me patching-up
mine about once a week with
pieces of sheepskin, having
previously borrowed an awl and
persuaded Biddulph to make me
a wax-end!
While I write there is a
powerful odor of oil coming in
at the window, as Biddulph is
on the veranda brushing over
some calico Vith boiled oil for
a tent to take with him. A
waterproof tent is very necessary
in such a season as this, when it
rains every other day. The
Rockhampton papers contain
accounts of another great flood
in the Fitzroy ; the road between
Rockhampton and Marlborough
had been flooded and the mail-
man had to spend a night in a
tree.
Biddulph will have to go
about three hundred and fifty
miles before he reaches Mr.
Devlin on the Flinders. He takes
with him Alick, one of the
blackboys they are always
called “boys,” though the said
Alick must be thirty-five at least.
People who are going for a long
journey almost always take a
blackboy with them. They are
most useful servants in the
bush, get up the horses in the
morning, light fires at night, and
know by a sort of instinct if
there are any wild blacks lurking
in the neighborhood of their
camp. They are
very faithful, too.
I never heard of
an instance of a
traveller being murdered or
robbed by his own blackboy.
We had the wild blacks on
the run last week. They came
down from the hills and robbed
the shepherd’s hut at the Two
Mile station, carrying off every-
thing he possessed; even his
comb. Biddulph and the two
station blacks Alick and Billy
gave chase, and tracked the
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
tribe to their camp among the
hills, where they found the whole
of the stolen property. They
burnt the camp, and brought
away all their weapons, as a
lesson to them to keep off the
run in future; but Biddulph
would not allow the boys to
shoot them as they were very
anxious to do. They brought
away some curiously-carved
boomerangs, and some most
formidable-looking clubs made
of a very heavy sort of wood,
and with rough teeth carved on
the top of them.
The blacks to the northward
are said to be far more civilised
and more ingenious than these
tribes. They went out in their
canoes and attacked a vessel in
Rockingham Bay; and some-
times make a stand against the
black police. The “far-north”
here is like the far-west in
America, and strange wild stories
are brought down about it.
They say that herds of the wild
buffalo have been seen about the
Gulf of Carpentaria. They are
supposed to be Indian buffalo,
and to have been left there by
the Malays who used to visit the
coast.
Then there are reports of a
mysterious roaring which is
heard in the neighborhood of
Rockingham Bay, and which is
supposed by some to be an
immense waterfall larger than
Niagara, and by others to be a
volcano in eruption. Mr.
Dalrymple, who has just
explored the Rockingham Bay
country and came here on his
way back, told us that he thought
it was a tremendous waterfall*
about twenty miles off that he
heard ; but he was so short of
provisions (they were nearly
starved) that he dared not go in
search of it.
A gentleman who has a cattle-
run up there, and who was stay-
ing here some time ago, told us
that he had often heard the
sound like great guns fired at
intervals from among the
mountains, and that many
thought there must
be a volcano
somewhere
among them. I
suppose it will be brought to
light some day if it is not all
travellers’ tales.
This wet season has been very
unhealthy, especially on the low-
lying stations. We have all been
quite well, but several men on
the sheep-stations have been ill,
and several have come in ill
“A vague report brought by a travelling Chinaman."
from other places. Biddulph was
saying yesterday he thought he
must build a hospital for sick
travellers. Our stock of
medicines is small. I think it
consists of quinine, rhubarb,
castor-oil, laudanum and blue
pills. They have taken all the
salts; there are Holloway’s pills
in the store, and when the men
have half-poisoned themselves
with them, they come to know
what they had better do next.
Our treatment is of a highly-
experimentary character. Mr.
Hedgeland swears by blue pills.
Annie believes in castor-oil. I
generally consider that laudanum
will be soothing, and Biddulph
recommends quinine as strength-
ening. Nobody has been
poisoned yet, and three men who
were really very ill have lately
recovered on the station. One
shepherd came in to say that he
was certain nothing would cure
him but brandy. Biddulph,
however, took a different view of
the case, and sent him an ounce
of salts.
It is fortunate there is no
public house here where they
can “cure” themselves with
brandy. The nearest is at the
Twenty Mile crossing on the
Broken River. It was a terrible
nuisance at Marlborough having
a public house on the station,
and gave Biddulph more trouble
than anything. Mr. Robertson
tells a story of Biddulph’s once
trying to effect of a little gentle
reasoning upon a tipsy shepherd
who replied that he couldn’t live
without rum.
“But you shouldn’t get tipsy;
you should take it in modera-
tion,” Biddulph remonstrated.
“Take it in moderation! I’d
take it in a booket if I could,”
said the hopeful disciple, who
was a Scotchman. So Biddulph
was silenced.
Men often go away from here
with a cheque for £6O or £7O, a
year’s wages, perhaps, and stop
at the Twenty Mile and spend
every farthing of it. The
publican takes the cheque, keeps
the man drunk for weeks, and
when he sees fit to turn him out
gives him a few shillings,
perhaps, to take him on ; and
tells him that is all that is left
of his money.
Our clock has stopped, a great
misfortune where it cannot be
repaired. An unearthly sound
proceeded from its inside the
other evening at twenty minutes
past seven, and there the hands
stand ; it has never gone since.
Annie’s watch is the only time-
piece in the house —Biddulph’s
does not go. Mr. Hedgeland’s
is gone home to be repaired;
Julian took his into the wash-
pool one day when he was wash-
ing sheep, and it immediately
struck work; and Beckford
does not possess one. I gener-
ally go by the sun. When the
shadow of the lambs’ pen
reaches a certain point, it is time
to give them milk; and when
the sun is within a yard or so
of the blue mountains, it is time
to go out walking.
I had a nice letter from
Captain Grey by the last mail,
just like himself, pleasant and
hearty. He says he is tired of
the sea, and wants to know
if he could manage a station, and
thinks he shall buy one near
Exmoor. He sent Annie a
capital photograph of himself.
With kind love to the children,
and the baby “Edith,” as I sup-
pose you will soon be calling
her, and with much to Etta and
yourself, believe me, my dear
Mr. Boyce,
Ever your affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
April 12, 1864.
My Dearest Etta,
I received quite a budget of
letters by the mailman yesterday.
Now I must tell you of Exmoor,
which just now is less cheerful
than it has ever been during the
year and a half we have been
here, for Biddulph is gone out
to the Flinders at last, and,
contrary to what was the case
during his former long absences,
there is no one left on the place
except Mr. Hedgeland.
Mr. Taylor was to have come
home long before Biddulph
(Continued on page 24.)
♦Apparently the Tully Falls.


"ftyWCR
BEHIND THE
AUSTRALIAN SCENE
vr
&
Wi
a
n
mm
103
THE LION-HEARTED
HQ
iS
E ENGINE THAT LASTS
World-famous Lister
engines are available
in a variety of types
and horsepowers (2 to
40 h.p.) for petrol, kero-
sene and diesel fuel.
Distributed in Australia by:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street. SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street. PERTH.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited,
12-36 Cross Street, WEST FOOTSCRAY.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe Carson Limited
{lncorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Norwood Bogshaw Limited,
78 Currie Street, ADELAIDE,
TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD. .
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ALLSTATES TRAVEL AND
ACCOMMODATION SERVICE
Specialise in Correspondence Enquiries
and Bookings for —
AIR TRAVEL, throughout Australia.
(Agents for A.N.A. and T.A.A.)
COACH TOURS and Single Journeys.
(Agents for recognised operators.)
ACCOMMODATION in Capital Cities
and Holiday Resorts (Hotels—
Guest Houses and Holiday Flats).
HONEYMOON ITINERARIES
Anywhere or on Special Inclusive
Air Tour to Stradbroke Island—
£32/10/- (Inclusive).
FROM ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE
Write to—
AEIiSTATES TOURIST CENTRE,
Kings Chambers, 112 a King Street,
Sydney. BW 9764—8 W 3823.
CINZANO
SWEETandDRY
Mrt*
V U*>
m
CUAKD
m
jditlt'cts
PROTECTA
SUnl-SfU
TILL
fialUble for every type of boslness *l recerds
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly batlU
pleasing la appearance. Send fnr full details
and llteratnre to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Varfon 4 Son* ltd.
PERTH •• ..Docket Book Co. (Au»w
SABLE FABLE
By C. S. BARRY
EVERY other week while
normal people sleep, a
social outcast bumps and
clumps along catwalk
corridors of the Copenhagen
express. That’s me. Me with
a newspaper parcel, an acute
inferiority complex and not
enough hair. Along the corri-
dors I bump and clump until I
find the solitary businessman
who is statistically compelled to
appear frequently.
“Cigar, friend?” I smile at
him when I find him.
“By all means.” He takes the
cigar. He bites the cigar. He
scowls.
“Mind if I open the window?”
I ask. Humble.
“Mind if you don’t?”
“Aren’t you fond of fresh
air?”
“Aren’t you in the wrong com-
partment?”
My rail ticket is authentic,
surprisingly enough ; for in that
snaky, shaky, grimy game of
deceit, my sweet, most of my
chips are phony. False as a
boarding-house welcome.
“Going to Paris?” I ask.
“Going to Paris,” he affirms.
“Fleshpots for fatigued finan-
ciers,” I say.
“Ha, ha,” he groans.
So I loaf in a corner of the
first-class compartment, happily
handing out flaky cigars to the
benign swine who sucks a ropy
moustache opposite.
“Travelling for pleasure?”
“Business,” he says. “No
pleasure.”
I light the toxic torpedo for
him. Above his head a tourist
poster features a gilded Jeanne
d’Arc riding by the Tuileries.
He exhales with bronchial
spasms. The poster twitches
nervously, then curls up in
agony.
He chews a while. I try to
smile. Conversation is harder
to broach than a can of Japanese
sardines.
“I’m lookin’ for a job,” I
probe him through the Havana
haze.
“I’m lookin’ for some sleep,”
he rejoins. Stiffly.
HE is a flush, fluffy financier
with a chequered back-
ground. Obvious wealth adds a
complacent sheen to his bilious
mien.
My own make-up is not so
impressive. Patent-leather moc-
casins. A misleading passport.
A newspaper parcel taped with
fancy plastic. A tiepin diamond
big enough for a reading-glass ;
and just as valuable. Hairy
French.
My teeth are my own.
“We might help each other,
friend,” I urge.
“What’s your game?” he in-
quires. Unwisely.
“Rotterdam diamonds into
American gold,” I say. String-
ing eyes adding a touch of
lachrymose sincerity.
“What you mean?” he asks.
Who’s he kidding?
“I mean smuggling.”
“Smuggling?” He looks horri-
fied.
“Smuggling is simple,” I ex-
plain. “You cross frontiers to
enhance values.”
I could add a personal gripe.
All along the rake-off line, from
Paris to Liege to Rotterdam to
New York to Hamburg, stinted
stooges run remarkable risks,
while furtive Scrooges with re-
served seats on international
planes scoop princely profits.
I am cut fait because my live-
lihood is stooging. I move in a
professional milieu where shy-
sters’ skills earn admiration,
where it’s jolly bad luck for
blokes that trust a team-mate.
No time out to change the
pennies and no bar tosses.
“How you manage it?” The
cigar is dying gamely, determined
to fight to the last.
“Parisian perfume we palm
across the Belgian border,” I say.
“So?”
“Thousand per cent, proceeds
we invest in Dutch diamonds
and ship over the Atlantic in
choice cheeses.”
He pulls deep on my fifty-
pfennig cheroot. The cheroot
fizzes, flares and fuses. I hold
my breath. “We salt American
automobiles with gold and
import them into Hamburg,” I
continue. “Twice round the
circuit earns security for life.”
Yeah. Bars in the windows for
the term of your natural.
“Risky,” he comments. That’s
an understatement. They still
use corporal punishment in
Belgium.
“You hire men like me to
take the chances,” I tell him.
His rabbit-fur eyebrows shift
into the middle of his bald head.
“What you propose?”
“I’m short of money. I’ll take
a few risks,”
“Got no money to risk on
risks,” he confesses. Stooges are
not at a premium. The trade
needs a protective union.
J COUGH secondhand smoke
I out of quailing lungs.
Metallic midnight miles clatter
past. Essen, ticket - checks,
Koln, visa - checks, Aachen,
Customs-checks, Liege,...
“Another cigar, friend?”
“By all means.” Shaggy
fingers emerge from the smog
and clutch the green weed. The
smog thickens.
“Shall I open a ventilator?”
“Don’t open a ventilator.”
“You wouldn’t need a gentle-
man of my abilities?”
“No,” he agrees. He doesn’t
want a tramp of my stamp. “To
tell the true,” he continues, “I
own printing works in Ham-
burg.”
THE compartment door slides
softly and a womanly form
stands there. Tall, refreshing
and full of confidence like a
schooner of beer.
“Seats all taken, lady,” I
advise her. Kindly.
The newcomer is a French
wench with a certain attrac-
tion. Hair like liquid mid-
night whipped under a posh
cloche. Ladies with a certain
attraction in the pre-dawn en-
vironment of a steam-train be-
long to the superb class.
She needs help with a hand
valise. She tries a line of
Parisian accents which digs me
deeper in my seat.
“No parlee French,” I say.
“Sale bite ” she returns.’ 1
ignore that one.
A lady lugging a load' clearly
advertises no friends and no
cash for the porter.
I give her the black look. She
resents the black look. J
She spills a little loose abuse,
and stands her whole graceful
height in womanly contempt.
The words are new but the atti-
tude is eloquent. lam looking
down the wrong end of a pair of
quivering nostrils.
FLUFF, the financier, reveals
a mean streak of chivalry.
He unrumples his temperament
with the nonchalant finesse of
a rusty roadgrader. He prattles
paternally in the lady’s language,
generously sidesteps introduc-
tions as the swaying train col-
lapses her on top of him. He
puts her valise on the rack, opens
the window and clears the
smoke. He wipes his moustache,
douses the cigar, and lights up
with a sort of anaemic foie de
vivre.
Pretty soon they are remem-
bering where they didn’t meet
each other last.
I snooze sporadically,, awake
occasionally to sniff the thicken-
ing social atmosphere. Cigar-
smoke would be preferable.
He flashes tired old family


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today*® values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
u YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
fsd
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BAEEBRE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE .
BARKKKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2c)( 243 Elizabeth St.. Sydnney
Public Notices.
TO the Creditors and other persons inter-
ested in the succession of the deceased
MRS. CATHERINE PEDDIE BUTTER or
HARVEY, Widow, 8 Blyth Street, Dun-
dee.—JAMES FRANCIS JOHNSTON, Soli-
citor, 34 Reform Street, Dundee, having
been appointed by the Sheriff of Perth and
Angus at Dundee, Judicial Factor on the
estate of the said deceased MRS. CATH-
ERINE PEDDIE BUTTER or HARVEY
under the Act 3 & 4 Geo. V Cap 20,
Section 163, requires all the lawful
creditors of the said Mrs. Catherine Peddie
Butter or Harvey, and other persons inter-
ested in her estate, to lodge with the
Judicial Factor within four months after
the date of this notice, as statement of
their claims as creditors of the deceased
or as otherwise interested in her estate;
with such vouchers or other written evi-
dence as they may have to found upon in
support of their claims; in order to the
same being considered and reported upon
by the Judicial Factor. —JAMES F.
JOHNSTON, 34 Reform Street, Dundee.
16th July, 1951.
I, JOHN TSICOS GALETTIS, of Greek
nationality, bom at Castellorron, Dodeca-
nese, Greece, resident 5i years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 142 Eastern
Avenue, Kingsford, Sydney, N.S.W., in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I. MALEXOS TSICOS GALETTISTofGreek
nationality, born at Castellorron, Dodeca-
nese, Greece, resident 51 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 142 Eastern
Avenue, Kingsford, Sydney, N.S.W., in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
4t»
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
•
f
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment's Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.,
Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
Fire is no
respecter of persons
—or property!
i
i
II
86
3BS
1
■
■
m
r*
There's a type of
'Simplex' or 'Lux'
Extinguisher for every
kind of fire risk*
"Simplex”
Auto Type
Carbon
Tetrachloride
(CTC).
Capacity,
I quart.
"Lux" (Hand)
Carbon Dioxide
©ax (COj)
Type 12-lb.
capacity.
■’Simplex"
Stored Pressure
Carbon
Tetrachloride
(CTC) Type,
l-gallon
capacity.
"Simplex"
Soda Acid
Type 2-qallon
capacity.
Fire strikes where least expected—without warning. It’s a
risk that can never be completely eliminated from daily life!
In your premises or business—in your car or launch—
at home —in any building, a “Simplex” or “Lux” Fire
Extinguisher means positive and instant protection within
arm’s reach. There’s satisfaction in knowing it’s always
there—should the emergency arise.
“Simplex” and “Lux” Fire Extinguishers are approved
by all recognised Authorities and used by Government
Departments, the Navy, Army, Air Force.
SIMPLEX and LUX '
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
MANUFACTURED BY
WORMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LIMITED,
Sydney, Newcastle, Orange. Wagga, Brisbane. Townsville.
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LIMITED.
Melbourne. Geelong, Perth, Ballarat, Hobart.
WORMALD BROTHERS (S.A.) LIMITED. Adelaide.
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LIMITED.
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Steelbilt Limited Klrscb Company (Aust.) Limited
ON GUARD 24 HOURS A DAY!
dsf
“GRINNELL”
worth of the
Automatic Sprinkler Fire Protection safeguards millions of pounds
world’s property unceasingly “Grinnell” is never off duty.
photos. She glitters. He
scribbles her Paris address. She
is not shocked. I am shocked.
I step into the corridor to
retch wretchedly as tombstone
tones of forlorn dawn compose
visual requiems across the lour-
ing landiscape. A good day for
the final judgment of mankind.
Peasants’ cottages flicker past
showing kitchen windows lighted
against the grey drizzling day-
break. . 1 '
T HE shady lady pushes past
on the way to burnish her
beauty. Back in the compart-
ment, Fluff is electrically mowing
the fuzz on his jowls. I fumble
in a fob-pocket for black vitamin
pills ; select a shiny small genial-
looking one to see me through
the day,
I rub the blackberry patch on
my chin and marvel at the good
humor evident in Fluff’s de-
meanor. Fluff’s demeanor
sickens me. The green folds of
flesh hanging from his jaw make
me think of those fungus growths
you sometimes meet on the
underside of damp decomposed
logs in fairy-tale forests.
“Good morning, friend,” I
try. i ■ ■
“How you do?” he wants to
know.
He talks about the lady. I
listen as he talks about the lady.
I listen and listen and listen to
the sleazy queazy spiel. Endless
as a breadless day.
“Girl meets gorilla,” I say.
Stifling the envy in my voice.
Effortlessly. “What next?”
“You got no spirit,” Fluff
philosophises. “No ambitions,
no feelings. Don’t care sincerely
about everything.”
“I got no cash,” I remind him.
“What you expect?” he
sermonises. “Just a smuggler.”
He makes it sound like a villain
out of “Carmen.” “Done some
smuggling lately?”
“Now you mention it,” I say,
“I got a sable here worth several
hundred thousand francs.”
“Where you carry it?
Wrapped around your dorsal
fin?”
I cuddle it down from the
rack where it has been slumber-
ing profoundly. Curled up in
the Hamburg “Times.” The
sable shivers as Fluff sinks fat
fingers into the rippling fur.
Cutaneous sensations melt the
barb-wire in Fluff’s nervous
system. He is notching ideas
into a pattern. Business trip,
bright lights, brunette, boulevard
address ... all he needs is a
quick trick and he can go four
no trumps.
It’s no real sable. But real
enough for a quick trick.
A WARM feeling of well-
being diffuses through the
compartment and the lady is
back. She has been giving her
hair some exercise. Now it looks
like strained blackberry syrup.
The sight of my somnolent sable
reduces her to unintelligible
adulation. She tinkles like a
limpid mountain spring.
Evidently Fluff is persuading
her to wear the sable, and she
is as reticent as a highly-strung
yellowtail hornet. She overdoes
the effusion.
She fits the fur exactly. The
shimmering shadowless sheath
follows shapely hollows like
mountain mist hugging the vales.
The lady is delighted. Fluff is
excited.
He tells me the effect is good.
I tell him the price is reason-
able.
We haggle in English so the
lady cannot savvy. “You’ll find
the same skin at Jacques Path’s
at four times my price,” I say.
“I’ll take a cheque.”
“I’ll give you cash,” he sur-
prises me. He counts out a fist-
ful of faded jaded thousand-
franc notes while the lady’s
attention is averted.
So I wrap up the sable in the
newspaper and lace it with plastic
tape.
“If you got any more deals,
you find me at the Ritz,” he says.
“H’mm,” I say.
AT Gare du Nord they dis-
appear into Parisian noon
while I blink dribbling eyes at
rain-washed skies and draw in
a few sharp lungfuls.
I fix myself a chicken-coop
chamber overlooking Boulevard
Magenta near Gare de I’Est. Ex-
perience favors proximity to
railway-stations. Eternal caution
is the characteristic of my tedious
trade.
“Price is same for double bed,”
says the concierge.
“I sleep solo,” I reply. He is
unconvinced.
I change a few travellers’
cheques. Genuine ones. I
thumb through a small library
labelled annuaire de telephone
and I ring my boss. After a
heavy afternoon of cheap deep
sleep I come up for air with a
headache, no appetite and mental
processes saturated with stale
cigar-smoke.
Rain veils drape hot sunset
colors as I saunter broad
boulevards and crooked alleys of
postcard Paris. I take a mes-
merised look at Etoile’s traffic
whirlpool, I listen to the Metro
rattling underground. Bus con-
ductors in bow ties and burly
gendarmes in rain - capes.
Juvenile roller-skaters swarming
broad Louvre courtyards and
“Conte d’Hiver” at the Theatre
Fran?aise.
Down Avenue de Champs
Elysees into Place de la Con-
corde.
Many madames I meet pushing
prams. Plentiful plump babies
in furry berets, lying back in
woolly coverings, smoking
dummies. Seedling stooges for
the next-world stoush.
Moonlight silvers roof-
tops and neons flicker into
fire over bars, bistros, pistes de
danse. The marche aux fleurs
folds its petals. I phone my
boss. I take a twenty-franc bus
fare to Place Saint Michel and
enter Cabaret I’Ecluse. Inside
is a polished popinjay with
shoulders more streamlined than
those of a blue-tongued lizard.
As he appraises new customers
querulously from under half-
dropped eyelids, he looks like
Hellforleather on an Arab steed
instead of a gargon with a table-
napkin. A chic sheik.
“Alone!” he vibrates sultrily,
and when I say yes he flashes
smoky eyes toward the awkward
corner-seat and I walk in the
direction of the flash. The
orchestra is serving Johannes
Brahms's Seventh as anodyne
for the cute Continental cooking.
I sit down,
THE joint is exquisitely
clothed with the gaudily-
woven brocade of purple-
patterned night-life. An inter-
meshing of Montparnasse, Rue
Balard, and a dash of Passy.
There are sensitive impression-
ists waiting for inspirational
visitations, rakish youngsters
mixing quick sips with slick
quips. Moneyed shimmers inter-
spersed with frayed professionals
like myself. Goateed intellec-
tuals contemptuous of the money
they are incapable of earning.
Teen-age existentialists bravely
discussing what they cannot spell.
Here and there is a plaited-
honey hairdo; escorted by a
waxed moustache as stiff as a
liquorish lord.
THE gargon holds an immense
white card between me and
the public. A directory to the
world of wine. Everything
(Continued on page 32.)


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Trafalgar Day was celebrated by the
Navy League with a dinner at Menzies’.
The Governor attended with his
daughter Jeanette. Guests were received
by the president of the league, Com-
mander R. A. Nettlefold, and Mrs,
Nettlefold. They included the First Naval
Member, Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins,
and Lady Collins A pastel-blue moire-
taffeta gown which had a deep bertha
collar finishing the off-the-shoulder
neckline was the choice of Jeanette
Brooks. Lady Collins wore dove-grey-
pleated chiffons. Mrs. Nettlefold con-
trasted her olive-green satin gown with
an old-rose satin stole. Commodore
R, R. Dowling and Mrs. Dowling, Com-
modore H. J. Buchanan and Mrs.
Buchanan, the Arthur Lavers, the Hon.
Simon Warrender and Mrs. Warrender,
the league’s secretary, Brigadier Guy
Moore, and Mrs. Moore were also there.
Commodore H. J. Buchanan, D. 5.0.,
is organiser of the Jubilee Navy Ball to
be held in St. Kilda Town Hall on
November 8 Oaks Night. The
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks will be there, and patronesses are
Lady Collins and Lady Disney. President
of the ball committee is Mrs. H. J.
Buchanan, hon. treasurer is Bruce
Tracey, and Doris Alden is hon. secretary.
Tickets, which cost 255. each, may be
obtained with table reservations from
Mrs. Edward Campbell (Win. 6774).
When at St. John’s Church of England,
Nagambie, Katherine Amelia, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Stanhope
Winter-Irving, of Coolwoola, Nagambie,
exchanged vows with Godfrey Francis,
only son of Mrs. A. M. Wragge and the
late Mr. Wragge, of Yalake, Deniliquin
(N.S.W.), she wore a gown of cream
brocaded satin. Cut on classical lines, it
had a cream lace yoke. Her cream tulle
veil, which had been worn by her grand-
mother, Mrs. W. H. Gumming, was held
by a coronet of orange-blossom, and she
carried a bouquet of cream tulips.
Bridesmaids were the bride’s sisters Anne
and Doris; their frocks were of cream
faille worn with matching jackets.
Wreaths of gold leaves were worn on
their hair, and they carried bouquets of
cream roses. The flower-girls, Elizabeth
Bayne and Diana Anthony, wore full-
skirted cream net frocks, and their small
gold baskets were filled with cream roses.
Boyd Massina was best man and John
Hayes and Robert, the bride’s brother,
were groomsmen. Reception was at
Coolwoola.
Invitations have been issued by the
First Naval Member, Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins, to a late-afternoon party
on board H.M.A.S. Australia on Thurs-
day, November 1. To commemorate the
centenary of government in Victoria,
the State Government has sent out invita-
tions for a garden-party at Parliament
House on Thursday, November 15.
Engagement has just been announced
of Pamela, only child of Mr. and Mrs.
William Wiggett, of Toorak, to Michael,
only child of Colonel and Mrs. Harry
Cavanaugh, also of Toorak. Pamela was
educated at Merton Hall, Michael at Gee-
long Grammar. No plans have yet been
made for the wedding.
Large bowls of spring flowers
decorated the reception-rooms of the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. John Inkster, for
the afternoon-tea party she gave for
councillor’s wives and presswomen. Mrs.
Inkster’s citron-yellow silk straw hat was
effective contrast for her wide-skirted
black crepe frock. Among her guests
were Mrs. H. Tatnall, whose pink gros-
grain hat with its trimming of black
osprey was worn with a black suit; Mrs.
Bernard Evans, whose dove-grey cloth
coat had a wide matching fox-fur collar
and whose felt hat was also in grey ton-
ing ; Mrs. Gordon Coulter in black-
velvet-collared black suit and black gros-
grain hat; Mrs. Norman Bennett, wear-
ing a black frock and tiny velvet hat
trimmed with gold spangles and fine veil-
ing ; Mrs. R. Solly, her ensemble com-
prising junior-blue coat, dusty-pink frock
and flower-trimmed dusty-pink straw
hat; and Mrs. J. W. Ferguson, whose
dove-grey wool jacket-suit was worn with
a bright-yellow straw hat.
The affair at the Delphic on Caulfield
Cup night to aid the Isobel Henderson
Free Kindergarten was gay, friendly and
marked by beautiful dressing. The presi-
dent of the committee, Lady Grimwade,
wore a white ermine jacket over her dove-
grey satins. Lady Snow, Mrs. Lionel
Grimwade and Mrs. S. Nicholas donned
aprons to protect their pretty gowns and
worked valiantly all through the night at
the bar. Mrs, Ross Grey Smith, wearing
a white crepe floral-printed gown, ushered
* uests *° their tables. A sari of sea-
green-and-gold tissue was worn by Mrs
Geoffrey Fairbairn with beaten-gold
l ewa ' lery - Bouffant-white tulle was worn
W Mu “- A
hiphne and very full skirt were
features of the white sa in > 1 ~
embroidered gown worn by Mrs. lan
„ , ,
Tiers of finely-pleated, stiffened mauve
chiffon and heavy cream lace were worn
Mrs. Sam Pierce under an overskirt
of lace whlch graduated from the waist
into a flowing train. Powder-blue linen
swat hed Mrs. Bruce Rose, the strapless
to P outlined with sea-shells and pearls,
w h lc A. a^so embellished the ends of the
matching stole. Cinnamon-brown tulle
wlth &oups of bronze sequins scattered
over 'bouffant skirt and heavily-
clustered on the strapless bodice was the
chol <? e of Mrs - Ar * hur Laver. Silver
sequins were massed on the grey satin
J by Mrs , Hamilton Sleigh, and
heavi[y y encrusted halter Adeline,
Alternate bands of black chenille spots
were featured on Mrs. Everard Baillieu’s
bouffant white chiffon B°™’
When Dorothea Jones is married next
Saturday at St. Mary’s, Geelong, her
family will be there in strength to lend
support. Her sister will be matron-of-
honor, a brother will give her away and
another brother, the Rev. Father Percy
Jones, will perform the ceremony. Her
bridegroom hails from New Zealand.
Lady Disney, who during her three
years as Lady Mayoress of this city was a
graceful and considerate hostess to
Presswomen, was guest-of-honor at a
sherry-party which Presswomen gave for
her. A keen gardener and lover of
flowers, Lady Disney was obviously de-
lighted with the illustrated book on
flowers which was presented to her as a
tribute to her work for all sections of
the community while she was in office.
Lady Disney wore a diagonally-striped
black-and-gold tie-silk cocktail-frock,
small black straw coolie hat and beige
fox-fur cape.
Melbourne’s unpredictable weather was
responsible for the mixed dressing at the
Caulfield Cup, and trim tailleurs and
lightweight wool coats were considered
the best bets of the day. Newest note
was the navy nylons worn with matching
shoes. Peeptoes have been discarded for
the smart court-shoe with a medium
heel. Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of
the V.A.T.C. chairman, and her daughter
Mrs. J. Pitt were among those who chose
grey tailored suits. The wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, Mrs. H. E. Stebbins, had
a black-and-white-plaid lining to the
loose three-quarter jacket of her black
faille suit; her hat was of black straw
and faille. The lapels of the black cloth
suit worn by Lady Snow were of black
moire silk and matched her waistcoat;
her tiny cloche was of white satin. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. John Inkster, wore
a coolie hat of sapphire-blue straw
covered with matching blue veiling. Mrs.
W. K. Burnside’s coolie was pale-grey,
with clusters of grey and brown roses
set on the flat crown. Margot Pettigrew's
wide-brimmed white pique hat was
banded in deep-green velvet, and a white
bird was perched on the brim.
A white felt cartwheeLhat was Mrs.
Maurice Nathan’s choice. Mrs. Ronald
Nott wore a head-hugging helmet of
smooth white feathers finished with a
soaring matching ostrich-feather mount.
With her grey suit Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas wore a white straw boater which
had a swathing of opalescent sequinned
organza around the crown. There were
lots of wool suits in powder-blue, aqua-
blue, dusty-pink and amethyst.
From Sydney
i-pi . . T u-i nt: ~
The organisers of the Jubilee W n
Week, just finished in Sydney, ceitamly
deserve a
a senes of successful entertainments
From the cocktail-party on Sunday,
where due thought had been given o
the fact that meals are hard to get in
Sydney on a Sunday night through the
trips to the Nepean and Bulb, the
banquet at the Carlton, where there
a A” or ?“ dlSi>lay of ev ! nn ;?
although there were no men to
(thus disproving some theory
1? “>■ S
W rr k u O ,. a be didn t need
? “ e S because he’d grown one during
the week, the arrangements were efficient,
the spirit lighthearted and the weather
.1,- n o , , , a
thevTi 'SLd O £ b Svaofn 1 !
hey had stored up enough party-going
to last them for a year, and that theyd
maligned city these days.
Apparently the dance on the Kalang
was designed to show the visitors the
beauties of Sydney Harbor in the moon-
light, but, oddly enough, most people
remained on the lower decks for dancing
and conversation. Mrs. Lay, wife of the
president of the Wine Producers’ Associa-
tion, received the guests. Mrs. Despas
wore a brown tulle dress with a bodice
and apron overskirt of olive moire ; Mrs.
Fiaschi wore black. Mrs. Ken Hardy’s
dress was georgette beautifully draped in
Grecian lines. Mrs. Grant Lmdeman
sparkled from one end of the ship to the
ot^? r ™ a i re rj sequined like a coat of
mad. Mrs. C. Hazelgrove from S.A. woi e
a lovely white chiffon dress with a
guipure lace top sparkling with sequins
here and there.
Those who would like to serve the right
wines with food will be interested to hear
what wines were served at the cellar
luncheon for ladies at Tintara House.
With hors d’ceuvres there were wine cock-
tails; with soup flor fino sherry;
with fish sauternes and Castle Riesling;
with turkey champagne ; liqueur port and
Frontignac came with the sweets, and
liqueur brandy went with coffee. The
cellar at Tintara House, quaint with its
huge polished hogsheads all round the
room, was decorated with flags and
flowers to quite a gay effect, and the
excellent service of the staff deserved and
was given a special word of thanks.
In our picture is Angela Olivia Pery,
Countess of Limerick, special Jubilee
guest of the Commonwealth Government
and deputy chairman of the British Red
Cross Society. Lady Limerick arrived in
Sydney on October 8, and will stay in
Australia until the end of the month.
Lord and Lady Limerick live on a 200-
acre dairyfarm in Sussex, and have a
family of two sons, Mickie and Pat, and
a daughter Anne. Lady Limerick has
been a Red Cross worker for 36 years,
and has also been active in the fields of
child welfare and local government. She
holds an honorary LL.D. from Man-
chester University. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
Talent abounded at the afternoon party
arranged by the Australian-American
Association during the week. Guest of
honor, Gladys Moncrieff, spoke of her
trip to the East, including Korea, where
she sang to thousands of Australians and
the United Nations almost up to the
firing line. Carrie Moore, Strella Wilson
and Minnie Love were also at the party,
lending it an atmosphere of theatrical
warmth and brightness. The president,
Mrs. Florence Taylor, welcomed Mrs.
E. C. Haas as a new member of the
association, and provided the news that
the Tom Alexanders are to go to Egypt
from Washington shortly. Lady Bissett
was present, also Mrs. Garnet Malley
from Suva, Mrs. Sinding-Larsen, Baroness
Schroeder and Mrs. R, H. Pearce.
Quaintest invitations (and most attrac-
tive) for some time are those sent out by
the Metropolitan Theatre for the opening
performance of “The House of Bernarda
Alba.” They are white with a fine deckle
edge and a veil of black chantilly-type
lace. The play, which has a cast entirely
composed of women, has been produced
in black-and-white by Robin Lovejoy.
The show “In Honor of the Rose,”
arranged by the Bush Book Club at David
Jones’s George-street store, was so
crowded out on its opening day that many
of the somewhat fashionable assembly
couldn’t hear the opening speech made
by Dick Bentley. This consisted mostly
of sallies such as “I often spend the even-
ing with my nose stuck in a book —it’s
very painful,” but somehow Master
Bentley makes them all amusing. Miss
Barbara Knox introduced the speaker and
asked him to “take it from here.” Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland, who had had a good
deal to do with organising the show, re-
sponded. So far as one could see over
the heads of the crowd, the most interest-
ing exhibit was the table of old-fashioned
roses shown by Mrs. Jocelyn Browne.
Although these do not have the shapely
form of the modern rose, their perfume is
exquisite and their appeal more subtle.
One of them, Rosa Damascena, was dated
1525. Of the beautiful flower-arrange-
ments shown, this Letter liked Mrs. Alfred
Morgan’s grouping with rhododendrons
best, but this was a purely personal
choice.
The prize for best stage decor pre-
sented by the Drama League has been
won by the Genesians with their setting
for “Murder in the Cathedral.” This
was announced at a late-afternoon party
given at the Metropolitan Theatre during
the week. There were only three entries
in the competition, which, needless to
say, was disappointing. The Inde-
pendent’s setting for “Beyond the
Horizon” was placed second, and the
Sydney Repertory’s beautifully-made set-
ting for “Murder Without Crime” was
judged third. Mr. Martin Browne was
guest-of-honor at the party, and spoke
words of encouragement to the young
actors. Gwen Harrison did the welcom-
ing to a very pleasant little party, where
the guests included many members of
other amateur theatrical societies.
The St. Aloysius College Memorial
Oval at Willoughby was a perfect setting
in last Sunday’s sunshine for the Passing-
Out Parade of the college cadets. The
salute was taken by Rear-Admiral H. A.
Showers, who recalled in his speech that
the day marked the 146th anniversary of
the Battle of Trafalgar, which had re-
moved from England any threat of in-
vasion, and exhorted them to maintain the
spirit of Lord Nelson. Present were
Brigadier and Mrs. Stevenson, Colonel
and Mrs. Peters, Major and Mrs. V. J.
Flynn, Captain and Mrs. Ralph Thomp-
son, Lieutenant and Mrs. Read. Repre-
senting Riverview College were Cadet-
Lieutenants Proust, Smith, Dalton and
Regan. St. Josephs was represented by
Cadet-Lieuts. D. Lyons and McNorsa,
Christian Brothers’, Chatswood, by Cadet-
Lieutenant Sheath and De La Salle Col-
lege by Sgt. Regan. St. Aloysius’ chief
Cadet-Lieutenant Jeremy Nelson led the
parade.
The garden inspections organised by
the Garden Club are becoming some of
the most enjoyable outings available to
Sydney people. The trip to Bowral and
Burradoo, where the homes of Mr. R.
Cahill, Mrs. W. McNaught, Mrs. L. Price,
Mr. Lloyd, and Mr. Spencer Stansfield
were visited, remains as a delightful ex-
perience in the minds of members. Last
weekend Dr. and Mrs. Stuart Scougall’s
Wahroonga garden was visited, and also
the Castle Hill home of the Vincent Fair-
faxes, where the roses are dominating the
grounds round the house, on the terrace
and in the sunken stone garden on the
southern side. The Fairfax grounds run
down through green hills and trees to a
small gully called the glen, where, in a
natural bush setting, azaleas are growing
almost wild in clumps of white, red, pink
and mauve. The club members found
the view from the terrace across to the
mountains breathtaking, but expressions
of awed admiration were mostly reserved
for the Fairfax paddock of potatoes.
The £5790 raised by the Black-and-
White Ball for the Blind Institution must
surely be a record. Very few preliminary
parties were held to help defray expenses
for this ball, which each year increases
its prestige and popularity, not to say
its takings.
J. C. Williamson’s are hastening to
explain to all that the copyright on the
Gilbert and Sullivan operas has not
expired as some people apparently think,
and that it will not do so for another 10
years. The music of Sullivan has become
public domain, but the operas as written,
Sullivan’s music allied to Gilbert’s
libretto, is fully protected by the copy-
right law.


PERSONAL ITEMS
In Lieut-General Sir George Erskine
the fellaheens of Farouk are up against a
soldier who served with distinction in
both World Wars, winning D. 5.0., C.B.
and four “mentions.” Just over 50, the
G.O.C. British troops in Egypt and
Mediterranean Command commanded,
among others, the British 7th Armored
Division in Hitler’s scrap, and, after it,
the land forces in Hong Kong, till 1948.
In Egypt for the past two years, he’s the
son of a British general,
Don B. Knock, in pre-Hitler days
The Bulletin’s radio scribe, two years
ago accepted an R.A.N. appointment as
technical assistant to the Naval Air
Engineer Overseer (Randwick). The
other day Knock stepped up to become
the Overseer’s Senior Technical Officer
on the radio and electrical side. An
active radio amateur since 1911, he
operates his own station, VK2NO, and
is often heard in the 14 me. (20-metre)
phone-band yarning with colleagues in
U.K. and other distant climes.
The somewhat diagnostic look apparent
about Whiting’s victim could stem from
the fact that medico Philip Gilbert has
been delving into the medical ills of cities
for most of his practising career. A
Sydney University product, M.B. and 8.5.,
GILBERT, MEDICO.
he had four years of hospital work in
Sydney, then became the city’s m. 0., re-
maining that for the whole of the War II
years. Now he’s in Melbourne, having
taken over that city’s health problems
from lofty John Dale last year.
A biography of former Maoriland
Prime Minister Peter Fraser is to
be published early next year by the
London publishing house, Odham’s
Press. Author, James Thorn, of
Wellington, an associate of Fraser’s for
40 years.
“Macnell”; “Mountbatten of the
Mediterranean.” Even the names of his
appointments seem to conspire to fit this
sailor, who is generally accepted as hav-
ing Just about everything. He has, too—
almost limitless energy, remarkable
capacity for concentration and ruth-
less execution of the job, relentless
driving-power and, perhaps the most
important single factor which has made
him idolised by his men, boundless
enthusiasm. He knows his sailors
thoroughly. I’ve seen him, standing all
white and gold in the sternsheets of his
glittering barge, making to my destroyer,
and the cox’n, object of a score of
vengeful eyes, muffed his come-alongside.
“Go round again!” dutifully snarled the
officer of the day. Round went the luck-
less fellow, with his passenger, expecting
the skies to fall upon him, and brought
her in. We waited. Instead of delivering
the expected blast, the boss of S.-E. Asia
grinned, leapt nimbly to the ladder and
called: “Made it nicely that time, cox’n.”
The guard presented arms with a smack
that could be heard 10 cables away. Now
C.-in-C., Mediterranean, Mountbatten got
there, as all British naval officers must,
being pre-eminently practical men,
through his own efficiency. Though he
had four ships removed from under him
by shell or torpedo (two of them in the
Mediterranean), he came through the war
with only one wound—received from
carrier Illustrious’s mascot, a goat which
was kindly donated by the good citizens
of Norfolk, Virginia. It bit him.
In Brisbane on tour of Australasia and
New Guinea, the Very Rev. Brother
E. F. Clancy played in life the part of
the priest in the Italian film “Open City.”
Attached to a Christian Brothers school
in German-occupied Rome after the
Italian surrender. Brother Clancy taught
his flock by day, and by night smuggled
tucker to scores of released Allied p.-0.-w.
whom the Nazis were hunting. He’s now
head of the world-wide Christian
Brothers teaching order.
Robert Elliot Lindsay, who died
recently aged 80, was the second son
born of that famous family. After a
brief experience as a bank clerk, he left
Australia for London in 1909, where he
exploited a faculty for dress design in
fashion styles and stage costumes, Melba
being one of his patrons. From London
he went to America, and in partnership
with a young American dress designer
opened a business in New Orleans, but
with the 1914 war left that to take a
position on the staff of the British consul’s
office in that city. When that official
was recalled to London during the war,
Robert went with him, and remained on
his staff till the war ended, whereupon he
returned to costume-designing and deal-
ing in antiques and ceramics, having a
practised knowledge of qualities in such
matters, many of his friends being experts
on antiquities attached to the British
Museum. In the ’twenties he retired from
business and returned to Australia, to
be company with his sister Mary at the
old home in Creswick. Of a detached
and ironic outlook on life, he preferred
to keep outside the polemics of the art
world, satisfying his assthetic needs with
books and gardening.
New N.S.W. District Court Judge John
Michael Brennan is a 41-year-old
graduate of Melbourne University,
admitted to the Bar in 1938. In the Army
from start to finish of its late scrap, on
discharge he assisted the War Crimes
Commissioner, Sir William Webb. Prac-
tising mainly in common law and
workers’ compensation, at the time of his
elevation the new judge was assisting
W. R. Dovey at the present liquor inquiry
in Sydney.
Group-Captain W. H. Caring, “Bull”
to high and low, settled only the other
day in Queensland, boss of the R.A.A.F.
station, Amberley. Now he’s off to the
Imperial Defence College. One of the
War II pilots who made No. 10 Sunder-
land Squadron the name it is, Garing won
D.F.C. over the Atlantic, spotted the
survivors of the City of Benares, flew
First Lord Alexander to France for naval
discussions after that country’s surrender,
and flew an American D.S.C.’s-worth
against the Japs at Milne Bay and Buna.
Wing-Commander C. G. Hartnell takes
over at Amberley.
“Uramao”: Stepping up to the Chair
of Physiology at Otago University (N.Z.),
vacated by Professor J. C. Eccles (who
has a similar seat awaiting him at the
John Curtin School of Medical Research
in Canberra), Professor A. K. Mclntyre
got his early know-how in Sydney. Born
in Edinburgh 38 years ago, he collected
B.Sc. with first-class honors at Sydney
University at 21, and was a research-
fellow there when he joined the
R.A.A.F. to help with Hitler’s demise.
A travelling scholarship won after the
war took him to the Rockefeller Institute
in New York. John Carew Eccles is
Melbourne-born and one of that city’s
most brilliant products. Victorian
Rhodes Scholar in 1925 (pole-vaulting
his athletic speciality), within two years
he was Junior Research Fellow at Exeter
College, Oxford, and held that post till
1934. In addition he was Fellow and
tutor at Magdalen and demonstrator in
physiology till 1937. A rare distinction
came his way in 1941—a Royal Society
Fellowship—by which time he was direct-
ing the Kanematsu Memorial Institute of
Pathology in Sydney, From there he
crossed to Otago. He’s delivered himself
of a raft of writings on physiology.
Elected president of the Royal Aus-
tralian Ornothologists’ Union in Mel-
bourne the other day, Robert Falla is in
charge of the big Dominion Museum in
Wellington (N.Z.). The boss birdman has
been interested in feathered habits since,
in 1925, he lectured on them at the Auck-
land Teachers’ Training College. In
1929-31 he was south with Mawson, and
came back to direct successively museums
in Auckland and Canterbury. He did a
bit of watching for birds—distinctive
coloring: red ball on body and wings—
with the N.Z. Army in War 11.
Development of our defence sciences,
including what goes on at Woomera, will
be strengthened by a newly-formed team
of three top scientists —Professor H. J.
Brown, W. A. S. Butement and Dr. B. G.
Gates. An Old Fortian, Dean of the
Engineering Faculty at the N.S.W. Uni-
versity of Technology, the professor has
had extensive experience—from hydro-
electric work in Tasmania and research-
ing at A.W.A.’s laboratories to bossing
A.N.A.’s communications and, in War
11, heading radio-physics research with
C.5.1.R.0. He did much in the intro-
duction of radar to Australia. Enzedder
William Butement, the Supply Depart-
ment’s chief-scientist, was in at radar’s
beginning, senior scientific officer of radar-
research with the U.K. Ministry of Supply
in 1938. He was with the Ministry for
all of War 11, and after it became chief
superintendent of the Woomera Rocket
Range. Another high-up in the Supply
Department, Dr. Gates has already
worked for some time with the chief-
scientist
In another change in 8.C.0.F.
appointments, Brigadier lan Ross Camp-
bell relieves Major-General Roy King
as commander of 8.C.0.F.’s Australian
component. Up there since 1947, King
spent War I in Duntroon, absorbing the
theory which he had plenty of chance to
put into practice in War 11. Leaving with
the 6th Division, brigade-major, he was
lieutenant-colonel in command of the
2/sth Battalion for the Greece and
Syrian campaigns, came out D. 5.0., went
into New Guinea, and came out C.B.E.
He went to Japan from the Directorship
of Military Training. Campbell followed
his senior’s career closely—also G.S.O. 2,
6th Division, he also commanded the
2/sth Battalion, as well as the 2/Ist, and
was in the same Middle East campaigns
(D.S.O. and Bar), though with the differ-
ence that he did not come out. P.-0.-w.
in Germany between 1941-45, he com-
manded, on release, with complete appre-
ciation, the reception group of p.-0.-w.
arriving in England from durance vile.
And, furthering the career-corollary, he
took over the Military Training directo-
ship when King went north.
Presented by Prior, and known to
both-war Diggers—just as big and bluff
as ever he was —Lieut.-General Bill
Bridgeford was inspected at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, shortly after appoint-
ment to head 8.C.0.F. in Japan.
Topping 6ft., and not much thinner.
Big Bill hails from Smeaton (the Vic-
torian district which produced General
Northcott), and, having graduated from
Duntroon in 1915, just missed Gallipoli.
But he was into it in France, 2 i/c of
the Bth Machine-gun Company at
Fromelles, winning M.C. and gravitating
to Monash’s staff. Between that war and
the next he instructed at Duntroon,
broadened his knowledge at Quetta Staff
College (Field-Marshal Slim a three-pip
classmate), was one of the first instructors
at the Command and Staff College formed
in Sydney in 1938, was on the receiving
end at the Imperial Defence College, and,
when Hitler made his bid, was military
adviser to Stanley Bruce at Australia
House. Given command of the 25th
Brigade (formed in England from a re-
routed Middle East convoy), he went to
BRIDGEFORD OF B.C.O.F.
the ME., to end up on Blarney’s staff in
Gaza, opposite-number to General
Rowell. Greece followed, with a lively
get-away under fierce bombing from
Kalamata, and evacuation ship bombed
to the bottom a bit before he was due
to board her. Promoted major-general
in Australia, Big Bill was given the 3rd
Armored Division, before returning to
Blarney’s staff, D.A.Q.M.G., this time in
Moresby. He finished the war in
command of the 3rd Australian Division,
after having taken it through Bougain-
ville. A first-class claybird marksman,
representing in the competition shoots
between England, Ireland and Scotland,
he is, as well, a first-class horseman,
and judged at Adelaide Show before
War 11.
“Nap” (christened Alwyn Bowman)
Barker has been in the motor-car game
since, in 1925, at 25, he became
production-manager for Holdens in S.
Australia. After a period as works-
manager for Kelvinators, he got back to
cars, g.-m. of the Chrysler-Dodge-De
Soto distributors in his State. Apart from
the business side, he knows the difference
between a carburettor and a clutch, being
a B.Sc. and B.E. from Adelaide Uni-
versity. At that institution he played a
full hand in sports—cricket, football,
lacrosse, baseball and golf—was for 16
BARKER, MOTORMAN.
years a leading batsman in senior club
cricket in Adelaide, and at 21 was the
State country golf champion. The
coincidence that Barker owns a property
at Mt. Barker often prompts an inquiry
as to whether he’s a descendant of the
Captain Barker who plotted the moun-
tain’s location in 1831. But Nap dis-
claims any connection —Captain Barker
having been a bachelor. Deputy-chair-
man of the Adelaide Electrolysis Advisory
Committee, Nap also lectures at the
university on industrial engineering.
Coventry’s liable for the accompanying
version of him.
“F.”: Following the R.A.N.’s practice
of appointing its head from the Mother
Navy, with all the advantages of co-
operation and expert advice that follow,
the R.A.A.F. gets Air-Vice-Marshal
James Donald Hardman, R.A.F., in
succession to Air-Marshal Jones. An
Oxford man who took to the air from
soldiering in the middle of War I, Hard-
man rose rapidly in War 11, going from
wing-commander to his present elevation
in six years. An exceptional penchant
for planning made him Lord Portal's
choice to head administration of air-
forces in the S.-E. Asian area towards
the close of the Pacific war, from which
well-done job he returned to London as
Assistant-Chief-of-Air-Staff. He comes
to Australia from command of the
R.A.F. Staff College, a hard but intel-
ligent disciplinarian.
E. B. Levy, formerly director of grass-
lands research in Maoriland, gets the
R. B. Bennett Prize for 1951 for
work on grassland farming which has
benefited the Empire generally. With
M.L.’s Department of Agriculture since
1911 as agrostologist, Levy represented the
Fernland at the International Grasslands
Congresses at the Netherlands in 1937
and in Great Britain in 1945. He put
himself out to grass early this year.
Into the Silence:
In London, at 65, Lieutenant Leonard Keysor,
Old Digger of Gallipoli. Born in London, he
crossed to Canada, was in N.S.W. when War 1
started, and joined the Ist Battalion, A.1.F.,
private. Later, at Lone Pine in August, 1915,
he was busily engaged in catching Turk hand-
grenades and returning them to the bowler. His
bravery was conspicuous in other ways also;
it brought him the Victoria Cross.
In Brisbane, at 85, Tom Paltridge, a few days
after a Bulletin Abo. par. (3/10/’5l) recorded
his epic trek. With Duncan Livingston, in
1889, Tom set out in a wagonette to overland
from Mt. Gambier in S. Australia to St. George
in Queensland. They arrived, many weeks and
hardships later, to find the Balonne River at
St. George in high flood. The wagon was
pushed, minus wheels, on to a luckily-found
boat, and the horses swum across. The trip
paid dividends, Tom establishing a sizeable
property, Minimi, and working it for 30 years
before retiring in Brisbane on the result.
In Melbourne, at 78, Edgar Henry Trebilco,
prominent in Victorian legal circles. After
serving with various solicitors he joined the
Commonwealth Crown Law Department, becom-
ing Taxation Master of the Supreme Court of
Victoria.
In Perth, at 84, William Padbury, one ot
Westralia’s most successful stockbreeders; also
president of Perth Y.M.C.A. for 14 years and a
director of it since 1908. An outstanding
breeder of Jersey cattle, he improved other types
of stock by importing and acclimatising British
strains of sheep, pigs, poultry and pigeons. A
regular at the Royal Show, he won, year after
year, the Governor’s Cup for the best collection
of stock entries.


ALWAYS THE BEST PLACE FOR
YOUR SAVINGS
The 14th Security Loan, opening on November 1, gives you the
opportunity to put your money to profitable use and to assist in
completing the great developmental tasks now confronting Australia.
Today, as never before, Australia’s economic security depends on
the full development of our national resources. Our growing popula-
tion demands more power, better transport facilities, improved water
supplies, more homes, hospitals and schools . . . and money subscribed
to the 14th Security Loan will be used to hasten these vital tasks.
Invested in this Loan, your savings will be absolutely safe—
repayment in full at maturity of face value of your Securities is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
Because investment in the 14th Security Loan helps to strengthen
Australia, because it helps to secure your own future, there can be
no better place for your savings.
Invest all you can —at once.
Make an advance subscription to the 14th Security Loan
immediately.
CONVERSION OF MATURING SECURITIES: 3|% Commonwealth Bonds
and Inscribed Stock repayable on November 15, 1951, will mature
and cease earning interest on that date. When the Loan opens on
November 1, holders of these Securities may renew their investment
by converting their holdings into the 14th Security Loan.
3 TASKS FOR FVFRY AUSTRALIAN
SAVE MORE... buy only what you really need.
PRODUCE MORE . . . do a better job—for yourself
and Australia.
INVEST WISELY . . . in the 14th Security Loan.
MAKE AN ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
14'SECURITY
LOAN
OPENING Ist NOVEMBER
LOAN FACTS: (1) The Loan will provide for conversion of 3|% Securities maturing
on November 15, 1951, and help to pay for public works and services of the Common-
wealth and the States. 121 Advance subscriptions may be made through any Bank or
Stockbroker. (3) 11-14 Year Securities (issued at par) will bear interest at 3|% per
annum. 3-Year Securities (issued at par) will bear interest at 2% per annum. (4)
Minimum subscription for 11-14 Year Securities is £lO of Bonds or £lOO of Inscribed
Stock. Investors who already hold £lOO of Stock may subscribe £lO or more. For
3-Year Securities, the minimum subscription is £l,OOO of Bonds or Inscribed Stock.
(5) Interest will be paid every six months. (6) Repayment in full at maturity of face
value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
P145L1.144
started, but he has not appeared,
and we are getting seriously
uneasy as to what has become
of him ; and the possibility of
his being lost in the bush does
not tend to brighten matters, for
there was no one so universally
liked on the station as Mr.
Taylor.
He started with Mr. Devlin
for the Flinders River last
January 7. Mr. Devlin, who is
the station superintendent, had
general charge of the expedition,
and Mr. Taylor went in charge
of the sheep, till Biddulph could
find some suitable person to
follow and take charge of them,
when Mr. Taylor was to return ;
for as he is the sheep overseer,
he is wanted at Exmoor.
A few weeks after, Biddulph
sent out a Mr. Gilliat, who
overtook the expedition about
one hundred and fifty miles
from here. We heard of Mr.
Gilliat’s having joined the camp,
and of Mr. Taylor’s having
started for home, and since that
we have heard nothing of him,
and can hear nothing. He ought
to have been in more than a
month ago. Biddulph waited for
his return till he could wait no
longer, and then started for the
Flinders. He may hear some-
thing of him. But Biddulph
went right through the bush,
whereas Mr. Taylor was directed
to return a longer way, but one
which would lead him by a line
of stations, so that he would
hardly have to camp out a night.
All we have heard is a vague
report brought by a travelling
Chinaman about the troopers
having been out tracking him
(Mr. Taylor). The man spoke
such bad English it was very
difficult to make out what he
meant, but as the native police
are known to be up there, we are
afraid that there may be some
foundation for the report, and
that he is lost, and they have
sent to look for him. The delay
must be owing either to that or
to his having been laid up ill at
one of the outstations. There
is something very wearing in the
impossibility of hearing of
anyone when once they are
away in the bush. You can only
look out evening after evening
in hopes of their coming in, and
fancy every time the dozen dogs
set up a barking that they have
arrived.
I do not suppose we shall hear
of Biddulph till we see him
again, which can hardly be for
two months. There is no fear of
his being lost, however, for he
has a blackboy with him, who
knows the country, having been
out with Mr. Devlin the first
time; besides which, Biddulph
is a very good bushman himself,
which poor Mr. Taylor is not.
“A good bushman” means one
who can find his way by the sun
or the stars, or the rivers, or the
lie of the country —through the
trackless bush, where it looks all
the same—a wilderness of gum-
trees.
I believe it would be almost
impossible for a black to be
lost, put him down where you
would, and some old white
residents have nearly the same
faculty Mr. Devlin, for
instance. Biddulph is a very
good hand for the time he has
been out, though not at all like
Mr. Devlin.
Biddulph set off this day week,
and a great scrimmage there was
before his departure. He took
with him seven pack-horses,
loaded with flour, tea and sugar,
for Mr. Devlin’s party, who
might be getting short of provi-
sions before the drays could
reach them. The saddles all
wanted stuffing and lining, and
the harness in general wanted
mending, and any quantity of
canvas bags wanted making, and
as everything has to be done at
home on a station, we were all
busy enough, and I added lining
saddles to my knowledge of
fancy needlework.
Biddulph took young Julian
with him, also, though except
making the party look larger, I
do not think he would be much
good. They also had seven or
eight riding horses besides the
pack-horses, so they looked
quite a formidable party. All
three were well armed with car-
bines and revolvers, and they
had plenty of provisions, also a
very good tent for rainy
weather. They started last Tues-
day, April 5; and Biddulph
hopes to reach Mr. Devlin and
his sheep in about a fortnight.
The distance is three hundred
and fifty miles ; but, then, it is
not on a road, but through the
bush, where very often the
ground is boggy and bad for
pack-horses. I shall be very glad
to see Biddulph safe back. The
long delay of Mr. Taylor makes
one doubtful of that western
country altogether.
We are having lovely weather
now. The rain seems gone at
last, and we have cool mornings
and evenings, and a nice breeze
nearly all day, just like the
weather we get in early summer
in England. I am out of doors
more than half the day—always
in the early morning and even-
ing, besides frequent excursions
in the course of the day to see
if the pet sheep are feeding in
peace and safety; and when I
find them I can seldom help
sitting down in the shade, when
they are pretty sure all to come
and camp round me and nibble
my shawl and put their heads
down on my lap to have their
noses stroked and their ears
rubbed.
You would hardly believe
how tame such timid animals
get. I have one little black ewe
that follows me like a dog, and
will lie down at my, feet for
hours if I will let her. 1 have
had the blight lately—not badly
at all, like some people have it
My eyes never pained me, but I
am afraid to draw or work much
till they are well; so rambling
about with the lambs and dogs
is my great amusement.
We have not been riding since
Biddulph went away. The last
ride we took with him was to
the Six Mile crossing under Tent
Hill. I had not seen the river
since the great flood, and ,1 was
surprised to see what a sweep
the water had made. The bed
of the river used to be full of
trees and shrubs, and now every-
thing has been swept , away—
only a few of the largest trees
and some broken stems left in
the middle of a waste of sand.
In one place a log—the trunk of
a moderate-sized tree—has been
left in the fork of another tree,
about forty feet from the
ground. A lasting memorial of
the height of the river. < It must
have been a grand sight when at
its highest.
Mr. Hedgeland has his hands
rather full just now, there being
no one else on the station. Bid-
dulph went away fully expecting
that Mr. Taylor would be in in
a day or two, and we still try
to expect him; though, as each
evening comes, and he does not,
our hopes get less and less, but
it is too terrible to think of any-
one we have known and liked,
ever since we came here, meet-
ing such an end as being lost in
the bush.
To add to Mr, Hedgeland’s
perplexities one of the shepherds
took the opportunity of getting
ill and then losing thirty of the
best lambs. The cook has ob-
jected to scour the milk dishes,
to Annie’s great horror; and
Billy the blackboy, who was
left on the station to find lost
sheep, cows and horses, has been
away for two days, and is
thought to have absconded. So
on the whole tribulation has
come upon us. However, things
will work right again. A new
shepherd has been found. My
pet lambs have picked up and
brought home four of the lost
lambs; and perhaps Billy will
come back.
It is a most lovely golden
evening, and the mountains
opposite are a beautiful ■ rose
color. How I wish you could
take a walk with me to the
“Azalea Scrub,” where I am just
going. Down the hill to the
shady flat below, over the station
creek, then up a little rocky path
through a patch of scrub and
then out on a beautiful plain
surrounded by wood, the plain
running up into the wood in
little bays of green. The wood
is called the “Azalea Scrub” be-
cause the beautiful wild azalea
grows there plentifully.
Excuse this dull dismal letter,
but I am rather dull just now
and have nothing to write about.
My kind love to Mr. Boyce and
many thanks for his letter and
yours.
Goodbye my dearest Etta.
Kisses to the darling children.
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
May 1, 1864.
My Dearest Amy,
It seems a long time since I
have written to you, but there is
very little news to tell you just
now. You will have heard from
Annie that Biddulph left us on
the fifth of last month ; and
since his departure the station
has been less cheerful than it has
(Continued on page 32.)


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES-— ln Divorce.
TO ARTHUR EDWARD LEO RUSSELL
late of 71 West Street Hurstville—
TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA EDITH
MAY RUSSELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3791 of 1951 against you on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
20th day of December 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
BRUCE R. MILES, Solicitor, 3 Spring
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD SPENCER WRIGHT late
of Wollongong—TAKE NOTICE that ADA
JESSIE WRIGHT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 579 of 1949 on the ground
of desertion without cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before the 20th December
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. JOHNSON
& O’NEILL, Solicitors, 69 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
■
OPPORTUNITIES
FOR MEN J 8 TO 24
TO SERVE AS
AIRCREW
IN THE RAAF
AIR MINDED young Australians
who have attained the age of 18 but
not 25 years, and are unmarried,
have the opportunity to fly with
the R.A.A.F. as PILOTS, NAVI-
GATORS, and SIGNALLERS.
THE ROYAL AUSTRALIAN
AIR FORCE offers outstanding
careers, excellent training, and
liberal pay to young men possess-
ing qualities of leadership, initia-
tive, and reliability, and other
attributes and qualifications re-
quired by the Service. A con-
siderable number of Aircrew
graduates receive commissions
during terms of engagement.
EDU CAT IO N QUALIFICA-
TIONS: Passes in the Inter-
mediate, Junior or equivalent
certificate, with Mathematics and
Science compulsory subjects.
Higher qualifications will be an
advantage.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE;
Ist November, 1951.
Enquire at any of the following without obligation:
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney: Cnr. Martin Place and
Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide:
Richards Building. 99 Currie Street; In Perth: 34 King Street: In Hobart: Franklin
Square • Your District Recruiting Committee • Any R-A-A.F. Station or Unit.
Usatd bg ‘Ju Director-General tt JUenutiaM
ETA3.83.9l
SUNDRY SHOWS
WIRTHS.
; Back at its transpontine haunt
at Olympia, Melbourne, up to
its usual schedule, the Greatest
.Show on Earth is, as regards
some of its most staggering
items, off the earth, and is giving
its audiences cricks in the neck
watc h i n g its remarkable
manoeuvres.
One of the two Vilsteys,
correctly described as an iron-
jawed sensation, hangs upside-
down with a rope between his
teeth while his well-nourished
female partner does an aerial
death-swivel at a speed that de-
fies computation. Why the
banging gent, hasn’t developed
muscles on his teeth as obvious
as a wrestler’s biceps is a matter
for scientific investigation.
Bent Blue, a dapper little
Dane, and his blonde partner
perform juggling feats of great
skill while balancing on the top
of a pole attached to a cycle with
only one wheel, but their per-
formance, good as it is, pales
into insignificance beside the
amazing evolutions of the Flying
Dieslers. Theirs is our old
friend the flying-trapeze act, but
they have brought it to a new
and dazzling degree of finish.
Two of the trio are from
Barnum, Bailey and Ringling
Bros.’ Circus, New York; and
the third is a young Australian
who used to be a newsboy. This
young virtuoso is lovely to
watch as he skims birdlike above
his female partner, turns three
somersaults, lands his fingers
lightly in the fingers of the
catcher, returns apparently under
his own power—he and the girl
being simultaneously in the air,
and the catcher juggling just as
effortlessly with their bodies.
Little Lulu, the chimp, also
does a bit of aerial business, but
there isn’t a great deal of differ-
ence between swinging on a
trapeze and swinging on a
bough, and she isn’t half as
imposing.
For the rest, Captain Schultz
is nightly facing the tragic con-
sequences of being eaten by
Wirth’s Ferocious Lions, Zetta
Lee is facing the consequences
of being flattened by 100 tons of
Wirth’s elephants, and the three
International Clowns are as
funny as ever. For charm and
grace and elegance, however,
nothing on the programme
equals the high and haughty
horsemanship of Toni Smaha,
who rides Pasha as if he were
welded to him and directs the
rhythmical manoeuvres of eight
other equines in a most gentle-
manly manner.
Mr. Phil Wirth conducts his
orchestra of equines, carnivora,
pachyderms and humans in his
usual unobtrusive dignity.
"The Vigil."
As Christian apologetics, the
trial of the gardener of Joseph
of Arimathea in “The Vigil,” by
Ladislas Fodor (Sydney St.
James Hall), on a charge of
burying Christ’s body on the
night before the stone was
found rolled away and the body
gone, was patently rigged ; the
kind of semi-propaganda show
that came up with broadcasting
to celebrate the national day of
a friendly nation: the audience
challenged to choose which
shirt was washed by the spon-
sor’s product and which showed
Tattle-Tale Grey; Mr. Fodor
making everything simple enough
for even us to understand;
biblical people in modern dress
-—the play had everything—all
the worst cliches of the modern
public-relations theatre.
But Mr. Neil Hutchinson’s
production was excellent; the
procession of biblical characters
who built up the old story in the
witness-box went off without a
hitch. The play became a test
of what an actor could do with
one short appearance, anchored
to one part of the stage, head-
and-shoulders view only. As a
matter of love-at-first-sight one
would put first Lesley Lindsay’s
portrait of Pilate’s wife as the
wife of a colonial Governor,
elegant, sophisticated, per-
plexedly witty; but as a matter
of judgment, perhaps, one
should prefer Robert Cubbage’s
St. Paul in his first appearance as
a cocksure authority on the
Jewish faith ; there was a verve
and certainty that Sir Thomas
Beecham couldn’t have bettered
as Sir Thomas Beecham. But
then again, John Llewellyn’s
study of Joseph of Arimathea
was faultless. Alan Herbert as
St. Peter, Rolph Bartik as the
gardener, John Clark as a pro-
fessor giving the blessing of con-
temporary science on angels,
Rodney Taylor as a private
detective were less perfect.
Ellen Morgan showed us that
not the least of Mary Magda-
len’s charms was a beautifully-
modulated voice with a pleasing
warmth of the lower register.
John Llewellyn made Pilate
rather an ill-bred, nudging
scoundrel, which seems a little
unlikely in a colonial Governor.
Alan White, as counsel for the
defence, should have corked up
the sweetness and light; Allan
Trevor, as the prosecutor, tended
to smirk in a way which would
have caused the world’s fore-
most freethinkers, most of them
religiously sincere inquirers, to
disown him.
A New Ballet.
The Jubilee Borovansky
Ballet, which is packing His
Majesty’s in Melbourne nightly,
added to its repertoire a Jubilee
Ballet, “Chiaroscuro,” with
choreography by Dorothy
Stevenson, Schumann’s lovely
Piano Quintet providing the
music. The story that Miss
Stevenson has found in Schu-
mann’s music concerns a man
who breaks away from society’s
conventions, is pursued by an
ill-conscience and after a hectic
struggle abandons his burst for
freedom and returns to society’s
conventions.
This theme was happily so
vague that it presented no
obstacle to enjoyment of the
ballet, which was very graceful,
rhythmical and giddy. Miss
Stevenson danced her own part
divinely, evidently because she
could feel it, but Charles Boyd,
as the social rebel, was more
gymnastically agitated than
spiritually.
"The Two Gentlemen
of Verona."
This seldom-heard work of
Shakspeare’s nonage was revived
by the National Theatre in Mel-
bourne and raised the umbrage
of some critics who said it
wasn’t funny. In terms of Eliza-
bethan conventions it isn’t any
less funny than other comedies
of Shakspeare, though in terms
of latterday conventions it isn’t
funny at all.
Anyhow, Shakspeare wasn’t
trying to be funny in this play
of treachery and obsession, but
had a serious purpose. He was
evidently worried about how
passion blinds our judgments,
and says a few, though not
many, fine things about it.
The National Theatre produc-
tion was elegantly upholstered
and most extravagantly cos-
tumed, and it was given some
lively acting by Reg Gillam as
Proteus, one of the blinded
lovers; Reg Dell as Valentine,
the other; Elizabeth Gibson as
Sylvia, the stiff young beauty;
and William P. Carr as Launce,
the inevitable fool of Elizabethan
stage requirements.
Previtali.
Previtali’s vigorous and score-
less conducting has been one of
the outstanding features of the
season, and his final Sydney
concert afforded added proof of
his rich musicianship.
The Third Piano Concerto, in
which Beethoven reached the
parting of the ways from the
old Mozart-Haydn influence,
was a model of classical recti-
tude, the long hymn-like middle
movement accorded its due
reverence, the rondo sparkling
under the crisp fingering of
Hephzibah Menuhin.
Italy old and new was well
represented. A Toccata and
Capriccio by the 18th-century
Veracini, elegant but heavily
ornamented in the baroque
manner of its day, was in strik-
ing contrast to the contemporary
Alfredo Casella’s suite “La
Giara” (“The Jar”), a choreo-
graphic comedy based on the
Pirandello story, which is
strongly programmatic, forth-
right, with the brasses inclined to
preponderate, but as a whole
attractive, the rhythmic content
being exceptional.
Only in Moussorgsky’s “Night
on the Bare Mountain” did
Homer give a few nods; the
Black Mass and the revels were
palely evoked. But the fantasia’s
closing sequence, where the
spirits disperse, was admirable
diminuendo playing.
Previtali has also been whisk-
ing about the country from
Brisbane to Melbourne top
rapidly for this page to keep
pace with him. A Brisbane
comment was that his boisterous
and popular programme was
better suited to the Youth Con-
cert than the adult concert which
preceded it.
Melbourne enjoyed Hephzi-
bah Menuhin, and a masterly
performance of the “Egmont”
overture of Beethoven. But the
orchestral players do not show
themselves at the top of their
capabilities when they are sub-
jecfed to a multitude of conduc-
tors, and there remains the need
for a permanent conductor. Why
wait for Galliera to make up
his mind when there is a possi-
bility of Rafael Kubelik in the
offing? He is in Chicago. He
expressed a readiness to return
when he was in Melbourne, and
the orchestra liked him so much
that it handed him a boomerang
as a more or less broad hint.
The A.B.C. might try again to
secure that master and settle the
public’s stomach.
Artbursts.
Tina Wentcher is a European
sculptress who went to the East
Indies, China and Malaya, did
a lot of modelling of Balinese,
Malays and Chinese and then
came to Australia. If, as has
been said, she “absorbed the
Eastern spirit,” it is difficult to
see any change, except one of
subject, in her show of sculp-
tures at George’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, She gets the same
quality of line into her “Danc-
ing Girls, Bali,” as she does into
her “Besharin Boy, Assouan,”
and there is no more lifelikeness
in her bust of Hephzibah Menu-
hin than there is her Manchu
princess. In Melbourne she has
been trying modern forms, and
she brings to these the same
quality as she gets into her more
realistic portraits. A much more
conscientious craftsman than
most modern artists, she carries
her skill through bronze, stone,
marble, wood and pewter so
that you don’t think of the
material first and the subject
second.
•b 4* 4*
In the latest show of the
Twenty Melbourne Painters at
Melbourne Athenaeum, there is
a keener feeling for light in the
“Cretan Landscape” of William
Dargie than there is in some of
that artist’s more recent Archi-
bald Prize portraits. Edith
Downing shows a sensitive
approach in her “Grey Day,”
John Farmer has caught the
mood of “Evening,” and E.
Kimpton’s “Summer” is a trifle
on the black side, as is the “In-
terior,” by Max Meldrum. The
rest are an unadventurous lot,
except “Suburbia,” by Percy
Watson, who, although he has
artistic skill, has ventured into
the kindergarten with an
arrangement of violently-colored
patches.
Here is the line-up for the
finals of the Commonwealth
Jubilee Amateur Theatrical
Groups Competition to be held
at Hobart next month: Novem-
ber 6, Goldfields Repertory
Club (W.A.), “Ladies in Retire-
ment,” by Wynyard Browne;
November 8, Brisbane Arts
Theatre (Q.), “Our Town,” by
Thornton Wilder; November
10, The Genesians (N.S.W.),
“Murder in the Cathedral,” by
T. S. Eliot; November 13, Tin
Alley Players (Vic.), “Desert
Highway,” by J. B. Priestley;
November 15, Adelaide Reper-
tory Theatre Society (S.A.),
“The Little Foxes,” by Lillian
Heilman ; November 17, Laun-
ceston Players (Tas.), “Much
Ado About Nothing,” by Shak-
speare.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST RETREAT.
While the entire British Press
would laugh heartily at Dr.
Evatt’s wonderfully naive theory
that the whole Middle East
trouble is all just a plot to dis-
comfit the Attlee Socialists at
election-time, its own views
cover a remarkably wide range.
It runs from the highly in-
dignant “Daily Express” and
“Daily Mail” to the complete
resignation preached by “Man-
chester Guardian.”
Except for “Manchester
Guardian” and the Attlee-
Socialist Government’s regular
apologists, the finding on Persia,
in particular, has been that the
handling of the dispute for
Britain was “inept”—the word
applied to the Government by
the “Times.” The following few
extracts may be taken as fairly
representing the range of
opinions:
London “Daily Express":
“Let there be no high-flown
moral talk to cover up cowardly
actions. For if Britain runs
away from Abadan she will have
failed in her moral duty. Not
only to her own peoples. Not
only to the peoples of Persia.
But to Western civilisation
itself.”
“Daily Express" also: “The
30,000,000 tons of oil that
Persia produces each year
would, in the control of the
Russians, be a weapon of
terrifying potentialities. For it
would double overnight the
sources of oil under their
domination. If that were to
happen then war is not only
brought nearer. The risk is it
may be made certain. Can that
risk be taken?”
London “Financial Times” :
“Admittedly the oil lost to the
West and free countries of the
East can he, and is being, re-
placed from other sources. But
it is still too early to calculate
the full damage that the free
world may suffer. The long and
futile negotiations, the in-
decision of the British Govern-
ment, the success of Persian
intransigence, must have been
watched closely by other
countries, including Russia.
Russia’s attitude has been out-
wardly impeccable, but the
Tudeh party —which, if it gained
power, would make Persia a
willing satellite —has long been
recognised as a powerful force
beneath the surface of Persian
life. With a breakdown in the
shaky Persian economy now
imminent, the opportunity for
the party will rapidly grow.”
“Manchester Guardian" : “To
many who were brought up in
the imperial tradition, and to
whom it seems inconceivable
that Britain’s will in the world
can no longer be imposed by the
British Navy, the idea of hold-
ing Abadan by force may seem
attractive. The refineries repre-
sent an enormous investment of
British capital, they were created
by British skill; are we to let
the Persians take them tamely?
“There is more emotion than
reason in this argument. Un-
questionably we can occupy
Abadan, but if we do, what do
we do next? The refineries are
useless without the oil from
Persian oilfields. Do we proceed
to occupy south-west Persia?
And having occupied a great
part of Persia, do we proceed to
conscript Persians for forced
labor?
“Even if there were no inter-
national complications likely to
arise from the dispatch of a
British expeditionary force to
Persia it is doubtful if it would
reallv help us to retain our hold
on Persian oil against Persian
wishes. But there is the gravest
danger of international com-
plications. The American public
has never been satisfied that
there is not a trace of old
‘imperialism’ in our claims on
Persia, and while the American
Government has done all it
could to promote an amicable
settlement of the oil dispute it
has made it fairly clear that it
could not support us in the use
of force.
“The Russians, if they had a
mind to, could make out a case
under the Perso-Russian treaty
of 1921 for justifying their inter-
vention in the north if we invade
the south. Is the world in a
state to risk having Russian and
British armies glaring at one
another across a Persian no-
man’s-land?”
“Manchester Guardian” also:
“There may be some hysterical
London “News Chronicle.”
[Oct. 25 (British elections) Is St. Crispin’s Day.]
“This day is call’d the Feast of Crispian:
He that outlives this day. and comes safe home,
Will stand a tip-toe when this day is nam’d,
And rouse him at the name of Crispian.”— “King Henry V.”
clamor that we should thereby
[i.e., in withdrawing] forfeit
‘prestige in the Middle East’
invasion of Persia, irrespective
of the rights and wrongs of the
pretext for it, would consolidate
anti-British feeling. The Arab
world is not so ignorant of
British power that it needs a
demonstration in force against
the Persians. ‘Prestige’ at any
given moment depends on many
incalculable factors, and an
expeditionary force is not usually
one of them.”
London “Daily Telegraph
“The British Government seem
to think that davlieht robbery
mustnot be
because that would be an act of
war, and that anybody who
proposes resistance is a war-
monger. They also apparently
are acting on the extraordinary
Vl ew that nothing must be done
which has not the absolute fiat
of Washington. It is a pity that
they did not think of that before
their precipitate and untoward
recognition of Communist
China. The logic seems to be
that American advice must only
be followed, and then slavishly,
when direct British interests are
■ „ i >,
, „ ~T ,
"New York Timer : The
cat - and - mouse game being
played in Persia is surely one of
the most extraordinary episodes
of our time. The problem at the
moment is, which is the cat and
which is the mouse? The
Persians not only want their oil
(it is theirs now in any event),
but they want it without the
British and without paying due
compensation. Being on the
spot, in physical possession of
th P e oi, industry, Ihey can give
cannot run their industry with-
out the British and since their
economy depends to a vital
extent on oil, it may yet turn out
that the British are the
stronger.”
London “Daily Mail": “A
fleet of 25 small oil-tankers and
sea-going barges are moored
near a cruiser flying the White
Ensign. Safe enough there, one
would think. But no! The
Persians want those ships—so
they take them. From London
comes no word of protest.
From the cruiser, symbol of
‘brutal British Imperialism,’ no
shot is fired.
“Britain had 30 of those
ships. They belonged to Anglo-
Iranian, and were employed in
the Persian Gulf oil-carrying
trade. It was of the highest
importance that the Persians
should not get them. But they
have got them just the same.
They don’t belong to Britain
any more.
“Our men out there wanted to
sail the entire fleet into Iraki
waters. The home Government
said ‘No.’ They ordered the
vessels to be taken a few at a
time. They did not want to
annoy the Persians.
“Five were got out —and then
the Persians stepped in and took
the rest.”
"Daily Mail" also: “Our
Socialist Government have lost
for their country far more than
property. The retreat from
Persia is the biggest nail that
even the Attlee Government
have driven into the coffin of
British leadership. We do not
mean only leadership in the
East —which can now hardly be
worth a devalued brass farthing.
We mean leadership everywhere.
The world stands aghast at
something it has never seen
before.”
London “Times” : “The British
Government should, as a first
necessity, recognise that noth-
ing is now gained by putting the
blame for the defeat at Abadan
on the lack of American support
when the decision to resist or
not to resist Dr. Moussadek had
to be taken. The British have
been forced out of Persia be-
cause the Persian Government
was resolved to force them out
and because the British Govern-
ment were not —in spite of Mr.
Attlee’s statement of July 30 —
resolved to stay. They need not
blame the United States for re-
fusing to support in advance a
course of action upon which the
British Government visibly hesi-
tated to embark.”
The “Times,” also, while de-
claring that “the British Gov-
ernment must be faced with
charges of ineptitude in their
handling of the crisis as it rose
to its climax,” made the point
that it remains a Western in-
terest to preserve Persia so far
as possible from the results of
its Government’s folly. “The
Persian Communists alone would
benefit from large-scale unem-
ployment in the country, and
this consideration ought to rule
out any suggestion of heavy eco-
nomic sanctions.”
Veteran war and foreign-
affairs correspondent G. Ward
Price (“Daily Mail”): “In all
British history there has seldom
been so costly and complete a
blunder as the belief that the
policy of evacuation and abdica-
tion adopted by us in the Middle
and Far East would be rewarded
by the gratitude and affection of
the populations to which we
yielded independence. It
neglected the basic principle that
the only factor which secures the
respect of the Oriental is force.
Since Britain’s withdrawal is
ascribed to weakness, the prestige
that used to surround her name
has disappeared.”
Fortress Switzerland.
Extraordinary figures on
Switzerland’s defences,
marshalled by a London
“Economist” correspondent,
make a comment on Australia’s
self-protective effort.
With its militia system, where
each man between 20 and 60 is
a part-time soldier and keeps his
rifle apd equipment at home,
says the writer, Switzerland,
with a population of only
4,500,000, can mobilise a fully-
trained and -equipped army of
500,000 men, or something like
20 divisions, within 48 hours. It
can also draw on a reserve of
older classes which, at a pinch,
would provide another 400,000
auxiliary troops.
Starting young, voluntary pre-
military training courses for
youths between 16 and 20 are
organised in toe schools. At 19
each of them undergoes physical
and mental tests to determine
the unit for which he is best
fitted ; no one is exempt unless
totally unfit for any branch of
the service, and all exempt must
pay a military tax until they are
48!
Each Swiss recruit starts off
w ; tb jy weeks’ basic training. If
he is selected for non-
commissioned rank he has to
comp i e t e another four weeks’
W
[iVS' oSacM
t training as an „ c 0 A] f officers
are se | ec ted from non-
commissioned ranks and have , 0
attend offlcers , school for
var i ous Denods un to four
™" t hs; after ttaUhey go tec"
t 0 the recruit school for practical
tra j n i ng as officers
R t 2 n and 36 pvptv able
b Swiss man Tin the’
From
£** E 'f E ° v r “‘ J 1 ™
36 48 he „ serv f t ™ the
Landsturm or Combat Force,
after that until the age of
go he is a member of the
or Reserve Men of
. E| . p do a thret , weeks-
every [wo yea^s.
officers d non . commissione d
officers do mo re
. ...
Inspection of equipment takes
F* ac ®. at regular intervals. In
addition, every member of t
Swiss army, whether pnvate or
ttme’a fS
complete m his time a fixed
tlnB pprfahT^inlrnnm 7 of
points “Ss m
armv ran helrf’ him to
™J t 0
P P
The full result, astonishing as
it may seem, is that Switzerland
today has the biggest army on
the Continent with the exception
only of the Soviet Union.
Paying a $ Bill.
On December 31 this year the
first instalment on the repay-
ment of the U.S. loan to Britain
in 1946 of $3,750,000,000 falls
due—the first account is for
$44,000,000 of the principal,
plus $75,000,000 interest, a total
of $119,000,000 which has to be
found every year for the next
50 years.
Examining the account, the
New York “Herald Tribune”
remarks that, although the loan
was “quite inadequate” and “dis-
sipated all too quickly,” it was
still “a vital link in British re-
covery.” Under the terms of
the loan, the paper points out,
the interest payments may be
waived if British circumstances
are adverse, but the repayments
of the principal cannot be de-
ferred unless terms of the loan
are changed. The Secretary of
the U.S. Treasury expects the
full payment to be made, “but
in London there is much
concern over a rapidly-worsen-
ing international-payments posi-
tion, as world-wide inflation
increases the costs of raw
materials imports and makes
higher-cost exports more dif-
ficult.”
London “Daily Express” has
savagely commented:
“Out of the folly of 1946 has
come nothing but evil for
Britain. The dollars have long
since gone. Dissipated in extra-
vagance. Squandered smugly
by the Socialists. All that
remains of the original loan are
the conditions on which it was
granted—conditions which have
crippled Imperial trade.”
Mounting U.S. Strength.
London "Observer,” in edi-
torial comment on the current
U.S. defence outlay (“without
peace-tjme parallel in America
or any other country”):
“It is worth pondering re-
peatedly the revolution in the
world balance of power. Prob-
ably within the next year,
certainly within the next two
years, America’s mobilised
military power will begin to
surpass Russia’s as decisively as
America’s wealth and industrial
capacity already surpasses
Russia’s. At the same time, the
towering preponderance of
American power within the
Western world is bound to be-
come more and more marked,
and will be reflected in American
political and diplomatic influ-
ence.
“Whether we like it or not,
and whether she likes it or not,
America is now rapidly becom-
ing the centre of the world,
around which the Great Powers
of yesterday will have to re-
arrange themselves together with
the lesser Powers and small
nations.”
West-East Trade.
Sir Hartley Shawcross de-
fending particularly Britain’s and
generally Western Europe’s trad-
ing through the Iron Curtain;
“I beg our American friends to
realise that if we [British] have
trading relations with Com-
munist countries as well as with
them it is no indication of dis-
loyalty to the common cause of
freedom and democracy and
peace which our countries are
pledged to defend.
“Americans recognise that
trade between Japan and Com-
munist China is a normal pat-
tern in the Far East; so trade
between Eastern and Western
Europe has always been a regu-
lar and important feature of
Europe’s economy. It has made
available to the West the great
grain resources of Eastern
Europe, timber from the
forests of Russia, coal from
Polish mines, food from the
farms of Hungary, Poland and
the Baltic States. In return Eas-
tern Europe has secured raw
materials which it lacked and


The "English Electric" "Canberra"
A WORTHY CONTRIBUTION TO THE DEFENCE OF THE FREE WORLD
In designing and manufacturing the magnificent “Canberra” Jet Bomber, The Engbsb Electric
Co. Ltd. has furthered its tradition of service to the nation. The company is better known
for its contribution to our community in supplying thousands of tons of intricate fight and heavy
equipment embodying the highest quality craftsmanship.
,fSB
sd
Every minute of the day and night in Australia “English
Electric” equipment is serving—providing and regulating
electric power in countless homes and factories, and carrying
out a thousand vital tasks in industry.
“English Electric” manufactures include:-Hydro-electric and Diesel
generating plant, rolling mill motors, large transformers, Diesel-electric
and electric rail traction equipment, mercury arc rectifier equipment,
switchgear, electric winders for mines, Diesel-electric marine pro-
pulsion equipment, electric motors, fusegear and domestic appliances.
The English Electric Co, Ltd, is especially experienced in the handling
of comprehensive contracts for complete power stations and railway
and industrial electrification projects, EE97U4
At Rocklea, Brisbane, the Company operates a large works, with another
works at Auburn, Sydney. Also included in the English Electric group of
companies are Marconi’s Wireless Telegraph Company and D. Napier & Son.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND)
fd
Sydney | Adelaide Brisbane
FLOWER. DAVIES & JOHNSON, PERTH, H. M. BAMFORD,
- ■: .
HOBART
J
r '
V- ■■ '
mmk
Bm
'■ SB8BHS : • ■■•■:
’ % ■ :;;;
manufactures from the industries
of Western Europe.
“To deprive each part of
Europe of the resources of the
other will not put an end to
Communism. It may merely de-
press the economic welfare of
both parts without giving either
side any relative advantage. In-
deed, the need for that trade was
expressly recognised in the Mar-
shall Plan.”
Various Voices.
Ceylon Prime Minister
Senanayake: “We look forward
to the Japan of the future help-
ing the new nations of Asia to
build up, by great economic and
social changes, an even greater
Asia than antiquity knew.”
U.S. Secretary of State
Acheson : “Freedom is the key-
stone of all genuine progress to-
ward a better world.”
British Ministerial delegate to
’Frisco, Kenneth Younger (ques-
tioned on the “threat” of cheap
Japanese goods); “It is a real
problem that Japan is an efficient
producer with low labor costs.
We have got to try and deal
with that in some way or the
other, but not through restric-
tion in a peace treaty.”
Pakistan’s Foreign Minister,
Sir Zafrullah Khan: “It has
been an inseparable part of the
conception of the Common-
wealth that there can be no
armed conflict between the
members of the Commonwealth.
If the present challenge [over
Kashmir] is not successfully met
the continuation of the Com-
monwealth as a peaceful associa-
tion of free and equally inde-
pendent sovereign States will
not be worth one hour’s
purchase.”
Henry Hopkinson, M.P. (from
a speech reported by London
“Times”): “In all the 21 years
that I spent in diplomacy, and
five years in post-war politics,
I can recall no more inept
handling of our foreign relations
than what we have witnessed
since Mr. Herbert Morrison
assumed charge of the Foreign
Office.”
Anthony Eden (replying in a
London “Daily Mail” interview
to a question on the U.S.-
Australia-N.Z. pact): “I am in
favor of it, but, as I explained
in the U.S., we are, of course,
parties to it —in fact if not in
form. So far as Australia and
New Zealand are concerned, if
they are ever in trouble we
should always be by their side.
No treaty is needed to make that
plain. But I would have liked
Britain to have been formally
associated maybe in some wider
instrument covering the Pacific,
for we are a Pacific Power.”
Dragnet Digest.
Uncle Sam Aloft. —Figures for the
growing U.S. Air Force quoted by
London “Daily Express” writer
Group-Captain Hugh Dundas: Last
December it had 58 wings (three
squadrons per wing) and 560,000 men.
By last April there were 81 wings and
700,000 men. Soon after the turn of
the year there will be 95 wings and
more than 1,000,000 men.
* * * *
Lowering cost of Security. —“lf,”
suggests London “Economist,” “the
policies of the next two years are
successful, if war is avoided and the
West’s armed forces are raised by
1953 to effective equality with the
East’s, then it should be possible to
maintain that equality with relatively
little effort. It is a fair guess at this
stage to say that, once the West has
caught up with the Russian forces,
10 per cent, of national income will
be enough to keep it level with any
practicable armament effort in the
East.”
* * * *
Dickens (etc.) in Russia.— London
‘Daily Mail” staff writer: “Although
social chroniclers such as Shaw, Wells
and Galsworthy have [in Russia] the
high places one would expect, equal
favorites are the great English humor-
ists, such as Fielding, Smollett and
Sterne. Pre-eminent are Dickens and
Shakspeare, who combined both quali-
ties. Since 1918 more than 2,340,000
copies of Dickens have been pub-
lished in 15 different Russian lan-
guages. Which translation presented
the stiffest problem? That of Burns’s
poems.”
* * * *
German Share _ in Defence. —Lon-
d°n “Times” editorial comment on
decisions to allow Germans to share
in Western defence: “Even if it were
physically possible for the Western
Powers to defend Europe without
German aid, to keep huge garrisons
permanently on the Elbe, to continue
the occupation indefinitely and to
deny the German people the rights
and responsibilities enjoyed by other
European nations, to do so would be
quite inconsistent with every other
aim of Western policy. As the
Americans discovered in Japan, the
idea of a great nation permanently
disarmed and dependent on the pro-
tection of others is in the long run
untenable.”
* * * *
Dominions Help Needed. —Giving
what London “Times” calls “an
informed Conservative view” on
Western defence, Brigadier A. H.
Head, M.P., states in a Conservative-
published pre-election pamphlet that
the prospect of any larger contribu-
tion than four and a half divisions
from Britain for European defence
seems likely to depend on the ability
of the Dominions to take a larger
share in the defence of the Middle
and Far East, and thus free some of
Britain’s theatres. Of the present
dispersal of British forces, the pam-
phlet states that at any one time
about 30,000 men of the British
Army “are in the pipeline, travelling
from one place to another.”
* * * *
Can the Bear Bear It ? —“The power
balance in the world,” in “New York
Times” correspondent James Reston’s
view, “is being changed far more
rapidly than is generally realised.
U.S. State Secretary Acheson’s ‘posi-
tions of strength’ are being rapidly
built, and the question now is
whether the Russians are going to
tolerate these positions of strength or
try to smash them.”
* * * *
Compulsory Volunteers. —A London
“Daily Telegraph” letter-writer gives
one fairly good reason why it isn’t
only youth that joins in the Iron-
Curtained processions and festivals:
“For those who, like myself, have
lived for years in a country behind
the Iron Curtain, there is nothing
puzzling about the seeming adherence
of the 30-40 age group. These people
must have food and clothes for them-
selves and their children, and in the
satellite countries workers up to 55
who refuse to march in processions
and to chant ‘Stalin! Stalin! ’ and
other Communist slogans lose their
jobs and ration-cards.”
* * * *
Jap Corns. —“ The sorry state in
which the Japanese Communist party
finds itself today,” comments a Tokyo
correspondent of Edinburgh “Scots-
man,” “must be credited to the Allied
occupation as one of its major
achievements. During the past year
party membership has dropped off
sharply, the organisation’s top leaders
have become hunted men and Com-
munist influence has waned notice-
ably. A serious shortage of funds
has further handicapped the party’s
programme of disruption.”
* * * *
Janus Joe. —“Borba” (organ of the
Yugoslav Communist party) makes an
expert assessment: “Despite all dis-
simulations, tactics and formal
changes announced at particular
moments, Soviet foreign policy con-
tinues to be equally aggressive and
dangerous. Formerly it included pacts
with Hitler; today it proclaims the
whole world to be Fascist, and per-
haps tomorrow it will begin to smile
at some nation with the aim of
making it forget its intentions towards
others. The two-faced Moscow policy
does not hesitate to apply any type
of method for the perpetration of its
aggressive plans many illusions
about the peaceful intentions of the
men in Moscow will prove to be
fatal.”
♦ * * *
Soviet Free Markets. —Contrary to
the general idea that free trade was
eliminated in the U.S.S.R. with the
introduction of the planned economy
a London “Economist” special cor-
respondent points out that in the
’thirties purchases in the free market,
the so-called collective-farm market,
accounted for between one-eighth and
one-fifth of the total Soviet retail-
trade turnover. The proportion rose
sharply during the war, and, though
it has declined since then, it is still
quite substantial.
* * * %
German Trade Rivalry. —From the
Economic Commission for Europe’s
report; “Germany has been able to
take advantage of the change in the
world market situation to reintroduce
herself as one of the great suppliers
of finished products without giving
rise to violent reactions from her
competitors. Her progress as an
exporter has developed further since
the first quarter of the current year,
and German competition would
become one of the major factors in
the field of international trade should
demand in world markets become less
pressing. Once the new distribution
of economic forces in Europe is more
generally understood there may be
serious economic consequences to be
considered by a number of countries.”
* * * *
H.C.L. in Moscow. —As an indica-
tion of the “fantastically high cost of
living in Moscow, based on the cur-
rent rate of exchange,” the “Man-
chester Guardian” quotes a report of
a Select Committee touching on the
special allowance for entertainment
and other essential purposes which
goes to Ambassadors and which
varies, naturally, according to the
local cost and standard of living. It
shows that the British Ambassador in
Washington gets £30,650 and his
counterpart in Paris gets £19,007;
they are both expensive cities.. But
the British Ambassador in Moscow
gets £34,000.
* * * *
Religion v. Communism.—Contend-
ing that fighting Communism with
the weapon of economic betterment
can never by itself succeed, London
“Times” has editorially commented:
“Betterment has its place in the con-
flict, because it is a democratic duty
—and, more pragmatically, because
poverty and social injustice are the
feeding-grounds of revolt. Yet far
more important for victory over the
Communist mystique and appeal,
which no democratic party matches
on its own ground, is the deeper fact
that a pseudo-religion may be finally
grappled and destroyed only by a real
religion.”


FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
HYto
HUM
KONfi
Colourful, cosmopolitan Hong
Kong, fascinating city of the
Orient, is only 48 hours by air
from Sydney—by comfortable,
modern Qantas Skymaster.
Excellent cuisine and first-class
steward service cater for your
comfort all the way. Regular
weekly services.
mmm
V ’
*,? - , *
®S*3S(
s *
HM
a*i <
■
ss^f
-***
*s^
g
IS
•«
v:
sn
<S
V \
r.
>4
for full information consult your travel agent,
CEEEE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia's International Airline
"Phi Qantas there's a world of difference"
(Sut&m
Atari?;
IIA
W 5
Vm IN A BAP WAX ; JUDY! CAN YOU) fSALLY SAYS BAP \
TELL MB WHY SALLY GAVE ME A f BREATM IS'REALLY S
away! J [SERIOUS AND A PERSON
S I J v r<7 OUGHT TO SEE MS y
W I wf* *\ }/ DENTIST
ti A&SJ in m r
iSr My v away! j
Mi
s
ZOLGATE DENTAL CREAM CLEANS)
YOUR BREATH WHILE IT CLEANS *
YOUR TEETH AND THE COLGATE
WAY OF BRUSHING TEETH
.RIGHT AFTER EAT/NG STOPS *
V TOOTH . X
<7/M LOVES SALLYANPSALLY
hOVES JIM COLGATE'S HAS
CERTAINLY DONE WONDERS
FOR HIM
DECAY
BEST
f.-
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST !
Most thoroughly proved and accepted home
method of oral hygiene known today .
Yes, and 2 years’ research
showed the Colgate wayi
stopped more decay for more|
people than ever before re-
ported in dentifrice history!/
No other dentifrice offers'
such proof the most con-
clusive proof ever reported
for a dentifrice of any type
Buy the Big Family Economy Size
use Colgate penial cream \
TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH <
WHILE VOU CLEAN VOUR TEETH j
yS ANP HELP STQPTOQTH
DECAY BEST
America's largest, Australia's largest. the World's large* eetltog a»ntol crsaw
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Would you please let me know
what colors will be worn this summer
on the beach?”
—lnquirer in women’s paper.
Lobster-red over natural pink,
4* 4* 4*
“When cold weather comes the
female waistline grows larger.”
— Women’s magazine.
In the summer wasps appear.
4* 4* 4>
“Make even washing-up a beauty
exercise.” — Advice in weekly.
Never make an ugly scene
when your husband dodges it.
4* 4* 4*
“He strode across to the door,
knocked and walked in. Her expres-
sion as she saw him with a study.”
—Short story.
His, however, spoke volumes.
4* 4* 4*
“For us, South-East Asia is the
‘Near North,’ not the Far East.”
—Adelaide “News.’'’
But our position with regard
to it depends a lot on the degree
of latitude.
“ ‘The double bed has almost gone
out of fashion, which is the reason
there are so many divorces,’ says a
judge.”
Couples nowadays lose touch
with one another.
4* 4 1
“Students used to spend two years
in medical school before they ever
saw a patient.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
But they get plenty of practice
on them later.
“When Edward Gaedel, 3ft. 7in.
high, was debarred from playing
American baseball because of a rule
banning midgets, he joined a rodeo.”
This should bring him a few
bucks.
Sentenced.
“Love is like murder . . , when
you’re in you’re in deep.”
—Movie blurb.
You’re haunted, though you’ve
done no crime;
Your nerves are in terrific
shape.
Love’s got you properly this
time;
You’re in so deep you cant
escape.
You’re conscience-stricken now,
you mullet.
You’ve sold your freedom for
a wife.
And, like the cove who slits a
gullet
Or splits a skull, you’re in for
life !
P. O. M. C.
Scientific Soliloquy.
“Matter expands by heat,’’ he
mused, and rang
{The day was hot) the bell for
me to shout.
That’s why the bell, that dog and
I now hang
Our tongues much further
out.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Tile Trouble.
“Your hat’s a positive dis-
grace!” announced Agapanthus.
“You never brush it from one
week’s end to the other. It’s
about time you bought a new
one.”
“What with?” I parried. “With
ham now at two-bob a mouthful,
legs of lamb at a quid each,
whisky at over thirty-bob a
bottle, how can I afford a new
hat? The only ones who can
indulge in that luxury these days
are the new rich, like nightclub
operators and potato black-
marketeers, and surely you hold
your spouse in far greater esteem
than to have him mistaken for
one of those! No, I don’t pay
the exorbitant price they want
for a lid these days. It isn’t the
hatters who are mad, it’s those
who buy what, after all, is quite
a redundant article of melon
furniture in a temperate climate
such as ours.”
“Then why do you wear
one?” she asked, with a touch
of that rare feminine logic I find
oddly irritating.
“Well,” I replied with mascu-
line logic she found unanswer-
able, “it would be silly to have a
"I'll have lemonade , please ."
hat-rack in the hall and never
use it, wouldn’t it?”
“Anyway, it looks dreadful,”
Agapanthus replied.
“Why, I varnished it only a
few weeks ago!” I protested.
“Don’t try to side-track the
subject,” she replied remorse-
lessly. “I’m still talking about
your hat. You’ll have to get a
new one —you’ve had that old
thing long enough.”
“Only a year or so,” I
answered. “Fur-felt has a much
longer life than that.”
“You got it,” went on Aga-
panthus inexorably, “for Milli-
cent’s wedding, and she had her
baby two years ago last March,
I remember helping you select
it. I distinctly remember, be-
cause it was the day Wally
sprained his ankle.”
Agapanthus is like that —she
calculates the passing of time by
births, accidents, funerals,
marriages and other human
calamities.
“Well,” I said airily, “it looks
as if it will have to do for her
wedding when she grows up.”
“At least you can have it dry-
cleaned,” pursued Agapanthus
with typical feminine persistency.
“Not on your life!” I said.
“The last one I had dry-cleaned
just after we were married came
back so shapeless even a sur-
veyor wouldn’t have worn it.”
“Well, you could dry-clean it
yourself.”
“I will. It’s simple enough.”
“You want to get the proper
cleaning-spirit”
“Now listen,” I said firmly.
“I’m not going to any expense
with this. I have a spare gallon
of petrol in the back of the car.
That’s good enough. Anyway,
before I use that I’m going to
try the old way of getting grease
out by using a hot iron and
brown paper. The petrol will do
to finish it off.”
About ten minutes after I’d
started on the job Agapanthus
came in, sniffing. “You’re
scorching it!” she exclaimed.
“Nonsense,” I replied. “Your
bugle needs a rebore —it’s play-
ing you tricks.”
“Is it?” she said, and, picking
up the cady, pointed to a long
deep-brown streak across one
side of the crown. “What do
you think caused that—a water-
spout?”
It certainly was a scorch. Per-
haps the iron had got extra hot
as I was studying the form-
guide while waiting for it to
warm up.
“Well,” I said, “it should
come out with the grease—l’m
going to soak the hat in half a
gallon of petrol for a couple of
days. That’ll fix it.”
It was not without a shudder
that I sacrificed sufficient juice
to have transported me about 15
miles and immersed the hat. The
next two days were bitterly cold,
with heavy rain, and I was
forced to go to the office in my
only other hat, a panama of fine
vintage. I could only hope that
I would be mistaken for an
eccentric visiting American mil-
lionaire.
When I eventually pulled the
hat out of the petrol it was pink
—the idiots of oil companies
who insist on coloring their
petrol should be prosecuted.
Seven bottles of cleaning-spirit
later the pinkish cast had turned
to a honey-beige, which made
the long scorch-sear stand out
like a 1914-style appendix cut.
The grease was still strongly
entrenched. Agapanthus sug-
gested I try soaking it in methy-
lated-spirits.
“And, while it is still soaking
wet, shape it by putting it on a
pudding-basin,” she said.
“That,” I replied, “is a gross
reflection on the shape of my
bean, besides being quite illogi-
cal. Obviously the way to shape
it is to put it on the object it
was primarily designed to
fit” and I pulled it well
down on my head.
Perhaps all would have been
well had I not immediately there-
after strolled over to the bed
near the dividing-fence to see if
there were any thrip, or even the
smaller but equally-destructive
tup, on the tomatoes, and had
not Muggins, who was garden-
ing next door, carelessly flicked
over the fence the match with
which he had just lit a cigarette.
By the time they’d levered the
blazing hat from my skull- my
coconut - fibre was somewhat
eroded, my eyelashes had disap-
peared and the only hat I
possessed if one ignored
the panama—had been reduced
to a pitiful wreck, the most
prominent features of which
were still the grease spots and
the scorch-sear.
It was not a total loss, how-
ever. A fellow I know who was
a competitor in this year’s King’s
Prize gave me five-bob for it,
and I believe that its appearance.
on the rifle-range excited the
admiration and deep envy of his
fellow-competitors.
Bo.
Ohm Truths.
“Faith is not a hot-water bottle to
warm you to sleep ; it is a dynamo
to drive you into action.” —Bishop of
Grafton Rt. Rev. C. E. Starrs.
Let not the Reds who vaunt
Their Atheism taunt
Us with the accusation that our
creed
Is merely meant to numb
The mind like opium,
When lively faith can give us all
a lead.
Shame on the crowd who doze
In church when tension grows
Around us at terrifying speed:
Let’s all be wide-awake
For home and loved-ones’ sake
And when the warning comes
give ready heed.
Let’s have a bit of go
With Faith a dynamo
To minister to every current
need I
D. H. E.


Get split-second
« blade changing
i
L
Q
handy
with
the
Gillette
LU
CO
CO
LESS TROUBLE No unwrap-
ping. Blades always ready
for instant use—just flick on
to the razor with the thumb.
CONVENIENT - No need to
remember to buy blades every
few weeks. Each Dispenser
contains 20 Blue Gillette
Blades, sufficient for months
of shaving.
FACTORY-SHARP—Each blade
is protected with a film of
special invisible rust-resisting
oil, and held so that nothing
can touch the edges until
they are used.
NO EXTRA COST— You pay the
regular price for the Blue
Gillette Blades there is no
extra charge for the Dispenser.
'Good mornings 1 begin with Gilleffe
a/iei-
f
GOODYEAR TYRES
HAVE
CHANGED
TOO!
1915
1931
"sssmesa
1951
The improvements that the
years have brought to car
performance have, to a large
extent, only been possible be-
cause tyre development kept
pace with progress. Goodyear
has made many historic contributions to the development of tyres
to their present standard. The outstanding safety, longer mileage
and greater comfort of to-
day’s Goodyear Tyres are the
results of unparalleled ex-
perience that Goodyear has
gained in producing more
tyres than any other
manufacturer.
Again in 1951 ... as in
every year for the last 36
years, more people, the
world over, ride on Good-
year Tyres than on any
other make.
wm
GOODYEAR
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
At one stage or another in the
course of pre-post discussions last
week some half-dozen different horses
figured at the top of Caulfield Cup
charts. Jovial Lad was the initial
favorite, but broke down and was
scratched. The imported mare Jan
bobbed in and out of favor a couple
of times.- For a while this page’s
selection, Durham, emerged on top,
but he quickly subsided to be merely
joint-favorite with a number of others
when acceptance-day saw him draw
No. 20 barrier-position in a field of
23. However, by Cup eve Basha
Felika had firmed to favoritism, and
as the big crowd at Caulfield on
Saturday continued to pile money on
the Queenslander he shortened fur-
ther, to start eventually at fours, with
the general order of betting “8 to 1
bar one.”*
Most followers of racing would
unhesitatingly plump for the Caulfield
Cup as ode of the hardest races in
the calendar to pick, but actually it
can show quite a fair record of suc-
cessful fayorites, and on Saturday
Basha Felika added ta the number by
downing Blue Vest, Davey Jones and
Laurie Hussar in a splendid finish.
Basha Felika won in grand style
after being ridden a rather curious
race by Neville Sellwood, who won
the Cup last year on Grey Boots and
has been having a wonderful run of
success since returning recently from
England. The favorite got away well,
and for, a fair part of the way was
well up with the leaders, as Robert
Bruce took:the field along at a brisk
clip. Then Basha Felika commenced
to drift back, and the more pessimistic
of his supporters might well have
thought him done with when he had
rather, more, than half the field ahead
of hint nearing the five.
Backers of the favorite began to
breathe; more easily, however, when
Sellwood switched him to the outside,
and gradually, but surely proceeded to
make up, his ground. Turning for
home Robert Bruce still led, but was
being challenged by Blue Vest, closely
attended by Davey Jones and Double
Blank, with Basha Felika alongside
Durham next in a close bunch. Inside
the final furlong Sellwood was for an
instant faced with a pretty desperate
choice. He decided to gamble, and,
taking courage (and the fate of the
Cup) in both hands, went for the run
on the rails. His luck was in, and
driving through on the inside or Blue
Vest, Basha Felika defeated that horse
by a half-neck. Davey Jones held on
splendidly to finish only a head behind
Blue Vest, and Laurie Hussar was
barely a half-head behind Davey
Jones. A little further back came a
bunch of horses headed by Great
World, Midway, Durham and Double
Blank.
It is recognised that progeny of
The Buzzard tend to improve with
age, and this is not altogether sur-
prising ; the grand old stallion seems
himself to have been better than ever
as he has attained what is a very
ripe old age by equine standards.
The Buzzard, who traces in direct
male line through Spion Kop and
Spearmint to Carbine, was bred m
England in 1926, and it is exactly
20 years since he commenced stud
duties in Australia. In that time he
has become easily the leading sire of
the Australian Turf, with something
over £400,000 to the credit of his
progeny. And still, year after year,
he is near the top of the winning
sires’ list for the season.
Last season The Buzzard was
seventh on the list with £30,000-odd.
The season before he headed the list.
In that season there were run in
Australia five races carrying prize-
money in the £lO,OOO class, and
progeny of The Buzzard won three
of them—the A.J.C. Derby, the
Sydney Cup and the Brisbane Cup.
In previous years his get had won
the other two of the five £lO,OOO races
—the Doomben Ten Thousand and
the Melbourne Cup (twice). Last
season the Caulfield Cup was added
to the list of five-figure races, and
in this year’s Cup The Buzzard was
represented by just two starters —
Basha Felika and Blue Vest. And,
by the same token, either of that
pair, but Blue Vest particularly, on
his Caulfield Cup run, would have fair
prospects of adding another Mel-
bourne Cup to the score.
Basha Felika is a four-year-old
yellowish-bay gelding out of the
Rivoli mare Perfect Morn. He was
bred as the result of a free mating
with The Buzzard made available to
his owner, C. E. Barnes, of Canning
Downs Stud (Q.), by J. CL
McDougall, owner of near-by Lynd-
hurst Stud, where The Buzzard stood.
Ironically, the Lyndhurst studmaster
himself bred and races Blue Vest,
but, as mentioned previously, com-
pensation may come his Way early in
November.
Basha Felika carried 7.13 in the
Cup and cut out the 12 furlongs in
2.30. Blue Vest carried 7.5. Taking
weights into consideration both Davey
Jones and Laurie Hussar emerged
from the fray with honor. Davey
Jones carried 8.13, and further con-
firmed the impression that he is quite
one of the best handicap performers
racing here at present. Laurie Hussar,
who had given reason to doubt his
ability to get 12 furlongs, was going
great guns at the finish under 8.8.
Representing another sizeable slice
of prizemoney wafted off by inter-
state visitors, the mile One Thousand
Guineas for three-year-old fillies
"Hey—no fudging!"
(actual value of the event £2500) was
won in absurdly easy fashion by the
Sydney filly Golden Chariot (W.
Cook). Golden Chariot, who started
equal-favorite with Varemba, went
almost straight to the front, and gave
the field of 19 a galloping lesson; she
won by six lengths from Dassie, with
Hardway third.
Golden Chariot really did give them
a frightful pasting, but whether she
can repeat the dose over the 12-
furlongs journey of the Oaks is an
interesting matter for conjecture.
Against her is that she seems too
brilliant to be a real stayer, and she
is by Golden Sovereign, the vast
majority of whose stock have shown
speed but little stamina. On the
other hand, if one can overlook the
general failure of Golden Sovereigns
as stayers, Golden Chariot is, on
paper, most attractively bred. Golden
Sovereign brings a trace of the Car-
bine blood through his dam Fleche
d’Or 11, and himself won a number
of races over a bit of distance.
Golden Chariot’s dam Speed intro-
duces another touch of Carbine
through her dam Spear Lady (by
Spearhead, by Spearmint, by Carbine),
and as well is a daughter of that fine
sire of stayers Marconigram. And
if looks carry any weight Golden
Chariot could win anything.
Another go-to-whoa winner over a
mile (and another from Sydney) was
the grey Trizami (A. Ward), who
turned-in a thoroughly game display
to win the mile Burwood handicap
under top weight of 9st. In a fine
finish Trizami won by a neck from
Shoreham, with Great Gilbert, rattling
home in real Derby fashion, only a
neck further back, and he, in turn,
just shading King Amana. Owing, pre-
sumably, to some unfortunate over-
sight, Trizami was not entered for
the Cups this year. However, he is
one to keep in mind for the first
distance handicap he does tackle.
• • • • •
Interesting winner of the Gwyn
Nursery for two-year-old colts and
geldings was Durasta (W. William-
son). Bred in England to Australian
time, and foaled in Australia, Durasta
is a son of Dastur, the sire of the
so very successful importation Dhoti.
Durasta won by a half-head from the
Sydney colt Royal Eagle, who had
won the Canonbury Stakes at the
A.J.C. spring meeting.
* * * *
Jockey D. Munro forwent the
opportunity of good mounts at Caul-
field on Saturday (including that on
Davey Jones) in order to ride Hum-
ming Top, trained by brother Jim
Munro, ip the Flying Handicap at
Canterbury. Darby evidently had the
right notion. Humming Top regis-
tered a smashing win in the Flying,
defeating Heliofly and Dynamite by
a length and clocking 1.1 U to equal
the course record set 11 years ago
by Beaulivre. Humming Top started
favorite at 11 to 8.
Humming Top was this page’s selec-
tion a few weeks back for the Epsom.
In that race he was pulled up in the
straight to just walk past the post
with Munro looking down anxiously
at the horse’s forelegs. Of the inci-
dent this page remarked, “What
happened to him was not quite
clear ” It still isn’t clear. The
stewards’ report on the race, after
mentioning investigation of other
incidents, said “Humming Top, which
horse finished a bad last in the race,
appeared to be very distressed, and
was subsequently examined by the
club’s veterinary surgeon at the
request of trainer J. Munro.” Which
isn’t particularly enlightening, and
Saturday’s slashing win made the
Epsom incident the more mysterious.
The horse certainly did look very
(and unnaturally) distressed after the
Epsom. But why? Concerning such
incidents (and there have been more
than one in recent years) stewards
surely should order a thorough
veterinary investigation, including a
swabbing, and issue a report of their
findings. If it is possible for a person
or persons unknown to “get at” a
horse and administer stimulants when
all reasonable precautions to prevent
their doing so have been taken by
those responsible—that has been the
finding of the authorities in most
recent positive-swab cases—it is surely
equally possible, and the motive not
lacking, for a horse to be nobbled.
However, while all winners are
swabbed, such strikingly inexplicable
losers as Humming Top was in the
Epsom appear to be accepted far too
casually.
Most notable feature of Saturday’s
racing at Canterbury was the ex-
tremely fast state of the track—
Humming Top’s time was a case in
point. The six-year-old Talking
gelding Silent Prince (P. Burckhardt)
equalled another course-record when
he chopped out 9 furlongs in 1.52 to
win the Canterbury Park Handicap.
The Avalanche filly Snow Blaze (J.
Thompson) lopped a half-second from
the race-record when she won the
5-furlongs Maiden Nursery for fillies
in 1.4, and shortly after the Nizami
colt Silver Phantom (B. Smith) won
a similar event for colts in 1.3, also
a race-record. Still another race-
record was the 1.29| clocked by
Flash of Gold (F. Hudson) in win-
ning the Welter (7if.).
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies):
Admiral’s Lady, 1; Portly Belle, 2;
Sunny Bird, 3. Two-year-old Maiden
(colts): Spider King, 1; Daily Paper,
2; Sea Sovereign, 3, Parramatta
Mixed: Bobbery, 1; Citadel, 2;
Corejada, 3. Auburn Mixed: Moa-
mac, 1; Dea, 2; Le Frere, 3.
Flying: Denali, 1; Dynamite, 2;
Midwise, 3. October Handicap:
Buonarroti Boy, 1; Insurance, 2;
Star King, 3. Welter: Nitrogen, 1;
Goldak, 2; Wiranya, 3.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield cricket got under
way last Friday when N.S.W. met
Q’land at Brisbane. Despite brilliant
bowling by Lindwall, who took 7 for
45, the Queenslanders knocked up a
useful first-innings tally of 316, Ken
Archer forcing himself upon the
attention of Test selectors with a
splendid century. The ’Walers had
lost Barnes, retired hurt, and Miller,
caught for three, and had 73 on the
board when rain intervened on Satur-
day.
The West Indian tourists made
their first public appearance when
they turned out in full force for the
Bill Ferguson testimonial match at
North Sydney Oval on Saturday.
Some of the West Indians helped
bolster up a team of “ex-interna-
tionals” who constituted the opposi-
tion ; the result was, of course, a
draw, and, what matters most, the
match was a financial success. Fer-
guson will benefit by a thoroughly
well-deserved £7OO or so.
* * * *
Australian fedder champion Elley
Bennett (8.13) put his title on the line
when he met Ray Coleman (9st.) in
Sydney last week, and he went very
close to losing it. Coleman was well
ahead on points at the end of the
14th round, but then, showing either
very poor personal judgment or
equally poor advice from his hand-
lers, he rushed into the final round
like a bull at a gate, instead of con-
centrating on keeping as far out of
Bennett’s reach as the rules would
permit. In next to no time the cool,
hard-hitting aboriginal lad had reduced
the white hope to helplessness, and
the police ordered the ref. to stop it.
From folk who should know better,
including the referee, there was some
surprising criticism of the police
action, based evidently on the specious
argument that the fight had only a
minute to go and Coleman was ahead
on points. It was not discernible
that either the referee or the ringside
critics were exposed to any personal
physical danger. Coleman was, and,
significantly, he was one person who
wholeheartedly agreed with the police.


SURFERS PARADISE
Auction Sale!
Under Instructions from Dr. Cedric and Mrs. T. M. Barnes,
we will offer their valuable property
UNCLE TOM’S CABINS
(corner Pacific Highway and Trickett St.)
at
Harding Smith, Armstrong & Spencer’s
Rooms, Nerang St., Southport
Sat., Nov. lOth, at II a.m.
Area 2 roods s*l perches (freehold). Frontage 148 feet
to Pacific Highway and 81 feet to Trickett St. one
remove from the well-known Surfers Paradise Hotel, and
right in the centre of the Surfers Paradise business section.
Property comprises picturesque and well built cabins,
set in luxurious tropical gardens, forming fully furnished
suites and rooms (the majority having toilets, showers
and telephones) and conducted as serviced rooms with
first-class accommodation for 42 guests.
In addition to the cabins, the property includes sub-
stantial furnished dwelling with 3 bedrooms, 2 dressing
rooms, 3 living rooms, large modern kitchen with all con-
veniences. Two offices. Four professional rooms also avail-
able for letting if desired. Business is easily managed,
is served by an efficient staff, and shows excellent and steady
returns with almost unlimited scope for expansion.
Contingent to the sale of the Cabin property we will
also offer at the same time
Two Valuable Allotments
abutting the Cabin’s land and having 66 feet frontage to
Trickett St., area 32 perches, freehold.
Inspection by appointment and illustrated brochure from:
HARDING SMITH, ARMSTRONG & SPENCER
Nerang St., Southport, Q. Phone 302 and 327, or
R. S. BILLINGTON
Pacific Highway, Surfers Paradise. Phone 235
Auctioneers in Conjunction
vOt
0®
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI,
Tanquexay Gordon and Co. U&
Quaty
Gordons
Stcmcls Sup*UMn&
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
’Bidgee Romneys.
“Pat O’Day”: In the upper
Murrumbidgee country of
N.S.W., where there are exten-
sive river flats and long frontages
to the river, the Romney Marsh
is coming again into prominence.
Improved pastures there are
now running a class of Romney
nearer to the ideal than has ever
been produced in past years. The
change for the better shows the
improved broader type, so thick-
set as to somewhat resemble the
Dorset.
The upper ’Bidgee valley is
ideal for early - maturing
Romney - cross suckers. The
wool is of good quality,
especially if care is taken to
inculcate some fine-wool cross
strain now and again.
At Wagiga sales of British
rams, Romney flock rams from
’Bidgee properties realised 30gns.
a head and over. Stud Romneys
made lOOgns., but demand was
mainly for flocks. Border Lei-
cesters sold fairly well; Corrie-
dales dropped back.
October is the time for shear-
ing this class of sheep. Spray-
dipping is done as early as three
weeks off shears. After the
ewes have had two or three
weeks’ spell they are then
joined. The resultant lamb,
arriving in early April, is con-
sidered to escape the rigors of
winter; usually, too, there are
beneficial autumn rains to pro-
vide grass on hill areas.
Success in W.A.
“Sundowner”: Success has
rewarded experiments in W.A.
designed to correct mineral de-
ficiencies (especially phosphorus)
in dairy cows, chiefly in the
south-west.
For most of the year herbage
and meadow-hay has only
enough phosphorus to meet the
requirements of a 2gal. cow.
Blood tests showed that quality
beasts supplying more than this
quantity of milk were subnormal
in phosphatic requirements.
Pure sodium phosphate in
drinking water at 51b. for each
lOOgal. was found effective in
maintaining or restoring blood
in organic phosphate levels. Of
similar effectiveness was super-
phosphate. Cows drinking lOgal.
of such impregnated water were
found to receive as much phos-
phate as is present in 6oz. of
bonemeal.
Other methods which will
make up this lack are the use
of the super, solution to damp
down concentrates or hay.
Zebu Crossbreds.
“Oxo”: A. S. Hassall,
Meadowbank, Upper Burdekin
(Q.), considers there is a definite
future for the Zebu crossbred in
N.Q. As soon as the poorer
country there became dry, losses
of cattle occurred, and this
would not happen with the
hardier Zebu crosses, which
could be half or three-eighth
Zebu cross.
Their ability to do well in hot
climates and under rougher con-
ditions should make them ideal
for the area he had in mind —
the rougher N.Q. country, pro-
vided it wasn’t too rough to
keep them under control. Talk
of “spoiling” a herd by introduc-
ing Zebu blood was so much
prejudice. If a beast could be
turned off a year earlier and
grade well, that sort of “spoil-
ing” did no harm. Resistance to
ticks was another big factor.
Some Gulf stations were add-
ing Shorthorn blood to their
Hereford herds in the hope that
their herds would benefit from
the resulting hybrid vigor, two
such stations being Inverleigh
and Magoura. These places are
not satisfied with the weight of
their bullocks, and by the intro-
duction of Shorthorn blood they
are hoping to boost both the
condition of the calves and give
calving percentages a lift.
Hassall says there is difficulty
in acclimatising southern bulls
in the Gulf, and the tendency is
for herd bulls to “walk out of
the mob” as soon as the grass
starts to dry off, about July.
Bulls just coming into the area
had to be fed from July or
August until good storms
occurred, or losses were likely.
T omato-growmg.
“Hortus”: The points by
“Sundowner” (B. 26/9/’5l) are
sound. He has, however, missed
two rather important factors.
When plants are growing in the
seed-frames they are prone to
bend towards the light. This is
accentuated when water is
applied. To overcome this lean-
ing forward, either whitewash
the back of the frame or wall or
paint it white. This will allow
the seedlings to grow straight.
The other point is spraying.
As soon as plants have become
nice and strong start spraying
with a light Bordeaux mixture.
When planting out in the beds
dip the whole plant in a weak
tartar-emetic solution. This will
prepare it to withstand the
numerous disease attacks that
are bound to come.
A minor detail is to paint with
creosote the stake to which the
tomato will eventually be
attached. This has proved a
satisfactory deterrent for insect
pests.
“On the Square.”
“Agronomist”: There is no
quarrel with “Hortus” (B.
25/7/’5l) over sowing maize
“on the square” where that is
possible, although he is behind
the times in these days of
mechanised farming in indicat-
ing how it should be done.
The objection to his further
statement (B. 3 /10/’5l) is that,
despite those many years, he is
still obviously resorting to theory
in stating that the regularity of
rows of grain on the cob is
influenced by the environment.
Many old farmers, priding
themselves on their ability to
discern such an obvious charac-
ter in selecting ears for seed or
for show, have falsely persuaded
themselves that such a character
is also correlated with yielding-
ability.
The world’s great maize-
breeders, who have given us
hybrid maize capable of yielding
20 or 30 bushels per acre more
than those which many old
farmers still persist in growing,
have put in years of exact
research on the influence of
heredity and of environment on
maize-ear characters. They may
be expected to be better authori-
ties on this subject than
“Hortus.”
If he wished to do so “Hortus”
could find convincing evidence
against him by growing a variety
of sweet-corn such as Country
Gentleman at various spacings.
This variety has the most
irregular rows of grain of any
maize, yet it is one of the best-
yielding of the open-pollinated
varieties of sweet-corn.
Even if he worked on it for
another 100 years “Hortus”
would find that he could not
alter the inherent irregularity of
the rows and the grain of this
variety, with all the feeding area,
fresh air and sunlight he could
give each plant. All he would
succeed in doing would be to
lower the yield per acre by
giving each plant too much
fresh air in relation to the mois-
ture and the fertility which the
soil is able to supply.
Aerial Spraying.
“C.S.”: The Air-Griculture
Control people have begun
spraying linseed crops in north-
west N.S.W. and the Darling
Downs with six Tiger Moth air-
craft spreading D.D.T. Another
12 aircraft are working in
“ Cripes! Marvellous how these bushfires get away
from you!”
southern N.S.W., Victoria, South
Australia and Tasmania. Aerial
spraying of Noogoora- and
Bathurst-burr in N.S.W. and
Queensland is on the pro-
gramme.
Until aerial spraying arrived
it looked as though the heliothis
grub would stop linseed-grow-
ing, and the work is spreading
to cutworm-control in Victorian
barley - crops, spraying for
potato-moth and of tobacco
crops for control of leaf-miner,
cutworms and stem-borers and
cotton crops for control of boll-
worm.
A new development is pre-
harvest spraying. With a selec-
tive weedicide weeds infesting
crops and interfering with har-
vest operations may be sprayed
just prior to harvesting. This
reduces weeds to below crop-
line and the crop is left clean
for harvesting.
Near Pallamallawa (N.S.W.)
last November, J. H. Rhode’s
crop of linseed was densely
infested with crown-beard and
prickly-lettuce, making harvest-
ing practically impossible.
Sprayed with 2,4-D Ester, the
weeds were completely knocked
back and harvesting was easy.
Tests have shown that crops
infested with variegated thistle,
wild turnip, skeleton-weed and
prickly-lettuce can be similarly
dealt with.
Falling Stock Numbers.
“Graz”: The N.S.W. sheep
count at March last was
54,111,000. At no period of this
century has it reached 57 mil-
lion. Back in 1891 N. S. Wales
had 62 million sheep. Rabbits
have largely been responsible for
the decline; heavy mortality of
lambs last winter will keep
sheep numbers down. Wool
weight per sheep has not
increased in recent years,
although seasons have been
favorable.
In March registered dairy-
farmers recorded 963,000 cows
and heifers, a drop of 18,000
for the year, and of 211,000
since 1935. In the last 16 years
the State’s population increased
by about 700,000, far greater
quantities of milk are now pro-
cessed, and it is not hard to see
why butter is short.
Only increase was in beef
cattle, which reached a record
total of 2,409,000. During the
current statistical year some
733,000 cows and heifers are
expected to calve. Labor short-
age obviously caused graziers to
run fewer sheep and more cattle.
Despite the increase on the hoof,
beef is short in the shops. t
Pigs (316,833) showed a de-
cline of 16,365. Horses (328,000)
were 14,000 fewer than last
year.
Tyre Pressures.
“Oral”: With a tyre which
has a normal life of 30,000
miles, the effect of even a quarter
under-inflation would be a loss
of approximately 7000 miles in
mileage.
At 30 miles per hour the walls
of a car-tyre have to bend or
flex about 400 times every
minute; if through reduced in-
flation pressure this bending is
exaggerated, the strain on the
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
A dry, hot period may be expected about mid-November
as part of the frequent monthly changes which show the
effects of the sun’s synodic rotation, which carries the
spots round to a similar position about every 29 days.
This, of course, is the period of the moon’s rotation, and
causes the moon, whose phases can be seen, to get the
credit for what is really the effect of the sun and its spots.
Satisfactory rain should fall along the east coast and
hinterland, but in November there will be dryness in the
far west and central inland of the continent.


For Sale.
RIVER FRONTAGE.
1007acs., with Im. frontage Boyne
River, Q’land, permanent irrigation
water. 40acs. river flat cleared plough.
New Ferguson tractor and plough;
other implements. 120 head Jersey
cattle. 4 unit diesel milking plant.
House of 5 rooms, furnished. 2m.
railway; Im. school. Good oppor-
tunities. £6,300.
We have an extensive list of farms
of all kinds in Queensland including
the famous Dawson and Callide
Valleys. We are specialists in farm
properties and can give you practical
and honest advice. Call or write.
THE FARM EXCHANGE,
19 Denham St., Rockhampton, Qld.
Phone 3768, after hrs. 3199, 2161.
■il
iL
,Vj
Ze
an.
fl FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading Hotels. Hut different to
every otHer in many tHings. The
WentwortH. for instance, has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IHE WENMORIH
in
"Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Jurt pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and tour times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.U.'s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 24/10/’5l
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANV,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
f 47 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7260
" Rhenovis" Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
dsfds
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements,
m
IK
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
f
AND SONS
PIT. LTD
£3B/10/-
+ 12j|% sales tax
♦
BW 8631.
:: ■
m
m
- :
m
m
m
m
Erosion Control, Tank-sinking, Land Clearing, Road-building, flowing:
Pastoral Company Finds Full Programme for the Versatile Oliver!
• Graziers and pastoralists everywhere are
confirming what many farmers have long
known to be true —that for all-round ability to
tackle every job on the property the Oliver-
Britstand tractor equipment team is unbeatable.
Mr. W. R. Edwards, manager of a leading
N.S.W. pastoral company, uses his Oliver
“BD” with Britstand hydraulic trailbuilder
(shown above) for re-
building eroded creek
banks, removal of stumps
and brier for pasture
QNVJLSIIHg)
Vi!
OLIVER
AUTHORIZED
OLIVER “BD”
38 drawbar h.p.
OLIVES
ngttmra '
||||||
assßl
sssn
OA 28
improvement, hauling fencing timber, road-
making, tank-sinking. With the blade detached,
the Oliver “BD” takes over contour plowing
and other tasks where wheeled tractors would
bog down. With a 12-month programme in
every year, no wonder that this owner considers
his Oliver-Britstand team a money-saving
investment!
• Get the facts to-day on how Oliver-
Britstand can save money on your
property.
OLIVER-BRITSTAND
OLIVER WHEEL AND CRAWLER TRACTORS,
FARM MACHINERY AND BRITSTAND EQUIPMENT.
DISTRIBUTORS
Q.: U.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-379 Wickham St.,
Brisbane. N.S.W.: Britstand Distributors Ltd., 56-64
Gardeners Rd., Mascot, Sydney. VIC. & TAS.:
Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.,
31-43 Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne, 5.C.4. S.A.:
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-35 Currie St., Adelaide.
W.A.: Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay St.,
Perth. N.Z.s Frederic W. Smith Ltd., Nathan’s
Buildings, Grey St., Wellington, C.l.
casing increases very rapidly,
and an early tyre failure is
possible.
Safest course is to buy a tyre-
pressure gauge and test tyres for
recommended tyre - pressures
every week; truck-tyres every
day.
—
Farmers and Taxes.
“Tax Agent”: The Taxation
Department has asked agents to
request their clients to affix tax
stamps in their books every four
weeks. Too many farmers wait
until near the end of the
financial year before obtaining
a tax-stamp book and buying the
necessary tax stamps.
Tax-stamp books must be
returned to the department by
July 14 each year. The depart-
ment’s statement reads “All
stamps purchased after June 30,
and all books sent to the depart-
ment after July 14, will be
examined and action taken if
warranted.” Post-offices supply
particulars of tax stamps pur-
chased and books obtained.
Some farmers are trying to
avoid the bother of making
deductions from wages and
keeping tax-stamp books by
claiming various classes of work
as done by contract. The word
“contract” does not remove
their obligations to make tax
deductions unless (1) the con-
tractor uses mechanical plant.
(2) employs labor on the job,
(3) supplies a substantial portion
of the materials for the job, or
(4) has his own office to control
his business. Where the pay-
ments made are substantially for
labor, such as to drovers,
fencers and pea - pickers, tax
instalments should be deducted.
Saving Water.
“N’gaduri”: During last
summer we put in four small
dams, for drinking water only,
at a cost of £l2O, their total
capacity 300,000ga1, Costs
represented the hire of a bull-
dozer at £4 an hour. It was
successful, and we have now
allowed ourselves £2OO for the
construction of a new dam this
year which will hold roughly
5,000,000ga1,, which will be used
to irrigate five acres of flat,
sandy loam. The cost, appreciat-
ing that the dam will be useful
for 50 years, is cheap—£4 a year
for holding 5,000,000ga1.
Fish will be introduced, as
they have been to the smaller
dams; thus the dam itself will
supply food.
Willows, although they use a
lot of water themselves, will be
planted everywhere but on the
actual wall, and with their shade
and breakage to wind, will
reduce evaporation to a mini-
mum. Stock will not be allowed
into the water, but, as with all
our dams, water will be piped
to a trough lower down.
On our 220 acres in the Clare
district (S.A.) we have 20
irrigable acres —a sandy loam
flat in the middle of the property
with a 2 p.c. slope. The hills
(and their catchment areas) all
incline towards this flat; and
we hope that in 10 years the
whole of it will be under irri-
gated pasture.
At present-day values that
represents an outlay of about
£l5OO in water-conservation,
which is considerable, and an
additional £3OOO in piping, level-
ling, etc. But we will more than
double our carrying capacity, as
we expect that the irrigated area
will carry something over 20
sheep to the acre. We paid
£4500 for the 200 other acres
which are carrying 400 sheep,
and since the price of land has
gone up considerably since then,
we are doing it for less than the
other land is valued at present.
Apart from that we shall have
green-feed for stock all the year,
and can therefore choose our
own lambing-time in order to
reduce losses from cold weather
and foxes. We shall be able to
top off our fat stock to suit the
market when the prices are
highest and supply short, and, a
thing that is rarely done in Aus-
tralia, we shall be getting the
fullest benefit from our land.
We enlarged our water-tanks
on all buildings to the extent
that they are never full and over-
flowing, and we have plenty of
water at the house, stable, cow-
shed, shearing-shed (for the dip)
and fowlhouses. We waste none
of it, and even in a bad year like
last we had plenty of good rain-
water for the garden—a factor
which lowered our green-grocer’s
bill to a negligible amount when
neighbors were paying £2 to £3 a
week for vegetables.
A Good Average.
“C.S.”: Jim White, Director
of the Gulf Cattle Co., Brunette
Downs (Q.), has figures showing
the average dressed weight of
42,000 cattle received into Borth-
wick’s works at Brisbane over a
period of 14 years. They cover
cattle brought in from the
Georgina, Diamantina and
Cooper Rivers, in addition to
bullocks fattened on the higher
country between. All were from
properties carrying predomi-
nantly Shorthorns, but the
figures also include a number of
Shorthorn-Hereford crossbreds
bought as stores and fattened in
the south-west.
This is how they killed:
20,684 bullocks in Brisbane
after a road journey averaging
four weeks and a rail journey
averaging six days, averaged
8501 b. dressed on the hook;
21,373 killed after a road journey
averaging five weeks and a road
journey of four days averaged
8151 b. In normal seasons average
age of the bullocks was five
years, but following drought
years the age of a particular
year’s kill was closer to seven
years.
Average first-quality export
grading of all these cattle was
between 80 p.c. and 85 p.c. The
grade of the balance was
lowered by bruise damage.
There were 65 separate mobs
of western cattle represented in
the compilation of these figures.
They were brought to the works
under the diversified conditions
of good and bad seasons and
their effect on the stock-routes.
A large number were from
the 30,000 pure Shorthorn herd
at Brunette Downs.
A Memory.
From Vindhella (Norway):
A Bulletin (18/4/’5l) having
reached me in Norway, I read
with more than a little interest
the article dealing with Eucalyp-
tus ficifolia. Granted that the
red-flowering specimen men-
tioned is famous, I challenge
the sweeping statement: “Mel-
bourne has never succeeded in
producing another tree within
cooee of it for size and shape-
liness.” The finest red-flowering
(crimson) tree, both in shape and
size, which I have ever seen
grew in the garden of the late
Oswald Ripon, tenor. The
house was named Ficifolia and
the gum was already old when I
was a child. I understand house
and tree have vanished and a
row of shops now stands on the
site.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mr.”: The most economic
method of supplying calcium to
stock is to liberally topdress
pastures with superphosphate.
The mineral in the pasturage is
in a readily assimilable form. A
suitable lick for horses and
cattle where topdressing is not
practised is salt 501 b., lime 251 b. |
and bonemeal or dicalcic phos-
phate 251 b. Where pastures are
regularly topdressed with super,
use a lick consisting of salt 801 b.
and lime 201 b,
“C.A.A.”: Drainage will be
assisted if a few holes are dug
at intervals in the garden and
left during the wettest part of
the year. Then, if waterlogging
occurs below ground-level, it
can be seen and remedial steps
taken.
“My”: Summer mulching of
the vegetable bed with a layer
of rotted manure, weathered
sawdust or compost helps retain
soil moisture, prevents scalding
of the roots and keeps down
weeds. The litter stimulates
growth and, dug in after har-
vest, forms a valuable source of
humus,
“C.A.A.”: Best time for cut-
ting lucerne is when 10 per cent,
is in bloom. This corresponds
with the appearance of fresh
shoots at the crown. If an early
cut is made at the beginning of
the season annual grasses and
clovers in the stand will be
caught before they have gone to
seed and dried off.


KLG
CORUNDITE
£
o
c
nU* s
Hr
oo
M 7
REQUEST A COPY OP
THE K.L.G. RECOMMEND-
ATION BOOKLET FROM
YOUR LOCAL DEALER
MAKE YOUR WATCH
A CALENDAR
WATCH
m qay
' 1/
<V<vj
rv
<o
CQ 'V
We DATE
CALENDO-STRAP
This perfect calendar strap attaches
to your wrist watch like any ordinary strap.
YOU SET IT AS YOU WIND YOUR WATCH!
See the Date When You Look at Your Watch
Watches with built-in calendars have heretofore only been available in
expensive models, difficult to keep in running order and costly to repair.
Now comes CALENDO-STRAP ... a streamlined beauty ... simple.
sturdy and foolproof.
FOB CHROMIUM WATCHES
Complete with strap, QC/
post paid OU/ “
FOB GOLD WATCHES
in 1/20 10k. rolled gold 45/-
with pigskin strap, p.p.
For immediate delivery clip this
coupon and post today to —■
DOMEX TRADING CO.
(Dept. 22),
243 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DOMEX TRADING CO. (Dept. 22),
243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
PLEASE SEND ME POST PAID;
Chrome calendar with strap for which I
I enclose 35/-.
Rolled gold calendar with pigskin strap for
which I enclose 45/-.
(Strike out not applicable and state what size
of strap, Jin. fin., fin., Jin.)
NAME
ADDRESS
Mobilco DRAG SAW
mm
9 Ay/"*
dhapd iiatcHiAeJi
m caufitu/...
Trees up to eight feet diameter tail
quickly to this rugged machine. Cuts
horizontally even on sloping ground.
Easily moved in difficult country. A
true one-man machine moved,
operated, set up by one man.
a
it
m
■v-i
\ti\V
cMM-eufa it/
Just turn the indexing lever and saw is
read/ to cut felled tree into lengths.
Main arm can be angled up to cross cut
large, medium or smalt logs so that
engine is always vertical. Indexing
device lets you cut square with the
tree on any slope.
>n
Drag saw is powered by 7 b.h.p. air cooled petrol engine. Positive Spring Tensioning
gives constant pressure on blade. Special guide keeps blade straight. Fast, light, easy
to handle.
MOBILE CIRCULAR SAW FITS SAME CHASSIS
a
Much faster for smaller timber. Fells and cross
cuts trees to three feet diameter. Also rips.
No dangerous belts—shaft driven. Saw bench
attachment to cross cut tops for firewood
also available.
Mobile© range of rugged one-man power tools includes : Hand
Circular Saw, Electric Post Borer, Trailer Saw Bench, and firewood
splitter (illustrated). All constructed to highest engineering
standards. Designed in Australia for Australian conditions.
dsf
ILC0 [
MC924
RESEARCH - ACHIEVEMENT - SERVICE
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Cent. 4799
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— Uf Divorce.
TO THOMAS HERBERT PURCELL for-
merly of Liverpool. —TAKE NOTICE that
MILDRED EMMA PURCELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1074 of 1951
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 3rd January 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
JAMES BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES.
Solicitors. 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUQHAN. Registrar.
ever been before, as only Mr.
Hedgeland is left here, which
was not the case during Bid-
dulph’s former absences.
I cannot call it dull, for with
this lovely weather and plenty
of time to ramble about and en-
joy it I do not think any place
could be dull; but I shall be
glad when Biddulph comes back,
which he will probably do in
about three weeks. He started
with Alick, the blackboy, and
young Julian, and a number of
pack-horses to take our provi-
sions to their party with the
sheep ; but Julian knocked up
about 150 miles from here ; so,
finding that provisions were to
be had at a station further out,
Biddulph left Julian and his
packs at Mr. Henry’s and pushed
on as fast as he could with
Alick. Julian came back last
week, bringing letters from Bid-
dulph. He, Julian, has been laid
up with fever and ague since,
and has not been able to do
anything—not that he is a boy
that overworks himself at any
time.
Biddulph intended Mr. Taylor
to be here during his absence,
but the latter went out with the
sheep, and on his return found
the Suttor River so high that,
thinking he would not be able to
cross it for months, he went back
and so joined the sheep, and
now will not return till Bid-
dulph does. Till we heard he
had joined the sheep again we
expected him every day, and
were very much afraid he had
got lost in the bush. I am very
glad Biddulph has a blackboy
with him in that wild country.
I have heard so many instances
of people being lost in the bush
lately.
About a month ago a Mr.
Digby started on foot from
Port Denison —he was coming
up this way by the high road,
but he unfortunately took a
“short cut,” lost himself and was
out for fourteen days with noth-
ing to eat but the gum which
oozes out of the trees, I cannot
think how he lived so long. He
was found by some bushmen
and brought to Mr. Paterson’s,
a station about thirty miles from
here. He has been there more
than a fortnight, and every care
has been taken of him, but they
say he cannot recover, as he has
been so weakened by want of
food that he cannot keep down
anything but liquids.
One of the shepherds who
went out to the Flinders with
Biddulph’s sheep returned here
a short time ago, and he told us
that, having one day lost himself
in the bush with his flock, he
came upon the body of a man
lying under a tree. The blacks
had evidently found it, but in-
stead of disturbing and robbing
it they had laid a piece of bark
over the head and another over
the feet and left it. He took the
news on to the next station, Mr.
Henry’s, and was told that a
week or two before a riderless
horse with all the usual accoutre-
ments of saddle, blankets, etc.,
had found its way in to the
station ; and by the books and
clothes rolled up in the blankets
it was evidently a gentleman’s
“swag.”
The shepherd did not know
whether they found out his name
or not. It seems always to me
a terrible end to be “lost in the
bush.” I had rather hear of
anyone being killed by the
blacks at once.
Annie received your letter on
Friday, and read it under a bush
on the Five Mile Plain, whither
we had gone with Mr. Hedge-
land. We met the postman on
the plain, opened the Exmoor
letter-bag and extracted the
letters. When we arrived on the
plain Mr. Hedgeland went to the
sheep-station, but there and then
we turned out our horses to
feed, made a fire, boiled some
quart-pot tea and encamped
under the bush aforementioned,
that being the only shade we
could find. It was a cloudy day,
luckily. We drank the tea and
ate our sandwiches and I read
our letters and then started home
again.
As we forded the river on our
way there we passed the three
drays which are taking down the
remainder of Biddulph’s wool.
One of them had got stuck in
the sand, and it took twenty bul-
locks to pull it out again. It was
such a picturesque sight—the
river with Tent Hill frowning
over it and the teams of bullocks
crossing. I wished I could draw
it.
Except for seeing you, I
should not care much when we
went to Sydney, were we not in
such a destitute condition for
clothes, but my boots are: a
miracle of patching. I stitch on
a fresh piece of sheepskin about
every other day. Our under-
garments have mostly departed
this life, and our dresses are
sorely dilapidated, as most of
them were packed up and set. to
Port Denison long ago in antici-
pation of going to Sydney.
We have not been riding much
since Biddulph left, but I have
been taking some nice walks.
The climate and weather are per-
fection just now. There is one
walk I have not been able to
take since the floods; and last
evening I constructed a bridge
across the creek, which has
hitherto been the barrier. I
found some pieces of plank, and
with the help of some stones I
made a bridge to a rock,
whence I can reach the other
side, so I shall conduct the
lambs that way this evening. I
have eight now, their numbers
having been increased lately by
“Beauty” producing a larnb and
by a poor little thing which was
brought in from the Two Mile
with its leg broken by a native
dog.
We have lost the white kitten.
She was killed by a snake^—at
least, I suppose so. She rushed
in from the garden one night in
a kind of fit, and died in about
half an hour. We could find no
mark but a slight swelling on one
of her forepaws. The garden is
rather a wilderness just now, but
I cannot do much to it till I
return from Sydney.
With best love to you all, be-
lieve me, very dearest Amy,
Ever your affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
The “Letters of Rachel Hen-
ning” will be continued in the
issue after next. There are
several more instalments to
come, and in an early one
Rachel announces that for six
months she has been secretly
engaged to be married to one
of the staff on Exmoor station,
a fact which she hitherto had
confided only to Biddulph.
from Moet et Chandon, Veuve-
Cliquot to gory Grappa and
mere Marsala.
“Give me a glass of cuckoo-
cooler,” 1 order. He thought-
fully fingers the banknote I
thrust on him. He comments in
a foreign language.
“Speak no English, eh?” I
sneer.
He smoulders for a few blinks,
Edgily. Like the lurid lead in a
French film.
“La langue que je vous parle
est celle des poetes,” he intones,
“Bright boy,” I say.
“Shyster,” he says,
“Why the hiss, snake? Lost
your rattle?”
“Money’s no good,” he in-
forms me gently. “Not even
genuine counterfeit. Just scrubby
r übbish stamped out by an out-
law printer.” Show money. Not
forspending.
P RENCH banknotes carry a
U primly-printed threat of per-
petoai forced labor for forgers.
There is do pnoted threat oo
my ootes Fluff s pno mg-shop
say,
trying to recover savoir-faire.
instruments and begins playing
chemin de fer. The calm before
the Storm of jazz which lasts till
down
c ■ a
Fluff s female friend appears
on the parquet and the gargon
, i • , i i*i •
catches his breath like a mooning
adolescent
She looks like a concerted
creation by Cartier, Hermes and
Perugia. Intangible nylons
clinging lovingly to a deep sweep
of leg. Neckline cut low enough
to make your toes tingle,
I can see she is upset and
angry.
“Bon soir, boss,” I greet' her
as the gargon fixes her chair.
“Where’s my sable?”
“We’ve been robbed,” she de-
dares bitterly. She calls Fluff
names I’ve never heard before.
“You don’t say?” I gaze
misty-eyed into the distance
while I think sour thoughts. I’ve
sold that same sable so often
that I believe my own sales-talk.
It’s as though a faithful friend
has passed on.
“Your own fault,” she rebukes
me. “I’ve warned you before
not to wrap it up after it’s sold. ’
“Let’s go call on him,” I sug-
gest. Bravely,
“Already phoned his hotel,”
< /,', ys ' “ Hls 100 m 15 Can ‘
c messa2e ,-
„ M of B fa thcre was a
she admits .. He lett
f h ; rhjs brother bought the
same fur a tor,oigh. ago.”


Missing Friend.
TO RONALD BIBDWOOD SHERIDAN
formerly of 159 Corio Street Shepparton
in the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
GLADYS ELLEN SHERIDAN of Wynd-
ham Street Shepparton in the said State
has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the grounds that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards Should
you desire to defend this suit you must
enter an appearance in the office of the
Deputy Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of the State of Victoria at the
Law Courts High Street Shepparton in the
State of Victoria on or before the Nine-
teenth day of November 1951 and also
file an answer in the said office on or be-
fore the Twenty-ninth day of November
1951 otherwise the case may be heard
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.—P. V. FELTHAM, of Id
Fryers Street. Shepparton, Solicitor for
the Petitioner,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPR'EME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER MARTIN JOHNSON
also known as ALAN CROSS formerly of
133 Enmore Road Enmore. —TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN MARY GRACE
JOHNSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3906 of 1961 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 3rd January 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JAMES BIRNIE JACKSON
& COATES. Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
Load up
evenly*
o°i
f
ft.
id
WRONG
RIGHT
/;
i
’A
1
9
„ ■
WRONG
wt
fin
Q
RIGHT
a
o
WRON
Check overhanging
loads too as the leverage
multiplies wheel loads’
RIGHT
/CD
and you’ll save on tyres!
It’s not only over loading that cuts short tyre life.
Uneven loading Is tough on tyres too producing
dangerous swaying, causing wheels and tyres to
carry unequal shares of the load. It takes no
longer to load your vehicle evenly-yet this saves
pounds on tyre bills. Get the most out of your
tyres by checking load capacity and correct dis*
tribution of weight every trip.
... and for extra mileage.
DUNLOP
SUPER
m
CAR AND
TRUCK TYRES
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED 11 ft c. I n VI Cxt
OlOO*
TODAY
YOU’LL USE A DUNLOP PRODUCT*
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of What Butterfly Is
That? by Waterhouse.—5223.
To buy A Geological Survey of the
Monaro by Griffith Taylor.—5224.
To buy copy of On Our Selection
by Steele Rudd.—5225,
To buy copy of Jarrahland Jingles
by E. G. (“Dryblower”) Murphy. —
5219.
Words of poem “Dan Murphy’s
Brindle Cow.”—5220.
Book of portraits of soldiers of
Allied nations of World War I, drawn
by French artist Eugene Burnand. —
5222.
To buy original drawings or prints
of original drawings by old-time
Bulletin artist Tom Durkin. — 5221.
Information Sought.
Best method to home-scour 20lb.
wool ?
Burrs and other matter should be
removed as much as possible and
the wool sorted to make washing easy.
A fair scouring can be effected by
washing in hot soapy water contain-
ing a liberal dash of ammonia, rins-
ing in clean warm water, and drying.
A better method is to scour in four
washings, thus: lOgais. water at
120 deg. F. containing lloz. soft soap,
3oz. soda ash; second bath, lOgais.
water, 7oz. soft soap, soda ash;
third bath, lOgais. water, soft
soap; fourth bath, lOgais. water, 2oz.
soft soap. Lower the temperature of
each succeeding bath to about 105 deg.
at the last. The wool must be moved
gently in the water, can be squeezed
but not rubbed, or it will mat; can
be put through a wringer carefully.
Finally, spread out to dry in an airy
place, without much direct sunshine;
it should be placed on sheets or on
a rack of small-mesh wire-netting,
and should be turned and watched
during drying. Home-scouring is not
completely effective, and this wool is
liable to stain tickings, so should be
cased in a double container, the inner
one having the inner surface lightly
waxed. Carbonisation, which removes
burrs and makes a cleaner job, is not
possible to the home worker.
■ * j * * ♦
Where and when was Jack Read
born ? When did he begin boxing,
and from whom did he win the Aus-
tralian lightweight championship ?
When did Read go to. America, and
how many contests did he have over-
seas?
Jack Read was bom in Hobart,
Tasmania, on March 31, 1889. Began
boxing as an amateur in 1906, when
he won the Tasmanian bantamweight
championship. Read also boxed as
an amateur in 1910, when he won
the N.S.W. featherweight champion-
ship at Sydney, and the Australasian
featherweight championship at Auck-
land, N.Z. Turning professional in
1910, Read beat Herb McCoy for the
Australian lightweight championship
in 1913, following which he went to
America. Read had 63 contests in
U.S.A. and Canada and one each in
France and England before having his
last fight at Matamoros, Mexico, on
July 4, 1919,
:"* * * *
Some particulars about these English
training-ships—(l) Conway. (2) Wor-
cester. (3 ) Arethusa. (4) Stork?
(1) H.M.S. Conway is a cadet
school-ship, in Menai Straits, Wales.
It trains officers for Royal and mer-
chant navies. Age of entry, 131-16
years. There are usually 250 cadets.
Two years’ service on Conway counts
as one year’s sea-service. (2) H.M.S.
Worcester is the Thames Nautical
Training College. Cadets are trained
as officers for merchant navy. Age
of entry, 131-16 years. Educational
standard is same as at general-public-
school. Physical training is important
part of training. Usually 210 cadets.
Two years’ service counts as one
year’s sea-service. Shipping com-
panies give preference in employ-
ment to Worcester-trained men. (3)
Arethusa (off Upnor, in the Medway,
Kent) trains boys as seamen for Royal
Navy and merchant navy. Usually
240 cadets. (4) Stork, off Hammer-
smith (training seamen for merchant
navy), is now, we understand, on the
reserve list.
* * * *
Why do whirlwinds always revolve
from left to right?
That law applies only to the
Southern Hemisphere. In the Nor-
thern Hemisphere they revolve from
right to left. As the earth revolves
on its axis from the west to east,
winds in the Southern Hemisphere
are deflected to the left, and in the
Northern Hemisphere to the right.
Hence winds moving from a high
pressure to a low pressure (cyclone)
reach the latter at a point to the left
of the centre in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and move in a clockwise spiral
towards the centre.
* •* * *
What is the story of Hosier’s
Ghost ?
The ballad by Richard Glover is
partly based on truth; it tells of
Admiral Hosier, who was sent with
20 ships to the West Indies to
blockade the galleons of Spain. He
arrived at the Bastjmentos, near
Portobello, but had strict orders not
to attack the foe. His men perished
by disease and the Admiral died of
a broken heart. After Vernon’s vic-
tory, the ballad goes on to say, Hosier
and his 3000 men rose “all in dreary
hammocks shrouded, which for wind-
ing sheets they wore,” and lamented
the cruel orders which forbade them to
attack the foe.
Brief Answers.
C.H.R.: This device is not used
in contemporary poetry, which gene-
rally favors a natural use of language.
The “y” pronunciation is still used
occasionally when the poetry of past
centuries is spoken, especially when
a rhyme such as “wind-mind” makes
it clear that such was the poet’s inten-
tion. But generally the “y” pronun-
ciation is dropping out of use
D.R.: Write Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Farrer-place,
Sydney H.J.: Colin Bell spent his
boyhood days in Moree (N.S.W.),
and was nicknamed the “Moree
Giant,” but he was bom at Narrabri
(N.S.W.) on October 6, 1883. While
overseas in 1914-15 Bell fought P. O.
Curran, Joe Jeanette and Bombardier
Wells in London, Sam Langford in
Boston and Tom McCarthy and
Battling Levinsky in New York. He
died from a heart attack in Sydney
on February 3, 1947 R.P.: Write
Commonwealth Patents Office, 18
York-street, Sydney F.T.A.: Write
Miss Marjorie Gartrell, hon. secretary,
Sydney Writers’ Club, Box 4999,
G.P.0., Sydney... .E.W.M.: Write
secretary, the Australian Wine Pro-
ducers’ Association of N.S.W., 350
George-street, Sydney P.G.: We
suggest the following three books,
obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney: Australian Secretarial
Principles and Practice by Ingram
(18s. 2d.), Accounting Fundamentals
by Yorston, Smythe and Brown (255.
2d.) and Outline of Law in Australia
by Baalman (17s. 6d.) W.A.F.:
The system of compulsory registration
of births, deaths and marriages in
Victoria has been in force since 1853.
A.J.: There are three methods
usually used for the finishing of
interior panelling where it is desired
to keep the figure of the timbers:
(a) The panels are brush-coated with
shellac, either white or orange; (6)
the panels are varnished; (c) the
panels are coated with clean lacquer.
With any of these methods, several
applications are necessary, and the
work should be rubbed down to a
smooth surface between coats. It is
most important that the panels should
be sanded to a smooth finish before
the application of the polish
J.A.: “Meanjin” was the aboriginal
name for Brisbane. It means “spike,”
and was the name given to the finger
of land bounded by the Brisbane
River and extending from the city
proper to the Botanic Gardens, the
old university and the Domain. Pro-
nunciation is Me-an-jin, accent falling
on the second syllable F.H.S.:
The pomelo or shaddock ( Citrus
grandis ) is thought to have originated
in Malayan and Indian Archipelagos.
The grapefruit, which probably origi-
nated as a mutation from the shad-
dock, was first described under the
name of “forbidden fruit” by Hughes
in 1750, from Barbados. The term
pummulo, or pomelo, was rather
loosely used for both fruits, and this
has proved rather confusing. In 1830
the grapefruit was segregated from
the shaddock .as a distinct species,
and was given its present designation
of C. paradisa C.M.: Impossible
to give an interpretation without
seeing the whole of the will
C.R.; Write Bert Bailey, 25 Beaufort
Court, Forbes-street, Darlinghurst
(N.5.W.)... .C.McK.: The coin is a
common one, and of little value over
and above its silver content. Its chief
interest is as a sample of the early
currency of Australia. To collectors
the condition of a coin is all-
important, and normally any clean-
ing other than with soap and water
reduces values. Most collectors aim
to obtain coins showing no signs of
wear A. 8.: Write Under-Secretary,
Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra,
A. for copy of leaflet “Usage
of the Australian National Flag”
B. : Write Patents, Trade-marks,
Designs and Copyright Office, 18
York-street, Sydney... .C.R.C.; Write
honorary secretary, Royal Australian
Historical Society, History House, 8
Young-street, Sydney R.R.: Write
Fisheries Branch, Chief Secretary’s
Department, Sydney, for pamphlet
“Curing and Smoking of Fish”....
M.8.H.: Diseases in Poultry by T.
Hungerford deals with the subject.
Leaflets dealing with some diseases
are available from the Department of
Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Gratuity-less
Short of putting them in straitjackets
you can’t stop some Diggers giving their
money to complete strangers without
safeguards. Adelaide R.S.L. has been
earbashing Diggers for months on the
dangers of giving their gratuity or other
cash to builders without seeing that the
money is secured. The league even had
legislation pushed through requiring
builders receiving a deposit against the
building of a house to deposit the money
in a joint account with the depositor.
Month after month we are getting
hard-luck stories of deposits paid to
builders who have subsequently gone
broke. Urgent house-hunger is the cause,
but where’s the remedy? The league
has done everything in its power; pub-
licity in the Press and on the air, circulars
to sub-branches, full-time welfare officers
to advise with building problems, but
still they come in, sometimes just in time
to be rescued, more often after the
builder has gone broke. Has anybody a
solution? —J. C. (S.A.).
The Economist Target
A favorite whipping-boy at the
moment is the economist, but the fun
would be greater and his discomforture
more exhilarating if we criticised what
he says and what he attempts to prove
rather than what we think he says and
what we imagine he attempts to prove.
Currently, followers of the late Lord
Keynes are having heaped upon them
the abuse of certain newspaper editors
and others who imagine the Common-
wealth Budget is disastrous. Keynes is
accused of having begotten ideas which
will ruin the country.
Sir Douglas Copland, hailed as de-
fender of the indefensible by the Sydney
daily Press, would, I have no doubt,
describe himself as a Keynesian. This
means that Sir Douglas finds more of
what appeals to him in the writings of
Lord Keynes than he does in the work
of economists who take the opposing
view. However, if Sir Douglas were
asked whether his support of the Budget
stems from the teachings of Keynes he
would say “No.”
The object of Keynes’s writings is to
show what is taking place in highly-
developed economies over a long period
of time, and recommending policies
appropriate to what might be called the
secular trend of economic events. What
he says has little or no application to a
specific Budget of a specific Government
at any one time. Thus the attempt of
the Sydney dailies to portray Keynes and
his followers as knaves and fools, the
parents of the fiscal policy of doom, is
absurd.
Let leader-writers and the rest of us
put the economist back into context, so
that when we accuse him of being the
source of all evil he will be really hurt,
even contrite, and not merely possessed
of the belief that no one understands him,
—Jean Ford (N.S.W.).
Erosion Control?
“CS.” (B. 26/9/’5l) recalls James
Edmond’s prediction of the damage of
soil erosion. Well, Queensland has
passed a Soil Conservation Act.
The Act sets up a poor relation to the
Department of Agriculture and Stock
under an advisory committee, the per-
sonnel of which is:
(a) The Under-Secretary, who shall be
ex officio a member, and the chairman
thereof.
(h) The Chief Soil Conservationist,
who shall be ex officio a member, and
the deputy chairman thereof.
(c) Such other members as consist of
one member nominated by each and
every one of the following departments
of the Government of Queensland:
(i) Department of Irrigation and Water
Supply.
(ii) The Department of Main Roads.
(iii) The Department of Local Gov-
ernment.
(iv) Such other departments as the
Governor-in-Council may from time to
time determine.
The whole Act is a prize piece of
passing the buck. The Department of
Agriculture controls the Soil Conserva-
tion Service, and can starve the latter of
funds at will. The Act does not provide
for finance or facilities for doing any-
thing. Instead, the Department of Agri-
culture passes the buck to the Depart-
ment of Local Government, which plays
the game by keeping the ball rolling by
passing it on to the shire councils. I
have yet to meet the shire council in
Queensland that at the present time is
not short of labor, machinery and
finance to make and maintain roads
without taking on the job of trying to
save the land!
The Opposition moved several amend-
ments to the Act during its hurried
journey through Parliament which would
have provided a Soil Conservation Service
with power to do something instead of
leaving it to the amateurs of the shire
councils. Such amendments were de-
feated on party lines.
Cannot political parties forget their
labels and unite in the national interest
for once to save our soil? A statesman
looks a generation ahead, while a poli-
tician looks ahead to the next ballot-box.
Today we are facing a shortage of
butter, meat, potatoes, etc., owing to the
deterioration of our soils. Sixty years
ago Queensland carried millions more
cattle and sheep than now, for all our
closer-settlement, subdivision, provision
of water, roads, railways, etc., including
expensive Departments of Agriculture
and boards whose name is legion.
Until Parliament can get round to
passing an amending Act giving the Soil
Conservation Service finance, teeth and
power to do something and co-ordinating
it with water and forestry under one
Minister the position is not likely to
improve.— Friar Tuck (Q.).
Rents
Increase of rents would do much more
than help check inflation (B. 3 /10/’5l).
It would bring back into full use much
wastefully-occupied accatnmodation.
The pegging of rents, in N. S. Wales
particularly, is having a most insidious
effect upon people and property alike.
Because rents are pegged at anachronistic
levels owners are unable to maintain their
properties in a proper state of repair and
a very large part of the nation’s most
valuable asset —its dwelling accommoda-
tion —is deteriorating at an alarming rate
while replacement is almost negligible,
except for an insignificant contribution by
Government instrumentalities. (The N. S.
Wales Housing Commission is building
some 3500 units a year to cope with a
waiting-list admitted to contain more than
80,000 names.)
Moreover, because of low rents many
people are occupying more accommoda-
“Joey—where ARE you ?”
tion than they need. Many would relin-
quish their places and return to the half-
empty homes of their parents were their
rents to be raised appreciably. In many
other cases, a higher rent would encourage
persons living in underoccupied houses to
part with their spare space.
Governments will decry this conten-
tion —as the N. S. Wales Government has
done in declining to renew legislation to
make subdivision of overlarge homes
possible. In N. S. Wales this legislation
failed in its purpose because (a) the
Government refused to give any reason-
able guarantee that persons who sub-
divided their homes would have any
control over the tenants they might take
in, and ( b ) because the rent-pegging
machinery failed to provide an adequate
return on cost of conversion of property.
The McGirr Government required pro-
perty-owners to stand all the risk and
refused them any profit on their outlay.
It was once reckoned a fair and reason-
able thing if one-fifth of one’s income
were required to pay the rent of one’s
home. Today in very many instances —
and mostly in the case of the people who
were formerly referred to as the lower-
wage and -salary earners —the proportion
is reduced to one-tenth or less and, be-
cause many of these people have sublet
their premises or portion of them, the
tenants are living rent-free and making a
handsome income into the bargain.
In the meantime the rateable value of
this property has risen very considerably
with—in some cases —disastrous results to
the owners. Not all property-owners are
bloated capitalists. Many are aged people,
owners of two or three modest cottages
which they saved-up for and bought
during their working years. Others are
beneficiaries of deceased estates, and still
others are small investors who put their
savings into cottages or small blocks of
flats in preference to industrial or com-
mercial investments. These people, in
many instances today, are finding their
holdings a liability.
They should sell their property? To
whom? Under the present Landlord and
Tenant Law there are no buyers for
that class of property except the tenants.
And the tenants refuse to buy unless the
property is practically given to them.
Why should they? Any tenant would be
a fool to buy his property and qualify
to pay rates, insurance, repairs and main-
tenance when he can go on living in the
place without fear of rent increase or
eviction.
In England property-owners, at their
wits’ end as to how to contend with the
high cost of providing homes for other
people, have resorted to all sorts of tricks
to get rid of their holdings. They have
tried to give property away to local
councils, without result. They have tried
to give it to their tenants with cash
premiums and motor-cycles to boot.
They have induced paupers living in
almshouses and workhouses to accept
title to their properties and have disap-
peared before the authorities could take
any further action against them.
The alternative to our present housing
system is the construction of barracks
for community housing—as in the Soviet
countries. Governments would not be
able to deal with the demand for housing
on any other basis. From the point of
view of the Socialists in our midst that
is probably the ideal way of bending the
will of the people to the Socialist way
of thinking. Free enterprise alone can
provide the kind of dwelling that a man
and his family can call “home.” And
only a fair and equitable rental return
on the capital investment involved will
induce free enterprise to turn its
energies towards the solution of what
may well be the most vital problem
Australia has to face—the provision of
adequate housing for our people. — Cave
(N.S.W.).
Befogged! Essendon
Melbourne’s Essendon airport has the
prized classification of “international”
and is one of the world’s busiest; yet
thousands of pounds are spent on foggy
days diverting aircraft to other landing-
fields because of lack of modern wireless
and radar landing-aids.
Rain and industrial haze force closing
of the ’drome, conditions in which over-
seas airports with modern landing-aids
would have functioned; Essendon is
usually closed by bad weather for an
average of 160 hours each year.
At present it must be closed as soon
as the cloud ceiling falls below 500 ft. or
visibility is restricted to less than two
miles. The noise of aircraft circling
above the haze is frequent in Melbourne.
Sometimes they circle for hours waiting
for the fog to disappear; other times
they are diverted to Mangalore, 70 miles
north, where there’s always fogless
weather. This diversion means waste of
time and money.
Recently we were forced to circle
Essendon for the best part of two hours,
waiting for a break in the fog. I could
clearly see landmarks around the city,
and as we went over my own home I
could see the fowls in the backyard, yet
each time we came over Essendon it was
fog-bound.
Only answer is the installation of
a wireless-directed instrument landing-
system or radar-operated ground-control
approach, which experts claim would
bring the ’drome’s non-availability down
to as low as 50 hours, perhaps less. Fogs,
as we know them, are nothing compared
to those of overseas countries, and
Essendon hardly merits international
status with primitive equipment. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
The Budget
I don’t agree that, except for £4OOO,
the averaging of incomes of primary-
producers should be done away with. The
averaging started through cases like this;
A Winton (Q.) grazier over a period of
five years made £15,000 and was taxed
on £17,000. The period was 1923 to
1928, two wool-boom years, one dry
year and two years drought. W. L.
Payne, probably the most able man on
all land matters in Australia, made special
mention of this particular case. The
1926-28 drought period practically broke
most graziers in n.-w. Queensland. They
couldn’t pay their taxes, they could
hardly pay tucker bills, and a large num-
ber had to be rehabilitated by the
Queensland Government scheme.
It looks as if history will repeat itself.
No one minds making monetary sacri-
fices in this very dangerous time, but
when a Government budgets for £ll4
million surplus and only £lB2 million for
defence purposes it is going a long way
to lose the confidence of the country.
It is ridiculous to say that taking
spending-power away from the public
will do anyone any good. What is money
but a symbol of production for conveni-
ence sake? One can’t cart round a bullock
to buy himself a pair of pants, a shirt and
a few drinks. Our economic system is
all wrong, anyway, the cart before the
horse, finance governing production
instead of production governing finance.
However, take things as they are, stop
the flow of money and the flow of pro-
duction stops. It has been well proved
over the period since the war ended that
excessive taxation is the
real reason for shortage of
material.
Increased taxes are not
likely to put value into the
£. Does the Government
really know what are and
what are not essential
goods? The Commonwealth
economic adviser, Professor
Copland, couldn’t run a
business of his own and put
his own ideas into practice.
-I. S. L. (Q.).
If the Budget is meant to
draw off excess spending-
power, would it not be
simpler and more straight-
forward to prevent the ex-
cess money getting into the
people’s pockets in the first
place?
If excess spending-power
is the dominant cause of in-
flation, then much of the
blame for it must rest on the
shoulders of those who
control the output of the
note-printing presses; the
attempt to relieve this condition by in-
creasing taxation is simply passing the
buck.
Of course, elimination of overtime
on the note-printing presses would
cause shrinkage in the volume of
pay-envelopes —also in the figures on
dividend cheques, and the resultant
shrieks of protest could be ex-
pected to be deafening, but perhaps
the expostulation would be less
vociferous if it was explained to the
shriekers, plainly and incisively, that many
of the notes in previous pay-envelopes,
because they were not backed by
equivalent real wealth, were actually,
though not legally, just as “dud” as it
they had been turned out m some
counterfeiter’s backyard cellar. H. H. a
(N.S.W.).


A Westralian Island
When somebody or other found a
bunch of Indonesian fishermen camped
on Browse Island, 200 miles north of
Derby, and reported it to Canberra there
was a flurry in the External Affairs De-
partment, which didn’t seem to know
anything about the place.
West Australians knew about it. Their
Lands Department promptly told Can-
berra that it was Westralian property,
lies close to the Fremantle-Darwin and
Fremantle-Singapore shipping routes, and
has a Commonwealth navigation light
on it
The Westralian State Shipping Service
added that it was strategically placed, was
used in the war by the U.S. Navy as a
radio-station and submarine beacon.
Next a New Zealander in Perth
announced that he surveyed the island
in 1915 following a report by a Captain
L. J. Schutt that it contained guano de-
posits. He found that all the guano had
been taken away by “a European
country” 20 years before.
Then a grandson of Captain Schutt
bobbed up in Melbourne to claim that
his grandfather was cast away there in
1884, found the guano and, when rescued,
got a 99-years lease of it. The grandson
feels that he inherits the lease, which, he
says, was granted by the W.A. Govern-
ment.
Meanwhile, though it took Canberra
several days to discover that Browse
Island is Australian, no time was lost in
taking action. An expedition from Com-
monwealth Intelligence, hearing that a
lighthouse engineer had found a piece of
bamboo with a bit of woven mat attached
while servicing the light m August,
tracked the stick down in Perth and
captured it without loss, —A. L. Bany
(W.A.).
Diesel Trains
What does “L.L.” (B. 5/9/’51) mean
by saying “State systems will find little
use fox diesels”—when every one which
can be put on the road will be a God-
send to the administration? Fancy a
locomotive absolutely independent of the
miners, which offers no work for the
fireman and a cushioned seat for the
driver, which has no use for coal or water
or ash-pits, which gives smooth surging
power at the touch of a lever. It is, from
the operating angle, the ideal power.
Cost? That’s a different matter
entirely. Capital cost goes up about six
times and fuel is more costly ; so is main-
tenance. But why worry about that if
the trains can be kept moving?
I object to the things because they are
an unnecessary extravagance rendered
necessary by our being too tired to
provide ourselves with our own fuel.
But—and it’s a very big but-—when you
consider that the various railway adminis-
trations are up against competition which
is mostly subsidised and entirely oil-
consuming, competition from which they
receive no valid protection. I’ll defy any-
one to show why these administrations
should have to remain hampered, handi-
capped and hamstrung by having to
depend on coal. — Transporticus
(Singapore).
Hope for Lepers
Compulsory isolation of Australian
lepers is expensive and' needless cruelty.
Sulphatrone has completely cured 15
native lepers at the Channel island
leprosarium, near Darwin, and it is be-
lieved all but the most serious chronic
cases will respond to treatment.
Doctors no longer consider leprosy
highly infectious. Healthy adults are
usually immune ; it is less infectious than
t.b., and, like t.b., is caused by a bacillus,
which was isolated by a Norwegian
physician, Gorhard Armauer Hansen.
With leprosy a curable disease and not
highly infectious, an idea mooted in
Hawaii deserves consideration. When dis-
cussing abolition of the Hawaiian leper
colony it was suggested that if renamed
“Hansen’s disease” leprosy would lose its
association of fear and ignorance. In
the future years “Hansen’s disease” may
be just another conquest of science,—
W. M. H. (S.A.).
Tyres and Rims
Tyres and rims manufactured to a world
standard, which will enable tyre replace-
ments in any part of the world, is an
“When the square-dance caller sings out 'swing your partner' don't
forget to swing me hard."
aim of the Tyre and Rim Association of
Australia. A number of cars imported
into Australia have non-standard tyres
and rims, and no replacements are avail-
able from Australian manufacturers. The
association will seek international
standards of tyre and rim sizes.
Growth of the automotive industry in
Australia made it necessary for the for-
mation of such an association, which is
in close affiliation with a similar associa-
tion in U.S.A., and the Society of Motor
Manufacturers and Traders of Great
Britain.
The manufacturers have agreed to a
form of supplementary inspection by
officers responsible to the association, par-
ticularly for wheels and rims, and the
branding of such with a registered associa-
tion brand, indicating that they have been
manufactured to the required standards.
—Boss (S. Aust.).
Centralised Controls
Since planned controls and ‘‘orderly
marketing” began to stem out from pro-
fessors, economic advisers and city
farmers at Canberra the astonishing fact
emerges that in the last four years the
population of Canberra has increased 55
per cent.
Not included in this count are 240 per-
sons classified as diplomats.
From the Canberra population total
of 23,530 it is shown that approximately
one person out of every four has no
home of his own, but lives in a hostel,
hotel, etc., which might reasonably ex-
plain the aura of irresponsibility that at
times emerges from that city of planners.
Statistics now disclose that Australia
employs a larger proportion of its labor-
force in manufacture than the U.S.A.,
and the drift to the towns and cities con-
tinues.
Since 1938-39 the rural labor-force in
Australia has run down from 520,000 to
450,000, whilst factory figures have
increased from 542,000 to 889,000, with
other sources of city employment not
disclosed.
What is a greater menace to our com-
munity than Communists?
These imported pests are not the pro-
duct of the real Australia, and are not
so insidious as the politician who plots
and plans the destruction of food-produc-
tion with wild-cat schemes of food-
stabilisation,” with practically every
necessity of life absent from our tables
unless by the grace of some expert con-
troller and his pimp brigade of price-
fixers.
Surely the time is rotten ripe that the
agriculturist and the rural worker and
the businessman and all those dependent
on country progress and decentralisation
should protest forcibly against the Can-
berra menace that is accomplishing the
same ends as Communism.
Also, surely we can’t proceed much
further to rehabilitation by lip patriotism
and noble oratory when controls and
taxation are dragging the country into a
bog, and every day that passes finds the
community shackled further, and sees
sausage-machine laws made to throw
down the decent man and woman to
build up the improvident.
What is the use of crying for produc-
tion when thousands are thrown out of
work for working, and thousands are
told that production is a crime and must
be penalised by a brutal and degrading
system of tax confiscation masquerading
under the false premise of defence and
need to outlaw inflation?
The late referendum was false from
the outset, as it set out to outlaw Com-
munism, when, in fact, the seeds of Com-
munism are being bred in Australia by
improvident Governments that are peri-
lously close to the Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde type.
As one who voted No and publicly
advised all to vote No, I feel I was more
patriotic than many Yes advocates.—
L. S. L. (N.S.W.).
Choose Your Own
As a .subscriber to a local library I
find I am one of a generation that is
dying out. I actually choose my own
library books! It seems to me an amaz-
ing thing that women who, no doubt,
are most particular about choosing their
own clothes and the color of their lip-
stick should know so little about their
own minds that they should depend on
the literary taste of a junior librarian,
often a girl who has just left school.
A limited few, no doubt, have their
“lists” of books they would like to read,
and depend on the librarian to keep these
for them. The majority, however, go to
the librarian’s desk, and the conversation
is something like this: “Now, here’s a
book you’ll like—good, sophisticated
stuff—we find it very popular.” Where-
upon a middle-aged woman, impeccably
dressed, takes what is given her without
so much as a glance at the interior.
Of course, if you merely want “a
thriller for your husband,” as many of
them do, I should say he gets what he
deserves for not choosing his own.
Choose your own books. Open two
or three if the author is unknown to
you; any two paragraphs chosen at
random should show you whether the
book is for you or not. The last stage
of mental lethargy comes when the sub-
scriber says to the librarian “Do you
know if I’ve read this?” — Sarpedon
fN.S.W.).
Waterfront Employment
Permanent employment will never be
accepted by the Waterside Workers’
Federation (B. 29/8/’5l) or any other
union supplying labor to the waterfront
while the rate for casual labor is con-
siderably in excess of the rates for per-
manent employment. Until there is a
secret ballot and the rank-and-file can
express their views without fear of intimi-
dation, the union bosses will see that
casual labor remains. Under the roster
system, enforced by all waterfront unions,
employers are obliged to take any labor
sent to them, good, bad or indifferent.
They have no choice in the matter what-
ever.
Many of the better type of men would
welcome permanent employment with its
security and many other advantages, but
were it provided, an adjustment of rates
of pay as between permanent and casual
labor would be essential. Otherwise,
while the waterfront is fully employed,
the better-type men would be faced with
the alternative of remaining casual or
accepting rates at present considerably
below the casual rates. The blight of
casual labor and the roster system brings
the good man down to the level of the
bad man, there being no incentive for the
good man to do his best, other than his
moral obligation to do so, which is apt
to wear thin when he sees other men
getting the same pay for considerably less
work.
There will never be efficiency and a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay on
the waterfront until the right of free
selection is restored to the employers, and
the right of acceptance of permanent em-
ployment, should he so desire, is granted
to the employee.— Selimat (Siam).
Jenolan Caves
They are one of the world’s greatest
attractions, but visitors would not get a
very good impression of them at the pre-
sent time. The beautiful willow-trees that
surrounded the Blue Lake have been
severely lopped, and the stumps look
hideous, while the Blue Lake looks like
a muddy dam. Appointments outside the
caves are worse. The Caves House is
attractive, but its equipment is out of
date, and refreshment and other places
are poor. Apparently the N.S.W.
Government doesn’t consider it neces-
sary to make the surroundings in keep-
ing with the beauty of the interior of the
caves.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 144
Across.
I—Grave1 —Grave progenitor has Pennsyl-
vania’s seabird part of a horse’s
foot. (7)
s—O, not o, with the football
score in a show of obstinate
intolerance. (7)
9—Ranters who beat the bath. (3-8)
10— An egg is part of this last min-
strel’s composition. (3)
11— Being made of cedar, a vehicle
upset Edward when outrun. (5)
13—Find a record bowling spell. (8)
15— Beard of the corn. (3)
16 — They were specially significant to
Newton, Tell, Adam. (6)
18—Much invested area of the
Levant. (4)
20 — Timber journals. (4)
21 — Sounds like a Semitic market
offspring of a bull and a mare. (6)
22 Again missing in Aly’s father. (3)
24 —Wood affirmative rope in the rig-
ging. (8)
26 —Nine gave Anne a change. (5)
28 — Ancient priest eliminated without
a girl and boy. (3)
29 — Russian vehicles carry the sailor
insect and beasts of burden. (11)
31— -Mrs. Hamite takes the northern
way in. (7)
32 A cuckoo relative of a catkin. (7)
Down.
1— Strike Toshack and a colleague in
the manner of pop. (10)
2 Weep. (3)
3 Chased in for creatures for whom
a fractured spine is by no means
disabling. (8)
4 Wanderer cuckoo must keep out!
(5)
5 Southern Palestine suggests re-
freshments to King Solomon s
visitor. (9)
6 Frenchman to gossip before
study. (6)
7_~Whoever cultivates broken china
controlling the rudder. (6, 5)
B—Toy upsets some dialogue by
Flanagan and Allen. (4)
12—Process in sugar production takes
a century with a Sambo pinion.
(4-7)
14 —Orientals found during a meal
related to the instep ran into a
sailor salt. (10)
17 —Cookery to satisfy both Jack
Horner and the Knave of Hearts.
(4, 5)
19—The venerability of beef in low-
class travelling accommodation.
(8)
23 —Recent changes in such a focal
point. (6)
25—Why finish a county in N.S.W.?
(5)
27—Close-fisted average. (4)
30—-It is up to have a session. (3)
Solution to Crossword No, 143.


m
&
tindher fine achievement:
k
"IS
■
•-
1
.
burfmimlias leadi* f
>-■5
“MARS” 14-INCH ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
This Heavy Duty general purpose Lathe is a member of Mars “New Series” group of all geared
head lathes. The weight is over 1 1 tons and the length of bed is 20 feet between centres. It has
a 3|-inch hollow main spindle. Swing over bed is 29 inches and swing through gap is 54 inches.
The design incorporates such features as Automatic Braking of Headstoek Spindle—Remote Start-
Stop Control, Generated Gears, Balanced Controls, Schlesinger Limits of Guaranteed Accuracy.
View shows lathe with large gap removed.
OTHER FINE MACHINE TOOLS MANUFACTURED BY “MARS”
“MARS” UNIVERSAL MILLER
Rapid power traverse, all movements.
Wide range speeds and feeds. Built-in
electrics. Guaranteed accuracy. Com-
plete with all accessories.
“MARS” RADIAL DRILL
Designed to suit Engineering Work-
shop conditions requiring capacity and
accuracy. All gear drive. Power and
Hand Feed. Quick change and ease
of operation. Portable work table.
r
“MARS” 16i-in. SHAPER
Ideal general purpose machine. Wide
operational range. Designed to cut
key ways in long shafts. Guaranteed
accuracy.
“MARS” PLANER
Suitable for use in any workshop.
Accurately built and sturdily designed.
Simple to operate. Maximum pro-
duction with minimum outlay.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY, MARS HEAVY DUTY
DIFFERENTIAL INDEXING HEAD.
MEEHANITE (Regd. Trade Mark) CASTINGS
All castings are produced in the Mars Foundry under supervision of
highly trained metallurgical and laboratory staffs. We manufacture
21 GRADES OF MEEHANITE IRONS.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: A , , , , .
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co,, 184 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. VIG.. ,^ cr ,f o r „
Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd. INDIA (Bombay
Province): R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chambers, Fort*, Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
3<3*«
■v
mmMM
m
m.
<s
mar*
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFC.CO.PTY.LTD
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
? & O’S. Advert.
