

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3727
Wednesday, July 18,1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Jeppelts
FROM DARTMOUTH TO THE CRUSADES, TO AMERICA, TO NORMANDY'S BEACHES!
FEW seaports in Britain can boast a longer history than Dartmouth, whose
seamen have played no small part in establishing England’s supremacy as a
seafaring nation. Their bold exploits against the French corsairs were recorded
by Chaucer, and such famous names as Raleigh, Gilbert, Davis and Hawley
are associated with this ancient and picturesque port on the Devon coast.
Dartmouth, the present home of the Royal Naval College, played a leading
part in deciding the fate of England when the Spanish Armada approached
her shores in 1588. During the Civil War the town was besieged for a month
before it was captured by Fairfax in 1646, and it was there, in 1671, that
Charles II held his Court, a visit which is commemorated by a chimney-piece
carved with the royal arms.
Dartmouth’s land-locked harbour has been the scene of many stirring
events in England’s history—it provided an anchorage for part of Richard
Coeur-de-Lion’s fleet which assembled there in 1190 before sailing for the
Crusades. Before setting sail for America in 1620 the Pilgrim Fathers in the
Mayflower and Speedwell anchored there for a week. In the Second World
War trial landings by Allied Forces in preparation for D-day took place in
the harbor, and from there sailed a quarter of the invasion force in many
hundreds of landing craft. Throughout the war its fine harbour sheltered
destroyers, frigates and submarines.
Overlooking the estuary of the River Dart is Dartmouth Castle, which was
built by Henry VIII (1509-1547) as one of the fortresses guarding the south
coast. Its square battlemented tower, adapted for a battery of guns, is
surmounted by a high look-out turret which provides extensive views of the
estuary and surrounding country. On the opposite shore another castle,
Kingswear, was built about the same time as Dartmouth, and a stout defensive
chain was stretched across the harbour mouth between the two castles.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPEIT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4


Learn
df
EfitiKia
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HEBE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.161) Age
"UP THE COUNTRY."
Up the Country, the second to be pub-
lished in Angus and Robertson’s series
of the novels of Brent of Bin Bin, seems
as certainly to be the work of Miles
Franklin as did Prelude to Waking. It
is in Miles Franklin’s spirited and some-
times disconcertingly rumbustious style
it is rich in content and baffling in con
struction like All That Swagger ; it i
militantly feminine like My Brillian
Career; and, like everything Mile
Franklin has \%itten, it is full of deep
proud, nostalgic love for the Australian
bush and the life of the squatters, wit
something epic and legendary about it.
Crediting the novel to Miles Franklin
(and trusting that the conjecture is no
mistaken), it is pleasing to think once
again how fine a novelist we have walk
ing amongst us. Really, it is only a few
years since the flourishing of Lawson
Furphy, Dyson and Steele Rudd, th
robust and authentically Australian schoo
in which Miles Franklin’s novels hav
their origin. But it seems a long time
Life seems different; writing, except her
and there, as in the short-stories of Brian
James, is different in spirit. But in Mile
Franklin and in the Brent of Bin Bin
novels the tradition lives on.
After the disappointment of Prelude
Waking, which Angus and Robertson
courageously and perilously publisher
first in the series, and which, if lively
and full of vigorous thought, was too thin
and frothy to live long in its own right
Up the Country is particularly welcome
for this is the novel which has been
called an Australian classic and of which
A. G. Stephens said, “If you are Aus-
tralian ; if you feel Australia; the truth,
the character, the reality, the vitality ol
the story will presently grip you anc
finally hold you enthralled” ; and a re-
reading today leaves one with no desire
to modify that august opinion. There is
an enthusiasm, an impetuous and some-
times beautiful warmth in the writing to
which anyone who “feels Australia” can-
not fail to respond;
Bert rode away from Gowandale into the
perfect night through country which para-
dise may equal but not excel in summer
beauty. He splashed into the singing
streams, galloped across the tussocked
plains girth-deep in flowers drenched in
dew, which, as the sun rose, gleamed in
drops like colored pearls. He eased up on
the timbered ridges where the snow-gums
stood like brides in veils of perfumed lace
[surely this must be a woman writing] or
threaded his familiar way through shrub-
beried gullies. He laughed in harmony
with the kookaburras in the trees, and sang
with the operatic magpies sweetly intoning
matins on every stick and stone. Ah, but
it was good to be alive!
Oddly enough, this Australian classic
is by no means a good novel: as a story,
that is; as a piece of construction, an
example of the novelist’s art. The author
seems to be well aware of this, and
defends it in various ways: it is, says the
foreword, “true to life,” moving “back
and forth and up and down as simply as
life itself” ; it is an example, says the
author later on, of the Australian custom
of “possuming” which means in this con-
text running backwards and forwards,
here, there and everywhere in place and
time, as possums run about the branches
of a tree; it is, finally, a “chronicle” —
of a family, or, rather, a group of
families, a district.
These are very pretty arguments; but
it is not possible, really, successfully to
defend the indefensible. Because of its
frequent changes of direction, its hordes
of unidentifiable minor characters, its
chunks of anecdote and its essentially
pointless episodes and adventures—be-
cause of its lack of a strong central
drama; and therefore of movement —the
novel is far too confusing, far too baffling,
far too chaotic to be regarded as a satisfy-
ing work of art, even in the category of
the family “saga.” It reminds you of
those inviting bush roads which stride
out purposefully into the wilderness as
if they have something extremely import-
ant at the end of them, and which arrive,
when you get to the end, nowhere;
petering out, pleasantly enough in a sense,
in the chaos of the gum-trees. It reminds
you at other times, when you are follow-
ing one thread of story and another cuts
clean across it, of the pioneer explorers
trying to cross the Blue Mountains;
continually being confronted, for lack of
a central ridge to take them right through,
with wave after wave of sandstone.
Somewhere embedded in it, a piece
here and a piece there, is a story that
might have made a fascinating drama:
that of old Boko Pool, the giant ex-
convict with his black beard, and his wild
son Bert, dashing and handsome, who is
in love with a squatter’s wife and is also
suspected of being in league with the
bushrangers. A centralisation on this
family, showing wild blood working itself
out in the lovely Monaro country for
good or ill, could have given us a clear
and memorable story; but Bert would
have had to be more urgently tempted
towards love and bushranging than he is ;
and perhaps it is as well that Miles
Franklin—or Brent of Bin Bin—didn’t
attempt a whole novel based on the Pools,
for when Bert is dramatised in action,
attacking the bushrangers singlehanded
in defence of the squatter’s household, the
narrative becomes improbable and melo-
dramatic.
With the Pool drama hardly touched
on, Bert’s passion for Rachel Labosseer
becoming increasingly uninteresting be-
cause of his lack of enterprise, and the
distant narrative of a wife on the gold-
fields with a drunken husband too distant
to hold the attention, the novel depends
for movement chiefly on a set of court-
ships and marriages, among which it is
difficult really to care very much who
marries whom, while even so moving an
episode as the drowning of Emily Mazere
loses some of its force because it is not
shown as the result of psychological
necessity but happens as a mere accident.
Life may well be like that; but it was
something more than an accident that took
Anna Karenina under the wheels of a
train; and indeed there may be a suicidal
impulse in Emily Mazere which the
author has failed, or refused, to recog-
nise.
But there are other considerations which
outweigh—far outweigh—the weakness
and confusion of the construction. There
is, for instance, the breadth of the canvas,
which, in fact, makes the confusion almost
inevitable; the ranging over a great stretch
of Australian countryside around Yass
and. Gundagai and Cooma and extend-
ing to the Victorian goldfields. And the
variety of types, Irish and Scots and Eng-
lish and aborigines and native-born Aus-
tralians, proud squatters and wild bush-
rangers, newchums and stockmen, girls by
the dozen.
Then, taking these two together, the
countryside and its people, there are the
vividness and completeness of the novel
as a picture of Australian life: time, 1852
to 1869 ; place, the land: what the people
wore, what they ate, how they talked
and what they talked about, how their
houses looked, the landscapes of rock
and wildflowers they moved among, their
parties and their dances, their weddings
and their funerals—it is all unmistakably
authentic, told with a breath of life in
it that makes it a different thing from the
painstaking reconstructions of the average
historical novel, and it is astonishingly
complete ; every detail that can help bring
to life these squatters and their period
seems to be remembered.
Above all, there is the epic, the legend-
ary quality of the novel, both in the inci-
dents that are described and in the spirit of
the writing. The things that make up the
Australian tradition —gold, bushranging,
pioneering, tragic accidents, floods, bush
dances, picnic races, horsemanship—they
are all in this book and, caught up in
a mood of nostalgic love, take on the
quality of legend while they are happen-
ing:—
One of the biggest mobs of cattle that
had so far been mustered up the country
took the overland route that summer.
Upwards of a thousand head looked impos-
ing in those days as they were driven for-
ward from the flats to take the edge of the
Great Plains on their southward way. They
got in a bit of a jam at the river. It took
plucky riding in among them to get them
through the shrubs into the stream swollen
with late spring rains. A protesting bellow
rose to heaven, but the fierce cattle-dogs
scarified their heels, the cruel whips cut
their hides like brands, those at the rear
jammed the leaders forward, and in they
went. The bellowing ceased. There was
the rare sight of an expanse of water alive
with heads crowned with beautiful horns
as they contested the swift current for dear
life. Deflated by immersion, they set off
at a swinging pace through the township
and right past Three Rivers homestead.
The household climbed on to the roof of
the cowsheds to get a good view. Away
towards the molten eye of setting day they
undulated, the rattle of their horns and the
crackle of their fetlocks making music as
they swept past—a wave of primordial
rhythm.
No amount of ingenious argument
about “possuming,” no defence of the
novel as a “slice of life” will make Up
the Country a work of art as, say,
Withering Heights in its beautiful sim-
plicity, its concentration and its swift,
clean movement is a work of art; nor,
with so many of its minor characters
nonentities and without a central theme,
can it be compared with the broader art
of Dickens. Though doubtless there is
enough narrative interest in its family
history and its courtships to carry the
reader through it, essentially it is not so
much a novel as a kind of animated social
history; a source for the novelists, as
well as the historians, of the future. But
beyond that it will live for its poetic
quality; as an image, rich and impas-
sioned, of how they lived in the great
days “up the country.”
D.S.
Miners' Nurse.
The Red Page
Scarlet Pillows, An Australian Nurse’s
Tales of Long Ago by Mrs. Arthur H.
Garnsey (there is no publisher’s imprint;
our copy from Whitcombe and Tombs)
is as unpretentious and solid a little
memoir as one could hope to find.
Beginning with a picture of interstate
travel in small steamers at the end of
last century, in which the old Tambo
literally got a screw loose at sea, it goes
on to the similar discomforts of a nurse’s
life at Rockhampton cockroaches
carpeting floors at night, frogs in bath-
rooms, snakes coiled on beds and chairs
and standard uniforms in the steamy
heat; “Navy-blue dress and long cloak,
high Eton collar, bonnet with long veil
at the back and white strings tied tightly
under the chin.” And children with
hydatids, and eyelids eaten by flies, in
the days when diphtheria choked with
impunity, and a patient was lucky to
survive pneumonia.
Mrs. Garnsey (nee Ann Stafford Bird)
gives a lively account of a visit to Dingo,
where she nearly got lost on horseback
trying to find a cave of aboriginal carv-
ings—the inhabitants had grudged her
the horse, largely on the grounds that
“ ’Taint fit for a lady.” At Dingo she
was given as a special privilege “The
Parson’s Room,” the floorboards of
which rose up and down in the early
morning as a herd of goats, which spent
their nights under the house, rose to
take the air.
But the book really gets down to busi-
ness in Coolgardie, in 1898, where nurses
lived in hessian huts round a stone
hospital ; and spent their spare time
making shrouds, of cheap white calico:
I couldn’t bear to think of being garbed
in one of these things myself, and, as I had
a feeling that I would probably die at that
hospital of typhoid or some other dreadful
disease, as other nurses had done, I bought
some of the softest nainsook and lace, and
and made a long and pretty shroud, with
angel sleeves, and kept it in readiness,
accompanied by a nice pair of white stock-
ings to hide my sand-roughened feet. But
I didn’t die. So, later, when at last I
married (not a patient), this shroud became
one of my prettiest trousseau nightgowns.
Many of her patients were Afghans;
one of them, Aloo, persuaded her to go
for a ride on a camel with him—soon they
had left the town behind, and were flying
along at a speed which alarmed the
nurse, who belabored AJoo with her
fists until he turned the camel home-
wards. There is a horribly gruesome
story of a corpse, a morgue and a doctor
returning from a spree; a tragedy of
nurses, preparing to go to a ball, hearing
pistol shots and running out of their tents
to find one of them dead with her in-
namorata ; a superb account of the open-
ing of Paddy Flannigan’s Boulder Hotel,
the latest addition to the 50 pubs in one
short street:
There were no menu cards. Kitty (the
waitress)... .had learnt her lesson upside-
down, and began: “Coffee-and-tea-for-
them-as-like-it, beer-wines-and-spirits-of-all-
sorts, sweets-fruits-ice-cream-pies-custards-
plumpudding, marrer-sparrer-grass.” Here
her breath began definitely to fail, and,
clutching her sides and bending lower, she
continued: “Taters-peas-ducks-turkey-beef-
turtle-soup! ”
It was a fine performance. As the last
word was gasped hoarsely, close to my ear,
I forgot what was required of me, and just
had a thankful feeling that something was
safely over, and simply said “Amen.”
There is the story of an inquiry into
the sobriety of doctors, and of the
evidence Mrs. Garnsey had to give; of
the wife from the east who arrived at
the hospital to take away her husband’s
amputated leg for burial, ar|d her annoy-
ance when she found that it had already
been interred by his wife from the west;
of the authoress, on a business trip for a
friend to Broad Arrow, being put up in
the bar-parlor, and of a party of miners
who have just made a new alluvial find,
pushing in to discuss their plans in
secrecy, insisting that “The Shy Lady”—
in bed —must not “drink to this bit of
dirt in lemonade. You’ll drink beer like
the rest of us” ; and of the old man, fail-
ing in sight and hearing, who offered to
act as godfather at a christening:
The question came: “Dost thou, in the
name of this child, renounce the devil and
all his works? The vain pomp and glory
of the world, with all covetous desires of
the same and the sinful desires of the
flesh, so that thou wilt not follow nor be
led by them?” ii, 5
In a loud, solid voice, he said: “I recom-
mend them all.” m ;i
We have taken only a few nuggets off
the surface of Mrs. Garnsey’s book,
which is no bright journalist’s collection
of hearsay, but the deep mine of a life’s
experiences; always to the point, always
colorful and factual; valuable both in
itself and to history.
Personal Poetry .
There is little flavor of the New Zealand
earth in Merval Connelly’s 28 Poems
(Caxton Press; printed with the aid of
the State Literary Fund), and there is a
good deal of exploration of the author’s
own personality: in the form of “Now
will confess to you,” or in poems abou
the poems she hopes to write.
These are the sort of personal poems
natural to a young writer, indicating
desire to write rather than a finishec
achievement. But Miss Connelly, with
some delicate effects of internal rhyme,
as in the poem about bird-song, is finding
her way towards a technique:
No choice of note or tone represses you,
The ready-ripened music spills at will
Into the sullen silence; flawless fall
Your calls, perfection gilds your frailest
trill;
and sometimes she emerges from her
private world to look at a cat, an old
woman who has had three husbands, a
child with her dolls, or the city of Wel-
lington huddled below the gigantic bulk
of Mt. Victoria: — ia
Beyond them a frozen cascade of buildings
is checked at the wharves, |
The hills with their Maori lore are asleep
in the sun;
Behind me the quickening wind is sieved
through the aerial masts -
And below lies the city, a fairytale barely
begun. "|l|
28 Poems itself, in short, is also a fairy-
tale barely begun ; but begun promisingly.
Mystery in Sydney .
Good standard mystery novels are
two-a-penny in London ; but it is still
news when an Australian writes one,
especially one about Australia, such as
The Knife is Feminine, by Charlotte Jay
(Collins). yl
The hero is a journalist who has been
freed on a charge of murdering a friend
with a dagger, the handle of which
(lushly done on the jacket) is a nude
feminine torso; but he is under a public
verdict of “Not Proven! ” He is lavishly
loved by Ann, the spoiled child of a rich
Sydney industrialist who doesn’t stop at
murder (the picture given of him doesn’t
remind us of any we know) and has a
sinister French secretary, late of the
Resistance.
At a queer boarding-house set some-
where on the way to Watson’s Bay, the
hero meets the woman he has been look-
ing for, the wife of the murdered friend,
and hands her the letters the husband had
entrusted to him —his wife’s love-letters.
They turn out to be the letters of Another
Woman ; then, suddenly, it strikes the hero
that the letters may have an entirely
different significance—and so it turns out.
The widow is killed while the hero is
detained at a pub on the way to Watson’s
Bay which strikes a reminiscent note;
and thereafter the hero, drugged and
made captive on a car-trip down from
the Blue Mountains, is forced to give up
the letters in a grand climax with the
mysterious head of an evil plot against
Australian industry.
Altogether, the book is a little above
the average run of such things; and with
its Sydney atmospheres has gained the
polished narrative style so necessary to
carrying-off the violently improbable
(fancy an Australian industrialist believ-
ing that the Press should be “con-
trolled!”). Miss Jay, says the back-flap,
spent a couple of years travelling around
Britain and France after the war, worked
two years in London, and is now travel-
ling and studying life and art in New
Guinea.
The Slender Thread: Douglas Baber
(Heinemarm). A first novel by an ex-
R.A.F. man, shot down, protected by
Belgians, made prisoner-of-war. On the
surface, his story has little to do with
the war: a young man with a hare-lip
his hand shrivelled to a claw by a
German flame-thrower, murders a girl
from a tobacco kiosk who would not
love him, and who, during the war itself,
had been amused to see him humiliated
by an American soldier. In the first part,
he is shown visiting a psychologist, pre-
dicting the crime; the second is a series
of drunken hallucinations after the
crime. The people, the scenes and the
action are well realised, especially the
somewhat grubby atmosphere of post-
war London.


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING'*
nthony Horderns’
i m
2s*
■:-*
i
■
II
/ : S ' ! ; :
4
A
mm
•#;>;
K:
h
SSP
IBii
A
mm
. ■
<s>
7?
m
SJt
cS>
e
9
Ss-
■^J.
<?
The “Mulco” and “Lorton”
A. —Gent’s “Mulco” 15 Jewel antimagnetic Swiss lever wrist watch. Centre
sweep second hand, Imported stainless steel case and leather strap. £l5/5/0.
B. —Gent’s “Mulco” 15 Jewel antimagnetic Swiss lever wrist watch with
stainless steel case, Imported leather strap. Attractively finished and has a
centre sweep second hand. Priced at £l4/7/6,
C. stainless steel “Lorton” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch with
a centre sweep second hand. Antimagnetic and fitted in an Imported case on
a strong Imported leather band. Priced at £ll/10/0.
D. —Two watches in one! Ordinary timepiece and a stopwatch. Gent’s
“Lorton” Chronograph 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch with a stainless steel
Imported case on Imported leather strap. £2l/15/0.
The Beautiful "MUICO 11 Ladies Watch.
F. —Attractively finished in stainless steel and having a two tone
face the “Mulco” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch has a raised
optic glass, Imported case on a strong leather strap. Price £l4/3/0.
Sipil
wm
/
m
y
Watches to please EVERY Woman !
E.—Ladies stainless steel “Lorton” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch fitted
in an Imported case and on an Imported cordette band. Gold figures
and hands on face, raised glass, and Imported cordette band. £l2/5/0.
G. —Ladies stainless steel “Lorton” 15 Jewel Swiss lever watch with
Imported case and silver figures and hands, fitted on a cordette band.
Reasonably priced at £l2/10/0.
H. —Ladies stainless steel “Mulco” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch with
an Imported case and a raised optic glass. The watch is fitted on an
Imported leather band. Priced at £l3/15/0.
JEWELLERY DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. TELEPHONE M 2401. MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY


ICFIIACTFD
IVKIfIMv I in
KEROSENE REFRIGERATOR
m
m
n\
m
vesViw*
The Kerosene. Refrigerator
that every country house-
wife has longed to own! As
big and beautiful as the De-
luxe electric models aiv
improved, high - efficiency
system that brings a new
era of trouble-free perform-
ance a freezing - power
that’s amazing and the
greatest useable storage
space ever offered for the
rated cubic capacity!
WMffo!
mm
m
fifes*-..
»
'"■>v»v.v..>>«y
s«ffr rrrrff>]
AL2O
Distributors:
Bennett & Wood Pty. Ltd.,
Cnr. Pitt and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Broken Hill: Barrier Electrical
Appliances Ltd., 233-255 Argent Street.
APPLIANCES LIMITED, FINSBURY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3727
Wednesday, July 18, 1951
df
tes®
SOCIAL
“NO, NO! I NEVER TOUCH THE STUFF!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G P. 0.), Wellington.
POWER—AND ACTION.
The introduction of the Defence Prepara-
tions Bill by a Government pledged to
the liquidation of Socialist policy and
of controls on free enterprise should
bring home to the country its danger
from external enemies and their fifth-
columns.
It is not the kind of measure which
any free people cares to see introduced
except in case of dire necessity. And
certainly it is not the kind of measure
which a Government that values its
future existence would introduce unless it
were forced to it.
It came as a surprise to some of those
great, omniscient dailies which are a
feature of Australian journalism that
Mr. Menzies actually had obtained a
mandate for the bill at the last elections,
when he said specifically that if returned
he would introduce such a measure, duly
named in his policy speech, and the
powers of which he said would be exer-
cised “if emergency renders them neces-
sary for the protection of the people.”
But after the first cold shock, which
did not strike deeply enough into the
commercial nerve-system of the country
to affect a booming stock-and-share
market more than momentarily, electors
in general, outside the “Labor” Opposi-
tion, had accepted the inevitable with
equanimity, if not without misgivings
for what may happen should a “Labor”
majority presently snatch power through
some quirk of fortune.
The bill in essence is a mild piece of
legislation when compared with Acts of
similar purpose operating in the United
States and in Britain for years past, and
which embrace universal compulsory
training and the power to direct labor in
emergency.
“Labor’s” opposition to the measure
is, of course, purely a matter of politics.
Its tongue is in its cheek so far that it
looks like a tumor. Dr. Evatt is hard
put to it in his elucidation of his party’s
viewpoint to sound as if he were not
taking part in a burlesque. He appears,
in fact, precisely like the president of a
local Socialist debating society who has
drawn out of the hat as his evening
subject the theme “Why I Hate
Socialism.” As the helot leader of a
caucus which avowedly takes its orders
from the A.L.P. executive, whose presi-
dent and the union which employs
him ardently advocated the permanent
establishment in peace-time of “Labor’s”
war-time controls for the purposes of
general government, Dr. Evatt’s exposi-
tion of his horror at the “Powers-grab
Bill” is specious and dishonest.
The president of the A.L.P., Mr. J. A.
Ferguson, Dr. Evatt’s ex-Communist
boss, told the 1944 A.L.P. Conference in
Sydney, which decided to adopt a plan
to introduce complete socialisation within
10 years:
The working-class is not complaining
about controls. Those who complain are
those who have us completely subjugated.
If those controls can give us victory in
war, let us carry them on to give us
victory in peace.
“Victory,” of course, for communistic
Socialism.
Whatever personal or sectional feel-
ings arise about the Defence Preparations
Bill it must be accepted that the Govern-
ment is in the best position to decide
whether the situation warrants it. Mr.
Menzies has, or should have, full contact
at the highest and deepest levels with
the best sources of information as to
how dangerous the world situation is and
how near to war we may be. He must
be trusted both to apply the new Act with
a sparing discretion and to wipe it out
so soon as the necessity for it passes.
He must also be trusted not to use it
for purposes of legislating permanently
by regulation.
Even if he is wrong in his assumptions
about the necessity for immediate defence
powers his sincerity must be taken for
granted. His expressed view is certainly
more sincere than the pabulum which
Dr. Evatt is dishing up, and which marks
him down either as a complete simpleton
who cannot read the most ominous world
signs or a shameless politician prepared
to turn even national peril to account
on behalf of the Leftist gang who steered
him into Parliament and into office as
leader.
For a former president of the United
Nations Organisation, familiar with the
proceedings of the Security Council ever
since its formation, to tell Parliament that
he believes the preamble to the bill which
sets out the dangers which prompt it to
be a “scare” is to insult the intelligence
of his listeners. For him to suggest that
he is shocked at the idea of taking powers
over “the whole commercial and indus-
trial life of Australia from Parliament
to outside functionaries” is a nauseating
piece of hypocrisy coming from a man
who acts as the chief instrument of an
irresponsible junta of “outside func-
tionaries” which uses Parliament only as
a recording body to give legality to its
decisions when “Labor” is in office.
Mr, Menzies has given assurances to
the Liberal party, to Parliament and to
the country that powers under the bill
will not be abused and that the Govern-
ment will rely on voluntary co-operation
as much as possible to adjust the country’s
economy to the needs of a dangerous
period. If that course is followed
the magnitude of the voluntary effort of
the commercial community and the public
in general will provide the measure of
the Government’s need to implement its
controls under the new law.
If the country co-operates as it did in
the early years of World War II the
regulations should not be more
onerous than the situation demands. The
Menzies-Fadden Administrations were in
office between 1939 and 1941. Controls
were in operation under a war economy
which was going into high gear without
any devastating effects until “Labor”
took over and entered on its career of
“Socialism in our time.”
In view of the fact that even a large
section of the Parliamentary Liberal and
Country parties seems to have believed
that the Defence Preparations Bill is the
outcome of a plot by some of the multi-
tude of highly-placed Socialists who were
pitchforked into the public service by
“Labor”-in-office, it is also worth remem-
bering that in 1939-41 the Menzies-Fadden
Governments applied controls to industry
on the advice of men whom the whole
commercial community trusted and looked
up to —Essington Lewis, Sir Douglas
Copland and others. It was only with the
arrival of Dr. Evatt and his friends in
power that Mr. John Wren’s partner, Mr.
“Red Ted” Theodore, and the horde of
bookies and trainers who rose to eminence
in 1941-45 came to the front.
And within six months Mr. Ward was
the King of Industry pitchforked into the
Ministry on the petition of the A.C.T.U.,
then under Communist control, and
coached in producing his totalitarian
measures by Comrade J. S. Garden, since
proved to have been a secret member of
the Communist party, whom he had
chosen as his “liaison-officer” with those
same Red unions.
The Government must be given a fair
trial with its defence legislation. If it
deviates from its promises or from prin-
ciples not in accord with the ideals for
which it professes to stand a vigilant
Parliament and active public opinion can
deal effectively with it.
Korea and Japan.
At first sight the Korean talks for peace
terms looked something like the police
making ready for an agreement with the
burglars—still on the premises and with
arms in their hands —for a withholding
of action to arrest them if the burglars
would go quietly. For the Communist
negotiators at Kaesong are the Chinese
“volunteer” aggressors; the United
Nations delegation have the “law” of
that organisation to uphold as well as a
war to be extinguished; and the
aggressors have been doing their best to
present the position as one in which the
police have requested the cease-fire.
The American Admiral Joy who is
leading the U.N. delegation has corrected
any such impression so far as he can
without impairing the uncertain peace
prospects. His delegation, he told the
rather frigid first meeting, “will work for
a cessation of hostilities under conditions
which will assure against their resump-
tion.”
This delegation won’t discuss political
or economic matters of any kind and
won’t discuss military matters unrelated to
Korea. Hostilities will continue in all
areas except the present neutral zones
until there is agreement on terms govern-
ing an armistice. Success or failure of
negotiations begun here depends directly
upon good faith on hoth sides.
Good faith, especially, as between Com-
munist China and the U.N. negotiators,
as well as between Communist China and
the Korean republic which the United
Nations have been defending.
Of that good faith after the first two
meetings there seemed to be in the Com-
munist delegation no sign whatever.
It will be interesting to see whether
Soviet Russia has any good faith to inject
into its Chinese allies. Moscow’s U.N.O.
agent Malik revealed, in the words which
offered an armistice in the first place,
that Russia could at any moment it
wished call off this war as easily as it
was called on ; and there is no doubt
at all that Russia could also prevent any
resumption of Chinese aggression against
neighbors in Korea or anywhere else.
Any widening of the Korean settlement
(if there be one) would clearly entail
some change of behavior in Moscow ;
and between the lines of Admiral Joy’s
intimation is to be read a warning that
Russian intervention would extend to
Moscow the obligations now placed upon
Peking. Anyone who weighs-up the
implications therein will conclude that
many people have been throwing their
caps into the air over a Korean peace
rather too prematurely.
As for the matter of Communist
China’s demand to be given a permanent
seat on the U.N. Security Council —the
burglar demanding to be made one of
the police chiefs—a certain probationary
period is the least requirement to be
satisfied. The Attlee Government in
Britain agrees with Washington on the
point. Foreign Secretary Morrison may
“see a real prospect of peace,” but
Britain will continue to rearm. “We
must have more fundamental and more
far-reaching evidence that the danger
itself is diminished.” That means nothing
if it does not mean “more fundamental
evidence” in Korea, and “more far-
reaching evidence” in other environs of
the iron curtain in Asia and Europe.
Mr. Morrison, along with a lot of
other people, is more hopeful for the
reason that the Atlantic Pact nations are
becoming stronger to resist Soviet aggres-
sion. Confidence is growing in Western
Europe in proportion with the growth of
combined military strength and purpose,
and the Western Powers’ collaboration in
resistance areas in the eastern Mediter-
ranean suggests that the policy, albeit
terribly costly, will pay dividends in time.
Moreover the Western Powers, under a
bold policy instigated by the United
States, have played two cards which
Moscow cannot trump. One is their de-
claration formally ending the late war
with Germany, a natural sequence in the
steps to the gradual restoration of
sovereignty in West Germany and
its inclusion in the Western Euro-
pean defences. Whether the term
“Germany” in the announcement
includes also Eastern Germany of
the Russian zone is not so far clear. The
other is the prospective Japanese peace
settlement. If Japan is to be admitted
to the United Nations, Germany cannot
be left out; and there can hardly be two
places there for two Germanies.
The outcry from many quarters in
Australia about insufficient assurances in
the draft Japanese treaty against
future Japanese militarism was to be
expected in a public opinion conserva-
tively isolationist in international out-
look. If during the past six years which
it has wasted this country had worked to
strengthen its defences, develop its
essential industries, and created the only
backing that counts for asserting a voice
in the shaping of this wicked world, then
Australia might have been able to assert
effectively any views about modifying
the terms announced.
But diplomacy cannot lead from
weakness, and we are learning the
truth of the Prussian Frederick’s
maxim—that “diplomacy without arms
is like music without instruments.”
The decision concerning Japan is,
for good or ill, subject to mightier
influences than any which Australia can
assert, and even now the resentment
expressed against the sacrifices entailed
in preparing this vulnerable country to
meet a possible war reacts powerfully
against every political demand that Japan
shall be kept demilitarised for a term
stretching into the indefinite future, if
not for ever. Besides, who is going to
stand the expense of permanent occupa-
tion of Japan? What can any Australian
Government do about these matters, when
it has not at its disposal even a battalion
to relieve the one it sent last September
to Korea?
Those Australians who feel astonished
and indignant—if they really do feel like
that —at the close co-operation of
American policy-directors with the Jap-
enese should be consoled by the manifest
reactions of the proposed treaty upon
Soviet Russia. For the imminent re-
emergence of Japan as a sovereign nation
has done more than anything else to
bring about the Russian overtures for
peace in Korea. The Chinese invaders
have been worsted, and have suffered
hideous losses both in action and from
the scourges of typhus and dysentery
which wear down Asian belligerents as
they once wore down European armies
also. But more than anything else
the appearance on the horizon of
Japan in restored sovereignty must
surely have warned Moscow that time is
running against the Communists in this
region.
A few months hence the Korean war,
with Japan a sovereign State again, would
seem a very different proposition from
both Moscow and Peking. A renewed
Communist offensive in those conditions
would be practically asking for the Mac-
Arthur military policy to be put into
operation. Stranger things have happened
in history than developments which
would enlist Japan as an ally of the West
in opposing a Communist overrunning of
South-East Asia for the establishment of
a Communist “co-prosperity sphere.”
The Japanese might not see it quite like
that; but neither the United States under
the treaty settlement, nor Japan for her
own security, could tolerate a victorious
Communist army on the southern shores
of Korea, or any attempt by the present
aggressors in Korea to reach that
objective.
If the cold war is beginning to give
Stalin and his friends cold feet, some such
apprehensions as these will not help to
warm them.
South Africa.
The South African political scene has
always been a complicated mixture of
emotion and hard materialism. The
descendants of Dutch settlers and
Huguenots did the main pioneering work
in the Cape Colony —within them burned
their deep desire for freedom from
officialdom; a strong feeling it was, too,
for eventually, under various injustices,
they undertook their great drive into the
interior, and were joined in this by some
of the 1820 British settlers. After many
disasters at the hands of the natives they
were finally victorious at the Battle of the
Blood River, where they completely shat-
tered the power of the Zulus. Their trek
brought them to the Transvaal and
Orange Free State, where independent
Republics were established.
With the discovery of diamonds at
Kimberley, British officialdom in the Cape
Colony interfered —and the diamonds
were British. Gold in the Transvaal was
the final blow to both Republics. The
influx to the Transvaal of “Uitlanders”
(foreigners) seeking gold complicated the
“way of life,” and the broad views of
Rhodes regarding the continent of Africa
formed the death-sentence to indepen-
dence. With tension rising, the fateful
Anglo-Boer War was inevitable.
Although unification was achieved in
1910, the bitter resentment of Afrikaners
against the British has been the main
factor in their political outlook.
It was only the vision and wisdom of
General Smuts which stopped South
Africa from remaining neutral during the
last war. He gave his heart, soul and all
the great genius that he possessed, and in
the end, his life, that South Africans might
truly be a united race.
The Nationalist Government also wants
unification, but with the accent on the
Afrikaner. With General Smuts it was
unification within the British Empire;
with Dr. Malan and his followers it’s
unification with a Republic. The various
factors which may help them achieve this
are:
(а) The present Socialist Government in
Britain, whose outlook made the division
of India possible.
(б) The method of voting. As in Queens-
land, first past the post is the winner.
Athough the count went heavily against
the present Government, they were able
to get in with a majority of four seats.
( c ) Contrary to the wishes of U.N.0.,
the mandated territory of South West
Africa has been incorporated within the
Union as a fifth province. Population is
mainly of German descent, and from the
fact that in straight party voting there
the Nationalist party has held the majority,
they are presumably in line with the South
African Nationalist view, and at the
present time provide Malan with a well-
founded majority.
( d ) The loss of General Smuts. His
amazing personality and his (former)
association with the Transvaal Republic
and (later) with General Botha, gave him
many followers among Afrikaans-speak-
ing population.
(e) The effective strangulation of the
policy of encouraging English settlers.
This policy was favored by the United
party, but for obvious reasons not by the
present Government, Settlers today are
reported to be Germans, and these will
blend most aptly with the Afrikaans-
speaking section.
Trouble is brewing, especially with the
introduction of various anti-native laws,
such as the disfranchising of colored
voters, the segregation laws, the anti-
communist bill. Within a country as
divided as the Union, who knows to what
extent the present trouble may extend?
Dr. Malan has organised groups such
as the “Ossewa-Brandwag,”the “Broeder-
bond,” all Anglophobe. The majority of
the population is Afrikaans-speaking, but
many for the time being are conservative*
E. M. C.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Maoriland Election.
Although the “Labor” Opposition in
the New Zealand Parliament has for
months been telling the Government that
it is unfit to govern, it is probable that
Mr. Nash and his followers received an
unpleasant shock when Prime Minister
Holland announced that his Government
intended shortly to resign and submit its
administration to the people’s judgment
at a general election. The announcement
came a day after the unions which had
misguidedly supported the Communist-
led Waterside Workers’ Federation in its
disastrous strike decided to go back to
work and a few hours after the national
council of the watersiders instructed its
branches to call off the five-months-old
When Mr, Holland spoke of letting the
people judge his administration he meant
specifically its handling of the Red wharf-
strike. The Government countered the
Communist plot to tie up all New Zealand
ports —at first largely successful—by
seeking and obtaining the deregistration
of the union, by putting servicemen on
the wharves and Naval crews on some
coastal ships and by encouraging the
formation of new unions, free of Com-
munist control. It also declared a state
of national emergency, and created a Civil
Defence Corps. It had from the start the
support of the New Zealand Federation
of Labor, but the Labor Opposition in
Parliament took up an attitude which at
the best could only be described as one
of neutrality. As the strike wore on Mr.
Nash launched bitter attacks on the Gov-
ernment’s actions under Emergency Regu-
lations.
There is a strong similarity between the
attitude of New Zealand Labor on the
wharf strike and that of Dr, Evatt’s fol-
lowers on the Anti-Communist Bill. Both
Oppositions profess to hate the Com-
munists, but neither is prepared to help
the Government deal with them. The
Evatt party accuses the Menzies Govern-
ment of being Fascist, of striking at free-
dom of speech and freedom of associa-
tion, of working towards a police State.
The Nash party, according to Mr.
Holland, accuses the New Zealand Gov-
ernment of “Fascism and dictatorship, the
opening of mails, the tapping of tele-
phones, the suppression of free speech
and freedom of assembly.”
Taking the line that these charges, if
true, would mean that his Government
had no right to remain in charge of the
country’s affairs, Mr. Holland announced
his intention of appealing to the electors.
Like the Canberra Opposition when it
received news of the double-dissolution,
New Zealand Labor is putting on a bold
face, but it can hardly relish the prospect
of fighting an election on the Communist
issue.
National politics on the two sides of
the Tasman have followed similar trends
since the war. Labor Governments in
both Dominions struggled home in 1946
with reduced majorities, and in 1949
Labor’s long reign in Wellington came to
an end only a fortnight before Australian
“Labor” crashed in Canberra.
The Federal elections last April, fought
on the Communist issue, saw the Menzies
Government confirmed in office, and there
should be little doubt that New Zealand
electors, having seen their Government
face and defeat what was virtually a Com-
munist insurrection, will tell it to “carry
on.”
Those Commo Briefs.
Dr. Evatt should by now be sorry that
he ever looked twice at those Communist
briefs. His speech opening the debate
on the second reading of the Anti-
Communist Act Referendum Bill was
probably the worst he has made in the
House of Representatives.
There was nothing he could say, any-
way, that has not become with him
hackneyed beyond expression; but be-
fore he could open his mouth the gadfly
from Mackellar, Mr. Wentworth, rose on
a point of order, called the Speaker’s
attention to a former ruling that if a
member had appeared in court as advo-
cate in a matter of current political
polemics he could not advocate, speak or
vote on the same matter in Parliament.
If that ruling stood, since Dr. Evatt had
accepted the leading brief for the Com-
munists’ challenge of the Act before the
High Court, he could not now address
Parliament on this subject. Rubbing salt
into the wound, amid howls of rage from
the “Labor” benches, Mr. Wentworth said
that if his point of order were up-
held, he would move suspension of the
standing orders to allow Dr. Evatt to
speak.
Mr. Speaker Cameron promptly upheld
the point of order and confirmed his
ruling in so many words. The victim of
this bombshell, caught by surprise and
white with anger, expostulated, found
himself out of order, and was not suc-
coured when his offsider, Mr. Calwell,
trying to move that the Speaker’s ruling
be disagreed with, met the retort that
there was already a motion before the
House. So there was. Leader of the
House, Mr. Harrison, had grabbed the
ball during the scrimmage and moved
suspension of the standing orders to allow
Dr. Evatt to speak on the bill. This was
put and carried amid a chorus of “No”
from the Opposition, but no division was
called, which would only have heightened
the farce. It was the radio-listeners’
favorite Parliamentary hour of 8 p.m.,
much sought after by members, and Dr.
Evatt forthwith entered on a speech
already ruined, and he made none of the
usual acknowledgments of courtesy in two
extensions of time.
When he finally finished Minister Holt
arose and raked him fore and aft from
a debating position of unsurpassed
advantage. From the opening broadside
—“The House has just listened to the
most notable defender of Communism
in Australia” —he traversed every incident
in the “Labor” party’s crooked course
through the whole history of the legisla-
tion, the hypocrisy of the A.L.P. resolu-
tions on Communism which Dr. Evatt
had unhappily quoted, and, taking Dr.
Evatt’s hollow sentences about how he
and his party had made their stand on
high principles, he slashed them to ribbons
with a detailed recital of how, in the last
Parliament, “Labor” members declared
they would fight the bill to the death, and
then passed it on the voices because their
extra-Parliamentary executive had
ordered them to fight no more, and especi-
ally not to the death.
Dr. Evatt's Dilemma.
The incident in Parliament in which Mr,
W. C. Wentworth challenged the right
of Dr. Evatt to speak and vote on the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill would
not have been unusual a century ago,
when Parliamentary standards were
higher. Had Mr. Wentworth taken the
same course in 1851 as he did in 1951
the whole respectable portion of the Press
would have been warmly with him. In-
deed, in 1853 his distinguished great-
grandfather and namesake had a very
strong public opinion with him when he
denounced members of the legislature of
that day who had attended even a public
meeting and committed themselves to a
viewpoint before taking part in Parlia-
mentary proceedings on the matter which
the meeting discussed.
The House of Commons view has
always supported the view of Mr. Went-
worth where a member receives fees for
advocacy of a Parliamentary issue out-
side the House. It was first expressed
in a resolution of the House of Commons
in 1858 and reaffirmed in 1893. It was
firmly supported in 1858 by legal members
of the Ministry and by Lord Chelmsford,
the Lord Chancellor, who, as well as the
Solicitor-General, made it clear that action
similar to that of Dr. Evatt was regarded
as unethical by the law authorities as well
as by Parliament.
In Canberra the atmosphere seemed to
suggest that the Press and the Govern-
ment felt that the Speaker was behaving
in awkward fashion in giving his ruling.
Mr. Harrison, who acts as Mr. Menzies’s
leader in the House of Representatives,
hurriedly moved the suspension of the
standing orders to get Dr. Evatt out of
his difficulties. In plain fact, on Com-
mons precedent, which is adopted by the
Constitution as Australian Parliamentary
law, the Speaker had no alternative other
than to act as he did.
If similar circumstances arise again the
Speaker must again repeat his ruling. The
House of Commons vote still binds the
House of Representatives, which adopted
it with the rest of the Parliamentary law
as quoted in the 1950 edition of May’s
Parliamentary Practice :
That it is contrary to the usage and
derogatory to the dignity of this House
that any of its members should bring for-
ward, promote or advocate in this House
any proceeding or measure in which he
may have acted or been concerned for or
in consideration of any pecuniary fee or
reward.
Apart from Parliamentary law, that
attitude should be dictated in any case
by ethical considerations.
One-sided Insurance.
The Victorian decision to make third-
party-risk insurance premiums almost
double on private cars and more than
double on taxis and service-cars means
simply that insurance companies can no
longer meet liabilities at what were
apparently reasonable rates.
This has been made partly so because,
since the advent of compulsory insur-
ance of this kind, juries have been award-
ing astounding damages in the belief that
insurance companies can well afford
them, which, in turn, has led to peculiar
claims, such as wife against husband,
son against father, and so forth, all hands
and their solicitors knowing that the in-
surance company must pay.
As a theory the idea of compelling a
motor-owner to pay a small premium
each year to cover any damage he might
inflict on other people is sound. In prac-
tice, however, it has taken on suspicious
and extremely dubious aspects, and it
was inevitable that before long insurance
companies would either have to charge
more or refuse the business.
In N.S.W. the Government Insurance
Office has been getting a lot of this third-
party business for that reason ; in States
where no benevolent Government is ready
to accept the risk at the taxpayers’ ex-
pense the position can develop where the
motorist can’t find anybody to cover him,
though the law says he must insure third
parties.
Since third-party insurance makes it
compulsory for the motor-owner to in-
sure the entire populace against being
bent, dented or otherwise damaged by his
vehicle, it begins to look as though the
population will have to carry some of the
expense. Sooner or later Governments
will find it necessary to introduce a
national scheme whereby everybody will
be required to insure themselves against
injury or death by motor accident —as a
class motorists simply won’t be able to
afford it. Inferentially, as third-party
risk now stands, the motorist is always
to blame and his insurance company
always liable.
♦ •
Salute to a Hero.
On August 6, 1915, a young major led
the men of his 4th Battalion, A.1.F., into
one of the most outstanding incidents in
the history of the attack on Lone Pine
on Gallipoli. A fine, flashing figure of
an athlete, dark and lithe, he raced across
the ground towards a Turkish sap near
Owen’s Gully. He carried a rifle with a
bayonet like all the rest of his party and
fired from the hip as he went.
He far outdistanced those following
him, and went on without halting at the
front-line Turkish trench until he found
himself in a bay about 30ft. long and
the width of a small room, to which his
name was later attached. He and his
party killed several Turks during their
rush, and two grand young athletes —
both Sydney men, Griffiths and Merivale
—who tried to keep up with him were
killed.
When he had made the bay beyond
the cross-trenches others of his men
attempted to reach him. One, Mills, a
mere boy, was a footballer of quality
who had thrown up his cadetship at
Duntroon to enlist in the ranks. He and
a second and a third who followed him
were sent down by Turkish bullets. The
young major, whose name was Iven
Mackay, stood alone beyond the junction
of the Turkish trenches. There was a
firestep in the bay. He took his position
on it breathless after his run. He was
dangerously exposed. Three Turks came
into the bay a few yards from him. He
pulled a trigger at them and found that
his magazine had run empty. Without
hesitation he charged them with his
bayonet, and the three ran.
Some of his men found their way to
him. Exposing himself fearlessly on his
firestep he kept guard while they filled
sandbags and provided cover for rein-
forcements. Men were killed beside him
by Turks firing at close range. He him-
self bore a charmed life. But “dawn
next day—his 33rd birthday—found him
still on his firestep.” The Official War
History says:
Then, having fought for a night and a
day in front of his men though twice
wounded, he reported to Macnaghten, who
sent him to have his wounds dressed.
Between that incident and the present
time Iven Mackay gave nearly a quarter
of his adult life to active service for the
protection of his country. Not content
with a record which was brilliant and
fearless from Gallipoli to Pozieres, and
from Pozieres to the battle of the
Hindenburg Outpost Line, he gave up the
headmastership of Cranbrook Public
School to enlist the moment World War
II broke out, though he was 57 years of
age. In his sixtieth year he was in
command, far out on a limb, with the
Verria force, as always steady and con-
fident, when the Germans swept down
with their Stukas into Greece.
Last Saturday, in Sydney, Lieut.-
General Sir Iven Mackay, as chairman
of the N. S. Wales Recruiting Committee,
made an appeal for recruits to a crowd
of 48,000 people at a Sydney Rugby
League match. He was “hooted and
jeered at,” according to the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph,” when he told his
listeners that the Commonwealth military
forces needed 50,000 men to even make
a nucleus of safety and was 29,000 short,
and that N. S. Wales alone —which is
always in the deepest disgrace these days
when sacrifice is called for —was alone
11,000 short. Cries arose of: “Where
are the suckers going this time?” and
“Mug, there’d be no football then,” to-
gether with “other interjections in
similar vein.”
A few years ago the larrikins who
hooted General Mackay, and earlier
General Lloyd, for stirring up their un-
easy consciences would have risked their
lives at the hands of indignant soldiers.
Now nobody seems to care so long as
there are oceans of beer and the s.-p.
functions normally.
How "Streamlined" We Are!
This “streamlined arbitration” on the
coalfields can no doubt be paralleled in
other industries, but hardly matched, if
the ludicrously futile proceedings over
the business of trying to discipline certain
mining unions is a sample.
Some 13 months ago, on June 22, 1950,
the southern district of the Miners’
Federation engaged in an “illegal strike”
on political issues, for which offence pro-
ceedings for penalty came on before
the N.S.W. Industrial Commission some
10 months later on May 3, 1951. Counsel
for the Miners’ Federation objected that
the Federal Parliament had, through the
Coal Industry Acts, taken away from the
commission power to fine the union.
Adjourned till May 28.
A few days later the Industrial Com-
mission announced to the parties that
notice of the matters raised by this objec-
tion should be referred to N.S.W.
Attorney-General and to the Common-
wealth Attorney-General on question
whether proceedings should be removed
to the High Court.
On May 28 objection to commission’s
jurisdiction was argued, counsel for Com-
monwealth being present, but no counsel
for N.S.W. Government. To union’s
argument Barwick, K.C. (for applicant
proprietors), replied that if Coal Industry
Ac,ts had been intended to replace penal
provisions of N.S.W. Arbitration - Act the
legislature would have said so ; anyway
the stoppage complained of had nothing
to do with employees, but were in pro-
test against political proceedings. Com-
monwealth counsel thereupon withdrew
from case, as not concerned. Commis-
sion’s decision reserved.
On June 29 Ferguson, I., read a long
judgment for the commission, which
held: —
Xbat the commission did have jurisdic-
tion to impose a penalty for an illegal
strike, but had decided not to do so.
That it was “apparently the intention”
of the N.S.W. and Commonwealth Govern-
ments to remove from both State and
Federal Arbitration Courts industrial dis-
putes in which miners were involved.
That if a penalty were imxjosed the union
might refuse to pay, which might result in
its being wound up, which would wind
up the Coal Tribunal also, as the tribunal’s
jurisdiction depended on the existence of
the Miners’ Federation.
The commission therefore made no
order as to costs. Nobody got anywhere
except the political strikers, who made a
complete fool of the whole “streamlined”
arbitration system.
One of the purposes of the Common-
wealth’s amending Arbitration Act —
which “Labor” has hotly opposed—is to
make clear that that court has not been
similarly deprived of punitive powers by
the late Chifley Government’s “stream-
lined” reforms.
Wheat, Potatoes, Butter.
Minister for Commerce McEwen told
the Canberra Parliament of a “six-year
stabilisation plan” for the dairy industry
which would depend on co-operation of
the States, and “might” result in higher
prices for butter and cheese.
The plan proposed a guarantee of costs
to producers, but the £16.8 million-a-year
subsidy to butter-producers would prob-
ably be cut out when the present “five-
year plan” ended this year. Prices
authorities would have to “adjust” retail
prices of butter and cheese, and the
principle would be “almost identical
with that of wheat-stabilisation.
Whether this will get more butter or
make it more readily available to big-
city consumers remains to be seen. The
reference to wheat was unfortunate, since
N.S.W. acreage this season, despite
stabilisation, is down 700,000 on last
year, and more than 2.5 million ac
below the 1947-48 record of 5.3 million
Wool, skeleton-weed, weather and
sundry other items may have accounte
for all this ; but what accounts for the
drop in potato-acreage? 11,850
this year ; in 1944-45 it was 34,796 acres,
(Continued on next page.)


it
n
i -Mm
4198
Keep t°-
craven
throats sake
for your
Obtainable
In 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■
and there are more N.S.W. people to eat
potatoes than there were then.
Added to the almost chronic shortage
of milk in Sydney (declared to be sea-
sonal by the Milk Board but getting
worse every year), these and other facts
suggest that this Commonwealth Ministry
of Commerce and Agriculture ought to
set about finding what’s wrong with land
production and seeing if its anaemic con-
dition can be improved before the
crowded centres begin really to starve.
And it might find that less “control”
would be a help.
POLITICAL POINTS
Prime Minister Holland’s decision to
go to the country now instead of allow-
ing Parliament to run its full term—
another 18 months— creates a precedent
IX ?i ew . ea^a nd Parliamentary history ;
all previous Governments have run their
statutory period. There was, however,
one previous attempt to secure a pre-
mature dissolution. In 1887 Sir George
Grey asked the Marquis of Normanby to
dissolve Parliament, but his Ex. refused
on the grounds that insufficient reasons
had been advanced to justify it.
The Doc. and his deputy-leader are
drawing closer together. In a by-election
speech at Lithgow Bert said that although
the Defence Preparations Bill did not pro-
r com P u^s i°n of labor, under it
there could be a form of economic con-
scription. That sounds like Arthur, who
once described the men who volunteered
for the Second A.I.F. in 1939 as “eco-
nomic conscripts.”
Bert’s horrified talk of the possibility
of economic conscription through the
closing-down of an industry causing em-
ployees to seek work elsewhere rang rather
hollowly in the electorate of his late
leader, who said in September, 1948,
when Labor” visualised itself as being
in the saddle for ever;
There will have to be transfers of
workers, and in many cases transfers of
whole communities, to other forms of work
••• • I am not going to fool anybody in
that regard. It may even involve a plan of
movable towns.
Evatt himself is on record as having ex-
pressed similar views. How can he and
his party honestly oppose a bill on the
grounds that it gives the Government
power to do what they themselves defi-
nitely intended to do?
. Le d by “S. M. Herald” (denying all
its opinions expressed during the election
campaign) and seconded by Dr. Evatt, its
Parliamentary leader, the “Labor” Oppo-
sition in the House of Reps, did its vain
best to resist the Defence Preparations
Bill, aimed at preparing the country’s
defences to meet a threat of war by 1953
at latest.
The self-portrait of dear old “Granny”
with her arms affectionately around
Evatt’s neck, fulminating against Defence-
security controls because of the horrible
use a Socialist Government under Evatt
might make of them, was one of the
choicest pictures exhibited to Sydney-
siders for many a day.
“Labor” Senators protested that the
Defence Preparations Bill was being
rushed through with undue haste, but
when the Saturday sitting—the first for
13 years—was concluded, there were only
18 of them still on deck.
Egypt has had its first naval victory
since Cleopatra’s fleet raced Octavian’s
away from the battle of Actium in 31 b.c.
But if the skipper of the Empire Roach
had had a cutlass on board it might have
been a different story.
Mitcham Council, out towards the
Adelaide foothills, intends to ask the S.A.
Government to reimburse the Municipal
Tramways Trust for about a million miles
“of useless tram-running” caused appa-
rently by the fact that trams to most
Adelaide suburbs have to traverse the
park-lands after leaving the city before
they get into the built-up areas where their
passengers live. Now if Sydney Ferries,
Ltd., had only thought of something like
that of persuading McGrrrrr to com-
pensate them for the time their vessels
spent crossing the unpopulated waters of
Our ’Arbor—they might have saved them-
selves from the fate worse than death
which recently befell them.
In a basic-wage case in Darwin a union
advocate said beer was a necessity up
there and water was “not a suitable alter-
native.” Evidently Territorians have iron
constitutions and are afraid of rust.
If Pandit Nehru doesn’t watch his step
heh topple from his pedestal in the
A.L.P. pantheon, where he seems to be re-
garded as the greatest democrat outside
the party. His Government has issued a
decree prohibiting strikes in essential
services, the Indian opposite-numbers of
rerguson and Brown’s A.R.U. having
threatened to tie up all railway services
some time next month if their wage
demands aren’t met.
At least one group of people seems to
approve the increased postal charges.
Albury shopkeepers told their local paper
that it ought to result in more business
or them, as people would stop having
goods sent by mail-order from Melbourne
and Sydney. Had Mr. Anthony thought
of that?
Three members of Lithgow Council
are opposing each other at the by-election
lor Mr. Chifley’s seat, Macquarie, on
Saturday week. They are A. S. Luchetti
}’ W - Hannam (Lib.) and
W. H. Blanchard (Ind. Labor). There’s
also a Communist, V. B. Moffitt. There’s
a touch of irony about the “Labor”
nomination going to Luchetti. As a Lang
man he was twice Chifley’s opponent in
Macquarie. In 1931 he polled 8803 votes
to Chifley’s 11,242, with U.A.P. man
Lawson a few hundred behind their com-
bined vote. Lawson just scraped home
on the split-up. Three years later, after
a couple of also-rans had been eliminated,
the scores were Lawson, 22,405 ; Luchetti,
15,163 ; Chifley, 11,037. The final count
saw Lawson more than 3000 ahead. In
1937 Luchetti was the only “Labor” can-
didate ; he was unable to get within 2000
of Lawson. Chifley won the nomination
and the seat in 1940 and held it easily
thereafter.
These Evatt boys don’t seem to be
able to make up their minds whether to
be politicians or barristers. Bert
appeared in the High Court in defence
of Communists, after his party had voted
to ban ’em. Evatt minor is going one
better. He is Chief Secretary in the N. S.
Wales Government, yet he has accepted
a brief to prosecute two police officers
on a charge which reflects on their
methods of performing their duties.
According to S’Artie, Canberra col-
lected £783,593,791 in the financial year
just ended—and spent the lot. The
amount was £45 million more than he
expected in his Budget forecast, but the
post-office gobbled an extra £l3 million,
the States got £l5 million in “special
grants,” the National Welfare Fund £6
million; £7 million went in the money-
box as “reserve for strategic stores and
equipment.” Most of the increased
revenue came from taxation, but S’Artie
isn’t impressed; he’s talking of more
taxation.
Reports from Tel Aviv say that Israel
regards the action of the Allies in declar-
ing an end to the state of war with Ger-
many as “an affront to the people and
State of Israel and to the Jews every-
where.” It is hard to see how the action
could be an affront to a State which did
not come into existence until three years
after Germany’s surrender. As to the
rest of it, with what authority does Israel
speak for Jews everywhere ?
Punters should have found it easy to
pick this one. On the day that Mr. Hol-
land announced the dissolution of the
New Zealand Parliament Conclusion won
Tsf Parliamentai T Handicap at Trentham
(N.Z.).
Arthur Deakin, boss of the British
Transport Workers’ Union, was probably
voicing the fears of a big section of the
Labor ’ party when he warned the annual
congress of his union to go slow on
demands for further nationalisation of in-
dustry. He told them that if the Attlee
Government went to the country this
year advocating any extension of national-
isation the party would get “the biggest
whacking in its history.” Britain’s
Socialists know that nationalisation is un-
popular and, since the Steel Steal, they
been soft-pedalling a bit; nothing
i u k° en done about sugar and cement,
although both were marked for the Social-
ist chopper in last year’s election pro-
gramme. It’s not a change of heart that
is making them hold their hand, but fear
of the wrath to come. As with their Aus-
tralian counterparts, principle has had to
give way to expediency.
Lewis, Communist boss of N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation, has been in Can-
berra seeking to interview the P.M. “on
behalf of 50,000 Commonwealth and
State employees” to protest against com-
pulsory secret ballots for unions. It
should cheer the N.S.W. teachers to know
that Comrade Lewis is thus watching their
interests,
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture
Graham, one of those Ministers who
usually knows what he’s talking about,
says that despite three good seasons less
fodder is stored than ever before. He’s
so near being right that it ought to scare
land men into doing something about it.
Squabbling over the succession to the
civic bunny-skins in Melbourne has been
taken higher, if its transfer to the other
talking-shop in Spring-street can be called
higher. Councillor Barry, who is “Labor”
M.L.A. for Carlton, will ask for a retrac-
tion of a statement by Councillor Camp-
bell to the effect that tacking on a knight-
hood after three years as Lord Mayor is
a travesty, and that it is the cheapest
way to get a knighthood, allegedly cost-
ing only £6OOO that way, whereas with-
out it, about £25,000 would have to be
given away to some other cause before
the hon. bumble would get one. If that
is a fact, it won’t be altered by the retrac-
tion of the statement.
Fees for the Parliamentary Select Com-
mittee on the Egg Board operations in
Victoria will be the same as those paid
to members of other committees, namely
£2 2s. a day for attendance and £1 10s.
for expenses. By the time the committee’s
findings are put into operation members
might be able to buy an egg with their
fees—if they can find one.
Duthie, “Labor” member for Wilmot
(Tas.), said in the course of the debate
on the Defence Preparations Bill that if
“Labor” were in power there would have
been “some forward thinking on the lines
of the bill,” but that “Labor” would not
have done it the same way. “We differ
in methods,” he explained. There’s a lot
of truth in that. The Government brings
in its controls in the name of defence
and for a limited period. “Labor” advo-
cates controls on general principles and
for all time.
Heffron, the Sydney Education
Minister, has called for a report on
whether or not Communist lecturers have
been appointed to the Teachers Training
College. Pittendrigh, president of the
college, said it wasn’t interested in the
politics of its lecturers. Maybe not, but
the taxpayers and those who send their
children to be trained as teachers are,
especially if “politics” is permitted to
include Communist activities.
From the Stevedoring Industry Board’s
report this scathing comment on “one
or the prime examples of archaic methods
of loading,” namely at Newcastle; “The
cranes in use there pale in comparison
with those of coal-loading structures in
use at overseas coaling ports 30 years
ago. There are, of course, and long
have been, plans for improving the New-
castle loading “facilities.”
Civil servants can’t speak up while
they are in office, but occasionally one of
them does after his retirement. At a
farewell dinner R. W. Chenoweth, retired
Victorian Taxation Commissioner, told
businessmen whom he had taxed that tax-
payers were stung every year by sectional
interests who engineered unjustified Gov-
ernment financial concessions by threaten-
ing to withhold their votes unless they got
what they wanted. Governments and
political parties caved in while the com-
munity stood by helpless. He refrained
from naming the aggressors, but pointed
to large Federal allocations for subsidies,
pensions, hospitals and child endow-
ments.
As soon as the cease-fire delegation
can be spared from Korea it should be
sent to Canberra.
Stating that the N.S.W. wheat acreage
this year is 33 per cent, below that of
1947-48, a departmental research man
lists the causes as high wool-prices, short-
age of implements and parts, uncertain
super, supplies, the transport muddle, and
skeleton weed. He’s probably right
enough, and the weed, peculiar to the
Riverina, has been spreading for 20 years
without any serious attempt made to
stop it.
Adelaide “Advertiser” on the Glen
Davis business: “On the one hand the
Federal Government is trying to rid the
Australian economy of a notorious sink
for public money ; on the other hand the
strike-mongers insist that Glen Davis
must go on.” Besides, the Government
can t have Glen Davis running side by
side with the post-office.
British families are being asked to keep
a record for a month of every item on
which they spend money—from fish-
heads for the cat to a flutter on the
neddies. The official reason is that the
Government wants to know more about
the people’s spending habits. The real
reason is that Socialists simply can’t keep
their noses out of other people’s business.
Victoria has announced a sharp jump
m premiums for third-party risk insur-
ance, which is compulsory. On private
cars the rise is from £3 ss. to £5 14s.
(country £1 7s. to £2 145.); taxis £2l to
£49 165.; service-cars £l4 to £3O 12s
in the city, £9 10s. to £l4 2s. country. It’s
the high cost of shoving that’s getting ’em
down.


fHi
ft
U.***
BUTIER
&o®uaA.‘='
WHAT YOU KNOW AND WHO YOU KNOW.


PENFOLDS
★ ★ ★
m
BRANDY
m*
KHFOLDS
P5O/53
O'
WUBfOKA
CAPSTAN
m
.Sfe
3%
84f.D-3.51
Business. Rollery. etc.
Defence Preparation
Foreshadowing the establish-
ment of machinery to control, if
thought necessary for defence
purposes, all essential phases of
Australian economic life, the
Defence Preparations Bill has
met with a mixed reception in
commercial circles.
Controls of the kind now sug-
gested are of the sort which
should only be availed of in an
emergency; and it is up to the
community to trust the Govern-
ment in its belief on the need
for them. They will not be
popular, and it has required
courage to introduce them so
soon after the annihilation of a
Socialist Government that was
set on controlling everything for
the sake of controls. Only a
grave issue could have induced
the Menzies Ministry to take its
present step.
The violent reaction of
sections of the Sydney Press
against the Menzies Government
because of the Defence Prepara-
tions legislation is based on the
most irresponsible of grounds.
The boilover of abuse and
criticism is intemperate as well
as inconsistent with the so-called
“policy” of some of the papers
concerned.
The legislation, while appar-
ently necessary, does not, how-
ever, give warrant for any
smugness in the administration
of it by the Government. Nor
will it allow for any flagrant in-
consistencies. If, for instance,
experts are agreed that it is in
the national interest to revalue
the Australian pound, then the
exchange-rate should be adjusted
regardless of any political
promises that may have been
made by Country-party interests
20 months ago. No section can
be given special consideration at
the expense of the rest of the
national effort.
And any extension of the
Federal public service as a result
of the new legislation will be
entirely unwarranted. We are
not yet engaged in a total war,
and still we have a larger list of
civilian Government employees
than existed while the war with
Japan was on.
One of the problems giving
rise to the need for present
controls is the small amount of
production in relation to con-
sumer demand. The need for a
highly - productive population
was never greater. And this
means that we need a severe
pruning of the civil service, not
an extension of it. No unneces-
sary overlapping of Common-
wealth and State functions
should be allowed.
Defence preparation, of
course, involves dealing with the
Communist party. The resolute-
ness and awareness of the Gov-
ernment will be indicated by the
manner in which it deals with
Communists. It is no use merely
trying to control the law-abiding
section of the community while
letting outlaws and traitors get
away with national murder.
Worsted Industries, Ltd.
A solid little N.S.W. textile
concern, Manchester Weaving
Mills Pty. has been taken over
by Worsted Industries, Ltd., a
newly-registered public co. The
latter is now offering the public
79,993 ss. shares at a premium
of 2s. 6d. each.
Manchester Weaving was
formed in 1927 to acquire the
weaving business established at
Liverpool (N.S.W.) a year earlier
by Albert Topen and Cyril
Ives. In 1935 a spinning plant
was installed to provide an
assured supply of yarn for the
worsted-weaving section. Yarn
is now sold to other mills.
When war broke out the mill
went into production of khaki
and blue serge cloths for the
armed services, as well as
khaki tropical and barathea
cloths. At present the co.
turns out an extensive range of
dress materials and suitings.
On written-down book values
“ Whereas I, Horace Tort, known hereafter as the party
of the first par t"
as at December 31, 1950, the
assets to be acquired from the
Manchester co., allowing for
the introduction of new capital
and premium, would amount to
6s. 6d. for each Worsted In-
dustries ss. ord. On Hardie and
Gorman valuations for the land
and Gluyas and Co. figures for
the plant, net asset backing is
11s. 7d. per ord. share.
Wool stocks, at lower of cost
or market value, were the
largest current asset (£63,472) at
December 31. Fixed assets were
then taken in at £17,011. Lia-
bilities, including final div. and
tax provision, amounted to
£47,659, against which the new
capital and premium will pro-
vide £30,000.
Worsted Industries has issued
160,000 fully-paid ss. ords. in
full consideration for the shares
in Manchester Weaving. The
public issue will carry paid capi-
tal up to £60,000 in 240,000 ss.
shares.
For the three years to De-
cember last average net profits,
allowing for public-co. taxes,
were equal to 12.9 p.c. on the
proposed new capital. Net earn-
ings for the term to June 30,
1949, were £5882, for 1949-50
£6813, and for the six months
to December 31, 1951, £7872.
The high earning-rate for that
last six months helped to bump
up the three-year average ; the
1949-50 result was 11.3 p.c. on
the proposed capital.
On the board are R. A. Irish,
R. R. Brisbane, W. E. Hopkins
and Doris Topen.
The P.D.S. Issue
In 1949 the Producers’ Co-
operative Distributing Society,
Ltd. (the P.D.S.), invited those
directly interested in primary
production to subscribe £200,000
capital to provide for expansion
of the producer-owned and
-controlled organisation. The
issue was filled within a few
weeks.
During the ensuing period
sales turnover has increased by
nearly £4,000,000, and it has
been decided to make a further
issue amounting to £300,000.
This will raise capital to nearly
£BOO,OOO.
The P.D.S. is the largest co-
operative organisation of its
kind in Australia. It was
formed in 1925 by the amalga-
mation of the Coastal Farmers’
Co-operative Society and the
Berrima District Farm and
Dairy Co. for the purpose of
consolidating co-operative mar-
keting strength. The paid-up
capital was £191,156, and the
first year’s turnover £5,031,249.
For the year 1950 the turnover
had increased to £16,690,799 on
a paid-up capital of £494,801.
P.D.S. objectives have been to
afford the co-operative dairy fac-
tories and primary producers
generally a wider stable and
efficient co-operative marketing
system, and also to provide them
with facilities for the purchase
of farm and dairy requisites
within the co-operative move-
ment. The directors are per-
sonally associated with the vari-
ous activities for which the
society provides the co-operative
marketing outlet. Representa-
tion provides for four directors
to be resident in Queensland and
three in Victoria, apart from
N. S. Wales directors, of whom
there are at present 15.
The society is actively operat-
ing in Queensland, Victoria and
Tasmania in addition to the
home State of N. S. Wales.
Thirty-eight branches and depots
are in operation.
On last year’s turnover of
£16.7 million there was a sur-
plus of £75,107, after rebating
£60,000 to consignors. A 5 p.c.
div. was paid, and £35,000 was
placed to reserves.
Producers may hold a mini-
mum of 10 shares and a maxi-
mum of 2000. Existing share-
holders can increase their hold-
ing to the maximum number
allowed.
Cement in Maoriland
Steep rises in costs have hit
New Zealand’s cement industry
in the midst of big development
schemes. In two years Wilsons
(N.Z.) Portland Cement, Ltd.,
Auckland, has had to lift its ex-
pansion estimate from £750,000
to £1,400,000, and the co. can’t
be sure it will get through under
£H million. Except for
£200,000 to change over to the
flotation process, the rise can be
credited to inflation. The other
two cos. —Milburn Lime and
Cement Co., Dunedin, and the
Golden Bay Cement Co., Welling-
ton —haven’t given any figures
lately, but they’re wrestling with
the same problems.
Maoriland, starved of cement,
is looking to the trio to get it
out of difficulties, if possible, in
a couple of years’ time, and by
the mid-’fifties the industry
should be approaching its goal
of half a million tons of cement
yearly, against less than 300,000
tons today, if it were working at
capacity.
To make things worse lately,
however, there was a loss of
50,000 tons through the three
months’ strike, and production
this year will be down to 190,000
tons, against 242,000 tons in
1950. This will be only half
growing annual demands, now
running at 380,000 tons, and
likely to jump to 425,000 tons
in 1952.
Maoriland’s Ministry of
Works, which is the top user,
for hydro-electric dams and
other national projects, is feel-
ing the squeeze along with en-
gineers, contractors, builders,
farmers and tile-makers. As
always happens in a famine,
supplies have been disappearing
into underground channels to
make fat profits for “black-
marketeers” at prices up to £25
a ton, against a fixed price of
£lO 4s. Bd. on the open market,
if the stuff can be bought.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
o'suijjvan
Manufacturers of:
Roll Feed Stationery
Sanders Patent Binder Files
“National” Rotary Duplicators
“Protecta” Self-Registering
Tills
Process Engravings
Stereotypes
Pure British Parchment
Butter Wraps
Waxed Milk Bottle Caps
Rubber Stamps
Office Systems & Equipment
JACKSON AND
O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
pwAn OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it. ...
The NEO-BABRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE,
babkebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28P), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
tr
This busy housewife uses a Union Bank
cheque book to pay her accounts. It is so
convenient, there are no worries about money
in the house, and the permanent record of
receipts and expenditure makes budgeting
much easier.
The Manager at your nearest branch is a
friendly, helpful person, anxious to assist you
in the simple procedure of opening a current
account, and explaining the many services
available.
Ike
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England )
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in London.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB 13 1 (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
n
♦
“I think I'd like
a White Horse
better than anything”
Ik
m
df
WHITE HORSE SCOTCH WHISKY
WHX?A
Coal Board Finances
A close look at the holes in the
Joint Coal Board’s account for
the year 1949-50, during which
the mess of the board’s late
“Operations Division” (working
of its mines and opencuts) was
wound-up and the operations
transferred to newly-constituted
companies, shows why the Com-
monwealth Auditor - General
refused to sign the accounts.
The A.-G. was “satisfied with
the accounts submitted in rela-
tion to the board’s other acti-
vities, viz., welfare fund, com-
pensation fund and Depart-
mental Funds I and II” ; but as
these amounted in the year to
only £357,178 out of a total of
£4,956,178, the area of the
A.-G.’s dissatisfaction is plainly
pretty large.
The A.-G. therefore met in
conference the chairman of the
board and a representative of
the Treasury, and heard that
the “Operations Division” was
to be wound-up as mentioned
above. Deficiency of opencut
assets set against book-values
has been written off. This net
loss was £93,727. The A.-G.
reports:
After taking into consideration the
above adjustments totalling £93,727,
the total trading and capital losses
of the Operations Division as at June
30, 1950, amounted to £350,441, or
approximately 40 per cent, of the net
advances from the Coal Industry
Fund—£B73,4ll. The deficiency has
been transferred by the board to the
profit-and-loss appropriation account
of the fund for 1949-50 The
board has advised that it proposes
to extinguish this loss by a surcharge
on coal sales
Section 20 of the Act provides that
the board shall keep its accounts in
prescribed form, but action is still in
course to have the accounts and the
Departmental Fund prescribed by
regulation. Meanwhile they are
being maintained in the form which
it is expected will be required by the
regulations.
During the four years of its
life, 1946-50, the board has
received from the two Govern-
ments contributions towards
Government running of the
industry totalling £8,254,764 —
£7,842,188 from the Common-
wealth Government and
£412,576 from the N.S.W. State
Government. The N.S.W. Gov-
ernment agreed to pay half the
costs of administration (Depart-
mental Fund Part I) —which it
did till the year 1949-50 —and
also £70,000, pound for pound
with the Commonwealth, to-
wards the welfare fund. To-
wards Departmental Fund Part
II (investigation, experimental
plant, education, etc.) the State
contributes nothing, nor any-
thing either to the large and
growing Coal Industry Fund,
which incorporates the whole of
the board’s commercial-type
activities. To this fand the
Commonwealth’s capital and
trading advances are in the form
of repayable interest-bearing
3| p.c. advances.
N.S.W. Government has
informed the board that it
desires to limit its 50-50 contri-
butions to administration costs
to £85,000 per annum, which
intimation the board had not at
date of the latest report
accepted. The board’s welfare
fund (the only other to which
N.S.W. pays anything) is sub-
sidised from the Commonwealth
by about four to one as com-
pared with the State. A bit more
backsliding, and the N.S.W.
Government will be handing
over the whole baby to the
Commonwealth, and there is
already a case for arguing that
N.S.W. has no financial right
to impede development by refus-
ing to approve of mechanical
extraction of pillar-coal.
The Commonwealth A.-G.
sets out receipts and payments
by the Coal Industry Fund as
follows —•
Revenue.
Coal trading .. • • £5731,754
Rent, buildings and plant 590,754
Interest on loans and
advances .. •• 42,16/
Other (including interest
on debentures) .. 20,117
Total .. •• £6,384,792
Expenditure.
Coal purchases and trad-
ing expenses .. .. £5,461,033
Depreciation .. . • 255,134
Buildings, plant, hire and
upkeep 149,738
Interest on borrowed
fun ds .. .. .. 1 54,041
Administration .. . •
Other .. • • • • 8,433
Total .. •. £6,080,329
Results:
Profit on trading .. £304,463
After adjustments . . 297,295
Offset trading and capi-
tal losses on Opera-
tions Division .. 350,441
Debit balance for-
ward .. .. . • 53,146
Chief burdens borne by De-
partmental Fund Part 11, to
which the Commonwealth (only)
paid in during the three years
1947-50 a total of £704,976, are
shown as; Deficiency on Army
operations during 1949 strike,
£153,557 ; “back-Saturday” sub-
sidies to miners, £171,967 ;
investigation and research,
£117,280; compensation to con-
trolled collieries, £128,907. This
fund also paid £31,870 of
administration expenses spilt
over from D.F. Part I and
£21,332 in freight subsidies
(why, when and where un-
specified).
When the Coal Board began
functioning in March, 1947,
average cost of coal f.o.r.
colliery over the four N.S.W.
mining districts was 18s. 6d. a
ton. At June 30, 1950, the
average cost had risen to 355.
It is at present date well up on
that figure, too.
Procjpction record over the
same period:
Underground, Opencuts,
tons. tons.
1947 .. 10,724,400 958,700
1948 .. 10,466,800 1,254,600
1949 .. 9,388,600 1,347,500
1950 ~ 5,270,800 710,100
(I year)
Maoriland Aftermath
When striking miners, dock-
workers and seamen in New
Zealand decided early in July
that they’d had enough and the
18 weeks’ abortive but costly
effort to strangle Maoriland
petered out, the Holland Gov-
ernment had to turn its atten-
tion to the twin brother of in-
dustrial wreckers and saboteurs
—inflation—which had made
the most of the “open season”
while trade and industry were
struggling for life.
Holland and Co. will have
their hands full for months to
come battling against this other
enemy. Millions lost through
the strike have gone on to costs,
and Maorilanders will have to
pay. They’re being hit from
both sides —internally and ex-
ternally—and, with price rises
gaining momentum since before
the curtain was rung down on
the strike, the Federation of
Labor, which backed up the
Government against the strikers,
has begun to cry out in alarm.
It has called for “more subsi-
dies, price-controls and limita-
tion of profits,” all overdone
Socialist palliatives which con-
verted M.L. into a land of
shortages and rising prices, with
credit inflation.
The Government, grateful to
the federation in its friendship
in time of desperate need, is
groping for an answer. Subsi-
dies, cut from £lB million to £6
million in a first burst of anti-
inflationary zeal in May, 1950,
have grown to more than £ll
million again, and are still on
the up and up. The world re-
armament boom is boosting
prices for all M.L. imports, but
any attempt to counter the rises
by another round of wage in-
creases would recoil in still
higher prices. As the outlook is
mixed and unlikely to make
things easier for the army of
wage - earners the federation
represents, the big question is
what the next move will be.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Becks’’: Probably it’s only a joke, but
if it isn’t, the reported intention of
Dubbo (N.S.W.) citizens to organise a
Lady Godiva ride as part of the town’s
Jubilee celebration strikes me as about
the silliest stunt this year’s junketings
have produced—and that’s saying some-
thing. It is one thing for English
Coventry to re-enact the ride —along the
streets where according to tradition the
original L.G. trotted in chilly splendor—
but where’s the justification for Dubbo
stealing the idea? And what connection
will it have with the 50th anniversary of
Federation? Broken Hill might with
equal justification re-enact the episode
of King Alfred and the cakes or Geelong
Canute’s little argument with the incom-
ing tide. If Dubbo has really set its heart
on seeing a naked female ride through the
town, why not persuade an alderman’s
“Now, this is what I call a good painting — it's got depth."
wife to perform the feat as a protest
against increased postal-rates, and thus
start a tradition of its own? Failing that,
it might be a good idea to hunt up the
man who rode the bull through Wagga
and get him to repeat the performance,
sans strides, in Dubbo.
* * * *
“Metax”: A new type of pump is
claimed to handle hard-boiled eggs with-
out breaking and apples without bruising.
A few steps further should enable human
beings to be pumped around with at least
as much comfort as our present means
of transport can give.
* * * *
“F.S.”; Something seems to have gone
wrong with the aboriginal art renaissance
so rapturously hailed by the critics when
in 1938 a show of pictures by Albert
Namatjira burst upon Melbourne and
sold out in a few days. This was only
two years after Rex Battarbee had
initiated his camelboy into the mysteries
of Western painting. Followed equally
successful exhibitions in the other
capitals. Namatjira was made an
associate of the Royal S.A. Society of
Art§, his work appeared in book form,
and he acquired a world-wide fame,
though, to his credit, he continued paint-
ing in The Centre and seemed happiest
sitting in sand or around a campfire,
playing marbles with his fellow-tribes-
men. His pupil Edwin Pareroultja held
a show in 1950, and a joint show of 11
of them is at present at Tye’s Gallery,
Melbourne, It is now reported from
Alice Springs that the sudden realisation
of the power of art converted into money
is tending to debauch the unsophisticated
inhabitants of the Never Never, and leave
them “unhappily suspended between the
white men’s world and their old world.”
One of them is reported to have been
thoroughly disgusted when he heard that
he only got eight guineas apiece for his
pictures, and Albert has been severely
rated by his pastor for spending his
money in lavish entertainment of his
300-odd tribal friends and poor relations
who prefer to sit around waiting for the
proceeds of his next exhibition to work-
ing for a living.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Looby”: I reached for a pen at the
G.P.O. counter. It was a yellow-handled
beauty with a new nib. “Look, new
pens,” I said to a man writing a telegram
alongside m e.
He didn’t seem at
all impressed. In
fact he was quite
antagoni Stic.
“Waste of
money,” he said.
“How come?” I
asked. “Well,
how many d’
you think will be
left tonight?” he
answered. “Some
people are iust
absent-minded, you know. They don’t
intend to pinch the pens. They finish
writing, put ’em in their pocket and don’t
find out till they get home.” He finished
his wire, pocketed the pen and strolled
off.
“P.W.G.”: Why can’t officialdom use
plain English? In the latest quarterly
bulletin of the South Pacific Commission
the following advice is given:
Water requirements are more important,
this should be underlined; therefore rational
hydration of the children must be assured,
especially on hot, dry days....
In the same way I suppose the prudent
parent carefully attends to the rational
fh?m d to ted" 1 ' he WddieS brfore PU “ ing
*‘* * *
Ray Whiting: Every Middle East
Digger knows that the yarns about
Arabs whizzing off with tents and the
rifles chained to the tent-poles without
disturbing the sleepers are quite true,
With the Arab’s black robes, his dark
skin and his bare feet on the sand this
wasn t so difficult in the inky Palestine
night well, not so hard for an Arab,
anyway. But for imperceptibility I’ll put
the Aussie a close second if he’s really
trying. Instructing in camouflage, we’d
"All right , all right! I'll take the high road and you take the low road.”
march a mob out a couple of miles on
a night exercise, give them their orders
and they’d go to it. Every now and then
without warning we’d fire Verey lights—
the drill was for them to “freeze.” These
blokes were good. They froze and we
couldn’t spot them in the brilliant glare.
At the end of a couple of hours we’d
blow the whistle to march ’em home,
but they’d still be invisible. Those that
weren’t at the swy game would be at the
canteen or the picures.
♦ * * *
“Fairf”: It was in the motor-accessories
shop. Suddenly a customer’s voice rose
in wrath: “Well, I’ll go hopping!” He
wheeled around and made me the third
party. “Look. This morning I come in
here and buy a set of brake-linings.
When I get home I find this bloke’s given
me the wrong sort. I bring ’em back and
change ’em —then he tells me the right
ones are £2 4s. extra. I haven’t got
£2 4s. with me, so I go back home to
get it —that’s another five miles each way.
Now I come back with the extra dough—
and he tells me he made a mistake the
other time: these linings are only the
same price as the first ones! ” He swung
back to the embarrassed youth. “Think
a man’s got nothing else to do with his
time and petrol?” he demanded, and, still
boiling, snatched up the linings and
strode out. “See?” reproved an older
assistant in a you’ll-learn-some-day kind
of voice. “That’s what happens to blokes
who get too honest. If you’d kept quiet
about the mistake he’d have paid it and
gone away happy, you’d have had two-
quid-odd to put on a geegee, and the firm
would have kept a customer.”
* * ♦ *
“Niheru”; Citizens who fill in the
“Conjugal State” space on official forms
with such answers as “N.S.W.” and
“Never better,” may not be as simple as
they seem; perhaps they have stout
hearts which refuse to observe proper
solemnity when filling in forms, and, to
the chagrin of our bureaucrats, they
actually attempt to retain their indi-
viduality by the whimsy of their answers.
A friend of mine invariably writes
“Sober” in the space for “State.” But
best I like the story of the public servant
who, when ordering a pair of scissors on
requisition form 1948/XYZ (triplicate),
found himself required to give “Reason
for ordering.” His answer —“For cutting
things.”
♦ * * *
“Lao-dah”: In Java I used to hear
many sad tales of exploitation from
hadjis whose green caps betokened they
had taken the holy route to Mecca, but
none as harrowing as the story four
pilgrims recently told a British court in
Eritrea. They were the sole survivors
of 18 pilgrims who had engaged two
African seamen and their dhow for the
first stage of their journey to the fomb of
the prophet. Thirty miles outside
Massawa they were put ashore on a
rocky island inhabited only by ferocious
rock crabs. The crabs killed some and
devoured their bodies, others died of
thirst and hunger, and the survivors were
picked up by a sailing-boat which put in
for shelter. To make the punishment fit
the crime the two entrepreneurs were
sentenced to be hanged on the horror
island. However, this and the fact that
when they land in Arabia the pilgrims
are likely to be stripped of their clothes
and left to die in the desert by the nomad
Bedouin or fleeced of their cash at
Medina and Mecca, and made to pay
through the nose for the privilege of
pressing that organ against the blessed
Caaba, won’t deter devout Moslems
from every country setting out for the
holy places next year. The rewards are
too great, both in the next world and this
one. When the pilgrim returns he is a
hadji—a saint in the eyes of his native
village.
* * * *
“Bo”: Several months ago a team of
P.M.G. “workers” paused in front of my
home, surveyed the telegraph-post which
has been providing the termites with
sustenance for years, and went their way.
A few weeks later they came back and
dumped a new pole in the gutter. By the
time they were ready to set it vertically it
was solidly encased in mud, but even-
tually the job was done, and the wires
taken off the old pole and fixed on the
new. Then they departed, leaving the
old pole still there. Perhaps it is that
under the theories of Socialism it will
one day fall, breaking the wires, and will
thus give work all round for someone
and help to keep full employment going.
That it may domino me as I mow the
lawn and cost the department a few
thousand smackers for my sudden demise
is a possibility which they seem to have
overlooked. The leaving of the pole
there could be a bold experiment in
botanies —perhaps, even after so long, it
may “strike” in the soil and grow again.
It could have been felled and sold as fire-
wood —it would have gone off in five
minutes. But such a sordid thing as mak-
ing a profit would be abhorrent to a de-
partment which is at a loss to do anything
sensible.
* ♦ * *
“Dolmetcher”: Verses by Henry
Vaughan appearing in an English journal
recently caused the Poetry Society to
place its quite well-developed foot in it.
A letter addressed to the poet, care of the
paper and pointing out that followers of
the muse often obtained benefit from
the society’s criticism service, remained
undelivered for the very good—though
apparently not well-known—fact that the
poet had passed beyond the pangs and
pleasures of criticism three centuries ago.
The society might console itself by re-
flecting that far vaster, if much less
respectable, cultural organisations have
been led into similar errors. Goebbels’s
Propaganda Ministry once charged a
publisher of juvenile books with employ-
ing two authors whose current German
Authors’ Union fees had not been paid.
Even the Poetry Society could have told
them that the Brothers Grimm were no
longer writing fairy-tales.
THE COLD WAR.
The tour of the French Rugby League team
has been marked by ‘fierce melees,’ ‘riotous
scenes,’ kiekings, punchings, etc. At Lithgow,
Rugby League authorities used volunteers to break
a strike by members of the Lithgow Referees’
Association, who were demanding more money.”
Let not the after-dinner bore
Assure us that no enemy
Has yet set, foot upon our shore
When almost every Saturday
Our cold-war champions attack
To roll the French in mud and blood.
And shivering Frenchmen thunder back
To roll our men in blood and mud.
Some effort to disguise the fight
Is made with referee and ball,
Much as a matador makes light
Of his horrific festival—
A goodwill gesture to the gate
To cover the guerrilla strife
Where any man is fortunate
To leave the battle with his life.
In Sydney swamp, on Brisbane field,
And at Toowoomba’s fierce blood-letting,
The fortunes of the war have reeled
About as wildly as the betting,
And many a comely Sydney wench
t( Prays to our heroes in Korea:
Come back and save us from the French—
Ihe danger is not there, but here!”
However, girls should not despair,
Nor far-flung soldiers feel dejected,
For though our new enlistments are
A good deal less than was expected,
Around Australia’s muddied swards
Spectators, hoarse, and wild of mien,
Strain at the leash to loose their hordes
Upon the dreaded French Thirteen.
Lithgow, also, it appears,
The flag is fluttering in the breeze—
Ihey re organising volunteers
To break a strike of referees:
It must do Menzies good to know.
In view of his asseveration
Thai we’re at war already, how
We re coping with the situation.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“A.E.S.”: Charlie was telling me his
recipe for safe night-driving: “I let the
wife take the wheel.” I thought of the
road from the city to Charlie’s place—
long, narrow, winding and ill-lit. And
Charlie’s wife is only a beginner.
Charlie read my thoughts. “It’s this
way,” he explained. “Driving bores me
and I doze at the wheel. But when
Martha drives she’s too nervous to go
to sleep.” I nodded in understanding
“And,” Charlie went on, “so am I.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Ear Punisher”: Nowhere are feelings
apt to run higher than at these wine-and-
food society dinners. At one such dinner
a bottle of the rarest wrapped up in
paper was being solemnly passed round
in an awed silence broken only by the
sniffs, gurgles and hushed ejaculations
of the experts. It reached the hands of
a newspaperman rather proud of his
connoisseurship. Going through the
customary ritual, he threw his head back
and gazed contemplatively at the ceiling.
“Mm. A friendly little wine—but —ah —
not intimate,” he said. “What d’ you
expect it to do?” shouted the winegrower
who happened to have produced it.
“Stand up and kiss you?”
“Fairf”: The old-fashioned idea that
it is the privilege of the bride-to-be to
“name the day” is well up a gum-tree
around Sydney’s outer suburbs. Even
though the damsel may be lucky enough
to have a threshhold waiting for her to
be carried over, she stiff can’t make a
definite date if she intends to invite
more guests than could be entertained
at her home. The reason? Because
there is a famine of halls available for
wedding receptions. A prospective
Michaelmas bride is extremely likely to
be carrying Easter lilies in her bouquet
by the time she and her mother have
finished scouting for a Scout Hall with an
open date, or a School of Arts not booked
up with lodge meetings for 12 months
ahead. Matrons who have gone through
the mill getting one daughter off are
advising the next-in-line to book up the
hall first and hook their man later.
* * * ♦
“Sanasi”: Unk White’s drawing (B.
20/6/’5l) of the house of green timber
sprouting boughs is nearer to the truth
than he intended. Many a dozen growing
house-timbers I have seen in New
Guinea ; banks of self-sown orchids on
the wet thatch are also common. At the
headquarters of the Anglican Mislsion
on the Papuan n.-e, coast is a large tree
revered by the natives for miles around.
It was originally a comer-post of pioneer
carpenter (afterwards Reverend) H. Tom-
linson’s house; today it has a bole 2ft.
through. At Mondo police camp, once
wishing to keep grunting pigs out from
under my house, I ran three wires from
pile to pile and the boys closed in the
spaces with lengths of thick cane-grass.
Nearly every one grew, and the effect
was that of a house on a 7ft. bank of
grass!
* • ♦ ♦
“Sebak”: Whether my carefully-
expounded theory that snails are in-
fallible weather-prophets is correct, or
my scornful sire is right in his explosive
contradiction: “Rot! They climb up
brick walls simply because the dampness
attracts ’em,” the fact remains that when
battalions of the shellies go mountaineer-
ing up the walls of my shed, wet weather
remains with us.
Having had drilled
into my skull from
earliest childhood
that it is a major sin
to pass a snail with-
out stamping on it,
I find I cannot break
the inhibition. Thus,
last week, though the
rain was rocking
down and waterfalls
were shooting out
over the path from
the gutterless roof, I
still had to pause in passing to deal out
death. And it is not an easy matter to
stamp vertically. That, apparently, is
how I got the reputation for lunacy
among the schoolkids who pass my
home. As it was broadcast: “That bloke
is there is as mad as a snake; the other
day he was out in all the teemin’ rain
seein’ how high he could kick on the wall
of his shed.”
* * • *
“Casca”: Up at Tarakan one morning
a R.A.A.F. pilot, while out strafing Nips,
dived too low, and, in pulling out of the
dive, left chunks of both wings in the
tree-tops. The speed of the dive carried
him up to a safe height where, by experi-
ment, he found that with the throttle fully
open he could just manage to hold his
height. He struggled back to base and,
before bailing out, called over the blower
to the control-tower, “Look, no wings.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Oliver Filter”: As an old offender, I
can report that Sydney’s parking court —
where motorists come in droves to fork-
out anything from 10-bob to a fiver for
breaches of parking regulations —always
presents pretty much the same scene. It’s
a little cold, a little cramped, a little
dusty, and as remote and as unfriendly
as the halls of justice can seem to an
offender. The culprits begin to trickle
in about 9.30 a.m. until, by 10 a.m., the
waiting-room is crowded like a tram at
peak hour. They wear assorted expres-
sions—anger, indignation, impatience,
aloofness or even a shade of superior
amusement—but soon that weary resigna-
tion of a regulation-ridden people settles
over them and they go like dull-eyed
“Well, don't just stare —pass another one up!"
sheep to the slaughter. The constable
calls the numbers, the clerk mumbles the
charges—if a mumble can be delivered
at almost unintelligible speed—and the
magistrate wearily reiterates “Five
shillings; three shillings costs,” or what-
ever the amount may be. On my last
visit, however, there was a slight diver-
sion. A bluff-looking fellow with a
certain healthy belligerence about him
eyed the waiting herd and made sundry
remarks about “outrage” and “why do
we all put up with it?” Then, having
failed to raise a responsive spark from
anyone, he exploded: “Blast you! If
the Government issued regulations that
all trousers had to be worn with the left
leg cut off at the knee the only thing
that’d happen would be a panic rush to
buy scissors!” There was a momentary
hush from within the court, then the
dust and the drone of the law took over
again,
« * * *
“V. Cluse”: I’m afraid those who want
to reform the Australian worker have the
job in front of them, since the popular
attitude to jobs and bosses seems to begin
early. My hopeful, aged 10, spent an
hour or so after school every day
delivering papers. This netted him 13s.
a week for a start, and when he got the
job under control he used his power to
bump the screw up to 17s. 6d., with
sundry “amenities” in the form of ice-
creams and free comics. Then he heard
of a chemist in search of a messenger
for after-school runs. It was worth 255.
a week. The hopeful groomed himself
for the job and landed it. “Well, how’s
the new job?” I asked, after his first
week. “Beaut! 1 get paid for practically
doin’ nothing,” was the enthusiastic
reply. Last night he and I walked past
the newsagency which had formerly
employed him. He looked in the window,
screwed-up his face and snorted “Slave-
drivers ! ”
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: Always thought “call it
a day” was pure Australianese, but I
have just come across it in a translation
of the diary of a very prim and proper
Frenchwoman, Eugenie de Guerin, who
wrote on the second of May, 1839, Let
us call it a day.”
* * * *
“Youanmi” forgets the passage of
years:—
“I’ve bought the boy’s bike,” I told my
wife the other evening. “I’ll nde J t ,
tomorrow morning, before the traffic s too
thick.” “You’d never manage it, she saia.
“It’s over ten miles.” “Nothing to it, I told her.
“Lord, when I was a kid we thought nothing of
twenty or thirty miles.” “Fhat was twenty
years ago,” she said a little cruelly. Still, next
morning, fortified with pleasant reminiscences
of whizzing along suburban streets and country
roads, I wheeled the glistening new cycle into
Svdney’s George-street, and pedalled off in the
direction of the Harbor Bridge.
I decided, was in a shocking condition—full ot
ruts, corrugations and potholes that were a
disgrace to the city. .But the bridge with its
smooth expanse of bitumen, would be better.
Oddly, it wasn’t. It seemed to have developed
thousands of small ridges and furrows, which
caused the saddle of the bike to vibrate like a
jackhammer against my seat.
I was rather glad to reach the end of the
bridge and to afford the back of my lap some
respite while I wheeled the grid up the long,
almost precipitous incline of Alfred-street
towards Neutral Bay. My feet being a little
tired at the end of that stretch I was almost
thankful to mount again. I bumped and jolted
through Neutral Bay and came to a weary halt
at Cremorne, where I leaned the wretched
mangle against a post and rolled a cigarette.
My feet were burning, each knee seemed to be
enclosed in a vice, and the bones that I nor-
mally sit on felt as though a Rules player had
been practising thereabouts. At that moment
a large truck bowled along and, mercifully,
stopped at my hail. I threw the confounded
contraption on the back, crawled into the cabin
and was within a discreet distance of home in
ten minutes.
As I walked inside my wife greeted me almost
admiringly. “My word, you were quick,” she
said. “I wasn’t sure you’d even be able to
ride a bike after all these years.” “Nonsense;
there are some things a man never forgets,” I
said as casually as I could, while heading for
an armchair and trying a little desperately not
to walk too much like an egg-bound fowl.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Traditional stage usages
live on in spite of all the “modernising”
of the theatre. Twice in recent produc-
tions I have seen the old “poverty cloak”
on feminine characters who have fallen
on ill times, and despite the fact that
almost everybody nowadays smokes
cigarettes, the stage villain still often
emphasises his villainy by callously light-
ing his cigarette before he looses the
cruel sneer on which he makes an exit.
For that matter, in spite of all experi-
ments, nothing has been found to replace
the ©ld casting that has existed since the
days of Greek tragedy and comedy.
Actually, life is very true to the stage.
Take the average fair-sized boarding-
house ; its residents cast themselves auto-
matically much on the lines of a. play.
Every hash-house has its acknowledged
leading lady, its second woman, its char-
acter women and probably its ingenue;
its comedy man, its heavy father, its
juvenile lead and its villain. People who
fail to seize these parts are just supers.
It is pretty much the same in every club,
society and office.
* * * ♦
“Ex-C.G.”: This symposium on open
pubs on election-day and the old custom,
now extinct, of a new publican turning on
a free day reminds me of another defunct
celebration we could expect in pur neck
of the woods when my beard was black.
This was the advent of the whisky-
traveller. Whenever he hit one of the
local pubs and dispensed free samples of
his wares, there were such doings as old
Jack Moses never dreamt of —and he
used to give away free wine.
* * * ♦
“Vingter”: On finding the Mulgaville
courthouse deserted, and learning that
the Clerk of Petty Sessions, whose books
he had been instructed to overhaul, had
been seen departing for the deep hole in
the creek behind the town, the Govern-
ment auditor, in some trepidation, headed
in that direction. Somewhat relieved at
coming upon a solitary figure staring
moodily at the muddy water, he decided
on blunt tactics and asked the suspected
embezzler to hand over his safe keys and
come immediately to the office. The
suspect preserved a stony silence, so the
request was repeated with some asperity.
Then he burst out. “You can have the
keys,” he said, “and you’ll find the books
and cash all in order. But I m no
leaving here till I land the Waited yellow-
belly that’s been nibbling for the past two
hours.” The C.P.S. then hauled m the
line, hitherto unnoticed by the auditor,
and took from the end the bunch of keys
which had been functioning as a sinker.
VERY SENSITIVE
“The Premier ol Victoria says that
apprentices are not going to the plumbing trade
because of the jokes made about plumbers.”
The lot of “slinging-off” that would occur.
The jokes he fears his cobbers would be
making,
Would never, it’s a certainty, deter
The youth who yearns to take up coffin-
making.
Hard-boiled the lad whose chosen trade is that
Spent in the slaughterhouse. The joviality,
The “cracks” they aim at him fall rather flat;
He belts them nonchalantly off the bat.
His thoughts are only on the practicality.
Included in the range of industry
Are trades of much variety, and numerous,
Concerning which no whimsicality
Justifies comments that are crudely humorous.
What shafts of wit could possibly he tossed
At him apprenticed to lithography?
Jokes about pattern-makers would be lost;
On carpentry they’d prove as big a frost
As those about roof-tiling, or photography.
It’s strange, as you’ll admit, that when it comes
To realms of pipes and faucets, its notorious
The trade which, as it were, gets all the plumbs
Is subjected to guffaws most uproarious.
The plumber’s chosen toil, none may deny,
Is covered with an aura most respectable.
And yet, observe him as he’s slinking by,
Fearful of jokes that round his calling fly!
Humiliation’s there, plainly detectable.
Well, what more natural than it should scare
Away the youths who’d contemplated learning
it?
The atmosphere of levity is there —
Sufficient cause to influence their spurning it.
Such joke-blocks as the lady-in-the-bath,
With plumber, merry-eyed, of much rotundity,
Asking about the tap. Who’d tread the path
Of such a trade, of which the aftermath
Of licence-getting would be such jocundity?
It’s sad to think, because of all the jokes
Killing off ’prentices, ’twill be a rare city
Which of the badly-needed plumber-blokes
Suffers in time no lamentable scarcity.
The call, then, is to cease the pointless jest,
The laugh at him considered so regrettable.
That new-heard yarn— don’t get it off your
chest.
A politician makes it his request.
If it makes the plumbers’ lads feel so depressed,
The effect on plumbers must be unforgettable.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Dick Turpin”: Despite their dwind-
ling numbers and tragic history, we don’t
seem to be able to leave the abos in
peace. First Bertie’s little brother wants
to hand them over again to the tender
mercies of John Barleycorn, their greatest
enemy in days gone by ; now the Superin-
tendent at Hermannsberg Mission has
referred to artist Namatjira as a “restless
nomad in danger of losing himself be-
tween two worlds”—this because he still
wishes to go walkabout despite the money
his paintings have earned him. If many
successful whites went “walkabout” in-
stead of hanging on to make more, they
would be better off in many ways. After
all, the abo’s walkabout is merely a break
from routine and normal living, in the
Yoga sense of the word, to enjoy un-
interrupted the peace and beauty of
nature; for too many White Australians
the idea of “escape” leans more towards
dip-joints, racetracks, gin-soaking, rubbish
from Hollywood and housie-housie
schools. The joke of it is that the city
dweller, and country-town dweller, live
much closer to disaster than the abos.
Bmghi still has a few things we haven’t
got.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Newspaper reports that
many New Australians spend their nights
scoop-netting the waters of Sydney Har-
bor and estuaries for octopus, they
regarding the hideous-looking fish as a
delicacy, neither surprise nor repulse
me. The fact that nearly any fish in the
sea will bite at octo. bait suggests that
the flesh is tasty; and When stripped of
its skin and suckers the meat certainly
looks wholesome enough. Pippi is
another bait that looks more inviting
than many of the fish-foods we do eat.
Maorilanders inform me that the shell-
fish is regarded as a luxury in parts of
the Shivery Isles ; and the truth must be
admitted that the pippi lives and feeds
in a much cleaner environment than many
oysters. But I can’t reconcile myself to
John Chinaman’s taste in aquatic fare.
When I was a boy the local market-
gardeners would cheerfully pay “ticka-
pen” or more for a mud-tortoise caught
while fishing for eels in the creek. Per-
haps tortoise-soup has the same delect-
able qualities as that made from the rep-
tile’s big saltwater cousin, but if there is
anything that smells less savory than a
mud-tortoise it’s a pair of mud-tortoises.
* * * *
“Clo”: Before his departure on a
dugong-spearing trip Torres Strait
Jimmy must be careful to observe many
age-old rules if the expedition is to be
successful. Even in these enlightened
days a visit to the medicine-man—with
suitable presents—is frequently made.
But even then the dugong will not be
captured unless those left in the village
strictly observe inflexible customs. No
firewood may be cut, no coconuts opened,
and the making of any noise is strictly
taboo. When dugong are scarce all the
women are placed under a ban of silence
for a day before the hunt and during its
progress—perhaps this proviso is a shrewd
lurk devised by married elders. The
dugong is scarcer than it was even 10
years ago, though the islanders attribute
this less to the continual toll taken by
themselves than to the laxity of the
women in observing the silence ban.
“Old-timer”: Jim, Joe and Jack
occupied a one-room hut on the down-
river end of Tapalin. Their water-supply
was the river itself and a lOOgal. tank
which they filled from the river, the hut-
roof being in no condition to shed rain.
Joe went over to Kulkyne one Saturday
and didn’t get back until after midnight.
As he tied the boat up he thought of the
night-line, tested it and hauled in a
101 b. cod. Too tired to clean it, he tossed
it, alive, into the half-full tank. Before
dawn Jack arose, lit the fire, took a
billy and reached into the tank. There
was a swirl in the water and something
slimy brushed his hand. Jack let out a
yell, fell over backwards, picked himself
up, rushed into the hut, grabbed the d.b.
gun and filled that tank with two charges
of No. 6 shot. When the excitement was
all over Jim remarked, “Well, that ought
t’ settle all these flamin’ arguments about
a bloke shootin’ a fish in water ; Jack’s
done it.” Jack seemed puzzled but said
nothing. A week later they were relaxing
in Euston when he unburdened himself.
“How,” he asked, “did the flamin’ cod
get in the tank?”
* * * *
“Kali”: Sydney Clunies-Ross, when
“king” of Cocos Islands, imported 20
buck rabbits and 200 does from Australia,
his idea being to provide a change in
diet for his Malayan subjects. About
half the consignment arrived in good
condition, and these were released on
West Island, the most verdant of the
group.
There they
found t o
their grati-
fica t i o n
ready-made
bur rows ;
but their
satisf acti o n
was short-
lived, a s
were they
themselves.
For those
burrows were the homes of the scavenger
land-crabs. Those big, blue-black fellows,
doughty fighters, resented the advent of
the foreigners, but when they found they
were good eating they welcomed them
with wide-open claws. It took just three
weeks before the last bunny was polished
off.
* * * *
“Jade”: Bandicoots are far more use-
ful than “Harbel” states (B. 20/6/’5l).
No bandicoots are killed on our place
now. The kids regarded roast bandicoot
as a delicacy until the day they brought
home a baby one, tossed from the pouch
when a dog chased the mother. At first
it lived on milk, but when it decided it
was weaned we struck diet trouble, for
it turned up its long nose at offerings
of our choicest fruit and vegetables. At
last, taken to the vegetable-garden to
choose for itself, Bandy tore into our
lettuce-bed like a power-shovel and came
out with a grub which it ate. After that
we had no trouble; anything in the
insect line, except hairy caterpillars and
earthworms, it guzzled. The kids took
it to school for nature study, where Bandy
obligingly ate all the canebeetles avail-
able and refused all vegetables. At home
it would eat into windfall fruit, but only
to extract the grub. For a hobby it used
to pick the weevils out of the sack of
fowl-feed. Turned loose indoors at night
it grew sleek on the succulent Queensland
cockroaches until there was none left.
One day it jumped at a fly, fell
and lamed itself but it didn’t seem
to worry. Some time afterwards
it went bush. That was years ago.
Now, on occasional moonlight nights we
“I got some high-octane stuff an' it's goin' mad.”
see a large lame bandicoot eating left-
overs from the cat’s plate. Our old pal
ignores the cat and she, although a terror
to smaller bandicoots, ignores him.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Though wedge-tailed eagles
account for a fair number of rabbits
during a year, they don’t collect them
with the ease one would imagine. The
big birds fly as close to the ground as
“Now, this one is particularly intelligent, Madam. Be careful what
you say before him.”
possible, rising a few feet and dropping
again to clear obstacles and possibly to
preserve control and balance. Watched
a wedgie, trying hard to catch
himself a dinner; he must have
coursed about 10 rabbits without getting
one. The country was dug out, but
carried a fair amount of cover and
floaters were plentiful. The bird’s first
quarry disappeared hurriedly into a root-
hole. Without pause he rose, spotted
another, raced it down the gully, but, on
the point of capture, lost it under a
hollow stump. His next took refuge
in a log, and another in a hole at the
end of a dug burrow. A further miss or
two, and he landed on the top of a tall
stump to work it out. That wedgie and
his many relations are long accustomed
to my daily presence, and, with many
pauses to ease his concern, I walked to
within a few yards of his stump, to
admire the light-colored neck-feathers
that rose and fell like a small mane as
he kept track of me and my wandering
dog. We visited some time, then he went
off to chase another bunny on the spur,
leaving me to pick up my mattock and
go after those he had already run into
hideouts.
* * * *
I used to wonder what a
famous man feels like on returning to his
home town. Now I have a rough idea.
Scarcely had I stepped off the railway
station when a voice hailed me by name.
I turned and was instantly welcomed with
the heartiest of handshakes. The shaker
was the Mayor—or had been when I left.
He was delighted to see me back again ;
how was I doing? Had only been think-
ing about me the other day. Had I come
home on a visit? Good ; good. Remem-
ber him to Dad—hadn’t seen him about
lately. And so on. Halfway along the
main street I ran into a bloke I went to
school with ; that doesn’t mean what it
generally does —we never could endure
each other. Until now. He was posi-
tively wagging his tail. Gosh, fancy
running into me again! Well, well, it
didn’t seem so long ago when we used
to come home from school together.
(Which was a lie —either he was chasing
me or I was after him.) It was great to
meet old mates again, etc. I was begin-
ning to wonder if by some misprint in a
newspaper my name had been mixed up
with a hero’s. He left me after extracting
a promise that I would remember him
to my brothers. Tramping along the
road I was overtaken by a posh car. The
occupant slammed his brakes on and
flung the door open. “Hop in, hop in!”
(The last time he’d seen me he had
tooted me off the road.) He put me
down at the gate with the same expressed
wishes to me and mine. Bewildered, I
asked the Dad; “What’s this family done
that Perko, Stinker and old Egghead
should be so loving?” “Nothing,” said
the old man. “But tomorrow is polling-
day in the by-election and they’re the
three candidates.”
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I s’pose,” Mat said
to the publican in Parkes, “it’d be no
good tryin’t’ nip y’ for a tenner?” “Not
a bit.” “Well, how would y’ go on
springin’ a fiver to a coupler blokes like
us till we land a job?” The publican
thoughtfully wiped a glass. “I’m only
listenin’ t’ y’ because I got nothin’ else
t’ do,” he said, “but just t’ save y’ beatin’
all the way down from a tenner t’ a
coupler bob I’ll tell y’ now y’ haven’t
got The Bolter’s.” Mat leaned an elbow
on the bar and looked at me. “Got any
ideas?” he asked. “Not an idea.” He
turned back to the publican. “What y’
mean,” he said, “is that the kind o’ busi-
ness I’m puttin’ up to y’ don’t appeal to
y’?” “Too true.” “You’d reckon any
business me an’ you ever had is closed
from here on?” “Y’ picked it in one.”
“Then give us two pots, it’s always me
habit t’ close a business deal on a drink.”
The publican was about to reply, thought
better of it, pulled two drinks, shoved
them over and said “Here, get ’em inf y’
an’ clear out before I get talked inf
askin’ y’ to dinner.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Black Ned”; New-style ringers (B.
30/5/’51)? I recall an old recitation that
went the rounds of the sheds in the old
days, and certainly no babbler or rousie
was included:
The boss is getting rusty and the ringer’s
caving-in;
His swollen wrists are aching with the
pain:
The second man, I fear, will make it warm
for him
If we don’t get another shower of rain.
Then our shed was simply a very long
; building with skillion on one side and
the other open. The shearers were placed
at the posts, where every man had a
piece of board, pointed at one end to
drive into a hole in the post: on this he
kept his oilstone and piece of oiled sheep-
skin. He also had a sort of cribbage-
board where he pegged his tally, and a
piece of raddle to mark his sheep. The
catching-pen was a big open one in front
of the shearers and all caught from and
let go into this pen. In those days the
sheep cut about 31b. of wool, and some
of them, especially ewes with lambs, had
very little, if any, on the belly; there was
always a rush for these “rosellas.” A
man would sit it on its tail and tear off
with his hands any wool still clinging to
the belly. The toughest sheep, always
the last to be caught, was of course the
“cobbler/’
THE TIDES GO BY.
I sit on a beach as the tides come in out of the
Timor Sea,
I sit on the beach and think it a sin
That I should be, beneath this tree,
Watching the tides come in.
For fleet to the beat of Song-man Time comes
Death with his friend Despair,
Yet life around goes sweeping along:
But why and where? I do not care,
For the bush is crammed with song.
I sit on a beach as the tides go out, flowing to
springs and neaps,
Around me is life, yet out of the sky
A sea-hawk sweeps as a mackerel leaps
From the jade-green sea outside.
The moon by night, with its spear of light,
silvers the shimmering seas,
And out by the beach where the tides are
strong
Through sheoak trees the salt sea breeze
Sighs ever its fitful song.
So I boil the billy and eat my fill in this place
where peace abides.
But 1 hear the drone of a ’plane on high,
And a booby rides, and a shark’s fin glides
Through the waves, as the tides go by.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


ANDREW HTGEE’S famous “NIMROD”
Drysmoker pipes incorporating the amazing hygienic filter
Choose from 29 different shapes and weights
You’re sure to find a pipe to suit
your individual taste in the extensive
“Nimrod” range. Illustrated are the
most popular pipes in the eight distinct
styles. All “Nimrod” pipes are broken-
in for instant smoking pleasure thanks
to the specially-prepared carbonised
bowl which makes even the first smoke
taste mild and agreeable.
ENJOY A MILDER, COOLER
SMOKE
The amazing filter makes this
possible. Tobacco burns
evenly, bowl stays dry,
tars and oils are re-
moved leaving
only the full
flavour o f
the tobacco.
★
27/6
Add lOd. postage
for mail orders.
ANDREW M C GEE
70 PITT and 1 CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY
INVERNESS
df
970
WINNI
g
957
BILLIARD
997 (Heavy)
dfg
941 (Light)
PASTIME
df
992
gdf
BLOCK
982
BULLCAP
884
(Panelled)
g
945 (Plain)
df
POT
827
BENT
gd
946
“Ceg”: “Bo’s” tale of Dolan’s bath-
room (B. 20/6/T) recalls an occasion
when I was valuing a small farm for
purposes of a bank loan. The efficiency
of the entrance-gate did not inspire con-
fidence —a typical Heath Robinson struc-
ture. The place had no hall. The cocky’s
missus let me in through the front door,
steered me around the large brass-
embellished double-bed and through to
the kitchen, where a chook or two
scurried to safety as a chair was pushed
forward for me—but let’s get on to the
bathroom. When aftemoon-tea was
finished the
cocky and I
walked round
the property.
The usual
litter, mess.
Stuff lying
everyw here,
and I itched
for a rake, box
o f matches.
But I digress ;
let’s get to the bathroom. The pigs were
duly inspected and praised —some of the
piglets, it seemed, had been eaten by
foxes —he hadn’t “got round” to
plugging-up that hole in the sty. But let
me tell you of the bath. The land was
good, I told him he could have the money
he wanted until he sold his hay. Lor
lummee, yes, the bath! On the way back
to the car we passed a small hut-like
structure about 200 yards from the back
door of the house. “That,” said th®
owner in reply to my inquiry, “is the
bathroom.” “Rather a long way from
your house,” I commented. “Oh, that
doesn’t matter,” he said casually. “In
winter it’s too cold for a bath, in summer
the dam’s dry and there’s no water!”
* * * *
“Kelms”: These pars, about the gropers
that have nearly pulled cars and horses
into the water raise the question of the
relative muscular values of land- and
water-life. The groper which, after tow-
ing a boat around at a fast pace for an
hour, still proved almost too much for
“Elgey’s” plough-horse (B. 27/6/’5l),
may have been a big fish—it weighed over
4cwt. But that horse must have weighed
considerably more, and, since each animal
was in its own element, the horse should
have won hands down. Moreover, the
horse was taking the strain on its
shoulders, while the fish was drawing
from its mouth. Yet, with everything in
its favor, the horse would have been
beaten if the fish had been fresh. It’s
the same with a man, who has a hard fight
to land a fish only a fraction of his
weight. Another point: the fastest fish in
the ocean probably isn’t anywhere near
as fast as the slowest bird, but have you
noticed that man didn’t do too well in
the air until he stopped imitating birds
and started designing aeroplanes along
the lines of fish?
* * * ♦
“Bogaduck”: Some Yanks whom I
saw in the Pacific had a good method of
catching the giant gropers (B. 27/6/’5l).
Their line was control-cable used in air-
craft, strong enough to hold an elephant;
in their launch they had a winch driven
by a power-take-off engine, and on the
stern was a short, stout jackstaff fitted
Mil- 15
ITD
“Blackout finished unexpectedly, sir”
with a block at its head. They would
cruise along close to a reef, dropping the
bait at any spots where a giant groper
might be hiding in a cave. They used
live bait and they didn’t have to wait
long for bites. Every time they hooked
a groper the ugly brute would shoot back
into his cave and there hump his back to
jam himself in the hole in the coral;
to anyone fishing with a rod that would
have meant a stalemate. All those Yanks
would do was to put the winch into gear
and then, as one of them explained,
“Either we pull the reef up, the launch
goes under or that groper comes out.”
On the two trips I made with them the
groper always came out, in one case with
great gashes ripped in its back by coral-
spikes. A burst from a tommy-gun would
smash its head, the hook cut from its
jaw with a tomahawk, and they would
cruise along looking for another one.
They scorned to eat those they caught,
in .spite of my assurances that any up
to about a hundred pounds in weight
were quite good, but the 60-pounder
which I took ashore was relished by my
mates, who had been living on m. and v.,
bully and tinned beans for over a month.
“Trapper”: We were debating the
worst pest one could have on a trapline
and Charlie’s nomination was a domestic
cat gone bush. “You’ve got to kill ’em,”
was Chari’s claim. “If y’ let ’em go
they’ll he back the next morning and
spoil a couple of skins.” Bob howled the
cat down as nothing at all, and introduced
a wedgetail. I willingly conceded Bob
quite a lot, seeing that recently I’ve had
seven wedgies working my morning
round. It takes more than one bunny
to satisfy an eagle, and when he has
finished with it little remains but a few
scattered bits of fur. A wedgi© doesn’t
bother to kill his meal. The victim dies
of its own accord when it gets round
to that, and many a live rabbit I’ve come
on with its shoulders demolished by an
eagle. Another trouble with the big birds
is that, when caught, they mostly pull
the peg out as they take off, and one
more trap is debited to p. and 1. How-
ever, even an eagle’s appetite is limited,
and my vote for Number One nuisance
goes to the fox. Had a bad one on my
line some time back which learned to
know traps. Every morning before day-
light he traversed them, and after he’d
eaten would rip out every catch, leaving
only legs or shoulders behind, and dog-
like, would take them off and bury them.
Many a furred carcass I came on later.
Had to abandon the rabbits and concen-
trate on the fox. It took a while, but
finally I got the cunning brute with a
trapped rabbit-decoy surrounded by well-
camouflaged traps.
* * * *
After months of accumulating
needs, I made the long trip to the district’s
shopping-centre. Had been the rounds
of the stores monotonously asking for
iron, some piping, ammo, couple of bags
of cement and a few sheets of lining, and
was morosely musing on the black era
hobbling the cocky, when I remembered
my tools. Back I went round the stores.
“Sorry, no shovels. Haven’t had one for
some time. No mattocks, either.” The
replies sounded like a cracked record.
In the last store I was fortunate enough
to get a wrong-shaped and formerly-
despised brand of shovel, but still no
mattock. “Don’t think you’ll get one,”
I was informed. “Don’t seem to be used
much these days.” “No?” I grunted.
“Well, how do blokes dig out then
rabbits?” “With a tractor or bulldozer,’
came the reply. “You might get a tractor
at the end garage, with no more than
eight or ten months’ wait.” Disgusted, I
sought the blacksmith’s shop. It was
closed. The bloke, I learned, was at a
pub somewhere; but I gave the kid next
door two-bob to deliver my well-worn
mattock, with the instruction it was to be
done up and returned to me urgently.
Three weeks passed. I wrote to the
smithy, followed up later with several
more notes, and eventually got back a
message by the bush-relay system. The
old smith had recently passed on, and
the young cove in his place had enough
to do for the next six months or so, and
wasn’t taking any more orders. I could
call and collect my worn mattock, if I
wanted it.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The most colorful per-
sonality of my schooldays was Charlie
Chaplin. Charlie was a tough, cynical
red rooster, whose name derived from
the baggy-trousered effect achieved by
his feathered legs. It was his misfortune
to be born next-door to a rural school,
but it was his own greed that so frequently
led to attempts at his assassination. When
his master and Old Johnno, our master,
were on friendly terms, he had official
sanction to strut around the playground,
picking-up crusts, diving into the kero.-
tin garbage-bin, or even having a sly
pick at the results being achieved by
juvenile Friday - afternoon gardeners.
Many a furtive brick was hurled at him
from behind strategic outhouses, never-
theless, although the offence carried
drastic penalties. Shire and political
elections, however, found our respective
masters in different camps, with conse-
quent strained relations. Then it was:
“Chase that fowl away from those lettuce,
boys!” What a joyous invitation to do
murder! Yet, 20 yelling scalp-hunters,
each a dead shot with a goolie, couldn’t
break his spirit—nor even one of his legs.
Within the hour he would
be on the fence again, a
challenge in his crow, de-
fiance in his mien. Old
Johnno himself, quite un-
wittingly, nearly occa-
sioned the bird’s end —
and while an armistice pre-
vailed. Treating his back-
yard orchard for scale, the
teacher erected a “tent” over one
tree and introduced cyanide fumes.
Twelve hours later the cover was re-
moved —and a bleary-eyed rooster
flopped down out of the branches, tacked
drunkenly to the fence, negotiated it on
the fourth attempt, and still beat about
27 kids and a cattle-dog in a mad dash
across the playground!
OLD HAYSTACK.
Old dreaming haystack in the sun,
Lying where the fences run,
Close by the shed,
Near the old dray,
Hearing what the horse said
And what cows say.
Fat old haystack, grey on brow,
Yarning of old times with the old plough,
Where the fowls nest,
Where the chicks rest,
Whiskers sticking out,
Hair knocked about,
Tumbledown fellow, happy old stack,
Lying asleep with the sun on his back.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


fg
1
'
h
4
&
(Gfc-
-6
a
rP '
/
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
KB.S3.ia
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PERSIA’S SUICIDE.
In what reads like rather an
excess of sympathising, various
British papers have pointed out
that Britain’s exit from the
Persian oil scene would react
much worse on the Persians than
anyone else.
Or maybe it’s one shred of
compensation in the whole sorry
business.
At any rate, as a typical ex-
ample, London “Spectator” has
pointed out that, while for a
time the Persians would be able
to ignore the economic implica-
tions in contemplation of their
political victory, they would
soon have reason to regret.
The political victory, it adds,
almost to the letter fulfils Persian
aspirations in the first big poli-
tical upheaval which has really
united the whole country since
the constitutional movement at
the turn of the century. Dr.
Moussadek and his friends have
consistently campaigned for two
complementary objects: the
nationalisation of the oil indus-
try and the exclusion of foreign
interests. A few sober (but
always silent) Persians have had
their doubts about the wisdom or
practicability of these objects;
but these “moderates” have felt
a response to the chords of
patriotism which have been so
energetically vibrated. With oil
nationalised and the foreigners
packing up, there could be noth-
ing, for the moment, but rejoic-
ing; it would be time enough
to consider the reckoning when
the celebrations were over.
That reckoning is a formid-
able one. “An enterprise such
as that which the Anglo-Iranian
Oil Company has built up in
Persia is one of the most com-
plex manifestations of modern
industry The plain fact is
that without foreign assistance
the Persian oil industry cannot
continue except as a parody of
its former self.”
Hence, “The only hope for the
Persians would be if the wave
of patriotic fervor which has
carried through the nationalisa-
tion of the oil industry could be
used to effect a revolution in
other spheres of the national life.
If a new spirit of self-sacrifice
and labor could awaken to re-
form the corrupt and top-heavy
administration, to ensure that
taxation was justly imposed,
effectively collected and its pro-
ceeds wisely spent, then by slow
and painful stages Persia might
regain a political and economic
equilibrium.”
There is not the slightest sign
of this new dawn: “The
tendency today is for Persians
to believe that the nationalisation
of oil will bring them more
rewards for less labor; the rich
ruling classes covet the per-
quisites which the nationalised
industry will offer them in the
way of revenue and patronage.
They have been gainers before
in time of national distress, and
they see no reason why they
should not be gainers this time.
The poor have been told so often
that the Oil Company was the*
source of all their miseries, and
that with its removal there
would be an abundance for all,
they have no reason to disbelieve
this lunatic doctrine.
“Both rich and poor are
doomed to be disappointed. The
rich have failed to recognise the
implications of the campaign for
nationalising oil, which has
drawn its momentum from the
general dissatisfaction with things
as they are. When conditions
do not improve there will be a
hunt for new scapegoats, and
they will not be hard to find. It
is extremely difficult to see how
Persia can now avoid a political
upheaval of the most violent
nature.”
Jap Peace.
“Manchester Guardian” con-
trasts U.S. and British outlook
on Asia:
“In the eyes of many people
in Asia the present American
policy .towards Japan springs less
from generosity than from the
need to recruit an ally. This
is partly unfair: America’s
motives are mixed, and an
idealist desire to protect its
Japanese pupil is not absent.
“Ever since 1945 the Ameri-
cans have been seeking a Far
Eastern ally. First they hoped
for China. The fall of the
Kuomintang brought the
American policy to’ ruin. Now
it is rebuilding it by looking to
Japan. If Japan answers its
expectations the United States
is likely to lavish upon it its
interest and economic aid.
“Britain, on the other hand,
has tended, because of historical
connections, to concentrate its
interest on the Indian sub-
continent and South-East Asia.
The United States believes that
Asia will be best stabilised by a
military alliance between itself
and an Asian associate. Britain
puts its faith in building up the
rt S MINE ,
Vx?,uiut IT*
m,ne!
&
gd
—Manchester “Daily Dispatch ."
SPARROWS IN THE TREE-TOP.
economic strength of non-
Communist Asia and in relieving
its economic stresses and
strains.”
In any case, in the peace treaty
(as interpreted by London
“Times”) Japan is to be set free
politically and economically. “It
would,” the “Times” has com-
mented, “have been impossible
for Britain, as for Australia and
New Zealand, to agree to the
‘peace of reconciliation’ favored
by the United States since the
victory of Communism in China,
without safeguards against a
revival of the expansionist aims
and violent methods of Japan
between the two wars.
Guarantees underwritten by the
United States are designed to
assure Australia and New
Zealand against* a new Japanese
aggression. The continued
presence of American forces ‘in
and around’ Japan—which is to
be arranged between the two
countries under an agreement
which forms no part of the main
peace treaty —is the ground for
imposing no formal restrictions
on Japanese rearmament.
“It will be for the Japanese
people to decide, in light of their
own economic position and lack
of strategic materials, whether
they can afford to build up a
navy, army and air force. The
only outside sanction will appar-
ently be the Western Powers’
control of, and their own need
for, the material means of re-
armament.”
The Vital Issue.
Re-emphasising a belief he has
insisted on a good deal, leading
American foreign-affairs writer
Walter Lippmann, in New York
“Herald Tribune,” boils the
whole East-West, Communist-
Free World dispute down to one
vital and final issue:
“If we survey the history of
the Communist revolution for a
century, we find that its course
has been determined at every
critical juncture not by the
Marxist analysis and prophecy,
but by military events. We are
warranted, therefore, in conclud-
ing that a military settlement
with the Soviet Union is the key
to the settlement of the conflict
between the Communist revolu-
tion and the non-Communist
world.
“If that is the case, then the
issue, reduced to its critical ele-
ments and stripped of the con-
fusion between cause and effect,
is how much territory is to re-
main under the military control
of the Soviet Government. The
question is not what Marx and
Lenin taught, what Stalin and
Molotov believe, what Com-
munists everywhere hope for and
conspire to do. The question is
where the Red Army is to be,
and where it is to be able to go,
and where it is not to be able to
go. That is the question that
will have to be answered either
by negotiation or by a war.”
Dragnet Digest.
Tribute. —London “Financial
Times” does its best: “It would be
wrong to call Mr. Attlee a pilot who
has weathered many storms, but he
may be described as a well-weathered
cabin-boy.”
* * * *
Nehru Suggests. —And “New York
Times” comments: “Mr. Nehru sug-
gests that if the Press of the world
were to keep quiet for a few months
it would advance the cause of peace.
What kind of peace? The ‘thousand
years’ which Hitler proposed? One
of his first steps was to ensure the
silence of the Press. The kind of
peace that Mussolini won? One of
his first steps was to ensure the silence
of the Press. Or the kind of peace
that Stalin seems to be striving for?
Certainly there is no Press to worry
him in the Soviet Union or any of
its satellitei.”
Atom-bombs Galore. —Basing his
calculations on specifications made
public by official British sources con-
cerning its uranium pile, or reactor,
operating at Harwell (Eng.), and
comparisons between this unit and
related units operating in the United
States, a New York “Herald
Tribune” writer concludes that there
is enough uranium in the U.S.,
refined and ready for use in the chain-
reaction state, to produce at least
70,400 atomic bombs. This, he says,
is a low minimum estimate; a more
correct minimum estimate would be
281,600 bombs.
* * * *
Franco’s Troubles. Giving his
information as received from London
and Vatican sources close-linked with
Spain, the London “Daily Express”
foreign editor reports on Franco’s
country: (1) The State is bankrupt.
(2) There is no more hope of uncon-
ditional American help on the vast
scale needed. (3) Franco’s chief allies,
the Church, the Army and Big Busi-
ness, have withdrawn or are with-
drawing their support.
* * * *
Strengthened Berlin. —In the view of
a London “Economist” special corres-
pondent, while it may be assumed
that the Russians will sooner or later
make another serious attempt to
winkle the West out of Berlin, by
blockade or otherwise, their immediate
prospects are undeniably poor. With
several months’ stocks now in West
Berlin, another blockade would be a
costly business for them.
♦ * * *
Schuman - Plan Hopes. Leading
American commentator on world
affairs, Arthur Krock, sees great
benefits flowing: “If the Schuman
Plan gets into operation, and works,
then, for the first time since Bismarck
failed to interest France more in
colonial expansion than in the re-
covery of Alsace-Lorraine, the basic
cause of the tragedy of Europe will
be on its way to removal. If that
happens the accomplishments of the
Marshall Plan will take on the fibre
of endurance; the ‘Eisenhower Army’
will have shorter life as a mere blue-
print surrounded by adoring staff
officers; the European Army will
advance from the stage of debate,
and the Soviets will be faced with
the plain necessity of a change of
foreign policy.”
* * * *
The Oil-finder. —With a touch of
nostalgia, a reference to this being
“how Englishmen acted 43 short
years ago,” London “Time and Tide”
recalls how the Persian oil develop-
ment got going in the first place:
“In 1901 William Knox D’Arcy
received an oil concession from the
Government of Persia, the owner of
the mineral wealth beneath that rocky
land. In 1908, after seven years’
undaunted exploration in the face of
repeated apparent failure, G. B,
Reynolds, of the Indian Public Works
Department, whose services were on
loan to the syndicate which was
operating D’Arcy’s concession, struck
oil in commercial quantity at
Maidan-i-Taftun near Ahwaz; and
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company was
born. Reynolds was a stubborn
pioneer, the sort of Englishman who
does not give in, however grave the
adversity, the sort of Englishman we
like to believe typical. A few weeks
before oil was struck he had had a
telegram from the syndicate telling
him to stop work and dismiss his
staff. Reynolds, who may or may
not have read Southey’s Life of
Nelson, pretended to think that the
telegram was mutilated and said that,
while he awaited written confirmation,
he would carry on. Before confirma-
tion could reach him he had found
oil.”-


df
m
'm in a bap wav, judy! can you
TELL Me WHY SALLY 6A V£ ME
AWAY/
[SALLY SAYS BAP
V BREATH IS REALLY -
SERIOUS AND A PERSON ,
OUGHT TO SEE H/S
DENTIST .
RIGHT
a my !
IV
4,
4!
&
h
COLGATE CREMicLEANS
MUG BREATH WH/LE /TCLEANS'
\YOUR TEETH AND THE COLGA TE J
(WAV OF BRUSHING TEETH ~S,
RIGHT AFTER BATING STOPS
TOOTH
DECAY
r/»
r <J/M LOVES SALLY AND SALLY
> L OVES J/MCOL GATE'S//AS <
CERTAINLY PONE WONDERS
FOR HIM
ft
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
JJ OPS tooth DECAY BEST I
Yes, and 2 years’ research
showed the Colgate way
opped more decay for more
. than ever before re-
P rted m dentifrice history!
no other dentifrice offers
h proof the most con-
clusi Ve proof ever reported
a dentifrice of any type.
family economy size 3/6
> USE COLGATE PENTAL CREAM
V' TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH <
V" WHILE YOU CLEAN VOUR TEETH
V' ANP HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
gdf
America'
* largest - Australia'* la'rgest, the World's largest selling denta?Vri*m
tOUGH «** 4 TOUCH
. ~v toughened
spec i a IW ? ck lrea d tes»t
pounds m the evon
cutting ond g<v
wear. ®* tra m ‘ l 9 *
l 0« oi ...a
TLL* '»
tot
10U6HEST
job
ill
HI-MILER RlB—For long,
fast hauls on Improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER ALL-WEATHER—
Recommended wherever
greater traction Is needed.
HI-MILER
TRUCK and BUS TYRES
iY
GOOD
gdf
YEAR
Performance records of Hi-Milers have proved to
thousands of truck and bus operators all over Aus-
tralia that these famous Goodyear Tyres give most
for the money in mileage and trouble-free service.
Let these tough Hi-Milers keep your vehicles moving,
reduce delays and cut your tyre costs to a minimum.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR YOUR JOBJ
toAX-ia
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“These won’t last long! Trousers
ready tailored.”— Advt. in Parramatta
(N.S.W.) “Advertiser.”
Customers can’t complain that
they weren’t warned.
•I* -F
“Wanted, woman, respectable two
days week, cleaning.”
—Suburban paper.
What she does the other five
days is her own affair.
*F *F *l*
Fences straightened, posts and
piano tuning and repairs.”
—Suburban paper.
Plans at Palings.
“Fonnd among old papers, a report
on Adolf Hitler has been published
by his old school in Linz, Upper
Austria.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
No doubt it will cause a Fiihrer.
•F *F ,
“Suits and skirts show dramatic
detail.” — Fashion note.
Hence a woman needs perfect
lines to put them over.
•F *F *F
“Pupils in learn-to-swim cam-
paigns will now hear the instructor’s
voice even under the water.”
If they don’t heed it they’ll be
sunk.
•F *F 4* .
“Without enemies a man js no-
thing.”—Columnist Clive Turnbull.
Unless he happens to be a
nihilist.
“It seems to me that England is a
pagan country. We are simply living
on our Christian capital.”
— Mr. Justice Pritchard.
This is due to lack of interest
in religion.
Removing Friction.
“George Thomas, of Long Beach,
California, has been granted a patent
for a coin-machine which sells lighted
cigarettes.”
“Oh what can ail you, wharfie,
who
Alone sit palely loitering ?
No cargo comes from out the
hold
To fill your sling.
“I see deep furrows on your
brow
With anguish moist and fever
dew,
And yet you get appearance-
cash,
Rain-money, too.”
“The boss installed a gadget
here,”
The wharfie whinged. “A coin
machine.
Its blanky lighted cigarettes
Get on me spleen.”
“Why, I should imagine now,”
I said,
“It's an amenity you’d like.”
“But,” moaned the loafer, “it
removes
Our right to strike.”
D. H. E.
Ordeal by Ear.
I had always accounted as
the worst of human pests the
fellow who when talking to you
insists on standing toe to toe.
with his dial about 6in. off your
own, so that when you look at
him —and where else can you
look? —you go almost cock-
eyed. You step back a pace to
refocus your lamps and he fol-
lows you up, and all you can
do is dumbly hope that the
rapidly-ingrowing state of your
eyes won’t be permanent. But I
overlooked Dripp.
Dripp is a chronic “abouter.”
I had unwittingly given him the
opening when I happened to
mention a friend’s miraculous
escape—his car had turned over
a few times, finishing on its
wheels. Dripp flew into the
breach.
“That’s funny,” he said. “I
saw a picture the other night
something like that. It was
about”
I groaned. That “about” in-
“Stand back , dear — I'm coming in!”
variably marks the onset of a
severe bout of his film-recount-
ing disease. Dripp has it in its
most virulent form. Before my
groan had died away he had
started. There was no escape.
He was between me and the
door, and hope of rescue was
far away.
“It was about a young cove,”
began Dripp, “who loses his
memory. He disappears from
the home of his wealthy parents,
see, and turns up in a lumber
camp in the Adirondacks or the
Rockies or somewhere. He
can’t remember his name, so
gives himself one —Steve Yates,
see. Well, this Marcia soon sees
he’s not the lumber-camp type,
been used to better things,
so”
“Marcia,” I put in, “she’d be
the raddled hag at the saloon in
the township who goes all senti-
mental every time someone
bashes out ‘Danny Boy’ on the
piano?”
Dripp stared at me pityingly.
“Marcia was the beautiful
daughter of the owner of the
lumber-camp, stupid. She’s the
unspoiled daughter of nature, an
outdoor”
“I thought you said she was
the daughter of the big vegetable
baron?”
“Shut up, can’t you. A real
unspoiled daughter of nature,
loves to feel the wind blowing
through her hair, rides a whad-
dayacallit round all day, and
plays the piano beautifully,
good at painting”
“Herself?”
Dripp ignored me and went
on. “Well, she gets Whoosthis
to invite Trevor over to the
ranch-house.”
“Trevor? . Would he be the
tough but golden - hearted
lumberman from Matawamkeg,
Maine, who goes on limejuice
benders every so often?”
“Oh, I forgot to tell you.
Trevor was Steve’s name in New
York before he lost his
memory. Well, this Steve, you
can see a strange look come
into his eyes”
“Not his ears?”
“When he hears Marcia
playing a particular piece on the
piano. You can see his
memory’s having a struggle.
Well, they’re just starting to get
to the romantic part when Big
Mike rushes in”
“He’s the father of Little
Mike and husband of Mrs.
Mike, eh?”
“Yes, yes. Well, Mike, he’s
the mill foreman, tells ’em that
her father’s been kidnapped, and
they think it’s the work of the
gang led by Mexican Pete”
“Surname of O’Shaughnessy.”
“Look, will you shut up?
Well, he and Trevor arrange to
get a posse together—oh, I
should have told you before this
that years ago the old man”
“Whose Trevor’s, Steve’s,
Mike’s, Mexican Pete’s or
Marcia’s?”
“Marcia’s, idiot, had given
evidence against Pete over the
theft of a horse and Pete had
sworn vengeance. Well, they
get going, and as they’re passing
the sluice over which he’d had
the argument with Mad
Harry”
“Who’d had the argument—
Marcia’s old man?”
“No, you fool, Whitey Wat-
son. I told you about him,
didn’t I? He’s the queer old
character who was a friend of
the Davidsons”
“And who the hell are the
Davidsons?”
“Listen, are you completely
dumb? Marcia and her old
man, of course. Well —oh, this
bit comes in before the acci-
dent”—
“What accident?”
“I’m coming to that if you’ll
only listen, you goat. I was
going to tell you that before
this you find out that old
Davidson has a friend in New
York, a wealthy stockbroker,
who writes to him to say he and
his wife are coming down for a
holiday—they’ve cracked up
over the strange disappearance
of their only son, who’d
apparently lost his memory. You
can see what it’s leading up to,
of course.”
“Don’t tell me, I know.
Trevor turns out to be the son
of a Boston college professor,
after all.”
“Of course not, idiot. He’s
the son of the stockbroker.
Well, near the sluice Steve sees
signs of a violent struggle,
which lead to the imprints of a
motor-tyre which has a peculiar
pattern that Steve remembers.
He’d seen it on Jake’s old
flivver.”
“Jake being the parson ip the
township, I suppose.”
“Oh, I should have told you.
Jake was the fellow Davidson
fired for ogling up to Marcia,
That seemed to let Mexican Joe
out.”
“Leaving the parson, Willie
the Boob and President Truman
still suspect?”
“That’s it —I mean no, damn
you. Well, they rush back to
camp, get the station-wagon,
grab their gats and follow the
trail of the car with the queer-
patterned tyres. But as they
tear round a bend the wagon
turns over a few times and
Steve’s knocked conscious. He
can remember who he is! In
the meantime Arthur”
“He’s the bloke who had the
round table”
“Shut up, blast you! Arthur
and the Saxby boys had trapped
the real kidnapper—and who do
you think he turned out to
be?”
“Only three could possibly be
involved,” I said. “It was either
Jacob Malik, Goofy or Sugar
Ray Robinson” —and, pushing
Dripp into the fire, I walked out.
BO.


g
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 TEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
m
CUAKD
sufith' cu
PROTECTA
Gtml- s£|f Hfffhitkinff
Suitable for every type of business tt records
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly bnllt.
pleasing la appears nee. Send for full detsils
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
ftifntaUai 4mt» —
SYDNEY
Miuolmw.
ADELAIDE
W. C fnlaM A Co. rty. Ltd.
. Mormon Brno. Ptj. Lid.
I Tirdoa A Sons Lid.
I Docket Book Co. MnU
Missing Friend.
TO ALAN WHEATLEY WHEREAT for-
erly of Gunbower but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
GWENDA STIRLING WHEREAT has in-
stituted divorce proceedings against you
on the ground of desertion and that un-
less you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
at Melbourne on or before the expiration
Of fourteen days from the publication of
this advertisement and file an answer
within a further ten days thereafter the
case may proceed in your absence and you
order* to costs.—COßß &
CORR, Solicitors, 104 Queen Street, Mel-
Divorce Notice.
TO IRENE MAY SHORE formerly of Wel-
lington now of parts unknown the wife
of CYRIL WINSLOW SHORE of Wan-
ganui Labourer. —TAKE NOTICE that a
Petition by your husband praying for the
dissolution of his marriage with you on
the ground of desertion for a period of
three (3) years and upwards has been filed
in the Supreme Court at Wellington and
that unless on or before the 18th day of
August 1951 you file in the said Court an
answer to the Petition you will not be
entitled to be heard on the Petition except
on the question of costs maintenance or
other ancillary relief FURTHER until
you have given an address for service in
manner provided by Rules of Court you
will not be entitled to receive notice of
any proceeding or matter in connection
with the said Petition or to address the
Court at any stage A decree for dissolu-
tion is made by Decree Nisi in the first
place and until such Decree Nisi is made
absolute the Marriage is not dissolved
A Decree Nisi is not a defence to a charge
of bigamy A copy of the said Petition
and Notice will be supplied to you on
application at the Supreme Court at
Wellington New Zealand. DATED at Wel-
lington this 3rd day of July, 1951.
H. J. WORTHINGTON, Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to her the foregoing
advertisement. ALFRED JOHN MAZEN-
GARB is the Solicitor for the Petitioner,
whose address for service is at the offices
of MESSRS. MACALISTER, MAZEN-
GARB, PARKIN & ROSE, Solicitors, 21
Brandon Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
m
LILIENTHAL GLIDER
Type : Manned monoplane glider. Construction ;
Cambered fabric wings on omithopteric wooden
skeleton. Fabric empennage carried on wooden
tail boom. Dimensions : Span, 18 ft. Wing area,
150 sq. ft. Wing loading, 1 1/3 lbs. per sq. ft.
Control: No movable surfaces. Lateral and fore-
and-aft control by movement of pilot’s c.-of-g.
Landing gear : Retractable legs terminating in feet.
Performance: Angle of glide, 6-8° at 22 m.p.h.
Normal range: 100 yds., down 1 in 7 slope.
(Take off from 50 ft. mound)
Today great airlines depend on efficient fuelling
service to maintain global timetables. They rely,
at airports round the world, on BP Aviation Service
teams on men who wear the green and yellow
colours of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Ltd.
AVIATION
dfg
SERVICE
TILLED
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd., All Statee
Telegraphic Address “Airbeepee” Melbourne
any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
TILLEY STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
STORM LANTERN
“THE GUARDSMAN”
TheTILLEY “Guardsman” Storm Lantern
is built to withstand the roughest treat-
ment in all weathers and is completely
stormproof and utterly reliable in all
conditions and climates. It is economical
in use, burning only l£ pints of Kerosene
to give 300 candle power light for 12
hours. The best Kerosene all-purpose
pressure lamp which can be bought today.
•nv.ue'' prODUCTS
|..
Manufacturer’s Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
rs
n
t
MANUFACTURED SOLELY BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
of
HENDON, ENGLAND
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy book on the training of
sheep-dogs from puppyhood.—5136.
To buy copy of Breaking of the
Saddle Horse by Training by j. D.
Wilton. —5135.
Copy of book or magazine con-
taining the act declaring the rights
and liberties of the subject and settling
the succession of the Crown, pre-
sented to William III and Queen
Mary in 1689 and commonly known
as the Bill of Rights.—5134.
Words of old ballad “The Song of
the Bligh Rebellion.”—5129.
Words of parody on Henry Law-
son’s “The Captain of the Push.” —
5130.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter ; also the words of “How
McDougal Topped the Score.” —5131.
To buy copy of Browne’s Oddities
of English Law. —5133.
To buy copy of “Second Class Aus-
tralian School Reader” in use 60
years ago, containing verses about
the seasons, beginning “January’s
sultry glow.”—5132.
Information Sought.
(1) When, and at what theatre, was
the first pantomime produced in
Sydney ? (2) First in Australia?
(1) On December 26, 1851, at the
Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street. It was
entitled “Cinderella, or Harlequin and
the Little Glass Slipper.” (2) On
May 13, 1850, at the Queen’s Theatre,
Melbourne, at a benefit performance
for the actor Charles Young. The
piece, written for the occasion by
Young, was entitled “The Goblin of
the Gold Coast, or Harlequinna and
the Melbournites in California.”
* ♦ Sfc Jfc
Particulars of the evolution of the
Australian reaper-and-binder ?
The reaper-and-binder is not an
Australian invention. The first attempts
to design reaping machines were made
in England and Scotland. The High-
land and Agricultural Society of
Queensland in 1827 paid a premium
of £50 to the Rev. Patrick Bell, of
Carmilie, for a reaper, but the man
mostly responsible for the develop-
ment of the modern reaper-and-binder
appears to have been McCormick,
who designed the machine now known
as the McCormick-Deering.
* * * *
Cause and treatment for “die-back"
in roses?
Actual cause is not known, and
there is no sure method of treatment.
The disease may often be arrested if,
after pruning off at least 2in. below
the browned limb, you spray with
lime and sulphur at intervals of three
days and dig a tablespoonful of super-
phosphate about the base. Water
lightly during treatment. Badly-
affected bushes should be dug out.
* * * *
(1) Has blackwater fever been
known to occur in New Guinea ? (2)
Is there a known cure for it ?
(1) Yes. There have been many
cases. (2) No specific cure. Treat-
ment usually adopted is to give large
quantities of alkaline fluids and apply
hot packs over the region of the
kidneys. In certain stages quinine
acts dangerously, and should be given
only by an experienced medical atten-
dant.
* * * *
How are new varieties of gladiolus
evolved ?
Hand-pollination of different-colored
blooms is a task for the expert; ger-
mination is faulty, often taking two
months, and plants don’t reach
flowering stage for four years. Even
then few of the blooms are worth
keeping. Seedlings must be raised in
a glass frame or in a warm corner in
boxes of three parts sand and one
part light soil, mixed.
* * * *
Method of making a sheepskin rug ?
Wash the skin with washing-soda
until grease is out. Then nail it
on to a door or some flat boards and
sprinkle with baking-soda, and rub
with a brick. Keep putting soda on
and rubbing until skin is like leather.
Then mix dye and keep dipping the
wool into the boiling dye until it is
the shade desired. It takes several
days to finish off. Use about lib.
of baking-soda for the skin. Long
wool is best to work on, as it looks
nicer when finished.
Brief Answers.
R.K.: (1) “Cobber” Kain was
credited unofficially with having ac-
counted for over 40 enemy aircraft.
No record of exact number is avail-
able. (2) He was killed as the result
of an accident on June 10, 1940, at
the age of 22. The crash occurred
at an aerodrome in France, just prior
to his return to England on leave
M.McD.: To remove creosote from
a water-color painting iron affected
parts between clean blotting-paper
(not too hot) two or three times. Then
apply powdered magnesia where stains
appear. Iron again between blotting-
paper and brush off. If the painting
is in a very bad state it would be
advisable to let an expert do the job.
. ...M.C.: The tortoiseshell which
polishes best is hawksbill; the others
give poor results. Steep in boiling
water, then wash in rainwater just
browned with vinegar. Wipe dry,
and polish till smooth with jewellers’
rouge or a soft, dry rag. Finish with
the bare hand J.D.W.: To soften
hard paint, break it up with a putty
knife, pour turps over, leave three or
four days and then mash to a paste.
Add raw linseed-oil and stir until
liquid enough. If this won’t work the
paint is irreclaimable. This method
may do for enamel, but the solvent
might be different; ask at any paint-
shop... .A.N.W.: To recondition a
leaky oilskin, to two cups raw linseed-
oil add one tablespoon copal varnish;
heat, but do not boil. Wash and dry
coat and apply oil while hot. Hang
up to dry, and, when dry, apply a
second coat P.S.: Any of these
should serve as a good poison for
black ants: ( a ) Paris-green powder
placed in a circle round nest; ( b ) a
mixture of 4oz. lard, 2oz. borax and
one tablespoon minced meat; (c) mix-
ture of equal quantities of borax and
sulphur... .C.G.: Write Miss Betty
Cooke, secretary, arts sub-committee,
Commonwealth of Australia Jubilee
Organisation, 264 Pitt-street, Sydney.
••; .F.R.J.: The International Who’s
Who, obtainable from Europa Pub-
lications, Ltd., 56 Bloomsbury-street,
London, W.C. 1.... 0.J.H.: Write
direct to Director, the Museum of
Technology and Applied Science,
Harns-street, Ultimo (N.S.W.)
L.H.8.G.: Try any of the following:
Bennie S. Cohen and Sons, 263
George-street; T. P. Clark and Cos.,
8 Bond-street; Douglas Orton and
Cos., 66 Pitt-street; Edward Lumley
and Sons, 263 George-street; Harvey
Tnnder Pty., Ltd., Assembly Hall,
York and Jamieson-streets, Sydney.
... .E.McR.: The closing date for
receipt of manuscripts for the Com-
monwealth Jubilee Novel Competition
is September 28, 1951 D.T.: Jack
Dempsey was born in Manassa, Colo-
rado, U.S.A., on June 24, 1895. He
won the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship when he knocked out Jess
Willard (third round) at Toledo,
Ohio, on July 4, 1919, and lost the
title (points decision in 10 rounds) to
Gene Tunney at Philadelphia on
September 23, 1926 L.L.L.: Sorry,
but the Service Department is for
the furnishing of information, and
cannot undertake to solve parlor
puzzles for those who have not the
patience to work them out E.S.:
The competition you mention was
discontinued a few years ago. Suggest
you enter it in the Commonwealth
Jubilee Literary Competition for a
non-fiction prose work. Particulars
posted E.Y.: Full information is
obtainable from Under-Secretary,
Department of Mines, Bridge-street,
Sydney M.H.: Article “A Little
Air History” appeared in The
Bulletin of May 29, 1946.


' Missing Friend.
WILL any person knowing the present
whereabouts of LEONARD JAMES QUIN
—also known as LEONARD JAMES- —
formerly of 19 Ivy Street, Prahran, Vic-
toria, please communicate with M. M.
GORMAN. Solicitor. 422 Collins Street,
Melbourne. Tel. MU 4564.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE EDWIN FARLEY late of
Castleerag.— TAKE NOTICE that MAY
HELEN FARLEY has filed a Petition for
dissolution of Marriage No. 1792 of 1951
on the grounds of your desertion by reason
of your non-compliance with the Decree
*or Restitution of Conjugal Rights made
against you on the 16th January 1951
in Suit No. 3990 of 1949 If you wish to
netend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
street Sydney by the 18th day of Sep-
ember 1951 and obtain a copy of the Petl-
without charge from WM. LIEBER-
q, a N & TOBIAS, Solicitors, 56 Hunter
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
1N t HE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
PHYLLIS EILEEN PAUL late of
arabran.—TAKE NOTICE that
«ORMAN BRICE PAUL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 984 of 1951 on the
exe Un ° desertion without just cause or
int US h r *** ree >’ ears and upwards If you
end to defend this suit you may enter
. appearance at the Divorce Registry
hv it me Court House King Street Sydney
obtn‘ 6 P* r ®t Gay of October 1951 and
chn, ln a copy the Petition without
narge from q m STAFFORD, Solicitor,
D nTTr , PHzabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
POUQHaN, Registrar.
£rv sa “ e JiA
ft
m
(mnmmmA
*3
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE
You can enjoy SUMMER
AT
-fronolulu
NOW!
s ; X •
-.'' m ill
\ s . S *si
-m
%
ill
Ik
mH
* *'
: -' I**
m
• v?^
x
> m
A-
m
Fly the Pacific Canadian Pacific style —to Canada, U.S.A.
or U.K. and enjoy a 32 hour stop-over at Honolulu en route.
It’s glorious summertime at Honolulu now here you can
bask in the sun on Waikiki Beach, ride the surtboards, motor
to Diamond Head, and dance under the stars at night. There s
a 12 hour stop-over at colourful Fiji also. Only Canadian
Pacific gives you both these stop-overs with meals and
accommodation at no extra cost.
In pressurised Canadairs equipped with luxurious “Loungaire”
chairs you fly relaxed—arrive refreshed.
* For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents'), 247 George
Street, Sydney, and 59 William Street. Melbourne, or any
authorised Tourist Agency.
QmmMjom Ohcific
AIRLINES
••THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM”
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited Incorporated in Canada
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Happy As Larry."
Sydney Metropolitan’s per-
formance of Donagh Mc-
Donagh’s “Happy As Larry,”
an Irish satire in verse on the
theme of death, got away to a
bad start. The six tailors who
act as a chorus to the main
action and who are supposed to
enliven the performance with
their witty barracking almost
ran the first-night production on
to the rocks in the opening
scene with accents no Irishman
would recognise and a delivery
that had the audience straining
to grasp the meaning of the
lines.
It was not until one’s ears
became attuned to the tailors’
King’s Cross brogue, and until
the arrival of the leading
players brought sense and pur-
pose to the play, that one could
settle down and enjoy the
whimsical piece of Irish foolery.
Walter Davies as Larry was a
disappointment. He had the
presence and the spirit for the
part, but his voice didn’t seem
suitable for the utterance of
Donagh McDonagh’s fanciful
lines. On the other hand,
Richard Meikle, as the amorous
poisoner, was not only vigor-
ously masculine, but tossed off
his lines so that all could hear
and laugh at the author’s shrewd
allusions.
Patricia Martin, beautifully
poised and delightfully vital, was
at her best in the scene in which
she is seen fanning her husband’s
grave so that it may quickly dry
and she be free to marry again,
having promised her husband
that she would not take another
while his grave was still wet.
Gwen Harrison’s more-matronly
widow was a forthright and
satisfactory portrayal. A sinister
chemist, a gloomy gravedigger
and three goddesses who formed
an independent and lively chorus
all added to the cheerfulness.
Elaine Haxton’s screens, which
formed part of the settings, were
in keeping with the charm of
the production.
"Beyond the Horizon."
Despite the eager sincerity of
the young players in Sydney
Independent’s presentation of
Eugene O’Neill’s “Beyond the
Horizon,” there was an air of
constraint about the perform-
ance, leaving the impression that
the full implications of the play
had eluded the cast. Yet
O’Neill’s 30-year-old Pulitzer
prizewinner is a comparatively
straightforward drama compared
with the tortuous complexity of
some of his later efforts.
Norman Bushman as Robert
Mayo, a romantic daydreamer
yearning for a more exotic en-
vironment than a New England
farm, at times almost captured
the poignancy of the part,
especially towards the end where
he in part atoned for an open-
ing uneasiness. Keith Goddard
as Andrew, the practical brother
who sails away and experiences
all the adventures Robert de-
sired, also got away to a bad
start, but gained confidence as
he progressed.
As Ruth, who is loved by both
brothers, and who marries
Robert while still in love with
Andrew, Noella Masson was not
sufficiently homespun, bringing
to her part an urban and alien
sophistication. Mary Lynn
Thomas, as the mother of the
two young men, gave a warmth
to her playing that offset some
of the bleakness of the others.
Robert Moylan, as the father,
was adequately bitter and angry,
and Edward Caminer made a
brief but effective appearance as
a farmhand.
Edgar Veitch’s lighting effects
and Desmond Downing’s scenery
were excellent.
"Anna Christie."
Played on the deck of the
barge Simeon Winthrop at
anchor in the harbor of
Provinceton, Mass., and in a fog
so dense that the characters
could scarcely be distinguished
from one another, Eugene
O’Neill’s waterfront drama got
an excellent handling from the
Melbourne National Theatre
players. The visiting company
which did it some years ago
didn’t play their parts with any-
thing like the same convincing
passion as Reg Dell played Mat
Burke, the lusty he-man who
falls for June Brown, as the
skipper’s daughter, only to be
frustrated by her guilty
conscience and his own; or as
Ray Lawler played the be-
wildered Norwegian skipper pro-
tecting his daughter’s non-
existent virtue. The production
by William P. Carr was better
than anything done in the late
Festival of Drama.
"Chez Paree."
A demand made in the Vic-
torian House by O’Carroll,
M.L.A., that an allegedly salaci-
ous poster, said to depict a
Tivoli lovely “almost naked with
a bit of fur on,” should be torn
down in the interests of public
morals drew a reply from Chief
Commissioner Wishart that the
amount of nudity in the picture
was not excessive, and that much
more was displayed in the
advertisements of some of the
most respectable firms in the
city.
One result of the controversy
was that a, larger number than
usual of citizens were attracted
to the variety house in Bourke-
street. They saw and heard
nothing that they hadn’t seen
and heard a thousand times
before, and may even have been
surprised and somewhat disap-
pointed at the extreme decorous-
ness of the performance.
The Tiv. management sur-
prised the habituals in their turn
by placing one of its scenes in a
convent in which some of the
Tiv. lovelies appeared as nuns,
and some as stained-glass
windows while Qtieen Eliza-
beth looked on as Mary Queen
of Scots was beheaded. It was
all very solemn and reverential,
but aesthetically frightful.
The acrobats were better. In
fact the Carsony Brothers were
astounding. One member of
the family supported another on
his upturned feet with no other
support than the first finger of
one hand. It has to be seen to
be believed, as does the cycling
act of Evy and Everto.
English comedian Jon
Pertwee, who has been likened
to Danny Kaye, made some
progress with the audience in the
first part but lost it in the second.
The Can-Can was danced as it
was in the naughty ’nineties.
Art.
Showing at the National Gal-
lery in Melbourne are 30 of the
50 pictures submitted for the
Commonwealth Jubilee £1000
art competition by Victorian
artists, five of them being
finalists chosen to represent Vic-
toria at the final judging in Bris-
bane. The exhibition is not all
that one might have expected for
the occasion, and even Mr.
Daryl Lindsay, who has always
had great hope in the moderns,
had to confess his disappoint-
ment. The finalists are Victor
Greenhalgh’s “Aust ralia
Bountiful,” symbolic sculpture
in Tasmanian Huon pine;
Roma Thompson’s abstract
“Abor i g i n a 1 Composition” ;
Charles Bush’s tryptic “Waltz-
ing Matilda”; Max Martin’s
“Glass Workers”; and Eric
Smith’s “Eureka Stockade.”
-h
Whether it is the primitive
style of aboriginal art which was
included in the Jubilee exhibi-
tion or the European style now
being demonstrated by 11
aboriginal artists at Tye’s Gal-
lery, Melbourne, Australians
will always find it difficult to
look at the work of the native
race without sentimentality—
“Sir,” said Dr. Johnson, “a
woman preaching is like a dog’s
walking on its hind legs. It is
not done well; but you are sur-
prised to find it done at all.”
Albert Namatjira, who is a
genuinely accomplished water-
colorist at his best, may be an
exception; but the others at
Tye’s — Otto and Edwin
Pareroultja, Oscar and Ewald
Namatjira, Walter Ebatarinja,
Lindulya, Henoch Raberabera,
Richard Mokaterinja, Gerhardt
Inkamala and Kim Dubbo —
have only exchanged for their
own primitive conventions the
more advanced conventions of
the National Gallery school in
Melbourne. If their pictures
were robbed of their romantic
glamor and, unsigned, were
hung in an ordinary exhibition
nobody would take any notice
of them,
4 1 4* •i*
The late A. M. Plante, whose
memorial exhibition is at the
Stanley Coe Gallery in Mel-
bourne, was one of the Austra-
lian artists who struck Paris at
a time when the post-impres-
sionists were beginning to hit the
headlines. She had previously
spoken, artistically, with the
accent of the National Gallery
school in Melbourne. She
quickly picked up the accent of
Cezanne and all those artists and
stuck to it for the remainder of
her life. There is more vitality
in her work than in most of the
scores of young artists who sub-
sequently cashed in on the new
movement. There is freshness
about her still-life and sharpness
about her portraits, such as
“Shorty” and “Mary,” though a
lack of body in her landscape.
Music.
“Cauboy”: A joint Yehudi-
Hephzibah Menuhin concert is
really a staggering affair. There
was one at the Melbourne
Town Hall, and the house was
stuffed to suffocation, and when
the crowd debouched into the
foyers the air was rent with half
the languages and dialects of
Europe, America and Asia.
After the pair had given a
marvellous performance of a
Schumann sonata the brother
spent 40 hectic minutes answer-
ing on his violin the questions
his sister was putting to him on
the piano, the piece involved
being the “Kreutzer Sonata.”
Then, acknowledging the
thunder of applause, the pair of
them held hands and bowed with
all the awkwardness of a couple
of kids at a school break-up
concert.
4* 4* 4 1
Father Sydney MacEwan
chose Brisbane to open his third
Australian tour. He still com-
mands the sweet, lyrical tone
that has been popular with the
recording studios since the
middle 1930’5. This peculiar
lyrical quality suits perfectly the
many traditional songs in his
repertoire expressing the for-
tunes of young swains in and
out of love. His finest group in
the opening concert was a
bracket of songs from the
Hebridean Isles, now part of his
diocese in Sotland. In his Irish
songs Father Mac Ewan showed
himself to be the successor of
his teacher, the late John Mc-
Cormack, and his many encore
numbers, usually lighter in
style, were given with an excel-
lent gusto and understanding for
folk-song.


Safeguarding Estate Investments
demands this specialised \nowledge
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Walet
and Queensland.
jpAMILIARITY with legal requirements, invest-
ment values, taxation and property details is a
paramount responsibility of the Executor or
Trustee charged with the duty of administering
an estate involving commercial or pastoral
interests. Such knowledge is far beyond individual
capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified by
nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this responsi-
bility, and will act either jointly with, or in place
of, those who seek relief from such onerous
tasks. Charges are moderate; service is most
comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of “Import-
ant Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 188 S)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bankers and Traders Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. / Dividends x serves, serves.
1943 .. 31,024 7} p.c. = 10,960 20,064 281,081
To reserve unexpired risk, £13,00(1 .. 294,081
1944 .. 35,674 8 p.c. = 11,691 23,983 318,064
1945 .. 40.634 Si „ „ 12,422 28,212 346,276
To reserve unexpired risk, £3OOO .. 349,276
1946 .. 41,243 9 p.c. = 13,716 27,527 376,803
To reserve unexpired risk, £5OOO .. 381,803
1947 .. 35,213 9 p.c. = 17,097 18,116 399,919
To reserve unexpired risk, £40,000 .. 439,919
From inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. 449,919
1948 .. 37,789 &i p.c. = 18,641 19,148 469,067
To reserve unexpired risk, £75,500 .. 544,567
Tax refunds, etc. £25,000 .. .. 569,567
1949 .. 42,156 12J p.c. = 24,528 17,628 687,195
To reserve unexpired risk, £78,500 . . 665,695
1950 .. 55,422 12i p.c. = 26,367 29,055 694,750
To reserve unexpired risk, £54,000 .. 748,750
1951 .. 53,062 p.c. = 30,660 22,402 771,152
To reserve unexpired risk, £50,000 .. 821,152
Scrip in a well-established, sound and
progressive insurance office ranks high
in the investment category. But it takes
time to develop this equity status, one
factor of which is a policy of profits
allocation which ensures strong reserves
and, at intervals, lifts in the div. and
other benefits. The now 30-year-old B.
and T., which started under exceptionally
favorable conditions, kept its div. steady
at 7 p.c. for the 17 years to 1942, placing
substantial sums to reserves, which (in-
cluding provision for unexpired risks)
are now heaped £575,871 higher than the
£245,281 of paid capital. Meanwhile,
distributions advanced by halting steps to
12| p.c., including p.c. bonus, in 1949,
and have remained steady since. Also
shareholders have put up £124,456 of
fresh capital at par since 1940. The
capital and reserves are invested in sound
securities, returns from which tread close
on the heels of the dividend charge, leav-
ing the bulk of the underwriting surplus
available to swell investments and returns
therefrom.
The co. widened the spread of its net
considerable since the war, partly by re-
opening Asiatic and other agencies in
former enemy-occupied countries and
partly by establishing new branches in
Australia, Africa, the Middle East and
Southern Asia. Since 1945 net premium
income has more than trebled, the in-
crease being £754,323, the last £162,437
of which was in respect of the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts;
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio, Ratio.
£ £ £
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 p.c. 34.4 p.c.
1945.. 342,481 163,893 146,788* 47.8 „ 42.9 „
1947.. 453,884 224,709 169,815* 49.5 „ 37.4 „
1948.. 643,734 351,417 197,597* 54.6 „ 30.7 „
1949.. 839,797 440,936 299,460* 52.5 „ 35.6 „
1950.. 934,367 493,304 357,092* 52.8 „ 38.2 „
1951.1,096,804 618,732 403.770* 56.4 ~ 36,9 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
And last term’s bigger business was
written at 235. less cost. However, recent
wage increases, the full effects of which
have not yet been felt, make it doubtful
whether the expense-rate can be held at
last term’s level. The sudden increase of
725. p.c. in the loss-rate was due to
unprofitable third-party risks, following
the rising tide of road accidents, and to
unsatisfactory motor-vehicle business (also
a common experience) in which the in-
creasing cost of repairs leaves little or no
profit—for the insured it has spelt a lift
in premium-rates. The fire and marine
sections are the best profit-earners.
The year’s gross underwriting surplus
was £74,302 (down £9669), of which
£50,000 (down £4000) was added to the
reserve for unexpired risks, making it
£440,000, or a shade over 40 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, which is the ratio
usually considered adequate for this pur-
pose. So the net available underwriting
surplus was £24,302 (down £5669). In-
terest, rents, etc. (£28,760, up £3309) lifted
the net return from all sources to £53,062
(down £2360), which was 21.6 p.c, on
capital as against 26.2, 21.5, 19.2, 18.5
and 27 p.c, back to 1946. The 12| p.c.
distribution called for only £l9OO more
than the net return from investments.
The chairman, however, repeats his warn-
ing that the 2\ p.c, bonus should not be
taken as an indication of future dividend
policy. In the past underwriting has run
into bad patches at times, but overall the
theory of averages has worked well.
Policyholders and shareholders are
both well protected:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. .. £196,225 £245,281 £245,281
Sundry creditors* .. 106,485 205,920 176,360
Outstanding claims, etc. 386,126 364,615 457,028
Freeholds . . ~ 214,388 234,783 265,343
Government securities.. 422,360 499,864 523,233
Advances co-ops.f . . 135,136 157,794 145,583
Shares subsids. .. 19,995 69,995 69,995
Shares other cos. . . 124,082 131,943 182,928
Book debts, etc. .. 290,440 362,209 363,673
Cash 112,847 124,534 167,462
* Includes provision for taxation, t Advances to
building co-op. societies.
A well-balanced portfolio and strong
financial position are the outstanding
features of the accounts.
The pound shares paid to 12s. 6d. each
recently sold at 725. (695. a year ago),
giving an immediate return of only 2.2
p.c. on a \2\ p.c. distribution. Net tan-
gible cover is 545. 6d.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
I Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 17.4 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 155,796 24,000 131,000 796 476,052
40.5 p.c.
1945.. 122,192 24,000 305,000 269,244
From inner reserves, £74,088 .. 343,832
, 26.4 p.c.
1946.. 214,367 24,000 198,000 335,699
From inner reserves, £99,430 .. 435,129
36.8 p.c.
1947.. 300,683 24,000 276,000 683 435,812
21.6 p.c.
1948.. 323,188 24,000 182,000 141,138 576,949
From tax reserve, £22,381 .. 599,330
25.3 p.c.
1949.. 364,716 24,000 190,000 150,716 750,046
1950.. 596,244 24,000 572,244 1,322,290
The rapid post-war expansion of the
Australian economy, nourished by infla-
tionary conditions, has been accom-
panied by an equally quick development
of this big and efficient offshoot of the
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron
(U.S.A.). Ever since war ended demand
for the co.’s tyre and other products has
consistently run ahead of production,
which has been hampered by shortages of
labor and some raw materials (chiefly
cotton and rayon tyre-cords) and by
inability to expand productive capacity
quickly enough, again owing to labor
and materials difficulties associated with
construction. However, the growth in
turnover, coupled with saving from
increased efficiency, have more than taken
care of spiralling wage, raw material and
other operating costs, and the substantial
additions now being made to buildings
and plant should soon put productive
capacity ahead of today’s order-book.
Sales cover a wide range of products,
but tyres and tubes account for the bulk
of turnover. As a pointer to what has
happened in this connection consider the
next table, which shows motor-vehicle
registrations in Australia, excluding
service vehicles:
Registered New Registrations
End Period During Period
f
Motor Com’cial Motor Com’cial
Cars. Vehicles. Cars. Vehicles.
1938-39 ~ 562,271 258,025 54,107 24,927
1947- .. 593,077 414,072 42,745 28,769
1948- . . 655,497 452,147 66,471 36,678
1949- . . 768,586 501,325 115,012 59,946
Mar.,’sl . . 858,026 540,163 98,746* 59,924*
* Nine months March, 1951.
And truck- and bus-tyres and the shoe-
ing of tractors and earth-moving and
other heavy vehicles now account for a
substantial and growing proportion of
production and sales.
The recent sharp increase in new
registrations, together with a strong re-
placement demand, sent last year’s turn-
over up with a rush —gross sales ex-
ceeded the £ 10,000,000-mark. Increased
selling prices, following rises in raw
material, wage and other costs, helped to
bump up the gross sales figure, too.
During 1950 the London price of crude
rubber advanced from Is. 3d. to over
ss. a pound, the average for the year
being 2s. 9d. as against Is. for 1949. A
peak of over 6s. a pound was reached
in February, 1951, After that the U.S.
eased its purchases on stockpile account,
and the London spot figure recently stood
at 3s. 9d. a pound.
The leap in the co.’s net earnings was
£231,528, raising declared profit to a
record £596,244. That covered the pref.
div. and 45.8 p.c. on the increased ord.
capital as against 45.4, 39.8, 36.8, 25.3 and
13.4 p.c. back to 1945. The profit was
written after allowing £130,599 (up
£9762) for depreciation, whatever was
considered necessary for taxation, and
making an unspecified provision for “pos-
sible future price decline in inventories.”
No ord. div. was paid, money being
wanted in the business. Since the co. was
formed 24 years ago the ords. (held by
the American parent co.) have received
divs. averaging 14.8 p.c.
To finance expansion the parent co.
put up an extra £500,000 of ord. capi-
tal, and £1,600,000 was raised on 4} p.c.
debentures maturing 1955-70:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Prcf. capital.. £300.000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital. . 750,000 750,000 760.000 1.250,000
Debentures .. 1,600,000
Creditors . . 422,895 508,291 1,299,772 212,534
Tax reserve. . 436,349 403,934 224,172 861,172
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 387,381 464,000 507,197 631,787
Stocks .. 1,402,741 1,383,085 2,045,167 3,858,519
Book debts.. 522,797 682,304 762,243 1,306,206
Cash, etc. .. 32,137 9,786 9,384 249,485
The new share and debenture moneys,
together with surplus earnings, etc.,
enabled £1,087,238 to be slashed off the
amount coming fo trade creditors,
£1,313,352 net to be added to stocks,
£543,963 to book debts and £124,590 to
fixed assets.
The Australian public is directly in-
terested only in the well-protected 8 p.c.
prefs., which at 38s. 3d. yield 4.2 p.c.
The ords. are not listed.
William Adams and Co.
t Dividends
Pref. To Be- Be-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £, £ £ £
1942.. 40.195 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,653 67,505
1943.. 40.094 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,552 81,057
1944.. 40.449 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,907 94,964
1945.. 37.960 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 11,418 106,382
1946.. 41.821 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 15,279 121,661
1947.. 53,763 1750 10.1 „ „ 35,416 16,597 138,258
From tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 163,258
Unexplained addition, £1378 .. .. 164,636
1948.. 85.217 1750 10.1 p.c.= 35,416 48,051 212,687
Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 802,687
Unexplained addition, £1686 .. .. 304,373
1949.101,635 1750 12.8 p.c.= 58,229 41,656 346,029
Added insurance reserve, £1755 .. 347,744
1950.111,078 1750 12.8 p.c.= 58,229 51,099 398,843
1951.190,728 875 15 „ ~108,750 81,103 479,946
This old - established business with
Commonwealth - wide connections
specialises in a wide range of engineering
and electrical equipment, lubricants and
various hardware lines. Since war ended
the problem has been to keep stocks
abreast of the order-book, which has
grown from strength to strength with the
rapid industrial development of an
expanding economy, shut off from the
full impact of overseas competition and
spurred by inflation, immigration and
defence requirements.
To help finance the rapidly-growing
trade, shareholders put up £465,000 of
fresh capital, which brought with it
£90,000 of share premiums, over the last
five years, lifting paid capital to
£725,000. The last £245,000 of it was
gathered at par early in the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. At the
same time the old 145.-paid ords. were
consolidated into £1 units, the 25,000 £1
7 p.c. prefs. were exchanged for a like
number of £1 ord. shares, and nominal
capital was increased to £1,500,000 by
the creation of 750,000 new £1 shares.
Profitable employment was quickly
found for the new capital and
more besides. Net earnings more
than doubled during the last three
years, and have expanded over five times
since 1945. There was a marked increase
in turnover last term, due partly to
importation of American equipment
made possible by the dollar loan, and
partly to price increases. And again the
bigger sales more than took care of
advancing costs. After allowing £19,616
(up £6515) for depreciation and whatever
was considered necessary for taxation
and other contingencies, the board figured
net earnings £79,650 stronger at a record
£190,728. That was 26.3 p.c. on total
capital as against 23.1, 21.2, 22.7, 14.3,
15.5 and 14 p.c. back to 1945. The div.,
steady at 10.1 p.c. for the 11 years to
1948, was lifted from 12.8 p.c. to 15 p.c.,
leaving over 42 p.c. of the year’s profit
to plough back into the business. Each
pound of paid capital thus had the
support and assistance of 13s. 3d. of
visible reserves.
The new capital and surplus earnings
were used to reduce outside liabilities,
etc. (down £138,370), carry more book
debts (up £122,984), strengthen cash, etc.
(up £108,672) and add £49,528 to the
book-value of fixed assets:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £875,000 £480,000 £480,000 £725,000
Liabilities* . . 532,196 556,251 862,821 723,951
Pinal divs. .. 18,780 85,208 35,208 65,250
Freeholds .. 188,206 148,607 198,851 227,506
Plant, etc. . . 30,591 41,672 62,657 83,530
Stocks . . 514,610 617,783 898,877 835,468
Book debts . . 436,470 585,402 590,038 713,022
Cash, shares, etc. 23,786 24,024 25,949 134,621
* Including provision for tax and other contingencies.
Stocks were reduced by £63,409. Alto-
gether the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£893,910) was £276,575 stronger than at
the previous balance.
So far as can be judged at the moment,
the co.’s turnover is not likely to be
reduced by the Government’s defence and
diversion of materials programme, and,
on the basis of last term’s earnings, a
lift of Is. in the pound in co. income tax
would not endanger the 15 p.c. div. The
market has expressed its confidence in
the future of the business by lifting its
bid for the pound shares from 61s. 6d.
a month ago to 655. last week. At the
higher figure the return is 4.6 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
visibly 335, 3d.
Lowe’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. ( Dividends , serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949 .. 57,206 20 p.c. = 25,469 81,737 312,600
Capitalisation of reserves, £85,379 . . 227,221
Prom inner reserves, £BO3 . . . . 228,024
1950 .. 46,127 15 p.c. = 36,234 9,893 237,917
1951 .. 65,339 17i „ „ 42,272 23,067 260,984
Founded by William Lowe in 1898 to
cater for “medium-paid wage-earners,”
this men’s- and boys’-wear outfitting busi-
ness has grown into one of the largest of
its kind in the Commonwealth. Manu-
facturing activities comprise made-to-
measure and ready-made tailoring, and,
including headquarters—a fine freehold
running through from George to Pitt-
street, near the Town Hall, Sydney—the
co. operates nine stores, of which seven
are in and around Sydney ; and there is
one at Newcastle and another at Woollon-
gong.
Moreover, the business has been
very profitable of recent years. Divs.
averaged 17| p.c. for the decade to the
close of accounts in 1948, and for the
last four years of the period the average
was p.c, tax-free. At end January,
1948, the £104,798 of paid capital was
backed by £189,613 of reserves. Profit
for the year was £25,727, of which a
20 p.c. tax-free div. took £20,959.
The public became interested in Dec.,
1948, when, to finance expansion, 150,000
new ss. shares were offered and over-
subscribed at a premium of 12s. 6d. each.
That lifted paid capital to £142,298,
which was increased to the present
£227,677 in Nov., 1949, by capitalisation
of £85,379 of the £91,250 of share
premiums gathered about a year earlier.
Meanwhile, 55,520 “workers’ ” shares
were issued to employees. These shares
have no capital value or voting rights,


E TLX
FOR EVERY
PAINTING JOB!
gd
A portable unit for
oil, water paints,
lacquers quickly
and easily applied
at a pressure up to
30 lbs. Supplied complete
with 1 h.p. Amplion motor
or as 32V. or 100 V. D.C.
model for lighting sets. Three nozzles
fan type, fine spotting type and angle
type for ceilings. Air chuck for tyre
pumping can be supplied.
Also available as electric 240 V. A.C.
model.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty.
Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Xopp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
J. w. EURNSHAW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney-’Phone X 83950
To be published in August
THE
AUSTRALIAN JUNIOR
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Editor: CHARLES BARRETT, F.R.Z.S., C.M.Z.S.
Assistant Editor: BRIAN W. HARRIS.
With an Introduction by
PROFESSOR WALTER MURDOCH, C.8.E., M.A.
These are a Few of the Many Contributors —
CROSBIE MORRISON
Professor T. GRIFFITH TAYLOR
Professor S. M. WADHAM
Professor G. E. NICHOLES
Dr. W. G. WOOLNOUGH
Dr. CHARLES FENNER
Sir HAROLD CLAPP
Dr. W. ARUNDEL ORCHARD
THOMAS DUNBABIN
JOYCE ALLAN
ELLIS TROUGHTON
Rev. H. M. R. RUPP
G. P. WHITLEY
C. E. BRYANT
A. MUSGRAVE
lON IDRIESS
TARLTON PAYMENT
Dr. DONALD THOMSON
Professor G. L. WOOD
Professor W. J. DAKIN
Dr. C. T. MADIGAN
Dr. C. E. W. BEAN
Dr. A. GRENFELL PRICE
Sir DONALD BRADMAN
Dr. C. IRVING BENSON
TOM IREDALE
DAVID FLEAY
K. C. McKEOWN
J. R. KINGHORN
ELIZABETH C. POPE
J. H. WILLIS
T. C. ROUGHLEY
LEWIS LETT
J. S. MACDONALD
THE
AUSTRALIAN JUNIOR
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Complete in Two Volumes, Quarto,
1056 pages, £7/7/-.
24 Colored Plates, 8 Colored Maps.
About 1000 Black-and-white Illustrations.
One hundred and fifty articles on all aspects
of Australian Life.
With a Biographical Dictionary of Famous
Australians, and a copious index.
Addressed to boys and girls of 12 years and upwards.
Send, for a free prospectus from your bookseller,
or the publishers,
GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY. LTD.
431 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Positions Vacant.
ANGLO-WESTRALIAN MINING
pty, limited
Invites applications for position of
Surveyor with present ..headquarters
at Big Bell; 30 p.c. of time to be
spent on field, duties throughout
Western Australia. Applicants should
possess a Certificate in Mine Survey-
ing from an Australian School of
Mines, or equivalent, to qualify as an
authorised surveyor under the Mining
Act
SALARY: £B5O to £lO5O, depending
upon experience.
REPLIES:
General Manager,
Anglo-Westralian Mining Pty.
Limited,
BIG BELL, W.A.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription ... ~ ~22/6
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
i^s
axmm
in his football boots,
Big, brave, bonny and bold,
Hope of his team was Timothy Toots
Pity he caught that cold!
Only two days to the greatest match
Of the famous football tour,
How did our Tim the victory snatch?
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Care!
J
ScWod"^'
PI
Fireplace
Harmony
DESIGN: No. 8
HEIGHT: 3'7}''
WIDTH: 6'6J"
A Wunderlich Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surround
gives the finishing touch to the modern living
room. The ceramic cream mottled buff glaze
finish is in harmony with present day furnishings,
and affords freedom from discolouration.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs.
I^[fOuncletclieny
Fireplace surrounds
I OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
ON GUARD!
pin
m
I
yi
ms
mm
■ m
m
im
m
m
Roger is an intelligent, friendly dog, but
he is very conscientious about his job as
nightwatchman. Specially-trained for his
work, he keeps constant watch on valuable
property. Any suspicion of an intruder
and he is instantly on guard.
mmm
A
mm
m
m
u
mm
The C.S.R. Co. also employs guardians, of
a different kind. They are skilled chemists,
who check every stage of the complex sugar-
making process. They protect you, by mak-
ing sure that the sugar your grocer gets is
never less than 99.9% pure.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LIMITED
but rank pari passu with sub-
scribed capital for dividends.
The slip in net earnings in the
1950 term was due to official
slimming of gross margins,
which, together with mounting
costs, more than offset the gains
from’ expanding turnover. The
Oiv. was dropped from 20 p.c.
to 15 p.c., °f which 10 p.c. was
tax-free, and the bonus-share
issue made 15 p.c. worth 24 p.c.
on paid capital as it stood before
the gift. .
Last term the gams from ad-
vancing turnover won the race.
After allowing £4328 (down
£3025) for depreciation and
£45,000 (up £15,000) for taxa-
tion, net profit took a leap of
£19,212, reaching £65,339. That
was equal to 27 p.c. on sub-
scribed capital (£227,678) and
workers’ shares (£13,880) com-
bined as against 19.1 p.c. for the
previous term. The £23,067 that
remained lifted reserves to
£260,984, or £33,307 in excess
of paid capital. So the two
combined need turn in only 8.6
p.c. to show p.c. on the
£241,558 of paid capital and
workers’ shares.
Balance-sheet figures disclose
a healthy financial position.
1949. 1950. 1951.
£' £ £,
Paid capital.. 142,298 227,677 227,677
Staff funds . . 6,000 9,000 14,000
Creditors .. 118,182 176,896 113,911
Provision for tax 112,066 90,152 87,132
Final dividend.. 25,469 36,234 24,155
Freeholds .. 231,108 235,170 235,170
Plant, etc. .. 19,254 24,248 25,350
Stock .. .. 321,380 449,034 289,763
Debtors* .. 53,770 34,149 45,049
Cash, shares, etc. 91,093 35,275 132,528
* Includes provision for doubtful debts.
Last term stocks were reduced
by £159,271, while £62,985 was
clipped off the amount coming
to trade creditors and £10,900
was added to book debts and
£97,253 to cash, etc. The im-
provement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£228,142) was
£21,966. Freeholds, which ap-
pear at Qost, are worth a lot
more than their book-value.
Sales have continued on the
up-grade since the close of ac-
counts, due partly to price rises.
Still, exes, will bite deeply into
takings, owing to the stiff lifts in
wage and other costs, and an in-
crease of Is. in the £ in co.
income tax has been spoken of.
The market, which expects no
change in the rate of distribu-
tion, prices the shares at 18s. 6d.
to return 4.7 p.c. on a \l\ pc.
div. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 10s. 9d.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
The co.’s two dredges—oper-
ating in the Rawang and
Serendah valleys, Malaya —got
into richer ground last term.
So, although they dug less dirt,
more t.o. was recovered, which,
together with the higher price
for tin, enabled more profit to
be earned and a better dividend
to be paid, despite extra Gov-
ernment bleeding for export duty
and income tax:
Av.
Dredged Value Recovery
Year. ’OOO. O.y. T.o. Profit.
March, O.y. Lbs. Tons. &
1947 .. 1362 .59 360.30 17,692
1948 .. 2454 .38 419.46 16,459
1949 . . 2292 .31 816.33 16,110
1950 .. 5245 .35 830.83 105.923
1951 . . 4973 .58 1285.48 240,368
Profit (up £134,445) was equal
to 2s. 9d. per 10s. share, or
27.4 p.c. on capital. Divs.
totalled Is. 10.3 d. per share (6d.
in the previous year), less 30
p.c. Malayan dividend tax, mak-
ing the net rate 15.6 d. per share,
or 13 p.c. That called for
£113,953, and £13,000 was
written off restoration exes, and
£25,000 was earmarked for con-
tingencies, leaving £88,415 to
carry forward.
Average price received for the
ore was equal to £833 13s. lid.
(up £270 Is.) per ton metallic
tin. Before tax, all-in costs were
£482 16s. 4d. (up £5O 11s. lid.)
per ton, of which £126 18s. (up
£43 9s. 4d.) was for export duty.
Provision for income tax was
£136,000 (nil previous term).
About 440 acres of mining
land remains to be dredged—
approximately four and a half
years’ work for the two
machines —and mining titles
have been applied for over 848
acres of adjacent State land.
When the books closed
current assets totalled £787,260
(£528,443 of it cash) and
current liabilities £107,432. In
addition there was a rehabilita-
tion loan of £174,259. Co.’s
war-damage claims, etc., have
been assessed at £266,493, of
which 60 p.c. has been received
since the close of accounts.
The London spot price of tin
fell from an average of £81470
a ton for Feb., 1951, to £S 1136
for May, and had dropped to
£SBB2 10s. on July 11, when the
forward quote was £SB3B 15s.
The recession is due chiefly to
withdrawal of American buying
support on stockpile account.
The Malayan Government’s pro-
posal to “freeze” part of the
profits of tin producers further
complicates the outlook for
investors.
The market takes a cautious
view and prices the co.’s f.-p.
10s. shares at 6s. Bd.


Births.
TAYLOR-GILL: On Bth Julv, 1951, in London, to
WENDY {nee CUTHBERT), a daughter. JANE
FIONA.
Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The Annual Opera Ball, held at the
Town Hall this year, caught again the
gay spirit of its two previous appear-
ances. The fact that only about 50 p.c.
of the dancers were in fancy-dress made
it rather more fun, because one got a
pleasant little surprise every time one
came across Shylock or Musetta or the
Doge of Venice among the more
formally-dressed crowd. Jean Garling
won the prize for the best female costume
for the second year in succession. She
represented the Cat from “Cinderella,”
but she could just as well have been
Mehitabel, for lots of people ignored the
opera in their costumes and dressed as
South Sea islanders, Carmen Mirandas,
etc. The Independent Theatre was
represented by a “Merchant of
Venice” group, and included Doris
Fitton, Marcel Wattell, Jennifer Hocking
and David Child. Mrs. C. T. Lorenz
was hostess. The Erik Langkers enter-
tained a large party in which the younger
set was represented by their son Bobby,
Mary Campbell, Bob Colligan, Judith
Ann Cato, Colleen Amour, Ronald
Sullivan and Jeff Wunderlich. Prizes
were awarded by the Countess
del Balzo, Madame Vrisakis and
Mrs. Robert Paterson. Official guests
included the Minister for Education and
Mrs. Heffron, and the Director of Edu-
cation, Mr. J. G. McKenzie.
Woman of the week in Sydney was Dr.
Jeanne Eder, president of the Inter-
national Council of Women and Jubilee
guest of the Federal Government. Dr.
Eder (her doctorate is in philosophy) is
Swiss, but she was educated in America,
which accounts for her command of the
English language. There were about 600
women present at the reception given in
her honor by the women’s organisations
of N.S.W., when she spoke on the subject
of “Women as the Custodian of Life.”
It has always been natural for women to
keep and preserve life in her role of wife
and mother, but today her interests and
activities should cover a wider sphere.
She should occupy herself with problem?
of public importance such as migration
and housing, which Dr. Eder considers to
be the most pressing in Australia today.
Mrs. John Metcalfe presided at the meet-
ing. A vote of thanks was moved by
Mrs. Cullen, vice-president of the C.W.A.,
and seconded by Dr. Grace Cuthbert.
The guest-speaker at the English-
Speaking Union’s meeting was Professor
F. E. A. Towndrow, who made some
illuminating comments on homemaking.
Professor Towndrow spoke from the
architect’s point of view, stressing the
psychological change that has affected the
design of houses today. Whereas in the
past the idea was to get as much privacy
in the home as possible, nowadays the
tendency is to openness. Some people, he
said, seem to want a house almost entirely
made of glass. Within the house the
rooms tend to flow into one another, as
it were, so that the housewife in the
kitchen doesn’t feel cut off, but can peel
potatoes and exchange chatter with her
guests at the same time. The professor
is not so unreservedly keen’ about built-
in furniture as others are today. He says
that it really costs as much as other types
and that it lacks flexibility, leaving less
wall-space and frustrating that “moving
all the furniture around” urge which
women feel from time to time and which
is as refreshing to them as a new hat.
The hostesses at the meeting were Mrs.
M. Harding and Miss Thelma Yeo.
The unusual in names is being adopted
by the fashionable cosmopolitan crowd.
Lady Sarah Churchill (now Mrs. Edwin
Russell) called her daughters Serena and
Consuelo. Schiaparelli’s granddaughters
are Marisa and Berinthia. Other little
girls in the smart set are called Cassandra,
Jenepher and Pandora. Cressida is corm
paratively common, but as yet there has
been no sign of Minerva and Andromeda
—they’d probably only get “Minnie” and
“Annie” in any case.
The Festival of Drama at the Uni-
versity is proving remarkably successful,
with such crowded houses that some
customers have had to be turned away.
T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral”
will probably be presented again on
Saturday afternoon so that the overflow
can take a look at it. Plays are being
presented not only in English but in
French, German, Italian and Greek. To-
morrow night “Ein Same Menschen” by
Hauptmann, which is produced by Baron
von Stutteheim, will be seen, and on
Saturday a French play, “La Guerre de
trois n’aura pas lieu,” by Giraudoux, is
on the agenda. It has been suggested that
the New Australians are largely respon- 1
sible for the popularity of this festival,
but maybe Sydney is more classically-
minded than we thought, after all.
Nearly all the nylon stockings on sale
today have printed on them things like
“30 denier” and “56 gauge,” which most
people take on trust, but everyone ought
to understand. “Denier” refers to the
thickness of the thread used, just as 2-ply
or 4-ply is used with wool. The finest
thread at present is “15 denier,” but the
Americans are working on a still finer
one which will be strong enough. “Thirty
denier” is an average fine-to-medium
thickness. “Gauge” refers to the number
of stitches to the inch, or rather the 2£in.
In a stocking marked “56 gauge,” there
have been 56 needles used for every 2£in.
of stocking knitted, and this is about the
average number. Thirty years ago the
term “full-fashioned” took some time to
be understood by all. Today “denier”
and “gaugq” are the little matters to be
mastered.
This is Noela Masson, who has the
role of Ruth Atkins in Eugene O’Neill’s
play “Beyond the Horizon,” which is be-
ing presented by the Independent Theatre
School for the Commonwealth Jubilee
Drama Festival competition at the Inde-
pendent tonight. It will be seen later at
the same theatre for a season. The pro-
duction is by Edgar Veitch, who was
stage-director for the Fay Compton Com-
pany which toured Australia and New
Zealand some years back.
It’s a good way ahead, but ex-students
of Sancta Sophia should mark down
Wednesday, October 25, as a date reserved
for their reunion and dinner-dance at the
Pickwick. This party, which proved such
a happy one last year, helps to build up
the ex-students’ fund for their scholar-
ship, which will be awarded for the first
time next year—l9s2 was chosen as the
most appropriate beginning year, as it
marks the silver jubilee of the college.
Part of the treatment at the Far West
Children’s Home at Manly is occupa-
tional therapy. Defined as “any activity,
mental or physical, prescribed by a doc-
tor and carried out by trained personnel
to improve disability,” this type of treat-
ment includes the handling of toys for
very little children. By fitting blocks
into each other, dressing dolls, winding
up toy tanks and cars, they learn to grasp
and to use muscles and to develop
mentally by contact with new objects.
For older children the treatment is
adapted to the requirements of each
child. One little girl is learning to use
the muscles of her crippled leg by
dabbling her toes in paint and making
pictures on paper. Pottery, leather- and
raffia-work is prescribed for other
children; older ones undertake work
which may later become a career.
The once-humble onion presents to-
day a story something like that of the
ugly duckling. At 2s. per pound, onions
are at last entering the glamor class and
getting the care that is really their due.
Housewives recognise that they can do
without asparagus, red salmon, Jerusalem
artichokes and the like, but the onion
is indispensable. Luxury dishes now in-
clude raw onions in lemon juice chopped
up very fine and mixed with sweet com
(normally a rather insipid vegetable), or
onions stewed slowly with tomatoes and
butter. No longer are onions left to
sprout unseen and fade in the depths of
the vegetable-box, they are now trea-
sured and protected, which only goes to
show that even inflation has its
advantages.
The J.C.W. Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Company is to have a two-week season
in Newcastle, where it will give “The
Mikado,” “The Pirates,” “Box and
Cox,” “The Yeomen” and “The Gondo-
liers.” From Newcastle the company
will go to Brisbane, and then we can
expect a short farewell season here at
the Empire Theatre.
This afternoon at 2.30 the Royal Empire
Society will hold an “At Home” in honor
of Brigadier F, C. Callaghan and Mrs.
Galleghan, when the artists will be Elsie
Finlay, Joy Cross, Hazel McGilvray and
Harold Hinton. Set down for Friday
night at 8 p.m. is a talk in the Society’s
rooms by Mr. S. F. Kellock, Director of
Posts and Telegraphs, N.S.W. His subject
will be “Sidelights on Post Office Work.”
From Melbourne
When Mrs. Walter Carnegie, president
of the Ministering Children’s League,
was in London last year, Queen Mary,
who is patroness of the League, gave her
a signed portrait as a mark of her appreci-
ation of the fine work done by the
M.C.L. This is an honor hitherto
accorded only to world-wide organisations
such as the Y.W.C.A. Mrs. Carnegie
also visited Ottershaw, Chertsey, the
English headquarters of the League ; this
home was given by the Countess of
Meath, its founder in England and Aus-
tralia. Sister Nora Harper, who was
working at Ottershaw at the time, decided
to come to Australia. Now she is here,
and has been appointed matron of the
League’s Cottage by the Sea at Queens-
cliff. For the past 60 years underprivi-
leged children have enjoyed free holidays
there. The League is making a special
effort to commemorate its 60th anniver-
sary by increasing the small but growing
endowment fund for Queenscliff Cottage.
At the joint recital she gave with her
famous brother Hephzibah Menuhin wore
a lovely gown, its tight-fitting bodice of
white lace over Swiss silk organza having
an off-the-shoulder neckline and short
sleeves fashioned of three frills of the
filmy lace. The full skirt, which swept
into a slight train at the back, was of
graduated lace frills which opened in
front to reveal the underskirt of organza.
In the audience were Mrs. Frank Tait,
an unusual pailliette trimming the neck
of the black gown she wore with silver-
fox furs ; Mrs. Charles Reid, her beige
net gown having a frilled hemline;
Barbara Murray Smith, whose turquoise-
blue wool-romaine gown was covered
with a grey Persian-lamb jacket; Mrs.
George Gardiner, in grey squirrel over
black ; and Mrs. Frank May, in white-
bead-embroidered black gown.
Miriam, only daughter of Col. Rufus
Ramey, U.S. Military Attache, and Mrs.
Ramey, is a much-travelled young lady.
Before coming to Australia she spent 18
months in the Philippines and two years
in France. Schooldays were spent
wherever her father was stationed, but
she was “finished” at Lindenwood Col-
lege, St. Charles, Missouri. At the begin-
ning of this year Miriam became
secretary to the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital, and
she also did the publicity for the Ken-
tucky Derby Ball, which celebrated the
Fourth of July. Photo by Broothorn.
Festoons of tricolor ribbon linked with
baskets of glowing red camellias formed
the decorations on the official table for
the ball in the Lower Town Hall
organised by the Alliance Fran9aise to
celebrate France’s national day. Guests
were received by the president, Madame
Gay, whose gown was of black and gold
brocade, and the secretary, Madame
Cockerton, in a gown of deep-blue otto-
man with a satin diamond pattern, full-
skirted and with a deep neckline. Among
the official guests were the newly-arrived
French Consul M. Sirot and his wife,
the latter teaming a black tulle ruffled
skirt with a high-necked pale-gold satin
blouse. Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, who was
with her husband, the U.S. Consul-
General, chose a filmy black Chantilly
lace gown. Lady Scott’s satins were
floral-printed black. Mrs. Maurice Belz
was gowned in black lace. Among the
dancers were Lilliane Gay, her American-
beauty crepes garnished with sequins in
a matching tone, Mrs. D. Triaca, in white
cloque taffeta, Maria Boffa, her white
satin frock having a full-quilted skirt
Paddy Wilkinson, attractive in deep-
mauve chiffons, Mrs. R. Horne, whose
grey faille draped dinner frock was short
Mrs. Trevor Grant, wearing a full-skirted
dinner-gown, and Esther Paton, her
deep-rose crepe frock featuring ’white
coin-spots.
At the annual ball held at 9 Darling-
street by the Wembley Auxiliary for the
Women’s Hospital, colorful leis made by
members of the auxiliary and by patients
in the surgical ward were sold. Young
president of the auxiliary, Mrs. Noel
Bromell, attractive in a pale-blue satin
and matching tulle stole, received Mrs.
E, M. Cornfoot, president of the
Women’s Hospital, and Mrs. A. G.
White, president of the hospital’s many
auxiliaries. Enthusiastic members of the
auxiliary present included Mrs. K.
Whitford, whose blue satin gown was
covered by black lace, Mrs. John
O’Connell, in rust shot-taffeta, Joan
Wood wearing pale-pink chiffons and
lace, Jean Hanna, whose royal-blue velvet
frock featured a strapless bodice, Peg
Bell in pink organza, Betty Waddell,
whose burgundy satin frock was worn
with a white broderie Anglaise bolero,
and Mrs. B. Woodlands, the pattern of
whose aqua-blue lace frock was outlined
in silver.
The “standing-room-only” sign had to
be trotted out at the Tiv. on the open-
ing night of “Chez Paree,” which stars
Jon Pertwee, the English comedian. But
little Pepita, who is a member of the
Spanish ballet, almost stole the show.
She is only seven, and during the day is
attending school in one of the suburbs.
In her white frilled costume and mantilla
she danced and clicked her castenets with
plenty of ability. In the audience were
Mrs. Dudley Gordon, down from Bris-
bane to spend a few days with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Mitchell;
Mrs. S. Aarons, who has just returned
from a world tour; Mrs. Clayton Beck-
ingsale, who, with her husband and
children, returns shortly to her home in
Southern Rhodesia ; Mrs. R. Honeyman,
Mrs. Eric Cottrell and Mrs. George
Griffith.
Over-the-border visitors at the Findon
Harrier’s Hunt Club race-meeting at
Moonee Valley included Mrs. Andrew
Tennant (S.A.), smart in forest-green with
black accessories, and Sydneysider Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere, whose mushroom-and-
mist-blue woven-tweed topcoat was worn
over a skirt of the same material topped
with a blue-and-mushroom-striped jacket.
Her mist-blue boater, banded with mush-
room, was worn with a forward tilt. Wife
of the Master of Findon Harriers, Mrs.
Noel Mason, wore under her black
Persian-lamb coat a teal-blue wool frock ;
her matching blue hat was finished with
black veiling. Mrs. Trevor Clarke’s
tobacco-brown Harris-tweed suit had a
full-pleated skirt. A hip-length wild-
mink coat was worn over the cinnamon-
brown wool frock of Mrs. Lionel New-
ton ; her matching velvet cloche hat was
trimmed with a chou of feathers and
veiling. The skirt of the navy suit worn
by Mrs. W. H. Horsfall had a back float-
ing panel ; her matching grosgrain hat
had a large bunch of feathers at one
side. With her daughter, Gloria Ladd,
Mrs. Horsfall leaves shortly for Hong
Kong and Japan.
Gay little hats and berets were just
right for the grey, wintry day at Fleming-
ton on the final day of the Grand
National meetings. Mrs. David Knox
wore the most suitable and topical stole
of the day with her black suit. Of lilac-
pink woollen fabric, it was appliqued
with three large horses’-heads in black
velvet, and finished with a long fringe.
Mrs. Ronald Nott wore Jacques Path’s
new version of the bowler in white panne-
velvet with her sable coat and black otto-
man jacket-suit. Sydney visitor Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere topped a slim black
skirt with a three-quarter-length cherry-
red coat belted in black patent leather;
her small black beret was finished with
veiling. Mrs. Don O’Donnell’s three-
quarter belted coat, worn over black, was
also in this toning. Mrs. Norman Paul’s
coat was of citron-yellow velour. Mrs.
Morris Sallman’s cerise velvet page-boy
cap, which had an osprey at one side, was
worn with a tent-coat of black wool. The
hat which went with Mrs. D. Harlem’s
dyed-ermine coat was of white felt pat-
terned in black lace and had a bright
yellow rose on top. An emerald-green
pancake-beret was worn by Mrs. W. E.
Visbord with her mink coat. Ospreys
flew from the black velvet helmet-cap of
Mrs. A. E. Shilliday. Her daughter
Wanda wore a tailored coat of grey-and-
black tweed.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Any of the old-timers round at R.S.L.
headquarters in Sydney will tell you that
instructors in the days of the old militia
didn’t come any better than the chap
who’s now Lieut.-Colonel J. L. A. Kelly.
A tough-looking soldier, adjutant to the
2/13th in 1940, later staff-captain in the
20th Brigade, Kelly got back to the 2/ 13th
in time for Alamein, did some tip-top
work at Tobruk, and came out of the
Middle East with three “mentions.” He
came out of the savage Tsimba Ridge
action on Bougainville with D.S.O. The
Australian Royals in Korea have since
vindicated the abovementioned opinion
of his instructional ability—he trained
’em at Ingleburn. Now he shifts north
to Queensland, directing the training, at
the almost-completed camp at Wacol, of
the northern State’s national-service
recruits.
Equipped with nylon ropes, rubber-
soled boots, lightweight tents, a handful
of bearers and a great heart for adven-
ture, 43-year-old Eric Shipton is off
shortly on a climb which he hopes will
place his itchy feet further from earth’s
centre than man has been before. Everest
is the target, and this will be his sixth go
at the giant. Till recently British Consul
at Kunming, in s.-w. China, Shipton has
been east of Suez for the past 10 years,
mainly in his country’s consular service,
and before War II had been on five
expeditions to East Africa’s rearing back-
bone. In 1931 he was with Smythe when
they topped Mount Kamet, then, at
25,447 ft. the highest mountain ever
climbed. On his last shot at Everest, in
1938, he reached within 500 ft. of the
top. Recreation, mountaineering ; club,
Alpine.
Prior gathered this impression of C.
Fraser Elliott while the new Canadian
High Commissioner was speaking on the
COMMISSIONER.
good oil Alberta promises to pour
into the world’s supply. Born in Win-
nipeg, Manitoba, the new commish is a
lawyer and tax expert, reaching King’s
Counsel in the first profession and Com-
missioner of Income Tax in the other.
In War I a gunner-officer with a brigade
battery of Canada’s First Division in
France, in the next show he was the big
gun of Canada’s fiscal policy. Salaries
Controller, with a watchful eye on
the administration of the Excess Profits
Tax Act. Till recently Canadian Ambas-
sador to Chile, a genial and keen-brained
62, he relieves Major-General La Fleche.
“Fitz’s” farewell:
Sydney Wheeler Jephcott, last of the old
bush-poets who sang of the outback in The
Bulletin more than 60 years ago, has passed
on at 87 in Albury, where he had been
convalescing after an operation. His first
Bulletin verse —“A Song of SFep”—appeared
in the 1888 Christmas number, along with
“Banjo” Paterson’s “Old Pardon, the Son of
Reprieve” and “His Father’s Mate,” Henry
Lawson’s first prose contribution. Thereafter
Jephcott wrote many fine poems for this paper,
published two books of verse, The Secrets of
the South (characterised by Francis Adams as
“The first genuine expression in poetry of Aus-
tralia”) and Penetralia, and appeared in many
anthologies of Australian verse. Jephcott’s
parents came from Coventry in 1863; he was
born at Colac (Vic.) a year later. Entirely self-
educated, brought up in the bush, in his late
’teens he met Henry Kendall, who turned his
thoughts to poetry. All his life he lived on
the Upper Murray—cattleman, bushman, dairy-
farmer and poet—and to the end his whimsical
humor was undimmed, his outlook on life as
clean and fresh as when he was a young man.
Before his illness he had been asked to write
an appreciation of Bernard O’Dowd, and had
been making notes for the work while in hos-
pital. His “Kahbionba” property was one of
the most picturesque in the Ournie (N.S.W.)
district, made beautiful by the 800 varieties of
trees he planted, many imported from overseas.
Among them were silver firs from Spain, eros
from Turkey, deodays from Morocco and
lindens from Germany. Dr. Ferdinand von
Mueller, designer of the Melbourne Botanical
Gardens, often visited “Kahbionba” and joined
Jephcott in the admiration of his trees. None
of the present Bulletin literary staff ever met
the old poet, but a few treasure letters from
him—-pithy epistles, full of wit, shrewd philo-
sophy and geniality, and written in a fist sugges-
tive of big timber caught in a cyclone.
Kevin Miller, the young South Aus-
tralian tenor who has been awarded the
£l5OO Commonwealth Jubilee arts
scholarship in singing, also won first-
place in the vocal section of the Com-
monwealth concerto and vocal competi-
tion which filled the Melbourne Town
Hall with audience and excitement the
other evening. Miller earned encomiums
from the critics and the public when he
raised the National Opera Co.’s produc-
tion of the “Barber of Seville” to pro-
fessional standards by his singing and his
acting as Count Almaviva. The £l5OO
will be an addition to the £l3OO already
collected in Adelaide to send him abroad
at the suggestion of Arthur Benjamin.
Another young Australian, pianist Audrey
White, won the concerto section.
S. Australia’s 27th Battalion, C.M.F.,
gets a sound War II man for its new c.o.
in Lieut.-Colonel W. Forbes. Head-
master of Balaklava (north of Adelaide)
High School, the battalion’s head was at
Tobruk with the 2/48 Battalion, com-
pany-commander, and finished there with
D.S.O.
Dr. Ted Bowen, a keen, dark Welsh-
man now chief of the C.5.1.R.0. division
of radio-physics in Sydney, has
added to his sizeable bag of honors the
U.S. Institute of Navigation’s 1950
Thurlow Award for the year’s outstand-
ing contribution to scientific navigation.
Bowen and his radio pals invented equip-
ment (now adopted by Australian air-
lines) which shows a pilot his distance
from the ’drome he’s approaching. But
whatever else his fertile brain produces,
Bowen will never forget the epochal day
in June, 1935, when, on England’s east
coast, staring with Robert Watson Watt
at the end of a greenly-glowing tube, they
saw a white line of light leap into an
oscillating peak, above the 17-mile mark
on a range-strip beneath it. It was the
first plane-echo on history’s first opera-
tive radar set. He it was who did the
historic duty of carrying to the U.S. in
the war the magnetron valve and the inner
secrets of radar.
At the Caractacus concert in Sydney
the Royal Philharmonic Society’s
highest award, its gold medal, was
presented by the Governor of N.S.W.,
Lieut.-General Sir John Northcott,
to the president, Roland Foster,
Professor of Singing at Sydney’s Con-
servatorium. One of the State’s best-
known singing teachers, with the Conser-
vatorium since 1915 (two years after he
came to Australia with Dame Clara Butt),
Foster has operated closely with the Con-
servatOrium’s opera productions, and has
written four books—the latest, published
in 1949, being his autobiography.
“Jemac”: A favorable current is bear-
ing 35-year-old Timothy Synnot along
at the moment —in the past couple of
weeks he has put up his third, com-
mander’s, ring, been given command of
frigate Shoalhaven, lately of Korea, and
the leadership of the R.A.N.’s First
Frigate Flotilla. A gunnery man, he
was in cruiser Hobart at the Berbera
evacuation, later in destroyer Arunta,
and in 1944, borne in cruiser Dido, he
became squadron gunnery-officer of the
British 15th Cruiser Squadron. A big
job this—the squadron’s guns were to
help cover the assault on the south of
France. Synnot came out of that D.S.C.,
and on VE Day, still in Dido, he sailed
into Copenhagen, to sit on the Surrender
Committee which dicjated terms to the
German Fleet —among the 70-odd ships
there, Prince Eugen (the Bismarck’s
junior partner in her fight with Hood
and Prince of Wales), and Nuremberg.
The Australian’s additional duty was to
supervise the drawing of the teeth and
claws of the German Fleet, and to de-
ammunition all ships. He goes to sea
from command of the gunnery-school at
Flinders.
“Uramao”; The Charter Book of the
Royal Society, London, which contains
the signatures of all British scientists of
merit since the reign of Charles 11, when
the society was founded, has another
Maorilander added to it to companion
two countrymen of his —Sir James Hector
(1866) and Lord Rutherford (1903). The
latest signature belongs to Dr. G. H.
Cunningham, director of the plant-disease
division of the Department of Scientific
and Industrial Research, Auckland.
Many blue-water men will mourn the
passing in Sydney, at 94, of Captain
Albert William Pearse, whose personal
log records such varied pursuits as 20-odd
years in windjammers, goldmining in New
Zealand, Fellowship of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society and the founding, in
1891, of the “Pastoral Review and
Graziers’ Record.” It was natural
that he should have presided over that
salt-caked body, the N.S.W. League of
Ancient Mariners; he was, as well, chief-
commissioner in Egypt of the A.C.F. in
War I, a member of the N.S.W. Historical
Society, the Port of London Authority
representative in Australia and New Zea-
land for 17 years, and author of five
books, ranging in coverage from the
future of the world’s meat to the salty
promise of Windward Ho. His son, E,
H. Pearse, has edited the “Pastoral Re-
view” since 1917.
Dr. R. H. Myers, born in Australia,
comes back to be the first Professor
of Metallurgy in the N.S.W. University
of Technology. He hasn’t much to learn
on the subject—present post, deputy-chief
of the metallurgy division at Britain’s
atomic-energy plant at Harwell.
At the Sydney University Regiment’s annual
ball Maj.-Gen. W. J. V. Windeyer, C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., E.D., announced that Lt.-Col. Colin
Grace, D. 5.0., E.D., would relinquish his com-
mand, and would be succeeded by Lt.-Col. F. A.
Mackell, M.C. —pronounced Mackle, please, not
Mac-Kell —formerly second-in-command. The
announcement marks another link in the chain
which has connected the military careers of
these officers. Grace served before the war as
an officer in the University Regiment under
Windeyer, then the C.O. Later he commanded
a battalion in Windeyer’s 30th A.I.F. Brigade,
in which Mackell began his war service as a
platoon-commander—a posting in which he won
his M.C. in the action that 'brought a post-
humous V.C. to Corporal Edmondson. He later
rose to second-in-command of his battalion.
Mackell subsequently spent some time at the
War Office as a General Staff Officer, and
gained first-hand knowledge of the Russian
Army while on attachment to a unit of the
British Occupation Force in Germany. Also
posted to reserve was Lt.-Col. J. R. Broadbent,
D. 5.0., who had completed his three-year term
in command of the 17/18th Battalion. Broad-
bent served in the S.U.R. in Windeyer’s time,
and at the end of the war commanded the
2/17th Battalion in Windeyer’s 20th Brigade.
Two other S.U.R. men —Brig. J. W. Crawford,
D.S.O. (killed in an aircraft accident in North
Queensland after returning from the Middle
East), and Lt.-Col. R. W. N. Turner (killed in
the Alamein battle) —at different times com-
manded battalions in the same brigade. Un-
affected by the changes in command are
Windeyer himself, now G.O.C. Second Division,
and Brig. I. N. Dougherty, C.8.E., D. 5.0., yet
another S.U.R.-trained officer, who now com-
mands the Bth C.M.F. Brigade.
Doyen of Melbourne newsboys,
Harvey Smith, at 72, still occupies
the stand on Princes Bridge which he set-
up 61 years ago. In that time he has
seen the city fish-market change to the
Flinders-street station, the first Jubilee
exhibition building change to the Gas
Corporation and the immortal Chloe in-
stalled in the saloon bar at Young and
Jackson’s; and some 30 Anzac Day
marches have passed him.
At the time Prior sketched his attached
victim the Union Steamship Company’s
Aorangi, free of her Sydney barnacles,
was shaping-up for Auckland—which
could account for the satisfied look worn
by the co.’s Sydney manager and senior
representative in Australia, Bertie
Wheeler. Born in Perak, Malaya, son
of an Irish medico, the company’s boss,
with the line since 1905, had a sound
war record—at Gallipoli with the Auck-
land Infantry Battalion, left there with
dysentery, got to France and the Somme,
and left there with a nasty packet which
ended his war. The company, as well,
did a sterling job in War 11, Aorangi in
CARRIER.
particular. After evacuating civilians
from Singapore she crossed to Atlantic-
ferrying, and was mothej-ship for 150
tugs of the Normandy armada, serviced
in all some 1200 vessels, and, it’s claimed,
received the first wounded returned from
the beaches. Not all of Wheeler’s 46
years with the line has been shore-time —
he was at sea for nine of ’em before don-
ning khaki.
Sfrangers travelling the old road to
Campbelltown (N.S.W.) and seeing burly
Tom Bass digging in a Minto paddock
might be excused if they thought him a
fossicker from the pages of Henry
Lawson sinking a shaft for gold—except
for the beret. They’d find, however, that
the sculptor was merely digging for the
red clay in which he models. His interest
in sculpture goes back to when, a youth
of 16, he first carved a figure in stone,
CARVER.
and he has been sculpturing on and off
ever since. Born at Lithgow (N.S.W.),
where his father was a baker, young
Bass and family moved to Griffith, of
which his earlier memory is of country-
side like a Russell Drysdale landscape.
Educated at Petersham (Sydney) Boys’
High School, he left at the depth of the
depression, labored in a glassworks,
humped his bluey and worked in
shearing-sheds. He walked to Brisbane
to do designing in glass for an architect,
and walked back to Sydney to study art
under temperamental and lovable Dattilo
Rubbo, who once threw a donkey at a
student—a donkey being the stool on
which a student sits. To pay for his art
lessons Bass posed as a model at most
Sydney art schools, in War II served with
the Army, and after it continued his
studies as a C.R.T.S. student at the East
Sydney Tech, under Lyndon Dadswell.
TTie committee of the Roderic Quinn
Memorial Fund commissioned Bass to
model the fine bust of the poet which
was reproduced on this page recently.
Dubois is liable for this Bass bust.
At least one item in the Jubilee cele-
brations was Australian. Heidelberg
(Vic.) branch of the National Theatre
Movement staged “Red Sky at Morning,”
Dymphna Cusack’s play set in the days of
Governor Macquarie. The playwright
was co-author with Florence James of
the Australian best-seller and prize-
winner Come in Spinner.
Dropped in to shake a collective hand,
Bob Hurle, chief engineer of Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills, at Burnie, in the
Speck, on whose product this par. may
be printed. Down that way since he
crossed as a nipper from Victoria, Hurle
began with the electrical side of his game,
alternated to general engineering and now
is responsible for plant which rolls out
some 25,000 annual tons of fine writing
and printing paper. The mill, which
started operating in 1938, uses (for the
first time in papermaking history), euca-
lyptus, with which the island is plentifully
spread. His main interest at the moment
is A.P.P.M.’s new venture in Victoria —
pulp-mills in the Otway district to feed a
paper-mill in Geelong.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 72, Old Digger William Fraser
Dunn, who, born in Canberra, had a long
career in the N.S.W. Assembly, his record
dating from 1910, Labor member for Mudgee
till 1950, with only two breaks. Father of the
Assembly on the death of Mark Morton m
1938, he’d held the agriculture and conserva-
tion portfolios, and, in the early ’twenties, chair-
manship of the State Wheat Board. Tall, hawk-
nosed, and seldom without a grin, as well
known in Mudgee as the town hall, he’d recite
Henry Lawson at the drop of a hat.
At North Tumbulgum (Tweed River), at 84,
William Andrew Redmond, Irish journalist, who
joined the old “Daily Telegraph” as cable
editor on arrival in Sydney. He was later a
very competent financial editor.
In Melbourne, at 80, Albert Lee-Archer, a
great friend of Joseph Furphy and author
Tom Collins As I Knew Him. He went as
far as South Africa with Henry Lawson, who
was then on his way to Eng and, and struck
up a lifelong friendship with him and his
family. A versifier himself, Albert was a
member of several Melbourne cultural bodies.
At Maidenhead (Eng.), at 72, publicity-
director Henry Smart, whose job for many years
at Australia House was keeping Australia alive
in British minds. A Sydney High boy, he vitas
in both the Kruger and Kaiser wars, and settled
in London after the latter.


yOm.
•i i ™ 1 '
n
.n
p
79.
Su
nrrr
Si
NOW is th
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT and COLD
If your home Is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for all
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is com-
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modern
insulator—B. I. SIAGWOOL
fg
df
nsulation
TELEPHONES; SYDNEY. MA9311 • MELBOURNE, M1J3506
BRISBANE, 83R04 • ADELAIDE. CUV • PFR T H, ??i0 T
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONXiY RATES;
Single Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
m
r*i i «i n ■ ■■■ ■ 1
\.Mn ill »M!im
iifflaflcS ' "”
i
■
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
gdf
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
m Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
g
df
AND SONS
p TY. LTD.
42 HI'NTKH STREET. SYDNRV.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Plain Bodies and Wool.
“Outback”: Dr. F. Morley, of
Trangie (N.S.W.) Wool Research
Laboratory has replied to D. M.
Archer, president of Q’land
Sheepbreeders’ Association, who
said, in effect, that there had
been no improvement in cut per
sheep over the past 10 years, due
to emphasis on plain-bodied
sheep, Morley said the evi-
dence on plainness and decline in
cut was by no means clear.
Investigations indicated that
plain sheep produced lower greasy
fleece weights, but the difference
in scoured fleece weights was
insignificant. It would be in-
teresting to know, he said, if
there had been an improvement
in scoured fleece weight recently.
Statistics seemed to offer
some justification for the state-
“Go easy, Ettie, you're making a show of a man.”
ment that there had been no
important increase in fleece
weight over the past 10 years,
but breeders must consider the
suggestion that there was general
overstocking.
Possibly a real genetic improve-
ment had been masked by the
effects of deterioration in grazing
country.
Without claiming that the facts
proved or disproved Archer’s
statements. Dr. Morley pointed
out that at Trangie a flock of
sheep, selected for plainness and
fleece weight, on appearance and
progeny test had shown an in-
crease of slightly over half a
pound in greasy fleece weight
and a loss of about one grade
of wrinkles (the range of the
flock was nine grades) since 1946,
At the same time there had
been an increase of 0.3 inches
staple length and 31b. to 41b.
weaving weight.
He congratulated Archer on
sounding a note of warning re-
garding the lack of improvement
in cut per head, and in
throwing a spotlight on some
of the problems awaiting
attention from research
workers. There were reasons
fer an investigation of Archer’s
basic assumptions.
Pigs and Maize.
“Hortus”: It’s so easy and
cheap to run pigs on maize that
many who do it overlook the
type of pig being produced.
Maize alone causes excessive
fatness. The pork looks flabby ;
the bacon doesn’t keep well and
has no flavor.
Pigs brought up on this one-
sided ration produce weak-
constitutioned young because
maize is deficient in mineral
matter as well as protein.
Roughly, maize contains 8 p.c.
of protein, 60 p.c. carbohydrates
and 5 p.c. fat.
Use maize as a main-basis pig
food plus some protein-content
material and wood-ashes and
you have a perfect balanced
ration. You can use skim-milk,
butter-milk, cowpeas, lucerne,
barley, wheat, pollard, bran and
others to provide the protein.
Grow maize with cowpeas.
You can sow the two together in
rows about 3ft. apart, 101 b. of
maize with 81b. of cowpeas per
acre. Some sow cowpeas be-
tween rows of early corn. This
can be done just after the last
cultivation of the maize. The
cowpeas have no tendrils but the
long vines twine round the maize
stalks. Being legumes they pro-
vide a valuable nitrogen supply
to the soil.
For mineral matter keep wood-
ashes and salt always near the
pigs. They will help themselves.
If the soil isn’t
rich enough for
maize, grow sorg-
hum, which
thrives on poorer
soil. Sorghum is
not as rich a food
as maize, but you
will often get
more seed per
acre. You can
sow cowpeas with
sorghum.
Hybrids Again
“C.S.”: Once
more hybrid
maize walked off
with the awards
in Sydney R.A.S.
field-maize con-
tests on the
N.S.W. North
Coast and Central
Coast. On the
N.C. Victory
Hybrid was first,
second and fourth. Ensign H.
third. Victory seed was only
released this year ; carries two
cobs to the stalk and a high-
quality grain. Spedding Bros.,
of Tabulam, got the N.C.
championship.
On the Central Coast, Stand-
fast H. won the championship
for H. Coombes, of Gannon’s
Creek, near Wauchope, and filled
second and third places, Ensign
H. being fourth.
Estimated yields of the two
winners respectively are 110 and
130 bushels an acre.
Grow Some Peas.
“C.A.A.”: The best time to
plant them in Victoria is July
and August. One of the most
prolific varieties —Telephone—
is suited to gardens where space
is limited. At least sft. high
trellis is needed and spacing 6in.
apart.
As July and August are often
very wet in south-east Australia,
take care with planting. Sow in
raised beds or ridges. Another
method is to sow in boxes and
plant out like sweet-peas when
about Sin. high. Sow to a depth
of lin. in heavy soil and 2in. in
lighter soils.
If the plants are restricted to
three stems by nipping surplus
laterals at the base of each leaf
they will produce over a much
longer period. When picking
don’t pull pods off the vine but
nip with the thumbnail; this
encourages further podding.
Fertilisers.
“Rooster”: Merely supple-
mentary to the humus-forming
manures, they replace lost plant
food, but they can’t replace
humus. Plant foods fall into
three classes: Nitrates, phos-
phates and potassium salts;
supplying nitrogen, phosphoric
acid and potash.
Used in the right proportions,
to suit the nature of the soil
and plant requirements, their
combination supplies a con-
tinuity of nourishment for the
crop.
Nitrogen promotes growth in
leaf and stem. Any excess, how-
ever, causes lush but soft and
thin foliage, with a great sus-
ceptibility to disease. Correct
proportions of phosphates and
potash neutralise this tendency,
Best time for application is
during spring, when crops are
making growth and assimilate it
readily, since nitrogen is easily
washed out of the soil. It is, in
fact, important that nitrogenous
fertilisers be used after a very
wet winter.
Phosphoric acid prevents ex-
cessive absorption of nitrogen
and encourages root growth,
seed formation and early matur-
ing. There is nearly always a
residue in any well-cultivated
soil, however, so that additional
applications are not necessary
when crops are normal in
growth.
Potash checks any tendency to
unrestricted growth, thickens
plant textures, hardens tissues
and paves the way for ripening
of the seed or fruit. An
adequate supply of this mineral
is necessary to prevent a plant
from growing soft and pappy.
Absence of potash also
weakens resistance to diseases ;
greenback and stripe disease of
tomatoes is entirely due to
potash deficiency. It’s not so
easily washed out of the soil as
phosphoric acid, but residual
potash is not always suitable as
plant food. Annual dressings
are necessary.
The N.G. Sugar Expedition.
“Beroo”: The Queensland
Sugar Bureau’s cane-collecting
expedition to New Guinea (B.
25/4/’5l) came back with more
than 160 new varieties ; most of
them obtained in the Central
Highlands. Some 40 were col-
lected from the Lae district,
around Port Moresby and near
Sogeri, on the Kokoda Trail.
Buzacott and Hughes were
the first cane scientists into the
highland area; until they went
there it was anybody’s guess as
to what would be obtained,
Most of the varieties were of
the “noble” type, which has
large stalks, broad leaves and
good sugar content, and were
found growing in the natives’
gardens as single stools amongst
a mixture of sweet-potatoes,
bananas, corn, cassava and other
plants. The stalks would be
anything up to 22ft. long, and
to keep them upright were
bound to long poles as they
grew.
The natives had no know-
ledge of how to concentrate the
sugar juices, and used the cane
only for direct consumption by
chewing. They did, however,
recognise the energy value of
sugar, and stalks of cane were
a popular provision for long
journeys.
The non-noble canes were of
two kinds. One was the usual
thin, hard, vigorous, free-flower-
ing wild cane used in house-
building and for fences around
the gardens. Its potential im-
portance to the commercial
cane-grower lies in its use in the
cane-breeding programme. The
other non-noble was also hard-
stalked, but instead of produc-
ing a normal flowering head the
arrow failed to emerge and
formed a mealy mass very popu-
lar with the natives when
roasted or steamed.
The Calf.
“Camber”; The shed needs to
be bright and airy with the open-
ing faced away from winds and
bad weather. An impervious
floor sloped for drainage makes
cleaning and disinfection easy.
Plenty of straw is needed for
warmth and to keep down feed
costs.
Locate the yards on high
ground where they won’t be con-
taminated by drainage from
cow-sheds, pigsties or paddocks
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
On the southern coast of Australia normal winter rains
are now likely, and other parts where there may be rains
of some importance are the N.S.W. South Coast and the
Queensland Central Coast, as such occurred in the last year
on the main cycle, 1880.
Up to the last observation (8/7/’5l) there was no sign
on the sun of any specially disturbing influence. First
general rain of importance shown cyclically is about mid-
September, which should give very good rains in eastern
K.S.W., southern Vic. and southern S.A. and south-
west W.A.


u*M£r>i
FACING B PARK
The one thing you will Imme-
diately nolle* when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a pari . . . yet
B is merely "round the comer"
from th* centre of the city. The
looms are all you would wish
, . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
IH <~E>ijdney
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
a
>y
6«
Consult us for
\
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Jnrt pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
""J« h P lu K holes. NU-METAL will re-
cwaltlon your motor while you drive.
• eminently films pits and scores. Ends
P i®? ,n< ’' o ** compression. Ouaran-
***** 10.000 miles, and harmless to finest
♦nyne. NU-METAL has been proved and
hy over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
f° ur t ’ mes * n the same engine.
mJ-METAL comes to you in a separate
tubs for each cylinder, thus eliminating
gui«i„ork. Municipal Councils, En-
•twers. etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
°> 8 cylinders, 10/6, 80/-,
u n* s?£• Cal] * write or Phone MA72SO.
VIL , or jl fr " P OBl C.O.D.’s plus
1 ostal Charges.
ORDER FORM
forward me by return NU-METAL
• Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
wplease send me illustrated Folder
(•escribing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
lB/7/’6l
Bristol trading company,
~, 5® or . Bristol House.
"7 Elisabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
fomgou
Stotfait
gives
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
gdf
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
marvellous nib
Conwoy Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
.Melbourne and Sydney
Telephone:
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin"
F.E.De groot
Dealer in Antiques and Works of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
g
ft*
dfg
df
gdf
No home should
be without it...
f*
ro i<t%
HOSPIT
i'*2S2 , .* nMl ■< NWk »n«“
k * uott • mm u
■ *.w. OIITHIIUTBM, TOOTH ft CO. LIMITID
itT.NiM
hi ANY WEATHER
you can safely maik with
EIASTRATOR
■
The
AfactehnAfetitoet
ELASTBATOB
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR
JAILER
&
for
lambs
calves
&
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and Station Agents,
Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY, LTD.,
125 William Street, Melbourne.
EL 16
where older stock are running,
and make them roomy ; a young
animal needs exercise almost as
much as it does food. A feed-
ing-rack kept well-filled with
good-quality meadow-hay jwill
do away with a tendency o r
calves to eat their bedding, anc
prevent them from trampling
their food.
Skim-milk alone won’t pro
vide enough minerals for norma
growth and development, so give
the youngsters a lick of dicalcic
phosphate, bone-meal or bone
flour—one part to four parts o: r
salt.
Good Stock-feed.
“Sarina”: The vines of soy
beans, cowpeas, velvet-beans anc
peanuts are splendid fodder for
stock (B. 31 /1 / *5l). These
legumes have a high protein
content, and, unlike grasses
don't lose most of it at maturity
Velvet-beans and cowpcas arc
the least trouble to grow, anc
do best when sown broadcast
A few cowpcas mixed with sorg-
hum or maize stalks when cut-
ting chaff for stock improves the
food value.
The vines should be in flower
before being fed to stock, since
they may contain prussic-acid
when young and rank. They arc
easily cured for hay, and will
keep in the silo if something
sweet is mixed with them.
Colic in Horses.
“A-Jay”: Sudden changes in
the feed, overfeeding, idleness
on a full diet, fatigue, excessive
drinking, defective teeth, greedy
feeding, bad foodstuffs, exposure
to abrupt changes in the weather
may all result in colic. All may
be avoided by good manage-
ment. If colic does occur a use-
ful drench is raw linseed-oil, a
pint to H pints; oil of turpen-
tine, 20z.; aromatic spirits of
ammonia, loz.; tincture of nux
vomica, loz. This may be fol-
lowed in two hours’ time, and
then at two-hourly intervals, by
a second drench of aromatic
spirits of ammonia, loz.; sweet
spirits of nitre, loz. in a half-
pint of water.
A New Poison.
“Lyndali”: A new rat-poison,
Warfarin, now on the market in
America, sounds as if it might
have possibilities for rabbits if
a suitable way of feeding it can
be evolved. Dicumarol is the
killing agent in Warfarin and
causes internal bleeding, result-
ing in death in five days.
A concentration of one in 4000
is used for rats, mixed with
ground whole corn. The poison
is tasteless and odorless, and rats
do not become bait-shy. In ex-
periments watchers were amazed
to see rats watching other rats
die but going on eating until all
rats were dead.
It was found that where the
right bait was used it resulted
in complete extermination. War-
farin at that concentration is
safe to domestic animals and
children.
What is needed now is some
research to find out the concen-
tration that would kill rabbits,
whether the dose would be lethal
to stock, and a method of feed-
ing—possibly with oats or
pollard. Looks like a job for
the C.5.1.R.0.
Heavy Yield.
“Bex”: In June, 1949, I sup-
plied The Bulletin with par-
ticulars of a return of 6681 b. of
marketable potatoes from 11b.
of seed at Clarendon (S.A.). A
more remarkable return has now
been reported from the same
district; 7141 b. of marketable
potatoes, but, adding scabby and
fork-marked potatoes, the total
yield was 774i1b. The variety
was Sequoia.
Hints for the Farm.
“K.T.”: If a cockerel stands
alone in a different part of the
pen from the hens with which he
is mated you can be sure that he
is weak. Replace him with a
virile bird that constantly accom-
panies the females.
“Will The bright
aluminium wire now being sold
in Queensland is fairly satis-
factory, but it soon snaps when
heated by a passing fire. It is
only suitable for lightly-grassed
country where fires are rare. If
stapling the wire to the posts,
nails or the ordinary iron staples
will not serve as they cause the
wire to corrode. Special staples
are available.
“Sarina”: Soaking a linen fish-
ing line in a warm solution of
alum will greatly increase its
tensile strength. Simply prepare
the solution in a clean tin and
place the line (wound on a stick)
in it for an hour or two. Then
stretch out the line to dry.
“Plane Creek”: Poor starting
of oil engines is often caused by
traces of water or impurities in
the petrol. To rectify the
trouble, try straining the sus-
pected petrol through chamois-
leather or a piece of felt before
using.
“A.F.”: Don’t let sulphate of
ammonia come into contact with
basic slag, or nitrate of soda
with lime compounds. Lime and
soot shouldn’t bo mixed. No
chemical fertiliser should be
applied simultaneously with lime.
Allow 14 days between them at
least. There’s danger also in
ovcrliming; it’s a certain cause
of scab on potatoes.
“E.M.R.”: To remove spots
and stains from varnished cabinet
incubators: Add soz. each of
powdered resin and shellac to
i pint of methylated spirits.
Allow several days for complete
solution to take place, then add
i pint of boiled linseed oil.
Apply with a pad of flannel,
rubbing until the polish is re-
stored,
“Girrawhcen”: The best time
to buy pullets is about mid-
September. Start of laying
depends on more than the date
of hatching. There are the
degree of hereditary urge to lay,
the rate of maturity, and
methods of feeding. The rate
of maturity is governed by the
methods of feeding and weather
conditions, which makes mid-
September more favorable.


See
East
mm*
m
mu
iil
and
West
46
\
ALL IN
ONE TRIP
Relax at 3 night stops on
the all-Gonstellation Service
Extra hours of “local” time
mean extra hours for recrea-
tion and enjoyment of
colourful scenes in fascina-
ting Eastern cities—on the
Kangaroo route to London
and Europe. You enjoy 3
restful night stops —see both
Eastern and Western culture
en route —arrive in London
refreshed, and ready for
business or pleasure.
Fly De-luxe
the glamorous
“variety” route to
AND ENGLAND
■fa Fly by Constellation all
the way—no change of
aircraft.
■ i f See fascinating Singapore,
Cairo and Rome en route.
Break your journey at no
extra fare.
■jUr Fly across the Continent
—via Rome, Geneva,
Paris to London —at no
extra fare.
De-luxe cabin service
two stewards, one hostess.
No tips, no extras.
First class hotel accommo-
dation included.
5 services weekly—fly via
Calcutta or Colombo.
Consult your travel agent.
jvoamm
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
jfiom^mwra/w/t'
SISI
■&m.
m
VM. ,6
f/i
y
IMT
f,^. c
'«oo„! m ‘o
«c B sJ es«
/•-V
The standard of
good taste in gin
for more than
200 years.
tl/BfrOA
'p7U>2UX>J?
MIO
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Following hot upon the success of
Coniston in the Doomben Ten Thou-
sand, horses bred, owned and trained
in Queensland, and ridden by local
hoops, finished first, second, third,
fourth and fifth in Saturday’s Cup to
round off the 1951 Doomben Cup
meeting as a particularly memorable
one for local talent. Gay Felt (V.
Markey) won the Cup by a short neck
from Shanalen; two lengths further
back Daasrae was third, close pressed
by Tom’s Wish and Forge. Follow
On finished closest of the southern
visitors.
The running of the Cup was pre-
ceded by a week which produced an
extraordinary crop of mishaps and of
diversely authentic rumors concerning
several of the more fancied Cup can-
didates. By Saturday doubles bookies
had been enriched by a wondrous
harvest of “dead” money, and the
run of punters were bereft of any con-
fident line of approach to the principal
problem of the day.
To relate briefly some of the pre-
liminaries, The Pilot, who had been
favorite almost since weights were
issued, broke down. There and then
most bookies had their principal
anxiety resolved. Another highly
favored visitor in Le Petit Due also
went amiss and was scratched. The
most highly regarded of the local con-
tenders, Shanalen, was reported afflicted
by a cold and consequently under a
cloud, but there appeared to be little
amiss with him on Saturday. Forge
was another Queenslander reported as
a “doubtful” during the week, but
able to take his place and run a very
respectable race on Saturday. Finally
there was a succession of conflicting
reports as to whether or not Over-
sight wquld start. The implication of
a difference of opinion in the Over-
sight camp as to the wisdom of run-
ning the three-year-old should have
sufficed to sap confidence in his pros-
pects, but the Sydney colt remained
firmly established as favorite, which
position he had assumed when The
Pilot fell by the wayside.
Faithfully following out precon-
ceived tactics of sticking close behind
the favorite, apprentice Markey was
able to give Gay Felt the run of the
race. Oversight was prominent most
of the way, but he looked clearly to
have had enough by the time they
reached the furlong mark, and, at that
point, Gay Felt, making his run to
take the lead from Daasrae, just as
clearly looked the winner. Three-year-
old Shanalen, after making his way
under difficulties from a long way
back in the field, finished like the very
promising young stayer he is but just
failed to collar Gay Felt. Daasrae,
who earlier in the year had won the
Toowoomba Cup from, oddly, Shana-
len and Gay Felt, hung on well to
keep his head in front of the bunch
of horses challenging him for the
minor money.
Gay Felt, who is owned by J.
Buckley and trained by the owner’s
nephew L. Zupp, is a beautifully-bred
stayer. He is a four-year-old bay geld-
ing by Emborough from a Spearfelt
mare, Eve Felt. Emborough, whose
mighty son Bernborough of course
won the Doomben double in the first
year that the £lO,OOO prize was put
up for the sprint, was also represented
with a degree of success in Saturday’s
race by Daasrae. Shanalen is a son of
Buzzard King.
Confirming the impression that,
through various factors, Field Boy was
a shade unlucky in the Ten Thousand,
for which he was this page’s selection,
the Nuffield four-year-old on Saturday
easily won the Flying over the same
course. A line of comparison with
Ten Thousand form was provided by
Deep Sea, who in the big sprint had
finished second, with Field Boy fourth.
In Saturday’s Flying Field Boy beat
Deep Sea by two lengths, and in
doing so clocked 1.18* —the same time
as recorded by Coniston in the Ten
Thousand.
* * * *
In view of the success of the 50-to-l
shot Hefty Loon in the Grand
National Hurdle the previous week it
was improbable that there would be
many holders of one-leg-in doubles
vouchers to swell the throng at Flem-
ington on Saturday for the running
of the National Steeple, but there cer-
tainly was nevertheless a thumping
good attendance, and the sterling suc-
cess of 7-to-2 favorite Llandrillo in
the main event was compensation for
the morale-shattering Hurdle result.
Watching Grey Morn scooting away
to a 15-lengths lead in the Steeple and
still doing the job very comfortably
with some two-thirds of the trip com-
pleted, it was difficult to envision his
being collared at all, let alone beaten
by eight lengths. However, that was
the near-miracle performed by Llan-
drillo (K. Wilson). By the same token
Llandrillo went breathlessly close to
joining the five runners who, as it was,
failed to complete the course. Per-
petrating his only mistake of the race,
and almost a fatal one, Llandrillo
hit the third-last fence very heavily.
However, he managed to recover and,
after settling a private dispute with
Worrowing and Jung Bahadur, set out
to run down the leader. Llandrillo
made up his ground in remarkable
fashion to take the last fence on terms
with Grey Morn, and in the run home
it became scarcely a race. Llandrillo,
eight lengths to Grey Morn and a
further 10 lengths to Jung Bahadur.
With the success of Prince o’ Fairies
in the £12,000 Brisbane Cup giving
the score a pretty sizeable boost,
owner O. R. Porter is making a fair
bid to set a new Australian record for
a season’s stake-winnings. The Porter
total reached £29,196 10s. (only £153
10s. short of the record sum col-
lected by E. E. Clarke in the 1927-28
season) when the Enfield five-year-old
"Hey, ref., stop this Froggie from kissing my ear!”
Foxen (S. Henry) bagged the big end
of the purse for Saturday’s Doutta
Galla Hurdle —a matter of £875.
Completing the jumping festival, the
Footscray Steeple went to the Porto-
fino gelding Rossfield (R. Watts), who
scored very easily from Lesgar and
Farhad Backers of favorites had an
exceptionally poor run for their money
when the 6-to-4 chance Faunus was
surprisingly bowled neck and crop
by only the second fence. It was the
first time Faunus failed to go round.
The scratching of Solray from the
six-furlongs Lawn Handicap reduced
the field engaged to a mere 39 runners,
and when a field of that size contests
a race of that description the success
of a 200-to-l shot is not to be re-
garded as altogether unexpected. The
three-year-old Helios colt Rhodes (R.
Bettess) started at the fancy odds men-
tioned on Saturday and, enjoying a
big pull in the weights, won safely
from River Hero and Fashion King.
* fr * #
In addition to producing a resurrec-
tion of candles, gas lights, hurricane
lamps, primus stoves and other such
paraphernalia of bygone days, Syd-
ney’s chronic power shortage problem
has also given a shade of newfound
importance to the almost equally
obsolete Moorefield racecourse. With
the three courses, Canterbury, Rose-
hill and Moorefield to juggle, the
S.T.C. is able to avoid having its meet-
ings coincide with a local zoned
powerless day. Thus Saturday’s meet-
ing, originally set down for Canterbury,
saw racegoers instead treking out to
the hilly little Kogarah amphitheatre.
It has always been recognised that
Moorefield, with its peculiar ups and
downs, is, more than any other Sydney
course, one to which the horses-for-
courses axiom can be applied with real
confidence. The chief lesson to be
learned from Saturday’s result was
that now the Hawkesbury Race Club
has Clarendon racecourse again in
action, form shown there is well worth
keeping in mind for Moorefield.
From the horses’ viewpoint at any rate
there is a great deal of resemblance
between Moorefield and Clarendon
with their similarly-pronounced down-
hill finishes.
Of Saturday’s eight winners one,
Carriole, was an established Moore-
field specialist, and three others in
Golden Bird, Channel Rise and Chief
Pontiac had recently shown good form
at Clarendon. Carriole, backed down
from eights to start a solid favorite
at twos, won the Flying by four
lengths, easing up. Channel Rise, a
nice cut of a black colt by Channel
Swell from Heiress, looked a cheap
buy at his yearling price of 600
guineas as he comfortably won the
mile Two-year-old Handicap. Golden
Bird ran a good even sort of a race
and was powerful at the finish to beat
equal favorites Dinanda and Dalston
in the 10-furlongs Moorefield Handi-
cap. Chief Pontiac took two bites at
the cake. With Nobility and Liberal
King, ridden respectively by the level-
pegging premiership rivals Cook and
Ward, fighting out the finish of the
first Allawah Mixed, Chief Pontiac
finished a close third, ridden by appren-
tice K. Barratt. That result put Cook
one up on Ward, but Ward again
drew level when he then took a turn
on Chief Pontiac and landed the
second Welter (6f.) by a head. Hum-
ming Top (D. Munro) took the first
division of the Welter, Lord Crag (A.
Podmore) the first Allawah Mixed
and Lunarian (R. Binder) the Three-
and Four-year-old Maiden.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Handicap: Felcrest,
1; White Lightning, 2; Cymbidium,
3. Merrylands Mixed: Colonel’s
Daughter, 1; Piracy, 2; Miss Moya,
3. Parramatta Mixed: All Jeep, 1;
Video, 2; Craigavon, 3. Auburn
Mixed: Insurance, 1; Rumyle, 2;
Galahad, 3. Winter Handicap: San
Domenico, 1 ; Crag Son, 2; Denali,
3. Rosehill Handicap: Persist, 1;
Silver Buzz, 2; Bilarillas, 3. Welter:
Veiled Art, 1; Sea Serpent, 2: Grey
Theo, 3.
* * * *
In three different codes (and as-
sorted languages) touring football
teams tackled local talent on Satur-
day and the visitors came out on top
all along the line. Admittedly the
France v. N-S.W. League match at
Sydney Cricket Ground resulted in a
14-all draw, but the Frogs looked
superior in every department. They
played one man short a fair part of
the match, and their score, it might
be added, was purely a one-man
effort with full-back Puig-Aubert
kicking six penalty goals and a field
goal. Something right out of the
box in the kicking line, Puig-Aubert
missed only two attempts and most
of those he landed were long and
difficult shots. On the adjoining
Sydney Show Ground the English
Soccer team won the fourth Test v.
Australia by six goals to one, and
thereby, with matches still to play,
set a goal-scoring record for a visit-
ing side; their tally for the tour is
now 141 goals from 17 matches. In
the Rugby Union field the All Blacks
tackled Queensland at Toowoomba
and downed the locals 19-9. In
that match winger Jarden raised his
individual tally for the tour to 88
points—a record for a New Zeal-
ander in Australia.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby Union competition
leaders Northern Suburbs had the
bye in Saturday’s round and de-
voted the free afternoon to the rather
unexpected experience of being
soundly thrashed 34-9 by United
Services. The Services players in-
cidentally deserve a little more atten-
tion than they are usually accorded.
They do a very good job in provid-
ing a game for the odd competition
team each week and may eventually
work their way into the competition,
which presumably is their aim. A
Services team, admittedly bolstered
by talent from other States, gave
the All Blacks in Sydney possibly
the toughest match of their tour to
date.
In the official competition matches
on Saturday, University downed
Manly 22-14, Randwick just edged
St. George 14-11, Eastwood was
really more superior to Drummoyne
than indicated by the final score of
9-5, Eastern Suburbs tossed Wests
17-8, and Gordon pulverised Parra-
matta 31-6. Northern Suburbs still
head the table, followed by Univer-
sity and Easts.
* * * 9
Position of the V.F.L. “four” after
Saturday’s round was Geelong still on
top, Fitzroy next, then Collingwood
and Essendon with 28 points each,
but Collingwood ahead on percent-
ages. Geelong maintained their posi-
tion at the head of the ladder by
proving inhospitable hosts to St.
Kilda at Geelong. In the lead and
dominating the game St. Kilda looked
the winners in the third quarter, but
in the final quarter Geelong, after
painfully notching up eight singles,
eventually got the goal that put them
ahead and thereafter there was no
stopping them; 12.23 to 10.7. Fitzroy
v. Collingwood was a hectic affair.
Fitzroy won the football by 32 points,
21.9-15.13, and the stoush by a rather
more narrow margin. Richmond
dropped out of the “four” when they
tired towards the finish, and Norths,
earlier outplayed in every department,
got up to win 11.16-11.13. At Foots-
cray before the biggest crowd of the
day (24,000), the locals went under to
Essendon 9.10-7.14; Hawthorn out-
lasted and, as well, outplayed Mel-
bourne 18.12-13.8; and Carlton just
scraped home ahead of Souths 7.14-
7.9.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Cost of the A.B.C.
Hints from Canberra that wireless-
licence fees may be increased have pro-
vided an additional worry for Australia’s
unfortunate middle-class, struggling along
without the benefits of “key” union
awards or the proceeds of inflated busi-
ness. The time has surely come for the
A-B.C. to garner a little revenue unto
itself, and to practice some many over-
due internal economies.
At present a representative of the
A.B.C.’s rural news-gathering section is
on a tour of America and elsewhere, the
second within about 12 months. None of
the agricultural newspapers have been
able to afford such luxurious news-
gathering, mainly because they have to
run at a profit, and also because the
information that could be brought back
would not be worth the cost.
With two national stations operating
in the Sydney urban area it would also
offend no one if the A.B.C. sold a little
advertising-space on its second pro-
gramme, particularly as it has voluntarily
gone into the realms of soap-opera and
quiz sessions. If these have to be part
of the national programmes there would
be little harm in having them sponsored
by the appropriate soap and shaving-
cream makers, particularly if it meant
that wireless licences could then be left
at their present cost.
No matter what Government is in
power there is apparently a belief at
Canberra that the public and the public’s
money don’t matter.
Few listeners will deny that the A.B.C.
presents a good service, particularly in
its musical programmes and talks ; and
most will agree that its news-broadcasts
are the best on the air—they should be,
too, considering the large staff involved.
A good deal of the A.B.C.’s wasted
expenditure is at the top, two executives
being employed in some cases where one
would suffice; also in an overburdened
clerical section. In addition, unwarranted
overseas trips, common apparently to all
Government shows, are a burden that no
radio station could bear for long, even
with lucrative advertising contracts
thrown in.
When the present Government was
first elected in 1949, one of its election
undertakings was a reduction in the cost
of the public service, and the retrench-
ment of unnecessary public servants for
absorption in industry. Mounting
increases in the costs of purely Govern-
ment services show how far this pledge
has been carried out. — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Migrants
That migrant who thrashed his wife
on 73 consecutive days (B. 27/6/’5l) cer-
tainly deserved a visit from the police,
but I don’t think immigration officials
can be blamed for allowing him to come
here, or even that his type is necessarily
one that will form “close-knit criminal
groups.” If immigration officials inquire
as to the migrants’ character from local
officials or other responsible people pre-
sumably these base their reports on
whether the migrants are law-abiding
rather than on their domestic affairs, and
I think the subject of “Dick Turpins
par. probably belongs to a different
category from that of the ready wielder
of a knife.
There was a time when wife- and
servant-beating were not only allowed by
English law but accepted as normal by
the populace. The fact that the trucu-
lent migrant asked the police if he had
not a right to behave as he did seems to
indicate that he had previously belonged
to a circle with the same benighted ideas.
In his own eyes he may be a most law-
abiding citizen; if so, the two-months
sentence would be as big a shock to him
as a longer sentence to an Australian.
So long as they are law-abiding in
other respects, I am in favor of allowing
this type to come here, if only for the
sake of their womenfolk. A percentage
of the wives might remain submissive,
“Don’t forget I've gotta 'ave a new suit first.”
but their daughters would grow up more
independent, and their sons would many
Australian girls who would expect fair
treatment. Public opinion, quite apart
from the law, should have a salutary
effect on the whole family —G. I- L.
(Vic.).
Television
Australians should consider them-
selves lucky that they are lagging be-
hind American and British technical pro-
gress in television.
Already sociologists in America are
pointing out the dangers of this new form
of visual entertainment. Children spend
hours, day and night, sitting before tele-
vision-receivers and absorb what is often
poor-quality entertainment, hurriedly
produced to appeal to the emotions
rather than the mind. Adults, too, have
been lured by the fascination of these
stultifying home-movies. Possibly the
craze is only temporary, but we should
wait and see and profit by the mistakes
of others.
Radio has done much to destroy the
old happy home entertainments, and
with them have gone many opportunities
for self-expression which develop young
minds and personalities. Television is an
even harsher task-master. It demands the
full attention of the eyes as well of the
ears. 111-used it can do immeasurable
harm to the impressionable minds of
children and thoughtless adults.
Before it invades this country we must
determine to be its masters and to use it
wisely.—W. M. H. (S.A.).
Rice Mills
Decentralisation has been a slow
process, but one business at least has
had the foresight to move its plants to
the country. Ricemillers have already
dismantled all their Sydney and Mel-
bourne mills and moved them out to the
rice-growing areas. There are mills now
at Griffith, Yenda and Whitton on the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. The
latest, at Echuca, has just begun opera-
tions ; this, the most modern in the
Southern Hemisphere, will serve the 200
farmers growing rice along the Murray
and Wakool Rivers. With a seasonal
milling capacity of 20,000 tons of rice,
the Echuca mill will incorporate
American driers —the first in Australia
which will cut out costly waiting periods
for growers during wet harvests.
When rice-growing first began in the
Murray region during the war years it
was regarded only as a temporary affair,
but world shortage of the grain has
ensured its permanency. In addition to
the value of rice-growing as a primary
industry in the areas where it is grown,
the building of the country mills has
brought secondary industry to the towns
concerned.
Echuca was once Australia s greatest
inland port, handling more shipping than
even Melbourne itself. It went into a
decline with the growth of rail and road
transport, but there are signs, of which
the new rice mill is one, that it is coming
into its own again.—D. N. (N.S.W.).
Wool and Cheap Food
“Harry the Horse” (B. 20/6/ 51)
doesn’t show much horsesense when he
tries to convince the farmer that he has
a responsibility to the general community
to provide a properly-balanced quota
of farm products.
Instead of the cocky owing a debt to
the nation the reverse is the case, and
those who batten on him for cheap
food are in for a rude awakening. For
20 years or more the metropolitan popu-
lation of Australia has had its foodstuffs
provided by people who have slaved
themselves and their families? “Harry the
Horse” will doubtless point to the
£28,000,000 paid in bounties to the wheat-
grower in the ’thirties as an argument
that such an amount constituted “a con-
siderable drain upon the taxable capacity
of the nation.” But will he deny that
during that period the consumer-taxpayer
got his bread at a price below the cost
of production? And so to offset some,
not all, of the wheatgrowers’ losses, the
consumer was requested to pay in taxes
some of the money he should have been
paying for bread.
As for wheatfarmers receiving bounties
when prices were low, how about the
situation now that world prices are high?
City people may think that bread prices
are high, but do they know they are get-
ting the raw material to make bread at
9s. a bushel cheaper than anywhere in
the world? Every year the wheatgrower
is subsidising consumers of Australia to
the tune of £16,000,000.
Added to that, the wheat-cocky has
to sell an additional quantity, under the
planners’ scheme, at a loss of at least
£9,000,000 a year to feed livestock and
poultry so that the consumer-taxpayer
can get more cheap food. During the
last five years the wheatgrower in Aus-
tralia has been the benefactor to the
nation by over £100,000,000. How does
that compare with the £28,000,000 paid
to him in bonuses and bounties?
As for dairying, do city-dwellers
imagine that farmers are going to work
seven days a week to provide butter or
any other food so that they, in factories
and offices, can always get cheap food
when they are working only 40 hours a
week on the basic wage, with a loading?
The general taxpayer will have to wake
up to the fact that farmers are heartily
sick of being compelled to assist to keep
food prices down for everybody’s benefit
but their own. —A. O. B. (S.A.).
Build Your Own
Every now and then some Minister for
Housing gives himself a pat on the back
for the way officialdom has tackled the
housing problem.
These are the facts, however. Owner-
builders, mainly at the weekends, have
built 60 p.c. of all weatherboard houses
in Victoria, 45 p.c. of all brick-and-
veneer dwellings, 84 p.c. of the fibro-
cement shacks and 33 p.c. of the shops
with dwellings. In the mud-brick and
pise field these individual workers are
hard at it in districts where earth con-
struction is permitted.
Altogether these owner-builders are
responsible for over 55 p.c. of all houses
under construction. The Housing Com-
mission contributes a bare 10 p.c. of the
total.—C. B. (VicT
Teachers and Communism
“Wondalga” obviously doesn’t know
a Communist when he sees one. First
he said he had been a teacher for 50
years and had never met a Communist
(B. 4/7/’5l). Later he stated that the
president of the N. S. Wales Teachers’
Federation, Mr. Lewis, “may or may not
be a leading Communist.” A former
Minister for Education, Mr. Drummond,
stated in Parliament there were docu-
ments on the department’s files, when he
vacated office, to show that Mr. Lewis
was a Communist.
“W-” should not expect Commos to
flourish their membership-tickets under
his nose. The fact that for successive
several years teachers have re-elected a
“leading Communist” as their president
should indicate to him that there are
plenty of Reds and pinks in his fraternity.
—K. Mc(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 130
Across.
I—One1 —One of the Hebrides and I asso-
ciate with little Georgia before
the yellowish-brown course. (.12)
8 — Duck a half-score with regard to
grain. (5) ,
9 xhey jabber for 100 before Alice s
mad host imitates Joe Louis. (12)
11—Chinese mile and French iron
one with a long-term conviction.
(5)
13— Sugar-coat the cake. (3)
14— Kangaroo thoroughfares where
birds perch. (6) •
16 —He sees pink elephants. (3)
18 — Unaccompanied seaman gets a
shellfish delicacy. (7)
19— Where the penny is sometimes put
with aspiration and laziness. (5)
20— East to hazard an affirmative isle
in the Hebrides. (7)
21 — It enables many an insect to feel
a number swallowed by the
Christie girl. (7) . •
22 Charles leads a large number into
the gulf. (5)
23 — Instrument of punishment likes
milk. (3)
34 —Scare disturbed Franck or
Romero during the races. (5)
27 — Game for physical fitness, or a
social occasion for doctors. (8, 4)
28— Change daily girl in Greece. (5)
29 — Agamemnon’s disloyal wife makes
Clement stray. (12)
Down.
1— Mother Cathay and Edward
intrigued. (10)
2 Don’t pinch the gate-money;
farewell and goodbye. (12)
3 Dovetails bury hair. (10)
4 Concerning some boxing engage-
ment. (5) . .
5 Coward finds another boy rising
(4)
6 say, it’s all back-to-front for
sandalwood. (4)
7 Rang up to growl. (4)
10 —Fraud where thousands of fliers
establish residence. (7)
12—Smack when having an angle on
art? (7, 5) .
15—Dresser to use crime secretively.
17—Sailor and an apple-splitting Swiss
have a dance. (10)
19 —Phoney article is 1000 in the
Turanian religion of Siberia. (VI
22—Montgomery allows the elevator
to carry 100. (5)
24—Pick. (4)
25 The morning, 1 see, is pertaining
to an amide. (4)
26 Genuine money about Capone. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 129.


mm siioH
g
m
m
m
>*\
V
■V'V
N>
§1
<-v
<3
The famous
One Blade Safety . . ,
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemists
and Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write direct to
us and we will see that your requirements are sent to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Cigarette Lighter Repair
If your cigarette lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken parts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The cost
is low and we can offer a 48-hour service on repairs.
No soap, water, brush or blades needed
Gal
m
for the
ELECTRIC
DRY- SHAVER
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
/ following outstanding characteristics.
/1. It is fully guaranteed against de-
-7 fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires no
lubrication.
\3. There is only one efficient self sharpen-
| ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving.
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
Shave
me wi
NON-ELECTRIC “DRY
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non-
electric precision instrument is a useful
substitute for your Viceroy Electric/
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your cat and shave where you like
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op-
erate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver.
dfg
SHAVER
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
~.r r, ,r . . _ interstate Representatives: . . . . .. _
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne
• WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris. Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirle Street, Adelaide.
