

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin*” Vol. 72—No. 3716
Wednesday, May 2, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
GAUNT BORTHWICK, HONEYMOON HOME FOR A ROYAL PAIR
THIRTEEN miles south of Edinburgh is the grim and massive castle of
Borthw'ick, which stands beside the Gore Water, dominating the peaceful
landscape. Nothing more impregnable or more daunting to an assailant can
be imagined than the stern pile of Borthwick. Its sheer, unrelieved walls rise
to a height of one hundred and twenty feeet, and are crowned by an
overhanging machicolated parapet from which boiling oil could be poured
on aggressors.
Primarily erected as a place of defence, uncompromisingly built for
rugged strength, Borthwick Castle contains a magnificent great hail with a
huge chimney-piece and a withdrawing room fitted up as an oratory. The
castle was built in 1430 by Sir William Borthwick, whose ancestry is said
to be traced back to King Harold of England.
It was in the stronghold of Borthwick that James Hepburn, Earl of
Both well, and Mary Queen of Scots spent their honeymoon after their
marriage on 12th May, 1567. Their honeymoon was rudely interrupted by
the approach of hostile Scpltish lords. Bothwell made haste to the safety ol
Dunbar, where, it is said, Mary joined him a few days later, disguised as a
page boy.
After the skirmish at nearby Carberry Hill, Mary surrendered to the
rebels, by whom she was taken to Lochleven Castle, where her many years of
captivity began. Bothwell escaped to the Orkneys, and later sailed to
Scandinavia, from where he corresponded with Queen Mary. He suffered
from insanity in his later years, and died in 1578.
In 1650 Borthwick Castle surrendered to Cromwell after a short bombard-
ment. The castle has recently been restored, and js among the sights included
by most visitors to the Lothian district.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT S 8 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


I
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CVf HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.351) Age
The Red Page
MISS PATCH'S MR. SHAW.
Thirty Years With G.B.S. (Gollancz;
Dymocks), by Blanche Patch, who was
Shaw’s secretary for the last 30 years of
his life, reminds one of two books by
Brousson, Anatole France’s secretary;
both the masters were literary comedians
of the highest order, each was the fore-
most and most famous representative of
his country and his times in literature ;
and each had a secretary trained to
observe facts and not embroider them —
but with remarkably different results, for
Brousson’s innumerable paragraphs seem
to have acquired something of the polish,
understating irony and wickedness of
Anatole France, while the dry, clear cata-
logues of Miss Patch show a mind
formed, much against its will, from typing
many millions of words from Shaw’s
shorthand notebooks.
One must go back and read Brousson ;
he had flavor; but even one’s few
memories of his books demonstrate how
right it was that Miss Patch, daughter of
a clergyman, and not Brousson should
have been Shaw’s secretary. It is true
that Gertrude Lawrence kissed Shaw as
he was waking from an afternoon nap in
his country house, but Anatole France,
on a lecture-tour of South America,
swooped upon the prima donna of an
opera company which was travelling in
the same boat, and continued the dis-
graceful affair throughout his tour.
Shaw, besieged by authors anxious for
his aid or benediction, sent a galley-slip
of type, giving serious and valuable advice,
to tne playwright on how to place his
work; Anatole France, on his arrival in
South America, was introduced to a line
of young South American writers, whom
he greeted, as each was presented, accord-
ing to his specialty—“Ah, the Homer of
Buenos Aires!” “Ah, the Brazilian
Cicero! ” —he was a very wicked old man,
in short, whereas Shaw was a very good
old man.
Nevertheless, Miss Patch has made of
this unpromising material a book which
inspires the thought that, once taken up,
it is hard to put down. Shaw was past
60 when she came to him, and past 90
when he left her; his life had entered the
period of after-dinner sleep, a desert of
habitual work and austere living, en-
livened by wit. The one touch of emotion
in it is the T. E. Lawrence episode.
First we are shown Lawrence as an
admirer of Shaw, taking his name when
he joined the Air Force; then we are
shown Lawrence submitting The Seven
Pillars of Wisdom to Shaw, and the
absorption in it of Mrs. Shaw; then we
see Shaw going to work on Lawrence’s
work, and the exchanges of letters when
Lawrence is overseas—it is not until the
end of the episode, when Lawrence has
smashed himself up on a motor-cycle
given him by the Shaws that we get the
picture: Lawrence, the nobody’s-boy of
his age, had adopted the Shaws, the
nobody’s-parents of their age, and they
had grown fond of him:
His death was Greek tragedy to thetn.
They met it like Stoics.
For the rest, the book is a dry, but
absorbing chronicle of Shaw’s visitors,
wanted and unwanted, and his methods
of work:
I don’t think Shaw ever went back to
correct a word He would go right ahead
to the end, sending his shorthand script
to me in small batches and running through
my typescript when it was completed....
nor was there any hurry to get a play
finished. On the contrary, I would often
have to put it aside for the articles and
long letters which rained upon me in a
torrent when I first met him He used
blocks of water-lined paper of a green
tint to rest the eyes, and on them he would
turn out, between breakfast and lunch, an
average of 1500 words a day. The rate
would depend on the intricacy of stage
“business,” and with that he never had
much patience. He once told me that he
would rather write the whole dialogue of
“Hamlet” than manage the entrance and
exit of the Ghost.
From his earliest days he always con-
demned the idea of an author’s paying
for the production of his work ; but when
w w
Casteret's Caves.
ẁ
scientist, poet and mystic, rather like the
great naturalist Fabre.
One of his most surprising activities
was to place a porcelain statue of the
Virgin on a pillar of onyx 400 ft. below
the surface in the chasm of Esparros,
after which a priest celebrated mass. The
ceremony seems to have been intended
partly as a memorial gesture to M.
Casteret’s wife, his companion in
previous explorations, who died giving
birth to a child after his last book was
written ; partly to leave a sign and a
wonder for future generations, as M.
Casteret in other caverns had received,
scrawled on stone, the messages of the
primitive cave-dwellers who are always
so much in his mind ; and chiefly, in M.
Casteret’s mystical terms, “to sanctify the
great depths of the earth.”
Most of his time in Cave Men New and
Old is spent in the “pothole” of “La
Henne-Morte” in the Pyrenees, a damp,
unpleasant and dangerous place into
which the woman after whom it is named
tumbled years ago and where, buried
under snow, she still lies. It was the scene
of M. Casteret’s first undergrpund adven-
ture, when he climbed alone down a rope
into it in his boyhood ; and he says, hav-
ing regard to his years and having at last
reached in it the record depth of 446
metres, that it may be his last deep cave.
To get to his 446 metres it took M.
Casteret, disregarding his boyhood
adventure, six years. Not that he spent
all that time underground—though that
wouldn’t have been surprising-—but he
made 10 separate attempts to get to the
bottom of the chasm ; each time taking
more assistants and better gear, each time
getting a little further, but in the first
nine attempts always eventually baffled
by an accident, or by being half-drowned
in the cascade down which he had to
climb, or by discovering some new under-
ground cleft beyond the reach of his gear.
The 10th and triumphant expedition
was an extraordinarily elaborate affair
organised by the Speleo-Club de Paris.
Twenty-eight tents were pitched on
the remote mountainside. Geologists,
meteorologists and entomologists took
part. Jeeps and mules took the gear up
the mountains where M. Casteret had
trudged alone. The army assisted.
There were winches and cables to
lower people into the depths and bring
them up again. There was a sort of cage,
called a Chinese hat, to ward off the
worst of the waterfall. There was a tele-
phone installed, by means of which M.
Casteret talked one night from 250
metres underground to a lady in Paris.
Twenty-two men went down into the
chasm in relays and sat about at dif-
ferent levels attending to the gear, M.
Casteret and his companion Louben, who
made the ultimate descent, were under-
ground—wet through in freezing cold
all the time, with only American tabloid
rations to eat —for a total of five days
and six nights.
Asa result of all this exertion it was
discovered (a) that there were no insects,
or indeed anything of any interest, in
“La Henne-Morte”; ( b ) that the cavern
ended, as was expected, in a shaft too
narrow to be entered by anything except
the underground river; and (c) that the
river, liberally tinted with fluorescine,
came out where they thought it would, at
the foot of the mountain.
Man is indeed a curious animal; and
never more curious than when he is
burrowing with so much labor for such
meagre rewards. But there is also the
triumph beating the depth record; also,
as M. Casteret insists, a demonstration
that the spirit of adventure still lives in
France; and also, certainly, an exciting
and beautiful book in which people fall
down chasms and break their arms, and
rocks fall down and break people’s heads,
and one unfortunate explorer sets his
clothes on fire with his carbide lamp
while hanging upside-down on a rope
ladder, and another explorer is knocked
off a ladder by lightning, and a marooned
group of explorers camp for seven hours
in an underground lake, and M. Casteret
and Louben wade perilously along the
tunnel of the subterranean stream while
the telephone warns them that a rain-
storm is raging above . . . the record of
an adventure which moved M. Casteret
so profoundly that, as he was leaving “La
Henne-Morte” in triumph, he kissed the
rock.
The book should have ended with this
conquest of “La Henne-Morte,” which
occupies about half its length. The rest
consists of essays, or probably printed
versions of public addresses, on “Caverns
in Mythology,” “Caves in Sacred
Writings” and “A Survival from Primi-
tive Times”—the hihouhou cry of the
mountaineers which M. Casteret thinks
has been handed down from prehistoric
times and which (one might add) must
sound very like the Australian cooee.
There are bits of interesting reading in all
this, including a theory about lightning
and some strange facts about saints and
hermits, but it reads like very poor
journalism. M. Casteret only writes well
when he is describing himself in action.
FULL MOON RHYME.
There's a hare in the moon tonight
crouching alone in the bright
buttercup fields of the moon;
and all the dogs in the world
howl at the hare in the moon.
—I chased that hare to the sky,
the hungry dogs all cry.
The hare jumped up to the moon
and left me here in the cold.
1 chased that hare to the moon.
Come down again, mad hare.
We can see you there!
the dogs all howl to the moon.
—Come down again to the world
you mad black hare in the moon!
Or we will grow wings and fly
over the star-grassed sky
to hunt you out of the moon—
the hungry dogs of the world
howl at the hare in the moon.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Points for Poachers.
Poachers in England were for a long
time regarded as a kind of human
pheasant or, rather, weasel, to be hunted
like other wild game in the preserves,
shot, or transported like a jugged hare to
Australia. Times have changed a little ;
for Mr, lan Niall, confessedly an ex-
poacher, instead of being exported here
in person, is able to send his book —The
Poacher’s Handbook (Heinemann)—to
deputise for him.
But the change is less marked than one
might expect, ; for some of Mr. Niall’s
poaching friends—Francie McGinn,
Butcher Murphy, Snib, Black Bill and
Little Hugh— have been sent to jail at
odd times, he says, for practising their
art. Black Bill —or it may be Little
Hugh, or possibly old Uncle Tom
Cobiey— still has the pellets from a
keeper’s shotgun in the back of his neck
and Mr. Niall himself was peppered with
twigs when one of his foemen fired just
above his head in the forest at night.
Per hap there are some grounds for
Mr. Niall’s impassioned defence of
poaching — “ Can a man own the clouds,
the rain, the streams that trickle over the
rocks? Can he own what the heron takes
from the pool without permission, what
the otter carries in his whiskered
mouth?”. . But, of course, it is always
possible that the poacher, like the fox,
enjoys being hunted.
Besides, when he talks about poachers
being jailed —instead of fined, as might
be more reasonable—Mr. Niall may be
speaking of conditions 20 or 30 years
ago. And then there are occasions,
lightly passed over as moments of jollity,
when his poachers let loose their dogs
at farmers’ chickens and their shotguns
at farmers’ tame ducks; and perhaps
those are the poachers who get jailed.
It is difficult, in fact, to pin Mr. Niall
down; an admirable quality in a
poacher, less admirable in an author.
You would have to read his previous
books to find out, for a start, why he
was ever a poacher, and how much of
a poacher he was, and how he became an
author. And you have to read the pre-
sent book pretty carefully to get any
really useful tips on poaching, or indeed
any clear and precise accounts of poach-
ing expeditions. Mr. Niall sets out,
essentially, to relate his poaching
memories; but perhaps he doesn’t want
to get Black Bill and co. into trouble.
Everything takes place in a kind of
Welsh swoon, like a poem run to seed:
vague personalities and vague incidents
lost in a vague, pleasant, faintly difficult
prose.
But the reader who cares for fishing-
and-shooting books and English rustic
literature will find enough facts, in the
end, to make the book worth buying or
at least poaching from someone else:
how you can whistle up a partridge;
how you make a gate net for rabbits;
how Francie McGinn—or was it Snib?
—made the pheasants drunk ; how some-
body else invented the barbarous and
improbable method of taking pheasants
by threading a horsehair though a pea
(the pheasant then kicks himself to death
trying to get the hair out of his mouth);
how a blacksmith caught trout by bang-
ing the rocks with his hammer ; and how
you “snatch” a salmon with a gaff-hook
on the end of a rope.


"TRUTH
IN advertising
w
fcl
pi
m
m
A
ISPi
i
m
*3*
m
-, ■
SrS)
Co
<taWS
ii
\
I «
E
ssrr,
:■ y
:
.. -
=s
rrv
*v;
m
: d
as
>
2*
-*
Sfe- ■ i
r
)S
W A
m
r • _
C\
mmSSMSSSiSSi
r i
mm.
■
& 1
££ ' &
ii 3«
V
y
:
#
i<wM
■:■>
PPC
Vfi";.,; :: i
“-ir-";
■=:
. V
■
- :■,
.
5
'
v^W
X
-
U*
REMEMBER MOTHER’S DAY, 13th MAY
Practical gifts for the House
Remember Mother, on her day—Sunday, 1 3th May—with a practical gift for
her house ... a gift that she will be able to use, admire and appreciate
all through the year ... a gift from our Furniture Dept, on the Third Floor.
Above: Three piece “Elizabethan” Suite is ideal for the smaller rooms and
is attractively finished, very well made and extremely comfortable. Priced from only
£29/17/6 ea. according to type of cover. Chairs from £9/7/6 ea. according to covers.
Top Left: A well made, comfortable rocking chair, from £B/17/6 according to cover.
Centre Left : An attractive “Morris” chair, featuring adjustable back which moves to
three positions. Well sprung back, padded back and head rest. From £9/17/6
according to cover.
Bottom Left : Cosy reading chair with bookshelf space inside arms. From £l2/17/6.
OCCASIONAL TABLES
Above: Coffee Table, beautifully
finished in walnut color, 2 6 Jin. Circle
Top, 17ins. high. Priced from
£5/16/6.
At Right: Column occasional table,
finished in medium walnut color,
21 Jins. high, £4/14/6.
FURNITURE DEPARTMENT, THIRD FLOOR TELEPHONE M 2401
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
FREIGHT


\
m
°*-OUV&
mJumiee
£7)
m
abemadepm.fvnk
m
n
m
.•■T.
iIW
:
.V-
-.
m
W* 0
1
m
I
-
m
mm
'
s&
mm
m
■■
ti/pliJted §ullmq4
ABBOTSFORD, N. 9, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 371(
Wednesday, May 2, 1951
m.
“SHE LOVES ME . . . SHE LOVES ME NOT . . ."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
VICTORY FOR DEMOCRACY.
As the outcome of the Federal election
the future looks dark and stormy fo
Federal ‘Labor” The Federal A.L.P
Executive and Conference, like all auto
cratic bodies, do not lightly forgiv
repeated failures by their puppet leaders
and neither do those ambitious spirit
within the caucus who feel in themselve
an urge to be leaders when the oppor
tunity occurs. Whether he wins Barto
or not —he was only a few votes ahea
when this was written —Dr. Evatt ha
reason to tremble. Moreover the ver
means by which “Labor” seems to hav
gained a little fringe of ground has in i
the seeds of further caucus schism and o
the destruction of the ramshackle thin
that calls itself a “party.”
“Labor” may cheer itself that th
Liberals have lost Kingston in S. Australi
as the result of an increase in industria
population in that electorate by som
thousands, due to the enterprise of th
Liberal-C.P. Premier, Mr. Playford. Bu
outside this “success” “Labor” will hav
little to rejoice about.
“Labor” leaders could well have done
without some of their self-willed party
members in Victoria who seemed to be in
peril or to have slender chances of win
ning, but who won mainly because they
agreed with the Government on the main
issue of the election and not with their
own Chifley-Evatt leadership. They have
been returned with greater moral strength
and a greater will than before to pursue
their palace revolt and to help press home
their State A.L.P. branch’s censure on Dr
Evatt for having appeared as counsel for
the Communist party.
In Queensland, Western Australia
(where it seemed on April 30 likely to
lose Mr. Burke in Perth) and Tas-
mania “Labor” came out of the election
worse than in 1949, even allowing for ode
swings towards them in individua
seats; and in N. S. Wales in-
dustrial centres the result of the poll
is something that “Labor’s” leaders
probably would like to forget. Uniformly
in the more important and stable seats
in the Sydney metropolitan area, the
spiritual home of the “Left,” the vote
drifted against “Labor,” except in Cook,
Mr. Garden’s old seat, and possibly
Grayndler, where Mr. Daly, who has
played a canny game with the Com-
munist issue, made some ground, and
one or two other places.
Dr. Evatt, deputy-leader of the party,
was chased breathless to the tape by a
woman candidate, and can win his seat,
in which his majority five years ago was
numbered in five figures, by only
grudging handful of votes. A win would
make him almost more ridiculous than
defeat. In East Sydney an almost
unknown Liberal candidate, Mr.
Stewart, had on April 30 pulled down
Mr. Ward’s effective majority from 7000
to just over 3000, with 31,000 votes
counted—this in the face of a campaign
in which every device was used by
Garden’s former comrade and patron to
frighten women with the conscription
issue and entice the large Communist-
controlled union vote which lives in the
electorate.
Mr. Rosevear, for years the State
A.L.P.’s official representative in Caucus
and “Labor’s” Speaker of the House of
Representatives, also felt some draught
even in his absolutely safe, dyed-in-the-
red seat of Dailey; so did Mr. Minogue,
the pride and joy of West Sydney.
Messrs. Anderson, of Kingsford-Smith,
Haylen, of Parkes, and Mulcahy in Lang
finished fighting hard to save their politi-
cal lives.
Dr. Burton, Dr. Evatt’s Little Sir Echo,
failed by a long margin to win the Sydney
suburban seat of Lowe, which was
not surprising in view both of his be-
havior as a civil servant and the identity
of some of his expressed views on foreign
affairs and defence with those of the
Communist party. Mr. Nelson Lemmon,
a Minister in the last Chifley Cabinet,
defeated in Western Australia in 1949
and brought to Sydney under Mr.
Chifley’s wing to recover St, George from
Wing-Commander Bruce Graham, failed
to achieve his task.
In the Liberal seats in the Sydney
metropolitan area there were obviously
abundant defections of former “Labor”
voters, as testified by the increased
majorities of, for example, Mr. W. M.
Hughes and of Mr. W. M. Jack in North
Sydney, who seems to have turned a
marginal seat in a “Labor” area into a
safe Liberal one.
Indeed, it seems that where “Labor”
did make any gains in support it was
either in places where its candidates were
rebels against its policy on the main issue
of the election or in country districts
where a certain moiety of the rural popu-
lation is always susceptible to confidence-
men.
Which aspect must be more humiliat-
ing to Mr. Chifley and his lieutenant it is
difficult to say—that the only State in
which they gained overall ground was
one in which their organisation and its
chief political candidates were in open
rebellion against the party policy when
the double-dissolution was granted; or
that the only gains “Labor” made other-
wise were obtained by forgetting its main
fighting planks and posing as the friend
and would-be savior of the “capitalist”
woolgrewer for whose sorrows under the
iron heel of the oppressor Fadden it pre-
tended to weep tears of blood.
Whatever happens in the tail-end
counting of the votes of the House of
Representatives, and in the tortuous
operations needed to calculate the Senate
voting result, Mr. Menzies has com-
mand of a Parliament which will be, or
can be made, workable. He has deci-
sive and explicit mandates on defence.
Communism and trade-union secret bal-
lots.
He has a firm majority in the House
of Representatives, which will be none
the worse for a slight pruning, since too-
large parties always hold the seeds of
their own disruption. He has the right,
if he cannot make the Senate carry out
the election mandate, to ask the electors
for the power to reorganise that House
to make it serve the purposes for which
the Constitution intended it. He can enter
upon this task fortified by the knowledge
that Dr. Evatt deliberately planned the
present deadlock system with full inten-
tion to thwart the Constitution and the
mandates of the country.
However, Mr. Menzies, under Section
128 of the Constitution, can take a
referendum for the reform of the Senate
without the consent of that House after
certain formalities have been gone
through.
The new Parliament can run only for
two years and four months, because of the
Senate term’s beginning technically last
July, and it is urgently necessary to end
“Labor’s” Senate tactics which tie up
with its general obstruction of consti-
tutional government, its brazen flouting
of electoral mandates and its increasing
habit of submission to the extra-legal
juntas of the A.L.P. and trade-unions,
to which its leaders, at least, now tender
their full obedience.
The "Experiment" Doomed.
With its leader sick, burnt out after 30
years of a strenuous Parliamentary career
especially its last 12 years, with its
sturdiest national figure lately dropped
dead under his burden, with its “high-
priest of austerity” invalided out of
public life, the British Socialist Govem-
ment has been struck a mortal blow by
the revolt of its Left-wing leader against
the policy of restoring the military
strength of the nation to meet the threat
of a new war—the policy which all the
architects of the Welfare State have been
compelled to accept.
“The great Socialist experiment,” on
which the Attlee Government has based
its fortunes, is by all reckoning past
saving. “Experiment” was the descrip-
tion given to the Government’s policy by
Mr. Attlee’s own ex-publicity-adviser
(late editor of the “Daily Herald”) and
chief propagandist for the cause. It was
to rival “the Russian experiment” with
vastly greater prospects of success. This
was the advance-notice:
Here Socialism is being tried not in an
industrially backward nation [Russia] but
1“ an I , n n nst f i « lly adva ? ced one ** which
every skill of finance, of commerce and of
manufacture open to the capitalist has
been freely employed for generations, and
in which the living standards of the
average man and woman are among the
highest in the world, a country, more-
over. which has contributed enormously
to the development of political democracy,
and Which, despite a class structure in-
comprehensible to many foreign observers,
has cherished and developed personal
liberty and constantly defended and ei-
the d sta te° rights of the indlvldnal a £ ainst
Here then, at last, the issue between
capitalism and Socialism can be properly
judged and a true comparison struck. If
socialism win not work in Britain it is
difficult to see where it could hope to «uc-
ceed: if it succeeds, then there is no
country in the world that....dare ignore
altogether its implications.
Socialist policies being followed by Labor
Governments in some other countries, in
Australia and New Zealand and the Scan-
dinavian countries... .are on a laboratory
scale. They are valuable and Interesting
to watch, but they cannot have the
world significance that the British experi-
ment has. -The stakes are not high
enough. But in Britain they are as high
as they could conceivably be.
If the experiment succeeds the rewards
will be enormous in terms of human well-
being and national power. If It fails the
consequences may be measureless.
Those words, written in early 1948, do
clearly class the Welfare State as an
experiment. The first flaw in the con-
ception was the assumption—“essential”
—that international peace was assured.
Another obvious flaw revealed during
three years of prosecuting “the experi-
ment” was the supposition that the
workers, as its beneficiaries, would work
harder and more contentedly for the State
as employer than for the “capitalist”
employers who have been steadily dis-
placed. What has made “the implica-
tions” of “the experiment” less and less
impressive both in Britain and abroad
has been the patent and, to its conductors,
extremely irritating dependence of these
Socialists upon the grants (for recovery
from war exhaustion) from the capitalist
United States for provision (under
Marshall Aid) of necessaries of life and
of national industry.
The “experiment” has not worked. Mr.
Attlee and his Ministers have lived in
diead of what would happen under the
high costs of Socialist industry, developed
in the absence of competition, when the
Germans and the Japanese industrialists
should return to the international
markets. To some degree they have not
been ill-content that Soviet Russia has
blocked the completion of peace settle-
ments with our late enemies, which served
to delay that return. British employers,
displaced or overtaxed or both, and an
increasing number of those formerly
dependent upon their enterprise, have seen
enough of the “experiment” to realise
that it could hardly survive the test of
trade rivalry with a reconditioned Ger-
many, whose people will infallibly work
like beavers to regain the markets of
continental Europe. And, incidentally,
to reduce international costs of consumer
goods.
The official barracker (abovementioned)
for “the great experiment” postulated
certain utopian conditions for success
which read tragically today, among
them:
International peace and domestic tran-
quillity are essential.
Total money incomes must not go ahead
of production.
Strongly organised trade-unions must
not use their bargaining-power to obtain
higher wages in industries where no in-
crease in production wIU follow.
In an organisation where everybody will
have an opportunity to develop his ability
and capacity, everybody must do Just that.
Not to balance peace-time development
and prosperity against military needs
would be “to sacrifice economic stability
for insurance against a war danger that
may not eventuate.”
Three years ago Mr. Aneurin Sevan
described any sacrifice'of “social security”
for armament building as a move “to
cut our throats now in order to avoid
the possibility that we may fall down-
stairs and break our necks in 12 months’
time,” That is also Mr. Chifley’s view
in the circumstances confronting Aus-
tralia. It is exactly the grievance on
which Mr. Bevan has now parted brass-
rags with his leader, though the threat of
Soviet aggression is already translated
into action in east Asia and looms dark
along the whole length of the iron
curtain in Europe.
In Britain the writing appeared on the
wall a year ago with the result of the
general elections, which returned the
Socialists with a majority so small as to
make it practically impossible for the
Government to carry on for more than a
breathing-space for re-deployment.
That the Socialists received a large vote
can be understood. The down-pressed
British public, rationed no less strictly
than during the war years and supporting
the highest tolerable rates of taxation in
order to subsidise food-commodities and
the lavish free-medical schemes, clung
with characteristic tenacity, albeit blindly,
perhaps, to the one advantage which this
waterlogged Welfare State afforded them
as an offset to the interminable “austerity”
personified in Stafford Cripps. He,
Cripps, was the trained intellect of the
Socialist team, of strong convictions and
stem discipline in following them, and
he ever told the public the plain truth
as he saw it. Others might pretend before
the Trade-Union Congress that gold-
bricks were pure gold ; it was Cripps who
warned the people that they could have
only what they paid for.
Just before he resigned office last year
he told the nation that the rearmament
programme would demand sacrifices in
“social security” and the diversion of
labor to armament industries. Then at
the Trade-Union Congress in September
Prime Minister Attlee announced that
conscription would be extended to two
years’ service, that 250,000 more workers
would have to go into munitions, and
wages must be “held” at the present level.
The people would have to “give up
leisure,” work longer and tighten their
belts. “I ask you all to regard these
alterations in your conditions as your
contribution to ensuring the safety of the
nation,”
The British Socialist party, had it been
in Opposition and not in office, might
have unanimously taken Mr. Bevan’s
stand, as do the Chifleyites in Australia.
That stand is expressed shortly by Bevan’s
fellow-rebel, Harold Wilson —“We are
not getting enough raw materials to main-
tain our economy, our essential export
trade, and the size of the rearmament
programme we have prepared.” In other
words, the “great experiment” must, in
the extreme Left-wing view, come first
and any provision to meet the Commu-
nists’ threatened war second. The Govern-
ment’s decision is—to adapt a phrase of
Carlyle’s—that without national security
“social security” is impossible.
The Bevan section wjll not, it is said,
carry rebellion against the course the
Government has taken to the length of
voting against it in the House. But the
“great experiment” clearly is coming to
an end, and the significance for the
Socialist Ministry is that its chief spokes-
man for the trade-unions (now that Ernest
Bevin is dead) has severed himself and
his connections from the politicals of the
party. There is only one end to a situa-
tion in which a Government, living on a
hair’s-thread of a majority, finds itself
compelled to embark upon a policy con-
trary to that for which it was elected.
Its own confidence in itself must have
sunk to zero.
Don Salvador
“L. 0.”: I have often wondered what the
man who has written the most under-
standing and instructive histories extant
of the Spanish and Spanish-American
peoples was like. Much lighter in com-
plexion than the average Spaniard, with
no trace of flabbiness, short, and crowned
with a halo of hair of the purest white,
Senor Don Salvador de Madariaga
dominates his audience even before he
begins to speak ; and when he does speak
he clothes his erudition in that type of
whimsicality which, in Spain, is described
by the encyclopedic word rareza.
Any reader of his many books would
expect the author to deliver a deep and
learned exposition of The Meaning of
European Civilisation, which was the title
of his first lecture, sponsored by the Aus-
tralian Institute of International Affairs ;
and I feel that many of the audience of
nearly 700 were disappointed by his
seeming flippancy. But his jests carried
a deeper significance than is im-
mediately obvious, even in “verbatim”
reports, which were expressly discouraged.
Don Salvador spoke ex tempore with-
out notes of any kind, and changed his
tenor but not his theme as he analysed
the reaction of his audience. He made
few definite statements, and expressed few
definite hostilities, except towards Mos-
cow, but insisted that the tyrant State and
the anarchic individual must be harmon-
ised, as had been done in great measure
by that genius for compromise which
was the basis of European civilisation.
It was a surprise, nevertheless, to hear a
Spaniard malign the honest Sancho
Panza by describing him as a politician,
although he qualified the statement by
saying that Sancho knew when to quit,
and then, in atonement, quoted one of
that simple peasant’s finest sayings:
“Man is as God made him, and some-
times worse.”
Madariaga could be quoted himself,
and with advantage, to fill many pages,
but a few (perhaps not quite “verbatim”)
quips must suffice:
I was very much astonished to find the
people of Australia so European. You have
all of Europe’s virtues and —endearingly —
many European defects.
Mother Nature made Europe small so
that she could make it well.
The Neapolitan and the Florentine, and
all the other clans and nations, are only
separate vintages from the great European
vineyard. I have already been in Australia
long enough to leam that both the vintages
of your people and of your vineyards are
excellent. From now on I shall drink
Australian wine.
The “European touch” is a great thing.
In U.S.A. a commentator describing the
film “A Ghost Goes West,” in which a
Venetian gondola was shown floating on a
moat surrounding a transplanted Scottish
castle, said that that was the European
touch. I doubt if he realised what a
wonderful statement he had made. A hun-
dred years from now a gondola In a
Scottish moat may not raise comment, but
at present it is rather like taking good
French burgundy after porridge.
These quotations do not appear to have
much in common with the meaning of
European civilisation, but those who
heard the lecture will appreciate their
point.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Light From Dark Minds.
“I cannot discuss what is in the darkness
of the electors’ minds,” said Dr. Evatt
on the incomplete election results, in
declining, quite naturally, to comment on
the prospects of his own political decease
in Barton. Actually, of course, the dark-
ness is in the uncounted bundles of out-
standing votes. And if the narrowest of
margins should turn in Dr. Evatt’s favor,
a win by the skin of his teeth will be
nearly as bad as defeat.
Darkness is the fitting atmosphere.
The world is gazing on the close of the
period, remarkable even in these propa-
gandist times, of Dr. Evatt’s political
influence. If the ruling circles of his own
party have not had enough of it, they
must be gluttons for punishment. He is
posed before them now as an unmistak-
able example of the consequences of
being just a bit too clever. He certainly
ruined “Labor’s” chances (never very
bright) at the late elections by crystallis-
ing for it the Communist issue, which he
himself pretended would be easy to dis-
place by something more agreeable to
Socialists on the public platform.
In Dr. Evatt’s own estimation he ran,
in his prime, the war, the Empire and
the world. He went perilously near to
assuming patent-rights in the establish-
ment of U.N.0., where, it seemed, any
antics he performed could be justified so
long as they were sufficiently limelighted.
His advice went far to break the Chifley
Government, which was defeated on con-
stitutional issues in the High Court and
the Privy Council more often than any
Government of previous record. The
Chifley reign was, in fact, one long
wrangle over the extent of its powers to
do what it wanted —especially towards
introducing the Socialist - Communist
revolution —in which the would-be revo-
lutionaries relied on the advice of the man
who had “made the great sacrifice” of
stepping down from the High Court
Bench in order to engage in fray on a
political floor.
“Labor’s” later tactics, in Opposition,
were to prevent the Menzies Government
from governing while “Labor”-created
inflation raised prices and wages to alarm-
ing levels and so should prepare for pub-
lic reaction against the Liberals as chal-
lengers of the Communist sway in the
trade-unions. Still hypnotised by Dr.
Evatt’s “magnificent brain,” the party
leader was convinced that the Govern-
ment could not make a winner of the
Communist issue, and the “magnificent
brain” encouraged him with support
therein and return-praise. The Victorian
“Labor” party had long detected the
peculiar milk in this brilliant political
coconut, and went as near revolt as was
possible in the Canberra caucus. If Mrs.
Wake finally pips him on the post in
Barton Dr. Evatt will at least be spared
the ordeal awaiting him when the next
caucus meets.
Meanwhile, the electors “in the dark-
ness of their minds” are obviously unre-
pentant. _
Aussies and Slashers at Bay.
“Ek Dum” on Korea:
Admiral Thomas Kincaid, U.S.N., remarked
when he arrived in Australia to attend the
Coral Sea Battle celebrations that he did not
feel that there would be another war because
Russia “knows the strength” of the United
States
The Russians, who have armed the Chinese
Communists, and the Chinese Communists
themselves do not seem to agree with him.
China is boasting that it has 10,500,000 men,
including a “fully-armed” regular army of
5,000,000, and that it “will not cease to make
war on the aggressors in Korea until they are
driven into the sea.”
Soviet propaganda is telling the Japanese
that their Russian and Chinese comrades are
ready to rescue them from Wall-street and
welcome them into the comity of the Iron
Curtain —“the free democracies of Asia from
which every marauding Englishman and Yankee
will presently be kicked out.” Only last week
the Communist world was told to make it
clear to “all nations” that Moscow is the “base
of world revolution, the fighting headquarters
of all oppressed peoples struggling against
colonialism and giving up their blood for the
cause.” . , . . .
This charming little bit was issued just before
Anzac Day, when the Chinese Communists and
their North Koreans, reputedly 500,000 strong,
reached the first fervor of their long-prepared
drive across the 38th Parallel against the U.N.O.
forces. They had cause that day to fear the
strength of the Australians and British, while
other troops moved back rapidly under artillery
cover. The Australians and British seem to
have a singular habit of being the spearhead
whenever a big Korean battle is in progress.
On Anzac Day, 1951, the Australian Royals
and the New Zealand artillery won glorious
and bloody honors when the Chinese, in the
full fury of their renewed onslaught after a
36-hour lull, broke the American line in several
places, but came up against something they
will remember for a long time when they met
the Australians, round whom they threw a
semicircle with the intention of bagging the
lot. They found that they had bitten off more
than they could chew. These half-forgotten
Australians, ill-equipped by fixe standards of
some other troops in the field, and without as
much moral or physical support from their own
country as they should have, gave an exhibition
which will be long remembered by such of
their adversaries who survived. They, along
with another force seven or eight miles behind
in the beginning, out on a cold limb and, still
fighting, “saved the whole Allied line,” accord-
ing to leading correspondents.
The other spearhead force was at first
unidentified, but it turned out to be the units
of the British 29th Brigade, chiefly the
Gloucesters, the old 28th living up to their
nickname —the “Slashers.”
They gave one of their usual performances,
which have been legend in British Army history:
their battle honors, apart from glorious
records in the two recent great wars, include
Ramillies, the taking of Louisburg and Quebec
in 1758-59 (Wolfe received his fatal wound
leading them on the Heights of Abraham),
Albuera, Salamanca, Nivelle, the bloody field
of Maida, Waterloo, the Scindian wars, Alma,
Inkerman, Sevastopol and Delhi in the Mutiny.
They were in Australia for seven years, from
1835 to 1842 —Slashers’ Reef in Torres Strait,
where they were wrecked as they sailed for
India, is named after them.
There was a “news blackout” over the Korean
front at the weekend, but one thing was certain.
Seoul was left to the enemy again after one
more heartbreaking retreat, and the whole Allied
line was hard-pressed by an overwhelming, well-
armed Chinese-Korean force of a front-line
strength four times its own.
These High Prices.
Now that the election tumult is over the
public should have time to reflect on
the reasons why not merely Aus-
tralia, but the whole world, cannot
get back to that flow of goods and reason-
able prices of the pre-war years, upon
which the community looks back with
some nostalgia.
To the extent that man-hour produc-
tion has fallen in this country under the
influence of the Communist-fomented
“class-war,” some remedy for high prices,
some repelling of inflation, lies in our
own hands. All that has been thrashed
out long and loudly, and the community
has spoken its judgment at the polls. If
it does not realise now that hard work
is the cure, it has not learned the lesson.
But in the wider scene high prices all
over the world are the result of the devas-
tation by political violence of large and
important regions producing essential raw
materials, and the continued elimination
six years after the war of two populous
and highly industrious nations from inter-
national manufacturing industry and
trading enterprise. The Soviet’s iron
curtain has cut off from commercial inter-
course much of central Europe and all
the Balkans, also China and Manchuria,
and the Communist guerrilla warfare has
retarded recovery in the richest food and
raw-material resources of south-east Asia.
The extent of the famine in China cannot
be known. India, especially, and Pakis-
tan are also feeling acutely the economic
penalty of their bellicose wrangling over
Kashmir.
On top of these preventives of increased
production the absence of Germany and
Japan from the world’s industrial activity
and trading markets has been an
enormous handicap on efforts, British and
American, to restore international com-
mercial output outside the Communist
bloc. German industry was the greatest
factor in pre-war Continental commerce,
and whatever may be said of German
exploitation of the Balkan countries, it
did at least develop the rich natural
resources of those countries for provision
of international markets. The same is
true of the Japanese development of
Manchuria. Both these ex-enemy coun-
tries, too, were energetic maritime nations,
and their competition in sea-carriage of
goods as well as in manufactures kept,
as we say today, “value in the pound,”
and in every currency. German and
Japanese competition is but now
beginning slowly to rise again.
The post-war economies of British
Commonwealth nations and the United
States have given the new generation
false conceptions of the normal industrial
way of life. They do not know what
industrial competition means. They had
best get ready to learn afresh, for nothing
is surer —or more hopeful for checking
high costs of living—than that German
and Japanese competition will return.
In this light can there be any doubt
of the prime motive behind Soviet
Russia’s refusal to agree to peace settle-
ments with these ex-enemy countries?
To many employers, as well as to the
Australian “Labor” party, restoration of
German and Japanese trading competition
is regarded with aversion. But to the
great majority of the people, as con-
sumers battling against soaring living
costs, that restoration should be a god-
send. In that era of peace and pros-
perity which we are all chasing it would
also be inevitable.
Closing In.
The “Labor” campaign during the elec-
tion fight for a restrictive immigration
plan to meet the housing shortage, or
mitigate it, came in the week jvhen the
Indian Government announced the re-
sult of its decennial census of 195 1.
It shows that the population—exclud-
ing, of course, Pakistan, which holds
80.000. or more people—is 361,820,000,
an increase of 42,060,000 since 1941.
This tots up to 296 per square mile,
deserts, forests and almost-uninhabitable
mountain country included. It does not
show the real congestion of the country
in its habitable areas, such as Madras
Presidency, where every one-and-a-half
acres of land of all sorts has one in-
habitant. The average is that just over
two acres of all sorts of land must pro-
vide for an inhabitant. The figures mean
that in a.d. 2001, 50 years hence, India,
if the present increase (13.4 p.c. per
decade) is maintained, will have
670.000. people on an area less than
half that of Australia, or more than one
to every acre. And this mass will be
growing at the then-current rate of
80.000. every 10 years.
If the inevitable overflow tends
towards this country—which will depend
largely on whether our own population
has continued to flow only at the present
rate and whether some other large over-
flow has not spotted our vacant spaces
first —the Indians will worry neither
about the interests of the trade-unions
nor the housing shortage.
Any tree under which a string bed and
a water-bottle can be parked will do them
for a home, and they won’t worry about
hours, regimens, basic-wages, incentive
payments or arbitration courts so long as
they can find occupation which will pro-
vide them with a flour-and-water
chapattie every day and a few rags of
clothing which will give lifelong service.
This is what all Indians can’t count on
getting even with, the present population,
and no Government can give them more
in their own land with the present grow-
ing congestion what it is.
♦
Maorilcmd Waterfront. <•
New Zealand’s waterside strike, which
has paralysed the Dominion’s ports for
10 weeks, seems to be nearing its end —
thanks to the firmness of the Holland
Government and the basic good sense of
New Zealand workmen. When the Gov-
ernment first brought servicemen in to
work the ships which the Red-controlled
wharfies refused to touch, several other
unions called sympathy strikes in sup-
port of the watersiders, but, realising that
they were serving no interests but those
of the Communists, most of them soon
drifted back, a trifle red in the face at
having been duped by the Comrades. In
the meantime Transport Minister Sullivan
repeated his call for men to form new
“port” unions and published the terms to
which members would be expected to
adhere.
Faced with this decision, the president,
secretary and another official of the de-
registered Waterside Workers’ Union
wrote to the Prime Minister accepting
the seven conditions proposed earlier as
“objectives to be sought when actual
negotiations are undertaken in search of
peace and efficiency in the waterfront in-
dustry.” The letter concluded with an
assumption that reregistration of de-
registered unions would “automatically
follow,” To this Mr. Holland replied
that his Government was unable to agree
to reregistration, and that the formation
of separate unions at each port was just
as much a part of its policy as the other
seven points. Mr, H. Barnes, president
of the W.W.U., denied having signed the
letter to Mr. Holland, who thereupon
released to the Press a letter bearing the
signatures H. Barnes, T. Hill and T. G.
Wells.
While Barnes was still trying to con-
vince himself and anyone else interested
that the signature first appearing on the
letter was not his, and while Opposition-
leader Nash, who had apparently advised
the wharfies before they sent the letter,
was affirming his belief in arbitration, the
first of the new “port unions” began
operations at Gisborne. That was on
Monday, April 23. On Thursday new
unions started work on vessels at Whan-
garei and Timaru ; by Monday, April 30,
13 “port unions” had been registered, in-
cluding one at Auckland. Simultaneously
with the resumption of work service-
men were withdrawn from the ports con-
cerned.
The position is that to reregister the
W.W.U. would mean handing back the
wharves to the Communists, who, in New
Zealand, as in Australia, have used the
watersiders to forward their policy of
slowing down ship movements in order
to hamper industry in general. Indi-
vidual unionists have nothing to lose by
the new system; indeed, by the oppor-
tunity it gives them to shake the Reds off
their backs, they have everything to gain.
All the privileges they have won in the past
are guaranteed to them; the only condi-
tion is that they shah get on with the job,
Defying the People.
In the heat of polling-day the full
significance of a statement made by Mr.
Chifley in his final call to electors seems
to have escaped attention. He said, on
April 27, according to the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph”:
The A.C.T.IT. and the A.W.U. had offered
to co-operate with the Labor Government
in rest wing the stability of the Australian
economy. THEY ABE NOT GOING TO
GIVE THAT CO-OPBBATION TO ANY-
ONE ELSE. They won't give it to a new
Menzies-Eadden Government because it
has attempted to drive a dagger into the
heart of the trade-union movement.
By dealing drastically with the Com-
munists, of course.
A similar attitude had already been
taken up by other “Labor” men.
All this points the difficulties which
Mr. Menzies will face when he comes
to carry out his mandate, for never has
a more brazen or impudent threat
than this been uttered by a leader
to the electors on the eve of an
election; in effect, “Vote for anybody
but us at your peril. The unions are
necessary to any plan of government and
stabilisation. If you dare to elect any-
body not acceptable to them they will let
the country fall into chaos rather than
co-operate with the men of your choice.
We are the only men they will work with!
The gun is at your heads!”
Linked with the abject submission of
the Federal “Labor” caucus to the A.L.P.
politbureau, Mr. Chifley’s attitude repre-
sents a viewpoint which so far has been
rarely expressed outside Moscow. It in-
volves absolute naked dictatorship as
practised in that gloomy city where the
legislature is merely the registering-
machine for the controlling junta of the
only political party which is permitted to
exist, and where that party is the only
one with which the industrial mass of
sovietism can co-operate.
Threats such as those heard from
various “Labor” men show the instinctive
prudence of the electors in rejecting
Mr. Chifley and his would-be com-
missars, having regard to the fact that
the A.C.T.U. is largely made up of Com-
munist-led unions and has friendly
recognition from the rest.
It is to be hoped that when Mr.
Menzies comes to put his programme into
operation the moderate unions will show
an equal prudence by repudiating Mr.
Chifley’s creed of the class-war and
realise that their fate is wrapped up with
the Commonwealth, whether “Labor” is
in office or not. National unity of pur-
pose irrespective of class or creed is vital
in these days of peril from without and
within.
From the law of the land based on the
mandates of the whole people the trade-
unions derive their privileges. To the
law of the lapd and the mandates of the
electors they are as subject as any other
group of citizens.
The countiy is still entitled to their co-
operation in stabilising its economy even
if the whole boiling of class-hatred and
vindictiveness which calls itself political
“Labor” under Mr. Chifley’s leadership
were thrown on the rubbish-tip at the
polls.
Organised Scarcities.
In Queensland it’s hard to buy an egg at
the fixed price of 3s. Bd. a dozen because
the fixed price for eggs in N.S.W. is 4s.
6d. a dozen, and Queensland eggs
naturally flow over the southern border.
In South Australia the fixed price is 2d.
cheaper than in Victoria, so S.A. eggs
flow into Victoria. When this sort of
thing began some months ago the
Queensland Egg Board talked about
banning the sending of eggs to N.S.W.,
but somebody reminded it of Section
92 of the Constitution, whereupon it
thought hard and then became as eager
as anyone else to cop the profits in
N.S.W. Now Queensland has egg-
rationing.
The State is also short of potatoes,
though a new crop is just coming in and
a cargo of Tasmanian spuds was ex-
pected last Friday. The spud famine has
been on since January, and many had
looked forward to the new crop to ease
it. But most of the new spuds will
follow the eggs over the Tweed, for
N.S.W. has been offering £35 a ton
against the Queensland fixed price of
£25 15s.
In N.S.W. spuds are as scarce as hen’s
teeth. This may be just as well, in a
sense, since there is little or no salt to
flavor them, though 6000 tons of it is
stored at Port Adelaide awaiting ship-
ment. Some kind souls in Adelaide have
been posting salt to N.S.W. friends, pay-
ing 2d. a pound for the salt and Is, 3d.
for the postage.
It is the second salt famine in N.S.W.
in six months. Not long ago a ship
{Continued on next page.)


For election comment in this issue
Adams, of 252 Ocorge-street, Sydney, «
sible. ~ - . .
[t tpOD-
ẁ
CRAVENA"
—lor your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable la
In l»’s & 2O'o /I
CARRERAS LTD.- OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
V
C %$V
4
67^'i
arrived in Sydney with 9000 tons of it,
hung round for weeks while the wharfie*
remained in a state of suspended
animation, and then returned to Ade-
laide and unloaded the stuff.
However, Queenslanders can get sugar,
which is more than their southern fellows
can get. In Sydney it is “a pound to
each customer” if you know the grocer
There is plenty of sugar awaiting ships
at Queensland ports, but the ships he
idle in ports all round the coasts.
Such is the position with four essential
foodstuffs this year of grace in modern
Australia. With other foods, such as
meat, milk, vegetables, fish and fruit, the
position is the same or worse according
to the locality. Yet seasons are good,
everybody is employed, wages are high,
the breweries can’t make enough beer.
State lotteries are thriving and there are
enough Government employees “con-
trolling” the marketing and transport ol
foodstuffs to populate a new city.
Their number keeps on growing, and.
as they multiply, the position gets worse
Short of getting rid of them, the omy
hope for us is to expand the Adclaiuc
salt-posting idea into an internal fooo
parcels scheme. Maybe we could per-
suade the British to help us.
POLITICAL POINTS
On balance the Government can con-
gratulate itself on the results of
Saturday’s voting. It fought the election
on Communism, and an analysis of the
figures justifies the belief that the people
accepted that as the real issue, disregard-
ing “Labor’s” claim that price-control—
by “Labor” —was the answer to the
nation’s ills. In the Sydney metropolitan
seats, where, if anywhere, rising prices
should have had some influence on the
poll, far. from losing ground, the Liberal
vote was higher than in 1949 in almost
every electorate. There is no disputing
that high prices arc the personal problem
of the majority of electors today; that
they did not accept the Chifley-Evatt
story that the Menzies Government was
responsible for the high cost of living
shows that there is still more intelligence
in the community than “Labor” leaders
assume.
The Senate count will linger on for
days, perhaps weeks, but the Queensland
score will be the one that really matters.
A five-five result is almost certain in five
States, but if the trend shown in figures
so far counted is maintained the Liberal-
C.P. team should win six Senate scats in
Queensland. This would mean a 31-29
result, with the Government in charge of
the: Senate. That, after all, was the object
of the double-dissolution.
The increased vote for “Labor” in Vic-
toria is not inconsistent with the claim
that Communism was the real issue.
Victorian “Labor” members have con-
sistently opposed Communism in Caucus
and were largely responsible last year
for the Federal executive making its last-
minute decision to change its mind on
the anti-Red bill. This factor, together
with tfic disgust of the electors at the
L.C.P.-C.P. faction fights in the Vic-
torian State Parliament, greatly strength-
ened “Labor’s” vote, so that seats
narrowly won in 1949, such as Fawkner,
Lalor and Bendigo, were held by com-
fortable margins this time, and Ballaarat,
lost at the last election, was regained—
though the personal popularity of R.
Joshua was a considerable factor in that
result.
“Labor’s” open-secret weapon in the
country—repeal of the wool-tax —proved
to be scarcely worth patenting, although
iu Hume (N.S.W.) it may have swung
sufficient short-sighted sheepmen to un-
seat. Anderson, V.C, On Monday, with
6000 votes to come, he was 688 behind
“Labor” man Fuller; at the same stage
of the previous election he was 445
ahead aud went on to win by 767. The
Sunday papers had Fuller back in the
House, but Hume is a seat that is never
lost till the last boxes come in. The same
may be said of Wannon (Vic.).
Whether the final handful of votes
that will decide the Barton seat go to
Evatt or Nancy Wake there can be little
doubt that the Doctor’s prestige has gone
for ever. In 1940 he was brought back
into the A.L.P. as the chief component of
the party’s respectability front. The aura
he wore as an ex-High Court judge was
worth thousands of votes to “Labor,” and
even as late as 1949 he was able to trail
clouds of U.N.O. glory and hold for the
party many votes which would not have
gone to another “Labor” candidate.
Those days are past. On Saturday only
dyed-in-the-wool “Labor” folk gave their
number-ones to Bert —which was only
fair, as during the campaign he scarcely
expressed a thought that could not have
come from Ward or Cal well.
The defeat of Liberal member Handby
in Kingston (S.A.) reflects the growing
industrialisation of Playford’s State. In-
creased home-building in that electorate
has resulted in an increase of more than
3000 names on the roll since 1949.
“Labor” is the gainer; P, Galvin the new
member.
Handby was at one time a champion
footballer. In Corio (Vic.) another noted
sportsman, Hubert Opperman, is having
a tough fight with former encumbrance —
er, incumbent—Dedraan. From a bad
start he got to within 255 of Dedman on
Sunday night. The Monday morning
count placed him one behind, finishing
fast. If Dedman regains Corio it will be
thanks to the anti-Red attitude of his
Victorian colleagues, and that will be
rather ironic—Deddy isn’t recalled as
having said a harsh word about Corns in
his life,
Burke, “Labor” member for Perth,
would have been glad of a few of the
votes his namesake, Bourke, had to spare
in Fawkner on Saturday. In 1949 both
scraped home; this time the Victorian
is about 1500 ahead, but the Wcstralian
is trailing Liberal Sneddon, the votes
reflecting the general swing to the Gov-
ernment in W.A.
P. J. Clarey, in strengthening his posi-
tion in Bendigo—he won on a second
count in 1949 by only 152 votes —has
brought new problems to the Federal
“Labor” caucus. He has been a good
member to his electorate and is
the only one of the 1949 flight
of new “Labor” members who has
gained any credit as a speaker
in Parliament. He is now an awkward
obstacle to the ambitions for leadership
of the Wards and CalweUs. And the path
will be smoother for him if young Mr.
Burke, of Perth, who abandoned Mr.
Chifley, his dose friend and patron, on
the question of the Anti-Communist Bill
while increasing his prestige in the party,
is defeated.
McGirr’s blackouts blacked out a lot
of “Labor’s” chances last Saturday.
Polling at Paddington (East Sydney),
the very heart of the most loyal and
heavily-defended section of the “Bris-
bane-line” country:
Paddington.
Ward. Liberal.
1949 .. ■ .. 6213 2301
1951 5456 2797
With 261 fewer votes cast, Mr. Stewart
(Liberal) had a swing in his favor of 496
votes. Evidently one position from which
the Menzies party did not withdraw its
troops.
Fanatical Socialists, like fanatical Com-
munists, claim to be actuated by a love
for humanity, but they breathe hatred
more often than love. When Aneurin
Bevan spoke at Manchester in July, 1949,
on the inauguration of the National
Health Service, he chose the occasion to
proclaim his “deep, burning hatred of
the Tory party,” who, he said, were
“lower than vermin.” Taken to task for
the speech, he came back with:
I may be ready to be polite 20 years from
now, when we can look back on 25 years
of Socialist government. But while we have
the energy to be rude, let us be rude to
the right people.
In 1949 the right people were Churchill,
the Conservatives and their supporters—
shown six months later to comprise more
than half the electorate. Now, apparently,
the right people are the Americans,
Sevan’s own leader and his own col-
leagues.
Menzies gets the palm for the best
retort of the election campaign. It was
at his final meeting in a Brisbane suburb.
“Warmonger,” yelled somebody. “Pig-
iron Bob,” howled another. “There you
are,” came back the P.M. “They don’t
know whether I’m a warmonger or an
ironmonger,”
One thing about these Evatts; they
stick together. On April 18 Big Brother
Bert accused Menzies of predicting war
in every speech, and said
It is absurd to say that war against
Russia or China must be regarded as
inevitable.... Australia will not tolerate the
policy of warmongering and repression now
openly advocated by the Menzies Govern-
ment.
The Prime Minister immediately denied
speaking of the inevitability of war, but
this did not prevent Little Sir Echo say-
ing on April 26;
War is neither imminent nor inevitable
... .This talk of war is lust to frighten you.
I say publicly tonight that Mr. Menzies is
nothing but a warmonger. He can offer
nothing but war and talk of war.
Clive echoes Bert; both echo the Corns.
Retirement of Jimmy Mitchell as
Governor of Westralia —he steps down at
the end of June —will leave a gap in the
public life of WA. almost as big as if
King’s Park were suddenly scooped out
of Perth. S’ James was a member of
the State Parliament from 1905 to 1933
—Premier, Minister pr Opposition-leader
for most of the time; Lieut.-Governor
from 1933 to 1948 and Governor for
the past three years. A “Labor” Govern-
ment nominated him as L.-G., a Liberal
one as Governor.
At the first Federal election in 1901
there were 977,993 persons on the rolls;
the figure for last Saturday was 4,963,934,
an increase of 57,492 since December,
1949.
Sent to Adelaide as a forlorn hope to
whip up support for a cause already out
on its feet, Eddie Ward had the
effrontery to tell an audience:
1 am kept fully advised of what goes on
in the Ministerial department formerly
under my control.
If so, he is better off than when he was
Minister; ho has stated under oath that
he didn’t know what “Jock” Garden was
up to over the New Guinea timber-lease
scandals. The East Sydney pet at different
times administered the departments of
Labor and Industry, Transport and Ex-
ternal Territories. What he is saying now
is that someone sufficiently high up in one
(or more) of those departments is con-
fiding official secrets to him for political
reasons. Ward is one of those who talk
of “smear campaigns”; in that state*
ment he smears a batch of public ser-
vants with the suspicion of being untrust-
worthy.
What sort of asses do some of these
“Labor” spruikers think we are? C. R.
Cameron, member for Hindmarsh (S.A.),
puts up as an argument against secret
ballots that Communist-controlled unions
could avoid them by having themselves
appointed for life; also by having their
unions deregistered. Are trade-unionists
such bunnies that they would permit the
Reds to take a life tenure of union
offices? Apparently Cameron thinks so.
But doesn’t he realise that once a union
is deregistered application can be made
for the registration of a new union?
They never let up, these urgers for
State lotteries. Some of them were at
Dodgshun, Victoria’s Chief Secretary,
again last week, and it seems significant
that the spokesman for the urgers was a
publican. Dodgshun’s answer was “No!”
And if any sensible Victorian cares to
examine the lottery on the other side of
the Murray he’ll agree with him. These
days it’s impossible to move in N.S.W.
without running into an agent for some
lottery or other, and public giving-out of
pure charity is as dead as mutton.
Now that the Federal election is over
State and Federal politicians in the south
can start digging up the seasonal
for a winter tour of Queensland.
!n a eulogy on his deputy-lead,r
Chifley said of Dr. Evatt: F y leadcr '
One of his great outstanding qualai« „
the way he has fought for the SdeSL?
for civil rights and the
jusuce for all the people in the conSnny
When the “underdogs” happened to be
Communists, “victimised” railwav
strikers or Sinn Fein envoys the Doc was
certainly their champion ; but as Attorn*?!
General he showed little regard for ik*
‘civil rights” of Australian citizens
some of them with war records, thrown
into prison without trial on famasTic
charges unsupported by evidence suffic.
ent for Judge Jeffreys to hang a dog on
By his handling of the “Australia Firs r
men Evatt forfeited any claim he ever
had to the title of champion of civil
rights.
Some Victorian unions have been com-
plaining because the State Housing (' om .
mission allots 25 per cent, of prefabricated
houses to the migrants who erect them
The commission chairman’s reply is that
as the prefabs are imported and the
migrants are brought out here to put ’em
up it is only fair that they should get
some of them to live in—otherwise, they
wouldn’t come here; nor would the
houses. Seems reasonable.
In Brisbane a French firm is erecting
750 prc-cut homes, using French, German
and Italian workmen. The first home*
are already occupied and two more arc
completed each working day.
Victoria is to have a “new” State
transport authority to be “responsible for
all forms of Victorian transport-rail,
road and air.” Nobody need suppose,
however, that Section 92 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution will be any less
abused than it has been.
A few days ago Haile Selassie handed
its colors to an Ethiopian battalion of
1000 men which is now on its way to
swell the U.N.O. forces in Korea, No
doubt as the equal (in numbers, anyway)
in land effort of Australia in the Korean
field, Haile will now be able to join
Dr. Evatt in dictating world policy to
the United States and Britain.


RECRUITS WANTEP/
Rabbit - counting
department.
permanent PoSmoN-3>itJfkL
Public - se/zvict conp/t^^}^
~MOH£Y 6£/'WWSy^
ANTI
WVXAMOTOSIS
VACCINE
j* HER.E
UNIFORMS
HERE I^
I RABBI T-
COUNTWG,
m
❖
flow MANY SUEPr ON v
Your premises on the „
night of may the first ?
v ' That's twbnty-rvb thousanp
of 'bm up to herb, C***/
OPERATION “RABBITS.”
"According to Melbourne ‘Herald,' an attempt to count Australia's rabbit population will be made by officers of the C.S.I.R.O. It is de[?]cribed as 'a very complicated job.'"


Fly to glamorous
HONG KONG
IN COMFORT-IN TWO DAYS
Glamorous city of the Orient . . Hub of the East . .
Hong Kong awaits you—with limitless opportunities for
trade and travel. Dine and dance at such famous places as
the Gloucester Roof Garden or Gripps Restaurant. Gaze
across Hong Kong Harbour —a fascinating picture of junks,
steamers, sampans, and ferries. See Hong Kong at night,
ablaze with Neon lights—and Chinese lanterns !
Fly—ln less than 48 hours —by comfortable Qantas
Skymaster, with full steward service providing traditional
Qantas care for your comfort. Consult your travel agent.
ẅ
'^3;
£
Ay\
W
>3h
QCI2
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia’s International Airline
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
''id
w
*
<« v .
-O’
\
m
Jay79yGAjuyu&!
Men and women everywhere are realising how
much this safe, convenient method is streamlining
the payment of their accounts.
Just a few strokes of the pen make out the
cheque. A few more strokes address the envelope.
The postman does the rest. In modern business or
in the home, a cheque account in the Commonwealth
Bank is a necessity. An account is easy to open and
simple to operate.
The manager or other experienced officer at any
Branch of the Commonwealth Bank will be pleased
to open one for you.
Other services include
INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS: OVERDRAFTS; LETTERS
OF CREDIT AND TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES; HOUSING
LOANS; SAFE CUSTODY: LOANS FOR PRIMARY,
PRODUCTION, ETC.
CominonwcaltManfc
ofllnstralfa.
C. 5.8.18.82
Business. Rollery. etc.
Share-price Record
Led by B.H.P. and A.C.1.,
Australian sharemarkets went to
a record level last week. B.H.P.
“old” shares touched 60s. before
reacting a few pence, and A.C.I.
sold steadily at 84s. pending fur-
ther details of its new issue.
In spite of the lengthening
trend of interest-rates on bonds,
mortgages and pref. shares, in-
vestors seem prepared to accept
still lower yields from industrial
ordinary shares in return for
long-term prospects and hopes of
protection from inflation. The
market is thus following—some-
times to excess —the invest-
ment policy enunciated by The
Bulletin for the past 10 years.
During that period of war-time
reverse and success and post-war
political and industrial unrest
this paper has consistently
advocated the holding of sound
industrial shares and emphasised
the disadvantages of holding
fixed-interest securities.
A lot of poor-quality stuff is,
of course, moving forward in
price with the better-class indus-
trials, And some of the top-line
stocks themselves may be tem-
porarily disappointing to present
buyers. B.H.P. shares at 605,,
for instance, may not return an
income to correspond for several
years yet. Unless steel prices are
lifted, coal output increased or
depreciation provision reduced
the co. may find it difficult in
1952 to maintain an 8| p.c. div.
on £25 million of capital.
A general problem which
industry and investors together
will need to consider more deeply
is the question of plant-replace-
ment out of tax-free deprecia-
tion provisions. Few industries
today are making sufficient pro-
vision for asset-replacement, and
to that extent are paying divi-
dends out of capital. Taxation
departments so far are not co-
operating in the overcoming of
this problem.
Lightbum Galore!
Prospectuses showered on
Sydney last week. All from the
direction of Adelaide. Through
the post they came, and men-
about-town, having a cup of
coffee or a drink, found, on
comparing notes, that most of
their friends had received a
copy. Men and women alike.
One barrister got two. Nothing
like it has happened in Sydney
since the last referendum
pamphlet came through the post
—or, at any rate, since the Club
razor people started mailing out
sample blades.
After pausing to wonder just
how their names and addresses
had been obtained, some of the
recipients had a look at the
document.
It is the prospectus of an issue
of 200,000 £1 ordinary shares
by Lightburn and Co., Ltd., of
Adelaide. The co. was formed
in 1945 to take over the
business of Lightburn and Co.,
which was founded in 1919. The
present c o. manufactures
builders’ plant, motor-vehicle
equipment, washing-machines
and industrial equipment. Its
factory, of 150,000 sq. ft., is on
a 100-acre freehold at Camden
Park, S.A.
The co. has pushed ahead
rapidly. At present it has a paid
capital of £300,000 (£50,000 in
prefs.). If the present ord. issue
is filled capital will increase to
half a million.
The new money being asked
for, according to the directors,
is needed to increase output of
concrete-mixers, washing-
machines and hydraulic jacks,
and to provide for defence
orders.
The co. makes hydraulic jacks
for General Motors, Ford,
Chrysler-Dodge and other well-
known car-distributors.
Generally speaking, the type of
product it concentrates on is in
keen demand at present.
Out of a board numbering
eight, five of the directors are
described as engineers. The
“Here is the news . . ."
prospectus rather suggests that
engineers have had a lot to do
with the direction in which the
Lightburn co. has made most
progress—that is, the produc-
tion side. More attention
should now, however, be given
to financial aspects.
The prospectus emphasises
the fact that the co. has paid
8 p.c. ord, divs. for the five
years to June 30, 1950. That is
quite a good performance. But
at the end of that period total
profits left in the business
to only £18,052, sub-
ject to any dividend-distribu-
tions that might have been
made subsequently. On the
other hand, intangibles
amounted to only £2846, and
depreciation allowances ap-
peared to have been adequate.
Profit for the year to June
30, 1950, before providing for
tax, amounted to £30,195.
Allowing a third of that for
taxation, net profit would be
something like £20,000. That
would all be required to pay an
8 p.c. div. on present ord.
capital, disregarding the prefs.
and the proposed new ord. issue.
The directors nevertheless
expect that the 8 p.c. ord. div.
will be continued. A great deal
will depend, in this connection,
upon whether the co. is able to
get adequate supplies of raw
materials, etc., and upon trans-
port available for its finished
products to other States. And
something will depend on its
future financial policy.
Last year the sum of £10,586
was provided for deprecia-
tion on assets which now have a
written - down book - value of
£184,796 —land and buildings,
£124,739 ; patents, £2846 ; and
plant, £57,212, Stock and work
in progress, at or below cost,
were in the books at £220,815;
debtors at £22,308 ; cash, etc.,
£26,334.
The co. owes the A.M.P.
Society £60,000 on mortgage;
sundry creditors appear at
£67,004.
The company’s shares are not
listed on ’Change. And they
are unlikely to be listed so long
as this clause remains in the
company’s constitution:
Voting rights of ordinary share-
holders : The articles provide that
every member shall have one vote for
each share of which he is the holder
provided that the shares No. 1 to
6440 inclusive shall confer upon the
holder or holders thereof the right
to at least as many votes as shall be
equal to the number of votes con-
ferred by all the other issued ordinary
shares upon the holders thereof, and
each holding of any of the shares
numbered 1 to 6440 inclusive shall
confer the right to a rateable propor-
tion of the votes thus collectively
conferred.
This means that the holder, or
holders, of these 6440 shares,-if
holding only one more share,
will be able to outvote the
holders of the entire 440,000-
odd other ordinary shares when
the present issue is subscribed.
That, from an engineers’
viewpoint, is no doubt quite
satisfactory. It reduces to a
minimum interference from
shareholders who have no techni-
cal knowledge or manufacturing
ability. But it is not a demo-
cratic constitutional provision,
and would, rightly, be unaccept-
able to any Stock Exchange of
Australia if the co. sought to
have its scrip listed.
For the present the co. may
consider it an advantage to
establish its business without
any Stock Exchange associa-
tion. And the comparatively
dictatorial powers given to
certain shareholders under the
articles may possibly have some
virtues during this establish-
ment period. But something
should be done about altering
both before long if the shares
in Lightburn and Co., Ltd., are
to qualify as a freely exchange-
able investment. As it is, the
proposition has several draw-
backs from the investor’s point
of view, however expansive and
progressive the co. is technically.
And it must have cost a lot of
money to mail out all those
prospectuses.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers ofl—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in;—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Servicemen
Many men prefer life in the Navy,
Army or Air Force because Australia
provides adequately for the needs of
her sailors, soldiers and airmen
through a carefully planned system of
pay, allowances and privileges. Pay
is good, and when all the * extras
are added, compares favourably with
civilian awards.
A Serviceman’s pay is adjusted
periodically in relation to cost of liv-
ing changes and basic wage variations.
A Serviceman’s “extras” include food
and accommodation, clothing allow-
ance, family allowances, free medical,
dental and hospital treatment, free
travel to and from his home for his
annual leave, and congenial social and
sporting facilities for his leisure time.
A Serviceman’s future is made secure
through opportunities for steady ad-
vancement, and a pension or gratuity
on retirement or at end of engage-
ment.
Minimum age: Army and Navy 17
years, Air Force 18 years.
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or
Information Bureaux
at the following addresses
In Melbourne: Cur. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney: Cnr. Martin Place
and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide:
Eichards Building, 99 Currie Street; In Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart: Franklin
Square; In Launceston: Town Hall, St. John Street.
IF UNABLE TO CALL SEND THIS COUPON
The Deputy Director of Recruiting, □ navy
G.P.O. Box XYZ in any of the r-. ARMy
following cities —Sydney, Melbourne,
Rrithanp, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, □ air force
Launceston. □ all 3 services
Please send me, without obligation, r—. p u j| jj; me
full details of enlistment and service
with (indicate which desired) D Part time
NAME
ADDRESS
inZeT~b7~thTGovernment of the Commonwealth of Australia.
DB2B-83-31
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The resignation of Aneurin
Bevan has thrown the spotlight
on Mr. Gaitskell’s Budget. But
the compulsory dose of medi-
cine, in the form of a tincture
of taxes, which the State ad-
ministers to citizens in mid-
April in order that the corpor-
ate body may continue to bolster
up its health, has generally
proved to be less unpleasant to
the palate than was expected.
Mr. Bevan’s later outburst
against Britain’s armament pro-
gramme and United States de-
fence policy showed how much
farther than the Budget his
difference of opinion really
extends.
Mr. Ernest Bevin’s death, be-
sides leaving an irreplaceable
void of loyal friendship and
staunch counsel, has also de-
prived the Prime Minister of the
most vital and compelling figure
in the Labor movement. His
sad loss has shifted the party
balance several degrees left of
centre, making Mr. Attlee’s task
of maintaining equilibrium
almost untenable.
Returning to the Budget,
except for a single incursion
into the board-rooms of industry,
Mr. Gaitskell has shown that he
depends mainly for State sus-
tenance on the ordinary man
and woman. Britain’s multiple
burden of external defence,
mounting inflation and internal
social services is to be met by
an extra shilling or two from
the moderately paid, an extra
pound or two from the better-
off and, where other things are
equal, by indirect taxes.
Taxation may be direct or
indirect. From examples both
before and after the Budget it
plainly may also be concealed
or disguised. Despite an esti-
mated surplus of £8,000,000
post-office charges are to be in-
creased, ostensibly because of
higher overheads.
Accusations are being made
with some heat that the imposts
are unjust, since the Treasury
will both grab the surplus and
gain free services for Govern-
ment departments, to the tune
of some £16,000,000 a year. The
customer, suffering with restless
impotence, is also to pay heavily
for the privilege of using the
nationalised transport. Falling
receipts and higher wages have
to be met.
In the larger cities, and Lon-
don particularly, those with fixed
incomes are groaning under a
burden that weighs heavier
every month. The impending
increase of 20 p.c. on railway
season-tickets is bound to cause
hardship, even privation. Thus
a man or woman who is
“something in the city” may
economise by spending his week-
ends at home, but he cannot
exercise the same discretion over
his daily journey, which, after
all, is part of his living. He
just has to pay, and how well
he and those who run the
nationalised services for his own
benefit know it!
Arts and the Festival
A scrutiny of the official pro-
gramme of the London Season
of the Arts, which takes in most
of May and June, suggests that
music alone is paramount. The
theatre will, of course, have
much to offer both in plays and
ballets, and the visitor who
hopes to see the star productions
will need to book well in ad-
vance. But, apart from a round
half-dozen productions which
will at once be apparent to any-
body who consults the Press, it
will be business as usual with
the addition of a Festival
banner or two.
So, to music. Here the whole
profession seems to have put it-
self out, with a discriminating
eye towards the casual concert-
goer, the risk-taking pioneer
and the connoisseur. The
organisers have had their disap-
pointments, since ill-health pre-
vents the appearances of three
world-rankers, Toscanini, Kous-
sevitzky and Van Beinum. Their
selection of works for the main
concerts (to be shared between
the Royal Albert Hall and the
Royal Festival Hall) is by no
means unimaginative, and they
have successfully avoided a Pier
Pavilion atmosphere. Grading
the 165 works into descending
order of familiarity gives this
result: very popular, 40 p.c.;
popular, 20 p.c.; rarely per-
formed, 38 p.c.; first London
performances, 2 p.c. Works by
38 “moderns” (that is, those
alive or living within the past
50 years) number 74—45 p.c. of
the total —and 20 British com-
posers are represented.
The connoisseur will probably
find himself in unexpected
places, such as the Victoria and
Albert Museum in Kensington,
the Wigmore Hall in Maryle-
bone, the Orangery at Hampton
Court Palace, Kenwood House
on Hampstead Heath, the Chel-
sea Town Hall and city and
West End churches. These con-
certs include a Haydn-Mozart
series, three string orchestras and
several chamber - music en-
sembles. Boyd Neel celebrates
the eighteenth anniversary of his
first concert by a programme
of works that have been dedi-
cated to his orchestra, A
“Mozart in London” evening is
novel and ingenious, since at
that time he was only nine ; two
early Kochel numbers accom-
pany works by the then leading
“English” composers, Karl
Friedrich Abel and Johann
Christian Bach.
There is a full programme of
recitals, choral and church
music and, for the historian, a
special series of English music
from 1300 to 1750. Benjamin
Britten has an opera season of
his own at the Lyric, Hammer-
smith.
Shaw Shorts
The omnibus title of “Shav-
ings,” which groups together
three of G.B.S.’s one-acters at
the St. Martin’s theatre, is
hardly one that would have
tickled their creator’s ego during
his lifetime ; but at least it has
rough, if unflattering, justice. If
these plays had lately been dis-
covered in a forgotten chest at
Ayot St. Lawrence and presented
posthumously critics might well
have pronounced them to be,
with one exception, unremark-
able by-products from the crafts-
man’s bench.
“The Man of Destiny,”
although set in Lombardy
during the Napoleonic wars,
dates fixedly and with a faded
mustiness to Victorian London
exactly 100 years later. The
central character wears the uni-
form of a French general and
has the idiosyncrasy of placing
the fingers of his hand inside the
V of his waistcoat while he
scowls, but otherwise is hard to
recognise. Many broadsides
misfire, but some still hit the
target. More generous allow-
ances may be made for Karel
Stepanek’s excess of years
(Napoleon was only 27 at this
time) than for his performance.
He gives the impression of
having tongue in cheek, an atti-
tude that an author may adopt
with occasional success, but an
actor never. Rosamund John
makes an alluring enemy agent
of diverse and calculated moods
—an actress, as it were, within
an actress —and a convincing
male impersonator.
“Village Wooing” is a patchy
trifle of little consequence. Miss
John, now a gawky Amazon of
blowsy speech and determined
approach, is joined by Griffith
Jones as a terrifying intellectual
(said to be a self-portrait of 40-
year-old G. 8.5.). Alone and to-
gather, these two turn it into a;
passably amusing charade.
“The Dark Lady of the Son-
nets,” although often to be seen
on the amateur stage, is rarely
performed by professionals.
The Queen Elizabeth of Ellen
Pollock (who produces all
three plays) is so fascinatingly
lifelike that she might have
stepped out of her portrait-
frame ; she is also sufficient of
a woman as to fall for the
blandishments of salesman-poet-
courtier Will Shakspeare, played
with superb and polished deli-
cacy by Griffith Jones,
Disk-jockey
Cold print may be hard upon
current catchy refrains. “Music,
Music, Music!” had a long and
chirrupy run even without Rose
Murphy’s foot-tap and black-
velvet voice. “I Taut I Taw a
Puddy Tat” was brought to
Britain from an obscure shelf
in America and swept this coun-
try with such momentum that it
was carried back to the land of
its birth.
Another opus extraordinary is
taking the land by storm, and
its success shows that Australians
who come over here need char-
acter as well as pluck and deter-
mination. Mr. Wilfrid Thomas
certainly has character. He was
told that he couldn’t go far
wrong in Britain as a disk-jockey
if he followed the style of the
two most celebrated exponents
of that art. He stubbornly
refused to play the sedulous ape
and went his own way. His suc-
cess has been immense. The
Chinese popular song, “May
Kway,” is a “wow,” and, since
the Iron - curtained writers
responsible for it refuse to asso-
ciate themselves with capitalist
ways and means, copyright is
held to have been cleared. Under
the title “Rose, Rose, I Love
You,” two versions are being
pressed, one of them with Mr.
Thomas’s own lyric.
He should amass a consider-
able sum of money.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“MacHoots”: Dymphna Cusack’s and
Florence James’s Come in, Spinner, the
novel about the Yanks in Sydney favor-
ably reviewed on a recent Red Page,
won a £1000 prize offered by Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” three or four years
ago, when the “Herald” and the “Tele”
were outbidding each other in munificent
offers to Australian novelists: a contest
in which honors finally rested with the
“Herald.” since nothing more has been
heard of “Telegraph” literary competi-
tions, The “Tele,” for some mysterious
reason, never announced the winner of
its award, but Dymphna Cusack and
Florence James, so the pigeons tell me,
took a trip abroad on the prizemoney.
When Come in, Spinner was eventually
published by Heinemann the "Telegraph”
printed a leading-article simultaneously
attacking its own prize-winner and Time
of Fallen. Blossoms (Allan S. Clifton’s
book about the Australian troops in
Japan, which has been published in
America) as “war books written in bad
taste gems for the literary dustbin”:
which, even for Sydney daily journalism,
was really a remarkable somersault. Un-
less my pigeons are mistaken, the next
issue of “Meanjin Papers” will Tell All.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Irving”: A mine-manager’s conten-
tion that a lot of doctor’s certificates are
not worth the paper they are written on
has been given the lie direct by a Mel-
bourne medico’s claim that he always
uses the cheapest unheaded paper he can
get. As to the value of his certificates, he
claims that, to oblige a leave-see king
Public Service friend, he issued a signed
statement declaring that: “The late Phar
Lap went to Mexico to complete the
conquest of that country and died after
being there seven days.” All but the
words “seven days” was recorded in the
“Have you got an artist’s licence?”
usual doctor’s hieroglyphics. The certi-
ficate’s efficiency was attested by he
grateful wangler’s report: “The boss
asked me if seven days would be enough.”
On the obverse side of the sometimes
spurious coin, medico-author Halliday
Sutherland records a sick-berth attend-
ant’s report to a Naval M. 0.: “The
malingerer in Bed No. 10 died last night.”
» * * *
“Taswegian”: Once every century or
so some genius astounds his fellow-men,
not with some abstruse theory or some
complicated mathematical theorem, but
with a suggestion of such simplicity that
ordinary men kick themselves for not
having thought of it first. Recently such
a one made the inhabitants of the Speck
pause in their chewing of toast and
marmalade as they read in the daily
paper his revolutionary suggestion. Tas-
mania’s Hydroelectric Commission,
which has had to ration power because
of a water shortage, must have blessed
his name, and the designers of the
Snowy and similar schemes are now
probably revising their plans. Why,
“Are you the gentleman who advertised an exchange of tenancy?”
asked this genius, do we waste the water
after it flows from the high-level lakes
through the turbines? Why not pump
it back up to the lakes, and use it over
and over again?
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”; A brisk luxury trade
in N.T. crocodiles may confidently be
expected in Victoria as the result of an
experiment by two young Ballarat sports-
men. Although they were laughed at by
the locals, they brought down from
North Queensland 30 crocs’-eggs. One
had hatched out before they made a land-
ing ; now five are barking and spitting
round their suburban parlor, more are
anticipated, and a heated pool is being
built in the backyard to accommodate
the lively family. Melbourne Bohemia
should be interested. In the early days
of the modernist movement in Paris if
you couldn’t make a hit with your pic-
tures you could make one by carrying
round some exotic animal. The artist
who walks into his own exhibition lead-
ing a healthy young crocodile on a chain
will probably make a bigger hit in the
coming season than Dobell did with his
celebrated long-necked portrait
“Eve”: Our taxi-driver was still narked
over a previous fare —a woman who had
come in from Bondi Junction and had
said the driver must not pick up any
other fares along the way. “Okay,” he
had grunted. “Though most of my fares
don’t object to multiple-hiring.” “I don’t
myself, as a rule,” said the woman, “but
I’m so tired today I just can’t tolerate
the thought of sitting in with a cabful of
noisy men or nattering women.” The
driver decided she had a headache and
forgave her —until, as he told us, she
nattered to him, hardly pausing for
breath, right from Bondi Junction to the
G.P.0.!
* * * *
“Aestur”: We often argued whether or
not the old chief was really as absorbed
in his work as he appeared. When he
had “the look” on his face, if you didn’t
step aside in the passage he’d barge
straight into you, and you might just as
well say good-morning to your T-square
for all the response you’d get. One day
Lanky Simpson decided to test him. He
got a large brown paperbag, and we
waited just inside the glass-panelled
print-room for a favorable moment. At
last the chief started calculating on his
Fuller’s rule. Lanky blew up the bag,
and just as the chief was delicately turn-
ing the barrel he brought it down with
all his force on the trimming-table. It
was a second Krakatoa; the draughts-
men not in the know jumped like shot
rabbits, and even those of us on the spot
staggered in the blast. It was a treat to
see the chief. As the windows rattled
and the light fittings swung he carefully
read the figure, wrote it down and
twirled the barrel lightly for the next
sum. He was dinkum, aU right.
♦ * * ♦
“Fairf”: Somebody’s been having me
on about “mike-fright.” It doesn’t exist!
Far from scaring people dumb, the micro-
phone obviously inspires exhibitionism
and loquacity. No normal man would
consider £5 adequate compensation for
being assaulted and made an unholy show
of before a crowd of guffawing people;
yet there is a waiting-list of hundreds
willing and anxious to be smitten in the
face with a custard-pie on a crazy radio
show. Few married couples would
divulge to strangers just what intimate
trifles cause the biggest rows in their
homes; yet that little metal confidence-
man can wheedle even that out of them.
At an announcer’s query “And what par-
ticular habit of your husband’s/wife’s
annoys you most?” a spouse will cheer-
fully confess to the microphone—and to
thousands of listeners—that her husband’s
penchant for picking his teeth in restaur-
ants irritates her beyond all; or his wife’s
propensity to leave her dentures in the
milk-jug really gets his shirt out. It
wouldn’t surprise me to hear an amateur
broadcaster confess to anything. But my
medal goes to the chap who breathed
this over the air: “I’m a bit of a handy-
man—shifted my bathroom, I did, plumb-
ing and everything, ’Course, you’re not
allowed to do that if you haven’t got
a licence, so I keep it to myself.”
* * * *
“Pat”: The big double-decker waits
seven minutes at the terminus before
doing its return trip to the city. An
elderly lady, climbing aboard when the
vehicle had been stationary only five
minutes, noticed the blue-uniformed lass
who collects the “fez” sprawled across one
of the front seats. Solicitously touching
her on the shoulder, the old lady inquired
if she felt ill. “Can’t you see I’m off
duty?” snapped the lass ungraciously.
“So sorry,” retorted the lady, “but it’s
rather difficult to tell these days, isn’t
it?”
* * * *
“Ossa”: Frenchy had all the makings
of a good citizen, but he found it hard
to suppress an inherent antagonism to-
ward Britain and anything British, in-
cluding Australians. And so he would
explain how the great English democratic
system was really
pilfered from
France in the time
of William the
Conqueror who
had every right in
the world to barge
in where he wasn’t
wanted and how
France and French-
men were the
bunnies whenever
“the Engleesh” decided to have a war.
Tackled on why he had brought his wife
and kids out to a place against which he
had so much because of its association
with England, Frenchy plonked down his
glass and beckoned the barman with a
grin; “The Engleesh, as usual, they win
again.”
* * * *
“Mullum”: Would-be suicides from
high places may be deterred by the
knowledge that they will still be
conscious when they reach the ground
(B. 18/4/’5l), but they may rest assured
that the actual descent will be painless.
Parachutists agree that, from the moment
of leaving the aircraft until the canopy
opens, they can see nothing except then-
own bodies. There is no sensation of
falling, no knowledge of the continual
somersaulting, and the view consists
solely of a grey haze.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne National Gallery’s
latest and possibly greatest acquisition
under the Felton Bequest, Rembrandt’s
“Portrait of a Man,” was reverently un-
packed the other day by director Daryl
Lindsay. Some authorities regard it as
one of the Dutch master’s greatest pic-
tures, and there was gnashing of teeth
in London when the purchase was
announced. All Melbourne’s art-lovers
will shortly be trembling with excite-
ment before the picture, but is it the pic-
ture that will make them tremble or
Rembrandt’s enormous prestige? One
hundred years after it was painted it
could probably have been bought for a
few florins. In 1734 the “Toilet of Bath-
sheba,” just as fine a painting as the
Melbourne portrait, was sold by the heirs
of Rembrandt’s burgomaster for 107 dol-
lars. It was sold again in Paris in 1780
for 460 dollars. Eleven years later it
changed hands at 231 dollars. It had
jumped to 1227 dollars by the time it
reached England, In 1913 it realised
200,000, and now it is priceless, since
the gallery that has it wouldn’t sell it at
any figure.
CERTAIN NECESSARY EXCISIONS.
w
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
“Chink”: Has any set of Australian
verses, with the possible exception of
Banjo Paterson’s “Waltzing Matilda,” had
wider circulation than C. J, Dennis’s
“The Austra laise”? “Den” wrote
this rousing “catch” in 1908 as an entry
in a National Song Competition organised
by The Bulletin, and to his own sur-
prise was given a special award. The four
verses printed in The Bulletin (under
the title of “a Real Australian Austra-
laise”) were republished by journals
in various countries, and in 1913 “Den”
ran the full set (seven verses) in his first
book, Backblock Ballads and Other
Verses. Two years later he, or some of his
friends, issued the verses again, in leaflet
form, as a marching song for the A.1.F.,
coupled with the suggestion that the
word “blessed,” or even “blooming,”
should be used wherever a dash replaced
a missing word. Later again “The
Austra -laise” reappeared in two
Dennis collections and a biography, and
now, to round matters off, the Common-
wealth Recruiting Committee has sent the
verses, by newspaper advertisement in all
Australian cities, to alpiost every house-
hold in Australia. “Den” would prob-
ably be diverted if told that sundry
“right-thinkers,” having filled the blanks
to suit their own ideas, have written to
the Recruiting Committee protesting
against the publication of such naughty
verses.


“Becks”: I know the job of a newsbill-
writer is to sell papers, and I realise that
the taste of the Great Australian Public
is not all that it might be. But are papers
so hard to sell and is the public taste so
morbid as to justify a Sydney afternoon
paper selecting as its selling-lines on two
consecutive days—at a time when British
Cabinet Ministers were resigning, a Com-
munist offensive was beginning in Korea
and the election was in its final stages —
these two “stories”: “Sex Pervert
Attacks in Girls’ School” and “Breach
Case ‘Sordid’ Says Judge”?
* * * *
“Willpar”: Being an ambitious fellow
I strove hard for promotion during the
war, but with little success. I have now
learnt, too late, the jealously-guarded
qualification for military leadership—
animal cunning. Duty and inclination
combined to take me to the bedside of a
high-ranking Army man in a Repat.
hospital. Shortly after I arrived he
asked the nurse to rinse a drinking-glass
in the wash-basin, “General, I can’t.
You have a pair of pyjamas soaking
there,” she explained, “Oh, yes. But
surely that doesn’t constitute a major
problem,” replied the general helpfully,
whereupon she squeezed them out and,
prompted by the patient, bounced to the
sun-drenched balcony to hang them over
the back of the wheel-chair —only to
bounce back again. “I can’t dry them
there, sir. You already have a pair hang-
ing there.” “What, not dry yet?” asked
the general in mock surprise—which re-
sulted in the dry pyjamas being folded
and put away. Her final comment, de-
livered in good grace from the door:
“Now I know why they made you a
general.”
♦ * * *
“R. Midale”: Hanging on a wall of
a nor’-west N.S.W. homestead is a permit
issued by N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s
ftflttl
ROOM
Department allowing the landholder to
shoot “five kangaroos.” It was kept be-
cause of the addendum: “None of these
reav be females ”
may rem ; * *
“Clooter”: After a meticulous survey
of the business of growing and selling
bananas a Mr G. C. McFarlane, titled
Assistant Economics Research Officer.
nresents me with certain recommenda-
for “broadening the market for
bananas,” which he summarises thus: (a)
By supplying new areas; (b) by improv-
ing the technique of marketing in areas
already supplied; (c) by advertising;
(d) by increasing consumption of pro-
cessed forms of bananas. I am not an
A.E.R.0., but I yield to none in my
respect for the banana as a food and
the commonsense of my missus, who,
when apprised of Mr. Mc.’s ideas, snorted
briefly and said, “If they want me to
buy more of the things they can cut out
selling them by the pound. With four
mouths to feed I never know whether
I’m going to get two, three or four for a
bob and a bob is all I can afford for
bananas and it’s only because apples are
scarce and the oranges you buy these
days” But by then I was half-way
up the street.
* * * *
“Apple Isle”: With houses as scarce
as mutton and dear as lamb, many
citizens of the Speck were shocked to
learn that a tender had been let for the
construction of a new railway-station in
Hobart. After all, it’s only 70-odd years
since the present one was built, and, like
some of the Peacock engines of the same
vintage, it looks* good for another 70.
Admittedly, it’s not a thing of beauty,
but the trains get in and out every day,
which is more than they sometimes do in
the posher mainland stations. It’s true,
too, that part of the roof consists only
of rafters and purlins, but, as the rain
falls on the track and not on the plat-
forms, that is of little moment. And
what a blow it will be to tourists: there’s
nothing more satisfying to a “foreigner”
than to be able to say (to balance his
being bowled over by our harbor, our
apples and our beer) “Good Heavens!
Is that your railway-station?” while
focusing his camera for a record for the
folk back home.
* * * *
“Terence L.”: Even if Ivor Novello
(B. 4/4/’5l) had been a mediocre per-
former, which he was not, his exceptional
good looks would have compelled
feminine adulation. I recall seeing him
in 1927 in a now-almost-forgotten play,
“Downhill.” It had little to recommend
it —so much so that a critic observed that
even Novello’s personal beauty hardly
excused the piece from not being with-
drawn from public patronage. He con-
cluded thus: “The play would not run
another night if an unthinking pimple
developed on the tip of the perfect
Novello nose.”
* * * *
“Bass”: Arguing along the lines that
the credit for a direct hit belongs to the
gun-layer rather than the trigger-
squeezer, a Westralian country woman
claims to have shot a snake. Her
husband encountered it in what is known
in these parts as an outhouse, and
promptly locked it in. After pondering
the matter for a couple of days, during
which the snake became progressively
madder, he bored a hole in the wall.
Through this his wife watched the snake’s
movements, estimated its position and
called “fire.” They got it first shot.
* * * *
“Rann”: When a swarm of bees
settled on my front hedge I decided their
removal was a job for an expert. Ring-
ing an apiarist who advertised “swarms
collected,” I took heart at his assurance
that he would be out right away. Then
I began to have doubts. Did this
“swarms collected” mean I would have
to pay for their removal? Back to the
phone, to receive the assurance that the
bee-man collected bees for the love of it.
There was evidently some confusion oyer
the meaning of right away, as I had
to spend the next three hours shooing
the kids, who hadn’t collected in such
force since the nex t-door chimney caught
on fire. At a quarter-to-five the man
arrived, 15 minutes too late, for at 4.30
the bees had left as suddenly as they
bad eCrt^Now
hose on them? asked me expert. JNow
how the Dickens could I have hosed
them through the fly-screen on the front-
bedroom window?
* * * *
“Doric”; Since the A.B.C. announced
a Jubilee competition for a popular song
featuring a specified place I’ve been run-
ning through a list of Australian place-
names—without much success. Gundagai
has already rung the bell twice, so it is
ruled out, and although years ago “I
Must Go To Kosciusko” was the rage,
the recent fire disqualifies it. I tried
Coonabarabran and found that it fitted
perfectly to the tune of the Italian song
“Ciribiribin,” but that would be plagiar-
“There you are, Mum — Washed, rinsed and spin-dried."
ism. I thought of “My Dimity Gel From
Nimmitybel,” extolled the virtues of “My
Coy Boy From Woy Woy,” recalled the
time “When I Kissed You on the
Veranda of the Pub at Yackandandah,”
and even hazarded a “Tumbarumba
Rhumba,” but I felt they wouldn’t hit the
jackpot. But I’m not giving up; last
night I wrote the first verse of “My
Lubra From Maroubra.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: A friend who lives in a
suburb where the paper-delivery tears
through in a light truck with men stand-
ing in it hurling rolled papers right and
left has struck a stratagem which has
remedied his old complaints of damp
papers and damaged dahlia plants. He
has a standing bet
with the boomer-
anger, five-bob to
nothing, that he
can’t hit a bottle
placed on the wall
of the front
veranda. Now the
paper always lands
dryly on the
veranda; and the
five-bob he has
only had to pay
once in six months seems a cheap price
for a readable paper and undamaged
plants—apart from the sporting interest
in the paper’s arrival.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Anent Apuleius (B.
25/4/’5l), there exists at historic Dudley,
in the English Midlands, a quaint instil
tution called the Dudley Book Club
which dates back to the tune of Crom-
well and which is devoted to the propa-
gation of civil and religious . liberty
through the circulation among members
of suitable books. The income from the
ancient fund is invested in relevant litera-
ture which circulates for a year and is
then auctioned at a dinner at which the
main toast is given by the local Congre-
gational minister, as it has been ever
since there was a Congregational church.
More than 20 years ago, as a visiting
Australian, I was allowed to take part
in this solemn feast and to participate in
the auction, since I had had some con-
nection with Dudley for a year. The
piece of civil and religious liberty which
fell to my lot in the bidding was a
beautiful edition of The Golden Ass.
« # » •
“Sebak”: Brother George is, normally,
a light drinker, but a battalion reunion
is a battalion reunion. The thing that
seemed to be amazing him most, the
morning after, was that he had been able
to get home under his own steam. “And
I did everything right!” he informed me
in the voice men reserve for describing
phenomena. “I shut the gate after me,
navigated round the garbage-tin, hung
my wet overcoat on the veranda-peg, and
tiptoed in without waking up the wife
and kids. I only made one mistake —
took my singlet off before I put my
pyjama-coat on.” “Well, you couldn’t
very well take it off afterwards,” I replied.
And that’s how the argument started. /
know every man takes his singlet off to
go to bed; George is just as definite that
no normal man does. We’re looking for
an umpire to establish whether I act like
a drunk when I’m sober, or whether he
acts sober when he’s drunk.
* * * *
“Bo”: One of the features of city life
that have passed into the limbo is the
free entertainment offered by the mags-
man who, setting up his portable stand on
the pavement, would with his 180 w.p.m.
patter inveigle some of the curious into
sparring up a couple of bob for a
marvellous implement which might have
the multiple uses of cigar-cutter, bean-
slicer, corkscrew, nail-clipper, fruit-slicer
and as a remover of stones from a horse’s
hoofs. And if the instrument failed to
come up to the buyer’s expectation—and
it never did—at least he could reflect that
the other one-and-sixpence-worth was at
least good entertainment. Pavement-
congestion spelled the old-time magsman s
doom. But one Sydney store appreciates
the drawing-card value of the high-
pressure yapper, and the ever-larger
crowds which attend him bear witness to
the age-old attraction which the fast
talker who can salt his recitatives with
humorous asides will ever hold. This
fellow, a real expert, uses a rich Cockney
d j a i e ct on which his humor sits with
p a tent ease. His audience is the same as
that of his old pavement-confrere: they
display the same initial hesitation and
eventually cough up with the same
peculiar mixture of defiance and em-
barrassment. I may as well finish this
w i tb a confession —but I still can’t believe
the thing will do for me all he claims.
* * * *
« Laetitia » ; In tbe islands in 1942 I’m
afi ; aid we w. asted benziae J us ‘ as pro ? b
gaily as “Dolmetchers Jerries (B.
18/4/’5l). Our dhobying was done with
two four-gallon tins. The top one, hali-
filled with water, contained the duds and
a full packet of a washing-powder which,
according to the maker s directions,
should have sufficed for six weeks wash-
m S for an ordinary family. In the bottom
J lowef which was liberaUy
studded with air-vents, was 2in. of wet
sand, on top of which was sprinkled a
quantity of benzine regulated by the time
in which it was desired to bring the wash
to a boil. Generally this was about 10
minutes after the application of the match,
There was one major drawback to this
method of laundering, which was usually
earned out at night. The braziers defied
all attempts at extinguishing, so their
operators were most unpopular when the
imminence of a Nip air-raid called for
the dousing of lights,
*
“Exdig”; For a time our battalion in
the First World War emulated the Welsh
Fusiliers by acquiring a goat mascot;
qu it e a nice animal, but its ending was
tragical. The jokers who looked after
the mascot trained it to butt good and
ba rd the stern of any bending man.
stooping became unpopular in the bat-
talion ; but quite a number of reinstoush-
ments were caught. Someone would offer
the new arrival a cigarette and allow it
to drop to the ground. Directly the goat
saw the new man stoop to pick it up he
would charge, and the victim would think
an avalanche had caught him in the rear,
Tragedy came one day when, during a
camp inspection by high-placed red-tabs,
the most highly placed of the party,
having bent to get a closer look of the
contents of a steaming dixie, his rear
presented a target that the goat, care-
lessly allowed at large, had been trained
to regard as his aim in life. He
charged without delay, and, as the
staff officer wiped stew off his sleeves
and eased his scalded hands, which had
been plunged into the hot stuff as he fell,
we learned the language a staff officer
can use when deeply moved. We saw the
goat no more.
WOOLLY-MINDED.
ŵ
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gravelsnatcher”; Like “Old-timer”
(B. 4/4/’5l), I’ve spent a lot of time in
areas where yabbies abound—we call
them gilgies in W.A.—and like him I’ve
never ascribed any particular sound to
them. But Tom Collins may be right.
Whenever I have occasion to seek relief
from a neurosis caused by too close
association with the advantages of
civilisation I camp for a night or two
near a swamp. Have you any idea how
many forms of life can abound in a few
acres of mud, water and reeds? There
must be thousands. Lately I’ve been
trying to localise some of the sounds they
make. I can place the frog noises—l
think, for they come in such a variety
that I can’t be sure—and I’d know the
bitterns by sight. There are hundreds of
little crawling and hopping things that
inhabit the moist sand near the water’s
edge, and each has its own voice. A
lifetime would be too short to trace each
to its source. The water, and the mud
beneath it, abounds in life on which the
waterfowl feed, and much, if not all, of
it is vocal. The noise from a swamp at
night is deafening, but, being natural, it’s
soothing. Science has lately proved that
the voice of the turtle may be heard in
the land, so perhaps the yabbie’s can be,
too.
♦ * * *
“Salmon Gums”; The bound of a
flying ’roc, the flight of an eagle, the
long-legged stride of an emu, all typify
for me the freedom of the Australian
bush. But for pure pride, speed and
virile independence the palm, in this neck
of the woods, goes to an importation—
the brumby. Toughened by generations
“Heard a bloke named Williams is the big shot in this town."
of hard-living, with Carbine’s Mood , in
his veins, he can outrun and outfight any
?• < if n * zen coastal plain, and
his flight from his only enemy, man, is
prompted by sagacity, not fear. As the
danger nears he calls together his herd,
circling them as they bunch together.
Then he starts them off, urging the
garC t ot ] with sharp nips on the rump.
When his herd is running well he races
to the front and leads it to safety. He is
capable of an effective rearguard action.
Recently when a party of lads were chas-
ing a herd which was slowed by the
presence of young foals, the stallion left
the lead, circled, raced alongside the
leading pursuer and, lashing out, struck
the rider in the leg. The herd escaped.
* * * *
“Solitude”; Must be about a year ago
that I first mentioned the condition of
his old pensioned nag to Seventyfiver.
“Falling away badly,” I told him. “Better
shoot him.” “Yair,” he drawled. “Yair,
y’re right. Been a good nag, Robin has,
but—yair, I reckon y’re right.” He
finished his meal in silence; then, seeing
me watching, he grimly took down the
rifle, slipped a halter on Robin and led
him over the back ridge. Time passed;
quite a long time. Then back came
Seventyfiver, still leading the nag.
“Blasted rifle jammed on me,” he ex-
plained, keeping the weapon carefully to
himself. “Have to fix it tonight.” A
month or two later I again broached the
subject. “Old Robin’s a walking
skeleton,” I accused. “You’d better get
on with that shooting.” “That’s right,
Sol,” he agreed, “I must do that.”
Again he took the rifle, and this time led
the nag in the opposite direction. When
I returned at night the horse was back.
“Met Sandy,” Seventyfiver explained.
“He reckons I might get chaff from Ted
Riley. Rob might pick up on decent
feed.” Next, the crock went in one leg,
but despite lameness he somehow strayed
away when the old bloke was once more
prompted to produce the rifle. Yesterday
I brought the news: “Robin’s down.
Can’t get up.” “Yair?” The old bloke
looked concerned. “Aw, cripes,” he
lamented, “this would go an’ ’appen now,
jus’ when there ain’t a bullet left!”
“Dahaka Las”: Our fuzzy-haired
plantation “boss-boy” persuaded my
wife to give him
an old alarm-
clock. Not that
he could tell the
time, but I
imagine the time-
piece gave him
added prestige on
the labor line.
One day he re-
quested audience,
and, producing
the clock, an-
nounced briefly: “Time, he go walk-
about, Sinabada!” The hour-hand had
come adrift.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; About 14 small boys and
seven or eight dogs built a bonfire heap
on the ’Bidgee below Narrandera and then
retired to wait for Empire Day. On the
Sunday night before the anniversary a
tow-headed terrier or a wire-haired small
boy—the sergeant was never sure which
—burst into the police-station and de-
manded the full protection of the law
against a couple of vandals who had fired
the heap and were broiling steak and
boiling a billy on the remains. The law
—accompanied by 12 indignant boys and
11 outraged dogs—proceeded to the
scene and there discovered the vandals
to be Quicksilver Charlie and Joe Camp-
oven, travellers. These gentlemen,
apprised of the heinousness of their
offence, of the hatred of the boys and
the obvious desire of the hounds to chaw
them up, and also reminded of the fact
that they were vagrants and therefore
liable to summary arrest, confessed that
their crime arose out of thoughtlessness,
swore to make good the damage, and did
so. Then they humbly petitioned to be
present at the festival, bought hungers out
of their shearing cheques, lit up the
sergeant with some volatile spirit they
possessed and the incident concluded, two
nights later, in what two of the dogs (the
rest cleared out when the first rocket went
up) and 17 of the boys declared to be
“the crackerest cracker night we ever
seen! ”
* * * *
“Bass”: That search for mounts Hope
and Despair (B. 4/4/’5l) recalls the time
Carr Boyd went looking for Mount Black,
“What does he mean, he'd like a nice cold beer?"
out from Coolgardie. It was soon after
the Darlot rush, and a report circulated
that a party had drifted into Darlot with
500 ounces won at Mount Black. An-
other party, led by Don Munday, left
Darlot that night, and the diggers, jump-
ing to conclusions, followed their tracks.
Between Darlot and Hawk’s Nest Mon-
day’s party met Carr Boyd, who’d heard
about the find and offered to lead them
to Mount Black. After a few days,
during which they made a lot of tracks
for the “rush” to follow, Carr admitted
that he didn’t know the place and had
simply been looking for tracks which
might give a lead. The mob, which they
met at Stone Soak on the way back, took
a lot of convincing and, when they were
convinced, wanted to lynch Carr. ’ They
eventually split up and combed the area
for the elusive hill, but it was never
located. Don Munday, who told me this,
reckoned the whole thing was a hoax and
that Mount Black didn’t exist.
* * * *
“Bo”; All right, “Juggling Jack” (B.
18/4/’5l), so I made old Fred’s square
ship’s-tank, whigh, as everybody knows,
has flat sides, develop a leak in the
bottom rung, and only corrugated tanks
have rungs? Not so. For, you see,
Fred’s square, flat tank had worn so thin
that the weight of water in it when full
caused such a pressure on the bottom of
it that it had bulged, forming a rung. I
admit, therefore, that the word “bottom”
was redundant. Any more questions?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Past our camp rode an
equestrian in jodhpurs, shining leggings
and boots, a tweed coat and a felt hat
with a feather in it. The horse was as
shiny as himself. Mat eyed this pheno-
menon briefly and later, up in the town,
described it. “Oh,” said the local, “that’s
So-and-so. He’s one o’ them gentleman
farmers, see!” Mat downed his beer.
“Yair,” he said slowly, “y* can always
tell ’em. They talk with authority, turn
up at public meetings, write articles to
the papers, dress well an’ all that. But
all the work on the place is done be
their men, see! ” The local ordered more
drinks and said, “Oh, well, I s’pose it’s
all right if they can afford it.” “I s’pose
it is,” Mat assented, “but y’ got t’ watch
’em.” “Watch ’em?” “Too right.
Gripes, if y’ don’t look out they’d have
y’ raisin’ y’r hat t’ ’em. One tried it
on me. ‘Couldn’t y’ raise y’r hat when
y speak t’ me?’ he says. Gripes, it took
me ten minutes to think of a good come-
back, an’ be that time I wasn’t workin’
for him any more.”
* * * *
“M.S.”: Can the Council produce any-
thing to beat my hack’s sagacity? Inci-
dentally, she’s a nicely marked pie. I
spotted her on one of the back runs as
a foal, and couldn’t find her owner quick
enough with an offer. Now broken in,
the little rainbow horse has two hates:
to be left alone, and trailing reins. She
stubbornly refuses to be tethered by
dropped reins, and sidles after me, watch-
ing those ribbons like twin snakes. When
they come too close she stops, backs
round, and approaches from the farther
side. The other day the track was narrow.
With the reins on the track, she bumped
her quarters on the rocks one side, then
on the brush opposite, while I watched
to see would she back through, or stay
put. Neither. Down went her head to the
ground, and after nibbling them for a
few seconds, she picked up the hated reins
and carried them through. Not bad, for
a nag.
* * * V
“Fairf”: The overworked suburban
medico has always had my sympathy,
but at least he gets paid for the overtime
he puts in; all doctors are not so lucky.
There is one at a N.S.W, South Coast
town who is paid on a flat rate to work
40 hours a week. When necessity com-
pels him to do 20 or 30 hours a week
extra, as it often does, he is entitled to
the grateful thanks of those who called
him out; he is not permitted to ask a
fee. Recently he was summoned to an
urgent maternity case. At 8 p.m. it was
obvious that the confinement could not
be a complete success, but after seven
more worrying hours the doc. succeeded
in saving the mother. The stillborn had
eight legs, two heads and one body. Not
two weeks later some hard-to-pdease cow-
cocky wrote an anonymous letter in the
local rag to air his complaint that vet.
So-and-so was not giving local dairy
herds all the attention he should.
* * * *
‘ Harbel”; Ulbert is a first-class
painter and paperhanger, and if his
Stanley Holloway accent is sometimes be-
wildering to us Old Australians, at least
he has the sense of humor that goes with
it. He was still chuckling as he told me
his latest experience: Two spinsters in an
adjacent township sent for him. Apolo-
getically they explained that their inten-
tions had been to wallpaper the little
homestead themselves, but practice had
been much
harder than
theory; it was
a job for a
trade sman
would he do it?
He would. They
were delighted.
All the material
was on hand,
the sisters
explained:
paper, gum . . .
“Goom?” ex-
claimed Ulbert.
“Tha doesn’t
use goom !” The ladies looked surprised.
“But you do stick it on, don’t you?” they
asked together. “Aye, but tha buys pairst
powder and mixes it thaself,” the trades-
man explained. “Pairst powder?” queried
the clients, looking puzzled. “Aye,” con-
firmed Ulbert. “Get pound; tha can
buy’t at aronmoonger’s store.” A week
later he turned up to do the job. One of
the sisters met him anxiously. “I don’t
know whether we did right,” she said
doubtfully, “but the man in the iron-
monger’s shop said there were lots of
different pest-powders, so we got half a
pound of derris dust and two tins of
D.D.T.”
DREAMING ON A BEACH.
How have I lived so long and never seen
What lies beyond the mountains: all the wide,
Green, sunny land? Why have I never been
Beyond the city’s cold, accustomed ways?
How could I know the loveliness they say
Exists is real?—the parrot-colored sunsets
And far fields, where sheep, in vista-play,
Resemble puffs of cotton on a mat.
It is but hearsay that “murdered-woman” owls
Make screaming witch-flights where the Darling
flows.
And that the Murrumbidgee swirls with mud,
By-passing plains and gum-tree forests, too.
Why have I never stopped by country pubs,
And walked through swing-doors once, perhaps,
swung-to
Behind the face-wrapped figure of a man
Called Kelly, or Tom Clark? Oh, if I knew
The roadways winding west, the friendly roads,
The waving seas of wheat, the outback huts,
The boundary-rider’s trail, the drover’s camp,
The creaking music of Tong bullock-teams!
The west wind, blowing hotly to the sea,
Comes whispering of hawks and kangaroos,
Of sunburnt paddocks, waterholes, and glazed,
Sweet, distant mirages, but —are they real?
How have I lived so long and never been
Beyond the mountains? Must I stay and dream
(Or call it bunyip-hunting, if you like)
This is not Bondi, but a billabong?
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed work*
m
* ■■■
■
■if
um
ms
.
n,-
mm
W
mm
x.
4n» , Boz., 16 6 z., 1 gallon sizes .. . Hardware and general s'
These Family Moisey
Matters
Where are your insurance
policies? What bank are your
savings in? What are your
total family assets? Where is
your marriage certificate? In
many families no one, least of
all the wife, knows the answers.
Don’t miss tips on keeping
vital family records straight
in May Reader’s Digest. These
simple suggestions on wills,
deeds, bank accounts. Insurance
policies may have real money
value for you—put you a step
closer to one more asset
financial peace of mind.
Your whole family will enjoy
May Reader’s Digest—packed
with 32 stimulating, informa-
tive articles from leading
magazines, current books. One
shilling and sixpence. All news-
agents and bookstalls.
Hfr rr&
m
- > .:,
Esdaile's 2Jx
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
G Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
© Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2jx —Eye relief 3±in.
to ssin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson, ’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
ŵ
ẁ
“Chuck”: Seeing me start off for a
day’s dogging, a near-by camper from the
city offered the loan of his cocker spaniel,
claiming the animal was a first-class
hunter; and, glad of canine assistance, I
let the tyke join the pack. Soon the
cocker made his first find. Beside a log,
he scratched, jumped up and down, and
barked excitedly, and my runners, true to
the training of long experience, immedi-
ately dashed back. They arrived as the
cocker unearthed a nest of mice. The
boss greyhound inspected the mice, eyed
the cocker and, with a look of intense
disgust, turned away. The others followed
suit. Ten minutes later the city-bred
again summoned and, racing back from
other scents, the pack was presented with
a lizard. Once more I got them started.
In turn, that cocker discovered every-
thing from a beetle to a bullock, and I
was wondering how on earth I could cope
with such a nuisance when I found the
pack dogs were dealing with the trouble
themselves. Inside two hours there wasn’t
a dog taking any interest in the barking
of the newchum, though a call from the
regular hunters turned them readily
enough.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Anthrop”; At the timber depot,
where the scrubcut sleepers awaited
inspection and judgment by the Govern-
ment “passer,” a twitter of unease ran
among the little knots of cutters gathered
beside their respective heaps. The ground
was soaked and boggy, and Mick, the
passer, a smart dresser, was notoriously
averse to picking his shiny-shod way
amid the slush. Anxieties rose as his
voice could be heard; “Out! Out!
Out!” ruthlessly condemning scores of
faultless-seeming sleepers. Deepest in
trepidation were partners Little Tom and
Big Hairy, whose tally was marooned in
a veritable sea
of ooze. When
Mick reached
the quaking pair
he glared, then
barked: “How
d’ y’ expect a
man t’ look at
them ? I oughter
make y’ carry
me round on
y’r back.” In-
spired in ex-
tremity, Harry
promptly
backed up in front of him, hauled him
aboard, and bore him pick-a-back
through the slime. Tom, following after,
turned the timbers for the “equestrian”
and patently apprehensive inspector. Not
a sleeper was rejected. This happy
phenomenon Tom attributes to Mick’s
appreciation of Harry’s quixotic
courtesy. Harry, more cynical, and hav-
ing—who knows? —better inside know-
ledge, dryly avers that it was because
“ ’E seemed t’ be in a hurry t’ get the job
over ; me boots was inclined t’ slip about
in the mud, y’ know!”
* * * *
“Kelms”; “Wahgunya’s” pen-name (B.
4/4/’5l) reminded me of a house in Glen
Forrest (W-A.) called Gunya-mia. “Mia-
mia” is good aboriginal for house-of-a-
sort, and “gunya” is good for the same
dwelling in a different dialect. But
“gunya-mia,” in at least one dialect,
denotes the little house behind the big
house, and is probably of quite recent
origin—since the white occupation. I
never did have the heart to tell that chap,
and the name probably still stands.
* * # *
“Billy S.”: The burning logs growled
in the grate, spitting sparks at the heavy
boot of the city businessman up for a
few days’ fishing. The urgency of Sydney
still in his veins, he kicked at the logs,
again sending up more and more sparks.
The oldest fisherman spread out his cards
to commence on his nightly onslaught on
various complicated games of patience.
Outside the Thredbo River tumbled down
on its way to the Snowy. It seemed to
“She got a job ’ere to be near Charlie .”
me to pause just outside the boarding-
house, and change from a tumbling
torrent into a reluctant river as if it knew
that within a few short minutes it would
lose its clear virginity to the mulatto-
colored half-breed Snowy River, for these
days the Snowy isn’t what it was. In
fact, at the junction of the rivers the
Thredbo does manage to retain some
measure of individuality for a little
distance, the two rivers running along
cheek by jowl, but the yellow Snowy
eventually overcomes the Thredbo’s
resistance, and all is lost. The business-
man kicked at the logs again ; he hadn’t
been away from Sydney long enough to
do just nothing. The accountant opened
his eyes and murmured “Think I’ll stay
up here and open up an accountancy
practice.” The c.b. snorted and said
“Why, you’d have only three or four
clients at the most.” “Precisely,”
answered the accountant as, with a happy
smile at such a prospect, he closed his
eyes and carried on with his dreaming of
the big ones that would get away the
following day and the day after.
* * * *
“Zake”: “A shrewd bird, that there
sulphur-crested bloke o’ mine,” observed
Jim, nodding towards the big white
cockatoo on its perch. “Made a damper
the other day an’ somethin’ went wrong
with it—all soggy in the middle. I chucks
the sod to old Barney there an’ he bogs
into it. I’m wakened half-way through
the night by somethin’ bein’ rolled into
the bedroom from the kitchen. Next
thing I hear Barney’s voice cornin’ f ron J
the rail at the end o’ the bed. It’s dead
feeble, an’ all he can gasp out is ‘Get
the lid off, Jim.’ ‘Get the lid off, Jhil
I strikes a light. There’s Barney, lookm
crook around the gills, and then I looks
down on the floor. Yair, that was it the
tin o’ bicarb, o’ soda!”
* * * *
“Sack”: Swans in strange places (B.
11/4/’51)? On the upper reaches of
Sydney’s Parramatta River, where the
stream divides the historic Parramatta
Park (formerly the grounds of the Gov-
ernment House) from the beautifully-
kept lawns and gardens of the Mental
Hospital, the backwater is tranquil,
picturesque, and the ideal setting for the
three or four swans that habitually glide
over the mirror-like surface. Back in my
bare-footed days swans were always to
be seen cruising between that stretch and
the historic Lennox Bridge. Then some-
body observed with alarm that the
number of birds appeared to be dwind-
ling. They became fewer ; then there was
none! The native black swans could, of
course, have migrated; but it was not
likely that the imported whites had flown
away. Something mysterious was hap-
pening. More birds were procured. They
began to disappear. It was then that an
astute policeman started to add things
up: Farther along the banks was a
Chinamen’s market-garden ; the heathen
Chinee was notoriously partial to poultry.
The deductions proved correct. But I
can’t imagine a stranger place to find a
swan than in an old Chow’s iron pot.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Was kicking my heels against
a case in the store when Mrs. Sims walked
in and asked for a tin of herrings. With
a polite murmur George slid a flatfish
oval tin across the counter and waited
while the lady eyed it distastefully.
“Haven’t you one of those tall tins?” she
requested. “But these are the same fish,”
explained George, “and the same weight. ’
“Yes, but it’s the useless tin,” the old
girl persisted. “The tall ones are so
handy afterwards for holding dripping.”
George went to the back of the shop,
opened a case and presently came to light
with the required article. A few minutes
later the portly figure of Dad Saunders
waddled in. “Got any herrings?” he
asked, after the weather, the income-tax
and the local council had been dissected
and condemned. The storeman went to
the newly-opened case and brought forth
another tall tin, “Aw, ain’t y’ got one o*
them flat tins? Yair, I know they’re the
same fish,” he argued. “But, by cripes,
George, I’m fed up o’ wriggling under
the house t’ get the cat’s head out o’ one
o’ these things.” The storeman substi-
tuted a flat tin and peace descended.
Then came Hustler. “Any herrin’s,
George? One tin.” The storekeeper
eyed him without moving. “Sure,” he
said. “Which’ll you have, a tall or a flat
tin?” Oh, what’n’ell’s the difference?”
snapped Hustler. “Don’t know why you
can’t keep one straight line, George, and
stop all this messing about.”
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: He obtruded on my
reverie at the car exhibit at the local
show, where I envied the shedhand,
shearer or woolroller, the naturals for
the sign-on-the-dotted-line boys. “The
Ford is a goot car,” he said, “but me, I
like the Booyick, he takes me up Lank’s
hill on two ceeleender, two ceeleender
are no goot/anymore, and when I buy him
-in Meringandan, it looks me ugly there.
I put two days in the yail in that Merin-
gandan. It’s dry this talk this. Come
with.” I went with. New Australian?
No. Third-generation Deutsch.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Mat’s sympathy
with the cocky who had to stay
on the farm after he (Mat) had
snatched his time (B. 21/3/’5l)
reminded me of a couple of blokes
I met on the track in the W.A. wheatbelt
during the Depresh. They’d been work-
ing for a cocky for months and, with the
wheat safely harvested and in the silo,
they were awaiting their cheque. The
cocky was waiting for his, too, and when
it came the three went into a huddle. By
the time the cocky had paid his debts
there wasn’t anything left for wages, but
he put a proposition to them. He’d toss
then —his farm against their wages. “And
you lost?” I asked when they’d told me.
The two nomads looked over the near-by
farms and then down the open road.
“No,” one of them said. “We reckon we
won.”
* ♦ * ♦
“Wippegong”; The river is calm this
afternoon ; the westerlies of the last week
have dropped, and the straight, broad,
three-mile reach is a gleaming mirror. It
is not the hard blue of summer, but a
soft grey-blue, for a great sheet of
mackerel cloud fans out from the west,
heralding a change on the way, and by
burring the edges of the shadows it
softens the reflections on the river. The
sun, a little north of west now, leans to-
ward the range ; so it is time for the ibis
from the lagoon to perform their regular
aerobatics. Up they go, wheeling wide
over the paddocks, then heading upstream
as is their custom, but this time their
normal routine is disturbed. Ordinarily
they would swing east from the river,
circle and climb, form a phalanx, break
it, wheel again, then, as though each had
this trick up its sleeve and was waiting to
spring it on the rest, suddenly cut loose
and hurtle to earth by the most erratic
course possible—you’d think they were
attacked by tracer-flak from below and
the devil himself above. But today an
unexpected influence aids their eccen-
tricity. They have just straightened out
for the first run downstream when at
them come three great fowl of ghastly
size and hideous voice—to wit, one
species Tiger Moth and two sp. Auster —
and the monsters dive, weave and roar
around them while following eight arrows
that cut clean straight lines on the water
below —with another projectile drawing
mad patterns in the rear. The ibis break
off as best they can, swoop to tree-level
and glide away to land near their lagoon.
There they stalk around nervously, cock
an ear to the rising roar that comes from
down near the bridge, and soon settle to
preening themselves. Doesn’t worry them
who’s Head of the River in N. S. Wales
this year.
EXULTATION.
Who hears the south-wind laughing in the maize-
field
Among the rusty cobs,
Or sees the tall, white ibis in the reed-bed
Where the wide river throbs,
And sunflower fields, with broken-hearted
clyties,
Their faces to the mould,
Bowed with a freight of kisses from a lover
Withdrawn again and cold;
Who feels the sour wine of the fruiting bramble
Drip slowly to his mouth,
Or berries dark as moonlight on the hillside
Purple his tongue with youth,
Must hear beneath the crackle of the fireweed
Deep laughter in the earth;
To which the south-wind laughing in the maize-
field
Is but an echoing mirth.
For well the strong brown womb that bears
the harvest
In tenderness and pain
Exults to know the banquet and the feaster
Must be her own again.
victoria.
BETTY MARTYN.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. E. KNOX (Chairman). F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES. R. J. YIOARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
wwrw-rjffl*
■'■ >« *
&:fS!a
m
llP**
£
a*-
'9
w
RENRUT
HAND PUMP
KISMII
eyuytm&d c/atacleQ
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If It Isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate—and made
to stay accurate—it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able-to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump ? Or a Hand Pump ?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely . . . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
ŵ
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
KISMET
TYKE GAUGE
Blade bT William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield. England.
Representative in Australia;
Mr. W. O. Jones, 48-40 Hardware St., Melbourne, 0.1, Victoria. G.P.O. Box 71..
Missing Friends.
JANES. —WILL anyone who claims to be
a descendant of WILLIAM THOMAS
JANES or MARIA JANES, who were
children of THOMAS JANES, a blindmaker
of the City Road, London, and who were
last heard of in 1849, please communi-
cate with MR. S. R. PHIPPARD, Soli-
citor, P.O. Box 135, City, Canberra?
DAMYON, BRUCE (or BRUCE LONG)i
bom in Victoria, now about 55 years of
age. Any person knowing him or of him
please communicate with PUBLIC
TRUSTEE. 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Properly for Sale.
BOYDTOWN PARK.
Historic Twofold Bay, If mi. private
beach frontage, 600 ac. (400 timbered)
right on main Princes Highway; ideally
suited for tourist, guest, or hotel busi-
ness, or institution: beautiful beach,
boating, shooting and holiday attrac-
tions. Main bldg. (34r.) has 10 self-
contained flats with bedrooms upstairs,
all furnished; 3 separate ST. solid
(new) cottages; tennis court, orchard,
car ramp, teleph. exch.: ample tank
and well water supply; own el. light-
ing plant: visited daily by tourist
buses, handy to reg. supplies from
Eden and Bega.
Details and Order to View,
L. C. COOKE,
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICAN COLOSSUS.
By way of getting the “pro-
portions right,” a London
“Observer” correspondent re-
porting from Washington makes
these certainly striking com-
parisons:
In the current year America’s
defence effort will be eight times
the revised British one. The
U.S. outlay on defence in the
three years 1950-53 will be five
times the British annual national
income. U.S. military aid to
allies in one year will be larger
than the British Budget. The
new American steelmaking capa-
city created during these three
years will be larger than the
entire British steelmaking capa-
city!
And, the correspondent holds,
now that the American mind
has been finally made up on this
effort nothing can prevent its
realisation:
“Certainly not a ‘preventive
war’ on the part of Russia: that
would merely accelerate it. For,
incredible as it may sound, this
effort does not represent the full
war-time stretch of the American
economy.”
Summarised, the consequences
of the U.S. effort the correspon-
dent sees are: —
Russia’s definite military
superiority throughout con-
tinental Europe and Asia is ex-
pected to end in about 18 months
from now. Russia might accord-
ingly be tempted to strike within
these 18 months, but would have
to ask itself whether it could
afford the enormous risk of
stirring the American giant to
still greater efforts. And Russia
would face the inevitable pros-
pect of being overwhelmingly
and decisively outproduced in the
end.
By refraining from aggression.
Russia can preserve her status
as an independent Power. No-
thing, however, can now pre-
serve her 1945-50 world position
as America’s equal in power.
The idea of a balance of power,
and of a division of the world
between the “Big Two,” belongs
to the period when Russia was
armed and America disarmed.
Russia —provided it does not
prefer a suicidal war —will, dur-
ing the next two or three years,
have to take its place among the
other Powers of the second
order, Britain, France, Ger-
many, China, India and Japan.
Further (in this assessment of
what the U.S. effort means), all
international “Third Force”
ideas pass into limbo. If all the
rest of the world combined can
no longer balance American
power, obviously one part of that
rest cannot hold the balance be-
tween America and the other
part. Also, the role of Britain
and France and the other
Atlantic Treaty partners of
America, vital during the next
18 months, will decline in rela-
tive importance thereafter.
“America,” the correspondent
concludes, “does not want to
dominate the world; but she
does want the United Nations
to dominate it. She believes that
the Charter should be respected
and obeyed as world law. This
is what President Truman meant
when he described the basic aims
of American foreign policy in
these simple words: ‘To see that
the people in the world have
the things that are necessary to
make life worth while, and that
they live by the moral code in
which we believe.’
“This may be idealism, and
idealism as such may be a weak
force in international politics.
But idealism backed by over-
whelming power must be taken
seriously. The Charter may
well become the Magna Carta of
the second-class Powers and
smaller nations in a world where,
for the first time in history, there
will be one Power stronger than
all the rest together.”
A Better Russia.
Reference was recently made
here to an important article of
a year or two back in the
American publication “Foreign
Affairs,” the article setting
forth the Russia-containment
policy steadily followed by the
U.S. ever since. It was published
anonymously, but the writer
turned out to be George F.
Kennan, at the time the leading
—"San Francisco Chronicle.”
DINNER MAY BE LATE.
U.S. State Department authority
on Russia. Now, in the latest
issue of “Foreign Affairs,”
Kennan returns to the subject,
and on an optimistic note. Here
are his main points:
“If the necessary alternatives
are kept before the Russian
people, in the form of the
existence elsewhere on this
planet of a civilisation which is
decent, hopeful and purposeful,
the day must come—soon or
later, and whether by gradual
process or otherwise—when that
terrible system of power which
has set a great people’s progress
back for decades and has lain
like a shadow over the aspira-
tions of all civilisation will be
distinguishable no longer as a
living reality,
“Of one thing we may be
sure: No great and enduring
change in the spirit and practice
of government in Russia will
ever come about primarily
through foreign inspiration or
advice. To be genuine, to be
enduring and to be worth the
hopeful welcome of other
peoples such a change would
have to flow from the initiatives
and efforts of the Russians them-
selves.
“Agricultural enterprise is the
Achilles heel of the Soviet
system. Left in private hands,
it constitutes a concession to
human freedom and individual
initiative —a concession which
the true Bolshevik finds ab-
horrent.... .The forced collec-
tivisation of the farming popula-
tion is probably today the great-
est single cause of discontent in
the Soviet Union, except
possibly the excessive cruelty of
the police, with which it is
intimately connected. It may be
taken for granted that one of the
first acts of any future pro-
gressive authority in Russia
would be to abolish this hated
system of agricultural serfdom
and to restore to the farmers the
pride and incentives of private
land ownership and free disposal
of agricultural commodities.
Collective farms may continue to
exist; and they probably will,
for the most abhorrent feature
of the present system is not the
concept of producer-co-operation
itself, but the element of re-
straint that underlies its applica-
tion. The collectives of the
future will be voluntary co-
operatives, however, not shot-
gun marriages.
“We could not expect to see
the emergence of a Liberal-
Democratic Russia This can-
not be too strongly emphasised.
It does not mean that future
Russian regimes will necessarily
be unliberal. There is no liberal
tradition finer than the strain
which has existed in the Russia
of the past. Many Russian in-
dividuals and groups of this day
are deeply imbued with that
tradition, and will do all in their
power to make it the dominant
element in the Russian
future .
“These Russian Liberals will
have no easy road to walk.
They will find in their country
a young generation that has
known nothing but Soviet
power and has been trained to
think subconsciously in the
terms of that power even when
it has resented and hated it.”
In the Russia that Kennan
thus hopes to see emerge, the
Government there, “in contrast
to the one we know today,
would be tolerant, communica-
tive and forthright in its re-
lations with other States and
peoples.” Under such Govern-
ment, there would be no iron
curtain, so that the Russian
people would “cease to be in-
suited by a policy that treats
them as children, too immature
to have normal contact with the
adult world, too undependable
to be let out alone.”
Also, the Russian Govern-
ment envisaged would “refrain
from enslaving its own labor—
industrial and agriculture.” The
exercise of governmental
authority must “stop short of
that fairly plain line beyond
which lies totalitarianism.”
Finally, the new Russia
would “refrain from pinning an
oppressive yoke on other peoples
who have the instinct and the
capacity for national self-
assertion.”
Italy’s Comeback.
Italy continues to get an
almost unanimously “good
Press” in Britain —indeed every
bit as good as France gets, and
incomparably better than that
accorded any other country on
the Continent.
This was especially noticeable
in comment on the visit to
London of Prime Minister De
Gasped and his Foreign
Minister, Count Sforza. They
were welcomed in the manner
of the pre-Mussolini days when
the traditional Anglo-Italian
friendship was at its strongest,
“Manchester Guardian” can be
briefly quoted as widely typical:
“Italy is emerging from the
exile into which Mussolini led
her. She made a slow start after
1945, and the real turning-point
came with the sharpening in
intensity of the cold war. This
cast a new light on Italy’s
strategic importance. The talks
with Britain and with France
are the beginning of her
campaign to increase her power
in the Atlantic alliance, which is
the first leg of her foreign policy.
The second is European federa-
tion in the French manner. At
present it is only the former
that binds her to this country
[Britain]. But the bad period of
Anglo-Italian relations is slowly
receding into history. One hopes
the forthcoming talks will push
it farther out of the picture.”
French View Fritz.
In recent proposals the
French, as interpreted by
London “Economist,” would
appear to have shifted their em-
phasis from the limitation of the
size of units of German armed
forces to effective Atlantic-
group control of the personnel
and the policy of the German
command:
“While the dispute over com-
bat teams and divisions may
subside, France will stick to its
contention that some European
politician must be authorised by
‘Europe’ as High Commissioner
to sanction or blackball the
appointment of individual
German officers to positions
under General Eisenhower.
Neither French public opinion
nor the French Government is
likely, for instance, to swallow
the reappearance on the
European stage of General
Guderian or any other leading
light of Hitler’s war, however
great their military skill. In this
manner the formation of
General Eisenhower’s armies
need be retarded neither by the
presence of a ‘European Defence
Minister’ at General Eisen-
hower’s elbow nor by an
abstract limitation of the size of
German units.”
Watch Pakistan.
Adopting the “wise counsel”
of old consular hand John Play-
fair Price, London “Daily Ex-
press” comments:
“Watch Pakistan, Today she
is industrially weak and looks to
Britain for help. But she is
great in resources, greater still
in influence.
“The little countries of the
Middle East, threatened by
Russia, are looking to big
Pakistan and its 70 millions of
people for comfort.
“If, as many statesmen pre-
dict, the Moslem world is about
to rise again in strength and
faith as a counterpoise to Com-
munism, then Pakistan will be
its natural leader.”
German Battlefield. Chancellor
Adenauer, attacking suggestions that
Germany could remain neutral and
out of war: “Nobody can seriously
believe that if it comes to hot war
the belligerents would respect the
frontiers of an unarmed and defence-
less Germany lying between them. It
can be said with absolute certainty
that Germany would then become
one of the main theatres of war. The
fate of unhappy Korea, over which
the fury of war flows back and forth
disastrously, would be our fate. All
that must be borne in mind when
people talk about a neutralisation of
Germany. I wish to maintain peace,
and will devote my whole strength to
it, but after the most conscientious
study I must declare that the best,
indeed the only, way of safeguarding
peace vis-d-vis Soviet Russia is and
remains the building up of a strong
Western defence front.”
* * * •
Tito’s Conquest Recipe. One of
Edinburgh “Scotsman’s” generally
well-informed correspondents declares
that Tito was as far back as 1944
expressing the view in private that
Russia could never win Europe for
Communism herself: she would
bluster and blunder, and in the pro-
cess break up the Communist move-
ment —unless the Communist parties
of the Mediterranean seaboard, in
particular those of Italy, Yugoslavia
and Greece, conducted their own
revolution independently, and estab-
lished an impregnable base between
the Alps and the Aegean, bestraddling
trade routes and one of the most
critical strategic areas of the Western
world. From there, Tito reasoned, a
more astutely directed international
Communism might win Europe within
a decade.


BRANDAUERjS
m
w
PENS
Every pomt
guaranteed—
| deTttOt expenmcnt with imitations
C BRANOAUER * CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Circular Chart* lor all typM
of Recording Instruments
tor Mf (Uu o* HkMmti
•» Equipment
MCTCR CHART! « Sp«<l«Hr
j ackhqw o*siuj van !
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Bulletin for Book Lovers:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z., specialises in rare and
current N.Z. and Australian books, also in
bookish items of general interest. Our
Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices.
(Annual sub. 8/-.) Book lists on Mans-
fleldiana, Oaxton Press, early and recent
A/slan poets (Douglas Stewart, Will
Lawson and others). Specialised fields lor
book hunting.
ẅ
t*
a)
X/J
%£*K
A '[&•
a
3s.
•,V* #•
A 7
■’x i/?-' 7 *
Not every day, but now and
then, comes an occasion which
rises far above the ordinary
and demands a fitting tribute
of nothing but the best,
Benson & Hedges cigarettes are
made with precise care,
appropriate for just such times as
these—when the merely good must
be left for other people—when
for you, only the best will do.
w
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KINO
In
tins of 20
3/3
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY Tm-jm-
Benson ami Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Wanted, dental nurse with O.K.
without experience.”
—Tasmanian paper.
A good sort is all that’s re-
quired.
4 4 4
“Clark Gable and his fourth wife,
the former Lady Sylvia Ashley, have
separated. Fourteen of the crew swam
ashore.” — Melbourne “Age.”
It is believed to be a total
wreck.
“You’ll have a good figure if you
eat only steak, eggs, vegetables, fruit,
and drink fruit juices.”— Diet article.
But your bank balance will be
thin.
4 1 4* 4' „
“Red setter dog, answers to Satan,
lost in Bexley.”— Suburban paper.
Reward if returned in good
nick.
4*
“The average Australian woman
dresses in much better taste than she
furnishes her home.”
—Overseas visitor.
She’s always out to please.
4* + 4
“In the Soviet Kazak Republic the
Russians liberated 200,000 young carp
in the ricefields.” — Sydney “Sun.”
How many to the roe?
“For sale, gaberdine lady’s top-
coats.” — Suburban paper.
But wouldn’t she already be
waterproof?
That’s the Drill!
ẁ
BERT.
F.R.
ẃ
MORCEAU.
I.Q. Test for a Bureaucrat.
1. —As the nephew of a
prominent politician, you have
been appointed on your merits
to the chairmanship of the
newly - formed Gooseberry
Marketing Board. In the first
three months of operations, in
which your staff consisted of a
clerk, a typist and a packer, you
handle an average of 14 cases of
gooseberries a month. Suddenly
your turnover leaps sensationally
to 16 cases a month. Draft the
letter you would forward to the
Minister demanding the immedi-
ate appointment of a deputy-
chairman, accountant, sub-
accountant, sales manager. Press
liaison officer, chief clerk, per-
sonal clerk to the chief clerk, and
records clerk, with commensurate
general clerical assistance. Also,
would you consider it just, in
conclusion, to draw attention to
the inadequacy of your own
present salary in view of the
proposed increased staff you will
have to supervise?
2. —Following precedent estab-
lished by other boards, you de-
cide to take over the crops of
all compulsorily-licensed goose-
berry-raisers “on the hoof,”
giving them cheques on the
basis of the season’s estimated
yield, the gooseberries to be
packed and dispatched by them
as, when and if the board re-
quires. Two months after he
has received his payment your
biggest supplier complains to
the board that the fruit is start-
ing to rot on his vines, and seeks
instruction as to what to do, as
he fears infestation by pests if
the fruit is left long in that con-
dition. In your reply you would,
of course, impress upon him
that should he pick even one
gooseberry for the use of him-
self or of his family without first
obtaining approval in writing
from the board he incurs liability
to prosecution and severe penal-
ties, and that the board will not
be stampeded by importunities
into having dispatched fruit for
which markets are not yet
readily available, or can be
marketed except at a heavy loss.
Would you also feel impelled to
warn him that the board may
prosecute him if by negligence,
or failure to take due and rea-
sonable precautions, he allows
his plants to harbor insects
Which may prejudice supplies to
the board the following season?
3—At a conference of your
officers over which you preside
the sales-manager reports a
serious decline in demand for
the board’s product. The upshot
is the appointment of a special
investigation committee to de-
termine the cause of it. Six
months later it reports that
unpopularity of gooseberries
among housewives is due to
their unshaven appearance. You
consequently appoint a commit-
tee of experts to go into the
possibilities of eliminating the
gooseberry’s hirsute condition,
“You couldn't run a pressure-cooker, MacTavish!"
The following year you get their
recommendation: that a special
dehairing machine be imported
at a cost of approximately
£20,000. In your demand to the
Minister that dollars be made
available forthwith for the pur-
pose, state whether the depila-
tion of the gooseberries is desir-
able from the point of view of
pure esthetics, what use, if any,
can be made of the hairs of
which the gooseberries will be
denuded, and whether you pro-
pose to increase the price of
your commodity beyond the
maximum you deem the house-
wife is prepared to pay.
4.—Following instructions to
all gooseberry-raisers, who must
register with the board (that is,
all those who own more than
bushes, full-grown, four of, and
seedlings, semi-grown, two of),
to double their crop-acreage in
view of an anticipated expan-
sion in marketing, there is a glut,
As this had occurred, however,
before the sales staff had had a
chance to get its high-pressure
sales campaign under weigh, a
heavy loss has been incurred. To
preclude a repetition of this the
board naturally instructs farmers
the following season drastically
to restrict acreage. This subse-
quently results in a scarcity, with
prices very high—so high, in
fact, that nobody will buy, and
all the gooseberries have to be
dumped. In replying to the chair-
men of all die other Govern-
ment boards who have tendered
congratulations on thus achiev-
ing a real success and maintain-
ing the best traditions of the
service, to whom —other than
yourself, of course —would you
be disposed to give the chief
credit: planners, sales or ad-
ministrative staff?
5. —Several alternative sug-
gestions are before you, put for-
ward by the sales-manager, for a
gigantic advertising campaign to
popularise the shaven goose-
berry in cocktails in an effort to
supplant the imported olive.
You boil them down to two. One
is to have a dramatised radio
version of the life-cycle of the
gooseberry. Another is to run
a grand radio quiz with colossal
prizes for those who can give
the best answer to the question
as to why the pale-green trans-
parency of the gooseberry is
healthier-looking than the mul-
berry, with its blood-pressure
complexion. Say upon which
you would decide, bearing in
mind that money is no object,
and that, once it has captured
the important cocktail market,
the board can advance the price
of gooseberries until the tooth-
pick-spiked foreign body will be
banished from the cocktail-
glasses by all except bookies and
blackmarketeers.
BO.
In the Palmy Days.
“An 18th-century custom for pupils
leaving Eton College was to tip the
headmaster.” —Sunday “Sun.”
Who shall assess the value to
Old England of the masters who
Controlled the fate of Eton’s pile
Impressing Greek and Latin style
And all the old humanities
On those whose lives and
destinies
It was their privilege to mould
In London town in days of old ?
Can it be said the nation noted
The services of lives devoted
To this inestimable task ?
There surely is no need to ask;
The only source of gratitude
Was in Etonians imbued
With classic lore, who let them
know
That they were worth a quid pro
quo.
D. H. E.


13-YEAR-OLD BOYS
ARE INVITED TO APPLY FOR ENTRY TO
THE ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL COLLEGE AS
CADET MIDSHIPMEN
Boys who attain the age of
thirteen years during the
calendar year 1951, i.e.,
those born during 1938, may
now apply for entry into
the Royal Australian Naval
College as Cadet Midship-
men.
Candidates must be the sons
of British subjects, by birth
or naturalisation, and be of
pure European descent.
Candidates will also be
required to sit for a quali-
fying educational examina-
tion in September next.
Those who qualify will
undergo a strict medical
examination and, if fit,
appear before a Selection
Committee.
THE EDUCATION,
TRAINING AND
CAREER OF A
NAVAL OFFICER.
Successful candidates will
enter the Royal Australian
Naval College about the end
of January, 1952, which will
begin for them one of the
most attractive and honour-
able careers open to the
youth of Australia to-day.
The course at the Royal
Australian Naval College
occupies a period of four
years. During this time the
young Cadet Midshipmen
A
are not only instructed in
the subjects relating directly
to their future duties as
Naval Officers, but receive
also a sound academic edu-
cation equivalent to the mat-
riculation standard required
for entry to Australian uni-
versities. Sports and games
also are an important part
of the College curriculum
and thus, mentally and
physically, the young officers
are fitted for the important
responsibilities they will
eventually undertake.
On graduating from the
College, Cadet Midshipmen
proceed to England for
further training in Royal
Navy ships and shore estab-
lishments, after which,
ŵ
ẁ
r/
yy
:m\
Wxjeur,
A
ill
lift 2
PRO
Ample supplies of
this fine old French
liqueur are now avail-
able from leading
Clubs, Hotels and
Wine & Spirit
Merchants.
Chartreuse is distilled
from a secret recipe
which has never been
divulged, and whose
distillation has been
carried on by the
Carthusian Monks of
Dauphine since 1605.
GREEN OR YELLOW
Agents tor Australia; McLauqhlin & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
Distributors —Victoria; Stephen King
& Co. Pty. Ltd. South Australia: George Wills & Co. Ltd. Western
Australia: Brown & Bureau Ltd. Queensland; Harbottla Brown
& Co. (Q Id.) Pty. Ltd. _______
-
QTByySg
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of The Passing of the
A ustralian Aborigines. —so2s.
Name of agents for or makers of
small American electric-light plant
branded “Tiny Tim.” —5024.
To buy copy of Wardens of the
Sea by E. J. Brady—so 23.
For planting in Papua, small quan-
tity of seeds of tree known as
“honey-locust.”—so22.
Words and author of poem “Love’s
Citadel.”—so2l.
Loan of recent back-numbers of
“The New Yorker.” —5020.
Photographs showing early views of
Leonora (W.A.). —5019.
To buy copy of Downward? by
Bernard O’Dowd. —5018.
To buy copy of The Bulletin for
September 23, 1942. —5017.
Photographs and letterpress descrip-
tions of early Woollahra (Sydney)
municipality and included districts. —
5016.
Books or magazines giving an
account of the life and exploits of
“Bully” Hayes—sols.
To buy copy of The Lore of the
Lyre Bird. (Reply direct to Mrs.
Pearl C. Green, 1116 North 26th-
street, Tacoma 3, Washington,
U.S.A.).
Information Sought.
What is the difference in gram-
matical usage between “shall” and
“will,” and between “should” and
“would” ?
“Shall” and “will” are future
auxiliaries; the difference is that one
expresses mere futurity and the other
implies necessity or intention. The
particular word varies in different
persons. In the first person “shall”
expresses futurity; “will” implies
willingness or determination, as “I
will go,” meaning “I am determined
to go.” In the second and third
persons “will” is the simple future;
“shall” has a special force from the
fact that the speaker predicts or
decides another’s action, as “he shall
go,” “thou shalt not kill.” The same
rules apply to the conditional-tense
auxiliaries, “should” and “would.”
“Shall” is also used in clauses of
indefinite future time and indefinite
relative clauses. “Whatever sum shall
be received from Germany is to be
shared among the Allies,” for
example; but the “is to be,” if it
were altered, would be altered to
“will,” as the simple futurity is called
for there. Also, Fowler’s Modern
English Usage says that “That-clauses
after intend, desire, demand, be
anxious, etc., have shall and should
for all persons. Among the etc. are
not included hope, anticipate and the
like. Roughly, shall and should are
used when the word on which the
that- clause depends expresses an
influence that affects the result, as a
demand does, but a hope or a fear
does not. A serviceable illustration
is expect: mistresses expect (i.e.,
demand) that their maids shall wear
caps; but we expect (i.e., are of
opinion) that tomorrow will be fine.”
Many writers, however, do not stick
at all closely to these rules.
* * * *
Has the Australian aborigine ever
been known to practise cannibalism ?
Eating a small portion of the corpse
as part of burial ritual was wide-
spread. Killing to eat has only been
reliably reported from the Rock-
hampton district. A few reports of
the eating of a baby killed at birth
have been reported from Central
Australia.
* * * *
Where is adrenalin derived from
and what are its uses?
Adrenalin (adrenine, ephinephrine
or hemieine) is obtained from the
medulla of the suprarenal glands of
animals, ductless glands situated
immediately above each kidney. Its
chief action is upon the heart and
small arteries. The heart is some-
what slowed, but the force of its
contractions is increased and the
arteries are constricted, thus causing
a considerable rise in the general
blood-pressure. An aqueous solution
(1 part of 1000) is a very efficient
haemostatic, and may be used, together
with cocaine, for painless, bloodless
operations on the eyes, teeth, etc.
Adrenalin is one of the most effica-
cious drugs for stopping a paroxysm
of asthma.
* * * *
With what should the space between
glazed tiles in a shower-recess be
filled?
The space between tiles should be
carefully cleaned. A liquid grout of
one of .the mixtures below may then
be applied, rubbing well into the
joints. The surplus should then be
wiped off with a clean cloth, finishing
with a soft cloth. Joints are best
treated immediately after the tiles
are fixed. Mixtures: (a) One part
white Portland cement to one part
clean, fine sand; ( b ) one part of
clean, fine sand to half part normal
Portland cement and half part
hydrated lime or lime-putty; (c)
Keen’s cement, with the addition of
water only.
* * * *
A few details about American
dramatist Clifford Odets?
Clifford Odets, American play-
wright, was born in 1906 at Phila-
delphia, of Lithuanian origin. After
an early career as an actor he became
associated with the Group Theatre
in New York in 1930, and his first
play, “Awake and Sing,” was pro-
duced by the group in 1935. In the
same year he made his name with a
one-act play, “Waiting for Lefty,”
written for the New Theatre League.
The play, based on the New York
cab strike of 1934, was sensational
for its social implications. Other
plays include “Till the Day I Die”
(1935), “Paradise Lost” (1935), “Gol-
den Boy” (1937), “Night Music”
(1940) and “Clash By Night” (1941).
What minerals are obtained from
the black sands found in Australia?
What are their values ? How much is
exported and what is the demand ?
The “black sands” worked on the
coast of northern N.S.W. and
southern Queensland consist of a mix-
ture of the minerals zircon, rutile and
ilmenite. They are not marketable in
the raw state, but after separation the
zircon and rutile are sold separately
at about £l2 and £23 per ton respec-
tively, the ilmenite being dumped as
worthless. The total sales of zircon
plus rutile concentrates are about
25,000 to 30,000 tons per annum,
chiefly to the U.S.A. The demand
from the U.S.A., however, has fallen
off recently owing to the opening-up
of deposits in that country.
* * * *
A few details about the encounter
in which the Jervis Bay was sunk by
a German battleship in World War II ?
The Jervis Bay was an 18-year-
old pleasure-liner which was trans-
formed during the Second World
War into an armed merchant-cruiser.
She was unarmored; her seven
ancient 6in. guns were kept there to
guard convoys. She will live in naval
annals for her gallant action on
November 12, 1940, against the
powerful German pocket-battleship
Admiral Scheer, in which she saved
34 of a convoy of 38 ships when
they were attacked without warning
by the German ship. The Jervis Bay
sailed out against the battleship alone.
Her object was not the hopeless one
of sinking the Admiral Scheer; there
was no hope even of inflicting material
damage. The object was to gain time
to give the convoy a reasonable
chance of escape. This the Jervis
Bay and its crew achieved after a
two-hour fight. Her death-roll was
190. Some 65 survivors were rescued,
the ship being sunk. Her captain,
E. S. Fogarty Fegen, R.N., was
awarded a posthumous V.C.
Brief Answers.
F.T.W.: Almandite is a variety of
garnet, composed of silica, alumina
and protoxide of iron, and either deep
in color and transparent, brownish
and translucent, or black... .J.S.S.:
The public debt of N. S. Wales had
its origin in 1841, when, on Decem-
ber 28, the first loan, amounting to
£49,000, was offered locally. The first
overseas loan was raised in London
in 1854... .L.J.P.; Borovansky Ballet
in Australia and New Zealand by
Norman Macgeorge, from F. W.
Cheshire Pty., Ltd., 338 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne A.J.H.: (1) It
is the practice in public hospitals to
give greater privileges in the way of
receiving visitors to private and inter-
mediate patients than apply to public
wards. (2) The matron of a hospital
in every case must determine whether
she will agree to a special nurse being
engaged to attend to a patient
F. : A Checklist of Australian
Fantasy by S. L. Lanarch, published
by Futurian Press, 160 Beach-street,
Coogee (N.5.W.)... .E.W.G.: The
ideas set out in your letter correspond
to some degree with a discussion of
this subject in the Encyclopcedia
Britannica. It is suggested that you
consult the article, which you may do
at the N.S.W. Public Library. You
will see that the rate of power derived
from such schemes is not very high,
and is intermittent. For this reason
the possibility of utilising tidal power
exists only where tides are very large,
such as 20ft. or more. It would be
out of the question to utilise the
small tides of the N.S.W. coast
N.M.: Particulars of the P. Goldhar
Memorial short-story competition can
be obtained from C. H. Renshaw,
hon. secretary, Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers (Victorian Section), 4
Pelling-road, Murrumbeena, 5.E.9,
Vic E.G.8.: Write Beltane Book
Bureau, Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.
P.M.O’S.: From Grahame Book
Co., 39 Martin-place, Sydney
R.G.S.: A baillie is a superior officer
or magistrate of a municipal
corporation in Scotland. Baillies are
invested with certain judicial and
administrative authority within the
city or burgh for which baillies are
appointed. They are assisted by a
paid legal adviser called an assessor.
The office is in some respects analo-
gous to that of alderman in England,
but, unlike an English alderman, he
retains his seat for the ward to which
he has been appointed after selection
as a baillie. The term of office is
three years.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.V.: “A Parson from Wayback”
much too jolly R.E.G.: Soft and
sticky A. 8.: Not bad, but not
quite.... C.W.0.: “Just a Rolling
Stone” still rolling E.W.C.: Evi-
dently boxers’ private lives are as
incredible as their public ones
8.W.P.: Comic cuts....R.F.: Except
in special cases, our idea is that what
a dog thinks isn’t evidence F.G.:
It’s the sort of story that wouldn’t
ring true if it were J.M.: Trite.
F.A.S.: Not so much sketches
as amateur snapshots....T.P.M.:
Afraid it’s just another droving story.
J.S.B.: When Auntie put her
head through the window and cut
her throat it occurred to us that you
were at least a red-blooded author.
L.H.C.: Don’t take your slang
out of a dictionary... .D.M.: Not
quite.... G.G.W.: This second mis-
hap with glass in one pile of short
stories overcame our resistance to
post-war brandy... .A.V.P.: When
you take away the point, not
much of a spear.. . -J.8.; It’s a
pleasant picture, but it hardly makes
a story D.A.; Once again, the
tree-felling is interesting, but the old
routine of mates after the same girl
coming together in shared danger
needs extra-special sauce to make it
go down these days K.R.F.: No,
no; no conversations with mytho-
logical divinities... .F.H.: Horrible.
B.J.T.S.: In short, you took a
dog someone was going to shoot and
it turned into a good dog. .. .E. 8.8.;
We thought it was the drinkers, not
the pickers, that saw snakes
F.M.J.L.: It seems a bit cute; the
officer is burlesqued even beyond
farcical credibility.... R.C.: Stereo-
typed D.A.: Verrai Inglish
E.S.: You never seem to say to
yourself, “This young woman who is
about to be taken-advantage-of will
probably enjoy it more than staying
at home with the collected works of
Aristotle” J.: Pleased you like us,
but it’s not quite ours J. 8.: “That
Money” that story! K.W.M.:
Well, it’s not as good as we’ve got—
we’ll say that much for it L.H.:
You go along the street, you see a
blind man selling bootlaces, you build
up an exciting story around him, and
we send it back to you.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE PARRY late of 7 Avona
Avenue Glebe Point Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that EVA MAUDE PARRY has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 885 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 3 years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce, Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
31st August 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from A. R.
MORRIS GIBSON. Solicitor, 43 Phillip
Street, Sydney, Australia. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOREEN MAY MOLLER late of Junc-
tion Road Toongabbie.—TAKE NOTICE
that CARL EDWARD MOLLER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1602 of 1950
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 6th July 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GORDON L. BEARD, Solicitor, of 92
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
The sixty-fourth Annual Meeting of the Company Was held in Sydney on
the 19th April, 1951 . The Chairman, Sir Henry Manning, in moving the
adoption of the Report, Balance Sheet and Accounts, said: —
“With your concurrence, I shall take our
usual course of treating the Annual Report,
Balance Sheet and Accounts as read,
“On this occasion I think it is necessary
to refer only to the more striking features of
the Company’s activities in 1950, As to the
progress of the Company’s business, in New
Zealand as well as in Australia a further
substantial growth took place, the business
written exceeding the totals for any preced-
ing year. In the Ordinary Branch 54,483
new policies were issued assuring £27,552,860,
and in the Industrial Branch 83,304 new
policies assuring £8,989,154. At the end of
1950 the Company had on' its books well
over one and a quarter million policies
assuring nearly two hundred and fifty million
pounds. During the year a total of over
three million pounds was paid to policy-
holders. These figures tend to establish that
the M.L.C. is continuing to supply the needs
of the public,
“The increase in the Company’s assets has
also been very great. The assets of the
Company at the close of business on the 31st
December, 1950, amounted to £74,496,305 —
an increase of £8,463,146 during the year.
This includes an increase of £2,363,020 due
to revaluation of the New Zealand currency.
“This remarkable development shows that
our Company, as the result of over sixty
years of successful work, has grown to the
status of a National Institution. The Board
considers therefore, that in regulating its
affairs a wide view should be taken, and that
not only the interests of policyholders,
shareholders and staff, but also service to
the community in general must continue to
receive careful attention.
“The effect of the altered New Zealand
exchange rate on the assessment of our New
Zealand assets and liabilities should also be
noticed. Hitherto, in common with other
Life Offices, we have included assets and
liabilities in New Zealand in the accounts
without allowances for exchange. It is con-
sidered, however, that the time has come
when recognition should be given to the
position that the New Zealand and Aus-
tralian pounds are no longer the same.
Accordingly our New Zealand assets and
liabilities have now been brought into
account on the basis that a hundred New
Zealand pounds equal a hundred and
twenty-five Australian. This course of giving
effect to current relative values of money
has already been followed with regard to
English and Canadian business. We stand,
therefore, in the exceptionally strong posi-
tion that all liabilities in currencies which
have appreciated in terms of Australian
money are specifically provided for, indepen-
dently of our additional reserves which are
free for general purposes.
“With regard to the investment of our
funds, success in this matter is considerably
affected by the need from time to time for
the conversion of Commonwealth Stocks.
Since the close of our accounts we have
converted our 4% Commonwealth Stock,
and this will naturally affect our interest
yield for 1951. You may ,be assured, how-
ever, that very close attention will be given
to the investment of funds, with the desire
to keep interest earnings at a figure as satis-
factory as possible under the present difficult
conditions. Over four million pounds have
now been invested in carefully selected
preference and ordinary shares.
“The rapid expansion of the Company’s
business creates considerable difficulty in
finding the necessary staff and housing them ;
but so far the difficulty has been overcome
and the matter will receive constant atten-
tion in the future.
“The expense rate of the Ordinary Branch,
which was 15.19% of the premium income,
reflects the increased new business and rising
costs generally, but is only slightly higher
than in the previous year. The degree to
which the upward trend in expenses has
been held in check is due to the increased
average size of our policies and to the fact
that we are able to spread our overhead
expenses over a constantly expanding
volume. The possibility of reducing expense
by increased mechanisation of work is also
receiving attention.
“In the Industrial Branch, where premiums
are collected at the home, the increased
cost of agency work due to Arbitration
Awards, has made it necessary to modify
the organisation for the collection of
premiums. The work of reorganisation,
which is very great, is at present in hand.
The effect on us, in common with other
Life Offices, will mean a reduction in the
number of agents operating in this field.
This may hamper the increase of Industrial
business. It is necessary, however, to keep
the expense rate within bounds in the
interest of all.
“As to our mortality figures, developments
in hygiene and medical science are still tend-
ing to increase the average duration of
human life. The recent light mortality is
one factor that has permitted the bonus
scale on the main classes of policy to be
not only maintained this year but somewhat
increased.
“This'''year our General Manager is
abroad, partly enjoying a merited holiday
and partly to inspect our Overseas connec-
tions and examine developments in other
countries. The Board is pleased to place on
record its appreciation of his work and that
of the many men and women who comprise
our organisation. It is to their work that
the success of the M.L.C. in its operations
for 1950 can be attributed.”
SUNDRY SHOWS
Greek Tragedy.
Sophocles never imagined that
a play of his would be per-
formed in Melbourne by Mel-
bourne Greeks and in modern
Greek instead of Attic, Neither
did anybody else until “Anti-
gone” was done by Nicos Dimi-
tracopoulos, director of the
Youth Theatre of Athens, the
other evening at the Union
Theatre, University of Mel-
bourne, where Greek tragedies
have been done before, though,
one imagines, not as well as this
one.
Perhaps modern Greeks are
more in touch with their own
tradition than Australian under-
graduates possibly could be.
Anyhow, the emotional line of
the story of Antigone and Creon
was remarkably well maintained,
despite the form, which, from
the modern viewpoint, is as stiff
as buckram, though Sophocles
loosened it up a trifle by putting
in a couple more actors and re-
ducing the function of the
chorus.
The chorus in “Antigone,” as
in all Greek tragedies, stands
around singing wondering and
bitter comments on the hates and
jealousies and stupidities of the
human actors. The actors play
their insensate roles completely
oblivious of the criticism of the
chorus. It was a magnificent
form these old playwrights
created and only looks queer in
terms of latter-day conventions
—which, in another 2000 years,
will look as queer in their turn.
It was another demonstration
of the truth that it is not the
form, but what is put into the
form, that is important. Poly-
neices, the traitor, lies unburied
on the field of battle, by the
order of King Creon, a great
disgrace in ancient Greek eyes.
Antigone, his sister, obeying the
order of the gods, buries her
brother’s body and the agelong
battle is on between the State
and the individual, just as it
exists at present. It must have
been an important problem to
the old Greek playwrights —
they dealt with it so often —and
in the “Antigone” it is worked
out in the usual terms in suicide,
death and universal retribution,
while the chorus points the moral
that hate begets hate, love kills it.
Popi Michael was a passion-
ate Antigone, Vassili Leveniotis
played King Creon with dignity
and feeling and Nicos Dimitraco-
poulos made Haemon, his son,
into a living figure. The
strangely moving music was by
George Poniridis, a contempo-
rary Greek composer.
"Blow Your Own
Trumpet."
Peter Ustinov’s new play, put
on by the Melbourne Little
Theatre under Irene. Mitchell’s
astute direction, has some of the
unostentatious simplicity and
directness of a Chekhov story.
Ustinov takes a slab out of an
evening in the Santa Lucia
restaurant somewhere in London
in a war year, and peoples his
scene with an assortment of indi-
viduals who are like themselves
and like one another, except that
their resistances are different,
and they all have their particular
excuses all different from one
another.
There is an elderly conductor
who has never had an orchestra
to conduct, a psychoanalyst
whose only patient is himself, a
secret agent who is guilty about
his spying and an Italian family
whose members are as isolated
from one another as if they lived
on separate planets. Ustinov
makes no judgments ; he just de-
picts, and there are a humanity
and tolerance about his picture
of their various conflicts that
differentiate it sharply from
most plays of the modern genus,
which are generally written
from the angle of some pre-
judice or other.
Joseph Hyman, as the maestro
Servandoni, and Max Bruch, as
the psychological professor, gave
the best performances.
"Glass Menagerie."
Tennessee Williams’s play,
done before by the National
Theatre, was revived for the pur-
pose of the Centenary-Jubilee
business at Melbourne Princess
and was given a good perform-
ance, There is a fragility about
the piece which doesn’t belie its
title. The story —of the broken-
down Southern American aristo-
crat who wants to revive the
family fortunes, the crippled
daughter for whom she wants
desperately to find a husband,
and the reactionary son whom
she wants to launch in business
but who dreams of a life of
adventure without having a spark
of the spirit of adventure in him
—is true enough and sensitively
pictured.
But the picture painted is
hardly strong enough to carry
the weight of a Greek chorus.
The comments of the traditional
Greek chorus were directed on
events of tremendous import and
on the savagest of human emo-
tions. Mr. Williams provides his
play with a chorus by the simple
device of making the reactionary
son step out periodically from
the action and moan at the audi-
ence for several minutes. Reg
Gillam added nothing to the
gaiety of the evening by the
peevish solemnity of his dis-
course.
Pauline Williams and Leslie
Sands, the two imported mem-
bers of the cast, played their
parts well, but no better than
June Brown as the decayed
gentlewoman.
Tee Follie."
Sydney Tiv.’s current bill is
on the ice, but the only thing
frozen about the performance is
the stage. The show, which was
favorably reported on here (B.
29/ll/’51) when it opened in
Melbourne, is Armand Perren’s
“Ice Follie,” a whirling, sweep-
ing concoction of speed, grace
and comedy with a distinctly
international flavor provided by
performers from Britain, the
U.S., Norway, Hungary and
elsewhere,
Perren, the producer, and
Miss Marion Davies turn on an
extraordinary display of grace-
ful movement at incredible
speeds, Wim de Jong, not satis-
fied with doing dazzling things
on skates, puts a pair of stilts be-
tween himself and his blades,
and Chribi does some funny
business which is probably as
difficult to do as it is to pro-
nounce his name.
The usual Tiv. chorus is re-
placed by one that seems more
at home on ice than it could be
anywhere else, and adds to the
international note by whizzing
and gliding about the place in
costumes of assorted nationali-
ties. Altogether a tiptop show,
as notable for its speed and skill
as for its spectacle.
"See How They Run."
The only melancholy ingredi-
ent of this play at the King’s,
Melbourne, was the knowledge
that this was the venerable play-
house’s last flesh-an’-blood show
before it goes back to the talkies.
Anyhow, the farce-comedy will
leave a boisterous memory be-
hind it. Well staged by Eric
Reiman, it rattles along in the
country vicarage of the Reverend
Lionel Toop (Malcolm Phillips),
who is married to an ex-actress
(June Clyde) who is also the
niece of a bishop (Frank Thring)
and the effect of whose scandal-
ous behavior on the villagers is
symbolised by a middle-aged
spinster. Miss Skillon (Daphne
Winslow).
Miss Clyde gets reinforcements
for her offensive in the shape of
Lance-Corporal Clive Winton
(Anthony Ward), a former stage
colleague, and sundry other
soldiers, including an escaped
German prisoner, and the riot
reaches a climax with the ring-
ing of the church-bells for an
air-raid. The show is a good old
classical comedy of errors for
the King’s to finish up with,
much as it started.
Music.
Harold Blair, soloist with the
Sydney Orchestra under Goos-
sens last week, overcame some
initial difficulties with breath-
control to give a reasonably
good account of “Total Eclipse,”
from Handel’s “Samson,” going
on to a much more authoritative
reading of “Sound An Alarm,”
from “Judas Maccabeus,” his
middle register being quite pleas-
ing. Goossens demonstrated his
mastery of the delicate with a
captivating performance of
Percy Grainger’s arrangement of
the “Londonderry Air,” Arnold
Bax’s “Garden of Fand” was 60
p.c. flowers and 40 p.c. weeds.
In Goossens’s own “Jubilee Fan-
fare,” which owes much to cook-
house and reveille bugle-calls,
the A.B.C.’s news theme-tune
and a spot of Elgar, the battery
of trumpets was at its excellent
best, Tschaikowsky’s Sixth
Symphony moved along its self-
pitying, sensuous way, with some
hauntingly beautiful playing by
the string section in both adagio
movements.
Art.
Carl Plate’s tinted drawings of
Spain, Italy, France and
England at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries look bright and gay in
the distance, but closer you
come to them the faster this
superficial attractiveness dis-
appears into the penitential
sackcloth in which they are
mounted and into the dis-
appointment of a wobbly pen-
line, childish coloring and in-
efficient drawing. Sometimes, as
in a picture of negroes amongst
a lot of bright-orange pots or a
cottage in France amongst
green-and-yellow foliage, some-
thing of the original charm re-
mains ; but the general impres-
sion is chiefly of the artist sky-
larking in foreign parts because
skylarking is the fashion.


ẁ
• • * Proudly made in Australia to exacting
standards. Army Club bring you the world’s best leaf,
ripened by sun, mellowed by time. Mild yet
satisfying, they are robed in filigrained paper
scientifically pure and free from printer’s ink.
AYS
'uh
CORK TIPPED
7 s -' H
•••••••.•
$5
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £25,773 .. ..1
1946.. 4,960,951 1,996,067 530,448 5,959 I
Add exchange premium on net over- f
sea assets, £687,536 .. .. J
To staff fund, £43,555 .. .. T
1947.. 5,662,219 1,983,579 654,572 16,425 )
1948.. 6,348,235 2,220,456 764,279 7,594 (
To staff fund, £34,679 .. .. J
1949.. 7,049,512 2,225,973 819,308 8,276 )
To staff fund, £32,964 .. .. )
1950.. 7,906,996 2,447,608 946,756 14,773 |
To staff fund, £34,015 .. )
3,090,240
2,964,088
3,321,227
3,962,991
4.463,844
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits,
t After deduct ing taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £13,839 .. .. 1
To general branch, £ 30,000 ~ I
1946.. 2,424,619 716,359 541,534 2,738 )
Add exchange premium on net over- (
sea assets, £410,363 .. .. J
To staff fund, £22,270 .. ..)
1947.. 2,669,908 808,350 622,52912,043 )
1948. . 2,910,499 931,097 674,311 5,958 1
To staff fund, £16,989 .. .. J
1949.. 3,119,500 1,026,795 712,765 7,215 )
To staff fund, £15,425 .. ..)
1950.. 3,404,981 1,066,977 770,608 8,315 |
To staff fund, £15.468 .. ..)
1,530,512
1,204,716
1,282,144
1,357,300
1,543,613
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits,
f After deducting taxes.
The M.L.C. writes ordinary, industrial
and accident contracts in Australia, New
Zealand, Canada and Britain. And the
low cost at which it collects its income
and manages its investments, the solid
nature of its assets, which are known to
be worth more than book-value, and the
satisfactory margins disclosed in all
matters upon which soundness and pro-
gress depend have won the co. a high
reputation.
In common with the other big life
offices, the co. has made extraordinary
progress over the last half-dozen post-
war years:
1944. 1950.
New business .. .. £13,743,760 £36,542.014
Assurances in force .. 122,181,626 249,911,854
Annual income ~ .. 6,247,924 11,535,340
Total assets .. .. 42,526,934 74,496,305
Last term’s record amount of new busi-
ness consisted of £27,552,860 (up
£4,476,728) ordinary and £8,989,154 (up
£349,728) industrial. An analysis of the
composition of these new contracts can-
not be made from the published figures,
but the growth of industrial superannua-
tion schemes, of inflation, of population
and of home-purchase coupled with life
cover account for much of the buoyancy.
And the skill with which the offices have
adapted their policies to meet a widening
range of individual needs has contributed
to the popularity of life assurance, the
emphasis being upon security.
After deducting taxes (£211,588), the
year’s income from all sources was
£1,147,503 stronger at £11,535,340.
Claims and exes, (both well within the
limits that the actuary budgeted for)
together took £5,225,514. Of the
£6,309,826 that remained, £5,957,457 was
added to the assurance funds, £23,428
was used to further write-down the book-
value of assets, £50,352 was sent to the
staff fund, £78,589 to reserves in the
general section, and £200,000 (20 p.c. on
capital) was paid in divs. to shareholders
in respect of 1949. The div. for 1950 was
lifted to 20.4 p.c.
The assurance funds also benefited by
a fortuitous addition of £2,362,071 on
account of an increase in the book-value
of the co.’s New Zealand assets in terms
of Australian currency following appre-
ciation of the £NZ. These funds now
total £68,831,282, which is well in excess
of actuarial liabilities under policies. In
addition there is £1,191,000 of general
and tax reserves that also belong to
policyholders, for whom the co, is earn-
ing over £lO for every pound earned for
shareholders.
After valuing policy liabilities at a
stringent 2! p.c. on ordinary and 2 p.c.
and 2■j p.c. on participating and non-
participating industrial contracts, the
surplus available for distribution increased
by £275,076;
Surplus.
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Ordinary .. 1,038,161 1,163,267 1,207,347 1,445,985
Industrial.. 168,979 178,757 188,310 224,748
Total .. 1,207,140 1,342,024 1,395,657 1,670,733
The already very satisfactory rates of
bonuses paid to policyholders were
increased slightly.
The net effective rates of interest
earned on assurance funds were
£3 14s. 4d, p.c. (down Is. Id. p.c.) in the
ordinary and £3 11s. 2d. p.c. (up Is. 4d.
p.c.) in the industrial section. These
rates exceed those assumed in the valua-
tion by more than is usually considered
adequate for maintenance of existing
bonus rates. The expense rate was 15.19
p.c. of net premiums in the ordinary and
27.28 p.c. in the industrial section.
Outstanding feature of the investment
portfolio is the attention now being given
to mortgages (largely to co-operative
building societies with Government
guarantee) and industrial securities,
which yield a better return than is to be
had from Government paper:
1949. p.c. 1950. p.c.
Govt, securitiesf £47,843,152 72.5 £49,803,593 66.8-
Mortgages, etc... 10,878,534 16.5 15,025,059 20.2
Loans on policies 1,690,413 2.6 1,825,066 2.5
Cash, book debts, , „
etc 846.333 1.3 924,119 1.2
Property,. .. 564,842 0.8 862,246 1.2
Debentures, etc. 809,521 1,2 1,545,887 2.1
Shares .. .. 3,403,724 5.1 4,510.335 6.0
£66,033,159 £74,496,305
Liabilities* . . 2,282,512 1,503,383
Net assets ..£63,750,647 £72,992,922
t Includes municipal and public bodies. * Other than
under policies.
Last term £5,989,502 was added to
mortgages (up £4,146,525), shares in other
cos. (up £1,106,611) and debentures (up
£736,366) and £1,960,441 to Government
securities.
The f.-p. pound shares at £5 ss. return
£3 17s. 2d. p.c. on the basis of last year’s
distribution, after allowing for brokerage,
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 3 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4,950 1,494 12,860
4 p.c.
1943.. 18,046 2081 4500 6,600 4,865 17,725
1944.. 21,054 2081 4500 6,600 7,873 25,598
5 p.c.
1945.. 22,771 2080 4500 8,250 7,941 33,539
6 p.c.
1946.. 25,443 2082 4500 9,900 8,962 42,500
From tax reserve, £5OOO .. .. 47,500
7i p.c.
1947.. 33,737 2082 4500 13,062 14,093 61,593
8i p.c.
1948.. 89,088 2082 4500 21,816 10,690 72,283
1949.. 44,829 2081 4500 28,050 10,198 82,481
Asset revaluation, £80,798 .. .. 163,279
10 p.c.
1950.. 58,645 2082 4500 37,400 14,663 177,942
* After deducting book-value of goodwill ( £10,000).
The board’s policy of decentralisation
in an expanding market, together with
alert management and the popularity of
the co.’s products, have yielded hearten-
ing results, as the continued growth in
profits over the last half-dozen years
shows. The co. specialises in manufac-
ture of shirts, pyjamas, collars, etc. —
including some world-famous overseas
brands, made under licence —which are
turned out from 10 factories, of which
seven are in Victoria, one at Sydney and
two at Sand gate, near Brisbane. The
idea behind this spread of operations is
to eliminate many vexatious transport
and delivery difficulties, thus strengthen-
ing turnover and goodwill, and at the
same time reduce the incidence of the
freight item in overhead.
Last term turnover increased by over
45 p.c., due largely to the inflationary
rise in prices of raw materials —especially
white cotton shirtings, etc., which are im-
ported—and partly to an increased physi-
cal volume of sales. Gross earnings (up
£144,793) were over 2.8 times greater
than the 1947 figure;
1947. 1949. 1950.
Gross .. .. £143,950 £265,127 £409,920
Exes.* .. .. 110,213 220,298 351,275
Net .. .. £83,737 £44,829 £58,645
* Includes provision for depreciation and taxation.
Margins were narrower, exes, taking 85.7
p.c. of the year’s gross earnings as
against 83.1 p.c, in 1949 and 76.5 p.c. in
1947. Thanks to the lift in turnover,
however, the profit was £13,816 stronger
at £58,645. That was enough to pay the
pref. divs. (£6582) and show 13.9 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against IL6, 13,
15.6, 11.4 and 9.8 p.c. back to 1945. The
div., which had climbed by halting steps
from 3 p.c. in 1942 to 8! p.c. in 1948, was
lifted to 10 p.c., making the average over
the last nine years 6 p.c.
To help provide for expansion and con-
solidate finances £132,000 of fresh
ord. capital was gathered at par in
August last. It was not enough, so a
mortgage of £150,000 was raised on the
main freehold at Richmond (Vic.), the
book-value of which was written up by
£80,798, and a like amount was credited
to a “freehold assets reserve”:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital . . £299,736 £409,736 £409,736 £541,736
Mortgage .. ■ 149,250
Overdraft . . 147,121 114,492 320.617
Creditors .. 89,663 236,703 161,575 305,804
Tax provision 47,553 58,287 56,393 69,646
Final divs. .. 16,353 25,107 31,341 40,691
Premises . . 97,802 97,043 94,052 174,134
Plant, etc. .. 44,378 48,395 61,312 61,662
Stock ~ . 322,276 478,155 651,920 652.232
Book debts . . 197,472 291,945 254,204 317,888
Cash, etc. .. 91 46 55 79,053
The new share and mortgage moneys, to-
gether with an extra £144,229 from
sundry creditors, etc., were used to
wipe out the overdraft (£320,617 at the
previous balance), and add £63,684
to book debts. Stocks, which
appear at cost or under, increased by
only £312; but the bills-payable item
(£168,177, up £68,252) suggests delay in
deliveries, owing to shipping difficulties.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£483,882) was £147,619.
Turnover has been well maintained
since the close of accounts, but further
lifts in controlled selling-prices will be
needed to help offset the big December
and subsequent increases in wage and
other costs. For these and other reasons,
including difficulties associated with im-
ports, many retailers are now turning to
Pelaco for more of their shirt and
pyjama requirements.
The market, which likes the way the
business is shaping, has lengthened its
bid for the f.-p. 10s, ords. from 14s. 6d,
a year ago to 19s. The return at
19s. is 5.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
At 30s. 6d. and 345. sd. the 7 p.c. A and
9 p.c. B prefs. yield 4.6 p.c. and 5.3 p.c.
respectively. Net tangible cover is
£24 3s. lid. A’s, £l3 16s. B’s and
13s. lOd. ords.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends >,To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref.* Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941..27,909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 9 112,197
Written off intangibles, £442 .. 112,639
Directors’ fees adjusted, £l6OO .. 111,039
1942. .29,964 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 2,064 113,103
1943.. 33,489 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 7
Staff fund, £5OOO .. •-f
1944.. 31.557 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 7
Staff fund, £2,010 .. .. J
589 113,692
1,647 115,339
1945.. 28.370 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 470 115,809
1946.. 29,360 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 1,460 117,269
1947.. 40,622 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 12,722 129,991
1948.. 45.562 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 17,662 147,653
Share premiums, £17,000 ..164,658
Insurance res. appears, £lO,OOO .. 174,653
1949.. 51.416 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 31,500 19,916 194,569
1950.110,074 10 „ 12J „ 55,332 54,742 249,311
* Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
The co. is one of Australia’s leading
producers of hosiery, lingerie and men’s
wear, which it turns out from a well-
equipped Sydney factory and from a
branch establishment at Newcastle. The
big leap in last term’s profit reflects,
among other things, gains from the
board’s extensive reorganisation and
modernisation of equipment and methods
and installation of new plant for manu-
facture of full-fashioned nylon hosiery.
The emphasis in the trade today is upon
style, finish, quality and price, which
soon promise to become the dominating
factors in sales. Installation of auxiliary-
power equipment to offset damaging
failures in the public supply of current
helped to lift output, too. At the same
time an inflated and expanding economy,
and the buoyant trade that goes with it,
carried demand, and therefore turnover,
to a record level.
Despite a steep rise in costs, and after
allowing an extra £36,931 for deprecia-
tion (£59,191) and an unstated amount
for taxation, net earnings were more than
double the previous year’s at £110,074.
But it was not all earned during the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
£23,560 represented transfer of profits
earned by Lustre (N.Z.), Ltd,, during
previous years.
However, the £86,514 (up £35,098)
netted by the parent co. alone was
easily a record. It includes £2278
dropped from somewhere into the insur-
ance reserve, and was enough to pay the
prefs. their full contract rate of 10 p.c.
and then show 26.1 p.c, on average ord.
capital, compared with 16.1, 16.4, 14.2,
9.3 and 8.8 p.c. back to 1945. So the
lift in the all-round rate of div. from
9 p.c. (an annual event for the decade to
1949) to 10 p.c., and the addition thereto
of a 2! p.c. jubilee bonus, making 12! p.c.
for the year, was a comfortable matter.
Under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act the pref. div. advances point for
point with the ords. from a minimum
1\ p.c. to the full contract rate. The
intention was also to pay the bonus to
the prefs., but the board discovered it
had no power to do this, so the pref.
distribution remains at 10 p.c.
Although the background, nationally
and internationally, is fluid, the immediate
outlook favors continuance of buoyant
and expanding trade. The parent is
erecting a new and larger factory at New-
castle, more plant is on order, and the
N.Z. offshoot, which is also putting up a
big new factory at Wellington, looks like
becoming a regular contributor to the
pool later on. Furthermore, the board
says, “the co. is in a fully competitive
position both as regards production-costs
and stocks, and should be able to main-
tain satisfactory results under any fore-
seeable circumstances.” Some increase in
co. and other taxation is expected in the
next Budget. The ugliest feature, how-
ever, is that wages are rising faster than
productivity, hence costs and selling-
prices are being forced up faster than
real wages. Unless this inflationary trend
is arrested it will sooner or later make
itself felt in consumer demand, to the
detriment of everybody.
The financial structure is sound:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Ord. capital £226,667 £231,041 £335,614 £400,000
Pref. capital 83,333 83,383 83,333 88,333
Mortgages . . 26,500 20,500 26,500 26,500
Overdraft .. 81.927 236,861 133,870 169.704
Creditors .. 20,13 1 36,62 5 68,28 7 35,260
Tax provision 45,500 54,000 45,922 90,000
Final div. .. 13,950 13,950 15,750 38.666
Freeholds .. 119,000 117,500 124,000 127,500
Plant .. 68,630 103,706 141,771 154,839
Stocks . . 313,393 460,133 488,774 589,191
Debtors . . 117,008 130,845 131,528 201,304
Cash, etc. .. 550 568 562 601
Shares subsid. 17,210 17,210 17,210 17,210
During the year £33,022 was snipped off
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
£16,568 net was added to fixed assets,
£100,417 to stocks and £69,826 to book
debts. To help meet the outlay share-
holders put up £64,386 of fresh capital
and the overdraft was increased by
£35,834. Shareholders aren’t likely to be
asked for more at an early date, a loan
of £200,000 having been arranged with
the A.M.P.
The market for the f.-p. £1 ords.,
covered by 325. 4d. in net tangibles, after
advancing from 38s. a year ago to 41s.
early in 1951, reached 535. last week.
The return of 535. would be 3.7 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 4.7 p.c. on a
12| p.c. distribution. The prefs, at
345. 6d. yield 5.8 p.c. on their full con-
tract rate.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
TUP
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
ẃ
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
bolds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
FREE
Call or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
meat form and H days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
{Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO HENRY LANCELOT EDWARD
MeALISTER also known by the surnames
of KEMP and COUTTS late of Imperial
Hotel Narromine.—TAKE NOTICE that
THELMA MAY MeALISTER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4193 of 1950
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 8 years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th July 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from H. R.
& G. B. CURRIE, Solicitors, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLISOH. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery, 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty.
Ltd., Port Pirie, S.A.
LEAD BURNERS
The Company will be fequlring the services of a group of fully
skilled and qualified Lead Burners in connection with the con-
struction of their new gas treatment plant for the production of
sulphuric acid. It is expected that active employment on this
project will commence in nine months’ time.
The terms and conditions, unless amended by statutory enactments,
will be as follows: —
40-hour week of 5 days (Monday to Friday inclusive)
Wage payable for ordinary time (subject to cost-of-living Per week
adjustments)4o hours.
B.H.A.S. base rate, plus margin for skill and loading £l2 6 6
(Base rate subject to cost-of-living adjustments)
Plus—Lead price bonus at present rate (maximum) of
£1 per day of eight hours 5 0 0
Total rate of wage, including lead price bonus .. .. £l7 6 6
Bonus is based on the price of lead—the above maximum applies
if the average realised price is not less than £B3 per ton.
Accommodation, etc.: Single or twin beds available in Company’s
Hostel. All bedding supplied. Hot and cold running water, washing
and shower facilities. Kecreation room—Wireless, Billiard Table,
All under control of Supervisor, who provides necessary house-
keeping staff. Present tariff 10/- per person per week.
Occupiers are able to secure satisfactory meals from restaurants
fairly near to the hostel at an average tariff of approximately
£2/15/- per week.
Persons interested and with the necessary qualifications are invited
to forward their applications addressed to the Works Manager,
Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd., Port Pirie, South
Australia.
The “ Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ẅ
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees ana manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down, Sydney* N.S.W.
Outward bound from Boston with a cargo
of ice for London
In 1805 the first big storehouses were built in New York for the
ice trade. With their frozen burdens, Yankee clippers raced as
far afield as India and China. From 1840 England drew her Ice
from Boston, but in 1875 the trade shifted to Norway.
NOW ENGLAND SUPPLIES THE WORLD
WITH RITEMP REFRIGERATION . . .
To-day, Australians and others throughout the
world insist on English Electric RITEMP
refrigerators, knowing they are built with the
same pride of craftsmanship as English
Electric’s CANBERRA aircraft, the world's
finest jet bomber.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in England]
DOMESTIC APPLIANCE DEPARTMENT • 51 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE BO 2088
Washing Machines, Cookers, Mixers, Plate Warmers, Fires
w
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
Ord. Writ- Re-
Dec., Profit, e p.c. e p.c. ten off. serves,
1945.. l5/)00 4500 9^231
1946.. 52.582 15,000 4500 18,978 23,335
!SS:;i«S iS:SSS K iffi S3S
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1949.. 60.516 25.000 woo 15.884 66,880
1950. .98,n0 Bo,obo 900b'i5,050 ii 0,940
The last is the best showing for
the past 32 years, thanks to an
excellent season (best in the co.’s
history) and to exceptional prices
for livestock and wool—a rare
combination for the outback
run-owner. The co.’s big lease-
holds, aggregating 9205 square
miles, are in the far-west of
Queensland and over the border
in the Territory; and there are
three coastal fattening free-
holds, totalling 45,917 acres, in
the Gladstone, Nanango and
Kilcoy districts.
The £325,000 of capital is in
250,000 £1 6 p.c. cumulative
participating prefs. (they advance
with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond 6 p.c.) and 600,000
ords, of 2s. 6d. each. The other
17s. 6d. per ord. share (£525,000)
was written off in 1932 to cover
losses, due to drought, rising
costs and anaemic markets. The
prefs.’ slate was cleaned in 1941,
and, after a 22-year drought, the
ords. got into the picture again
in 1942 with 6 p.c., and have re-
mained there since, the rate be-
ing lifted to an all-round 10 p.c.
in 1949 and 12 p.c. last term,
when those on the ord. register
could see the whole of the
written-down capital intact and
£110,940 besides.
No sheep were sold last term,
but fat bullocks, chief source of
earnings, averaged £24 17s. (up
£3 10s. lOd.) per head and wool
£ll2 16s. 9d. (up £47) per bale.
Sales totalled 11,407 head cattle
and 705 bales wool; and 22,486
calves were branded and 4980
lambs marked. When the books
closed there were 85,937 cattle,
25,383 sheep and 1678 horses on
the runs.
After allowing something for
taxation and providing for de-
preciation (shown as written off
in the table), the net result was
£37,928 better at £83,060, equal
to 25.5 p.c. on capital (pref. and
ord. combined) as against 13.9,
10.3, 11.1, 10.3 and 9.8 p.c. back
to 1945. So the 12 p.c, distribu-
tion, of which one half is labelled
bonus, was a comfortable
matter; but it was equal to only
1.5 p.c, on original ord. capital.
Financially the co. has never
been better shod:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Creditors,
etc.* .. 150.510 164,615 310.158
Pinal div. .. 19,500 32,500 39.000
Freeholds .. 27,903 27.903 27.903
Leaseholds.. 106,870 100,787 95.277
Plant .. 50,875 48.804 57,816
Livestock ~ 160,671 168.322 178.188
Wool .. 3,810 2.620
Stores .. 13,866 10.063 10.438
Debtors .. 15,607 15,792 29.586
Cash, etc, ~ 169,755 217,324 383.269
* Includes provision for contingencies and
taxation.
A substantial part of the year’s
net addition of £145,543 to the
amount coming to creditors, etc.,
which was accompanied by a
net growth of £165,945 in the
holding of cash and Government
securities, etc., appears to be due
to provision for contingencies
including taxation. Visibly the
growth in the more-or-less liquic
surplus (£254,943) was £40,557.
The immediate outlook is for
another good season and main
tenance of high wool prices
though some recession from
recent peaks is expected. Agree-
ment has not yet been reachec
in negotiations with the British
Government for a 15-year meat
contract, which would mean an
assured market, and all the
benefits that go with it, to Aus-
tralian growers. There has, how-
ever, been a rise of a pound
in the British contract price for
Australian meat and there is talk
of a further increase later on.
Biggest gamble in the long-term
outlook promises to be with sea-
sons and costs, hence the specu-
lative element in the investment
possibilities of the scrip.
At 40s. 3d, (255. 9d. a year
ago) the pound prefs. yield 6 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The ords.
seldom come on to the market—
-Bs. a share was recently offered
without attracting sellers. Net
tangible cover is 345. lid. prefs.
and 6s. 2d. ords.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) continues to
give a good account of itself.
The 1,844,772 tons material
mined for the 41 weeks to April
8 last contained 50,1760 z. gold
and 3400 tons copper. And the
Australian buying-price of the
red metal was lifted from £lBO
to £195 in Aug., 1950, and to
£230 per ton on Dec. 18. Two
divs. of Is. each were sent out
in Sept, and March last. For
the year to June 30, 1950,
2,004,574 tons material were
mined for 69,0450 z. gold and
3570 tons copper. Profit from
the year’s operations was
£391,447, and the 7 p.c. pref.
div. (£21,000) and 80 p.c. to the
ords. (£259,000) together took
£280,000. Test-drilling of the
very promising extension of the
ore-body near the old Sugarloaf
mine continues, and so does the
co.’s investigation into produc-
tion of elemental sulphur from
mine ore. Small quantities of
pyrites, previously dumped with
the residue, are now being sold
to fertiliser manufacturers. The
f.-p. 2s, 6d. ords., which sold as
low as 17s. 3d. in 1950, now
fetch 28s.
* * * *
Latest production figures for
King Island Scheelite (1947),
Ltd., are encouraging:
Scheelite
Ore, Cons., Value,
Tons. Tons. £
16 weeks 10/2/’5l. .57,704 258 826,376
4 „ 10/3/’5l. .13,868 50.5 111,500
4 „ 7/4/’5l. .14,267 78.6 182,000
24 „ total ..85,339 382.1 569,876
For the last four-weekly period
the co. was able to produce over
45 p.c. more concentrates from
only 899 tons more ore. For the
year to Oct. 31, 1950, co. treated
160,167 tons ore for a profit of
£178,471, the average price of
wolfram for the period being
£8 15s. lid. per ton. Australian
equivalent of the London average
price of the metal for March,
1951, was £36 9s. 6d. The co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares, which could be
picked up at ss. Id. in June,
1950, fetched 40s, last week.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
.... On memory’s timeless tree,
All earthly death defying;
Oblivion’s claim defying
From mystic roots undying,
Bloom spirit flowers for me.
—Agnes Fair bairn.
Under a sombre sky in the morning
hours of Anzac Day a group of women
gathered at the statue of Edith Cavell
on St. Kilda-road, to pay homage not
only to that brave woman, but to those
of the nursing sisters who lost their lives
in the First and Second World Wars. The
dark-grey uniforms of the R.A.A.N.S.
mingled with the lighter grey uniforms of
those who served with the Queen Alex-
andra Imperial Nursing Service, the dark-
blue of the uniformed R.A.A.F. nurseS
and the khaki of servicewomen.
Prior to the placing of wreaths at the
foot of the statue Dr. A. E. Coates, a
former p.-0.-w. in Malaya, read the
eulogy: “We remember those nurses who
paid the supreme sacrifice. During the
war of 1914-18 thirteen nurses died on
active service. Of the Second A.I.F. fifty-
three nurses lost their lives as the result
of enemy action and eighteen died from
other causes. In the R.A.A.F. two nurses
lost their lives.” Lady Herring and Lady
Disney placed the first wreaths, then fol-
lowed representatives of various associa-
tions, among them the Matron of the
Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital. Her
wreath was fashioned of flowers picked
from the Memorial Garden at the hospital.
Lieut.-General Sir Stanley Savage, C. 8.,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C., E.D., gave a short
moving address, the service closing with
the Last Post and the National Anthem.
The committee of the Victorian
Artists Society invited many guests to
the christening of the redecorated gal-
leries in Albert-street, East Melbourne.
The lower half of the walls in the three
galleries has been painted a warm grey.
In the north gallery the upper half is in
azure blue ; in the central gallery a soft
pink has been used, and in the south gal-
lery a creamy beige. Modern trough-
lighting has been installed to do
justice to the pictures displayed at exhibi-
tions. Malcolm R. Warner, president of
the society, and Mrs. Warner received
the guests, she in a long gown and match-
ing jacket of mignonette-green faille.
With Daryl Lindsay, director of the
National Gallery, was his wife, who wore
a cream-and-gold brocade jacket and
ankle-length black taffeta skirt. Mrs.
lan Potter’s full-skirted gown was of pale-
grey poult. Among women artists pre-
sent were Violet Mclhnes, Esther Pater-
son and Alison Dent.
To enable Mrs. Gordon Coulter, whose
husband has just become a city coun-
cillor, to meet the wives of other coun-
cillors, the Lady Mayoress, Lady Disney,
entertained at an informal tea-party in
her reception-rooms at the Town Hall.
Very unusual was the white toque with
its trimming of matching fringe Avorn by
Lady Disney with her black suit. The
guest-of-honor topped her black frock
with a scarlet wool hip-length jacket;
her small upturned hat was of black
velvet. A junior- blue beret was worn by
Lady Wales with her grey suit. Mrs.
George Hume covered her black frock
with a mink coat. Wide upstanding bows
of black grosgrain trimmed her white
boater. With her navy frock and brown
ermine jacket Mrs. W. Brens wore a beige
cloche. Mrs. Alec Hay, who assisted the
hostess, chose a rust-toned wool suit and
matching velvet hat. Mrs. Burns Carnp-
bell’s azure-blue angora jacket-suit was
worn with a deep-blue velour hat.
Natural-fitch fur trimmed Mrs. L. P. Cole-
man’s frock and jacket of guardsman-red
wool; her matching cloche gleamed with
rhinestones.
Joyce, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
R. W. Beetham, of Kew, has announced
her engagement to Harry lan Hossack, of
Benalla. Joyce, who is a nurse (she
trained at the Royal Melbourne Hospital),
served for 12 months on the staff of the
Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital. Her
fiance is the son of Mr. and Mrs. H. R.
Hossack, of Benalla. He was a member
of the original 2/3rd Machine-gun Bat-
talion, and was a prisoner-of-war. The
wedding date has been set towards the
end of the year.
Sunshine filtering through the stained-
glass windows of Wilson Hall threw
into high relief the colorful hoods and
gowns of members of the professorial
board and staff of the University when
graduates attended the conferring-of-
degrees ceremony, which crowned the
years of their labors. Women were
prominent among those receiving degrees,
Shirley Brooke Davies, not yet 21, re-
ceived an Honors B.A. in English and
philosophy ; Barbara Hurley, daughter of
Sir Victor and Lady Hurley, also received
an Honors 8.A., her subjects being his-
tory and philosophy. Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Dexter, who were married early last
month, both took out their Bachelor of
Agricultural Science degrees. They re-
turned from their honeymoon at Malla-
coota and are now settled in a flat in
Hawthorn. Mrs. Dexter was formerly
Elizabeth Anne Burnet, and is the
daughter of Sir Macfarlane and Lady
Burnet. Elizabeth has a job in the Agri-
cultural School, and is doing a survey on
the marketing of fruit and vegetables in
this city. Rose Mary McGowan was the
only graduate to receive an M.A. degree.
Merran McEachern, who is a niece of
Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer and a bac-
teriologist at the Children’s Hospital,
received her Bachelor of Science degree.
The Lyceum Club was the setting for
the party which Peggy Tellick gave to
farewell Cyrus Townsend Brady, who
shortly afterwards left for his home in
the U.S.A. Peggy’s black suit was worn
with a cloche of beige velour. Among
her guests were Professor and Mrs. Brian
Lewis, the latter in junior-blue crepe and
satin frock and small matching hat.
Marietta Perrott wore a striking outfit:
a leopardskin-patterned skirt and short
black velvet jacket. With the U.S.
Consul-General, S, J. Fletcher, was Mrs.
Fletcher, smart in black ensemble. Mrs.
Bob White’s garnet-red velvet corded suit
was worn with a black-and-white-striped
taffeta boater. Mrs. Laurie Downing’s
small scarlet tulle hat Was finished with
velvet streamers and was worn with a
black frock.
This Athol Shmith study is of well-
known mannequin Noelena Webster,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. R.
Webster, of Tumut (N.S.W.). Noelena is
engaged to Hedley, only son of Mrs. W.
H. Horsfall, of Toorak, and the late Mr.
Ladd. Marriage is planned for late May
if the housing problem can be overcome
by then.
Color led the fashion-field at Caulfield
for the M.R.C. meeting. Scarlet, citron-
yellow, blue in all its wide range, emerald-
green and paradise-pink were conspicu-
ous. A large white handmade peony rose
was pinned in the lapel of the black-
braided coat worn by Mrs. Stan Garns-
worthy, wife of the M.R.C. chairman.
Lady Robinson’s suit was in junior-blue-
and-red checks. Mrs. Frank Mulcahy
contrasted her black coat with an emerald-
green cloche. Tartan revers highlighted
the currant-red wool coat worn by Lady
Olivia Taylour, Lady Clarke, her sister-
in-law, chose paradise-pink wool for her
suit, which had a black velvet collar and
revers; her small cloche was of black
velvet. Citron-yellow flowers lit up the
light-grey coat worn by Mrs. Fred
Dennett; her beret was in matching grey.
Canary-yellow felt trimmed with matching
plumage contrasted with the junior-blue
Bedford cord suit worn by Mrs. John
Reilly. Junior-blue was also the shade
chosen by Mrs. Keith Morrison for her
wool suit, with which went a white hat
finished with heavy blue chenille-dotted
veiling. A suit of fine beige gabardine
with black velvet on the collar was worn
by Mrs. P. J. Lennon with a matching
beret and mink stole. Mrs. Bill Mc-
Gowan’s tent-coat was checked in grey
and white ; her beret was of grey velour.
Among many wearers of grey suits was
Mrs, John Cain, who contrasted hers with
a black-braided beret finished with a
fine veil.
From Sydney
At the Abbotsleigh Old Girls’ Ball at
the Troc. the 22 “new old-girls” who
were presented to the president of the
Union, Lady Mackay, wore billowy
pastel dresses and looked as pretty as a
bunch of sweet-peas. It’s not the custom
to call this a debut with the Abbotsleigh
girls, but a formal welcoming to the
ranks of the ex-students. Headmistress
Miss G. Everett introduced her new
graduates to Lady Mackay, who wore
grey satin. About 800 dancers had been
beckoned to the ball by the committee,
whose president, Margaret Salenger, was
in orchid satin, the secretary, Judith
Millard, in sequin-sprinkled green net.
The young violinist in the picture is
Tasmanian Beryl Kimber, who has re-
turned to Australia for the Jubilee cele-
brations after a brilliant period of study
abroad. When she was at the Royal
Academy, London, Beryl won every
viplin prize available, being awarded in
1949 the “Dove Gift” for the most dis-
tinguished student. She had a most suc-
cessful debut in London, and has given
recitals and orchestral concerts all over
England. During her 13-weeks’ stay in
Australia she will make 33 appearances,
including 11 recitals and 22 with
orchestras. Her next concerts are on
Thursday and Friday of this week.
Even jumble-sales are being
glamorised these days, with the Op-
portunity Shop putting on a mannequin
parade of second-hand clothing in aid of
the Peter Pan Kindergarten. The clothes
ranged from one guinea to 30, the
cheapest being a green draped wool dress,
rather worn but all right if seen in the
dusk with the light behind it. The 30-
guinea “left-off” was also green wool, but
trimmed with real leopard-fur. There
were great numbers of black dresses and
suits, nearly all well cut and in good
condition, priced from about eight to 10
guineas. Originally they had cost from
30 to 40 guineas, but apparently one
grows tired even of the “good black,”
which is supposed to last for ever. On the
whole, the evening-dresses were the best
value, as they bypass the obstacle of the
old-fashioned square shoulder. There
was a lovely one of grey-and-lime chiffon
for eight guineas, and another royal-
blue formal with gunmetal beading for
the same price which were really elegant.
The mannequins were amateurs, a fact
quite evident from the platform shoes
they wore, which are guaranteed to prevent
graceful walking. Still, Susan Watt looked
very lovely indeed, and Jan Crossing was
pretty and youthful and smiling. Pam
Allsopp was pretty and youthful, but un-
smiling.
Pageantry is in the air at present.
During the past week the State primary
schools of Sydney have put on no fewer
than 20 pageants dramatising the Jubilee
and the history of Australia, and on May
25 the secondary schools will stage a
super-pageant at the Con., which will in-
clude a stylised corroboree, Barnard
Eldershaw’s masque “The Watch on the
Headland,” a scene from “Caroline Chis-
holm,” and one act of Douglas Stewart’s
“Ned Kelly.”,
Another spectacular pageant will be a
feature of the Royal Empire Society’s
Ball on May 24, Scheduled to last 30
minutes and organised within an inch of
its life, this display will show the develop-
ment of the Union Flag, the arrangement
of the Australian coat-of-arms and the
development of the Australian ensign.
With its Roman soldiers, figures of
Britannia, the colonies, the Common-
wealth representatives, its bands and flags
and fanfares, it should be something really
stirring.
At the luncheon of the Society of
Women Writers last week the speaker
was Eddie Samuels, writer, composer,
librettist and backer of the popular
musical comedy “The Highwayman.” The
burden of his remarks was that there
is no national support for theatre in Aus-
tralia and that Australians have to be
successful overseas before they can get
any sort of a hearing here. The members
of the Society gave him a very enthusiastic
hearing, realising how much courage and
energy he has shown. He persuaded them
that it was a shocking thing that the
“Medea” should be chosen as a jubilee
play instead of something Australian
(presumably “The Highwayman”), but
some must have had a doubt about the
two shows being of quite the same
dramatic value. The president of the
society, Mrs. Helene Rankin, introduced
Mr. Samuels. Jean Garling proposed a
vote of thanks with some eloquence.
Mother’s Day seems to have established
itself very firmly among our national
celebrations, in spite of various prim
people who disapprove of it, saying that
we ought to think of mother every day
in the year. The point is we don’t, or at
any rate we don’t do much for her. The
trouble nowadays is that many mothers
work twice as hard (if possible) on their
own day because their families visit them
and expect a really slap-up dinner. We
are told that the old English custom on
“Mothering Day” was that the mother
should make a special effort on behalf of
her children, such as having them all
home to dinner, and it’s not much
different now. One thing that ought to
be changed is the use of Whistler’s
portrait of his mother as an emblem. She
is much too solemn and grim a figure to
represent the busy-busy mothers of Aus-
tralia. The little flannel-flowers sold for
hospitals and homes by the Benevolent
Society are a much better idea.
The International Ball tomorrow is
going to have an international food-bar,
at which Australia is to be represented
by pineapple ambrosia (a confection of
pineapple and cream). France is pro-
viding chocolate eclairs, Pakistan spiced
meat-balls, the Philippines sweetmeats
and Israel unleavened bread, which is
known as “matzot.” The main attraction
of the ball is, of course, the pageant, but
there is also to be a masked lady, whose
identity, purpose and activities will not
be revealed till the night of the ball.
“Three Centuries of Painting in Italy,”
the exhibition of excellent prints in David
Jones’ Gallery, could rate two or three
visits by those interested in the history
of art. Some films on famous master*
pieces are being shown during the lunch-
hours this week. Although they are a bit
flickery and the commentary in Italian is
rather a drawback to most of us, the
total effect is of great drama, pathos and
vitality. Schoolchildren, particularly,
should not miss these films. It is sad to
see, however, that Peace as painted by
Lorenzetti Ambrogio in the 14th century
looks even more cynical and disgusted
than she would today.
The Jubilee Children’s Party, organised
by the Lady Mayoress’s Committee, to be
held at the Town Hall from 2 p.m. till
late at night on May 10, promises to be
a lively affair. Some beautiful dolls
dressed in national costume have been
donated for sale by members of the
Consular Corps. The French, Norwegian
and Pakistan dolls have already come in,
and you can take it from this Letter they
are quite delightful. Children will give
a mannequin parade showing clothes
from the baby to the bride, and ’teen-
agers will take over in the evening with
square-dancing.
The baby mannequin at the children’s
party is to be Sandra, five-month-old
granddaughter of Lady Mayoress O’Dea.
Sandra was a placid sleeping attendant
at the committee meeting recently,
when also present were Joanne and
Kerry, aged 2% and 4, who gave a good
demonstration of how well-behaved little
girls can be. Mrs. O’Dea is looking after
her grandchildren while her daughter
is in hospital, attending to their clothes,
meals, baths, etc., before she goes out
to her many social engagements.
More news about the Children’s
National Theatre, which should be wel-
comed by country people, is that it is
going on tour with “The Bushranger” on
May 26. The players will visit Bathurst,
Blayney, Orange, Forbes, Canowindra,
Wellington, Mudgee, Coonabarabran,
Peak Hill, Young and Gilgandra, conclud-
ing with performances at Blackheath and
Katoomba. The company, which plans
a tour of the southern districts later, hopes
to become an Australian “Young Vic.,
spending all its time travelling round the
country.
The Sydney Commemoration Choir
does good work and will welcome new
members. They are pledged to com-
memorate the gallantry of the Australian
fighting men by helping those who arc
in homes and hospitals as a result ot
war injuries. It meets every Tuesday
night at 7 p.m. on the 6th Floor, Scot
Chambers, Hosking-place.


CP4.25
STILL KEEPS COIKC
when the rest hawe stopped !
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries
it has been Exide—since 1888*
Exide BATTERIES
&
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
More than 20 years of agricultural
research in Westralia and Queensland
prefaced last week’s award of the Farrer
Memorial Medal to Laurence Teakle,
Professor of Agriculture in Queensland
University. Born in South Australia,
schooled in W.A. and at the University
of California, where he taught for several
years from 1925, Teakle has a practical
dream of revitalising hungry stretches of
Queensland’s coastal country with ferti-
lisers and new grasses. C.5.1.R.0. is
researching into the idea.
“Copper” Morrow and George Oldham
(captains both) have a habit of relieving
each other. The first occasion was in
1945, when Morrow (a destroyerman
with D.S.O. from Voyager in the Medi-
terranean and D.S.C. from Arunta for
belting the life out of a Jap submarine
off Moresby) relieved Oldham as execu-
tive-officer of cruiser Shropshire. Oldham
was probably glad to see him —having
just had a D.S.C.’s-worth of violence with
Jap zombies off Lingayen and Leyte.
Now Oldham (a naval observer, one of
the last of his breed) goes from Aus-
tralia’s bridge to boss Garden Island;
Morrow will take his place as soon as
he gets back from Washington, where
he’s been naval attache.
Retiring age has sounded the cease-
fire for Major R. C. Dettman, superin-
tendent of the Swanboume (W.A.) rifle-
range. Starting his soldiering as a private
in the old Bth A.1.R., he was commis-
sioned in 1908, and became one of the
original area officers when compulsory
training was introduced in 1911, He ran
the two Victorian areas of Kyneton and
Castlemaine. When the Kaiser got out
of line Dettman, then captain, went over-
seas with the Ist Battalion, A.I.F. Re-
turning to Westralia on transfer in 1935,
he took over the Swanboume range, and
made it one of the best in Australia. The
targets of his leisure have been stamp-
collecting and the breeding and judging
of budgerigars. He is probably the only
man in Australia who swopped a collec-
tion of stamps for the house he now
lives in.
A. H. Chisholm farewells a colleague:
With the death of Adelaide’s R. S. Rogers
a few years ago, and Melbourne’s W. H.
Nicholls recently, Australia has lost two of its
three chief authorities on native orchids. The
tragedy in Nicholls’s case is that he died (at
65) before seeing in print the first part of his
Orchids of Australia, the greatest enterprise of its
kind ever attempted. Presumably the entire work
will emerge, part by part, during the next
decade or two, for the author-artist had com-
pleted almost all the illustrations—a large and
varied batch, the odd fact being that the
number of orchid species in Australia is about
the same as in the cases of eucalypts and
wattles —round about 500 in each instance.
Nicholls’s achievement is remarkable because
he had very little tuition in either botany or
drawing, and did not turn to studying orchids
until he was past 40. He did so then, he once
lightly told me, because the effects of an
accident in youth recurred at that stage and
made him a trifle weak in the head! Actually,
he was attracted to the fascinating plants while
indulging in bush-walking and photography,
and he took up the study seriously in 1925.
Natural aptitude and resource made him an
Australia-wide expert within 10 years.
Having the “orchid eye” to a marked degree,
Nicholls could spy out even the tiniest and
coyest of flowers, and then dissect and paint
them with equal facility. Moreover, only once
did I see him bamboozled in regard to an
orchid area. That was when, after an absence
of several years, he took me to see some special
plants, and had difficulty in finding the spot
because ignorant Authority, unaware of the
existence of little Prasophyllum frenchii, had run
a fence along the railway where the orchids
grew. “That fence;” the indignant orchidologist
exclaimed, “has no right to be here! ” A similar
declaration regarding file deference due to
naturalists was made more recently, when Bill
was nursing wounds acquired through dreaming
of orchids while driving a car on a country
road. “That post,” he told me, “had no right
whatever to be where it was!”
A fearless fellow, whether in a car or on a
cliff-face, Nicholls was also an uncommonly
sturdy walker, a skilled outdoor photographer,
a modest and helpful companion, and, above
all, a wholehearted lover of the face of Aus-
tralia, as expressed in particular through her
most aristocratic plants. His death is a severe
loss to natural history.
Tibor Paul, a New Australian who has
been here less than six months, has
quickly found his musical level; on
Friday night he makes his initial bow to
Australian audiences with the Queens-
land Symphony Orchestra, which he will
conduct in Brisbane. Hungarian-born,
Paul is a product of the Budapest Con-
servatorium, and earned his diploma for
piano and clarinet at the Franz Liszt
Academy of Music. His urge to wield
the baton prompted him to found the
Budapest Concert Orchestra, which he
directed and conducted for 10 years.
Among other musical activities he
directed broadcast operas and supervised
recording for the Hungarian Film Insti-
MUSIC.
tute. When the Communists started
nationalising everything Paul moved on
to Switzerland; then, after a couple of
years directing concerts for the Swiss
Radio Corporation, he decided to make
his home in Australia —his wife and two
children are with him. Tall, dark and
handsome, the 41-year-old conductor (he
looks much less, as may be gauged from
this Dubois sketch) mostly keeps fit with
fencing—the sort that has nothing to do
with crowbars and strainer-posts.
Few men could look less academic than
Harry Hopkins, the Westralian cricketer
and hockey player recently appointed
Professor of Civil Engineering at Canter-
bury University College, Christchurch
(N.Z.). Educated at Guildford (W.A.)
Grammar and the Westralian University,
he won the Norman Albert Prize in
Engineering in 1932 and became the
State’s Rhodes Scholar two years later.
After Oxford, his next graduation was
with wings and a commission in Bomber
Command, in which he won D.F.C. After
the war he did several important engineer-
ing jobs in England, including bridge-
testing, and investigation work on what
was then the Southern Railway; since
1947 he’s been senior lecturer in civil-
engineering in his own university. A
virile 38, on the athletic side he has repre-
sented the State in hockey, still captains
and coaches the Old Guildfordians hockey
club, presides over the W.A. Hockey
Association, and is also a spin-bowler
with the best average for the Nedlands
pennant cricket team in the recent season.
He’ll take over the new job about the
middle of the year.
Reckoning almost half a century of
schooling enough for any man, John
Back, a pupil-teacher in 1904, retires as
N.S.W.’s Deputy-Director-General of
Education. Old Digger with B.A. and
B.Sc., Back stayed overseas after the
Armistice to get a B.Sc. from Oxford and
returned to a science-mastership at Sydney
Tech. In the late war he was Sydney’s
Chief Warden.
Apparently Australian arthritis suf-
ferers have had a balm for their pain
going to waste by the millions —anyway,
the Earl of Halsbury thinks so, and last
week landed in Melbourne seeking mil-
lions of pituitary glands from animals
killed in Australian abattoirs. The tiny
gland is the source of the arthritis drug
ACTH, more valuable than cortisone —it
stimulates a patient’s own adrenal glands
to produce cortisone. The Earl should
know scientist himself, he heads
Britain’s £5,000,000 National Research
Development Corporation.
There is a student at Melbourne Uni-
versity who has never heard a word his
professors have uttered since he started
his various courses. He gained his
Bachelor of Agricultural Science degree
and his Education Diploma in the same
silent fashion, and at the university con-
ferring of degrees the other day he went
up for his Bachelorship of Education.
Pierre Patrick Gorman, son of Eugene
Gorman, K.C., has been deaf from
birth. So amazingly expert did he become
at lip-reading that he did not bother to
learn deaf-and-dumb sign language but
lip-read his way throughout. He was
once seen at the National Gallery having
a discussion on a picture with a critic
whose outstanding quality was that he
was an extraordinary rapid talker.
Thirty-year-old Professor A. N. Jeffares
was a research student under Professor
Nicol Smith at Oxford in 1944 —now he
takes over the Adelaide University Chair
of English Language and Literature from
his former master. A Trinity College,
Dublin, graduate, the young newcomer
left with a swag of prizes and scholar-
ships, to lecture in his subject at Gron-
ingen University, in the Netherlands, for
three years. He comes to Adelaide from
a lectureship in English at Edinburgh
University.
Here’s H. W. Harrison, who has offici-
ally organised Melbourne’s Motor Show
at the Exhibition Building for donkeys’
years and privately has seen the petrol
chariots change from hissing and spitting
buggies to the streamliners of today. He
joined the motor industry in 1900 when
he was the owner of one of the first three
lizzies to be brought to Australia. It
MOTORS.
was appropriately named Aerial and was
fitted with a De Dion engine. Sitting
nonchalantly in this he frequently whizzed
past the cable-trams, astounding the
natives. The annual glitter he recently
supervised is now the largest of its kind
in the Southern Hemisphere; for it there
were more cars representing more coun-
tries parked under the immense roof of
the Exhibition than the New York Motor
Show could boast. .Harrison has been
editor of the “Australian Motorist’s
Journal” since 1912 and four years ago
was appointed director of public relations
of the Federal Chamber of Automotive
Industries, the institution he founded in
1914.
“King’s Pawn”: Surprise absentee from
i this year’s Australian chess championship
, is Gregory Koshnitsky, who has not
: missed the event since 1928 and has
won it more than once. Kosh, son of a
i White Russian violinmaker—also now in
r Australia—who had established himself
! in Shanghai, came to Australia as a
: youth, and carried off the Queensland
1 chess championship, later passing on to
Sydney to become the life of chess move-
ments there; his work is greatly respon-
sible for the predominance of N. S. Wales
in the game. He enlisted in the A.LF.
in 1942 and Army Education nobbled
him as chess instructor. He founded
the Chess Academy after the Metro-
politan Chess Club (also his infant)
was killed when the firrm ’ which
housed it wanted more trading room.
Selected to play (he is one of the three
acknowledged best Australian players), he
found that business gave him no time to
go to Brisbane, where the event takes
place this year.
Missing from this year’s Anzac march
in Melbourne, Captain James Rogers,
Australia’s senior V.C., was sick in bed
and could not view it from his usual
place near the Shrine dais. He won his
cross for conspicuous bravery in saving
an officer and four men in face of heavy
fire on June 15, 1901, when he galloped
five times into the Boer lines. In World
War I he served with the Anzacs on
Gallipoli, where he was severely wounded.
He was born in the Riverina 75 years ago.
Command of the well-blooded 24
Squadron, now Adelaide’s (B. 18/4/’5l),
goes to Wing-Commander R. M. Rechner,
S. Australian manager of T.A.A. Bom
in Edinburgh the year before the Kaiser
cut loose, Rechner donned R.A.A.F, blue
the year after Hitler had his go, to win
D.F.C. flying with the mother Air Force
in the Middle East. That, added to
service over Burma in the violent days of
1942, fitted him soundly to take on in-
structing back in Australia, before shift-
ing north to Darwin, staff-officer-opera-
tions. He heads, as well, S. Australia’s
Air Training Corps.
Passed on in Melbourne at 67, Engineer
Rear-Admiral Percy McNeil, who, from
1943, when he retired from the
R.A.N. to boost our depleted naval and
merchant fleets as Director of Shipbuild-
ing, had been the keel, as it were, of
the industry. In five years he had floated
two destroyers, 60 corvettes and 13 9000-
ton River-class merchantmen. He’d had
practical experience enough—joining the
Navy as engineer-lieutenant three years
before the Kaiser’s war, he finished it
commander, his charge the huge boilers
and turbines driving battlecruiser Aus-
tralia’s 19,200 armored tons. Coming
ashore to Garden Island, he had the
Squadron’s engine-rooms on his slopchit
for six efficient years, shifted to London
as technical adviser to our naval repre-
sentative there, then came home as Third
Member of the Naval Board and Chief of
Naval Construction. Retired from laying
keels in 1948, he was last heard of work-
ing on an improved steel hatch with
hinges for cargo ships.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Percival John Thome, Old Digger
of Gallipoli and France (wounded five times),
who joined the Railways solicitor’s department
after the Armistice. On retirement last year
he was Chief Solicitor for Transport and Rail-
ways. Son of one of Queensland’s pioneering
families (his grandfather was known as the
“founder of Ipswich”), he was cousin to R. G.
Casey.
In Sydney, William Lush, the Road Transport
Department’s first traffic-engineer. Designer of
the traffic signs on N.S.W. roads, on a higher
plane he was supervising-engineer, under Dr.
Bradfield, of a section of the Sydney Harbor
Bridge.
In Perth, at 81, Patrick Francis O’Dea,
solicitor who came from Adelaide in 1896 to
set up in practice in Kalgoorlje. In 1920 he
handed over the Goldfields practice to his son,
and founded a branch in Perth.
In Sydney, at 78, Joseph Clark, who had
three terms as Labor member for Wammerawa
(N.S.W.) in the Legislative Assembly in
1920-25. Five years later he was back, rep-
resenting Castlereagh for two years.


For Ease and Speed
of operation mark with
EIASTRATOR
.
r
Maa ym/ftetfad
ELASTRATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR
&
JAILER
for
iambs
calves
&
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St., Melbourne.
ELIS
iiiii
BAB COCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping;
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker*
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of * coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED!
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS • - RtGENTS PARK. H.SJ.
Branch Office* and Aqencle* hi all State*
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Incomes.
“J.R.D.”: Everyone will agree
with “Master Bevel’s” claim (B.
18/4/’5l) that “there is no
moral reason why a shearer
should not be as well off
financially as a grazier if he can
manage it,” but few will agree
with his other statements.
“There has been little or no
trouble in any industry where
A.W.U. members are engaged.”
“ 'E's got no time f'r wimmen. Reckons they're
after is money."
Indeed! The A.W.U. is one of
the steadiest and sanest unions
in Australia, but not even its
slickest organiser would try to
put that over. The union’s
greatest weakness is its sur-
render to the white-anting tac-
tics of the Commos, who have
been exploiting it for years,
Union officials talk a lot, but are
conspicuously absent from those
areas where the Corns are
stirring up trouble and dictat-
ing to unionists, who either obey
or go home to keep free of the
strife.
There is a fair sprinkling of
agitators in the N.S.W. shearing
country at present, their sole
occupation being to cause indus-
trial friction by inciting unionists
to demand higher and still
higher rates in excess of the
award, and, because there’s no
opposition, they are succeeding.
They seldom, if ever, handle a
bogeye, but they appear to have
plenty of money—and it doesn’t
come from the union or the
graziers.
According to “M. 8.,” 100
flock-sheep will cut at least
£lOOO-worth of wool. On aver-
ages they would have to cut
101 b. of wool per sheep, all of
which would be worth 240 d.
per lb.; or 121 b. a head at 200 d.
per lb. The average cut per
head (Commonwealth) is still
under 91b., and on that basis the
fleece, including locks, stained
and short pieces, and bellies,
would have to average 265.5 d.
Check that against the certified
Commonwealth average price—
the difference is a bit more than
100 d. per lb.
“The shearing rate is one sea-
son behind all wool-price rises,”
is it? The recent award in-
creases taking effect from April
9 were based on an average wool
price of 134 d. per lb. Figures
by the National Council of Wool
Selling Brokers show that the
average price per lb, of all
greasy wool sold in Australia
during the 1949-50 season to the
end of March, 1950, was 61.7 d.
For the same period of the 1950-
51 sales to the end of March,
1951, the average price per lb.
was 151.6 d. The April sales
brought a drop of 20-30 per
cent. There may be further
drops or there may be greater
increases, but the point is that
if wage rises drag behind wool-
price increases, as they must,
wage decreases will be just as
far behind drops in wool prices,
and they will have to be estab-
lished decreases—not mere fluc-
tuations —to affect award rates.
In stating that “present wool-
price average is 230 d.,” “M. 8.”
is accepting record wool prices
as averages. It would be just
as accurate to claim that the
average shearing tally was 300
sheep a day, which, at £7 14s. per
100, even for a five-day week,
would soon make the shearer as
well off financially as the
grazier.
Victorian Pastures.
“Mr.”: With grass and clover
seeds costing more than an
expensive lawn mixture used to,
some thought is called for when
a pasture is to be sown or reno-
vated.
J. Lomax, senior seeds inspec-
tor of the Victorian Department
of Agriculture, recommends
using certified seed only. This
costs little more than uncerti-
fied seed, which often has a low
germinating capacity. Sowing
in autumn or early spring gives
a better germination rate than
in winter, when a lot of seed
rots in the ground.
Lomax advises the use of a
simple mixture: In areas with
an average rainfall of 25in. to
30in., certified perennial rye-
grass, 101 b., and Mt. Barker sub.-
clover, 21b. per acre; 20in. to
25in., phalaris tuberosa, 21b., and
Mt, Barker or Bacchus Marsh
sub.-clover, 21b.; over 30in.,
certified perennial rye, 101 b.,
Vic. or N.Z. certified cocksfoot,
41b., N.Z. white clover, ilb., Mt.
Barker or Tallarook sub.-clover,
21b., and cow-grass lib. per acre.
At seeding give a liberal appli-
cation of superphosphate, at
least a bag to the acre.
Bordeaux and Burgundy.
“Hortus”: For Bordeaux,
bluestone, or copper sulphate,
freshly-burnt lime and water are
needed. For Burgundy, blue-
stone, common washing-soda
and water are the ingredients.
See that you get good bluestone,
which is in the form of dark-
blue cprstals. Don’t take those
of a lighter blue, as this prob-
ably contains a fair percentage
of sulphate of iron. Some is
being sold almost of a greenish-
blue color.
There is an easy test for it.
Dissolve a few crystals in water
and add a little ammonia. A
pale-blue precipitate is formed,
gradually dissolving to an intense
blue with no sediment. Presence
of iron will be shown by a
reddish sediment.
Get good lime. This should
be freshly burnt. If you can-
not get it, make Burgundy with
common washing-soda. There
is not much difference. Lime
and soda both act as neutra-
lisers to the corrosive action of
the acid copper-salt.
The ingredients must be dis-
solved separately. Have three
fairly large wooden vessels, two
of which should be on a raised
platform. For Bordeaux the
quantities are approximately
61b. of copper-sulphate, 41b. of
lime, 50gals. of water. Put the
sulphate in a porous bag and
suspend in the cask with 25gals,
of water. Don’t throw it loose
in the cask, as it won’t dissolve
very easily. In the other cask
add water to the powdered lime
so as to make a thin whitewash.
Then add rest of water, mixing
slowly. Don’t pour one cask
into the other, but let both casks
empty simultaneously into a
third.
For Burgundy the quantities
are bluestone 81b., washing-soda
101 b., water 40gals. Put 36gals.
in a cask and suspend bluestone
in bag. Then dissolve soda in
a separate vessel and pour this
slowly into the bluestone solu-
tion. Never vice versa.
When copper - sulphate is
added to slaked lime gypsum
and copper - hydroxide are
evolved. Neither of these has
really any effect upon fungoid
growth. But when copper-
hydroxide is applied to crops
the carbon dioxide given off by
the leaves reacts with it to form
a powerful fungicidal com-
pound.
mar^Tc^elty?
“Shadow-chaser”: I know
the rabbit pest is serious, but
couldn’t it be controlled with-
out recourse to germ warfare?
The spectacle of an apparently
civilised person transferring
germ-laden pus from the sight-
less eyes of an infected rabbit to
a clean one in the hope of caus-
ing blindness, suffering and
lingering death should arouse
the interest of the R.S.P.C.A.
and disgust every man and
woman with human compassion
in their hearts.
To claim (B. 4/4/’5l) that
Providence has “offered myxo-
matosis to us as a practical
method of getting rid of one of
our most serious national pests”
reveals a quaint conception of
Providence. May I suggest
rather that in myxomatosis and
its use on rabbits we have a
thought-provoking illustration of
the cold indifference of the
scientist to suffering—animal or
human?
Crossbreds Good Layers.
“Chiller”: Crossbred pullets
again laid considerably more
eggs than purebreds under trial
at the C.5.1.R.0. Poultry Re-
search Centre, Werribee (Vic.),
according to a progress report
for 1949-50 issued by C.5.1.R.0.
Three years’ observations on
three crossbred flocks bred from
Leghorns and Australorps show
that they are superior to their
purebred parents in egg-produc-
tion and other economic traits.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The southern adjunct to the great northern visible sun-
spot, which was not making much progress, has now
acquired a fresh component which should aid the production
of a fairly good rain shown on the cyclical chart. Further
to the west there is now the best southern group that has
been visible for some time, and its position is such that it
should give results in cloud and rain about the beginning
of May.
The present winter (from the cycle) shows a great con-
trast with that of last year, and rain for the rest of the year
is likely to be generally below normal. The southern States
will get winter rains, but probably mainly below normal.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
£
3ACKSOIH*
OStIMJVAN
a. pixcro. jh
TRADE
MARS
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Process Engravers
Stereotypers and Typefounders
Office Systems and Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Engineers
Jackson and
O’Sullivan
Ptt. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUt”, BRISBANE
m
T 33
kyourdi/ds
Mure planned?
Consult
THE EQUITABLE
There is a definite and very
profitable way of planning the
future of your child. A plan
that will make certain his
secondary education and busi-
ness training, and give him a
good start in his chosen pro-
fession or trade. You are in-
vited to write or call on “THE
EQUITABLiE” and discuss
this urgent and important
matter. Your prompt action
now can mean so much later
1 on.
w
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s food.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0.. Brisbane.
ENGLISH WALNUT
SEA REELS
NOTTINGHAM TYPE
Star Back, Removable Check, Brass
Flange and Lining: Balloon Knobs
3£in. 4in. Sin. 7in.
45/- 52/6 72/6 136/-
Postage Extra
Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.
654 George St., Sydney. M 6261.
ŵ
THE ability of WUNDERLICH Crafts-
men to produce Architectural Metalwork
of outstanding excellence is traditional, for
with the founding of the WUNDERLICH
INDUSTRY, over sixty years ago, was
established a high standard of workman-
ship and artistry that has remained unsur-
passed in the Metal-working field over the
intervening years.
Address enquiries to Wunderlich Limited,
Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney.
(Sypund&tLuA
Architectural metalwork
iIMM BKONZS • ALUMINIUM • STAINLSSS STSfiL- «TC
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Fire is noj| respecter of persons
-or property! s
»W ® W
1m &
ii B m
®. « B
mmi
ilßg
lb i
There's o type of
'Simplex' or 'Lux'
Extinguisher for every
kind of fire risk.
"Simplex”
Auto Type
Carbon
Tetrachloride
(CTC).
Capacity,
I quart.
’Simplex"
Stored Pressure
Carbon
Tetrachloride
(CTC) Type,
■•gallon
capacity.
"Lux" (Hand)
Carbon Dioxide
Gas (CO*)
Type 12-lb,
capacity.
"Simplex"
Soda Acid
Type 2-gallon
capacity.
Fire strikes where least expected—without warning. It’s a
risk that can never be completely eliminated from daily life!
In your premises or business—in your car or launch—
at home —in any building, a “Simplex” or “Lux” Fire
Extinguisher means positive and instant protection within
arm’s reach. There’s satisfaction in knowing it’s always
there —should the emergency arise.
“Simplex” and “Lux” Fire Extinguishers are approved
by all recognised Authorities and used by Government
Departments, the Navy, Army, Air Force.
SIMPLEX and LUX
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
MANUFACTURED BY
WORMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LIMITED,
Sydney. Newcastle, Orange, Wagga, Brisbane, Townsville.
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LIMITED.
Melbourne, Geelong, Perth, Ballarat, Hobart.
WORMALD BROTHERS (S.A.) LIMITED, Adelaide.
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LIMITED.
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Steelbilt Limited Kirsch Company (Aust.) Limited
ON GUARD 24 HOURS A DAY!
ẁ
“GRINNELL” Automatic Sprinkler Fire Protection safeguards millions of pounds
worth of the world’s property unceasingly “Grinnell” is never off duty.
The crossbreds showed better
hatchability, higher resistance to
disease and good meat quality,
and they produced at least 12
more eggs per year than the pure
parental breeds.
The experiments show the
rapid progress that can be made
in purebred flocks in only two
generations. Of the nine selec-
tive breeding systems under trial
only two have as yet influenced
egg - production significantly.
Both of these systems are based
on the selection as parents of
sires and dams which have been
proven by progeny test to be
superior in one of the charac-
teristics affecting egg-production.
In two generations these sys-
tems have raised average partial
winter egg-production (which is
a reliable guide to the egg-pro-
duction for the year) in Leg-
horns from 31 to 38.
Seeding by Air.
“C.S.”: On A. S. Nivison’s
Mirani, Walcha (N.S.W.), Air-
Griculture Control, Ltd., con-
ducted an operation which has
set a record in aerial seeding in
Australia and probably set the
pattern for pasture-improvement
on highlands.
In 6\ days the planes spread
132 tons of superphosphate on
3000-odd acres, 70001 b. of sub.-
clover seed on 1855 acres and
60801 b. of rye-grass on 800
acres.
The hopper used for the distri-
bution of super, can be adjusted
to distribute from 561 b. to 2cwt.
to the acre. As it is practical to
sow sub.-clover seed with super.,
70001 b. of seed was put out at
the same time as the super. For
this work a secondary hopper is
fitted in the main hopper and
the output regulated to give
from 21b. to 61b. per acre of
seed. Thus a completely even
coverage of seed and super, is
obtained.
The rye was sown separately.
For this light seed special air-
jackets are fitted in the main
hopper to force the seed out
evenly.
Thus the aerial seeding fits
into the method of pasture-im-
provement on highlands ; that is,
to establish sub.-clover when the
country is first top-dressed with
super, and, after the clover has
introduced the necessary nitrogen
into the soil, to introduce blade
grasses.
Mirani is country with a
comparatively low carrying
capacity. It is being improved
so it may carry two or three
sheep to the acre on a balanced
pasture. Pasture-improvement
reduces the winter low-nutri-
tional period from four to 2i
months.
Sweet Sorghum.
“Beroo”; At the sugar tech-
nologists’ conference in Bunda-
berg recently a local farmer,
E. C. Thiele, gave results he had
obtained from the use of sweet
sorghum as green manure.
His soil did not respond to the
ordinary fertilisers such as potash
and phosphate, but molasses
gave an excellent response,
which he attributed to the sugar
content.
Sweet sorghum appeared to
be a cheaper proposition, and
it was found that the tilth of the
soil was improved out of sight
by the double effects of the fer-
mentation of the sweet residues
and the extensive fibrous root-
system. The sorghum—sacca-
line was used —will withstand
dry conditions better than
legumes, does not suffer the
hazard of bean-fly attacks, is
cheaper to plant and gives a
greater weight of green matter
to be turned under. Experts
assert that there is little danger
to sugarcane from disease and
insects in the growing of these
sorghum cover-crops.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Soot is an
unusual and valuable ingredient
in liquid manure because of its
nitrogen content. After a few
days the water in which the bag
of manure and soot has been
suspended should become the
color of weak tea. If it is
stronger than that dilute it. As
the liquid is used more water
may be added, but don’t do this
more than twice before replenish-
ing manure and soot. When
applying liquid manure see that
the soil is well soaked before-
hand,
“Bill C”: To help acacia
(wattle) seed to germinate, set
the seed on the ground, cover
with a few inches of dried leaves,
grass, etc., and run a fire over
it. That’s what happens in the
bush where wattle seedlings
spring up in hundreds after a
fire. However, most young
wattles are killed by the next
fire, so don’t plant yours where
they’ll be scorched. It’s the
same with sheoaks.
“Myrr”: If the growth of leaf
crops slackens before maturity
work in an ounce of sulphate of
ammonia or blood manure to the
square yard. Veges such as
silver-beet and Chinese cabbage,
which produce over an extended
period, need, in addition, |oz:
of sulphate of ammonia or its
equivalent per plant every
month. Rapidly-growing plants
like lettuce benefit from lighter,
more frequent applications, but
make sure that the manure is
not worked in closer than 6in.
from the stems.
“M.”: The Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture is running
a class for herd-testers at Burn-
ley College of Primary Agricul-
ture, beginning on May 21,
1951. Instruction will be given
in milk-testing; practice of
principles of the Babcock test;
rules governing the association
system of herd-testing ; herd-test
recording work. Twenty
vacancies exist. Write to the
Superintendent of Dairying, De-
partment of Agriculture, Mel-
bourne.


w
FROM THE
PAIN OF
RHEUMATISM
Dolcin has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic disorders
In America, Canada and England.
Now it is mode available for you.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis. Pro-
longed relief is also given because
Dolcin contains substances which
impr*"' the supply of blood and
oxygon to the .affected tissues.
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no
harmful effects on the heart or any
other organ.
DOLCIN has been approved in
clinical tests and prescribed by
the Medical profession.
DOLCIN is easy to take in Tablet
form.
DOLCIN It obtainable from your
Chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/4
6-40
INSURANCE — for your protection ——
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
ŵ
SWEET INNOCENCE
and winning ways
In childhood’s care-free, happy days.
Then youth and love their joys impart
The Springtime, song-time of the heart!
Along green lanes where lovers stray.
When chill winds greet the fading day,
All springtime sweethearts know, be sure,
The worth of Woods’ Great
Peppermint Care.
Telephone:
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Vine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
CHAMPiO
ill
MO
(fatfmtoimi&t
to the yc££o
V; SPARK PLUGS
K
#1
11
World's favorite spark pfug for
more than a quarter of a century
10Q(1I Head TOUCH
• llv/ C °T
SpeotaUV 1 ? ck lrea d resist
*zrx*- -• ev
ir— -*«••
Sui HotHot cc,i
-tLZ* «- itamißo -
tor
lob
ẁ
HI-MILER RlB—For long,
fast hauls on improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER ALL-WEATHER—
Recommended wherever
greater traction la needed.
HI-MILER
TRUCK and BUS TYRES
BY
GOODYEAR
Performance records of Hi-Milers have proved to
thousands of truck and bus operators all oyer Aus-
tralia that these famous Goodyear Tyres give most
for the money in mileage and trouble-free service.
Let these tough Hi-Milers keep your vehicles moving,
reduce delays and cut your tyre costs to a minimum.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEIW
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR YOUR JOB!
lOA2-J6
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At Eagle Farm on Saturday the
Stradbroke Handicap was won most
convincingly by Aqua Regis, the story
of whose comparatively sparse racing
career, topped-off by the Stradbroke,
victory, reads like something straight
from Nat Gould.
When the tiptop mare Amiable was
retired from the Turf some years ago
she was naturally expected to shine
as a brood mare. Amiable had won
a dozen races, including the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes, Standish Handicap,
Leonard Stakes, C. W. Cropper Plate
and Rosstown Plate. In winning the
Lloyd Stakes she had downed a
mighty trio of sprinters in High Caste,
Ajax and Manrico at weight-for-age,
and, clocking 1.34 f, she had set an
Australian record for the mile which
was to stand until Shannon lowered
it to 1.34|. However, at stud Amiable
registered a series of disappointments
until a mating with Midstream pro-
duced a solid lump of a colt who,
as Aqua Regis, finished third in the
Breeders’ Plate of 1948. A week later
Aqua Regis won the Canonbury
Stakes by eight lengths, and it seemed
that Amiable had at last produced
something approaching her own class.
So endeth the first chapter.
Aqua Regis did not race again as
a two-year-old. In fact, even now,
rising five, he has had only 17 starts
altogether; he has been plagued by
injuries and leg-trouble. As an early
three-year-old Aqua Regis had a
number of runs without showing a
vestige of form until he suddenly
burst into the limelight again with a
remarkable performance at Randwick
in October, 1949. It was a City
Tattersall’s Club meeting. Aqua Regis
was saddled up for the 7-furlongs
Club Welter, and, starting favorite
despite his contemporarily poor form,
he won by three lengths. Little more
than an hour later, with one race
intervening. Aqua Regis was saddled
up again for the 6-furlongs George
Herdsman Stakes. With a change of
rider and a 71b. penalty for his pre-
vious win, Amiable’s son won the
second race just as easily as he had
done the first.
The next chapter in the Aqua Regis
story comprises an extended spell
with a short season at stud; foals of
his get are expected in August. Back
to work, the Midstream four-year-old
re-entered the winning list only a few
weeks back when he was quietly
slipped down to Melbourne, there to
land a big betting coup at Moonee
Valley. Starting in a Highweight,
he was backed from tens down to
threes, and won easily.
At this stage everything in the
garden was rosy—all set for the best
Gouldian touch of all. When weights
were issued for the Stradbroke con-
nections of Aqua Regis must have
been highly elated as they read down
through the eight-stoners and beyond
without coming to their fellow. Then
came a rude awakening as they dis-
covered that he was not weighted
at all. It appeared that his nomina-
tion had been lodged all right, but
that the Sydney agent had not for-
warded it to Brisbane. After a couple
of weeks’ investigation the Q.T.C.
took the almost unprecedented step
of allowing Aqua Regis belatedly to
join the party; he was given Bst.
Following hjs good run behind The
Pilot at Rosehill, Aqua Regis was
taken to Brisbane last week (arriving
only on the Thursday), and on Satur-
day, starting at 20 to 1, he made an
exhibition of the Stradbroke field.
Aqua Regis was drawn badly in
No. 17 barrier position, but with G.
Moore in the saddle he jumped
smartly, and by sheer brilliance was
sharing the lead before they’d
travelled two furlongs. Merry Seoul
briefly headed Aqua Regis as they
turned for home, but on straightening
up Aqua Regis left them standing.
Aqua Regis scored by three lengths.
Too good for the remainder was the
local representative Lucky Ring, win-
ner of the two previous Stradbroke
Handicaps. After beginning poorly,
and being last early, Eclair did well
to finish third, only a head behind
Lucky Ring. Doing his best work
at the finish, Grey Boots ran fourth.
The favorite, Donegal, already under
the disadvantage of conceding weight
all round, tried also, as is his habit,
to concede them a big start, and the
race was all over when he finally
hove into sight.
The Queensland St. Leger was won
effortlessly by the odds-on favorite,
Basha Felika, who scored by a length
from Royal Rank, with Amberstream
third. Geldings are still permitted to
contest the classics in Queensland,
and both winner and runner-up in
the St. Leger were geldings. So, too,
was last year’s winner, Spellman.
Basha Felika is the third son of The
Buzzard to take out the Queensland
St. Leger; he looks a stayer of real
promise, and his owner may have
been wise in deciding not to put
him to the severe test of a run in
Monday’s Cup.
Another son of The Buzzard on
Saturday also raised memories of last
year’s St. Leger. Evidently Eagle
Farm is a course of ill-omen for the
Sydney stayer Playboy. Last year he
started at odds-on for the St. Leger
and finished a badly-beaten second in
a field of three. On Saturday he
went out at odds-on for the P. J.'
O’Shea Stakes and finished third in
a field of four. Voussoir and Prince
o’ Fairies fought out the Stakes,
Voussoir scoring by a head.
* * * *
With other leading hoops either
abroad or enjoying Brisbane’s warm
notions of winter. Jack Thompson
was left at Randwick to fill the role
of innocent bait in a trap into which
punters regularly don’t so much fall
as rush headlong. In the circum-
stances nearly all his mounts were
heavily backed —three of them to
favoritism. The result, as it often
has been in the past, was a whole-
sale scorching of fingers and a
glorious harvest for the books.
Thompson had mounts in every race,
and only once finished in a place.
All favorites were beaten, and four
winners were at double-figure odds.
Horses engaged at Randwick were,
on the whole, very much winter class,
but fields were big and the racing
excellent. In only one event did the
winning margin exceed a neck; that
was when Salamanca (R. Selkrig)
downed favorite Blue Flag by three-
parts of a length in the Flying, with
old Trover half-a-length further back
after trying to lead all the way. The
second leg of the main double, the
Warwick April Handicap, saw a more
successful shot at the lead-all-the-way
business. Exhibiting high disdain for
the opposition and for the length of
the journey (12 furlongs), the Talking
gelding Blue Ocean (H. Hanley)
hopped straight into the lead, had
lengths to spare at various points en
mute, and lasted it out to win by a
half-neck from Damascene. Oddly
enough Blue Ocean, now rising six,
had never been tried at anything
beyond seven furlongs until a few
weeks back. In three starts over a
spot more distance he has run two
firsts and a third.
Ail starting at long odds, Magic
Touch (R. Denn) and Bronze Peak
(S. Cassidy) won two-year-old events
for fillies and colts respectively;
Ajanni (A. Ward) took the Carlita
Handicap (7f.); and Captain Theo
won the mile Moorebank Handicap.
But in all these events performances
noted further back in the fields seemed
the ones to keep in mind for future
profits In the two-year-old events
Pagan Rebel and Eagle Prince (both
by War Eagle) and Blue’s Sister all
looked promising; Pagan Rebel par-
ticularly so—with another run under
her belt and some necessary tighten-
ing-up of the said belt. Behind
Ajanni, Belle Amber and Pyramid
both looked ready to pick up some-
thing. And, behind Captain Theo,
Blue Ensign had a ripe appearance.
* * * *
The Melbourne Racing Club’s pro-
gramme at Caulfield ran to eight
events, and for once the bookies had
real cause to bemoan the results,
which included the successes of three
favorites, two equal-favorites and a
close second-favorite.
#
Quite the highlight of proceedings
was jockey S. Ralph’s effort of land-
ing a treble for owner W. R. Kemball.
Oddly, it seemed, the three winners
were prepared by three different
trainers. Evidently Mr. Kemball
knows his proverbs.
It was the first time in his 15 years
in the saddle that Ralph had landed
a treble. He started the good work
when he lifted Longden home a bare
neck ahead of favorite Princess
Lorraine in the second Balwyn Handi-
cap for two-year-olds. By way of
recompense for backers of favorites
Ralph’s other two winners were solid
popular fancies. Milford started at
7 to 4 for the 12-furlongs Riversdale
Handicap and, though very hard-
pressed by the grey Durham, won by
a neck. In the 9-furlongs Shannon
Handicap the 11-to-8 favorite, Savoy
won easily, though he was conceding
a pile of weight.
Divisions of the mile Eltham Trial
Stakes followed a pattern; each pro-
duced equal-favorites at 4 to I and
in each the favorites finished first and
third, Merlita (M. Fitzgerald) took
the first division and Moderniste (F.
Treen) the second. Varemba (P.
Ryan) won the first Balwyn Handicap
and the former Sydney flat performer
Cape Neddick (R. Hall) enhanced his
Grand National prospects by carrying
10.9 to a fairly comfortable victory
in the Kenilworth Hurdle.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Juvenile Stakes; Pagan Rebel, 1;
Lia'nda, 2; Gilmara, 3. Two-year-old
Handicap: Militant, 1; Divulge, 2;
Trizami, 3. Novice; Valley Forge, 1;
Grand Union, 2; Wanfield, 3. Three-
and Four-year-old: Ananzi, 1; Grand
Archer, 2; Golden Wedge, 3. Flying;
Trover, 1; Blue Flag, 2; Tesmic, 3.
James Barnes Plate: Blue Ocean, 1;
Persist, 2; Saville Row, 3. Welter:
Blue Ensign, 1; Golden Tan, 2;
Alabama King, 3.
* * * *
Rugby Union matches played in
Sydney on Saturday brought wins for
both University and Norths: this
leaves both teams undefeated, two
points ahead of Easts, who, after
being beaten in the first round, have
won their last three games. The
competition will not be resumed until
May 19, pending two representative
fixtures, North v. South on May 5,
and N.S.W. v. Queensland on May
12.
The importance of club positions
on the competition table in selection
of representative teams has once
again been borne out in the selection
of the North and South teams.
Players from the leading competition
teams. Northern Suburbs and Univer-
sity, dominate the respective represen-
tative teams, and undoubtedly some
of these men would not have come
into consideration had it not been
that they were in winning teams.
Selectors must think twice before they
can lightly discard any player of a
team that consistently wins its
matches; unfortunately, many clubs
do not stress the importance of win-
ning the early matches of the season,
thereby depriving some of their
players of the opportunity of gaining
representative honors-—one of the few
bouquets to come the way of the
amateur footballer.
In addition to winning, teams
should endeavor to make the win-
ning margin as great as possible, as
every point they put on the board
brings another of their players closer
to realising a footballer’s ambition.
In Saturday’s games University beat
Parramatta, Norths beat Eastwood,
Randwick beat St. George, Manly
beat Drummoyne, Easts beat Wests
and Gordon had the bye, which it
devoted to stoushing United Services.
* ♦ * *
Saturday’s V.F.L. games in Mel-
bourne drew about 130,000 between
them, most of them at M.C.G., where
some 37,000 saw Collingwood prove
that the small man’s day isn’t over
in Aussie Rules. With a couple of
comparative bantams, Merrett as
wing-centre and Coghlan roving and
forward, the Magpies simply wal-
loped Melbourne by 15.16-7.15. At
Footscray 24,000 turned out to see
the locals repeat the previous Satur-
day’s feat, a win by a point. They
did it against Richmond with a last-
minute goal; against Carlton, in a
poor-scoring and poor-shooting game
they were 5.11 to 4.16 ten minutes
before the end, and held the Blues
out. St. Kilda, which startled the
natives last year with a run of wins,
startled North Melbourne in the ruck
and in the air, and won comfortably,
12.9 to 8.14. Richmond walloped
South Melbourne, 14.13 to 5.7; Fitz-
roy gathered 12.11 to Geelong’s 10.7;
and Essendon, full of woes and sub-
stitutes, was so immersed in worry
that Hawthorn was still leading at
three-quarter time, whereupon the
Dons woke up, hurriedly booted
enough to win by 12.14 to 9.7, then
fled north-west in search of liniment,
bandages and new men. Eleven of
the 1950 premiers are out of action.
* * * *
Hitherto sailing along gaily in a
professional career which had seen
him notch up 11 consecutive wins,
Kevin James (Bst.) was brought to
a halt when he encountered a small
package of wily experience in the
shape of former Australian flyweight
champion Taffy Hancock (7.13£) at
Leichhardt last week. James is of the
southpaw persuasion, and as such he
found himself simply a sitting target
for Hancock’s right leads, which
floored the molly-dook exponent twice
in the first round. Hancock con-
tinued to floor his opponent at least
once in every round until the ref.
intervened with a kindly t.k.o. deci-
sion in the fifth.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others 2ld. per line.
British Industries Fair
The announcement that, for the fourth
year in succession, Australia is not ex-
hibiting at the British Industries Fair is
rather disturbing news. Every other
Dominion and British colony will be
represented at the Fair, with the British
Commonwealth section the largest ever.
Canada alone has an exhibit covering
more than 1000 square feet.
The reason given by Fair officials for
Australia not being represented is that
this country deems it unnecessary to ad-
vertise its goods, and that other methods
of bringing its products to the notice of
the world are quite satisfactory.
Thousands of visitors will be thronging
to the Fair and some of the most out-
standing and keenest businessmen will
be carefully inspecting all exhibits. Aus-
tralia, however, supposedly proud of its
industrial achievements, sits back com-
placently and deems it unnecessary to
have an exhibit.
Are our products so superior that we
need not fear competition from other
countries? Is it that we have no worth-
while product to exhibit? Are we content
to watch other countries proudly display
their achievements? If authorities are
against exhibiting yearly, if they are sure
that there will be a big demand for our
goods for many years to come, if they
are satisfied with the publicity given, if
they believe they “have better methods
of bringing its products to the notice of
the world,” why then could not an ex-
hibit have been arranged as a special
gesture to Britain in our Commonwealth
Jubilee year?— R. SC, (S.A.).
Rents and Tenancy Laws
“Dick Turpin’s” comments (B.
11/4/’5l) upon my par, on rents indicate
his ignorance of what the present rental
and tenancy laws are doing for the
people of N.S.W. —moreover, he may be
confusing property-owners with head-
tenants in his denunciation of the joker
who collects his rent. So very many of
the “landlords” referred to in Press re-
ports of excessive rentals are rack-
renters: people who sublet their
premises at extortionate rents to the
detriment of both the owner of the
property and the occupiers.
These pirates are fostered and pro-
tected by the present tenancy laws. In
his own case, if he knows that his pre-
decessors in occupation were paying only
30s. as against his four guineas, he has
his remedy at the office of the Rent Con-
troller—if he likes to take the risk.
Few honest people today would con-
tend that the property-owner as a class
should be singled out for repression. Yet
the Government thinks nothing of con-
scripting rental property and denying
owners the right either to occupy their
premises, nominate their tenants, or to
secure a return in keeping with present
conditions. On the other hand, it com-
pels them to maintain those properties
and render all sorts of services they
never contracted to render, and all at
today’s costs. These same property-
owners pay the rates and taxes which
provide and maintain roads, water and
sewerage services, parks, gardens and
every other municipal amenity.
“D.T.” should meet just a few of the
aged owners of odd pairs of semis or
single cottages, let to tenants who pay
rentals of less than 255. per week —very
much less, in many cases. N. S. Wales
Premier McGirr does not hesitate to
shove up his tram-fares to pay for the
increased cost of maintenance of the cars.
As to increase in the capital value of
property, a cottage built in 1939 for
£7OO would today probably carry a V.G.
of £l2OO or £l4O0 —twice the value in
£A. But try to build that cottage today
for £l2OO or £l4OO, and see how you
get on.
One of the most deadly effects of the
McGirr restrictive tenancy legislation is
that it has killed building of investment
property. Under normal conditions the
thousands of young people who are at
present at their wits’ ends trying to buy
or rent homes would be catered for by
investors who in their day and genera-
tion have served the country —and them-
selves —well. This Government has wiped
out of existence that source of dwel-
ling accommodation and has replaced it
by a State authority which counts its
accomplishments by hundreds where
thousands are needed, which treats its
tenants as private landlords never treated
theirs, and which is a law unto itself in
every phase of its activity.
The up-and-coming generation has the
option of entering the State Housing
Lottery, of paying key-money to some
outgoing tenant, or of battling to buy its
own home, something which, under the
McGirr regime, is approaching the im-
possible.—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Compensation for Resumption
“Cave’s” explanation (B. 14/3/’5l) that
it requires money to take a case to the
Land Valuation Court and obtain fail-
treatment gives significance to a decision
of the W.A. Government over its latest
resumption for railway extension. A
Government spokesman said that of two
alternative routes one was chosen because
it involved the resumption of 14 dwellings,
for which the payment would be “at the
most” £20,000.
The other route involved the resump-
tion of property belonging to a company
which, at its other factory at Albany,
had already successfully appealed against
a Government valuation. In this case the
court rejected the Government offer of
£250,000 and made it £1,000,000. That
company would obviously fight a case
again. The householders were unlikely
to be able to afford it.
The value placed on those 14 houses
(and land) —an average of £l5OO each —
is an indication of the Government’s
views on “adequate” compensation.
Valuations are now proceeding and the
Government is represented by a solicitor
—at the expense of the taxpayers, among
them the people whose land is being
resumed. — Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
Migrants for Farms
In these days when the call is for more
and still greater production the
authorities could help the farmer by
making more migrants available for rural
labor.
Although thousands of people arrive
from overseas each month, how many
eventually find their way to the country
for any type of work? If the experience
of this western Victorian town is any
guide, the number is about one in a
hundred.
Farm help would be of maximum
advantage in the matter of fodder-con-
servation, particularly as labor-saving
machinery is difficult to obtain. If labor
had been available in this district last year
much more fodder would have been con-
served and the effects of the present
drought greatly minimised. Accommoda-
tion would not be a problem, as many
farmers would be only too pleased to
take migrant workers into their homes
as they previously did with Italian
p.-0.-w. — Plain Australian (Vic.).
Australian Cigarettes
Some months ago it was reported that
the Minister concerned would “look into”
the Australian cigarettes position and
make a statement regarding his inquiries.
Nothing further seems to have transpired.
It is puzzling (and irritating) to smokers
generally, and to small retailers, that im-
ported English cigarettes of inferior
quality are plentiful on the Australian
market at prices nearly double those of
the local product, while Australian
blended and packed cigarettes and
tobaccos are practically unprocurable—
and then generally only by furtive “under-
the-counter” trade.
Since excise figures in relation to
tobaccos rise steadily year by year it is
reasonable to suppose that the produc-
tion of Australian brands of cigarettes
has increased correspondingly. Conse-
quently, it must seem that the major
portion of the locally-produced output is
exported, possibly at profits in excess of
the margins permitted under Australian
fixed prices.
I don’t know whether ways and means
exist to force manufacturers to satisfy
the home market before exporting their
particular goods, but, if not, there’s cer-
tainly a crying need for some such legis-
lation with regard to cigarettes and
tobacco. The catchcry that the high post-
war incidence of women smokers, plus the
satisfaction of ex-soldier quotas, is re-
sponsible for the short supply of Aussie
fags doesn’t wash, and Government action
ensuring reasonable protection to con-
sumers of favorite Australian brands of
tobacco is long overdue. —P. B. (N.S.W.),
A.B.C. News Service
M. F. Dixon’s criticism of the A.B.C.
news service (B. 4/4/’5l) for not extend-
ing its bulletins during the recent N. S.
Wales newspaper-circulation interruption
is quite unwarranted, for the service is
giving an up-to-the-minute and complete
cover of daily news.
In Melbourne and Sydney there are at
least eight bulletins daily, and the A.B.C.
rigidly adheres to its policy of not re-
peating any item unless it is important.
Only exceptions to this rule are the two
midday bulletins at 12.30 p.m. and
1.30 p.m., which is more or less a repeat
to catch the two lunch-hours.
But any suggestion of increasing the
service due to a tinpot circulation inter-
ruption would have been unwise, and I
think the A.B.C, executives made a
sensible decision in allowing things to re-
main as they were.
I have been a journalist for many years
and claim to have gained a fair know-
ledge of news-sense and news-value.
Recently when quail-shooting for a week
I was able to listen to all the A.B.C.
bulletins and was up to the minute with
the news as if papers were available.
When I returned home each of the four
Melbourne dailies were there for the dura-
tion of my holiday. I read them all and
there was nothing new in them except
the special articles, which naturally don’t
lend themselves to broadcasting and are
offset by the radio talks.
The A.B.C. has reached a stage where
its news service is almost perfect and
really up to the minute. When Hawker’s
chief test pilot (Squadron-leader Trevor
Wade) was killed in a crash recently,
first announcement came over the early-
morning bulletins. The dailies did not
publish until several hours later. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Sydney’s Transport
What has happened to McGirr’s
promised commission or inquiry into the
transport muddle? Isn’t it high time an
explanation was forthcoming of why—in
spite of fabulous increases in fares—
trains, trams and buses are still losing
money in large lumps?
Even allowing for enormous wages
bills and high costs of electrical and other
equipment and permanent-way mainten-
ance, it is difficult to believe, for example,
that a tram running four or five miles at
an average of ninepence per person for
the full journey doesn’t consistently return
a profit.
As for the idea that peak-hour fare-
scalers are mainly responsible for the
continued insolvency of the transport
services, this theory hardly bears scrutiny
—after all, the overloading of all vehicles
during peak-hour periods must counter
any loss of revenue due to such isolated
instances of public dishonesty.
All in all, the wretched state into which
Sydney’s transport has sunk in recent
years disgraces the McGirr Government,
and hastening a probe into the conduct of
the various services would be the least
the Premier could do by way of repara-
tion.—P. M. C. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 119
Across.
I—An instrument clogs fidgets with
the sounds of a clock, fooey. (12)
7 Persian governor had a sit-down
strike. (6)
8— Wicked in the epoch of banter. (8)
11— The night before the first girl
appears. (3)
12 — Only a mile back with one
country cutting out. (11)
13 — Coves have sound quality in this
Melbourne b'each. (7)
14— A strip of cloth in an orchestra. (4)
18— Former American ambassador to
Japan became larger and larger. (4)
19 — Suffocate smum or sma or smater.
(7)
24 This urges Thor’s ordnance to
show its approval. (11)
25 Island group north of Australia
(3)
26 These are cooler with a muscular
twitch’s obsessed enthusiasts. (8)
27 It’s certainly on top of the world.
(6)
28— Decoys the milkmaid’s equipment
and the ham ages. (12)
Down.
1 — Putrefying Shakspearian clown to
telephone. (9)
2 Taxes of the French cravates. (6)
3 Scram, Teddy! (8)
4 European sex-appeal in the
’twenties is borne by Albert and
a Scottish johnnie. (7)
5 Gertrude to sanctify the German
one of glass. (5)
6 Such a motorist thanks the
cricket team on the British Isles.
(7)
9 —Country knows what I did in
order to break ray duck. (4)
10 —Droop asks thee a question. (4)
15 — Informs against the hideout
weights. (9)
16 — Tax-commissioners and wicket-
keepers get them. (7)
17 — It is game to urge a Frenchman
to be a bounder. (8)
20 — Comedian and another monstrous
bird keep company for such
leather. (7)
21 — Mournful ringing of bells de-
manded on Sydney’s bridge. (4)
22 — The entrance of mine provides a
little publicity on it. (4)
23 — Very personal adornment pro-
vided by a drummer. (6)
24 A Welshman and a thief. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 118.


.
a
»
m
w
BATTERIES
f
ti
I
Vi'.'
ŵ
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
20th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
22 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES;
CAR. TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
AGENCE ALMA, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
TITCOMB & LEE, SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 GoulburnStreet, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
