

f
VKTE B£IIVtB
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Br.tain, for birthdays, weddings,
Anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in theh
London cellars, the House ot Seppelt can arrange immediate
* el ' Products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
O Vi}
B. SEPPELT Cr SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEYiBox 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE; Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
'The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3746
Wednesday, November 28, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DELTA
Brown horse by Midstream-Gazza. Five years.
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1951
OWNER: MR. A. BASSER
TRAINER: MAURICE McCARTEN
JOCKEY: NEVILLE SELLWOOD
WEIGHT: 9st. 5lb. TIME: 3min. 24¼sec.


im
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
— —-CUT HERE AND MAIL mm mmmm
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.851) A K e
The Red Page
FRY'S NEW PLAY.
Christopher Fry’s A Sleep of Prisoners
(Oxford) is an experimental piece, run-
ning along with a patch or two of James
Joyce’s night-language;
Police on earth. Aggression is the better
Part of Allah. Liberating very high
The dying and the dead. Freedoom, free-
doom , . .
and a patch or two.rather like Eliot:
Other lives forbear
To blame me, great and small forgive me
If to your various agonies
My light should seem hardly enough
To be the cause of the ponderable
shadow . . .
and line after line and page after page
of pure Fry, spirited, witty, lyrical,
imaginative—writing with infinitely more
of the melody and color of true poetry
than you get from any other con-
temporary exponent of the verse-play;
Fish, fish, fish in the sea, you flash
Through your clouds of water like the war
in heaven:
Angel-fish and swordfish, the silver
troops ...
And I am salt and sick on a raft above
you,
Wondering for land, but there’s no home-
ward
I can see . . . God have mercy
On our sick shoals, darting and dying.
We’re strange fish to you. How long
Can you drift over our sea and not give up
The ghost of hope? The air is bright
between us.
The flying fish make occasional rainbows,
But land, your land and mine, is nowhere
yet.
The play, a longish one-acter, deals
with four British soldiers, prisoners of
the Germans in World War 11, who sleep
in an old church and dream Biblical
dreams, re-enacting the stories of Cain
and Abel, David and Absalom, Abra-
ham and Isaac and, finally, Shadrac,
Meshac and Abednego in the burning
fiery furnace. Out of that, as well as the
ripple and glitter of the verse, the audi-
ence gets several moments of tension and
terror when the various murders are
threatened or carried out, a symbolical
picture of the modern world, and a
philosophy of courage:
The human heart can go to the lengths of
God.
Dark and cold we may be, but this
Is no winter now. The frozen misery
Of centuries breaks, cracks, begins to move;
The thunder is the thunder of the floes,
The thaw, the flood, the upstart Spring.
Thank God our time is now when wrong
Comes up to face us everywhere,
Never to leave us till we take
The longest stride of soul men ever took.
It is a delightful play to read, and, since
its killings and its spectacles of nightmare
and fire will undoubtedly look more im-
pressive on the stage than they do in the
text, it should interest little theatres every-
where ; but it is more like the experi-
ments of Auden or Spender than the full-
bodied art Fry has previously developed
and it will not do what most one hopes
from him —fill a big popular theatre with
the full vitality of the poetic drama.
The weakness, primarily, is in
characterisation. Out of “Macbeth” you
remember Macbeth; but there is no
memorable character among Fry’s lightly-
sketched soldiers. And from the weak-
ness of characterisation comes a shallow-
ness in the total effect; a shallowness of
emotion. Macbeth’s soliloquy about
“Tomorrow and tomorrow” has the pro-
found weight of Macbeth’s personal
despair in it; Fry’s “God have mercy on
our sick shoals,” spoken by a character
so shadowy and abstract as Corporal
Adams, lacks that weight; only the
author’s own anxiety about the state of
the world lies beneath and moves through
it and that, though sincere enough, is not
the agony of Macbeth.
The play, Fry’s first published tragedy
—one can hardly describe it by any other
term in spite of its optimistic ending-
leaves one wondering whether Fry is
simply what he has so far appeared to
be: the most delightful writer of comedy
in verse since the Elizabethans: or
whether, since tragedy should not be be-
yond his outstandingly vigorous and
flexible talent, he is not making a mistake
in trying to invent his own plots, which
was never Shakspeare’s practice. A
Phoenix Too Frequent, where he took his
plot from Petronius, remains his best
play ; and such prose works as Kafka’s
The Trial or E. E. Cummings’s The
Enormous Room, one in a symbolic style
and the other realistic, would have given
him much more effective material than
his own slight central idea for a play
about prisoners-of-war or modern man
in a nightmare.
Sea Stories.
It is not the business of George Kerr
to be a Conrad in his Business in Great
Waters (Faber); so with no pretence at
literary excellence he sets course in plain
and businesslike manner to record one
of the great stories of World War ll—the
heroic chronicle of those merchant sea-
men who went down to the sea in un-
armored ships so that, against shell and
bomb and torpedo, their Island could
be nourished and kept armed and its fight-
ing men transported to far-off frontiers,
so that it should not itself suffer in-
vasion.
Though the book is of the P. and O.
Line, it records, by implication, the
history of the whole of that fine body
the British Mercantile Marine, now the
Merchant Navy.
The P. and 6. lost 19 ships in the war,
most of them by submarine torpedo ; the
author has had almost a surfeit of
material to work on, and wisely has
given most space to those ships whose
ordeals under fire have become battle-
honors for their Line.
Perhaps the most outstanding of these
is Cormorin, her death illustrating, as it
does, not only the gallantry of common
English seamen, but the superb seaman-
ship of the British destroyer which, under
frightful hazard, remained alongside to
rescue men from the fiery tomb.
One wild north-Atlantic day in April,
1941, destroyer Broke intercepted a
distress - signal from armed-merchant-
cruiser Cormorin. Broke increased speed
and ran down-wind for the wirelessed
position. Shortly after eight that night
she sighted a vivid red glow ahead —it
grew rapidly into a 15,000-tonner on fire,
great roaring sweeps of flame feeding
greedily on her wooden interior.
Broke wasted no time. Rafts were
tried, ferrying a dozen men at a time —
Cormorin had over 400 aboard her. The
destroyer’s captain had the decision to
make. From trough to crest the waves
rose 60ft.; the great ship’s steel bilges
would lift, showing her dripping screws
and rudder, then crunch down in a welter
of spray. A destroyer’s paper-thin plates
would buckle like a tin under a steam-
roller if they got in the way of those
thrashing tons. Broke’s captain decided
to go alongside.
With infinite care, backed by the judg-
ment of years, Broke slid her slender
stem in alongside Cormorin’s lee quarter.
Had she come in on the other, windward,
side, the frenzied seas would have pulped
her against the wall-sided liner. But, on
the lee side, she had other waves to con-
tend with —waves of flame, leaping, lurid
washes of them, beautifully and terribly
gold against the black sea.
There was the other danger of the
relative vertical speeds at which the ships
passed each other. “At one moment the
men waiting on Cormorin’s after-deck
would be 40ft. above Broke’s foc’s’le; at
the next they were 10 below it. The
decks flashed past and the men had to
jump as though from an express lift,”
In twos and threes and tens they
jumped. Most were injured, falling
across guard-rails and gun-barrels, land-
ing flat on their backs on steel decks
hardly softened by mess-stool padding.
Time and again Broke had to back away
—as it was her foc’s’le looked like a tin-
can which had been used as a football
by a squadron of tanks. And each time
she went astern into the smashing seas
her after-part was flooded, and her whole
length raced and shuddered under the
strain of her screws. Wires, ropes, iron
shackles and 15 depth-charges were
washed overboard.
She edged back, rolling. A man
jumped; missed, but grabbed the bottom
guard-rail, hanging with desperate
strength between both ships. They rolled,
swung together. Two destroyer men
rushed to haul him inboard. Magically,
both ships leaned apart. Before they
could drag him over and in, the ships
headed again for their grinding kiss;
again they checked. They heaved him to
safety; and both ships crashed murder-
ously together.
Finally, after three hours of it, Broke
had finished. Only 20 men were un-
accounted for. And six-hundred-and-
eighty-five telegraph orders had been
passed from bridge to engine-room and
executed without a mistake. With her
port side mangled to scrap, fore-peak
and cable-locker flooded, continuously
baling, Broke headed painfully for the
Clyde. But the sea had finished, too.
The wind died, then blew from astern,
so that the valiant little ship could make
20 knots home.
That rescue is typical. From Rawal-
pindi’s historic fight against the German
heavy cruisers Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau, to the bombing of Cathay,
the torpedoing of Strathallan and the
ripping-open, in or out of convoy, of the
bilges of nine cargo ships, the book is
packed with incident. And it’s told with
the assistance of an exceptionally fine set
of action photographs.
MACNELL.
HARVEST.
Where waning moons are lost
And cindered skies grow hot,
Where fruit-trees cluster gold
And summer suns grow cold
Inside an apricot.
Where tractor churns red dirt
Below an orchard fence-
Care lies in farmer’s hands,
Cool water on his lands,
And evening in the quince.
Where by the tufted grass
An old horse slowly dies—
His head upon the ground
And living things around
To steal his glossy eyes.
Where flesh beneath the dust.
And passion in the sky
Bear on our clearing trees
The rolling, golden seas.
The crow’s harsh-gutted cry.
N.S.W.
NOEL DONNAN.
A "Punch" Artist.
The first thing that strikes you about
Daphne du Maurier’s edition of her
grandfather’s letters, The Young George
du Maurier, Letters 1860-67 (Peter
Davies), is the slang. A great deal of it
has passed out; “twig,” for instance
(“my particular style has to be twigged”)
—the last user in the reviewer’s experi-
ence (“d’ you twig?”) died thirty years
ago. “Regular brick” and “thorough
trump” must be just about gone; even
bootsellers in remote country towns must
have stopped putting tags on their wares
in a crowded window —“Nobby” ; and a
timid young man, or an even more
irregular young man, is no longer sneered
at as a “muff/’
But people still “stump up” the rent
for their “blasted” apartments, which
might be still so many “bob a week” —•
many more bob, of course, but as the
French say, the more the change is, the
more it is the same thing. But what
really started these remarks were phrases
like “nuts on me” (“The ‘Once a Week’
people are as nuts on me as possible”)—-
that was used in the 1860’s; also “My
mother and Isabel blew me up,” and,
most surprising of all, which one had
thought the catchword of his post-World
War I schooldays, and even the invention
of his own school: “A big conceited
squirt called Walter Hood ...”
The young man who used all these
terms was the son of a singing French
scientist who had married a girl whose
English mother had become notorious
because of her liaison with the Duke of
York. The family settled in England
until the father died; then Kicky, as
George du Maurier was always called,
got his mother to let him return to study
art in Paris, where he was admired for
his charm, his appearance, his tailoring,
his ability with his fists, and his singing,
until he lost the sight of his left eye.
Then the Wightwicks, of London, friends
of his sister Isabel, advised him to consult
an oculist of Dusseldorf; and there he
went with his mother and sister; the
oculist, unable to restore the sight of the
left eye, relieved him of the fear that he
would lose that of the right eye; and
for a year he washed about in Dusseldorf
society, until a friend, Tom Armstrong,
warned him that he was wasting time,
and suggested that he should go to
London and try to draw for “Punch.”
This suggestion strengthened by thoughts
of the beautiful Emma Wightwick, who
had visited them at Dusseldorf and gone
back to London, he borrowed ten pounds
from his mother’s annuity (the small
remnants of her mother’s settlement with
the Duke), and in May, 1860, went to live
in London, chez Whistler,
in Jemmy’s studio, which he has left, and
for which I pay 10s. a week, unfurnished—
but Jemmy has left me his bed, his sister’s
sheets and towels, 2 chairs, a table and
lots of wonderful etchings to adorn the
walls, besides the use of a dress coat and
waistcoat, quite new (when he doesn’t
happen to want it himself).
Within six years, George du Maurier
was a well-known London illustrator,
was on the staff of “Punch,” and, on the
death of Leech in ’64, had taken his place,
and was on the way to being the fore-
most comic mirror of English society.
From the first, he seems to have been
well received, and even kindly received,
by the editors of “Once a Week,”
“Punch,” “London News,” “Good
Words,” etc. But he had to work very
Ijard at his wood-blocks. In those days,
the illustrator or joke-block artist drew
with pencil or pen on the prepared
surface of a block of wood. The draw-
ing, if approved by an editor, would
then be sent to an engraver, who would
scoop out the white spaces between the
artist’s lines, leaving a block that could
be printed upon, with surprising fluidity
of line, if you consult the old “Punches,”
a virtuosity little approved by latter-day
purists who hold that woodcuts should
have more of the rigidity of the material.
Du Maurier himself was of a new
school from that of Cruikshank or Leech,
who were caricaturists; as an illustrator,
he studied Sandys: —
If he has a patch of grass to do in a
cut, an inch square, he makes a large and
highly finished study from nature for it
first....he has work on hand for 2 years,
after which he will go abroad.
One of the artists’ plums in those days
was a serial, or “story in five numbers”
or even twelve numbers. Tenniel com-
manded £5 a block in 1862: —
Tenniel has just sent in his account for
£215 (43 illustrations to Silver); it appears
that old Evans grumbled a little on paying
it. Keene is now charging four guineas
instead of three.
Keene was a well-established “Punch”
artist. But by 1865, Du Maurier was
getting more:' —
I have recently struck for higher wages
with “Punch.” I used to charge 4 and 3
guineas, and asked in an imperial manner
for 6 and 4, saying that I could not work
for them at a lower wage ( what a lie!).
What should I have done had they refused!
You may imagine my anxiety during three
days until I got a letter, and a most amiable
one, saying it was all right and that I only
asked for my dues.
It had been different in 1862: —
I shall....send things to “Punch” regu-
larly on the block, as I have given carte
blanche to M. Lemon simply to rub out
the drawing and send back the block if he
dislikes them. He says to me: “A young
fellow like you is always for pitching into
somebody or something, but if you want to
get on you must put the kicking straps on
your dander and offend nobody”—
These remarks were called forth by a
“swell Hussar” who in some innocent
way “almost made me spue, and I am
going to put him in “ ‘Punch’ ”; and he
could be severe upon occasion—more
towards the end of these letters than the
beginning. The earlier letters show him
more anxious to please. He seems to
have been an excellent drawing-room
singer of Schubert and such things as the
“Adelaide” of Beethoven, handsome,
young and charming, and so was invited
out a good deal, to places like that of
the rich and cultured Greek family,
where
The women will sometimes take one’s
hands in talking to one, or put their arm
round the back of one’s chair at dinner,
and with all this ease and tutoiement, or
perhaps on account of it, they are, I do
believe, the most thoroughly well bred and
perfect gentlefolks in all England.
For a while he strains after these
gatherings, even descending to that most
regrettable pocket of the social hell, the
acceptance of an invitation to a place
where one does not want to go in order
to get in with another guest to whose
home one wants to be invited ; but gradu-
ally he finds that knowing people is no
substitute for work, and nobly decides,
since they can be of no advantage to
him, to see them less. Later, when he
goes among people with titles, he feels a
little out-of-place, but remains unim-
pressed. Indeed, their moral atmosphere
disappoints him ; and their clothes offend
him. It is all very amusing when his
friend Jemmy Whistler paints his mistress
{Red Page continued on inside back
cover.)
BIRD’S-EYE VIEWS.
Oh hear the crooked-throated crow
Cry in the staring noon above
A blank of paddocks torn by wind.
By drought and by the murderer’s axe;
Where sterile wethers cross in file
A moonside landscape of stone trees
Under the eagle’s abstract eye
And eyes that wear the daylight out
In cares whose cure ia butchery;
For blood shall flow where springs are dry,
So says the crooked-throated crow;
Yet still the bird’s-eye opens wide
Her climbing buds of wonder here.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


d
fd
f
d
Favourites for Summer ...
these Packards” give you smart styling, expert cratsmanship and
comfortable fit in a shoe that’s as perfect with any good
formal wear as with casual knockabout clothes.
Packard” Moccasin Derby with smart wall toes
in Tan Calf or Brown, Grey or Black Suede
with leather soles and heels, 79/6. Tan Calf
with non-slip rubber soles and heels, 81/6.
Replaceable screw-in spikes for golf. £5/11/-.
-
' .
■■ ■ -- ■> .
fe
i /
V <
/ y/ ■ >• /
iiiiTOr
1
■*
- -
k
; -
i
X-
.
: v
*%** j
rx
md
W3.
m
'X.
Vi
04^
P MS*
5W
CS>»r5
:; r ■-:?■ ■:
*<f*A
<
• JP-.
1p>
cs
■
Hh
V:."
V- V
wy
9m>
...
! J
■&u rVp
■
V
x&s,
r~\
m
«c
i.
w«ws
jEjPap*
\&sm
m**'
/C.WJE?
j. ie.
fcl
, X »
‘ aa
£>
y,f
?C-> •
V'--
N-6>
&* ?>
fd
f
df
d
2,- r
pf - • ?■
//
&J 11-'!: i
liiii&k
■ ff 4
/ ••?
Packard Xo-cap Derby. A very smart shoe
with roomy toes and snug fitting heels. In
Fan Calf, Black Box Calf or Brown Suede.
Sizes 5 to 14, fittings B to F. Price, 77/.,
mm
i
- 4
■ m
.
m
' /
/
»
i m
"Packard” Brogue with extra stout soles and
wide welts in rich Tan Calf, Black Box Calf
or Brown Suede. Sizes 5 to 14. Fittings B
to F. Priced at only a pair.
fd
“Packard” Oxford with neatly
punched caps and comfortably
built round toes. In Tan or Black
Box Calf. Sizes 5 to 12. Fittings
A A to F. Priced at only 77
MEN’S SHOES GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. ’PHONE M 2401; ADDRESS MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


PRODUCTS OF THE
RooteS
CROUP
1901
ss
s
St
aw
1951
<4*
&
I /
< i*
■-I'i".
r
r
i!
C'
% *
V
The FIRST FIVE YEARS of the Rootes Group’s operation in Australia are behind us. Five years of
progress and achievement during which a continuous stream of cars and trucks has emerged from our
Australian plant.
Our products—famous since the earliest days of motoring—have maintained and enhanced their enviable reputations.
We are justly proud of the record of our vehicles. The future will provide still greater honours for them,
still greater satisfaction for their owners.
Our faith in Australia has been justified and we thank Australia for its faith in the goods we produce.
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT, CONNER, KARRIER, TILLING-STEVENS, VULCAN
ROOTES GROUP
Australia’s Friendliest Factory


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3746
Wednesday, November 28, 1951
sss£-
10°
d
DIFFICULT CUSTOMER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
RETURN TO HARD WORK.
Illusions about easy times being our
natural portion in the post-war world
have gone with the wind. It is quite
impossible that the Federal Gov-
ernment can for any foreseeable
period ahead allow itself indulg-
ence in what are called popular
measures, such as distributing more
Government money in pensions without
taxing it out of the people first. Nor
can it rest merely passive. It is due to
make itself actively “unpopular” in the
accepted sense, and the current Budget
measures are a first short step in that
direction. Certainly the Government
faces a pretty stiff job, but it is a job that
Mr. Menzies outlined in seeking election
to office.
There can be no shadow of a doubt
that the leaders of the Liberal and
Country parties were aware of the
tremendous undertaking for which they
solicited, and obtained, the country’s
approval. Eight years of Socialist de-
moralisation had bitten deep into this
community. During the war the people
grew accustomed to reckless expenditure
of money not only in the prosecution of
the war itself but also in the universal
control by Government of industry and
employment—the deadly reign of the
system of “cost-plus” when economic
considerations in the conduct, mainten-
ance and output of every business enter-
prise mattered not at all so long as it
could be sustained through the feverish
circulation of money printed in the
Government presses. Actual danger from
the enemy was slight, and mostly remote ;
and the mass of people saw the unlimited
Government spending imitated in the
chucking-away of money on all sides by
“our protectors” quartered here, the
American servicemen. Prices of com-
modities were supposed to be strictly
controlled, and statistics declare that they
were ; in actual fact, the sky was the limit
for anything the Americans and the com-
munity which entertained them wanted
—regardless of war-time “austerity” else-
where.
With the end of hostilities there was
no natural and proper reaction in
frugality, hard work and devotion to re-
pairing capital losses. Instead, the
Socialist Government, posing as having
steered the nation to victory by its effort
in arms, sought and won re-election on
the policy of continuing in peace the
riotous free-spending of the war-years,
with central direction of industry through
price-controls, everlasting blackmarkets,
overfull employment, less work for more
pay, immense extension of Government
employment and “Government stroke”
over all the land —in fact, putting into
practice the “Labor” ideal of “finding
money for peace” as lavishly as for war
—and the irresponsible loafing thus in-
culcated was lauded by Socialist Ministers
as “The Golden Age.” The late J. B.
Chifley saw his error before he died, but
he could not stop the rot —especially as
nobody in all the profligate mob behind
him could believe for a moment that he
even wished to stop it.
The supreme virtue of a democracy
is that it has the power at prescribed
intervals to call a halt to such abuse of
responsibility by voting its authors out
of office. The Australian electors did so
at length on the appeal of the Menzies-
Fadden alliance, which won the country’s
confidence, and got it confirmed at a
second election, on a policy of thorough-
going reconstruction. From both the
economic dangers at home and the
dangers of war from overseas, they said,
only the most drastic measures, entailing
long-term sacrifices of easy living, could
save the Commonwealth. They depicted
vividly enough the evils rampant at home
in work-dodging, racketeering and in-
dustrial indiscipline. The whole slothful
“milk-bar economy” into which the
country had sunk had to be corrected. Out-
put in vital farming and heavy manufac-
turing industries had to be raised —even,
in some cases, restored. The boosting of
Australia as “a granary for the overpopu-
lated Old World” and as “an arsenal for
democracy in the south” could be
only childish nonsense unless the
ludicrous deficiency in the country’s
electric-power resources were corrected
through a radical reorganisation and re-
planning.
Above all, unless production in essen-
tial goods were vastly increased and
transport and other services revitalised
along modern lines, it would be impos-
sible for Australia to support a home
population of anything like the numbers
necessary to hold this land for the white
race. If the political parties in Australia
can agree on no other point, they are at
least unanimous on this one —that national
safety in the coming years depends upon
increase of the population by immigra-
tion-settlement of “New Australians” in
great volume and without delay. There
has been talk of building up to 20 mil-
lions during the present generation. The
admission of a few hundred thousand
newcomers in five years has already pro-
duced fears that a few years hence we
may be unable to feed ourselves.
That fairly reproduces the case for
national re-education and hard work
which the Menzies Government under-
took with its eyes open. The fears of
another great war, disturbing but few
among us when the 40-hour week came
in, are now widely apprehended. Mr.
Menzies was right in the emphasis he
laid in his election campaign on the call
to rearm. But his Government will
throw its case away if it relaxes in its
demand of two years ago, last year, last
week, for national action to match the
urgency of the times.
No one of experience in public affairs
is ignorant of the enormous task of
driving into the mass of the people a
conviction of the need to prepare against
an emergency before it arrives. If the
Government is to be criticised it is not
for the mildly “unpopular” things it is
doing to turn Australia to sterner work,
but for a suspected willingness to rest
content with what it has so far set in
train on the ground that it has made
enough enemies for the time being. The
electors will judge the reality of the
country’s peril by the Government’s own
behavior; and anything like hesitation
because the Government “can’t move
faster than public opinion will let it” is
likely to be fatal to both the Government
and its appointed task.
Pressure-groups are complaining (for
instance) that the sacking of 10,000
excess public servants is unnecessary.
There is no other method of reducing the
soaring departmental expenditure—by
Commonwealth and State Governments
and local-governing bodies also —than by
reversing the process by which it grew
and laying off employees for a labor
market starved of reproductive working
hands. In the Treasurer’s review of
economic conditions in his Budget speech
there was not one word of protest against
the hideous cost of the 40-hour week to
the Government and the whole national
economy, nor did he cast so much as a
passing glance at the mounting taxation
imposed on the citizenry by a thousand
little bloated imitators of the Canberra
bureaucracy in municipal and shire
councils.
When earlier Mr. Menzies took the
stump to awaken Australians to their
dangers, his radio addresses attracted
Commonwealth-wide enthusiasm. Is it
impossible, suiting his popular approach
to the altered circumstances, to return
to that means of getting public co-opera-
tion with him in his task? The former
swarming Department of Information, of
“public-relations experts,” has been
abolished, but Mr. Menzies told a ques-
tioner in Parliament the other day that
there are still 104 public-relations officers
of one classification or another, includ-
ing 36 journalists and two editors, in
Government employment. What work
are they required to do by way of preach-
ing the Government’s non-party gospel of
harder work for the salvation of White
Australia?
Parties and Problems.
About the most important subject for
discussion at the Liberal conference in
Canberra was the question of a consti-
tutional convention. Mr. F. Patrick
(Vic.) moved a resolution calling on the
Commonwealth and State Governments
to join in holding a constitutional con-
vention on a non-party basis, the decisions
to be submitted, also on a non-party
basis, to the necessary referendum. But
this was opposed by the political wing.
The N. S. Wales branch’s principal dele-
gate immediately moved that the scheme
should be “postponed until circumstances
permitted,” and this amendment had the
support of Senator Spooner, who said that
an immediate convention might cause “a
political fight,” and that “it would be
most imprudent for the Government now
to turn its attention from the task of
governing the country,” a duty which it
has complained that it has been unable
to carry out in respect of some of its
urgent problems, such as dealing with
the Communists, because of the limits of
its constitutional powers.
Mr. Menzies supported Senator
Spooner and declared that to secure a
“yes” vote in a referendum in Australia
was a “labor of Hercules,” and that if
the people would not give the Govern-
ment power to make laws on Communism
“how were they likely to give Parlia-
ment 20 or 30 or 40 new amendments
that would arise from any constitutional
convention?” He spoke of the effect of
“the sheer hard lying that goes the
course of a referendum campaign to
alter the Constitution.
His attitude is understandable enough
if he does not believe that a convention
and referendum can be arranged on a
non-party basis. If the A.L.P. says “no,”
then a move for a convention with a
statutory existence independent of politics
at the present time would be abortive
because of the subservience of the Mc-
Girrs and the Hanlons to A.L.P. dicta-
tion. But the Constitution does need to
be overhauled, and the Liberal party
should be prepared to accept that as a
fact, and begin moving in the matter,
treating it as a long-range project.
Had the referendum on Communism
arisen from the accepted decisions of the
Commonwealth and State Governments
there is little doubt that the scale would
have been turned in favor of “Yes.” Even
though, in the matter of Communism,
agreement would have been impossible
in the light of the existence of fellow-
traveller State Governments like the
McGirrs, a convention on broader lines
would agree on some questions, or at
least agree to a point which would influ-
ence the vote.
The States most concerned, for in-
stance, would find it difficult to oppose
some subdivision of the existing States
of N. S. Wales and Queensland, where
the situation is fast arising that the
country districts have become completely
helot to the cities, hagridden with loafing
and Communism and returning to the
Parliaments a leaven of men who are
demagogues in the worst sense.
The division of regional interest, apart
from any other factors, has become so
great that extensive areas like the Riverina
and the New England are overripe for
separation from the mother State. North
Queensland is so ripe indeed that the
Constitution, made law in 1900, included
a special provision to enable Queensland,
if it so desired, to elect its Senators in
three divisions in anticipation of the
separation of the centre and the north.
Both the present N. S. Wales and Queens-
land “Labor” Governments are com-
mitted to the principle of subdivision, and
the disagreement of Liberal and “Labor”
is only on the question of method.
While Liberal opinion leans to the con-
tinuation of the Federal idea with
sovereign regional Governments and a
central Government sovereign only in
matters which affect security and inter-
national relations, and such matters as
the States agree to be of general national
concern, the “Labor” party has adopted
the conception of a sovereign, centralised
Commonwealth divided into provinces
created at Canberra’s own sweet will —
that is, provinces created at the will of
Mr, J. A. Ferguson and his Central
“Labor” Executive, which forms the real
Government when “Labor” is in office.
But this idea is visionary, since it would
need the agreement of all the existing
States to implement it, and suicide is an
unpopular occupation in State politics.
In spite of the views of Mr, Menzies,
the council of the Liberal party
has decided to recommend a con-
vention, and that is a matter which should
be kept constantly in the view of public
opinion until it is achieved. The most
powerful lever of the class-war at this
period is the power of “Labor” to use
the limitations of the present flabby and
limited Constitution to block every move
of the Government to deal with subver-
sion and with trade-union assumption of
powers and rights which the framers of
the Constitution never contemplated as
assumable by any particular section of
the community.
The absurd position exists that, so far
from a convention forcing Mr. Spooner
and his colleagues to “turn our activities
from the task of governing this country,”
the Government is unable now even to
appoint a few Parliamentary secretaries
to help it do its governing because the
Constitution makes no provision. And so
far from being able to govern at all in
the accepted sense in dealing with fifth-
columns and enemy agents in peace-time
it is only able to compromise. When the
Chifley Government needed to try some-
body for treason a few years ago it had
to go cap in hand and ask one of the
States to lend the aid of its laws and
legal machinery, there being no such thing
as treason against the Commonwealth in
the sense that it applies to sovereign Gov-
ernments such as those of the United
Kingdom, the United States and Canada.
If the Commonwealth fails to inspire
loyalty or fervor for national ideals its
limitations are the cause. Patriotism
invariably goes with power and respect
for the instruments of government. But
such is the position of the Commonwealth
that ever since its foundation there has
been a steady drift towards the consolida-
tion of sectional rights and to the placing
of class problems above national
problems.
The drift has never been better
illustrated than by the proceedings of the
Federal “Labor” Executive at Canberra.
It was illuminating to note how closely
its resolutions followed the current line
of Communism and how all the freedoms
about which the conference and its ex-
Communist president, Mr. Ferguson, were
most concerned were those calculated to
serve the purposes of the Communist
party. The spectacle of the supreme
governing executive of “Labor” solemnly
threatening its members who had not sup-
ported a “No” vote in the anti-Red
referendum (thus exercising their right
to stick to their opinions and support
a bill for which the whole party had
voted to pass in Parliament) was not
edifying. These members were threatened
because their attitude interfered with the
freedom of expression and action of a
group of traitors openly subservient and
instructed by a hostile foreign Power.
And the joint spectacles of the great
“anti-Communist” “Labor” party enter-
taining its leader in compliment to his
having secured the right of Communism
to conspire and agitate in the interest of
a foreign aggressor and of a member of
that leader’s shadow-Cabinet describing
a comrade as a “narrow-minded skunk”
for daring to carry out the party’s official
affirmation that it “abhors” Communism
provided evidence of the nature of
“Labor’s” difficulties.
Though political Liberalism seems to
be suffering a little from nervous timidity
and anaemia just now, it can recover. But
“Labor” is a fowl tethered by the leg to
the great Red unions which dominate its
affairs and finance, awaiting the celebra-
tion of Communist Christmas Day.
Unless it can bite through its leg-rope, it
will die on Sharkey’s block.
Public Relations.
As one of its economy moves the
Menzies Government abolished the
Department of Information, which
proved so useful in party-propaganda
work for the Chifley Government and its
supporters. Under the benign administra-
tion of Mr. Calwell the public-relations
force became just one bigger-and-bigger
happy family; and as controller of
a machine equipped at a pinch to produce
debating-points or even a speech for some
party member requiring to do himself
proud, Uncle Arthur rose steadily in im-
portance. The more he cursed the Press
the more he seemed besieged by news-
papermen looking for cushy jobs.
The public-relations army’s own exclu-
sive department is gone now, but not thf
makings. In answer to a question upon
notice in Parliament last month (as
Hansard now permits to be more widely
known), Mr. Menzies said the Com-
monwealth Government still “employs on
public relations, publicity or propaganda
work by press, radio or otherwise, or on
work of a similar kind to that previously
performed by the Department of In-
formation” some 104 persons, including:
Thirty-four Journalists (one of them a
trade-information officer) and two clerks
“acting journalists” of high grade, two
editors, two liaison-officers and one tech-
nical liaison-officer, live photographers
(including one chief photographer), ten
cinematographers, one producer-in-chief,
two senior producers, two producers, one
assistant publicity officer, eight directors
(one in London and one in New York), one
assistant director, four research-officers,
one sound-recordist, four production
assistants, one projectionist, four cutting-
room assistants, one electrician, one super-
visor of programmes, nine announcers (in-
cluding two French and two translator-
announcers and one Indonesian), two talks-
asslstants, two translators, one “0.1. C.
Indonesian,” and one sporting assistant.
This is not a list of the A.B.C. staff,
but the remnant which was never dis-
banded of the public-relations army en-
listed by the Chifley Government for
propagating the socialisation policy. The
journalists are of all grades, from A 1
downward, and, bar a half-dozen or so,
the salaries are all in four figures or as
near as makes no odds. They all, in fact,
enjoy an “actual” as well as a “nominal
salary.
But apart from telling Indonesian and
other brown brothers how eager Aus-
tralia is to improve their standard of liv-
ing as soon as we can think out how to
do it, what do all these public relation-
ists, especially the 36 journalists, do for
a crust?.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Not Working 40 Hours."
Both in its attitude towards the revised
standard-hour question and in its inter-
pretation of its sphere of authority, the
Arbitration Court is revealing itself in a
highly interesting light.
It is not to be overlooked that in
declaring for 40-hours four years ago
the court expressly recorded that the
reduction of working hours was in the
nature of an experiment, and that if it
proved erroneous the error could be
corrected. For how much longer is 40
hours to be given “a fair trial”?
When the parties returned to confer
with Chief Judge Kelly last week, as
arranged in October, on formal claims
before the court for a 30-36-hour week
by the unions and a 44-hour week by
certain employers, the meeting took the
form of “a private conference.” News-
paper reports of it were conflicting. One
section of the Press had it that the Chief
Judge proposed a postponement of any
review of hours for five years; another
made no mention of this, but said the
judge had got the parties to agree that
suggestions he made to them should not
be published; other papers said he had
urged closer co-operation between em-
ployers and unions and the adoption of
one or another incentive system of pay-
ments to cure absenteeism and slack work.
The parties are, however, due to come
back to the court on December 20 and
give their answers to his representations
of last week.
On the day before the adjourned
appearance before the court, Mr. Jen-
kin, the president of the Victorian
Employers’ Federation, said, at the annual
meeting of that organisation, that em-
ployers had not tried to make the 40-hour
week work, had competed for labor by
permitting undercutting of hours and by
paying wages greatly in excess of awards,
and that the Arbitration Court should
investigate the question from the view-
point of other employers, namely, that
there should be regular consultation in
industry to the end of getting the best
possible results from the 40-hour week.
At any rate, it was on these lines that
the Chief Judge on the following day
spoke to the parties. He thought, like
Mr. Jenkin, that the cost of failure fell
on the public in higher costs of goods
and services, and he said:
It Is an obvious fact that we are not
working; a 40-hour week in the true sense.
It is quite clear that the 40-hour standard
is being; reduced.
And among the questions he posed to
the parties was this one: “Has the 40-
hour standard failed because in no cir-
cumstances could 40 hours of work a
week meet the situation of industry
today?”
Following upon that presentation of
the matter it seems clear that the court —
having accepted, too, the recognition of
itself (by its own description) as having
evolved into “an institution having, in
effect, wide legislative powers.... occupy-
ing a field from which Parliaments are
excluded to make the law for Aus-
tralians in that realm which touches them
most intimately” cannot indefinitely
postpone a re-examination of standard
hours on any grounds conceded by one
party only, or even both of them together.
The Federal Government, or the Tariff
Board, or both, might well take notice
of a situation in which both employers
and trade-unions were condoning a
relaxation of working standards and
awards, at increased cost of commodities,
in order to avoid industrial friction —in
plain language, with one party submitting
to industrial blackmail. The court’s
official recognition that the 40-hour stan-
dard is not being worked should lead to
political intervention at least to withhold
tariff protection from industries so
indifferent to keeping down costs of
products under tariff shelter.
Moreover, it must seem that any
potential influence the Chief Judge’s
exhortations may have upon the parties
to “do their best to make the 40-hours
standard work” can only be greatly
enhanced by a strictly-controlled inquiry
by the court into the very pertinent ques-
tions put to the parties by the judge. It
is of supreme interest to the whole price-
paying public that the answers returned
by the parties should be made known.
Hours and Output.
From Auckland: Tension has been
growing for years in New Zealand’s
overstrained employment market, where
even youths and the unskilled can collect
fat wages, but Maoriland still remains
very much of a lazy-man’s paradise.
Long weekends, morning- and afternoon-
tea breaks that are often half-hour rests,
and close-downs of up to three weeks
for Christmas and the New Year on full
pay have become a settled habit with
Maorilanders, and this, it seems, nothing
will change as long as prosperity flows.
After 15 years on the 40-hour week,
manpower is a chronic bottleneck. Man-
hour output is low, and the construction
industries, particularly, are in a bad way.
Yet it’s only rarely that anyone will come
out into the open and try to rouse opinion
on the question of working hours or
hourly costs. One of the few is James
Cable, president of the Employers’
Federation, head of a leading construction
concern, who called lately for a cure for
the “industrial mess” by getting back to
a 44-hour week and unbroken
morning and afternoon shifts.
Cable said many of Maoriland’s present
33,000 vacant jobs had been unfilled for
years, and there was no prospect of
filling them. Instead of putting the issue
as a choice between working harder or
longer, which was how a former manu-
facturers’ president saw it, he told Maori-
landers they’d have to work both harder
and longer if they wanted to put their
industrial house in order. A sign that
things were far from right was the grow-
ing effort among men to cash-in on their
leisure time during weekends. If the
Arbitration Court prohibited them from
working more than 40 hours a week, all
told, there’d be an outcry. The 40-hour
week had become a “farce.”
Nearly a year ago a big British in-
dustrialist warned Maorilanders that
they’d have to tackle inflation from the
production side, and if they wouldn’t
work more than 40 hours a week in
their jobs a lot more labor-saving
machinery would have to be installed, at
heavy cost. When it was bought it would
have to be run for long hours, or it would
eat its head off, and shiftwork was the
only way out. The catch was that this
called for more workers, and they weren’t
there.
It’s not just a matter of workers, but
of skilled men, engineers, technicians and
trained scientists as well. Some of the
cream of New Zealand talent has been
going abroad to salaries and prospects
that don’t exist in little Maoriland, and
to get away from the frustrations that
must be laid mainly at the door of shorter
hours and slower work. There’s too
much tendency to regard pay as some-
thing governed by the number of hours
a man is on the job, regardless of how
much work he does, a drift that may
force payment by results, if Maorilanders
can’t find some other cure.
Our Island Kingdoms.
On Monday New Guinea and Papua
entered on a new phase of their histories
by the inauguration of a brand-new
Legislative Council which is unique in
that it will legislate—as far as it is em-
powered to legislate—not only for the
Australian territory of Papua but for the
piebald and much-kicked-about Man-
dated New Guinea, which is only held in
trust by us.
It is to be hoped that the eclat which
has been given to the occasion is a signal
that the Government is preparing at the
right time to end the anomalous position
of the old mandate and to tell U.N.O.
that henceforward this is Australian
territory and part of the Commonwealth.
The Administrator of the Common-
wealth, General Northcott, who as Chief
of the General Staff during the war had a
great deal to do with the rescue of the
territory from the Japanese, has gone to
open the new “Parliament,” along with
Mr. Hasluck, Minister for External
Territories and a galaxy of legislators
from the Federal Houses; but the
pleasure of the locals at the signs and
portents arising from this attention will
be marred by the fact that they must
know that they can never have real self-
government until the position of the
Mandated Territory is finally settled.
New Guinea is a valuable possession
economically. The new policy under Mr.
Hasluck, which aims to strengthen the
grip of private-enterprise production, will
tend to make it more valuable. It
will be more valuable still if the native
question can be reduced to its proper
perspective and the charter of liberty
established by Mr, Ward (which pro-
claimed New Guinea, in the words of a
salty veteran, as a “land for Communists
and coons”) modified in accordance with
the dictates of prudence and common-
sense.
Until the labor question is rationalised
New Guinea will continue, whatever its
government, to sink towards the social
status of Portuguese Timor, though it is
capable of being at least another Ceylon
and of carrying a very large population,
it being in all the size of a sizeable Aus-
tralian State and richer in known re-
sources than possibly any part of the
Australian mainland outside North
Queensland.
Under the new governmental scheme
the Legislative Council will have little
authority. It will remain dominated by
Canberra and U.N.0., and how much its
morsel of self-government means will
depend on the will of the Minister for the
time being. Under a Hasluck it might
well have 3 great deal of liberty to begin
forming its own destiny; under a Ward
it might just as easily become again the
socialist satrapy of spoilt and loafing
natives pampered by lady anthropologists
and battened on by Leftist officials.
In view of its importance to defence
and the inevitable fact that it must, when
it grows, be even more coveted by the
greedy neighbors who are already reach-
ing out clutching hands for West New
Guinea, it seems reasonable that the
Government should announce a long-
term policy on our great tropic
possession’s evolution. One thing is cer-
tain—complete local self-government as
a State of the Commonwealth should be
aimed at within a reasonable time.
And while the plan is being framed
there might be some consultation with the
United Kingdom Government on the
position of the Solomons and the New
Hebrides. It seems absurd that these
islands, which form our defence screen on
the east, should not be under Australian
authority and at Australia’s complete
disposal.
Devotion to Duty.
Gilbert remarked that “a policeman’s
lot is not a happy one” ; he might also
have commented with equal truth that it
is not a glamorous one. Headline-
writers as a rule reserve the words
“daring” and “bold” for the men who
hold up a bank, snatch a handful of
rings from a jeweller’s counter or walk
out of jail; the men whose job it is to
catch the evildoers seldom hit the head-
lines. Acts of bravery by men of the
Force are not, however, entirely over-
looked : every year recognition in
one way or another is given to police
and detectives who have taken unusual
risks or shown outstanding courage in
the execution of their duities.
The latest report of the N. S. Wales
Police Department (1950) gives a brief
account of acts of bravery by members
of the Force during the year.
There is the case of Detective-constable
First-class J. L. Robertson and Constable
R. C. Dent, who were sent to a house in
Leichhardt to arrest a man with a rifle
who was said to have assaulted another
man. When called on to surrender he
fired through the door, wounding a
bystander. Although he threatened to
fire again and could be seen reloading,
the two policemen smashed in the door
and seized him. The action brought them
the King’s Commendation for Brave
Conduct.
Detective-constable First-class N. D.
Walker, while off duty, heard a cry for
help from premises in George-street,
Sydney, and intercepted a man who came
hurrying out. The man pressed a pistol
into the detective’s body and said “Let
me go or I’ll shoot you.” Walker pushed
the pistol away, and after a violent
struggle (with the assistance of civilians)
arrested the gunman. He was “depart-
mentally commended and granted advance
in seniority.”
Sergeants J. W. Bottrell and F. A.
Carey also earned departmental commen-
dation for arresting a man armed with
rifle and butcher’s-knife after he had
fired shots at the occupants of a house.
Floods in 1949 and 1950 made big
demands on the police in the areas
affected. Every district can probably
produce tales of men in uniform who
displayed courage and devotion to duty,
but the report lists four who received
recognition from the Royal Humane
Society;
Constable First-class R. S'. E. Johnston,
who, with two civilians went in a frail boat
from the Gladstone police-station in answer
to cries for help and rescued four adults
and four children who were in a boat which
was tied to a tree and in imminent danger
of being swamped. “The swift-flowing
river, the fact that a gale was blowing,
with visibility nil and the river full of
debris, living and dead beasts and obstruc-
tions such as fences, trees, etc., added to
the danger of the operation.”
Similar conditions were experienced by
Constable E. W. Wood, of Central
Kempsey (N.S.W.) and Constable First-
class G. F. Baxter, of Kempsey. Detective
Senior-constable L. R. Norton received
his medal for repeated attempts to swim
to the rescue of a marooned family and
for saving another of the rescue party
from drowning. His exploits were made
more hazardous by the fact that “a local
hall was washed away and a quantity of
mill timber was washing around the area.”
The final name in a long list is that
of Constable A. A. Spinney, of Glen
Davis, who was also awarded the Humane
Society’s Silver Medal for meritorious
conduct during a flood on. the Capertee
River on July 20, 1950. Says the report:
A man had been badly burned by a lire
on the other side of the river, and an jnjec-
tion was necessary, but all bridges were
under water. The constable crossed the
swiftly-flowing river, which was approxi-
mately 50 yards wide at this point, by pull-
ing himself along an old wire rope which
was under water, and, on reaching the other
side, walked to the house where the injured
man lay, a distance of about one mile
through water varying in depth up to sft.,
gave the necessary injection and dressed the
burns as directed by the doctor.
Floods are out of season just now, but
no doubt the bushfires have found the
men of the Force just as resourceful and
courageous in meeting the ordeal by fire
as they were in facing the trial by water.
Coal—More or Less?
Appeals made by the chairman of the
Joint Coal Board and the N, S. Wales
Minister for Mines at the opening of the
national convention of the Miners’
Federation had little or no effect when
the convention —which determines
Federation policy for the next three years
got around to the subject of mechanical
extraction of pillar-coal, agreed by com-
petent authorities to be the only real
answer to Australia’s coal shortage.
By 19 votes to 17 it was decided that
the union ban on such work should re-
main in force. The resolution affirming
the ban was softened a little by an assur-
ance that the union was prepared to
confer on the subject of coal-production
and the use of machinery, but no-dne
with any experience of the ways of the
Miners’ Federation will base any hopes
on that. As long as Communists are in
control of the union other parties in the
industry may “confer” until they are
black in the face without getting a ton
of coal out of the pillars.
As an example of the unreality of the
dream world in which the miners live two
other resolutions of the convention may
be cited. One urges the adoption of a
35-hour week and the other calls for
nationalisation of the mines as a cure for
the ills of the industry No attempt is
made to explain how an industry whose
output lags so far behind requirements
that millions of pounds have to be spent
to bring coal halfway around the world
to meet bare current demands can main-
tain its production-rate by lopping five
hours off its working week, far less how
it can increase its output by the 50 per
cent, which the Coal Board chairman
considers will be necessary within a few
years. Nor is any reason advanced to
justify the belief that nationalisation will
increase output. Evidence could have
been produced to the contrary.
Last month, on the occasion of his
visit to the coalfields* in the Ostrava basin,
the Communist Prime Minister of
Czechoslovakia told the coalminers there
that the only way they could expect to
improve their conditions was by working
harder. He told them that there were
still many who thought Socialism meant
working the minimum and demanding the
maximum, and he wanted to know why
production had fallen off despite in-
creased wages.
Under the old capitalist regime each
miner produced 18 metric tons per shift,
while today this has dropped to 16 metric
tons.
He suggested that the fear of increased
production proving detrimental to the
interests of the miners was a hangover
from the past and that there was no
justification for it under Communism.
Nor is there any justification for it
under Australian democracy. This
country can use all the coal its mines are
likely to produce in the foreseeable
future, and any organisation which urges
restriction of output in the alleged in-
terests of the miners is preaching a
doctrine that can bring nothing but dis-
aster to Australia.
Where the Blame Lies.
Mr. Bruce, M.P., a Queensland “Labor”
member, moved the adjournment of the
House of Representatives on November
22 to call attention to the fact that
248,000 tons of sugar awaited shipment
in northern ports, with no immediate
chance of moving it, and that unless it
was shipped before the rains, much of it,
badly needed in the southern States,
would be ruined,
Mr. Anthony, P.M.G., explained that
this was largely due to industrial causes;
that the Seamen’s Union, whose secretary
is a member of the Communist-party
Central Committee and a Moscow dele-
gate, had left 78 coastal vessels without
crews for 10 to 14 days each between
June 1 and September 18, and that the
intensity of the Communists] control was
proved by the fact that during the week
before the Communist-party Dissolution
(Continued on next page.)


Cl6**
There is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
k
Bill Referendum no vessel was left with-
out a crew.
None of this is news to those connected
with the sugar industry, or even to Mr.
Calwell, who unblushingly declared that
Mr. Anthony had been “reduced to using
the Red bogy to explain the Govern-
ment’s inefficiency.” He added that the
“truth is that private enterprise has not
supplied one new coastal vessel for years,”
and that “our coastal fleet is equivalent
to a collection of T-model Fords in an
age of Buicks.” A better way of putting it
would have been “a Socialist-type fleet
to meet a private-enterprise situation.”
The facts are not disputed. Owners
turn pale when asked to build ships—
or anything else —for Australian com-
merce. The Cairns Harbor Board, in
1949, when “Labor” was in office, spoke
of the “tragic regression” taking place
in sea traffic on the north coast and “the
almost complete abandonment of ship-
ping by southern authorities as a means
of transit, notwithstanding the substantial
advantage of comparative freight costs.”
The truth is that by loaf and blackmail
the Communist-led unions of the sea and
waterfront have drained and battered
almost all the juice out of the once-
flourishing coastal shipping trade, so that
some ports such as Darwin, where it is
now virtually impossible to get a ship
unloaded unless there is a cargo of beer
in the bottom of the hold, are slipping
back into jungle.
Who is going to build ships while it is
impossible to judge, when laying them
down, what the cost may be when they
are finished? Who is going to run ships
in an industry in which union rates mean
nothing and the relevant union operates
by blackmailing the owners for extortion-
ate wages whenever a vital urgency arises?
With all the modern facilities of
Mackay’s mechanised wharves in the
north the loading-rate has slipped
appallingly compared with that when
sugar was loaded from a swaying lighter
by hand out in the bay a quarter of a
century ago. Anybody who engages in
any industry in which the Communists —
and Mr. Calwell, who openly professes
to aim for the same primary object of
destroying capitalism—are concerned,
knows that the whole policy of his em-
ployees is beyig directed for them to the
end of destroying private industry by
sucking it dry until there is nothing left
to pluck from it but the feathers.
POLITICAL POINTS
At “Labor’s” victory dinner to the
Doc. —the idea was to celebrate his
leadership of the party in the campaign
that saved the Communist party from dis-
solution—every effort was made to
present a Happy-Family front. It was
rather a strain, especially as some of he
boys had almost come to blows in the
House earlier in the day. Still, Bert
managed to convince himself that that
was just good honest fun and that his
party stood “as a united family against
its enemies.” It’s a strange thing about
families—they don’t, as a rule, quarrel
about their enemies ; mostly the squabbles
are about their friends. Differences of
opinion over “Labor’s” referendum
friends are a little too deeply-seated to
be settled by complimentary dinners.
Exchange of compliments being a
feature of Canberra debates, the describ-
ing of one member by another as “a
narrow-minded skunk” (according to one
report “a filthy- minded skunk”) would
ordinarily be regarded as good, clean
fun. What made the use of the phrase
on November 21 worthy of notice was
that skunk-hrander and skunk-branded
were members of the same party.
Mullens, “Labor” member for Gellibrand
(Vic.), had been attacking journalist
Wilfred Burchett and “Power-Without-
Glory” Hardy for pro-Communist views
expressed abroad. He urged the Govern-
ment to take action against “these
traitors.” Pollard, “Labor” member for
Lalor (Vic.), dissociated himself from his
colleague’s remarks, whereupon Mullens
interjected that he was “defending the
Corns.” It was then that Pollard threw
in the skunk. Sequel: Shouts, threats,
forcible restrainings, apologies, chal-
lenges, silence.
Pollard, invoking the Atlantic Charter,
opposes any action against the two
writers. He considers they should be
allowed to “tell people here what they
saw and what they thought.” Here’s the
latest sample of what Burchett thinks.
It comes from the Communist “Tribune”
as a cable from Peking, and refers to the
charge that the Reds have massacred
Allied prisoners:
Americans needed the atrocity lie to divert
attention from the fact that they dragged
cease-fire talks perilously near to break-
down.... They needed this lie to whip up
war hysteria in America and elsewhere
They need it to frighten their troops at the
front in case of mass surrenders if Ameri-
cans try any new military adventures.
Unless the ruling of a Christchurch
(N.Z.) magistrate is upset by higher
authority, “Tatt’s”—and presumably other
lotteries —will henceforth be legal in New
Zealand. The magistrate gave it as his
opinion that if a lottery is legal in its
country of domicile its legality is pre-
served “for all the places to which it
may be extended.” This is a new concept,
and it is hard to believe it will survive
an appeal to a higher court. If it does,
and the principle is accepted in Australia,
the competition between the State Blot-
teries will be the nearest thing to civil
war this country has yet known.
On November 23 it was announced
that a sub-committee of delegates had at
last fixed a Korean cease-fire line along
the battle-front, but that fighting would
go on until the full truce delegations
agreed on an armistice. The optimists of
U.N.O. and the Press at once began
speaking of peace before Christmas, just
as General MacArthur did when launch-
ing his great offensive which recoiled
almost exactly a year ago. Moscow
didn’t agree. It spent the day of the
announcement abusing the U.N.O. troops
for their “atrocities” and opined that
peace could be obtained only by the with-
drawal of all foreign troops —i.e., all
troops on the U.N.O. side, but not on
the North Korean side —from the Penin-
sula. And while fighting went on bitterly
in the new-fallen snow Monday saw the
inevitable announcement: “New Hitch
in Korean Truce.”
There may have been no connection
between the two items, but on the
day it was announced that Westralia
was suffering great inconvenience through
inability to persuade sufficient ships to
make the trip from the eastern States
the McLarty Government revealed its
plans to allow the sale of beer on Sun-
days.
If Commerce Minister McEwin’s calcu-
lations are right patriotic pigs and
chickens, by changing their diet, could
save the sterling pool 60 million dollars
a year. The argument: In a world hungry
for wheat it is indefensible to feed
it to stock; instead they should be given
grain sorghum. Suitable land in N.S.W.
and Queensland could produce 30 million
bushels of sorghum, thus releasing for
export about 26 million bushels of wheat
at present used for stock.
It should hit Australia with a cold
shock that its tiny force in Korea has had
690 casualties, including 140 killed or
drowned in action and 99 missing, dead
of disease, p.-0.-w., or killed or injured
accidentally. Of these the Army lost
127 killed and 448 wounded in action,
plus 92 other casualties. The R.A.A.F.
lost 13 killed and six missing or died of
disease. The R.A.N.’s total was three
wounded in action and one other.
According to N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture Graham, the rise in the price
of stockfeed to 16s, Id. means that for
most Australians the traditional breakfast
of bacon and eggs will be a thing of the
past. For most Australians that stage
was reached years ago.
Liberal-leader Hollway has protested
against the extravagance of an acquisi-
tion to the Premier’s office in Melbourne
—“a mammoth new writing-desk worth
hundreds of pounds . . . specially built
and brought from Geelong.” In saying
that the old desk was good enough for
him and his predecessors and should
therefore be good enough for Premier
McDonald, Hollway overlooks one thing
—the old desk is probably not big enough
to accommodate Mac and his co-Premier
Cain at the same time.
Description of barristers-at-law by
“Labor’s” up-and-coming wild man,
Clyde Cameron, M.P., during debate on
amending the Arbitration Bill in the
House of Reps.;
A proposal to litter the courts with a
lot of hoodlums who usually know nothing
about the case they have to deal with,
and seek instead to parade their knowledge
by bringing forward a set of technical
points and a lot of Latin phrases.
This came not too happily after his
leader, Dr. Evatt, K.C., had just been
reading the Riot Act over Clyde Cameron
for his defiance of the decision that there
should be no victimisation of anti-
communist rebels within “the movement”
as disclosed by the referendum.
A bill designed to give South Aus-
tralians the inestimable benefits of
tin-hare racing has recently been before
the Playford Parliament. Back in the
nineteen-twentie.s a greyhound-racing
company was formed in Adelaide, but
legislative action made sure the dogs were
never unleashed. The latest attempt,
sponsored by a Liberal member but
opposed by most of his party, scraped
through the Assembly with the support
of the four Independents and all but one
“Labor” member. While permitting the
use of mechanical hares, it prohibited
betting on the dogs; but those who
opposed it argued that if the tin-hares
came in the bookies wouldn’t be far
behind. In the Council the bill got short
shrift, only one Lib. and three “Labor”
men supporting it.
Cahvell complains that the Govern-
ment’s taxation programme will aggravate
inflation rather than curb it. Any tears
Arthur sheds on the subject of inflation
will be of the crocodile variety. It is
only six months since he was exhorting
the public to spend their money as fast
as they could before it lost its value ;
moreover, he makes no secret of the
fact that he is relying on inflation to
sweep the Government from office.
Every now and then some well-meaning
visitor drops in, tells us the White Aus-
tralia policy is a mistake and goes on his
way convinced that Australians are a
bigoted race for not believing him.
Latest to adopt the role is the Earl of
Hardwicke, whose idea is that “colored
domestic labor” and “colored farm help”
should be admitted to Australia on a
controlled basis. He considers that this
would stop the drift from the land, and,
by solving the domestic-help problem,
arrest the fall in the birth-rate. Lord
Hardwicke also considers the term “White
Australia” an affront to all colored
nations. A far greater affront would be
to permit “colored” people to come here
only as domestics and farm laborers
under “control,” thereby asking them to
admit permanent inferiority. The drift
to the cities, although a regrettable trend,
is not peculiar to this country, and Aus-
tralia’s birth-rate, though not as high as
might be desired, exceeds that of Britain
and most European countries. There has
really never been a time when domestic
help was available in Australia to the
extent known in older countries.
Federal executive of the A.L.P. has
banned the Melbourne “News Weekly”
on the grounds that it ridicules “Labor”
policy and attacks “Labor” leaders. It
is therefore to be placed “in the same
category as Communist publications and
Mr. Lang’s ‘Century’.” This looks like
a mixing of bans and categories, or both.
The Communist “Tribune” in recent
weeks has been all out for a united front
with “Labor” to “defeat the Budget and
oust the Menzies Government,” while
Lang’s “Century” has been praising the
Doc. so consistently that it almost seems
there might be something in the story
that it is about to become the official
organ of the A.L.P.
Reported that British Labor will oppose
the re-establishing of the Home Guard
because it is mistimed and will be mis-
understood abroad. The Attlee-Morrison
policy was dominated by this fear of do-
ing anything that might be misunder-
stood For a change Britain has
now a Government which is prepared to
do things that can be understood at home.
To inflate or not to inflate? —
Senator Cameron (Lab.), Oct. 31, 1951:
A few years before World War 11, speaking
from memory, the present Minister for External
Affairs (Mr. Casey) advocated the issuing of
ss. notes. I pointed out at the time, as
president of the Melbourne Trades Hall Coun-
cil, that if the Government issued ss. notes
inflation would be accentuated. Subsequently
the proposal was abandoned.
Senator O’Byrne (Lab.), November 23, 1951
(condensed report): Owing to increased cost
of commodities people had now to carry a
greater bulk of money, thus causing more work
for shops and banks. The Government should
issue ss. notes. This would save a great amount
of time.
Oddments from the N. S. Wales royal
commission on liquor:
A hotel licensee who is also a solicitor, telling
the commission of his dealings with a woman
who put up half the money for a licence, said
that she had been a partner with him in busi-
ness ventures and that they “had divided the
spoils.” Asked whether in making this remark
he had been careful in his choice of language,
he said “No.”
A publican told of his beer-garden in which
everyone was served at tables, ferns and orchids
were used “to provide the atmosphere we feel
is necessary,” oysters and biscuits-and-cheese
were provided at below cost and a band played
“Five Minutes More” at 5.55 p.m. and “Home,
Sweet Home” at closing-time “to soften the
b10w.”... .The pub. is at Allawah, which, as
Maxwell, J., found on inquiry, is 27 minutes
from Sydney Central Railway.
Two brothers and two sisters own or control
35 hotels, including the freehold of 18.
The Royal Commissioner (Judge Maxwell)
and Mr. Dovey, K.C., appealed to persons who
had received bottled beer from hotels to give
evidence before the commission. Next day Mr.
Dovey produced a letter from a man who said
he received four bottles of beer a week and a
bottle of Scotch regularly from the Ship Inn,
where an alphabetical register of customers was
kept. Mr. Dovey showed the licensee of the
Ship Inn the name on the letter. Licensee
admitted that the writer had been a friend of
his for years and that they belonged to the
same golf club. His honor suggested the licensee
might like the letter for framing.
During the week the terms of reference
of the commission were extended to re-
quire the submission of a report by
March 25, 1952.


V-CtiSF ran
HH H II
UNFAIR COMPETITION.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“K.”: It was “not bigamy but trigono-
metry” that brought to the Victorian
Criminal Court the other day a superman.
Bernard Leonard de Melnotte, of New
Zealand, entered the Royal Navy at 13,
served in China, returned home in 1914
(aged 17) and joined the N.Z. Expedi-
tionary Force ; fought on Gallipoli and in
23>12?(2
“Whaddaya think a bloke is—Professor Einstein?”
France, joined the Royal Flying Corps
in 1916, and emerged from the war with
the M.C., Croix de Guerre and the
Russian Order of St. George. After
fighting in Russia with the White Army,
he became pilot with a pioneer airline
in South America and later in the U.S.A.
In 1924 he came to Australia, engineered
in outback Queensland, and in 1926 was
married in Brisbane. They raised a
family, which Melnotte deserted in 1940
in order to join the R.A.A.F. A year
later he met and married another lady in
Melbourne, and with her he settled down
on a farm she bought in Mirboo North.
Thereafter he made friends with yet an-
other lass in Bairnsdale, whom he married
four years ago, living on the farm with
the second wife during the week and in
a Bairnsdale flat with the third at week-
ends. His counsel told the judge that
Melnotte’s warrior-life had led him to
suppose that he could do things not per-
mitted to ordinary men; and the judge,
although frowning on this supposition,
made the sentences for the two offences
concurrent as a concession to his military
record. They should let him out if a
third world war breaks before his time
is up.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Even a fragile bottle of
champagne sometimes refuses to perform
its office when released by the hand of
some exalted person at the launching of
an ocean-liner, so it is not surprising that
things went wrong in a ponderous example
of a ceremony of the kind in Melbourne.
Lady Latham was invited to turn the first
sod of the new Children’s Hospital at
Royal Park. A mechanical shovel was
all set to help her in the operation, but
when she climbed into the cabin and put
her foot upon a pedal the scoop crashed
to the ground. She climbed out, three
mechanics climbed in, the scoop was
poised once more and Lady Latham went
aboard and pulled the right lever. No-
thing happened. This was repeated three
times, but the machine stood firm, like a
Paleolithic monster with the sulks. The
ceremony was dispensed with and the
excavation started,
* * * *
“Macnell”: One day in March, 1889, a
single-screw British cruiser (2765 tons,
14.6 knots, four 6in., 12 sin., two field
and nine machine-guns) was anchored at
Apia. With her lay two American cruisers
and a sloop, a German cruiser and two
gunboats. The barometer fell to its
lowest reading in 30 years. Calliope’s
Captain Kane was assured by locals that
only rain was threatened. Kane preferred
to believe his barometer —he struck
lower-yards and topmasts, and raised a
full head of steam. By daylight the next
morning Apia harbor was one enormous
roaring mass of hurricane-driven foam.
How Calliope met the challenge is
history—and a still-taught tribute to
British seamanship, ship-construction and,
incidentally, Westport coal. Though
every Australian knows the story, not
many could detail Calliope’s later
career; or even that she was still alive.
Till recently the historic craft was resting
alongside in Newcastle-on-Tyne, h.-q.
ship of the Tyne Division of the R.N.V.R.
The other day her gallant old bones went
to the shipbreakers.
* * * *
“Brebis”: At the Test Match in Bris-
bane, seated behind us were two women
who had evidently not seen each other
for some time. They kept up a running
commentary which did not stop even in
the exciting times when wickets were
falling or catches were being dropped
“Jean” practically had control, and when
she paused for breath “Ann” would say
“Well, it’s like this, Jean,” but by that
time Jean had got her breath again and
Ann wasn’t in the race. The first day we
heard all about their relations, marriages
of their friends, illnesses and children,
Second day covered Mother’s ways of
making money by buying big houses and
converting them into flats—also Mabel’s
mishap. Mabel couldn’t come to the
“Chocolate cake coming round , Uncle.”
match as she had indigestion from eating
too much fresh bread. The third day
they discussed powder, lipstick and
dresses and decided that better dresses
could be got in small shops if you looked
round enough. On the last day I said to
my neighbor “Where are Jean and Ann
today?” A young fellow three rows of
seats ahead turned round and said
“Don’t you remember? They were going
shopping for that dress in Queen-street.”
* * * *
“Bo”: The department-store that I
grace with my patronage has lately re-
placed its ancient lifts with the express
variety, and the change this has wrought
in the life of at least one of the operators
is indeed a harrowing one. The old con-
traption rising as slowly and as agoms-
ingly as Marguerite does m the Resurrec-
t.on Scene in Faust, the driver, from
ong usage, had tapered the speed of
his announcing to that of the lift beaut,-
fully timing his extended recital of the
various departments so that the final one
would be uttered as he opened the doors
at the appropriate floor. Soon he found
that with the new lifts his voice was left
standing at the post. I shall never forget
the look of bitter frustration on his face
when, taking a deep breath as he slammed
the door at the ground floor, he got only
as far as “ironmongery, corsets, tobaccer,
toys, gent’s underwear and haberdashery
to the right, lay-by, carpets,” when the
door automatically opened, with his
recital only half-finished. I fear he has
only two hopes: either to take a long
course of attendance at one of our legis-
lative hot-air factories and thus learn how
to talk unintelligibly at 250 w.p.m., or
to put himself in the hands of a physical-
culture instructor so as to expand his
lungs and be able to beef all his stuff
out in one breath. Or do both.
* * * «
“Laetitia”: Another furphy about green
tea (B. 7/11 / ’5l) was that it derived its
peculiar tang through its being the pack-
ing medium used in consigning deceased
Chinamen back to the Flowery Land.
The belief was based on the frugality of
the Chinese, as known on the goldfields
and sheep-runs of early Australia. A
surviving and fairly widespread mis-
apprehension in regard to green tea is
that it is so called because it is picked
in an unripe state. In reality the leaf is
picked at the same stage of maturity as
any other, but the roasting is halted at
the stage which gives the green tea its
distinctive flavor. Australians, though
unchallengeably the world’s greatest tea-
addicts, are also its most unenterprising,
and miss a lot by reluctance to try the
herb brewed in the Russian or Turkish
manner or even j, ce( j
**' * *
“Colonial Cove”: All this rumpus over
a few Indonesians doing a bit of fishing
off some worthless island near the coast
of W.A.! Back in the days when the
dark people of the Netherlands Indies
were merely Malays, they visited our
north coasts in hundreds every year—
and were welcomed. The first British
settlement in the north, on Melville
Island, established by Captain Bremner,
in H.M.S. Tamar, August, 1824, held the
hope that Malay proas, running to and
from the Gulf of Carpentaria, might drop
in to trade. Even when the settlement
was transferred in 1827 to Raffles Bay the
hope still lived. In the 1860’s an attempt
was made from Melbourne to settle the
Camden Sound region, in the West
Kimberley, not far from the now-famous
Browse Island. Sent there by the W.A.
Government as Resident, Richard Shell
was surprised one morning to see a fleet
of 10 Malay proas sail in. A couple of
days later these Malays, possibly bent on
slave-raiding—the coastal aboriginals
being excellent skin-divers on pearl-shell
—fought with the tribes on near-by
Augustus Island. The abos finally drove
them off, and a few weeks later the settle-
ment was abandoned, so Shell could
speak no further on possible Malay
forays. Alfred Searcy, in his In the Aus-
tralian Tropics, tells of intercepting and
taxing, on behalf of the South Australian
Government, Malay pearlers making
homewards after a season in the
Gulf. That would be in the ’eighties,
* * * *
.. s ke .. An item of railway news
that l ' hastft appeared on the bulletin-
boards f Melb ' urne suburba n stations.
A elder i y man sli don a platforln
and his foot b J tween the platform
and the^oving train so that his shoe was
ff The shoe was sent to him a
f d later _ co .D. charge Is. 6d.
* * *
. *
“Pfl? Tok : American parents seem to
delight in giving their offspring startling
names (B. 21/11/ 51). Fiction-writer
Octavus Roy Cohen has some fine
examples in his stories of high life in
colored social circles. Two I recall are
“Orifice Latimer and Epic Peters,
The practice is not confined to the U.S.A.
I n Windsor (N.S.W.) when I was a boy
there was an old identity named Colonel
Maine. He had never worn uniform in
his life, but acquired his colonelcy at the
baptismal font. I believe there were also
a “Cardinal and a Councillor in the
family.
* * * * .
N.S. : More apt remarks,
New York cable, in reporting forthcom-
mg revolutions m male clothing, mclud-
ing trousers without cuffs and lapelless
jackets, remarked: “There will be no
change in men’s pockets.”
**. * *
“Sixenate”: Situations something like
that of Unk White’s joke-block (B.
14/11/’5l) in which the accused hailed the
judge as an old school friend have been
approached from time to time in our
courts. In one case a judge was filled
with astonishment and dismay when he
saw the man who was to answer a series
of charges of fraud. There was a cynical
smile of recognition on the accused s face,
but when the judge said that there were
reasons why the trial should go to another
judge all he said was that he would have
“No objection to your Honor trying the
case. The case was transferred, and
naturally there were whisperings m legal
circles about the reason. The accused,
whose real name was not included in the
list of aliases by which he had been
known, was brother to a girl who had
been the judge’s sweetheart in his law-
student days; the young reprobate’s
conviction for the first of his offences
had ended the romance. At the postponed
trial the fraud got three years. Whether
it would have been more or less if
he had been tried by the man who was
nearly his brother-in-law is a moot point.
PROSTRATED.
“....The revelations made so far at the [Liquor]
Commission’s hearings have not only shocked, but
stunned, the public conscience.”'
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
"No, Dreamboat, no!” the maiden said.
“I can’t go out with you tonight;
I’m going early off to bed —
In fact, I’m there, and look a fright.
Lover, I haven’t caught a cold;
It’s not that I’ve developed a cough,
But I’ve been stunned. And you’re so bold —
I wouldn’t be able to fight you off:
“I’m stunned! I’m shocked!
I’m terribly, terribly rocked;
The things innkeepers do and dare
Outrage my sense of what is fair.
And 1 can’t do anything with my hair —
I’m stunned! I’m shockedI v
Important men in industry
Have written humbly to the court:
“You don’t know how obliged we’d be
If you could cut proceedings short;
Our workers wander in a daze,
Their eyes are fixed, they make no sound;
We can’t get anywhere through the maze
Of prostrate consciences lying around:
“They’re stunned! They’re shocked!
They stagger as though they’d been clocked;
We've never known feeling to reach this
stage
Of grief and frustration and downright
rage
Since the last big rise in the basic wage —
They’re stunned! They’re shocked!”
Meanwhile, psychologists flit about
With doctors of this, and doctors of that,
Working the clock round, all flat-out
Attending the populace laid out flat;
“The Government,” these wise men attest
In long reports on the disease,
“Should give the housing problem best
And switch the labor to cemet’ries:
“They’re stunned! They’re shocked!
Our hospitals bulge, chock-a-blocked;
Your Social Services well may save
If Government undertakings have
The sense to put the voter in an early
grave
When stunned; when shocked t”
Because of this, some tougher guys.
Had hoped to drink in empty bars,
But they received a great surprise
To find accommodation scarce:
“What! All here drinking, just the same?
It’s not what we were given to think!”
“No, no, my friend! The public shame
Has driven these honest souls to drink:
“They’re stunned! They’re shocked!
They’re mentally crippled and crocked;
But one thing we can be thankful for —
The grave discoveries of the Lor
Have taught them not to get drunk any
more —
Just stunned! Just shocked!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Uco”: With the Christmas raffle
season approaching I’d like to issue a
warning to those careful souls who make
a practice of “saving” a portion of the
prospective prize with a fellow-investor.
Last year someone who knew his way
around raffled a dozen of beer in our
establishment at sixpence a ticket. Lester
took a ticket and later in the day agreed
to “save” two bottles with a mate. Next
morning another mate asked him to
“save” two bottles and a little later an-
other made the same arrangement. In
the end Lester lost count of his “saves,”
but felt that with his chances well spread
he would be very stiff indeed not to col-
lect a couple of bottles. It wasn’t till after
he had won the raffle that he found he
had “saved” fourteen of his dozen
bottles.
* * * *
“A.L.D.”: Limerick Council, which
had to abandon its intention of building
on a certain hill because leprechauns did
“Quick, Nipper—y' can't miss!”
their cobbling there, wasn’t alone in
having to change its plans in deference
to the fairy folk. In his My Ireland,
Lord Dunsany quotes a letter, written
in the 1930’s by the tenant of a council
house, asking to be transferred to another
cottage. The reason he gave was that his
cottage was situated next door to the
leprechauns’ football-ground, and that
the noise made by fairy barrackers kept
him awake at night.
* * * *
“Eve”; The kid in the paper-shop
pored over the Western comics with more
than average interest, then said, “They’re
awful cissy. Mister. Haven’t you got
any stronger?” “You’re a bit blood-
thirsty, son, aren’t you?” said the news-
agent, The lad sighed as though he’d
been through all that before. “They
aren’t for me,” he said. “I only read
science magazines. They’re for Dad
He’s in bed with a cracked ankle and
he likes ’em tough.”
* * * *
“Sam”: Ancient laws don’t always
operate against the individual. The
British Ministry of Food proceeded
against some potato merchants of Bristol
for ignoring an order which prohibited
the sale of East Anglian potatoes in the
West Country. Defence contended that
Bristol legally constituted a separate
county, citing in evidence the city’s
original charter granted by Edward 111
in 1373. Bristol magistrates upheld the
argument, and the case was dismissed, so
the potato-sellers beat bureaucracy
through an action of a medieval king
who had never heard of spuds.
* * * *
“L.A.P.”; In a Government office in
Melbourne there is a wall telephone and
underneath it a fire hydrant with a length
of hose attached. For as long as the
oldest clerk can remember an officer of
the fire brigade has come periodically to
remove the hose, test it and return it to
its position of readiness. Recently a
clerk answering the phone fiddled with
the tap as he and others had often done
before —only this time he gave it that
extra little turn which should have pro-
duced a trickle of water. Nothing hap-
pened. Intrigued, he turned the tap a
little further. Still no water came. Then
he turned it full-on. Not a drop.
That started everybody investigating, and
in the basement they found the answer.
The pipe had never been connected to
the main.
* * ♦ *
“Metax”: Until a radio-speaker re-
minded me that “the industrial civilisa-
tion of a country can be gauged by the
amount of sulphuric-acid consumed,” I
had forgotten this fact, pumped into me
in my high-school days 30-odd years ago.
We had a chemistry teacher who liked re-
peating it, but he used to add that the
“social civilisation could be judged by the
amount of soap used.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Investigations at Cornell
University (U.S.A.) have revealed that
almost half of the students cheat at
examinations. In the mathematics class
at my college the percentage was nearer
99, and the reason was quite
simple. None of the lads was
interested in mathematics but all were
more or less interested in passing the
examinations —at any rate, passing averted
trouble. Our master was an ex-Senior
Wrangler of Cambridge and a brilliant
mathematician, but singularly inept as a
teacher. There was only one boy who
bothered to work the sums out, but all,
with a fine sense of democracy, passed
along the answers. We were much im-
pressed later when the ex-Senior Wrangler
resigned his job of teaching, joined the
Adelaide Stock Exchange and made a
fortune. If we had known earlier that
that was the purpose of mathematics we
would probably have taken more interest
in it.
* * * *
“Loulalo”; Modern poems (B.
7/11 /’51)? For many years now the
market-report pages of the Victorian
dailies and rural weeklies have carried an
advertisement read by all the family.
Dad reads it for the information it im-
parts re cattle prices and vendors, Mum
“ Flannel-flowers always give me hay-fever.”
and the kids read it, aloud, to get a laugh
at the doggerel of which it is composed.
The auctioneer whose name it carries is
well known and respected in the trade.
His rhyming advertisements are almost
his trademark, and the names of sellers
whose wares he handles crop up week
after week. An example;
MELBOURNE DAIRY MARKET.
55/12/6 Friesian Bulls S. Miles.
41/10/ Fats M. McPhan smiles.
26 Milkers £36, Leslie B.
38 Sprs. 30/15/ Berrys spree.
7 at £3O C. Belot.
Vealers 34/2/6 W. Dixon’s go.
25/17/6 D. Barron for 5.
211, SHAW LOGANS drive.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Appendicitis is not the only
complaint whose incidence is governed
by fashion (B. 14/11 / ’5l). The same
thing applies to neurosis and other
diseases, psychopathic and psychological.
It is a common belief that they are en-
tirely modern or that they have enor-
mously increased owing to wars, economic
worries and so forth. It is nearer the
truth to say that Freud popularised
them. When a young lady gets a head-
ache nowadays she’ll glibly tell you that
she is the victim of separation-anxiety,
CEdipus complex or some sexual trauma.
In pre-Freudian days she would have
merely called it “the vapors.” Shak-
speare understood this when he said
“Nothing is but thinking makes it so.” It
was Freud who first named that remark-
able phenomenon of human nature, the
transference, but Plato gave a magnifi-
cent description of it in “The Banquet,”
where Alcibiades rolls up drunk and
alternately praises and abuses Socrates,
his ex-master.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Loch, a tiny town nestling
in the valleys of South Gippsland, holds
a record probably unique in Australia.
Every adult of its population of 400 is a
regular donor to the Victorian Red Cross
blood-bank,
* * * *
“Murph”; Bank and garage hold-
ups are not uncommon, but one
in Randwick (Sydney) recently had
some novel features. In a street
where a garage and a bank rub
shoulders, the manager of the former
opened up in the morning and found
himself looking straight down the bore
of a six-pounder anti-tank gun manned
by a crew of perspiring but determined-
looking cadets. They had hauled it from
the grounds of a school near by where
it had been left for the unit’s weekly
parade. Their demand? Air for the
tyres.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: New Australians make us
realise our own idiosyncrasies. For
instance, there was the one who told me
that he went into a shop to buy “a
trouser,” but the “shop clerk” wanted to
sell him a pair of them. I think I
succeeded in explaining the origin of the
plural garment; but another migrant had
me sparring for wind. “The weekly
ticket for the railway train-travelling—
it is the good idea,” he commented.
“But why do you not have the weekly
payment also on the tram?” I informed
him that there was talk of adopting the
system. “On the Sunday, the holiday, I
must pay more money to ride in the tram,
yes?” he went on, looking puzzled;
“Why is that reason?” I explained that
the driver and conductor were paid over-
time rates. “Ah, I see! ”he exclaimed ;
then added with admiration in his voice:
“But the man who drive the train, he
will work on the Sunday for less of the
payment than other days, is it?” I
couldn’t follow his line of thought—
until he produced a current half-fare
weekend excursion ticket. Now how
could I explain that—and still make
, Jl • t ?
sense and consistency .
* * * *
“Apple Isle”: When I hear an oldster
, . ~ , .. . ,
boasting of his sporting days, it takes me
back to my teens and old Chari. Whenever
we put up the kero.-tin for a knock old
Chari would be there bashing our ears
about the wonders he’d performed with
bat and ball when he was a young ’un.
When we graduated to real stumps old
Chari picked up the ball one day and
sent one down that swung in past the
bat to snick off the bails. What changed
Chari in our estimation from an old bore
to a wizard was the fact that before
he bowled it he said casually “Look,
here’s a ‘bailer.’ ”
* * * *
“Ceg”: Wonder what the present-day
radiologist would say if he were asked
to d(J his stuff on , he sort o£ machine
d used 40 . 0dd I earned
bob-hard-earned at that-turn-
. r. , ~ f mQ
”8 «>e handle of a W.mshurst machine
* can P icture still. The surgery ■
country g.p„ in darkness except for t
fight given off by the sparks Irom the
machine and the greenish glow from the
flask. The patient sitting up in a chair,
which was mounted on a wooden plat-
form w j t h beer-bottles for legs ; insulation,
l presume . xh e flask was held by a con-
traption something like the rests used by
old . time photographers for securing the
subject > s £ ead during an exposure. The
part of the body being X-rayed was
brought between the light-filled flask and
a gadget, held by the d . 8
wmch he peer.sd-somethmg fike the <sye-
P art , of a
to a lar 8 e sheet of g round § lass on wh ch
the “picture” could be seen. Turning
the handle of that
opposite directions, four la g g
whic fi we^ e covered with s, P a .
P a P er > and m^ brushes ru g g
them gave off sparks an
/ wlt b the sr ? e !l ° Z ° t n^’„ nr( > had a
bffl* 3 on top of the contn a
long j a ggcd s P ai,c s P ut ten g
them. The doctor wore a lead apron
when using the machine. All very
clumsy compared with the modern com-
pact outfits, but it apparently gave results,
I know that bones of the body showed
up very clearly.
A NEW THEORY.
“For the expression of one’s personality there is
no better social vehicle than dancing.”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
Too many folk mistakenly suppose
That by morose
Or cheerful mien, by speech that’s frank and
free
And unaffected,
By the excessive use of verbal jam,
Or by a clam-
Like silence, that one’s personality
Would be reflected.
By these some would aver ’twere better judged:
If one just trudged
Along as if Life always had him tamed;
Or walked like barrel
Rolling. Or by the clothes he tenanted.
Polonius said,
You may recall, that man was oft proclaimed
By his apparel.
Now it’s alleged that by the way you prance
While in the dance
What personality you have’s disclosed
With crystal-clarity.
Whether you pivot on your toe or heel
May well reveal
If you’re a social dud, or are disposed
To popularity.
“Flat” he will be considered, not a doubt,
Who is without
A positive and real he-man’s embrace.
Partners resent it.
But vital and aggressive he’ll be deemed,
And well esteemed,
Who grabs a girl and slings her round the
place
As if he meant it.
Witness the cove who takes his lady’s hand
With purpose, and
While doing the rhumba works it up and
down
; Like some pump-handle—
He’d be the type, you shrewdly might assess
(Not just a guess),
Who’d in the future either gain renown
Or raise a scandal.
I think there’s something in this new belief,
Which is, in brief:
Terpsichore reveals if you’re just dumb
Or blessed with glamor.
For who’s not seen personality expressed,
And at its best,
During the dance when someone’s hit his
thumb
Hard with a hammer?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Shadow-chaser”: As I ploughed the
rich scrub soil in C.Q. after heavy rain the
straw-necked ibis would form a queue
in the furrow behind me. They were
not at all afraid of me while I sat on
the plough, but all within a stone-throw
would fly off immediately I dismounted.
When the plough stopped at the furrow’s
end, or on a stump, an angry altercation
would run right back the length of the
queue. Comically reminiscent of a row
of cars in a traffic-jam when the leader,
forced to stop suddenly, fails to give the
signal. Until the plough started again
they would calmly retain their positions,
most of them standing on one leg, to
start off again immediately the plough
moved. They camped on the job in
adjacent trees, and as far as I am aware
there were never any absentees.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Personal antipathies are
not unknown even among members of
the vegetable kingdom, as witness the
failure of a chance-sown coconut to
germinate if cast up in proximity to
the “wanghi,” a shrub peculiar to the
Torres Straits Islands and bearing a fruit
like a comparatively fleshless and acrid-
tasting plum. If by human agency a nut
is sown near a wanghi tree, each will
grow in a line almost parallel with the
ground as if in an attempt to quit the
atmosphere of its unpleasant neighbor.
Good examples of this herbal hate were
the pair which used to stand thus in front
of the old Government trading-station
on Badu Island, n.-w. of Thursday
Island, and another pair in front of Jack
McNulty’s historic Federal Hotel on the
T.I. Esplanade.
* * * %
“Solitude”; I’d been on a long cross-
country trip, and, returning, mentioned
to Seventyfiver about an old prospector
NO
fISS lON
by the name of Withers I’d run into the
other side of Rabbitborough. I’d stayed
overnight in the prospector’s hut, and was
recounting gleaned scraps of his history,
when Seventyfiver suddenly grew
interested. “Withers, eh?” he queried.
“What’s ’e like? Sandy little runt, with
a bullet-hole through his left lug?”
“That’s him.” Seventyfiver’s mug split
in a grin. “Wa —al, hang me, that’ll be
Bob, awright. Old Bob Withers, Gripes,
I ain’t heard nothin’ of ’im for years.
What’s he like now, old Bob Withers?”
“Sandy little runt, with a bullet-hole
through his left lug.” “Yair? Well,
cripes, he ain’t altered a bit then,”
Seventyfiver chuckled. “Y’ know, I
wouldn’t mind a yarn with Bob some
time. Reckon if I writ ’im a letter t’
Rabbitborough he’d get it awright?” He
collected writing-paper and pencil, and
began: ‘Dear Bob,’ then, at the foot of
the page, added his usual stampeding
signature. “What about the middle?” I
suggested, eyeing the blank page. “Aren’t
you putting anything else?” “Aw, what’s
the good o’ that, Sol?” he drawled, stick-
ing the envelope with a mighty bang.
“Old Bob can’t read, anyway.”
* * ♦ *
“Golden Mile”; Accidental poisoning
among workers handling cyanide is
fairly rare (B. 10/10/’5l). Sodium
cyanide, now used more in gold extrac-
tion than the potassium compound, is not
so deadly, though poisonous enough.
Both cyanides are readily soluble in
water, so a simple sluice of the hands
before a meal is sufficient to remove a
fatal dose that might get mixed with a
man’s sandwiches. Also, both cyanides
are subject to oxidation, with loss of
feral power, when exposed to the air
for even a fairly short time. Which C
accounts for occasional failures when
cyanide is employed against animals, as
when the renowned tiger hunter, Jim
Corbett, tried cyanide on a man-eating
leopard in the north of India. The
animal undoubtedly took the bait, became
very ill, but survived. Obviously the
cyanide was oxidised, having probably
been kept in a loosely-corked bottle.
Had it been fresh —well, I saw a man
die of it within 15 minutes, and a bulldog
within 10.
♦ * * *
“Fairf”: Soaking wet from the raging
storm, we ran the last stretch to the little
fishing cottage and charged into the pitch-
blackness inside. Someone lit a match,
and a kerosene lamp came to smoky light.
There was a primus on the rusty stove,
but a fire was obviously needed to dry
our soaking clothes. An intrepid soul
dashed out through the deluge to bring
in an armful of wood from the tumbled-
down shed, and soon a warm, cheering
fire was blazing from the open firebox
of the stove. Meanwhile the rain
battered down on the iron roof, thunder
vibrated the little building, and lightning
shot violent, jagged bolts across the
external blackness. “You know,”
remarked Tactless Ted chattily, “this
reminds me of the time our shack got
hit by the fireball. I was only a kid at
the time, but I remember it as plain”
That was as far as he got—the crash
of the explosion momentarily drowned
even the hammering of the rain. When
the breeze-up had subsided sufficiently
to allow us to have a look at the damage,
we found that the door of the stove had
been blown open, the back of a chair
smashed out, and the wooden lining of
the wall splintered at one place as though
by a bomb. Moral: Don’t light fires in
holiday cottages until you’ve looked in
the oven —the previous occupant might
have used it as a cupboard and left a
tin of preserved fruit inside.
* * * *
“Vet.”; That you can’t always judge
a man by the condition of his hands
was evidenced when Barney wasted a
guinea on advice. Shearers were scarce,
and Barney had been flat-out, not only
putting his own small flock through, but
helping neighbors who clamored on every
side for assistance. The rest of his work
was hand-milking 13 cows before and
after his fists were in the wool. Twelve
to 14 hours a day for eight weeks; then
the strain began to tell, and Barney found
he couldn’t sleep at night. “I wish I
could get some sleep,” he yawned.
“Makes a bloke feel clean worn out.”
“It’s being overtired does it,” nodded
Charlie sympathetically. “You want to
“One thing, We Won't have to bother about Christmas presents .”
see the quack, and he’ll probably give
you something to send you off, so you
can see the season through.” Barney
tossed through a couple more nights, then
visited the doctor, who tapped him all
over, examined his eyes, ears, mouth and
yolk-softened hands. Finally he opened
the door for Barney and thumped his
shoulder. “No need to worry,” he de-
livered himself. “Just you try doing a
bit of good hard work each day, my
friend, and you'll sleep all right.”
* * * *
“Espee”: A bushfire which did big
damage to pastures and fences recently in
this Queensland district was directly trace-
able to a firebug. A cocky and his
helpers had successfully established a fire-
break right around his homestead.
Within this burnt circle a small clump
of blady-grass was burning. Suddenly
from out of it flew a shrieking hen with
her tail-feathers well alight. In her
frenzied dash she crossed the already
blackened area and ran headlong into the
tinder-dry grass outside the fire-break.
In the space of seconds a long line of
fire indicated the direction taken by the
fowl. •
* * * *
“Turlo”; What looks at first like mass
suicide among some of nature’s lower
orders (B. 24/10/’5l) sometimes turns
out to be something quite different. I
recall one rare season when the schools
of Johnny Ruff, miscalled herring, were
so thick outside Fremantle that numbers
pushed up the Swan as far as Blackwall
Reach. There one dusk, out in a dinghy,
we had a glorious time pulling them in,
just as fast as we could re-bait. Every
“herring,” when we cleaned them, we
found chockful of flying-ants, of the
Formic species. Sultry weather had
started many nuptial flights, and the
ardor of the millions of royal lovers had
carried them well out over the wide
Swan: too far, obviously, for their wing-
power. And so they had fluttered down
to the waiting mouths of the hundreds
of fish.
* * * *
“Lignum”: Though dogs not uncom-
monly desert the homestead to join the
ranks of stock-killing bands of their kind,
the defection of a feathered pet is some-
what rare. One such renegade is a white
cockatoo which has joined the outlaw
ranks of the Kelly gang in a South
Queensland district. The black devils
harrying poultry-runs find the job a lot
easier because of the intelligence supplied
by the deserter, who knows all the most
thickly-populated chicken-runs, and who
posts himself as a sentry to shout a
raucous warning at the approach of
danger. Seemingly he joins in the raids
just for the hell of it, since there is no
proof of his having forsworn his usual
vegetarian diet. He cuts a conspicuous
figure as he skims the ground fussily in
making sure that none of the cut-throats
is foolhardily dilatory in getting aloft
after the warning has been sounded.
Perhaps the bitterest feature of his defec-
tion is his shrill “Good morning! ” as he
departs in the wake of the despoilers.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”; Almost as big as a fox,
the hare moved steadily towards the briar
behind which I crouched with the rifle.
He nibbled a bit here and there, preened
himself, sniffed the wind and sat bolt
upright. The next second the bullet
caught him square in the chest and he
bounced, wheeled and paced in a straight
line across the plain for exactly 150yds.,
when he shot a couple of feet into the
air, crashed and lay still. Investigation
showed his heart to be a pulp where the
.22 slug had torn through it.
* * * *
“Pawang”; lam interested in a report
from Malaya that the white residents of
Ipoh have called in a member of my
profession to exorcise a ghost that has
been haunting an empty room at the
club ever since an atrocity was committed
in it in the days of the Jap occupation.
It is not the first time that the occult
powers of the pawang have been requisi-
tioned by Europeans. I was spending a
weekend with a planter friend on a small
coconut- and rubber-planted islet off the
coast of Borneo when the native girl who
shared his isolation decided to have a
baby. We were both Rationalists in those
days, incidentally. We promptly sent off
a boat’s crew for the doctor, but he could
not be expected before the morning, and
as we had no obstetrical knowledge what-
soever, and the planter’s library consisted
mainly of the works of Shakspeare,
Goethe and Nietzsche, plus some
planters’ textbooks, after a few hours’
contemplation of the phenomena of labor
we were reduced to a state of desperate
panic. When the girl’s cries, stimulated
by the looks of alarm on the white men’s
faces, had first started ringing over the
island a strange apparition had appeared
on the veranda. One of the plantation
kulis happened to be a pawang. H e
was fat and white-bearded, rare things in
a Malay, was stripped to the waist, the
Brahminical cord was stretched across his
stomach and his Moslem forehead was
smeared with yellow ochre. It was all
I could do to prevent the planter kicking
this relic of superstition downstairs, but
now his belief in science was shaken, and
he implored me to run down to the
coolie-lines and fetch him. The girls
cries instantly ceased when she saw him.
The first thing he did was to order us
to replace our trousers with the native
sarong, then to open every drawer in the
house and lift every lid, including our
cigarette-cases, and scatter their contents
on the floor. This was to facilitate the
child’s passage into the outside world by,
I presume, suggestion. Next he squatted
down at the head of the bed, and after
sundry prayers and incantations he took
a hair of the girl’s head and blew through
it. The baby arrived with perfect ease
a quarter of an hour later and a native
midwife took control of the situation.
With a dignified inclination of the head
and a gesture of refusal to our offer of
remuneration the pawang withdrew to
his kampong. The English doctor with
his bag came puffing up the hill five
hours later. “Couldn’t have done better
myself,” was his report.
TWILIGHT, JINDABYNE.
Wet red and polished grey
Glazes the near trunks; like Danae
The snow receives flash upon flash of drops
Discharged in turn from flat and separate leaves.
Below my quiet skis
A long slope swells down to the crowd of trees
Olive and dun, like idle pensioners
Waiting in a neutral valley without sun.
Grey upon grey the sky
Marches in ranks, dispatching silently
The moving mist, as massive as a ship
Between my headland and the opposite crest:
In this uncertain hour
When light sinks evenly into snow, the power
Of sense is altered, as one feels it in a garden
In early morning, before birds have wakened.
Now in the inward ear
The great wheel throbs, inaudible and sure
Turning towards night; and life is drawn
Into its separate centres to await
The inexorable swell
Of cold and silence: now each folded hill
Prepares, where trees stand lonely as Canute
With outflung arms upon the shrinking sand.
A.C.T.
J. R. ROWLAND.


“Bo”: “Even the most intelligent o’
dorgs get tricked at times,” said Fantail
Fred. “Take Stumpy here. Ain’t too
good on the hearing these days an’ he
depends on sign-language. And he’s
pretty good. All I gotta do is open up
an imaginary paper an’ Stumpy nicks off
up to the road-gate an’ gets the paper
from the mail-box. On Sundee mornin’s
if it’s hot an’ I feel like a swim down at
the crick all I gotta do is push me arms
out like a bloke doin’ breaststroke an’
he rushes to the back veranda an’ hauls
in me trunks that’s usually hangin’ there
over the rail. I squeeze a coupler teats
that ain’t there, an’ he hops up, tear?
down the paddick an’ brings Daisy in
for the milkin’. Well, the other day I
hears a hissin’ under the house. I’d seen
a brown snake slither under it that
rnornin’, so I moves me arm in a wrigglin’
motion to indicate the wavy action of a
snake on the move. Stumpy disappears.
That night I gets a ring from me neighbor
Ned Flint to say me dorg’s over there
an’ keeps barkin’ an’ jumpin’ around his
daughter an’ won’t go away. I goes over
to collect him, an’ when I takes a screw
at his daughter I wakes up to the bloomer
Stumpy had made. She’d had a perm,
a few days before.”
♦ * * *
“Shadow-chaser”: The limb selected
by Mrs. W. Wagtail for her natty little
nest was long and slender, reaching out
like an extended arm with the elbow bent
downward, just clearing the water. The
big cat sprang on to the limb above the
elbow, and despite the combined assault
of both chattering parents, advanced
r e 1 e ntlessly
along the
arm towards
the nest. His
weight sub-
merged the
“e 1 b o w,”
wetting
Tom’s feet
and making
a retreat im-
perative. Re-
lieved of the
m a r a uder’s
weight, the
branch immediately rose clear of the
water. Seeing the path to the nest again
clear, Tom renewed his offensive, again
got wet feet, and again retreated to the
bank, where he sat trying to lick his feet
dry and ward off an aerial attack. Essay-
ing a third sortie, Tom had again reached
the water when I clean-bowled him into
the water with a full toss. I’ll swear
Mrs. Wag registered a grateful smile.
* * * *
“Terre Australia”: Touring the
Prince’s Highway, Melbourne to Sydney,
we paused for a hangover at Sublime
Point on the N.S.W. coast. “There,”
remarked our guide, indicating some head-
lands several hundred feet below, “was
where lava once flowed into the sea.”
“Hardly volcanic,” commented our
geologist. “This is Carboniferous country
—look at your coalfields just at the
back. Sedimentary rock overlapping the
coal measures. Where is your volcano?”
It looked as though he was right.
Arrived at Sydney we viewed the harbor.
“And how was this formed?” inquired
our bright young lady. “Isn’t this
volcanic. Isn’t the whole harbor the
remains of a great crater?” “No, a
sunken valley,” said the geologist. “Sedi-
mentary rocks again. Just one of those
big valleys such as you see back in the
Blue Mountains, here dropped deep into
the sea.” It looked as if science was
right again. Still touring the big island,
we reached Bunbury, a one-jetty port
in southern Westralia, and built on a
shore peninsula that would have been
eroded away a million years ago had not
its southward side shown a set of the
toughest teeth to the eternal bash of
rollers sweeping up from the Southern
Ocean: half a mile of basalt, iron-hard,
Back from the water a road-metal quarry
“Hey! Go easy!"
40ft. deep showed that the basalt ran
well under the land. Basalt, the result of
a long-past lava-flow. But here, as on the
Sydney side, lies a hinterland dating to
the Carboniferous period: the Collie
coalfields, likely to prove as extensive
as those of N.S.W., whilst further back,
at about the same distance as the moun-
tains from Sublime Point, rises the high
scarp of the Darling Ranges. Our
geologist is still puzzling as to where
stood the volcano that spewed out the
lava which now lies as basalt along
BunbUry beach.
V * * *
“Jade”: Reading of some savage tribe
whose sixth sense was so highly developed
that when blindfolded and spun round
indoors they could unerringly indicate the
various points of the compass inspired
experiment. No savage being available,
10-year-old No. 1 son was the selected
subject. As a surveyor’s grandson he
knew east from west before he knew left
from right. Not once in many attempts
was he wrong. We were beginning to
endow him with marvellous extra-sensory
perception when he spoilt it with: “No-
thing to it, with that cold westerly blow-
ing under the door.” Experiment aban-
doned. We now wonder if those savages
got their results the same way.
* * * *
“Finny”: Off the jetty at Green Island,
about 20 miles off the North Queensland
coast, I watched sardines moving in a
packed mass. After feeding all night on
the reef they cannily kept close inshore
during the daytime to dodge the hungry
mackerel and trevally. Occasionally,
however, the latter, working in small
packs, would make flying raids, lashing
the outskirts of the shoal with their tails
and then returning to pick up the
wounded. Enterprising anglers on the
jetty would “jig” a live sardine and, cast-
ing' into the track of the raiders, score
on these return-trips. Incidentally, the
N.Q. sardine is larger than the Norwegian
variety.
* * * ♦
“Black Rock”: The “porpoise-hide”
bootlace which is made from the skin
of a Norwegian whale (B. 7/11 /’5l) runs
only second in durability and breaking-
strain to strips cut from the hide of the
dugong. Native crews, who fortunately
have no use for bootlaces, use thongs of
dugong-hide for effecting rigging repairs
in the m.o.p, and trochus fleets. There
is, however, little commercial possibility
in dugong-hide, since those engaged in
the curing process would probably
object to the discomfort of wearing
respirators, which would be an occupa-
tional “must,” since, in comparison with
it, all other hides smell as attar of roses.
* * * *
“E.”: Had a streak of luck when old
man Armstrong and his son Ted drifted
into the district looking for work. The
old bloke had wrested a crust from a
rough bush block further out for many
years, while Ted, a generously built cove
in his twenties, had held down a job in
the town. Now the two had joined
forces, and, while awaiting final arrange-
ments on a new venture, decided to take
work locally during the interval. Hearing
of it, I immediately made tracks, and at
the post found I’d run a dead-heat with
neighbor Bill Kennedy. “Tell you what,”
suggested Kennedy. “We’ll hire one
each. That suit you?” Readily I
agreed. “Right, and seeing they’re ready
to start tomorrow,” he went on, “and I
live further on than you, I’ll pick them
both up, and drop one off at your place,
as I pass. All right?” I hesitated a
second, then agreed once more. Kennedy
was always all out for No. 1, but
he wasn’t as old at the game as some
of us, and I hid my grin the following
morning when he dropped old man Arm-
strong off at my joint, and kept the
youthful giant for himself. A week, and
he had learned his lesson. I bet next
time he won’t be mug enough to choose
a generation that’s never learned to work,
in preference to one that’s never learned
to loaf.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The young bloke in the
car pulled up and offered us a lift, which
we accepted. The moment we were in
the thing and he had shot off at high
speed we realised he was half-boozed.
He drove that car flat-out, taking corners
on two wheels, overtaking everything on
the road and scaring Hades out of us.
He ignored our yells to slow down,
laughed loudly, and, discovering our fear,
drove all the faster and more erratically,
deliberately taking risks and whooping
with delight at the near-misses. Then we
reached a town and Mat howled at him
to pull up for a drink. The car had
hardly stopped before we were out of it,
and Mat proceeded to tell him off. He
jeered at us and drove away. Mat stared
after him. “It would have served the
blankard right,” he muttered, “if he’d
killed us both an’ got life for it! ”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Wippegong”: Nobody bothers much
about the other fellow’s worries, and that
applies whether you’re wearing rags or
furs —or feathers. I’m settled amongst
some tea-tree near a scribbly gum in
which my camera is trained on the nest-
“A gallon in each, please .”
ing hollow of a rosella; the tripod was
there overnight, so she is used to that,
but she’s not so sure of the knobby
gadget which now surmounts it. She
didn’t go far away when I climbed to
mount the camera, and now I’m holding
the other end of a fishing-cord that runs
to the shutter she is back in her tree, but
hesitant Not so the fowl round about
her. A pair of rufous whistlers are con-
sidering the tea-tree clump as a building-
site, and seem to be trying out the
neighborhood for supplies. They are
feeding in the rosella’s tree, but she, be-
ing a civilised person in the matter of
territories, makes no objection to that —
she even envies the casual manner in which
the songster performs from a perch on
my tripod. A sitella —tree-runner, if you
prefer it —cames spiralling down a dead
branch, under it as often as on top, the
upturned beak probing into cracks on the
bark, a bright orange band lighting the
wings as the bird glides to another limb.
Little thornbills, sprites of lemon-yellow,
fuss about the outer branches and com-
pletely ignore the brooding parrot in
whose domain they are feeding; whilst
a sacred kingfisher who is cleaning out
a hollow 50yd. away and at intervals
chasing his missus through the timber
adds insult to the already-worried hen
by making a savage snap at her in the
course of one of his amorous sprints.
Maybe the casual behavior of the rest,
in the presence of what seems to her to
be a danger, lends some assurance to the
gaudy fowl, for she sidles down the
branch, flutters across to the top of the
hollow, poses gracefully, the string
tightens, and click! She scurries away,
but in a few minutes the camera is out
of the tree and she will be back on those
five white eggs while they are still warm.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Whenever I read that
the Hon. Soanso, M.L.A., inspected a
works project somewhere or other I find
myself thinking of an exalted personage
who inspected a job on which I worked.
He arrived with all the ceremony of a
Chinese mandarin —and a lot more
arrogance. If he was capable of taking
an intelligent interest in what was going
on it did not show in his eye as he strode
from site to site.
Suddenly the
little procession
of yes - men
stopped in
shocked awe —
the great man
had seen some-
thing which dis-
pleased hi m,
and was clamor-
ing for the
ganger. Old Chick presented himself.
“Sack that man,” ordered the Presence,
pointing across the flat. “But” the
easygoing old chap protested. “Sack him! ”
came the roaring interruption. “He’s
been sitting there ever since I arrived.”
Chick breathed very deeply. Suddenly
his sense of humor seemed to come to
the top. “Right-oh,” he said cheerily ;
“if that’s the way you feel about it,” and
strolled towards the motionless figure.
Not until the ganger’s waving arms and
pointing finger had proved that the poler
was being ordered to make-shift office
did the trump consent to move on. When
the cortege was out of sight Chick came
pacing back. “What was up with him —
blotto?” asked the nipper. “Well, one
of us was,” grinned the old bloke. “Be-
cause I just sacked a stump with some-
body’s hat and coat on it.”
* * * •
“Lustod”: When George and Fred
selected their farms on the mountain-side
each fenced half the boundary-line, half-
way along which was a bloodwood.
They agreed that George would be re-
sponsible for the fence from it to the
scrub, and Fred from the tree to the
road. A few years later, after heavy
lain, a landslide carried the bloodwood,
still standing, 50 yards down the fence.
Fred declared that as his fence was from
the tree to the road it was up to George
to fence the gap, George insisted that
his fence was from where the tree used
to be. So neither gave in; they didn’t
speak and dogged each other’s cattle out
through no-man’s land for 10 years until
George sold out. The new owner
couldn’t stand it, so he has slung a single
wire across to keep his cattle in.
WYNYARD SAILOR.
Sailor, we all stare at you.
Not because we are laughing;
nor that we envy
the bottle on your hip
(.beer as we know should be cold),
and that girl with her grip
monkey-tight in your pocket
(better the blondes that grow old).
Sailor, we all stare at you.
Not because we are laughing,
although your wide trousers
go flippety-flap
(we have worn clothes as odd),
and if your hat
makes a sailor-suit boy of you—
they say it’s the young who are God.
Sailor, we all stare at you,
because you are mystery;
one who has walked
on the dark of the green,
while we were afraid to be drowned;
one who has been
with the seas of great silence,
and now touches ground.
Sailor, we all stare at you,
because death has been under you;
days have been seas;
you have cast off from land,
and now you’ve no home.
But we who have manned
this old coffin earth
have never, will never
face death having known.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


0
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
81r Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.: G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead. K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson. M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heficr;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager! C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Safeguard your Estate
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of your Will.
Advantages: Security Continuity Expert Management Impartiality
Accessibility Secrecy Continuous Audit Moderate Charges Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
df
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY;
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 66,641 5J p.c. = 65,625 916 1,032,192
1943 .. 67,014 5 „ ~62,500 4,514 1,036,706
1944.. 66,216 5 .. ~62,500 3,716 1,040,422
1945 . . 67,540 5 „ „ 62,500 5,040 1,045,462
1946 .. 69,585 5 „ „ 62,500 7,085 1,052,547
1947 .. 79,970 5j „ „ 71,875 8,095 1,060,642
From inner reserves, £250,000 ..1,310,042
1948 .. 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,269
1949.. 101,675 8 „ ~100,000 1,675 1,313,944
1950 . . 104,678 8 „ ~100,000 4,678 1,318,622
1951 . . 108,008 8 ~ ~100,000 8,008 1,326,630
Sir Oscar Isaachsen, who stepped up
from general-manager to chairman on
retirement of Sir Howard Lloyd in June,
1950, died in May last. Into the vacant
chair has stepped Sir James Gosse, who
joined the board about six years ago,
and who is widely associated with com-
mercial life in South Australia, where
the Bank of Adelaide does nine-tenths
or more of its business.
Taking a bright view of the long-term
outlook for Australia, he has pointed
to the fact that, although present infla-
tionary pressures underlying our apparent
prosperity were by no means peculiar to
Australia, unpalatable correctives would
have to be applied if the spiral was to be
arrested and difficulties, especially in the
basic industries, overcome before outside
competition became too fierce for our
secondary industries.
The problems of inflation and defence
dominate all others at the moment.
The Government has applied the
financial brakes by adopting a policy
designed to mop-up surplus spending-
power and to restrict expansion of in-
vestment in non-essential industries.
The Budget sets out to cover the whole
of the prospective increase in spending
on defence and other Government out-
lays, as well as to create a surplus of
£ll4 million, which is equal to about
10 p.c. of the estimated expenditure total.
Much of the money is to be derived
from increased company and personal-
income tax, and most of the balance from
stepping up sales tax from p.c. to
p.c. on the bulk of taxable goods and from
20 p.c. to 66| p.c. on less essential items.
At the same time control of capital issues
and further selective tightening of credit
by the banks is beginning to damp down
expansion of immediately less-essential
investment. As a consequence there is
likely to be some temporary marginal un-
employment.
The broad aim of Government policy
is to prevent inflationary conditions of
demand, and consequent dangerous in-
flation of costs, growing out of public
expenditure on defence and for civil
purposes. In the long run, however, the
inflation problem can be brought within
sight of solution only through an all-
round increase in production. Mean-
while, it is the duty of all to accept with
patience the shortages and high prices
which rearmament entails, and to do
everything possible to eliminate waste
and inefficiency.
Banking policy is geared to public
policy through a network of central-bank
legislative-controls and directives, which
also have a direct bearing on the level
of bank earnings. Last term the
Adelaide gathered an extra £2,993,144
of deposits, etc., and put out an extra
£2,850,028 in advances:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital . . £1,260,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Notes .. .. 6,489 6,489 6,489
Deposits, etc. . . 21,491,129 29,188,490 32,181,634
Due other banks.. 72,855 1,116,128 744,932
Pinal div. . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Liquids ~ . . 18,399,434 25,339,775 25,125,642
Advances . . . . 5,881,213 6,920,786 9,770,814
Premises, etc. . . 455,232 499,438 523,240
Other assets .. 104,537 169,731 139,990'
Still, advances amounted to only 30.3 p.c.
of deposits (84.4 p.c in 1939), and
liquids were 76.3 p.c. of liabilities to the
public. From a banking point of view
it is a very strong position.
Appearances are that the bulk of profits
come from the investment basket these
days. At September 30 the co.’s port-
folio included £14,218,000 (up £500,000)
on statutory deposit with the Common-
wealth Bank, £1,000,000 (unchanged) of
Treasury bills and £2,296,163 (down
£2864) of Government securities. The
£lOB,OOB (up £3330) of profit claimed
was best for the last 20 years, being
8.6 p.c. on capital as against 8.3, 8.1, 7.1,
6.4 and 5.6 p.c. back to 1946. On share-
holderst’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the profit was a moderate 4.2 p.c.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., and looks
like remaining there for the present.
The price of the co.’s f.-p. pound
shares, which has followed the general
trend of the market, dropped from
465. 6d. in June to 40s. 3d. last week.
The return at the lower figure is 4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 41s. 2d.
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
194G l , 475,014 230,846 104,862 2,731,820
Surplus from revalued Government 1
securities, £60,618 .. .. j-
Other additions to reserves, £14,000 J
2,806,438
1947.. 482,267 192,959 116,480 172,828 2,979,266
Added to reserves, £12,800 .. 2,992,066
1948.. 509,258 193,830 113,587 201,841 3,193,907
Exchange fluctuation res., £11,733.. 3,205,640
Added tax reserve, £l2OO .. .. 3,206,840
1949.. 552,979 187,050 124,780 241,149 3,447,989
To exchange reserve, £9004 .. .. 8,456,993
Added tax reserve, £10,750 .. .. 3,467,743
1950.. 610,481 197,616 141,006 271,859 3,789,602
To exchange fluctuation res., £9043.. 3,748,645
Less taxation reserves, £5500 .. 3,743,145
1951.. 678,937 209,273 167,885 301,779 4,044,924
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1937-40,
£4500; 1941, £9000; 1942, £4500; 1943-46,
£9000; 1947, £13,500 ; 1948-50, £18,000; 1950-51,
£21,600.
Edmund S. Paul, chairman since 1927,
died on November 12. Policyholders
and shareholders can thank him, and
the team he gathered around him, for
the co.’s present sound and progressive
position. He is succeeded by L. J.
Thompson, who was long associated with
him on the board. The co. writes
ordinary and accident contracts through-
out Australia and New Zealand —it has
never joined in the hunt for industrial
and group business, and, in the light of
recent developments, it hasn’t lost much
so far as strength is concerned.
Latest figures disclose continued pro-
gress. In the life department £1,687,998
(up £485,214) of new business was put
on the books. The average amount per
policy was £676 as against £561 in 1950
and £498 in 1948 ; a reflection of recog-
nition of the need for increased life cover
owing to the decline in the value of paper
money. Income increased by £53,119,
reaching £570,076, of which premiums
accounted for £450,569 (up £45,579) and
interest, rents, etc., for £119,507 (up
£7540). Claims (£178,084, up £5811)
were well within expectations. Including
depreciation, etc,, exes. (£118,678, up
£19,274) made off with 26.3 p.c. (up
1.8 p.c.) of net premiums, the increase
being due to spiralling wage-rates.
The overall surplus in this department
was thus £25,085 stronger at £296,762, of
which £259,114 was transferred to the
statutory life fund, £lO,OOO to property
reserve (now £40,000) and only £4200 to
shareholders’ account. The life fund was
further strengthened by £9OOO previously
reserved for new business expansion,
lifting it to £3,669,215. In addition there
is an exchange-fluctuation account of
£27,601 (up £8601), making total funds
in this section £3,763,816, all of which
belongs to policyholders. The actuary’s
valuation figures are not broadcast, but
bonuses to policyholders were maintained
at the same satisfactory rate as for the
previous year.
The net rate of interest earned on the
mean statutory fund (after deducting
taxes) was £3 6s. Id. p.c. (down 2s. 5d
p.c.), the slip being due to conversion of
maturing Government securities at a
lower rate of interest. The rate used in
calculating actuarial liabilities under
policies is 2} p.c.
In the accident and general section, in
which shareholders are mostly interested,
the surplus (after sending £9844 to
reserve for unexpired risks) was £40,221
(up £3919). The £4200 transferred from
the life section lifted the figure to £44,421,
or 12.3 p.c. on the £360,000 of share
capital as against 11.1, 9.8 and 8.4 p.c.
for the three preceding years. A point
was added to the div., making it 6 p.c.
(£21,600). At 295. 3d. (28s. 6d. a year
ago) the f.-p. pound shares return 4.1 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis, with prospects.
Net tangible cover is 40s. sd.
The improvement in the overall net
tangible position (both departments com-
bined) was £313,047:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 1,543,610 1,583,780 1,725,965 1,847,003
Mortgages.. 369,808 356,282 404,262 439.300
Loans on
policies, etc. 59,207 68,851 72,738 78,390
Book deists,
cash, etc. 155,035 150,682 154,897 178,022
Equipment . 4,450 5,967 8,882 16,525
Properties.. 787,558 738,558 697,786 665,477
Shares, etc. 815,645 1,045,461 1,213,702 1,366,556
Total .. 3,685,313 3,949,581 4,278,232 4,591,279
Creditors ~ 113,406 123,592 160,630 164,755
Net tangibles 3,571,907 8,823,989 4,117,602 4,426,524
Assur. fund* 2,980,027 3,186,874 3,424,783 3,698,741
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1948,
£21,300; 1949, £17.405 ; 1950, £23,682; 1951,
£29,526.
Of the year’s increase of £121,038 in
public securities, £78,726 was on account
of local-body loans. Of the sharehold-
ings, etc, (up £152,854), £128,473 is in
controlled cos. and the balance mainly
in industrial pref. and ord. stocks. The
movements augur well for a strengthening
of the net interest rate at next balance.
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Surplus. Dividends. serves. serves,
£ £ £ £
1944.. 66,276 10 p.c. = 45,000 1
W/o premises, £lO,OOO .. )
11,276 569,746
1945.. 67,397 10 p.c. = 45,000 '
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ■
W/o premises, £lO,OOO
7,397 677.143
1946.. 70,232 10 p.c. = 45,000
To staff fund, £5OOO ~ ■
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ...
10,232 687.375
1947.. 75,159 10 p.c. = 45,000
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ■
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..
15,159 602,534
1948.. 92,505 12$ p.c. = 56,250 ,
To staff fund, £lO,OOO ..
26,255 628.789
Add reserve adjustments, £192,251.. 821,040
1949. .114,046 12$ p.c. = 56,250 1
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. j
47,796 868,836
1950. .203,324 12$ p.c. = 56,250 \
To staff fund. £lO,OOO
137,074 1,005,910
1951. .194,873 12$ p.c. = 62,500 1
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. $
122,373 1,128,283
The activities of this 89-year-old
Sydney-controlled fire, marine and
accident office are confined mostly to
Australia and New Zealand. There is
also an office in London which is con-
cerned chiefly with marine business. For
the first time since 1940 the gross surplus,
which has increased rapidly since war
epded, has failed to expand. A higher
loss rate and heavier exes., due to heavy
Government bleeding and spiralling pay-
roll total, were the troubles.
The business continued to grow under
pressure of an expanding volume of
trade and inflation of commodity prices
and other insurable values. Net premium
income, which has more than trebled
over the last five years, stepped up by
£233,326 last term:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1944.. 353,561 127,318 185,746$ 36.1 p.c. 52.6 p.c,
1946.. 404,324 141,557 228,629$ 35.0 „ 56.6 „
1948.. 618,284 247,832 313,564 40.0 „ 50.7 „
1949.. 903,160 329,749 496,990 36.5 „ 55.0 „
1950. 1,099,677 420,570 516,850 38.2 46.9 „
1951. 1,333,003 532,209 650,910 89.9 48.8 „
$ After deducting investment income taxation.
Speaking generally, marine business was
less favorable, but chief causes of the
heavier loss rate (up 345. p.c.) were the
unprofitable nature of third-party risks,
owing to the rising tide of road accidents
and heavy compensation awarded by the
courts, and the extent to which the ever-
mounting cost of repairs has eaten into
margins on ordinary motor-vehicle risks.
However, recent increases in premium
rates on the two last-mentioned classes of
business should help to relieve the
position. The increase of 38s. p.c. in the
expense rate is mostly a reciprocal of
wage inflation.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£149,884 (down £13,373), and interest,
rents, etc., turned in £44,989 (up £4922),
making total surplus from all sources
£194,873 (down £8451). Allowing a
40 p.c. reserve for unexpired risks (the
proportion usually considered adequate),
the net underwriting surplus would be
£56,554 (down £28,096), and the net
return from all sources £101,543 (down
£23,174), equal to 20.3 p.c. on the half-
million of capital—ll. 3 p.c, from under-
writing and 9 p.c. from investment. So
the 12i p.c. div. remained a comfortable
matter, and there is nothing at the
moment to suggest that it is likely to be
interfered with.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £500,000
Creditors* .. 438,548 308,066 412,592 510,391
Final div. .. 22,500 28,125 28,125 31,250
Government
securities ..652,850 626,740 589,916 489,915
Cash, book
debts, etc... 669,451 682,691 692.284 830,089
Debentures ~ 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages .. 99,811 160,523 852,143 496,634
Premises .. 98,975 155,073 232,287 323,285
* Includes taxation, etc.
During the year shareholders welcomed
a call for £50,000 of fresh capital at par
—first time they were asked to assist for
over 30 years. Owing to the low return
from Government securities (down
£100,000) more attention is now being
given to mortgages (up £144,491), which
accounted for 22.7 p.c. of total assets at
September 30 last as against 4.4 p.c.
four years ago.
In the market, where sound insurance
scrip ranks high as an investment, the
price of the co.’s £lO shares paid to £5
each fluctuated between £22 and £lB since
the beginning of 1951. At last week’s
figure of £l9 10s. the return is 3.2 p.c.
on a 12£ p.c. div. basis. Including
£552,687 reserved for unexpired risks, net
tangible cover is £l6 ss. Bd.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends — x
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 12i p.c. serves. servea.t
£ £ £ £ £
1945.. 35,510 36,000 10,066 264,938
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 262,438
1946.. 72,018 36,000 10,066 25,952 288,390
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 278,390
1947.. 78,620 36,000 10,066 32,554 310,944
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 300,944
1948’.. 74,736 36,000 10,066 28,670 329,614
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 319,614
1949.. 76,531 36,000 10,066 80,465 350,079
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 340,079
Asset revaluation, £lOO,OOO .. .. 440,079
Reserves capitalised, £80,527 .. 359.552
6i p.c.
1950.. 78,682 36,000 10,066 32,616 392,168
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 882.168
9 & 5 p.c. 6 J p.c.
1951.. 89,49 4 5 3.500 1 0,0 6 6 25,928 4 08,096
To staff fund. £lO,OOO .. .. 398,096
* Excluding depreciation reserves, now £373,292.
The co.’s main spinning and knitting
mills at Coburg (Vic.) are equipped with
modern and efficient plant, and five
branch factories —Kyneton, Parkdale,
Gisborne, Woodend and Highett —set up
since the war to mitigate the labor
problem, help to swell output and turn-
over. Last term the physical volume of
sales was “well maintained,” but their
money value went up with a rush, owing
to inflationary pressures, especially in the
raw-wool market. As a hedge against
what has happened in the wool market,
the co. kept stocks down to the “lowest
possible quantity,” and set aside out of
the year’s earnings £27,500 net (£50,000
less £22,500 tax thereon) against possible
loss on sales of industrial yarns, etc.
though selling-prices are controlled on
the basis of average cost, the time lag on


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
TXLB AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
d
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Hoad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
For Sale.
THE well-known Forget-me-not Wolfram
Mine of 13 acres lease, Chlllagoe Field,
with jackhammer plant complete with bat-
tery capable of handling large quantities
of wolfram on the spot. This mine has
good wolfram showing and will stand in-
spection. Bona fide enquirers will be
given all opportunities for inspection and
testing values. Reason for selling is that
owner is developing another lease and
cannot handle both. Price of mine, plant
and battery £15,000. —J. J. BOYLE,
Commission Agent, Herberton, N.Q.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW & STAR LIMITED
(, Incorporated in England)
FINAL DIVIDEND, No. 71
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Directors have decided to recommend at
the Annual General Meeting of the Com-
pany to be held on December 12, 1951,
payment of a FINAL DIVIDEND of ONE
SHILLING AND SIXPENCE per share
sterling in respect of the year ended
JUNE 30, 1951, less United Kingdom In-
come Tax at NINE SHILLINGS AND SIX-
PENCE in the £1 (EIGHT DECIMAL
POINT FIVE PENCE per share), the
net amount of Dividend being NINE
DECIMAL POINT FOUR FIVE PENCE
per share sterling.
This Dividend makes a total distribution
of TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE per
share sterling for the year ended JUNE
30, 1951.
Subject to confirmation at the Annual
General Meeting, the Dividend will be
paid on DECEMBER 21, 1951, to all
Shareholders registered on the books of
the Company at the close of business on
NOVEMBER 15. 1951.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
NOVEMBER 16 to 19. 1951, both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend will
be calculated at the rate of Exchange
ruling on NOVEMBER 16. 1951.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAB LIMITED
R. J. AGNEW, Attorney.
Fimiston. November 9. 1951.
Missing Friend.
MISSING HEIR—WILLIAM HEADRICK,
born in Tambaroora, New South Wales, on
June 12, 1866. Lived in Forbes in 1885,
son of WILLIAM HEADRICK, a gold-
miner, and HENRIETTA, his wife, who
were born in Scotland, may be entitled to
a share in an estate. If living please
write at once to COLQUHOUN & KING,
Solicitors, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dated 19th November, 1951.
Telephones: B 9573, B 6232,
B 6130
Telegraphic Address
Corrientes, Brisbane
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Bobin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
m
k
m
m
...amda/dd
and iMtm
jMifa Mddmfy
The “PERFECT POLICY” of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accident or specified illness —and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
AUSTRA L I A N
’♦ # _ » MM I
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITD'
HUNTER, ADD 6U OH STR£ETS. S Y D N E X»
fd
State Electricity Commission of Victoria
[Constituted under Act of Parliament of Victoria )
£3.0001000
POWER AND FUEL DEVELOPMENT
LOAN
(No. 92)
Opens for public subscription
MONDAY, 26th NOVEMBER, 1951
Cash subscriptions to the Loan will be applied to finance
capital works associated with the expansion of the Com-
mission’s undertakings, including the development of the
Kiewa hydro-electric project and the Morwell briquette
project, and the extensions to the Yallourn power station.
Interest Rate P er nnum
Price of Issue . . . PAR (£100)
Currency ... 10 Years
(Repayable at par Ist December, 1961)
PROSPECTUS AMD APPLICATIONS
Copies of the full prospectus can be obtained from and applications
may be lodged with any office in Australia of The National Bank
of Australasia Ltd. (including The Queensland National Bank Ltd.)
or the Commonwealth Bank of Australia ; members of recognised
Stock Exchanges in Australia; the Head Office of the Commission
22 William Street, Melbourne, or any of its offices in Victoria.
The Loan is secured upon the revenues of the Commission.
Principal and interest guaranteed by Government of Victoria.
The Loan is a trustee security in Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania.
The loan will close on or before 15th December, 1951
Issued under authority of the State Electricity Commission (. Financial)
Act, 1937, No. 4j 12 (and Amendments ) of the State of Victoria.
22 William Street, A. HUNT,
Melbourne. Chairman.
Loan Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
3332
a falling market has to be
guarded against.
After making this special
reservation and allowing £48,812
(up £4111) for depreciation and
£104,500 (up £52,000) for taxa-
tion, the declared net result was
£10,812 better at £89,494. Of
this amount pref. divs. called
for £53,500 (up £17,500), and the
balance was equal to 22,3 p.c.
on ord. capital as against
26.5 p.c. for the previous term.
The div. was kept at 6| p.c.,
equal to 12£ p.c. on capital as it
stood before the bonus-scrip
issue in 1950, but only 2\ p.c.
on original ord. capital before
the big cut (16s. a share) in 1925,
The usual £lO,OOO was sent to
the staff fund, and the balance
(£15,928) lifted reserves to
£398,096. In addition there is
a depreciation reserve of
£373,292, and the £27,500
already referred to.
In February, 1950, £80,527 of
bonus scrip was issued to the
ords. (a quarter of the capital
jettisoned in 1925) and charged
against a capital-assets reserve
of £lOO,OOO, created by writing
up the book-value of plant, etc.
After the reconstruction of 29
years ago, plant was modernised
and expanded and paid for out
of earnings.
Then, early last term, £350,000
of 5 p.c. redeemable prefs, were
issued to Colonial Mutual Life ;
they are redeemable at the rate
of £25,000 p.a. for eight years
from June 30, 1952, and the
balance (£150,000) at the end of
the 10-year term. The fresh
capital, together with an extra
£149,551 from sundry creditors
(£309,916), was used mostly to
reduce the overdraft (£1,017,422,
down £92,275) and carry more
stocks (up £300,566) and book
debts (up £86,357):
1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £561,051 £1,229,615
Liabilities* .. 1,427,080 1,620,896
Depreciation reserve 325,082 373,292
Freeholds .. .. 183,740 197,815
Plant . . .. 646,284 681,070
Stocks . . .. 1,491,728 1,792,294
Book debts .. 344,753 431,110
Cash .. .. 28,879 419,610
* Includes tax reserve, divs. payable and
contributions to staff fund, etc.
To lighten the debt further and
provide more working capital,
816,235 new Bs, shares were
issued at par to those on the
register at July 1, and £318,567
of the money was in hand when
the books closed, leaving only
£7935 to come, which accounts
for most of the growth in cash
(up £390,731). The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,122,118) was £683,838, due
to introduction of the two lots
of fresh share capital.
As for the current term, "we
are sure to meet with a certain
amount of consumer resistance,
and think that competition from
imported goods will be stronger,”
the chairman says. And since
June 30 there has been a wide
fluctuation (about 70 p.c.) in
wool prices, and the basic wage
has risen by £1 4s. per week,
with further rises in prospect —
each lift of £1 per week in the
basic wage increases the co.'s
production costs by about
£58,000 p.a. For these and other
reasons, selling-prices of the co.’s
products are more likely to
increase than decrease. For the
public, the Government wool
subsidy (withdrawn from June
30) took much of the sting out
of last season’s sharp rise in
wool prices.
The market prices the f.-p.
Bs. ords. at 7s. 9d. to return
6.6 p.c. on a 6} p.c. div. basis.
The £l9 p.c. prefs. at 275. 6d.
yield 6.5 p.c. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is
£3 4s. 3d. prefs. and 14s. 6d.
ords. The redeemable prefs. are
not listed.
In a preliminary report Mt.
Isa Mines, Ltd., (Q.) claims a
profit of £1,360,842 for the year
to June 30 last as against
£770,758 for the previous year,
when £107,829 paid in premiums
on redemption of debentures
was charged against earnings.
Higher metal prices were the
mainspring behind last term’s
bigger profit, which was struck
after allowing £1,745,665 (up
£1,225,665) for taxation and
£578,364 (up £178,364) for de-
preciation. The div., which
dropped from 25 p.c. in 1949 to
15 p.c. in 1950, was lifted to
25 p.c. again. The co. recently
bought the £1,189,198 of paid
capital in Mining Trust, Ltd., at
a net cost of £733,963 in its own
f.-p. £1 shares. That was after
allowing for 115,463 Isa shares
held by M.T., which also owned
£916,632 of Isa’s 8 p.c. debenture
mortgages, which called for
£73,000-odd p.a. in interest. It
is not stated whether the latest
profit includes any divs. from
interests acquired through the
M.T. purchase, chief of which
were the £lOO,OOO of paid capital
in Britannia Lead Co. (which
treats Isa’s lead bullion), 843,147
f.-p. 4s. shares in New Guinea
Goldfields, 397,520 ss. shares in
Saudi Arabian Mining Syn-
dicate, and 20,000 £1 shares in
Big Bell (W.A.). Isa’s pound
shares, which sold at 545, 3d.
before announcement of the
Mining Trust deal, fetched 645.
last week.
¥ * * *
The cables say London-con-
trolled Lake View and Star,
biggest producer on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
netted £196,799 (down £23,134)
for the year to June 30 last.
That was after allowing £340,000
(up £18,500) for taxation and
£26,990 (up £1303) for deprecia-
tion. The £196,799 was 35.1
p.c. on the £560,000 of capital,
which is in f.-p. 4s. shares. The
div. was maintained at a
nominal 62| p.c., which English
income tax of 9s. 6d. in the £
reduces to 32.8 p.c. in the hands
of shareholders. At the current
rate of exchange 32.8 p.c. stg.
is worth 41 p.c. in Australian
currency. The question of trans-
ferring headquarters from
London to Australia in order to
avoid British income tax was
recently considered by the board,
which unanimously decided that
the disadvantages of such a
move would outweigh the
financial gains. The co. has a
very efficient plant and manage-
ment, development is well ahead
of the mill, and Wiluna’s one-
third interest in the Porphyry
goldmine, about 90 miles n.-e.
of Kalgoorlie, was recently
bought at an unstated figure.
Drilling at Porphyry has dis-
closed a flat-lying ore-body con-
taining over 750,000 tons of
4dwt. ore, but the mine is on
a care-and-maintenance basis,
owing to the labor problem.
Since the beginning of 1951
the price of Lake View’s
scrip has dropped from 295.
to 255. in the Australian
market; rising costs have been
the principal depressing factor.


HOLIDAY CLOTHES
r
&***
j;: \ '
Mi-
FUJI SILK
SHIRTS
Cut in coat style
with full sleeves,
smart collar with
diagonal supports,
open pocket, quality
pearl buttons. Collar
sizes 14” —18” 59/6
SPORTS SHIRTS
“Country Club v in crease resisting rayon. Short sleeves,
50/6; full sleeves, 58/6. Colours: blue, grey, fawn, tan,
navy, nigger, green, sand.
“Leisurewear crease resisting rayon in blue, grey, fawn,
cream, green, ivory. Short sleeves, 28/3; full sleeves, 32/3.
SUMMER PYJAMAS
Pure silk pyjamas, cool and luxurious. Striped, M.-X.0.5.,
£9/8/3.
SUPPERS
d
Grecian and Albert style leather
slippers in black and brown.
Sizes 5-10, in half sizes, 26/6, 42/-,
44/6, 43/6.
Leather travelling slippers, fold
into small case. Black, brown,
tan, in sizes 5-10, 21/-.
Roman Sandals, in plain tan, 19/3; super quality, in fawn,
maroon and white bindings. Sizes 5-10; 35/6.
Others, with wedge soles, 37/6, 40/-, 46/6. Plaited fronts,
55/-.
SOCKETTES
Pure wool fancy design short sockettes, elastic tops. 6-10
shoe, 9/2.
In large sporting checks of grey, fawn, blue, 8/6.
Fancy cashmere half hose, plain tops, neat designs in brown,
light blue, grey and maroon, 11/6.
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
285 GEORGE STREET
(< opposite Hunter St.)
Address mail orders to Box 165, G.P.0., Sydney.
its**??*
S m i
9 r i
Foresight in regard
to your Estate
What will happen to the Estate
that you have built up over a lifetime,
when your guiding hand is with-
drawn?
Consider the advantages assured
for his dependents by a man who
appoints Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as his Executor and Trustee.
The Company is specially consti-
tuted to carry out its duties. It has a
record of sixty-three years' service to
the community, whose confidence in
its business-like methods and its
courteous, sympathetic service has
made it the largest Trustee Company
in the Southern Hemisphere.
If you would have particulars of
the services offered by the Company,
ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will be
pleased to give the information you
desire.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Manager
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH AND ORANGE
Business. Rollery. etc.
F. W. Hughes Industries
The founder of the F. W.
Hughes industrial and pastoral
empire died on August 18
last year, and the smallness
of his estate, for probate
purposes, aroused political
comment from the “Labor”
side. It would appear that the
greater portion of his interests
in F. W. Hughes Pty., Ltd., had
been passed over to relatives a
long time previously.
F. W. Hughes pioneered the
wool-combing industry in Aus-
tralia. The principal company
of the Hughes group was formed
in August, 1915, to take over a
business established about
1890. E. A. Coghlan, present
managing-director, was associ-
ated with Mr. Hughes from 1913
onward. F. W. Hughes Pty. and
its subsidiaries are now one of
the largest organisations in the
world producing and processing
wool, mutton and beef.
The industrial members of the
group turn out scoured and
carbonised wool, wool-tops,
noils, worsted yarns for the
♦ weaving and knitting industries,
hand-knitting yarns, worsted
suitings and frockings, beef,
mutton and lamb for the local
and export trade, canned meats,
pickled pelts, tanned sheepskins
and lanoline. The processing
and industrial companies are
Colonial Wholesale Meat Co.,
Colonial Meat Co., Alexandria
Spinning Mills and Alexandria
Textiles. The pastoral properties
are spread throughout N. S.
Wales. They are held by seven
subsidiary companies.
The industrial establishments
are at (a) Botany—plant for
wool-combing, -scouring and
-carbonising, as well as fell-
mongering ; ( b ) Alexandria —for
spinning and weaving; (c)
Homebush —for meat-processing
and -canning; (cl) Melbourne —
wool - scouring, fellmongering,
meat-processing and -canning.
A modernly-equipped weaving-
mill is in process of establish-
ment at Brookvale (near Sydney).
All the industries “are closely
associated with a selling organi-
sation in London, which acts as
agent for exports to England and
the Continent.”
F. W. Hughes Pty., Ltd.,
through its subsidiaries, con-
trolled this large pastoral and
industrial organisation. It has a
paid capital of £566,308 in
505.000 £1 ords. and 61,308 £1
4 p.c. non-cum. prefs., and there
was £517,615 of tax-paid profits
in the businesses at last balance-
day.
To acquire all the shares, pref.
and ord., in the controlling co.,
F. W. Hughes Industries has
agreed to pay £4,061,308 —
£2,900,000 in £1 ord. shares, the
rest in cash. In addition,
1.250.000 £1 ords. are being
offered at par to the public,
which will cover the cash pay-
ment to the vendors and provide
for preliminary expenses.
Of the vendors’ consideration,
£814,000 in cash and £2,146,000
in shares will be taken by Eric
W. Salkeld and his wife;
£286,000 cash and £754,000 in
shares goes to E. A. Coghlan
Pty., Ltd.
Net tangible assets being
bought for the £4,061,308
totalled £3,043,607 at book-
values on June 30. These
have been revalued, and the
total is given at £5,829,518.
Specifically, freeholds and
plant in the manufacturing
industries with a book-value of
£253,919 have been revalued at
£1,307,282. Grazing properties
have gone up from £1,525,686 to
£2,292,717. Livestock in the
grazing industry from £343,370
, to £1,308,887.
On the basis of old book-
values, for each pound’s-worth
of assets bought the public will
pay 275, On the revaluation
basis the price per pound is
14s. Looked at in another
way, on a revaluation basis the
net tangible backing per £1 ord.
share will be 275. 9d.
Grazing - property valuations
were made by outside valuers
mainly in February and March,
1951. It is not known on what
basis the old book-values were
arrived at, but, assuming that
they were based on pre-war
figures, the up-valuation by
50 p.c. does not seem to be out
of the way, and it appears to
discount considerably the price
of wool at the time of the valua-
tion. The two largest properties,
Kooba and Borambola, are
taken in at 1942 valuations, both
being subject to a proclamation
under the N. S. Wales closer-
settlement laws, and the co. may
lose them. But it should be on
the right side with these pro-
perties whatever happens.
Sheep valuations are said to
be reasonably conservative on
today’s levels, and stocks of
wool and stores to be in at the
lower of cost or market-value.
Disregarding any distribution
of profits from Joint Organisa-
tion in respect of wool produced
prior to 1946, but deducting the
p.c. wool levy, average net
profits on a public-company
basis for the five years to June
30, 1951, represent 10.9 p.c. on
a capital of £4,150,000. For the
year to June 30, 1951, the rate
was 19.1 p.c.
The tax-free reserves are equal
to slightly more than 12 p.c. on
capital, and will be available for
dividends, subject to their re-
placement out of future
earnings.
The spread of the co.’s acti-
vities between primary and
secondary industries should tend
to balance its trading results.
During the current financial year
conditions in all sections of the
co.’s business have probably
undergone a change, including
that of the seasons from wet to
dry. Depreciation charges, be-
cause of the higher asset valua-
tion, may be heavier in future.
But revaluation of assets for
the purposes of the flotation
does not appear to have been
overdone, and on that revalua-
tion basis, as mentioned pre-
viously, the buyer of the shares
at £1 gets 275. 9d. in assets which
are well representative of funda-
mental Australian industries.
On the board are E. A.
Coghlan (chairman and manag-
ing), E. W. Salkeld, J. J.
Coghlan, R. S. Thomas and
L. H. Bell. Brokers for the
issue: Hordern, Utz and Bode,
Sydney; lan Potter and Co.,
Melbourne.
Gadsen-Hughes, Ltd.
Starting off with a paid capital
of £1,100,000, this can-making
merger is in the process of be-
coming a public concern
through the offer to the public
of 441,666 stock-units by existing
shareholders. Price is 10s. 3d.
per stock-unit, plus brokerage,
making the cost per 100 shares,
including stamp - duty,
£52 4s. Bd. The issue has been
reserved to clients of the broker
for the vendors, J. T. Vinton
Smith, of Melbourne, and other
Stock Exchange members.
Present co. was registered this
month to bring under unified
control the N. S. Wales busi-
nesses of J. Gadsen Pty., Ltd,
(founded in Melbourne in
1879), and Richard Hughes Pty.,
Ltd. (founded about a year
later). The first-mentioned co.,
which established a N.S.W. off-
shoot in 1912, today is chiefly
interested in the printing of bags
and tinplate and can-manufac-
ture. The second added the
lithographic printing and
lacquering of metal to its tin-
plate - container - manufacturing
activities shortly after World
War I ended. Though the
Gadsen concern has connections
in Victoria and New Zealand,
the business being taken over by
the present public co. is confined
to N.S.W., and excludes the
Albury section and the Sydney
bag business. The cos. represent
the major enterprises of their
kind in N. S. Wales.
The Gadsen proprietary has a
paid capital of £148,607, of
which £73,607 is in ords, and
£75,000 in 5 p.c. redeemable
prefs. Richard Hughes has a
capital of £88,121, £76,568 of it
in ords., the rest in 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. All these shares are being
acquired by the public co. bar
the 11,535 prefs. in Richard
Hughes.
Net assets of the two concerns,
after excluding the portions not
being taken over and allowing
for outside pref. interests, are
revalued at £1,244,422. This
compares with a par value of
£225,193 of the shares being
acquired, plus £266,817 of un-
distributed tax-free profits in
J. Gadsen Pty. and probably
some reserves in Richard
Hughes Pty.
The large tax-free reserves of
the Gadsen concern are partly
the result of its having paid no
dividends for the seven-year
period to June 30, 1951, though
it was a very profitable business.
Richard Hughes paid steady
20 p.c, dividends until fire
destroyed the main factory at
Five Dock, Sydney, in
December, 1948. The factory
has since been restored and
modernised, and earnings should
soon benefit.
On the basis of actual earn-
ings, including loss-of-profits
insurance paid to the Hughes
concern, the average annual tax-
paid profit of the two enter-
prises (allowing for those
portions not being taken over)
for the past seven years was
6.7 p.c. on capital of £1,100,000.
Last term the rate was 8 p.c.
An annual div. rate of 6 p.c.
p.a. is suggested, and distribu-
tions may be paid wholly or
partly out of tax-free reserves,
which are sufficient to meet a
6 p.c. distribution for the next
four years. Net tangible back-
ing on a revaluation basis is
11s. 3d. per 10s. ord. stock-unit.
The ss, shares of Ford
Sherington Holdings (Sydney)
were an attractive proposition at
10s. 6d. last week. Consolidated
net profit was £31,902, equal to
28.2 p.c. on ord. capital after
allowing for pref. requirements.
Again the 10 p.c. div. was paid
out of tax-free reserves, and
enough remains in those funds to
pay 10 p.c, tax-free for the next
4| years. Average annual profits
for the five years prior to flota-
tion late last year was 23.5 p.c.
on present ord. capital. The
business was founded in 1911,
and it manufactures Globite,
Fordite and other brands of
travel-goods in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Townsville,
Adelaide, Perth and Launceston,
Subsidiaries manufacture in
Perth (W.A.) and Port Elizabeth
(South Africa). Business
generally has slackened lately,
but this concern is solidly en-
trenched.
* * ♦ ♦
Shareholders in Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum are being
asked for consent to wind the co.
up voluntarily. It is impossible
to raise fresh capital to test the
co.’s prospecting area in Papua.
Chief interest now will be to see
what happens to the co.’s permit
area, which has oil-bearing
possibilities,
* * * *
Estimates by the National
Council of Woolselling Brokers
for the current season’s clip have
been reduced by 200,000 bales
p.c.). The clip is now
reckoned to amount to 3,400,000
bales, which will be about
150,000 bales below the 1950-51
clip. Proceeds from 863,023
bales in the first four months of
this season brought £83.6
million, compared with £143.4
million from 968,222 bales for
the same period of last year.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF JNEvV
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO VIDA KATHLEEN KRUSSMANN late
of Narraburra near Temora in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOHAN BERTHOLD HUBERT
KRUSSMANN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3077 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
In the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Sixth of Feb-
ruary 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
WALKER, OIBBS & DONALD, Solicitors,
17 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
nc
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
EDMUND KENNEDY
In 1848 the Government of New South Wales
placed its Assistant Surveyor, Edmund Kennedy,
in charge of an expedition to explore Cape York
Peninsula, In the previous year he had dis-
covered the Thomson River and established that
the Barcoo River was part of Cooper’s Creek.
Arriving at Rockingham Bay (north of
Townsville) in May, 1848, Kennedy’s party,
after much privation and toil, reached the Pascoe
River, where they established a depot.
Kennedy, with four others, Costigan, Dunn,
Luff, and a native, Jacky Jacky, left this depot
in an endeavour to reach Cape York, where a
relief ship was expected.
The native alone survived to reach Cape York,
having been wounded in a skirmish with
treacherous blacks, when Kennedy was killed.
Jacky Jacky guided the ship’s relief party
which rescued the men at the Pascoe Depot, but
Costigan, Dunn and Luff had perished.
On the occasion of the fubilee of the Com-
monwealth of Australia, the Bank of New South
Wales Australia’s pioneer bank, established
V i\ve
in IS 11 honours the
explorers who opened the
way for the development
of this great country.
fd
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SODTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A3114C
You'll Gain Top Interest—
£ 4 "2 " 6 %
for a gilt-edge security when you
INVEST TODAY
IN
THE
SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
£1,000,000
CASH LOAN
The Loan is issued at par and is repayable in 1961. The new high rate of £4-2-6 per cent — the
highest return from a gilt-edge security of this status since 1939 —can make each £lOO invested
by you increase to £l4l-5-0.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., and is secured upon the Council’s income,
which is expected to reach £11,000,000 this year.
Proceeds of the Loan will assist in financing the construction of Sydney’s new generating plant—
the 200,000 kilowatt Pyrmont Power Station.
TODAY IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY!
Secure your prospectus and complete your application form today. Apply to any branch of the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, your Stockbroker, or the Council’s offices. Act promptly and
avoid all risk of disappointment—the Loan may close before 1 sth December.
The Loan is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Firm in action, honest in
approach, and conciliatory in
tone seems to epitomise Mr.
Churchill’s attitude towards his
new and thankless task. Of the
speed of his decision there can
be no two opinions. The
names and offices of his
immediate lieutenants followed
hard upon the none-too-
reassuring finality of the election
result. Then, in trickles of de-
scending order of importance,
came the rest, confirming that
first things first” is to be his
motto-theme.
Responsible criticism of his
appointments has quietened after
second thoughts. The old
friends, so markedly chosen
from outside the Lower House,
ar ®. noticed to be of proven
ability (one only of the six
Peers in the Cabinet owes his
title to heredity, and he—Lord
Salisbury —is neither crusted
Tory nor political novice). Mr.
R- A. Butler’s gentleness,
moderation and unimpeachable
sincerity do not, perhaps, suggest
an Iron Chancellor, but he has
already made a beginning, in
declared intention if not yet by
deeds. More stringent criticism
has been directed against some
of the younger back-benchers,
many of whom have specialist
claims to offices other than the
ones they hold. But Churchill
believes in fresh minds and
assesses flexibility higher than
specialist knowledge.
The absurdity of the accusa-
tion of “Peers in Power” from
the Left was quickly exposed,
for their number (19) exceeds
Attlee’s by only three. It is clear
that Churchill will have no
associations with the Tory past,
for one only of his colleagues
sat in the pre-war Cabinet. That
was Mr. Eden, who resigned, as
indeed did Viscount Cranborne,
now Lord Salisbury.
Patience Before Programme
After the phrenetic distortions
of the election campaign, the bad
omen of the disagreement over
the choice of a new Speaker, and
some rabble-like caterwauling in
the new House, the “vigilant but
not factious” opposition of Mr.
Attlee’s expressed intention looks
like getting out of hand. Mr.
Churchill clearly intends to be
neither provoked nor deterred
by the truculent behavior of the
clamorous revolutionaries led by
the irrespressible Mrs, Braddock
—a short but massive Madame
Defarge.
The King’s speech put
national security first, national
solvency second and studi-
ously avoided controversial
legislation. A storm would
certainly have arisen over a bill
to reintroduce the University
seats. This issue has been left
over until the next election. A
bill to restore the iron-and-steel
industry to private enterprise
will not be put forward before
February. The intended re-
forming of the Home Guard
had already been mooted by Mr.
Strachey and Mr. Shinwell. Mr.
Attlee’s criticism of the “thin-
ness” of the King’s speech, in
which only five bills are
specified, is not shared outside
his party, especially after the
surge of legislation over the past
six years. Only the long
Christmas recess has given
occasion for serious dispute,
chiefly because of the small
majority, but the need for
Ministers to “read their way”
into their departments is genuine
enough, especially as the Con-
servatives have had no access to
the files for over six years.
Mr. Churchill has, as it were,
presented his credentials to the
nation: to strive to save the
peace; to avoid recrimination
over the immediate past; objec-
tively to face its problems; to
serve it well and wholly; and
to win its united support. He
has declared more than once
that he will not hesitate to apply
unpopular measures, if neces-
sary, thereby implying that he
will not be intimidated by his
effective majority of only 15.
He asks no more than to be
given a fair chance of being
judged by his deeds over—for
this party-divided nation —the
very long period of three years
or so.
A good beginning, and a
statesmanlike one.
Too Many Moors
The overlapping of two
important productions of
“Othello” has not proved to be
as happy, artistically, as might
have been expected. If this
tragedy is the most intense in
the Shakspearian repertory, it
also makes demands upon actors
so exacting that juxtaposition
provokes comparison rather
than inspires stimulation. Not
many great actors, living or
dead, can have looked back
upon their performances in
either of the two leading roles
with nostalgic pride. Othello is
difficult to establish and harder
still to develop until the “green-
eyed monster” begins to offer
him histrionic scope ; lago, as it
were in reverse, has so many
dramatic moments in the early
scenes that what is left sorely
tries his technique.
At the St. James’s Theatre,
Orson Welles, looking like a
grandiloquent Caliph, makes an
eye-compelling Othello. His
stage presence is more imposing
than his range of voice and
gesture, but his strong person-
ality defies inattention. It is un-
fortunate that he should also
have chosen to direct the pro-
duction, which is arbitrary,
irritating and too highly-paced.
Peter Finch’s lago has all that
Hazlitt liked, an “acute and
active head,” a “hard and
callous heart,” and an “almost
perfect indifference to moral
good and evil.” It is an athletic
performance of great technical
skill, but lacks definition.
Gudrun Ure offers a tradi-
tionally blameless, chaste and
innocent Desdemona who unfor-
tunately is too insipid to be
mourned.
The Old Vic, Company is, in
the main, a young one. Michael
Langham’s production, though,
is mature and grandiose, touch-
ing the mind of Shakspeare and
the heart of tragedy. Douglas
Campbell gives Othello a gravity
that might pass for worldly
achievement. Sometimes he
suggests a blackfaced Abraham
Lincoln and sometimes (vocally)
a dissenting minister; but his
gradations from tempered con-
cupiscence through unease,
jealousy and uncontrollable rage
to ruinous madness are finely
conceived.
As lago, Paul Rogers is
slightly older in mind and body
than the 28 years of his admis-
sion. He presents a bluff, perky
self-assurance to his dupes and
projects his true, malign self by
apostrophe. Irene Worth’s
Desdemona is noteworthy for
its incisive characterisation. No
frail innocent here but a rapt
honeymooner gushing with slight
overanxiety to be both helpmeet
and General’s Lady. Coral
Browne makes a stalwart Emilia
and, when needed, shows intense
dramatic power.
A cosmopolitanism in the
principals, almost suggestive of
Grand Opera, cannot pass un-
noticed; the St. James’s has an
American Othello and an Aus-
tralian lago; the Old Vic. a
Scottish Othello, an American
(though British-adopted) Des-
demona, and an Australian
Emilia,


The Letters of Rachel Henning
[These letters begin in 1853, when Biddulph, Rachel Henning’s only
brother (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta (“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1831) and Amy were thus separated, lor
the time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
In August, 1834, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
Tregenna Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six days
later Rachel and Amy went to Appin, in N.S.W., where their brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
1853, and while Biddulph was establishing a new place on Bull! Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1836.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly live years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on February 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulph and
Annie, went to live on Exmoor station in North Queensland, which was
just being developed. She stayed there until 1863, when she became
engaged to Deighton Taylor, her brother’s sheep overseer. She was
married to him in Sydney on March 3, 1866.
This is the sixteenth instalment of the letters.]
Sydney,
December 19, 1865.
My Dearest Etta,
Biddulph and Mr. Hedgeland
are expected down on Thursday
evening or Friday morning,
according to the sort of passage
the Rangatira has. They are
later than we expected owing to
Biddulph not being able to get
the sheep shorn till late.
Mr. Taylor is only down
here for a short time. He
comes to see me ever}
day. He came down from
Maryborough (a port about five
hundred miles north) to see me,
intending only to stay a week,
but he has heard of a situation
here and is staying on to see
about it. It is uncertain yet
whether he will get it or not. I
do not mean a situation in
Sydney but a berth as overseer
of a N.S.W. sheep-station. He
will probably leave here after
Christmas, as he will know b}
that time.
Meanwhile it has been very
pleasant to see him again for a
week or two, and the Hirsts and
Tuckers have been very kind in
asking him to their houses. We
have spent the greater part of
this morning in Sydney getting
our photographs taken to send
home to Mrs. Taylor.
Everybody in Sydney knows
of my engagement now —all that
know me, that is, for of course
when Mr. Taylor had come so
far to see me I could no longer
keep it a secret, though I had
much rather have done so while
everything is so uncertain. I
hate being talked about.
I shall think of you on
Christmas Day, and wish we
could spend it together once
more. Annie is making ex-
tensive preparations now for her
wedding ; she has bought a great
many dresses, some of them very
pretty. The last was a ribbed
silk of the same kind as my
brown one, only that brilliant
new blue, and it cost seven
guineas instead of four, which
I should have sorely demurred
at. She has bought some
beautiful muslins and two of
those thin grenadines. They are
very pretty but very expensive.
Also a Scotch plaid winter dress
and a variety of prints and
ginghams for mornings. She has
got beautiful undergarments,
almost too good for the bush.
Such quantities of embroidery
as would have made our hair
stand on end in the old days,
and petticoats with no end of
tucks and insertions let in be-
tween. Also a velvet jacket and
shawls and mantles for outside
wear.
Her wedding-dress is to be
white muslin, as white silk
would be utterly useless in
the bush. There are to be
eight bridesmaids, four in
pink and four in blue. Emily
Tucker is her Prime Minister
and adviser, for just now my
own time is pretty well taken
up. So all Ido is to wear what
I am told when the time comes.
The wedding is to be from the
Tuckers’ house at Double Bay.
The English mail is tele-
graphed at last. Perhaps there
will be a supplementary mail
again sent. I must not write
more, as Mr. Taylor, Caroline
Hirst, Miss Ebsworth and myself
are going for a drive to the
South Head to spend an hour or
two there rambling about among
the rocks.
My kindest love to you all,
Your most affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
[Ty Rachel anticipated and
revealed in her correspondence
with her sister Etta —“Of course
it is immeasurably foolish for
anyone of my age to enter into
an engagement like this, but I
don’t want to be told so on all
sides at once” —there was some
family opposition to her
marriage with Mr. Taylor, partly
because he was several years her
junior, and partly because of
doubts about his security of
employment at that time. How-
ever, following the marriage in
Sydney of Annie and George
Hedgeland on January 24, 1866,
Rachel and Deighton Taylor
were quietly wed on March 3
of the same year, Biddulph
Henning giving the bride away.
Shortly after the wedding
Rachel and her husband went to
live on the Myall River, near
Stroud ( N.S.W. ), where Mr.
Taylor managed a timber-
logging business for Mr. Somer-
ville, who became Lord Somer-
ville shortly afterwards.]
Myall River,
Port Stephens,
N. S. Wales,
May 16, 1866.
My Dearest Etta,
I think I last wrote to you just
as I had received notice to quit
Sydney for the Myall. I think
I was never more glad than I
was to get Mr. Taylor’s letter,
which I did on the Saturday on
which I posted your last. I
packed all day on Monday,
April 23, and at eleven o’clock
that night Mr. Hirst put me on
board the Hunter River steamer,
and at twelve we sailed. It was
a very calm night, and I went to
bed and to sleep, and only woke
when we stopped to land pas-
sengers at Newcastle about six
o’clock.
Thence we steamed for three
hours up the Hunter River, and
a noble river it is. Steamers of
three hundred tons go up it. At
nine o’clock we got to Raymond
Terrace, where I found Mr,
Taylor waiting for me on the
pier. We went to the inn and
had some breakfast and a long
talk over our adventures during
the five weeks that we had been
separated, and then we mounted
our horses and took an easy ride
to Limeburners Creek, a distance
of sixteen miles. There is a
very comfortable little inn there,
and we got there to dinner and
took a ramble in the bush in the
evening. I was so glad to be in
the green bush again after those
weary Sydney streets.
Next day we rode to Stroud,
the capital of these parts, but
what would be a small village
in England. There is an excel-
lent inn there, and a mail road
goes from Raymond Terrace to
Stroud. Our third day’s journey
was from Stroud to the Myall,
a distance of twenty-two miles.
There is no road, only a bush
track, and a very beautiful ride
it was, especially over the range
that we had to cross. I do not
know how the horses liked it, as
it was almost climbing for them
in some places, but I wish you
could have seen the steep green
slopes and rocky peaks and deep
gullies and creeks that we rode
among.
We stopped for dinner by one
of the creeks and made some
quart-pot tea, then rode on again,
and about sundown came to the
Myall, which we crossed in a
punt, and then ten minutes’ rid-
ing brought us to the house. A
very pretty little house I thought
it as I first saw it through the
trees, with the evening sun shin-
ing upon it, and the garden gay
with chrysanthemums and roses.
The house stands on the side of
a small hill looking down upon
the river. There is a veranda in
front, and beyond that a trellis
so as to form a sort of double
veranda.
There are four rooms inside.
The sitting-room where I am
now writing is remarkably bright
and pleasant. On my right is a
large fireplace wherein a wood
fire is burning, for though the
sun is still hot the mornings and
evenings are cold up here. On
each side the fireplace is a
window, a real glass window
with nine large panes in it.
These windows look into the
garden on the side of the house,
and beyond the garden paling
into the forest and the path from
the village that winds down be-
tween the trees. In front of me
is another window looking into
the veranda, and from it I can
see as I sit a rose-tree covered
with blossom, and then down the
paddocks to the river, lying dark
and still under the trees on the
opposite bank. The blacks have
an encampment there now, and
I can see them moving about
their boats, which are moored to
the bank.
Next the window is a very
nice cedar bookcase made by
Mr. Taylor wherein are
arranged all my books. They
have not seen the light before,
since they left Bristol. The
cedar table at which I am writ-
ing and a side-table that is under
the window are also of Mr.
Taylor’s manufacture. The rest
of the furniture consists of a
mahogany cheffionere,. some
mahogany cane-seated chairs, an
American chair (mine), a hearth-
rug, some strips of India-
matting, a green damask table-
cloth and buff blinds to the
windows.
These last are my making,
and I am rather proud of the
“I often have a row on the river with Mr. Taylor."
way they roll up with a lath.
My bedroom opens out of the
sitting-room and is very com-
fortable, a window on to the
veranda; the rest of the house
consists of a passage and two
rooms, one of which is fitted
with shelves and a dresser as my
store-room, the other has a large
fireplace, but is not furnished
except by our boxes and cases.
The kitchen is as usual de-
tached and at the back of the
house, and is inhabited by the
bullock-driver and his wife ; the
latter, Mrs. Murphy by name,
is our servant. I expected to
have had some trouble with her,
as she had been used to a
bachelor establishment, but she
is very civil and obliging and
we get on very well. I let her
take very much her own way
and she does all the cooking and
housework, everything except
Mr. Taylor’s and my washing,
and that I put out,
I have nothing to do myself
except a little dusting and mak-
ing puddings when I have any-
thing to make them of. There
is nothing to complain of in that
line, however. Some one of the
settlers round kills beef once in
a week or ten days, so we do not
often eat salt meat; then we
have about sixty fowls, and some
of them are slain occasionally.
They also lay quantities of eggs.
Milk and butter we get from a
farm close by. The first at 2d. a
quart, the latter Is. 3d. a pound.
Potatoes are cheap, and we have
them at all meals, and there are
plenty of vegetables in the
garden. Mrs. Murphy makes
excellent bread, and we often
have fish which Mr. Taylor and
Mr. Somerville catch in the
river.
Mr. Somerville is one of the
owners of the concern. He talks
of going to England, but I dare
say he will be here some months
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and came back to Australia
In 1861. She went to Exmoor (Q.)
in 1862, returning to Sydney In
1865, and married Deighton Taylor
in 1866.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Blddulph,
and went with him to Queensland
in 1862. Married George Hedge-
land in 1866.
AMT HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
his married cousin Lindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Eater he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 255. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. In conjunction with the
Tuckers he bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rodk-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him. In
1864 he took up an additional hold-
ing (Lara), which stretched from
Alick’s Creek to the junction of
the Cloncurry River, a tributary
of the Flinders, and comprised
eight blocks of 25 square miles.
Although the country was good
it did not pay because of trans-
port difficulties.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died In 1840, his wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. They were
interested, with Biddulph Henning,
in Queensland station properties.
WILLIAM TUCKER was founder
of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES
TUCKER was his brother.


0
s*-
V
f
df
Coinpliiiieiit
fn c Callarns
h
Scots tUhlsky
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
ill
~*L7
aTIS 1 *
nE ub |T,s
UABI- 1
BOW
SSBS
o
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able
to work —thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN it easy to take in tablet
farm.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
1/121
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Do/c/n
will be sent on request to Dolcln
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
“Pulled in front by Mr. Somerville’s Stick and propelled behind by Mr. Taylor.”
at least. He has a den of his
own on the other side of the
store, but has his meals with us
and sits with us of an evening.
He is about Mr. Taylor’s age,
pleasant and gentlemanly and
exceedingly fond of poetry,
especially Tennyson. He reads
it aloud better than anyone I
ever heard. He and Mr. Taylor
are great friends and get on very
well together.
There is a storekeeper on the
place who lives over the store
and attends to it, but Mr. Taylor
makes up the books. There are
three men employed about the
place. The bullock-driver, the
punt-man and a “generally-
useful” man. There are two
great awkward-looking timber-
punts which take the timber
down the river at the rate of a
mile an hour. We have also four
other boats on the place, and I
often have a row on the river
with Mr. Taylor. We have a
nice little garden which is being
rapidly improved and enlarged,
and a six-foot paling-fence has
just been put round it, which
I hope will keep out the fowls,
and yesterday Mr. Taylor and
Mr. Somerville were busy all
day planting some new flower-
beds which have been cut out
and measuring and marking-out
some new ones. I am getting
very lazy in that way, and only
sat on the grass and gave advice
and watered the flowers when
planted. *
Things grow like magic here.
Every stick that is stuck in seems
to take root. I hope we shall
have a nice garden in the spring.
It is too late now for anything
but roses and chrysanthemums,
and they will soon be over. We
are about half a mile from the
village. It is such a pretty walk
there through the bush. The
natives call it the town of Bulli-
dilla, but you look in vain for
anything like even a village
street. You see only little
wooden houses dotted promis-
cuously about in twos and threes
among the great trees. There is,
however, a weekly post there
from Stroud, and also a village
school and a service every Sun-
day afternoon conducted by the
schoolmaster. Mr. Taylor and
I generally go, but I cannot say
there is a very large congrega-
tion. Mr. Olive, the school-
master, reads the evening prayers
and a short sermon. He drops
his “h’s” sorely, but otherwise
he does not read badly, and it is
rather a nice little service. The
singing is most wonderful. They
uplift tunes that I have never
heard since the days of papa’s
old cottage readings at
Stogumba, and sometimes they
have words which I never heard
before nor I should think did
anyone else.
There is a weekday school at
the village which I go and see
sometimes, and look as wise as
I can over the boy’s copy-books
and the girl’s crochet, not think-
ing it necessary to mention that
I never could learn crochet
myself. Last Sunday Mr.
Taylor and I rowed up to the
village in the boat, then landed
and went to church, and after-
wards came down to the river
again, where we found Mr.
Somerville waiting for us with
the boat, and then we took a
beautiful row up the river much
further than I had ever been
before.
I wish you could see the
Myall. It is quite unlike the
deep, dry rocky river-beds of the
North, but very beautiful in its
own way, not very wide but very
deep, so that the great timber-
punts can go up and down it,
and the banks shut in by dense
forest so that you cannot see any
light through, the beautiful vines
hanging from the trees and dip-
ping into the water. Then you
turn a corner and come upon a
bright little clearing with a
settler’s wooden house and patch
of maize and perhaps an orange
orchard or a vineyard. Further
on the forest shuts you in again.
The whole country is covered
with dense forest, giant trees and
thick underwood and vines and
creepers. Here and there there
is a settler’s clearing for some
distance round, as, for instance,
there are open paddocks down to
the river; then, backing up our
house and the village is “Bulli-
dilla,” a great rocky mountain
with steep sides clothed with
forest and a range of perpendi-
cular cliffs at the
top which always
catch the last rays
of the sun long
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
after they have left us, and very
beautiful old Bullidilla looks
then.
There are plenty of bush
tracks, and Mr. Taylor and I
often have an evening walk in
them or by the river, or when
he is busy I wander by myself
with only the dogs of the estab-
lishment for company. Of course
I struck up an instantaneous
friendship with two cats, two
terriers, a kangaroo hound and
a cattle-dog, and I am at present
rearing a brood of chickens
under a wire dish-cover!
I wish you could look in at
my new home. I think you
would arrive at the conclusion
that it is not such an unhappy
one after all. I am only taken
too much care of, and I never
was in better health, if that will
only last. I am getting quite
plump, and Sydney “grinding”
had worn me to nothing when I
came here.
My kindest love to Mr. Boyce,
yourself and the children. Ever,
my dearest Etta,
Your most affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
Myall River,
June 19, 1866.
My Dearest Etta,
I received your letter of
March 24 a few days ago. Amy
forwarded it to me from
Bathurst, and I was very glad to
get it, for I was afraid you had
written to me at Exmoor.
You will have known long
before this that you were right
in thinking that I did not return
there. We are very well off at
present, for Mr. Taylor gets
one hundred pounds a year for
salary and we are found in
everything house, servants,
food, even such things as kero-
sene-oil and milk and butter.
The only expenses we are at is
the washing, which I put out,
and extras in the way of currants
and raisins and other groceries;
a case of which I had up from
Sydney.
Of course Mr. Taylor’s salary
more than covers all our ex-
penditure, and my own income
is lying by against a rainy day
or his being out of a situation
again. The place not being our
own, of course, this is quite pos-
sible, and I often think we are
too well off and too comfortable
for it to last, and that we shall
have to “move on” at the end
of the year. How-
ever, “sufficient
unto the day,” and
perhaps something
else will turn up.
For the rest, I doubt if there
is anyone else in the world who
would have made me so happy
or whom I could have made
thoroughly happy. You know I
am not the most patient of
tempers, and I might very pos-
sibly have quarrelled and
skirmished with anyone of less
unvarying kindness and good
temper. As it is, we have never
had a word or thought of
difference.
I should not have written so
much about myself had not so
much been written to you against
my proceedings, but Biddulph’s
objections all resolve themselves
into the general proposition of
“not good enough,” and, as you
know, that is an hallucination
very common to brothers and
sisters, I hardly know, any girl in
the would I should think good
enough for Biddulph, so that
does not go for much ; however,
enough of this.
It is rather a forlorn hope my
writing at all by this mail, for
tonight it is raining as I believe
it only rains in Australia. The
river is rising fast, and unless it
ceases before morning the
creeks will be up between this
and Stroud and the mailman
will not be able to go. If he
goes on the right day the letters
will just catch the English mail,
but a day’s delay will lose it.
I shall be very sorry if you
miss hearing from me by a mail.
I would have written last week
if I could have foreseen this
weather. have had one flood
since I wrote last. It rained in-
cessantly for five days, and the
river rose steadily till one morn-
ing we looked out and saw ft all
over the- flat, and our boats,
which are generally kept moored
to some oaks at the bottom of
the paddock, appeared in the
middle of the stream, oak-trees
and all. One disappeared
(Continued on next page.)


SIGNS TO REMEMBER
Published in the Interests of
the Motoring Public by |
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LTD,
m
-i nTifflinrtt
fm
SS3®r%l
4 * ;Jr
X
X
SS'
■
II
:
,X X
- y *~ * ■. x y!t >y ■
:■
: t3sXr
:
:-:-:-:->H$5&Ii: : : : : : : ;>st§§»^r-£
m
X
'“ , 4 -jS ' ,
w <• s x / 4\ s*£
$8 8
g .;•:
j
<b
way
67
0
v.
■
d
Buy where you
see this sign . . .
r
INDEPENDENT
SEKyiDE STATION
a
and Super 1
C96/2S
altogether, and Mr. Taylor and
Mr. Somerville rowed about
some time looking for it, but
when the river subsided she was
found sunk at her moorings and
safe under the oaks.
There was a great skirmish at
the beginning of the rain to save
some timber (about 6000
sleepers) which had been
brought down close to the
waters’ edge ready for stowing
in the punt, and, of course, when
the river rose it was in danger
of being washed away.
Mr. Somerville, Mr. Taylor
and all the men on the place
worked all day in the pouring
rain and up to their knees in
water to get the sleepers into the
punt before the river rose
higher. They succeeded in saving
them all, though they were only
just in time.
Several settlers lost a great
deal of timber. A flood is rather
a fine sight when seen from a
hill like this, where you are quite
safe from the waters as we are,
but it must be very unpleasant
for those who live at the river’s
edge and have to be taken out
of their houses in a boat, as
once happened to Mrs. Murphy,
the woman in the kitchen.
There is not much news to
tell you on the Myall. We have
been gardeninjg a great deal
lately, and I think we shall have
a very pretty garden in the
spring. We are making a large
flower-garden at the side of the
house. Mr. Taylor arranged
and drew the beds, and they
have been trenched three feet
deep, so things ought to do well.
We have had contributions of
plants from all quarters. Mr.
Somerville brought back a
quantity of seeds and roots
from Sydney besides a whole
sheaf of cuttings.
I had a nice long letter from
Biddulph and another from
Annie a few days ago, but I
expect you get Exmoor news
direct. With love.
Your very affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
Iyall River,
July 18, 1866.
My Dearest Etta,
I did not hear from you by
the last (April) mail, and I sup-
pose you wrote to Exmoor to
Exmoor homestead, which Rachel left to marry Deighton Taylor, and to which Annie and her
husband, George Hedgeland, together with Biddulph, returned in 1866. The sketch was made
by Rachel herself while staying at Exmoor.
congratulate Annie on the news
of her marriage, which must
have reached you by that time,
I dare say there will be a letter
for me by this month’s mail, but
there is no chance of its being
here in time to answer, for the
mailman was stopped by the
floods, and we have no letters
at all this week. Since I last
wrote to you we have had
another flood still higher than
the first. It was a grand sight
to see the whole flat covered with
water like a great lake, and the
water gleaming far away among
the trees. The flood does us no
harm except by stopping the men
from drawing the timber, but I
am afraid that if the heavy rains
have been general, as I hear
they have, Tregenna will have
had heavy losses again.
We are still busy with the
garden here, but it is almost
finished now. Some beds are
being cut out in front of the
veanda, one of which is to con-
tain roses and the other scarlet
geraniums, and a path has been
cleared from the veranda down
the hill to the gate in the garden
fence. It is to be planted on
each side with vines trained on a
trellis.
You should have seen some of
the boulders that were dug out
of the beds and path. The
whole strength of the place was
called upon to get them out of
the holes and roll them down
the hill and out at the gate. It
is a great improvement, though
now that they are done I have
been planting a large strawberry-
bed, so I hope we shall have
some strawberries in the spring,
and we have had various
presents of new flowers, roses
and fuschias and hollyhocks.
We made such a pleasant
expedition one day in search of
plants. We rowed up the river
for about four miles—that is,
Mr. Taylor and Mr. Somerville
rowed and I did nothing harder
than steering the boat among the
snags and submerged trees. Then
we landed and walked about a
mile through the bush, Mr. Tay-
lor carrying a bag and Mr,
Somerville a spade, till we came
to an old deserted clearing
where was the ruins of a house
and the remains of a very good
garden.
I never saw two finer lemon-
trees than there were there.
There was also a whole jungle
of a handsome yellow mimosa in
full flower. I suppose it had
once been a hedge. It was such
a pretty, lonely place; the
garden was all overgrown with
grass and wild raspberries, but
you could just trace the paths.
We went principally to search
for vine-roots, but we could not
discover any. We, however,
carried off plenty of young
lemon plants and some rose-
trees and mimosa and some
creepers, walked back to the
boat and got home just as it was
getting dark. I made booty of
a great bunch of lemon-blossom
and mimosa-flowers and scarlet
raspberries, which I “set up” in
a large red Bohemian vase
which Mrs. Ebsworth gave me
as a wedding present.
I do not remember if I told
you how kind people were in
that respect. Mrs. Hirst gave
me a very pretty green-and-drab
tablecloth, which at present
adorns the table, and in the
centre stands the red vase before-
mentioned upon a crimson-and-
white mat knitted by Emily
Tucker. The luncheon- or dinner-
table looks quite smart with all
the things that were given me.
A very handsome cruet-stand
from Biddulph stands in the
centre, the teapot, sugar-basin
and cream-jug were Annie’s
gift, and the jam or honey
always appears in a pretty
ground-glass dish which Emily
Tucker gave us. Mrs. Tucker
((Continued on page 32.)


He’s learning fast
m
m
Some day, like Dad, he’ll have a sugar farm
of his own. It mightn’t be very big (the
average size is about 50 acres), but he’ll be
his own boss. With scientific methods and
modern machinery, high yields and good
livings are obtained from small areas of
cane land.
H
m
C'-.:
m
The 9,000 farmers in our sugar lands work
their own farms. Thanks to sugar, great
development has taken place in our tropic
North. A thriving white population is doing
an important job, and doing it well.
Australian sugar, produced by efficient white
labour, is cheaper than in most other countries
of the world.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LTD.
RENOVATIONS
EXTENSIONS ALTERATIONS
PAINTING AND DECORATION
MODERNISATION OF HOMES
IMMEDIATE SERVICE
COUNTRY WORK A SPECIALTY
W. E. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
284 Whitehorse Road, Balwyn,
Victoria. WP 4551.
After hours XB 6524
It’s that
Ingrams face
g 3,n
a
• • a
01
m
i
i
You’ll score, and Kowl with a smooth Ingrams faco
to meet the smartest bodyline play. You’ll score 120
cool, comfortable shaves to the innings from one jar of
Ingrams Shaving Cream, that combines its own faco
lotion.
Get Ingrams from your Chemist today.
'ngmmdi*
%
Pl»
A Product of Bristol-Myers
‘WVIUD ONIAVH'S
d
Visitors
JAMES HACKSTON
THE two visitors and their
husbands sat in the front
room, and, with the women
holding the floor, the men
got restless and fidgety about the
feet and edged unobtrusively out
the door. When they got out
the back the two men now
pretended to be interested in
things they had no interest in,
and Jules, for something to say
to make things easy like for
them and at the same time show
how busy he was, told them he
was going to clear the top patch
—the reason for clearing the top
patch being that he happened to
be facing the top patch at that
moment.
Had he been facing the
bottom patch, or the patch at
the back at that particular time,
he’d have been going to clear
one of these. But had he been
facing the front, he’d have prob-
ably told them he was going to
sink a well somewhere, or put
up the fence he generally put up
for visitors.
However, the two men, having
duly viewed the top patch Jules
was going to clear for them,
mooched aimlessly about until
one of them stopped and stared
at the sky; so the other one,
seeing him staring at the sky,
also stared at the sky; at which
Jules followed suit and they all
stood staring at the sky. Next
; they all looked away from the
sky at the same identical
moment, as if they’d all been
trained to look away from skies
at the identical moment and
make no comment thereon.
Here Jules noticed the men
looking critically, he thought, at
his neglected and dilapidated-
looking back premises, so he
informed them “casually” that
he intended rebuilding soon;
and where he intended rebuild-
ing also coincided with the direc-
tion in which he happened to be
facing at this time.
Asked exactly where he
intended putting up the new
house, Jules pointed, and as his
eyes followed the direction in
which his finger happened to be
pointing and he found himself
looking straight at the big
stump, he told them the new
house would be just about where
the stump that looked like a
kangaroo was. Here the men
screwed up their eyes, tilted their
heads and viewed the stump
from all angles, and one of them
said he couldn’t make out the
shape of a kangaroo, but he
could make out what looked like
an emu to him ; and while Jules
was vainly trying to make out
the shape of an emu, the other
one said he couldn’t see any
resemblance to either a kangaroo
or an emu, but could make out
what seemed like the shape of
a native bear to him.
BUT at this point Susan
broke up the session by
calling them in to tea, so they
all dawdled back to the house,
and, when they got to the back-
step, stood there, each one wait-
ing on the other to make the
first step inside ; but, as none
of them made any move, Susan
came out and said youthfully
that the gentlemen were to come
in and not all stand out there as
if “frightened to see the ladies.”
With the tea-drinking over, the
women discussed things among
themselves while the two men
visitors were busily engaged
looking out the door. And now
the old clock up on the mantel-
piece seemed to come into
Jules’s line of vision and he got
up and went over to the clock,
leaned his head towards it, as if
listening, and stood there.
With Jules standing silently
there, the women stopped talking
and stared at him, and the two
men withdrew their eyes from
the open door and also stared
at him.
Jules returned to his seat and
said the clock on the mantelpiece
had been losing a bit lately, and
the men and the women now
looked at the clock on the
mantelpiece, and kept looking
at it.
Now, very slowly and
importantly, Jules pulled his
watch out of his pocket and
looked heavily and ponderously
at it, and said that the old clock
up on the mantelpiece was gain-
ing all right; and the man who
had first looked at the sky pulled
his watch out of his pocket and
said that by his watch the clock
on the mantelpiece was slow ;
and the other man pulled his
watch out and said that by his
watch the clock on the mantel-
piece was just about right.
Jules, still gazing steadfastly
at his watch, said that his watch
always gained a little now; and
the man who had first looked at
the sky, and who was still look-
ing at his watch, said his watch
used to gain but was generally
slow now; and the other man,
also still studying his watch,
said his watch used to be slow
but was fast now.
Each man’s eyes now left his
own watch and looked stead-
fastly at the other watches, and,
almost simultaneously, as if they
had been trained to it, three
hands began to wind up three
watches at the same identical
moment, and, at the same split-
second, three watch-lids snapped
back as if they’d been trained
to do it, and their owners then
slipped them back into their
pockets. After which perform-
ance the two men again looked
industriously out the open door ;
and Jules, having nothing else
to do for the moment, joined
his guests and looked most
industriously out the door with
them.
And now Slinks, the old dog,
came lazily and stiffly into the
room, and the man who first
looked at the sky called him
over and pulled his ears; the
other man called him over and
patted his head, both women
called him over and stroked his
back in turn, and, as each one
fondled Slinks, the rest of the
company looked on without say-
ing anything.
SUSAN now came into the
scene as the star act and
asked Slinks would he like a
scone, and while Slinks wagged
his tail Jules, the two men and
the two women watched Susan’s
left hand take up a scone, her
right hand take hold of ihe
knife, the knife slit the scone,
the knife dig into the butter, the
knife and the butter slide into
the scone, the scone fold up, the
knife retire from the scene,
Susan hold out the buttered
scone, Slrnks’s mouth open, shut,
and Slinks go ever so staidly and
unemotionally out of the room
with the scone in his mouth.
Slinks gone, everybody now
stared at the open door where
he’d gone out, and, as there was
a bit of a silence here and
nobody doing anything, Jules
suddenly began to stare at the
big armchair as if surprised,
went over and peered at the
bottom of the armchair, looked
under the left side of it, the right
side of it, and evidently not
being able to discover the some-
thing which he thought was
wrong with the armchair, went
down on his hands and* knees
and stuck his head underneath
the chair, from which position a
voice came out stating that he
thought he’d seen one of the
springs go, but was not sure ;
so the two men got down on
their hands and knees and
burrowed their heads under the
chair, too, the three behinds now
facing the ladies.
A mumbled discussion con-
cerning the suspected spring now
went on beneath the big chair,
and, while the men were thus
busily and technically engaged,
the old clock on the mantelpiece
began to strike the hours, and
after it had struck five (which
was about the correct time), con-
tinued striking, and, as it struck
ten, the two behinds belonging
to the visitors began to shake in
conjunction with the merriment
that must have taken hold of the
owners in connection with the
strange behavior of the clock.
With the loud and sonorous
strike of twelve, the behind
which belonged to Jules now
began to shake, evidently from
the effects of the same merri-
ment that had also taken hold
of its owner, too ; at which all
three hindquarters now shook
from the mirth that rocked their
owners.
And now one of the wives got
up and playfully kicked the
hindquarters which belonged to
her husband and told its owner
to come on home; it was after
five. So the men withdrew from
the chair and made preparations
to leave.
And then, just when it was
time to leave, the men began to
find their tongues, but finally
Jules and Susan found them-
selves looking unbelievingly at
each other across an empty
room. It always seemed as
though they would never be
alone again.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Annual dinner of the English Associa-
tion at Sydney University was a happy
affair, attended mainly by those occupied
with English studies, writers and readers.
Poets were more to the fore than story-
tellers. Bulletin poets Roland Robin-
son, Rosemary Dobson, Nancy Keesing,
Dora Wilcox and Peter Hopegood were
there, as were novelists Miles Franklin
and Margaret Trist. Charles Moses, of
A.8.C., made an amiable speech, and,
bearing in mind the association’s concern
with the purity of the language, apologised
to chairman James Meagher whenever he
lapsed into slang. Challis Professor of
English Literature, young Wesley Milgate,
in responding to the toast of the associa-
tion, took as his text a Bulletin Plain
English article “Donne and Dungarees,”
which hit at the universities for their lack
of interest in Australian literature, and
defended himself and his fellow academi-
cians. However, it was Miles Franklin’s
spirited and individual speech in defence
of Australian writers which stole the
show, to judge by the applause.
The D. K. Roches, of Cranford, Edge-
cliff, will not hold their usual New Year’s
morning sherry party when 1952 appears,
as Jennifer, Josephine, and David from
Adelaide, with their parents will be on
a year’s trip abroad. They will sail
on the Oronsay and plan to take in Spain,
Italy and South America in their travels,
first spending a short time at their West
Australian station homes, Wandina and
Westfield.
The parade of the V.A.’s was as
colorful as ever last Saturday when 700
girls in blue saluted the new G.0.C.,
Eastern Command, Lieut.-General V. C.
Secombe. Mrs. Persia Porter, Group
Commander and Honorary Director, led
the 25 detachments, which included four
country groups. The Persia Porter cup, a
trophy for proficiency in first-aid and
home-nursing, was won for the first time
by Phyllis Bennett, commandant of the
City Central Detachment, and the Wilfred
Johnson cup for general proficiency was
won by the Scottish detachment,
appropriately commanded by Flora
McNab.
Tennis—players and fans —rallied to
the White City last Saturday in day-
time to watch the finals, in the evening
for dancing purposes. Members of the
Australian and American teams were
present to admire the caricatures of tennis
identities that formed the decorations.
Among the dancers were the Spencer
Nolans, the Harry Hopmans, the Charles
Donoghues and the Frank Shields’s.
About 500 people went to the party
given by the Consul-General for Lebanon,
Mr. Edward Ghorra, and Mrs. Ghorra,
to celebrate Lebanon’s National Day on
November 22. The garden of their
Bellevue Hill home, Donnington Grange,
was floodlit for the occasion. The diplo-
matic and consular corps made up the
greater number of the guests, which
included the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Sir Harry and Lady Moxham,
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Showers and the
Clarrie Martins.
Subscribers to the Roderic Quinn
Memorial Fund, and the public, are
invited to be present at the unveiling of
the headstone over Rod’s grave. The
stone was provided by public subscrip-
tion. The ceremony is to be at Waverley
Cemetery on Sunday, December 2, at
3 p.m. Director-General of Education
McKenzie will preside, and the occasional
oration will be delivered by Archbishop
Eris O’Brien. Verses by Quinn will be
recited as an anthem sung by students of
St. Clare’s and Waverley Colleges.
“The Call to the Nation” is the subject
of the address to be given by Paul
Macguire at the Royal Empire Society’s
luncheon address, the Trocadero, at
12.45 p.m. on Friday,
Although there are strong indications
that the silhouette for 1952 is to be “the
blown-forward look,” a rival line called
“the pony tail” is being sponsored by
American designer Hattie Carnegie. It
is achieved by “a bustle —like a rush of
fulness at the back” according to the
report. What with being blown forward
and rushing backward we won’t know
whether we’re coming or going.
There were three hostesses at the early
Christmas party held at the Women’s
Club last Wednesday afternoon; Mrs.
Philip Bailey, who wore cool white
patterned with grey, Mrs. R. Armitage,
whose navy and white dress was worn
with a white hat, and Miss Claureen
Beckman, who was in a slim black dress.
The lovely flowers in the clubrooms
came from the Cronulla home of Mrs.
W. V. Whitta and included masses of
madonna lilies and pink roses. Among
the guests were Mrs. Peggy Austin, Mrs.
Hector Hamilton, and Miss Noela Sand-
with, from England.
A good idea for a homemade Xmas
gift is the “pot-holder” apron which
features two flying panels with a padded
pocket at each side. The padded material
can be bought by the yard and the rest
of the apron is quite simple to make.
Denise Thompson (in the picture) was
last week awarded the Sydney de Vries
Scholarship which entitles her to a year’s
tuition at the Conservatorium. A colora-
tura soprano, Denise is a Sydney girl who
lived formerly in Bathurst. The award
was announced at the second reunion of
the Lunch-time Music Club, when Miss
Margaret Gillespie entertained about 40
friends who were formerly members of
the club. Among the musicians who per-
formed during the afternoon was Judith
Staff, winner of the Sydney de Vries
scholarship last year. Photo by Hugh
Spencer,
Some good tips on curtain-making
were given by Nora McDougall during
her lectures on interior decorating at
David Jones this week, and are worth
passing on to houseproud readers.
One was to carry the curtain
beyond the width of the window out on
to the wall so that the window looks
broader and has a better opportunity of
fulfilling its destiny as a window —that is,
to supply light and air. Another is to
drape the curtains to the floor where pos-
sible so that the pattern and folds have
a better chance to be seen. Miss Mc-
Dougall thinks that all curtains should
be lined with some material such as
casement cloth or unbleached calico and
that selvedges should be hemmed back
\\ inches. Patterns should be matched
carefully before the curtains are cut and
the curtains then hung for about
a week before being hemmed. Some of
this may seem to be the counsel
of perfection, but the hints are really
quite simple and make the difference be-
tween amateurishness and the professional
touch.
At the Conservatorium on Saturday
will be heard the final recital of the
season by pianist Igor Hmelnitsky and
tenor Justus Bonn. The programme will
include works by Beethoven, Chopin,
Liszt, Scirabin, Balakirev, Hugo Wolf,
Verdi and Puccini.
Those who regard Christmas celebra-
tions as “a bit of a bore” should tour
the decorations departments of the lead-
ing stores, where illuminated bon-bons
will stir up Christmassy feelings in the
Scroogiest breast. Some are like a flower-
covered tree with bon-bons for branches
and tiny lights all over (a mere 14
guineas). Another is like an ice mountain
with lights inside it and a little chalet
at the top. The boxes of bon-bons,
ranging from two to five guineas, are
big and red and frilly, decorated with
gold leaves, or pale green and flounced
like a columbine (these stand up on the
table and look like walking flowers) or
feature bunches of lily of the valley. Most
of them come from Engand, but there
are table decorations, Austfalian made, of
colored pine-cones in all sorts of decora-
tive shapes.
From Melbourne
Mrs. R. G. Casey is again president of
the Women’s Group of the Australian-
American Association. She was elected
at the sixth birthday meeting of the
association and takes the place of Mrs.
Rupert Downes, At the same meeting
Mesdames W. W. Killough and Wallace
Mitchell were made vice-presidents, and
new committee-members are Mesdames
John Hill and D. Cheadle. Geraldine le
May, of the U.S. Information Library,
who is returning soon to Washington, was
presented with a farewell gift. Her
successor, Valma Passo, arrived just too
late for the meeting, but members will
meet her soon. Special guests were Lady
Latham, Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins, wife of
the U.S. Consul-General, and Mrs.
Robert Denbo, whose husband is the U.S,
Naval Attache.
Thanksgiving Day was celebrated by
Americans and Australians at a luncheon
sponsored by the aforesaid association.
Traditional fare was served ; turkey and
pumpkin-pie, but minus cranberry sauce.
The pie was served with ice-cream; a
palatable dish which no self-respecting
American hostess would delete from her
menu. In the absence of the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, the president of the
association, Sir John Latham, proposed
the toasts of the King and President of
the U.S.A., to which Henry E. Stebbins
replied, and then read the Thanksgiving
message from President Truman. Lady
Latham accompanied her husband, and
at the official table were Sir Edmund and
Lady Herring, Lieut.-General S. F. Rowell
and Mrs. Rowell, Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins, the Archbishop
of Melbourne, the Rt. Rev. J. J. Booth,
and Mrs. Booth, Premier McDonald,
Lord Mayor Nilsen and his Lady
Mayoress and Mrs. John Inkster. Lady
Gepp looked cool and attractive in a grey
silk jacket-suit and white coolie hat, black
silk shantung fashioned the smart suit
worn by Mrs. Rufus Ramey Wjjh a
miniature black coolie hat, a white linen
suit worn with a green blouse matched
the white straw flower-trimmed hat
chosen by Mrs. W. W. Killough,
To be old and alone is a misfortune
many have to bear in this city, but elderly
men living in the suburbs of Ascot Vale
and Essendon will have the means of
recreation and companionship when the
new recreation hut is built. Raising
money for this laudable object is the aim
of Mesdames Marion Smith and Frank
Marland. Recently a dinner-dance was
held at the Delphic with these two ener-
getic workers at the head of a group of
helpers; this yielded close on £7OO.
Assistance has been promised by the
councils of the two suburbs, so what
was just a dream will soon be a reality.
This is Mary Parker, twin daughter of
Capt. and Mrs. C, A. Parker, of Kew,
who left Genazzano Convent early last
year to go with her parents and sister
Susan for a 12 months’ tour overseas.
While abroad they saw many theatrical
productions, for Mary is studying
dramatic art. Music and golf supply
relaxation from devotion to Melpomene,
Excitement in the Parker household over
u R T' ,O . Ur great - * or bro * er
Michael, a Lieut.-Commander in e
R.N is equerry to the Duke of Edtn-
burgh and mil accompany Princess
Elizabeth and the Duke on their tour of
New Zealand and the Commonwealth.
At a pre-luncheon party given by Mrs.
John Mollard in her Toorak home her
guests-of-honor were Mr. and Mrs. Bill
McGowan. Much admired was a bag
of Mrs. McGowan’s which she had
bought in Paris. Portmanteau in shape,
it was piped with black patent leather,
and was printed all over with brightly-
colored labels bearing the names of many
cities. It matched her black-and-white
check tailored frock, with which went a
green-and-black satin scarf. Jeanette
Scott, who recently returned from over-
seas with her parents, Mr, and Mrs.
Harry Scott, also carried an unusual bag.
Oblong, it was made of rounded strips of
wood, and looked like a miniature log
cabin. Mrs. Mollard received her guests
in a pale-amber sharkskin tailored frock
which had a slim pegtop skirt. Among
the guests were Mr. and Mrs. A. Prahl,
parents of Mrs. McGowan, Mrs. Colin
Norman, who wore navy-blue linen, Mrs.
Ken Hadley in an aqua-blue crepe jacket-
suit, Mrs. J. Coyle, wearing pale-blue
linen, Mrs. Gordon Coulter, whose navy
crepes were coin-spotted in pale-blue,
Mrs. Harry Scott, in grey-and-black-
striped faille, and Mrs. Frank Davies in
cinnamon linen.
Scotch College pipers, children, dogs
and ponies were a happy medley at the
successful garden fete held on the lawns
of Dr. and Mrs. W. Agar’s Studley
Park-road home. Organised by the enter-
tainments committee of the Mt. Laming-
ton Disaster Citizens’ Appeal Committee,
it netted £7OO. President of the entertain-
ments committee, Mrs. W. E. Agar, had
the assistance of Mrs. D. D. Barclay, who
is hon. treasurer, and among stallholders
were Matron Elizabeth Johns, formerly a
matron in the A.A.N.S., and Sister Nancy
Elliott, who was in Mt. Lamington at
the time of the disaster. They took charge
of the bookstall. Other helpers were Mrs.
Harold Williams at the fancy-goods, Mrs.
S. Langdon and Mrs. H. Grover, who
had the cake-stall and during the after-
noon rushed home to bake a batch of
15 dozen scones. Iris Williams, Georgina
and Margaret Phillis.
To bid farewell to Col. W. Taylor,
Asst. U.S. Air Attache, and his wife, a
party was given in their honor by the
U.S. Air Attache, Col. Frank Gillespie,
and his wife and Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Rose in the Royal Room at the Dor-
chester. Palest-peach-pink satin fashioned
Mrs. Gillespie’s gown, with its billowing
overskirt of matching tulle. Mrs. Rose
wore a ballerina frock of dove-grey
organza, coin-spotted in white. Of mist-
blue faille was Mrs. Taylor’s bouffant
gown with its strapless bead-trimmed
bodice. A gown of geranium-red faille
was the choice of Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins,
wife of the U.S. Consul-General. Mrs.
Sam Wood’s bouffant copper tulle had a
tiered skirt. Mrs. Douglas Bowden’s
wide-skirted emerald-green net gown had
green rhinestone and white bead embroi-
deries on the strapless bodice. Mrs. lan
Miller’s Grecian gown was of white
chiffon. Mrs. Tom Fogarty’s frock of
shell-pink lace had a deep basque and a
sheath skirt flaring below the knees, Mrs.
Robert Macklin, wife of the Asst. U.S.
Naval Attache, wore deep-brown Chan-
tilly lace over matching satin. Mrs.
George Uhrich, wife of the Asst. U.S.
Army attache, chose smoke-grey chiffon.
Mrs. James Clark, whose husband takes
over from Col. Taylor, was in pale-blue
tulle skirt and matching lace bodice.
Heather Scott’s striped seersucker was
multicolored. Mrs. Chester Guest’s
chiffons were pigeon-grey. Mrs. Geoffrey
Grimwade wore charcoal-grey organza,
and Mrs. Norman Robinson’s black gown
had the bodice petal-shaped and massed
with gold beads.
Wearing a fairy-tale gown of white net
embroidered with opalescent sequins,
with the bouffant skirt forming a short
train, Ethne Jane, second daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. L. J, Hartnett, of Toorak,
was recently married at St. John’s Church,
Toorak. A small net cap trimmed with
orange-blossom held her fingertip veil
of tulle and the bridal bouquet was of
white stephanotis. Jill Sargood, Deidre
Hartnett and Elizabeth Richards were
maids in attendance wearing full-skirted
frocks of white stiffened organza, large
picture hats of stiffened white organdie,
and carrying white gardenias. The bride-
groom, Denis Percy, is the younger son
of Mr. and Mrs. P. Wilson, of Glen Iris,
and he had as best man Dudley Walton,
with Peter Warr and Peter Shelmerdine
as groomsmen. The cake was cut at
Grosvenor, Toorak, where guests gathered
under the historic oak in the garden.
Once a year members of the South
Yarra Club open their doors to lady
guests, and the hospitality is such that
feminine tongues are set wagging and
women who seven days a week cook
meals for husbands sigh for a chef who
could prepare food such as they were
given on the night of the party. Members
donned aprons and chef hats and carved
until there was not a scrap of turkey
or sucking-pig to be seen. Host for the
evening was president Colin Norman
who, with his wife, received 400 guests,
Mrs. Norman looked smart and elegant
in a black faille suit, and her close-fitting
white straw hat was finished with a white
chiffon bustle bow at the back. Most
of the women guests chose smart black
frocks and large picture hats. Mrs. Peter
Andrew topped her black frock with _it>
deep neckline banded in white faille with
a white coolie hat lined with black and
finished with a bow on top. Mrs.
Maurice Nathan’s large picture hat o-
black velvet featured a scalloped edge to
the brim and was worn with a black faille
frock.


When it's an
Exide—you start!
£xit>e
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDMEY
EX 2.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
When The Bulletin boarded a trim
blue frigate berthed at Sydney’s Circular
Quay it met a tall, study-stooped, alert-
eyed gentleman whose place was
obviously not in a man-o’-war but bent
over a specimen-case in a museum.
Which it usually is, with the interesting
exception that Dr. Anton Bruun goes out
and collects his own specimens—from
six miles down in the pressured black-
ness of the unexplored Pacific. Leader
of the Danish scientific expedition which,
in frigate Galathea, has been roaming the
Pacific since October last year, Dr.
Bruun has inched his scientific fingers
oyer primordial slime and found fish of
nightmare shapes living in pressures 1000
times greater than that of normal room-
pressure ; worms and mussels at even
greater depths, but no fish ; and, in depths
swarming with a colossal abundance of
bacteria and small organisms, has learned
that the sea produces more food than the
land. An associate-professor of Copen-
hagen University, Dr. Bruun will leave,
after refit, with his team of sqience-
students-cwm-crewmen for a further 12
months of disturbing the privacy of the
lightless continents.
Designer of the Jubilee two-bob, sculp-
tor William Leslie Bowles created Mel-
bourne’s Monash and George V
memorials. Born in Sydney, 1885, studio
now at Frankston (Vic.), the pugnacious-
jawed sculptor has a soft spot for Bris-
bane. While apprenticed to a master
woodcarver there he won a scholarship
which took him to the London studio of
Sir Bertram MacKennal, R.A. With the
master till Wilhelm tried sculpturing the
globe, Bowles joined the 25th London
Regiment, and was its crack shot when he
changed over to the Royal Tank Corps.
After the Armistice he exhibited at the
Royal Academy, and was brought back
to execute work for the War Memorial
people in Canberra. That over, he stayed
on in Melbourne. In his spare time he
enjoys designing stage-settings, attending
meetings of the T-Square Club and dab-
bling in local politics.
Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins, with
three years in as First Naval Member and
Chief of Staff, gets a two-year extension
in the post. The announcement came on
the tenth anniversary of the sinking of
his old command, cruiser Sydney.
“Uramao”; Passed on in Victoria
(British Columbia) at 62, inventor Ernest
H. Scott, a native of Dunedin (N.Z.),
who, in Australia when War I broke out,
went overseas with the 3rd Australian
Division, and demonstrated an inventive
genius by devising a method of locating
trouble in petrol-engines, which was later
adopted by the U.S. for its tanks and
trucks. Hampered by broadcast-receivers
on naval vessels and transports disclosing
their positions to the Germans in Hitler’s
war, the U.S. invited inventors to tackle
the problem—Scott provided the remedy
With a special type of low-radiation re-
ceiver. He went on to establish the Scott
Radio Corporation and the E. H. Scott
Laboratories, in Chicago. Such was his
War II reputation that by 1945 his firm
had contracts totalling 20-m ill io n
dollars.
Knight Frank Ernest Gibson, Mayor of
Fremantle since 1919 (with a break of
two years), has called it a day. Bom in
Victoria, educated at the Ballarat School
of Mines, he moved to Westralia with the
century young and gold waiting on the
wayside, but found his work as a pharma-
ceutical chemist of more durable value.
First experience of municipal affairs was
as mayor of a mining township, Leonora,
from 1912 to 1914. The accolade fell
upon his shoulders for consistent patriotic
work during the recent war. He will
retain his seat in the Westralian Legisla-
tive Council till his term expires. Fre-
mantle’s new mayor (unopposed). Coun-
cillor W. F. Sampson, a vigorous 59-
year-old, is an estate-agent.
Accepted an appointment with the big
Kemsley newspaper organisation in
U.K., Keith Waite, cartoonist of the
Otago “Daily Times,” New Zealand.
Waite’s work has been of a high order ;
it will be interesting to see how he shapes
in comparison with two distinguished
countrymen who crossed to London
in similar circumstances —David Low and
the late Harry Rountree.
Few Westralian politicians had wider
Ministerial experience than Harold
Millington, passed on in Perth at 76.
Coming from S. Australia on the crest of
the gold wave in 1894, he learnt his
political pothooks as secretary of several
unions on the goldfields, before entering
the Legislative Council as member for
North-East Province in 1914. He held the
seat until 1920, when he became secretary
of the State Executive of the A.L.P. His
next appearance in Parliament was in the
Assembly in 1924 as member for Leeder-
ville; three years later he was Phil
Collier’s Minister for Agriculture. On
the redistribution of seats in 1930, he
stood for Mt. Hawthorn, which he repre-
sented till bad health applied the closure
in 1947. After his retirement from
politics, he was, for a time, chairman of
stewards of the Westralian Trotting
Association. His political strength lay in
administration rather than in debates —
between 1934 and 1943 he held at
various times the portfolios of Agri-
culture, the North-West, Works, Water-
Supply, Main Roads, Education and
Police, and was Minister responsible for
putting important water-supply, main-
road and electrical undertakings into
operation. Though somewhat reserved,
he had friends on both sides of the
House.
Justice hands over to Justice in
Adelaide’s English-Speaking Union.
President for the past 13 years. Chief
Justice Sir Miles Napier is relieved by
Sir Herbert Mayo, Supreme Court judge
and member of a distinguished Adelaide
medical family. The new president jointly
edits his State’s contribution to the Aus-
tralian Law Journal.
Medico C. H. Hembrow would have
a special interest in cables from
America reporting the isolation of viruses
causing polio. Sketched by Mcßeath
at the opening by the Prime
Minister of the new £140,000 Austin
VIRUSES.
Hospital’s children’s block (built to care
mainly for polio cases), Hembrow is the
orthopaedic surgeon there. Born in
Beechworth (Vic.), he passed through
Melbourne University to London, to
obtain his F.R.C.S, under the noted
surgeon Sir William Ogilvie. Completely
wrapped up in his crusade, Hembrow is
orthopaedic surgeon to Melbourne’s
Alfred as well as the Austin, and, since
1937, has been surgeon in a similar capa-
city to the R.A.A.F.
The various distinguished lecturers
Jubilee year has brought to Australia
have been just about unanimous in de-
claring that Australian wines can hold
their bottles up in any viticultural com-
pany. Herewith, by Coventry, Sidney
Douglas Gramp, whose Orlando vine-
yards take a sizeable slice of the credit
for that reputation. Gramp’s great-
grandpa founded the vineyards back in
1847 ; the old chap’s first vintage rated
one octave of wine—the present capacity
of the spreading acreage of vines on
Rowlands Flat in S. Australia is 3y mil-
VINES.
lion gallons. President of the S. Aus-
tralian Winemakers’ Association (at 36,
the youngest), Gramp is a director of the
firm (his father being the head), holds a
diploma of commerce, and knows enough
for a diploma on lawyer-vines —know-
ledge gained during close contact with
the subject in the 13th Field Regiment in
War 11, New Guinea. Gardening’s his
hobby—growing grapes for the table.
Old Fortian William Hewson Anderson
(schoolmate of Doc. Evatt) now leads
the Libs in succession to Sir Malcolm
Ritchie, removed by ill-health. With
Shell since 1935, most of the time chief-
accountant, he’s now assistant g.-m. of
the company. An Old Digger, Anderson
was in at the formation of his party in
1944. Golf’s his worry.
“Cauboy”: Amy Castles, passed on in
Melbourne, was the first Australian prima
donna to make her debut in grand opera
in Australia. It was in the first Australian
performance of Puccini’s “Butterfly,” and
as Cho-Cho-San she brought the house
down. I heard her in that production.
In 1901, three years later, she set off
for London, appearing at the Queen’s
Hall in the same year. After three years’
tuition in Paris at the hands of Madame
Marchesi she made her debut in Europe
at Cologne in “Hamlet.” She had con-
tinuous success in most European coun-
tries, and just prior to War I was firmly
established at the Court of Franz Josef
in Vienna. She was allowed to escape,
and I met her again in the ship heading
for Australia. The Viennese doted on
her. A lively, robustious woman, but
subject to fits of indolence with regard
to her singing, she sang seldom after her
return to Melbourne —unlike Melba, who,
if she wasn’t giving final farewells to
the concert platform, was always to be
found at concerts shouting “bravas” to
other incipient Melbas. Amy’s sisters
Dolly and Eileen were singing stars of a
lighter order.
The first fullblown judge to arrive in
Melbourne as a New Australian migrant,
Dr. Peter Rekis is a Latvian who sat on
the Russian Bench in the Tsarist days.
Forced into exile by the Bolshevists in
1917, he went to Latvia, worked up a
big practice and once more sat as a judge
in the highest court in that country.
When it was decided that a sound and
experienced Continental lawyer was
needed to look after the interests of N.As.
in Victoria, he was the choice of the Vic-
torian Bar. He’s 74.
Melbourne medico Neil Hamilton
Fairley, who received the degree of
LL.D. the other day at the University of
Melbourne, has gone far since he gradu-
ated from his Alma Mater. He served
with the Ist A.1.F., and while with the
2nd made researches into the causes and
cures of tropical diseases which made him
world-famous. In the New Guinea cam-
paign he had a private priority signed
by General Blarney which gave him and
his boxes of insects precedence over
pretty well anything lower than a field-
marshal. Now Senior Physician at the
Tropical Diseases Hospital in London —
address, Harley-street.
Another singing Australian who knows
where he’s going overseas, Laurence Lott
was one of those youngsters in the
National Grand Opera season in Mel-
bourne of whom Joseph Post opined that
they could take parts in almost any opera-
house anywhere. Throwing up his job,
Lott went post-haste to Italy to find a
master. The other day he took a holiday,
went to London, was given an audition
by Sir Stuart Wilson on Post’s recom-
mendation and was immediately booked
for a leading role in “Billy Budd,”
Benjamin Britten’s latest opera, at Covent
Garden.
Clem Lack: Memories of the wreck of
the Quetta in Torres Strait, on February
28, 1890, when 133 out of the 282
aboard were drowned, were recalled by
the death in Brisbane, at 81, of Mrs.
Alice Horsley, one of the three female
survivors. Mrs. Horsley was then
Miss Alice Nicklin, and her parents
were lost in the Wreck. A good
swimmer, after swimming and drift-
ing on a plank throughout a whole
night and part of the next day she
gained the shore at Adolphus Island, to
be rescued by the steamer Albatross,
which had been sent from Thursday
Island. The wreck was the inspiration for
Randolph Bedford’s “Fourteen Fathoms
by Quetta Rock,” which has been
reprinted in many collections of notable
short stories.
In Australia from India, with some
soundly based opinions on the staggering
job Indians face in making their country
self-sufficient in food-production—the
problems of irrigation, training peasants
in efficient methods, raising of capital
(with much of the local brand gone
underground because of the Kashmir
trouble)—Thomas Faulkner Berwick has
been in Nehru’s country since 1924, in its
ordnance services. At Gallipoli and in
France (D. 5.0.), he enlarged his know-
ledge of guns with Vickers after War I,
and, in India in the next blow-up, rose
to be Director-General of the country’s
ordnance factories, his merchandise rang-
ing from .303 bullets to Matilda tanks.
Now head of one of India’s largest
machinery manufacturing concerns, head-
quartered in Bombay, he rose Sir Thomas
in 1946. Born in Melbourne, Mark 1890.
Into the Silence:
In London, at 48, John Gough, a native of
Launceston whose Melbourne studies led him to
the deputy-conductorship at the Capitol Theatre,
Paris, in 1928 and London studies under
Vaughan Williams to 20 years with the 8.8. C.
He composed the “Wallaby Track” and wrote
several historical plays.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 90, Nathaniel Paterson,
great-grandson of “Old Mortality,” immortalised
by Sir Walter Scott, and grandson of Rev. Dr.
Nathaniel Paterson, one of the first Moderators
of the Free Church of Scotland following the
disruption of the ’forties. A surveyor, Nathaniel
was a foundation member of the N.Z. Institute
of Surveyors, and 50 years ago, with a brother,
he established the well-known estate-agent firm
of N. and E. S. Paterson, Ltd., Dunedin, of
which he was governing-director right up to
18 months ago.
In Melbourne, Mrs. J. H. Disney, mother of
Sir James Disney, till recently Lord Mayor of
Melbourne. Well remembered for her staunch
kindness to the needy of Melbourne, Mrs.
Disney was one-time champion of the Albert
Park Bowling Club. Her late husband, a Labor-
party member for over 25 years, had been leader
of the party in the Legislative Council.
At 70, in Melbourne, Arthur John Rice,
one-time Australia’s “strongest man.” He held
92 weight-lifting records, and once carried six
men Founder, with Clarence Weber, of
the Weber Rice Physical Culture College, he
had the distinction of being mentioned by
“Believe It or Not” Ripley. That was when
he held the world’s chest-expansion record.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices i
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
\
\
f
df
d
KODAK “DUAFLEX” CAMERA
A truly smart and modern
gift. 12 pictures x 2^".
£5/19/6.
BROWNIE REFLEX
fd
fdf
CAMERA
The gift
that "pre-
views" the
picture. 12
pictu res
If" x If".
£4/1/-.
d
wlO°-»
SIX-20 KODAK “A” CAMERA
A superb camera—a "super" gift.
Two models available. 8 pictures
2±" x 3i". £23; £25/12/6.
SIX-20 FOLDING
BROWNIE CAMERA
An exciting
camera for
Christmas giving.
8 pictures
x 3*". £7/2/6.
II
iOOA.fi
\
\
KODAK
KODAK DEALERS
EVERYWHERE
fojr 0,1 thc fQwi N-
XC2I
Sol*
iA
7%
fd
f
df
KODAK
(A/asm)
PTY. LTD.
PHOTOGRAPHY SERVES THE RATION
# Photo-engraving “ blocks ” for books and magazines.
9 Spectroscopic analysis for scientific research.
f Police pictures that provide undeniable evidence.
# Aerial photographs—essential to the map-maker in
peace and war.
d
An Investor?
• Then you certainly cannot afford to be
without The “Wild Cat” Monthly. It
contains the most comprehensive investment
analyses of Australia’s leading companies,
economic reviews and mining notes, presented
in a concise, easy-to-find style that puts all
the facts at your fingertips.
2/- a copy? 22/6 a year, post free.
THE "WILD CAT" MONTHLY
A “Bulletin” Publication
VALLEY OF
FOXES
By
SIMON ROYSE
WHEN Arnold came to, it
was to a sort of panicky
wonder. He sat up and
rested his head between
his hands. The tall gums, the
grey rocks amongst which he
was sitting, danced a crazy jig
around him, and he felt in his
stomach such a nausea as a man
feels when, having drunk too
much, he lies down and closes
his eyes as the room sways.
Gradually the world settled
down and he became amazedly,
gratefully, aware that he was
dlive. He moved his fingers,
eased his toes within the flying-
boots, flexed his knees, and
realised he was not only alive
but with all his limbs function-
ing. He drew a deep breath, and
then put a hand to his chest as
he felt a stab of pain that
seemed to go right to his back-
bone. His hand was sticky with
blood and there was blood
splashed over the front of his
windjacket. As he moved his
hand up he could feel a long cut
just on the hairline of his fore-
head, and the whole of his left
cheek was puffed, tender and
sticky. He could feel the teeth
along that side of his jaw wob-
bling in the gums.
And he was profoundly
thankful to be alive. “Gawd,”
Arnold said aloud, “how lucky
am I!” He didn’t look at the
wreckage of the plane on the
far side of the clearing, but leant
against a rock and felt for a
cigarette. His hands in his
pocket seemed big and clumsy,
his head was light, and his chest
hurt, but apart from that he felt
fine. He clicked his lighter and
drew a lungful of smoke, care-
fully, somewhat painfully, but it
felt wonderful.
Soon, he thought, the reaction
would set in, and the sooner he
got towards help the better.
Look for the gullies till he
found running water, then
follow it downstream. Any
stream sooner or later led into
something bigger; and where
there was water there was likely
to be a house. He tried to
work out roughly where he
would be.
ARNOLD was a Sunday pilot,
member of Sydney Aero
Club with a “B” licence, and he
had taken off solo in the Moth
from Mascot at midday. There
was heavy overcast, and after fly-
ing round under it for an hour
or so he had turned south and
climbed right through the cloud
into the sunlight. He had
revelled in being on top of the
layer of cloud stretching as far
as he could see. A great bale of
wool, he had thought it, a fluffy
white mass piled in the bin of
the sky, valleys and craters and
precipices of wool. He had
pushed the little Moth along and
over and through the clouds,
skirting the precipices and veer-
ing through the valleys, watching
the shadow of the plane rush to
meet him on a wall of white, and
flying straight into it. Then he
had dived down into that long
cloud valley, burst through the
bottom, and saw the tops of
trees a hundred feet in front of
him. He remembered a
desperate yank on the stick, a
wild swinging turn, and then the
blackness.
He reckoned that he would be
somewhere in the mountains
along the South Coast, probably
between Wollongong and Moss
Vale. He could be five miles
from the sea, or fifty; and the
country was wild and rough as it
came, the ragged and broken
ramparts of New South Wales.
But he knew that if he kept his
head and kept east, and down-
stream, he must eventually strike
habitation. He took a last drag
at his cigarette, stamped on the
butt, and moved off across the
hillside.
Half-an-hour later he came
across water, a thin, precarious
stream trickling down between
the rocks. He was still moving
easily, a bit too easily in fact, at
times it appeared almost floating,
but as he worked down the
stream and came out on a small
bluff the trees fell away before
him and he could see the moun-
tains on each side sloping away
to foothills of cleared green and,
in the distance, the misty grey
of the sea. He realised he had
crashed on the very fringe of the
range.
Directly in front of him the
stream flowed over the edge of
the bluff and, by a small water-
fall, down into a narrow, densely
overgrown valley between the
spurs. From the edge of the fall
he looked down on the lush
green of Moreton Bay figs,
tangled and twined with vines as
thick as his arm, and in the
clearings bracken and black-
berries. In the clouded light of
late afternoon the valley looked
secret and chill, a place of old
fear, but there, beyond the
valley, were the slab posts and
rusty wire of a boundary fence.
Carefully he lowered himself on
to the rock and began to feel his
way down the twenty-foot face,
slimy and slippery from the
water, but with plenty of foot-
holds and not really dangerous.
He was halfway down when,
quite suddenly, a great roaring
sounded in his ears, the sky
darkened, and he fainted, sliding
inert down the rocks and rolling
like a stone to the floor of the
valley.
WHEN he came to for the
second time that afternoon
it was in the dimness under the
fig-trees, lying on his back and
looking up into a sky now pearly
with the light of late afternoon.
With a feeling of resentment hot
as a personal grievance he said
aloud, “Not again, not-a-bloody-
gain, not twice,” and then
stopped, shocked by his own
voice that croaked in the still-
ness. As if in answer an
obscene, mocking, rasping croak
came from the top of the fig-
tree into which he was staring,
and all down the little valley was
echoed in an uneasy chorus.
Arnold felt something hard
sticking into the small of his
back and tried to stir, but the
movement brought so much pain
he lay still while the sweat froze
on him. After a little he realised
that the hard object was his left
heel; and that his leg, broken
in the fall, was doubled up
under him. Gradually, gradually,
he got hold of himself. He
knew he couldn’t move, and he
knew he could lie there for years
without being found, but if he
didn’t stir, he could lie easily;
and he knew now he was not far
from some sort of farm.
He would have to conserve his
strength and keep calling, and
someone would hear in time.
They must hear. Yet all the time
he was struggling against fear
that seemed to be part of the
valley. The cool air had the
smell of rotting vegetation and
also another smell, an acrid,
bitter smell.
Taking a deep breath Arnold
called into the sky. “Cooee,”
long and as loud as he could,
defying the valley and the trees
and the stench, asserting his
right to live. As his voice
clipped off there was a moment
of stillness, and then the valley
came to life. From the leaves
above him a black, furred body
flapped awkwardly across the
sky with a squawk of rage. The
air all around him beat and
sounded with a thousand
leathery wings and the sky grew
dark and raucous with a loud
and angry croaking. For half-a-
minute Arnold thought he had
gone mad, but the noise stopped,
and the winged bodies lurched
again to the trees. He turned
his head and looked down the
valley. Every tree was thick,
jammed, packed with flying-
foxes. From the branches they
hung in great clusters, claws
round the wood, beaked heads
hanging down and turned to-
wards him, wings rapped cloak-
wise round them, the ugliest
creatures man could imagine,
great bats the size of a cat. Every
flying-fox on the coast seemed to


. CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
the westella
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
IS 5022
New Management.
CINZANO
m
Sweet
or
Dry
Established 186*
rac . t<>r * to Government, Municipal
Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOjyT
dsuujyA\
rrrpa
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,.
Manufacturing Stationers
brad office and factories
BRISBANE
SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
letterpress and offset printers
lithographic printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
fd
THE
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Oives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman
to Instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
■ DISTRIBUTORS: ——
N.S.W. : Hygeia Dissolvenator Diat. Co
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St.. Sydney
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolved
(Qland), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St, Brisbane.
VI CTORiA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
Pty ‘* Ltd - 450 Collins St..
Melbourne. *
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. p. M c-
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
TASMANIA: Wm, Crosby & Co. Ltd
Launceston and Hobart. ’
DAKWIN :C.T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
MAKE YOUR WATCH
A CALENDAR
WATCH
ne DAY
rv
>4P
v
'S
fd
CALENDO-STRAP
This perfect calendar strap attaches
to your wrist watch like any ordinary strap.
YOU SET IT AS YOU WIND YOUR WATCH!
See the Date When You Look at Your Watch
H atches with built-in calendars have heretofore only been available in
expensive models, difficult to keep in running order and costly to repair.
comes CALENDO-STRAP ... a streamlined beauty . . , simple,
sturdy and foolproof.
FOB CHROMIUM WATCHES
Complete with strap,
post paid
35'-
FOR GOED WATCHES
in 1/20 10k. rolled gold AC /
with pigskin strap, p.p. '
For immediate delivery clip this
coupon and post today to —■
DOMEX TRADING CO.
(Dept. 32A),
343 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
I DOMEX TRADING CO. (Dept. 22A),
■ 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
I PLEASE SEND ME POST PAID:
| Chrome calendar with strap for which I
(enclose 35/-.
Rolled gold calendar with pigskin strap for
| which I enclose 45/-.
■ (Strike out not applicable and state width
of strap, Jin. fin., fin., fin.)
I NAME
f ADDRESS
THE PROUDEST
SERVICE
a man can choose!
f
Finest opportunities, surest rewards
In two world wars our sailors, soldiers and airmen
won glory in Europe, Asia, North Africa, and the
jungle warfare of the Pacific. Their Service train-
ing and efficiency were added to the Australian
fighting spirit. Today men with a hundred different
types of ability and skill are offered the opportunity
to share in the life and traditions of one of our
three great Services and, at the same time, to enter
a career with many material advantages and
rewards unequalled in most civilian occupations.
A BETTER LIFE, A PLAN FOR
YOUR FUTURE
Life in the Navy, Army or Air Force is made interesting
by the variety of occupations and opportunities for train-
ing open to any keen recruit with the right aptitude.
It is enriched by the comradeship of men of the finest
type. Its leisure hours are provided for through on-the-
spot facilities for sport and recreation. A Serviceman
enjoys security of engagement. His pay is good, and is
adjusted to the cost of living. He receives, in addition,
free food and accommodation of excellent standard, an
issue of clothing and provision for replacement, free
medical and dental attention, and at least three weeks’
leave a year with concessions in fares and travelling time.
He can look forward to a pension or gratuity on
retirement.
Si
JOIN
THe\\ NAVY, THE ARMY or THE AIR FORCE
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle Street: In Adelaide: Richards Building, 99 Currie
Street; In Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart: Franklin Square;
In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Issued by the Director-General of Recruiting,
roost in this valley, thousands of
them steered by instinct.
J— J E could see the grey, mottled
1 fur on the closer ones, the
malevolent beady eyes, the open
mouths. In one patch the trees
had been eaten bare, and the
denuded branches were covered
with a living foliage. A number
were carrying young, caricatures
of small bony creatures clinging
flat with claws buried in the
mother’s hairy belly. Like
something out of a nightmare
the colonies shifted, some lung-
ing along the branches with
clutching paws, some dropping
and flapping with great bat
wings to other trees. And in a
sudden disturbance the under-
growth was spattered with a
filthy rain.
Arnold knew that flying-foxes
were harmless, timid creatures,
more than half blind in the day-
light, but he shuddered from the
creatures as from a leper. He
had to steel himself to shout
again, and when he did there was
the same beat of wings, and the
sky darkened again down the
valley as the harsh, lost chorus
mocked him. It was a long time
before he shouted again and
then it was with his eyes closed ;
but against his closed eyes he
saw the swirling bats. He heard
the sound of the wet pattering
on the leaves, and a heavy body
brushed the tree just above his
head. For a long time he lay
still and muttered “Must call
again, must call again” over and
over, but he knew he couldn’t.
Then again the sky darkened,
and the hoarse croaking
sounded, and he called re-
belliously, “I didn’t, I didn’t
shout.” But the whirring con-
tinued and he sank back, almost
moaning . . . “God, don’t let
them touch me . . and then
there was the sound of move-
ment in the underbrush near by,
and a man’s voice called, “Hallo,
is there anyone up there?”
A STOCKY, tanned man and
a fair-haired girl were bend-
ing over him, their faces alike
shocked and wondering.
“Lord, mate, what happened
to you?” The man asked.
“Aeroplane crashed . . , over
the hill . . muttered Arnold.
“Leg’s gone.”
The man spoke to the girl.
“Get back to the house, Lin, and
ring for the doctor, quick, then
get Mister Price and the lads uo
here.”
The girl hurried off and the
man settled down on his
haunches beside Arnold.
Smoke, mate?” he asked, and
put the cigarette in the injured
man s lips. Arnold sucked
greedily and felt the world re-
turning to normal.
“How on earth did you find
me?” he asked.
“We were looking for a
horse,” said the man, “when we
saw the foxes were disturbed
and thought there might be a
camper up here. I reckon you’ve
got a lot to thank those foxes
for, mate.”
VARIOUS VERSE
THE HYACINTH ORCHID.
Such gold peels off the sun
such blood is jittered away
such lust deflowers the world
sweet arms enfold the dawn
sweet looks veil, tremulously,
the promise of the east
the holy day’s increase
the slattern soul must twist
must lean against the west;
must suck the ancient lie.
I have just found a hyacinth orchid
thrusting up through the grass by the dustbin
a noiseless steeple of carnivorous buds
frail as gossamer, rooted deep as sin.
Under the Nine Wanderers, the yellow asterisks,
rain wind thunder unpredictable wrath,
chalk chert clay shale ooze syncline musslekalk
back to Tertiary—or Jurassic —rock
bear the spoor of its advancing footfall.
Pretty, pretty creature!
I peg my creed on your integrity
the scope of that intolerable hope.
V.S.W.
ETHEL ANDERSON.
NOT BACKWARD FOR HEAVEN.
Was never sun so bright as sun was.
And angels were whiter when the world began;
leaves were lighter; spring was sooner;
soft summer was nearly the whole year round.
Nothing is now the way it once was;
others have forgotten . . . Unforgetting Man.
The magpie sings for now for ever,
black back in the sunlight shining glare,
thinks not of coming, cares not for over:
rain is, wind is, cold is, sun is;
next minute heaven, now is heaven
meantime glad to be here, to be there.
The swallows are busy being swallows:
curve and parabola in the air,
with half-drunk swooping from sun to eaves;
leaves and droppings on the veranda,
hoping to avoid the indignant housekeeper
beating her broom to get them out of her hair.
And here the dispassionate and clean-shaven gumtree,
judge-like, without thinking, and most kind,
spreads out his arms; calls kookaburras home,
and lets his leaves make shadow dance
on sunlight; permits no day go by
thinking of days gone by—has too much to mind.
And the tiny and almost forgotten violet,
who knows more of heaven than us all
put together, receives hot summer without a murmur;
accepts the frost for what it is . . .
bows to the storm, to the violent weather,
but takes life—now—without recall.
Only Man takes things with the grumble
yesterday was better; we don’t believe
death was, sex was, drought was, tomorrow was:
in the beginning in the garden in the good old days,
everything was lovely without worry without care,
is all changed. And it's your fault. Eve.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Confidence:
... The mental attitude of trusting
in a person, institution or thing.
For happy results a bank’s
confidence in its customer must
be equalled by the customer’s
confidence in his bank. Working
together with courage and
prudence, there is generally
satisfaction all round.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months 0
a .... IS o
3 ” !! .... 96
Ihe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
MAKING AUSTRALIA STRONG !
for
Homes and ;
industry
v%
* \ I
a «•
e jo*
The home is the cradle of the Nation. National
greatness and strength spring from this humble
source, therefore the Timber Industry is of con-
sequence in our affairs.
In our work we use Timber to great purpose in
supplying many needs such as Spray Plants and
Wool Presses. We, in turn, provide Engines for
sawmills and Dragsaws for Timber-cutters.
We pay tribute to the Timber Industry for its con-
tribution to our National Strength. That the
Industry looks to us for some portion of its needs
is a fact of which we are proud.
RONALDSON BROS. Cr TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria. Mel-
bourne Office: 628 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors; Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., SYDNEY. Q’land
Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’landT Pty.
Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
No. 11
RONALDSON-TiPPETT
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O. FAILURE.
A staunch U.N.O. supporter,
“New York Times” was severely
shaken by the sorry showing of
the international body on the
Persian dispute.
The Security Council, it com-
mented, did not enhance either
its own authority or that of the
United Nations as a whole wbeh
it resorted to a subterfuge to
dodge decision;
“In a general way we are up
against the same type of
problem that contributed toward
the wrecking of the League of
Nations. It amounts to a refusal
to take sides when the conse-
quences can be awkward and
disturbing. The merits of the
case are submerged by the fear
of causing trouble or doing
something unpopular
“If ever there was a time to
strengthen the authority of the
United Nations, this is it. The
months ahead shape up as
extremely critical ones in which
the painfully constructed edifice
of collective security is going to
be put under a heavy strain.”
A London “Sunday Times”
writer, dealing with U.N.O.’s
failure not only in the Persian
but also in the Egyptian dispute,
emphasises the inherent, and
perhaps fatal, defect of member-
ship by which, for instance,
English-speaking America with
its enormous population, high
literacy and unrivalled produc-
tivity has two representatives,
whereas Latin America with its
far smaller numbers and high
average of backwardness has 17.
Similarly in Asia the four chief
Arab countries —Saudi Arabia,
Irak, Syria and Lebanon —cover
only about 12 million people
altogether, but count as four
units in U.N.O.
“The delegates of small back-
ward States can rarely be looked
to for international vision ; they
are oftener concerned with back-
scratching and nest-feathering ;
and the idea of seeking justice
on its merits hardly occurs to
them. What they usually do is
to form blocs, the members of
which give reciprocal support to
each other’s interests.”
As a result, “the motive of
justice carries far too little
weight in the councils of the
United Nations. If, as often
happens now, a small country
runs off the rails, knowing that
the bigger country which it
injures will not use force against
it, the first instinct of other
retrograde small countries will
be to ■ back it up. Soon the
movement has the appearance of
a tide of feeling, against which
even a great country like the
United States may be reluctant
to range itself
“Unless the United Nations
can so alter its course as to
become an effective agency for
justice, it is doomed. Without
collective justice how can one
talk of collective security? Great
nations denied justice by inter-
national arbitrament must
sooner or later return to securing
it by force.”
The failure of U.N.O. in
recent cases the writer considers
is too glaring to be much longer
glossed over: “The thing most
immediately needed is that the
leading Foreign Office, Wash-
ington, should pull itself to-
gether and stop ‘appeasing’ at
the expense of its best friends.
But ultimately some amendment
of the Charter may well be
indicated.”
Plan for Egypt.
Holding that, whatever
happens, Britain must retain
control of the Suez Canal,
London “Observer” has sug-
gested a plan for making that
possible:
“As long as geography does
not change and Egypt does not
become a Great Power, she can
never hope to have both absolute
sovereignty and territorial
control over the Suez Canal.
But the Canal Zone, which is
vital to us [Britain and British
Commonwealth], is only a
marginal piece of Egyptian
territory. If it could, against fair
compensation, be ceded by
Egypt and given an extra-
territorial status comparable to
the Panama Canal Zone, this
would enable us to release Egypt
from all contractual or other
links with us which she does not
want to continue. It would give
both sides what they most need
or want: to the Commonwealth,
absolute control of its indis-
pensable central artery; to
Egypt, absolute sovereignty and
independence. It would end a
poisoned intimacy which now
threatens to degenerate into
nightmarish violence.”
Socialist Aftermath.
Reviewing some of the more
clearly evident consequences to
Britain of its Attlee Socialists’
reign, a London “Daily Tele-
graph” writer holds that, owing
to their outmoded ideology,
mediocre talents and the mental
confusion of their leaders, they
were “peculiarly unfitted” for
the special post-war task that
needed to be faced:
“The two essential facts of
which any sound foreign policy
—London “News Chronicle.”
“AHMED, ARE YOU SURE ALL THE BRITISH HAVE
GONE ?"
had to take account in the post-
war years were the translation
of the Russian Revolution into
Stalinist imperialism, and the
generation of immense economic
and military power in the United
States. The task of British
statesmanship was to formulate
Britain’s relationship to these
two world Powers, taking
account of her role in the Com-
monwealth and in Western
Europe.”
The Attlee Socialists, the
writer recalls, started off by
assuming that, as Leftists, they
would easily be able to establish
harmonious relations with
Moscow, only to find that their
advances were contemptuously
rejected:
“Like spurned lovers they
became even more embittered
than the circumstances
warranted, with the additional
embarrassment that not by any
means all their supporters shared
their revulsion of feeling. As
they rode sadly away there was
many a backward languishing
glance, many a regretful sigh
that the course of true love
should run so unsmoothly.
“Towards the United States
their attitude was the precise
opposite. American capitalism
was detestable in their eyes, but
its fruits were desirable, and
even necessary, to maintain a
Welfare State.
“A like confusion of purpose
dogged their relations with
Western Europe. Still thinking
in terms of the 19th century, and
of a balance of power which has
become wholly obsolete, they
adopted an attitude which, in
effect, sabotaged any possibility
of a United Europe. In Moscow
they were angry, in Washington
obsequious, and in Paris haughty
—three attitudes which were
severally ill-judged and together
fatal.”
As for the Commonwealth,
the writer sees it as the sorriest
spectacle of all, with Australia
and New Zealand forced to look
for their security to the United
States ; in Africa British settlers
everywhere being increasingly
induced to accept Dr. Malan's
harsh leadership; in the Indian
sub-continent millions already
dead in communal strife, and all
the circumstances present for a
disastrous fratricidal war; in
Malaya the Communist
guerrillas unsubdued, constantly
assisted by the Peking Govern-
ment which Mr. Bevin went out
of his way to recognise ; finally,
the sterling area, on which the
economic cohesion of the whole
system rests, deprived of its
greatest single asset —the Persian
oil.
“It is in the Middle East,
indeed, that the full conse-
quences of Socialist foreign
policy are already upon us. The
hurried withdrawal from India,
followed by an equally hurried
withdrawal from Palestine, and
then the final ignominy of
Abadan, have transformed this
whole area into a dangerous
power vacuum. Forces of
extreme nationalism and of
Communism, momentarily
allied, are daily gaining impetus
now that, as a result of Mr,
Morrison’s policy, Britain is con-
sidered to be no more of any
account.”
Men of Korea.
Back from representing his
paper in Korea, a London
“Sunday Times” correspondent
has commented on the 12
months of war there as having
demonstrated, or reaffirmed,
one important point—that the
individual soldier and his
individual weapon remain the
most important factors on the
battlefield;
“In a period of ill-informed
chatter about mechanised ‘push-
button’ warfare, the lessons of
this essentially infantry war
(with its emphasis on such earthy
military arts as weapon-
handling, junior leadership,
night-training and physical fit-
ness) are not untimely. Fast-
moving, tank-led ‘task forces’
have been gradually abolished,
and the steady improvement in
the tactical situation is due,
almost entirely, to painstaking
advance and rapid consolidation.
The ‘show-pieces’ of the United
Nations front, these days, are
minefields, booby-traps and
broad belts of wire.”
And another important point
has been editorially noted by
“New York Times,” regarding
the same individual soldiers in
Korea, that “They have been
fighting not only in rugged terri-
tory and against a fanatical
enemy; they have also been
fighting in sight of a fata
morgana of impending peace,
which to every Western man at
least can only make life seem
dearer than ever.”
England Expects.
What is expected of the
Churchill Conservative Govern-
ment, as editorially run to the
masthead by London “Times”:
“Now, in peace-time [as
distinct from 1940 war-time] the
task is, while manning and
furnishing the defences, to earn
a living by efficient production
and trade in a competitive peace-
time world.
“If there is a distinctive Con-
servative contribution to be
made to contemporary govern-
ment, it lies in creating the
climate and circumstance in
industry and trade in which, with
the direction firmly set by the
Government’s use of helm and
sail, the use of resources can be
guided by the reflection of home
and overseas demand in costs
and prices; in which the tests
of industrial efficiency and the
rewards of work will not be
overthrown by the undiscrimi-
nating tides of overspending ; in
which the fully employed, mov-
ing more freely in their employ-
ment, can be fully producing the
goods most needed; and in
which the real requirements of


A
CHANGE
FOR THE
BETTER
%//>
m
MmtS
l ntiii
m
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
.World's favorite spark plug for
{more than a quarter of a century
C 23.6
On the average . . •
one family
in three relies
an the A-3M-R
-V,
df
d
fd
f
YOU DON’T EARN THE TRUST OF THOUSANDS
BY CHANCE.
One in three Australian families, on the average,
rely on the A.M.P. The A.M.P. has earned this
trust by service; service given in full measure for
over a century because the A.M.P. is, and always
has been, a wholly mutual society. There are no
shareholders, and all surplus earned is returned in
full to policyholders. Perhaps that is one of the
reasons why the Australian Mutual Provident
Society, in just over a century, has grown to be
the largest Mutual Life Assurance Office in the
British Commonwealth, and the firm friend of
countless thousands of Australians.
Your A.M.P. Agent will advise you with
skill on your family finance so as to obtain the
maximum value In protection for you and your
family. His background and training make him
the ideal person to assist you. The A.M.P. Agent
Is a "Sure Friend in Uncertain Times”.
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
General Manager:
M. C. Buttfield
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches through-
out Australia,
New Zealand, and
Great Britain.
The A.fA.P. is the
largest Mutual Ufa
Assurance Office
in the Empire.
AI.ZOI
national defence and social
welfare can be met without
waste by—as the King’s speech
puts it—‘ensuring efficiency and
providing value for money
spent.’ ”
Jap Comeback.
In the view of an Edinburgh
“Scotsman” correspondent in
Tokyo, the Japs, for a nation
which six years ago was in
almost total economic ruin,
have good reasons to feel
pleased with themselves.
There is, he reports, an un-
mistakable air of prosperity in
Japan today, particularly in
—“New York Times.”
HOMEWORK.
comparison with other Asian
countries. The people are well-
clothed and they look healthy
and well-fed.
Japan’s foreign trade is im-
proving all the time, particularly
with South-East Asia. For
some time now Japan has
enjoyed a favorable balance of
hrade with Malaya, India, Indo-
China, Thailand and other Asian
countries, to which she has been
selling textiles, iron and steel
products, machinery and
chemicals and non - ferrous
metals.
Production costs in Japan are
high, largely because Chinese
coking-coal and ores are no
longer available, but these costs
have been offset by world
demand. “Australia, for
example, is buying all the Jap-
anese steel it can get; Argentina
is another important customer.”
Among other prospects, the
correspondent mentions that
Japan will get its share of the
funds spent in Korea on U.N.O.
reconstruction work ; U.N.O. is
expected to spend close to
£100,000,000 a year rebuilding
the war-shattered peninsula. In
addition, a good proportion of
the equipment and goods needed
for the U.S. Economic Co-
operation Administration pro-
jects in South-East Asia is
expected to be purchased from
Japan.
On the same theme a London
“News Chronicle” writer
declares that “Japan’s trade
balance is so healthy today she
is actually lowering taxes. In-
dustrial output is running 55
per cent, above the 1932-36
average. Only textiles—which
accounted for 60 per cent, of
her trade before the war —are
lagging, but here too strides are
being made.”
Further, says the same writer,
Japan’s steel mills in June, 1951,
actually topped their war-time
peak. “Her people today are
the best-housed, best-fed in the
Orient, and live as well as many
in Europe. In under six years
Japan has built 1,900,000 new
homes —not quite the kind we
would want to live in, but
certainly better than many
prefabs.”
The Korean war alone, he
adds, brings in an estimated
million dollars a day to Japan.
“On top of that she has had two
and a half billion dollars of
U.S. economic aid in various
forms to get her to her present
pitch. Then there’s the money
the U.S. Army spends on itself
—lBO million dollars a year, not
counting the soldiers’ pay, plenty
of which also finds its way into
Japan’s economy.”
Revaluation.
From an article. “A Tory
Chancellor’s Chance,” by Roy
Harrod, in London “Spectator”:
“I continue to hold that lost
ground could be regained by a
revaluation of sterling.
“There is some tendency to
suppose that the reopening of
the dollar gap means that the
time for revaluation is past;
indeed, rumors have been re-
ported from the United States,
where our [Britain’s] basic
economic strength is somewhat
underrated, that sterling is ripe
for another devaluation.
“It is quite wrong to suppose
that in the existing circumstances
devaluation would tend to
improve the balance of trade,
that it is, so to speak, the natural
remedy for an adverse balance ;
it may well be the other way
round.”
On the same theme, London
“Economist” has declared: “A
second devaluation within so
short a time is unthinkable.”
Various Voices
Churchill: “Remember we
have brought into being through
the progress of Victorian times
50 million people in an island
which grows the food for only
30 million, and that all the rest
has to be provided for by the
goods and services we can render
to other countries. There never
was a community of 50 million
people standing at our high level
of civilisation on such an
insecure foundation. We have
maintained ourselves there by
the qualities of our race, by the
soundness of our institutions, by
the peaceful progress of our
democracy, and by the very
great lead which we had gained
in former generations.”
Anthony Eden: “It was
American help above all other
which made it possible for us
[Britain] and for Europe to keep
going since the war—not by
loans, but by gifts. Socialists
themselves have said that but
for Marshall Aid we [Britain]
should have two million unem-
ployed, and that is true. It is
American gifts on an un-
paralleled scale which have
enabled Western Europe to build
up its economy and to resist
Communism, thus enabling our
people to have full employment.
That is a simple statement of
fact, and in the light of it
criticism of America is
ungenerous.”
British Home Secretary, Sir
David Maxwell Fyfe: “The
British Empire and Common-
wealth is and must be a bulwark
of peace in the world, and a
blow at that bulwark is a blow
at peace itself. Mr. Churchill
has announced that one of the
future actions of his Govern-
ment will be to strive to
strengthen the ties which bind
Britain to the Dominions and
colonies. There are two broad
methods by which that can be
done. The first is by improving
methods of consultation for
trade, defence and other matters,
and the second by maintaining
imperial preference to secure
mutually advantageous trade.
The development of the rich and
varied resources of the Empire
and Commonwealth will require
a re-examination of investment,
research and migration from the
standpoint of urgency.”
L. S. Amery (addressing a
British Empire rally in London :
“Within the lifetime of many of
us, the United States has leapt
forward to the mastery of the
world. With the far greater re-
sources, human and material, of
the Commonwealth, there is no
reason why we should not,
within another lifetime, once
again draw level and even out-
strip America, if we only work
together.”
Lord Mackintosh of Halifax
{chairman of Britain’s National
Savings Committee ); “Over the
next year or 18 months, prob-
ably, prices will go still higher,
but anyone buying Savings
Certificates today and keeping
them for five years will probably
find they can buy more then
than now. The fantastic prices
of raw materials cannot last.
After every war there has been
an upsurging in the cost of liv-
ing, followed by a big drop,”
Canadian National Progres-
sive Conservatives leader, George
Drew {urging expulsion of
Russia from U.N.0 .); “I do not
see how it is possible for Russia
to remain a member of the
United Nations unless all pro-
ceedings there are to be carried
forward in an atmosphere of
complete unreality.”
London’s new Lord Mayor,
Australian Sir Leslie Boyce
{addressing his remarks to Mr.
Churchill): “Crises occur only
when events take control of
men. Let you and your Ministers
take control of events. Give
back to the people the convic-
tion of their country’s and their
Empire’s greatness—and the
awareness that it is on the
individual efforts of each one of
them that that greatness rests —-
release their spirit and their
energies, encourage their enter-
prise, reward adventure and
there is nothing that this country
[Britain] cannot achieve.”
Retiring Lord Mayor of
London, Sir Denys Low son:
“A Lord Mayor of London can-
not expect to be long remem-
bered —unless he happens to be
a dashing contralto with a
bundle and a cat. The common
run of us disappear quietly into
the ranks of that company which
we call, comforting our vanity
with the stately civic phrase, the
aldermen who have passed the
chair, but which no doubt our
juniors curtly dismiss as the old
gang. But though a retired Lord
Mayor may be quickly for-
gotten, he himself, so long as he
lives, can never forget London
—this dear city, so lovely, so
ravaged, so triumphant.”
Turkish Statesman Fuat Kop-
rulu : “The Russians do not
attack us [Turks] because they
realise very well that we are not
afraid and that we would fight
to the last. We will not hesitate
to take any steps that add to the
total strength arrayed against
Soviet Imperialism. The one
sure way to provoke the Soviet
Union is to display weakness and
fear.”
French President A uriol:
“Why should I conceal my
apprehension at the spectacle of
egoisms unleashed, of the greed
of individuals and sections, of
an impatience to build quick
fortunes on the ruins of our
country and on the miseries of
our people? Oh, I know well
enough that life is hard, above
all for the workers. But it is
often among humble people that
one finds the greatest dignity and
the keenest conscience. I say
this to all those speculators who
drive prices up in order to make
exorbitant profits and then com-
plain of the severity of the taxes
of which they defraud the State.
I say to them: by your greed,
by your irresponsibility, you are
ruining your country and at the
same time digging your own
graves.”
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“I want the restoration of Ger-
many, but not within the Russian
sphere of influence. I want her
to be restored in freedom. This
unity in freedom will, however,
never be attained if we allow
Soviet Russia to harbor the hope
that she can swallow us one
day.”
U.S. Under - Secretary of
State James E. Webb: “We
[Americans] know we need a
partnership of nations that can
produce an international climate
of confidence in which our
actions can gear in with those of
others to get on with the work
of the world. Every day we are
learning new reasons why it is
not in our own self-interest to
go it alone.”


T h
ease
that AGA brings
you.
There is only one AGA, and
only a demonstration proves its
wonderful efficiency, its con-
venience and coolness in cook-
ing. The vitreous cream enamel
is so simple to clean, and the
delectable way the AGA cooks
defies description. Fuel economy
is guaranteed!
df
/
C«mf 0
C«° V wi4h an
AGA
COOKER
Hff/l
"Nn
*
hi
vw2sM/;U : i,tU u
. *v\\\\ \\\ \v\\\MS\X
tin »;
*o rkJ°'* Of
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING ’AGA*
or write for full particulars to;—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents; A. O. WEBSTER
ft SONS LTD.. HOBART. W.A. Agents; MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
A4/100
FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
—TjS?
mm'
*****
l:
v: ' v
*i T / y'*s>'
' f^v-.
4
r.
>4
for full information consult your travel agent.
HY,c
HOH6
KBH6
Colourful, cosmopolitan Hong
Kong, fascinating city of the
Orient, is only 48 hours by air
from Sydney—by comfortable,
modern Qantas Skymaster.
Excellent cuisine and first-class
steward service cater for your
comfort all the way. Regular
weekly services.
SVINVO
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia's International Airline
"Fly Qantas there's a world of difference'*
I<?CI4
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
4* 4* 4*
“I have never sat on any fence
since I was born, I don’t feel com-
fortable sitting on fences.” — Liberal
Lady Violet Bonham Carter.
But it’s nice to get on to a
good post.
4* 4* 4*
“Suburban aldermen today are a
bunch of loafers.”
—Correspondent in Sydney “D.T.”
Nonsense! They rate higher
than ever.
4* 4* 4*
Talk, they say, is cheap—
until you note what politicians
are now demanding as salary.
“Mental and physical deterioration
generally associated with old age
begins to affect a person’s work in the
30’s.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Lots of Australians slow down
long before that,
“The time a man really appreciates
good music is when he returns home
from work.” —New Idea.’'’
That’s just the time he often
has to face it.
❖ 4* 4*
“Bragg noticed that although a dish
of tinned pairs had been the second
supper course, the plates of the first
course had not been taken off the
table.”
—Short story in women’s paper.
He found this singularly odd.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale, double bed, complete
with mattress, bookcase, bridge chairs,
etc.” —Suburban paper.
Readers will bid eagerly for
this combination.
4* 4* 4?
“Many women are slow in realising
their shortcomings.” —Beauty article.
Sometimes, however, their
slips will show.
Drummer Boy.
My hands delight in alia breve
time;
My joyful heart goes merry-
making with ’em ;
My leaping locks accentuate the
rhyme;
My feet reiterate the broken
rhythm.
The cymbal shivers in the lamp-
lit glare;
The wood-block tocks before
the cymbal Stops ;
The snare-drum crunches on
the yellow air;
The traps bite clashing as the
wire-brush flops.
The bass-drum grunts beneath
the pedal-blows;
The vellum shudders at the
drum-stick points;
The rim-shots rattle at the
dancers’ toes —
And I am monarch of the
dancing-joints !
The joints are out of time. O
happy fate
That ever I was born to
syncopate !
NEIL MILLAR.
I.Q. Test for Prospective
Government Bus- and Tram-
drivers and Troubs.
1.—You bring your bus to a
halt at a stopping-place and
immediately opposite a radio-
shop which is broadcasting a
description of a Test match.
Miller is 86, and you get the con-
ductor’s signal to proceed just
as he punches a straight hit for
four, following this with a back-
cut to the fence, leaving him six
short of his century. The next
ball, the last one of the over, he
has to play defensively. You
switch the engine off so you can
hear better during the next over,
which is a maiden to a stone-
waller. Half-way through the
following over an irate woman
passenger sings out: “Are you
going to stop here all day? I’ve
got to get home!” You have a
choice of two answers: (a) “I’m
extremely sorry, madame; I
apologise if I have caused you
any inconvenience,” and
immediately moving smartly
off; (b) “Listen, Mum, there’s
no law to stop you getting out
and walking if you don’t like
it!” Which would you choose?
2.—Your crowded double-
decker is doing 45 m.p.h. down
a steep winding grade, and as
some of the women passengers
are getting hysterical, a man
demands that you, as conductor,
should get the driver to reduce
speed. After you’ve stopped
laughing he threatens to report
you both. Would you deem it
“I'm a father , Professor!"
advisable to inform him that he
may as well save his and the
department’s time, as your
union wouldn’t allow the depart-
ment to sack you?
3. —Collecting fares on your
crowded tram just before you
move off from a beach resort
on a hot Sunday (it is your final
trip for the day and your bag is
pretty full) a man who has got
on with his wife and a multi-
plicity of children hands you 48
half-pennies to cover the
family’s fare. To your protests
he replies that you’ll have to
accept it as it is “legal tender.”
In the same compartment you
recognise one of the depart-
ment’s “Kelly gang” of flying
plainclothes inspectors. Would
you still proceed with your
original intention of dumping
the coins and refusing to pull
tickets?
4. —Further to Question 3.
As, with your bag open, you are
collecting other fares in the same
compartment you suddenly feel
your bag become much heavier.
You look and see that all the
silver and most of the coppers
have disappeared under the
bucketful of sand which
a small boy has just up-ended.
Write a thesis, completely
avoiding the use of any adjec-
tives, on the advisability of the
department’s encouraging
children to indulge in more
weekend travel by allowing them
concession-rates.
5. —You are standing in the
driver’s cabin at the rear of
your tram reading a form-guide
when a passenger who has just
alighted from the front walks to
the back and hands up a two-
shilling piece and says “I got
on four sections back, and
you’ve never been round to
collect it.” State which of the
following reactions you would
consider most appropriate to the
case: (a) Treat him with silent
contempt as you reach for the
bell-cord; (b) Say, “Exhibi-
tionist, huh?” and tell him
to go and buy a beer
with it; (c) Say, “Look, mate,
can’t you bring the exact
money? Do you think a man’s
got nothing else to do than give
change to you mob?”
6. —On four successive morn-
ings you have left the suburban
terminus at 8.35, 8.37, 8.35 and
8.36 respectively, the scheduled
starting-time being 8.32, On the
fifth morning, just after having
glanced at the bundy to find it
is 8.31, you notice in the distance
a stout middle-aged man running
up the hill towards you. At
exactly 8.32 he is still 20 yards
from the tram and puffing badly.
Explain why you would consider
it essential, in the interests of
timetable-keeping, to move off
exactly on time that morning.
7. —Driving your 10-ton bus
towards a suburban intersection
at which there is no traffic-cop
you notice a small car approach-
ing on your right. You naturally
barge straight ahead, forcing the
small car to brake suddenly to
avoid a collision. At the next
intersection an enormous, fully-
laden semi-trailer approaching
on your left ignores your horn
and keeps coming across, forc-
ing you to a halt to avoid
collision. Give your views on
hoggish driving.
8. —You get the driver of your
bus to stop outside a
delicatessen-shop in an outer
suburb while you go in and make
some purchases. There is a
crowd in the shop. Ten minutes
later you are just coming out
the door and you see a savage-
looking passenger reach up and
pull the bell-cord, in response
to which the driver starts off,
and, burdened as you are with
an armful of parcels, you are
unable to catch him. Would
you feel justified in charging to
the department the taxi fare
which you had to pay to catch
up with your vehicle?
9.—You are standing outside
your bus at the terminus laugh-
ing and joking with your blonde
conductress. Just as she chucks
you under the chin and says
“Now be your age!” you
notice your wife, grim-faced,
coming across the street towards
you both. The bus is not due to
pull out for another six
minutes. Give at least one
reason why it is an advantage to
have the engine running during
standing-time.
Bo.
Security Measures.
“W. C. Wentworth, M.H.R., wants
heavier taxes for bachelors, and Sir
Douglas Copland wants them to make
compulsory loans.”
It’s time the carefree bachelor
Whose surplus cash provokes
inflation
Should note the cost of living
soar
For his less fortunate
relation —
Whose offspring number three
or four.
Why should he boost the price
of chocs,
And send the cost of flowers
soaring ?
Proof against economic Shocks,
High cost of living he’s
ignoring
While married men head for the
rocks.
Let him discard expensive
blondes
And, taking cash from
circulation,
Before the Commonwealth
responds
With heavy taxes, beat
inflation
By buying matrimonial bonds.
D. H. E.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO THEODORE JOHN BOWES late of
Ooogee.—TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET
MARY BOWES has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3336 of 1951 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by sth Feb-
ruary 1952 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS A. J.
McLAOHLAN HOARE & 00., Solicitors,
of 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.—J.
DO UGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
To ROY FRANK HART late of Manly.—
TAKE NOTICE that BARBARA ELIZA-
BETH HART has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1899 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you might enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 15th day of
January 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALLAN E.
CUPIT & BEST. Solicitors, of Federal
Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO GLADYS LINDA MacDONALD late
of Mt. Isa Queensland and EDWARD
DUNCAN late of Bowraville N.S.W. —
TAKE NOTICE that ROY MacDONALD
has filed a Petition for Divorce from
GLADYS LINDA MacDONALD No. 652
of 1951 on the grounds Of her adultery
with EDWARD DUNCAN If you or
either of you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 12th day of February 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from D. A. ELVY & CO., Solicitors, Prin-
cess Street, Macksville in the State of
New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO DONALD REEVE SUTTON late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that BERYL
JEAN SUTTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4173 of 1951 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three year# and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 6th day of Febru-
ary 1952 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS. W. H.
HILL & WEIR, Solicitors, 10 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO FRANK RICHARD BUDD late of
Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE that
SHIRLEY NELLIE EMILY BUDD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 357 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 6th day of February 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. W. H. HILL &
WEIR, Solicitors, 10 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. —DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Wanted.
YOUNG MAN urgently desires “Little
Journeys” and other writings of Elbert
Hubbard. Write W. RUDD, 218 Welling-
ton Street, Collingwood, Melbourne.
9/81
1
30'-
u
GEM
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
There’s a
GEM
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined
chrome set, complete with stropper,
or a less pretentious set, you are
assured of the same keen shave. The
super-keen Gem blades of surgical
steel and the automatic shaving angle
of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with
automatic stropper, as illustrated above,
complete with 8 Gem Double Life
Blades, in ivory plastic gift case 56/6.
• Gem chromium-plated streamline model
in handsome case of ivory plastic with
5 Gem Double Life Blades, 30/-.
• Gem nickel-plated Razor with two Gem
Double Life Blades in serviceable plastic
case, 2/-.
• Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated,
13/6 each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of
sturdy, surgical steel last longer, shave
keener, 2/4.
Obtainable at all Stores, Jewellers, Tobacco-
nists and Chemists.
SUNDRY SHOWS
JOHN PASSMORE.
John Passmore, who has a
show of 26 paintings at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
takes after Cezanne, and takes
after him with such a vigor and
flourish that it is often difficult,
and sometimes impossible, to
follow him through several of
his chaotic and slightly greasy
patchworks.
For instance, “Bathers Under
Trees,” “Greengage Tree,”
“Elmer’s Farm,” “Green Land-
scape,” “Winter Sunlight” and
“Up the Orchard,” might be
anything anywhere—up the
creek, in fact —since it is prac-
tically impossible to recognise
any subject through the slather
of paintwork. It must be con-
ceded, of course, that there may
be something there, that the
artist requires the spectator to
come a long way to meet him,
but the distance is, frankly, a
little too great for this commen-
tator.
Where the artist consents
to come some of the way him-
self, however—and, incidentally,
when he seems more concerned
in emulating his master’s
remarkable observation than in
copying his style too slavishly—
the results are often pleasant
and, in one or two cases,
delightful.
“Bathers and Bridge” is a
lovely, lazy, warm impression of
trees, sun and, of course bathers,
and “Baigneuses” an even
warmer moment of figures soak-
ing up sunlight. “Apple Tree,
Sunset,” catches the fading light
on the landscape and, in a per-
fect point of balance, a fleck of
sunlight on a distant building.
“Harbor, Evening” is a lyrical
little nocturne of a dark wharf
in the foreground, a boat, grey
water and a vaguely-explored
distance; two “Bottles and
Fruit” are arresting in their
vibrating greens and golds, and
have much more life and light in
them than have most still-lifes;
and “Roses,” with its vivid and
beautifully balanced reds and
greens against a grey back-
ground, glows like the little gem
of the exhibition —which it is.
More Jubilee Art.
First-prize in the oils depart-
ment of the Ku-ring-gai Muni-
cipal Council’s Jubilee art com-
petition was awarded to Lloyd
Rees for his “South Coast
Road,” a deliberate, sweeping
pattern of roads and country-
side, apparently painted in the
light of the limbo, and as dark
and dead as the same artist’s
Commonwealth Jubilee prize-
winner was cold and lifeless.
Sali Herman took second place
with “In the Coolah Valley,” a
painting with quite a deal of
sunlight and color in it, but tend-
ing rather towards morbidity in
the two dejected-looking figures
standing in the doorway of, pre-
sumably, the old farmhouse.
Herman, with his excursions into
the country, has seemed to be
striking a much more cheerful
note lately, and it will be a pity
if, finally, he is only to find there
the same mood ’of depression
that permeates his explorations
of Sydney’s slums and alleys.
Still, ho,wever little one
approves of the prizewinning
paintings, one must admit that
there is little else from which to
choose. The walls of the Council
Chambers are bedecked with
sombre, heavy oils and nowhere
can one find the lyricism or
drama, or any of the hundred-
and-one varying moods of nature
reflected from them—only imita-
tions of style or, at best, un-
successful experiments.
Generally, the watercolor
section Enid Cambridge
(second-prize, with “Gordon
Railway Station”), John Elder-
shaw, Herbert Gallop, Hector
Gilliland, Margaret Coen, Thea
Proctor, Weaver Hawkins,
George Duncan, Allan Gamble,
Ronald Fletcher, Dora Jarret
and others —is happier and
lighter—some of it too light and
slight, such as Douglas Annand's
“St. Ives Show,” which, for some
apparently light and slight
reason, was awarded first-prize.
For prints, Carl Plate took
first-prize with “Grasshopper
Emerging,” an inconsequential,
sketchy item, second going to
Francis C. Hinder’s “Drawing”
—of monkeys—a tricky piece of
commercial illustration rather
than art.
Gail Turner won first-prize in
the under-18 watercolor section
with “Spring in Leicester
Square.”
In that it is not really repre-
sentative of N. S. Wales artists,
nor, actually, of many of the
artists exhibiting, the exhibition
could hardly be called successful,
and one is forced to the con-
clusion noted here before —that
Governments, councils or any
other bodies inclined to patronise
art would do much better for
themselves, and the artists, by
shopping around exhibitions
instead of running competitions.
Except for Enid Cambridge’s
watercolor the prizewinners are
exceedingly remote from what
the council, in its announcement
of the competition, seemed to
ask for —landscapes of Ku-ring-
gai Chase.
Melbourne,
Old and New.
“F.S.”: To celebrate a con-
ference which has drawn archi-
tects from most parts of the
world, the architects of Mel-
bourne put on an architectural
exhibition at the National
Gallery. It purports to tell in
sitory, plan and picture the
progress made by their art in
Melbourne.
Starting with the first bark
humpy, it proceeds through the
first stone and brick houses to
the early Colonial, then to the
Gothic revival, the period of
Victorian rococo when the gold
boom raged and the boom
palaces were erected in the
suburbs with their pseudo-classic
porticoes, their Italian statues
and their Moorish, Chinese and
madhatter decorations. It then
proceeds to the period
democratic when every man was
his own designer and terracotta
dragons, eagles and other fauna
crawled over every house roof.
The first “functional” house
built by Annear makes its
appearance and then Burley
Griffin arrives, fresh from the
studio of Frank Lloyd Wright,
and builds the Capitol Theatre
with its roof like the interior of
a shark’s mouth, also Newman
College. Then comes the modern
era with factories and butter-
box business buildings going
skywards in the city and smaller
butterboxes mushrooming all the
suburbs; finally housing com-
missions and town - planning
experts spread their tentacles
over the outer suburbs.
If the architects had intended
the exhibition to be an indict-
ment of themselves they could
not have done it better. To go
round the show leaves the
impression that the men, mainly
tradesmen, who built the early
houses, the men who built the
Treasury Building, Parliament
House, and the National Gallery
itself, were architectural giants
in comparison with the men who
are making the architecture of
modem Melbourne.
The old men, of course, were
not architectural giants—they
were simply people who had
inherited and were carrying on
a great tradition; but they
certainly built lovely buildings.
The tradition has been lost,
along with the old craftsman,
and all we have now is the trade-
unionist and the Chamber of
Manufactures. Faced with this
situation the modern architect
tries to be unique, original and
creative, but all he succeeds in
doing is to produce something
so completely arid and lacking
in content that the tail-end of
the exhibition looks as if it
were the product of a liaison
between a circular-saw and a set-
square.
"The Black Swan."
In the second Australian
ballet to make its appearance at
Melbourne His Majesty’s, Boro-
vansky uses the music of Sibelius
on which to hang a very thin
story. Captain Vlaming, of the
Dutch East India Company, sets
out from Amsterdam to look for
a ship that has vanished, and
inadvertently discovers Rottnest
Island (W.A.) and Swan River.
He fires a salute to the “miserable
South land” and goes off to
Java. Young Lieutenant Brandt,
however, who has left a girl-
friend behind in Holland, has
fallen in love with the country,
symbolised by a black swan, and
wants to stay. He is visited by
the reproachful face of his
fiancee, as well as the jeers of
his shipmates, represented by
four young men in striped pants.
The four young men convince
him of the futility of remaining
in this remote and sandy country
with a black swan, but he is still
enamored of the bird, and in
order to comfort him the sailors
capture it and he carries it off
in triumph.
Despite the vagaries of the
story —and although the open-
ing act on the wharf at
Amsterdam is incomprehensible,
and the comic touch of giving
the ship’s captain the appearance
and character of a Gilbert and
Sullivan commander seems
superfluous and incongruous—
Borovansky does succeed in pro-
viding some effective moments.
The black-skirted ballet has
opportunities for some pleasing
dancing, and there are two strik-
ing scenes on the ship’s deck at
night and on the banks of the
Swan River.
It was as difficult to get excited
about Kenn Gillespie’s lieutenant
and his infatuation with the
Black Swan, represented
by Edna Busse, who danced
divinely, as about his
guilty conscience for Villemine,
his fiancee, whose woeful plight
was mimed by Phyllis Kennedy.
As the demented girl in
“Giselle,” Dorothy Stevenson
crowded more genuine emotion
into a few minutes than there
was in the whole of Mr. Boro-
vansky’s ballet.
"Messiah. "
The Queensland branch of the
Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission did its Christmas shop-
ping early, and a good thing it
was —it was able to present
Handel’s “Messiah” under the
baton of Eugene Goossens, as
part of the Jubilee Choral
Festival. Not since the visit of
Sir Thomas Beecham has Bris-
bane heard such a perform-
ance. The 400 choristers, at first
a little lethargic, were soon com-
pletely under the command of
the conductor’s personality, yet
despite the sheer mass of vocal
sound, Goossens made many of
the audience aware for the first
time of the lovely orchestral
part of this work.
Soloists were May Jordan,
Florence Taylor, Alan Ferris
and Robert Payne. Of these the
women seemed to be more in
harmony with the spirit of the
total work, but all were of an
excellent standard, and it may be
that the loveliest melodies of the
piece—“He shall feed his flock”
and “Come unto Him ” —-
are the ladies’ privilege.


m
4
I
5% DDT
HOUSEHOLD SPRAY
j£?
m
/i
\
DOESN'T GIVE FLIES AND HOUSEHOLD
PESTS A CHANCE ABSOLUTELY THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST SPRAY AVAILABLE
Rufox kills flies. Rufox kills mosquitoes. Rufox kills fleas. Vou don't waste
spray in the air— Rufox all surfaces where insects appear—windows, lamp
shades, carpets, lounges, picture rails, walls, W.C.'s. Rufox remains deadly
to insects—harmless to humans. Buy it in every size from pints to 44-gallon
drums.
A Product of: TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wiping Out Rabbits.
“Ngaduri”: The C.5.1.R.0.
has never asserted that myxo-
matosis would eradicate rabbits;
all it says is that it would greatly
assist in their reduction. The
Graziers’ Federal Council’s
opinion that “the basic methods
of control will be eradication
within netted fences” still seems
to be pretty accurate. But there
is no method at all which does
not require hard work and con-
stant vigilance.
Firstly, allow no trappers, as
they only tend to spread the
menace and drive the vermin
into the bush, where they are
harder to control. Obtain a
good mixed pack of dogs—a
couple of staghound-greyhound
crossbreds and a couple of good
terriers to work in the rough
stuff —and then hunt the pad-
docks consistently and as often
as possible until you have the
rabbits in that frame of mind
that they head for the warrens
when they think you might be
in the vicinity.
I have found that well-
trained hounds are quite satis-
factory provided that they can
be properly controlled and will
stay behind the horse at a word ;
in this way they cause no upsets
in breeding country.
After having dogged them in
often and thoroughly, treat the
warrens with fumigant immedi-
ately after and during a hunt.
The job is not finished at one
doing ; it must be done several
times quickly and the hunting
must go on after no warrens
have been opened for over a
fortnight, in order to hound the
last rabbit off the place—for it
is he who may reopen the
warrens.
When no more warrens are
being opened obtain a bulldozer
and ripper. Have the warrens
ripped twice both ways, and
then, for good measure, have the
earth dozed out to the full depth
and then pushed back again.
Whatever the season, immedi-
ately sow the area with some
pasture plants—the bushy ones
are best.
The most spectacular part is
done ; but thereafter the hounds
must be used over the same area
at least twice weekly whether
they are catching anything or
not, and more often in the two
breeding seasons (autumn and
spring). All burrows should be
destroyed immediately the
rabbits start to dig. I have
found that poison on a piece of
jute placed where they have
commenced digging is a great
deterrent; and so also is coarse
paper placed just under the
surface.
When the dogs are no longer
catching rabbits feeding them
becomes a problem, since sheep
are too valuable to kill. A good
maintenance ration can be made
of kitchen fat and pollard. Put
in a bucket enough fat so that
each big dog has about and
terriers ilb., pour boiling water
over it and stir until all fat is
melted and then add pollard
until the mixture is like porridge
in consistency. Household meat
and vegetable scraps can be
added and the dogs will enjoy
it and will be able to work quite
well on it. A bag of pollard
lasts eight working dogs about
one month. Good dogs, used
often, are the best means of
keeping vermin off land until
netting is in reasonable supply
again.
Care of Hooves.
“A-Jay”: The hooves of
animals grow as do human
finger- and toenails, and where
stock are grazed on improved
pastures there is a tendency for
the hooves to grow very long.
It then becomes necessary to
trim them.
Long hooves harbdr filth and
make conditions suitable for
footrot, foot-abscess and other
infections which cause lameness.
Long hooves tend to become
tender even if no infections are
present, and throw the animal
back on to its heels, which be-
come very sore. Feet of unshod
stock should be examined every
six months and long hooves
thoroughly trimmed.
Watch Those Scours.
“Rooster”: Don’t confuse
scours with diarrhoea. The latter
is generally caused by some irri-
tant on the lining of the intes-
tines. Anything that disagrees
with the animal may set it up-
errors of diet, too much soft
green food, stomach parasites,
tuberculosis. Act promptly
when it occurs. Change the
food; give bran mashes and
hay. Clear the bowels. A good
drench is raw linseed-oil one
pint, ginger loz., tincture of
laudanum loz. If the calf has
recovered from a severe attack
give a stimulant. A good pick-
me-up ; sweet spirits of nitre
loz., spirits of aromatic am-
monia 20z., whisky 2oz. Give
the animal plenty of rest.
White scours is infectious in
newly-born calves. It’s easily
recognised by the thin light-
colored bowel discharges. The
causative agent is a virile micro-
organism which enters the
bowels. Immediately it is noticed
consult a vet. The complaint
rarely shows if thorough hygiene
is practised.
Blood-scours is persistent and
marked by the passing of blood.
Uncleanliness, irregular feeding,
overfeeding and feeding on cold
or contaminated milk are con-
tributing causes. At the first
signs give 2oz. or 3oz. of castor-
oil. The milk-supply should
then be reduced by half, adding
a quart of lime-water to every
gallon of milk. Isolate the ani-
mal in clean, warm quarters and
supplement the rationed milk
with thin flour gruel.
Fattening Geese.
“My”: The intensive system is
rarely used for geese, but it has
advantages. It keeps them in
close contact with the food,
which can be given three times
daily—two of mash and one of
grain—and it restricts their
movements.
Ample feeding-space is needed
to allow the whole flock to feed
at once because geese, being
nervous and temperamental, are
shy feeders and some, rather
than fight their way to the
trough, may go short.
Here are mash and grain
mixtures: Mash —pollard 601 b.,
bran 201 b., oaten pollard or
maizemeal 101 b. and meat-
meal 101 b. Shellgrit is provided
in a separate hopper. Grain—
wheat 601 b., oats 201 b. and
maize 201 b. Feed the grain dry
or place it on the bottom of the
drinking-vessels.
Contour-planting.
“Sundowner”; Although
comparatively new to Australia
contour-planting of vineyards is
of great value in erosion-control.
As a further precaution against
erosion a vineyard should not
be planted when the average
slope exceeds 10 per cent. Mark
contour-banks with a fall of
approximately Ift. in every
1000 ft.
In addition to its advantages
in combating erosion, contour-
planting conserves soil moisture
(another important point in our
climate), and makes easier
grades for cultivation. By pre-
venting excess water following
the natural run-off, contour-
banks reduce erosion to a
minimum. Water follows the
“Why don't y' BUY y'self a hanky?”
rows and cultivation marks, with
the result that more water is
held on the land than would be
the case where rows and culti-.
vation marks are following the
steep slopes.
The practice makes for easier
grades in cultivation, as vine-
rows follow a line which
provides only sufficient fall for
a steady run-off.
Winter Lambs.
“Hortus”: The C.5.1.R.0.
trial at Chiswick, Armidale
(N.S.W.), has indicated some
success in raising winter lambs
in New England. It’s mainly a
question of pasture-improve-
ment.
On Chiswick 600 Merino
wethers (one sheep per acre)
stopped increasing body-weight
in February, 1951. Their
weight was maintained until
mid-April, and then, through
the winter until mid-July, they
lost weight at the rate of 21b.
per animal per month. They had
not shown any body-weight
increase by September 1.
A similar flock of Merinos on
similar country had the
advantage of pasture-improve-
ment —phalaris plus sub.-clover.
Running at the rate of four
sheep per acre, these wethers
gained in weight from February
to July at the rate of 201 b. per
animal. The increase was a
steady one. They gained an
additional 231 b. per head by
September 11.
Breeds for Environment.
. “Oxo”: J. T. Woodhouse,
pastoral inspector for the J. S.
Love estates in North Queens-
land, contends that, bred right,
the British breeds of beef cattle
and their crosses have proved
their adaptability to varied
country in the tropical areas
during the past 70 years and
more.
No one breed could be clas-
sified as drought-resistant, nor
could a combination of breeds,
for all had high mortality per-
centages if it remained dry long
enough, but until some other
breed —be it zebu, Santa
Gertrudis, Bradford, Brangus or
any other —demonstrated its
ability to produce under
Northern Australian conditions
a type with the same uniformity
and carcass quality, and which
would unquestionably outdo the
British breeds, then those self-
same British breeds would con-
tinue to dominate in tropical
Queensland cattle production.
Originally the Love properties
were stocked with Shorthorn-
Devon crossbreds of only fair
to medium quality. In 1940,
with the object of introducing
Herefords, the foundation of a
commercial bull-breeding herd
was laid at Gainsford (Charters
Towers), which was held as a
stud holding, by the purchase of
selected females from Lyndhurst,
Oak Park and Werrington—
about 400-head, all told. These
and their progeny were mated
with pedigreed southern sires,
purchased annually at the Bris-
bane sales, with the primary
object of producing the estate’s
herd bull requirements for its
other properties Valley of
Lagoons and Dunbar.
Establishment of the Gains-
ford stud and acquisition of
high-class southern sires had
effected a very marked improve-
ment in the standard of the
estate’s commercial cattle. Dur-
ing the past three years 12,000
Store cattle had been sold to
the Queensland-British Food
Corporation, and, notwith-
standing that most of them
walked 1000 miles at two to
three years of age, they were
being turned off at four and five
years at weights in excess of
7001 b.
The transfer of young bulls to
the Gulf took place about March
or April, immediately after the
wet season. The bulls were sent
from Gainsford to Valley of
Lagoons when about 12 months
old, and were kept there until
they were two to two and a half
years old before being sent to
Dunbar, on the Mitchell River.
The hard conditions in the Gulf
country made it necessary to
hold bulls to the age mentioned
before sending them there.
Destroying Dingoes.
“Bill C.”; Pieces of raw liver,
treated with powdered strychnine
and toasted over a fire, are hard
for even a cunning dingo to
resist. The liver may be taken
from a cow or sheep, or even a
kangaroo or wallaby. Wrap the
pieces in newspaper and ignite
the paper with a match before
dropping each bait as you ride
on horseback along a cattle pad
at sundown.
Any baits that remain on the
track at sunrise should be put
in a tin and kept for redropping
at sunset. A lot of birds will be
poisoned if they are left about.
The liquor left in the bottom
of a preserved fish-tin is very
attractive to the dingo, and
strychnine mixes well with it.
They also like raw fish. Burn a
handful of dry leaves or grass
above such baits before going
on. A point in favor of the fish
oil is that it cannot be vomited
up again as easily as a flesh bait.
Also, night-flying birds are not
likely to take any interest in it.
A good-sized carcass will
attract more dingoes than any-
thing else and hold their interest
longer. A poisoned ’roo is often
cleaned up by hawks and
goannas before it becomes suf-
ficiently high to bring the dogs
about. It’s a good plan to light
a small wood fire against a new
carcass, for the odor of burned
flesh acts as a strong lure.
Shellgril.
“Urama”: When buying
have a look at it. Grit is
classed as “alive” or “dead.’
The good stuff is gathered near
the water where it is being con-
stantly washed up and changed.
It is bright, hard and salty.
Dead grit is that which has been
washed up high in stormy
weather and is lying in hollows
in rocks or in heaps along the
sand. This is more easily
gathered and is often sold to
poultry people. It is soft, grey-
ish and dull and is of little use.
It must not be confused with
oyster grit, however, which is
also grey, but which can be
identified by its flaky pieces, not
formed shells.
If within reach of the sea it is
preferable to collect your own
grit; then you can choose good
quality and the fowls will benefit
accordingly.
Overdoing It.
“Peronne”; Poultry-farmers,
especially the fastidious kind,
might be interested in the tests
carried out at Malabar, the farm
of author Louis Bromfield.
They housed-off two groups
of poultry, in one group the pen
was scrupulously cleaned,
scrubbed and disinfected daily,
with constant fresh straw floors.
The old litter was left in the pen
of the second group with occa-
sional fresh straw on top.
After two or three weeks the
hens in the first group drooped,
laid fewer and infertile eggs;
those in the second group had-
to scratch in the old litter for
vitamins and proteins, and they
produced more and perfectly
fertile eggs.
The test proved that too much
cleaning and disinfecting kills
not only disease germs but also
the bacteria and fungi which are
so beneficial in banishing malig-
nant germs.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
*Dii- €a£■ (h.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
or 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars fnom
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G *V£r> B °n 4 °58. G.P.O., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
<rprv ■ -
\\L
- xZ~ l
m.
i
m
Telegrams
“Esdailson
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
9 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable lor
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
& Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2|x —Eye relief 3jin.
to sjin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
fd
AND SONS
PTY. LTD,
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY-
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
f
4/o
0 0 0
///watf for
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
PHE.7.X.18
A complete instruction book on
m.
HH
ill
Ml
ii
|CtP
a®-
ptv
t\o*
ONLY RAINBOW GIVES YOU
ALL THESE FEATURES:
f
FLEXIBLE COUPLING
Worked on a ball and
socket principle, this
coupling provides a
positive, watertight
joint in any direction
better than 25
COMBINED OUTLET AND
HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordinary
outlet, but does the work of
hydrant as well! Simple to
operate, reduces obstruction
in both outlet and main.
df
dfd
STURDY ANGLE IRON STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24 ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tall stands
eliminates interference to
vegetation.
POWERFUL SPRAY
HEADS
Throw a fine spray over
an area 48 ft. square, or
a heavy spray up to
72 ft. square.
f
60/83.12
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
available to all
Rainbow Spray
Irrigation users
Here are all the answers to your
questions about irrigation! The
practical, versatile Rainbow Spray
Irrigation system can help you
majce money, and this booklet tells
you how to get the most from your
Rainbow Irrigation plant.
With the booklet you get a complete
picture of Rainbow Spray Irrigation.
The Rainbow Company has given the
various problems of irrigating very
careful study, and this book is based
on the research of technical staff and
practical field experience. It tells you
how to plan an efficient and economi-
cal spray system, how to install it, how
to operate it, how to compute costs.
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. BU 8425.
Branch Offices: 0. Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont,
Mildura ; 0. Beaumont, 64 King St., Melbourne;
230 Sheridan St., Gundagai, N.S.W.; Mr. N.
Peacock, Bridge St., Muswellbrook, N.S.W.;
R. Kinderman, 84 Byng Street, Grange, N.S.W.
Distributors: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane; Ralph
Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; F. C. Kor-
vrill, 68 Hobbs Ave., Nedlands, Perth.
New Zealand Agent; Freshflelds Limited, 118
Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Lucerne in Victoria.
“Myrrhee”: Although it yields
best on a deep, loamy soil,
lucerne does well on a wide
range of soil types provided
they re well drained. A
thoroughly-prepared seed-bed is
essential, however, as lucerne,
though tenacious enough when
fully developed, cannot stand up
to severe weed competition in
the seedling stage.
Plough the ground several
months before the proposed
sowing and let it lie, harrowing
j Ce or four times to kill
weed-growth and consolidate the
soil. If the soil tends to cloddi-
ness, use the roller.
Sow in the autumn using 61b.
to 81b. of an S.A. dryland strain
m moderate-rainfall areas, or
101 b. of Hunter River variety in
Gippsland and similar high-
rainfall country. A bag of
super, mixed and distributed
with the seed through the
manure run of the drill will aid
establishment. A light harrow
or a chain drawn behind the
drill will cover the seed.
Under favorable conditions
the seed will germinate in seven
to eight days, but stock and the
mower should be kept off it
until it is well established A
robust, well-developed stand
will last for years, but it may
never fully recover if eaten off
or cut too early.
Yacca Growth.
“Big Billy”; S.A. Department
of Agriculture tests have demon-
strated how yacca growth can
be eliminated by spraying with
hormone weedicides. An appli-
ance designed for stock-drench-
ing purposes was used to inject
two fluid ounces of solution
made up of one gallon weedicide
concentrate and 30 gallons water
into plant just below ground-
level.
Weedicide concentrates used
were 2,4-D/2,4,5-T combina-
tions containing 21b. each of
2.4.5- butyl ester and 2,4-D
ethyl ester and 3.71 b. each of
2.4.5- butyl ester and 2,4-D
ethyl ester. With the second
mixture only four and one-third
pints of the combination are
mixed with 30 gallons water.
Tests indicated that although
plants take three months to die
against one month for plants
treated with the conventional
knapsack spray, there was 100
per »ent. elimination with the
one treatment.
Soil Fertility.
“Hort”: According to Pro-
fessor Teakle in the Farrer Ora-
tion for 1951, “the best-known
method of maintaining soil-fer-
tility in general agricultural sys-
tems is the lea system, in which
crops, pasture and stock are in-
tegrated into a permanent and
profitable agricultural practice.”
With no stock and no need of
pasture the best-known method
of maintaining soil-fertility is a
sensible crop-rotation plan—
legumes, leaf crops and root
crops. Little fertiliser is needed,
if green manuring is done. In
the initial stages of all sowing
and planting out, a dress-
ing of super, and potash (wood-
ashes, if possible) must be liber-
ally supplied.
Tree-planting.
“M.”: When planting near
the house see that the tree is not
sited where its roots will inter-
fere with drains and building
foundations (poplars and elms
are serious offenders in this re-
gard), and give a thought to the
position of telephone and elec-
tricity wires.
Care in planting and during
the first few months can save
years in the establishment of a
plantation. Wire-net the young
plants against stock and rabbits.
Use trees with a good root sys-
tem and plant in a moist soil
and preferably on a dull, wind-
less day. Never allow the soil
to dry out, especially during the
first summer—a deep surface
mulch of leaf mould, straw or
well - decayed stable manure
helps keep the roots cool and
conserve moisture.
Stake the tree firmly, using,
strips of cloth or canvas in
preference to string or wire to
hold it in position.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: To keep fungus
diseases out of pruning wounds
on fruit-trees paint the cut sur-
faces with a white-lead or a
bituminous paint. The latter is
preferable. White-lead tends to
crack, giving the fungus spores
an opening.
“Billjim”: Because of their
nutritive value, quick growth
ability to do well under a variety
of soil and climatic conditions
and immunity from pests and
diseases, leeks are among the
best vegetables. Use plants
about 12in. long and as thick
as the little finger. Set sin. to
lOin. apart, wider spacing where
large specimens are wanted or
ground has not been heavily
manured. Rows should be 12in.
to 18in. apart. Use of paper
collars, field pipes or pegging
boards 6in. to Bin. wide around
the beds and gradually filling
the enclosures with soil will
produce long tender shoots.
“Hortus”; Farmers who mow
paspalum pastures in late
autumn —in the belief that the
removal of excess of hay and
seed-heads will stimulate crop-
growth during winter months—
are not supported by experi-
ments at Wollongbar Experi-
mental Farm. Two five-acre
blocks were used —one mown in
March, the other untouched.
Result: The latter carried during
the winter months 80 per cent,
more feed than the mown pad-
dock. The unmown was heavily
grazed at fortnightly intervals
by foster-mother cows with
calves at foot, but there was
only enough feed on the mown
area to carry poddy calves for
a month’s light grazing.
“Sundowner”; When skin irri-
tation develops remove the
animals from pasture and put
out hay. Shade should be avail-
able. Put affected sheep in a
shed and treat with antiseptic
ointment. To unaffected sheep
protection can be given by
smearing a greasy dressing mixed
with lampblack over face and
ears. Cattle should be given a
purgative. The disease is
readily diagnosed by reddening,
swelling and later scaliness of
skin.
“Big Billy”; Keep the mower-
knives keen during operations
by sharpening every two or three
hours. This may mean having
two knives for each machine but
it will pay dividends. After use
see that the knife is protected
by a coating of one of the rust-
preventing oils.
“C.A.A.”: If motor - car
trafficators show a tendency to
stick, a little fine oil applied in
the groove with a feather may
remedy the trouble.
“M.”; Calves with ringworm
should be isolated and treated
immediately, clipping the hair
closely around the part and
washing with warm, soapy water
to which a little washing soda
has been added. Dry and apply
a 2\ per cent, tincture o.f iodine
twice a day until the bare patch
becomes covered with a healthy
growth of young hair. Give the
calf a nourishing ration to help
it regain natural resistance to
infection.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The southern sunspot groups have passed to their active
position and should produce rain soon there is a good
deal of variability in the time between the spots reaching
the active position and the production of the rains, but
in about 90 per cent, of cases the effect is certain. Some
new sunspots are now visible but, so far, not very pro-
nounced. In 1880 rain came about five days after the
climax of the heatwave. It was followed by further heat
a ?KT then , a rain grou P lasting for several days at the end
of November and in early December.


W6VS
df
until Summer is nearly over
and swelter day and night...
INSULATE
your home NOW with
HOME >
SLAGWOOL
No house, no home, no office
or building is modern and
entirely healthy unless it is
insulated preferably with
8.1. SLAGWOOL.
Fill IK AND SEND FOR FULL PARTICULARS
BRADFORD INSULATION (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
66-72 Reservoir Street, Sydney,
or Clyde Street, Hamilton, Newcastle.
I Please send me full information and leaflets I
regarding Bradford Home Insulation.
NAME
ADDRESS—
bj.si,
TREES TUMBLE TO
Rflobilco
C\SV«
Si W
> .^.7
V-
\
■.v
A*'
*A^
m, /v .1 r
P* - V
fells!
Rips/
Cross-Cuts/
■i
i
'I.
Ideal in ail types of country, Mobilco
Model B is so well balanced and light
it is moved and handled easily by
one man. Shaft drive does away
with dangerous belts, indexing device
lets you adjust the blade in full
circle to fell from either side, high
or at ground level, or to scarf at an
angle. Blade can be level though
wheels are on uneven ground. Once tree is felled,
a twist of the indexing lever turns blade for cross-
cutting, ripping or trimming tops.
Powered by 7 bJh.p. British air-cooled petrol engine,
mounted on pneumatic tyred ball bearing wheels.
Working parts machined to an accuracy formerly
unknown for this type of equipment.
SAW BENCH ATTACHMENT AVAILABLE
This inexpensive attachment
allows you to turn tops into val-
uable firewood right on the job.
A drag saw attachment for big
timber is also available.
n
also WOOD SPLITTERS, TRAILER SAW BENCHES
BILCO
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Cent. 4799 ;
after hours, WF 3MB. Telegrams ; “ Mobilco ”, Melbourne.
0 Mr* mi
gave us a set of dinner-mats
made of strips of white and dark
wood fixed on a lining so that
they roll up. You know the sort.
Although we spent so little
about furnishing, the place looks
very snug and comfortable. The
sofa Mr. Taylor made is a great
success. I almost always sit
there to work, and it is adorned
with an antimacassar I sent for
to Sydney, a black net darned
with flowers; at least it is a
woven one in imitation of those
darned ones you used to make.
Since I last wrote we have had
a visit from the clergyman of
Stroud. I believe this is his
parish also, but as it is 20 miles
from Stroud, he only comes here
about once in three months. We
heard he was coming on the
Saturday, but we did not the
least expect a visit from him, as
he was not on good terms with
Mr. Taylor; but while Mr.
Taylor and I were dressing for
dinner on Saturday evening the
voice of Murphy (the man who
lives in the kitchen) was heard
in the passage: “Mr. Taylor,
here’s the parson a-coming down
the hill,” and a very short time
after Mrs. Murphy was heard
outside our door: “Mrs. Taylor,
here’s the parson coming round
to the gate.” Luckily I was
dressed (in that blue mohair you
sent me and which I am wearing
out in the evenings) just in time
to let in the cause of all the
excitement.
The sitting - room opens
straight into the veranda, and I
admitted the clergyman and
the schoolmaster. Our dinner
was on the table and the
boiled beef and dumplings and
apple-pie were all getting cold
before our eyes. We asked Mr.
Simms, the clergyman, to
dine with us, but he said he
had dined, and at last he went.
Mr. Taylor and I went to
church the next morning. The
little schoolroom was very much
crowded when we got there,
and, seeing two ominous-looking
chairs at the top of the room, I
made a dive for a haven of
refuge on a bench by the side
of a fat woman about halfway
down the room, but I only made
matters worse, for I saw Mr.
Simms beckoning to a chair
which appeared to be nearly in
his pocket, while the school-
master pulled Mr. Taylor by the
coat-tails, so we had to go up,
and, having been comfortably
placed facing the whole congre-
gation, I had some difficulty in
keeping my crinoline out of the
way of Mr. Simms’s surplice.
Mr. Taylor continued to
edge his chair back into
the fireplace, and as there
was a steep step I fully
expected to see him go over on
his back and be despised by the
; congregation. However, the ser-
vice proceeded, and we had a
good moral sermon, but it was
nothing more. There was ser-
vice again in the afternoon, and
the next day Mr. Simms returned
to Stroud for another three
months.
Mr. Somerville was absent in
Stroud all the time, but he would
not have gone to hear Mr.
Simms, as he was more angry
than Mr. Taylor was at the
offence given, which was this.
Mr. Taylor had a letter which
he particularly wished to send
before the usual weekly post-
time (it was to me), and Mr.
Somerville had also an import-
ant letter to go, so Mr. Taylor
journeyed over into the village
to ask Mr. Simms to post them
in Stroud as he rode back. He
passes the post-office. Where-
upon he replied that “he had
been pastor of this parish for
eleven years and such a request
was never made him before, and
on a Sunday evening, too! ” As
he started early on Monday, it
could not well have been made
at any other time. Mr. Taylor
said he was very sorry he had
asked him and went home, but
of course they were not greatly
pleased at the want of courtesy.
We have just been out in the
kitchen to see an enormous
kangaroo - tail which Murphy
brought home. Spring, a very
fine kangaroo-dog we have here,
killed the owner of the tail, an
old-man kangaroo about five feet
high, today in a waterhole, but
he paid for his exploit, poor fel-
low, for the whole of his
shoulder was laid open by a
stroke from the kangaroo’s hind
claw. He is a very powerful dog,
but he has several times been
nearly killed in his wars with
the kangaroos. We shall make
soup of the tail tomorrow.
Some bad news came today of
the loss of the Cawarra, a large
Brisbane steamer, with the loss,
it is said, of a hundred lives, but
I think this must be an exaggera-
tion, as the coasting boats are
not likely to carry so many.
Fifty would probably be nearer
the mark, but that is bad
enough. We had one awful night
last week during the flood in
the river. I have seldom heard
such wind or such rain, besides
thunder, and we were saying,
Mr. Taylor and I, what a
terrible night it must be at sea
and how glad we were that none
of our friends were out in it,
and it was that night the
Cawarra was wrecked. She was
running into the port of New-
castle for shelter and got on the
oyster rocks.
I hope, my dearest Etta, I
shall have some letters to answer
next time I write, but I cannot
expect to hear by every mail
now that Annie, Amy and I are
scattered over the face of Aus-
tralia. My kind love to Mr.
Boyce. I hope he will not dis-
continue his correspondence with
me. I used to look forward to
his letters.
Your most affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
Myall River,
October 17, 1866.
My Dearest Etta,
I have again received the Eng-
lish letters in time to answer,
and it is much pleasanter to be
able to write at once while your
letters and news are just fresh
in my mind than it is to wait a
month for an opportunity of
answering them.
Thanks for your note of
August 25. You are quite right
in the opening sentence: that I
have “fallen on my feet in the
choice of a husband.” I do not
think anyone else in the world
could have made me so happy,
and it is something worth living
for, to be able to make him
thoroughly happy also. I do not
think with Amy, that Annie is
so much to be pitied. To be
without a servant for a short
time is a very common episode
in the bush, and, though tire-
some enough for the time, is
soon over and forgotten.
I was very happy at Exmoor,
and so, X have no doubt, is
Annie.
I must not forget that to-
morrow is your birthday. Many
happy returns of it, dear. I am
afraid it is not very likely that
we shall spend another together,
but it is possible in the changes
and chances of life. How I
should like to look in on you in
your new house and see what the
children are now! Do what I
will, I cannot fancy them grow-
ing up. I should like you, too,
to have a look at my bush home
and see the lights and shadows
on the trees, and grass, and the
river sparkling in the sun and a
fresh breeze, as I see them every
time I raise my eyes from my
writing.
Last evening we scrambled up
one of the lower peaks of Bulla-
dillah, the mountain that rises be-
hind our house, to look for rock-
lilies and see the view. It was
very steep, but, being pulled in
front by Mr. Somerville’s stick
and propelled behind by Mr.
Taylor, I continued to get to the
top, a sort of labyrinth of
splintered peaks and crags.
The view was magnificent —
miles of hill and valley covered
with forest, the river winding
along, then the blue lakes, and
beyond all the sea. The white
waves breaking on the Port
Stephen’s Heads. I got plenty
of rock-lilies and a large hole in
my boots from the sharp rocks,
and came down safely and dined
upon beef-steak pie, which I
manufactured before we went.
We talk of taking a rope with
us and climbing the real peak of
Bulladillah, but whether we
shall accomplish that feat this
summer I do not know. We also
talk of a boating excursion to
explore the Myall Lakes and
shoot black swans, and this I
hope we shall manage.
The weather is beautiful now,
neither too hot nor too cold. We
have not left off fires yet in the
mornings and evenings. I am
afraid I shall not be extravagant
enough to send for another box
of dresses just yet. Our great
ambition is to get a piano when
we can afford it. Mr. Taylor is
exceedingly musical, and I could
pick it up again with a little
pains.
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Taylor.
(To be continued next week.)
NEW SCHOOL.
On a fine day, windows of New
School
are thrown open and the fourth
wall
is the wide world. Once upon a
time
my master’s voice had a blowfly
accompaniment.
Now, at New School, we have
sparrows
and waddling starlings fighting
over crusts
to nourish the daydream. Once
chalk-dust
was washed into paste of tears
and rain.
The sun now, that great golden
fly.
and clouds of all shapes and
sizes on the
blue-board sky, give me wings in
all weathers,
though my small soul’s only in
pin-feathers.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


KUP mom SAFE*
SANDERS
FILES
Correspondence. Invoice*.
•totements. etc., filed In the
“Sanders" can be securely rnee* and far
bound and converted into a <her i n i orfna tioe
perfect book of reference at npoa application
the end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust)
d
i
m
m
r-
A
Ft
Q
V
\
m
W
%
v.
m
: v-
-,
■
H
liiS
I Si
m
w
m
m
LIS
■
You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes. Madam :
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by and HEDGES*
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
contented mood
BV APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
H.H. KINO GEORGE VI
fd
f
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON
iriAU
M •
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Australia in the
World Crisis by Sir Douglas Copland.
—5245.
Words of verse “Who Keeps the
Pub in Sydney Now?” —5247.
Words of “The Drover’s Lament”
by Francis Humphrey Brown. —5248.
To buy copy “Australian Monthly”
for September, 1948.—5246.
Information Sought.
Method of poisoning pepper-trees,
together with particulars of poison
used ?
The tree should he ringbarked fairly
low down on the trunk, with a good
V cut, inclining slightly downward so
as to hold the poison. The cut
should then be filled with arsenic-
pentoxide paste. The poison is obtain-
able in either paste or powder form,
but, especially with the latter, where
mixing is necessary, it requires careful
handling.
* * * *
How many contests has Dave Sands
had in America and England? Was
Sands beaten by anyone in either
country? What is Sands’s age, and
how long has he been boxing?
Dave Sands has had two contests
in America and 10 in England. Both
American bouts, with Carl Olsen and
Henry Brimm, respectively, were won
by Sands. The Australian triple
champion won eight encounters in
England, losing his first London fight
to American Tommy Yarosz —on
April 4, 1949—and his last there to
West Indian Yolande Pompee on
November 13. Sands also beat Boy
Brooks twice at Singapore in 1950.
Born at Burnt Bridge, via Kempsey,
N.S.W., Sands is 25 years and nine
months old. He began boxing early
in 1943.
* * * *
(1) Symptoms and treatment of
tapeworms in human beings ? (2) Is
it necessary to have a doctor? (3)
How long do tapeworms live ?
(1) Often there are no signs or
symptoms but the passage of seg-
ments of the worm in the faeces,
together with vague abdominal dis-
comfort and a voracious appetite.
(2) Medical advice is essential. (3) A
tapeworm will flourish indefinitely in
the upper portion of the alimentary
canal of man and other animals if the
head segment of the parasite is not
evacuated. If the latter remains, it
will produce further segments in a
few months.
* * * *
Powers of the Governor-General in
relation to Federal Parliament; also
those of State Governors to the respec-
tive State Governments ?
The Governor-General occupies the
same position in relation to the
Federal Parliament as the King does
in relation to the Parliament at West-
minster. His legal powers are similar
to the King’s, and include the sum-
moning and dissolving of Federal
Parliament. But, as in the case of the
King, his powers are controlled by
convention. He acts, as a rule, on
the advice of Ministers. However,
“As in the case of the King,” says
Geoffrey Sawer in Australian Govern-
ment Today, “he need not be a cipher,
and has ‘the right to be consulted,
the right to encourage, the right to
warn.’ But in the nature of things
the Governor-General holding office
for a finite period is not likely to
acquire the familiarity with Australian
conditions and political leaders which
Kings such as Edward VII and
George V acquired in the British
sphere.” The exact position of the
State Governors in relation to the
State Governments is uncertain. It
is a disputed question whether State
Governors have greater powers of dis-
cretion than has the Governor-
General. In 1932 the Governor of
N.S.W. dismissed the Lang Ministry,
against the advice of that Ministry,
because he considered it was acting
illegally. There has since been quite
a lot written on the rights and wrongs
of his action. In normal times State
Governors follow the advice of their
Ministers.
* * * *
Meaning and origin of “dicker”?
A “dicker” is a bundle of 10 skins
or hides (used in the leather trade).
It derives from the Latin decuria (a
set of 10), and in Roman days was
the recognised unit in the trade in
skins. The Latin word has passed, in
different forms, into the Teutonic
language; e.g., the German decker, a
dicker of leather. The verb “dicker”
seems to have originated in the fur-
trading with the Red Indians in the
early days of American settlement; it
means to “haggle” or to “bargain.”
Brief Answers.
A.G.K.: Chances of an amateur
making a success of resilvering a
mirror are extremely remote, and the
job is a very expensive one. Caustic
and nitric acid are necessary, also
nitrate of silver (not pure quicksilver),
milk-sugar, ammonia and distilled
water. It does not pay to do the job
at home. James Sandy Pty., Ltd.,
268 George-street, Sydney, will do it.
J.A.H.: Write to McPherson’s,
Ltd., 51-65 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
S.B.: Not known who sculptured
the Venus de Milo. Probably the
work of Scopas, or perhaps one of
his pupils K.C.T.: Mt. Godwin
Austen (28,251 ft.), in North Kashmir,
India, is the second-highest mountain
in the world, Mprea is the peninsula
forming the southern part of Greece,
connected by the isthmus of Corinth
with central Greece. It is ancient
Peloponnesus F.C.C.: The three-
act play “Father Damien” was written
by Edward Snelson and first published
in 1938....R.5.: Write N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department, Sydney
C.M.L.: Write Queensland Director
of Navigation, Brisbane, re s.s. Alex-
andra G.J.E.: To remove ink
stains from table, rub with lemon-juice
till stains disappear, then polish with
floor wax L.S.W.: Either of the
rain gauges would be of correct con-
struction. The important thing to
watch is the diameter of the funnel,
as the measure must be chosen accord-
ing to this K.L.: Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, and
G. Tyrrell, 281 George-street —both
Sydney A.L.W.: These statements
have not yet been corroborated by
vet. authorities; the most expensive
bitches still produce mixed litters, in
spite of the treatments mentioned
S.J.: It was Oscar Wilde who said
“A thing is not necessarily true
because a man dies for it”
A.C.D.: Write Bennett and Wood,
Ltd., Pitt- and Bathurst-streets, Syd-
ney J.M.A.: In poker the order
of hands, from highest to lowest, is:
Royal routine flush; routine flush;
four cards; full band; flush; straight;
three cards; two pairs; pair highest
card or cards... .J.F.G.: Cannot
trace an Australian manufacturer of
the implements you mention....
J.D.E.: There is no danger of cross-
pollination between rock-melons, pie-
melons and pumpkins should they be
planted close together E.S.: Gold
was discovered at Coolgardie in
August, 1892; at Kalgoorlie in June,
1893... .H.S.P.: The dollar-sign sis
believed to have been developed from
a Mexican sign for pesos or piastres.
It was used by English colonists and
Spanish-Americans even before the
adoption of the U.S. dollar in 1785.
....P.N.: The Battle of Saragossa
was in 1710, when allied British and
Austrian armies defeated the forces of
Philip V in the War of the Spanish
Succession... .J.L.; When a batsman
has to retire through illness or injury
his innings is regarded, for the pur-
pose of averages, as a “not-out”
innings. If he retires for any other
reason, his innings is regarded as
completed.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
F.H.F.: But don’t you think that
the rhyming of “grass” with “marsh”
is a little hass? It won’t parsh, any-
how.... C.N.; Only the gentleman
who won the office sweep can bear
to hear the Cup mentioned at this
date S.K.C.: Raw N.P.D.:
Nearly L.A.: Some good images
in a thin technique M.T.H.:
“Black Christmas” is a sooty little
trifle G.W.A.: Lightweights
S.S.: Put a more satisfying load on
those barley ketches and send them
back... .J.G.: Doubt if it has quite
the fineness of Rimbaud V.V.J.:
In that conventional language there’s
nothing to distinguish your bit of sea
from anyone else’s....W.G.: “The
Snail” had better retire to its shell
W.F.; It is really extraordinary the
number of “sentinels” that creep into
poetry when nobody ever uses the word
and nobody, except in the army, is in
any way bothered by sentries....
C.S.: Your sentiments about Australia
are lofty indeed; but the verse is just
as remarkably 10w1y... .F.MacD.: A
whole romantic novel, about hussars
and earls and lovely ladies who choose
the wrong man, compressed into 24
lines of verse —for its braveness and
its brevity we salute it as it goes
LeM.; Nicely written, rather blurred
by that moralising tone M. 8.: If
we published your cautionary talc
about little Alfred and the parson it
might stop small boys from swearing;
but then again it might start them.
H.F.P.: It got more than one
reading... .J.G.: The sea rolled to
and fro, and finally fro M.D.: No
feeling of place in “Matins” J.P.:
A criticism so that you can remedy the
faults? It hasn’t any particular
faults; just not enough vigorous vir-
tues... .T.S.F.: Poem danced itself
jauntily out. And you’ve also written
a short-story called “The Disappointed
Vampire” and want to know if you
can send it untyped. Typing is prefer-
able; but we are always willing to
inspect a vampire R.C.M.H.: Pars
about your experiences would always
interest us; can’t see much chance for
the verse B.B.: Suggest you eat
“The Flam” for Christmas....
M.0.R.: Pleasant and hackneyed
Loafer: When you learn to talk about
kangaroos, wallabies, wombats, bandi-
coots or marsupial mice instead of
“woodland creatures” you might stand
a chance J.J.: “Bubblygig” not
bubbly enough; stamps enclosed, if
any, are imperceptible; hence, pre-
sumably, your failure to receive
previous MSS. through the post....
E.N.: Try a women’s paper
G.T.: Attempt to impersonate pine-
tree unwise M.H.: That’s a very
odd cod K. 8.: String of foul puns
on meat about as invigorating as a
pound of elderly sausages A.C.S.:
Sorry to turn away the camel, but he
really doesn’t seem to belong in the
Jericho poem D.O’L.; “Inn” thin.


ABORIGINALITIES
Fire
Is Queensland’s Rural Fire Board
just a joke? It is a Government body,
with public money, labor and equipment
denied the ordinary landholder, yet it
failed even to make safe the pet “Labor”
scheme on the Peak Downs—the Food
for Britain misnomer.
The board had ample time in which to
prepare; it had the written advice of
experienced men, it had power and
money. It also had almost free use of
the national broadcasting stations to pour
out abuse, and condemnation of others.
Yet every day, by Press and radio, we
learn of another 100,000 acres gone, of
standing crops menaced, or other tales
of neglect by those in authority.
The board has fallen down on its job.
It had time to prepare, but its main
function seems to have been to condemn
the work and advice of practical men,
to advise things which were impossible,
and to find fault with the honest work
of others. — Beater (Q.).
Taking It
I’m tired of the doubtful virtue of
being able to “take it.” Remember the
good old days when your bread was
delivered at your kitchen-door, and you
left your milk-billy on the step? On
Christmas day a jar of cream was left
with “Merry Christmas” on the cardboard
lid.
Perhaps you still get your bread and
milk delivered. You’re lucky, and you
can’t know how long your luck will last.
The first step is a polite request to leave
a box on the back-fence for the baker:
“the man on the run is old and has a
weak heart.” You refrain from telling
him how many of your organs are in
need of repair from carrying all your
provisions home during the war years.
You meekly leave a box on the fence —
he happens to be the only baker who
delivers in your district and he knows it.
You then have to contend with the
weather, the birds and the ants, but it’s
all in the day’s work. The months pass,
and suddenly the cart is taken off the
run and no bread delivered. The price
of bread goes up, fares go up, and you
go up to collect your own bread.
Then a note is left under the milk-billy.
“Please leave the billy in the box on
the back fence in future. Thank you,
Milko.” As the alternative is to buy a
cow and pay the first instalment on it
you meekly leave the billy perched pre-
cariously on the fence, and when a gale
blows up and you hear a bang, you
wonder if it will be a milkless morning.
The war years taught us to crawl from
shop to shop for things we needed for
the family. No one grumbled much—
it was little enough to have to put up
with then. But not now. These things
may be trivial irritants to the housewife,
but where are they leading? Those who
have read George Orwell’s Nineteen
Eighty Four will see, in this apathy of
ours, the “writing on the wall.”—Sar-
pedon (N.S.W.).
National Theatre
A national theatre (B. 14/11 /’5l) and
an opera house are essential to a civilised
and healthy nation. The theatre is par-
ticularly important in Australia, where
so many migrints are imperfectly assimi-
lated —it is one of the best ways for
bringing them together.
Irrespective of the important effect of
drama in elementary and adult education,
it is a noble medium of entertainment.
The art theatre —which must be divorced
from the commercial theatre —is a valu-
able instrument and medium for the
preservation of the language, for recon-
struction of a nation’s history, and for
the presentation of national ideas and
ideals both at home and abroad.
The standard of the national theatre
must be high in its selection, acting and
production, and to show the master-
pieces of literature by artistic perform-
ances State assistance is necessary. The
State in Hungary, for instance, owned
and maintained the National Theatre (as
well as the Royal Opera House) from its
inception in 1837 until the present Com-
munist domination. During that time the
theatre played an important part in the
intellectual life of the country. As well,
and besides the university towns which
provided and maintained their own play-
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
houses, approximately 50 towns and
villages received assistance from muni-
cipal authorities for their theatres.
The position of theatre director was
regarded as an honor and responsibility
as well as a career, towards which many
worked for the greater part of their lives.
Licences for the position were issued by
the Ministry of Education. Even the
private playhouses in Budapest—about
20 of them—had to satisfy the Lord
Mayor of their aims and resources before
being granted their licences.
The education and training of both the
directorate and players received serious
and considered attention. Those who
wished to apply for the two years’ director
course at the Royal Academy of Dramatic
Art had to possess a master’s degree
from one of the university faculties.
Close supervision was exercised over the
selection of stage candidates, who usually
studied for three years at the Royal
Academy of Dramatic Art or in any
licensed private school before they were
engaged as professional players.
The planning, preparation and organi-
sation of an Australian national theatre
will not be so simple as many seem to
think, even though the country abounds
in talent in proportion to its population.
In spite of the Australian’s interest in
“ ’Bye now , dear —I have to dress for dinner tonight.”
the theatre there is little sign that the
authorities will give any positive assist-
ance.
It should be emphasised, therefore, that
the value of a national theatre is greater
than that of museums and art galleries,
because acting is not like sculpture or
painting, where the artist does all the
work and spectators play passive roles.
The theatre has access to the people and
meets them in a receptive mood.
The Australian Press could p/ay a
decisive part in the battle for a national
theatre by keeping the issue a current
topic. Those who are fighting for it
deserve all the support that can be given
them. — John Kardoss (N.S.W.).
Better Farming Needed
Besides the world shortage of food
there has been a marked deterioration in
nutritive quality resulting from the
prodigality with which our soil has been
used. Some farmers have mined their
soil for everything they can get out of
it, and have not realised that when nature
yields its harvest it expects a return of
fertility in the form of humus. Unless
this compound of decayed vegetable and
animal waste is restored soil is soon
worked out.
Scientists claim that chemically-forced
soil produces grain equal in quality to
that grown in natural compost, but tests
show that rats fed on the former become
stunted and degenerate after several
generations, indicating that artificially-
manured soil fails to maintain its fertility.
Even with scientific agriculture much of
our land has lost its fertility after little
more than 100 years, and yet farms in
Asiatic countries are still richly produc-
tive after thousands of years of intensive
cultivation. Perhaps we could learn much
about soil biology from the less scientific
but more practical farmers of Asia who
maintain fertility by returning the waste
of nearly every product of the soil in the
form of compost.
By applying waste from towns and by
growing vegetation solely for compost,
small landholders particularly could
increase productivity as well as improve
the quality of foodstuffs. —W. M. H.
(S.A.).
Public Servants
The career public servant is a little
shocked when the Press, generally at
least four times a year, headlines the
canard that one in four of Australia’s
population is on the public payroll.
The story, of course, is based on figures
released by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician, but these are based on payroll-tax
returns. Since only employers of 10 or
more submit payroll-tax returns, a very
significant number of private-enterprise
employees are not taken into account in
arriving at the much-publicised one-in-
four ratio.
More significant still is the ignoring
of the footnote to the Government Statis-
tician’s tables. It says that the figures
do not include rural workers or those
engaged in domestic service. That means
that another cool million private-enter-
prise workers are ignored in the calcula-
tion.
Among those grouped as public
servants are employees of local authorities
and rail- and road-construction and -main-
tenance workers, all of whom would
probably go on the rampage with their
banjos if they were called “public ser-
vants.”
Of those rightly classed as public
servants the overwhelming majority is
employed in transport and communica-
tion, without which private enterprise
could not live. That section of private
enterprise which cries about the one-in-
four furphy would howl like all the
devils in Sheol if the very cuts it
demanded were suddenly applied to the
postal services, which are the lifeblood
of commerce.
And if anyone maintains that red-tape
absorbs labor which could be employed
in private enterprise, let him just try
getting back the cash for a return article
at a store, having a clause altered in an
insurance policy, or getting a refund of
a subscription overpaid to an association
of employers.— Scribendum (Vic.).
Public-service Salaries and Berths
“Inall” (B. 14/11 /’5l) is right in assert-
ing that, “if Government expenditure is
to decrease, pruning of the service must
begin at the top rather than the bottom.”
Topheaviness in administration certainly
unbalances the economy of public depart-
ments. Even that consistent money-
spinner, the P.M.G.’s Department, carries
hundreds of lesser executive officers in
each State on screws large enough to
make managers of sizeable factories
envious. In the administrative section
of the engineers’ branch, for instance,
divisional engineers (and there are several
such in the metropolitan area alone) each
have an assistant on about £970 a year.
With the general influx of staff in recent
years, some assistant divisional engineers
also get assistants (known as “group”
engineers and, in experience, equivalent
to cadets) whose duties definitely aren’t
commensurate with the pay they get.
That is overlapping.
When Mr. Menzies swept 10,000
“hands” from the Commonwealth service
a month or so back, not one “head”
went with them ; nor are any likely to
go if, or when, a rumored further sweep
occurs. After all, departmental heads
arrange these things, and blood’s thicker
than water.
“If departments were given a reduced
target of money rather than staff, the
result would be more satisfactory.” I’ll
say it would! It’s plain that proposed
undertakings of public departments are
too loosely and/or extravagantly esti-
mated in money, man-hours and
materials; that stricter or more person-
ally responsible supervision both in
planning and execution of major public
works could save thousands of pounds.
Private enterprise, on the other hand,
works to fine margins, keeps religiously
within them and woe betide the engineer
who loses touch or otherwise falls down
on his job.
Unless Governments thin-out the tall
poppies as well as the overgrowth of
weeds within their domains, public works
of all kinds in the next decade will cost
the country sums out of all proportion
to the work likely to be accomplished.
—Postscript (N.S.W.).
Communism
Australia is rushing towards Com-
munism ; is being delivered up not by
Yarra-bank and Domain spruikers and
Communists in key positions in industry,
but by the very politicians who profess
hostility towards the Communistic creed.
Take the dispute over potatoes between
N. S. Wales and Queensland and the
savage fine inflicted on an “offender”
who dared to carry a few bags of potatoes
over a State border (B. 24/10/’5l).
Potatoes are scarce, of course, and
will become scarcer, that being the in-
evitable result of Labor’s 40-hour-week
of lassitude on a £lO basic wage, “How
you gonna keep him down on the farm?”
after he has seen such notices as adorn
the fa?ade of Flinders-street station (Mel-
bourne) offering £l4 a week for railway
porters and the like. Fancy the farmer’s
son reading such a notice and then head-
ing back to the old man’s farm with its
66-hour week producing foodstuffs,
wheat, potatoes, milk, eggs, etc., for “city
slickers,”
It don’t make sense. So we have the
exodus from the land, with potatoes and
every other eatable becoming dearer and
dearer. So we have Governments with
their boards and “controls,” merely
hampering production, and with the
Queensland Government, as an example,
putting forth the impudent claim that the
producer has no right to the produce of
his own labor, that he must dispose of
it, under the menace of savage penalties,
only to a board. Thus we have the
doctrine of subjugation of the individual
and dominance by the State thrust on
us more and more every day.
Or take Housing Commissions,
with their pretence of regulating
building and providing homes, with
their inspectors and interferences, with
their swollen establishments —all saddled
on to the price of State houses.
But most alarming is the destruction
of liberty and the heavy fines inflicted for
artificial “offences.” Starting a building
without a permit may amount to no more
than putting in a few stumps as founda-
tion for a wooden house, but it is punish-
able. “Exceeding permit”—building a
little larger than the moguls sanctioned
—is a most serious “offence” calling for
very heavy fines. The gravest offence of
all is using “controlled” materials with-
out a licence. A builder of Perth has
been sentenced to imprisonment for that.
As the owner of a city residential he
employed his otherwise idle men on
renovations with the idea of making it
more habitable for his tenants. His
reward was the free tenancy of a cell in
Fremantle jail. Many a burglar has
escaped more lightly.
The tragedy of this constant movement
towards Communism, the complete
dominance by the State over the indi-
vidual, is that the so-called Liberals are
just as guilty as the most rabid Corns.
Even after the electors, hoping for a
change, have thrown board-mad “Labor”
out, their successors follow the same
policy of appointing more boards and
extending the powers of those already in
existence.
This destruction of the freedom of
the individual spells Communism, what-
ever other fancy names it may be given.
—W. C. C. (W.A.).


JOHN STEINBECK
Burning Bright
Steinbeck’s most controversial work—"a play that is easy to read and
a short novel that can be played.” It is strongly reminiscent of the
poignant force to be found in Of Mice and Men.
“There emerges an allegory of love which 1 found both moving and
stimulating, and a picture of age and youth as beautiful as any I have
encountered for years.” —Manchester Guardian.
At all Booksellers
HEINEMANN
Available from all Booksellers
TWO OUTSTANDING NOVELS
THE HOUSES IN BETWEEN,
by Howard Spring
A wonderful panorama of English life in
the last hundred years, not concentrating on
the- high peaks of history, but rather giving
us the “feel” and atmosphere of successive
generations of English folk, splendidly told
by a great writer.
16/-
CHILDREN OF THE ARCHBISHOP,
by Norman Collins
Here is a new novel worthy of the author of
“London Belongs to Me.” The scene is a well-
known London orphanage, the A rchbfshop
Bodkin Hospital; the period 1920-19S8; the
characters—everyone concerned with the hos-
pital.
16/-
COLLINS
ADAM IN OCHRE
By COLIN SIMPSON
This vivid book takes us “inside Aboriginal Australia,” describes
aboriginal life, culture, sexual life and behaviour, and the Arnhem
Land Expedition's searches and discoveries.
Four colour, 16 half-tone pages.
25/- (post 8d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Publishers
89 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
DYMOCK’S
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
Our Christmas Catalogue is now ready—specially printed for you.
Your Christmas Gifts can be chosen more carefully when you buy in the
peace and quiet of your own home—in fact, it is quite a pleasure to shop
from our Christmas Catalogue.
Send for your copy today — free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone: BL3611.
aS u . orna n in. White,” and goes off
with her to Paris. The point seems to
he that, as everyone knows, “The Woman
ln . White” was completely covered,
whereas, at dinner with the Earl and
Countess Somers, “she and all the women
were in the same state of partial nudity as
per diagram.”
The diagram is a little sketch of the
strapless top of those days. Or at the
Kensington home of the Prinseps, who
moved in the same circle (“Old Prinsep,
magnificent old cove over six feet, is I
am told the original of old Newcome”),
of the painter. Watts, who lived
there, “without a shirt collar, and in
long velvet painting jacket and list
slippers; dines frugally on toast and
butter, said to have been desperately in
love with Mrs. Prinsep’s beautiful sister
Countess Somers.”
He was by this time engaged to be
married to Emma Wightwick; “Pern”
must have been as beautiful as
the annotations say she was, or his
caricatures with an outrageously force-
tul comic chin would have seemed cruel.
His letters to her, and about her, includ-
ing such minute details as that, before
the age of thirty, she had no back teeth
nor he, either, and describing how he
took one of his own teeth out with a
e and a latchkey, and his accounts
to his mother of their marriage and
setting-up house with furniture largely
contributed by parents and friends, make
a charming romance of the times.
But the chief interest of the book to
the literary reviewer is the picture these
letters give of how famous people looked
to a contemporary:
. for Swinburne, he is without excep-
tion the most extraordinary man not that
1 ey er met only, but that I ever read or
heard of; for three hours he spouted his
poetry to us, and it was of a power, beauty
and originality unequalled. Everything after
seems tame, but the little beast will never
1 think be acknowledged, for he has an
utterly perverted moral sense, and ranks
Lucrezia Borgia with Jesus Christ; indeed
says she’s far greater, and very little of his
poetry is fit for publication The other
day at Jones’s he was asked to write verses
tor four pictures of the seasons Jones has
just painted, and in twenty minutes he had
produced four beautiful little Latin poems!
There is reference to “Punch’s” famous
Wednesday dinners ; and much about his
close friend from Paris days, later Sir
Edward Poynter:
Old Poynter has got in a toile 10 feet
by 6 for his Egyptian picture to which he
intends to devote two years, never expecting
to sell it. He intends to keep himself by
“wood” and “glass”....
Well, Poynter sold something Eastern
of that size or larger to Sydney Art
Gallery— maybe the same one. We leam
that the great impresario of those days,
Lord Leighton, was known disrespect-
fully as “Cimabue” ; and of a way of
living:
At 14 Berners St. there is a school of
cookery, and the result is at six o’clock
the most marvellous dinner for 2 shillings
that anybody ever heard of; soup, several
entrees, roast, and dessert that I am sure
could not be had anywhere under 15s
And a dreadful story about Whistler:
I must tell you a very funny thing he
said to Rosa Major; at their theatrical, he
wore her pork-pie hat (that was the evening
that he got so drunk); afterwards, it
appears, Rosa M. found that somebody had
spat in the hat and didn’t wear it any
more; and the other day she gave it to
him, saying that he might have it to spit
in, and thinking that he would be much
ashamed, but he took the hat quite
delighted, and said: “By jove, Miss Rosa,
if that’s the way things are to be obtained
in your family I only regret I didn’t spit
in your handl”
All of which went to the making of
the man who, much later in life, wrote
Peter Ibbetson and Trilby.
Tribute to France .
One of the most brilliant sayin
which recent years have added to t
thousands with which French wit h
illuminated and amused the world w
Paul Valery’s remark on Baudelair
how at the outset of his career he su
veyed the French poetic situatio
dominated by the romanticism of Viet
Hugo, with the eyes with which Talle
rand surveyed the Master of the Wor
at the height of Napoleon’s power.
This ability to assess a situation,
that one may not go on with it to doom
or waste effort doing what has been don
but with the utmost economy and ef
ciency do the next thing, is perhaps mo
a mark of human greatness than of th
greatness of any one man or nation, bui
this quality would explain a great dea
of the French influence in poetry anc
painting during the past sixty or sevent
years, and probably in other fields also
And it is this quality which one misse
from Light Out of France: French Con
tributions to Civilisation (Angus anc
Robertson), nineteen essays, edited b
John G, Stanbury and A, R. Chisholm
No doubt the editors’ assessment of th
post-war situation convinced them that
gesture to France, or an invocation ol
the French spirit to unravel the world’
problems, was the next thing to do; bu
whatever the purpose of this book, it i
not to be found in the dry catalogue
with which the expert contributors have
obliged; the lightness and incision, the
selection of significant details leading to
a conclusion from them, the reduction
of technical points to their final sirn
plicity, and their presentation with clarity
to the general reader —such stylistic
imitations, which might have been the
sincerest form of flattery to the French
spirit, are for the most part missing. .The
nearest approach is the essay on the
French contribution to mathematics by
Professor T. M. Cherry, of Melbourne ;
five pages only, clear and to the point all
the way; a really brilliant illustration of
his remarks on Poincare:
Poincare was the last of the universal
mathematicians; he contributed largely to
every branch, from the theory of numbers
to the quantum theory of radiation. If is
tireless energy found scope also in what in
French is so quaintly called vulgarisation;
and his writings on the philosophy of
science can be read with pleasure by anyone
who combines school-leaving attainment in
mathematics and physics with a certain
maturity of mind.
From most of the other essays one
misses this vulgarising power; and of
those which are understandable, one feels
that most would be happier in an encyclo-
paedia, although for such as may be
specially interested in their subjects, the
writers’ names should be sufficient
guarantee of their authority: “Some
Influences on English Literature,” by
C. Foster and L. A. Triebel; “Research
on the Atom,” by F. Joliot Curie;
“Medicine,” by C. G. Lambie; “Eco-
nomic Thought,” by Herbert Burton;
“The Medical Profession,” by John G.
Stanbury; “The Theatre,” by L. A.
Triebel; “Chemistry,” by George M.
Willis ; “Sculpture,” by D. M. Van Abbe ;
“Anthropology,” by A. P. Elkin ; “Archi-
tecture,” by L. W. Wilkinson; “Lin-
guistics,” by A. R. Chisholm; “Mathe-
matics,” by T. M. Cherry; “The French
Spirit in Philosophy,” by A. Boyce
Gibson; “Painting,” by Frank Med-
worth; “Archaeology,” by V. Gordon
Childe; “Historiography,” by Stephen
H. Roberts; “French Physicists,” by
H. D. Rathegeber; “Semitic Studies,” by
M. D. Goldman; and “The Cinema,” by
Roger Manvell.
Reviewed Briefly,
Out of This World: Lowell Thomas,
Junior (Macdonald). Describes a
journey made with his father to Tibet
and back in 1949. Mr. Thomas, junior,
is not Mr. Thomas, senior, but he tries
to be, and the result is somewhat bare
from a reader’s point/)f view, the para-
mount focus of the book being Mr.
Thomas and his companions rather than
the Tibetans, who did them the rare
honor of giving them permission to pro-
ceed to Lhasa and meet the Dalai Lama.
Events have since made almost every-
thing the book has to say about politics
in Lhasa out of date. There are some
magnificent illustrations.
* * * ♦
The Covenant: Zofia Kos s a k
(Wingate). Sub-titled “A Novel of the
Life of Abraham the Prophet,” this very
readable book contains the story of the
departure of Abraham and his tribe from
the Chaldean city of Ur and their wander-
ings along the Euphrates valley through
fabulous Babylon, Sidon and Gaza into
Egypt, and their return to Jerusalem and
the Promised Land. The author has
accomplished the difficult task of making
such legendary Biblical figures as Abra-
, ham and Sarah, Lot, Hagar, Isaac and
i Ishmael become sympathetically human,
: with a due measure of human frailty, and
, the amount of research that must have
; been necessary to give such verisimilitude
to the nomadic lives of the wanderers,
their sojourn in Egypt and the destruction
of Sodom and Gomorrah must have been
enormous.
* * ♦ ♦
Most Delicious Poison: Charles
Connell (Dymock’s). A slapstick historical
detective story.. Cleopatra has complained
to Antony that someone has tried to
murder - her with poison in her wine.
Balbus, editor of the Rome “Tempus,”
accompanied by Hocus, the soothsayer
and conductor of the “Tempus’s”
astrology column, and Silenus, the private
detective, go by trireme to Egypt to look
into the matter. One of the happier
touches is Balbus’s rendition of the
marching song of the Roman legions:
Sandals! Sandals! Sandals! Sandals!
Tramping on to Rome again.
Sandals! Sandals! Sandals! Sandals!
When do we get home again? [etc.]
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 149
Across.
I—Stitch1 —Stitch the woman’s * Wagnerian
operas pointed at one by enemies.
(ID
6—Larsen held in many a gallery. (3)
8— His Majesty of Woolloomooloo is
appearing. (7)
9 Soft-soap more of a plane than
another surface. (7)
10— Poet and he swallowing a Ger-
man. (5)
11 — Fifty like the Spanish backing an
alley girl. (3)
12— Pepper orders you to increase b
into bbb. (5)
14— Thus. (2)
15 — It often gives a liner a start. (3)
16— Fops observe that she is in a
near-by planet for treating
potatoes. (7)
17 — Chant has a tenant garment. (7)
18 — Spirit of a “Mary.” (3)
19 — Half of the cricket-field. (2)
20— Chinese dynasty imitated Caruso.
(4)
21 — They turn locks islands near
Florida that are often touched
upon by Rubinstein. (4)
23 —Cow 500 with a kinswoman. (5)
25 — Spoil the entrance to an English
bathing-resort. (7)
26 — Send the wireless message again
about the forte whipstroke. (7)
27 — Neddy has a steamship. (3)
28 — Cheat a boundary producer of a
chain reaction. (4-7)
Down.
1— Incomplete impediments to pro-
gress in knots. (4-7)
2 Defrauding the marsupial sove-
reign. (7)
3 I associate jockey’s engagements
with money like the spectrum. (10)
4 Leave upset the diary playwright
of old Russia. (5)
5 Age. (3)
6 French resort, not probes. (7)
7 Pine for this product upsetting a
follower of a flautist. (3)
9—Six-love, or just bright young
things. (4-3)
12— Continental railroad is game for
gamblers. (6, 2,3)
13— Pants on Gould with the dear
French crook of a pretty kind.
(3-8)
16— Slate me badly for a European.
(7)
17 — 18th letter missing in the oceans
for Spanish women, (7)
18—Leave before you flog the dish. (7)
22-—Many a letter has this point
raising troubles for the brigade. (5)
24 State work of Kipling urchin. (4)
25 Is the comedian a bird, although
extinct? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 148.


iii
5®:S!S';
Sill
ill
iliilii
m
P-.
mi
■Mni
' • >. '
iilii
•*;
n
•111
ills
•y
' '
: V:
IP
■ VJ
* r
fi'M
PIIP ■
■ • •
" ■ .
*
V
; ■y'S^
wr .
->
:
'? '
I;
... \
: l % r
. |
Pi
|
1 i
:>*.• I ;
?, ■ • ■ ,
, / ■ • v } ;
;■
ill*
55
ill
V 5
l
%***& I 1
i
y : ■ 55. ■ y-y
:
I W 9 m “
■
ft! HI
m • m
P
5-V-
-%'A. • r-'V-J \
■mm
: mm
* ■ * -JSS,
;•
essss&:-$e ■■•■.-m ■■ 'mmp-m*
■yy v. •
. v :-. m?
Meet the Tablers
SWISS-BORN JACK TOBLER SEES A FUTURE IN STEEL
f'PHE steel industry’s payroll has an
-*• international flavour these days.
Many of the names are those of new
arrivals. They are finding that the
industry offers them the same career
opportunities that have attracted so
many Australians. But not all are
recent arrivals.
One such old-New Australian with
the industry is WERNER TOBLER
(left), now a thorough-going Aus-
tralian, known and respected as Jack
to his many friends at the Kembla
Works of Australian Iron & Steel Ltd.,
B.H.P.’s principal subsidiary.
Jack studied electrical engineering
at Zurich and later graduated from the
Institute of Technology, Hildburg-
hausen, Germany. Coming to Australia
in 1927, he first joined A.I.S. in 1929.
Since 1933 he has been designing
electrical equipment mainly. He
helped design and layout the motor
room for an important new rolling
mill recently completed at Kembla.
His son JOHN has chosen metal-
lurgy as a career and is now a metal-
lurgical trainee at Kembla under the
steel industry’s Staff Training Scheme.
This will enable John to qualify for
his Technical College diploma and a
position as a metallurgist in the
industry.
The steel industry is proud of the
Toblers . . . proud also that the choice
of the younger generation has once
again vindicated their fathers’ faith in
the industry, its future, its security
and the opportunities it presents.
H '"' R£ ’ S a reason why so
inhVnT i 0
e ■-' H.P. organisation. They
IT ** " a growing
'"'•usUT l.fce iron and steel, there
that rr °PP ortl inities ahead,
.at there s security hut, more
™~!y, these hoys know ,ha
<he industry will help them take
advantage of those opportunities.
Jfie steel industry needs skilled
adesmen, engineers, metallur-
gists chemists and commercial
■hemtaderß.H.P.’s Staff Train-
one o‘T y ° U qaali{ ? **
, Aese attractive career
!° e S - BesideS hei P“g you obtain
ecessary academic qualifica
b.h.p. hacks ; ]n ca [
studies with a nr P y ° W
ltn a Programme of
interesting practical experience.
to n fi 38 le - ding fuitio - fees
to pioficieut students.
Contact the Manager of y our
nearest works or office today. He
will be glachto help you plari your
Caieer m the steel industry.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 422 Little Collins St.—MU BOOl. SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell St. B 0520. ADELAIDE: 28
Franklin St. —LA 1504. PERTH: 168 St. George’s Terr. B 9357. BRISBANE: 108 Creek St. —FA 1041.
STEEL WORKS: P.O. Box 196 , Newcastle — M 1231. SHIPYARD: P.O. Box 21, Whyalla, S.A. W hy. 211.
One of a Series.
