

“THE HOMELAND IN PICTURE AND STORY”
Fifty-two of the illustrations and descriptions which have appeared on this page during
the past twelve months are now available. Write for your free copy to the nearest branch
of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd., and please mark your envelope:—
“MONUMENTS”
Available from any Australian Office of the House of Seppelt
ds
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3747
Wednesday, December 5, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CLARENCE HOUSE, LONDON HOME OF MANY A ROYAL PAIR
TW'EAR St. James’s Palace, and overlooking The Mall, is Clarence House,
the London home of H.R.H. Princess Elizabeth and the Duke of Edin-
burgh. The original house was built in 1825 by John Nash, the celebrated
Regency architect, for the Duke of Clarence, who later became King William
IV (1830-1837). He was the third son of Gfcorge 111 and Charlotte Sophia,
Princess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. In 1785, after five years in the navy, he
was promoted Captain and was created Duke of Clarence in 1789. Upon
the death of George IV in 1830, he succeeded to the throne.
Ten years later, Clarence House was given by Queen Victoria to her
mother, the Duchess of Kent, as her private residence. Its next owner was
Queen Victoria’s second son, the Duke of Edinburgh, whose beautiful Russian
wife was the daughter of Czar Alexander 11. They returned from their
honeymoon to live at Clarence House.
In 1901 the house passed to the Duke’s brother and his wife, the Duke
and Duchess of Connaught. Before her death, the Duchess suffered from
an illness that made it difficult for her to walk, so, at the Duke’s request,
King Edward VII had a conservatory specially built over the portico so that she
could enjoy the view over St. James’s Park. When she died the Duke kept her
room as it was during her lifetime and nothing was allowed to be disturbed.
After the Duke’s death in 1942, Clarence House stood unoccupied until
taken over by the Red Cross and St. John organisation. For the next five
years the magnificent rooms and halls echoed to the busy clatter of typewriters
and telephones and the building itself did not escape damage from air raids.
After its honourable war service, Clarence House was renovated and modernised
and its walls now enclose the happy playground of Prince Charles and
Princess Anne.


'story Wrltmy
Write now for Stott’s FREE Jiterary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
XOO Russell Street, Melbourne, Tic,
"—— CUT HERE AND MAIL— ——
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.15.261) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington.
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/-.)
Book lists on Mansfieldiana, Caxton Press, early and
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Lawson
and others). Specialised fields for book hunting.
The Red Page
THE CRUEL SEA.
Naval gunnery-men—as well as other
less important members of the Silent
Service, not to mention mere civilians —
are pretty well unanimous that C. S.
Forester’s The Ship is the finest book
written about the War II Navy. And
they agree that it£ lucid description of
the complex gunnery mechanism of a
modern fighting ship in action is techni-
cally faultless—which, of gunnery-men
about a civilian who has never been to
sea in a warship, is certainly something.
Now has arisen—it could be said, like
Venus, from the foam —a new Naval
writer, better than Bartimeus and
“Taffrail,” running very close astern to
Forester, and even (in his splendid
descriptive power and depiction of the
clash of character in a warship’s steel
hollow) worthy to be mentioned with
Conrad himself.
Nicholas Monsarrat first went to war,
a green sub-lieutenant, in an Atlantic-
convoy corvette. Tremendously im-
pressed, he wrote a book about it. Then
he rose to be first-lieutenant of a corvette,
captained one, and finally was given
command of a frigate. He wrote as he
rose, literary technique keeping station
on professional ability. Now, in The
Cruel Sea (Cassell), Monsarrat has pro-
duced a brilliant chronicle of the Battle
of the Atlantic; surfacing, dissecting,
opening out for armchair inspection all
the incredible travail of that savage
struggle against U-boats and against the
ocean.
The characters are two ships (corvette
and frigate); a tough, human, completely
efficient captain; a thoroughly inefficient
first-lieutenant (2/i.c.) who becomes,
under the driving competence of his com-
mander, as thoroughly efficient in sub-
marine killing; and the companies of
both ships.
Convoy after convoy, the green corvette
gradually working-up to a tightly-knit
unit of fighting efficiency, ship after ship
going down, bombed and torpedoed—
Monsarrat piles up his suspense in long
leagues packed with, incident. But all on
the U-boats’ side. You ache for retalia-
tion ; where is the British Navy’s skill,
its vaunted asdic? And Monsarrat gives
you your relief.
The corvette picks up asdic contact,
towards the end of a Gibraltar-bound
convoy in which 14 ships out of 21 were
blasted open by worrying U-boat packs.
They had been at action stations for
virtually eight days on end; there was
hardly a moment when they could forget
the danger that lay in wait, and relax
and find peace.
Then, close by the corvette, a ship was
torpedoed. The captain turned his bows
towards the centre of disaster and the
bobbing heads. He was about to lower
a boat when “the asdic-set picked up a
contact, an undersea echo so crisp and
Well-defined that it could only be a Ü-
boat.”
Swiftly, savagely, the routine they had
been drilling at for weary fruitless months
moved into action. The captain swung
his ship for the submerged target. Then
all on the bridge noticed something which
in the excitement of preparation had
escaped their notice. The place where
lay the U-boat, where the charges must
go down, was alive with swimming
British survivors.
....yet the U-boat was there, one of the
pack which had been harassing and bleed-
ing them lor days on end, the destroying
menace which must have priority, because
of what it might do to other ships in future.
He fought against the softening instinct of
mercy: the book said: “Attack at all
costs,” and this was a page out of the
book.
With no further hesitation the captain
gave the attacking order. Mercifully the
details were hidden in the erupting spread
of the explosions. The swimmers must
have died instantly, shocked out of life
by the enormous transmitted power of
thousands of pounds of amatol explod-
ing simultaneously.
But one freak item of the horror
impressed itself on the memory. As the
tormented water leapt upwards in a solid
grey cloud, the single figure of a man was
tossed high on the very plume of the
fountain, a puppet figure of whirling arms
and legs seeming to make, in death, wild
gestures of anger and reproach. It appeared
to hang a long time in the air, cursing
them all, before falling back into the boil-
ing sea.
Of course, as present reviewer and any
naval man would haye realised (from his
armchair), there was no submarine. The
corvette’s sonic fingers were echoing from
the sinking hull of the torpedoed
merchantman. But, again in present re-
viewer’s experience, that tragedy did
happen (in the Indian Ocean); a lesser
author than Monsarrat would have
shrunk from having his captain make
such a mistake, and Monsarrat makes
him pay for it—in his soul.
The hellish conflict goes on. The
merchant ships were helpless, fat, wallow-
ing, wall-sided targets. Perhaps in all
this epic the incident which most graphi-
cally illustrates the incredible courage of
British merchant seamen (who repeatedly
went back for more) is that of the split-
open tanker.
Her petrol cargo, burst into by 500
pounds of torpedo-T.N.T., erupted in a
vast flaming wall. Desperately men
jumped from her cocked-up bow,
struggling towards the corvette. The
flaming petrol spread over the water,
gaining on them. The corvette, heat
beating fiercely upon her, could come no
closer to meet them. The men on her
decks, helpless, watched the pitiful
struggle of tiring arms in the water. One
by one the swimmers were reached, licked
by flame, fried, and left behind, (Back
in Australia, though Monsarrat doesn’t
say so, while these things were happen-
ing dockyard workmen were insisting on,
and getting, danger money for venturing
outside Sydney Heads while a refitted
warship did her trials.)
Though the reader longs for a smash-
ing attack on those winning U-boats,
Monsarrat is wise not to have escort ships
sinking the things in droves, one to each
depth-charge, a la Hollywood. A U-
boat is very difficult to sink; but when
the corvette finally gets her teeth into
one you drive down on her foe with her.
Delayed through an engine defect, the
corvette steams at speed to overtake her
convoy—and picks up on her radar a
sub. on the surface astern of the convoy,
waiting for dark. She makes no mistake
this time.
As what sailors do ashore is just as
indicative of character as their operations
behind a depth-charge release-lever,
Monsarrat takes care to balance his book
in this interesting direction. Some
readers —so inconsistent is human nature
—may be much more shocked by his
sailors’ enjoyment of life ashore than by
their endurance of life at sea ; but, take
it all round, The Cruel Sea must surely
be judged to be one of the most vivid,
authentic and masterly sea-stories to come
out of the late war. It is a privilege to
have read it.
Macnell-
New Kersh Novel .
Gerald Kersh, whom we were com-
paring some months ago with Edgar
Wallace, has gone out of that field in
his new novel. The Thousand Deaths of
Mr. Small (Heinemann), big and formless
as a, smell ; not so much a story as a con-
glomeration of odors rising from the
family of a Jewish immigrant in a poor
district of London, not the least being
the odor of the decaying soul of Yisroel
Schmulowitz, whom his wife had nagged
into becoming I. Small, and into leaving
his successful trade as a cobbler to
become an unsuccessful but respectable
mercer, and of the decaying soul of their
son Charles,
Millie, the wife, is as Mr. Kersh says
in his introduction, a monstrous woman,
a perfect type of negative respectability,
as her husband is of a “flabby-minded
father”; the dialogue in their endless
slanging-matches, in which he shouts her
down but ends in futile exhaustion, getting
nowhere, is almost classical, in its precise
truth of word and feeling, the man
bellowing coarse and stupid insults, the
woman quietly and venomously wearing
him down to her frustrated decision that
either nothing shall be done, or the wrong
thing.
Leap-frogging this life-story is the
success-story of Small’s friend, a young
hunchback and cripple, Solly Schwartz,
who rides to prosperity on an ability to
work other people’s brains to his own
advantage, first with a self-opening tin-
can, then with an advertising agency, then
as proprietor of a big London newspaper.
The book is curiously like Sydney’s
classic, Louis Stone’s Jonah, hut here
the characters who offset the hunchback
tycoon are horrible, messy failures,
whereas Stone accidentally produced in
“Pinky” one of the most adorable
(A.G.S.’s word) and hopeful heroines in
English. Kersh’s book is rich and dark
and has an almost physical pressure on
the mind, but as a work of art or a view
of life, Jonah is a far better book.
Trollope Popularised .
Shades of Trollope's immortal Church
of England clergymen haunt the Arch-
bishop Bodkin Hospital, Putney, in
Norman Collins’s Children of the Arch-
bishop (Collins). The kindly, foolish
Canon Mallow seems to have walked
straight out of The Warden, and the
ineffectual and equally foolish Dr. Crump
is a rather horrible combination of Mr.
Slope and Bishop Proudie.
The novel deals with the life story of
two orphans, a boy named Ginger and a
girl named Sweetie. There are supposed
to be over 400 other children in the
foundling home, but these are shades so
vaguely sketched that it is difficult to
believe they are there at all ; they should
be shown at meals and in the playground.
The story is designed as a frame to fit
the portrait of a woman, Margaret, a
saintly and improbable figure who has a
fanatical devotion to the child heroine
Sweetie.
Mr. Collins has a method of construc-
tion in which each of his characters is
worked into what amounts to a short-
story with a “wow” ending, which con-
siderably detracts from the validity of
the novel as a work of art. Thus Mr.
Prevarius, the organist who writes
popular songs under an alias, has a love-
affair with a mysterious lady named
Desiree; then, tiring of her when she is
also tired of him, he adopts another
alias and gets in contact through a matri-
monial agency with another mysterious
female —who (under an alias) turns out
to be, of course, Desiree.
Mr. Collins’s energy and his sense of
humor, acid and a trifle vulgar, combine
to make the book readable from the
entertainment point of view.
The Empire’s Vampires,
For a long time this reviewer, himself
a boy aged from ten to sixteen, for which
strange group Leslie Rees’s Quokka
Island (Collins) is written, felt slightly
disappointed because Mr. Rees seemed
to have left out the vampire.
It is true that Mr. Rees has Just about
everything else the heart could desire:
danger from sharks while swimming ; an
enormous cave (with bats) in which you
get lost; voyages on a lugger ; treasure
from a seventeenth-century Dutch wreck ;
people who might be either pirates or
smugglers (though not Red Indians), and
who turn out to be engaged in the manu-
facture of sinister synthetic diamonds ;
villains who tie you up with ropes, hold
you prisoner in the cave, bounce rocks
off the cliffs on your head and try to shoot
you ; a school bully who is pleasantly
punched by a kind and heroic police-
man ; a villain in false whiskers; an
aeroplane, a midget submarine and a mad
scientist . . . but what is all that without
a vampire?
And that goes to show that you should
never judge a book until you have read
it right through. For if the mad scientist,
M. Crystal, isn’t a vampire, he turns into
something so near it at the end that
really he is just as good:- ■
As the last explosion seemed to shake
even the rock walls and as Tom, Jack and I
crouched hugger-mugger behind the lim-
bered table, M. Crystal rushed forth to
the very edge of the precipice, shouting:
“I finish, gentismen. Men are not vorthy
of me or of science. I finish!” Then he
hurled himself forth into blue space, his
long black gown streaming behind him.
Thus with vampires at last for the
vampire-lover, adventures for the adven-
turous, and quokkas (a small wallaby),
rats and penguins on an island off the
Westralian coast for the nature-lover, Mr.
Rees seems to have beaten up a pretty
satisfying concoction and the reviewer
has no hesitation in recommending it for
Christmas to boys of his own age ; which,
on reflection, is rather nearer to ten than
sixteen.
Reviewed Briefly ,
When Kings Are Arming: Denis
Godfrey (Cape). This novel is the tragedy
of an English student at Dublin Uni-
versity at the outbreak of World War II,
a fearfully dull student who f 11s
tragically in love with a beautiful but
glacial Irish girl who somewhat reduces
her glamor for the reader by constantly
combing her hair and filing her nails in
public places. The student eventually
deserts from the British Army and shoot',
himself for love of her ; but really ht
might have spared himself the bother,
for she is so utterly indifferent to all the
men who fall in flocks at her feet that
she has no credible existence at all.
# * * *
This Britain : Newton Branch (Mac-
donald). Australians thinking of going
overseas—if indeed there is anyone left
in Australia-—could well pack this in the
swag. It's a general survey, historical and
topical, of what Britain today is made of
and what you can see, by a variety of
contributors including Compton Mac-
kenzie, L. A. G. Strong, the Earl of
Portsmouth, Nigel Balchin and Ivor
Brown, One well-known face that
appears in a photograph in Paul
Jennings’s article on comedy is that of
Dick Bentley.
* * * *
The Lacquer Lculy : F. Tennyson Jesse
(Evans). The Lacquer Lady ol
this historical romance is Fanny, a
precocious Italian-Burmese blend, who is
recalled from her austere and detested
English boarding-school by her father,
weaver of fine silks to the Court of the
King of Burma, where, on the old king s
death, she becomes European maid-of-
honor to the new queen. Fanny revels
in the comic-opera and tinsel atmosphere
of the Golden Palace at Mandalay until
the king liquidates his 80-odd relatives
there by the charming expedient of
having them beaten on the throat with a
club and then buried in the palace
grounds. She is prepared to overlook this
eccentricity: not so, however, the eccen-
tricity of her French lover, who brings
back a bride from France; so Fanny
reveals the king’s tangle of anti-Bntish
intrigue and power-politics, in which her
lover is involved, to the British, who give
Fanny her revenge by exploding the
whole Gilsullivan affair. This, the author
explains in a preface, was the real reason
for the British annexation of Upper
Burma in the 1880’s, and, if anybody
still cares about that, it’s as good as any
other, especially when so pleasantly pre-
sented.
Futurian Press Books.
It is always supposed to be much more
difficult to sell poetry than it is to write
it; but the poets of the Futurian Press
(160 Beach-street, Coogee, Sydney), like
the Lyrebird Writers, manage to print
their books at their own expense and
make a profit on them; which suggests
that this country will yet, with difficulty,
save its soul.
The Futurian books are printed on a
hand-press, and two review copies, Reba
Ginsburg’s At the Initiation and Lex
Banning's Everyman His Own Hamlet,
are in Eric Gill’s Sans Italic type—hand-
set, Miss Gmsburg told The Bulletin,
with the aid of her eyebrow-tweezers . . .
she really should write a sonnet to them.
One wishes, in fact, that she had, or
at least had published a collection of her
shorter poems, for the longish “Phoenix,”
which fills the bulk of At the Initiation,
is a rather thin attempt in free-verse to
grapple with the mysteries of the uni-
verse. “Phoenix” was commended in one
of the “S. M. Herald” competitions, and,
besides the interest of its thought, rises
occasionally to a pleasant and disciplined
lyrical quality: —
In the cool places of the earth
where the slim pale lekythoi,
like lilies, line the grass-plots,
there is silence singing to itself in under-
tones. >
There is some feeling in a love-poem,
“Second Anniversary,” and an effective
exploration of the possibilities of asson-
ance ; but the total effect of the book
remains very slight, more an exploration
than an achievement.
Lex Banning has deeper feeling and a
much firmer technique ; there is a strong
and sardonic philosophy in Everyman
His Own Hamlet, and he expresses it
with an epigrammatic conciseness: —
For 1 who walk coldly,
and always alone,
can only go boldly
if heart be as stone,
and mind be quiescent,
and feelings be numb,
and wit recrudescent,
while passion is dumb.
He has some slight, careful land-
scapes, with a touch of drama at the end
of his picture of Hobart; some unusual,
if rather “literary,” commentaries on
Shakspeare and exercises in the style of
Eliot; but it is in the sardonic poems
such as “Credo,” “Ixion” and “Danse
Macabre” that he emerges from the uni-
versity magazines, where, apparently, he
has previously published his work, as a
writer of genuine force.


tm
X> V _
|Hi
'■
s®s
**<
litSSiiliiiil
*«MIiJI
«
WS**'
WF*~. '. :
r ;
*8
ll
m
m I
I I
-:,< ;>st< >
c~
• ■v- : ’
:
.
mwjs ip
-?s
-■'
'*•
-P'
m
■'*
mu
*
(MW.
ms*
■
••V
:
n
:.':
Pill
Si
m**>i
, y
■
v -
BUS Ss n
M
ii
■
... ... ...
.
Picfenlcfeci* Scat, J£4/1&/5
No matter where you are ... in the car, garden, nursery,
restaurant, on a picnic or a stroll, the Picknicker Seat
ably takes care of baby. Strongly constructed of steel
with rubber covered handles, reinforced canvas seat with
rubber padded back and especially designed rail to
fit over car seat or dining chair. Folds flat when not in
use. Priced at £4/18/5.
Modern, Bright Nursery Furniture
Above. — Playing Pen, £2/16/9
This 4ft. x 3ft. sturdily constructed Play Pen is built with fin. dowel. Wooden
counters are incorporated. The pen is hinged in the centre for easier handling.
Floor to fit is available for only £l/10/-.
Tahle and Two Chairs, £5/5/5
Wood constructed table and two chairs with masonite tops and seats. The very
attractive table is braced at bottom and screwed to table top. In colours Lac Blue,
Cream, Pink and Cream. The sets are unassembled in cartons and instructions for
their assembly enclosed. The assembly takes only a few minutes. Price, £5/5/5.
Desk and Stool, £5/11/-
This attractive Desk and Stool is in Lac Cream or Blue with hand-painted designs,
i.e., Boy Blue and Little 80-Peep. Recess for ink well, and the top lifts up revealing
a large spacious compartment for books, etc. Suitable for children up to nine years.
Priced at £5/11/-.
Moho Chair Desk, £3/14/4
Light and portable, and easily dismantled, the Mobo Chair Desk can be readily
used not only in the nursery, but in the garden as well. Tray can be easily reversed
and used for meals. Priced at £3/14/4.
Stork No, 12 Cane Pram
Hand-woven from imported
cane Lac in pleasing Cream,
and lined with Cream leather
cloth, these prams are fitted
with draught-proof hood.
Well sprung with brake on two
wheels, drop front and safety
harness. Sturdily constructed
undercarriage. Price, £l5/17/-.
jiplsu-.
a\\\M
u\\:
SK
dsf
saw* pi
NURSERY FURNITURE —FOURTH FLOOR. TELEPHONE; M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT IS EXTRA


FIRE
PROTECTION
ENGINEERED by WORMALD BROTHERS
"GRINNELL" AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
mwAM
Grinnell Automatic Sprink-
ler Systems protect millions
of pounds worth of the
world’s property. When an
outbreak of fire occurs,,heat
causes the sprinkler head
above to open, localising the
outbreak, extinguishing the
fire and, at the same time,
calling the Brigade.
m
mm.
m-m
"fiV-
4. | iV's-S
m§
m
m
m
"MULSIFYRE" SYSTEM
The “Mulsifyre” System ex-
tinguishes oil fires. A power-
ful spray of water converts
burning liquid into an emul-
sion incapable of burning.
Widely used to protect oil-
filled transformers, oil cir-
cuit-breakers, turbine lubri-
cating oil feeds, also all
general oil risks.
m
SS
5
"LUX" INSTALLATIONS
The “Lux” System, using
COg (Carbon Dioxide) Gas,
extinguishes fire instantly.
It can be used on intricate
machinery—electrical wiring
—delicate fabrics—valuable
documents volatile and
highly inflammable liquids
with no harmful effects.
wm
"NATIONAL" AER-O-FOAM SYSTEMS
The National System of fire
protection provides continu-
ous foam production for ex-
tinguishing fires in oil tanks,
buildings where types of in-
flammable liquids are pro-
cessed, ships’ boiler and
engine* rooms, etc.
dsf
Wormald Brothers 9 long-experienced engineers will make a survey of your premises or building
point out the danger spots give you advice as to the system of fire protection suitable to your
class of risk A' complete Fire Protection Service is maintained in all States and New Zealand .
WORMALD BROTHERS wtQ INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LIMITED Sydney, Newcastle. Wagga, Brisbane, Townsville. Orang*
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LIMITED Melbourne. Geelong. Perth. Ballarat. Hobart
WORMALD BROTHERS (S.A.) LIMITED Adelaide
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LIMITED Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin
STEELBILT LIMITED KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LIMITED


The Bulletin
Vol. 72 —No. 3747
Wednesday, December 5, 1951
l ift ill
THE FORTY-HOUR-WEEK CUPBOARD.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
V'ctoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.O.), Wellington.
PARLIAMENTARY GROWTH.
Federal Parliament is closing after a
long and gruelling session in which a
great deal of work, very badly reported
in the Press, has been done, and exceed-
ingly significant trends have developed.
On the whole, the Government has
reason to be satisfied with results, if
somewhat uneasy about the atmosphere.
It has had considerable success, business-
like rather than spectacular, and only
one conspicuous failure —its loss of the
referendum.
The defeat of the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill in practical terms means
little. The legislation already passed for
the control of union elections and the
amendment of the arbitration legislation
in other respects is already having salu-
tary effects. It asserts the rights of the
people as a whole over the assumed rights
of the Communist-union dictatorship,
and it protects the privilege of individual
unionists to elect their own leaders by
a fair and secretly conducted ballot and
to control them when elected. It has
encouraged resistance to the impudent
pretensions of Kremlin-guided juntas of
the Ironworkers, the Wharflaborers, the
Building Workers, the Coalminers and
others. This has found its outlet in the
revelation of forgery and other remark-
able activities which have been rife in
the ranks of Mr. Ernest Thornton’s
curious union and which must have a
devastating effect on the reputation of
the Communists even among their most
ardent supporters, as well as a stimulat-
ing effect on the actions of their
opponents, who hitherto have had to fight
a lonely and heartbreaking battle, with
every hand against them, including that
of the A.L.P. and its satellite “Labor”
Government.
The change in the industrial atmos-
phere is felt in every avenue of the in-
dustry ; regular turbulence of “Labor”-
Government days has given way to
better behavior among the unions,
which have been Russia’s major
weapons for years. This has not
been the result of accident but of the
firmness of the Government, which has,
in the main, shown a strong hand without
being provocative. If the Administration
had accomplished nothing save to bring
peace for some months in the coal in-
dustry it could write itself in credit; but
after its initial mistakes it can claim that
it has been responsible for putting the
Communists on the defensive.
In other fields the Government can
claim an equal success, as little publicly
acknowledged. It is true that in the
fields of finance it is passing through a
phase much like that of a marching
company which is threading a heavy
ambush. But the resistance to its Budget
proposals have been relatively limited in
ambit, and the more violent and self-
interested critics have been mostly
silenced. His measures have earned Mr.
Fadden a temporary unpopularity, largely
due to the fact that the introduction of
the year’s financial plans coincided with
steep rises in the cost of living and the
drop in the price of wool.
If the Government were to go to the
country at the moment it would probably
have to fight for its life on the cost-of-
living issue, since it would have to face
the reactions to rising costs of a com-
munity taught to be selfish and influ-
enced by the distortions of demagogues
of the Ward type.
But it can be said that the Common-
wealth Treasury has the support of
the English-speaking world in its
technique. And the concerted appli-
cation of these principles throughout
the greatest portion of the freely-trading
world should have its effect on inflation
in a year or so. The return of Mr.
Churchill to power should make common-
sense finance easier for everybody within
the British Commonwealth,
In defence matters the Government
again has done reasonably well, Mr.
Mcßride, a capable administrator, has got
on with the job. The atmosphere is very
different from that at the end of 1949.
Despite the fact that defence is still a
matter of party politics with Dr. Evatt
and his followers, a nucleus for the
regular army has been in course of forma-
tion with less difficulty than might have
been expected. Recruiting has improved.
The check placed on luxury industries
by the Budget proposals should result in
releasing some manpower to correct the
present Service deficiencies, and under
the national-service scheme no finer body
of young troops has ever been produced
in so short a time. The reconditioning
and rearming of the Navy and the
R.A.A.F. are having their results both
on the strength and the morale of those
branches.
Foreign affairs in the early days of
the new Administration were not a very
strong point, the gifted amateur enthusiast
in charge apparently being too apt to
mistake the spectacular for the solid.
This has now been ironed out by Mr,
Casey, who is a trained diplomat. He
has stopped the sniping back-fence
quarrels with other nations which
developed during the Evatt regime, and,
without securing a tithe of Dr. Evatt’s
personal publicity, he has shown real
strength at the Paris Conference of
U.N.O.
Meanwhile, amid all the changes,
nothing has been more remarkable during
the Menzies Governments than the change
in Parliament. The enlargement of the
Chambers has produced for the first time
a genuine back bench. It has already
produced greater competition for place
and power.
At first it seemed that, despite the
great improvement in educational and
intellectual standards (a result of the
election of a large number of young and
ambitious members of university and
professional training), the whole of the
new body was inclined to be insipid.
But now that the younger members are
beginning to find their feet and learn
their business there is emerging a com-
petitive spirit and an eagerness to succeed
which is new in modern Parlia-
mentary experience. The Government
is already beginning to leam respect for
the groups of young and not-so-young
Liberals and C.P. men who, in the larger
Parliament, can risk courses of action
which would have been fatal to them
in the closer corporation of a House of
75 or a Senate of 36.
The success of the party back-bench
move against overseas control of Aus-
tralian broadcasting stations initiated last
week by Messrs. Wentworth, Osborne
and Kekwick was a landmark in Federal
Parliamentary history far more significant
than appears on the surface. It comes
into the same group of events as the
restoration of the Public Accounts Com-
mittee, the sudden assertion of its will
by the Joint House Committee (in some
things in opposition to the Government),
the new activity of the Privileges Com-
mittee and the reorganisations and
tightening-up of control of proceedings
by the President and Speaker and their
reassertion of a wilting authority; also
such exhibitions of independence on
the Government side as those fre-
quently given by Professor Bland and
open criticism of Government measures
and policy, such as that last week uttered
by Mr. Roberton on wheat legislation.
“Labor” members have been no less
backward in showing their independence
of the leaders and juntas which recently
dominated them completely. In a word,
parliamentaryism is growing; partyism
losing some of its influence.
All these symptoms are to the good.
Australia has considerable reason to be
pleased both with its present Parliament
and with its Government, if not with all
the elements in them. The Jubilee year
may be as important as a stage in con-
stitutional development as the year of
the Commonwealth’s inauguration.
"Peace" in Korea.
After five months of most un-pacific
parleyings, representatives of the Russo-
Chinese bloc have conditionally agreed
with the representatives of the United
Nations “police” forces on a “truce-line”
—that is to say, the boundary of the
diminished area of the Korean Republic,
if the Russo-Chinese Communists should
allow it henceforth to live its own life.
The “peace” talks began on a suggestion
by the Russian delegate at U.N.O. last
June that the Chinese Communist armies
in the field against U.N. forces were
willing to negotiate a cease-fire.
Features of the situation are that:
The truce is limited to 30 days, within
which agreement must be reached on other
items of the “peace” agenda. Nobody has
yet been heard to say that he has any
confidence in this being brought about.
The consequences at U.N.O. of “peace”
at the price of negotiating with the
aggressors for their retaining half their
loot can hardly be anything but destruc-
tive to the prestige of the “United”
Nations. Nobody is saying much yet
about that point either.
Communist China emerges as a (by
Soviet Russia) re-armed and modernised
military Power of incalculable menace to
peace in Asia and in the Pacific, taking
the place in that respect held by Japan
ten years ago alongside a Russia standing
where Germany did at the height of
Hitler’s menace to world order.
What the Communist-bloc means by
a “peace-campaign” should shortly be
brought home to the world. In Indo-
China, Malaya and Burma —order in
degree of alarm —the prospects (such as
they are) of peace in Korea have only
heightened anxiety that the blooded and
exuberant Chinese armies will now be
released for new invasions of those
southern neighbors. What the peace-
makers on the “United” Nations’ side
have to demonstrate is that they can
assure a cessation of aggression not only
in Korea but on other borders of China
also—in short, that U.N.O. has any
authority, or means to assert authority,
to restrain a Communist-perverted China
from following exactly Japan’s path of
aggression in South-east Asia of 10 years
ago, and resuming the creation of a “co-
prosperity sphere” under the aegis of, not
a National-Socialist, but a Communist
military dictatorship, policed through
terrorism. This in the week of the tenth
anniversary of Pearl Harbor is something
to think about.
The parallel of these days with the
twilight ’thirties is becoming too uncom-
fortable to be ignored—the spurious
advocacy of “peace” (at his own price)
by an aggressor enjoying both superior
striking-power and the advantage of being
able to choose his time against selected
victims obliged politically to give him
every benefit of the doubt; the testing-
out of arms for total and terrorist war in
someone else’s backyard, then Spain, now
Korea; the hectic canvassing of dis-
armament exclusively among those who
have no option but to arm for self-
preservation against a peril they fear to
precipitate; the desperate pretence by the
weaker peoples of reliance upon an inter-
national league for mutual security—a
League of Nations then, a “United”
Nations now —which they at once cannot
trust and lack the courage to denounce as
a failure.
This is the war of nerves. Such was
Hitler’s preliminary campaign against the
West between 1936 and 1939. Soviet
Russia is following that pattern now just
as she is tutoring her Chinese ally to
follow the track of Hitler’s mate, Japan.
Quite apart from the consideration of
whether U.N.O, can do anything to
prevent a war held off hitherto only by
United States’ armaments, there is a
simple test of the whole supine Babel-
organisation which even the pacifists must
allow to be fair and legitimate, and which
will, even if all goes well with the Korean
negotiations, present itself immediately.
Who pays compensation to the deluded
South Koreans, or their survivors, for
the wreckage of their fields and towns?
Does U.N.O. send round the hat, if it can
find one big enough? Does Soviet Russia
or Communised China pay one cent of
the bill? Have the half-bankrupt, war-
threatened, frantically rearming West
European Powers any money for such a
purpose? Or is America supposed to find
all the dollars for that, too? And what
remains to be done about a U.N.O. which
failed to stop a war, failed to win its
aims in Korea (the integrity of the
country), proves unable to restore the
ravages in the path of its police-action —
what remains to be done with such a
travesty of an “international Government”
but to carry it out and bury it?
The world need not deceive itself. The
Russian leaders, personified in “Great
Stalin, the friend of peace,” who began
World War II as Hitler’s allies and col-
laborators and hated him alive for having
seen through them, have now paid him
dead the supreme compliment of stepping
into his shoes and appropriating his
ambitions. There will be no more peace
resulting from the splitting into two of a
small State which could stand only pre-
cariously as a whole than there can be
in a divided Germany, a divided Austria,
a divided Balkans.
Maintenance of these divisions is
Russian policy and meant to perpetuate
weakness and civil strife. Even if the
Korean war is brought to a close, upon
what does the truncated Korean Republic
thenceforth rely for subsistence? Is it
to turn to Japan for economic needs and
political protection, or to the Communist
aggressors with whom its U.N.O. pro-
tectors will have made “peace”?
Among the Governments which have
formed the Atlantic Pact there can be
few illusions about the aftermath of the
Korean War being any less anxious than
the war itself. But it seems necessary
to paint the position in the crudest colors
in order to dispel the complacency of
the Australian public. General Robertson,
just returned from the 8.C.0.F. Com-
mand, can speak—as he did last week to
a special sitting of both Houses of the
Federal Parliament —as a soldier of what
has been done there, of what military
lessons must be learned from it, and of
the urgency of his new task here at home.
But his success therein depends eminently
upon the devotion of others to the vital
political task, which is to combat
Moscow’s achievement in dividing the
people of this country also. From the
conclusion of hostilities against the Axis
six years ago to this moment not one
“Labor” leader has appeared on any
recruiting platform, even when (as for
most of that time) a “Labor” Govern-
ment was purporting to raise a volunteer
army as a substitute for compulsory
military training.
Only now, after having demoralised
the recent referendum campaign by de-
nouncing rearmament preparations in this
country as “warmongering,” does the
president of the A.L.P. executive, which
gives the “Labor” leader and caucus their
Parliamentary voting orders, belatedly
admit (as he did the other day) that
threats of war are forcing all demo-
cracies to rearm. As though obedient to
the same precise Russian orders which
regulate every Communist satellite-State’s
politics, the A.L.P. has been blackguard-
ing rearmament measures in Australia
and raising every distracting cry it can
fabricate. It is a mean and miserable
showing beside that of New Zealand,
where the Prime Minister and the
“Labor” Leader of the Opposition are
standing together on the recruiting plat-
form for foreign service, and specifically
have joined to exhorting the New Zealand
people “not to be lulled into a false sense
of security by the present cease-fire talks
in Korea.” Last week the two leaders
broadcast in succession.
Mr. Holland: There has been bitter
experience in the past of aggressors using
such negotiations as weapons of offence.
We want volunteers to replace New Zea-
land’s artillery regiment now serving in
Korea. This is a job for real men, in
the greatest tradition of our servicemen in
the past.
Mr. Nash: To slacken off now might be
to play straight into the aggressor’s hands.
In this appeal Labor is right behind the
Government of New Zealand. Communism
has clearly shown itself to be an expan-
sionist Power, to be contained only by
strength.
Is Dr. Evatt game to come out and
talk like that?
French's Forest.
The bushfires around Sydney, consider-
ably more energetic than the various
trusts and councils concerned with
French’s Forest and Kuring-gai Chase,
have done an amazingly good job in
cleaning-up such exotic flora as decaying
cabbage-leaves, ancient and exploding
kapok mattresses, broken celluloid dolls,
down-at-heel boots and shoes, cast-off
straw hats and trousers and corsets, burst
tyres, piles of last year’s “S, M. Heralds,”
oyster-shells, umbrellas, dead cats and,
very likely, campers.
But these are only the more combust-
ible decorations of that glorious stretch
of virgin forest, the great showplace for
visitors, the pride of Sydney motorists,
the playground of the family picknicker,
the haunt of romantic lovers. And,
heaped up everywhere between the
blackened boles of the saplings, where
the fires have made Australian summer
look like an English winter, there remains
a stupendous collection of empty bottles,
rusty petrol-cans, jam-tins, sardine-tins,
gaping colanders, wounded enamel basins,
out-worn chamber-pots, dismembered
perambulators and tricycles, pots and
kettles, egg-beaters, tin-openers, razor-
blades, baths, wire-netting, roller-skates
and lawnmowers. There’s even in one
place a discarded double-decker bus ; but
maybe someone is living in that.
Ten years ago the Forest and the Chase
really gave Sydney a unique charm. Less
than 20 miles from the G.P.O. and you
were in the midst of almost unsullied
bush where you could still see wallabies,
rabbits restored to respectability by their
distance from grazing lands, and even,
towards Whale Beach, koalas ; where sun-
orchid, greenhood and hyacinth-orchid
flowered low in the scrub with blackeyed-
Susan and the wild iris under starry tea-
tree or the creamy foam of dwarf-apples;
where boronia and wax-flower in their
seasons glowed all along the roadsides,
or native-holly fit a whole gully with rusty
gold. And year by year, while the rangers
busied themselves harassing the picnickers
who dared snatch a couple of flannel-
flowers, the dumpers from the suburbs
made the place one gigantic garbage-tip,
where if you weren’t merely sick you
would probably be bitten among the
refuse by funnel-web spiders, redbacks,
bulldog-ants and death-adders.
A lot of the Forest has itself now be-
come a suburb ; it will probably be burnt
down annually and need not be bothered
about any more. But much remains
worth preserving; and all the Chase.
Now, while its awful secrets fie so
glaringly exposed, and so easy to get at,
is a wonderful opportunity to clean it up.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Victory for Sane Unionism.
Laurence Short has done great
service to his mates, to his trade-union
and to the cause of democracy (so far as
one-man can) by his gallant and finally
successful fight against forgery, black-
mail and violence used by Communists
to usurp control of the national executive
of the Federated Ironworkers.
It has been an uphill battle, first under-
taken by Mr. Short and the Balmain
branch, and later reinforced by the
A.L.P.-group interests. The evidence of
apathy in union members towards their
voting duties, as brought out in the
Arbitration Court before Mr. Justice
Dunphy, is eloquent of the inertia of the
vested interests in Communist roguery
that had to be overcome. It is also un-
questionably an illustration of what has
been going on in other Communist-con-
trolled unions. The “clean” ballot in the
Sydney branch, conducted by the Arbi-
tration Court, came like a breath of fresh
air.
The purpose behind this corruption
was made clear enough back in 1948, and
that was well after Laurence Short had
entered on his long, uphill fight. It was
declared by the Communist ironworkers’
secretary, Thornton, of that day —doubt-
less also fraudulently elected. Thornton
has since decamped to the Comintern in
Peking. This is what Thornton wrote
and published:
The policy of the Ironworkers’ union is
clucitleU in consultation with the leaders ot
the Communist party. The same thing in
many ways applies to the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, the Miners’ Federa-
tion, the Seamen’s Union, and soon will
apply to many other unions, such as the
A.E.U. and the A.R.U.
The papers in this ironworkers’ case
are to be sent to the Attorney-General.
He ought to have also the papers in the
Newcastle ironworkers’ case last year,
when the union impudently brought
action before the N.S.W. Industrial Com-
mission to have Lysaghts compelled to
re-employ a local Communist branch-
official who had resigned on being
“elected” branch secretary and later was
defeated. McHenry, then secretary of the
Sydney branch of the union, who
appeared to argue this case, was so
arrogant as to put to the commission,
when he was plainly getting the worst of
the argument, that it should, on reaching
a decision, bear in mind “only the facts
of the case and not the policy and ad-
ministration of the Communist party.”
When the commission brusquely re-
fused, McHenry promptly abandoned
the case, and the Newcastle executive de-
clared that he did so to avoid further
embarrassing disclosures of Communist
practices within the union.
Mr. Short has cleared the path for
official action, especially in the light of
the refusal by the beaten Communist
officials to surrender the machinery of
control in the national secretary’s office.
If this defiance continues beyond the
conclusion of the outstanding ballots
in the union’s branch elections, the
Menzies Government should welcome
the opportunity to restore to trade-
unionists elemental rights and protection
from these bushrangers before whom
“Labor” Ministers have always fluttered
away like a lot of scared hens.
Ah Thornton's Water!©©.
Ernest Thornton became general-sec-
retary of what is now the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association in 1936, and it
quickly acquired a Communist-managed
national council and a set of rules which
made its ballots a farce and its balance-
sheets a byword.
When war broke out and Stalin and
Hitler became twins, the council and its
Thornton showed their hands. They
advised their members that employers had
no option but to accede to demands for
high wages or else damage the war effort.
When, however, Russia came into the
war Comrade Thornton informed the
community that though “strikes have been
our business,” the situation had now
changed, and that though Australian
workers would not make weapons for the
imperialist Australian and British Govern-
ments they would certainly do it for
Comrade Joe.
Thornton and a comrade, R. S. Yates,
during the war attempted quite
illegally to amalgamate the Federated
Ironworkers and other unions concerned
with munitions so that they could form
one huge Communist union bloc which
would control the armaments and metal
industries —and the country.
The “Labor” Government actually ap-
pointed Mr, Thornton one of the Prime
Minister’s war-time advisers, and A.L.P.
leaders have not had a word of disgust
today for the revelations brought out by
the inquiry of Mr. Justice Dunphy, who
found, after 18 months of inquiry, that
in the 1949 national ballots of the union
there were “fraud and irregularities on
a grand scale” in the Sydney branch ;
that, in fact, 1800 ballot papers in the
election of the national executive had
been forged, and that these illegal votes
put Thornton into office.
Thornton himself is not here to face
the music. For six years since he secured
election as a national representative of the
World Trade Union conference on a
grossly irregular vote of the N. S. Wales
Trades and Labor Council he has spent
half his time abroad serving Moscow. He
is now in Peking.
If ever there was justification for a
royal commission into the affairs of a
union this is one. Apart from its
treachery and sedition in the interests of
Russia, its conduct of its financial business
has reeked for a decade, and its officers
have been unable to produce, as yet, any
convincing explanation of its finances.
Falling Land Production.
Australia’s declining export of food-
stuffs, which has alarmed Canberra and
contributed to the trade deficit of £110.9
million for the first three months of the
financial year, is no phenomenon but a
logical result of several causes.
For 10 years we have been concentrat-
ing too much of our national effort
on urban employment, and the resulting
production has not, generally speaking,
been of the kind of goods necessary to
increase farm yields. In the 10 years the
population has increased by over a mil-
lion, but no more people are on the land.
In the past four years we have brought
in over 400,000 immigrants, but only a
small proportion of them has gone into
farm work.
The population of all capital cities has
increased so much that living in the
larger of them is uncomfortable, a wages-
and-hours policy is so framed that it
entices people from the land to the cities,
and party politics have made playthings
of such products as wheat, meat,
potatoes, milk and butter.
For the past four years Australia has
been warned by every means possible of
the racing decline in land production,
told repeatedly that a falling agricultural
population must end in shortages of food
for urban populations as well as export,
invited to study the facts and figures on
the subject produced by a variety of
authorities. .
Droughts in the war years, floods in
1949 and 1950 and now great bushfires
have added their cumulative effects to
the bad record of strikes and go-slow.
with transport muddles and price argu-
ments, the whole complicated further by
the machinations of controlling authori-
ties with greater powers than the Tsars
had. The wonder is that the land indus-
tries have managed to escape total
collapse.
The remedy doesn’t lie in Government
offices, where there is little thought save
that of control. In Queensland and
N.S.W. the parties in power talk of seiz-
ing farms and forcing farmers to grow
this or that. Production and marketing
of farm goods is so cluttered up with
permits, inspectors, boards, forms and
heaven knows what else that many a
farmer prefers to throw his land into
grazing or hand it over for soldier-settle-
ment and take his family abroad. When
such one-time common products as
potatoes become blackmarket commodi-
ties the state of affairs is about as rotten
as it can be.
The people, as a whole, are trapped
by circumstances. They persist, rightly
or wrongly, in being an urban people.
The position will not improve until there
is some sort of an awakening, and that,
it seems, won’t come until semi-starvation
steps in.
One Man, One Job.
Melbourne has been mildly stirred
because Mr. Pettiona, a “Labor” member
of the Victorian Assembly, justly proud
of a job of home boot-repairing, wrote
to the papers telling how much he had
saved on the family soles. Down on him
like a ton of bricks came the Boot Trade
Employees’ Union, the Master Boot-
makers and Boot Repairers’ Association
and various members of the trade. It
was pointed out that his action “could
lead to backyard boot-repair establish-
ments,” and that the home-repairer
“risks causing foot-faults which might
cost more in doctors’ bills than he saves.”
“Labor” stalwarts also wanted to know
what had become of the party's slogan—
“one man, one job.”
It would be idle for the regular half-
sole-and-heel men to pretend that until
Mr. Pettiona spoke up they were unaware
of the prevalence of backyard boot-
repairing ; chain stores and hardware-
shops usually devote a special counter to
the requirements of the home boot-
repairer—or should he be called the
bootleg cobbler? —and no protest has
ever been heard from the trade. It seems,
then, that the M.L.A.’s mistake lay not
in mending his youngsters’ shoes, but in
making a song about it.
But why shouldn’t he make a
song about it? Half the pleasure of
growing an outsize pumpkin lies in being
able to tell one’s friends about it and
bask in their envy. Of course, the one-
man-one-job principle would mean that
no one but a professional gardener would
be permitted to grow a- pumpkin—or
anything else. Garden-loving boot-
repairers may protest that this is going
a little too far, arguing perhaps that a
man needs some kind of a hobby to help
him occupy the leisure he gets from his
40-hour week. The answer to that, of
course, is that if a man wants a hobby
there’s always the races, or beer or stamp-
collecting. Once let a man indulge in
gardening and you will find it is the thin
end of the wedge. Next thing he’ll be
painting the fence or the house, doing his
own car-repairs, buying a pair of clippers
and cutting his own hair, building a fowl-
house and keeping a few hens, doing
little carpentry jobs about the house.
And sooner or later, as sure as fate, he’ll
be mending the family shoes.
One of Mr. Pettiona’s critics hinted
that he had better watch his step next
time he comes up for pre-selection. That
threat would sound a little more fearsome
if the present boss of Australian “Labor,”
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, showed a little more
enthusiasm for the principle of one man,
one job. His present jobs are: President
of the Federal A.L.P., president of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P., member of N. S.
Wales Legislative Council, N. S. Wales
secretary of the A.R.U., vice-president of
the Federal Council of A.R.U., member
of Sydney University Senate, member of
N S Wales Transport Commission.
Jack Lang’s “Century,” which some-
times seems to know what the N. S. Wales
Government is going to do before the
Government knows itself, is tipping
Ferguson as McGrrrrr’s next Director of
Transport and Highways. Accepting that
job would mean dropping most of the
others, but it would also mean a salary
of £5OOO a year, which is almost enough
to revive any man’s faith in one man,
one job.” If it comes off Tacky might
find time to add a spot of gardening to
the fishin’, shootin’ and swimmin’ which,
on the authority of Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia, are his current hobbies. He might
even find time to mend the family shoes.
But if he’s wise he won’t make a song
about it.
THE SQUATTERLESS DAUGHTER.
[A more-or-less musical comedy.]
“Miss Strella Wilson, Australian star of opera,
Gilbert and Sullivan and musical comedy, has been
appointed official hostess at Australia House, London,
to help Australian visitors in London, and prospective
visitors to Australia.”
Scene: Australia House, London;
OFFICIALS AND TYPISTS AT DESKS I
We’re Australia House officials;
Give your name and your initials.
What you are, and where you’re frum,
And if you’re going, or you’ve come.
Wishful Migrants
{rushing in, waving forms):
When’s our boat? Can you assure us
There’ll be houses waiting for us?
Shall we take our cars out too,
Or do they travel by kangaroo?
Australian Tourists
{rushing in, waving arms):
Where’s the invite for my Alice
Out to tea at Buckingham Palace?
Did the Trade Commissioner say
My Russian passport was 0.K.?
Official :
With what dismay this caterwauling fills one—
Thank God, at last here comes Miss Strella
Wilson!
All:
Strella, Strella, lovely Strella,
Help a woman! Help a fella!
Life's a play that you produce;
Prompt us, and provide our cues!
Miss Wilson:
Profoundly touched, my friends, by your sub-
mission, .
I’ll grant you each a personal audition.
Young man, your name! [Aside] So hand-
some, tall and fair!
Young Man ;
I'm only Lord Fitzwillie Vere de Vere.
Ballad; Lord Fitzwillie:
I’m just the average type of lord
You’ll meet in Mayfair or at Cowes;
Once I was sure of bed and board —
The scion of a noble house;
But in the blight that fell upon
The British Lion,
My noble house has up and gone
And left me scion!
Ah me! The nation took and kept
My castle with its moat and keep,
And where good Queen Eliza slept
A State department lies asleep:
Though still a millionaire, and fount
Of princely bounty,
A lord or count’s of no account
Without a county!
Miss Wilson:
Poor boy!
Lord Fitzwillie:
My dear, you don’t know how I strive
To find somewhere that’s fit for me to live:
My agent bought a few Australian towns
Newcastle, Sydney and the Darling Downs,
But could not find a mansion or a station
To suit me, that had vacant occupatmn;
We thought of studios in a radio chain,
But thought too late, or thought, perhaps, in
vain: . ,
For all the public cares, I might live in
A cinema, let’s say, or even sin!
Miss Wilson:
Poor lad, your cruel fate has made you harsh;
Your stagnant heart’s become an acrid marsh:.
The stateliest of mansions well might prove
A tomb for you, unless you learn to love.
Ballad; Miss Wilson:
Love is everywhere!
It is on your nose,
It is in your hair.
It’s beneath your toes,
And it lingers, lingers, lingers,
Round your fingers, fingers, fingers,
I declare!
If you take a little bit,
No one will think much of it —
It’s only manufactured out of air!
All ;
Have some! Have some! Have some! Do!
Love’s the stuff for me and you!
N.S.W.
Love is better than
A piece of pickled pork,
Or baked beans in a can,
Or pulling out a cork,
Or new trousies, trousies, trousies,
Or big housies, housies, housies,
Little man!
A little bit would do you good;
Tin Pan Alley thinks you should—
They sell it to provide their daily scran.
All ;
Have some! Have some! Have some! Do!
Gussey and Collinson want you to!
Beautiful Australian Tourist:
I’m sorry, Miss, I can’t agree;
Love’s for you, but not for me.
Ballad; The Squatterless Daughter:
I’m rough and I’m tough, and I don’t want no
love, for I’m known as “The Squatterless
Daughter”;
My father’s estate’s been resumed —the dictate
of a wart of the very first water;
I’m rich, and as sich I’ve resisted the itch to
take to the cove with a spanner.
But it went through my head: “Take a husband
instead!” Though I don’t want the man,
but his manor.
It’s terribly silly, but I and Fitzwillie are
wrapped in the very same parcel;
1 haven’t a roof and I’m holding aloof since
the poor fellow hasn’t a castle;
I like the boy’s style, and his voice and his
smile pump my heart like a player-pianna.
I’d rather him than any manner of man, but 1
don’t want a man, but a manor.
Lord Fitzwillie :
I admire this young Miss; I would give her a
kiss, but 1 feel it would only be wasted;
I’m frightfully struck by her strength and her
pluck, but the truth must be faced, and 1 ve
faced it: . ,
She hasn’t an acre, and so I can t take her-
j’ve therefore no choice but to can her;
However, I’m sad
The Squatterless Daughter :
So am I, too, my lad; but I don’t want a man,
but a manor.
Miss Wilson:
How strange I didn’t think before— good
gracious! .
What, than a theatre, could be more spacious/
There, you can have a palace or a zoo,
Or change the scene to China or Peru;
And if you wake, and feel inclined to yawn,
You can have night a minute after dawn;
And if you quarrel, you can lose your hearts
Again, to strangers, playing different parts . . .
Well, if you let me—and 1 see I may—
I’ll write to Harald Bowden right away.
Ballad; Miss Wilson writing and singing:
Dear Mr. Bowden, of The Firm
Where tenors wail and ballets squirm
And cause you such unending trupple,
Would it assuage your discontent
To lease the Royal to a quiet couple
If they could guarantee the rent?
I know you’re not hard-hearted as you seem—
So do it—do it! Just for Love’s Young Dream!
Think of the critic with his knife
Who says the play’s not true to life,
Think of the anguish and the frown
When you display this natural pair
To Miss O’Neil and Mr. Lindsey Browne
Living the simple life in there!
In dreams, I think 1 see your fond eyes beam—
Oh, do it—do it! Just for Love’s Young Dream!
Lord Fitzwillie:
Must audiences view our domesticity?
Then what becomes, I ask, of life’s simplicity/
Miss Wilson:
When curtains fall, my dears, they shut out
spies,
And all is left to private enterprise!
All:
Oh, private enterprise, how sweet!
Oh. private enterprise, how pure!
Without you, why should we compete?
Without you, how could we endure?
Where we would be, we can’t surmise,
Except for private enterprise!
CURTAIN.
SWILLIAM.


m
m
m
:®g-
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
*3 -h:>
% V
s &
~w>
4
4201
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
All of a sudden “Labor” M.H.Rs.
have developed a sudden liking for
referenda. Calwell wanted one held on
the Budget, Ward thinks a vote of the
people should be taken before the Gov-
ernment sells its shipping line, and one
of their colleagues made the same plea
over A.W.A. shares. Yet when in office
they refused to consult the people on
bank nationalisation, and only a few
months ago they opposed the bill which
gave the people a chance to express an
opinion on the banning of Communism.
Labor made great play with the stress
which the sponsors of the Government-
accepted private motion in the Reps,
against the ownership of broadcasting-
stations by overseas interest laid on the
dangers of foreign ownership. E. J.
Ward, who has never before said a good
word for the British Commonwealth,
made the occasion memorable by accus-
ing Wentworth and Kekwick, the mover
and seconder, of being “anti-British.”
The Government supported the resolu-
tion, which was carried the same day in
the Senate on the motion of Senator
Gorton. Where Government members
think the danger lies was made clear by
an interjection by Eric Harrison, official
leader of the Government in the Reps.,
while Evatt was praising the overseas
group involved: “How many Communists
are there on the staff?”
Doc. Evatt in his speech on the Mac-
quarie-network deal said that “Labor’s”
policy had been to encourage investment
from Britain and America, Yet his party
has been showing great concern over a
rumor that an American company has
bought a parcel of shares —not a con-
trolling interest —in Amalgamated
Wireless.
Opposition members who professed to
be horrified when the Bartholomew
group of London were described as
“foreign interests” should look up their
company law. In most Australian States
even a company registered in another
State is termed a foreign company.
It has been announced that Opposition-
leader Evatt will not move to Werriwa
electorate, won last election by the now-
sick H. P. Lazzarini with a 5000 majority.
It might be nearer to the truth to say
that Werriwa would not move to Dr,
Evatt. What electorate would be anxious
to give sanctuary to a fleeing statesman
whose majority in his own bailiwick had
fallen from 11,112 to 253 in the course
of two campaigns?
Apparently there’s no foundation for
the rumor that sent a cold shudder
through the caucus-room at Canberra last
Wednesday—that Evatt minor is to
seek entry into the Reps by way of
Werriwa. Still, if the Werriwa Electoral
Council wants a character-reference on
Clive, Jim Geraghty, unendorsed “Labor”
M.L.A. for North Sydney, has written it
already—“one of the noblest men ever
seen in this Parliament, a man whose
integrity is beyond question.”
Geometry note. Senator Guy’s plan
for substituting round ballot-papers for
square ones is not intended to eliminate
three-cornered contests.
N.S.W. Parliament was the first public
body to answer “The Call” made a few
weeks ago for personal and public sacri-
fice in the interests of Australia. The
members propose to increase their salaries
by £5OO a year and their pensions by
50 p.c.
A Nimmitabel grazier is claiming that
C.5.1.R.0. rainmaking experiments
caused a shower at the wrong time for
his newly-shom sheep, many of which
died, and he intends to seek damages.
Whatever the result, it ought to make a
lot of people mighty careful about offer-
ing prayers for rain.
Wheatgrowers seem to have as short
memories as other people. All through
their present uproar about the amount of
money they’ve lost collectively while
“subsidising” cheap bread in Australia
through the home-consumption price of
wheat, not a word has been heard from
them of the £l6 million or so which they
got from the Australian taxpayers in
grants and subsidies in the few years
before war made wheat profitable.
Towards the end of the hearing by
the Arbitration Court of the charges of
ballot-rigging on the part of Communist
officials of the Ironworkers’ Association,
Communist barrister Paterson, who was
appearing on behalf of some of the
officials, pleaded that the court could not
accept the evidence of the handwriting
experts as they had “fluctuated anti
wavered so much under cross-examina-
tion.” He said that their evidence had
broken down to the extent that “the
maximum number of ballot-papers now
suspect was 1873 instead of more than
2000.” Apparently in Communist reason-
ing 1783 faked votes are not worth
making a fuss about. Dunphy, J.,
seemed to hold a different view.
Menzies has said that, having been
set back with the referendum defeat, the
Government will pursue its pledges to
destroy Communist influence by all means
at its disposal. It now has the papers
in the case of the fraudulent ballots for
the Ironworkers’ Union national execu-
tive, and it might well begin there, and
order investigation into all Commo-
controfied union elections.
Probably with the basic-wage rise as
an excuse, N.S.W. lottery-ticket agents
have bumped their commission per ticket
up from 3d. to 4d. So far the Prices
Commissioner hasn’t been heard from;
maybe the lott’ry is exempt from price-
fixing.
At the Sydney Town Hall meeting
called by the Trades and Labor Council
to protest against the Budget, Ward depu-
tised for Evatt and joined with other
speakers in demanding the resignation of
the Menzies Government. He chose the
occasion to add another to the long list
of secret disclosures that have come out
of East Sydney since he first “discovered”
the Brisbane Line. The secret is that the
Government has already sold the Com-
monwealth shipping line for £8 million.
Eddie didn’t disclose his sources of in-
formation, but he has often boasted of
his contacts in the Government service.
It was appropriate that Eddie Ward’s
adjournment motion on inflation
described by Gullett as an essay—should
be one of the most long-winded ever in-
troduced into the House, Ward’s whole
financial credo is based on inflation, and
the moment the upward trend of prices is
halted he will be howling depression.
You can buy a bit o’ fish in N.S.W,
at any old price now. Prices Minister
Finny—sorry, Finnan —having tempo-
rarily “released” fish from price-control.
Fishermen are jubilant and housewives,
too, since the blackmarket is thus ended
and there’ll be a bit of competition in
the markets. Still, the law making all
fish the property of the N.S.W. Fish Board
still operates.
A faint echo of the N.Z. waterfront
strike was heard in Brisbane last week.
It was the voice of Communist Ted
Englart, former secretary of the Brisbane
watersiders, protesting against being
picked up for non-payment of the fines
and costs (£5O) he copped under the
Crimes Act last July, The charges were
hindering the transport of goods and
inciting waterside workers to hinder
transport of goods. Englart hadn’t been
in clink more than a couple of hours
when his solicitor turned up and ransomed
him by paying the fifty.
Senator Fraser (WA.), putting in a
late run in the Macquarie-network de-
bate, carried off the wooden spoon for
the piece of logic least likely to impress
a logician. In essentials his proposition
was this: The motion says that it is
undesirable that any person not an Aus-
tralian should control an Australian com-
mercial broadcasting-station. Some Aus-
tralians are Communists. Therefore, if
this motion is passed, there is nothing
to prevent the Macquarie network falling
into the hands of the Communist party.
“Peace,” it’s wonderful! This is how
the announcements of a provisional agree-
ment on a cease-fire line were broadcast
from each side:
North Korean Radio ; Our delegates not
only succeeded in overcoming the difficult
and evil-intentioned obstruction.... but,
maintaining their basic methods, smashed
the destructive intentions of the enemy
against the conference agenda.
U.N, Command Radio: The productive
results of an unwavering perseverance [by
the U.N. Command] to produce an agree-
ment that has been avoided by the Com-
munists for more than four months.
At this rate celebration of a final agree-
ment (if any) may be expected to take
the form of each side firing off all its
available ammunition at the other.
Radio comedian Bob Dyer went to a
lot of trouble to refute the charge made
against him in the Senate by Donald
Grant, who said he’d listened to Dyer
on the air and decided he “was not
worth two-bob.” Dyer can comfort
himself in that a lot of people who listen
to Senator Grant on the air think he’s
worth less than that.
“D.A.L.”: Though the McGrrrrrs
force people whose land is resumed for
soldier-settlement to sell at 1942 values,
a different principle is adopted in respect
of probate duty payable on such a pro-
perty, when the owner happens to die
before the transaction is completed. The
estate has to pay on the current market
value of the land.
An exhibit in the 100-years-of-archi-
tecture show at the National Gallery in
Melbourne throws a disconcerting light
on modern progress or the 40-hour week
or something. It is a series of photos of
the erection of the Manchester Unity
building. One story went up in a week
and the whole 11 stories were completed
in eight months. Under current condi-
tions it would take at least eight years.
Excessive rain at the beginning of the
season and abnormally dry weather later
are the explanation given by the C.S.R.
company for the light sugar crop antici-
pated this year—74o,ooo tons compared
with 908,000 tons, the average of the past
three years. In consequence of this there
will be only about 165,000 tons available
for export overseas.
There’s to be another of those royal
commissions into s.-p. betting, this time
in Queensland, and the moment it was
announced a herd of fellows bobbed up
to advocate the establishment of licensed
betting-shops in country towns. But
what’s the poor old country done to
deserve that?
Treasurer Fadden is off to London in
the New Year to attend a conference of
Commonwealth Finance Ministers. While
abroad he may go to Washington to see
if there are any dahlers on offer at
reasonable rates.
A well-advertised public meeting on
road safety failed to attract more than
350 people to Sydney Town Hall. Those
who didn’t go are like a lot of motorists
—they don’t think safety campaigns are
aimed at them.
Communist newspapers are not as a
rule strong on humor, but occasionally
the comic muse sneaks into their columns
uninvited. That seems to be the only
explanation for the opening paragraph
of a leading article in a recent issue of
London “Daily Worker”:
Mr. Churchill will shortly visit America
to crave some assistance. He will doubtless
receive his orders plus a dole for his
precariously placed Government.
The idea of Winston craving assistance is
almost as ludicrous as the thought of bis
taking orders.
Announcement by Queensland Mines
Department that a new coal deposit has
been proved in the Bundamba district will
not excite much interest. Queenslanders
know that their State has vast coal re-
sources —they’ve had their ears bashed
for years about the tremendous deposits
at Blair Athol and Callide. What they
would like to hear is that more of it is
being mined.
Nature note (N. S. Wales Hansard,
page 4533): —
Mr. Chaffey : Very often goannas that enter
country homes are shot.
Lt.-Colonel Bruxner: Goannas have a great
appetite for eggs.
Mr. Evatt: I understand that goannas do
much good by devouring young rabbits.
Bruxner: If a goanna eats rabbits he is a
friend of man, but he is an enemy if he eats
eggs that are worth 4s. lid. a dozen or aclutch
of chickens. The goanna that lives away‘in the
bush and does not disturb the household is safe
from molestation, but the one that wants to live
in the front parlor will be shot, just as any other
pest would be destroyed.
Mr. J. J. Cahill: Do goannas not attack
snakes?
Bruxner : I do not know about that, but they
are responsible for the destruction of great
numbers of eggs. Many of the smaller types
of bush-birds are dying out because goannas
destroy their eggs and eat the birds themselves
when they can catch them.
Evatt : There is a balance between good and
bad. Goannas do settlers a service by eating
rabbits.
Bruxner: If the Minister introduces legisla-
tion relating to goannas I shall give him a
dissertation on them. This measure concerns
the use of firearms by boys under sixteen years
of age.
“Labor” spokesmen keep on saying
that it is not workers’ demands which
are raising prices, but vice-versa. Well,
the Commonwealth Committee on Taxa-
tion has just reported to the Federal
Treasurer that if coal were increased in
price by a special levy of 4s. a ton, and
the proceeds were applied to “develop-
ment of the industry, housing and
amenities,” probably more coal would be
produced by the miners. What is certain
—no “probably” about it —is that costs of
gas, power and all dependent industries
would go up accordingly.
Federal Parliament closed with the
usual round of parties. The Country
party, presided over by Earle Page, look-
ing like Father Christmas without his
beard, was open house, and needed only
the presence of the Fat Boy to make it
Pickwickian. The outward manifestations
of “Labor’s” shivoo were the strains of
“The More We Are Together” blasting
their way in slow time through closed
doors. It was rumored that the Liberals
also held a party, but upon such a high
plane that nobody seemed sure—not even
the Liberals.


DOG-AND-DOLL STORY.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“K.”: Part of the waters of Newcastle
Waters (N.T.) —population 65 males, 17
females—comes from the township’s
antediluvian pumping-plant, owned by
Department of Works and Housing and
run for the past three years by Sandy, a
full-blooded aboriginal, who is highly
respected locally and has never yet been
beaten by a minor breakdown. Also he
had not till the other day ever been paid
a cent by the Darwin “Government,” but
rewarded, in defiance of the Truck Act,
by a regular issue of old-age-pension
rations at the police-station—an irregular
thing, that, too, because Sandy is not
more than 50. The townsfolk think a
lot of Sandy, and after they had kicked
up a shindy against Darwin for about
two years somebody there paid heed and
announced that Sandy would be awarded
£4 a week, back-dated to November, 1950,
and paid in the form of “£176 credited”
and £2O in cash —whereafter Sandy and
his wife appeared as undoubtedly the
best-dressed people in the place. Hence-
forth he will get his Government pay
regularly. Perhaps some bureaucrat in
Darwin thinks he has acquired merit as
a red-tape artist by doing Sandy out of
some two years’ pay; perhaps if Sandy
made a fuss they would present him with
a statement showing the past issues of
rations as equivalent to the back-pay
subtracted. But apparently Sandy is
neither deceived nor discontented. He
simply regards the Darwin “Government”
with contempt. “Too much humbug
longa Darwin,” he says. In that the
Waters heartily agrees with him.
* * * *
“Jasby”; My wife was horribly
embarrassed at dinner the other night
when one of our guests found a large
snail in his salad. Not for long, though ;
the snail, when touched, refused to pull
in either his horns or his head. In short,
instead of being a live gastropod he was
a trick snail, our guest being one of those
practical jokers who insist on making
themselves the life of the party by means
of explosive cigarettes, itching-powder,
matches that won’t strike, glasses that
dribble and similar traps. His snail was
a lifelike imitation, made of plastic.
I’ve seen similar ones since in a shop-
window, labelled “Latest novelty. Imita-
tion snails. Trick and amuse your
friends. 2s. 6d.” My wife is going to
get her own back on the joker next week.
We’re dining at his place, and he’s going
to find another imitation snail on his
plate. But this one’s going to be different
from other imitation snails. It’s going to
be an imitation imitation snail. Our 1
garden’s full of ’em.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: Fully-furnished down to
carpets, washing-machine, refrigerator
and all the rest, at a cost of £4618 14s. 6d.,
a house has been won in a Melbourne
competition by a girl of 17. The
successful computer had to estimate
building, furnishing and fitting costs
equal to, or nearest, the actual figure.
She was 3s. 6d. out, and admits her esti-
mate of £4618 18s. was “just a wild
guess.” Wild guess or not, it succeeded
against more than 65,000 other competi-
tors, including an architect acquaintance
of mine who made 25 estimates at 2s. 6d.
a time without coming within a hundred
smackers of the correct total. No doubt
“informed people” generally—builders,
furniture-sellers, amateur home-builders
and others —applied their skill and know-
ledge to the solution of a problem which
was finally settled by a teenager’s guess.
* * ¥ *
“Pitt St.”; The Press has been com-
menting on a weakened sharemarket,
falling car sales and a drop in real-estate
prices as indicative of a minor slump.
A Sydney suburban shopkeeper has dis-
covered what he considers even more im-
pressive evidence. In his shop on Mel-
bourne Cup morning he was approached
by a total stranger who shoved a ticket
across the counter to him and said, “Here,
you’ve drawn Akbar in the sweep. It’s
a dollar one.” Somewhat dazed by what
he considered manna from heaven the
shopkeeper handed over the ss. and the
stranger departed. Shortly after noon
he reappeared and said, “Well, I suppose
you had a few bob on Akbar?” The
shopkeeper denied it. “Strike me!” said
the visitor. “Anybody who draws a good
horse in a sweep wants his brains brushed
if he don’t back it. Look, have half a
note each way. Y’ can’t lose.” A bit
dazed, the shopman booked the bet.
Akbar ran second and, on the following
Friday, the chap duly appeared, paid
over the sweep-money and the place-odds
on the bet. It came out later he’d
worked nearly all the shops in the suburb
—it was his way of beating up trade for
his s.-p. business —and must have done
well. The evidence? Well, since when
have s.-p. merchants had to beat up trade
like that?
* * ♦ ♦
“Pat”: When the motor-train on a
little-known Sydney suburban line
refused to start a couple of weeks ago,
the driver got out and cranked the engine.
The conveyance leaped forward a couple
of paces, then came to another stubborn
standstill. The driver called on his
passengers to get out and push. Giving
the lie to the contention that Sydney-
siders are a selfish, un-co-operative lot,
they got out and pushed. The motor-
train went careering on its way leaving
the helping-hands to wait another half-
hour for transport.
* * * *
“Becks”: If the experts who have so
far examined it are right a previously
unknown William Caxton book has been
found in the library of Ripon Cathedral
“But I only want ONE?”
in England. A Mrs. Mortimer, who has
been cataloguing the 3000 books of the
Cathedral library, found the book, An
Epitome of the Pearl of Eloquence, in
a bound volume containing a number
of other works. She felt sure the book
was one which Caxton printed in 1480,
and authorities at the John Rylands
library in Manchester and at the British
Museum agreed with her. A complete
examination has not yet been made, as
the pages are very fragile and preservation
work will have to be done before it can
be read without risk of damage. Earliest-
dated Caxton book printed in England
was produced in 1477, only three years
before the presumed date of the Epitome.
* * * *
“Fairf”: That third-person “Sir” (B,
21 /11 / ’5l) was not current in my school-
days in N.S.W. Our idiom in those days
was different from “Jasby’s” only in the
fact that all schoolteachers were old —
Old Johnno, Old Chappo, Old Smutty,
etc. A battered and ancient school photo-
graph shows the last-named as a round-
faced youth of perhaps 20 ; which sets me
pondering on the age of “Old Mum
Mitcho.” Miss Mitchell taught the
“bubs,” and, according to the “tarts,” was
engaged to Mr. Smith. It wasn’t until
recent years, while working at a reforma-
toiy for adolescent girls, that I heard
“Sir” used in the third person; “Sir told
Shirl,” or “Look out, here comes Sir!”
But that was merely what the lasses called
the harassed principal when he was tem-
porarily in their good books. What those
innocent-looking teenagers called him
when one of their periodical riots was
brewing—phew!
“W.A.E.”: In my State, Victoria, the
title “Sir” is used by youngsters in pre-
cisely the same manner as in N.S.W.,
except that “Sir” always refers to the
headmaster. Lesser teachers are still mere
Misters and Misses.
* * * *
“Rawhiti”: No doubt “Altera Merces”
(B. 14/11 /’5l) often heard his family talk
about De Mestre and Archer, but I’m
sure they never referred to De Mestre as
“Eddy.” His name was “Etty,” being
short for Ettienne.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Campbell Island has been
in the news recently because of the mercy
visit there by H.M.N.Z.S. Kiwi to pick
up a man needing medical treatment.
The island is associated with a romantic
story concerning Charlotte, daughter
of Clementina Walkinshaw and Bonnie
Prince Charlie, and stated to be the
woman who died there a century and a
half ago. According to Robert MeNab
in Murihika, the woman buried on
Campbell Island is Elizabeth Farr, a
Norfolk Islander, who was taken there
by Captain Hasselbourg, and was acci-
dentally drowned on November 4, 1809.
An old book. Flotsam and Jetsam (1832),
preserved in Hocken Library, Dunedin,
says the grave is that of Helen Parr, an
absconder from the penal settlement at
Sydney Cove, and that Sydney records
corroborate the fact. Whoever she is.
she has a companion to keep her com-
pany. In the ’seventies a French expedi-
tion went to the Campbell Islands to
observe the transit of Venus. While there
a young French midshipman died and
was buried near the mystery woman. The
heather growing about the graves is ex-
plained by an old whaler, Paddy Gilroy,
who claimed to have furnished the expedi-
tion with sacks in which some seeds of
heather must have remained.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Jerry had been pushed back
through Meteren ; shortly after we
had relieved the battalion that had
done the pushing, the platoon’s drunk,
who had gone missing and was accounted
a casualty, came back rolling drunk and
gurgling ecstatically about the well-
equipped winecellar he had discovered
“Jus’ back there.” Shortly a party from
headquarters was on its way to smash up
the contents of that cellar; it was a
fortunate fatigue, because before it
reached its objective a big shell from
Fritz landed —with an accuracy that sug-
gested careful plotting—right into the
cellar and did its work for it. That the
Germans, foreseeing a withdrawal, had
left that cellar as a booby-trap for the
“undisciplined Australians” who they
knew were coming into the line was
obvious. When Tim, our drunk, woke
from the sleep into which he had fallen
directly he was pushed into a dugout, he
wept bitter tears over the loss of all that
good liquor.
¥ * * *
“C.A.L.”: Perth merchants often find
that goods from the eastern States have
been sent back again, having missed being
unloaded at Fremantle through labor
troubles. In some cases goods have been
known to make the journey back and
forth two and three times. One grocery
wholesaler, fed-up with waiting for a
consignment of tinned goods which he
knew had first left Melbourne many
months previously, wrote to the ship’s
agents: “When your vessel has finally
finished using my herrings-in-tomato-
sauce as ballast, would you kindly see
that the said ballast is unloaded at Fre-
mantle and forwarded to this firm without
undue delay.**
♦ * ♦ *
“Carlyle”: Canberra’s suburb, Manuka,
is another instance of trick pronuncia-
tion (B. 31 /10/’5l). Visitors invariably
say the word as it’s spelt, but locals follow
the pronunciation of the New Zealand
tea-tree and call it Maraooka. Pimpinio,
in the Wimmera (Vic.), is another trap.
City slickers who call it Pimpinio are
wide of the mark ; residents say Pimpin/o.
• * * ♦
“Ex-C.G,”; Colac (Vic.) show society
has run into something which has been
creeping up on country—and city—agri-
cultural societies for years. All, or most,
country showgrounds—and city ones —
were fenced off in the horse-and-buggy
days; the advent of the motor-car has
meant a steadily growing congestion of
space as the ranks of parked cars increase
each year. Farm fortunes made in the
past five years have resulted in a rush of
motor-cars to shows in the country —
and city—and still less space for other
things. At Colac they had to cram the
sideshows into a smaller space, and the
sideshowmen jacked up and refused to
show. Colac had its show, but without
the sideshows it seemed a poor thing, and
now the society is wildly considering
whether to admit cars at all next year—
a problem likely to confront pretty well
every show committee in the country
and city, for without sideshows a show
just ain't a show.
AN OUTDATED ATTRIBUTE.
“You see men strutting Sydney’s beaches, vulgarly
proud of their hairy chests. If they only knew it,
this ape-like growth is to most women repulsive.’’
—Letter to Sydney “D.T,”
The caveman so hairy
Was never deemed “lairy,”
The essence of awful vulgarity,
By women he’d captured.
They all were enraptured,
Entranced, by his hirsute barbarity.
A chest like a doormat
They never would storm at,
Or to it make humorous reference;
For none ever doubted
Her skull would get clouted
For any such grave lack of deference.
A pair of big triceps
And huge knotted biceps
Were, in the main, rather expectable;
The thick, sloping shoulders
With which he’d roll boulders
The ladies considered delectable.
Whether cheerful or surly
The bloke that was curly
Was, as a mate, quite qualjfiable.
But the one hairy-chested
By girls was invested
With glamor —he-man undeniable.
But that was long ages
Ago. Now the rage is
For men with a chest of a hairlessness
Which indicates clearly
That Nature has queerly
Been guilty of absolute carelessness.
It shows some refinement,
And quite in alignment
With beauty like that of Endymion.
A chest-scrub quite woolly
Is worn by the bully,
The brute with a strain all too simian.
So, men, don’t be shameless
Or you’ll be left dameless,
Though hair on your chest be the curliest.
You must be appeasers!
Ah, take up the tweezers
And tug ’em all out, at your earliest.
Then the beautiful peaches
You see on the beaches
Will be, at long last, quite achievable.
You’ll never regret it.
Though this you can bet. It
Will itch in a way unbelievable!
N.S.W,
S. W. K.


fds
Me/choose .fa4myg 0t
A FAMOUS "SASIENI" PATENT PIPE
Any man who appreciates a really fine pipe will he proud to °wn ®
Sasieni. A product of superb craftsmanship, the Sasieni British
Dry Pipe is rich in smoking qualities . . . made from the choicest
imported briar, beautifully shaped and hand-polished o g eami 8 P
fection. Solve your Xmas gift problem now by buying him a Sasieni
from Andrew McGee—a lasting gift that will be treasured down through
the years.
Price 56/-. A wide variety of shapes. Mail orders invited.
ANDREW IVTGEE
1 CASTLEREAGH ST. 70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
&
a
1^
//i:
ier
CttOO st
pKXt* 1
* SMOKE KENTUCKY CLUB
“H.H.”: A short visit to friends in the
country has knocked on the head another
illusion, the one that caused me so often
to say in the city “If we were living in
the country we would think nothing of
walking that distance” —the distance being
perhaps three or four miles. My country
hosts live about a mile from a township,
but every time we proposed to go there,
or to visit neighbors, the husband said
“Just wait a minute till I get out the car.”
The same phrase tripped out when he
suggested a visit to a small rise on his
property from which a fine view was
obtainable. “If we were living in the city
we would think nothing of walking that
distance,” I remarked, but the sarcasm
was lost to him. His neighbors appeared
to be of the same way of thinking; they
brought out their cars for the shortest of
neighborly visits and even to go round
their paddocks.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: The staggering number
of motor-cyclists killed or injured in
traffic accidents is, quite understandably,
causing those people whose job it is to
save the young, the thoughtless and the
plain crazy from themselves to try all
sorts of safety-measures. Here’s my
suggestion: make all fast motor-bikes
noiseless and remove the mufflers on the
very slow ones. Give a youth the choice
between a bike that will do a bare 30
miles an hour but sound like a jet-
bomber, or a job that could touch 80
with no more noise than a pushbike, and
I’ll bet the various pairs of socks I’m
bound to get for Christmas that he’ll go
for the big noise.
* * * *
“X.S.”: An argument has broken out
in Melbourne anent wine saloons. One
authority says they are dingy dens of
iniquity, sordid sinks of shame and un-
mitigated purveyors of alcoholic poisons.
A spokesman for the wine trade says they
are in the main bright, clean, attractive
places where for the most part the best
Australian wines are sold —not a head-
ache in a bottle. Not being a frequenter
I am in no position to judge, but an un-
official observer tells me that in South
Melbourne they sell a brand of plonk
“Tax on lipstick be bloWed!"
which has acquired the name of “Bikini
Waters.” It is said to be radioactive.
* ■ ♦ * *
“Clooter”: Man, it seems, will never
learn. Probably the entire adult human
race has been told, in one form or an-
other, the story of the goose that laid
the golden eggs and has had the moral
pointed of the fool who killed it in the
belief that he would get all the gold at
once. Well, a goose-rancher or whatever
is the proper name for a geese-fancier
has turned up at Huelva, in Spain, who
repeated the foolishness. His goose laid
two eggs each containing a 19th-century
25-peseta gold piece, so he killed it and
found five more pesetas in its inner works.
Now he’s hunting all round the farm
trying to find the place where the bird
unearthed the coins. What he should
have done was leave it alone and watch
where it went in search of grit. Serves
him right if he never finds the hoard.
* * * *
“Melb’n”: Noble Kerby, the St. Kilda
original who caused a sensation in de-
partmental circles early in the year by
staking out a claim to mine coal in the
middle of Port Phillip Bay, has raised
another stir by buying back at a Customs
auction the beer-brewing equipment
which was confiscated from him when
he made his short-lived entry into the
brewery business on St. Kilda pier last
summer. He intends to go back to his
brewing, as he is firmly of opinion that
he does not contravene the law by brew-
ing beer with an alcoholic content
reduced below 2 p.c. by a “shimmering”
process. His endeavors to convince the
court that he is right have so far cost
him £5OO.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”; Can’t be sure whether it
was coincidence, conscience on the part
of the management or an expression of
sympathy from outside, but when G.P.O.
(Sydney) employees took the tea break the
other morning they discovered that all
prices in the cafeteria had risen again—
this time to panic-striking Much
whingeing and many avowals to “give the
place away” resulted, but a further shock
was in store —at lunch-time the same day
each customer received (with the compli-
ments of the makers) a headache-powder.
* * * *
“X.M.N.”: One part of the Anglo-
Iranian Oil Company’s vast resources on
which Moussadek has been unable to lay
his hands is the British Tanker Company,
with its fleet of 140 ships, about 14 p.c.
of the world’s tanker tonnage. Entry of
Turkey into the First World War and the
cutting of the pipeline by rebel tribes-
men led to the establishment of the com-
pany in April, 1915. Fleet beginnings
took the form df purchases of tankers
already in commission, and the first vessel
built to order was the British Emperor
of 3637 gross tons, completed on the Tyne
in 1916. After the Armistice the fleet grew
rapidly, the first diesel-engined tanker,
British Aviator, appearing in 1924. When
Anglo-Persian became a public company
in 1925 the fleet comprised 69 medium-
sized tankers, and steam propulsion was
gradually giving way to the diesel engine,
Political expediency suggested a change
in funnel-markings, and the original
black funnel with red-and-white bands
and the lettering “8.T.C.” in a white disk
was altered to the Persian national
colors, red, white and green bands. B.T.G.
“I wish you kids d play firemen somewhere else."
saw the start of Hitler’s war with 93
tankers, lost approximately half of them,
along with 664 officers and men. The
present building programme provides for
a fleet of 153 ships of 2,000,000 tons dead-
weight, including the six giants, each cap-
able of lifting 28,000 tons.
* * * *
“Spoke”: My paper tells me that the
fleas which reached epidemic form in
Melbourne last year have migrated to
Sydney. My advice, based on experi-
ence, is to surround the house with a
strip of powdered lime, then wash the
body with lysol, spray the bedroom with
D.D.T., and having dusted the sheets with
insect-powder, go to bed in the bath.
The fleas are either allergic to water or
can’t swim. I might add that the pests
never bite me, though they raise weals
on my wife as big as gramophone disks.
But they crawl over me, and that is just
as bad, for after a few hours of their
peregrinations I am reduced to such a
state of nervous suspense that a good
savage bite would be almost welcome.
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: Saving money by paying
small amounts by cheque instead of
postal-note (B. 31/10/’5l) is quite a good
scheme as far as the senders are con-
cerned, but as a recipient of some of these
I’m now asked to cough up sixpence inter-
state exchange on each one; conse-
quently it’s a case of the amount going
into bank coffers instead of the P.M.G.’s
cashbox. Next thing will be that, be-
cause of the extra work involved m dea -
ing with small-sum cheques, banks will
increase the exchange rate.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Now doing her trials off
the Clyde, the Royal Navy’s giant carrier
Eagle, 21st of her name, embodies every-
thing the Luftwaffe and U-boats taught
British naval aviation in the Atlantic and
Mediterranean. Every case of War li
action-damage was studied; as a result
electric welding has been used on an un-
precedented scale on Eagle s vast innards.
These contain high-speed aircraft lifts as
big as tennis-courts ; distilling plant able
to produce 200 tons of water a day; an
enormous gallonage of aviation fuel
specially stored with elaborate safety
arrangements developed from war-time
carrier-sinkings ; a flight-deck capable of
handling the largest and heaviest planes
in the R.N.; squadrons of Attacker jet-
aircraft ; 2000 officers and men; sufficient
generating plant to supply a town ; 16
twin-turreted dual-purpose quickfiring
4.5-inchers and vipers’ nests of multiple
Bofors. And she is just under one-sixth
of a mile long.
# * * *
“Kelms”: When it looked as though the
Japs might attempt an invasion of north-
west Australia, the runways of the Port
Hedland aerodrome were mined —67
cylinders holding between them a ton
of gelignite were sunk eight feet deep at
plotted points. The mines weren’t a danger
to civilian or military aircraft, but the
airstrip is to be remodelled, and a bull-
dozer might touch one off. So some Army
engineers from Perth went up recently to
delouse the field. They didn’t do it, be-
cause, although they had charts of the
field, the mines weren’t where they were
supposed to be. Local opinion is that the
“jelly” has been lifted by Marble Bar
miners who were short of ex P l °!')' es ;
Unless something definite is established
there's a worrying time ahead of the
reconstruction gang. If there’s anything
worse than working in a minefield its
working where mines might be.
* * * *
“Percival”: After searching for weeks
for an article still selling at the same
price as it did 10, 20, 30 years ago, 1
found it on Saturday—a racebook!
* * * *
“CAA”: Philatelists are facing the
temptation of an attractive series of
United Nations stamps, shortly to be
issued, without the means to buy them.
It is a matter of dollars. The set of
15 stamps may be bought for tor®®
dollars, but thousands of dollars would
be needed to satisfy the demands of all
local collectors. A limited quantity will
probably be available in Australia from
the small dollar allowance of dealers or by
any barter arrangement they may be
able to make. Half the series was printed
by a British firm and half by a Dutch
house.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Sackfair”: Pension - day and old
Dainty’s ancient horse, Taffy, dreaming
in the ramshackle sulky outside the pub.
Taffy knows it will be an extended
session, but isn’t worried. Then Taff gets
thirsty, slews around, and lazily drags
the sulky
with the
s t r a pped
wheel
ski dding
across
the road
to the
water-
trough.
He drinks noisily. With water dripping
from his bottom lip he raises his head
and is about to meander back to the
shade when something attracts his atten-
tion. One ear falls forward inquisitively ;
then cocks with decision. His gait is
purposeful as he drags the vehicle to-
wards the store, where a child, sits in a
pram. Taffy’s head pushes in beneath
the pram-hood. Violent screams from
the child. Taffy wheels and goes back
to the pub. A mother dashes out of the
shop. “What happened! What hap-
pened!” The inevitable kid pipes up:
“That horse came straight up and bit him,
lady.” Frantic searchings for injuries.
Taffy is indifferent. All he did was pinch
the baby’s biscuit!
* * * ♦
“H.C.8.”: Engineers and geologists on
the Warragamba Dam (N.S.W-) found
more than sermons in the stones they
extracted from “test-holes” in the valley
and mountain-side. With diamond-
headed drills circular holes were bored
“He reckons I can't swim.”
to 200 ft. The process left cores
of stone in the holes. These were
lifted out in sections of up to
15ft. long, the length being determined
by the natural strata, where they existed,
or by snapping off the column by drilling
a hole a little off centre and putting a
charge in it. But what a story each stratum
tells —even to a layman! There are
Sections of shale with characteristics of
the kerosene-shale from which oil was
extracted at Newnes —which suggests that
the same seam reached down to this
valley. Other portions are composed of
Hawkesburv sandstone entirely. Because
the original site showed great depths of
this soft and porous rock it was found
necessary to move from that position to
a spot farther upstream. Some of the
column-like sections show thin layers of
ironstone, sprinkled with pellets of iron
like b.b.-shot. At least one column is
banded by a half-inch layer of quartz
chips and small stones, all polished
smooth by water that must have been
running through them millions of years
ago. Fish-fossils and shells offer further
proof that these mountains were under
water during the 400 million years they
are estimated to have been in existence.
Finally, there is the Narrabeen rock, the
foundation which the engineers sought
and found —at a depth of 200 ft. It is
hard, durable and almost completely
impervious to water. But its name
mystifies me. Obviously Narrabeen, the
seaside resort, has no connection with the
stone, and the word, my dictionary tells
me, is abo. for possum.
♦ * * *
“Mac Fergus”: Breasting the bar in
the bough shed at the Thargomindah
(W.Q.) Flying Doctor races, overheard
one patron to another: “See that fat little
joker over there? Well, he writes for
The Bulletin.” Moving around, I in-
vited the alleged scribe to name his
poison. “They tell me you write for The
Bulletin.” “That’s right,” he says.
“What’s the name?” 1 ask. “Mat’s
Mate,” he replies. “Strike me speechless,”
I said, “You do get around, don’tcher.
But where’s Mat?” He pointed to a big
belligerent-looking bloke wolfing tea and
sandwiches at the ladies’ afternoon-tea
booth. He was in copper’s clobber with
stripes on the arm. “Mate,” I said, “this
country around here is too small for
me.” I went across to me Daimler, hit
her up and headed for Nocundra, a nice
quiet pub, where there wasn’t a scribe
or anyone else in sight.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were camped on
a creek just out of Uranquinty one
summer and a fire broke out behind a
farmstead. Up we rushed, to find that
everyone was in town except an excited
old lady. We also found that the home-
stead was safe, the only building
threatened being a small weatherboard
shed apart from the rest. Mat and I
stopped the fire, except for a runner that
shot along some stubble towards the shed.
The old lady saw it and shrieked, “Oh,
stop it! There’s eighteen gallons of
benzine in there.” I yelled to Mat and
went away from that shed as fast as I
could, because the heat was already
peeling the paint on the walls. Mat
grabbed a wet bag and rushed at the fire
and belted and swore and sweated and
toiled like a mad thing, and I had to rush
back and give him a hand. As we
coughed up smoke and whaled away at
the fire I gasped, “What’s up with y’, y’
ruddy fool! Didn’t y’ hear what she
said about the benzine?” Mat dropped
his bag and bolted, with me after him.
When we were about 10 miles or half a
mile or something away, he turned his
big, red and black, singed and appalled
dial upon me and wheezed, “Cripes, 1
heard her say ‘eighteen gallons’ an’
thought she meant a coupler nines o’
beer ”
* * * *
“The Missus”: Rachel Henning in no
way exaggerates when she speaks of the
phenomenal speed with which grass grows
after rain as something that can be seen.
“ 'Try counting sheep!' And me a tallyman at the abattoirs!"
Though Rachel herself writes as if she
expects to be disbelieved and as if she
is almost apologising in advance for her
statement, I was reminded of my first
“wet” season when living at Gladstone
(Q.). I woke to find it raining and the
hillside, brown last night, already of a
decidedly green tinge—by midday it
really was green, and I, walking happily
in the drenching rain, found a patch of
the warm, wet earth where mushrooms
were growing. While I watched, the
white buttons, pushing upwards, unfurled
visibly into little white umbrellas. I
watched the incredible sight for some
time ; then, gathering my hat full, carried
home my tea. They were mushrooms all
right, but it seemed to me that they were
singularly flavorless compared with those
from the south which, growing slowly
to maturity, have soaked up some essence
of sun and warm, rich soil.
* * * *
“Bowen River”: I can’t agree with
“Kesem” when he says the Burdekin
plum-tree rarely grows to any height (B.
7/11 /’5l). Here a height of 40ft. is not
uncommon. The fruit on the lower
branches can usually be picked from
horseback by anyone young enough in
age or taste to want it. So far as I am
concerned, the spotted bower-birds and
the kurrawongs are welcome to it. Every
homestead garden here has citrus-trees
and mangoes, pawpaws, grapes and mul-
berries grow easily and well; but kids,
being kids, will always pick and eat
Burdekin-plums. A dishful set before the
same youngsters at mealtime would prob-
ably be as welcome as castor-oil. “K’s”
“succulent purple drupes” are nearly all
stone, and vilely astringent unless dead-
ripe.
* * * *
Clem Lack; A peculiarly Polynesian
contribution to navigation was the “wind
plan ” It was based on the legend that
Raka, god of the winds, in his playful
moods, blew through holes on the
horizon, “rua matongi” (W. W. Gill,
Myths and Songs of the South Pacific,
1876). In the Polynesian wind plan, the
“head” of the winds, “Marangai,” is in
the east, the tail, “Ika,” s.-w. and w., and
dies away into “Uru” (south-south-west),
the “feathery” wind. From the north-
north-east blew the Maoake-ta (the
“terrible Maoake”). The north-east,
Maoake, was the starting-point of the
cyclones which circled until at the “uru,”
there is a perfect calm, mocking the deso-
lation so lately wrought. The Poly-
nesian voyagers also had primitive but
very effective navigational charts pieced
together with sticks and twine, showing
winds, currents and sailing routes. The
canoes were not necessarily cramped;
in their way they were as great an achieve-
ment in marine architecture as the Viking
longships, and just as seaworthy. The
largest could seat up to 100 or more
paddlers, with space for the women and
children, a store of coconuts and the
inevitable pigs. The Polynesian long
canoe, with elaborately-carved prow of
kura, the sacred frigate-bird, could sail
almost in the eye of the wind—the
problem which baffled the Phoenician
and other classical voyagers and was not
solved by the Europeans until long after
the Middle Ages. A hundred years
before the first recorded Viking raid on
the Dorset coast of England, Polynesian
sea rovers were making over thousands
of square miles of ocean voyages which,
in Dr. Wood’s striking phrase, make the
Odyssey seem like an incident.
“Gravelsnatcher”; Hold hard, “Kros.”
You’ve got your lines tangled (B.
7/11/’5l). I didn’t say that rains, tem-
perature, rich food and the brightness
or dullness of the day influence breeding.
I said some of these factors may deter-
mine the breeding season. That’s a
totally different statement. Once that
season commences the animals or birds
act in a perfectly normal manner. If it
is in their nature to produce four eggs
in that season they do so. If they norm-
ally hatch out two or three broods in a
season, then they follow that pattern once
the breeding stimulus has been provided.
It is that stimulus which follows the par-
ticular seasonal condition to which the
species responds. But if, having re-
sponded to that stimulus, the birds or
animals proceeded to produce more and
bigger broods or litters than normal,
to produce them at shorter intervals and
to continue to produce them until the
entire colony perishes, then we are justi-
fied in seeking some other cause for this
strange behavior. That is what happened
in the case of the lemmings. Whatever
affected them affected, too, the animals
that preyed on them. I’m prepared to
accept the scientific explanation that that
something was an excess of vitamins,
* * * *
“Fysshe”: One of the small boys at
our children’s home noticed something
shining on the ground. Investigating, he
found that a trap-door spider had appro-
priated somebody’s lost sixpence to form
the door of its home. The spider was
soon doorless. But we would like to
know if such spiders make a habit of
collecting stray foreign objects to assist
in their building operations—anyone en-
lighten us?
* * ♦ ♦
“Chuck”; The kid on my third
shearing-stand this season demanded the
best of everything and growled about the
shed and the sheep all the way through.
We started on lambs. When we got to
the ewes his grumbling grew so constant
it was accepted as part of the routine.
Though small, and good cutters, the ewes
were not to his liking. He preferred
lambs. He liked his catching-pen kept
full, someone to be continually on hand
with the tar-pot, and he couldn’t see why
the blazes any ewes should have horns.
When I ran in the wethers the growling
rose in earnest, the kid setting the standard
for the others. At pay-off he lined up
confidently and asked; “How much
bonus?” “No bonus.” He stood up
belligerently. What! He’d shorn all my
sheep for a lousy £7 19s. a 100 and
tucker while I’d get more than that out
of it myself! Me! And I’d only done
the shed work! Besides which I wouldnt
miss the bonus hardly, while he had to
work for a living. I got off with no
more than abuse, but doubtless am no«
added to the list of skinflints on whose
farms he “ain’t never goin’ to work no
more.”
THE BUSHRANGER.
Bushranger he was, I tell you, and his loot was
a royal swag,
For I saw him ride to the westward with the
sun in his saddlebag.
He told me himself, and proudly, he’d roped it
out of the sky,
And why should a red-headed roving lad be
telling me a lie?
He was riding a reefing chestnut with sun in its
every hair,
A lad red-brown as the baking plain, with his
noticing sky-blue stare.
He said next time 1 saw him he’d have the moon
in his sleeve —
So stay with me then in the twilight, for I see
that you disbelieve.
You’ll hear the mopoke’s sour “Who spoke?”
and you’ll see him come again,
Astride of a moon-whjte waler, with the stars
on his bridle-rein.
s.a.
AINSLIE ANDERSON.


“Chuck”: It was at a bush football
final. The teams were fairly evenly
matched, and banter and insults had been
bandied between the two townships for
weeks. One team tried a ring-in, was
discovered, arguments developed, and on
the day of the match feeling ran high.
From the boundary old Jack watched a
scrimmage for the ball and saw the kick
given to the opposing side. Play moved
on and blue guernsey and red met to
discuss what had happened. Unfortu-
nately old Jack mistook the explanatory
gestures o f
the hated red
guernsey, and
with a bellow
charged i n
and landed a
fist on the
wearer’s jaw.
A couple of
s p e ctators
raced in to
grab old Jack,
were misunderstood, and in no time
blokes poured on to the arena. Inside
two minutes there was a lovely all-in go.
Jack punched his would-be rescuers, the
rescuers punched everybody else, players
fought their opponents, their supporters
and themselves, and somebody donged
the umpire. Fifteen minutes later the
game was resumed and from the boundary
old Jack squinted from half-closed eyes,
bruised and happy. Jack is nudging
eighty.
* * ♦ *
“Old-timer”: A lot of people who hear
some old bushwhacker or other say, “Send
it down, Huie,” when rain is falling, take
it as an irreverent appeal to God. It
isn’t. It comes, like so many other tradi-
tional things, from Riverina. The
original Huie was manager of Canally,
down the ’Bidgee from Balranald, 40 or
more years ago, and the saying arose
one wet shearing season which followed
a dry spell. The greasies, of course,
didn’t want the rain, but neither Huie nor
the shedhands cared if it rained for a
week, and when the manager looked out
at the weeping skies the shedhands
greeted him with “Send it down, eh,
Huie?” This, in course of years, became
an appeal to the heavens. Who told me?
Well, boy and youth I rode or camped
over most of the Balranald-Euston
country, and the other week I happened
to pull in for a spell at Leura, on the
N.S.W. Blue Mountains, and there, spry
and chippier as ever, was old Mrs. Huie.
I didn’t know who she was. The
mountain districts were dry and burning
and I happened to say, “Gripes, we want
old Huie here.” She was on it like a
shot, and for the rest of that night we
relived the old days.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Annual migrations of the
Kimberley tribes to the W.A. coastal
regions round Derby (B. 21/11/’5l) had
a counterpart in the three-yearly trek of
South Queensland abos to the Bunya
Mountains of the South Bumett.
Etiquette demanded that the visitors be
allowed free access to tire bunya-nuts,
which hung in abundance every three
years. Even the Dawson River blacks,
with whom the South Bumett natives
were always at war at other times, were
allowed to gorge themselves on the nuts.
Even from the 350-miles-distant Maranoa
River a dog-poor contingent of western
abos arrived and assumed aldermanic
proportions before they started on the
home journey. For an incursion at any
other stage of the three-yearly cycles the
invaders would have paid with their
kidney fat, for the South Burnett natives
were undoubtedly Australia’s most war-
like natives, possessing the knack of fight-
ing in concert in platoon formation, with
ability to maintain their advance even in
the face of rifle fire.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”; Torres Straits Island
natives have their own names for Euro-
pean acquaintances, I deputed old Tipote
to recall the departing manager of the
trading station. Tipote yelled something
to a native in the middle distance, who
relayed something to a compatriot walking
with the manager, who then retraced his
steps. Noticing that the boss’s European
name had not been mentioned I grilled
Tipote till, with much shuffling, he told
me that the boss’s nickname meant, in
the native tongue, “He who runs about
“Could I have the note again, please ?”
like a mad feller.” I then learned that I
was known in the native tongue as “Little
feller boss with big rump—’e dance like
jelly-fish too much.”
* * * *
“Metax”: A female cat living at Ulvei -
stone (Tas.) has been bringing home a
rabbit for food each day. Now she has
adopted a live bunny and there is a
family of one bunny and four kittens
lining up for each meal.
* * * *
“The Missus”: It’s Dad’s yarn as told
to the kids. His homeward way, when a
boy, from the village school took him
past a patch of virgin bush about four
or five chains across and surrounded by
cleared paddocks. Frequently he en-
countered a mob of kangaroos—an old
buck and six or seven does, feeding on
the outskirts of the scrub. Invariably they
bounded off, always in the same direction,
and just as invariably his 10-year-old legs
failed to catch up with them. Then one
day Dad got cunning. The ’roos went
their usual way, he headed off round the
scrub in the opposite direction hoping to
intercept them. Presently, peeking from
behind a bush, he saw his quarry. The
old-man ’roo had them halted in a com-
pact group while he bent a listening ear
to the ground to try to detect Dad’s
footfalls.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Put me with those who
contend that a point on a tree travels
upwards as the tree grows older and
taller (B. 10/10/’5l). A pair of giant
poplar-trees reside in our home-paddock
a couple of chains from the house and
are a local landmark—they are 120 ft.
high and with a trunk span of 12ft.
"You asked for a policewoman to search you."
Near the house are four very old orange-
trees, huge ancients with a 2ft. girth.
Where the single telephone-wire— put
there a quarter of a century ago—enters
the paddock the insulator has been
screwed to a pole about Bft. high, from
which it slopes sharply to an insulator
fixed to a relatively-slender outside
branch on one of the poplars about
40ft. from the ground. Not only
would it have been absurd to have
climbed so high, but the slender branches
of the tree, notoriously brittle, would
certainly not have borne the weight of a
ladder had such a high one been avail-
able ; it is inaccessible from the centre
of the tree. Then the wire slopes steeply
down again to an insulator embedded
deeply in the trunk of one of the orange-
trees and about 10ft. high. It looks to
me as if the poplar-tree insulator is stiil
rising. The wire is certainly becoming
more taut.
* * * *
“Phil”: Philatelists the world over
were interested recently to learn that the
famous tortoise, Tu’i Malila, given to a
Tongan chief by Captain Cook in 1777,
still lives in the grounds of the Nukualofa
Palace, Tonga. The venerable beast was
presented as a mark of friendship between
Britain and Tonga. Tongans nowadays
regard it with marked respect and esteem,
raising it to the status of a chief. The
tortoise, from 1897 until 1942, was the
distinguishing watermark on the country’s
stamps, being thereby a reminder of die
gift from Cook, justifying the original
name Cook gave to the locality—the
Friendly Islands. The tortoise is well
over 170 years of age.
* * * *
“Fairf”: The road from Big Bill
Broughton’s farm to town would have
horrified a city motorist. Apart from the
ordinary bumps, ruts, ridges, holes and
bogs, there was the creek to be forded
and a place where the track skimmed a
50ft. drop. But Bill’s wife and grown-up
daughter never showed any signs of
nervousness, nor had they when he
brought the car through with a raging
bushfire on each side of the road ; not
to mention the time he crossed the second
creek with the flood completely hiding
the decking. It wasn’t until he drove
all the way to Sydney for the annual
holiday that he realised what it was to
be at the mercy of nervous back-seat
drivers. The traffic filled them with terror
—and they passed it on. Before the inner
suburbs were reached they had Bill as
nervous as a cat. It was: “000, be
careful. Dad.” “Look out for that bus.”
“There’s a big lorry coming up behind ;
I think he wants to pass us.” “No ; don’t
go any faster. Dad! ” In the city proper
the harassed driver drove very slowly,
very carefully and to a steady stream of
nervous warnings. Suddenly a man
stepped off the kerb and strolled across
the road. The horn screeched an alarm.
It was ignored. With the typical, blase
contempt of his kind the jaywalker
refused to step back, or even hurry. “The
maniac!” gasped Bill’s wife as he lifted
his foot off the brake. “I’d like to give
him in charge.” “I’d like to shout him
a beer,” commented the big fellow.
“What!” two feminine voices exclaimed
simultaneously. “Well,” grinned Bill,
“he had confidence in my driving,
anyhow.”
* * * -f
“B. A. Ker”: Our old friend the jute
sugarbag is no more ; it has been re-
placed by a calico usurper of extremely
doubtful durability. And with its passing
will go an old expression in building-
trade vernacular. The fellow who could
put up a fence, lay a bit of flooring, do
a few repairs, etc., could, and generally
did, carry his meagre tool-kit in the
familiar jute-bag—hence the synonym
for poor tradesman: “A sugarbag car-
penter.” A well-known building firm
once actually added to its ad. for men:
“No sugarbag tradesmen need apply.”
The expression has been applied to brick-
layers, but the origin was different. In
the days of the heavy jute cement-bag
few brickies renewed elaborate canvas
tool-bags ; a cement-bag was just as good.
The fellow who turned up with a sugar-
bag, then, was obviously the rawest of
newchums. Invention of the multi-walled
paper cement-bag changed all that. But
old prejudices die hard. I recall an old
brickie’s jubilation as he recounted an
experience on a new job: “The foreman
looks the team of brickies over. ‘All
right,’ he says, ‘All the sugarbag brickies
inside on the rough work; the ones with
proper bags I want on the facework.’
Next morning he’s waiting as we get our
tools out. ‘Today,’ he says, T want
things reversed: sugarbag brickies on the
facework and youse daub-artists on the
guts.’ The sugarbag brickies were all
blokes around my age; the mugs with
the flash bags hadn’t been at the game
long enough to wear a tool-bag out.”
* * !jc *
“Betcha”; Manpower shortage is so
acute outback that yesterday three of us
drove a rabbit-paddock that normally
could have used about 20 helpers. We’d
done lots of mattock- and shovel-work,
had most of the rabbits on the surface,
then found that neighbors were as flat-out
as ourselves. Suitably mounted, and each
armed with a stockwhip and dog, we
started. The 500 acres were rough, and a
couple of deep gorges inaccessible to the
horses held us a while, but with each
spurring back and forth on a long beet
we advanced to the last bare hill where
the bunnies swarmed ahead like ants on
a sugar-tin. Highlight of the event was
when Trigger’s dog ran amuck, charged
ahead to the yard and turned the multi-
tude back upon us. Inside two minutes
three voices were worn to rasping whispers
and there followed a mad barrage of
whip-cracking. Then, waving Sandy to
do what he could with my section, I dived
out of sight through the fence, tore hell-
bent for the top, trussed the dog with a
bootlace and handful of wild creeper, and
savagely dropped him into a washout of
stinging-nettles for a period of repen-
tence. Without the mong’s interference
our three-man drive should have been
highly successful, for, despite it, we yarded
over 400 bunnies.
* * * *
“Blime”; Pete put up the rails behind
his new horse, only to discover half an
hour later that the moke had dropped
them again and put himself into the crop-
paddock. Pete tried again, with the help
of a few wedges; when they proved
unavailing he got to work and exchanged
the rails for a good strong gate. Twenty-
four hours later the horse was shoving
the loop of fencing-wire off the gate-post
and again letting himself through. He
was followed by four other neddies, nine
cows and a couple of dozen sheep which
had soon learned to appreciate his
superior ability. Pete blasphemously
drove them all back, discarded the
fencing-wire, drilled a hole and pegged
the gate. The peg was dead easy to the
equine gate-opener. So was Pete’s
brainwave—a sliding-bar. After that
came a patent drop-catch, then a
chain-and-knob, but still the nag
led his followers into the crop.
Pete bawled to heaven for assist-
ance, and vowed vengeance. Last night I
watched him turn the rebel into its pad-
dock, put heavy drag-chains around top
and bottom of the gate, and fasten two
massive padlocks. He stood by a few
minutes, shooed the watching nag, and,
when it turned, stooped quickly and
deposited the keys beneath a rock. “Only
lose ’em cartin’ ’em around,” he ex-
plained, as T*e made off, “but, cripes, I
can’t le* hat beggar see where I hide
’em!”
THE RECLUSE.
A most retiring gentleman,
Dislikes publicity,
Dodges the spotlight—when he can,
Prefers his privacy.
A very handsome fellow, too,
Well tailored, all admit;
But always out to callers who,
Close to him roam,
Poke round his home
And want to stare at it.
Oh, yes, he’s most superior,
No mixer; most aloof;
Won’t answer knocks upon his door,
Or stones upon the roof.
He has a notice, I am told,
Writ up on his estate
That he will prosecute the bold;
But should they storm his gate:
“The master is engaged today.
Too busy. Not about.
Beg pardon, sir—please go away!
He can’t be seen.
I’ll say you’ve been.
Mr. Lyrebird is out.”
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


The only Trustee company haring
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Before you go abroad
take this wise precaution • • .
UNSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
■*— l worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated m Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St„ Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398*402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Clyde Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.t
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
Clyde Engineering Co. & Subsidiaries.
1947 . . 39,121 5 6 25,038 123,028
Premiums, new issues, £BO3B .. 1
Reserves of new subsids., £13,513 [ 132,457
Added to intangibles, £10,119 .. f
Unexplained net reduct’s, £1998 ]
1948 .. 58,453 5 6 34,500 156,410
Share premiums, £10,606 .. .. 167,016
Net addition reserves, £18,091 .. 185,107
Net addition intangibles, £6731 .. 178,376
Clyde Industries.
1949 .. 38,693 5 6 54,158 162,911
Added intangibles, £1975 .. .. 160,936
Net reduction reserves, £492 .. 160,444
1950 .. 103,650 5 7 68,036 196,058
Surplus sale assets, £58,720 .. 254,778
Revaluation assets, etc., £486,681 .. 741,459
Net unexplained reduction, £8282 .. 733,177
1951 .. 188,114 5 10 114,853 806,438
t After deducting intangibles, now £12,786.
This heavy-engineering business, which
ran into a patch of bad weather in the
1930’5, turned the comer in 1943, and
has made encouraging progress since.
Originally the Clyde Engineering Co.,
engaged mainly on heavy jobbing work,
the undertaking recently developed into
a holding co. and group of subsidiaries
engaged in a wide range of manufactur-
ing and merchandising activities, which
gave earnings a fillip that the heavy
section had failed to provide.
After a long, dry spell the ords. came
into the picture with 5 p.c. p.a. for the
three years to 1946, followed by 6 p.c. p.a.
for the next three years, then 7 p.c. and
10 p.c. last term. Paid capital, which
was £300,000 in 1946, had climbed to
£1,448,525 at June 30, 1951, in 300,000
first and a like number of second prefs.,
both 5 p.c. cumulative, and 848,525 ords.
—the last £212,131 was put up at par
by those on the ord. register about 10
months ago.
Last term the parent disposed of its
textile interests (McLeod, Bolton and Co.
Pty., Trugrade Pty. and Australian
Stockinette Pty.) at a profit of £58,720,
which was added to reserves, which also
benefited by £486,681 from a revaluation
of freeholds, etc. The parent also sold
its interest in Fairey Clyde Aviation Co.
to the other partner in the venture, Fairey
Aviation Co., of England. The operat-
ing subsidiaries are now;
Clyde Engineering Co. Pty., which took
oyer the heavy-engineering works at Gran-
ville (N.S.W.). Paul and Gray Pty.
(N.S.W.), ship’s chandlers, etc., which also
has subsidiaries of its own in Queensland
and New Zealand. Clyde Batteries Pty.
(N.S.W.), all types acid batteries. John
Carruthers and Co. Pty. (N.S.W.),
mechanical, electrical and* earth-moving
equipment. Green Point Shipbuilding and
Engineering Co. (N.S.W.), ship-repairers,
engineers, etc. A. C. Willard and Co.
(N.S.W.), stainless-steel, chemical and food-
processing plants. Material Handling Pty.,
Ltd. (NS.W.), distributes products made
under licence from Automotive Transporta-
tion Co. (U.S.), and handles Italian-made
tractors and prefabricated dwellings, etc.
Clyde Sales Pty., Ltd. (N.S.W.), has
branches in the principal capital cities, and
is the merchandising outlet for some of the
subsidiaries.
All units of the group reported bigger and
better trading last term. Exactly what
each contributed to the pool isn’t dis-
closed, but the two best earners appear
to be the Paul and Gray business and
Clyde Engineering. The last-mentioned,
which recorded losses of £15,326 and
£31,785 (to which the Green Point Co.
also contributed) in 1950 and 1949
respectively, made a satisfactory profit
and paid a div., thanks partly to pro-
duction of new diesel-electric locos.
turned out under arrangements with
General Motors Corp. (U.S.).
Turnover of the group exceeded
£5,500,000, an increase of about 27 p.c.,
which more than took care of the growth
in wage and other costs. The gain in
trading profit before provision for depre-
ciation and taxation was £161,038:
Consolidated Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Trading profit .. .. £111,956 £200,990 £362.028
Less Depreciation . . 44,486 55,190 70,214
Tax . . - . 28.777 42,150 103,700
Net profit .. .. 38,693 103,650 188,114
The £188,114 of net profit (up £84,464)
covered pref. requirements (£30,000) and
18.6 p.c. on average ord. capital (calcu-
lated on dividend paid basis), compared
with 12.6, 3.4, 11.3, 10.7 and 8.9 p.c.
back to 1946. So nothing had to be
strained to pay the increased, yet
generous, dividend. The £73,261 that re-
mained lifted reserves £806,438 in excess
of intangibles (£12,786).
All-round expansion is the feature of
balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Figures,
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Pref. . . £150,000 £449,800 £600,000 £600,000
Ordinary . . 530,328 636,394 636,394 848,525
Outside interests 13,173 13,223 13,933
Overdraft .. 652,018 756,447 689,392 743,985
Creditors . . 423,406 371,817 661,672 827,148
Final div. . . 36,370 25,456 42,427
Freeholds, etc. 244,990 311,357 323,917 860,447
Plant . . 321,529 646,868 709,488 828,446
Stocks . . 965,103 1,002,297 1,084,189 1,429,533
Debtors .. 362,605 389,078 537,962 704,809
Investments . . 10,000 , 50,000 50,000 11,000
Cash, etc. .. 34,608 27,862 21,599 34,288
Intangibles .. 28,601 35,154 37,307 12,786
The year’s fresh capital, together with an
extra £54,593 from secured creditors and
an additional £265,476 from trade
creditors, etc., went mainly into stocks
(up £345,344), book debts (up £166,847),
and plant (up £118,958), all partly on
account of the new diesel-electric loco,
production. Of the growth of £536,530
in freeholds, etc., £486,681 was in respect
of the writing-up already referred to.
The more-or-less liquid surplus (£566,070)
was £148,840 stronger.
When the books closed the co.’s un-
fulfilled contracts exceeded £10,000,000,
and further all-round expansion of the
undertaking is planned. Before the end
of 1952 it is hoped to turn out three of
the new-type locos per month—they have
largely superseded steam locos in America
because of the big saving in operating
costs. Subject to official consent, more
ord. capital is to be issued presently,
amount and terms yet to be announced.
The price of the ords. eased from
445. 3d. early in November to 375.
last week. At the lower figure the
immediate return is 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The first prefs. at 19s. and
the seconds at 17s. 6d. yield 5.3 p.c. and
5.7 p.c. respectively. Net tangible cover
is £7 10s. 3d. firsts, £6 10s. 3d. seconds
and 395. ords.
Amalgamated Textiles (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 23,582 9.23 p.c.= 22,064 1,518 52,920
1943.. 28,162 9.23 ~ „ 22,063 6,099 59,019
1944.. 19,982 7.69 ~ „ 18,390 1,592 60,611
Unexplained reduction, £4O .. ~ 60,561
1945.. 27,659 9.23 p.c.= 22,069 5,590 66,161
1946.. 30,294 9.23 ~ „ 22,069 8,225 74,386
1947.. 48,931 12.3 ~ „ 29,424 19,507 93,893
1948.. 56,641 13.8 „ „ 33,102 23,539 117,432
1949.. 66,933 15.38,, „ 36,782 30,151 147,583
Special tax provision, £24,500 .. 123,083
1950.. 60,169 15.38,, „ 36,782 23,387 146,470
From special tax provision, £24,500.. 170,970
Share premiums, £38,042 .. .. 209,012
Loss.
1951.. 35,077 4.6 p.c.= 14,896 159,039
Three months or so before the close of
accounts the board considered the posi-
tion good enough to pay an interim div.
of 4.6 p.c., despite the sharp drop in
wool prices from their March peak. But
the market for the staple continued to
decline, with prices fluctuating over a
wide bracket, and a loss of £35,077
showed up when the books were ruled off
at September 30, and no final div. was
paid. That was because it was decided
to write down the book-value of stocks
by £160,503. Before the war there had
also been trouble with stocks, but for
entirely different reasons. Here is what
the board says about the current posi-
tion :
In view of the recent heavy fall in wool
prices, as compared with costs, and the
consequent instability of trade and the
resistance of buyers to place further orders,
coupled with, in some cases, temporary
inability of customers to pay for past
deliveries, your directors see no option but
to take this course [writing-down of stocks],
and accordingly it is regretted that no final
dividend can be recommended.... It is
necessary to purchase wool-tops three to six
months ahead (according to type of manu-
facture), at the then current market price.
At no time have stocks been excessive.
A year ago they appeared “at or below
cost,” at September 30 last they figured
“at the lower of cost or market value.”
Provided the cut has been deep enough,
the board’s action should prove in the
best interests of shareholders. To nibble
at the problem might seriously impair
dividend-paying capacity for years, especi-
ally as trading in textiles looks like be-
coming progressively more difficult.
The co.’s mills are at Albury, Orange
and Goulburn, a lot of new plant has
been installed since the war, the older
equipment is reported in good order, and
the worsted cloth and other products
turned out offer—according to current
reports in the trade—good value for
money.
The co.’s p. and 1. figures present this
picture;
1949. 1950. 1951.
Gross earnings ~ £158,632 £173,994 £63,9-1 Of
Letts —-
Exes. .. .. 47,638 60,646 86,653
Depreciation.. .. 11,244 11,364 12,334
Taxation .. .. 32,817 41,815 Nil
Net profit .. .. 66,933 60,169 85,077$
t After writing down stocks by £160,503. $ Loss.
Appearances are that trade held fairly
well last term, and that the management
kept a firm hold upon controllable out-
goings. The 1950 profit was equal to
25.1 p.c. on capital as against 28, 23.6,
20.4, 12.6, 11.5 and 8.3 p.c. back to 1944.
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1950 divs. averaged 11 p.c.
To provide more working funds of its
own, the co. gathered £143,415 of fresh
share capital, which brought with it
£38,042 of share premiums, in January
last—in the light of events the board will,
of course, find it difficult to justify the
premium:
19M. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. . . £239,075 £239,075 £382,520
Overdraft .. .. 43,216 197,827 284,952
Sundry creditors .. 60,304 148,113 137,215
Tax reserve .. .. 63,500 17,500 4,181
Final div 25,747 25,747 2,759
Averaging fund . . 58,849
Freeholds . . . . 68,770 77,920 88,596
Plant, etc. . . .. 110,310 129.732 143,436
Stocks 292,909 388,223 484,785
Book debts .. 141,886 203,266. 253,761
Cash, etc —, 93 90
The new share and premium money,
together with a further £87,125 from the
bank, went mainly into stocks (up
£96,562 net), book debts (up £50,495),
plant (up £13,704) and freeholds (up
£ 10,676). The more-or-less liquid surplus
was £107,134 stronger at £309,529, due
entirely to introduction of new share
capital, etc. When the books closed the
bank and sundry creditors had 15s. 7d.
in the business for every pound belonging
to shareholders, compared with 17s. 9d.
a year earlier.
The immediate outlook is one of tran-
sition from a seller’s to a buyer’s market.
Consumer resistance is growing, retailers
have adopted a hand-to-mouth policy,
as they usually do in such circumstances,
thus leaving the manufacturer to shoulder
much of the risk associated with stocks.
Operating costs continue to climb, selling-
prices are controlled, and competition
from overseas is expected to strengthen.
The problems of the management are
thus numerous and complicated. Still,
subject to unforeseen developments, the
possibilities of the co. being able to show
a profit and pay a div. at next balance are
encouraging.
Last week sellers asked 14s. 3d. for
the f.-p. 10s. lOd. shares, which had sold
at 18s. 3d. before publication of the
accounts. At 14s. 3d. the return would
be 7.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 15s. 4d. per share,
Coote and Jorgensen, Ltd.
, —* — Dividends
y-^-Pref.— N R e -
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c, Olds. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 8,413 1400 10 p.c. = 4.000 16,043
From inner reserves, net £13,616 .. 29.659
Revaluation reserve, £70,147 .. 99,806
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 .'. 59,806
1947.. 9,225 1400 10 p.c. = 4,290 63,335
Share-issue exes., £8852 .. .. 54,483
1948.. 37.129 1400 2161 10 p.c. = 20,945 67,106
Share premiums, £22,750 .. .. 89,856
Share-issue exes., £1627 .. .. 88,229
1949.. 44.391 1400 3425 10 p.c. = 25,589 102,206
1950.. 48,214 1400 5000 10 p.c. = 30,000 114,020
Share-issue exes., £11,250 .. .. 102,770
1951. .61,512 1400 5000 8 p.c. = 37,315 120,567
* After deducting intangibles, now £39,135
The drop in the div. is not indicative
of the trend in the trade, or of the
future possibilities of the scrip; it is
a reflex of the big programme of expan-
sion, not yet complete, that has called
for large capital outlay on new premises
and plant that haven’t yet had an oppor-
tunity to show what they can do in the
way of earnings.
Established in 1928 as a small private
concern, the proprietors built up a
growing trade in production of auto-
motive power-transmission parts and in
general engineering, repair and con-
struction work. The public became
interested in 1937, when paid capital was
£60,000, of which £20,000 carried a
cumulative 7 p.c, The ords. had an
average of 6.6 p.c. for the next three
years, followed by a steady 10 p.c. for
the nine years to 1950, and then 8 p.c.
last term.
With war out of the way, the manage-
ment set out to take advantage of new
opportunities that a sheltered and expand-
ing market offered. The Government
annexe adjoining the co.’s factory at
Alexandria (near Sydney), together with
some plant, was bought in 1946. But
production didn’t get much benefit from
the deal till 1948,. when turnover went up
with a rush, and £200,000 of fresh capital
(50,000 5 p.c. prefs. and 150,000 ords.)
was gathered to help finance the growth.
It wasn’t enough, and a further 50,000
£1 5 p.c. prefs. and 70,000 £1 ords.,
which brought with them £22,750 of
share premiums, were issued during the
1949 term. Meanwhile, it was decided
to manufacture original power-transmis-
sion units, including full-gearing equip-
ment (all previously imported) for locally-
made motor vehicles, etc. The old
premises were too small to house the
additional plant, so a new factory, now
well on the way to completion, was set
up on a 30-acre block at Fairfield, to
which the old plant is ultimately to be
transferred.
Early in 1950 450,000 new £1 ords.
were issued at par, two for three, lifting
paid capital to £750,000 in 20,000 first
7 p.c. and 100,000 second 5 p.c. prefs.
and 750,000 ords. Another £750,000 will
be required to see the co.’s programme
to completion, the chairman says. It is
proposed to offer this amount of scrip,
subject to Capital Issues consent, to those
on the ord. register early in 1952. Con-
version of the 7 p.c. prefs. into ords.
(terms yet to be announced)' is also under
consideration. All this would lift paid
capital to £1,620,000, and still more will
be required.
Only a small part of the new plant
contributed to last term’s earnings, which
increased by £64,996, reaching £159,616
before provision was made for deprecia-
tion (£40,500, up £16,500) and taxation
(£57,604, up £35,104). The net result
was thus £13,398 better at £61,512, which
covered pref. requirements (together
£6400) and 11.8 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 13.9, 15.4, 16 and
18.2 p.c. back to 1947.
The £450,000 of fresh capital, together
with surplus earnings and provisions and
an extra £70,876 from sundry creditors,
etc., went mainly into premises (up


Telephone*: FA 2176 (3 lines) Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Dongles M. Corrle, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
s
i
£
Step out
COOLER
in a light
LINIA
BELT
Keep a trim, smart appearance
and stay cool. The light Linia
Belt overcomes that slack, re<
Jaxed condition which induces
heat and exhaustion.
Anatomically correct in desigrt
and /nade from a patented
woven Tricot that supports
and massages with every
movement, the Linia Belt
is strongly recommended
by medical men. Linia
Belts are light,
porous and easily
laundered.
Write today for the free illustrated Linia Belt
booklet to the address below
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Australia only by of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE Cl. Tel.: FAB3ST
Branches throughout the British Isles, France, Belgium, Holland, etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE
Australian Provincial Assurance
ASSOCIATION LiTD.
Address delivered by the Chairman, Mr. Leslie James Thompson,
to the Shareholders at the 40th Annual General Meeting.
In moving the adoption of the Balance Sheet and Directors’ Report on the
accounts for the year, I desire to point out some of the salient features therein,
and submit my comments on the year’s operations.
NEW BUSINESS
The new business written, less reassurances, amounted to £1,678,388, yielding
annual premiums totalling £58,361. These figures represent another and larger
increase in new business, the respective figures of the previous year being £1,202,784
and £42,298. . . ' ,
In my last Address I mentioned that it was the Board’s policy to discriminate
in the type of new business written so as to aim at the classes of business
involving low administrative costs. This policy has been maintained during the
I past year, but the Board authorised the writing of a greater volume of business
than hitherto, and, whilst this imposes a strain on the year’s surplus, it was.
nevertheless, considered advantageous from the standpoint of increasing the income
of succeeding years, thereby assisting to counteract the rising level of costs due
to present inflationary conditions.
I am pleased to report to Shareholders that the average amount per policy
written during the year amounted to £672 compared with £562 for the previous
year. This average has moved upwards from £274 in 1946 to £672, and the
average annual premium per policy has similarly moved from £lO to £23, which
is rather important in these inflationary times.
INTEREST RATE
The effective rate of interest earned on the Statutory Funds (including
reserves) was almost £3/5/- per cent. (3.247 p.c., to be exact), and compares
with £3/8/- per cent, last year, a decrease of 3/- per cent. The cause of
this decline is attributable almost entirely to the repayment, on the Ist January,
1951, of the 4 per cent. Commonwealth Loans maturing at varying dates, but
for which the Government had the right of repayment at any time after
31st December, 1950. Your Board considered that the new loan at 3i p.c.
which was issued for the purpose of either converting or redeeming these 4 p.c.
loans was below market rates and interest tendency, and, consequently, we chose
to accept repayment rather than conversion. It is gratifying to report that the
whole amount of over £400,000 was re-invested more favorably in existing
loans on the market. The issue of subsequent Commonwealth Loans at £3/15/-
per cent, interest confirms the wisdom of the Board’s action in not having
converted into a 3J per cent, loan maturing in 1964.
It is difficult to understand the financial policy of Die Government generally
in regard to the question of interest rates during the past year. Rising costs
and serious inflationary tendencies should have provided the warning that interest
rates were altogether too low to act as an incentive to the public to save at a
time when purchasing power so greatly exceeded goods and commodities in demand.
It has, in the past, been usual to expect that, as wages and interest are of
the same economic nature, they should rise and fall together, and it is certain
that this would have been the case except for our economic planners who, while
endeavouring to control one thing, cannot always see the effect on its counterpart,
with the result that the desired balance in the economy is not always attained.
While on this subject, I must point out again this year, as I did in my
previous address to Shareholders, that the least profitable of the Association’s
investments are those in office buildings and residential flats due to rent control,
ever-increasing management and repair costs, land tax at ceiling rates and
unwarranted delays in hearing and determining rent-fixing applications. Over the
past three years, your Board has disposed of many of ite properties in N.S.W.
and Victoria, and will continue to do so while these conditions exist.
One cannot cease to wonder what are the actuating motives of a Government’s
policy that must inevitably discourage this form of investment by large financial
institutions, which, in the past, have provided so many of the existing city
office buildings.
EXPENSE RATE
Returning to the review of the year’s figures, commissions and expenses of
management in the Life Assurance Fund Account absorbed 25 p.c. of the premium
income, or 20 p.c. of the total income, compared with 23 p.c. and 18 p.c.
respectively for the previous year.
MORTALITY EXPERIENCE
The mortality experience was again favourable, death claims being 50 p.c.
of the amount expected according to the valuation tables used, as compared with
52 p.c. last year.
ACTUARIAL VALUATION
In arriving at the surplus for the year in the Life Fund, the basis of the
Actuarial valuation is the same as has been in use for some years past. Assurances
were valued by the net premium method using the O m Mortality tables with
2| p.c. interest.
SURPLUS LIFE DEPARTMENT
Shareholders will see from the printed accounts that the Life Assurance
business yielded a surplus for the year of £88,078, compared with £71,829
for the previous year. The Directors propose to allot therefrom a Bonus to
Policyholders costing £64,864 ; also they propose to transfer £lO,OOO to Property
and Investment Reserve, which follows the Board’s practice during the past three
years, and this will raise the amount of that Reserve to £40,000. After
transferring a small amount of £4,200 to Profit and Loss Account, the Board
proposes to carry the balance of £9,014 forward in the Life Assurance Funds
for the purpose of enabling a continuance of its policy of expanding new business.
PROFIT AND LOSS
The surplus from the General Fund which, in addition to a profit from the
investment of Shareholders’ capital and reserve funds, includes the profit from
the Accident Department business, amounted to £40,221. This figure has
been arrived at after adding £4,000 to the special reserves for Accident Department
business, thus raising that reserve to £lB,OOO. Despite heavier expenses
and provision for income tax at the higher rates recently imposed by Parliament,
the result represents an increase of £3,919.
Accident Department premiums totalled £73,816, showing a marked increase
of £14,609, while, on the other hand, claims proportionate to premiums were
slightly less than in the previous year. Interest, dividends and rent (less rates,
taxes, expenses and income tax) amounted to £34,976, and represented an increase
of £725 for the year.
Turning to the Profit and Loss Account, it will be seen that the net profit
was £44,421, made up of the transfers of £4,200 from Life Assurance Funds
and £40,221 from General Funds. This is £4,471 more than last year, and is
equal to a little over 12| p.c. on the share capital.
With the balance brought forward from last year of £3,714, there is available
for appropriation a total of £48,135. In view of the very healthy state of the
reserves, which have been built up over past years, your Board considers that the
time has arrived for an increase in the dividend to Shareholders from 5 p.c.
to 6 p.c. This will require £21,600, leaving £26,535, of which it is proposed
to transfer £13,000 to General Reserve (raising that reserve to £130,000) and
carry forward to next year the sum of £13,535.
RESERVES
Regarding the subject of reserves against Share Capital, these, now totalling
£190,618 and consisting of General Reserve £130,000 and Investments Fluctuation
Reserve £60,618, are equal to half the paid-up Capital.
ASSETS
CONCLUSION
Before concluding this Address, I must make reference to the postscript in the
Directors’ Report announcing with profound regret the passing away of Edmund
S. Paul. The late Mr. Paul became a Director of the Association in 1926,
and the following year was elected Chairman of Directors, which position he
occupied until his death on the 12th November, 1951.
Until his illness of recent years, he gave unstintingly of his time and ability
to the advancement of the Association, and, with what measure of success the
present strong financial position of your Company* amply testifies better than
any words of mine. He was a man of great business and financial capacity,
and this, added to his determination in carrying out a planned policy, waa largely
responsible for the solid growth of the Association over the past 20 years.
In conclusion, I should like to express Shareholders’, as well as the Board’s,
deep appreciation of the loyal services of the General Manager, Chief Medical
Officer, Actuary, Branch Managers, Agency Manager, Secretary, Accountant, heads
of departments and indeed of all the staff without exception who have worked
long and arduously to meet the growing demands of the business.
£108,072), plant (up £197,577)
and book debts (up £76,497):
1949. 1950. i9ji.
Paid capital .. m.mo 420.000 870.000
Overdraft .. 89,102 201,283 198.104
Creditors, etc.* 111,589 114.545 185,421
Annexe liability 203,957 158,813 137,162
Final div. ~ 14,089 is.ooo 25,315
Land and build-
frf 8 •; •• Hcona
Plant, etc. .. 416,686 448,331 645,908
shares .. .. 1,675 1,675 1,675
S ■ • • • 344-860 339,458 470.720
Debtors . . 102,873 158,348 284,845
intangibles .. 27.979 27.885 39,135
* Includes provision for taxation.
The growth in themoreor-less
’Nmdsurplus (£161,238) was
ti 50,896.
, Provided wage and other costs
(still spiralling) don t get out of
tf n( \ overa out l OC) k f° r
shareholders is as encouraging
as it can be m the present fluid
situation, Still, the prop for
capital is slender, which means
that net earnings and divs. will
remain sensitive to trading
conditioiß.
At 355. the ords. return
4.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The 7 per-cents at 275. yield
5.2 p.c, and the 5 per-cents, are
priced at par. At June 30 net
tangiWe cover was £49 10s. 7d
fif*, £9 Id* seconds and
_3s. 3d. ords.
Perm’n’t Trustee Co. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Sept.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
’4i.. iop.c.= iij)oo 669 73341
’42..ii. 177 io „ „ii,ooo 177 74,018
’43.. 10,900 10 ~ ~ 11,000 73,918
’44..12,170 10 „ .. 11,000 1170 75,088
’45.. 13.332 10 ~,.11.0001 Aao ~ „ n
>46 To £ i; o0 c o onrt( ~ '
To staff fund, P £i6so' ..} 74176,511
’47. .i0,? 15 Bp.c.= 8,800 1915 78.426
’48..10,832 8 „„ 8,800 2032 80,458
To renovations, etc., £lOOO .. 79,458
’49.. 11, 769 Bp.c.= s.soo 2969 82.427
To renovations, etc., £3OOO .. 79,427
’so.. 12,035 Bp.c.= s.soo 3235 82,662
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 80,662
’5i T ° eXr^pc^-ee^o 000 -' ll'tfe
This 63-year-old ’trustee co.’ is
today rendering an essential,
extensive and efficient service to
its clients below cost, and share-
holders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) are showing
a net return which is less than
can be had from Government
securities. The sharp drop of
over 45 DC (£55011 in the latest
P* c * vt-’-mi; m me latest
profit figure was a consequence
ot the pressure of sharply-fising
costs (chiefly inflated wage-rates)
against a ceiling of fixed corpus
and other commission charges.
The £6543 of profit, lowest in
the last 39 years, came wholly
from “earnings on shareholders’
?™ funds and even these earn-
mgs have been encroached on to
assist in meeting expenses of the
chairman
ousincss, me cnairman
Said.
The tussle between costs and
, . .
the gams from an expanding
volume 0 f business has been a
. . . ....
relentless one since the beginning
Wnrlrl War IT Mow cock
h ‘ v "°on die race, and "‘a
bill now before N.S.W. Par-
liament which will permit
increased charges for handling
es t a tes—is placed on the Statute
Book, it is likely that costs will
further lengthen their lead. And
then much will depen d upon the
Government’s success, or other-
w j se> j n its assault upon the infla-
tion problem. For the five years
t Q 1940 the co.’s net earnings
averaged £12,123, for the next
five years the figure was £11,849,
and f or tbe five years to the close
of accounts in 1950 it was
£jj jyg Meanwhile the volume
of business on books had
increa sed by over 50 p.c., and
tbe dividend came down from
jq p cto g p c j n 1945 a nd then
t 0 * pc ’'“‘“T ~ .
The £6534 ° f P r ° fit earned
was DO more than 3.4 p.C. On
shareholders funds, or 5.9 p.c.
on capital alone as against 10.9,
■\(\n qo 07 Q < and 12 1 nc
, lU *'» y *°» 1 u j
back to 1945. The board,
however, is “not without
bo pe that before long some
improvement will be obtained,”
K
and a further Word OI
comfort is added by the chair-
"Y * v „ t t-_* “ wb en
man, who says mat wnen
consent to increase charges is
forthcoming, the business should
continue to prosper.”
Estates entrusted to the co. s
expert care last term exceeded
the value of those wound up by
£1,109,622: Exes pc
Trust Gross of Gross’
Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
. 20 .. 6.341568 15,689 62.9 p.c.
’3O. .15.975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 ..
’4O. .22.534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 „
. 46--2 6, 010.826 87,050 76,509 87.9 ~
*47..27,132,985 92,209 81,494 88.3 „
IlllSl 115 ”
* s o. .28,587,330 119,226 107.190 89.9 „
’5l. .29.696,952 129,343 122,814 94.9 „
Gross earnings from all sources
increased by £10,123, but exes,
shot up by £15,624.
At Sept. 30 shareholders’
funds (£llO,OOO of capital and
£79,596 of reserves), together
with £29,086 coming to creditors,
etc., were represented by free-
holds, etc., £52,651, shares and
mortgages £87,242, Government
stock £22,479, cash, etc., £51,331
and shares in the Canberra sub-
sidiary £5009.
The severity of the jolt to
profits and the cut in the div.
surprised the market, which last
week offered 15s. (18s. 6d. was
paid before publication of the
accounts) for the £5 shares paid
to 11s. each—7ss. of the remain-
ing 89s. is callable only if needed
in the event of liquidation. The
return at 15s. would be 4.4 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. Net tangible cover is
18s. lid. per share.
Tableland Tin Dredging
For the year to June 30 last
the co. netted £6498 as against
£72,070 for the previous year,
but kept the div. steady at 8 p.c,
(2.6 p.c. of it tax-free) to the
prefs. and ords. and 16 p.c. to
the deferreds —there is £326,000
of capital to feed in 80,000 8 p.c.
cum. par. prefs., and 240,000
ords., all of £1 each, and
120.000 Is. deferreds.
A 47 p.c. drop in the
yardage treated and nearly
100 p.c. rise in costs were
the troubles. To reach the flats
at the southern end of the leases
the dredge had to work through
high and difficult ground, as well
as cross the Caims-Mt. Garnet
railway. It handled 2,382,000
c.y. of 4.590 z. ground as against
4.487.000 c.y. of 4.700 z. dirt in
the previous year. Working
costs rose from 8.96 d. to 17.48 d.
a yard, due to the lighter turn-
over and heavy increase in the
cost of labor, stores and parts.
It was the rise in the locally-
controlled producers’ price of tin
(always well below world parity)
that saved the day. Including
bonus, the figure went up from
£740 per ton (metallic) in Sept.,
1950, to £lOOO at the beginning
of March, 1951, and has
remained steady since. A tin
pool, in which producers have
no voice, has been set up by
the Government to buy and sell
all tin produced in Australia
and imported from overseas.
Since the beginning of 1951 the
selling-price to consumers has
risen from £lOOO to £1450 per
ton.
The co.’s Return Creek leases
(N.Q.) are just about worked
out. Interest now centres in a
new area on Smith’s Creek, some
six miles away, which has been
taken over from Alluvial Pros-
pectors, Ltd., on a profit-sharing
basis. The first £50,000 of each
year’s profit is to be retained by
Tableland, plus 85 p.c. of any
balance, the other 15 p.c.
going to Alluvial. The new
ground contains 50,000,000 c.y.,
check-bored to average 11.460 z.
t.o. per yard, and an 80 p.c.
recovery is expected. The cost
of dismantling and transferring
the dredge, etc., to the new area
is estimated at about £200,000,
and the Queensland Government
has said it will guarantee the
co.’s overdraft up to that figure.
No indication is given as how
long the job is likely to take.
Meanwhile, there will be a dry
patch for shareholders.
At Sept. 30 current assets
totalled £89,639 and current
liabilities £36,874. In addition
there is a pref. share reserve of
£24,000, invested in Common-
wealth bonds.
The ords., which sold at par
six months ago, recently fetched
12s. 6d. There has been no busi-
ness in prefs. for a couple of
months; last quote was sellers,
235.


Ml***
'■«
rnmmm
mm
PBO/S2
7hAae , e’e r
SpoM
f
T T€
/
mrf* vsc
0
/a/ A 200 YARDS SWIMMING |
EVENT AT TORONTO (N.S.W.) SIX SWIMMERS
DEAD-HEATED. THE JUDGE BEING UNABLE TO
SEPARATE ANY OF THE COMPETITORS DECLARED A
DEAD-HEAT BETWEEN ALL SIX SWIMMERS , OTHERS IN
A POSITION TO JUDGE THE RESULT AGREED WITH
THE OFFICIAL
YOU KNOW THAT
-'N THE GLENELG STAKES AT PL YMP7DN PARK (SA.) IN
1239. FIVE DOCS DEAD-HEATED FOR FIRST PLACE. THE DOGS
WERE DOUBLE NULOA, VALMAX. LORD A6R/COLA. DON'T-DROPET
AND RUPWANK. WITH NO PRECEDENT TO GU/DE THEM
OFFICIALS DECIDED TO RE-RUN THE RACE WH/CH WAS
WON BY DOUBLE-MULGA.
f*
im
DID YOU KNOW THAT • ■ ■
4’Champion mum
~ mornr
USE
WHEN IT COMES TO
POPULARITY SMOKERS WHO
i "roll -TN£/R-OWN*AGREE
THAT CM/HP/OW f/H£ COT
md RfADYWBBEP TOBACCO are winners
1 • PIPE SMOKERS C/VE TNE DEC/S/ON TO C//BMP/OM
BRIGHT m CHMP/OH Dm FLARC m TOBACCO...
WH/mVCR YOU SELECT YOU W/U A
iSSiSsi — IT'SJ CMMfi/O
Business. Rollery. etc.
How Far Can Prices Fall?
How far are prices likely to
fall in the event of the present
trade setback—which is not con-
fined to Australia —continuing?
(So far the price of manufac-
tured goods and food has
shown very little fall.)
To begin with, they are
entirely unlikely to fall to any-
thing like the figures we knew
in 1939. There should be no
misunderstanding about that.
Only the most drastic “writing-
off” of the currency would
produce anything like such a fall
in general commodity prices.
It is well to recall that in
Australia during the last depres-
sion the total fall in the cost-
of-living index from the peak
of 1929 to the depths of March,
1933, was no more than 22 p.c.
Over the same period Australian
wholesale prices dropped 26 p.c.
That was the extreme range,
notwithstanding that we had
“overproduction.”
At the depth of the depression
the cost-of-living index in Aus-
tralia was still 16 p.c. above the
figure for 1914, the pre-war
year. The wholesale-price index
was approximately that much
higher also.
The price of fine gold in Aus-
tralia in 1914 was 85s. an ounce.
In 1928 it had returned to that
figure. In 1932 it was 1455.
In 1939, the last year before
the war, the Australian price of
gold was 1945. an ounce. It is
now 310 s. at Australian Mints,
and considerably more on the
open market. Commodity prices
tend to follow the price of gold
eventually.
Though prices are at present
very high by comparison with
1939 figures, wool has already
taken a severe tumble, and so
have most other fibres as well as
some base metals. But foodstuffs
remain short throughout the
world, and more particularly in
Australia (when its traditional
food-producing capacity is con-
sidered).
In Australia and some other
Western countries a calculated
policy of bursting the inflation
bubble is under way. Credit is
being restricted and taxes
increased. This policy has come
as rather a shock to those who
have grown up in industry with
the Welfare State, but it has
been necessary in order to,
among other things, compete
with overseas countries in the
world’s markets. The main
objective is to cut costs and
increase essential production.
The curtailment of credit in
particular has rocked the busi-
ness and industrial community.
The real-estate market has glued
up, building activity has con-
tracted somewhat (though not
to the extent the drop in new
building permits would suggest),
the clothing trade has had a jolt,
retailers are hesitant, with the
result that the wholesale trade
has got cold feet, and that has
reacted upon the manufacturer.
The deliberate policy of
credit-restriction, as mentioned
in these pages before, is not
designed to reduce overall pro-
duction, but to divert manpower
to the most essential kinds of
production and to make that
production available to the users
considered to be able to make
the best national use of it.
There are bound to be flaws and
anomalies in the plan, but the
general intention is to make the
best use of our limited pro-
ductive resources, to accelerate
output of essential goods and to
reduce costs as well as some
prices.
There will be a limit to which
costs and prices can be brought
down. And it is best that they
be brought down together as
far as possible. But it should
not be forgotten that when prices
and wages were at their lowest
point in Australia in 1933 there
was around 30 p.c. trade-union
unemployment. Whatever the
central bank’s economic objec-
tive today, it certainly does not
aim at unemployment on that
scale. In fact, unemployment on
“Attend to the customers, Bert. I'm duckin' around the
corner for a bet."
any appreciable scale defeats the
purpose of greater total pro-
duction.
There would be a reversal
of the credit-restriction policy
in Australia even before
unemployment reached 5 p.c.
And in the case of a violent
outside impact on the economy
from a fall in world prices there
is no doubt that every effort
would be made to soften the
blow internally by extending
credit in order to maintain
employment. There is a vast
amount of work of a construc-
tional nature remaining to be
done in Australia, and this will
be a stabiliser of employment
and business activity for many
years to come.
Credit Policy
The National Bank’s chair-
man, H. D. Giddy, mentioned a
topical and touchy subject in the
course of his annual address to
the bank’s shareholders:
It would be the height of folly to
underrate the serious aspects of our
post-war inflationary drift and the
personal disabilities it has brought,
particularly to those whose incomes
are not automatically adjusted to meet
higher living costs. I know well that
this drift has itself been responsible
for some unfavorable distortions of
productive effort, for slackness on the
productive side in certain spheres,
and for maintaining great pressure
from public demand on sources of
supply. Nevertheless, 1 venture to
suggest that this national embarrass-
ment should be viewed in reasonable
perspective.
I believe we are on happier and
surer ground if we keep well in mind
the fact that the inflationary trend
is a material part of the price which
is being paid by Australia for the
extraordinary development to which
I have addressed myself. But it is,
of course, of the utmost importance
that a powerful attempt be made to
bring it under conscious control. To
this end, strong official steps have
been taken this year. I mention a
number of measures in the recent
Federal Budget, such as much heavier
taxation and the prospect of a sur-
plus, the credit-restriction policy, the
imposition of capital-issues control,
directive allocation of certain
materials, and the like. In addition,
at least two significant economic
changes have occurred: the strong
probability of a lower export income
for 1951-52 and a growing consumer
resistance against the purchase of
goods constantly rising in price.
Our system of automatic quarterly
price-adjustments to a large section
of incomes is, I believe, at the
moment the principal dynamic factor
making for further inflation of prices
and costs, in present circumstances to
the detriment of all, including those
receiving the additional money-wages.
A search for means whereby revision
of this system might be undertaken,
with justice to all, would seem to
offer prospects of considerable benefit
to the community.
Of course, in broad terms the final
solution of the inflationary problem
rests on equating the supply of goods
to the level of demand which would
arise from both the public and
Governments being free to spend the
money in their hands as they might
wish. In present circumstances 1
agree that reasonable steps should be
taken to dampen-down spending, but
it is much more important that our
leaders at all times place the major
emphasis on the production of more
and more goods. Given the positive
rather than the negative approach,
there is in my opinion no need to
doubt the capacity of the Australian
economy to withstand and finally
overcome the present inflationary
difficulty.
In Canberra last week the
Minister for Labor, Mr, Holt,
said that there were 3000 fewer
jobs offering through the Com-
monwealth Employment service,
but the total was still 134,000.
Vacancies, in his opinion, prob-
ably dropped by at least 10,000
during November. This was the
first sign for years that the con-
tinuous rise in the demand for
labor was slackening. Textile
and clothing industries had made
some staff reductions, and
employers were eliminating some
shifts and overtime. Building-
trade employment had been
affected.
Senator Spooner, Minister for
National Development, declared
that the Budget had yielded a
success far greater than the
Government expected. He
added: “There has been a
general tightening-up of the
economy and a reduction in the
demand for goods in short
supply, accompanied by an
appreciable increase in the pro-
duction of goods in short supply.
“Despite the fall in share
values on the Stock Exchange,
the Commonwealth loan was a
great success.”
At the annual meeting of the
Bank of N. S. Wales the presi-
dent, Mr. Martin Mcllrath, said
that rigid restrictions and pro-
hibitions on bank loans were
provoking uncertainty and con-
fusion. The trading banks were
obliged to abide by the central
bank’s directives in respect of
advances, and, through the rigid
operation of the central bank’s
control, the trading banks might
be forced to restrict lending
even for essential purposes. Mr.
Mcllrath added that no attack
on costs would succeed without
a reconsideration of wage-fixa-
tion in conditions of overfull
employment.
Many people are inquiring:
How long is the Government’s
blitz on credit abuses, specula-
tion and industrial lethargy going
to continue? There is some
point in the proposition that a
severe jolt should be given over
a period of a few months, but
that a respite should then be
granted, with the warning that
another dose of the same
medicine will be forthcoming if
speculation, slackness and extra-
vagance again become fashion-
able.
Also, every credit considera-
tion should be given to those
with commitments entered into
before the new policy became
operative. Rash or speculative
ventures entered into afterwards
are another matter.
The Treasury has embarked
on an attempt at curbing


Wm
ml
wu,..
for ten decades
V• • • f or te n decades
have placed their trust
The A.M.P. is the oldest Australian Life Assurance
Office, and it is also the largest. Since 1849
generations have placed their trust in this office
to such an extent that today, on the average, one
family in three relies on the A.M.P. In the last
financial year almost half of the new business taken
out was by people who were already members of
the A.M.P. The A.M.P. is run by policyholders.
There are no shareholders.
in the A.M.P.
t 0
YOUR A.M.P. AGENT will advise you
with skill on your family finance
so as to obtain thp maxinyim value of
protection for you and your family.
His background and training make
him the ideal person to assist you.
The A.M.P. Agent is a “Sure Friend
in Uncertain Times.”
Australian
Mutual Provident Society
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA. NEW ZEALAND AND IN
LONDON. THE A.M.P. IS THE LARGEST MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
OFFICE IN THE EMPIRE.
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. S/DNEX
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1951
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £22,512,495
Treasury Bills Australian 10,000,000
Government Securities Australian, New
Zealand and Fijian 20,411,525
Municipal and Local Government Authori-
ties’ Securities 552,826
Due by other Banks 12,868,649
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 69,048,780
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 149,470,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand 2,632,584
287,496,859
Loans and Advances to Customers .. .. 175,639,486
Bank Premises 4,600,000
All other Assets 2,000
467,738,345
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 42,267,026
£510,005,371
LIABILITIES
Notes in Circulation £80,957
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills
Payable and other Liabilities, including
Reserves held for Doubtful Debts and
other Contingencies 451,658,519
451,739,476
Paid-up Capital 8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,400,000
Profit and Loss £1,345,669
legs Interim Dividends to
30th June, 1951 526,800
• 818,869
467,738,345
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 42,267,026
£510,005,371
Net Profit for Year ended SOth September, “
1951 £954,006
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
DIRECTORS
MARTIN McILRATH, Esq., President.
The Hon. C. A. SINCLAIR
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
Sir LESLIE MORSHEAD,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
The Hon. R. C. WILSON,
M.L.C.
D. B. LEWINGTON, Esq.
S. G. ROWE, Esq., d.s.o.
General Manager —S. J. GANDON
Assistant General Manager —H. C. C. MARSHALL
Chief Inspectors —
R. J. ABERCROMBIE, A. STEWART-RICHARDSON,
R. R. McKELLAR
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITT)
A 51258
pamt umt
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAI NTS— for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
m*
m
m
wmm
fr>
Wx. if
im
mi***
■
mm
ek
mm
V :
Also available
as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, B.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, VV.A.
I. W. EARN SHAW PTY. LTD.
189.195 Pacific Highway, Noilh Sydney-Phone 183950
inflation which promises con-
siderable success. But the plan’s
reputation and long-term results
will depend on the discretion
and elasticity with which it is
used. Already the Treasury and
central bank should be consider-
ing an easing of credit policy as
soon as the economy has taken
a more workmanlike and practi-
cal shape. The sinews and
morale of real industry must not
be allowed to become impaired.
Sharemarket Very Weak
In Sydney especially share-
market speculators have had the
jitters thoroughly. Numerous
high-class second-line stocks
have been selling at prices to
give a yield closer to 6 p.c. than
5 p.c., and in some cases there
is no visible bottom to the
market for certain stocks —that
is, there are sellers but no
buyers. Which, of course, tends
to put an absurd complexion
on the whole market, and to the
astute observer suggests that the
time for buying in is not faraway.
Inquiries among brokers
revealed that the “rabbits”
among the speculators, as usual,
were mainly in evidence among
sellers. But selling was in no
great volume, and Stock
Exchange turnovers have been
so small that brokers are begin-
ning to feel the pinch.
There is not much evidence
of a general trade recession.
There is still overfull employ-
ment. But there has been a good
deal of dislocation as between
retailer, merchant and manufac-
turer, with consumer demand
reduced by a smaller degree than
might be supposed.
It has been generally the
speculator, the over-trader and
the inexperienced businessman
who has been caught in a jam
lately, but some big retailers
have been disconcerted by the
early arrival of overseas stocks
coinciding with the sudden
change in local economic
circumstances.
Anyone who has a favorite
stock in mind that has fallen
heavily on the Stock Exchange
should find the present a good
time to buy. Solidly-backed
concerns in essential industries
with good earning-power should
have excellent long - term
prospects.
* * * *
The issue of 1,250,0£)0 £1
ords. at par by F. W, Hughes
Industries, Ltd. (B. 28/11 /’5l),
was oversubscribed immediately
the issue opened in Sydney last
Thursday.
* * * *
Mosquito Creek Scheelite,
N.L., registered in Adelaide, has
a mosquito-like capital construc-
tion. Shares are of only six-
pence each, but there are a
million of them.
* * * *
The loss shown by Amal-
gamated Textiles, resulting from
the fall in raw-wool prices, gives
indications of some of the
troubles the trade is having now.
But valuation at Sept. 30 wool
prices should give the co. a
clear run in the current term.
Felt and Textiles showed an
increase of £5 million in stock-
values (£11.6 million), but
valued them at the lower of cost
or market-value on June 30.
Profit increased, and the 12 j p.c.
div. was maintained.
Trade Setback
Business in New Zealand has
been hit lately by the sharpest
slump in turnovers since the big
depression, and recovery looks
like being an endurance test for
traders who launched out on a
spending spree the best part of
a year ago, when the Board of
Trade decontrolled most imports
to give them the “All clear.”
Like innocents at play, busi-
nessmen of the younger genera-
tion, who had grown up in a
little world amid regulations,
controls and rationing, thought
that all they had to do to get
rich quick was to put every
pound they could lay hands on
into imports, and nothing could
hold them back. That was
before the wool slump and the
March-to-May strike, which
were the first warning-signals.
As months passed prices
soared abroad, and when the
goods started »to flood in they
were later and dearer than
importers had planned. Ship-
load after shipload of the best
assortment of post-war stuff
from John Bull’s factories soon
started to crush the seller’s
market that had been the despair
of M.L. consumers in the long
years of Socialist controls,
licences and rationing, and at
this moment, of all times, con-
sumers decided to take a buyer’s
holiday.
This was like a bombshell to
overextended traders, mortgaged
up to the hilt, with overdrafts
stretched almost to breaking-
point. Pushed by the banks,
what were they to do? Should
they cut prices, push sales, or
try to sit it out? Much as they
might have preferred to wait, if
their credit was shaky they had
to get a move on, and in the
swim some were parted from
their capital. It isn’t all over
yet, and it may be months before
the tangle is straightened out.
Some of the weaker fry will get
on their feet again; others will
go to the wall. However, most
cos. should come through all
right, though profits will dip
sharply this term.
Shrewd heads figure that
prices will be steadier in 1952,
and, with a general wage order
due before Christmas —the first
since 15 p.c. was granted last
February—there should be more
money flowing as the new year
opens. Unlike others, they’re
not overworried about the
knock, or about shrinking turn-
overs, which will pick up again.
The best prosperity sign is the
state of New Zealand’s export
trade, which is still healthy, as
another production season gets
into its stride, after a halting
start.
N.Z. has its eggs fairly evenly
distributed in several market
baskets —meat, butter, cheese
and wool —and its farming
industries are flourishing, in
spite of labor shortages. Prob-
ably traders, having had a
fright, will be more careful in
handling high-priced goods in
future, and will keep a more
sensitive finger on the pulse of
demand. It would pay them to
watch Germany and Japan, too,
for the challenge that is coming.
Pulp-and-paper Project
Newsprint and pulp by mid-
-1954 from Maoriland softwood
forests is the latest hope of the
State Forest Service and private
forestry cos., backed by the
opinion of a New York indus-
trial chemist. Dr. K. R. Karlson,
of the Merritt, Chapman and
Scott Corp., one of the world’s
leading builders of pulp and
o Continued on next page.)


Bank Chairman Calls for Positive
Determination to Meet Today’s Challenge
“We must be positive in our determination to meet the challenge of the times—be it concerned with our immediate difficulties
or with the longer-term problem of effecting permanent improvement in the nation’s strength. It is urgent that we refuse to
accept the idea that, if we are to meet even the simplest extra burden or obligation, the only way is by sacrifices here, there
and elsewhere in our economy and in our standards of life,” said the Chairman of the National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
(Mr. H. D. Giddy), at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, held in Melbourne on Wednesday, 28th of November.
Continuing, Mr. Giddy said “Some sacrifices are at times inescapable—indeed valuable—but in trying to cope with new
burdens and new obligations, surely the emphasis should be placed upon the making of the extra effort needed, whether this
be in the realm of producing greater supplies of raw materials and foodstuffs, the provision of more and better mechanised
help for our work force, or the opening up of new economic enterprise. Along this road, I am sure, lies our hope of meeting
the economic needs of military preparedness and national development and at the same time maintaining the standards of
living of our people.
“There is indeed a clear call for a deeper appre-
ciation of our achievements to date and a stronger
faith in our ability to go on achieving.”
national development must proceed
“Our worst risk may be that the difficulties im-
mediately ahead will blind us to the ultimate tre-
mendous advantages of real growth in the nation
and its economy, and to the need for willing
acceptance of bigger and more serious national
obligations. I urge most seriously that, whilst
it may well be necessary to ease the pace for a
time, we do not falter in our determination to
continue following that strong line of development
and overall expansion which has been the pre-
dominant feature of our recent history.
“Whatever the difficulties, whatever the criti-
cisms we level against ourselves the bold fact re-
mains that Australia has made wonderful strides
since the end of the war and has done so—l
pass no moral judgment on this—without receiv-
ing assistance from the huge productive machine
of North America comparable to that afforded a
number of other countries per means of Marshall
Aid and the many other benefactions that have
flowed from the generosity of America.”
IMMEDIATE FUTURE HOLDS DIFFICULTIES
The Chairman said that “substantial though
Australia’s achievements of recent years have been,
there is no room for complacency even if the prob-
lems immediately facing us are largely the result
of past gains. It is true that the economic
ambitions of Governments and private enterprise
have, for the time, exceeded our physical capacity
to achieve, and that the toning down of the speed
of our development is advisable. But a halt to
the rapid progress and development of the post-
war years means a change in our economic climate.
“We dare not treat this change lightly. Some of
the conditions which have made the way to recent
successes comparatively easy are moving away
from us. Our developmental road looks like
being less smooth in the immediate future, and
our capacity as a rapidly growing nation looks
like being much more severely tested, and new
defence commitments have to be assumed. In-
dustry and commerce are clearly entering a period
which demands a more cautionary attitude and
where continued monetary success by either em-
ployer or employee will call for much greater
thought and energy on the part of all.
NERVOUSNESS NOT WARRANTED
“I do not think, however, that this toning down
of the extreme economic buoyancy of recent years
warrants the feeling of nervousness which is dis-
played in some quarters—largely a result of the
non-realisation of expectations that the ever-rising
level of activity would continue indefinitely. On
the contrary, I incline to the view that, in the long
run, it is likely to prove in the best interests of
the economy. We could not hope, indeed I do not
believe we would wish, that gain to Australia and
Australian citizens would continue at the recent
rate. A pause to give Governments, employers and
employees time! to take stock of the position will
be helpful rather than fearful—to give time to con-
solidate the gains made. The obvious need for a
greater degree of caution in trading should not be
taken as the signal for panic action on the part of
the public—especially by those in possession of
sound, long-term assets-—that may set in motion a
deflationary spiral in values leading only to the
destruction of confidence and the will to enterprise.”
RECORD NATIONAL INCOME
Mr. Giddy said that “the National Income
reached £3,100,000,000 last financial year, easily a
record and nearly four times that of the pre-war
fiscal year 1938-39. Even when full allowance is
made for the inflationary trend in prices, and the
increase in population, national income per head
was about £175 in 1950-51 as against only around
£ll2 in 1938-39, a rise of over 50 p.c. Over the post-
war years we have exported nearly £A3OOO millions
worth of commodities, and imported about £A2350
millions worth of goods.
ADVANCE IN STANDARD OF LAVING
“The general standard of living of the com-
munity has advanced quite markedly, on the
average, over the post-war years, though the
standards of some sections have improved more
rapidly than others. Also, even after allowing for
a repairing of the inevitable slide of the war years,
overall standards of life are now considerably
above those of 1939. General evidence is provided
by the fact that personal consumption per head of
mean population, if corrected for the average rise
in prices, was a little over 30 p.c. higher in
1950-51 than in either 1945-46 or 1938-39.
DEVELOPMENT HAS BROUGHT PROBLEMS
“Piecing all this evidence together, it will be
readily agreed that Australian development over
the past five years has proceeded at a speed un-
heard of in our history. Everyone with the long-
range interest of Australia at heart will welcome
this surge of development, though its very speed
has caused a wake of disturbed conditions and
brought problems affecting all classes of the com-
munity. These problems 1 feel would be less fear-
ful if we kept them in their proper perspective and
viewed them against the background of our
country’s achievements in recent years.
THE BANK IN 1931
“This Jubilee Year of the Commonwealth finds
our Bank in the strongest and most enterprising
position in its history. Today the National Bank
has more branches and offices open for business
than ever it had, the total number, 642, providing
a broad and sound base for nearly £3OO millions
worth of assets now held by our Institution. The
Bank has certainly increased its number of cus-
tomers to a record figure, and in recent years has
greatly widened the range of its clientele. The
proportion of the Australian population who are
now customers of the Bank has practically doubled
since 1939. Also symptomatic of the Bank’s growth
is the fact that the number of staff is now a record,
4315, comprising 3051 men and 1264 women.
REVISION OF SPECIAL ACCOUNTS URGED
“Its liquid position continues strong, albeit a
great part of its liquid assets, in the form of
moneys confined in its Special Account, continue
to be subject to extremely tight Central Bank con-
trol. The Government’s right to control the
country’s credit, including bank credit, is unques-
tionable, and to this end reasonable Central Bank
powers are necessary. I feel bound, however, to
express my grave concern at the perpetuation for
six years now of the particularly rigid statutory
control system designed for use in time of war,
and I cannot urge too strongly on the appropriate
authorities the need for its early revision.
BALANCE SHEET.
“The Balance Sheet once again shows record
figures, the total, at £288,060,000, being some
£47,500,000 higher than that of the 1950 Balance
Sheet.
“The largest single contributory factor to the
increase in the Bank’s figures is an expansion of
just over £34,000,000 in the item Deposits and Other
Liabilities. Increases of over £6,000,000 in the item
Other Assets, and of nearly £6,000,000 under the
heading of Liabilities of Customers under Letters
of Credit, etc., practically account for the re-
mainder of the rise in the Balance Sheet totals
over the year and reflect mainly foreign trade
business.
“Within the strict limits set by Central Bank
control of our lending and specific Advance Policy
directives, the Bank has been able to extend finan-
cial assistance to necessary and productive enter-
prise—both private and Government—as is re-
flected in the rise of £20,600,000 in the item Loans,
Advances, Bills Discounted.
“The increased business of the Bank has lifted
gross earnings by almost £1,000,000 to a new record
of £5,331,000. Approximately three-quarters of the
additional gross earnings has been currently
absorbed by the rise of over £700,000 in general
working costs, whilst £246,000 has been added to
the taxation provisions. The small balance re-
maining has slightly increased the net profit for
the year by approximately £15,000 to £609,081.”
Give Your Money This Opportunity to Earn
e 4-2-6%
The New High Rate for a Gilt-edge Security
INVEST TODAY
IN
THE
SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
£1,000,000
CASH LOAN
Issued at par and repayable in 1961, the Loan offers you the highest return from a gilt-edge securitj'
of this class since 1939. Each £lOO you invest can earn £4l-5-0 in interest.
Your security is equally attractive: the Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., and
is secured upon the Council’s income, which is expected to reach £11,000,000 in 1951.
Investment in this Loan will be equally secure on the forthcoming transfer of the Council’s power
stations to the Electricity Commission.
MAKE SURE OF £4/2/6 p.c. TODAY!
A prospectus and application form can be obtained from any branch of the Commonwealth Bank
of Australia, your Stockbroker, or from the Council’s offices. Prompt application is advisable, as
the Loan will close on or before 15th December.
The Loan is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
paper plants. He sets a limit of
two and a half years from the
time the go-ahead signal is given
until the plants swing into pro-
duction, and has stirred Maori-
landers’ imaginations by a vision
of great forest-fed industries
based on the Bay of Plenty, with
a vast supply of the raw material
almost at their back-door.
There’s keen competition for
Government licences to have the
run of the field, with the latest
aspirant the Tasman Pulp and
Paper Co., formed by the
Fletcher combine, in league with
Merritt, Chapman and Scott.
This co. is a formidable chal-
lenger to N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd. Fletcher’s link-up lately
with Yankee interests on a big
two-million wharf-construction
job at Auckland and the mush-
room growth of its subsidiaries
of late years was enough to make
the Government sit up and take
notice immediately it came
forward with an offer to
convert State forest trees into
pulp and paper in shorter time
than anyone else had yet thought
of. Dollar funds would be
within the co.’s reach to buy
plant and equipment, but knight
James Fletcher has given a
pledge that “complete control”
would be held in New Zealand.
Why the link-up with the
Yanks? This, said Fletcher,
would be purely for the con-
struction and equipping stage, as
Maoriland hasn’t enough
workers to man such a job with-
out robbing other schemes that
are undermanned, a good pro-
portion of the 1500 tradesmen
needed would be recruited
abroad. As part of the project,
750 permanent homes would be
built, with Te Puke, near
Tauranga, as the co.’s choice for
mill- and home-sites. The co.’s
output target is: Newsprint,
60,000 tons; bleached kraft
pulp, 35,000 tons; timber, 40
million board feet.
A turnover like this would
help to catch up with the growth
of the Dominion’s planted
forests, mainly pines, which
cover 800,000 acres, with the
State owning half and private
enterprise sharing the balance.
Cost-of-living
In the latest round of the
contest with inflation in New
Zealand, prices have won hands
down. In nearly every direction
the strain on family budgets is
greater than when the banks
began to tighten up on credit
five months ago, and Maoriland
housewives have been fighting
back to hold the sagging line
against the rising cost of living.
They’ve a good deal in
common with Australians in
this, but they should have a
breathing-space sooner because
the spring and summer produc-
tion season, which always brings
a bountiful harvest in M.L.’s
soil and climate, should prick
the bubble of fruit and vegetable
prices, which have hit families
most. Sky-high prices in this
group are partly the penalty
Maorilanders have had to pay
for mushroom urban and
suburban growth, sprawling
over market-garden areas that a
few years ago helped to give
them all the harvest they wanted
all the year round.
Now there are tens of
thousands more mouths to fill
production has slumped, and
this year on top of this came a
bad winter and late spring.
They’re not sure how much of
the rise is here to stay, but with
wages, fertiliser prices, materials
and equipment all up, they’re in
for a costly spell.
Meat and eggs have gone into
the luxury price-group, and
butter, milk and bread would
have followed but for fat State
subsidies, which alone have
stopped the cost of living from
going through the roof. If this
means the breadwinner has to
pay, through taxes, instead of
the housewife, over the counter,
Maorilanders think there's a
good deal to be said for such
an arrangement in a time of
peak prices. The main virtue of
subsidies is to counter peaks,
and, within limits, they’re doing
this. There’s more real merit m
them than in price-pegging.


The CRIME MARKET
by
JOHN
FOUN TAIN
WHEN Sergeant Third-
class Flannigan, with
the P.D., rang from the
call-box near the golf-
links to say that he and Bob
Jolly were there—and so what?
—the cadet, in the normal
routine of things, would have
told him about the woman in
Bower-street. In fact, he was
just beginning, shuffling the
message-pad: “Just a tick, sar
There’s a call here” —when
blue sleeve, a wristlet-watch anc
a plump, neat hand crossed hs
field of vision.
“I’ll take that, poor fellow,
said the station sergeant.
So the cadet, whose name wa
Jim Stone, settled back on th
chair behind the switch boarc
and stared past the Wanted fo
murder and rape and whatno ,
looking down in strong blac c
print from posters new anc
yellow with age, into the mysti
blue of a perfect summer sky
thinking how lucky he was
Lucky, firstly, to have the postal -
note from home nestling in th
hip-pocket of his rather shin
trousers—cadet’s wages wer
small—and lucky, secondly anc
conclusively, because he was a ;
Carryville and not back a
Redfern.
Carryville was what is known
as a garden suburb; and crime
did not flourish amid its tree
lined avenues, little shops and
red-roofed houses by the sea
Under an inspector who hac
done his last twenty-odd years
service somewhere back o'
Bourke, and who had little time
tor anything but fishing—as
though, in the ebb-tide of life
he was determined to make up
tor all the dusty years by
saturating his soul in brine —the
police-station was a pleasant,
peaceful place. Not that it was
slack. The First-class Sergeant
who was the Inspector’s chief-
of-staff ran the organisation with
a firm, calm hand. Crime, such
a s there was—and there is
always crime—was investigated:
traffic was controlled: every
morning the constable assigned
to the job picked up the bunch
°f summonses from the desk and
wearily served them. Constable
Field, 8.A., the well-spoken
young man who was doing part-
time work with the police boys’
clubs, went around the schools
giving road-safety lectures. At
the present time the plainclothes
men were bustling about,
ringing-up, consulting records
and looking important, on the
trail of a gang of car thieves
who, they believed, were using
some of the more isolated
beaches for stripping the stolen
cars. But then, plainclothes
men are susceptible to sudden
theories. And they always look
important.
Apart from this epidemic of
telephoning and whispered con-
sultations among the plainclothes
men, Carryville police-station
was a peaceful place. It had,
indeed, a peaceful location ; the
red-brick and white-cement
building half-screened by trees,
only the little sandwich-shop,
run by the lively young auburn-
haired widow, for a neighbor,
and raised on a platform of thick
buffalo-grass. It had an air of —
not dozing in the sun, exactly—
but at least frankly and humanly
enjoying it as a gift of God
superior to police regulations,
bestowing its golden grace on the
just and the unjust, the polic
man and the traffic-offender.
Occasionally it nodded, as w
only human ; or perhaps it w
only the flicker of the palm
when a wind blew in from tl
long white beaches and the wic
blue ocean. But even if it we
so it was nothing to be worrier
about. It was like Constab
Ben Butler nodding his bulle
head after a heavy lunch: mall
fists folded over his thick ches
tunic parted to reveal a fun-
forest through the singlet, th
quiver of a gunmetal-colorec
eye showing under the droopin
lid, the silver of handcuff
tucked in the leather belt, glin
ing in the sun.
Redfern was otherwise. Anc
into the grime and smoke oi
Redfern, and into the harrowin
activity of its police-station
young Stone had been imper
sonally pitched soon after hi
arrival in Sydney, the bloom ol
the bush still on his seventeen
year-old cheeks, and his eye
wide with innocence, Jim’
blue eyes grew wider befor
Redfern was through with him
The station sergeant—who
wasn’t a sergeant at all, bu
Constable First - class BiJ
Mortimer —shifted his weight on
to one foot and elbow and
listened patiently. Over the
telephone Sergeant Flannigan’
voice tallied remarkably with
his appearance —that of a lean
and truculent parrot. Not that
Constable Mortimer cared for
either Sergeant Flannigan’s
bullying or blarney—behind the
station counter Constable First-
class Mortimer was king. But
he was a man with a tireless
curiosity about his fellow-
creatures, and he was wondering
how far Sergeant Flannigan
would go in his extiavagant self-
justification. The station
sergeant smiled faintly ; so it was
a wife-starver this time, was it;
and last time it was a mad dog.
And the time before that a
British seaman, whom no one
but Sergeant Flannigan and his
driver and intimate Bob Jolly
had ever heard of, terrorising a
community of Italians with an
axe. Whereas everyone knew,
and both Sergeant Flannigan
and Constable Jolly knew that
they knew, that it was really the
beer at the Crossways Hotel; or
maybe the Royal Arms.
Flannigan and Jolly had many
ports of call, including Greek
and Italian restaurants where
they ate royally at night. Either
of them would suffer terribly if
they were ever removed from the
P.D.
ES, poor fellow.” The
T station sergeant cut short
the flood of explanation and
accusation. “But you’d better
hop over and see her, all the
same ...”
“What about that lazy cow,
Burke?” came crackling over the
wires.
“Out on a job, poor fellow.
Well, here it is. Twenty-two
Bower-street. Woman rang two-
fifteen —yair, two -fifteen, ser-
geant ...”
“Bower-street isn’t that
where Pop Picciotti lives?”
Sergeant Flannigan’s voice
shaded into the obscurity as he
turned to consult Constable Bob
Jolly. It broke in again briskly.
“That’s right—-no, twenty-one,
just opposite, is where the
Picciottis live. Nice fami)
He’s got that cafe near tl
Crossways Hotel.”
“Indeed,” said the static
sergeant, with distant politenes
“I wouldn’t know. Anyway, th
woman’s name is Murdoch
M for murder, U for uncle, .
for rape, D for dope,
for orange, C for cak
H for horrible Murd-oc
—and she’s seen suspicious-look
ing characters hanging round th
place. What’s that? —probab]
plainclothes men? Most likely.
The station sergeant hac
raised his voice for the benefi
of detectives Grant and Olley
passing by. Detective Gran
burly, olive-skinned, broken
nosed, grinned. Detective Olley
red-faced, young, faintly loutish
looking, scowled. Born into
the constabularly purple
Detective Olley was, in Jim’
opinion, too big for his boots
He had a lordly way of saying
“Cadet, a line!” which made
Jim’s flesh crawl with resent
ment. The very flash of his ring
was an offence as he gesturec
imperiously with his soft white
hand. “Get a move on there
cadet.” Detective Olley’s father
was a police big-wig. But for
that, Jim was pleased to reflect
Detective Olley would probably
be sweeping roads.
“Yair, we’ve had complaints
before,” the station sergeant
said pleasantly into the phone.
“Last time they were supposed
to be fishermen. Reared the fish
for miles, I believe. Yair, Well,
they might try disguising
’emselves as policemen. That
ought to take someone in. All
the same, sarj, you and young
Robert Taylor better hop over
and hear this sad story. Yes.
Goodbye, poor fellow.”
The station sergeant quickly
went back to his high stool and
opened his Ellery Queen
detective magazine. Jim watched
him, wondering about his habit
of calling everyone “poor
fellow.” There was something
disquieting about this form of
address —a sort of delayed
shock. It came so naturally and
blandly from the station
sergeant’s lips that one accepted
it with only the faintest of mis-
givings—then, as its implications
sank in, you looked at him
sharply. But by then the station
sergeant was prattling merrily
about his roses, or his fox-
terrier dog, or what he called
the “crime-market.” And, of
course, after a time, one accepted
it, quite naturally.
It was the station sergeant’s
perfect unselfconsciousness that
enabled him to get away with
this bizarre form of address, Jim
decided. It was rather like the
fine art of swearing—if one
hesitated one was lost in fatuity.
The station sergeant never hesi-
tated over anything, and he had
so trained his audience that he
could call his superiors “poor
fellow” to their faces, and they
scarcely blinked.
A tiny metal door on the
switchboard-face dropped and
the cadet plugged in. “Yes,
sir?”
“Ah, cadet. Get me
BW ”
Jim began dialling before the
inspector had finished speaking.
He knew the number well
enough. It belonged to Fishing
Cobber Number One, and it was
politic to give it urgent priority.
If the inspector asked for the
JA number—his wife —h 6 would
tolerate a delay with remarkable
patience: but he became very
testy if there was any dawdling
over raising Fishing Cobber
Number One.
Jim listened-in long enough
to know the connection was
right. “That you, Joe? Now
listen . , .” in the inspector’s
drawl, grown dry from swallow-
ing so much red western dust:
and Fishing Cobber Numb
One’s reply. Jim settled back
the soft-seated chair and fe
vaguely happy. He was gettin
used to things.
The station sergeant rea
Ellery Queen mysteries with h s
plump fists clenched over rec-
dening ears. Every now anc
again he chuckled softly to him
self. He was a strange man, Jim
decided. He was also a rounc
one, not short, really, bu
appearing less than medium
stature in an environment o :
uniformed six-footers. He had
a round face, with a wide moutli
and large, underlined hazel eyes
He was a little bald on top, and
when he smiled he showed teetli
with a sharp division between
the two front ones. His smil
was extraordinarily vivid, trans
forming his face from an ex
pression of worn melancholy
into one of almost riotous merri
ment. He had a round belly
which he apparently loved, since
he was always patting it.
CARRYVILLE was very
different to Redfern, Jim
thought. Redfern had been
bit sudden.
In the warm morning they
had paraded at Bourke-street
Barracks, all the new cadets, on
the lawns, under the grim brick
wings. A braided first-class
sergeant with a chest of ribbons
and a neck like a turkey-cock
had done wonders with them
in half an hour, and when the
long black car came slowly up
the asphalt drive the Joseph’s
coat of blazers and sports clothes
and suits, and faces, young and
fresh and young and pimply,
formed a commendable phalanx
on the field of green.
The Commissioner, in a grey
hat, a blue suit, and a gold
watchchain, briskly advanced,
attended by policemen of high
and low degree. He shook hands
with the inspector who went to
meet him, while the first-class
sergeant stood proudly rooted
to the turf, a ramrod with a
waxed moustache.
“What have we here,
inspector?”
“Some good lads, sir,” said
the grey inspector; and Jim felt
grateful. A decent thing to say.
The inspector coughed, and
began speaking in a rather loud
voice, as though he had re-
hearsed it all. “All good educa-
tional and physical standard.
One lad speaks Japanese. And
—er —so on. I trust, sir, that
they will all eventually be a
credit to the Force, and to them-
selves.”
“I hope so,” said the Com-
missioner. He played with his
watchchain and paused a
moment, to let the ominous
undertones of this sink in. Then
he talked, with resolute ease and
plain sincerity, about the police
force as a career.
But Jim was feeling tired
from standing, and slightly giddy
from an early breakfast, and ex-
citement, and the rush of coming
in from Hornsby, where he was
staying with relatives, and find-
ing the barracks. Jim didn’t
know Sydney very well: and his
attention wandered from the
watchchain to the Commis-
sioner’s highly-polished shoes.
Did the Commissioner clean his
own shoes? Jim wondered.
Then there was the wireless
tower and the gymnasium! And
the sandy yard where a burnished
bay was being put over the low
hurdles. And other things of
dishacting interest.
A policeman’s life, taking into
consideration pensions, and long-
service leave, and uniforms
and/or clothing allowance, was
not an unhappy one, it seemed.
Jim’s eyes turned back to the
hypnotic watchchain.
A spirited cavalcade of police-
horses and police-riders went
past the stables and through the
Crown-street gates, to exercise in
Moore Park, and for an instant
lawns and flagpole and ail the
disciplined bricks were merely
a background for the pomp of
horseflesh in the summer morn-
ing. Jim knew they had cadets
with the horses —the pale police-
man clerk hald told him so,
yesterday. But they had to do
the ordinary cadet course first.
P.t. in the mornings, station
duties, lectures twice a week on
Crimes Acts, court procedure,
and so on, and typing and short-
hand, in their own time. Any-
way, the clerk said sourly, you’re
too big.
The time has passed, the Com-
missioner said, when policemen
are all brawn and no brains....
The same afternoon he began
duty at Redfern police station,
and a harassed station sergeant,
after a brief explanation, put
him on the switchboard. And
he had the distinction of cutting
off the Deputy Commissioner of
Police, in exalted conversation
with the senior of the two in-
spectors, four times in succes-
sion. He would never forget it.
Nor would he forget the
sordid, grotesque, and horrify-
ing parade of human wreckage
in the charge-room that night.
The man who cut his throat im-
perfectly. The grey-haired
woman screaming foul abuse, her
contorted face flecked with
saliva, and the powerful young
detective in a checked sports
coat raising his black eyebrows:
“Doll’s in good form tonight.”
A parade that continued all
night, punctuated by the echoing
slam of cell doors, screaming and
weird blasphemy; the invasion
of the metho drinkers, the thugs,
the thieves and the hopeless. But
he knocked off before midnight;
and as he walked through the
mean streets a woman accosted
him —“ Want a good time, love? ”
—her breath smelling of wine,
And he felt sick,
/■“'* ARRYVILLE was better.
' The cadet smiled, and pulled
two plugs out of the switch-
board. Inspector Laycock had
finished talking to his fishing
cobber.
“Done your indexing, cadet?”
Jim looked up into the in-
quiring hazel eyes of the station
sergeant, who had come over so
softly he hadn’t heard him.
He flushed a little, feeling
(Continued on next page)


or carefree
travel...
m
rm
m
a
m
vt
Commonwealth Bank Traveller.’ Cl ' e '\ u
provide complete .afety for your fund., while
the knowledge that yonr money is sale add. to
the joy. of travel and leave, you free to concern
Irate on business or pleasure.
Commonwealth Bank Travellers’ Cheques
are issued in £5 denomination and may be
cashed free of inland exchange at any Branch
of any Bank in Australia, and are readily
accepted by principal tourist bureaux, transport
offices, hotels, etc.
As your signature and counter-signature are
necessary on all cheques before they may be
cashed, they are safer than money. For carefree
travel use Commonwealth Bank Travellers
Cheques, obtainable at any Branch.
ATHER HELPFUL COMMONWEALTH BANK
K”v. R C ES INCLUDE CHEQUE ACCOUNTS.
letters of CREDIT, OVERDRAFTS.
BEARING DEPOSITS HOUSING LOANS,
Si£™ s"°1 U S?todv
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
• THE
bank you own*
Serving the People in all the States
cai u •»
YOUR “STAND-BY**
FOR PARTIES
Your Christmas entertaining is made easy
for you and memorable for your guests
when you serve Vickers Gin. It’s the
spirit of Christmas.
S2
YOUR “GRAND-BUY”
FOR GIFTS
What gift more welcome
than a bottle or two of
Vickers Gin?
What gift in better taste?
Give Vickers Gin this
Christmas and know your
gift will be appreciated.
Slip a Vickers Cocktail Recipe Book
into each gift parcel. Write now to
The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., Box
759 G, G.P.0., Elizabeth Street, Mel-
bourne, for your free copies.
Vickers gin
for Christmas!
uncomfortable at being caught
day-dreaming. “Yes,” he said.
The station sergeant smacked
a sheaf of the official gazettes,
by means of which stations were
informed of the records and
activities of criminals, on to the
counter. “Well, here’s some
more, poor fellow.”
Jim sat on the high stool, care-
fully indexing, while the station
sergeant sank back behind the
switchboard, his detective maga-
zine already open. Indexing was
interesting, in a way, if rather
monotonous. The monotony
arising as much from the dull
operations of criminals as from
the repetitive act of noting the
headings in pen and ink, with
a scratching nib. Nevertheless,
Jim always lost time on the job,
reading through the uninspiring
records instead of concentrating
on the key names and dates. For
these dry communiques were
important—a groove, as it were,
along which the ponderous but
well-oiled machinery ran, strik-
ing down those fated to be struck
down with mechanical precision.
Joe Smith, for instance, bora at
Gosford and first charged with
housebreaking On October 3,
1937, lived at Strathfield and
always worked with an accom-
plice, between the hours of mid-
night and two a.m., entering a
house in a certain manner, as
plain as his signature, and never
touching jewellery. So if there
was a robbery somewhere in the
western suburbs, and if the
details tallied...
It was rather like mathematics,
a subject in which Jim had
never been inordinately in-
terested even without finger-
printing, and chemical analysis,
and stool pigeons; and always
taking into account the plodding
parochialism of the average
crook.
But even so: reading the
gazettes had its fascination—the
charm of being let into a secret.
For, apart from recorded con-
victions, there was a good deal
of confidential information about
individuals who would have
been surprised to know the
fatherly interest the Police
Department took in their lives.
Jim was a bit surprised, too,
when he came across a couple
of names he knew —boys from
the bush who were “doing well in
the city”; very well indeed,
according to the printed infor-
mation.
“Market’s a bit slack this
afternoon,” remarked the station
sergeant.
Constable McPherson came in
with a bucket and broom and
leant his elbows oh the counter.
“What’s doin’?” he said.
“Damn-all,” said the station
sergeant. “I was just saying to
the cadet. Market’s very slack
this afternoon.” He stood up,
yawned and stretched, and
walked down to his own end of
the counter, absently flapping
the detective magazine against
his serge trousers. “Ho-ho,” he
said, and sat down.
“Nothin’ much doin’?” said
Constable McPherson, who
seemed determined to linger.
“Not a thing, poor fellow,”
said the station sergeant cheer-
fully. “We’ll all be outside soon,
working for a living. You
cleaned up out there, Mac?”
The tall man with the grey
eyes and the black curly hair
dusted with grey nodded. “How
come it wasn’t done this mom-
in’?”
“Oh, Masters was on, poor
fellow. And Sergeant Purdy got
stuck into him over something
—dead matches, I think. You
know, that fellow will get run
over some day, picking up dead
matches off the road. A car
will come along and skittle him.
There was a hell of a row, Jim
Flannigan was telling me, and
finally Sergeant Minogue came
down on them both like a ton
of bricks, and sent ’em both out
to keep the peace.”
McPherson laughed quietly.
“That’d hurt Purdy.”
The station sergeant lit a
cigarette. “Hurt him, all right.
What’s the key to that fellow,
Mac, d’ you reckon?”
“Mad,” said McPherson
simply. “Must be.”
“Oh, I dunno,” the station
sergeant said slowly. “You see
it sometimes. These sergeants
come down from some little
country town where they’ve been
boss cockies so long they forget
there’s such a thing as a Police
Force, apart from themselves.
Then they come down here, and
instead of being the sergeant,
they’re just sergeant third-class
Mudkicker, with second- and
first-class sergeants caning their
ears off if they don’t toe the
line. It comes hard on them.”
“Well,” said McPherson with
satisfaction. “Purdy isn’t king
of the Black Stump now.
Wonder Minogue let him get
away with it so long.”
“Minogue’s like that,” the
station sergeant said. “He gives
everyone a chance. A white
man. But you can’t fool round
with him.”
“Beats me,” said McPherson,
comfortably rolling a cigarette,
“how Minogue never went
further. He runs this station-
no doubt about that. The Boss
doesn’t give a damn about any-
thing, except fishing. They both
go out next year, don’t they?”
The station sergeant nodded.
“Laycock starts his long-service
leave in February, Minogue in
March. But you khow about
Minogue, don’t you?”
WITHOUT being aware of it,
the station sergeant dropped
his voice to a conspiratorial
level. “He and —you know who
—were young constables to-
gether. They didn’t like each
other. And so—Minogue never
went past first-class sergeant.” *
“Hmm,” McPherson puffed
thoughtfully. “So that’s it.”
“All the same, he came up for
promotion two years ago. And
the inspector of that time —you’d
know him—wrote across the
recommendation ‘Sergeant
Minogue performs the duties en-
trusted to him in a satisfactory
manner, but seems more in-
terested in his sheep property in
the Riverina than in the Police
Force.’ ”
“The ” said McPherson.
Then, after a moment’s thought.
“So he’s one of those Minogues,
is he?”
“Yes. Don’t know how he
came to join the Force, in the
first place. Anyway, he did.
And maybe that’s how he came
to have the knife put in him in
the first place —having a bit
more money than the average
copper, as a young fellow. You
know up that way, Mac?”
Mac nodded, “Born there,”
he said. Some sort of an ex-
cited stir from the cadet made
both men turn towards him. “I
come from up there, too,” Jim
said: thinking, in Sydney you
never entirely escape the bush.
“Do you, eh?” said Mc-
Pherson. “Then you’d know
McCormicks, on Murbilla?”
Jim nodded; everyone round
home knew Murbilla. “I used to
work there,” McPherson said,
“for ten years before I joined
the Force.”
“I’d forgotten the cadet,” said
the station sergeant jovially.
“And here we were, talking dark
police secrets.” He smiled
at Jim, with a hint of menace.
“You’ll learn, cadet,” he said
oratorically, “that there’s one
golden rule in this game. Keep
your mouth shut.”
Jim nodded. He thought he
understood. And the station
sergeant, after looking at him
searchingly for a moment,
nodded too, as though satisfied.
“Talking about our esteemed
friend. Sergeant Purdy from the
Black Slump,” said the station
sergeant with gossippy relish,
“you know, he hasn't got it on
his own. They’re a pair, him
and Masters.”
McPherson nodded, in his
sober, considering way. “Yair.
Masters is a case, all right.”
“Ever hear about his first night
on duty?” the station sergeant
asiked. McPherson shook his
head. “It’s fair dinkum what
I’m telling you —I had it from
Sergeant Minogue. He was a
second-class sergeant at the time,
at Number Three. Twenty years
ago. Purdy came in, full of
zeal, a recruit with a marshal’s
baton in his note-book, so to
speak. So they sent him out on
the beat. Boomer Murphy was
the sergeant on the beat —you re-
member old Boomer? —one of
the old school. Another Ben
Butler, only with a bad temper.
Anyway, there was Constable
Masters, all new and blue, strol-
ling along the street at midnight,
when he saw a shop with a
smashed window, and a man in
it.. ‘What are you doing there,
now?’ Masters says, shining his
torch on him. ‘This is my shop,’
says the man, ‘and it’s been
robbed. I’m just seeing what
the dirty scoundrels have taken.’
‘1 can see that there’s been a
robbery,’ Masters says, all stern
like. ‘At least,’ he says, ‘it
looks like it, from the evidence.’ ”
“That’s him,” said McPherson,
nodding with quiet appreciation.
“You’ve got him to a T, Bill.
Couldn’t tell him the sun had
risen unless it was confirmed in
writing.”
“ ‘l’ll tell you what,’ this
fellow said, ‘Sergeant’—you can
guess how Masters lapped that
up —‘you stay here, Sergeant, and
I’ll run up to the station and
get help.’ ‘Will you do that?’
says Masters. ‘That’s very kind
of you, mister. I’ll stay here and
guard the premises. Those
scoundrels might come back
again.’”
“Aw, come off it. Bill,” Mc-
Pherson said. “You’re laying
it on a bit thick.”
“It’s fair dinkum what I’m
telling you. So off this fellow
went for the lick of his life, and
Masters walked up and down in
front of the smashed window,
taking little notes in his nice new
notebook, and wondering when
the others were going to come,
and keeping a sharp eye open
for burglars. And when finally
Boomer came on his rounds
Masters said to him, respectful
but reproachful like, ‘lt’s a long
time you’ve been coming,
sergeant.’ ‘What the hell d’ y’
mean, y’ red-haired idiot?’ says
Boomer. Then he takes in the
window. ‘And what the hell is
this?’ he wants to know. ‘Why,’
says Masters, genuinely puzzled,
‘didn’t the man tell you all about
it?’ And Boomer gets the whole
sad story out of him.”
Both men laughed, softly and
with relish.
“Stand fast,” said the station
sergeant.
Inspector Laycock, tall, grey,
slightly stooping, with a long,
brown, honest face, and a long
lower lip, slightly trembling, like
the lip of an honest old horse
eager to be let out of harness
into the paddock, went through
the room, swinging his whip.
He brought his hand briefly up
to salute, and Was gone, with
long springing strides, out on to
the sunny street.
“Off fishing,” said the station
sergeant
A RING came through from
an agitated woman. She
had just come back from the
city, to find her house had been
burgled.
“Yes, madam,” said Jim
politely. “Now could I have
your address again?”
“But can’t you do something?”
said the distraught voice. “They
can’t have been gone long, and
all my jewellery”
“Yes, madam,” Jim said
soothingly. “But I must have
the address” ——
“Oh, very well. Two hundred
and forty-one Beach Head-
parade. But will you send a


ALL-BRITISH
Ca
&
THE POPULAR PEH
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING i
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6* OF SERVICB
TO IUK AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878,
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies In all Country Centres
,1" I
bis
14
• ■■i
SANTOS DUMONT 14 bis 1906
Construction : CeUular biplane fabric-covered mainplanes. Fuselage forward
of mainplanes carrying boa type combined rudder and elevator. Dimtnshtu :
Span 40 ft. Wing area 860 sq. ft. AH-up weight 645 lb. Power Plant : An-
toinette 8-cylinder petrol engine developing 50 h.p. at 1,500 r.p.m. Weight
3.16 lb. per h.p. Airscrem: Two-bladed 6 ft. diameter pusher airscrew.
Perjormanct : Made first publicly recorded flight in Europe of 25 metres.
Flew over 200 metres at Bagatelle near Paris in October 1906 at 6-8 ft. height
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing
fuelling service symbolised by the green
and yellow colours of the
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO., LTD.
X AVIATION
£
SERVICE/
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne
BEDFORDS
with Extra Duty Engine and .
4-speed synchromesh gear box.
Check Bedford’s outstanding features.
See how much more you get when you
buy Bedford.
Bedford’s long-life, extra-duty engine
cuts maintenance costs to the bone.
Maximum torque tons 168.5 lbs. ft.
and 3-4, 4-5 tons 170 lbs. ft., both at 1,000
r.p.m.), at low engine revs, means that
Bedford is built for tough work not
only at high speeds, but low down when
the puli is heaviest.
A heavy-duty 4 speed synchromesh gear-
box making gear work easier and safer
is available in all models.
A Hypoid rear axle to give added strength
to the final drive and an increase in rear
track of are new features in the 3-4
and 4-5 tonners.
Modified steering (3-4 and 4-5 tonners
only) increases driver comfort and safety.
See your local Bedford dealer!
css#
6et»
Betfo**
JSS—•
SS
'“•Ml
LOW FIRST COST FOR CHASSIS
& CAB PROVES BEDFORD’S VALUE
Enquire about the G.M.A.C. Confidential Payment Plan.
General Motors-Holden's Ltd.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and tarviced by Bedford Dealert throughout Australia. B3S-24NP,
man out immediately ?” Th
voice was lively, and pleasant tc
the ear. Jim had a menta
picture of a pretty brunette
stamping her foot.
“Just a moment,” said Jim
and paused for a few moments
for the time necessary to addres
a few curt directions to a tensely
waiting team of detectives, with
a car waiting outside. Only, a
a matter of fact, there were no
detectives in the station, and nc
car outside. But experience hac
taught Jim that this mild decep-
tion was soothing to the nerves
of agitated clients. If you triec
to bully the information out of
them first they became bitter
about red-tape. And, in his
heart, Jim could sympathise with
them. Still, that was his job.
“A policeman is on his way
now,” said Jim reassuringly
“Now, if you can just give me
these details”-
“Beach Head-parade,” said the
station sergeant, as Jim put
down the receiver. “That’s too
far for Hullo, who’s this?”
he squinted through the door-
way at a nattily-dressed figure
crossing the tree-studded road.
“I do believe it’s young Mr. Plain
Clothes Olley.”
As Olley came through the
doorway the station sergeant
greeted him cheerfully. “Got a
job for you,,poor fellow,”
Olley looked glum. “Where
is it?”
“Two-forty-one Beach Head-
parade,” said the station sergeant.
“Lovely view of the beach.
Hurry up, and the lady might
give you a nice cup of tea.”
“No one else here?” Detective
Olley said, his small grey eyes
shutting suspiciously in his florid
face. “Where’s Ken? And
where the hell’s the car?”
“All gone,” said the station
sergeant, beaming. “Where to?
Who knows? Where do plain-
clothes men go in summer,
sergeant?” he inquired of
Sergeant First-class Minogue
who had just come in from up-
stairs.
Sergeant Minogue raised his
shaggy eyebrows. “Where to?
To the pubs, I suppose.” A tall,
dark, greying man with a solid
face carved in lines of humorous
irony, he sat down on the high
stool in the corner and rested
his braided sleeve on the counter.
Under his shaggy eyebrows quick
brown eyes turned on Detective
Olley. “Why? Are you being
pestered by criminals again,
detective?”
Detective Olley looked slightly
flustered. “Just going to a job
in Beach Head-parade, sergeant,”
he said sulkily. He extended a
white hand to Jim, the gold ring
twinkling. “Gimme,” he said.
Jim handed him the message-pad,
and he studied it, frowning.
“Nice long walk up there in
the sun,” said the station sergeant
kindly, “Be good for your
figure.”
“You’re being funny, aren’t
you?” said Detective Olley.
“Sergeant Flannigan might
lave caught the mal-ee-factors by
now,” said the station sergeant
“Why?” *said Sergeant
Minogue. “Do they drink at
the Royal Arms?”
The station sergeant grinned.
“I don’t know about that. But
we sent him along to Bower-
street about half an hour ago—
that’s just off the end of Beach
Head-parade—to see a woman
complaining of suspicious-look-
ing characters. And we haven’t
heard from him since. Matter
of fact” —a weakness of the
station sergeant was his fond-
ness for harping upon old jokes
—“we thought it was probably
the plainclothes boys who were
worrying her. But she migh
have been right, and Flannigan
might have got on to it.”
Detective Olley looked up
sharply. “Why didn’t you tel
me this before?”
“Didn’t think you were in-
terested, poor fellow,” said the
station sergeant with placid in-
solence.
HAT shifted him,” said
1 McPherson, picking up his
broom and bucket. “They hate
to see the uniformed men get
on to anything, don’t they?”
“Jealousy,” said Sergeant
Minogue. “You want to look
out for that, Constable Mc-
Pherson. It can poison your
life.” He reached out a large
brown hand. “Who’ve we got
in the cells. Bill?”
“I can’t stand that flash Tare,”
said McPherson, with feeling.
“Who does he think he is, any-
way?”
“The only son of an important
police-officer, that’s all, poor
fellow,” said the station sergeant.
“You mark my words. Detective
Olley will get on,”
“Olley,” said Sergeant
Minogue, raising his bushy eye-
brows from the stiff-backed book,
“belongs to an interesting class
of plainclothes man. He thinks
anyone who isn’t a plainclothes
man is a mug.”
“How’d you get on with that
Hammond case, Mac?” the
station sergeant asked suddenly.
McPherson stopped on his
way to the door. “Wiped,” he
said bitterly. “That roosteffs
got a lot of pull somewhere.”
Sergeant Minogue put down
the book. “Hammond, eh?
That’s the bird who came in to
see me about young Smith, five,
six months ago. Told a pretty
story about Smith abusing him.
What’d you book him for,
Mac?”
“Speeding,” McPherson said.
“Doing over forty in a built-up
area. That’s the second time
I’ve booked him and the second
time it’s been wiped.”
“He’s a big-shot in the city,”
the station sergeant said. “One
of our rising financiers, as the
papers put it. He’s got a lot
of influence.”
Sergeant Minogue rubbed his
chin. “He told a good story
about Smith. I’ve known a story
like that, told the right way and
by the right person, lose a man
his job before today.”
“He’s a high-spirited colt, all
right,” said McPherson. “Good-
looking bloke, too. Has he
really got so much dough?”
“Quite a stack of it, according
to reports,” said the station
sergeant, “And making more.
The old people had plenty, too.
They were very strict —sort of
cranks. I remember them from
when I was a kid —they lived in
our suburb —sort of squires, they
were—and my old man was the
local newsagent. 1 used to
deliver the papers up at the
house.”
“Ever tangle with the young
fellow?” McPherson wanted to
know.
The station sergeant grinned.
“He’s not so young. About my
age, really. Only—er—sort of
better preserved. He’s only be-
come prominent lately, too, since
the old people died. Yes, I did
tangle with him, as a kid. Got
my ears belted off, as a matter
of fact.”
Sergeant Minogue smiled,
“Ever hear what happened to
your little playmate, Olley?
Hammond had a burglary up
there, in the new house he built
up on the Head. You were away
at the time. Bill, I think —let me
see, last October. You’d have
been on leave then. Olley and
Grant went up there, and Olley,
being the senior man, did all the
talking. Tried to bounce Ham-
mond a bit. Grant said. Ham-
mond was sitting down at a desk
and he answered the first couple
of questions politely. Then he
just held up his hand and dialled
a number —someone with more
pull than Olley’s old man.
‘Look here,’ he said, ‘there’s a
plainclothes man here pestering
me called—what your name
again?’ he said to Olley, who
went as white as a sheet, and
told him, ‘called Olley, The
man’s an idiot. Get someone
else sent out here, will you?’ ”
McPherson whistled, and
scratched his curly head. “As
much pull as all that, eh?”
“Just that much,” Sergeant
Minogue said. “No more.” The
carved face was suddenly stern.
“He can’t hurt you, Mac, if
you keep your nose clean. But
if you do book him —make sure
it fits.” Sergeant Minogue
nodded his square chin briefly,
in emphasis or dismissal. And
Constable McPherson went out,
swinging his bucket and mop,
a little forlornly.
r* ONSTABLE Ben Butler
came in, looking startlingly
prosperous in a grey suit,
smoking a cigar. He was on
leave, but he lived close by,
and he usually dropped in about
this time* for a yarn. Sergeant
{Continued on page 32.)


The Letters of Rachel Henning
[These letters bagan in 1853, when Biddulph, Rachel Henning’s only
brother (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta (“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851) and Amy were thus separated, for
the time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
In August, 1854, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
Tregenna Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six days
later Rachel and Amy went to Appin, in N.S.W., where their brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
1853, and while Biddulph was establishing a new place on Bull! Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1856.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on February 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulph and
Annie, went to live on Exmoor station In North Queensland, which was
just being developed. She stayed there until 1865, when she became
engaged to Deighton Taylor, her brother's sheep overseer. She was
married to him in Sydney on March 3, 1866.
This Is the seventeenth Instalment of the letters.]
Myall River,
November 26, 1866.
My Dearest Annie.
Thank you for your nice long
letter of October 30. The stop-
ping of the Brisbane mail is very
tiresome for you. One is glad to
get letters and papers regularly
in the bush. Thank you for all
the Exmoor* news. I was very
glad to hear that Biddulph has
got an overseer to suit him.
It is a great improvement get-
ting men at £4O a year; that is
if they are good for anything.
I hope you have got a married
couple by this time—it is such
a nuisance to have any difficulty
about washing. Wages are cheap
here. Murphy, the bullock-
driver, and his wife, who is
house-servant, only get £45 a
year between them.
I like Mrs. Murphy very
much, and we have always got
on very well together, but as
you will see by my letter to Bid-
dulph we shall be leaving here
in a month or two ; the place is
to be sold or let as soon as it
can be, and in the meantime Mr.
Somerville is only going to keep
one man just to look after it. It
doesn’t pay in the least, and I
am afraid he has lost a good
deal by it.
I like the place exceedingly,
and so does Mr. Taylor, and we
shall both be very sorry to leave
it in many respects ; and no one
can be kinder than Mr. Somer-
ville has been. Still, I like the
idea of having a home entirely
my own, and though we have
taken great pleasure in the
garden here, it has always been
under the idea that we might
have to leave it, and it would
be a greater pleasure to cultivate
a garden that was all our own.
We do not want to leave this
part of the country if we can get
some land here. I like the
climate, and the scenery is the
prettiest I have seen after
Illawarra. Mr. Taylor is going
into Stroud next week to make
inquiries about land, etc., and I
hope to be able to tell you more
about our proceedings in my
next letter.
The Bullah-deelah (as the punt
is grandly named) met with a
bad accident a few days ago.
She was loaded with first a tier
of heavy girders (that is, whole
trunks of trees, just squared on
the four sides, some of them
measuring fifteen by fifteen and
thirty feet long); then some
thousand palings, and finally
fifty bags of maize; and she
was lying at our wharf with
provisions and everything on
board just ready to start for the
Tea Gardens.
Murphy, the man, inspected
her at nine o’clock, and Mr.
Taylor and myself took a moon-
light walk at ten o’clock to see
that she was all right and not
making any water. She was all
right, and everybody seemed to
be quite happy, when about six
in the morning a man came run-
ning up to say he had just seen
the punt sink! Sure enough, she
had gone down in twenty-two
feet of water. This river does
not shelve, but is deep close to
the bank.
“Parading Stroud in an airy costume."
The maize was the first
thought, as it would soon
spoil, but they fixed hooks
on to long poles, and in
the course of the morning
fished up the whole fifty bags.
It was not long enough in the
water to be hurt, but the drying
was dreadful work. It was
spread in the loft in the spare-
room, in the pantry, in the
veranda ; in fact, go where you
will, you walk upon maize. It
is nearly dry now, and will soon
be bagged up again.
The palings floated about and
were soon collected and stacked,
but the punt and the girders still
remain at the bottom of the
Myall, and cannot be got up till
next week, when two other punts
are coming to try and lift her.
There would be no difficulty
were she empty, but the girders
are such an enojmous weight.
Nobody can make out why the
punt sank, as she had been
making no water all the day
before. There are strong sus-
picions of somebody having
scuttled her, but it is almost
impossible to prove it.
I think the little chestnut mare
will turn out very well. I rode
her twice, and she seems very
fast. Murphy brought her in a
few days ago with a weakly-
looking foal, which Mr. Taylor
shot immediately. I was afraid
she would fret over it, but after
standing by it one night, she
went to feed with the other
horses. Murphy dragged the
foal away in the morning, and
she does not appear to have
thought of it since. I hope she will
now get into good condition ;
she is a pretty well-bred-looking
thing if she was not so poor.
Mr. Somerville brought back
with him from Sydney Aytoun’s
Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers.
I never saw them before. They
are extremely spirited. He
brought up a book both for me
and Mr. Taylor, very kindly. I
never saw anyone so fond of
poetry. I still take in the “Corn-
hill Magazine.” There is rather
a good story in it by Anthony
Trollope called “The Cover-
ings,” and a pretty tale by Miss
Thackeray, “The Village on
the Cliff.” We also take in
the “Home News.” Mr. Somer-
ville takes the “Sydney Herald,”
but I do not often read it. I
like to look at the Port Denison
papers, which come here for Mr.
GiUiat.
Thank you for your receipt
for making a cake. I did not
know exactly the quantities, but
I have succeeded much better
lately. I think, as you say, a
great deal is in the baking, and
Mrs. Murphy, after failing two
or three times, has got into the
way of it now.
No cookery-book tells you
exactly how to do things; for
instance, when I wanted to know
the quantity of peas for making
a tureen of soup, I found the
advice “Take peas.” I constantly
make cornflour blancmange, and
very nice it is. I once tried
custards, but failed signally.
Nothing would induce the stuff
to thicken and at last it boiled!
So I added some sago and made
a pudding. Plum - pudding,
roley-puddings made of gramah-
jam, beefsteak pies and pud-
dings lam quite clever at. I
also make tarts of wild rasp-
berries and dried apples. It is a
pleasure to make things for
Deighton, he always likes them
and thinks them so good.
Goodbye now, my dear Annie.
With kindest regards to Mr.
Hedgeland and love to yourself.
Your ever affectionate sister.
Rachel Taylor,
Myall River,
February 17, 1867.
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
As is often the case, we have
to write our English letters
before receiving the last mail.
What you suggest about buying
this place if Mr. Somerville sold
it occurred to us also, and Bid-
dulph consented to let me use
Aunt Vizard’s legacy for the
purpose, which, with what we
have saved here and Uncle
John’s money, would have nearly
paid for it, but on further con-
sideration Mr. Taylor and I
thought it would be a consider-
able risk and would not pay, so
much outlay is required.
A bullock-driver and two
punt-men at least have to be
kept, and the men who split and
saw the timber have to be paid,
and then timber has lately been
so low in Sydney that you prob-
ably lose after all your trouble.
The trade is overdone there.
Everyone is sending down
timber, and two steam sawmills
are being erected which will
probably take all the trade.
So we thought our present
plan far the best, as if we do not
gain much neither can we lose,
and we shall be independent of
the whole tribe of sawyers,
splitters, timber-merchants at
Sydney, etc.
We are going to buy about
one hundred and fifty acres of
land, put up a comfortable
wooden house upon it. Fence it
all in with a sheep-proof fence
and by and by, when every-
thing is ready for them, buy
about a hundred sheep and run
them on the land in a fenced
paddock where they can do as
they like. They ought to thrive
as well as pet sheep, and what
looking after they require Mr.
Taylor will give them himself, so
they will not cost anything after
the first outlay. The same land
would maintain our riding horses
and a cow, and I think we shall
do very well.
The fact is that our income
(£205) is quite enough to live on
most comfortably in the bush,
but the sheep will give Mr.
Taylor an employment that he
likes, and their wool, and selling
the increase in Stroud or Sydney,
may give us some £20 a year
more.
We have taken a fancy to this
part of the country to settle in.
I do not mean the Myall; the
land here would never do for
sheep, but about Stroud, which
is twenty miles from here. The
land there belongs to the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Company,
and they are very slow in their
proceedings. We wanted a piece
• Annie had returned to Exmoor
with her husband, George Hedgeland.
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
BACHEE HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1836, and came back to Australia
in 1861. She went to Exmoor (Q.)
in 1862, returning to Sydney in
1865, and married Heighten Taylor
in 1866.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddnlph,
and went with him to Queensland
in 1862. Married George Hedge-
land in 1866.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1865,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDUEPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
his married cousin Undon Bid-
dulpb near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Eater he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rlxon’s
Pass, Bnlll Mountain, at 255. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. In conjunction with the
Tuckers he bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him. In
1864 he took up an additional hold-
ing (Eara), which stretched from
Alick’s Creek to the junction of
the Cloncurry River, a tributary
of the Flinders, and comprised
eight blocks of 25 square miles.
Although the country was good
it did not pay because of trans-
port difficulties.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Pox well House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Eydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married In 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
EINDON BIDDUEPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDUEPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Bidduiphs. They were
interested, with Biddulph Henning,
in Queensland station properties.
WIEEIAM TUCKER was founder
of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES
TUCKER was his brother.


1 ft
(TrCaljUtm's
t&
Scots (Uhisky
mor)i ttbttf
•■I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!--***'* - "
I fhe n° n ' 8 13
w^C
|j sS .. >siS sssa»» aJ!S ''
ll. !ii H» i!ii!i!::i
> is « A J.: SY
The » s
“Trifles make perfection . . ,
but perfection is no trif[e , ' l
IMJ
1
(ilw
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
"Mr. Somerville cracked the stones.”
of land near Stroud, but after
waiting nearly a month for an
answer from the manager we
found that they wanted too much
for it as being close to the town.
Mr. Taylor and I are going to
ride in again this week to see
some land about six miles from
the town, which I hope will suit
us, and perhaps it will be better
to live at that distance than close
to a gossiping village.
If the land does, and we can
come to terms with the co., I
suppose we shall conclude the
matter. Biddulph let me keep
£l5O of Aunt Vizard’s money.
The rest was invested in Treasury
Bills at ten per cent., as I think
I told you.
I am afraid I have tired you
with this long history of our
plans and intentions, but we are
very full of it just now, and do
nothing but draw plans of houses
and gardens. Mr. Taylor has
been drawing an elaborate plan
for laying out the garden besides
elevations of the intended house
from every possible point of
view.
It seems quite a pity to leave
this place ; it is very pretty now.
The trellis is covered with
creepers, and through the green
arches the river looks beautiful,
sparkling in the sun. We can
make our house as pretty in a
short time; things grow so
rapidly in this climate, but we
shall miss the beautiful Myall
River. This part would never
have done for sheep, though ; the
ridges are coarse and weedy, and
the flats are periodically flooded
by the river.
The country is looking most
beautiful now. After a long
drought we have had heavy
rains, and the whole bush is
green. ' We have been out for a
walk this evening, and you
never saw anything more
beautiful than the golden sunset
light on the green slopes and the
tree-stems in the bush, and the
rocks on the summit of Bullidilla
catch the last of it and turn from
gold to orange and crimson. I
wish you could see it.
You will perhaps hear from
Biddulph that he is again down
in Sydney. He
has made a very
good sale of
Dartmoor, a run
adjoining
Exmoor, and he
came down
about that and
also to settle the
last of the Lara
business with
Mr. Morriset.
He told me he
could not come
up here this
time. I should
have much liked
to take a trip to
Sydney to see
him, but I could
not well leave
home just as this
land affair has to
be settled and as
Mr. Taylor and
I must go down
while our house
is building to
get a number of
things we want
for it. I do not
think I ought to
go to the double
expense when
we have so
much to pay
for.
I hope to get
your December
letters this week,
and if there is
anything to
answer immedi-
ately I will write next week via
Panama..
And now with kind love,
believe me, my dear Mr. Boyce.
Your affectionate sister.
Rachel Taylor.
Myall River,
February 18, 1867.
My Dearest Etta,
I must only write a short letter
this time as I have already
written a long one to Mr. Boyce,
and the December mail is not
yet arrived. There is not much
news from this part of Australia,
and you will probably have
heard from Annie and Amy
their news. How that a little
Hedgeland is expected in July
and a sixth little Sloman is just
arrived. I have written to con-
gratulate both.
I have just returned from an
expedition up the river in quest
of fruit. We paid another visit
to the vineyard, ate rather more
than we did before, and brought
home with us about eight pounds
of grapes. Whereof I see only
one or two bunches remaining
on a plate. We also got some
peaches.
I have been doing a great
deal in the preserving line lately.
Last week we sent the store-
keeper with a packhorse up the
river and he got fifty dozen
peaches for about 7s. I made
about thirty-five dozen into jam,
and the rest we kept for pies and
eating. All hands helped at the
jam. Mr. Somerville and Mr.
Taylor peeled the peaches while
I cut them up. Then Mr. Taylor
and I alternately stirred the jam
while Mr. Somerville cracked
the stones that we might put in
the kernels.
I have also been making some
passionfruit jelly, and exceed-
ingly nice it is. Better than
red-currant. It is a bright
amber color and looks very
pretty in the glasses. The
quinces will soon be ripe, and
then I must make some
marmalade. Both Mr, Taylor
and Mr. Somerville are very
fond of preserves.
It is very disappointing that I
cannot see dear Biddulph. He
does not write in very good
spirits. I do so wish he could
find a nice wife, but he is too
fastidious ever to do so in Aus-
tralia, I am afraid. I am sure
he would be much happier.
Fancy, in a fortnight (March
3) I shall have been married a
year! I can hardly imagine it ,
myself ; the time has flown so,
I wonder if they would send us
out the sketch of Dunmoore.
We could most conscientiously
claim it, but no thanks to me.
I often hear from Sydney.
Emily rambles about as ever.
Caroline is “daily” expecting
Number 10, Lizzie Chapman,
ditto. We shall go down there
in a month or two to buy
windows and doors and wall-
papers. We nourish distant
hopes of a piano, but that will
not be yet, but I don’t think
anything would give us both
greater pleasure.
I must not write more now.
Will you forward the enclosed to
Mrs. West? lam not sure of
her address.
Kindest love to the children
and yourself, dearest Etta,
believe me.
Your very affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
Myall River,
March 20, 1867.
My Dearest Etta,
We have to write again with-
out any letter from you to reply
to. The English news is tele-
graphed, but we shall not get
the letters till the next mail. I
wrote to Mr. Boyce via Panama
and sent him the receipt for the
legacy.
I see by the telegraphs that
you have had a most severe
winter since the mild Christmas.
I wish I could send you a little
of our sunshine. England is a
far better country than this in
many respects, but there is
nothing like the bright warm
Australian climate for comfort
and also, I think,
for cheerfulness.
It is difficult to be
out of spirits when
the warm sun is shining.
We have at last got the land
question settled. About a fort-
night ago Mr. Taylor and I
went into Stroud and took up
our quarters at the usual little
inn. Next day we rode out to
see the country he had heard
of, and we both liked it very
much. It is very pretty, green
undulating ridges, lightly
timbered and well grassed—just
the thing for sheep. Sloping
down to a creek and backed
behind by high wooded ranges.
We rode and walked about
there nearly all day, looking out
for the best piece. At last we
IjTced upon a part that had been
an old sheepyard of the A.A.
Co.’s, and where in consequence
the grass was very thick and
good. Next day Mr. Taylor
went out there with the com-
pany’s surveyor and got one
hundred and fifty acres measured
off, and before we left Stroud
it was bought and paid for.
Then we made an agreement
with a carpenter to put up the
house for us; that celebrated
house which we have been so
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
long planning. He agreed to do
it more cheaply than we
expected, which was very satis-
factory. The house and kitchen,
complete with doors, windows,
floors, waterpipes, boarded ceil-
ing to the parlor, etc., will cost
£ll5.
The kitchen and servants’-
room is in a detached building,
as is always the case in this
country. The doors and
window-frames are to be of
cedar. The house is twenty-four
feet by thirty feet, with a
veranda eight feet wide on three
sides of it. It is to be finished
in three months, then there is the
kitchen and various outbuild-
ings to be put up afterwards, so
I do not suppose we shall get
into it before the end of June or
beginning of July.
The place we have bought is
called the “Peach Trees” —I
believe because some shepherd
planted some peach-trees at the
old station I mentioned before.
There are certainly none there
now, but I hope there will be, as
we intend to have a very nice
garden. It is about eight miles
from Stroud, but a good road
all the way, so the distance will
not matter ; it will be a pleasant
ride once or twice a week to
get our letters, etc.
While we were in Stroud we
looked at a very
comfortable house
there which will do
for us to live
in while our house is
being built. I suppose we shall
move into Stroud in three weeks
or a month ; as soon as the stuff
is split ready for building our
house. We shall be obliged to
go in then because Mr. Taylor
will be then able to ride out to
the Peach Trees every day or
two to superintend the putting-
up of the house, whereas it is
too far to go from here.
I would rather remain here
otherwise till it is time to get
into our house, for though
Stroud is so pretty I do not like
living in a small town ; besides,
I know the people will come and
call on us, and over and above
my original dislike of strangers
we have very little furniture. A
great deal that we have used
here was Mr. Somerville’s. He
furnished our own bedroom
comfortably, but a table, chef-
fionere and three sets of curtains
and blinds are all the parlor
furniture we have. I forgot to
mention lots of books and a
hearth rug. Mr. Taylor made a
sofa and bookstand when we
o Continued on page 34.)


WHY
EDWARD LUMLEY CAN
EFFECT LARGEST SCALE
INSURANCES
tit
Keemt Ratfe)
Marine, Fire, Accident. Workers'
Compensation and ail forms of
Industrial and Commercial
Insurance
As insurance brokers, tied to no specific
insurance organisation, Edward Lumley &
Sons are able to secure for their clients
the best insurances on the most advan-
tageous terms. In fact, Edward Lumley
& Sons can, and do, effect insurances with
the foremost underwriting companies
throughout the world, including Lloyd’s
of London. A ’phone call, which will entail
no obligation, will bring an experienced
executive to discuss your insurance needs.
And in view of Edward Lumley & Sons’
exceptional buying facilities such a talk
will almost certainly prove to be of value
to your organisation.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 0538
C.M.L Building, 72 Hunter Street, Newcastle, B 1810
2 Magellan Street, Lismore. 'Phone 380
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRINGING GERMANY IN NOW.
a . “ Th f ® conom ic transforma-
the laSt tW °f
years, the changed appearance of
astounding » p 60 ple ’ iS truly
astounding.
The summing-up is by
American historian and political
scientist Hans Kohn, in a
London Time and Tide” article.
He ascribes the extraordinary re-
covery partly to “the energy of
the German people,” but to a
large extent, also, to “the en-
couragement and help of the
Western victors.”
London “Daily Mail” which
has voiced forthright doubts
about Germany, also finds the
recovery pace astonishing. Its
doubts, however, have been sub-
dued by what it calls a “regret-
table necessity”*—
“The strengthening of the
West by every legitimate means,
including agreements with
Germany and Japan, is the only
way to save peace now. Time
changes, and history moves on.
This is not the first time that the
enemy of yesterday has become
the friend of today.”
Also reflecting widespread
British doubts, London “News
Chronicle” sees German rearma-
ment as holding “obvious risks”:
“But the fact remains that the
European army is the only safe
method that has been devised of
associating Germany, as she
ought to be associated, in her
own defence and in that of the
Continent.”
London “Times,” too, com-
ments that the Western Powers
“do not look forward to German
rearmament with any
enthusiasm,” and the
“Economist” asserts that the
real motive of the plan for a
European army, to include
G / rmanS ’ is not the confidence
of French and Germans that
hey can work to gather in such
intimacy, but French distrust
and fear of Germany,
OTHER DOUBTS
AD , ,
Bonn correspondent of the
Yorkshire Post” has noted that,
11 a f reement is reached on still-
P endin B issues, the Germans are
ex P ected to P ut their first con-
tnbution in the field in 1953.
1116 “Economist,” however,
ex P ects that the political organi-
f atl ? n whlch the French insist on
having agreed with the Germans
before they will consent to the
re cru *tment and training of
German soldiers will keep
? ffici * ls and statesmen arguing
J s whereas what the
. 0141 Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
on wari j? . IS . ur gent action a
Ge ™ a .? dlv ?, slot ? b Y the end of
? dj Y ls * ons hy the end
°* *953 and eight to 10 divisions
arK | a . !^ c i* ca air orce hy the
end of 1954 *
The prospect of sufficient
Franco-German agreement to
S et this integrated defence
organisation started is considered
doubtful, “But the remarkable
ac t remains that those who
know the difficulties best and are
responsible for overcoming
them—that is to say, the interna-
tional staff at S.H.A.P.E. and its
political masters—believe suc-
cess is possible and intend to
work for it. Indeed, it is true
to say that the Supreme Com-
mander [Eisenhower] gives
priority to this political task over
all military problems.”
If this is so, the French might
say he has an odd way of show-
ing it. French historian Bertrand
de Jouvenel declares in a “Time
and Tide” article that apparently
Eisenhower, who had seemed se-
duced by the European army
concept, has veered back. He
wants German soldiers now ; the
European army later—“which
obviously means never. So the
French are again faced with this
spectre of the Wehrmacht which
they had thought to conjure
—"San Francisco Chronicle.”
“H’M, LET’S SEE—HOW DOES THIS GAME GO?”
away. To the setting-up of an
autonomous German army,
many Frenchmen would prefer
the re-unification of Germany
and neutralisation, according to
the Grotewohl [i.e., Soviet East
German] proposals.”
GERMANS’ TERMS
Added to that still unresolved
question of sufficient agreement
jetween the two traditional
enemies there is the Germans’
own willingness to come
in on suitable terms. “They
may,” the “Times” hopes, “con-
clude that a contribution to the
defence of Europe within a
European army is infinitely
better than the prospect of being
kept disarmed and defenceless
between the two great world
Powers, at best a buffer and at
worst a battlefield.”
German ex - servicemen’s
leaders “the generals and
others” —are reported by the
“Yorkshire Post” correspondent
as insisting: “If you want a
German soldier who is able to
fight, he has to have equality of
rights and weapons. If there is
a European command, we will
insist on being represented on it.
If a German general is a good
tactician or strategist, he should
have the opportunity of being in
supreme command,”
Apropos of this, “Manchester
Guardian” has featured a long
article detailing the remarkable
recent growth of the West
German ex-servicemen’s move-
ment and describing this as “the
most significant internal develop-
ment since the birth of the
Federal Republic.” The
“Guardian” made the editorial
comment that “All those who
have the interests of democracy
at heart know that such organi-
sations have been perverted in
the past, but until we see the
direction that the movement
takes it would be wisest to
suspend judgment.”
However any of that may
work out, the “Economist” notes
that behind the idea of a Euro-
pean army, and determined that
it shall be made to work, now
stands “a group of men who
cannot by any stretch of argu-
ment be described as starry-
eyed ; among them are fighting
soldiers from Korea who have
helped to create in most un-
favorable circumstances a United
Nations army and a Common-
wealth division.”
They believe they can do the
same now in Europe, with Ger-
many a main partner.
“UNITY” BAIT
The big bait being offered by
Russia to prevent this Western
scheme is that of a unified
Germany ; and even not neces-
sarily Communist-controlled. At
any rate that is the pretence.
But (London “Observer” has
commented) “If Germany—even
a united and democratic
Germany—were neutralised as a
buffer State between Russia and
the West, this would mean that
Eastern Europe would remain a
Russian empire ; that the defence
of Western Europe would
remain precarious; and that
Germany herself would remain
in that ambiguous position be-
tween East and West which has
twice landed her in a disastrous
two-front war.
“If the Germans have the
wisdom and patience to wait for
unity a little longer and put
their contribution to Western
defence first, they will, in due
course, recover their unity as a
respected and equal part of the
Western world ; and it will then
be Eastern Europe—Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
Rumania and Bulgaria—which
will have a chance to recover
national independence as a
neutral buffer zone, together
with Sweden and Finland, be-
tween Russia and the West. This
is a perfectly realistic prospect,
and it is as much in the interests
of Germany as of Europe and
the Western world.”
SOVIET CONCERN
That the Germans will show
“wisdom and patience” in the
face of what Russia might be
prepared to offer is doubted by
expert observers. They hold
that, to have any chance at all.
Western action to ensure
German co-operation will need
to be prompt. “New York
Times’s” leading European
correspondent, C. L. Sulzberger,
lately noted that Moscow may
well be willing to go to any
length—and soon —to push for
German unification even though
the Kremlin itself is uneasy
about the idea.
The same correspondent, how-
ever, reports the French as
reasoning that once a European
army—with West German par-
ticipation—is born, the Soviet
Union would have to abandon
its present attitude on unity:
“Paris believes Moscow would
not dare to permit the Eastern
zone to amalgamate again with
the West once that area had been
integrated into the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
defence plans through a Euro-
pean army. The Kremlin would
recognise the risk that the
majority of the population of
Germany—now under Bonn —
would dominate the returning
Eastern areas. Thus, in the long
run, all of Germany would be
won by Western diplomacy.
“The issue at this moment is
summed up accordingly by the
French. West Germany must
be included in a European army
that actually functions, and in a
European community with
supranational authority, and
such must occur in the very near
future.”
“HEARTACHE”
On the same theme, London
“Economist” declares that if the
50 million West Germans are
not clasped into partnership
with free Europe before they
achieve unity with the 17 million
East Germans, there will be no
European army, no Schuman
Plan, no Council of Europe:
Instead, an independent
Germany—a third force—at the
heart of the Continent, its
foreign policy dominated by the
game of playing the Russians off
against the Americans: “Six
years after victory over Hitler
this is a prospect to bewilder the
mind and make the heart ache.”
For Moscow, it points out, the
simple and obvious way of
expelling Americans and British
from the marches of the Com-
munist empire without a war is
to support German nationalism ;
it is the method that is being
tried against the British in the
Middle East and Asia. Once the
troops of the Atlantic Pact
Powers had left Germany, the
Russians would reckon that
economic inducements, the skill
and discipline of the Communist
party, and the presence of their
army in Poland only 40 miles
from Berlin would bring a united
but disarmed nation slowly but
surely into the Communist
sphere.
The balance of power
in Europe would then have
swung back to where it was in
1946, when America de-
mobilised.
WESTS ACES
The well - informed
“Economist” thinks, however,
that “the Russians are still
further from winning Germany
for their Communist empire than
they may believe.”
Meantime, while Germans
make up their minds, “it needs to
be made clear” that the
American-British-French troops
“will in no circumstances what-
ever be withdrawn so long as the
present international tension
continues.
“If the Russians offer to with-
draw their troops, well and
good; they have less than a
hundred miles to go. The troops
of N.A.T.O. will stay. And if
Germans ask why, the answer
is that the peace of Europe
depends on Americans and
Russians facing each other at
its heart, on opposite sides of
the Elbe. To leave a vacuum
between the Elbe and Rhine is to
invite another miscalculation by
the Kremlin.”
Another ace decision that the
Western occupying Powers will
keep in their own hands is
whether their occupying troops
are to regard Western Germany
as the territory of a friendly ally
or of a potentially hostile and
expendable people, as land to be
defended or as no-man’s land:
“If Germans will not co-
operate in the defence of Western
Europe, then their land can be
regarded in war as nothing more
than a forward position to cover
the defence and mobilisation of
the nations of the North Atlantic
Treaty. And if they refuse to
associate themselves with the
institutions of an integrated
Europe, they need expect none
of the economic and political
benefits of membership.
“Germans will call this brutal
reasoning; but it is nothing
more than a statement of the
facts.”
BRITAIN’S PART
As for Britain’s part in the
European - army scheme, the
“News Chronicle” declares;
“Britain will collaborate, as will
America, but will not be in it.”
An “Observer” correspondent
somewhat qualifies that:
“Whether or not we [British]


Occasions when no Gift it
more acceptable than a
LAVINA
SWISS MASTERPIECE
m
*
V
f/'S
ks
\K
w
&
On every
occasion
which traditi-
onally calls for a
gift of lasting value,
give e i 7-jewelled
Levina Swiss Watch. It
wilt be cherished through
the years for its exquisite
perfection.
LAVINA
WATCHES
The Choice of Millions
Established 1>52. Vlllaret, Suisse.
1W19.61
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Evory point
guaranteed
do not expert-
men t with
Imitations.
C krmndeuer A Co. Ltd
llnniniham, England
liiliiiiM
.... ■ :■•:
: '
'
Mm
M>
Nuffield M 4
10 ft. Header in
heavy crop.
in
I#'? v »:
l& '%
g
SKW
i
NUFFIELD
ctorj-
f
NT.6.24.51
In every Stats through-
out the Commonwealth the
Nuffield Universal has been
farm-proved a practical, versa-
tile, reliable tractor, ideal for
Australian conditions; 6-way power
(viz., Swinging Drawbar Belt
Pulley Power Talte-off - 3-way
Hydraulics); operates all usual
trailed and fixed implements;
4-wheel to 3-wheel conversion and
vice versa on the farm; adjustable
tracks; 5 forward speeds; full
electrical equipment; independent
turning brakes. Kerosene or "Cold
Start” Diesel operated.
m
BUILT AND BACKED BY A
NAME YOU CAN TRUSTI
IT HAS EVERYTHING— DOES EVERYTHING
śdf
NUFFIELD PRODUCTS ARE SOLD AND SERVICED
BY AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DISTRIBUTORS AN
DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
DISTRIBUTORS:
AUTHOUStt
KimEU)
DEALER
N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited; VICTORIA: Keliow-Falkiner Pty. Ltd.; QUEENSLAND:
Flinders Motors Pty. Ltd.; SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Kingswoy Limited; WESTERN
AUSTRAUA: Park Lane Motors Pty. Ltd.; TASMANIA; Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
I NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA)
PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND. NEW SOUTH
WALES
join the European army, it is a
settled affair that the bulk of our
Army and a substantial part of
our tactical Air Forces will be
permanently stationed, with all
their service and supply
machinery, on the Continent;
they will be part of an interna-
tional military organisation,
and will fight under interna-
tional command. To that extent
we are in any case already
inextricably mixed up with our
European neighbors.”
Also, “the chances are that a
strong and united Europe will
attract permanent American
partnership far more powerfully
than would a weak and divided
Europe; and if continental
Europe unites while Britain
stands aloof, Britain might easily
become estranged not only from
her European neighbors but also
from America, and end by find-
ing herself in a far from splendid
isolation.”
And editorially the “Observer”
adds the comment: “For Britain
especially, two great mental
tasks present themselves: a
thorough and unprejudiced
reconsideration of the vital ques-
tion of our membership of the
European army, which may de-
termine nothing less than the
shape and character of the
emerging Europe and the future
course of European history;
and the final liquidation of
lingering war-time enmity to-
wards our important new ally,
Germany.”
"Terrible Reputation. "
In editorial comment on the
moves to bring Germany in as
a prospective partner on the
Western side London ‘Times”
referred to the Fritz officers’
“obsession with ‘the honor of
the German soldier’,” and
added; “The fact remains that,
outside Africa, the German
Army earned a terrible reputa-
tion.”
It brought a sharp rejoinder
from war-correspondent and
military historian B, H. Liddell
Hart. “In visiting the countries
of Western Europe, and asking
people about their experiences
under the German occupation,”
he stated, “one is told over and
—"New York Times.”
HARDER TO FIT.
over again that the Nazi regime
was hateful but that the German
Army was ‘most correct’ in
behavior.
“Indeed, it is disturbing to find
how commonly the personal con-
duct of many members of the
armies of liberation is compared
unfavorably with that of German
soldiers by those who had direct
experience.”
Wog-proof Japs.
Since the war (according to
Robert W. Cook in his book
Human Fertility ) the entire
population of Japan—B3,ooo,ooo
people—-have been vaccinated.
He gives other remarkable
figures: 40,000,000 Japs in the
same time have been dusted with
D.D.T., 9,000,000 immunised
against typhus, 18,000,000
against diphtheria, 34,000,000
against cholera and 60,000,000
against typhoid. Thirty-one mil-
lion Japanese were given B.C.G.
treatment against tuberculosis.
“These heroic measures had a
dramatic effect almost at once,”
writes Cook, “The death-rate
dropped from a war-time high
of 29 to 11.4 in 1948.
“The Japanese birth-rate went
up steadily until, in 1949, it
reached the highest point in the
island’s history 34.8 per
thousand —more than 10 points
higher than in the U.S. for the
same year. The death-rate in
1949 was only one-third of the
birth-rate.”
Dragnet Digest.
Troops in Strikes. “Manchester
Guardian” records a simple fact:
“Labor has called in troops to do the
work of strikers more than any other
British Government.”
* * # •
V for Work. —A “Yorkshire Post”
columnist quotes an Ipswich (Eng.)
station porter saying to a mate:
‘Conservatives are in.” The other
eplied, “Yes, that means we’ve got
a work.”
* * ♦ ♦
Liquidated. —The latest story from
'ehind the “iron curtain” (according
o New York “Herald Tribune”) con-
cerns three workers in a steel factory
m Rumania. One came to work at
' minutes to 8, the second at 8 sharp,
he third at 5 minutes past 8. All
hree were shot. The first for revolu-
ionary deviationism, the second for
bourgeois conformism, the third for
abolage.
* * ♦ ♦
The Washington Crawl. —London
‘Daily Telegraph,” hoping uik;
others) for something resembling the
old J. Bull in foreign policy: “One
of the very worst aspects of the
Socialist Government’s lamentable
handling of the Persia oil dispute was
the degree of subservience it revealed
in their attitude to Washington.”
• * * *
S’Africa’s Corns. —Commenting that,
as if there were not enough conflict-
ing elements there already. Com-
munism is becoming a serious force
in South Africa, an Edinburgh “Scots-
man” correspondent has reported:
“The Marxists mean business. Their
atm is a ‘people’s democracy,’ ob-
viously on Soviet lines. Their most
potent weapon is black nationalism.
Dr. Malan is never tired of saying
that South Africa’s non-Europeans
are ‘fertile ground" for Communism.
He would seem to be right, and Stalin
would appear to have decided that
the tune has now come to make good
use of the fact.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
Reassurance on U.S. —David Butler,
in a London “Time and Tide” article,
after recently extensively touring the
U.S.; “In Britain, the recurrent out-
breaks of American isolationist senti-
ment are often taken seriously; so is
the fear of being dragged into war
by the hot temper and diplomatic
clumsiness of the United States. After
discussing the affairs of the world in
New York, in Washington and
throughout the country, 1 do not
think we need be troubled by the
likelihood of any important shift
towards isolationism or of being
plunged into war by excessive Ameri-
can bellicosity.”
* * * *
Adolescent Nationalism. —While the
U.S. (in a London “Economist”
Washington correspondent’s report)
has tried to sympathise with the most
absurd excesses of adolescent national-
ism, its temper is becoming a little
strained. More interested in uu^-
nationalism than nationalism, the U.S.
proposed and supported U.N.O. as
an organisation affording each nation
a fomm in which it could argue its
case as an equal, not as a body to
v>uidi coumuts could go screaming
for help when they were in trouble,
but whose decisions they would
haughtily disregard ■as “an insult to
national sovereignty” when they were
unfavorable. Hence, “Egypt may well
find that it is the country which went
too far.”
♦ * * *
Cause and Effect, —As reported by
London “Times,” there were more
than 40,000 fewer new cases of sight-
testing by ophthalmic opticians in the
area of the London Executive Council
from May 21, when the charge for
spectacles under the national health
seivice came into force, to June 30
than in the first half of the quarter.
♦ * * *
Vulnerable Britain. “Despite the
narrow margin by which the Battle of
Britain was won,” comments London
“Daily Telegraph,” “it still seems
almost impossible for most people to
realise that they no longer live in a
‘right little, tight little island.’ Yet
the truth is that this country has never
been so vulnerable to enemy invasion
as it is today.”
♦ * * *
Paper I Paper I —More in envy than
in anger, Paris “Le Monde” notes
that New York “Daily News” uses
more paper yearly than the whole of
the French Press put together. “Le
Monde” itself uses only as much
paper in a year as the “Chicago
Tribune” eats up in one week. Also,
if the American Sunday papers had
only 72 pages instead of 112, the
whole Of the British Press could
double the size of its issues.
* * *
Time to Get Cracking. —ln the
practically universal American view
expressed by “New York Times,”
“The North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion will not be really strong until
France and Italy solve their Com-
munist problems. It will not be safe
until Germany is stronger, until
United States production and her
armed forces reach full strength, until
Europe (General Eisenhower tells us)
is united. Shall we have the time?
Perhaps, perhaps not —but certainly
we have no time to lose.”
« * * *
The Apathetic West. —As seen from
the U.S. by “New York Times,”
it has always been one of the great
difficulties of these years that a true
awareness of the imminent dangers of
totalitarianism in general and Russian
Communism in particular has failed
to penetrate the minds and spirits of
Western legislators. Otherwise, “The
U.S. Congress would not be cutting
vital military and economic aid for
Europe; the Left-wing of the British
Laboi paity, ihe French Socialists
and Radicals, the Italian Socialists,
the Dutch Parliament, would not be
dragging their feel or opposing pro-
grammes whkh would matte the iSthrth
Atlantic Treaty Organisation so strong
that it could lace the Russian menace
with confidence.”
* * * *
Imperialist Joe. —Former Yugoslav
information director, Vladimir Dedijer,
in “Foreign Affairs”: “There is a
widespread belief, particularly in the
West, that Soviet expansion is simply
the result of a Soviet desire to spread
Communism. There could be no
greater mistake, as we Yugoslavs have
particular cause to know. Soviet
aims are exclusively imperialist.
Besides being expansionist geographi-
cally, the Soviet Union is hungry for
economic exploitation.”
♦ * • ♦
Japs and the “Two Chinas.”—A.
Tokyo correspondent of “New York
Times” reports that the problem of
the “two Chinas,” one of which
Japan must eventually choose as a
partner in the Orient while the other
almost automatically becomes a
deadly enemy, is perplexing thoughtful
Japanese. “With Britain and other
nations, which recognise the Mao
Government, tending to persuade
Japan in one direction and the United
States plainly opposed to any line-up
which would make the U.S. to the
least degree a provider for Com-
munism in the Far East, the problem
is a major one which could vex the
Orient for years to come, and with
effects which easily might become
world-wide.”
* • ♦ •
Reluctant Japs. —While the Japs (in
London “Economist’s” view) have
shown remarkable martial qualities in
what they believed to be the service
of their emperor and country, the
outcome of the last war deflated
militarism and produced a sense of
helplessness in Japan, combined with
a desire to withdraw into the national
shell and keep clear of the quarrels
of a world which still remains full
of strife. There is envy of India,
whose position on the fence in the
current world conflict seems to many
Japanese the one which their country
should try to imitate.
* * * *
Danes’ Doubts. London “New
Statesman” report; “ ‘Whoever starts
the next war, we’ll be the first to be
occupied by the Russians,’ is a com-
mon remark one hears in Copen-
hagen. It is not surprising, in the
circumstances, to find that nobody in
Denmark is enthusiastic about belong-
ing to the Atlantic Pact; the Danes
joined it simply because, when Nor-
way refused the Scandinavian Pact,
they had no practical alternative.”


LOOK YOUR BESTI
*
Style
Everywhere you hear men praising
the superb quality, style and smart
appearance of Akubra Hats.
Made from the finest of pure fur,
your Akubra retains its “New Look”
and colour throughout its long, all-
weather life.
F ( or comfort, style and quality, wear
Akubra the choice of all well-
dressed men.
AKUBRA
☆ AT NO EXTRA FARE...
SEE ROME .77
SEE GENEVA and
D
m
MAS :
Consult your Travel Agent,
FLY TO LONDON VIA THE CONTINENT
So much more to see and do !
Naturally most people fly the Qantas-
8.0.A.C. direct overland route the
broad highway to Europe! You may
fly direct to London ... or fly cross-
Continent via Rome, stopping off at
Geneva and Paris at no extra fare ...
or take a low-cost rail or bus trip from
Rome across Europe to London.
De-luxe cabin service by 2 stewards
and a hostess. Fly by air-conditioned
Constellation all the way to Europe
no change of planes. See colourful
Singapore on your way.
Regular route via
Calcutta alter-
native via Colombo.
5 services weekly
from Sydney.
m
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
FLY QANTAS THERE'S A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Married women all tell the same
story.”— Article in women’s paper.
In which they are the heroines.
4* 4* 4 1
“Crows turn to oranges.”
—Melbourne "Herald" heading.
A metamorphosis such as this
is calculated to give any Kelly
the pip.
4* 4* 4*
“Be as well-dressed on the beach
as you are in the street.”
—Fashion note-
If you want to be in the swim.
“Lost, 2ft. rowing-boat, painted
cream, from boatshed.”
—Suburban paper.
Taken, perhaps, by someone
who had run short.
Lad with the Delicate Hair.
In spring a young man fancies,
like as not,
A livelier burnish or a sleeker
glare
Above his petal ears. A fragrant
pot
Of brilliantine perfumes the
balmy hair.
Next, in the summer of his days,
he’ll go
To barberous resorts and
endless care
To clip the head-hedge, or to
mow the mo.
And gauge the height of
fa&hion to a hair.
Next thieving Age, that nimble-
fingered felon.
Picks every lock that blossoms
on the brow.
Bald, bold and barren gleams
the manly melon.
And chill the head-wind blows
upon it now.
Yet still, though routed, fallen,
lost or worse, a
Man’s hair is full of cheek, and
vice versa.
NEIL MILLAR.
Flea Trouble.
It’s not the price of things,
The heat that summer brings
Or mossies with their stings
That I intensely dread.
It’s little things that hop
On legs in tram or shop.
Those pests that never stop
Annoying folk in bed.
But they have met their match,
I’m mighty hard to catch,
For though I start from scratch
I keep one jump ahead!
D. H. E.
The Higher Education.
Are You Thinking of Open-
ing a Dinner-Dance Joint?
The Wakko Business School,
Ltd., takes pleasure in announc-
ing the formation of special
tutorial classes for new night-
club proprietors. These will be
under the direct supervision of
a former high-up in the game
who will give the low-down on
every tricky phrase of the busi-
ness that will enable you to make
a fortune even greater than the
other kind of shearer.
One of the most efficient
methods of fleecing the mugs
who will patronise your dinner-
dance joint is that which comes
under the general category of
“soakage.”
The tyro might assume that
with cover-charge and corkage
the list is exhausted. Actually,
there is no limit to the ways in
which “soakage” can be
stretched. We can teach you
many new techniques in this
form of chiselling.
For instance, our tutor will
demonstrate how easy it is to
include “flickage”—the charge
made for the waiter’s flicking a
crumb from the tablecloth, mak-
ing this an extraction almost as
painless as that in modern
dentistry; “bowage,” the quite
legitimate charge for the service
of the waiter in bowing patrons
to their tables ; “coughage,” an
item which may easily be in-
eluded in the bill for the discreet
little cough emitted by that
exalted personage the head-
waiter on such occasions as he
desires to draw a patron’s atten-
“Pilot must have shot through!”
tion to something; “laughage,”
charged for the exercise of the
cigarette-girl’s risible muscles
whenever she has been exposed
to a patron’s joke—these are but
a few days of prising more pelf
from the unperspicacious patron.
We can initiate you into many
more.
The field of food offers won-
derful opportunities for the
nightclub operator to indulge in
that type of philanthropy in
which he can charge a pound
for a shilling’s-worth of com-
modity. Our special tutor in
this class is the product of a
tough hash-house where the
standard practice was for patrons
to wipe their greasy hands on
the large woolly dog that was
allowed to roam around the
restaurant (this saved table-
napkins), the hound being
washed every Thursday morning,
a very special mulligatawny
appearing on the Thursday-night
menu. This tutor’s assistant is
an ex-French master.
Together they will demon-
strate to the new nightclub
proprietor how to give a piquant
flavor to the menus, if not to
the food, by the introduction of
novel touches. For example,
such a cryptic item as Poisson
au Toothless Lawyer. The dull-
ness of intellect of the average
nightclub habitu6 will render
him quite incapable of deducing
that what he is really eating is
gummy shark. Similarly,
Consomme eau de dish will
sound quite highfalutin but will
approximate what it actually is
—dishwater. Spring chicken
au sous terre is guaranteed to
trick any dinner-dance patron
into believing it isn’t rabbit he’s
eating.
For the all-important question
of drinks we have engaged the
services of a well-known black-
market bottled-beer operator.
The tyro might want to rush in
and pay for a liquor licence ; our
tutor will show you how com-
pletely unnecessary this can be.
You will be tipped off how to
obtain a quota 40 times that of
a legitimate club such as
soldiers’, golf or bowls can get
with a licence; and, if you are
running short of supplies, where
you can be assured of getting
as many dozen as you like “out
the back-door” at 4s. 6d. a
bottle —unsatisfactory, perhaps,
in that this will leave you a profit
of only 2s. 6d. a bottle, but in-
finitely better than risking hav-
ing to send a patron away sober
enough to calculate that for the
ninepennorth of leg show, 35.-
worth of food and the three
bottles of beer he’s had he’s
being slung £3. lSs,.6d.
Another important feature of
the classes will be on the selec-
tion of waiters. Here you will
be impressed with the need to
have those in whom digital
dexterity and expert knowledge
of food is far less important
than their muscular develop-
ment. The nightclub operator
who depends on the courteous
kind of waiter when he can em-
ploy a strong-arm, stand-over
man who has been a professional
pug, and who is able to bustle
out efficiently any philistine who
questions paying five times more
than the legal fixed price for
cigarettes, is headed for the
financial rocks. Let us demon-
strate to you the great value of
the half-nelson type of persua-
sion for obstreperous patrons.
Remember, a corps of punch-
drunk baboons clad in. soup-and-
fish can bring fame to your
dinner-dance joint as much as
any corps de bally clad in
wispies.
Psychology classes will in-
elude teaching how far tolerance
can be allowed to go even with
the most valued type of patron
—for instance, when a bevy of
bloated bookies celebrating a
bad day at the races are play-
ing football with a big roll of
fivers and tenners and start
knocking adjoining tables over;
whether the waiter should slip
the pale-looking patron the small
phial of sal volatile before or
after presenting him with the
bill ; the absurdity of trading
under a name like Wellington or
Williams when you can enjoy the
cognominal magnificence of
Manny Finkelbaum.
The tyro who aims to make
1000 p.c. profit on a microscopic
potato, a bottle of bubbly or a
spray of frangipani, and so up-
hold the best traditions of the
dinner-dance joint, cannot afford
to miss these tutorial classes
offered by the Wakko Business
School, Ltd.
So enrol today !
Bo.
Gagged and Bound.
“Failure of three ‘Labor’ M.H.Rs.
actively to support the ‘No’ case in
the recent referendum was considered
by the A.L.P. Federal executive.”
Fan the embers
Of your hate,
You who stand like Nemesis;
Junta members
Liquidate
Folk who brave your laws like
this !
Show no pity
For the man
Who dares challenge your
machine;
In each city
Plot and plan
Fall of those who overween!
Yet, what ails you ?
Why indeed
Punish those who balk at NO ?
Logic fails you
When you need
More and more a YES-man
Sho w !
BERT.


THE CHOOK GETS HERS
By “MACNELL”
Destroyer water-
HEN, naturally called
“The Chook,” was of much
the same vintage, build
and experience as the rest of
those fighting “Vs” and “Ws,”
Stuart, Vampire, Voyager and
Vendetta —flotilla-leader Stuart
differing, of course, in her 4.75,
as opposed to the others’ four-
inch. Waterhen differed from
them all in that she was the only
one commanded by a Royal
Navy man, Lieut.-Commander
J. H. Swain.
She first met the Luftwaffe at
Solium. Her uppers were
crammed with supplies for
Wavell’s garrison there, among
the stacked piles in her narrow-
gutted waists showing a plentiful
sprinkling of cases stamped
with the red star of the Aus-
tralian Comforts Fund —they
held the Diggers’ Christmas
cheer.
The Chook slid alongside the
small jetty in Solium harbor,
and so soon as her lines were
secured her cargo was streaming
ashore, on the bent backs of
her crew and soldiers from the
dusty town on the slope, working
flat-out to get their precious
supplies under cover.
The only men of the
destroyer’s crew not engaged
were her boiler-room watch
below, maintaining a full head
of steam, and the anti-aircraft
lookouts on the wings of the
bridge.
No warning shout came to
interrupt the work and the last
box was dumped ashore. The
fo'c’slemen tended their wire
spring ; she went astern on it,
kicked her low stern in and her
knife of a bow out, stopped,
churned ahead, slipped the wire
and with her crew waving sweaty
hands to the Diggers ashore
slipped at half-speed down the
harbor. And under a covey of
Stukas who fell headlong out
of a dark cloud directly above
her.
One after the other the bat-
winged shapes plummeted
down, not for the urgently
thrusting destroyer, but for the
work of hours still piled on the
pier. Bomb after bomb struck,
each burst erupting in a column
of water, shattered piles and
broken boxes.
When they’d done, all that re-
mained of the Christmas dinners
was a nicely-mixed scum of
debris floating on the dirty
harbor. It was a vengeful
Chook who sped straight out
into the gathering dusk.
She didn’t have to wait long
for revenge. Just before mid-
night some days later she was
on patrol along the Libyan coast,
not far from Tobruk. The night
was dark, an overcast sky drap-
ing its blackness wide and dense
on all sides. Quietly she slipped
through, a slight murmuring
swish of water sliding wetly
down her sides and the never-
ceasing creaking of a ship at sea
her only sign of movement. Men
talked softly at the guns, and
on the big searchlight amidships
a muffled figure kept watch in
the keen night air.
The whole of the forrard
gun’s crew saw it at once —a
momentary flash of white light
low down on the water. A
darken-ship screen carelessly
laced, or a porthole slovenly
fastened. The bridge saw it, too,
for in obedience to a softly-
spoken order the four quick-
firers jerked off their fore-and-
aft bearing and swung on to the
betraying spot. There came a
subdued clatter as the loading-
trays heaved back clear, then
the sharp, metallic smack as the
breeches slid home. “Ready!”
Swain ordered “Open search-
light shutters!” A beam of in-
tense white light split the dark-
ness, wiped its finger along the
hull of an Italian supply-ship,
went past, came back, and
steadied. For six seconds the
enemy lay naked, then the light
shut off. It was enough. The
director had got on, and the
guns followed quickly. The next
order came like a whipcrack.
“Fire!”
Four barrels jerked in recoil,
four tongues of flame stabbed
at the fright-frozen enemy. His
stern disappeared in a vivid flash
of exploding shells. In five
seconds the guns were reloaded.
The range was point-blank. On
fire from end to end, the Italian
listed heavily to port. Already
the fireiit water was dotted with
black heads. The Chook hauled
off and circled round her victim,
steaming down her port side.
The first-lieutenant spoke to
Swain: “She’s burning every-
where, sir. Shall 1 cease fire?”
Swain was leaning on the wind-
break, thinking perhaps of
Solium. Over his shoulder he
answered: “Give her a couple
more salvos.”
Dawn broke over a deserted
stretch of sea ; deserted except
for the Chook and hundreds of
brightly-colored Christmas cards,
all addressed to the garrison at
Bardia, and all with the por-
traits of Hitler and Mussolini
conspicuous at their tops. At
last Musso had Mare Nostrum
to himself.
Her next job (or rather, the
next job different to the almost
ceaseless run of bombings) was
a brisk little action with British
gunboat Terror. This queer
craft was more like a Thames
barge than one of H.M. fighting
ships—except for two features;
the high mast with its gunnery-
control top, and the twin 6in.
turret set massively on her
fo’c’sle. The target was Bardia.
With Waterhen thrown ahead
as anti-submarine screen, both
ships cruised easily and alertly
along-coast. It was a good
opportunity to scrub-out, right
through the ship, and the
Chook’s men worked with a will
to rid her ’tween-decks of the
stench of bandages, anaesthetic
and the wounds of men. The
ferry-seirvice carried other cargo
than comforts funds.
On the fo’c’sle a group was
scrubbing - down, barefooted
under the splashing hose. Man-
ning it was the quartermaster,
a leading-seaman with a grin
never far below the surface of
his weather-seamed dial. Nick-
named the Baron, he was dis-
coursing on the charms of a
French lady back in Mother
Alex, who, from the apprecia-
tive grins of his scrubbing
audience, seemed to possess a
strong affirmative reaction to
characteristic male queries. He’d
got to the part where she
admitted she ran a flat out near
Stanley Bay, with all hands wait-
ing in anticipatory delight.
Suddenly the Baron stopped.
His back straightened and he
looked out to sea, sweeping the
far rim of blue, then overhead.
The others had stopped scrub-
bing, and followed suit. No one
spoke. Satisfied, the Baron re-
sumed his adventures; the
scrubbers moved on. It was
done subconsciously, through
long practice and the pressing
urge of self-preservation.
Bardia stands on a cliffy coast,
facing east. Its harbormouth
is fairly narrow, not unlike cliff-
edged Sydney Harbor, though a
dirty yellow in color. The
approaches were heavily mined,
which was why Terror, with her
shallow draught, was picked for
the job. Waterhen’s task was to
screen against submarines on the
trip there and back, and to keep
nit outside while the big bloke
was doing his stuff inside.
Its roofs glaring hotly in the
sunlight, Bardia was raised about
2 p.m. The attackers closed to
within four miles before the
first welcoming puff mushroomed
from the batteries on the cliff
face. Those guns were the
target.
Terror thrust on like some
ugly juggernaut, her big guns
sniffing up at the cliff face. The
first enemy salvo lobbed well
over the Chook, 2000 yards to
seaward. The monitor was
safely over the minefields now,
ploughing on inexorably, nearer
and nearer.
From the cliffs salvo after
salvo boomed out, the gunners
desperately trying to straddle
her before those guns opened
up. They registered only near-
misses. Terror lumbered straight
on at the cliff, until only a few
thousand yards stretched be-
tween her and the target. All
the fort’s shells were now spout-
ing well over —once again a
British ship had got in under the
enemy’s guns.
Then, satisfied. Terror swung
broadside-on. The Italians had
had their go; her turn now. A
warning ding-ding of the fire-
bell rang in her turret; a
second; then a crashing roar
and billowing spurt of brown
cordite smoke. The cliff face
seemed to burst apart from
within, a miniature volcano of
smoke, flame and hurtling rock.
Broadside after broadside
crashed, men in her turret
sweating in the fumy heat, load-
ing, firing, loading again with the
matchless efficiency of Royal
Navy training, keeping always
clear of the hot, jerking breeches.
Waterhen, steaming back and
forth outside, listening appreci-
atively to Terror’s thunder,
heard suddenly another sound —
the whine of an approaching
salvo. It whipped overhead and
landed 400 yards to seaward.
The Chook promptly altered
course towards the spouts. An-
other salvo geysered a few yards
short. This was unhealthy. She
signalled Terror that a battery
to the right of the main target
was still in action.
But Terror had seen. Her
twins trained smoothly right.
Across the water came the
drumming roar of the explosion.
Swain, under his binoculars,
ejaculated:
“My God!”
Terror’s high-explosive broad-
side had landed on the cliff
directly below the battery. The
whole emplacement—guns, men,
concrete and a good portion of
the cliff face—dropped sheer
into the sea. A rolling pall of
black smoke hung a moment,
then the veil lifted to reveal a
raw, yellow gap.
Terror ceased fire. Both ships
took up station, the giant and
the gnat, and steamed together
in line-ahead straight out into
the westering sun, till, specks
on the vastness of blue, they
vanished.
Next morning, tired, hungry
and satisfied, the Chook snuggled
alongside her oiling-pier and
went to sleep.
Bardia was a break in the un-
ceasing toil of those trips to
Tobruk —the unvarying sequence
of runs through the night, sweat-
ing toil unloading stores after
midnight, loading up with
wounded and prisoners, and the
unfailing air attack next day on
the run home.
She would time her arrival in
the wreck-strewn harbor round
about 11 p.m., and at once start
unloading stores and ammuni-
tion. As soon as decks were
cleared the waiting wounded
were carried or slung inboard.
Among them one night was a
Senussi, a mercenary who had
fought with the Italians, then
come over to us. He had been
caught by a flame-thrower. The
whole of his back was shrivelled
into little curls of black skin,
with red-raw patches in between.
The sailors prepared him the
best meal they could, roast beef
and green peas, served up with
fresh fruit, but he wouldn’t
touch it.
“His religion, I suppose,”
said the Baron. That seemed
to cover it.
That same night, by the
shaded light of the shore gang-
way, the Baron saw a wounded
soldier limping his way slowly
through the piles of stores. His
dusty face was drawn with pain
and he had only one leg to
hobble on. Everybody was too
busy to bother with walking-
wounded. The Baron pushed
the Italian prisoner he had head-
first down into the tiller-flat,
ran quickly across the gangway
and caught the soldier as he
sagged, half-crazed with pain
and weariness, between two
boxes.
“Here, old pal. Steady on.”
He bent and picked him up
in his great arms, carrying the
limp figure back on board. As
he came under the gangway-
light the Baron looked down into
his face. He stared.
“For the love of Mike! Joe
Fox! Last time I saw you was
when Carlton beat Fitzroy in
’thirty-eight! ”
Joe grinned, a game crease of
his caked face.
“That’s right; it was in ’thirty-
eight. But I don’t think you’ll
see me on a field again”
The Baron laid him tenderly
in the lee of the motorboat.
“Anything I can do for you,
Joe, before 1 shove?”
The Digger answered in a
whisper.
“Don’t want to trouble you,
mate —but 1 could go a drink of
water.”
The Baron was a bit lumpy
as he doubled forrard for a cup.
Her decks crammed with
wounded, mainly from the
merciless processions of Stukas
and Junkers 88s, the destroyer
headed carefully out through
the wrecks and set course home
for Alex. She’d gone 50 miles
from Tobruk when the first
streaks of grey showed in the
east. The sleeping soldiers
stirred, woke, and looked round
them. Above, from the shelter
of the motorboat, they could see
the outline of the a.-a. guns’
crews, and, further aft, the
torpedomen on the depth-charge
rails, who had been closed up
all night.
Lookouts were doubled so
soon as light spread over sky
and sea, and the morning wore
on, calm and peaceful. Until,
just before dinner, the starb’d
bridge lookout sighted three
black dots scuttle beyond the
edge of a big white cloud to
starb’d. She increased to 30
knots and cleared for action.
Soldiers who could mounted
their Brens and rifles on boats’
davits and guard-rails.
They weren’t long kept in
suspense. Racing out of a cloud
in tight formation the Stuka
flight nosed down. But the
guns’ crews were too experienced
to waste ammo, as the Germans
intended. At 15,000 ft. the
bombers levelled off in the
approved circle, flew round for
a minute or two, then, peeling
off in perfect formation, down
they speared.
The first unloaded from about
2000 ft. Watching, Swain
snapped. “Hard a-starb’d!”
Over she heeled, hard-over
rudder and thrusting screws
spinning her round. Dead in
her wake, 30 yards astern, the
bomb spouted with a roar and
flung itself apart in a spreading
cascade of dirty-brown water.
The little ship shook with the
blast. The next one came in
low from astern, a bat-winged
shape intending to sweep her
upper-deck with gunfire. Wicked
little flickers of flame edged his
wings ; the water off the quarter
was lashed into patches of.
spurting white. Three soldiers
on the quarter-deck, wounded
unable to take cover, rolled and
writhed a moment on the deck,
then lay still. And still the
gunners waited —they had been
trained in a hard school.
The Stuka came almost to the
stern, then lifted his dirty under-
belly to clear the masts. As he
pulled out the whole a.-a. arma-
ment flared —the staccato snarl
of machine-guns mingling with
the rippling music of the
multiple point-fives. A stream
of tracer leaped to meet the
German, played all around him,
cut his belly to bits. Pieces of
plane flew in all directions.
Zooming up, he faltered at the
top, kicked over on one black-
crossed wing and sprayed into
the sea.
The point-five got the third.
For a full five seconds the layer
had him in his sight, four barrels
pouring. He turned without un-
loading and headed for the low
line of coast to starb’d. A
climbing pillar of white, graceful
before it shredded back into the
sea, marked his grave a mile
from shore. The Chook cruised
on.
Late that afternoon she eased
through the boom at the harbor-
mouth and crept with her load
up-harbor between the majestic
lines of battleships and cruisers
—just another dirty little
destroyer in from some job or
other.
She continued to perform
yeoman service in the Mediter-
ranean, ferrying to Tobruk, anti-
submarine patrolling, screening
the Battle Fleet on its sweeps
of the inland sea, at sea six days
out of seven, taking punishment
in the form of rocking near-
misses, nerves strained almost to
snapping point, minds wondering
dully when all the hellish use-
lessness of it would end ; dish-
ing it back in the shape of
falling dive-bombers, depth-
charged submarines and broad-
sides flung at shore fortifications.
Through all this pattern of hard
adventure, periods of intense
nervous excitement mixed with
the exultation of victory, was
woven the ugly fibre of those
runs to Tobruk, when, with
helpless wounded crammed
aboard, the enemy’s bombing
developed with the certainty of
the sunrise which presaged its
commencement. It was on one
of these runs to the Rats that the
Chook met her fate.
Time was about 7.40 of a
calm evening, on June 30, 1941.
Although the sun had set, plenty
of light lingered above.
Waterhen slipped easily through
on her way to the besieged, this
time carrying, in addition to the
usual supplies and ammo, the
Provost Traffic Control Branch
of the 6th Australian Division.
She was in company with a
British destroyer, disposed to
port, cruising at 25 knots.
The Chook was closed up in
the fourth degree of readiness,
a.-a. and anti-submarine look-
outs posted. Lounging on the
upper-deck after supper, yarn-
ing with the Diggers, most of the
ship’s company were enjoying
the cool of evening before
snatching a few hours’ sleep
before the work started. Eyes
subconsciously noted the visi-
bility in the sky, for with dark-
ness their worries were lessened
by about 90 per cent. It seemed
this night as though the Diggers
would have to wait for their own
element to provide their baptism
of fire. Until, at 7.45, the action
bells shrilled their summons.
They came over, Stukas, 42 of
them, very high in the clear
sky.
The Baron was quartermaster
at the wheel, and his first intima-
tion of the attack reached him
from the first-lieutenant down
the bridge voice-pipe.
“Duck! ”
The Baron ducked. Fifty
yards off the ship’s side the sea
was convulsed into spouting
columns of white. Missed. The
first flight clawed up into the
(Continued on page 39.)


fM
8
PRECISION
Engineering superiority is achieved by persistent research and
ability to apply the knowledge gained. These factors have
established English Electric leadership in widely diverse
fields, such as making the power units of the first large diesel-
electric locomotive for regular operation in Australia, the record-
breaking Canberra Jet Bomber and a Television Camera so
sensitive that a single match gives sufficient light for clear definition
of objects televised at night. English Electric RITEMP Domestic
Appliances are precision made to give lasting service.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in England]
DOMESTIC APPLIANCE DEPARTMENT • 51 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE BU 2088
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
REFRIGERATORS
SI
COOKERS
%
WASHING MACHINES
FOOD MUIRS
CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
LB 5923
Under Entirely New ’Management.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JAMES O’MAHONY, native of Bandon,
County Cork, Ireland (who married Nora
O’Leary), or his chiIdren.—PURSUANT
to Order of the High Court of Justice
made in the matter of the Estate of
GRACE KATHLEEN O’MAHONY, De-
ceased, RALPH ARTHUR FRENCH BEN-
SON v ATTORNEY-GENERAL, the per-
sons claiming to be next-of-kin to the said
Grace Kathleen O’Mahony, who di.ed in
Dublin, Ireland, on the Sixth day of June,
1949, and in particular the persons above
referred to, are on or before the 31st day
of January, 1952, to come in and prove
their claims at Room 110, High Court of'
Justice, Law Courts, Dublin, Ireland, or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said
Order. The first day of February, 1952,
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon, at the
Examiner’s Office of the said Court, is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the Claims. Dated the 14th day of
November, 1951.— GERARD M. E. MUR-
TAGH, Examiner.
Secure a happy
future with
THE EQUITABLE’
From the day you say “I do,"
your family responsibilities begin,
that is why it is so important to
make provision for the future with
“THE EQUITABLE.”
“THE EQUITABLE” will dis-
cuss with you and advise you on
a suitable life assurance policy to
assure the future, for both yon
and your wife and your retire-
ment, or for your wife if you
should pre-decease her.
Call, write or ’phone “THJS
EQUITABLE” and discuss this
important matter.
"I
CINZANO
Sweet)
or
Dry
Q
SUNDRY SHOWS
Nine-by-Fives.
Australian artists used to paint
their pictures 9in. by Sin. because
they were hard up and had to
use the lids of cigar-boxes ; now
they paint them that size be-
cause the Grosvenor Galleries
in Sydney revived the tradition
last year as a Jubilee gesture and
has continued it in its current
show.
Obviously, except for the
tradition, there isn’t any par-
ticular mystical virtue in the
size; in fact it’s often an
awkward shape for the artist,
suitable for upright figures or
wide vistas of landscape but not
for many other subjects. But
there is most certainly a virtue
in encouraging the painting of
small pictures.
The nine-by-five limitation
hasn’t been too strictly insisted
on here, and it’s surprising how
much the discipline and fresh
interest of painting to that size,
or near it, can do to enliven a
show. The small painting can
give a new sparkle to well-known
styles and even conventional
subjects; it is kind to the artist
with a small talent; it is, of
course, the ideal vehicle for the
artist who likes to work small
and fine ; it gives the painter of
larger and broader talent a
chance to display the added
force of compactness; and it
gives everybody a chance to ex-
hibit the first sketch from nature
which so often is more lively
than the rearranged work from
the studio.
A combination of these factors
makes the current exhibition a
really delightful little show, with
very few weak spots and some
moments of minor triumph—
Leonard Long’s “The Gum” and
“Morning Mists,” for instance;
two remarkable small water-
colors by G. K. Townshend;
Garrett Kingsley’s charming
little nude with the monkey;
Kenneth Macqueen’s “Shadow
on Surf”; Erik Langker’s “At
Evening.”
Some other items that catch
the eye are Adrian Feint’s
flowerpieces, Tom Garrett’s
monotypes, Lance Solomon’s
“Burrawong,” Margaret Coen’s
“Balmain,” C. Parker’s “Near
Pitt-town,” Dudley Parker’s
“Pittwater Sundown,” Robert
Johnson’s “Tweed Farm,”
Douglas Pratt’s “Middle
Harbor,” Betty Miller’s “The
Jetty, Paradise Beach” and
Woodward-Smith’s “Low Tide.”
"Salome."
In opening his new Arrow
Theatre at Middle Park, Mel-
bourne, with “A Phoenix Too
Frequent,” Frank Thring showed
great astuteness. Christopher
Fry’s comedy about the Roman
matron who goes into her
husband’s tomb to die and ends
up by taking a fancy to the
sentry, splendid thing though
it is, did not prepare the
packed house for the impact of
“Salome,” in which Mr. Thring’s
arrow hit the artistic bull’s-eye.
In fact, several of them.
The spectacular part packed
into the terrace of Herod’s palace
was extremely well constructed,
and the packing of the action
into the same space was extra-
ordinarily well done. Wilde gave
life to the dry bones of the Old
Testament story. Mr. Thring in
turn succeeded in making the
poem live in his presentation.
From his cistern buried below
the footlights the prophet John
(David Reid) thundered his de-
nunciations of the incestuous
Herod, while Mr. Thring sat on
his throne tom between his desire
for his daughter and terror of
the prophet Being 6ft. Sin. in
his boots he was as impressive
standing as he was sitting, and
his costume was as barbaric as
his feelings.
June Brunei!, as Salome,
focused her attention on the
cistern, didn’t care a damn for
her father or her mother and
never relinquished her obsession
until her lips closed on the cold
lips of the beheaded prophet.
Jews and Nazarenes argued
theological points in the back-
ground while the Roman soldiers
looked on amazed at the incom-
prehensible drama. In his
“Salome” opera Strauss handed
all the savage emotion to the
orchestra and nothing to the
singers. There being no orch-
estra in Mr. Thring’s production
the actors had to handle all the
feeling, and there was plenty of
it.
If Mr. Thring sticks to the
standard set by this effort his
Arrow should go some distance.
"Present-day Art."
The latest and last bit in the
Jubilee art procession in Mel-
bourne is present-day art at the
Victorian Artists’ Society, spon-
sored by the Victorian Govern-
ment.
Except for a few outstanding
works like Meldrum’s calm and
considered self-portrait, it is
neither very bad nor very good.
Even the moderns aren’t par-
ticularly alarming. George Bell
has a conventional “Mother and
Child,” Anne Montgomery
shows an eccentric bunch of
spring flowers, and there are
several examples of what appear
to be deliberate juvenilia, like
Alan Sumner’s “Beaumaris
Boatshed” and Allan Warren’s
“Empty Bottle.” W. E. Huston
makes a fair hit at “The
Mother,” in the Russell Drys-
dale manner, and Marjorie
McChesney gets some light into
“Green Glass and Cape Honey-
suckle.” There is a mellow air
about Rollo Thomson’s “Chinese
Bowl” and solidity about Rex
Bramleigh’s “Self-portrait.”
Lina Bryans’s “Rathdown-
street” is a courageous attempt
to give the tangled pattern of
the city’s skyline, but it lacks
nuance. Harley Griffiths’s
“Camellias” look brittle. There
is a more sensitive approach to
nature in Dorothy Whitehead’s
“Bayswater Landscape” than
there is in the “Two Figures” of
Bill Coleman, who seems to have
gone to the praying-mantis for
his models.
Murray Griffin fails to dif-
ferentiate his textures in “Man,
Tree and Earth,” an allegorical
cartoon, and there is evidence
of more facility than observa-
tion in “The Horses and the
Sea” of William Dargie. Daryl
Lindsay has a showy flowerpiece.
Kenneth Jack’s “St. Peter’s
Cathedral” is little more than a
draughtsman’s drawing of that
pseudo-Gothic building.
The sculpture is generally
undistinguished, though there is
fleshiness in Victor Greenhalgh’s
nude and in William Hill’s
“Seated Figure.” Ola Cohn’s
“Abraham” is good wood
denatured by a fashionable
convention.
"The Moon Is Blue."
Sophisticated comedies such
as “The Moon Is Blue” at
Sydney Palace are, of course,
written for unsophisticated audi-
ences ; and anybody educated by
the conversation of journalists
in the taverns and caverns
where they take beer or morning-
tea cannot wholly be overcome
by shocked delight on hearing
desperately daring remarks
about sex from a teen-age girl.
In fact, such is the awful effect
of depravity and advancing
senility sometimes one has a
feeling that all teen-age girls,
bold or innocent, can go and
jump in the lake ; and solve their
little problems deep underwater,
far out of sight.
Besides, contemporary daring
is really very tame beside the
genuine wickedness of the
ancients. Much more alarming
things happened behind screens
and bedroom doors in
Wycherley, Congreve or
Sheridan than ever happen
behind the same indispensable
bedroom doors in “The Moon
Is Blue”; and, after all his
perilous situations, F. Hugh
Herbert at the end marries his
nice young girl nicely to the
nice young man without a
feather of the proprieties being
ruffled. He might at least have
given a twist to the plot by
marrying her to the rich and
middle-aged roue who alterna-
tively offers her sin or marriage
throughout the play; and he
might have peopled the stage
with a few more characters.
However, it is dimly possible
to recover some lost innocence
in which the whole thing seems
as irresistibly naughty as it did
to the huge elderly gentleman
three seats away, chuckling and
tut-tutting in a perturbed
abdominal bass ; and the middle-
aged rou6, played with de-
lightful ease by Blaine Cordner,
was quite depraved enough to
take tea with a journalist with-
out either of them feeling that
they had strayed into a birthday-
party for precocious little girls;
and Mr. Herbert has, as well as
his naughtiness, a quick bright
facile wit which makes the
whole show very pleasant in a
mild and meaningless sort of
way.
The plot is all about what
happens to an ingenuous teen-
ager who is picked up by a nice
young architect on top of the
Empire State building in New
York; which is, as has been
observed, marriage—after the
appropriate perils. It’s a pity
not to see John Casson at work
on a richer play, but the produc-
tion was flawlessly smooth, and
June Dayton and Dean Karens,
with Blaine Cordner, moved
through it with unfaltering
assurance and goodwill.
Melbourne’s first attempt to
acquire a permanent conductor
came to a sudden end the other
evening at the Town Hall when
Galliera conducted the last of
his orchestral concerts. “The
Birds” of Respighi, the opening
item, was delightfully rendered.
It was full of the clucking of
hens and the note of the cuckoo ;
woodwind and the cellos made
a lovely combination to produce
the nightingale, and clarinetist
Tom White’s dove was very nice
work. Strings and a few wood-
wind but no brass gave a delicate
clarity to the Fifth Symphony
of Schubert with its singing
second movement. Following
on the lightness of the symphony,
Ravel’s Lament for a Defunct
Infant sounded rather dull and


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EUGENE JOSEPH QUIGLEY late of
Pvrmont in the State of New South M ales.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOAN ELIZA-
BETH QUIGLEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2877 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney bv the Sixth day of Feb-
ruary, 1952, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from R. IV.
FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51
Castl ereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO MARJORIE JOAN ARGENT late of
Willoughby.—T AKE NOTICE that
ALBERT REGINALD ARGENT has_ filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 12 of 1951 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you might enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 12th day of February 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ALLAN E. CUPIT & BEST, Soli-
citors, of Federal Mutual Chambers, 129
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO STELLA MARIA StEIN also known
as STELLA MARIA THOMPSON (for-
merly STELLA MARIA LIPSEY) late of
Darlington.—TAKE NOTICE that KEVIN
JOSEPH STEIN has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 3227 of 1951 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of February
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JONES, JONES &
JONES. Solicitors. 18.3 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce,
TO VIOLET ELIZA GERTRUDE BRUN-
ETTE late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that ERNEST LOUDOLPH BRUNETTE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3235
of 1951 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 31st day of January 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MERVYN FINLAY * COM-
PANY, Solicitors, Newlands House, 1(1
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HARRY SMITH HOWES late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHEA
BERNICE JOY HOWES has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3792 of 1951 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 12th day of
February 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
J. MANN & K. H. WILSON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM RAYMOND KEANE late of
Batlow N.S.W.—'TAKE NOTICE that
VALERIE KEANE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4051 of 1930 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
St reet Sydney by the 6th day of February
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from ARTHUR T.
GEORGE & WEST, Solicitors, 10 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ix Divorce.
TO BERNARD WARREN late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that DORIS WARREN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4165
of 1951 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend the
suit you may enter an appearance cn or
before the 6th February 1952 at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney. A copy of the petition may
be had without charge from J. K. DIXON,
Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney j
DOUGHAN, Registrar,
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
mv-
Ml
•illM
m
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
*•METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
ft\\\\\\V
/as
I
1
set
w
L'BS
Ready for the
No. a, N TH
road
SEI?,ES "BU/tOING
better tyres-
Passing the last of a long series of searching
tests, a final check for balance.
Otumpit
0T37.12.51
LOOKING FOR A XMAS OR WEDDING GIFT?
IRON WELL
Asbestos lined
holds your iron
safely.
SLEEVE BOARD
A wonderful aid to
perfect ironing. Folds
away when not in
use.
VENTILATED TOP
Preverlts excessive
dampness on ironing
surface.
ADJUSTABLE LECS
Give correct height
to save your back.
*/£|V PILLAR’
Ironinq Table
The “Pillar” incorporates
every gadget and aid to
give better ironing in greater
comfort thick felt pad
under fabric overlay—rigid construction —30
p.c. more ironing surface (32in. x 13in.) —folds
compactly for easy storage
finished in chrome and enamel., EIO/It/-
T. S. NETTLEFOLD
Please forward one "Pillar” Ironing Table.
Cheque enclosed for £lO/19/-.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.5/12
& SONS PTY. LTD.,
189 King Street, Melbourne, Vic.
50 Elizabeth Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
222 Pultney Street, Adelaide, S.A.
1032 Hay Street. Perth, W.A.
heavy, but in the Moussorgsky
“Pictures at an Exhibition” the
musical atmosphere deepened
and the three last pictures —of
the catacombs of Paris, the
Russian myth of Baba-Yaga and
the Great Gate of Kiev —built
up to a tremendous finish.
"The Miser."
Melbourne National Theatre
makes a great hit on occasions
with its ballet opera and drama
seasons in the commercial
theatres, but it is not generally
known that in between Miss
Gertrude Johnson’s organisation
continues steadily to do good
work at its' little theatre on
Eastern Hill opposite St.
Patrick’s.
Reg Gillam’s production of
Moliere’s wildly satiric comedy
was excellent on most points and
William P. Carr’s study of the
avaricious old gent, was brilliant.
Moliere’s moral that nothing
worth while can bought in this
world you can’t buy a
symphony or a song, and a
million francs won’t buy the
love of a woman was
epitomised in the anguished
looks and the flying skirts of the
bewildered old skinflint, and
there was rich comedy in the
preparation for the banquet
which Monsieur Harpagon sets
as a bait to catch his beloved.
On the stage most of the time,
Mr. Carr kept the excitement
going.
Elizabeth Gibson as Mariane,
Reg Dell as Valere and Kathie
Reed as Elise acted with spirit.
"Daphne Laureola."
If ever there is a play that
coaxes an audience to remain
glued to its seat in expectation
of something extraordinary
about to happen only to send
it away at the end unsatisfied
and with all its high hopes un-
fulfilled it is James Bridie’s
“Daphne Laureola,” the current
offering at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney.
“Daphne Laureola” excites
interest in the first act,
which is set in a Soho
restaurant, not very smart
and not very shabby, in which
are dining a set of characters,
commonplace enough, but to
whom anything may happen, as
it often does in a Bridie play.
There is a fat man who sighs for
the snows of yesteryear as he
stokes himself with food, a
bored married couple who might
well be seated on a volcano, a
pair of sinister spivs engaged in
a deal in canned steak and kid-
ney pudding, a jovial customer
whose excessive cheerfulness
could be but a mask, a party of
bright young things handmade
for high adventure and a titled
lady and an intense and
romantic young foreigner.
It is the latter pair who take
the lead and set the pace. The
lady i$ elegant, fiftyish, of good
family and education and a
dipsomaniac. The Pole is argu-
mentative, conceited, up in the
clouds and seems capable of any-
thing from treason to murder.
The lady becomes more tipsy as
the party progresses, the Pole is
captivated by her maudlin mono-
logues and regal bearing, and
the rest of the diners are
strangely bestirred out of them-
selves. The act ends with a
brawl, the Pole hitting over the
head with a copy of Adam
Smith’s The Wealth of Nations
the titled lady’s male servant,
who has come to her rescue, and
is nicely floored with a smart
uppercut.
In the first scene of the second
act the tipsy lady appears as
the wife of a titled millionaire,
an old gentleman nearly ninety,
who confesses quite frankly that
he bought his wife because that
was the only way he could win
her. Enter in dribs and drabs
most of the diners from the
restaurant whom the lady has
asked to her suburban mansion
and forgotten about. A remark
by one of the younger people
suggests that all assembled in the
lovely summerhouse might well
be on the edge of a precipice.
But no, all, with the exception
of the Pole, are ushered off-
stage like Jambs, having said
little and done nothing more
exciting than to upset a, tea-tray.
The Pole is all churned up with
love for the lady, imagines that
he is Dante and she is Beatrice,
and at the curtain-fall, despite
disencouragement on her part,
gets as far as kissing her in an
inexpert fashion.
In the second scene of the
second act the play really begins
to go into a decline. The Pole
takes to skulking in a shrubbery,
and is dragged into view and en-
gaged in conversation by the mil-
lionaire. In the course of a long
speech, which the millionaire
does not hear, having turned
his Acousticon off, the Pole still
persists in his Dante-and-Beatrice
image and for good measure
identifies himself and the dip-
somaniac with the Apollo and
Daphne laurel-tree myth. The
millionaire, although very old
and almost past caring, has no
difficulty in brushing off the
young man.
Act 111 takes place in the
Soho restaurant again, where by
one of those delightful coinci-
dences so dear to the stage all
the original characters are dining
again. This time the lady is
sober and married to her ser-
vant, the old fellow having died
in a gentlemanly fashion and
left her a quarter of a million
smackers. The Pole, after re-
covering from a fainting fit,
upbraids his goddess in a torrent
of broken English and is told
not very politely to stop dream-
ing about some cloudy tart who
only exists in his imagination.
Exeunt omnes except the Pole,
who is last seen gloomily drink-
ing a double brandy, the lady’s
ruin in the first act.
Doris Fitton in the role of
Lady Pitts did her valiant best
to lift the play to a higher realm
than to where it belongs, and
such is her artistry that at times
it almost seemed as if she would
succeed, as Dame Edith Evans
did in London. Yet, even if she
did not attain all that she set out
to do, she at least held the per-
formance together. As the young
Pole, Stephen Radford gave a
spirited performance. O. D.
Bisset made Sir Joseph Pitts a
much - to - be - sympathised-with
old fellow, and the acting of
Robert Levis (Gooch), Stanley
Chisholm (Mr. Watson), Peter
Richards (Vincent) and Bruce
Jarrett (George) was of a uni-
formly high level.
Disappointing as is “Daphne
Laureola,” in an overall survey
it is still sufficiently full of wit
and comedy, fantasy and tender-
ness, unexpected twists' and a
riotuousness to repay a visit to
North Sydney, and one can only
be cheered by the revived zeal
and enthusiasm of the Inde-
pendent plays with Doris Fitton
in the lead again.
W. E. F.
Richard Chugg paraded his
flute in all its full-toned glory
in Ricardo Zandonai’s night
music, “II Flauto Notturno,” at
the last concert of the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. Chugg’s
tone is so beautiful that a hush
invariably falls on an audience
when it hears his first note. The
veteran flautist was at his best
in this performance, and Alceo
Galliera, the more-or-less per-
manent conductor, was at his in
the rostrum. He carried a vastly
improved body of performers
through the Brahms Double
Concerto, in which Ernest
Llewellyn played sensitively on
his fiddle and John Kennedy
intelligently on his cello. The
orchestra was on its toes again
when Stravinsky’s “Firebird”
strutted.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The toast “Scotland” was proposed by
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, when,
with Lady Brooks and their daughter
Jeanette, he attended the annual Highland
Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall. The vice-
regal party was piped into the ballroom
by pipers and drummers of the Victorian
Scottish Regiment, and two young
drummers presented Lady Brooks and
Jeanette with bouquets. Sashes of
Gordon tartan highlighted the champagne
slipper-satin gown worn by Lady Brooks
and Jeanette’s bouffant white organza.
Scarlet-coated, kilted men danced with
partners wearing their clan tartan sashes
over pretty frocks, and all through the
evening reels were danced. Wife of the
colonel of the regiment, Mrs. lan Lowan,
had pink roses scattered over the skirt of
her pale-mauve chiffon gown. Lady
Savige, whose husband. Sir Rupert Savige,
is hon. colonel of the regiment, chose
a slim-fitting black gown. Mrs. Dick
Hamer (her husband. Major Hamer, was
chairman of the ball-committee), wore a
blue-flower-patterned white organza
gown. Mrs. G. R. West chose pearl-
tinted self-striped satin. Sequins were
scattered over the pearl-grey chiffon
gown worn by Mrs. Phil Hayes. Mrs.
Douglas Bowden’s bouffant gown was of
emerald-green tulle. Mildred Hailes
chose gold satin brocade, Mrs. Ken
McLean orchid-pink chiffon, and Mrs.
Oswald Bowden petunia crepe em-
broidered with silver beads.
The Royal College of Nursing Jubilee
Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall was a very
bright affair. In the foyer a life-size
model of a uniformed nurse bent over the
cot of a sick child, on the stage of
the ballroom models of nurses in all
types of modern uniforms were set, whilst
on the orchestra stand Florence Nightin-
gale gazed out over the whirling dancers.
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, was
there with his wife, whose hyacinth-blue
satin gown featured a long bodice and
bouffant skirt. The vice-regal party was
received by the ball president, the lady
superintendent of the Children’s Hospital,
Mrs. Lucy Sechiari, who chose a bouffant
strapless gown of white tulle. In the
official party were Sir Victor and Lady
Hurley, the latter in a slim-fitting black
crepe gown, Mr. and Mrs. A. E.
Coates, she wearing sequin-trimmed
delphinium-blue, and Mrs. W. W. John-
son, who highlighted her white gown with
turquoise-blue draperies. Among the
dancers were the lady superintendent of
the Alfred HospLal, Lydia Shaw, Matron
Hanna, and the matron of the Margaret
Coles Maternity Hospital, Alice Adcock.
Mrs Howard Barrett danced in pale-
iavender satin brocades; Mrs. Edward
Campbell in grey-and-white-striped taffeta.
Nancy Woodrow’s off-the-shoulder black
gown had ruffles of black and pink tulle.
Marie Trainer’s tie-silk frock was green-
and-white spotted. Helen Hamp’s shot-
taffeta was green and pink.
Gay curtain-raiser to the Tin Alley
Players’ production of “Lot’s Wife,” which
opens on December 6 at the Union
Theatre, was the party Grenville Spencer
gave to members of the cast in his Toorak
flat. Gwen Potter, who plays wife to
Grenville’s Lot, wore a white gros-
grain suit- Peggy Ray, who was given
the task of gathering an unusual set of
“props,” including live canaries and two
goats, chose an aquamarine-blue suit and
matching hat finished with white ospreys.
Others of the cast present were Mavis
Osborne, Peggy Haynes, Marjorie
Pressley and Kevin Ryan. The play will
be produced by Elden de Steiger, assisted
by John Whittington.
Choir boys of St. John’s, Toorak, sang
at the wedding of Judith Mary, only
daughter of Dr, and Mrs. Alan Tate,
of South Yarra, and John William, only
son of Mrs. R. Hartley, of St. Kilda-road,
and the late Mr. Hartley. Of white
organza over silver lame, Judith’s gown
had a long train of frills of niched
organza. A band of diamente-studded
lame held her full-length veil of white
tulle, and her bouquet was of stephanotis.
Bridesmaids were June Chambers, the
bridegroom’s sister Betty and 10-year-
old Barbara Carlyon. Circlets of mar-
guerites were worn with their bouffant
frocks of white Swiss muslin over faille.
Freeman Strickland was best man and
Dick Atkins groomsman.
With her husband and Mrs. Hartley,
Mrs. Tate received guests at the Hotel
Australia in a wide-skirted gown of
grcen-and-moonlight-silvcr shot lame ; her
small hat was swathed in matching tulle.
Mrs. Hartley’s gown was of pastel-blue
chiffon and her small black hat was
clumtured with flowers. Guestf included
Mrs. Peter Schwartz, whose white-and-
silver brocade frock had a fichu collar
fringed with bugle-beads; Mrs, Jack
Manning, her deep-mauve ballerina frock
patterned with orchid-pink flowers; Mrs.
Alan Tate, in black Chantilly lace; Mrs.
Geoff Wharton, wearing white broderie
Anglaise; Margaret Cass, attractive in
ice-blue satin brocade; and Margot
Flockart, whose gown was of black-and-
white-checked taffeta.
This is Linda Phillips, pianist, composer
and music critic, whose concert this
week in the Assembly Hall was the third
of the Jubilee concerts for works by
Australian composers. Linda began her
musical career while still in kindergarten,
and by the time she was 14 had written
the words and. music of several songs
which were publicly performed while she
was still at school. Later she published
a book of verse, and finally decided on
a musical career. In private life Mrs.
L. Kaufmann, she has one daughter,
Bettine, who has made radio-acting her
career.
Lady Brooks was charming in a beige
crepe jacket-suit and small black straw
hat as patroness of the Air Force
Women’s Association when she congratu-
lated president and members at the
annual meeting on a “year of splendid
achievement.” Under the guidance of
Mrs. E. C. Wackett, the association
raised £2085, which brings the Memorial
Scholarship Fund to £7340. Mrs.
Wackett told the meeting at the Went-
worth that seven families were being
assisted through the scheme. The
scholarship fund is the main objective
of the association; it offers help to
children of deceased or incapacitated
members of the R.A.A.F., W.A.A.A.F.
and R.A.A.F. Nursing Service. When
the official business was over cheques
were presented to representatives of the
After Care Hospital, Melbourne District
Nursing Society, Air Force Association,
War Widows’ Craft Guild, and Legacy
Club. At the meeting and aftemoon-tea
were the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. John
Inkster, whose black suit was worn with
a smart off-the-face hat trimmed with
red flowers, Mrs. Val Hancock in a grey
linen frock and wide-brimmed Leghorn
straw hat banded with black velvet, and
Mrs. Eric Hewitt wearing an attractive
white fine straw hat with a black suit. The
hon. secretary, Mrs. S. W. Love, chose a
floral frock and white picture hat, Mrs.
W. J. Cameron (hon. treasurer) wore a
black ensemble, Mrs. F. Wright wore
pastel-blue contrasted with a black shiny
straw hat, and Mrs, F. Bladin highlighted
her grey frock with an amber-gold straw
cloche.
Geraldine le May, former director of
the U.S. Information Library, now return-
ing to the U.S.A., was farewelled at a
late-afternoon party by the U.S. Consul-
General, Henry E. Stebbins, and Mrs.
Stebbins. Pastel gladioli decorated the
reception-rooms of their South Yarra
home for the 130 guests. Geraldine’s
successor, Thelma Vasso, was at the party,
and, welcoming the guests, Mrs. Stebbins
wore a cream silk frock printed in a
pattern of black-and-gold. Geraldine
was in silk sheer with a diamond pattern
of lime, pink and grey, while black faille
made the attractive frock which featured
a portrait neckline worn by Thelma
Vasso. Mrs. H. Rabling topped her black
suit with a tiny black velvet tricorne
caught with diamente clips. With Prof.
Paton was Mrs. Paton ; she chose a black
ensemble. Mrs. Ted Doyle wore cinna-
mon-brown and a small natural straw r
cloche, Lady McConnan’s gold straw hat
with its nodding pink rose trimming was
worn with a smart black suit, Mrs. H.
Cavanaugh’s mustard doth coat was
finished with a lynx-fur collar and her
hat was of black velvet. Mrs. Graham
Egerton wore a black suit and small white
felt hat, and Mrs. G. W. Spensley chose
black for her tailored suit, her white
boater banded with black velvet.
From Sydney
Guests-of-honor at the Christmas-party
of the English-Speaking Union at the
Australia were Eric Harrison, M.P., and
his wife, U.S. Consul-General Donald
Smith and Mrs, Smith, and Lady
Plowman, recently back from abroad.
Pretty Sue Herron, whose father,
Mr. Justice Herron, welcomed the guests
as president of the union, wore a short
evening dress of white organdie with a
waistband of black shantung. Lady
Plowman’s silk scarf with scenes of Paris
was noteworthy. Mrs. Smith’s dress was
black organza with a white embroidered
skirt and Mrs. Harrison wore a lovely
dress of dark-red crepe with fine gold
beading round the neckline.
One of the most entertaining speeches
was that of Mr, Harrison, who told of
some experiences as Australian Minister
in London. At one dinner he attended,
the waiter asked him “Will you dine with
the alderman, sir, or with Lady Cooper?”
Mr. Harrison said he’d dine with the
alderman and was told “Then yours will
be a brandy, sir.” “And what if I’d
chosen to dine with Lady Cooper?”
“Then yours would have been a gin.”
It seems that a couple of hundred years
ago a Lady Cooper’s husband died
after brandy at a dinner and his widow
left a bequest so that an alternative drink
should always be served.
An interesting engagement is that of
Heather Innes, of Longueville, whose
picture adorns this page. Her fianaS is
Peter Barnard, son of the late Captain
Frank Barnard, world-famous aviator who
was twice winner of the Schneider Cup.
Heather’s mother is writer Mrs. Alice
Innes, well known for her stories and
verses about island and New Guinea life.
Mrs. Innes has been contributing to The
Bulletin for many years, her first par.
having been submitted in 1925 (it was
about Doris Booth going to New Guinea
to take up mining). Heather and Peter
plan to marry in February and to live at
Tamborine Bay. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
During the year there have been art
exhibitions in Hyde Perk, the Botanic
Gardens, the retail stores, the Art Gallery,
the Education Department, and the
private galleries. The artist who hasn t
had an opportunity to show off his brain-
children must be very slow off the mark.
Latest is an exhibition in a Harbor Bridge
pylon. Instigators of this plan are (one
might have guessed it) the Contemporary
Art Society, who last week put up a
selection of works from their recent show
in the light and air of the Pylon Tea
Rooms. The Pylon, by the way, has
become much more dignified and instruc-
tive than it was when this Letter visited
it last, with information and photographs
of every industry Australia can muster.
There were not many people at the open-
ing, the little company consisting of Mrs.
H. S. Towndrow, Nancy Borlase, Sheila
McDonald, Lionel Jago, Robert Klippel,
and Mr. Johnson from the Department
of Road Transport—is this a sign of pro-
gress? However, astonishingly enough,
two pictures were sold during the after-
noon.
Waverley Cemetery, where are buried
Kendall, Lawson, Daley, The Bulletin's
j. F, Archibald and Roderic Quinn, was
the scene last Sunday of the unveiling
of a memorial over Rod’s grave. N.S.W,
Director of Education J. G. McKenzie
performed the unveiling and in the course
of his speech read a fine tribute from
Rod’s old mate and fellow-poet, E. J.
Brady. Archbishop O’Brien delivered the
Occasional Address—an eloquent and
moving tribute to the dead poet and a
plea for tho return of romanticism in
Australian writings. Girls from St.
Clare’s Convent and boys from Christian
Brothers’ College, Waverley, recited and
sang extracts from Rod’s poetry. A
stanza from “The Camp Within the West”
is inscribed on the memorial. It was
an afternoon of joy for Mrs. Lucy
Cassidy, who had sheltered Rod in his
twilight years and who had helped so
much to make the memorial possible.
Monsignor Hartigan (“John O’Brien” of
“Round the Boree Log” fame) and Miles
Franklin were among those present.
As if there were not enough worry in
the world, the advertising experts, one
learns, deliberately try, at times, to annoy
people into remembering certain pro-
ducts. In one radio programme in
America the sentence “Lucky Strike has
gone to war” is repeated so often that
the most placid listener gets to the hair-
tearing stage over it. These are called
“irritation tactics.” One wonders about
the campaign in Australia which an-
nounces all over the place that “Greys is
great,” thereby annoying everyone who
has been taught that a plural subject
takes a plural verb. But on second
thoughts it’s hard to see how it could
be put any other way.
There was some disillusionment in Stella
Swinney’s speech to the National Council
of Women on her work as selection
officer at Australia House. Chief worry
seemed to be that there are not enough
women selectors of migrants and when
women are appointed they are not used
specifically for the selection of single
women. Miss Swinney, for example,
would be coping with boilermakers’
problems while male selection officers
would be discussing opportunities for
nurses and sales assistants. Miss Swinney
was the only woman selector at Australia
House for most of the time she was in
London. She said it would be more
fitting if five or six women were appointed.
As two vice-presidents of the C.W.A.
have pointed out in the daily Press, there
were no women signatories to the “Call
to the Nation,” which was not surprising,
as there are no women chief justices or
leaders of religion. However, die C.WA.
is behind the call and so is the National
Council of Women. Its impact is being
felt, at least in small ways. The mention
of sharp practice now doesn’t get the
cynical shrug as before, but more likely
a remark like “Well, what a thing to
say, after the Call and all,” or “Perhaps
we shouldn’t do that, when we’ve been
told to pull our sox up.” These are just
straws in the wind, of course. Whether
there is any cessation of sharp practice
is another matter.
When speaking about “The Call” at
a luncheon arranged by the Royal Empire
Society, Paul McGuire said that
a quarter of a million requests
had been received for copies and
that the response from young people
had been amazing. Archbishop
Mowll was present at this luncheon,
and other distinguished guests included
Mr. Justice Maxwell and Mrs. Maxwell,
Lady Anderson, Mr. Telford Simpson,
Mr. and Mrs. F. Daniell, Dr. Wheatley,
Mrs. Nicholas, Rabbi Perush, Sir Bertram
Stevens, Sir Henry Manning, Dr. F. A.
Maguire, Mr. F, E. Manning, Archdeacon
Hammond, and Commander Long.
The Christmas-party of the Sunshine
Club will be held next Saturday at the
Helen Keller Hostel, when funds raised
by the club will be presented to the Royal
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution. This
is quite a unique committee, as all the
executive and many of the members are
blind girls living at the hostel. The club
was formed six years ago under the super-
vision of Matron Emily Beaver. The
girls raise money by organising dances
and competitions, and each year they use
their funds to buy something for the
Helen Keller Hostel, The president is
Mavis Cook, secretary Dorothy Faulkner,
and treasurer Eva Cooper.
Mrs. J, N. Spittle is national president
of the Country Women’s Association of
Australia, succeeding Mrs. G. O.
Dorward, retired because of ill health.
Mrs. Spittle’s parents w r ere pioneers of
the Ultima-Swan Hill districts of Vic-
toria, settling there in 1895. Mrs.
Spittle spent most of her single life there.
Shortly after her return from a trip to
Europe and America she married J. N.
Spittle, who had a block at Robinvale,
on the Murray, a returned-soldier settle-
ment named after Mrs. Spittle’s brother.
In 1929 they went to live outside Birchip
(Vic.), where she became foundation
president of tho Birchip C.W.A. After
a couple of years in Mildura the Spittles
went to the remote Hattah district, thence
to Euston station (N.S.W.), where Mrs.
Spittle joined the Robinvale branch and
was immediately selected group president
of the North-East Mallee.


At Christmas time
say it with
Wine ...
~ !f ' "V -> fW.
■ :• . V
• . i -
W '• *!
t
of course !
PERSONAL ITEMS
Professor A. R. Chisholm, the diminu-
tive head of the Department of French
at Melbourne University, has been
accorded an officership of the Legion of
Honor, the highest award at the disposal
of the French nation. The first Australian
to get it, the professor has been in
France only once, Digger of War I. Born
at Bathurst and educated at Fort-street,
Sydney, he has a passion for everything
French (including politics, literature and
history), manifested in books such as his
Art of Arthur Rimbaud, in a wad of con-
tributions to English and French
periodicals and in making speeches on
France’s most honored day at the foot of
Joan of Arc’s statue on the steps of the
National Gallery in Melbourne.
Brigadier Raymond Walter Tovell,
C.8.E., D.S.O. (twice), M.L.A. for
Brighton (Vic.), and his family celebrated
a centenary all their own recently—
the hundredth anniversary of the
day that the Tovell grandpa completed
the home they live in in the bayside
suburb. All the Tovells were born in
it, including the present paterfamilias,
who only left it once or twice for a
lengthy span—when he was learning
accountancy in London, when he was
rising from private to brigade-major in
War I and when he returned to the
Middle East in command of an infantry
brigade in War 11. Educated at Brighton
Grammar and a councillor of the hamlet.
Closed a long account in Sydney,
Arthur Malcolm Eedy, who was Number
One on the roll of Sydney Boys’ High
School when it opened in 1883. Son of a
windjammer captain who came ashore in
Sydney to run a nautical school, Eedy
joined the Citizens’ Life Assurance as a
cadet in 1887. He was still there when
C.L.A. absorbed another company, to
become the well-known M.L.C. General-
secretary from 1899 to 1927, Eedy had
44 years as a director of the co., including
13 years as managing-director. He was
a great friend of The Bulletin’s James
Edmond and S. H. Prior, who owed much
to his wise advice when they were running,
this paper’s “Wild Cat” pages. An in-
veterate booklover, and a familiar of most
of the town’s booksellers, Eedy presided
over the Shakspeare Society of N.S.W.,
and donated most of his huge library
to War 11 Diggers through their Camp
Library Service. He was 81 at the end.
“M.”: Just after midnight on March 28,
1942, a small group of ships wearing the
White Ensign crept towards the French
coast. The ships were an old destroyer
(stripped but for engines and something
packed in her forepeak), a motor-gunboat,
a torpedo-boat and several launches
carrying commandos ; targets were shore
installations, and the huge caisson plug-
ging the end of the battleship-size dock
of St. Nazaire. When two miles from
target a long-searching pencil of light
stabbed out; it was added to by a dozen
more ; and the full glare of a disturbed
enemy was upon them. Through an
estuary latticed with vicious tracer and
torn to spurting white by every variety
of shell, destroyer Campbeltown thrust,
nose aimed indomitably at the dock. Hit
continually, upperworks shredded, she
raced on and at top speed struck the
caisson. The plan required that she hit
the dock at 1.30 a.m.; she hit at 1.34.
With the Commandos doing their ex-
plosive stuff ashore, most of Campbel-
town’s crew were captured. Next day,
near noon, 40 senior German Army
officers, with them the officer-command-
ing, were aboard Campbeltown, deciding
how best to move her. The caisson
swarmed with German troops, sight-
seeing. They were grouped nicely when
the time-fused tonnage of T.N.T, in the
destroyer’s forepeak erupted. Command-
ing on Campbeltown’s bridge was Lieut.-
Commander S. H. Beattie. Now Captain
Beattie, V.C., he arrives in Australia
shortly to take up an exchange appoint-
ment in the R.A.N.
His job to tell the world about Aus-
tralia’s stamps, P. Collas was appointed
philatelic officer to the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment the other day. The new man is on
old stamping-ground—from 1935 editor
of the country’s leading philatelic
journal, “The Australian Stamp
Monthly,” he’s published, as well, three
tomes on his subject, including a glossary
for devotees.
Australian music-lovers cannot com-
plain about the A.B.C.’s 1952 handout.
The procession of foreign virtuosi will
include pianist Gieseking, Greek dramatic
contralto Elena Nikolaidi, Badura-Skoda,
the young Viennese pianist, prodigy
violinist Michael Rabin and Burl Ives,
America’s best-known singer of folk-
songs. whose “Blue Tail Fly” has been
heard a million times in Australia per
record. Australians on the home-run will
be Kenneth Neate, the singing N. S. Wales
policeman who now sings in Italy’s lead-
ing opera-houses, and the ex-Geelong
accountant John Brownlee, who’s at the
New York Metropolitan these days.
“R.J.8.”; With a smile never far away
and a voice as quiet as his rubber-soled
shoes, Solomon Goldberg would be taken
by few for what he is—physician, sur-
geon, owner of a private hospital and a
well-known sheepfarmer. The doctor-
grazier made headlines recently when he
announced in Melbourne details of his
plan to give Israel a sheep-industry based
on Australia’s. Born in Rishon (Israel),
Goldberg came to Australia as a boy of
four, graduated in medicine at Sydney
University in 1924 and soon had a prac-
tice thriving in Griffith. In 1939, with his
practice well established, the doctor be-
came interested in sheep—today he grazes
8000-odd on his 3650-acre property in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. Last
year, when on a world tour, he was
asked by the Israeli Government if the
country could run a sheep-industry like
Australia. Goldberg spent months on re-
search and replied favorably. The Gov-
ernment then gave him 1000 acres in
Israel, which he has now cultivated, and
early in the new year he will fly there the
first 100 of 1200 Corriedales. While ad-
mitting the whole scheme’s a gamble, the
pioneer reckons he needs only a bit of
luck to make his 1200 thrive.
Switching 11 years ago from account-
ancy to opinions, Roy Morgan has since
published more than 800 Gallup Poll
MORGAN, GALLUP POLLER.
findings—the great majority remarkably
accurate. Son of H. E, Morgan, one-
time head of Robert Reid’s and leading
Flinders Lane character of the 1920’5,
Roy was well known in pre-War-II days
as balance-sheet analyst of the Melbourne
Stock Exchange’s “Official Record.”
Yarraside financial circles will also
remember his “Investment Review,”
which appeared daily on Melbourne
“Herald’s” financial page. Hair-do by
Whiting.
William Richer Moon, depicted here-
under, has a habit of starting things. Son
of a Sussex (Eng.) migrant who farmed
a property in the 1870’s on the banks
of the Brisbane River, where now the
buildings of Bulimba grow, W.R. started
the Metropolitan Milk Supply Co. in
1927, which was the first to provide Bris-
bane with pasteurised bottled milk. In-
terested, as well, in local government, and
in keeping party politics out of it, he
called the public meeting of 1934 which
started the present Citizens’ Municipal
Organisation, he being the first president.
MOON. VICE-MAYOR.
With the organisation backing him J. B.
Chandler succeeded to the mayoral chains
in 1940, Moon becoming his vice-mayor
three years later. Both are still in those
positions. Moon married a daughter of
John Melville, an adventurous migrant
who landed in Brisbane in a windjammer
in 1849 and trekked with A. C. Gregory
on his Queensland exploration expedition.
Melville was the last survivor of its
members.
“Uramao”: The death in Sydney
recently of Charles Raymond Utting
recalls the original of a family which
contributed several generations to the
Inky Way in New Zealand and Australia.
John J. Utting landed in New Zealand
in 1865, to make a journalistic name first
in Auckland, and later Dunedin, in which
city he championed social reform with a
long series of articles in the old
“Guardian.” With three other reporters
Utting figured in a meeting (held to pro-
test against the abolition of the provinces
in 1875, and supported in the House by
Sir Julius Vogel), the report of which
was the longest ever presented of a meet-
ing in the Fernland. It ran to 30,000
words, equal to some 25 columns of a
daily. J.J.U. left New Zealand for Aus-
tralia in the early ’nineties and died in
Sydney in 1925.
Members of the Melbourne Bread and
Cheese Club scored well in the 1951
Centenary literary and historical competi-
tions, William Ruth, a retired State
School headmaster, collected £250 and a
plaque for his account of the develop-
ment of a rural area in Victoria ; Lloyd
Williams, editor of the Education Depart-
ment’s school paper, got £lOO and plaque
for his colonial essay; and Alan Gross,
author of “Attainment,” a study of the
literature of Federation, secured honor-
able mention and plaque in the same
section. Dale Collins received an honor-
able mention and a plaque.
Shifting back to Queensland as chief
officer of the ’Wales for the State, C. G.
Marjason had four years in N.Q. before
closing his ledgers to have a crack
at the Kaiser with the old 45th Battalion.
After that war, with breaks in N.S.W. and
at Launceston, he was again in Queens-
land. Since then he’s been inspector for
the N.S.W. Southern Division, as well as
for Westralia. An avid bowler, he has re-
tained membership of the New Farm
(Brisbane) Club, with Sydney’s City Club
as a sort of branch-office.
Alan Craig’s the new Belgian consul
in Queensland, adding that country’s to
his other foreign interest, America. On
the executive of the Australian-American
Association, Craig finds time to manage
the Blue Star shipping-line for his State,
chair the Overseas Shipping Repre-
sentatives’ Association and sit on the
executive of the Queensland Marine
Board. A cheerful 52.
John Gurner Burnell wins this year’s
Peter Nicol Russell engineering medal, a
high annual award of the Institution of
Engineers. An M.C.-winner of War I,
educated at The King’s School, Parra-
matta, and Sydney University, Burnell
got his early experience in the Victorian
Water Supply Commission, and is now
g.-m. of Thompsons, Castlemaine, the Vic-
torian engineering firm. Spare-time in-
terests take in a trusteeship of the Vic-
torian National Gallery and cabinet-
making.
In Melbourne on the eve of retirement,
Rev. H. Griffiths, director of the Metho-
dist Inland Mission, runs a diocese com-
prising two-thirds of Australia carrying
a single parson, with the other third
densely populated with archbishops,
bishops, deans and canons. All of the
Territory, Western Queensland, part of
the north of S. Australia and the west
coast to within 350 miles of Perth has
been his care for the past 21 years; the
smallest pastoral block in his district is
600 square miles and the possibilities, in
his opinion, are as vast as the area. Head-
quartered at Alice Springs, he’s seen it
grow to a town of 3000 from a tent-
dwelling population of 100.
After attending just about every fire in
Bendigo (Vic.) over the last half-century,
Captain Tommy Brown has called it a
day. Rising from a lamp-boy (when he
joined the Bendigo brigade in 1898) to
captain in 1935, he is one of Victoria’s
best-known fire-fighters and adminis-
trators, for many years a member, and
in 1949 chairman of, the Country Fire
Authority, which administers the State’s
rural and urban brigades. a chain-
smoker, he was never without a fire in
his fag-holder during the most raging con-
flagrations. Fire-fighting was Brown’s
hobby ; professionally he’s the city’s rate-
collector and liaison-officer between the
Chinese community and the Bendigo
Easter Fair Society. He’ll still be doing
those jobs.
“Curtain Raiser”; How many barn-
stormers can stage a comeback at 70?
Old theatregoers may remember Horace
Cooper, a solid Shakspearian actor who
left Melbourne 40 years ago to seek
success on Broadway. He played in
“Trilby” with Tyrone Power, father of
the film-star, and made a moderate repu-
tation in straight drama. Then he dis-
appeared. He has now appeared in film
form as Stephen Spettigue in “Where’s
Charley?” to make a comedy hit with his
tartan beret and his canvas bag containing
the nuts and dates which are his only
diet. London is reported to be loudly
laughing with him.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, Noel Marlay, for 20 years from
1929 manager of Warenda Station. Two hun-
dred miles west of Winton (Q.), Warenda took
in more than 600 square miles. Widely known
in the northern cattle-country, Marlay was a
Lighthorseman in War I, serving in the 11th
Regiment.
At 72, in Sydney, W. R. Greenwood, one of
the best-known figures in the N.S.W. real-estate
world. Son of Rev, James Greenwood (co-
author, with Sir Henry Parkes, of the modern
N.S.W. education system), W.R.G. had been
secretary of the Real Estate Institute for 17
years. Scores of successful agents today will
remember the advice given them in that period.
At 93, at Mornington (Vic.), Brigadier-General
James Clarence Hawker, the oldest general in
the British Commonwealth and the last of the
British brigadier-generals. Member of a family
who have been pa«torahsts and soldiers in
Australia since 1838, he served in the Boer
War and in War I was Adjutant-General.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 81, Dr. Frank W.
Fitchett, Professor of Clinical Medicine’ and
Therapeutics at Otago Medical School. A sur-
geon in the Boer War, he was a nephew of
William Henry Fitchett, editor of the old-time
Melbourne “Telegraph” and author, of course,
of Deeds That Won the Empire. Dr. Fitchett
was Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
and a foundation member of the Royal Aus-
tralasian College of Physicians.


foRfOMOH'lo Os
■—'Cl" I \A
i k *
2S&fc
BPS
OVER
T’OllGH'iotul;
%mmd
. . . you can't do better than follow the
lead of thousands of operators who have
proved, in actual performance, that Hi-
Milers give the utmost in money-saving,
trouble-free, long mileage.
HI-MILER TRUCK & BUS TYRES
BY
good/year
m
m
lllfl!
.ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR THE JOB!
IOAI-l*
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fast hauls
on improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
R e e o m mended
wherever greater
traction Is needed.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
• ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Minogue and the station ser-
geant greeted him cordially.
As they yarned Jim kept glanc-
ing at the big man curiously.
He had a big belly and pouches
under his eyes, but when you
looked at the thickness of his
neck, his immense girth and
hands, you could believe the
tales about him. He wasn’t very
tall, but his width and depth
were formidable ; and not all fat,
Jim could see, looking at him
closely. “When the razor-gangs
were going,” the station sergeant
had told him, “If they heard
Butler was coming down the
street they’d go home.”
“Here comes the educated
policeman,” the station sergeant
said, peering through the
window.
Constable Butler growled, and
twirled the wet cigar- butt round
with strong teeth. Sergeant
Minogue smiled. The contrast
between the two amused him —
the new and the old.
“Got nothin’ against the bloke
personally,” Constable Butler
said, in his bass growl. “But
what’s the Force cornin’ to —I’d
like t’ know. We’ll be a flamin’
crowd of Sunday-school teachers
before they’re finished.”
Sergeant Minogue’s smile grew
wider. The idea of Constable
Butler as a Sunday-school
teacher tickled his imagination.
“All very well to grin,”
Butler said, scratching the
grizzled, short-cropped hair of
his bullet head and spitting out
the masticated piece of cigar.
“But what’d happen if a cove
like him got in a yike? All the
larrikins round here would
reckon the Carryville police was
a bunch of pansies.”
Constable Field entered, tall,
bony about the wrists, not very
sure of himself. He reported
smartly and turned to go;
thought better of it, and lingered.
“How are the kids going, poor
fellow?” the station sergeant
said.
Constable Field smiled with
relief at being included in the
conversation, and became in-
formative. That was the trouble
with Constable Field —he took
things literally.
Constable Butler lit another
cigar and puffed scornfully. Like
Sergeant Minogue, the cadet
was impressed by the contrast.
As a cadet, Jim represented the
new order himself, he supposed.
But he lacked Constable Field’s
earnestness and, in his heart,
felt more sympathy for the old
than the new. Perhaps because
he was a bit of a roughneck him-
self, he thought, grinning, as he
said smoothly into the telephone
“Yes, of course. A man will be
down directly—now what time
was it again? . . .”
Constable Field was a nice
young man, not really spoilt by
the publicity he had received
when he graduated, and the in-
terest higher authority had taken
in him —arranging his shifts so
that he could attend lectures.
But all this damned him con-
clusively in the eyes of the Con-
stable Butlers.
Constable Field finished his
little lecture on child psy-
chology—which interested him,
and he could see no reason why
it shouldn’t interest the others,
and Constable Butler said
“Hmm,” and looked at Con-
stable Field with something like
alarm in his fearless grey eyes
that had beaten down razor-
slashers and gunmen. So this
was what the Force was coming
to —a lot of muck about kids.
Constable Butler blew cigar-
smoke in a great cloud and gave
it up ; it was too much for him.
“Coin’ to the fight Monday
night?” he asked Sergeant
Minogue.
Constable Field spied the de-
tective magazine and picked it
up, looked at it and wrinkled
his nose. “You don’t read this
trash, Bill, surely?” he asked in
a tone of raillery.
“I do,” said the station ser-
geant. “It’s very interesting. An
escape from the sordid details of
a policeman’s life.”
Constable Field chose to take
him seriously; or, perhaps, Jim
thought. Constable Field just
couldn’t help taking things seri-
ously—which was one of the
disadvantages of education.
“That’s just it. Bill, you see —it’s
pure escapism—all this trash.”
He tapped the magazine with a
bony finger.
“Hear, hear,” said Sergeant
Minogue ironically from the
corner. “That’s what I say—
filling policemen’s heads with
trash. That’s the trouble with
our plainclothes men—they see
too many pictures.”
“And just how,” demanded
the station sergeant, leaning his
comfortable paunch against the
drawers below the counter, “do
you suppose to raise the police-
man from his black ignorance
and heathen superstitions, poor
fellow? Teach him ballet?”
“We’ve got a police choir,”
said Sergeant Minogue help-
fully.
“And a police boys’ club,”
said the station sergeant.
“And Constable Field,” said
Sergeant Minogue.
Constable Field laughed. “Oh,
cut it out. Get off my back. It
doesn’t alter what I said. That
is awful trash.” He pointed
again.
“But it’s not, poor fellow,”
said the station sergeant ponti-
fically. “It’s very clever,”
“I’m not much of a reader
meself,” said Constable Butler,
in his bass rumble that seemed
so appropriate to his massive
masculinity, “but I like some-
thin’ light.”
“Don’t get me wrong,” Con-
stable Field said, in earnest
again, his brown eyes narrowed,
dark brows knitted. He was really
a good-looking young man, Jim
thought, in a negative way ; with
too much Adam’s-apple and too
little humor. “I don’t doubt the
men who write them are clever,
in a way. I don’t say they’re
written by morons, but for
morons.” He produced his little
aphorism triumphantly.
There was a litle silence,
broken by Constable Butler say-
ing loudly. “That reminds me.
That young larrikin Paddy
Moran is out again, sarj. He
could do with a good boot in the
tail, just to remind him.”
The station sergeant stared at
Constable Field, who was quite
unconscious of having given
offence. So the station sergeant
decided not to be offended.
“You keep your boots to your-
self,” Sergeant Minogue said
sternly to Constable Ben Butler.
“Do you hear?”
“Yair, yair, I know,” Butler
rumbled. “Pamper ’em. The
old way was better. All the
same, that young Moran’ll bear
watchin*. He’s a bad young
devil.” Constable Butler rubbed
his pudgy nose. “He’s got an
idea he’s tough.”
The station sergeant laughed.
“And you’re itching to teach him
different, eh, Ben? He broke
into Pop Picciotti’s shop, didn’t
he?”
“Yair. Ken Sayers fitted
i him.”
PICCIOIT1! Jim remembered
now. The dark girl who came
in to register her Irish Settqr.
Jim had found it hard to believe
that she was really the daughter
of Pop Picciotti, with his curly
black hair and broken English,
but Sergeant Flannigan assured
them she was. “Known her
since she was a kid,” Sergeant
Flannigan said proudly. “Clever
girl, too. Got three A’s in her
Leaving, Pop was telling me.
Good at music, too. She just
finished business college now —
got a job in town with that finan-
cial bloke —what’s his name—
Hammond. The bloke with the
big house up on the Head.”
The girl had a sensitive Italian
face, and a sort of dark bright-
ness, a bubbling vitality and
gaiety, and a simple friendliness,
that impressed Jim tremendously.
She greeted Sergeant Flannigan
as an old friend, an elder and
well-loved relative, and the old
ruffian was as proud as a pea-
cock. She was very voluble and
charming as the day, with an un-
Australian spontaneity that con-
trasted with her easy speech of
an educated Australian.
Everyone turned to watch her
go out, in a rhythm of gay
summer frock and lithe tanned
limbs and eager spring, the big
red dog wagging his plumed taU
behind her.
“So you’ve known her a long
time, have you, sarj?” Constable
Smith, the motor-cyclist, said
slyly. But Sergeant Flannigan
turned on him fiercely. “Wipe
that smirk off your face, Smith,”
he barked truculently. “I’ve
known that girl since she was
going to the convent school here
—and a finer girl you won’t find.
Know the Picciottis, too —and
they’re decent people, if they
are Eyties. And I want none of
your lip!”
“No offence, sarj,” said Con-
stable Smith, grinning but
abashed. You never could tell
with Sergeant Flannigan—boast-
ing of his misdeeds one minute,
and with queer streaks of sensi-
tive righteousness.
The shadows were lengthen-
ing across the road and falling
diagonally across the buffalo-
grass. Jim was kept busy on the
switchboard, and the other men,
with the exception of Constable
Field, who was busy looking
over his notes, yarned placidly
of promotions and transfers. But
the station sergeant kept an ear
open for what was going on at
the switchboard. He stopped in
full narrative to say—“lf that’s
Jones you can tell him he’s not
off on Monday,” And at the
last call he said “You’d better
give that one to the wireless car,
poor fellow.”
A half-minute later the call
come over the air from the
police wireless station. “Calling
car four . , . car four . . . Rob-
bery forty-two East-street, Carry-
ville . .. man, about twenty-four.
five feet seven, thickset, fair hair,
ruddy complexion, wearing
brown sports coat, grey trousers,
no hat, carrying suitcase, last
seen walking north along East-
street . . . Acknowledge, car
four . .
“Well, bless his heart,” said the
station sergeant. “Here’s Ser-
geant Flannigan. Where’ve you
been, poor fellow?”
O ERGEANT FLANNIGAN
swept into the room. It was
a pity Sergeant didn’t have spurs
to jingle, Jim thought. And per-
haps a nodding plumed helmet
and a shiny metal breastplate,
and a sword. Sergeant Flanni-
gan would have extracted no
end of fun from these accoutre-
ments, and they would have be-
come him. He was a fine figure
of a man, and knew it, and he
represented, more spectacularly
than any other man on the
Carryville strength, the majesty
of the law ; and Sergeant Flanni-
gan knew that, too.
“None of your lip, constable,”
Sergeant Flannigan said jovially.
“We’ve been sweating qpr heads
off doing all the bloody work in
this district —haven’t we. Bob?”
Constable Bob Jolly leant his
tall body against the doorway.
“That’s right, sarj.” His words
were muffled by the long pipe
in his mouth, and he was ridicu-
lously handsome —like a film-
star. He was also rather stupid,
but a fine driver. He and Ser-
geant Flannigan were firm
friends.
“Well, what’s doing?” Ser-
geant Flannigan put on his horn-
rimmed glasses, and read the re-
port-sheet with, as it were, a
bustle. One of the reasons Ser-
geant Flannigan got away with
doing as little work as he did was
the extraordinary impression he
gave of restless energy. Even
though you didn’t believe it, you
couldn’t help being influenced by
it, thought Sergeant Minogue
grimly.
“Just what have, you been
doing, sergeant?” Sergeant
Minogue asked gently. “Got it


THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
ds
BEVT> FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AVI)
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost The
■■Notional' Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typlnq. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Bmiii wmtirrly tm Auai'aii* hy
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH •• ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
fds
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The ffEO- BARR ERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2r), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
pnwc®» H Cft *£K
°Z T ST/,t '0N
" H AUSTRALIA
The Electricity Trust of South Australia
has established a steam power station at the
Leigh Creek Coal Field. The load demand
includes electric excavators. Two turho-
alternators are installed, served by two
Babcock boiler units each delivering 25,000
lbs. of steam per hour at 200 p.s.i. and
630°F. These units are equipped with
Babcock-Detroit BotoGrates. This spreader
type stoker has a forward travelling grate,
providing continuous ash removal. The
units burn successfully Leigh Creek coal
(minus 1") having a calorific value of
5,500, 6,500 8.T.U./lb. with from 28/36%
moisture and 7/17% ash.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all Stales
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
XMAS COMES ONCE A MONTH!
BRITISH BOOK of the MONTH CLUB
Every month a gift . . . a best-selling book to read and
enjoy. A subscription to the BRITISH BOOK OF THE
MONTH CLUB makes Xmas last through the year.
Each month the BRITISH BOOK OP THE MONTH CLUB
publishes a special edition of a recent first-class book and
posts it direct to members at much below normal price—
£s/15/- worth o£ books for £2/5/-. Books for the next
C months are;—
THE KON-TIKI EXPEDITION Heyerdahl
THE YOUNG LIONS Shaw
THROUGH THE VALLEY Henriques
THE BIG FISHERMAN Douglas
ELEPHANT BILL Williams
A TOWN LIKE ALICE Shute
There are optional choices. List forwarded on request.
For gift subscriptions, the first book will be posted with a
suitable greeting card, in good time for Xmas.
POST THIS FORM . . . WITH REMITTANCE.
WHEN YOU GIVE
A SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
i
The British Book of the Month Club,
G.P.O. Box 4657, Sydney.
6 months’ subscription at £2/5/- .
12 months’ subscription at £4/10/- lo
Please send a
NAME
ADDRESS
From
all here,” Sergeant Flannigan
said virtuously, and opened his
diary with a flourish. He began
to read out in a ringing voice,
but interrupted himself, blinking
over his glasses. “By the way,
we saw that young Moran in
Beach Head-parade. Pulled up
and asked him what he was
doing—said he was meeting a
girl—so told him to move on,
and watch his step. He’s a bad
young b . Didn’t know he
was out.”
“Where was he?” Sergeant
Minogue asked, exchanging a
glance with the station sergeant.
. “Up near the beach—no;
he didn’t have anything on him,
if that’s what you mean . . .”
“Anything for me, cadet?” a
quiet voice said. Jim looked up
to see Detective-sergeant Ken
Sayers, who had come in the
back way. Jim gave him the
message that concerned him, and
the detective-sergeant nodded at
each,, saying “Yair, yair,” and
blowing smoke through his
nostrils. Of medium height, and
thick set. Detective-sergeant
Sayers had the general appear-
ance of a conservative business-
man and the bronze, impassive
face of an Indian chief.
VkI HILE he was talking Jim
V V heard the buzz, and saw the
little door drop, and plugged in:
as soon as he finished he slipped
back the lever. “Carryville
police station,” he said.
4 That the cadet?” a voice he
didn’t recognise said. “Get the
station sergeant. No, put me on
to Ken Sayers—is he there?
And send the car out straight
away—the beach, the end of
Beach Head-parade. I’m ring-
ing from the callbox . . .”
“Who’s speaking?” Jim said
formally.
“Hell, didn’t I say! Olley,
Detective Olley, Now put me on
to the station sergeant—smart,
do you hear?”
The station sergeant had come
over. He took the phone-piece,
said “Hello, Mortimer here.”
Suddenly he tensed. Jim was
watching him and could see no
change in his expression. But
he said “Yair, yair,” quickly, and
held out his hand for a piece of
paper, which Jim gave to him.
Then he scribbled rapidly.
“Yair. Now I’ll put you on to
Ken. In your room, Ken.”
“What’s doing, Bill?” Sergeant
Flannigan said.
The station sergeant looked
up. Already he was dialling a
number on a fresh line.
“Murder,” he said. “Olley’s out
there with the body. Go out and
relieve him. Meet him at the call-
box near the beach in Beach
Head-road, stay there yourself,
and Bob can bring Olley back
here. Hullo, hullo—yes, put
me straight through ...”
“What about Ken?” Sergeant
Flannigan asked, half-way to the
door.
“He’s got his own car outside.
Yes, at four-fifteen this after-
noon ...” The station sergeant
glanced up again, and caught
the eye of the gaping cadet.
“You can go and have your tea,
poor fellow. And tell Elsie to
bring the prisoners’ meals in half
an hour early—they’re ordered
—four meals . . .”
WHEN Jim came back from
tea Butler and Field had
gone; and the station sergeant
was still busy on the telephone.
After a few minutes he cleared
the board and stood up.
“Right-oh, cadet, you take
over.”
But the station sergeant didn’t
go out for his own meal, but
stood staring through the door-
way at the darkening evening,
his hazel eyes narrowed, draw-
ing on a sodden cigarette.
A call came, and Jim jumped.
But it was only a routine inquiry
from a newspaper. “Anything
doing out your way?”
“Not a thing,” Jim said lightly.
“They’ll soon get wind of it
and be round like a flock of
vultures,” the station sergeant
said.
“Who was murdered?” Jim
asked, a little tremulously.
“Unidentified girl,” the station
sergeant said shortly. “Watch
that board, cadet.”
“Here’s the P.D.,” said Ser-
geant Minogue.
Detective Olley and Constable
Bob Jolly came in. Both looked
a little sick. “Well, she’s identi-
fied,” Detective Olley said. “Ser-
geant Flannigan identified her—
Marie Picciotti, age eighteen,
daughter of Luigi Picciotti, of
twenty-one Bower-street. Occu-
pation, typist. Give me a line.
Homicide Squad been here yet?”
“Been and gone,” said the
station sergeant. “You must
have passed them. And here” —
peering forward —“by the look
of it, are the fingerprint boys.”
“Here’s your line,” said Jim.
And suddenly the switchboard
went mad.
The hours went quickly, with
all sorts of incoming and out-
coming calls, demands, explana-
tions. The little station was in-
vaded by plainclothes men,
specialists, technicians. Jim
found it hard to keep track of
the comings and goings; and he
had only a confused and scat-
tered picture of what had taken
place.
The girl had gone for a walk,
as was her habit, after lunch, and
was in a cheerful frame of mind
when she left —that much he had
learned from the mother’s story,
wet with tears and pathetic
broken English, over the phone.
She had tied up the dog before
she left —which was unusual, and
another tragic link in a chain
of might-have-beens—the P.D.
car must have been near
the scene of the crime at
the time —three-thirty p.m.,
according to the doctor,
near enough. Instrument of
death was a hammer, found a
few yards away, with finger-
prints carefully removed by a
handkerchief. Footprints, a
great many of them, showing in
the sand loosely bound by grass
at that spot, a little hollow in
a hillock on the isolated beach.
Plaster casts had been taken.
And the tall, fair man in a dust-
coat who was asking him for a
line now was a detective-in-
spector.
At half-past eight two detec-
tives marched in with a pale,
low-browed youth in an open-
necked shirt and no coat. They
went straight through to the
plainclothes men’s room, and
the station sergeant nodded after
them. “That’s young Mister
Moran. He doesn’t look too
happy, does he?”
“Do you think he did it?”
Jim asked.
The station sergeant shrugged.
“Don’t know the full story. He
was around there. He'll have to
do some explaining.”
Detective-sergeant Sayers and
Detective Olley went out, argu-
ing. “You’ll have to go care-
fully with him,” the sergeant was
saying . . . “Careful, hell,” said
Olley. “The girl worked for him,
didn’t she. And . . .”
At nine-fifteen they came
back. Olley was still talking.
“He tried that phone trick again
—but it didn’t work. He found
it couldn’t work with a murder
case.” Detective Olley looked
highly pleased with himself. But
the detective-sergeant shook his
head. “You got nothing on him,
Harry. Not a thing.”
“We’ll see . . .”
A few minutes later the black-
browed youth came out, with a
swagger.
“We’ll see you again to-
morrow,” a voice called after
him, and the swagger wilted a
little.
A Ta few minutes to eleven the
* station emptied of detectives.
The new shift came in, one by
one, and the station sergeant put
his detective novel in his bag.
Constable Butler came in and re-
ported for duty. He looked
bigger than ever in uniform, and
more workmanlike. “They get
that bloke?” he asked. Every-
one knew what he meant.
“No,” said Sergeant Minogue.
He chose his words carefully.
“Not yet.”
“The swine,” rumbled Con-
stable Butler, “I’d like to get my
hands on him.” He spread his
great hands and looked at them
thoughtfully. “Got daughters of
my own,” he said unexpectedly.
Jim looked at him curiously.
It was hard to believe that Con-
stable Butler had daughters.
“Hullo,” said the station ser-
geant suddenly. “More trouble! ”
A car had pulled up outside,
braking sharply. Jim could see
the long blue nose, and heard a
man’s rapid, sharp steps.
The tall man with grey-
streaked hair and deep-set dark
eyes stood blinking a little in
the sudden light. There was
something about him that caught
Jim’s attention—his clothes, per-
haps, which had something theat-
rical about their perfect cut and
condition.
“I want to see the inspector-
in-charge,” the man said, in a
pleasant, rather deep voice.
Sergeant Minogue stood up.
“The inspector isn’t here. I’m in
charge. Can I help you?”
The man smiled —a very
pleasant smile, Jim thought. “I
think we’ve met before, sergeant
—about another little matter,
I’m Hammond.” He walked
over to the counter, and leant
one hand on it, facing the ser-
geant. “Could I see you
privately? It’s rather import-
ant.”
Sergeant Minogue considered.
“Is it in connection with the
Picciotti case?” Hammond
nodded. “The girl worked for
me. And, naturally, anything
I can do to help . . .”
“Then I think you’d better
wait and see one of the plain-
clothes men,” Sergeant Minogue
said. “Detective Olley will be in
in a few minutes.”
Hammond flushed slightly.
“Is that the young lout who was
out to see me tonight? Look
here, sergeant. I’m a busy man,
and I’m not used to being brow-
beaten by the Olleys of this
o Continued on page 39.)


MIGRANTS FROM THE
CLOUDS
wnr 41. 40BB>”'Z'3eBOB*j ; :gS&L
~
m
Norwegian peasants used to believe that
the lemming came down from the clouds.
THE lemming is a small, pugnacious and courageous
animal about five inches long. Their desperate attempts
to secure security make them a fascinating subject for
animal lovers, who can admire their determination at a
judicious distance, and a scourge to Scandinavian farmers
almost as bad as the rabbit is in Australia.
The lemming is tawny yellow, shading to reddish
brown, and has a black stripe running down his back. He
usually lives in the great central mountain chain of
Scandinavia, but every three or four years the population
becomes too great, and there are insufficient roots and
vegetables (their diet is strictly vegetarian) to go round. For
female lemmings bear three to eight young every six months.
When the population becomes overcrowded the
lemmings start their desperate migration. According to
the area of Scandinavia in which they live, the lemmings
move either north, south, east or west, whichever route is
the quickest approach to the sea. Moving at night it is
often several days before farmers realise that their land
is invaded by a destructive horde of courageous rodents.
Their swift appearance, in fact, gave rise to the idea that
they descended from the sky!
A more modem hypothesis, according to the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, is that the lemmings are respond-
ing to an inherited instinct and “travelling to the place
where their ancestors of the Miocene period, at a time
when there was dry land over the Baltic and North Seas,
emigrated when driven from their ordinary dwelling places
by overcrowding or scarcity of food.”
Whatever the cause, nothing stops the courageous little
creatures. Attacked by animals and man, they steadily
advance over all obstacles until they reach the coast and
plunge into the sea, swimming fruitlessly to the non-
existent haven of their forefathers. They don’t give up the
struggle until they drown from exhaustion.
The lemmings’ search for security ends in tragedy,
just as so much human endeavour has in the past. Today in
Australia, however, we no longer have to search. Security
is provided simply and scientifically by our free and
independent Life Assurance Offices. By providing the most
practical and profitable form of saving, by giving their
members’ families complete protection all the time, and by
investing their funds for the welfare of every section of the
community, Australian Life Assurance benefits every man,
woman and child in the country.
Missing Friend.
WILLIAM KERCH, born 22nd June. 1890,
at Muscott Mill, near Weedon, Northamp-
tonshire, England. If he or his next-of-kin
would communicate with the undermen-
tioned Solicitors they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage.—MOULE,
HAMILTON & DERHAM, 391-896 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £78,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£12,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOIj situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHES, 8.A., B.Sc.,
New Mirror Handcraft Book
TINY'S TROUSSEAU
is now on sale
Eighteen designs. Knitting and
Crochet for Baby and Toddler
Two Shillings, Post Free
came here, but these we leave
for Mr. Somerville.
I wanted to have gone down
to Sydney before we go to Stroud
to get some chairs and other
things, but when we have paid
for the land and house we are
afraid of running short of cash,
so we are going to make the
bedroom chairs do for the
present.
The new mare (Persephone,
as Mr. Somerville named her) is
as free as possible and very fast.
She pulls almost too much. I
sent for a new bridle chiefly for
her, because I do not like riding
her without a curb. Mr. Taylor
still has his old Exmoor favorite,
Charley, and Cora will do to
carry a packsaddle when we
want to fetch things from
Stroud.
The first anniversary of our
wedding-day passed while we
were in Stroud seeing about the
land, etc., and we were rather
glad to spend it quietly there by
ourselves at the pleasant little
inn. It was Sunday, March 3,
and a lovely day it was. We
went to church in the morning,
the first time we have heard the
morning service since leaving
Sydney (here the service is
always in the afternoon), and
after dinner we rambled about
the garden of an old deserted
house in a wilderness of roses,
honeysuckle, bignonia, jessa-
mine, with acacias, willows and
oranges overhead.
If was so quiet that an inquisi-
tive cow came rambling up the
garden-path and stood and
looked at us as we sat on the
grass in front of the veranda.
The house belonged to the A.A.
Co., and as they asked such a
rent for it that no one would
take it, it was falling down.
Then we climbed a steep green
hill above Stroud and sat down
there in the shade till sundown,
admiring the lovely view.
Stroud buried in its gardens and
the beautiful wooded ranges
rising all round it —and talking
of past, present and future.
Sometimes I am half-afraid
of this change, though we have
so often looked forward to hav-
ing a home of our own, but we
have been so very happy here
that I sometimes fancy any
change may make us less so. Of
course there will be more cares
in a place of our own, and we
shall not be well off for some
time. We hope to fence in part
of our land the second half of
this year, but we cannot reckon
on being able to get any sheep
till next year, if then, and till
we do there will be nothing
coming in beyond income.
I heard from Biddulph just
before he left Sydney. I was
sorry not to be able to see him
during his visit, but I could not
go down then nor could he come
here.
The garden is beautiful since
the autumn rains. I am quite
sorry to leave it, but I hope
soon to have one of our own.
Mr. Taylor is entreating me to
“look at the clock,” as it is just
ten.
My kindest love to yourself,
Mr. Boyce and the children.
Ever, my dearest Etta,
Your very affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
‘The Peach Trees,’ 1 ’
March 18, 1870.
My Dearest Etta,
Thank you for your nice long
letter of December last, with all
its home news. You need not
tell me “not to mind” your
writing about the children. I
like so much to hear about them,
what they learn, how they amuse
themselves, even what they wear
is pleasant to hear and about
yourself also. I was quite
interested to hear that you had
a new black silk made with short
sleeves and ruffles, like our
grandmother’s (and very pretty
they must be).
Did you ever take to
wearing your hair on the
top of your head like our
mother’s picture? I did as soon
as the fashion came in, only not
so high up quite, and I liked it,
but I am sorry to hear it is going
out again now, probably is never
seen in England, only we are
usually about three months
behind you, and in the bush
about a year behind, as we get
hold of a fashion when we go to
Sydney, and wear it till we go
down there again.
I sent your letter on to Annie,
and, by reason of the floods,
I have not got it back again, so
I haven’t it to answer.
You are thinking about spring
in England, and I dare say the
children are making early
expeditions to the Leigh Woods
and rejoicing in wildflowers. I
remember now the pleasure of
the first spring days, when the
sun came out warm, and we
found the first primroses and
violets in sheltered nooks.
Here we are rejoicing at the
departure of summer, though it
has made its exit in a very un-
pleasant manner this year. We
have had almost incessant rain
for nearly three weeks, and it is
still “hard at it.” A rain of such
duration is almost unprece-
dented in this dry country, where
in the heaviest floods it seldom
lasts for more than a week. I
have no doubt we shall hear of
terrible floods in the low-lying
districts, but as the mails are
all stopped we do not know
what is going on in the world
outside. There has been no mail
to Stroud for ten days, and we
have not been in there for more
than a month. The man has
continued to go in once or twice
for meat, when the rain has been
a little less. The creeks are all
swollen and impassable on the
usual road, but there is a very
bad one over a range, by which
it is possible to get to the town
without passing the creeks.
There is a stream flowing right
through Stroud which has only
a foot-bridge across it, and this
being generally covered in a high
flood and the stream itself being,
of course, impracticable for
horses, half the town is thus cut
off from the other half, to the
great inconvenience of the
inhabitants. One unfortunate
old gentleman, who is a magis-
trate, went in to attend the court-
house on Tuesday, the creek
being then fordable, but by the
•
time the sitting was over it had
risen so that he could not get
back, and was “bailed up” in
Stroud for two days, before he
could return to the bosom of his
family.
There are very few bridges as
yet in the country parts, and
when the creeks and rivers are
flooded it is a great inconveni-
-1 ence to the inhabitants. A man
died last week at some distance
from Dungog, and his coffin had
to be floated over a river, as it
was where there were no boats
to be had.
The floods never do us any
harm, beyond general dampness
and mouldiness, as we live on a
hill at the foot of which the creek
runs and roars, but it never gets
over the steep banks. The
gardens look very dilapidated,
the flowers are washed out of all
color and Mr. Taylor’s beautiful
crop of corn is growing in the
stalks. Of course all outdoor
work is at a standstill. Mr.
Taylor carpenters in the shed,
and the man cleans the mould
off the saddles and bridles, rubs
up the bits and gets periodically
wet in fetching up the cows
morning and evening, and I put
the house neat, and practise and
work and walk disconsolately on
the veranda (which is three feet
from the ground and floored and
always dry), and survey the
soaked lawn below, and make
sorties when the rain ceases for
a minute to tie up some favorite
plant that has been blown over.
You would not think much of
a month of wet weather in
England, but here such a break
in our outdoor life is quite an
event. The whole summer has
been wet, and though a wet
summer is far pleasanter than a
drought, and we haye been re-
joicing in flowers and green
grass, yet it is not so healthy in
this climate. There has been a
great deal of fever about, and
two or three weeks ago I got
one of my old feverish attacks
and for the first time since I
was married, actually breakfasted
in bed!
Mr. Taylor, who had never
seen me ill before, was quite
frightened, and insisted on riding
into Stroud to get me some
medicine. I would not let him
bring the doctor out, as I thought
the guineas which he would have
charged were too much for a
cold. We had two doctors in
Stroud, and he did not doubt
that he should get something
nasty from one of them, if the
other was tipsy, but when he got
there he found that one doctor
had drunk himself to death the
week before and was buried,
while the other, after drinking
himself mad for four days, and
parading Stroud in an airy
costume, to the great scandal of
the inhabitants, had finally been
taken into custody, and was then
in the lock-up, an abode where
he spends a good part of his
time.
I got well without their aid —
all the sooner perhaps—and with
Mr. Taylor’s nursing it is almost
a pleasure to be ill, he is so kind.
But it is fortunate we are blessed
with such good health, seeing
what our medical attendance is.
Do you remember years ago,
a doctor who used to come to
Taunton, and hold meetings and
preach for the “Channel
mission”? The Stroud doctor is
his son. He is very clever in
his profession, when he is sober,
and a gentleman, but when he
drinks he becomes quite mad.
He says his father is insane now,
and he shall become so likewise.
He has a wife and two little
children, and is very fond of
them, when he is sober, but when
he comes home tipsy she has to
hide the children and fly for her
life, as he always threatens to
kill them.
Sometimes he parades Stroud
with a revolver, to the great
terror of the inhabitants. There
is scarcely a court-day that he is
not fined for something or other,
and about a year ago he was
summoned for causing the death
of the wife of one of the inn-
keepers here. He shook the old
woman violently one day when
he was tipsy, and she had a fit
and never recovered. He got
off, as she was proved to be
subject to fits, but you see it is
as well not to be ill if you can
help it!
Thank you for sending on
Aunt’s letter. We are always
interested in the Taunton news.
I am very glad that both she
and Uncle are tolerably well this
winter. I hope to write to Aunt
soon, but I never seem to have
much time for letters, and when
the mail-day comes have never
done half of what I intended.
You said in. your letter that
Laura was expecting another
baby. It always seems to me
rather a miserable life when
people go on, year after year,
constantly having children, like
Laura, and never knowing what
health is, but I suppose they get
used to it, like the eels.
We have been taking a course
of poetry lately. I borrowed
Robert Browning’s poems a short
time ago, and on first reading
did not much like them, and on
a second reading liked them
greatly. I never met with them
before, curiously enough. Do
you know them? Then Mr.
Taylor rummaged out Southey’s
poems from the bookcase the
other day, and was so pleased
with Thalaba and Kehama that
I read them again also, and was
quite surprised to find how much
I liked them. It is years since
I read them. Do you remember
you and I copying a great lot of
Thalaba once? I remember
Uncle William reading us Madoc
in the evenings that winter we
spent at Taunton. I mean to
read that again also. Mr. Taylor
is now deep in it. I saw some
long extracts from Tennyson’s
new poem in the “Home News”
and liked them, though I wish
he had a better subject.
Unless the rain stops soon this
epistle will not reach Sydney in
time for the March mail; the
rivers must be half over the
country.
Kind love to Mr. Boyce and
the children, and with much to
yourself.
Believe me, dearest Etta, ever
your affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
(To be continued next week.)


STARTER TROUBLE
by J.B. BLAIR
I’M standing alongside the
kerb just opposite the house.
Opposite the house, mark
you, not outside it, so that
my nose will be pointing down-
hill in case my self-starter
doesn’t work. Old Noyse is
always prepared for the worst,
and he usually gets it. That self-
starter has given him plenty of
headaches and me plenty of
laughs. An old Panhard I used
to know whose memory went
right back to the early days of
motoring used to say that to the
car with a sense of humor there
was nothing half so funny as
watching its owner struggling
with the starting-handle. He had
some screamingly funny yarns
of sprained thumbs and broken
wrists to support his opinion,
and one absolute side-splitter
about a beginner who bent down
too low and copped the handle
on the chin when the engine
backfired. According to the
story he was lucky to get off with
a broken jaw and eleven teeth
knocked out, but I’ve always
thought the old Panhard was
exaggerating a little. Eleven
teeth seems just a little too
much from one backfire. Seven,
perhaps, or even nine, but eleven
puts just a wee bit too much
strain on the credulity. I said
as much to the Panhard once
and he was quite offended.
‘Trouble about you modern
cars,” he snorted, “is you don’t
know what a real backfire is.
‘Boudoir beauties,’ I call you.
Designed for women and built
by dudes. In my young days
we packed a kick like a mule,”
He drooled on for some time
in the manner of the aged re-
calling their youth, but I didn’t
take much notice. The sensible
thing, of course, would have
been to remind him that I had
a starting-handle myself, but I
was a youngster in those days
with all the conceit of youth ; it
would have been too much for
my pride to admit that my
owner had sometimes to resort
to the handle. Not very often,
of course; my self-starter was
pretty good for the first year or
two. It was my second owner—
or was it my third—who started
its decline. He took it to pieces,
more out of curiosity than any-
thing else, though he told his
wife some cock-and-bull story
about a Bendix spring. The darn
thing has never been the same
since, and it has always been
my private opinion that the
washer his little daughter ran off
with while he was yarning with
a neighbor over the fence may
have had something to do with
that. After all, the maker would
hardly put a washer there just
for decoration.
Anyway, where was I? Oh,
yes! Alongside the kerb with
my nose pointing downhill.
You’ve no idea how sick I am
of that downhill view—of all
downhill views, for that matter.
When old Noyse became the last
of a long line of optimists to
acquire the right to direct my
destinies—in the eyes of the law,
if not in actual fact —he parked
me as any normal owner with
a pride in his car would, outside
his own house. The fact that
this meant I was looking uphill
meant nothing to him —at first,
A spot of starting-trouble
put the idea into his head. More
correctly, the starting-trouble
induced a neighbor to suggest
it. This neighbor was a helpful
fellow, the sort of amateur
expert who must be worth a
small fortune to every repair-
shop for miles around. What
he didn’t know about internal-
combustion engines would have
filled several instruction-books,
and with open-hearted generosity
he was prepared, even deter-
mined, to share it with any of
his friends who gave him the
slightest encouragement.
ON the day in question Clasby
happened to come out of his
front-gate just as the Noyse
family, having called me every
abusive name they could lay
their tongues to, were about to
give me up as a bad job and
abandon their idea of a picnic
in the country. Noyse had
jabbed my self-starter till he
feared the battery was flat; then
Mrs. Noyse had taken over and
made sure it was. Noyse had
swung the handle till he was
puffed out, and his temper in
shreds, all to no purpose, unless
you count a few convulsive
coughs and a couple of back-
fires. Clasby came up in a
cheerful mood. He could afford
to be cheerful; he hadn’t
sweated out all his good spirits
in a fruitless struggle with the
starting-handle.
“Having a bit of trouble?”
he asked.
That’s how they all open up,
all these dangerous friends who
are determined to help a motorist
in distress whether he needs it
or not. My advice to the
secondhand - car - owner when
confronted with this opening is
to be firm and definite. He
should laugh in a carefree
manner at the suggestion
of trouble. He’s not having
any trouble; it’s just that
he has a couple of hours to spare
and is spending them in getting
better acquainted with his car.
Admittedly, if the car is loaded
up with family and picnic-
hamper it may be a little difficult
to make the reply sound con-
vincing, but he should assuredly
make the attempt. If not, he is
sunk. Noyse was caught in that
predicament, but he did not
hesitate to use the formula. It
wasn’t a scrap of use; Clasby
wasn’t even listening. Maybe
Noyse put a shade too much
sarcasm into his voice, or
perhaps it was the plaintive yet
rowdy chorus from the three
Noyse boys—“ When are we
going to start?”—that gave the
newcomer his cue to take over.
“Let’s have a quick look, now.
Switched on? Funny how often
people forget to switch on. Yes,
that’s all right. Petrol coming
through?”
It was coming through so
well that my poor old
carburettor was gasping for
breath, wellnigh drowned, but
that didn’t stop Clasby from
jiggling the throttle-arm up and
down half a dozen times, send-
ing the juice through in such a
flood that the old carby just
about burst its seams.
“Good enough flow there.
What about your plugs? Dirty
plugs make hard starting.
You’ve tried your starter, of
course?”
Noyse didn’t say anything, but
Mrs. Noyse replied that they
had, and, as if to prove her
statement, shoved her foot down
hard on the starter-button.
There was a feeble g-r-r-r and
then silence.
“You’ve flattened your
battery. That much is clear,”
said Clasby. “I suppose you’ve
been putting that starter-handle
in properly, Noyse? Sometimes
they don’t engage. How’s your
distributor? Points clean?”
Noyse hastened to assure him
that they were, but he needn’t
have worried; Clasby had no
intention of meddling with the
points or anything else this time.
I could see that right from the
start. All his questions were just
so much eyewash. He had
already made up his mind what
he was going to do —or what he
was going to make Noyse do.
“I’ll tell you what,” he said,
as though the idea had just
occurred to him. “Put that
handle away and we’ll get her
started downhill.”
Noyse did as he was told. He
wasn’t sorry to put the handle
away. He passed it into the
back seat, from whence there
came an immediate wail of
agony, unleashed by the
youngest member of the Noyse
family, on whose toes the handle
had been dropped as his two
elder brothers jostled each other
in their attempts to take it from
their father.
“You clumsy big thing,” Mrs.
Noyse said to her spouse.
“Why didn’t you look where you
were dropping it?”
“Didn’t drop it,” grunted
Noyse. “Gave it to David.”
“No, you gave it to me,”
howled Tony, “and David
grabbed it out of my hand.”
“You knocked it out of mine,
you mean,” retorted David.
Noyse took no notice of the
argument. He’d heard it too
often before. He turned to
Clasby.
“What do we do next?” he
asked. His tone implied total
surrender.
“We’ll start her downhill,”
said Clasby. “A pity you’re
parked on this side of the street.
We’ll have to push her round.
Mrs. Noyse can steer, I
suppose?”
As Mrs. Noyse could not only
steer, but was by Noyse family
standards a reasonably good
driver, her reply was a trifle
huffy. At least, that’s how it
sounded to me. Clasby didn’t
seem to notice anything.
“Good,” he said. “Now, you
take the wheel, Mrs. Noyse, and
we’ll turn her round. Let off
your hand-brake.”
Mrs, Noyse did so. Immedi-
ately my idiotic wheels took
charge and whisked me back-
wards down the hill. Clasby
and Noyse had not even taken
up their positions for whatever
it was Clasby intended them to
do. Both shouted instructions
at Mrs. Noyse, but she didn’t
hear them. She just put her foot
on the brake and I came to rest.
The two men came down to us,
and, without waiting to be
charged, Mrs. Noyse leapt
straightway to her own defence.
“Well, you told me to,” she
said.
“Yes,” replied Clasby, “but
you should’ve kept your foot on
the foot-brake.”
“I’ve got it on the foot-brake,”
said Mrs. Noyse, completely
ignoring the fact that I had run
three yards backwards before
she had applied the brake.
“Well, anyway, let’s get on
with it,” said Clasby. “We’ll get
her around in no time. Ease
your brake off gently and swing
your wheel round.”
He and Noyse took up
strategic positions to assist my
movements.
“Right,” cried Clasby,
Mrs. Noyse took her foot off
the brake and turned my
steering-wheel furiously to the
right.
“Other way,” shouted Clasby,
but Mrs. Noyse took no notice
of him. What followed wasn’t
my fault. After all, a car can
do no more than its best. We
do what we can within our pre-
scribed limits, but not even a
Packard or a Bentley will deny
that our limits are definitely pre-
scribed, In this case, the distance
I could go with the wheel on the
right lock was governed by my
angle to the kerb and my
distance from it.
Crash! That was my near-
side front wheel hitting the kerb.
“Hell! Is the woman mad?”
That was Clasby, whose left
foot was jammed between the
wheel and the kerb.
j DON’T think Mrs, Noyse
‘ really meant to jam his foot.
If she had meant to she would
have made a better job of it;
f she’s a very efficient woman,
really. As it was he was able
to wrench it free in no time.
“Why did you turn right?”
he asked, rubbing his foot.
“You told me to.”
“I did not.”
“You did so, I distinctly
heard you say ‘Right.’ You
heard him, didn’t you, dear?”
she added, appealing to Noyse.
“Well, he said ‘Right,’ but he
didn’t mean ...”
“There you are! We both
heard you.”
Clasby gave up rubbing his
foot. “Look,” he said. “Maybe
I did say ‘Right,’ but I didn’t
mean ‘turn right.’ I meant we
were ready. It was a signal to
go.”
“Well, I went, didn’t I?”
“Yes, but you should have
turned left.”
“How ridiculous,” said Mrs.
Noyse. “Of course I shouldn’t.
How would I see where I was
going to if I turned it left? It’s
just too silly for words.”
Clasby launched into a long
dissertation about the angle and
distance from the gutter, the
slope and camber of the road
and a few other things, but he
didn’t make much impression on
Mrs. Noyse. The Noyse
youngsters in the back seat
attempted to explain to their
mother just which way they
would have turned the wheel
had they been in charge. Noyse
himself prudently kept out of
it. I, naturally, stayed put and
awaited their next move.
“Now,” said Clasby, “let’s try
again. I’ll have to kick this
wheel around. It’s tight against
the gutter. Come on, brake off
and left down a bit. Good!
Now right.”
“Left, you mean,” shouted
Noyse,
“Right,” insisted Clasby.
“Left.”
This division of opinion had
the effect of making Mrs. Noyse,
obeying Clasby one moment and
her husband the next, spin the
wheel first one way, then the
other. Honest, I had not the
slightest idea where I was going.
My wheels were doing their best
to answer the helm, but it was
far from easy. Noyse and
Clasby, as well as shouting
contrary advice to Mrs. Noyse,
were also at cross-purposes in
their pushing. Out of it all my
tail was swung around, but not
enough. I came to a standstill,
broadside on in the middle of
the road.
“That’s something, anyhow,”
said Clasby. “We won’t be long
now!”
For a wonder he was right.
Some more pushing and shov-
ing; some more differences of
opinion as to which way the
steering-wheel should be turned ;
then a|l of a sudden I was mov-
ing downhill, nose first.
“Hold her!” called Clasby.
Mrs. Noyse applied the brake
and I pulled up.
“Get in,” ordered Clasby.
Noyse did so, edging his wife
out of the driver’s seat.
“Now,” said Clasby, “switch
her on, put her in top gear
and keep your clutch down. Let
her roll downhill a little way,
and then let your clutch out.
She’ll start.” j
NOYSE followed the instruc-
tions. I don’t think he had
much faith in Clasby. I’m sure
he had none in me ; no one from
my third owner onward ever
did, though goodness knows I’m
reliable enough if properly
handled. The trouble is that
since I left my second owner
I’ve never been properly
handled. He was a good
mechanic, my second owner,
and he knew his cars, even if he
did trade me in for an
Oldsmobile. Don’t talk to me
about Oldsmobiles! They’ve
always been an uppish crowd
ever since someone wrote a song
about ’em, and that was long
enough ago, goodness knows.
Before my time, at any rater
In my young days they used
to get around as if they were at
least two cylinders and a spark-
plug above a Rolls-Royce, just
because of their claim to be the
{Continued on page 37.)
PSYCHE.
Psyche’s lover told her to wait
For his return. So she oiled the gate,
Composed her feet that would like to bustle
And settled down with a crossword puzzle.
Slowly the round methodical sun
Turned through the sky on his daily run;
The puzzle was short of the final clue.
Psyche's hands turned frozen and blue.
“Surely he must be coming soon I”
“Wouldn’t you like to be sure I” mocked the moon.
Psyche went inside to sleep
The window was open for the night to creep
Into her bed. She woke in a fright,
"Rest, it is only me,’’ said the night.
Psyche switched on the light to see
What lay in her arms; so quietly
Soft in her arms. And black and deep
An endless darkness breathed in sleep:
Out of its sleep it spoke: “Don’t scream!
You dream of the night. lam your dream.”
Psyche’s life is a cube of squares
White for joy and black for tears.
She keeps an enormous dictionary
To consult when the squares fill tardily.
The clues are dispassionate and cool,
“A ten-letter word meaning ’April Fool.’ ”
She never protests and she seldom moves,
Puzzles grind wonderful dead-square grooves.
She wears long sleeves—the gossips say
Her arms are best not seen by day.
N.S.Wi
NANCY KEESING.


ILLEY
STORM LANTERN
“THE GUARDSMAN”
TheTILLEY “Guardsman” Storm Lantern
is built to withstand the roughest treat-
ment in all weathers and is complete!/
stormproof and utterly reliable in all
conditions and climates. It is economical
in use, burning only pints of Kerosene
to give 300 candle power light for 12
hours. The best Kerosene all-purpose
pressure lampwhich can be bought today.
m
I
MMm
m m
m
Ww
ms
mm
UilV
II
TILLEY STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
V
M-V-
-•\\W&
ppvOO
UCTS
OKDW^II
VtER° !
' -,SE^ 6
Manufacturer's Representatives ;—
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
MANUFACTURED SOLELY BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
of
HENDON, ENGLAND
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THOMAS OILLARD for-
merly of 72 Underwood Street Paddington
near Sydney .-TAKE NOTICE „ that
DOROTHEA JUNE GILLARD has filed a
Petition for Divorce (No. 4017 of 1951)
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you intend to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office,
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
12th February 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from J. J.
KIELY, Solicitor, 17 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
in
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch;
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
What Kind of Person
Are You?
Most people hope they will
grow old happily. But few
realise that, as we get older,
any faults of personality
(selfishness, bad temper, talk-
ing too much) become ingrain-
ed, more obvious to others.
In December Reader's Digest,
Dr. Smiley Blanton and Rev.
Norman Peale analyse these
defects of personality in
middle-aged people tell how
anyone can cultivate traits to
win the love and respect of
family and friends. An un-
usual and helpful article. Nine
searching questions enable you
to make a self-analysis.
This is just one of 31 stimu-
lating articles in December
Reader’s Digest. One shilling
and sixpence. All newsagents
and bookstalls.
established IMS
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Skipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australis
tmxM
WArrmsp
ttOSTIOVi:
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
(AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK)
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Bush Studies (1902)
and Human Toll (1907) by Barbara
Baynton.—s2s3.
To buy copy of Handbook of Aus-
tralian Literature by Rex Ingamells. —
5252.
Young Australian in London would
like unwanted back-numbers of
“Southerly" and “Meanjin Papers.”
—5251.
Words of verse “When Casey
Found the Fiver.” —5249.
To get in touch with Australian
collectors of cigarette-cards.—s2so.
Information Sought.
Method of signalling to scorers used
by cricket umpires ?
Boundaries are signalled by waving
the right hand from side to side, byes
by raising the right hand above the
head, leg-byes by raising the leg and
touching it with the hand above the
knee, wides by extending both arms
horizontally, no-ba!!s by extending
one arm horizontally, “out” by rais-
ing the index finger above the head
and “one short” by bending the arm
upwards and touching the top of the
nearest shoulder with the finger-tips.
Each signal should be acknowledged
by the scorer, and the umpire should
not allow the game to proceed till
the acknowledgment has been given.
* * * *
Information and details concerning
pyrethrum, including production and
harvesting ?
Information issued by the Division
of Plant Industry, N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, states that pyrethrum
is the product of the powdered flowers
of Chrysanthemum cineraria folium.
Its main use is as an insecticide.
From F to 11b. per acre is sown,
according to planting distance. The
seed cannot be bought commercially,
but the department is endeavoring to
obtain supplies to be distributed; cost
will depend on future production in
Australia, as will its value. It will
thrive on practically any well-drained
soil of average or even low fertility,
but it seems to prefer calcareous land;
very rich land which is moist may
induce lodging, and consequent diffi-
culty in harvesting. As the plant
occupies the land for several years,
preparation must be thorough, the
ground being well ploughed and
brought to a fine tilth. Weed-control
is imperative. Spring sowings
(October - November) are mostly
recommended, but autumn (April-
May) sowings have proved most suc-
cessful in N.S.W. Treat the seedbeds
in the same way as for tobacco.
Seedlings are transplanted in autumn
or spring. Harvesting the first year
is usually negligible; the best yields
are obtained in the 3rd, 4th and sth
years. Hand-picking is common, but
in some cases the entire crop is har-
vested with a binder. Experiments
with machinery for easier harvesting
are still being conducted. There are
many contradictions, but it seems to
adapt itself readily to widely different
conditions. In general, rather drier
and warmer climates appear prefer-
able, with good winter and spring
rains, and relatively light rainfall, but
no actual deficiency of water, during
the summer months while it is flower-
ing. It will stand a considerable
amount of frost and also great heat.
The department will supply further
information.
* * * Hf
What are the Black Acts?
The popular name given to various
Acts of the English and Scottish
Parliaments. (1) Statutes of the Scot-
tish Parliament, 1424-1594, which
were printed in black letter. (2) Scot-
tish Acts of 1584, passed at the
instigation of James VI, to suppress
Presbyterianism and re-establish Epis-
copacy. It was made treason to
attack Episcopacy. The Acts were
abrogated in 1592. (3) A British Act
of 1722, directed against gangs of
men with blackened faces who were
responsible for an outbreak of armed
robbery. This Act, which made it a
crime to blacken the face, was
repealed in 1827.
# $ * *
What is St. Elmo’s fire?
An electric discharge seen in stormy
weather on projecting objects such as
ships’ masts, aerials and wing-tips of
aircraft. A brush discharge of elec-
tricity, it is reddish when positive,
bluish when negative. It may appear
as an enveloping fire or as short
streamers, but is not dangerous.
* * * *
Brief account of the wreck of the
Dunbar ?
Under the command of James
Green, the Dunbar, 1980 tons, left
England May 31, 1857, with 63
passengers, a crew of 59 and full
general cargo for Sydney. She passed
Botany Bay in heavy squalls and
a rough easterly sea. An error
in reckoning when entering Sydney
heads brought the ship on to
the rocks just north of the signal
station, midway between the light-
house and the Gap. The ship soon
broke to pieces, and there was only
one survivor, seaman James Johnson,
who dung to a ledge on the cliffs for
36 hours. A number of relics
obtained from the vessel in 1910 are
preserved in Watson’s Bay.
* * * *
(1) What are the duties of chair-
man at a wedding breakfast ? (2)
What are the usual toasts, and in
what order?
(1) To conduct the ceremony at the
breakfast table; introduce speakers
whom he calls upon to propose toasts,
etc. (2) The health of the bride and
bridegroom should be proposed by
the most distinguished male guest
present, for which the bridegroom
should return thanks. The bridegroom
should then propose the health of
the bridesmaids, for which the best
man should return thanks. The health
of the bride’s parents should be pro-
posed by the bridegroom’s father.
Brief Answers.
J.C.S.: Lethal dose is one drachm.
You cannot obtain the poison from a
chemist except under a prescription
from a doctor or vet F.R.: Both
sentences are grammatically correct.
R.J.: Write Miss Marjorie Gart-
rell, hon. secretary, Sydney Writers’
Club, Box 4999, G.P.0., Sydney
L.M.D.: Write Imperial Chemical
Industries of Australia and New Zea-
land, Ltd., 380 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .P.L.A.: The Dunce’s Cap
by Rex Ingamells, obtainable from J.
R. Stevens, 1 Knox-place, Melbourne.
C.C.: Travelled Roads by Simon
Hickey, published by F. W. Cheshire
Pty., Ltd., 338 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne W.N.H.: In the 1916
Conscription Referendum 72,399 mem-
bers of the Australian Imperial Forces
voted for and 58,894 against the pro-
posal; in the 1917 Conscription
Referendum 103,789 members of the
A.I.F. voted for and 93,910 against
the proposal H.V.8.: Write to
either J. H. Smythe Pty., Ltd., 14
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or A. C,
Carnpe, 25 Royal-arcade, Sydney
J.8.D.8.: When husband and wile
are separated, permission from the
other partner must still be obtained
before the one proposing to travel is
permitted to go abroad R.H.M.:
Lhe word “Sino” derives from the
Latin “Sime,” the Chinese....
J.McC.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) N 0....
G.H.: Write American Consul, Syd-
ney... J.C.L.: There were 16 deaths
during the building of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, eight of which were
due to falls A.A.F.: If the new
will has been properly drawn, it will
contain a provision revoking former
wills. Not necessary to inform
former solicitor, but it would be just
as well to do so and retain copy of
your letter, to be attached to new
will K.S.P.; The globe’s surface
at the North Pole, according to
Peary, is at sea-level —water, ice-
covered most of the time 8.H.:
Sandrocottus was the Greek name for
the ancient Indian ruler Chandragupta.
... .V.R.K.D.: Magna Charta (not
Carta) is the correct spelling; pronun-
ciation is kar-ta... .L.C.: It could be
heard locally before the Supreme
Court when on circuit. Impossible
to estimate costs K.H.A.: Apply
direct to any of the overseas shipping
cos F.N.: Write Mitchell Library,
Macquarie-street, Sydney P.K.8.:
The Peacock Throne was a throne
built at Delhi, India, for Shah Jahan
in 1628-35, It had two peacocks
standing behind it, tails expanded and
inlaid with sapphires, rubies, emeralds,
pearls and other precious stones. The
canopy was supported by 12 columns.
In all there were 108 large rubies and
116 emeralds on the throne. It was
seized by Persian invaders in 1739,
and is believed to have been broken
up; parts are perhaps incorporated in
the Persian throne.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
N.H.W.: With the price of meat as
it is there is something to be said for
the housewife who carries on with
the butcher... .J.S.: Reads like the
Landlord and Tenant Act J.L.:
Surely you have seen a beard before?
F.H.F.: Scoreboard now reads:
We said we were afraid you were
wasting your time; you said you were
sorry you were wasting our time and
enclosed your farewell effort; we said
we didn’t say you were wasting our
time, but your time; you bucked up
and said if it’s only your own time
and not ours you “thought I would
take the liberty of sending some more
writing in.” This, we confess, has
given us pause. But back the writing
goes, all the same... .E.G.: A vir-
tuoso might have blown your little
spark of misunderstanding into a
flame of significance, but you have
left it little more than an anecdote.
M.T.: A Komic Kuts estate-
agent... .H.S.: Nice enough in its
way—some other paper’s way....
M.F.: Too long for a sketch; too
thin for a story,.. .8.J.V.: No
dialogue M.M.; “But suddenly
there came a sudden outburst from
without” won’t do, so the illustration
won’t be needed, which leaves you
still a “commercial artist who has
never sold anything” L.H.: You
will have to be satisfied with having,
unbeknownst to the reading public,
saved another fictionary lost woman
from the Bottomless Pit G.S.:
Little loonies —n 0... .K.C.: You have
achieved a 25-page story that does not
begin until page 16 G.S.: Long
enough and naive enough for a
children’s radio-serial R.F.: The
old soldier in “Monkey Business”
was well done, but his story wasn’t
good enough A.F.P.: Avoid ven-
tures into heaven and hell; consider
that you are wasting your time on
earth anticipating journeys you are
bound to make later on when there
will be nothing better to d 0....
J .V.R.: Alas, you’ve flattened it too
much... .G.W.C.: “So bury me
sweetly and bury me soft.” We did
—in the w.p.b D.G.W.; “With
screaming, crashing noise” it hurtled
its way from the office... .E.M.S.:
You backed the wrong horse
8.C.; “I was in travail a fortnight
before this poem emerged.” What!
Only a fortnight?


Missing Friend.
DONALD NEIL McKENZTE, formerly of
Queenscliff, Victoria.—WOULD any person
knowing anything of the whereabouts of
the abdvenamed please advise McNAB &
McNAB, Solicitors, 422 Collins Street
Melbourne ?
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN
EDITORS
mmm
m
m.
r
/imm
mow
jomsomoj
OH
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t have to win her "by a whisker”... it was that
smooth, clean-shaven look. Your shave, too, will look good and
feel good with Palmolive the Shaving Cream that gives
better shaves to 3 men out of every 4. Here’s the proof:
1,251 men tried it . . . 81% reported "Beards easier to cut!”
...76% said “Less razor pull”. ..71% said "Closer shaves”
~. 80% found "Smoother feeling skin.” Judge it yourself.
Join the ranks of successful men. Get smoother, more
comfortable shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
V \
: \,\ 1
a/\
f
SIX-20 KODAK “A” CAMERA
A superb camera—a "super" gift.
Two models available. 8 pictures
2i" x 3i". £23; £25/12/6.
SIX-20 FOLDING
BROWNIE CAMERA
An exciting
camera for
Christmas giving
8 pictures flKfti
x3i". £7/2/6. 11^,
\
I
\
\
KODAK “DUAFLEX” CAMERA
A truly smart and modern
gift. 12 pictures 2f x 2f.
£5/19/6.
BROWNIE REFLEX
CAMERA
The gift
that "pre-
views" the
picture. 12
pictures
If x If.
£4/1/-.
mao p*
KODAK
KODAK DEALERS
EVERYWHERE
<■" Hic Fa-Him...
dsf
gp
s
XC2I
KODAK
(A/asia)
PTY. LTD.
PHOTOGRAPHY SERVES THE NATION
• News photographs—look at your daily newspaper,
• Microfilm miniatures—the modern way of filing
important papers.
• Medical photographs feature the latest medical
treatments.
• Training films as used in technical colleges and business
organisations.
>
only make of car to have a
popular song written about
them. Then Ford brought out
his Model A, and before long
everyone was singing “Henry’s
Made a Lady Out of Lizzie,”
All the Oldsmobiles I knew took
it very badly. In their snooty
way they tried to make out that
the new song was merely holding
the Fords up to ridicule; their.
song was different—sort of
refined. Still, they’ve never been
quite the same since.
Let me see, where was I?
Oh, yes! Off downhill, clutch
in. Well, it worked. When
Noyse let out his clutch the old
engine spluttered into life.
Clasjby was running alongside
us.
“Put her into neutral,” he
puffed. “That’s right. Let her
idle a while.”
By this time we were down at
the foot of the short dead-end
street in which the Noyse family
lived. After a minute or two
Clasby said: “She’ll do. Take
her off quietly.” As we swung
around to climb the hill he
added “Don’t forget now. If
you’re ever in doubt, park her
downhill.”
Forget! Noyse has been
parking me downhill ever since.
And that brings me back to
where I started—opposite the
Noyse house, facing downhill.
As on the occasion when Clasby
initiated Noyse into the
mysteries of the downhill start,
I am loaded up with the Noyse
family and a picnic-hamper. In
addition there is an elderly
friend of the family, whom the
kids call Aunt Connie. She’s in
the back with the three eldest
Noyse children ; Noyse and his
wife are in the front, with the
four-year-old Rifchard. The big
moment has arrived. We are
about to start—they hope. I’ve
an open mind on the subject,
myself. As I said before, we
cars do what we can ; the best
of us can do no more.
“Grr-grr-grr! ” That’s my
self-starter.
“Have you switched on,
dear?” That’s Mrs. Noyse.
“Is she still hard to start?”
That’s Aunt Connie,
A babel of shrill voices com-
peting strenuously to answer
Aunt Connie’s question in an
enthusiastic affirmative. That’s
the Noyse trio in the back seat.
“Grr-grr-grr.” Self - starter
again.
“Have you switched on,
dear?” Mrs. Noyse again.
“ ’Course I have. Don’t think
I’m quite a fool, do you?”
That’s Noyse.
“Grr-grr-grr.”
“Is the battery flat yet,
Daddy?” A hopeful voice from
the back.
“Shut up!” Noyse, getting
exasperated.
“Isn’t there something you’re
supposed to twiddle or some-
thing?” Aunt Connie, in
helpful vein.
“Grr-grr-grr.” A slightly pro-
testing note, this.
“Who the hell turned that key
off?” Noyse, suddenly waking
up.
“I asked whether you’d
switched on.” Mrs. Noyse
triumphantly.
“ ’Course I switched on. That
darned kid must’ve turned the
key off. Did you touch that
key, Richard?”
Richard denies everything.
and is supported in part by his
mother. “How could he? You
must’ve forgotten to switch it
on.”
Noyse turns the key again,
threatening Richard with all
sorts of things if he lays a finger
on it
“Grr-grr-grr.”
“D’ you want the handle.
Daddy?” That’s Tony.
“No, I’ll run her downhill.”
HE does so. After we’ve gone
about twenty yards there is
a slight splutter from the engine.
“She’s clicked,” says Noyse,
and he prepares to swing me
around to make his getaway
uphill.
“Hooray! We’re off! ” chorus
the Noyse children from the
back seat.
Their rejoicings are a bit
premature. I swing around all
right, but as soon as the engine
realises it has an up-grade to
face it seems to drop its bundle.
At any rate, we stall. Noyse puts
the hand-brake on, and there we
are, worse off than before, clean
in the middle of the road and
facing uphill.
“You took your foot off the
accelerator.” That’s Mrs.
Noyse.
“I did not.” Noyse.
“D’ you want the handle,
Daddy?”
“No!”
“I believe the new Rover is
a very fine car.” That’s Aunt
Connie.
“Grr-grr-grr.” That’s my
starter-motor, being tested again,
very much against its will.
“Grr-grr-grr.”
“D’ you want the starter-
handle, Daddy?”
“Give us it.” Noyse, savagely.
Noyse gets out and tries the
handle. He doesn’t expect any
success—and he doesn’t get any.
The well-meant advice offered
freely by his passengers doesn’t
help him at all, and it doesn’t
improve his temper. He says
some rather harsh things to me.
I don’t mind much. One gets
used to that sort of thing,
Noyse hails a couple of lads
who are passing, and persuades
them to push me around again
to get my nose pointing down-
hill. Then follows another
attempt at the Clasby start. It’s
even less successful than the
earlier one. We’re only about
fifty yards from the bottom of
the street, and in that distance
the only response from the
engine is a couple of convulsive
gasps. We come to rest at the
bottom of the street.
“What are you going to do
now, Daddy?” asks Tony.
Noyse really has no plans at
all. He’s stumped. But he
doesn’t admit it. He gets out
and looks at me. David, the
eldest Noyse boy, also gets out
and begins to race up the hill.
“Where are you going?”
shouts Noyse.
“Home—to get the road-map.”
“What the hell good’ll that
do?”
“I just want to look some-
thing up.”
“Look it up later.”
“But I want to read it as we
go along.”
Probably this touching faith
in his ability to get us under
way softens Noyse. He nods,
and David proceeds on his way.
Noyse studies me for a little
longer as though he feels there
must be some simple way out
of his troubles. Tben he asks
for the starting-handle again,
THE next half-hour is rather
monotonous, Noyse turns
the handle in spells of five
minutes, with a minute or so in
between each spurt devoted to
trying the self-starter, whose
responses get weaker and weaker
with every press. He switches
off and on, pulls the choke in
and out, tries the spark in every
position. He lifts the bonnet
and fiddles aimlessly with a few
leads and jiggles the carburettor.
Then he puts in a bit more
exercise on the handle. He’s
getting plenty of advice from
Mrs. Noyse and the children, but
doesn’t seem to be extracting
much value from it.
Aunt Connie, too, is trying to
be helpful. She’s just remem-
bered a friend who couldn’t start
his Studebaker once, and found
he’d forgotten to turn the petrol
on. Is Noyse sure he’s turned
the petrol on? Noyse, with
visible evidence in the shape of
petrol oozing out of every joint
in my carburettor, is quite sure,
but he doesn’t trouble to answer
Aunt Connie.
It isn’t so easy to ignore the
advice of the crowd that has
now gathered round. It includes
{Continued on next page.)
THE BRILLIANT STREET.
All down the brilliant street, in the dark night
Like music in the mind, thick notes, muted soft-black.
Secret and passionate, the figures of men walking light
Past the deep theatre, past the green and statue-hungry
parks;
And into the glare again of the lights that stamp
That patternless search for some lost patterned ramp;
(i ® n l you lonely men that walk,” they cry
Past the rich windows; all of you, am 1” . . .
Each man hurrying like fallen darkness past the dream.
That is the square of light in streets that gleam;
And in the night, only one thing to trouble me,
A vast and sunburnt city turned silent to the sea.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


WHERE CdCaiatWA MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
\*>/\
-mm
£ix
TWO OF
POST-WAR DESIGN
OTIS ESCALATORS
INSTALLED AT
HARK TOY’S LTD.
SYDNEY.
★
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE i Myer Emporium
(SA.) Ltd 4
BRISBANE: McWhitters Ltd 6
MELBOURNE: Myer Emporium Ltd. ... 12
„ Manton & Sons Ltd 4
SYDNEYi Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 10
David Jones Ltd 6
Mark Foy’s Ltd 6
perxhi Roans Ltd, . 6
Otti ESCALATORS MEAN
MORE TRAFFIC, MORE SALES,
MORE PROFITS . . .
This Otis escalator installation at Mark Foy’s Ltd., Sydney,
makes shopping easier, more enjoyable, by extending an
attractive invitation to visit every department without effort
and without waiting.
Continuously moving escalators move merchandise because
they cater for people —people who are tired and weary,
people who are impatient, people who are lazy and people
in a genuine hurry.
People plus Otis escalators mean traffic—and traffic in a
store means sales. A survey of your store may provide you
with interesting facts.
6
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY, LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATE* • SOUTB AFRICA • FEANCE
Missing Friend.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of THOMAS BOYD, the son of
BOYD and ELIZABETH ANN BOYD (for-
merly SULLIVAN), who was born on the
19th January, 1901, and who in 1922 was
living: at Nullawil, in Victoria, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUST.EE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne
“World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?
to the Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CINZANO
SWEEToodDRY
mm
si
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in New
South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees, ° r agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South Walea
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1949
has been applied, in respect of which
premiums are paid to an insurance com
pany not registered in the State,
hereby notified that they are required
to send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them in
respect of the said property to such in-
surance companies during the year 1901.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1952, subject to a penalty not exceeding
£1 per day for every day of default.
Note: Returns are required only of tne
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in an}
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the total amount
of the premiums received by or due to
such companies in respect of risks against
fire during the year ending 31st December,
1951; within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act. 1909-1949, applies; less any
part of such premiums actually paid by
way of reinsurance to any other insurance
companies contributing under the said
Act*
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January,
1952, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed. . _ _
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
at least half a dozen who, I
judge from their remarks, are
experts on cars and who ask for
nothing better than to spend the
afternoon getting me under way.
One of them is satisfied that my
carby is the cause of the trouble,
and he’s determined to whip it
out right away. Another thinks
my distributor-points should be
cleaned. He’ll do it. Won’t take
a jiffy. A third wants to perform
a similar service for my plugs.
Noyse dithers around for a bit
and then agrees to give the
carby man his head. He is prob-
ably hastened to this decision by
hearing two other experts debat-
ing the advisability of taking off
the engine-head and decarbonis-
ing. Still another is arguing that
a rebore is obviously indicated.
Noyse opens his tool-box and
the carby man takes over.
Mrs. Noyse gets out, taking
with her the picnic-basket.
“I think Aunt Connie and
I’ll go back to the house,” she
says. “We may as well eat
afternoon tea at home now. It’ll
be too late by the time you get
her started. I’ll give you a call
when the tea’s ready.”
“0.K.” grunts Noyse.
There is a howl from the
Noyse children, particularly
from David, who has spent the
last half-hour choosing picnic-
spots on the road-map. Still,
seeing the food-basket vanishing
up the hill they follow it.
THE carburettor is stripped
down, dirt, real or imaginary,
carefully removed, the expert
blows through every hole he can
see, discourses learnedly about
the size of jets and then proceeds
to assemble it again. The dis-
tributor man and the plug man
stand impatiently by. It’s pretty
obvious they’re hoping the first
bloke has failed. They’re simply
itching to get their fingers on
me.
At last the carby bloke is
satisfied. He stands back.
“Try her now,” he says con-
fidently.
Noyse isn’t a bit confident,
but he does as he is told.
“Grr-grr-grr.” No go.
“Your battery’s flat,” says the
expert cheerfully. “Try the
handle. She’ll go.”
Noyse tries the handle. The
expert tries the handle. Five or
six other experts try the handle.
No go!
“Anyway, you carby’s all
right now,” assures the expert.
“No need to worry about that
any more.”
This is the moment the dis-
tributor man has been waiting
for. He pleads to be allowed to
clean the points. Noyse tells him
to go ahead and he can’t get
started quickly enough. The
carby man wanders off. He’s
not greedy and, anyway, he can
see that with all that talent
around, he’s not likely to get a
second chance.
Young Tony comes running
down the hill.
“Daddy, Mummy says after-
noon-tea’s ready. We’re going
to eat the picnic.”
To give Noyse his due he is
reluctant to leave me, but the
experts urge him to go. Mustn’t
keep the wife waiting. He’s not
to worry. They’ll fix me in no
time.
The distributor man is parti-
cularly confident. “Just leave
the keys and we’ll have her
purring over nicely when you
get back,” he assures Noyse. I
don’t think Noyse shares his con-
fidence, but he goes off for his
afternoon-tea.
I WON’T go into the harrow-
-1 ing details of the next half-
hour. 1 remember my fifth
owner’s wife used to tell of the
terrible time when she was
rushed into the operating-room
at a public hospital for an
appendicitis operation or some-
thing, and had a class of fifth-
year medical students turned
loose on her. I know now just
how she must have felt. As
long as Noyse is with me, the
experts are content to work one'
at a time. As soon as he disap-
pears inside his front-gate they’re
all over me. What they do no
one will ever know. My fifth
owner’s wife used to say she’d
never been the sarpe woman
since. I know I’ll never be.
In the end Noyse comes back
down the hill, his youngsters
with him. At his approach, the
.car experts straighten up.
“Just in time,” says the dis-
tributor man, “I’ve cleaned your
points, checked up your leads,
tried your coil and adjusted
your gap. She’ll be right now.”
“I’ve cleaned your plugs,”
announces the plug man. “And
if you don’t mind my saying it,
they needed it.”
Various other experts report
on various other details of my
innards. Each one seems satis-
fied that he has found the seat
of the trouble. Take it all round
I must have been in pretty poor
shape before they started. But
when they finished!
Urged to try the starter,
Noyse climbs into the front seat
while the experts stand by
expectantly.
Only the feeblest of “grrs”
comes from the battery. There
is an instant chorus from the
experts.
“Your battery’s flat. Try the
handle.”
Obediently Noyse walks round
to the front, but the distributor
man gets there first. He swings
the handle, but nothing happens.
Ten swings later he yields up
the handle to the plug man, who,
in turn, confesses failure and
passes it on to someone else. All
the experts have a try, but when
they’ve all finished there we are,
as stationary as ever. Noyse,
possibly feeling refreshed by his
afternoon-tea, takes the handle
himself.
“Shall X press the starter,
Daddy?” asks Tony, who has
climbed into the front seat.
“No,” says Noyse. “Leave it
alone.”
As he speaks, the starting-
handle swings round and strikes
him on fhe shins. Luckily he
manages to disengage his hand
in time to save his wrist.
“What the hell?” he begins,
and then realises that the engine
is running.
“I didn’t mean to press it,”
howls Tony in fright. “I just put
my foot there and it slipped.”
NOYSE isn’t worrying about
that now. The engine is
running and he’s not concerned
how it started.
“Shall I switch it off?” asks
Tony. I
“Hell, no. Leave it alone.”
The experts crowd round,
beaming at me and at each
other. Each one of ’em is
certain that it was his particular
bit of tinkering that did the
trick. Noyse is prepared to
thank the whole lot without dis-
crimination although, knowing
me, he probably doubts
whether their efforts have any
connection with the fact of my
starting. At any rate, he does
thank them, heartily and cheer-
fully, as we prepare to move off.
We sail up the street to the
Noyse house, where Noyse,
from force of habit, swings
round and brings me into the
kerb on the other side of the
street, facing downhill.
“Get your mother and Aunt
Connie,” he says to David.
“I’ll keep the engine running.
Won’t risk switching her off.”
David dashes across the
street, and in a couple of
minutes returns with Mrs. Noyse
and Aunt Connie. A certain
amount of dithering occurs.
Mrs. Noyse protests that it is
too late to set out now. Noyse
insists. Must give the kids a
little run. Besides, we promised
Aunt Connie. Aunt Connie
says don’t worry about her.
Noyse says it’s no trouble. The
kids keep yelling “When are we
going to start?” Mrs. Noyse and
Aunt Connie get in. Noyse says
cheerily, “All aboard for the
butcher’s-picnic.”
Tick - tick - tick-tick-tick-tick-
tick.
“What’s that?” asks Aunt
Connie, looking as if she sus-
pects an atom-bomb.
Mrs. Noyse goes pale as
Noyse turns to her.
“Didn’t you get that four
gallons yesterday?” he asks
accusingly.
“Well, dear, I was so long at
the grocer’s and the cake-shop
was crowded and so was the
butcher’s, and there was my
appointment at the hairdresser’s
and”
“So you didn’t get it?”
“No.”
“Well, there’s a gallon under
the back seat. That won’t take
us far, but it’ll last us to the
beach and back. That’s better
than nothing, I suppose.”
Mrs. Noyse doesn’t say any-
thing, but Tony does.
“There isn’t any. Daddy.
Don’t you remember, Mummy?
You put it in on Thursday, just
in front of Richard’s kinder-
garten. Don’t you remember?”
Mrs. Noyse remembers all
right.
The tick-ticking stops. So
does the engine.
“That’s that,” says Noyse as
the family disembarks.
“They tell me the jet-car runs
without petrol.” That’s Aunt
Connie.
“Can I have another of those
little cakes?” That’s Tony.
“It’s a silly old car!” That’s
four-year-old Richard. A most
undeserved comment. After all,
we cars do what we can, but we
have our limitations. As do our
owners.
SO here I am. Standing
alongside the kerb just
opposite the house. Opposite
the house, mark you, not out-
side it. That’s so my nose will
be pointing downhill, in
case . . .


FONDE
*
EN 1724
Bill 4
RE MY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
HANDYMAN
&
HOUSEWIFE
JUNIOR
£
FARMER
THE XMAS GIFT
FOR EVERYONE
For every home, household, farm or workshop
“Bob” is indispensable
Universal Tool for Everybody
“BOB”
THE MULTI-PURPOSE STAPLING TOOL
Staples, drives nails, books, tacks. Ideal for
fencing, etc.
m
s
AMAZING VALUE!
Complete with 2 locking levers,
magnet and 1000 assorted stain-
less staples in an attractive
wooden box as pictured.
29/6
SEND ORDER TODAY TO
DOMEX TRADING CO.,
(Dept. 22C), 243 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Domex Trading: Co. (Dept. 22C),
243 Elizabeth St. f Sydney.
Please send me one “Bob,” complete in wooden
box, for which I enclose 29/6 (add postage 2/-).
NAME
ADDRESS
l7w~&zille!&rL
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are: —
12 months £1 16 0
6 „ 18 6
3 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
CRAMPION
sM
V.
tWAWAwXtVt
v?«\
Si
►♦■. l
! (fat mete 7»Ue4
‘ tb tkeya££m
t WITH
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
World’s favorite spark plug for
more than a quarter of a century
Cilt
Introducing the
Comet 90
gSSJEDJ
90
LEY
A NEW CRUISER WEIGHT CHASSIS BY LEYLAND
Designed, engineered and built by Leyland Motors
Limited, Britain’s largest manufacturers of heavy
duty commercial vehicles.
-K 10ft. sin. t 14ft. 2in. and 15ft. Sin. wheelbases.
-K Gross ratings up to 11 tons IS cwts. rigid vehicle.
17 tons 17 cwts. articulated.
-tc 90 b.h.p. Diesel Engine. Flexibly mounted.
-K Maximum body length 18ft.
-K 34in. wide frame.
-K Five-point cab mounting.
•K Powerful brakes.
-fc Area 480 sq. in.
leyland
MOTORS LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 153-167 George St., Redfern, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AND AGENTS: Newcastle: D. L. Norton, 484 King Street. Brisbane
Depot: 476 Adelaide Street. Melbourne Depot: Comer Courtney and Villiers Streets,
Nth. Melbourne. Hobart: H. C. Heathom & Co. Ltd., 63-63 Bathurst Street.
Adelaide: Flinders Motors Limited, 62 Currie Street. Perth: West End Motors
Limited, 1066 Hay Street.
world. Actually, it was about
that . .
The station sergeant leant over
the counter, hesitated for a
moment, and then grabbed the
perfectly-tailored dark sleeve.
“What’s that* you’ve got in
your pocket?” he demanded in
a harsh voice.
Hammond wheeled, his face
twisted in a snarl, his deep-set
eyes glaring, unfocussed. The
station sergeant’s fingers slipped
on the cloth, but he made a final
desperate grab as Constable
Butler loomed over. Before the
revolver was clear of the coat
pocket Butler hit him, and Ham-
mond went down. But he was
up again like a cat, and darting
for the door. There was a
scrambling, panting struggle, and
then he was securely handcuffed
between Butler and the station
sergeant, who had leapt the
counter with astonishing agility.
“Take him away,” said the
station sergeant, “and lock him
up. Go through his pockets in
the cell, Ben. We’ll see Ken be-
fore we fill in the charge-sheet.”
“Here, I’ll take him,” growled
Constable Butler.
The station sergeant stooped
to pick up the automatic pistol,
extracted the bullets, and put it
in a long brown envelope. He
sealed the envelope carefully
and wrote on it, and put it in a
drawer. Then he did the same
with the bullets.
WHEN the twitching wreck of
a man had been taken away
to the cells, the station sergeant
said, ticking the points off on his
pudgy fingers. “That’s easy.
One, he’s the sort. Mad about
himself —it’s a disease. Those
traffic offences —they were pure
flashness. How dare a mere cop
book him, the great Mr. Ham-
mond? So he got dirty. Tried
to get Smith kicked out of his
job. Course, you couldn’t drag
all that up in a court —look too
much like a police vendetta.
Couldn’t you see the headlines?”
“The headlines I can see,” said
Sergeant Minogue, “is ‘Uni-
formed Constable Solves Murder
Mystery.’ Can you see them,
too, constable?”
“Aw,” the station sergeant
looked embarrassed. “I’m just
impressing the cadet. Olley was
on to him right from the start.
They’d have fitted him sooner
or later. Just happens his
nerve went when it did.”
“He’d have cracked,” Ser-
geant Minogue nodded gravely.
“Why do you reckon he had
that gun, anyway?”
“Just in case. Then the dog
being tied up —seemed funny.
Happens I knew Hammond
didn’t like dogs—he was sus-
pected of poisoning one once.
And I reckon a man who’d
poison a dog’d do just about
anything.”
“Seems to me,” Sergeant
Minogue said, “that your per-
sonal opinions won’t carry much
weight in court.”
“Maybe. But he’s got to ex-
plain the gun . . .”
“He’s got to explain a lot.
But he still is right as far as a
murder charge goes. And what
about motive?”
The station sergeant shrugged.
“God knows. I don’t know the
full story. Could of been any-
thing—in the business —cooked
figures—the girl could have
found out. She worked for him
sometimes of a week-end, be-
sides working in at the office.
Or he could have tried to get
fresh and she might have kicked
up a row, and he did his block.
They’ll dig up a motive when he
cracks. In fact, he has cracked.”
The senior sergeant nodded.
“The main thing is,” the
station sergeant said, a little pon-
tifically, “that he’s the sort.
Always thought he could get
away with murder. And, finally,
it came to that.”
‘ ‘ L_i EAR, hear,” said Sergeant
A* Minogue ironically. “I
can see a big future for
you, constable. If not as
a detective as a —er —orator.”
His voice altered. “But tell
me this. Bill. How did you
know he was going haywire?”
“Notice his trousers? Well,
when I leant over I saw
something. Wet. He couldn’t
hold it when he was talking
to you—scared stiff, though
he looked all right other-
wise, Then I saw the bulge—
it could have been a gun.”
Sergeant Minogue nodded ap-
provingly. “That was quick.
You might get promotion for
that. Bill. That is,” he said,
with a sombre change of voice,
“if a recommendation of mine
carries any weight any more.”
But to Jim, the station ser-
geant’s future, the first-class ser-
geant’s regrets, were suddenly
trivial, as unimportant as the
neat fitting of motives and
theories in a detective story, as
abrasive tomorrow’s vulgar head-
lines. He was oppressed by the
thought of that dark, bright girl
blotted out in a moment of idiot
fury, the quick, warm life spilt
on the sand, under the clean
sky.
“Poor fellow,” said the station
sergeant, and Jim stared at him.
The station sergeant jerked a
plump thumb over a blue
shoulder.
“Time you weren’t here, poor
fellow,” said the station sergeant.
sky again, where the rest circled
round, waiting their turn, then,
in position again, almost over-
head, they slipped sideways on
one wing and plummeted down,
engine-notes a snarling whine of
sound.
Twisting and weaving at full
speed the little Chook strove to
escape the downpour. The
fourth black shape streaked in.
He was further behind his pre-
decessors, and by the time he got
in range of the point-five and
captured Bredas the smoke and
spray had cleared. Fingers
tensed round triggers, the
gunners waited. They knew the
range of their weapons and not
a round was wasted. The port
side of the destroyer spat flame
in an almost solid line. Met by
the concentrated fire the bomber
turned away, his big bomb
clearly visible under his belly.
As he turned, belly uppermost,
a stream of Breda shells ripped
into his guts. There was a
brilliant flash of light, a slam-
ming explosion and bits of
Nazi bomber drifted seawards
like a handful of flung leaves.
Another came in astern. He
let go. The bombs flashed over
the quarter-deck, twin streaks,
and exploded at the base of the
foremost funnel. Motor-boat,
fenders, tinned fruit, rose in the
air in a splintered mass. A burst
tin of best Bartlett pears landed
on the gunner’s mate’s head,
and in great trepidation, as the
sticky mess oozed over his face,
he pulled off what he firmly
believed to be his nose.
The ship heeled suddenly to
port, over, further, until her lee
gunnle was almost level with the
creaming seas. Down they came,
a stick of four, and all lobbed
over, except the last; it struck
near the exposed ship’s side and
shook her plates open to the sea.
She slowed down as the water
poured into the engine-room,
and a black scum of fuel-oil
flowed from her wound.
The bombers had drawn off,
loads exhausted, but the brave
little Chook had had enough.
The British destroyer nosed her
bows in to take off the Chook’s
crew. It was then the first-
lieutenant uttered his famous
last words. Someone had sug-
gested souveniring the ensign
before she went.
“Pipe down, you b !”
shouted the Jimmy. “We aren’t
sunk yet!”
Every man was transferred,
and they drew off to watch her
go. She made a sad picture,
rolling sluggishly on the oily
sea, guns pointing at all angles
in the direction of their last
target, boats smashed to
splinters, jagged holes in her
funnels and upper-works.
At dark she was still afloat,
and it was decided to attempt a
tow. The first-lieutenant, with
volunteers, pulled over in a
whaler and crawled up the slop-
ing side on to her fo’c’sle. Sud-
denly he whispered: “Quiet!
There’s somebody aboard!”
Pistols drawn, they crouched
there, eyes striving to pierce the
blackness. There was no sound
save the occasional clink of
empty cartridge-cases and the
flap, flap of a torn canvas
screen. A stench of burnt
cordite was heavy on the air.
Then, abaft the capstan, a torch
suddenly flashed on and off. The
first-lieutenant shouted:
“Who’s that? Answer or I
fire!”
No answer. He fired four
shots in the direction of the
flash. The only result was
another flash. With guns ready
the party scrambled over the
tilted deck, guided by the light;
to find the interloper was a
torch, flicking on and off as the
roll took it over the button.
They set to work swiftly and
soon the tow was passed. The
boat returned, was hoisted and
the British captain ordered slow
ahead. The Chook once again
moved through the water, but
only for a few yards. A sudden
tautening of the tow-wire warned
them to slip. It was too much
for her. Weakened bulkheads
had given in. Her slim bow
lifted in the air, then quietly
and gracefully she slipped
under.
Followed three weeks in a
camp in Alexandria; one rainy
afternoon a merchantman pulled
into Princes Pier at Melbourne
and a line of sailors filed ashore.
There were no bands or plaudits
awaiting them only the
thankful arms of wives and
sweethearts.
Waterhen had remained, but
she’d sent her men back. She
had been the first ship of the
R.A.N. sunk by enemy action.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting,
LOOK for Our MARKER in
& 'I--
ft M
,•:•••••>:
~~ -■'■'■ c:: V "••■■
. - .*> ~,♦>,- A . ••-. ■ • '
‘.. 'V....v.*>
m
'&*•*'■<■ '•.•✓, ■ ■ : : v.
;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, BlackwaU Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
FIRES OF DESTRUCTION.
“Soc”; For the first time
in beekeeping history—officially,
that is—American foul-brood
has been discovered in some bee-
yards working the nor’-west
slopes of N.S.W. In this bee-
populous area, possibly the last
of the good honey-districts with
a clean reputation, a handful of
bee-herders, subscribing to the
“it-can’t-happen-to-us” theory,
had been fostering the dreaded
disease, calling it sac-brood,
chilled-brood, poisoned-brood—
any name other than foul-brood.
Worse, none reported it.
Finally, one bee-nurse, half his
colonies dead or dying about
him, called in an inspector and
the hunt was up. The buzz that
went up scared half the
migratory bee-herders of NrS.W.,
agitated the mild-mannered men
in the Department of Agriculture
and semi-paralysed all the
northerners for nearly a week.
In no time just on 200 colonies
had been cyanogassed, flung into
open pits and burned. Some of
them were single-decks, rotten
with the disease, a handful of
bees trying to carry on; others
were five-deckers, filled to the
lids and “boiling strong.” Some
had given up the hive-ghost six
months ago, even a year, but to
the alert eye of the inspector the
story of infection and ultimate
destruction was there.
The disease leaves a scale on
the lower wall of the cell which
only melting-down—or the wax-
moth—will remove. The burn-
ing job is done at night and
looks like the end of a witch-
hunt. A 6ft. long hole is dug
beside the infected stand. The
bee-keepers cart the colonies
marked for destruction to the
pit-edge. A hard and thankless
task. Shuffling in the dark over
logs and roots and stones, they
watch the hive-tool measure of
cyanogas slipped in the entrance,
crumpling the worker-bees fan-
ning on the landing-board,
ripening the day’s harvest.
Someone kindles the fire,
throws in the first hive, douses
it with petrol—and puts an end
to darkness for the rest of the
night. The flames roar up to
20ft. as one after another the
hives are carried down and
thrown into the pit. The heat
is sickening, but the inferno
must be faced, for not a bee
must miss the burning. If a
super is to be spared, then the
combs have to be removed
singly, the bees still clustered in
their death-sleep, and all burned
without spilling a bee. The tyres
of a truck half a chain or more
away are hot to the touch.
The tally taken of burnt hives
will be the basis of the two-
thirds compensation paid to the
registered beekeeper. A serious
business, this burning of
bees . . . and in this district, un-
familiar. And it can be pathetic,
too, because every true bee-
keeper loves his bees.
The bee-herders, unlike most
food-producers, are an inde-
pendent lot. The compensation,
although handled by a Govern-
ment department, comes from
the pockets of the beekeepers.
No bounty, subsidy or hand-out
here. They ban together, burn,
then pay. Maybe it is because
they lack a mouthpiece ; there
has been little or no help
extended, and right now the
industry is dying out.
One or two other interesting
discoveries were unearthed with
the finding of foul-brood. Most
striking and, for a Government
department, most unbelievable
is the fact that the inspector is
turned out to battle his way
about the country equipped with
a rail fare and his feet. Nary a
blanket, nor a billycan, a smoker
or a hive-tool, let alone a jeep
to equip and enable him to carry
out what his inspectorship
implies—the close survey and
recording of every hive of bees
in his territory. The beekeeper,
like his predecessor the shepherd
of the “airly-days,” has to keep
“I’ve fixed her so she can't gooseberry on us."
heading further out. Thus, one
finds in most inaccessible
regions, planted in the ridges,
hidden in the hollows, the bee-
man and his swarms.
How the Department of Agri-
culture expects the Uni.-trained
boys to locate these elusive
honey-gatherers in their natural
habitat is a mystery. And per
boot! Apparently this method
of hide-and-go-find has been
going on for years.
This state or affairs, coupled
with the fact that the department
has no real control over the de-
ranged bee-man and his diseased
beehives, explains all too
pointedly why nor’-western bee-
men, for the first time in their
lives, are losing their sleep burn-
ing their hives and losing more
of their rest wondering whose
will be next.
Weekly Feeding.
“R. Ney”: Weekly feeding of
sheep on conserved fodder can
replace daily feeding during
drought, according to a
C.5.1.R.0. report.
The report outlines recent
experiments in which groups of
sheep were kept on several types
of drought rations for almost a
year, some being fed daily and
others weekly.
Deaths in the weekly-fed
groups were much fewer than in
those fed daily. Rations of
wheat with as low as 10 per
cent, of roughage were satis-
factory when the sheep were
fed weekly, after a short
breaking-in period.
A serious disadvantage of
daily feeding was the speed with
which the ration was eaten. .Slow
feeders could not compete with
the more vigorous feeders, and
did not get their share of the
food. In the weekly-fed groups,
however, food remained in the
feeders or troughs long enough
for even the weakest animal to
get its share.
Wool produced per head from
the weekly-fed groups was con-
sistently higher than that from
the daily-fed groups. The lower
death-rate and the greater
amount of wool cut per head
made the practice of weekly
feeding much less costly. In
addition, labor costs are greatly
reduced.
British Beef Best.
“Frank H.”: The proposed
introduction into Queensland of
the American hybrid Santa
Gertrudis cattle, announced with
much publicity, calls for extreme
caution by cattle-breeders.
With the beef industry on the
threshhold of vast expansion,
and with assured markets in
sight for many years to come,
introduction of an extreme out-
cross breed is not merely un-
necessary, it could result in
serious consequences by depre-
dating the standards of Aus-
tralian herds.
While the claims made for the
Santa Gertrudis are extra-
ordinary, and call for impartial
confirmation before acceptance
in Australia, the ponderous
weight which it is claimed they
develop can, after discounting,
be ascribed to the hybrid vigor
which invariably is released
when two distinct pure and long-
inbred strains are crossed,
Transmitting the factors derived
from hybrid vigor to succeeding
generations without also trans-
mitting the undesirable charac-
teristics to which both are heir
is, however, a problem that
would not have been solved in
the comparatively few genera-
tions of bovines in the Santa
Gertrudis evolution.
Cattle-breeders have long
recognised the greater weight of
beef in the first-class progeny
of the Shorthorn with any other
British breed of beef or dairy
cattle, but they have also noted
the futility of carrying-on the
breeding by mating the crossbred
progeny with each other, though
they can often get another lesser
infusion of hybrid vigor by
introducing a third pure breed
for the next mating.
It would not be difficult for
a cattle-breeder to visualise the
conglomeration of types of
mongrel cattle he would eventu-
ally have in his paddocks.
In the pure Brahman’s favor
is its size, hardiness and
immunity to fly and tick —all of
which, however, diminish with
crossbreeding. On the contra
side is a conformation that is
lacking in beef where the best
cuts should be, and a beef
quality that is markedly inferior
to that of the British breeds.
Then the inherent wildness of
the Santa Gertrudis is neither
conducive to quick fattening on
large areas, nor will it facilitate
mustering in the wide, unfenced
areas of the Gulf and the
Territory. What would be the
condition of the herds in such
country after a few generations
of " indiscriminate breeding by
“mickies” can be left to the
imagination.
The Baited Dog.
“W.C.Q.”: The muscular
twitchings of strychnine poison-
ing may start within four
minutes of the bait being taken,
or the dog may carry the poison
for some time before it takes
effect.
The dog’s owner should
remain calm and resist any
impulse to put the dog out of
its misery. Pour down its throat
a solution of a tablespoon of
mustard to a cup (or less) of
water (preferably warm). Salt
and water is of little value
because, although it may cause
vomiting, it does not have the
same effect as mustard on
strychnine left behind in the
system. When we’ve used salt
and water as an anti-strychnine
emetic most of the dogs died,
but of six dogs treated with
mustard only one died. This
one, we found later, had really
been bitten by a taipan.
Of the others, two were as
good as dead when treatment
started. We had difficulty in
getting a little of the emetic
down their throats, but we were
well pleased by the violent
vomitings which brought them
instant relief.
Two of the others didn’t
vomit at all, but the poison
symptoms gradually declined.
None of the poisoned dogs got
more than a little warm milk
for a few hours.
Pasture-development in S. A.
“Mutou”: Remarkable
progress has been made in
pasture - development in the
south-eastern portion of South
Australia during the last 10
years. This has meant the use of
huge quantities of super, and a
large consumption of small
pasture seed. Consequently there
has been a very big capital
outlay, but it is money well
spent.
The south-eastern S.A. districts
have one very big advantage in
having a really good average
rainfall which is, generally
speaking, sufficient for good
pasture-development. However,
there is a lot to learn.
One of the main factors in
this type of development is to
prepare the land. The first point
is to clear the land and prepare
it properly to prevent the
necessity for a second sowing,
which, with the high price ruling
for small seed, is very expensive.
Therefore the initial planting
must be done very thoroughly to
get the best results.
Initial development is not very
difficult, but —and this is an
important factor —we have still
a lot to learn in regard to pasture-
management. When it is being
sown, strawberry and white
clover should be planted to
provide tlie legumes, and
perennial rye, phalaris and
cocksfoot are the best grasses.
This mixture will provide
first-class pastures for meadow
hay, an important factor in
pasture - management, as we
always have a lean period in
late autumn and early winter.
Unless ample feed is conserved
the summer stocking must be
restricted. Beef cattle have their
place, mainly because the sown
pastures are so lush during the
spring and summer months they
are not much good for sheep
unless reduced by grazing cattle
ahead.
It would appear, therefore,
that the two outstanding features
—————r*
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The combined effects of the Uranian cycle and the
weakening sunspot action continue to reduce the rain
response. Thus, although the last sunspot urge gave a
considerable amount of rain, it was not sufficient to change
the situation to any marked extent. There should be
scattered reactions from these same spots although a new
series has appeared, but as they are northern groups their
effect will only be one of modification and not of complete
change.
Under the cycles there are some rains due in early
December.


M
m
■
&
■
", V'
m
BENRUT
HAND PUMP
KISMII
c/aiadeH
What’s the value ot a tyre gauge? If It isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate—and made
to stay accurate—it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
V, ’ mea ns a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre I Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
KISMET
TYEE GAUGE
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
*»T William Turner (Kismet), ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
“•. JL °* Jonea < *8 *8 Hardware St, Melbourne, 0.1, Victoria.
G.P.O. Box 71
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
ii
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE,
| PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ds
fds
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
J h ® * lm P * instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
andyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
“Distributors :■
JmmJSSSrn. 4 o!St* ! St * Co - (N-S.W.). 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND. Hygeia Diasolyenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual
vrnrnDT. » Q««n St.. Brisbane.
VICTORIA. Hygeia Disaolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collin* St..
_____ . Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Disaolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA ; R." tco. Ltd.. 441 Murray St..
Perth
DARWIN IA C f™* 7 * C< V Ltd - Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; O. T. See Kee. Radolectrix Sale, and Service..
RQ3
EYE LOTION
fer biflcumdEifU and Eqatids Sold tvarywhar#
Kinq Street. Sqdnaq.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
«s**&~*£
iar'"W\
• m ; v v
<r
W-
■3"T.
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
s*M
AND SONS
pty ltd.<
i? HUNTER STBEET. SYrM>.
£3B/10/-
-f 12| % sales tax
♦
BW 8631.
SUPER ItfU-METAL
Saves Engine Re-Bores, New Rings
Just deposit BE-NU Super NU-METAL through plug holes. Super
NU-MBTAL will recondition your motor while you drive. Permanently
fills pits and scores. End piston slap and lost compression. Guaranteed
good up to 15,000 miles and harmless to finest engines. Super
NU-METAL has been proved and tested by over 250,000 users since
1934, Super NU-METAL comes to yon in a separate tube for each
cylinder, thus eliminating guesswork. Fleet owners. Engineers, etc.,
use Super NU-METAL. Treatment costs for 1 Cyl., 10/6; 4 Cyls., 30/-;
6 Cyls., 45/-; 8 Cyls., 60/-.
NU-METAL No. 8 for Bearings, Noisy Gearboxes and Dills. Price 29/6.
Cull, wrue or ptioue. .uan uiuein pieuie add 1/6 N.S.W. and
2/- Interstate for packing and postage. Sorry, no C.O.D.’s.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return Super NU-METAL to treat s
Cylinder Engine. I enclose Cheque, M. 0., P.N., for, ~ ‘
Or send me an Illustrated Folder describing the action of Super NU-METAL
NAME (Block Lettera)
ADDRESS _ _ B. 5/12/’si
BRISTOL TRADING CO.
Ist FLOOB. BBISTOL HOUSE, 147 ELIZABETH STBEET, SYDNEY
’Phone MA 7260 (Near Market Street)
TARPAULINS, HAYSTACK COVERS
Definitely first quality green
or khaki proofed imported
canvas, treated with rot-
proof and waterproof com-
pound, guaranteed to give
years of wear, expertly
made with ropes and eyelets
along all sides and re-
inforced to give added
strength.
■0PAUUMS
h^+
15oz. PROOFED CANVAS
f
If used exclusively as a Haystack Cover, deduct 5 p.c. Sales Tax
FAMILY
AUTO-
TENTS
'.XHVUA-
rXPERTLY made of best quality canvas, having a Green proofed
canvas gable top, being 10 feet high in centre and white canvas sides,
6 feet high, reinforced along seams on gabled top with ropes sewn in
around eaves. All eyelets reinforced with leather and canvas. All
compactly packed into a canvas bag, A home away from home.
Definitely the cheapest prices.
15oz. proofed top and lOoz.
white canvas walls
9ft X 9ft. ... £3l/10/“
12 xl2 ... £45/7/6
12 x is £63/1/6
12 X 24 £79/15/-
is x is £BB/13/-
12oz. proofed top and 6oz.
white canvas walls.
9ft. x 9ft £26/10/"
12 x 12 £37/15/"
12 x is £53/15/-
Calico partitions, 42/- each
All complete with ropes, poles and pegs. F.O.R.
CHILDREN'S CANVAS WADING POOL
■
.
am
A wealth of fun for Kiddies on the
lawn during the summer months;
frame may be folded into small
space for portability; an outlet pipe
is provided to allow pool to be
drained when not required. Size is
4ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in. x Ift. deep. Well
made of heavy proofed canvas, fitted
on to a strong tubular steel frame.
A XMAS SPECIAL, F.O.R.
£9/10/-
CHILDREN'S PLAY TENTS
(HOPALONG CASSIDY’S)
The Ranch (Gable type) 93/9 (post 3/6)
The Range (Teepee type) 65/ (post 3/—)
Complete with ropes, poles and pegs
Extremely well made of best quality Calico with transfers on all
sides. Size 4ft. 6in. x 4ft. Gin. Packed in cardboard carton.
TENTS (GABLE TYPE)
Expertly made of best quality English canvas duck, ridge pole
type, reinforced at all corners and 7ft. high in centre, with 3ft.
walls, complete with rope and pegs, no guy ropes and poles.
8oz. DUCK
6x8
8 x 10
10 x 12
12 x 14
£8 10. 0
11 10 G
16 10 0
21 5 0
Mo*. DCCH.
6 * 8
8 x 10
10 x 12
13 x 14
£13 10 0
11 10 0
25 5 0
33 2 0
FARMERS MAIL ORDER CO.
Prompt Attention to Mail Orders —Money Refunded if not Satisfied.
Dept. 8., 301 Flinders St., Melbourne, Vic. M 8.2747.
(Collapsible)
in pasture-management are cut-
ting meadow hay for the lean
period and grazing cattle ahead
of the sheep.
The Weather.
“C.S.”: Land men trying to
get a line on the seasons ahead
could do worse than buy a copy
of Long Range Weather Fore-
casting, by G. W. Nowland, a
Casino (N.S.W.) man who has
made a long study of the science,
and has now embodied his con-
clusions in a book. Nowland,
who is honorary consultant to
the Long Range Weather Fore-
casting Trust, is a fellow-worker
with Inigo Jones, and, apart
altogether from the weather
interest, has produced a fascinat-
ing book on the history, claims
and science of long-range
forecasting.
Calf Pneumonia.
“Myrrhee”: Calves one to
five months of age are
susceptible, especially those
which have received a check
from an attack of scours, over-
crowding or poor feeding.
Sufferers run a high temperature,
are listless and lie about,
panting. Survivors usually be-
come chronic ill-doers.
D, M, Flynn, a Victorian
departmental vet., recommends
isolation of sufferers and pro-
vision of good shelter, clean
bedding and a fresh paddock in
which to run. Dose with sulpha-
merazine powder mixed with
milk and given as a drench —
1.5 grain for every pound of
bodyweight the first day, divided
into three equal doses, and
0,5 grain per pound of body-
weight for the next three or four
days, divided into two equal
doses.
Humane Trap.
“C.S.”: F. H. Rose, of
Branxholm (Tas.), has patented
a rabbit-trap which seems to
meet the objections of the
R.S.P.C.A, and others to the
cruelty involved in using
standard traps. The Rose trap
holds the rabbit, or other
animal, by the pressure of plates
which grip without tearing or
biting.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hortus”: If you notice any
drooping of young shoots on
French beans, tomatoes or
potatoes, have a good look for
the green shield bug. It’s hard to
find at first, as its color is about
the same as the young foliage.
It is generally on the tenderest
parts, where it sucks the plant’s
juices and soon causes withering.
Look for the little cylindrical
eggs, laid in patches on the
foliage, and destroy them. The
bugs are dark-colored when they
first emerge, but during suc-
cessive moults they gradually
lighten. Spread a sheet on the
ground and shake the plants;
most of the bugs will drop on to
the sheet and can be collected and
destroyed. Spray the plants with
Black Leaf 40 plus soapy water.
“C.A.A.”: As the foot is the
most vulnerable part of the
horse, see that it is given regular
attention. Clean out with a steel
pick every day to remove
manure and small stones. If a
nail is embedded extract it and
cut puncture to the bottom of
the hole. Then plug the cavity
with an antiseptic dressing.
Thrushy frogs should have the
diseased horn cut out and be
treated with bluestone. It is
also a wise precaution to rasp
hoof well now and again so that
only wall and frog are touching
the ground.
“Sundowner”; When laying
tiles in hand-dug trenches see
that they are laid on a firm bot-
tom, Finish trench from sur-
face, using a push-type scoop
with long handle to make a
shallow U-shaped groove to fit
the tile. Tiles should be laid
with a tile-hook without any gap
between them.
“Billjim”; If unsatisfactory
germination follows sowing of
parsnip seed open a drill three
inches deep and fill with leaf-
mould. Firm, sow seed and
cover with more leaf-mould,
slightly moistened. Thin seed-
lings one to two inches apart
when two inches high. Later,
when the roots are sizeable,
give a final thinning to four to
six inches apart.
“W, Court”: The orange
poinciana-tree is well worth
growing in paddock or yard in
Queensland. It usually branches
out from a height of sft. or so,
shading a large circular area with
light feathery foliage. Flower-
ing starts in November, and a
tree in full bloom looks very
beautiful from a distance. Small
trees can be obtained from
nurserymen, but, since the trees
set seed after flowering, it is
easy to find young poincianas
under big trees during the wet
season. The small trees must be
protected from stock.
“M.”: For red-spider and
bryobia-mite on fruit-trees apply
H.E.T.P., a pint to 300 gal. of
water. This will kill adult
insects but not the eggs, which
means another spray in about
10 days’ time to kill mites
hatched out in the interim. A
thorough coverage of the leaves
is essential, as the insects mainly
congregate on the under-
surfaces.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Myxomatosis
With warmer weather and more mos-
quitoes and sandflies along the rivers and
streams we can expect to see more and
more rabbits infected with myxomatosis.
Indeed, if the virus lives up to its repu-
tation for killing by colonies, we may even
expect to see green crops or feeding stock
where once Brer Rabbit held sway.
As a hunter of the furry vermin I have
already trained Brutus to lay off at a
whistle when I see Brer isn’t making his
usual time over the course. Not that I
think the dog could catch the disease,
but I can’t help thinking of the
foxes and kangas that lay down and died
last year when the disease was flourishing
among the rabbit population.
A further reason for preferring to
chance a running shot is that Brutus, who
had never broken or bruised furred
or feathered flesh in his life, appeared
to be particularly brutal with an infected
rabbit. He held it down with paws
and mouth until I arrived on the scene,
but all the time the poor old rabbit was
really squealing—something like the
racket he sets up when a fox does
his quick, wicked work.
I investigated and found that the
gentlest touch in the region of the kidneys
set up an awful hullabaloo, although they
tell me myxo does not involve any real
cruelty—nothing like leaving a rabbit in
a trap for 12 hours or feeding him apple
that does its work before he can get more
than a dozen or so yards from where he
ate it.
But the virus is effective. You have
only to see a rabbit in the last stages to
know he hasn’t much hope. His head is
swollen, his eyes gummed up with pus
and protruding and he gets miserably
thin through being unable to forage for
the last few days. He blunders along
until he dies against a tree or rock or
falls into the river. The channels also
claim their quota, and the dead rabbits
pile up in the races until there are enough
to make removal worth while.
Myxomatosis must be a great thing for
the farmers just the same. I remember
Dad used to say if Sties, down the road a
bit, only kept his property clear of rabbits
we would be able to run a dozen more
sheep and two more cows. But all the
same we did fairly well with the dogs,
poison and a bit of shooting. We always
took off pretty fair harvests, and Dad used
to look at his block and say pride of
possession of God’s acres was a terrible
thing, but hard to fight down.
Still, the Government is taking a hand
now and I suppose Sties’s boys will have
the work done for them. The new owner
of our block will also benefit. He had
different ideas from Dad, and the rabbits
there now are as bad as anywhere I’ve
seen. He said the money in sheep was
good enough to let someone else grow the
hay, and that cows tied you down. Maybe
i the Government-sponsored disease will
i save him the yakka Dad and we boys put
in, but I guarantee it won’t put the cream
on the table, or the pigs in the sty, or
even provide the hay he’s going to want
i next year. Those all came with work,
and working our land seemed to keep
down the bunnies. — Bluck (Vic.),
Natives
A W.A. country centre, which has a
sizeable native population and is big
enough to hold an attractive sports-meet-
ing, organised such a meeting. To
be held solely for aboriginal and caste
competitors, it was supposed to
be a Jubilee gesture demonstrating the
town’s tolerant or magnanimous attitude
to its native population; and the whites
rolled up in force to cheer the blacks and
part-blacks and treat them, for a day, like
human beings—immature and inferior,
but still human beings.
Unfortunately the natives didn’t turn
up and the thing became a fiasco. The
sports committee and organisers were
hurt by the natives’ refusal to parade for
the people’s enjoyment, and spoke bitterly
of human —for a day—ingratitude. The
Native Affairs Commissioner upheld the
natives, who, he said, “are tired of being
treated like zoological specimens.”
Of course they are, and their indepen-
dent attitude towards the meeting showed
a far sounder sense of proportion than
is displayed by many whites. Most of
us don’t give a second thought to the
original inhabitants of this country, and
among those who do there are too many
who can speak glibly of the “treachery”
of natives who opposed our conquest of
their territory, and the “faithfulness” of
the ones who assisted it. A black man,
apparently, is still good or bad according
to whether he exalts or deflates a white
ego.
A sports-meeting, or a thousand of
them, won’t benefit the blacks. Neither
will any action that is based on an atti-
tude of superiority. A reasonably
educated white man is, in most ways,
superior to the average aborigine ; but
he is also superior to many a low-living
white. And, as a white child, irrespective
of his parentage, is presumed to have the
latent qualities of good citizenship, the
same qualities should be* attributed to a
black child, irrespective of his parentage.
There may be little we can do for the
older natives, but the children should be
given at least as good treatment as we
extend to the children of prostitutes and
criminals. There’s only one way to do
that —give the natives the opportunity to
acquire their owu homes, and police their
living conditions in their children’s
interests. — Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
P.M.G. Losses
Increase in ordinary postage-rates is
not the only reason that the P.M.G. is
losing money (B, 14/11 / ’5l) —it is
cheaper to send three £l-notes by
registered post, even at the new rate, than
to buy equivalent postal-notes or money-
order. Hundreds of people today, instead
of remitting even quite small amounts by
postal-note—for years the cheapest
method—are now sending cheques as
more economical and quite as safe.
Which is probably why The Bulletin
has just used a cheque to pay me so small
an amount as 6s. 6d. — Ymar (Vic.).
Queensland Railways
“Oxo” (B. 21/11/’5l) quotes the latest
Queensland railway figures of gross earn-
ings in relation to working expenses, but
he doesn’t say precisely what he is driving
at. The assumption is he is trying to
prove inefficiency, but increased working
expenses are not proof of inefficiency ; if
they prove anything at all, they prove the
terrific rise in costs of wages and
materials —an inflation factor not peculiar
to the Queensland railways.
Working expenses on other Australian
and overseas railways would tell a similar
story. Nor is the high percentage of
working expenses to gross earnings on the
Cooktown, Normanton and other branch
lines proof of “inefficient” working; all
it proves is that there is not sufficient
traffic on those lines to put them on a
better economic basis in relation to earn-
ings.
What would “Oxo” do? Close them
down, and deprive these isolated little
“He says I'm Wasting my talents playing principal boy in pantomime."
communities in the outback of their sole
means of transport? “Oxo” talks about
losses on lines in the southern and
central divisions which serve scattered
grazing and farming districts, and in the
next paragraph, with sublime illogicality,
demands the construction of yet another
line.
He can’t have it both ways. Possibly,
as he says, the Charleville-Blackall link
would be of “great benefit to the State,”
but it is conceivable it would benefit
N. S. Wales still more, because graziers
would be able to truck their cattle to
Cunnamulla and then take them across
the border into N. S. Wales.
The Queensland meat market is starved
today because many graziers who are not
concerned about the interests of the
Queensland consumer are selling their
cattle to N. S. Wales buyers at prices far
above the legal fixed price in both N. S.
Wales and Queensland. Queensland’s
railway system, as a glance at the map
will show, was mainly intended to develop
the country and to open up settlement —
not to make profits—and nobody but a
fool would deny that it has achieved the
purpose for which it was built. — Clem
Lack (Q.).
Diesel v. Steam
“Dieselian” (B. 31/10/ ’5l), on the ad-
vantages of the diesel-electric locomotive,
says “50 per cent, cheaper to operate,
80 per cent, saving in manpower, faster
and lighter—on the rails.”
Does he mean that that applies to any
d.-e. job any steam loco? Under
any condition of fuel costs, track con-
ditions, intensity of use or any other of
the many variables which combine to
make up operating costs? If he does, he’d
believe anything. Can he explain why,
then, any steam loco at all has been
built over the last 20 years? Or does
he share that quite popular belief in the
U.S. and Australia that the diesel is a
peculiarly American invention of the re-
cent past?
It’s nearly 20 years since diesels were
considered for the Trans railway, for
which, in many ways, they’re ideally
suited. They weren’t used because it was
considered that equally good results could
be obtained at less cost from locally-built
coal-burners, and that is something which
still remains to be disproved. Locally-
built, mind you, designed and built in
Australia by Australians and not merely
assembled out of largely imported parts.
“D.” has no doubt that time will be
saved on the Trans trip, but he’s careful
not to say how or where. I agree that
some point-to-point timings will be faster
—they would need to be to justify the
enormous outlay—but it’s also fairly clear
that time saved there must be lost in
stops, particularly Adelaide, which looks
like adding an extra change of train as
well. “D.” dismisses the obstacle of the
connecting trains, but those trains are
serving local traffic which governs their
operation. As far as I can see the best
that can be done will be to leave Mel-
bourne tonight, spend two days and three
nights on the way, and arrive in Perth
on the third morning—exactly as we did
before the war. — Transporticus (Singa-
pore).
Steam locos were the least costly form
of land transport when coal was cheap
and plentiful and labor freely available.
Today more than 3,000,000 tons of coal
costing more than £12,000,000 are used
annually by Australian railways, and
even at that more than 100 scheduled
freight trains a week fail to depart from
Sydney because they can’t get crews or
coal. The railways lose money because
they lose freight.
“Transporticus” wants to get his facts
straight—ll main-line diesel-electrics on
the Trans-Australia run will supplant 43
steam locos and do the 1100-mile run in
22 hours. They will haul 1200 tons, of
which six are fuel (costing £lOO a trip),
compared with 600-ton haul by steam, of
which over 100 are non-payload (fuel and
water) costing £4OO a trip. As for main-
tenance, steam locos require five service
mechanics compared with one for diesel.
Diesel-electric maintenance cost is one-
fourth that for steam.
It requires guts to scrap steam, which
depends upon coal. Diesel-electric
traction pulled American railroads out of
bankruptcy—but those railroads had to
run at a profit or go out of business, not
being State-owned.
We should insist on complete change to
diesel on all Australian railways. More
than 50 per cent, of the diesel electric
loco is Australian-made—it might be 100
per cent, if State railways followed the
Commonwealth’s lead and threw steam
out as too costly.— Dieseugus (N.S.W.).
Hard Living Conditions
When the Federal Government appeals
—as it often does—to men on the land
to work harder and produce more, etc.,
I wonder if it thinks of Queensland town-
ships like Windorah, Jundah, Boulia, Mc-
Kinlay, Burketown, Normanton, George-
town, Croydon and Coen. They are only
villages of crude tin shacks, unbearably
hot in summer, cold in winter, and devoid
of electricity, water-supply or proper
sanitation. Even refrigerators are rare.
There are women —young mothers—in
those forgotten little towns and near-by
camps who still cook in camp-ovens over
open fires in shade temperatures of 114
degrees.
Each of these little towns has no more
than a mile or two of formed road con-
necting it with civilisation. The rest is
hundreds of miles of atrocious bush-
tracks across bridgeless rivers and black-
soil plains, impassable for weeks in the
wet season —tracks that would con-
vert a £l5OO car into a wreck in
a month. But for aerial services, life in
these outposts would be intolerable. In
case of sickness, the aerial ambulance of
Flying Doctor has to be called on the
radio-telephone. A visit to a dentist may
necessitate a 300-mile plane trip.
The Federal Government is slowing
down public works such as roads by re-
ducing loan allocations to State Gov-
ernments, arguing that defence prepara-
tion is more important. Roads, facilitat-
ing quick troop movements, are a defence
need, and to retain population in the
“vulnerable North” they are a necessity.
Without those roads, the pioneering
families up North will leave, disheartened
by years of Government ineptitude. In
Cape York Peninsula and the Gulf
Country of North Queensland 50 years
ago there were between 30,000 and 40,000
people. There are not more than 2000
today, and that is in an area of 150,000
square miles.
Unless the Federal Government turns
a more sympathetic ear towards this
problem the population will continue to
dwindle. Yet this is in an area capable
of producing at least half of Australia’s
consumption of meat, grain (except
wheat), vegetables, tobacco and many
strategic minerals, and where real
droughts are unknown. — Gip (Q.)«
Social Services
A few years ago the employees of a
firm for which I worked ran a sick-
fund. Each member paid 6d. a week,
and anyone who was sick was paid rather
more than 50 per cent, of his wages. It
wasn’t a substitute for wages, and it
wasn’t meant to be. It was a scheme to
provide relief in cases of sickness, and
it did just that.
We wanted to have our sick-fund
registered, but our application was re-
jected. It seemed it was actuarially un-
sound : no fund could provide the
amount of sick-pay we did, on the small
contribution we demanded ; on the basis
of probabilities accepted by insurance
companies it shouldn’t have lasted a
month. Actually it ran for years, and
was always well in front. .
Why? Because every member of it
was dinkum. We regarded it solely as a
relief from an unavoidable hardship, and
so something to be drawn on
cases of necessity. We signed “on it
reluctantly and “off” it eagerly.
We ran that fund for years. Then it
gradually became less solvent. Subscrip-
tion rates were raised and, after some
agitation by a group which should have
been silenced early but wasn’t, payments
were raised, too. Another increase in
subs, followed, and the game was on.
Any time now that fund is due to fold up.
Why? Because it was used by a very
few —less than one per cent, of the
members —not as a relief but as a sub-
stitute for work. And the arguments oi
the man who had refused to register it
came true. It wasn’t actuarially sound.
But it could have been, and it was
while all the members remained dinkum.
It took only a very few members to
wreck it. The same proportion of unco-
operative, dishonest members can wreck
a society.— Salmon Gums (W.A.) S


McGirr’s Land Grab
At a time when N. S. Wales Premier
McGrrrrr and his Lands Minister
Renshaw are talking about the intro-
duction of “fair values” for land resump-
tion, thereby admitting that what they
have been paying has been unfair, it is
refreshing to know that in S.A., where
the Premier is an Old Digger, the Govern-
ment is prepared to enter the auction-
ring and bid for land suitable for settle-
ment.
When Campbell Park station, near
Meningie, was auctioned recently, it was
knocked down to the State for £138,000,
in competition with a number of other
buyers. No one could deny that that
was the real market value—in fact there
is no fairer way of arriving at the real
value of anything than the auction
system.
In N. S, Wales the State Government
has used its land-resumption powers in
a most discriminatory manner; has, in
fact, used them to punish landowners
who sought redress through the courts
when their land was threatened with
confiscation.
The question is a moral one rather
than one of actual politics or settlement
policy. No doubt it suits the “Labor”
Government to have a tilt at the large
landowners, and few people would dis-
agree with the general policy of settling
returned soldiers on the land. But the
principle of taking private land at a
price far below its value, for soldier-
settlement or any other purpose, is one
that can scarcely be condoned by any
fair-minded people, potential settlers or
not.
It is worth noting, though, that the
policy of hitting only the larger land-
owners may be against national interests
in the long run. Anyone in the wool-
growing game knows that Merinos are
best run in large flocks if the grazier is
to have scope for improving wool quality
and flock characteristics. It’s all very
well to take large Merino-growing blocks
and split them into a number of fat-lamb-
raising propositions, and to point proudly
to the increased number of settlers gaineo.
But. is this a good long-range policy
for Australia? Wool authorities are
emphatic that it is not. In the battle with
synthetics coarse wools are losing out
and fine Merino wools are holding their
own.
There js still plenty of scope for closer
settlement in the medium-rainfall areas
of N. S. Wales, particularly in areas
suited to mixed farming and stock-raising.
But whether areas resumed for soldier-
settlement are taken from relatively small
men or big graziers, the conscience of
the community demands that they should
be paid for at current values. The
auction system as practised in South Aus-
tralia, for example, would ensure that.
—Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Advertising
I am inured to being urged by poster
and radio to smoke a brand of tobacco
or cigarettes which are still kept under
the counter, or to drink So-and-so’s beer
when the publican would roar with mirth
if I asked him for a bottle. I have even
ceased toy wonder, every time the price
of essential commodities rises, why the
makers do not clamp down on their
extravagant “give-away” programmes and
provide some really worth-while competi-
tion by reducing prices.
Now, however, 1 have to listen to
advertising advertising advertising. Over
my favorite commercial station I hear
a specious argument explaining why i
advertisements benefit the community. It
follows well-worn lines: advertising
creates demand, and greater sales mean
improved methods of production and a
cheaper price. Twenty years ago the
argument may have been sound. Un-
fortunately the scriptwriter used the
motor-car as an example. Were it not
for publicity, he said, there would be
little demand for cars (have you put your
name down for a new car?), and they
would have to be made by other methods
than mass production, thus keeping them
out of the reach of the general public.
(Have you ever tried to scrape together
the price of a new car?) —K. J. M. (Q.).
Too Many Holidays
Australians are having too many public
holidays today, and most of the people
who enjoy them have no idea why the
“I've been driven in be the drought and bushfires.”
days have been gazetted. In Victoria
there are no fewer than 13 recognised
public holidays scattered throughout the
year. This year it has jumped to 15 by
the addition of Jubilee Day in May and
Centenary Day in November.
That represents a huge loss of produc-
tion at a time when the country has an
adverse trade balance of £11,000,000 in
the first quarter of this financial year and
the reserve balances in London have
dropped by more than £200,000,000.
Already Australian industry is carry-
ing more than it can hold with the 40-
hour week and paid annual holidays,
privileges which are enjoyed by every
worker. Most of the holidays date from
the “bad old days” when there was no
annual leave and the 40-hour week only
a dream.
Prime Minister Menzies should place
the problem before the Premiers next
time he meets them— Waddlin' Willie
(Vic.)
National Theatre
In spite of well-meaning attempts at
revival, flesh-and-blood play-acting as an
art has declined in the past generation
to the point of obsolescence, and any
effprt to encourage “legitimate” theatre-
going in Australia as the first step towards
establishing a national theatre (B.
7/11/’5l) must prove as vain as a theatre
dedicated to “presenting classics of the
drama” would be.
Even the commercial or professional
stage today drifts significantly from the
presentation of plays of classic or
thoughtful nature towards extravaganza,
epic melodrama and/or musical spectacle.
The influence or pressure (so far mainly
baneful) of film, radio and television on
the legitimate stage has been revolu-
tionary; indeed, the actual survival of
the stage from the almost mortal blow
of some 30 years ago may be attributed
to its adoption of the progressive tech-
niques of screen and ether. That in
itself spells the ultimate decay of the
stage.
It is useless to decry the film and radio
as inferior mediums —they are not. In
fact, as vehicles of cultural education
and entertainment both are potentially
superior to the stage in range, ingenuity,
illusion and universal appeal.
Rather than wasting effort, time and
money transfusing new blood into a
dying, old-world art, it would be better
to accept the limitations of the stage in
modern life and institute intellectual
societies or groups—as the Russians,
Italians and Swedes are doing—for the
express and lofty purpose of elevating
both film and radio from their present
misconceived histrionic forms to their
rightful dignity as the most promising,
plastic and international means of cultural
advancement mankind has known.—P. O.
MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Municipal Councils
Some early Government action is
necessary to rescue municipal councils,
particularly in Victoria, from the dire
financial state into which they have sunk
in the six years since the war.
Despite the raising of the ceiling limit
of rating from 3s. to 4s. in the pound
two years ago, it has not been possible
to stop the drift in finances and keep
overdrafts down. Most councils are
charging ratepayers to the limit and have
still found it impossible to keep abreast
of spiralling costs.
Result, less and less road construc-
tion undertaken and councils having had
to lean more heavily on Government
sources for finance. With severe cuts in
Government grants this year has come a
crisis in municipal affairs.
An indication of the hopeless positpn
into which many councils have fallen is
given by this illustration: In the last 12
months it is estimated that overall costs
—labor, material and goods and services,
—have risen 33 per cent. Most councils
have been able to put up their rate only
sixpence or at best ninepence to reach
the limit. This is about one-sixth in-
crease to offset a third increase in costs.
Another factor worrying municipalities
is the additional burdens they are ex-
pected to bear with no, or very little,
reimbursement. These services include
health, infant welfare, libraries and
weights-and-measures, and cost up to
£2OOO per annum.
Some municipalities are pinning their
faith to a suggested conference between
Federal and State Governments and
municipalities which might iron out some
irritating problems such as petrol-tax dis-
tribution, but more than that is required
if municipalities are not soon to cease to
function altogether.— Plain Australian
(Vic.)
Pilot and Tug-boat Service
One of the key jobs around Australian
ports, and one lending itself to manipula-
tion by Communist union bosses, is the
manning of tug and pilot boats. Bring
these out on strike and the port is
paralysed. Fremantle (W.A.), for in-
stance, has a crew of disgruntled tug-
boat men, lately fined for “doing some-
thing in the nature of a strike.” Only
a couple of pounds each with costs,
which, in the words of their secretary,
one Troy, the men feel very keenly.
So Mr. Troy made appeal to Premier
McLarty for remission of the fines, failing
which the men will “take it out” In
that event Fremantle could be held up
for tugs during the crew’s week in Fre-
mantle jail.
Since strikes of tug-boat crews have
become endemic, why not place all such
harbor services in the hands of the Navy,
under whose control, particularly from
the standpoint of national security, such
services should be?
With naval crews under naval discipline
we would no longer have the spectacle
of a tug refusing to go to the assistance
of a loaded migrant ship floundering in
the Indian Ocean with a lost propeller—
the tug remained tied to Fremantle wharf
while crew representatives argued for the
payment of a preposterous wage for the
occasion.— Groper (W.A.).
Forty-hour Week
The Bulletin’s leading article
(14/11/*SJ) lamented that “so far no voice
has been raised in any of the seven Gov-
ernments or their 13 legislative Houses
of Parliament to suggest that Australia
has got to get back to the 44-hour week, if
not the 48-hour week, and that wages
cannot possibly be made worth more than
the face-value of the work done for
them,” etc.
May I quote from my speech on the
Financial Statement brought down in the
Queensland Parliament this session: “One
of the greatest tragedies of our economic
life has been the establishment of the
40-hour week. It is affecting our internal
economy to an extent that it has been a
major influence in the inflation to which
we are subjected today. We must all
realise the danger confronting the Western
bloc of nations. We see week by week
some new problems breaking out which
demand that we steel ourselves in order
to save what there is left of the British
Empire. It is up to every citizen who
appreciates the fact to make some sacri-
fice of the social advantages which have
been won over the past 10 years, and dur-
ing the last two wars, to face up to them.”
There are many members of Parlia-
ment in Queensland who hold the view 1
have expressed.— T. C. Kerr (Q.),
Sheep—Wheal
You can’t say (B. 21 /11 / ’5l) that high
wool prices have made it more profitable
to" run a thousand sheep than farm
300-400 acres of wheat. That area of
wheat country w'ould not run anything
like a thousand sheep. The trouble is
that farm labor cannot be obtained, and
if a farmer cannot, with his family’s help,
put in a crop he will, if conditions are
suitable, turn to a few sheep.—G L. H.
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 150
Across.
I—Mongrel ripped power. (7)
s—*De Paul finds five in the money. (7)
9—Possessing eyes or a place to lie
down- (5)
11— Roves among spells of trundling.
(5)
12— Money soured without the
Marxist. (3)
13 — Horror writer. (3)
14— Thus. (2)
15— Radiant Agnes is by no means
elevated. (51
16 — Sound American is to turn up
with a stallion’s progeny. (5)
20— East multiplied Rene to upset
snow transport for one-time
women of fashion. (2-6)
21— -Lamb essayer. (4)
23—-Christopher East gets the bird. (4)
25 — Graduate to study a Scottish
johnny pertaining to a rasher
essayist. (8)
26 Rosevear in the sun. (3)
28— North with Nelson on a donkey.
(5)
29 — Cake-burner upset Kentucky
formed in layers. (5)
30— Singular for you in France. (2)
33 —Balderdash backing a rocky hill
(3)
34 East between caution and some
Wagnerian operas proceeding in
headlong style. (9)
35 Polar water turning in Boadicea’s
folk. (5)
'36—The most reticent mire upset the
most superior, (7) >
37—Put a label on timber tongue. (7)
Down. ,
I—Puls the tomahawk through
teacher’s marks of approval for
eating utensils. (10)
2 Dress probed without the Police
Department. (4)
3 No marriage allowed outside the
kindred in French to hound
aviatrix Johnson. (8)
4 Duet for dogs near Eden. (7, 3)
5 Competes for French biographies.
(4)
6 Centaur shot by Hercules pro-
montory over Yankeeland. (6)
7 East Africa monetary system for a
Baltic trader with paschal fish. (10)
8 — Journey suggested by a road sign
outside Chaldean headquarters. (4)
10—A little bounder. (3)
17— Pirate’s drink in a boiler may pro-
duce a rolling sound. (6, 4)
18 — Underweight embarrassment to
Noah? (10)
19— Fixing the nails when a cove and
I are furnishing remedies. (10)
22 —Choose fish salting. (8)
24 —Component of an electrolyte
boy’s name. (3)
27-—-Stick the publicity in this place. (6)
30— -Your Continental avoirdupois. (3)
31 — Glide over the south and chewing
material for ruminants. (4)
32 Unused herb. (4)
33 — A Swiss patriot let on. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 149.


ana she u/ill tdluoii
Don’t miss out!
Buy your Holiday STAMINA’S early
Only limited quantities are available
There are ten attractive shades to
select from.
THE PRESENT PRICE IS ONLY
Stamina,
SFLF-SUPPOR TING
99/8
m
mm
mm
Hi
.
Mil
f. : : y? %.
mrnmmmm
Mi
<
. J
X
'■ V ■
■■ ■;,-
mmnssto
! MWII
r^JeSSwc
• ,'fi : v ; :: xi
'
:T'f
;
A
■■■ :■■: ... • :':--X
- V-
m
WsmiM
HI:
mmmsi
SSSS
1111
w%mm
■ '
m
- ; vX
i
r
,
mm
%M>-<
MX
k.A- i
m*
mm
m
m.
«
I
msmmmtssf.
........ A
» '
x
m
- m
w
r ■
v .••. X,..:
i..-: ■
CLOTHES
All STAMINA TROUSERS
are made from
JOO% PURE WOOL
•
TAILORED FROM
CRUSADER CLOTH
