

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3715
Wednesday, April 25, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Lincoln’s High Towers
Background Every Scene
For Miles Around
TINCOLN CATHEDRAL, standing
upon its hill above the Lincolnshire
fenland, is a building of great archi-
tectural grandeur, and is considered by
many to be the finest cathedral in
England. It exhibits the growth of
ecclesiastical architecture from its early
Norman stages to the most fully
developed forms of English Gothic.
The original church was built by
Bishop Remigius between 1075-1092, the
remains of which may still be seen in the
lower stages of the Norman towers and
in the west front, where elaborate stone
carvings depict the Flood and the
Expulsion from Eden. After a disastrous
fire in 1141 the church was rebuilt, but
this was shattered by an earthquake in
1185. The work of restoration and
extension began a year later by Bishop
Hugh of Avalon, and much of the
Cathedral’s present character dates from
this period. The celebrated Angel Choir,
so named because of the number of
angelic figures that appear among the
carvings, is one of the crowning
achievements of English Gothic
architecture.
The three towers form a striking
feature of Lincoln Cathedral, the two
West Towers being 206 feet high and the
magnificent Central Tower 271 feet high,
which is surpassed in height only by the
spires of Salisbury and Norwich. It was
originally crowned by a spire of timber
and lead —the combined height being
525 feet —but this was destroyed by a
storm in 1548. The majestic Central
Tower is unrivalled for its graceful
proportions and its simplicity of design,
and is considered to be the finest of its
kind in the world. Within it hangs the
famous bell “Great Tom of Lincoln,”
which weighs over five tons.
The Cathedral Library has a valuable
collection of books and manuscripts,
among which is one of the five surviving
copies of Magna Carta. It was exhibited
at the Chicago World’s Fair, and during
the Second Wojld War it was kept for
safe custody in the Library of Congress.
Near the Cathedral is a statue of
Alfred, Lord Tennyson, a native of
Lincolnshire.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
g
at HOME
Write new for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CVT HERE ARE MAIL
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B.151) Age
The Red pags
SWINBURNE.
For some mysterious reason two
English publishers have simultaneously
decided that it is time we read Swinburne
again, and so we have Swinburne ;
Selected Poems (Heinemann), edited by
Humphrey Hare, and Selected Poems of
Swinburne (Macmillan), edited by
Edward Shanks; and the present re-
viewer, while not being aware of any
strange inner compulsion to read Swin-
burne this year, is grateful to Mr. Hare
and Mr. Shanks, for it is a pleasure to
have this most baffling of poets in an
approachable form.
.There is always the chance, with such
selections as these, that expert editing
will present us with a Swinburne we
never met before ; or at least with a new
approach to the Swinburne we know
fairly well; and indeed the eye lights
up on finding in Mr. Shanks’s selection
the sonnet on John Webster, which is
not like Swinburne at all, not smooth
and beautiful and interminable, but dark
and abrupt like the playwright himself,
a true echo of the nightmarish splendor
of “The Duchess of Malfi”:
Thunder: the flesh quails, and the soul
bows down.
Might: east, west, south, and northward,
very night.
Star upon struggling star strives into sight,
Star after shuddering star the deep storms
drown.
The very throne of night, her very crown,
A man lays hand on, and usurps her right.
Song from the highest of heaven’s imperious
height
Shoots, as a fire to smite some towering
town.
Rage; anguish, harrowing fear, heart-crazing
crime,
Make monstrous all the murderous face of
Time
Shown in the spheral orbit of a glass
Revolving. Earth cries out from all her
graves.
Frail, on frail rafts, across wide-wallowing
waves,
Shapes here and there of child and mother
pass.
But a hope such as this, of finding a
new Swinburne, is—inevitably, of course
—doomed to disappointment. There is
something of unfamiliar strength, un-
familiar solidity, in Swinburne’s under-
graduate poem “The Death of Sir John
Franklin,” again in Edward Shanks’s
selection;
Fierce with keen snows against a kindled
moon
And cliff and berg take fire from it, and
stand
Like things distinct in customary sight,
And all the northern foam and frost, and all
The wild ice lying large to either hand;
And like the broken stones of some strange
wall
Built to be girdle to the utmost earth,
Brow-bound with snows and made imperial,
Lean crags with colored ice for crown and
girth
Stand midway with those iron seas in face
Far up the straitened shallows of the firth.
But then, in the bulk of both selections,
is all the old stuff about the lilies and
languors of virtue, the roses and raptures
of vice—all that exquisite and empty
artistry, faintly sad, faintly decadent,
mostly hollow, which is Swinburne and
which, though Mr. Shanks finds the poem
too vulgar to print and leaves it to the
courageous Mr. Hare, reaches a lurid
kind of climax in “Dolores”: 440 lines
of impassioned vulgarity, addressed with
burning sincerity to nobody at all and
meaning, even in a perverted way, for
Swinburne’s vice was never convincing,
practically nothing;
By the ravenous teeth that have smitten
Through the kisses that blossom and bud,
By the lips intertwisted and bitten
Till the flame has a savor of blood,
By the pulse as it rises and falters,
By the hands as they slacken and strain,
I adjure thee, respond from thine altars,
Our Lady of Pain.
Swinburne is, of course, by no means
unique amongst the great English poets
in being difficult to read. We are in-
clined today to think only of Ezra Pound
**nd T. S. Eliot as baffling; but that is
because we so seldom subject ourselves
an :x ' live course of, say, Shelley
cn Wordsworth there is no other
writer in EnrTvi will quite the peculiar
soporific quality of Swinburne. His ideas,
whether he is attacking Christianity, cele-
brating the pale, damp attractions of
what he thought was vice, or writing
hymns to liberty and Mazzini, are never
difficult; his expression is always clear;
his technique is perfect beyond praise;
yet he goes on and on and on, with a
tinkle of melodious sound, and by and by
you go sound asleep.
In everything there is that strange
central hollowness; as if he himself didn’t
believe, or didn’t feel, a word of what
he was saying ; as if he was tootling the
most beautiful melodies on a flute that
really wasn’t there at all. He knew it
himself, poor fellow ; and wrote in self-
criticism, as Mr. Shanks reminds us,
words that really make it unnecessary for
anyone else to attempt to score off so
easy and so defenceless a target:
I perceive this one [“On the Death of
Gautier”] to have a tendency to the dulcet
and luscious form of verbosity which has
to be guarded against, lest the poem lose
its foothold and be swept off its legs, sense
and all, down a flood of effeminate and
monotonous music.
Having failed, then, in one’s first vain
hope of finding a Swinburne who is not
full of dulcet and luscious verbosity, it
remains to be seen whether Mr. Shanks
or Mr. Hare can find for us a new
approach to the familiar poems.
Mr. Hare’s approach is chiefly bio-
graphical, and in that respect more com-
plete than Mr. Shanks’s. He makes great
play with the excellent word “algolagnia”
which means (one learns from the
dictionary) “the finding of pleasure in
inflicting or suffering pain” ; he mentions
Swinburne’s readings in the Marquis de
Sade; and the gist of his observations
is that there was, underlying the super-
ficial exaggeration, a genuine element of
perversity in Swinburne, both of the
masochistic and sadistic kinds, the
presence of which he is able to detect
in Swinburne’s life and to see worked
out and resolved in the poems.
No doubt there is something in the
theory; Swinburne could hardly have
written about the “sins which are seventy
times seven” (that is, 490), without having
committed, or having genuinely wished to
commit, at least two or three of them.
But the analysis of the influence of the
Marquis de Sade is likely, on the whole,
to persuade us once again that Swin-
burne’s sadism derived from literature
rather than from life; and so the bio-
graphical approach does not make the
unreal poetry much more real.
Mr. Shanks, whose approach is more
literary than biographical, is on surer
ground. He finds that Swinburne is most
sincere in poems that express “remorse,
despair, lassitude” ; he explains that the
poems go on and on because Swinburne
is trying to get an effect of music, not
merely the obvious verbal melody, but a
music of emotion, in which one central
theme is repeated over and over again
until the reader’s whole mind is impreg-
nated with it; and, in contrast to
“Dolores,” he draws our attention not
only to the magnificent “Atalanta in
Calydon” but to the less-known “Laus
Veneris,” which is indeed full of fine
poetry and lovely in its slow movement,
more sonorous than the usual Swin-
burnian rush:
Outside it must be winter among men;
For at the gold bars of the gates again
I heard all night and all the hours of it
The wind’s wet wings and fingers drip with
rain.
On the whole, Mr. Shanks’s introduc-
tion and selection are a little to be pre-
ferred to Mr. Hare’s ; but either book
would serve very well to introduce the
reader to Swinburne, and both do the poet
the good service of presenting him com-
pactly and at his best.
Kendall's Grandfather .
Continuing his fine series of historical
monographs, Mr, R, M. Burdon deals in
the third of his New Zealand Notables
(Caxton Press) with an erring missionary,
an adventurer who wrote one of New
Zealand’s best books, a famous geologist
and the man who made “the best farm
in the world.”
The missionary has a particular in-
terest for Australia; he is Thomas
Kendall, who was the grandfather of
Henry Clarence Kendall, the Australian
poet, to whom, Mr. Burdon suggests, “he
bequeathed a craving for liquor and an
inordinate capacity for self-torture.”
The first of the Church Missionary
Society’s torch-bearers to become a fully-
fledged missionary in New Zealand,
Kendall, after a preliminary reconnais-
sance, settled in the Bay of Islands with
Hall the carpenter and King the shoe-
maker in 1814. For two months Marsden
stayed with them, then he returned to
Sydney and left them to set an example
of Christian living to the Maoris. Where-
upon, with many intervals of repentance
and other wild interludes of defiance and
arrogance, Kendall proceeded to fall
grievously from grace.
He drank ; he traded with the Maoris,
as the other missionaries did ; and, while
his wife consoled herself with his ser-
vant, an ex-convict named Stockwell, he
erred with Maori women. He is sus-
pected, though on rather flimsy evidence,
of having negotiated—at a profit to him-
self—the sale of Maori lands to the
Baron De Thierry when that extra-
ordinary adventurer was proposing to
establish himself as a king in New Zea-
land ; and he is also suspected, though
again without direct evidence, of know-
ing more than was good for his soul of
the plans of Hongi Hika —Hongi being
the Maori chief who befriended the mis-
sionaries, visited London in Kendall’s
company and met George IV, traded the
gifts he had received for muskets and,
on his return to New Zealand, embarked
on a most successful career of massacre.
Exactly how much Kendall knew of these
ferocious intentions —of the fruition of
which Mr. Burdon might have given more
details, to round off the story for readers
unacquainted with New Zealand history
—is open to question ; but certainly he
sold Hongi muskets.
In modern times this “sinful and pol-
luted worm,” as Kendall called himself,
might conceivably have found a tranquil
career as an ethnologist; for he com-
piled the first primer of the Maori
language and co-operated in the first
Maori grammar and became fascinated
with the native mythology. But when
he wrote to Marsden excitedly relating
his discovery that “according to their
[Maori] view every part of man is applic-
able to the Supreme Being, who is and
fills the universe,” Marsden decided, not
without justice, that “his motive for writ-
ing in such a style is to find some apology
for living in adultery,” and, with a
bigotry that does not read very well to-
day, vehemently disapproved of Ken-
dall’s mania for inquiring into “the
obscene notions entertained of the
Supreme Being by the natives and their
own lascivious customs.” It was a point
of view which Kendall himself, in
penitent moods, was inclined to share.
So strange, intense and tragic a charac-
ter, living in such dramatic times amongst
quarrelling missionaries, bloodthirsty
Maori chieftains and wild adventurers,
tormented by lust and remorse, degraded
by drink and yet ennobled both by his
humanitarian and his scientific activities
amongst the natives, is a subject for a
full-length biography. But Mr. Burdon
has compacted the essential facts of his
career with the most admirable clarity
and economy ; and, more importantly, he
presents the essence of the man, so that
Kendall walks through the monograph
as a living figure^—a man, Mr. Burdon
suggests, who could have led a practi-
cally irreproachable life under the dis-
cipline of the church, but who, isolated
in New Zealand, was “haunted by a
moral idea he was incapable of living up
to, and continually reproached by a
conscience which sternly condemned his
lapses.” Kendall bequeathed to Aus-
tralia, incidentally, as well as his poetic
grandson, his wig; which, when he was
drowned at the mouth of the Shoalhaven
River after he had retired to New South
Wales in disgrace, floated ashore.
The second of Mr. Burden’s notables,
Frederick Maning, author of those robust
and delightful New Zealand classics The
War in the North and Old New Zealand,
also has Australian connections; he was
born in Tasmania, where members of
the Maning family are still living.
Mr. Burdon is not quite at ease with
Maning. He objects to some of the
humor in Old New Zealand as “unpleas-
antly artificial.” He says that Maning’s
books (which, of course, are full of the
spirit of aristocracy; as, whether ad-
venturous or ruthlessly Tory, was his
life) “inexplicably” appealed to the
aristocracy —the Earl of Pembroke had
edited Old New Zealand. He says that
Maning threw “lightly” aside his position
as a judge of the Native Land Court;
but Maning himself said he had been
living “the life of a toad under a harrow”
—“I have been writing reports that are
enough to make the angels weep or turn
anyone’s hair grey.... I can’t stand it any
longer.” It is a question of tone. With
Maning, Mr. Burdon is not, as with
Kendall, sympathetically dispassionate,
but, in spite of a gallant attempt at im-
partiality, faintly hostile; consequently
he does" not display Maning’s character
with the same profound certainty.
Yet here again, if one does not feel
that the full weight and richness of the
character is brought out, is a compact
and expert essay, and one which to many
readers, who know Maning only from
his gay writings, will come as a surprise:
that so warm a friend of the Maoris
could turn, whether justifiably or not,
raging for war against them; that a
writer so well-balanced and jovial as he
appears in Old New Zealand could burn,
to our irreparable loss, the manuscript
of Young New Zealand (which von
Sturmer thought better than Old New
Zealand) and also The Land of Many
Conquests and a treatise on Ngapuhi
ancestry said to have contained know-
ledge of Maori mysteries Maning had
promised not to reveal; and that the
carefree pakeha-Maori should have had
so much trouble in his domestic life
with his crippled daughter and his
wastrel son, “that brood of half-caste
fiends.”
With his other two notables, Julius
von Haast and John Grigg, Mr. Burdon
doubtless has his eye on the Canterbury
centenary, but he is too good an artist in
biography to let a particular occasion
lead him, to any great extent,
beyond the limits proper to general
interest. What is set down about
Haast —how his expert knowledge of
what mountains are made of emboldened
the authorities to go ahead with the
Otira tunnel; his part in the search for
gold ; his contacts with Samuel Butler;
and the absurd controversy he fell
into over the date of the moa —
would interest the general reader any-
where ; and Grigg, who did not lead a
personally dramatic life, is put into a
short and solid account of how he made
“the best farm in the world” in a swamp
near Christchurch . . . with a few painful
pages on his career in politics and a
pleasing account of an “escalator” sheep-
dip which an inventor once tried to sell
him and which, though a beautiful
machine in concept, had the disadvantage
that, as fast at it projected them towards
the dip, the sheep ran up it again.
The Saroyan Sideshow.
Saroyan, so this reviewer imagines,
stops you ill a back street with a hand
on your arm, and fixes you with clear,
bland eyes : —
“I’m in a predicament,” he says. “I’ve
written a bookful of stories. 1 don t
know why I did it. I felt impelled.
Eleven stories, and the magazines took
only three of them ; 5000 dollars for ‘The
Cocktail Party,’ and 3000 dollars for ‘The
Pheasant Hunter,’ and 300 dollars for
The Parsley Garden’: that’s little more
than 8000 dollars for eleven stories. It’s
uneconomic, but I have to do it.
I “I’m an Armenian. I won’t say Im
iroud of it, but I make as much capital
if it as I. can. I have done it often
sefore, and in this book I often do it
gain. I will read to you from where 1
lo it in the story called ‘The Theological
Undent’: —
“And the Irish,” my unde Khosrove went
on. “The Irish have a whole island m
which to be poverty-stricken; the Arabs a
thousand tribes to bring together in the
desert; the Jews child prodigies to send
on concert tours; the Gypsies wagons and
fortune-telling cards; the Americans chronic
nervousness which they call freedom; but
what have we Armenians?”
“Since you insist, tell me,” said the Ola
Man. “What have the Armenians?’
“Manners,” my uncle KJiosrove said.
“Are you mad?” the Old Man said.
“Nothing is so unnatural as a polite
Armenian.”
“I did not say good. manners, my uncle
Khosrove said. “I said manners” . . -
“There is the situation,” Saroyan goes
yn, “If my uncle Khosrove had been more
profound, he would have said other
people’s manners. I myself combine the
literary manners of Ernest Hemingway,
lean Cocteau and Ben Hecht with the
general air of the travelling showman
which distinguishes so many of my
countrymen; and one other thing, of
which I speak in ‘The Pheasant Hunter ;
it is a story about a boy of eleven who
wants a shot-gun to shoot pheasants,
although there are no pheasants in the
district. The game warden asks the
father: I will read it to you: —
“Has he got a licence?”
“To hunt?” Mike Maloney said. He
hasn’t got a licence to eat, but damned n
I don’t halfway admire him sometimes.
He must know something to be so sure or
himself and so contemptuous of everybody
else.”
“When I wrote that,” Saroyan con-
tinues, “it reminded me of someone I
knew. A week later, at midnight, it came
to me. It was myself. I haven’t got a
licence to write, but sometimes I eaten
myself admiring myself. Why? The
answer is in the last sentence I read to
you. I must know something to be so
sure of myself and so contemptuous or
everybody else. I’ve often felt tha.
Many other people have felt it. Tor
yourself must have thought so. But there
is my predicament. What is this sow
thing I know which we all value sj
highly? Will you help me? Will
take this book ; it has eleven specimens
of my stories and an introduction saying
(Continued on page 35.)


%
m
-
V
_5
■%
m
TtS?
r
% >
.
mmmm
mmm
wr
*mm
m
-
m
m
M
esa .
J
THEY’LL NEVER TRAVEL BETTER than by "Stork." "Cyclops." "Steelcraft"
Righr “Steelcraft" 710 Pramette. Covered with Plastic treated high grade Cotton Duck. Framework of steel. One action fully folding with exclusive
“lock-fold” device. Wheels independently sprung. Foot brake, full tubular handle. Convertible to stroller. Storm cover. Collapsible, Price £l2/1/0.
Left. “Cyclops" Stroller 10. lin. White tyre. Wooden frame, movable spring action foot rest. Easy lock adjustment prevents stroller folding in use. Ad.ustable
drop back, head rest, safety straps. Reliable-foot brake. Enamelled Cream, with attractive coloured canvas. Price £5/18/0.
(Right). “Steelcraft” 750 Pramette.
Covered in high grade non creasing
leathercloth. Quilted and padded leather
cloth interior. Draught proof hood, easily
folded or erected in one action. Fitted
with one piece rolled steel mudguard.
Rubber handle grip. Fits snugly into the
boot of the car. Priced at £l7/6/3.
U':K .. ..
\
s . t;
sJ
71
:
B **'
I %■ I
xf s
£ll/11/3.
NURSERY DEPART-
MENT. 4th FLOOR
£B/5/11.
freight extra
mmm
i:
\
: i
' •
V'
\
%
m ■ * S £1 X MET :l
$;, \|C.V
A
m
m
m
h
■ - .
.
jp-
MU
£l4/0/3.
(Above). “Stork” 6 Cane Pram. Hand woven. Lac Cream.
Fully lined, cream leatherette. Adjustable hood, two wheel
footbrake. Drop front, safety harness, sturdily constructed
undercarriage. Priced at £l4/0/3.
(Left). “Stork” 27 All Steel Stroller. Rubber handle grip,
storm cover, body strap, loose cushion, wire carrying basket,
foot brake. Easy to fold, just flick triggers. Raise handle to
open. Priced at only £B/5/1 1.
(Far Left).
dropping front. Steel frame, plasticised Canvas cover. Nickel
plated handle. Keen action undergear. Easy to fold and erect.
Storm cover. Fits snugly into boot of car. Price £1 1/11/3.
•f»r •
g
ĝ
TELEPHONE, M 2401. MAIL BOX, 27X2C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


thews NO other
CAR JACK
LIKE IT/
J.
mutton
o
A
m
LIFTS THE BUMPER AND WHEEL
AT THE SAME TIME.
lor SAFETY SAKE
YOU NEED WE
VESTA TRIANGLE
SaUtb
CAR JACK
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
• Lifts wheel off ground in less time than any
other car jack.
9 Will jack up car on hill, on steep camber, on ice,
in deep mud.
® Will not slip or slide—car cannot fall off jack if
properly used.
9 Will operate with a clearance.
• Is aSi-in-one assembly—no loose parts—nothing
to lose or leave behind.
• Has no oil to leak out—will last a lifetime.
9 Is very easy and absolutely safe to use-
minimum effort required.
• Will not scratch or mark the car or bumper
bars.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE MAKERS OF FAMOUS VESTA BATTERIES
asn oi si ii
n<ump us 3jvs
MOH 33S
~
m
jf?
18 1
:
w&ftAwas -■ ■, .
isS
IH
o
• Ideal for women drivers and well-
dressed motorists.
® Crawling under the car unneces-
sary.
• Fits into boot of any car. Length
31in. Weight 131bs. (unpacked).
No matter what type of jack
you have—you need the Vesta
Safety Car Jack.
The Vesta Safety Jack can be made
to work on any make of car—except
those with flimsy bumper bars.
Ask your Garageman for a demon-
stration on your car.
FOR SAFETY SAKE . . .
N.R.M.A. Road Patrols sure equipped
with Vesta Safety Jacks.
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
TO VESTA PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.,
Box 1 3, P.O. Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please forward, without obligation, full infor-
mation of Vesta Safety Car Jack.
Name
Address
State Bltn. Ad. 4/5 1


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3715
Wednesday, April 28, 1951
Ir:
J
IS*
“WORKERS! YOU HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE BUT TOUR CHAINS!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521. i ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
STILL THE VITAL ISSUE.
While Mr. Chifley was assuring voters
everywhere that “Labor” was “bitterly
opposed” to Communism, A.L.P. candi-
date for Lowe, Dr. Burton, was figuring
a few days ago at the Sydney University as
one of “three from the Left” who pro-
vided a “feast of lunch-time talks last
Tuesday,” according to the Students’
Representative official journal “Honi
Soit” The other two Leftist worthies were
“Colonel” Shepherd, a valued propa-
gandist of Communist causes, and Com-
rade J. R. Hughes, of the Communist
Central Committee.
A sample of Dr. Burton’s speech
scarcely seems to smell of the party’s
supposed hatred of Reds:
AU Asians are resentful of the statements
made by the United States and AustraUa
that Communism in Asia must be checked.
And he accused the Government of
having entered into “a deal with Mr.
Dulles whereby the U.S. agreed to a
Pacific Pact in return for Australian
refusal of recognition to Red China and
support of the rearmament of Japan.”
It will be observed that non-recognition of
Red China takes precedence in enormity
with him.
This confusion among “Labor”
speakers is all of a pattern with the be-
wildering diversity of opinion on Com-
munism even among members of the
caucus ; also with the even more bewilder-
ing changes which have taken place in
“Labor’s” expressed attitude within the
past year, not to mention that equally
strange switch-about of personalities as
between the two parties.
Such changes, of which there have been
many examples, are quite consistent with
“Labor’s” chronic state in which it assaults
Communism with one hand while its
other arm is round its shoulders.
Nobody could have been more bitter
about Communism than Mr. McGirr and
some of his followers at the N, S. Wales
State election campaign last year; but
when, the week before the poll, a body
calling themselves “we, the elected officers
of the N.S.W. Trade-union Movement,”
called on “all members to vote and work
for the selected and endorsed A.L.P.
candidates,” the signatures included those
of Mr. Idris Williams, the Communist
head of the Australian Coal and Shale
Employees’ Federation, Comrade E. A.
Bulmer, of the Building Workers’ Indus-
trial Union, and a few other agents of
the Kremlin whose principles are repre-
sented by Messrs. Chifley and Evatt as
opposed to those of “Labor.”
It is—in theory—a crime which courts
expulsion for a “Labor” official to consort
officially with a known Communist.
But it apparently is no sin for
the A.L.P, to consort and be financed by
a Communist-led union. Thus the reso-
lutions presented at the last A.L.P, con-
ference in N. S. Wales, the executive of
which endorses the two leaders of the
A.L.P., Messrs, Chifley and Evatt, in-
cluded several motions full of Communist
propaganda from the Ironworkers, a
demand from the Coal and Shale Workers’
Branch that the Crimes Act be wiped off
the Statute Book, a proposal by the
Painters and Dockers’, then Communist
in policy, that the Constitution should be
amended so that the “next Federal ‘Labor’
Government could carry out its pro-
gramme of socialisation” and introduce a
scheme (set out in detail) to hand over the
government of industry to soviets chosen
from among the unions. The Waterside
Workers’, most notoriously Communist-
led of all, called for a closer control of
the actions of Federal Parliamentarians,
as if the subservience of the Chifley Gov-
ernment on foreign policy and its appoint-
ment of Comrade Healy to a Government
post had not shown that Communist
domination of them was almost complete.
Mr. Chifley attended that conference
held only a few months ago. So did Mr,
McGirr, and so did a number of other
Federal and State members. None of
them made any reference to the presence
of Communist-union representatives.
And no Communist-union agent
shouted down the president of the
Federal A.L.P., ex-Communist J, A,
Ferguson, when he moved a lengthy reso-
lution denouncing the Peace Councils as
“instruments of Russian aggression” anc
averring that:
We are concerned also with the signs
throughout the world, of which the in-
vasion by the North of South Korea is the
most immediate, that Soviet Russia is
attempting to advance its imperialistic
aims by stirring up civil wars, by en-
couraging aggressors, by constant inter-
ference In the affairs of other countries
by direct control over Its satellites, and
by the machinations of the Communist
party.
Nobody contradicted Mr. Ferguson whe
he spoke of the “inevitable war aims o
Soviet Russia” and referred to the need fo
“a relentless campaign against the siniste
Communist fifth-column in our midst,” i
almost the same words and phrases whic
“Labor” deprecates when Mr. Menzie
uses them.
Yet when a resolution was brough
forward that, in view of the unwarrantec
aggression of Russia in pursuing a polic
of world domination, the appropriat
bodies should see that the Communis:
party Dissolution Bill be placed on th
Statute Book with the least possible delay
it was hastily ruled out of order by th
chairman amid a flurry of indignation.
To vote for a windy resolution
by Mr. Ferguson is one thing
but to vote for a decisive legislative o
administrative act against the Communis
party is another.
Long practice has made it quite easy
for Mr, Chifley to shift his conference
attitude of 1950, which was one of fui
support for U.N.O.’s action in Korea, to
his 1951-campaign attitude, which de
nounces U.N.O.’s course of action. Anc
this, no doubt, meets the conditions
under which the Watersiders, Iron-
workers, Coalminers, 8.W.1.U. and other
Red supporters are willing to give “Labor’
money to pay for his “Disillusioned
Dan” advertisements, and to instruct their
members to vote for him on pain of being
reckoned as “disruptionists” and liable
to expulsion.
There isn’t any doubt about where the
plans of the Communist party in Aus-
tralia are coming from. So soon as the
election campaign began the party started
to import by air-mail from Bucharest the
journal from which it draws its instruc-
tions—it costs 2s. to air-mail this rag
from Bucharest, but it is sold here at 4d.
The issue of March 30 contained this
little bit in a lengthy manifesto on Com-
munist world plans “against war” and
for world revolution:
A powerful strike wave is sweeping all
capitalistic countries; mighty militant
actions and demonstrations are taking
place. The recent strikes of railwayman
in the U.S., of the dockers in Great Britain,
of metal-workers in Italy, tens of thou-
sands of workers in Australia, N.Z. and
Japan, the successful strike in Catalonia
and the big strike actions begun by the
people of France testify to the effective-
ness of the policy of unity pursued by the
Communist parties.
While “Labor” has one foot in the
Communist-controlled camp, nothing
could be more dangerous than to have
it in power.
The Communists are desperately
anxious to see them in power, because
only with a “Labor” Government in office
pledged to the 1921 plans of socialisation
can they achieve the conditions precedent
to their unions taking over authority from
Parliament, and replacing it with a Com-
munist dictatorship. They know that the
present “Labor” leadership is at their
mercy, and though “Labor” may
occasionally be forced, as an act of self-
preservation, to make isolated attacks on
Communists as it did on the leaders of
the coal strike in 1949 —when its only
chance of winning the looming election
lay in so doing—it is generally to be de-
pended on to limit its “war” on Com-
munism to windy talk. A vote for
“Labor” is a vote for Communism.
The Electors' Choice.
Election Day on Saturday will provide
the Australian people with the oppor-
tunity to decide whether or not the
country is to be governed through Parlia-
ment or by trade-union executives outside
Parliament. The people declared
emphatically 17 months ago their re-
pugnance to union rule, and above all
rule by the Communist bosses of the key
unions. There was no mistaking the
overwhelming vote against the attempt by
the late Chifley Government to introduce
socialisation of industry, without any
reference to the electors, and with sup-
port only from the Communists, It was
to be done through the suppression of
the trading banks and the suppression
also of private enterprise in industry by
means of priced-control,
The “Labor” party never had a
mandate for this violation of our
economic way of life. It tried its
hardest to force its will in contempt of
the requirement that it should seek a
mandate. At the final accounting of
their conduct before the electors 17
months ago “Labor” Ministers had
not the guts to stand up to the
party platform which at the time
they quoted as their authority and
justification; but that platform re-
mains, and all “Labor” members are
pledged to carry it out as soon as the
party can regain office and their outside
executive orders it.
The “Labor” party has, in fact,
no more respect for Parliamentar
traditions than for any other featur
of the society it is pledged t
overturn. Under the sort of governmen
to which it is committed, not to th
people but to the Trades Halls, the rule
of the country passes to the union execu
tives through the junta they have set u
to give every “Labor” Ministry its order
This abuse of democratic process woulc
be serious enough if the unions them
selves were run on democratic lines. Bu
since, through indifference or intimida
tion of the bulk of their members, the
are not, but have come, mostly, unde
the sway of militant —and in the wors
cases of Communist—bosses, whose de
cisions are the union’s law, the injur
done to Parliamentary government is to
serious to be longer ignored.
Was it mere coincidence that th
“Labor” Government which the elec
torate decisively defeated at the end o
1949 should, in the scheme for enlargin
the Parliament, have rigged the new
Senate so that any decision of the elector
adverse to “Labor” should be stultifiec
by an Upper House stacked in advanc
of the elections with a rump large enough
to negative the people’s vote?
These events define the issue which th
Liberal and Country parties are bringing
to the people for judgment. The only
point in which the appeal to them now
differs from that to which they respondec
in December, 1949, is that the common
objective of the “Labor” party and the
Communists in frustrating the working
of Parliament, and substituting absolute
government through union executives, has
in the intervening period been made much
more obvious. In the cause of socialisa-
tion the Chifley party has readily allowec
the Communist union-bosses to wring the
neck of productive industry and trans-
port, and pretends now that it will be
willing and able to stop the rot when
“capitalism” (as it calls the right of any
man to enjoy the results of his own enter-
prise) is displaced by State control of
everything. In that day there will be no
more free elections, and the right of Aus-
tralian citizens to choose their own Gov-
ernment will disappear. What they will
get—or some of them will get—in
exchange is a right to vote, if they possess
a union or a Communist ticket, for some
tyrant who, as in most Communist-run
unions today, is his own electoral
returning-officer.
For this reason Mr. Menzies’s appeal
to the electors to vote for his Govern-
ment of the coalition parties—to reaffirm
and reinforce the vote given in 1949 —
is an appeal to them to vote for their
own democratic rights against this
incipient tyranny. Their vote was
emphatic enough last time, but it was
ineffectual because nearly a third of the
Senate, unaffected by the elections, re-
mained to outvote the Government’s
majority of the two-thirds newly-elected.
“You gave us last time the job to do
without the power to do it,” says Mr.
Menzies with exact truth. “We have had
to come back to you to get the power to
carry out your mandate.”
The snarl in which Australian industry
is entangled because of go-slow, loafing
and the Communists’ “class-war” should
be evident to every elector. The root of
the evil in the widespread reduction of
man-hour work for the wages paid—the
designed policy of every Communist
union-boss —is a disgrace to our country
and is creating a formidable menace to
its future. There is no future at all for
White Australia under these conditions,
and the idea of checking inflation and
soaring costs of living while those condi-
tions continue is so absurd that “Labor”
propaganda on the point has become an
insult to electors’ intelligence.
The charges against “Labor” are no
mere election-cry, On the very first
working-day of the late Parliament Mr.
Calwell declared in the House of Repre-
sentatives that “Labor” would not co-
operate with the Government in the task
of increasing production, which called,
and still calls, for the whole energy of
the nation. The Communists at U.N.O.
operating Moscow’s veto have not more
consistently said “No” to the majority
than did “Labor” to every attempt during
the late Parliament by the Government,
operating the electors' mandate, to check
the industrial rot gnawing at this
country’s vitals.
Mr, Chifley and Dr, Evatt now
make great play with the point that their
long delaying-action against the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Bill was justified
by the High Court’s later decision. But
the real harm these leaders and their
party did was their encouragement of the
Communists by every word and action
during that delaying fight against the
legislation; and the Communists re-
sponded gleefully with the most insolent
defiance of Government, Parliament, the
industrial courts and the plight of the
public. From the whole despicable
exhibition of “Labor” during this recent
term in Opposition the truth which most
clearly emerges is that political “Labor”
refuses, as rigidly as the Communists, to
co-operate in restoring national industry
to health and vigor,
Among the causes of high prices and
rising inflation nothing has contributed
greater mischief than the miners’ tactics
in starving the country of coal, and the
wharfies’ tactics in tying-up shipping in
Australian ports. A dozen prices
referendums will not affect the darg on
coal production imposed by the miners’
Communist bosses or the Communist
blockade of the waterfront which is driv-
ing shipping away from our coasts,
“Labor” dare not antagonise the
wreckers in these and other key
unions who control important con-
tributions to “Labor’s” political funds.
Communist headquarters in Moscow
have issued instructions to their agents
in Australia, the local Communist party,
[ b at Australia shall not rearm for self-
defence or to assist Britain and America
in their stand against Russian aggres-
sion . tha( Australia shal| not be al f 0 s wed
industrial strength to make rearma-
ment possible . that " working prodl!ction
shall be strangled more and more until
mass-discontent assumed revolutionary
proportions, and the “class-war” can be
developed to any lengths for Soviet
Russia’s benefit.
The “Labor” party had full chance
over eight years to check this conspiracy
and refused to look at it.
Anzac the Imperishable.
Anzac Day—the first one —is now 36
years, half a lifetime, away in the past.
It did more than all the politicians
lumped together have ever done to make
this Commonwealth great and renowned
as the homeland of a race the world must
take into future reckoning.
There were croakers then, too, about
the iniquity of allowing Australia’s young
manhood to prove itself in defence of
this land anywhere outside its strict
borders. “Six-bob-a-day murderers” was
one disgraceful epitaph cast at them by
the forerunners of the shirkers that
abound among “Labor’s” fellow-travellers
with the Communists today ; and it was
used to defeat a proposal towards the
end of the war that conscripts should be
compelled to serve in the most glorious
company of comrades-in-arms that ever
fought for the liberty their fathers of
adventurous British stock had handed
down to them. A majority of the A.I.F.
itself voted against the proposal. They
were not going to have the honor of the
Anzacs so diluted and so shared.
The survivors of that gallant force
look with wonder on the youth of today
who cannot be persuaded or cajoled into
any voluntary service under the traditions
that Anzac made. “We are too few in
numbers to be spared for duty with our
British and American brothers to defend
the common heritage against any attack,
unless here at home.” So runs the ignoble
excuse. No idea that they were “too few”
ever defeated the A.I.F. in a job it under-
took ; and the leading soldiers in the
armies of all the world —even our enemies
of the day—paid their meed of recogni-
tion to the Anzacs’ indomitable spirit and
unfailing capacity in performance. The
message of Marshal Foch sent to the first
peace-time Anzac Day march —through
London in 1919 —still rings in hearts of
all who saw that spectacle :
In the name of France I am happy to
express to Australia the undying memory
which we shall cherish of her incomparable
soldiers.
But that war did not end war, as many
were led to believe when the League of
Nations followed it, and the “United
Nations,” its successor, will not end wars
either. Moreover, war has become total
war, involving civilians with combatants,
and the exposure to its full risks of
women as well as men in both capacities.
Total war is more than ever a reason
why the leaders of any nation should seek
to ward off operations, so far as possible,
from their own land. “If we must fight,
let us fight only on our own soil” is the
flat negation of this principle, and the
Australian people could have no worse
slogan for defence, even for home-
defence.
And when this wall-eyed, chicken-
hearted conception of national military
defence is combined with that other tend
of the degraded “Labor” party of today
—namely, that it is time enough fur
training for war when the enemy has
arrived here —the mockery of the
tradition is complete. |


PLAIN ENGLISH
Pacts and the Commonwealth
President Truman suddenly announced
on April 19 that he had asked Mr. Dulles,
his personal representative, and Mr.
Acheson to pursue further Australia’s and
N.Z.’s requests for a mutual defence pact,
to assure that in the event of an armed
attacfc on any one of them in the Pacific
each of the three would act to meet the
common danger “in accordance with its
own constitutional processes,” and to
establish consultation through strength-
ened security on the basis of continued
and effective self-help and mutual aid.
It seems a pity that the matter is
approached in just that way and that the
Pacific Pact is not to be between the
British Commonwealth as a whole and
the United States, since the United King-
dom and Canada are doing considerably
more than ourselves towards the defence
of the Pacific. But President Truman
seems to have a tendency to ignore the
existence of a British Commonwealth, and
some Dominion egotists holding office as
Foreign Ministers have encouraged this
attitude.
Canada’s Foreign Minister is not one of
these. Canada has come to the point
at which it has found it necessary to
make a strong statement about the obvious
trends of the United States way of deal-
ing with its neighbors.
Mr. Lester Pearson, Canadian Secretary
for External Affairs, said last week that
Canadian-American relations were one of
the most delicate and difficult problems
of foreign policy that had yet faced the
Dominion and that “both countries would
get along better if the United States
realised that Canada was not willing to
be merely an echo, and took more notice
of Canada’s war record and of what she
said and did”:- —
Canada had come of age in her relation-
ship to Britain.... London and Ottawa now
dealt with one another on a basis of con-
fidence and friendship, as junior and senior
partners in a common concern. Since 1945,
and particularly since the outbreak of the
war in the Pacific, Canadians had come to
appreciate, possibly as never before, the
wisdom, tolerance and far-sighted steadi-
ness of vision of the British people
Canadian relations with the United States
are growing ever closer, but there will be
difficulties and frictions which will be easier
to settle if the United States recognises
that, while we are most anxious to work
with her and support her in the leadership
she is giving the free world, we are not
willing to be merely an echo of somebody
else’s voice.
While welcoming President Truman’s
offer of a pact, Australia would do well
to keep in mind the need to make her
own policy, and that within the frame-
work of the British Commonwealth and
of the European comity of nations.
It is not the United States which norm-
ally keeps our wool industry going. The
foundations of our prosperity lie in our
trade with Europe. Persian oil and
Malay rubber and tin mean as much to
us as they do to Britain. And we could
have no trade with anybody if it were
not for British shipping.
It is therefore wise that Australia
should see that whatever agreements are
made with the United States are not only
on a truly mutual basis but designed
primarily in consultation with the other
nations of the British areas so as to
conserve the general interests and unity
of the British Commonwealth of Nations.
At the same time there is no room for
attitudes like that of Dr. Evatt, who
opposes the pact —which he was willing
to go any length to attain while in office
—on the ground that it is based on the
Government’s “monstrous” theory of the
inevitability of war and that it is linked
with a plan to “fully rearm Japan.”
There is no intention of “fully” rearm-
ing that country, in which it is, in fact,
proposed that some Allied forces will
remain.
"Labor 11 and Parliament.
There seems to be little doubt about the
result of the election for the House of
Representatives, but every Liberal-C.P.
vote will be needed to produce even a
bare majority in the Senate.
“Labor” has been hampered in its
campaigning by the wide splits which
exist in its ranks and by the necessity of
compromising on its own policies to suit
both the A.L.P. Executive and the Wards
and Morrows of the “Leftist” bloc.
Its fight on prices and the value of
the pound has become feebler as the
campaign proceeds. In the later stages
Mr. Chifley has become more abusive of
the Government and more emphatic
about “Labor’s” “hatred” of Commun-
ism. But the Com.-ridden Coalminers an-
nounced during the week that they were
donating £3OO to Mr. Chifley’s party fund
and £2OO to the Communist party.
I “Labor” has accepted the embarrassing
donation.
The Liberals need more than a win in
the Lower House, which would merely
reiterate the mandate which they already
have and add nothing material to their
strength even if they won additional seats,
Mr, Menzies’s expressed view is that “It
would be better to toss us out than elect
us with a majority in the House of Repre-
sentatives and leave us thwarted without
a majority in the Senate.”
It is significant that on the platform
during the present campaign “Labor”
speakers have had no apology to offer
for what they have done to the Senate,
not one word of concern at the evil
of deadlocks in Parliamentary govern-
ment.
Their outlook is exactly in line with
Communist objectives in regard to Par-
liament. Their tendency is to destroy its
authority and make it a mere registering-
machine for their outside politbureau.
Mr. Chifley has shown his opposition
to freedom of action for Parliament, At
Bathurst on April 21 he said that during
the campaign he had refused to answer
questions on policy because “questions
outside the policy speech are matters for
the consideration of the party and not
for myself or any other member of the
Parliamentary party.” With “Labor”
in power there might just as well be no
Parliament at all, since in view of Mr.
Chifley’s stand neither it nor a so-called
“Labor Government” can make any
decisions.
The Loss of Affray.
While the rest of the world jitters and
wonders, the Royal Navy goes quietly
about its lawful occasions, training,
experimenting, always active, always per-
fecting—there is no rust on England’s
shield. Normally the testing of new
ideas and training in the old are carried
out with meticulous care—sometimes,
despite rigid adherence to regulation,
something goes wrong. In a surface ship
possible damage is confined ; in a sub-
marine, particularly if submerged, a
mishap can affect a crew of over 70 men.
Last week aboard H.M. submarine
Affray, upwards of 1200 tons of com-
plicated doors, valves, wheels, levers and
instruments, exercising off the Isle of
Wight, something went wrong. She
failed to surface at her ordered time.
Deep in the pressured depths, an enor-
mous tonnage of water above her, she
lies, while everything the British Navy
knows of sub.-rescue has been imple-
mented above her.
What went on in her compartmented
length the English - speaking world
knows through the recent and terribly
apposite film, “Morning Departure.”
There will have been the same calm and
trained acceptance of mishap ; the appli-
cation of years’ experience to get her
right; the faith in their Service-mates’
prompt reaction to their non-appearance ;
the realisation, with failure to move her,
that on their Service-mates up top they
must completely rely; and—the waiting.
Seventy-five officers and men died in
Affray. Dockyard maties draw “danger”-
money on setting a perfectly safe foot
an inch outside harbor during ship-trials.
Submarines do not qualify. Their addi-
tional few shillings a day are to com-
pensate them for the discomfort of living
with one foot, as it were, in your mess-
mate’s mouth, with recreational facilities
on board nil. All that sub.-men draw on
is an oversize helping of plain guts, a
training which, even for the R.N., is
intensive, an unqualified faith in their
officers and a remarkable spirit of com-
radeship.
One wonders that modern science, m
the ultra-modern present-day British
Navy, could not forestall such complete
tragedies as Affray’s. Whatever the cause
of her lonely death, the whole free world
will pay tribute to the selfless men locked
aboard her, who, with the sea their
constant enemy once they submerge, died
as much on active service as were their
mates in the recent war. The tribute
extends just as feelingly to the wives and
sweethearts. _
Thought for White Australia.
Dr. Evatt, though not humorous in him-
self, is a cause of sardonic humor in
others, particularly those versed in the
leading events of our history. It is partly
derived from the fact that he is member
for Barton.
Barton was, of course, named after
the leader of the first Commonwealth
Government, whose first legislative
achievement was the enactment of the
White Australia policy. Dr. Evatt cele-
brated the jubilee of the Immigration
Restriction Act by accepting a brief
designed to save the Communist party
from the consequences of a measure for
Ihuch his own crowd had voted ; and the
jmmunist party is the deadliest internal
lemy White Australia has had. The
:adliest external enemy would be a
ammunist Asia, and, as everyone knows,
)ove all the families of United Nations
rvicemen killed and wounded in Korea,
e Kremlin is doing its utmost to bring
is about. No Communist anywhere
mid avow support for the White Aus-
alia policy and remain in the Com-
unist party.
In Australia in the Making, H. L.
arris, like Dr. Evatt an M.A, and LL.B.
[ Sydney University—they were con-
mporaries—sets it on record that “by
te time the Commonwealth was estab-
shed” the White Australia policy had
;come “an article in the national creed
» doubt which was equivalent almost to
i act of treachery.” And, “more than
ay other,” Alfred Deakin, first of Dr.
vatt’s predecessors as Attorney-General,
ad it enshrined in the Statute Book.
Harris accepts the theory that “the
/hite Australia policy was born on the
oldfields,” and gives an account of the
distance offered by white miners to the
ivading hordes of Chinese, of whom,
by the middle of 1857,” there were “be-
veen 30,000 and 40,000” on Victorian
elds alone. “Is this a European digging
r Mongol territory?” the men of Lamb-
ig Flat had asked in 1861 before pre-
ceding to action. Descendants of some
f the driven-out Chinese may be among
tiose killing and maiming Australian
oldiers in Korea.
And yet Dr. Evatt takes Communist
riefs. _
Stilwell and MacArthur.
Huanghai”: Mac Arthur’s recall pro-
okes a comparison with the circum-
tances in which President Roosevelt
elieved General “Vinegar Joe” Stilwell
>f his multiple commands and appoint-
nents during the latter part of the war.
Stilwell was recalled because President
loosevelt backed Chiang Kai-shek, whom
Jtilwell called contemptuously “The Pea-
mt.” MacArthur was recalled because
le tried to involve President Truman into
mcking Chiang Kai-shek, and the Presi-
lent would not.
Stilwell returned home, and from the
noment his plane landed he was isolated
oy Washington officials from all contacts
with the Press. He died in close retire-
ment soon afterwards. MacArthur comes
back as a national hero and receives
public homage for a week. To die of a
broken heart is not in his make-up. Each
of them while commanding international
forces in the field held plenipotentiary
political powers delegated from Washing-
ton. Stilwell was Washington’s military
adviser and disposer of Lend-Lease goods
to Chiang Kai-shek. MacArthur was an
interim “White Mikado” of defeated
Japan. Chiang Kai-shek, it might be
said, was a cause of the breaking of both
of them.
General Marshall himself spent a term
of some months in China trying to pull
the position round to Roosevelt’s desires.
He failed and returned home in disgust.
President Roosevelt’s own management
of the Chinese problem would have cost
him large chunks of reputation if he had
survived. Some time ago The Bulletin
republished from Stilwell’s papers the
terrible report of Roosevelt’s interview
in Cairo with Stilwell and others after
the Cairo and Tehran Conferences in
1943 —a record most enlightening on the
way in which the Soviet diddled the
Americans in negotiations over the future
of Manchuria and of China.
Whatever else Washington may have
learned, or failed to learn, about the Far
East, it should at least be aware now of
the folly of treating Chiang Kai-shek as
a reliable ally. Or, for the matter of
that, any Chinese ruler.
New Era on the Nullarbor.
Startled natives of the Nullarbor, see-
ing a flashing steel monster streaking
along the Trans railway at 90 m.p.h.,
little realised that they were witnessing
an end to their market for spears, nullas
and bunches of desert pea, and the be-
ginning of a revolution in Australian rail
travel.
The three new diesel trains which be-
gan regular runs between Port Augusta
and Kalgoorlie this month are the first of
new Trans diesels which will cut the run-
ning-time between the two points from
40 to 20 hours. They will not be stop'-
ping for water at desert stations, so the
natives will have to take their wares
somewhere else.
These trains, which have long been
the answer to road and air competition
with the railways, cut out the coal and
water hauls which steam traction
necessitates and which has amounted to
one-fourth of the ton-mjleage of the
I Trans route, and their fuel cost is about
6d. a mile.
Of the £2OO-million-worth of rolling-
stock now on order overseas for State
and Federal railways, much comprises
diesel-electric locomotives and diesel rail-
cars. The latter are expected to make the
running of light-traffic passenger-lines
profitable, as their operating costs in
America are a third less per passenger
mile than that of road buses.
Possibly inspired by the thought of
diesels racing across the country at
double the speed of steam trains, with a
consequent increase in rail income from
the time-saving aspect alone. South Aus-
tralia is converting its south-east narrow-
gauge lines to broad-gauge, which can
readily be converted to standard-gauge
when, and if, Victoria redesigns her
broad-gauge system so that a train may
leave Brisbane and run through three
States to Kalgoorlie and eventually to
Perth, without a break for transhipping.
In America last year 50 p.c. of all
passengers and 35 p.c. of all freight on
railways was hauled by diesel-power, and
the U.S. Inter-State Commerce Com-
mission estimated that savings by use of
diesel would pay for the cost of a diesel
train inside three years.
A Storm in Victoria.
Victoria’s Country-party Government,
which is a minority ruling by permission
of the Cain “Labor” party, must have
thought it had kicked the top off a meat-
ants’ nest when Chief Secretary Dodgshun
announced the other day that it pro-
posed to build 12,000 houses and create
a new suburb at Broadmeadows.
The location is a wind-swept and
somewhat barren part where the Keilor
Plains merge with Melbourne’s north-
west fringe. It is chiefly noted for
Scotch-thistles, stone fences, dark nights
and large youths who become Essendon
footballers. However, the spontaneous
roar of protest that hit the heavens was
not because the McDonalds proposed to
banish people to the area, but because
it would cost millions and add to Mel-
bourne’s already unwieldy sprawl over
the southern face of Victoria.
From almost every part of the State
between the Murray and the sea angry
voices decried the proposal, pointing out
mainly that a party which has mouthed
decentralisation all its political life should,
if it has any money to spend on housing
schemes, be spending it outside Mel-
bourne so as to attract labor away from,
I and not to, the city.
Even Mr. Cain, by whose chanty Mr.
McDonald is Premier, announced that he
would have the Government’s decision
reversed. He is in a position to do it.
Somewhat dazed by the noise, Mr.
Dodgshun stammered that he would
“confer” with Housing Minister Swin-
burne, and that the Government “whole-
heartedly favored decentralisation, but
could not lose sight of the needs of the
metropolitan area.”
The really astonishing thing about the
proposal is that Victoria has just launched
its giant Eildon Weir and Kiewa hydro-
electric schemes, which, in a few years’
time, are expected to make the demand
for housing in the State’s north tenfold
what it is now. Maybe McDonald’s party
has been too long in the city.
Promising People.
Whoever presented Chifley and Co. with
the slogan “What Labor Promises,
Labor Will Do” was a good gag-writer,
but his wit was wasted on the humorless
leaders of the A.L.P., who adopted it in
all seriousness as an election-winning
Sl °What has “Labor” promised, and with
what success? In 1946 and 1949 Mr.
Chifley prided himself on making no
electoral promises at all. Having made
none, there were none to break and none
to fulfil—not that the electors gave him
the opportunity to do either in 1949. But
if the A.L.P. of yesteryear made no
promises to the electors, it made plentv
to itself, to its supporters and to all those
who yearned for Socialism in large lumps
and in quick order. And what happened
to those promises? .
“Labor” promised it would nationalise
the banks. Mr. Chifley first voiced the
promise, but it was heartily endorsed by
every “Labor” man in the Representatives
and Senate. That promise was made in
deadly seriousness and with every inten-
tion of its being fulfilled, but, thanks to
the Constitution, the High Court and the
Privy Council, it heads the list of
“Labor’s” unfulfilled promises. Then
there was the promise to nationalise the
airlines. The High Court had something
to say about that, too—and private air-
lines still bear witness to a promise that
“Labor” did not fulfil. As with banks
and airlines, so with shipping and radio ;
[Continued on next page,\


For election comment in this issue David
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
f
KBS
:-'v
6434 E-R
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS UNITED
OYER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
mm:
“Labor” promised itself to grab the lot,
but did not succeed.
“Labor’s” promises do not end with
these instances. Every “Labor” candi-
date signs a pledge in which he promises,
split infinitive and all, “to actively sup-
port and advocate at all times the party’s
objective—the Socialisation of Industry,
Production, Distribution and Exchange.”
There is no doubt that every Federal
“Labor” member believes in this objec-
tive ; Hansard provides reams of proof
on that. Yet in the present election
campaign there is little or no evidence
of any attempt “to actively support and
advocate” socialisation. “At all times”
should surely include election-time?
Still, it may be argued that promises
to oneself are one thing and promises to
the electors another. Well, Mr. McGirr,
an old friend and colleague of the leaders
of Federal “Labor,” has made plenty of
electoral promises. Four years ago he
and his colleagues promised a solution
to the housing problem. They haven’t
found it yet. They promised “250
modern, streamlined, silent-running
corridor trams.” The silence is the only
feature of this promise fulfilled. They
promised that within three years it would
be possible to run “from Circular Quay
to Bondi Junction by the new Eastern
Suburbs railway.” On present indications
this may be possible by 1970. On power-
supply McGirr was very emphatic. He
“would no longer tolerate blackouts.”
His State is today tolerating them on a
vaster scale than ever before.
Possibly spurred on by the McGirr
example, Mr. Chifley has this time
splashed promises around on a lavish
scale—increased child endowment, in-
creased pensions, increased medical
benefits, free dental treatment, repeal of
the wool-tax. One reason for his change
of front may be that he knows there is
very little likelihood of his being called
upon to carry out the promises.
The electors who 16 months ago
rejected “Labor’s” invitation to “Judge
us on our record” are not likely to accept
the assurance that “What Labor
Promises Labor Will Do.” After all,
Mr. Chifley did once promise them a
Golden Age.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Prime Minister has set the odds
against a “Labor” victory next Saturday
at 100 to one. Rather steep, but it is
extremely doubtful whether any “Labor”
punters, betting with real money instead
of mere platform currency, would accept
a shorter price. To throw out the Gov-
ernment “Labor” would need to win 15
seats, which would require a swing of
four per cent, on the 1949 figures, and
there is nothing at all to encourage the
Opposition in that hope ; all the indica-
tions are that any change at all is in the
opposite direction.
Roy Morgan’s Gallup Poll, which has
a remarkably accurate record with its
Federal election predictions, claims that
the Government has improved its popular
vote by two per cent, since the last
election. If Saturday’s voting confirms
this “Labor” will lose several seats.
With a change in the Lower House un-
likely, the main interest in this election is,
of course, in the Senate voting. “Labor”
prophets are mostly content to forecast
a 30-30 result, but Government spokes-
men, who formerly held the same view,
have taken heart as the campaign warmed
up, and are now confident of a majority
in the Senate. Queensland offers the best
prospects of a 6-4 result, but optimists are
banking on equal success in Tasmania
and Westralia, On present indications
they should be right in Queensland, but
a swing of sufficient dimensions to gain
a sixth seat in any other State is only
a remote possibility.
The closing days of the election cam-
paign have made it more and more clear
that the basic issue is Communism.
A Gallup poll has amply demonstrated
this, though figures are hardly needed
in the face of “Labor’s” frantic striving
to pull its shirt over the hammer-and-
sickle brand which it is compelled to
wear by reason of the membership of
the Communist-led unions in the A.L.P.
“Labor” campaigners are forced to
attempt to placate whatever section of
“Labor” in whose presence they happen
to be, so that, for instance, Mr. Ward,
some of whose East Sydney supporters
could slip straight into the Communist
party without having to knock on the
door, has an entirely different story to
tell compared with that of Mr. Calwell in
Victoria.
Aneurin Bevan, Minister for Labor and
formerly Health Minister, has resigned
from the British Ministry, having appa-
rently declared all-out war on Mr. Attlee
and his colleagues on the trivial changes
in social services and benefits in the
Gaitskell Budget—false teeth and spec-
tacles are no longer to be completely
free. Rumor said on April 23 that
Harold Wilson, president of the Board
of Trade, and John Strachey, another Left-
winger and Secretary for War, would
follow Sevan’s lead, but it won’t matter
much. With the Prime Minister ill, Ernest
Bevin, his strongest supporter, dead and
a grim international situation to face the
Labor Government was doomed to an
early election so soon as the split became
apparent.
“Every day the Government is in office
the bell of doom tolls for it.” The
authority for this statement is Mr. Chifley,
wooing the electors of Launceston. Next
Saturday, while awaiting the count, he
might with profit turn up John Donne’s
“Devotions Upon Emergent Occasions,”
and consider the poet’s advice upon
tolling bells: “Never send to know for
whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.”
A Country-party Government planning
to build a satellite city of 12,000 houses
within a hop, step and jump of a capital
city and a “Labor” leader offering a
“vigorous protest” and urging that the
12,000 houses should be built “in the
country.” It sounds crazy, but then
everything is crazy in Victorian politics.
Drakeford, “Labor” M.H.R. for
Maribyrnong, says that “what occurred
in 1949 was a political hoax —a fraud on
the people.” This looks like one of those
cases where a man stumbles on the truth
without intending to. The Senate
elections of 1949 were “a political hoax
—a fraud on the people”—and Drake-
ford, along with the rest of “Labor’s”
sorry crew, voted for the legislation which
created the hoax.
Chifley, as reported last week:
Working journalists travelling with me
do their best to present the facts as they
see them. But they cannot control their
editors and sub-editors. In most cases it is
the sub-editors who completely distort the
reports.
From which it is clear that there are
two kinds of working journalists—those
who are with Mr. Chifley and who might
cut up rough for the rest of his tour
if he reflected on them and those in news-
paper offices who are not subject to the
high moral influence of contact with him.
Bad staff-work? Speaking at an elec-
tion meeting in Brisbane, Premier Hanlon
said that “the only thing for all Aus-
tralian Governments to do was to stabilise
both prices and wages at their present
level.” No Federal “Labor” candidate
has yet advocated that. The Chifley pro-
gramme is to control prices and profits.
As to wages, well, there’s to be “close co-
operation with the trade-unions,” includ-
ing, presumably, the miners, the wharfies,
the seamen, the ironworkers and other
Red-dominated unions whose leaders will
co-operate with no one except on their
own terms —which don’t include wage-
pegging.
In one of Chifley’s attacks on the Press
he said: “We do not ask any more than
a fair statement of our views—a reason-
able presentation of the truth.” No
wonder he doesn’t get what he wants —
the two things are incompatible!
“Labor” politicians in search of a
policy seem to have a genius for discover-
ing “plots” against the worker, and one
of the most successful discoverers of such
mares’-nests is Leslie Haylen, member
for Parkes. Before the last election he
published a pamphlet purporting to prove
that the objective of Menzies and the
Liberals was an “unemployment pool,”
and their slogan “Eight out of every
hundred Australians must starve.” A
second pamphlet with the emotional
title, “Is Your Name in This Call-up?”
attacked compulsory military training.
Events have shown the falsity of the first
charge, and Haylen, under instructions
from the ALP. executive, has since
voted for National Service, but neither
fact prevented him from making a
hysterical speech over the air last week,
claiming that the Government’s recruit-
ing campaign was part of a plan “to
discipline the worker by lengthening his
hours and by the threat of unemploy-
ment.” There is possibly a personal touch
in his outburst; among the few persons
who may find themselves unemployed
as a result of the voting next Saturday
is the member for Parkes.
Doc. Evatt gave a Sydney Domain
audience a new slogan last Sunday: “Time
for a Change.” His organisers are hoping
there were no Barton electors among the
crowd.
Premier Playford, of South Australia,
has given an assurance that if the new
Federal Government asks the States to
transmit to it powers to deal with Com-
munism, his Government will introduce
a bill to that effect. Similarly, if the
Federal Government seeks the necessary
power by referendum the South Aus-
tralian Government will support it. There
are five other Premiers, each the leader of
a party reputedly opposed to Com-
munism. Isn’t it time the others were
heard from? What about a word from
Mr. McGirr?
Melbourne Tram Board has just
presented the Minister with a report, pre-
pared by its secretary after careful in-
vestigation, that Melbourne trams in city
sections and at off-peak periods are not
overcrowded. This so staggered one tram
on the Maribymong-West Coburg route
that it burst, depositing on the roadway
its 140 passengers—96 more than it was
was designed to carry.
“Labor” has become so used to twist-
ing and turning on the Communist issue
that it has become second nature. The
Ferguson who at the 1946 conference
invited the Communist party to join the
A.L.P. en masse sees nothing unnatural
in denouncing the same Communist party
as a “fifth-column” in 1950. The Wards
and the Haylens who fiercely justified the
internment without trial (and even with-
out a scintilla of evidence against them
that would have hanged a dingo) of the
Australia First men in 1941 find it all in
the day’s work to denounce with horror, in
1951, the idea that members of the Com-
munist fifth-column should be even
“declared”—much less interned—-except
by ordinary processes of law and after
trial by jury.
Claiming that 2,000,000 acres had
gone out of wheat in N.S.W. because of
wool prices, bag shortages and poor
storage facilities, N.S.W- Graziers’ con-
ference condemned the McGirr Govern-
ment for failure to “build the silos
promised us 10 years ago” and will ask
the Wheat Board to pay growers 3d. a
bushel to provide their own storage during
the rush season. Fancy worrying McGirr
about wheat at a time like this!
The silliest Chifleyism to date is the
Opposition-Leader’s reason for believing
there is no danger of war because “1 do
not think anyone could afford a war,
except America. I doubt whether Russia
can.” In the last war our opponents
were the three “Have-not” countries. It
was thought that they couldn’t afford a
war and in the end it was proved they
couldn’t —but that didn’t prevent their
starting one. All through the ages coun-
tries which could not afford it have
plunged eagerly into wars because they
counted on easy victories, with the victims
paying the cost. Countries which can
really afford it don’t readily embark upon
wars ; they have too much to lose.
If “Labor’s” leaders hate Communism
as much as they profess, why do they
mouth its jargon so often? Take “war-
mongering,” a favorite word with the
Comrades —no Communist speech is
complete without it, and it can be found
half a dozen times in any issue of tne
“Tribune.” During the present campaign
Chifley has time and again accused
Menzies of warmongering; his deputy,
Bert Evatt, is not far behind. Thus the
Doc. in a radio chat:
Australia will not tolerate the policy of
warmongering and repression now openly
advocated by the Menzies Government.
In the same broadcast the Doc. said
that to say that war against Russia or
China was inevitable was absurd. We
are at war with China at the moment —
Australian soldiers are fighting and dying
in it, but perhaps the news has not pene-
trated into Barton “Labor” circles yet.
As for war being inevitable, Evatt might
refer to the dicta of the boss from whom
he takes his orders, J. A. Ferguson, presi-
dent of the Federal A.L.P., who last July
remarked, according to an official A.L.P.
report:
Nor are we deceived by Communist
slogans, or the phony peace-movements
being used to conceal the expansionist
policy and inevitable war aims of Soviet
Russia. Instead, Labor shall wage relent-
less campaign against the sinister Com-
munist fifth-column in our midst.
At almost every appearance Chifley
makes the claim that “ ‘Labor’ has been
the only Government to jail Com-
munists.” As in this country it is the
courts and not the Governments that do
the jailing, he presumably means that
Reds copped jail sentences only under
“Labor” Governments. Ted Roach,
current address Long Bay, could answer
that one. So could W. F. Burns, publisher
of the “Tribune.”
“Labor’s” theme-song for Saturday:
“Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered.”
The Australian Workers’ Union an-
nounced last week that it had given the
Chffley-Evatt party £lOOO to fight Com-
munism. The money is to be spent during
the election campaign—in which, of
course, Menzies is “the only enemy.”


g
* ,
AnP ON£
g
MAN
***v
fi °acyJt
IN H(S
TIIW6
PUAVS
g
warn.
For
N\&ny — —-
FARTS . *
ENTRANCES AND EXITS.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: The fire which destroyed the
£300,000 wooden Hotel Kosciusko one
early morning last week brought to light
a fact which is a complete answer to
those irresponsibles who are always con-
demning Government-run enterprises for
the allegedly extravagant manner of
their management. Who, learning that a
staff of only 95 was on hand to look
after the comforts of the 88 guests —an
average of 1.08 staff per guest —could
give aught but praise for the rigid econo-
mies practised? Obviously it has been
only the fear that the move could possibly
result in the hotel making a profit which
has precluded the revolutionary step of
lopping off the 0.08 and thus allotting a
guest to each of the staff, flat. With the
building of the new hotel which N.S.W.
Chief Secretary Clive Evatt promptly
announced would be built —whether it is
to be of a slightly less inflammable type
of timber has not yet been disclosed, nor
how he is going to heave the housing-
priority cat overboard —all who take an
especial pride in paying for the losses on
Government-run concerns should insist
that the staff be built up until it rises to
two staff to each guest. After all, how
undignified to be waited on by someone-
and-a-f raction!
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Schoolie”: Ray Whiting’s a.w.l.
Digger (B. 28/3/’5l) would have had
more chance of getting away with it if
he had covered
his knees. Dur-
ing the early part
of the war, before
civilians were
issued with
identity - cards,
the provosts from
a camp near my
home town
caught many a
Digger in civvies
by ordering him
to pull up the legs of his trousers. In
those days not many civilians wore
shorts, so if the bloke’s knees were sun-
burnt they were pretty sure he was ack-
willy.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Clooter”: The simple mind of the
Oriental is never more competently
expressed than in the flag of the Republic
of Korea. I’m not sure which republic
is meant, but the flag is white. In the
centre is a circle, divided into red and
blue halves by an S-shaped line. The
circle represents the Absolute, or, if you
like, the essential unity of all being. The
divisions of the circle are the Yang and
the Yin —which is which I don’t know—
and they stand for eternal duality; that
is, good and bad, male and female, night
and day, life and death, beer and cheese
and so forth. Thus you’ve got the duality
within the Absolute, indicating the
paradox of life and the hopelessness of
trying completely to comprehend it.
Now, if that’s clear, here’s the rest;
In the top left corner are three diagonal
lines, in the top right a single diagonal
between two broken diagonals, bottom left
a broken diagonal between two diagonals,
bottom right three broken diagonals. You
can please yourself what these stand for:
The compass-points, the four seas bound-
ing the universe, the weaker (broken)
diagonals protected by the stronger, or the
unbroken and thus more worthy protected
by the broken or less worthy, like clinging
to like, tolerance of the unlike, the three
graces, the father, mother, sons and
daughters, or the price of peanuts—as long
as you get some philosophy out of it.
My guess is that the South Koreans were
CKITOSHT
contemplating the thing when the North
Koreans surged over the border, which
displays their irreverence and makes them
worthy of wrath. It seems to be the fit
banner for U.N., which will also stand for
anything.
♦ * * *
“Unleyite”: Nothing is more
murderous than the average suburbanite
encountering an unfamiliar creature, and
hjs violence seems to be the more pro-
nounced if it happens to be a member
of the native fauna. A wedgetailed
eagle appeared over an Adelaide suburb
the other day, and was promptly attacked
by three magpies. It swooped low to
avoid the maggies, and, sure enough, the
average suburbanite was there—with a
gun. The king of the air stopped a
charge of shot and crashed; the
suburbanite, probably feeling like
Nimrod with his first lion, proudly offered
the carcass to the local museum. If you
asked him why he shot the bird he would
probably gaze at you blankly, astonished
at the absurdity of the question.
* * * *
“Willpar”: News that Australia has
completed her war-crimes trials at Los
Negros and that to date none of those
sentenced to death have been reunited
with their ancestors reminds me of one
Jap who has —departing this world from
Rabaul in 1946. The war over, the
American general who had conducted the
Guadalcanal campaign flew to Rabaul to
refight that campaign with the Jap general
who had opposed him —this time over a
map. I had the good fortune to be
present at their curious meeting. The
American asked his questions and the
Jap gave his answers through a Jap in-
terpreter, a typical question and answer
being—“ How come you finally managed
to push one of my battalions off that
hill?” “I used a division.” When the
American had obtained all the informa-
tion he sought, he suggested that perhaps
the Nip general might like to ask him
a few questions. The interpreter relayed
this to the Jap, who replied in the same
tone in which he had answered the
questions and with no change of ex-
pression. His reply was interpreted thus,
“The general says that, as he is to be
hanged tomorrow, he sees no point in
seeking further knowledge.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Becks”: Just as straws, apart from
raising false hopes in the breasts of
drowning men, are useful for indicating
wind direction, I am hopeful that the
advertisements of those seeking the
services of female wage-plugs may be of
some help in determining the trend of
the times. We have become so used to
seeing all sorts of inducements held out
to young women —no Saturday work,
music while you work, time off for shop-
ping, free dentists, free medical attention,
free nylons and so on —that it comes as
a shock to see someone advertising a
vacancy in plain terms. And what could
be plainer than the small notice,
“Respectable Girl Wanted,” displayed in
a shop'-window in my suburb? True, it
was only a small sign—not much larger
than a man’s hand—but may it not be the
first indication that the boom is over, and
that a return to normal standards may be
expected? At any rate, the sign had
vanished next day, and the lass I saw
behind the counter looked eminently
respectable.
# * * *
“Spoke”: Typographical errors, is it?
None I have seen has beaten the
announcement in an Auckland daily that
the council was to be commended for
having put “wenches in the park to
replace the old ones which were falling 1
to pieces.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Wives do exaggerate
their husbands’ shortcomings (B.
11/4/’5l), but only up to a point.
A wronged spouse may declare
that her hubby is habitually drunk,
and in the same minute appoint
herself counsel for the defence
if somebody is indiscreet enough to
agree: “Yes, he’s pie-eyed nearly every
time he passes our place.” She can be
denouncing her man for presenting her
with a black optic, but let a consoling
voice opine that a man who would bash
f/BW/
SQUARE
DANCE
Records
“How do you play the corners ?”
a woman ought to be horsewhipped, and
the wind will begin to veer around: “I
wouldn’t say he actually meant to bash
me. He sort of pushed me like.” If the
consoler carries the thing any farther he’s
a certainty to finish up by being told to
mind his own business —she only bumped
into hubby’s elbow by accident, anyhow.
I recall the time our landlord was deeply
hurt. “Last week Mrs. Nexdoor told
me that she was thinking of getting a
prohibition order out against her
husband,” he told Mum sadly. “Like a
fool 1 sympathised with her. Now she’s
telling everybody; ‘lt’s all right for old
Cummundy to begrudge a working-man
a drink —he can afford to have a keg in
his kitchen.’ ”
* * ♦ ♦
“Craiser”: Student rags in Adelaide
haven’t always had tragic results. I once
attended a Commencement to receive a
medal for some alleged literary achieve-
ment. Sir Samuel Way was there as vice-
chancellor, with Lord Tennyson, son of
the poet, who had donated the medal.
Sammy was short of height, but long-
winded in discourse, and every time he
got up to speak a bell rang and kept on
ringing until he sat down. The students
vociferously accused him of being the
author of the outrage. A search was
made for the cause of the disturbance,
but nobody could be found who was
likely to be guilty of the offence against
the dignity of Sammy’s office. No
wonder; he was setting it off himself, a
make-and-break device having been
inserted in the seat of his chair, with
wires running to a buzzer concealed
beneath the dais.
• » * •
“W.P.T.”; Cheap and novel form of
advertising was that adopted by a grocer
in an outer Sydney suburb. He parked
his car in front of the shop, and on the
windscreen in bold letters he wrote
“Tinned Fruit,” with an arrow pointing
to his shop.
* * * ♦
“F.S.”: If Apuleius weren’t dead and
the Australian Customs weren’t, like
Caesar’s wife, above suspicion, we could
imagine that joky author slipping a bribe
to an officer of the institution to hold up
his latest book. The Golden Asse of
Apuleius has been extant for 1800 years,
but when the new translation Robert
Graves made for the Penguin people
reached our shores, some anonymous
official decided it wasn’t the sort of book
to put in the hands of the young person.
A row was started which woke up the
Minister of Customs and he lifted the
ban. R. W. Maynard, the Melbourne
representative of Penguins, was asked by
local booksellers to cash-in on the pub-
licity by making a special release, but he
refused on the grounds that the book was
a classic—not a spicy yellowback. It
came out quietly some months later. That
hasn’t prevented it from topping the
Penguin sales-list.
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”: The reported death of a
batch of American soldiers from drinking
an automotive anti-freeze solution re-
minds me of the discomfiture of a com-
pany of Diggers during the 1916-17
winter in France. A rum issue had been
ordered, and the O.C. told his runners
to take a rum-jar with them when they
went to draw rations. He cautioned
them to wash the jar well, and to wangle
an overflow issue from the quarterbloke.
The stimulant was duly issued, and within
20 minutes the whole company was roar-
ing drunk. S.R.D. w r as a very potent
beverage, but the O.C. knew that his men
would need more than the regulation
issue to get in that condition. Investiga-
tion showed that the jar taken by the
runner had been one held in reserve. It
contained a chemical spray for scatter-
ing after a gas-attack. The stuff had
frozen hard, but had thawed after contact
with hot washing water, followed by a
top-dressing of rum. A very agitated
company commander rang the battalion
M. 0., who told him the men would sur-
vive, despite the outsize headaches they
would suffer next morning. The haggard
looks of the company next day proved
him right.
NUTS TO YOU.
“A Scottish factory is to turn out a wool-
substitute from peanuts, of which experimental suits
made thirteen years ago are still being worn, un-
shrinkable, mothproof, and non-inflammable, ana
look as well as wool.”
When, peanut-suited, down the street
My wife went thirteen years ago,
I thought her nice enough to eat,
And many times I told her so.
But time is cruel, life is rough.
I gave up this romantic pose.
Observing she was growing tough . . *
And then the butchers’ prices rose;
“What! No more meat again today?
It costs too much for even stew?
Well, darling, you can now repay
My early compliments: you’ll do.”
The carving-knife was at her throat.
She panted, “Let me go, you brute—
I tell you what: we’ll have the coat
You liked, of my old peanut suit:
“Remember, it’s the finest cut;
You thought it tasteful, anyhow;
It’s hung a dozen seasons, but
It’s fresh from the dry-cleaner’s now.”
What sleeves! The revers were delicious;
We saved the pockets for dessert.
On Sunday, cold, we had nutritious
Cuts-on-the-cross of peanut skirt.
Butchers and graziers can make tracks —
Our wardrobe fills our larder’s drouth;
We’ll put our money on our backs
Henceforth; and live from back to mouth.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Angus Bob”: There’s a wee glimmer
of fitness in the fact that the Stone of
Scone was handed in at the ruins of the
Abbey of Aberbrothock —or, if you prefer
it, Aberbrothwick. The foundation-
stone of this abbey was laid by King
William the Lion on August 9, 1178 ; he
was buried there in 1214. The first
Scottish Parliament, or Convention of
Barons, was summoned by King Robert
the Bruce to meet there in 1320, and at
that time was issued the Declaration of
Scottish Independence, which Walter
Scott describes “As worthy of being
written in letters of gold ” I hae ma
doots whether Wattie Scott would have
approved of this modern piece of
melodrama.
♦ * * *
“Vaucy”: I see by the papers that a
Yank pro. golfer, Cary Middlecoff, has
had to turn the game up because he’s
allergic to grass. A sufferer from asthma
and hay-fever, he was finally told the
reason by his doctor. “There,” said I to
the missus, who not infrequently com-
plains that she has to play second-fiddle
to a golf-ball, “there’s one wife —if he
has a wife —who’ll have no more to com-
plain about.” The missus pondered for
a moment, then a somewhat anxious look
spread over her face. “Good heavens,”
she said, “having to share your life with
a confirmed golfer is bad enough—l’d
hate to share it with a golfer who wasn’t
allowed to play. If that woman’s wise
she’ll take him to some place where they
have bare fairways and Q and greens.”
* * * *
“P.T.”: Use of “canned heat” in
New Guinea as a foot lotion and for
starting fires with rain-soaked wood (B.
28/ 3/ ’5l) reminds me of what happened
to the whale-oil issued during the A.l.F.’s
first winter in France. It was expensive
stuff, but the higher-ups thought it might
prevent “trench feet.” The daily rub
demanded in “orders” was never popular,
and was dodged whenever possible ; other
uses were found for the oil. Men of
one 15th Brigade Battalion used it to
clean their steel helmets. The result was
so bright and startling that they were
dubbed “The Whale-oil Guards.” Men
in the forward areas found that by soak-
ing hard biscuits they could provide them-
selves with excellent fuel for braziers in
dugouts. Unfortunately the supply of
biscuits ran out and the Q people stopped
the issue of whale-oil.
* * * *
“Jasby”: When “Villefair” (B.
4/4/’5l), in criticising Nevil Shute, says
that no Aussie, would call a bathing-
costume “bathers,” or speak of “going
for a bathe,” it is obviously th© voice of
Sydney speaking. I can’t answer for all
States, but when I lived in Adelaide and
Melbourne both expressions were quite
common there. That’s going back a bit,
but in Adelaide, at least, they’re still in
use. At the recent inquiry into the death
of an Adelaide University student by
drowning, a witness spoke of seeing some
students being thrown into the Torrens
“in bathers” and later in the proceedings
counsel also used the term. I had never
heard the word “cossie” until I came to
Sydney, and I doubt whether it is ex-
tensively used outside New South Wales.
* Sit * *
“Lord Luvus”: After two years the
British Poster Advertising Association
suddenly discovered that billboards
showing the near-nude attractions of
London’s Fqlies Bergeres show from Paris
“Get these tomatoes away from my sun-lamp!"
were “shocking and immoral,” so an
army of billposters set out to clothe the
girls in little strips of black paper —much
to the delight of the manager of the show.
“They look much naughtier this way,”
he said, “so everyone is happy.” It
recalls the statue of Hercules that used
to stand in Adelaide’s Victoria Square.
Periodically some roistering homefarer
would knock off the hero’s figleaf and for
weeks thereafter the number of pedes-
trians who found it necessary to pass
through the gardens almost equalled the
city’s population. It usually took a long
time to find a carver capable of execut-
ing another figleaf of the same high
artistic quality as the statue. This
achieved, the flow of traffic would resume
its normal course until the next occasion.
* * * *
“Arfpint O’Casionally”; The spirit that
made St. Patrick’s Day (B. 14/3/’5l) and
July 12, too, what they used to be still
survives —in strange places. In Glasgow
a friend in the R.A.A.F. went to a foot-
ball match and discovered that amongst
g
-$iP T2LP^>
“I couldn't read the price ticket from there."
the spectators it was a sectarian brawl
with the green-buttonholed barrackers
on one side of him all yelling for the
Celtics and demanding the blood of the
referee if he gave a ruling to their dis-
advantage, and, on the other side, a yel-
low-badged mob howling similarly for the
Rangers. Insults and challenges to fight
were passed between members of the rival
factions over my friend’s head. Finally
one excited barracker commented on his
silence and asked which side he was
barracking for. He replied that he was
there to see good football and didn’t care
a damn which side won. The inquirer
seemed staggered; then he yelled to the
man on the other side of my friend with
whom he had been having an argument;
“Hey, d’ye see what we’ve got here, you
yellow-wearing spalpeen? There’s a
bloody atheist between us!”
* * * *
“Uramao”: For some time friend Tom
had been feeling ill and he was induced
to enter hospital, from which no one
expected him to emerge head-first. When
I first visited him he was four beds from
the end one, in which lay a patient who
was not expected to last the night. On
my next visit I noticed that the end man
had died and the others had been moved
up one. Two later visits two more end-
bed customers had passed away ; Tom
was now next to the end. On my next
call I approached the ward with trepida-
tion —to find the two end beds vacant.
On inquiry I found that Tom had been
told to get into the end bed when the
occupant died. Tom had jumped out of
bed, demanded his clothes and hadn’t
been seen since.
« * ♦ ♦
“Sackfair”: It was enough to make
anybody rub his eyes: an hour earlier
I’d passed through the camping area —
and seen nothing but tents and caravans.
Nov/, standing with an air of permanence
in the middle of the canvas slum, was a
solid-looking: weatherboard structure bear-
ing a corrugated-iron roof. At that
moment the threatening thunderstorm
broke. I bolted for the protection of
the overhanging eaves. That was how
I got into conversation with th© young
fellows who owned the novelty. They’d
built the walls in 6ft. sections with bolts
to connect one to the other. The roofing-
iron was attached to battens in a similar
fashion. Shutters, Army-hut style, served
as windows. And th :■ finished job was
not only proof against storms that could
blow a tent inside out, but was cooler
and more weatherproof than a canvas
holiday home. It could be erected as
quickly as a tent and carried with ease on
a light truck. Any time now some go-
getter will advertise: “Prefab holiday
homes, delivered to your camping site.”
* ♦ • *
“Pat”: My nomination for the smartest
evasion of a minute’s overtime in this
“Age of Shoddy.” The lass at the library
was marking off the outgoing books of
the lunch-hour queue. Seeing her counter
relief returning to take over, lassie poised
her pencil in mid-air, grabbed her hand-
bag and skedaddled, leaving her substitute
to finish the word.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Lupus”: Anyone doubting the neces-
sity for secret ballots should come along
to our school while class-elections are
being held. The first difficulty is to keep
the nominations down to a reasonable
number, otherwise in a class of 40 there
would be 40 nominations. That difficulty
overcome, the teacher writes the nomina-
tions on the blackboard and says “Hand
up those who are voting for Brown.”
Smith shoots his up. Jones, who is a mate
of Smith, looks round, sees Smith’s hand
up, so up goes his. Gradually other hands
rise until about half the class has voted
for Brown. Then the same thing for the
next boy on the list and so on to the
end, when it is found that 40 voters have
cast over 100 votes.
* * * ♦
“Irving”: For military enthusiasm I
nominate, against “Rann’s” (B. 21/3/’5l)
Polish gunners, Fritz, a scion of German-
settler stock, whom I met in a Brisbane
training-camp in 1940. Finding it irk-
some to 101 l in his blankets till the
belated reveille hour of six o’clock, Fritz
used to stomp out in search of something
to fill in his time. His tactics endeared
him to the cooks, who found their fires
all blazing merrily, and to the day’s
fatigue - squad,
whose tasks Fritz
discharged before
roll - call. His
virtue was re-
warded with six
days’ c.b., arising
from his 5 a.m.
assault on a tree
near the officers’
lines, the falling
of which had been
allotted to the day’s six fatigue-men. The
Old Man, issuing explosively from his
tent, was effusively greeted by Fritz, who,
in his inability to distinguish between
ranks, saluted corporals and colonels
with equal alacrity, in a general desire
to please. In the mess afterwards the
Old Man admitted his regret for criming
I vtz, and explained that his action sprang
from stupefaction at being ordered to
“Wake up all those other blanks and tell
’em to shift their gear if they don’t want
it smashed.” The incident didn’t sour
Fritz. I last saw him, sporting a batch
of campaign-ribbons, sweeping the tent-
lines at the same camp, then serving as a
discharge depot in the 1946 demobilisa-
tion. v
* * * *
“Taswegian”: The Bulletin not
being a happy hunting-ground for writers
of crime fiction, I was surprised at a
remark made by a competitor in a recent
radio show: he admitted to being a writer
of short-stories, and gave a list of the
journals which had printed his work.
The compere then asked if he’d had any-
thing accepted by The Bulletin. He
answered “Turn it upl’m not Edgar
Wallace.”
♦ * ♦ *
“Laetitia”: Another pang for genuine
horselovers (B. 24/1/’5l) will arise from
the processing of the so-called “brumby
beef” for fertiliser during the off-season
at North Queensland meatworks. Though
a leaven of real brumbies goes through
the killing-yards, the bulk of the future
fertiliser is provided by unwanted stock-
horses from the pastoral properties. This
reward for valuable services debunks
somewhat the much-vaunted Australian
love of the horse. Curiously, almost
the only genuine brumbies in Queens-
land today have their runs within
nine miles of Brisbane G.P.O. Two
mobs, of about 150 each, range
the precipitous “Blunder” area. They
are the progeny of animals abandoned
with the mechanisation of suburban
dairyfarms about 25 years ago. One
mob is led by a black stallion of a
fair stamp whilst the other is bossed by
a taffy lord of about 14 hands. Since
the precipitous terrain renders yarding a
task virtually beyond municipal pound-
keeping staffs, the day when the suburban
brumbies become fertiliser material seems
long distant. Meanwhile their numbers
are increasing.
A LIMIT TO EVERYTHING.
“A prominent specialist writing in the ‘Medical
Journal’ says it is right enough for a man to make
a friend of his doctor, but not to make a doctor
of his friend.”
If you are losing weight and looking weedy,
Or break out in a spotty kind of rash,
Toy with your food because you’re feeling
seedy,
You’re likely to be courting quite a crash
If, well-intentioned warnings all unheeding,
You will recite your symptoms to a friend.
How should he know what wogs you may be
breeding,
The kind of jalap you would most be needing
To get you on the mend?
You’re screwed up with the gripes; your
tongue’s all crusted.
Your pal—and what a pal!—says: “Castor
oil!”
He feels no pain with your appendix busted
And you about to leave this mortal coil.
Your fever fails to gain his recognition.
He guesses it’s anaemia you have got.
“Eat up!” is his advice. “Put on condition.
That you’ll be measured up by the mortician
Is likely more than not.
If you’ve to get two inches from your paper
Before it’s possible the print to read,
Would you consult your cobbler or your draper
As to the sort of specs that you may need?
And should your starter-motor fail completely
(Its innards are to you a total blank),
Would you consider it would run more sweetly
If it were fixed —and naturally neatly—
By someone in the bank?
Your family doc. you’ll find’s no “daylight
robber,”
Only concerned to prise you from your pelf.
Really, he’ll gladly make of you a cobber.
Just sit and tell him all about yourself.
To him you’ll be as welcome as oasis
To desert traveller. But this I wot:
You’ll put your friendship on a firmer basis
By telling him, at length, just what your case is,
Exactly what you’ve got.
What though his waiting-room is overflowing?
He’d never think your chatter to suspend.
“Stay not upon the order of your going”—
That’s his appreciation of a friend.
But here be warned! Harbor no strong conceit.
You
Mustn’t expect too much, for —here’s the
rub —
If upon the street some day he meet you,
And with most marked enthusiasm greet you
With “Come along, old man, I’m going to
treat you,”
He won’t mean at the pub.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Rumberg”: Snakes are rarely news
in N.Q., unless an outsize one turns up,
like the 25-footer found near Cairns last
year ; but our little district struck a couple
of unusual cases last week. The first was
when a farmer noticed, as he believed, a
carpet-snake caught in his disk-cultivator
among the dirt and cane-trash. This being
a fairly common occurrence, he grabbed
it behind the head and yanked it out,
then found he had 34in. of death-adder
in his hand, which he promptly bashed
on the head with a plough-spanner. Only
those who know the speed with which
an adder can strike will appreciate just
how lucky he was. In the second case, a
young chap was sitting on a box sharpen-
ing a chaffcutter-blade on an emery-
wheel. Suddenly the head of a big brown
snake, fascinated by the rhythmic
buzzing, rose into his line of vision from
between his knees. Earning top marks
for presence of mind, the lad stood up
slowly, still grinding away, then did a
reverse broad-jump, while the snake also
left in a hurry. Deciding it could happen
twice, he stationed his brother handy
with a shotgun and started on the job
again. Within a couple of minutes Joe
reappeared to listen to the “music.” The
12-gauge roared, and across the carcass
of the six-footer two amateur charmers
shook hands.
* * sH *
“Wonk”: How do other blokes get on
compiling correct Government statistics
on stock, produce, etc.? Here’s my ex-
perience. On March 22 I received the
usual printed form, with please-fill-in-
and-return instructions. It asked, in
separate sections, for numbers of beef-
cattle, dairy-cattle, sheep, horses, etc., on
hand at March 31, 1951. Below was the
“All right—a quid it's heads. "
usual, “I certify that particulars,” etc.,
“are complete and correct,” together with
the information that “this schedule must
be signed.” On March 27 I received
notice from the police that the schedule
was not to hand, and if not completed
and returned immediately action would
be taken. It still lacked four days to
March 31—days that included three stock-
sales, where, if luck was with me, I
intended to buy. However, knowing our
prickly John, I did what I could with
the schedule and posted it on my way
to the first sale. I had just bought heavily
when the law approached. “Have you
returned your statistics yet?” I had.
“H’m. Filled in and all correct, I hope?”
“No, as a matter of fact,” I replied
honestly. “It is wrong.” He struck an
attitude and his eyes narrowed. “Well,”
about half the people round here deserve
to be sent up,” he snorted indignantly.
“They make things that difficult.”
* * * *
“A.E.S.”; “Anthrop’s” cocky who in-
tended to drag his old nag to the creek
after he’d shot him (B. 28/3/’5l) reminded
me of Jake. To save themselves the labor
of digging a grave he and his boss led
old Nugget to the edge of a dug-out
rabbit-warren, and the boss stood with
his hands on Nugget’s flank ready to
push when Jake fired. But let Jake tell
it. “I lets go. Next I know the boss is
in the hole, and Nugget’s lit out for the
horizon. First I think I’ve shot the boss,
but up he comes yellin’ and cursin’, so
I know he’s jake, I draw another bead
on Nug., and I’m just goin’ to let fly
when he drops like a stone. We run up
and find he’s shot clean through the
brain. But his take-off was so sudden
that there was nothin’ there when the
boss pushed. And so we had to dig
the flamin’ hole after all.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”:’ Mat and I drifted into
the crowd round an election candidate
and listened for a while. It was the usual
stuff. The candidate was working himself
up when Mat called “What about the
seed-wheat?” The candidate ignored
him. Mat called it again. This time the
candidate hesitated, peered earnestly to-
wards Mat, then went on. Mat moved
to another part of the crowd and called
“What about that seed-wheat?” The
candidate paused and said “Well, my
friend, what about it?” “You tell us,”
Mat came back. The candidate resumed
his discourse. Mat interjected again.
The candidate now became upset, and
some of the crowd, seeing this, began to
call “What about that seed-wheat?” or
“Tell us about the seed-wheat!” The
uproar became such that the candidate
held up a hand for silence, got it, and
cried “Now what’s this about seed-
wheat?” A good fifth of that crowd
roared, “You tell us.” From there on
the meeting got out of hand. Mat led me
away. “What was that about seed-
wheat?” I asked. Mat grinned. “Slowed
if I know,” he said. “It was just somethin’
t’ sing out. Ain’t it funny how some goat
like me can bust up a meetin’ like that
with somethin’ silly that nobody knows
anythin’ about?”
* * ♦ ♦
“Brick E.”: Cows are natural sticky-
beaks, of course, but a certain Jersey I
know is the limit. While we were pegging
out the foundation for her boss’s place
she made such a nuisance of herself,
walking through stretched lines, etc., that
we had to keep bits of brick handy to
discourage her. At “dampeourse high”
the flooring was laid upside-down on the
joists ; Dais promptly walked up the run-
plank to investigate. It took three direct
hits to persuade her to leave. There was
900U§B12g
PRESSED |
WHIIE-U-WAra
/ X/
a hold-up for window-frames ; when we
returned to the job the bovine lady had
left ample evidence of her habitual
ramblings across the floor. The partition
walls were still
“green” when
she wandered
in—apparently
to note the size
of the rooms.
Leisurely she
roved through
them all while
the boss brickie
stood biting his
nails, not dar-
ing to stampede
her for fear of
seeing a wall
bowled over.
Last Sunday I happened to go by the job
again. The long wait for roof-tiles is
over; they’re on, and the plasterers are
in. Dais was in, too. With a most com-
placent expression on her face she was
gazing out the front window, I’d love
to be there the first time she strolls into
the lounge-room when a tea-party is in
session.
* ♦ j* *
“Bo”: Old Joe rose from the bench
outside his kerosene-tin-and-slab humpy,
where he had been getting the last of the
day’s sun, and said “Well, I s’pose I
better be settin’ me alarm-clock.” Then he
picked up an old flat tin-dish and began
filling it with wheat from a bag just inside
the door. Ned, the new mailman, who
had dropped in with some pension papers
for him, watched Joe as he put a handful
of wheat in the tin and put it down beside
his bunk. “The old chook-clock, eh?”
he grinned. Then Joe bent down and
sprinkled wheat in a thin line out of the
humpy into the middle of the yard, care-
fully breaking the line, however, for about
foot in two places. “What’s the idea
o’ that, Joe?” Ned asked. The old bloke
looked up. “Well,” he said, “them
blasted fowls have bin wakin’ me up a bit
earlier than I want lately with their
peckin’ at the tin,” he said, “so this'll
delay ’em a bit while they’re lookin’ for
the line again.”
♦ * * *
“Betcha”: Steve’s one of those blokes
who plump doggedly for anything new,
so I wasn’t surprised to find him attack-
ing his rabbit paddock with myxomatosis.
In our district mosquitoes to spread the
disease are rare, but, undaunted, Steve
imported some infected bunnies and
housed them in an enclosure near the
house. From there he pursued his cam-
paign. On each big warren in his rabbit-
paddock he set a trap, and, making a
catch, he tabbed the rabbit and marked
the burrow correspondingly. Then home
went Brer to be hand-infected with the
virus, after which he was released in his
own warren to spread disease among the
rest of his family. Any extras caught
went to replenish the supply in the en-
closure, “It’s a beaut, way of getting
rid of ’em,” said Steve, taking me along
to see the comer he had already worked
over. “I found four dead here one
morning.” “You don’t believe the stories
about this brain complaint spreading to
other animals?” I asked. “Or the account
of young lambs getting it, or humans?”
“No,” Steve scoffed. “Nothing the
matter with my brain, is there? An’ I
been working full time on it for weeks.
Don’t you reckon there’s less rabbits in
this corner?” “Maybe,” I conceded rather
generously. “But what about those that
are left? And the burrows?” “Oh, I’ll
come back and dig the burrows out later
on,” he informed. .“The rabbits are the
main thing. Want some infected bunnies
for your paddock?” Steve still thinks it
is the skin-money Fm after by digging
mine straight out.
* * ♦ *
“L.A.P.”: Bill’s father-in-law had five
young cockerels of which he was very
proud and a lesser bird which he claimed
was a pullet. Despite Bill’s protests, the
old chap insisted on making a gift of
the alleged pullet to his son-in-law. Bill,
having had seven years in which to learn
that his aged relative was never wrong,
took the bird, promising to replace it with
a cockerel he had at home. After a few
days with Bill’s pullets the newcomer
gave abundant and ample proof of his
masculinity. A couple of weeks later the
bird was returned to its original owner,
who quite unsuspectingly welcomed the
new cockerel, though he did remark that
it was not up to the standard of the
birds he bred.
* * * *
“Jade”: Like the Dyaks of Borneo (B.
18/4/’5l) the Sakai of Malaya make
their blowpipes in two pieces. But after
being neatly joined the heavy-duty type
is bound all over with split lawyer-vine
(rotan) covered with latex from wild
rubber-vines and cured over a smoke fire.
My father has had one of this sort and
the lighter unbound “playboy” weapon
for over 40 years, and it is only recently,
after 20 years in the drier Australian
climate, that the join in the lighter one
has become visible. The heavy blowpipe
is still so airtight and the dart with its
pith end so neat a fit that it doesn’t take
too much effort to send it into a rolled-up
Bulletin up to the pith. Sakai darts are
poisoned just before use, for the same
reason that one does not wander about
with a loaded gun ; the poison-container
is worn on the sole garment, the belt.
The poison is made from soot, pawpaw
juice and the active ingredient sap of
the ipoh-tree (the upas-tree of fiction),
an unpleasant vegetable of which even
the sawdust will cause a rash. For
livelier game such as monkeys, chili
juice is added to detain the victim
scratching while the poison works. Food-
values of the flesh of blowpipe-poisoned
game do not seem to be affected ; the part
round the dart is removed and the game
goes into the community “rice-pot” in
which simmers a mess of leaves, roots,
white-ants, fish, frogs, birds (plucked
but complete with innards) and possibly,
if the occasion warrants it, a handful of
rice. Although the poison does not harm
the stomachs of the Sakai it once killed a
tiger. Near Kuala Kubu a Sakai going
round his traps mistook a tiger for a
litter of wild pigs (also striped in youth)
but found out his error when the big cat
leaped. His only weapon a parang
(jungle-knife) which he had smeared with
all his arrow poison, the old Sakai killed
the tiger, but was nearly mauled to death
in the struggle. Dr. Delmadge of Kuala
Kubu saved the old chap’s life, and was
so impressed when he viewed the remains
of the tiger that he paid the Sakai a
pension of $5 monthly (wealth to a
Sakai, who seldom has five cents) as long
as he lived. The Sakai survived the
doctor.
TO AN OUTBACK CHILD.
You learnt to count in quandongs and corellas,
With crows providing groups of twos and threes
Of flapping jet;
And yet x
When northward lie the mountains of the
morning,
And far from us the jagged range’s frieze,
When suns will set
Grey-wet
Under the sullen chill of Southern seas,
Will you remember spring-bright hills and
counting
The crimson fruit under the quandong trees?
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


'MiLtf'///,
\
3T
aM)
y*
A*
? yy V-*C 4 '&W
r* ** v <&y v
OUR CHILDS
FUTURE IS
ASSURED...
with
THE EQUITABLE’
We invest the child endowment payments
in our child’s future. No worries whether
ive will be able to send him on to Um-
rersity or give him a start in his pro-
fession or trade.
Vou are invited to make an appointment
with “The Equitable” to discuss the
matter of assurance. Your action now can
mean so much for your child later on-
call, write or phone to-day.
ED
ĝ
PROBATE k GENERAL
INSURANCE CO. LtD.
ĝ
ğ
g
Tl
£
A
c?
a
?*
i&i
c~*
©yy
G?
\<?«
£
<2?
2
>A
TOOTH'S K.B. LAOER —Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K. 8.46.18
'** menus
mi BETTER
ON-
&
g
w#
g
g
A
>-
mm
T \
SsHS
g
Cl*
TRADE
MAR}*
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
“Solitude”: We were down-country.
We’d just delivered a mob and were
making for the nearest township when a
bloke in a ute breezed along and an-
nounced that a fire had just started a
mile up the road. He was on his way in
to see if he could get the local bush
brigade. Wheeling our nags, we struck
out for the fire, and, armed with green
bushes, were soon belting at the slowly-
creeping flames. Down a long line of
sparse pasture went Seventyfiver, banging
right and left at great speed, and charging
back often to
quilt a spot
that threat-
ened to break
out again.
He was half-
way down the
stretch when
a noise be-
hind shot
him out of
the path of a
big truck that
spouted water
fore and aft.
I t passed
along the flat, quelling the outbreak there.
Then Seventyfiver spotted a blaze on a
small knoll above, and dashed up to ply
his branch once more. As he battered
at the last flicker a voice remarked:
“That’s the lot, mate. She’s finished. Not
much burnt. This property belongs to
Tom Clifton, at the white house there.”
Seventyfiver looked round eagerly. “Yair?
An’ where’s the others? Over there, or
is it on at the pub?” “Eh? The helpers?
They’ve gone home, of course.” Slowly
the old bloke turned, and we made for
our nage. At the fence he paused. He
took in the handful of burnt acres, the
fire-truck, the white house on the hill,
and his head moved sideways in deep
sorrow. “I tell y’, Sol,” he mourned,
“bushfires ain’t what they used t’ be,”
& * * *
“Ossa”: When the ants start coming
to ground the rain’s gone. Maybe it’s for
an hour, or maybe for a week —they don t
go into detail —but if you see making
earthwards the little black fellows that
burn your mouth when you strike them
in your smoke-oh, you can bank on at
least a look at the sun. But you have
to be careful. Ned confidently predicted
“fine for the weekend” on the strength
of a mass migration down a strainer-post
and into the summer-grass, and couldn’t
fathom it at all when it rained buckets
that night. A few days later we saw what
he probably missed. A little black train
was coming down the strainer all right,
and into the summer-grass, but then going
up around the other side of a big dead
ironbark 15ft. away. It rained buckets
that night, too.
* * * *
“V.”: Dick edged along the saleyard
fence to where Charlie Rand was hooked
over the top rail. “Nags are hitting a
ridiculous figure all right, eh?” he began.
“That is, hacks. I chased them last two
“MUST you smoke before I've finished my food?"
of Watson’s to twenty-five quid before
I dropped out. They’re old and not
worth it.” Charlie nodded agreeably.
“Still, a bloke must have a nag,” per-
sisted Dick. “Mine’s gone lame on me.
I — er —i was thinking of that brown pony
in your creek-paddock, Chari. Suppose
you wouldn’t sell her?” Charlie pondered
the matter. “Well, yair, I hardly need
her now,” he decided. “Reckon I could
sell.” “How much?” Again Charlie
thought about it. “Thirty-five quid,” he
announced. “Thirty-five! Cripes! Too
dear,” yelped Dick. “I’ll have to get one
for less than that.” He drifted off and
left Charlie to his thinking. Ten minutes
passed, then Chas. stirred himself and
went hunting Dick. “ ’Bout that pony,”
he said. “We been good neighbors a
long time now, Dick, an’ many a good
turn y’ve done me. Seein’ y’re stuck, 111
give y’ that pony f’r nothin’. ’ Dick
looked taken back. “Pretty good of you,
Chari.,” he managed. “But, cripes, you
don’t owe me anything. No, I couldnt
take it like that, but if you’d do it a bit
cheaper I’d be glad.” The other shook
his head regretfully. “Couldn’t,” he re-
plied. “Wouldn’t be a fair go. I think
a lot o’ that pony, an’, don’t y’ see, if
them crocks o’ Bill Watson’s is worth over
twenty-five, it’d be plain insult t’
pony t’ let her go f’r less’n thirty-five.”
* * ♦ *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl and Pocket-
knife were riding through the Ninety-
mile Bend country, and hit Red Louis s
hut about midday. There was smoke
from the chimney, so they rode to the
door. Louis appeared, they yarned, and
he invited them to lunch. They hung
their horses up and went into the hut.
Louis had three chairs at his table, and
he got a couple of kero.-cases and offered
them to his visitors, with apologies.
Mystified, they looked at the chairs.
“Oh,” said Louis, “they’re for Jim and
Joe.” Raising his voice he called, “Jim!
Joe! Come an’ get y’r tucker.” Out of
the gumsuckers came two large tabby-
cats, which hopped on to a chair each and
sat there. “They’re a bit shy,” Louis
confided. Little Curl and Pocketknife sat
down and ate, watching Louis pass bits
of meat to the cats. “Are they related?”
Pocketknife asked. “Yair,” said Louis.
“Brothers. They had a sister, but I got
rid of her. Would have meant buyin’
another chair if I’d kept her.” Later, as
the pair rode thoughtfully away, Little
Curl turned in his saddle and looked
back. “Y’ know,” he said disgustedly,
“if that old galoot had a coupler kids
he’d ha’ made the kids sit on the boxes
an’ given us the chairs. But his flamin’
cats had t’ have the chairs.” Pocketknife
didn’t say anything.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: The stranger drove his
long, black shiny car on to the paddock
set aside as a parking-area at our local
show, and departed. An hour before
closing-time he returned —to find he had
underestimated both the event’s
popularity and the district’s vehicular
population. Like a gem in a motley,
haphazard setting his car was completely
surrounded. In wrath he cut off the
honorary car attendant en route to the
publican’s booth and demanded to be
told how the blazes he was expected to
get his car out of that jumble. The hon.
official replied politely that he wasn’t
really good at riddles, but the problem
would, no doubt, work itself out at
closing-time. Snorting louder than the
blue-ribboned bull, the visitor strode
back, flung himself behind the wheel,
and began to back cautiously be-
tween the higgledy-piggledy ranks.
Nobody but an egotistical idiot or
a super-driver would have attempted the
feat. He was both. For ten minutes the
sleek car writhed and twisted and
squirmed, missing other vehicles by
decimals, but gradually inching out. With
the open paddock almost attained the
driver made his first mistake: there was
a sickening, scratching sound on the
blind side. Swiftly he swung the wheel
—and ground along a five-ton truck. The
attendant had returned. He regarded the
desecrated duco without emotion before
commenting: “Well, what d’you expect?
Just because y’r number-plate spells OZ it
don’t make you a wizard!”
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: There was revelry in
the wheatlumpers’ camp at the long week-
end, and
Flannery
condoled
with the
moaning
man in the
bunk. “ ’Tis
m y belief,
Timmy, me
boy,” he said,
“ ’twas a bad
thing you did,
hitting a man
with a stick
when you had
a yard or two
of barbed-wire wrapped around the top-
end. Them barbs makes any man
savage, even if he does happen to come
from Belfast.” And it was so.
MORNING ON THE BEACH.
All silver-grey, ere shines the sun,
The sea and sky and sand are one.
Half-hid in misty silhouette,
The cliffs have not awakened yet.
A wraithlike pier stretches away
To nothingness within the grey.
The listless wash of tide creeps in—
The sea’s white hands the day begin.
Now smooth, the sand, all combed and clean,
Shows prints where feet of gulls have been.
Against the sand a figure black
And bent shoves driftwood in a sack.
Dark boats and masts hang motionless
Within the still, wide sacredness.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


THIS BOOKLET
ON REQUEST
: -,C
W JU
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UTS
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
you know: when, how and why a Will
should be made or revised? —that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified ... of Trusts and what they involve
... of how you can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury. Townsville. Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
City Electric Light Cos. (Brisbane)
r Dividends ,
Jan., Profit, Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.!
1946.. 168,251 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 127,407 1,979,297
Written off debenture exes., £715.. 1,980,012
Net additions reserves, £120,938.. 2,100,950
1947.. 159,047 5* p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 130,473 2,129,524
Added debenture exes., £Bl6 .. 2,128,708
Net addition reserves, £149,022 .. 2,277,730
1948.. 198,486 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 157,847 2,318,369
Net addition reserves, £158,041.. 2,476,410
1949.. 260,779 5£ p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 182,401 2,554,788
Net addition reserves, £188,593.. 2,743,381
Added intangibles, £7116 .. 2,736,265
1950.. 114,432 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 215,268 2,635,429
Added intangibles, £8922 .. .. 2,626,507
Net addition reserves, £215,199 .. 2,841,706
1951.. 296,495 5j p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 280,673 2,857,528
f After deducting intangibles (now £126,645).
Here forward-looking and efficient
private enterprise and bureaucracy are
running smoothly in double-harness. In-
vestment interest in the co.’s ord. scrip
centres firstly in the security aspect and
secondly in the prospect of capital gain
from new share-issues at par. Last issue
was 2,278,192 new £1 ords., one for five,
to those on the register at October 31,
1950. When the books closed paid capital
stood at £5,966,546 in 20,000 6 p.c, and
125,000 7 p.c. prefs. and 7,828,673 ords.
—there was £2,051,060 still to come on
the new shares. The debenture debt
figured at £2,812,000 (up £800,000), and
was costing the co. on the average
approximately 3.7 p.c. p.a.
To help finance an accelerated pro-
gramme of development, including new
subsidiary interests, more debenture and
share capital will be needed “earlier than
was anticipated.” Arrangements for the
extra debenture money (amount not
stated) are in hand, and those on the ord.
register expect to be offered more new
shares (number not yet announced) at
an early date. To enable the contribs. to
participate in the coming issue, holders
can pay the balance due on the scrip on
or before May 2. At 265. 6d. the f.-p.
£1 ords. give an immediate return of
£3 17s. p.c. on a 5£ p.c. div. basis. So the
investor who looks for 4 p.c. on his
money (same div, basis) counts on a one-
for-five new issue at par., which would
reduce the net price, after exercising the
rights and allowing for brokerage, to
255. 7d. The 7 p.c, prefs, at 30s. yield
4.6 p.c. The non-cumulative 6 percents
seldom come on to the market.
The co. is the executive part of the big
Government-controlled scheme for the
supply of current throughout south-
eastern Queensland, and it also holds
a long-term franchise covering the Tweed
River district (N.S.W.). The ord. div. is
anchored by legislation at 2 p.c. above
the rate for Commonwealth loans volun-
tarily subscribed during the preceding
year. The Government fixes the selling-
price for current, after allowing for exes.,
including depreciation, cost of debenture
and pref. money and a moiety (1 p.c. on
capital) for the reserve fund. After
adding £215,199 net to the renewals
account, etc. (now £2,429,102), last term’s
£296,495 of profit was £72,379 less than
the co. was entitled to earn under the
provisions of its franchise. Rising costs,
still on the up-grade, were the trouble,
and further increases in tariff rates have
been granted.
Outlay on capital account last term
was £1,861,184, making total outlay over
the last five years £5,526,960;
1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. .. £4,052,564 £4,659,403 £5,966.546
Debentures .. 1,512,000 2,012,000 2,812,000
Sundry creditors.. 549,924 569,407 872,255
Final divs. ..
Property, plant,
mains, etc. .. 7,666,094 8,782,013 10,643,197
Stock .. .. 607,664 746,726 1,207,283
Book debts, etc... 235,351 342.369 566 001
Cash, etc. .. 256,501 115,262 *240,433
* Includes shares in subsidiary (£100,002).
Stocks increased by £460,557 and book
debts by £223,632. Owing to shortages
of materials and delays in delivery, the
new Bulimba B power-station is not likely
to operate before 1953. To avoid power
rationing, the board bought a 10,000-k.w.
generator from the U.S., which is to be
installed in the Ipswich area before the
winter of 1952.
To help overcome the shortage of
materials, the co. formed a subsidiary,
Queensland Industries Pty., in September
last. This offshoot has an issued capital
of £250,000 (in £1 shares), of which
£100,002 was paid-up when the books
closed. It has (1) acquired coal-bearing
leases, now being tested, on the Wes#
Moreton field; (2) bought a sawmill,
which is being transferred to anew site
at Peachester; (3) purchased McConechy
Scott’s foundry and engineering works at
Ipswich ; (4) taken up clay-bearing lands
on which up-to-date brick-works are to be
erected. When fully developed, those
new projects are expected to give a satis-
factory return on capital invested in them.
Public requirements, as well as the co.’s
own needs, are to be catered for, Queens-
land Industries Pty. has itself thrown off
a subsidiary, Queensland Contractors Pty.,
which is test-drilling the coal lease already
referred to, and has outside drilling con-
tracts in hand as well,
York Motors (Holding), Ltd. (Sydney)
and Subsidiary - .
, Dividends To Re-
biov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1944.. 33,245
Added intangibles, £495 .. .. 137,653
From inner reserves, £10,006 .. 127,647
1945.. 52,620
1946.. 54,264
Added intangibles, etc., £2350 . , 85,471
1947.. 205,601
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 23,330
Reduction intangibles, £9OO .. 24,230
Share premiums, £BB,OOO .. .. 112,230
1948.. 290,059
To stock reserve. £50,000 .. .. 299,989
Reduction intangibles, £9OO .. 300,889
1949.. 376,996
To stock reserve, £IOO,OOO .. .. 497,885
Reduction intangibles, £IO2O ~ 498,905
Reserves capitalised, £BO,OOO .. 418,905
1950.. 995,569
The phenomenal prosperity of the
motor trade rivals that of the wool
industry. This York co.’s turnover, which
shot up from £844,800 in 1945 to
£5,504,000 in 1948 and advanced to
£8,380,000 in 1949, reached £16,600,000
last term. Public interest in the business
is through the holding co., which owns
all the issued capital in the operating
subsidiary, York Motors Pty., Ltd., and
little else. Last term the holding co.
increased its own capital (now £680,000)
by £280,000, of which £BO,OOO was bonus
scrip (capitalisation of share-premium
reserve) and the balance was subscribed
by shareholders at par. The holding in
the proprietary (now £680,000) was
increased by £368,000, of which £240,000
represented bonus scrip issued by the
operating co., the balance being cash
subscribed by the parent.
The proprietary, which began in 1932,
holds franchises in N. S. Wales for
Morris and Chrysler cars and trucks, and
for Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Singer, Stude-
baker and Willys cars, as well as for
Fargo trucks and Ansaldo tractors. In
Queensland its agencies include Austin,
Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Willys and Reo
vehicles, and Oliver tractors and Britstand
and other heavy earth-moving equipment.
The British agencies are the money-
spinners, shortage of dollars having
virtually cut off the flow of American
vehicles. Of the new cars registered in
N. S. Wales during 1949-50 (41,163, up <
15,697), 77.2 p.c. came from U.K. and :
7.9 p.c. from U.S. and Canada, whereas
in 1938-39 the ratios were 38.8 p.c. and
60.6 p.c. respectively. And there is
nothing to suggest that the present posi-
tion is likely to be reversed in the fore-
seeable future.
Servicing and sales of parts also make
a handsome contribution to earnings,
which have been assisted further by
increases in selling-prices. Last term
gross trading profit, etc., increased by no
less than £1,104,797, or 91.2 p.c.:
Gross Trading Tax Net
Profit. Exes. Provision. Profit.
1949 .. £1,210,141 £550,980 £282,165 £376,996
1950 .. 2,314,938 748,428 570,941 995,569
The net result, which benefited by
£618,573 of the gain, was 146.4 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the close of accounts,
compared with 94.2, 83.2, 65.9, 17.4 and
16.8 p.c. back to 1945.
Uncertain of how long the boom will
last, and of what lies ahead of the trade
by way of taxation and other factors
affecting sales and outgo, the cautious
board lifted the div. from 20 p.c, to 25
p.c., leaving £846,569 (85 p.c. of the
year’s net earnings) in the business. That
lifted free reserves and undistributed
profits to £1,265,474, which is £585,474
more than paid capital, whereas nine
years ago £154,212 of the capital was un-
represented by tangible assets in the
books.
Balance-sheet figures suggest that
chasses came forward faster than bodies
could be gmade and vehicles assembled,
and that the queue of buyers is still a
large one:-
Consolidated Figures.
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £312,000 £400,000 £400,000 £680,000
Overdraft .. 251,642 110,793
Creditors,
ete.f . . 430,270 632,945 1,547,615 1,581,218
Tax provision 183,951 306,617 326,626 620,372
Freeholds .. 52,835 108,457 110,757 144,183
Plant .. 28,581 38,990 57,313 81,443
Stocks .. 714.7771,054.8621,260,877*2,127,982*
Debtors .. 373,306 508,462 722,885 963,818
Investments.. 31,059 38,655 48,131 63,499
Cash .. 685 918 572,163 761,801
* After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
t Includes unspecified amount of specific reserves.
Stocks (shown less a reserve of £200,000
against price fluctuations) increased by
£867,105 and book debts by £240,933,
while £33,603 was added to the amount
coming to creditors, etc. The cash hold-
ing also increased by £189,638. Owing
to tenancy difficulties, a start has not yet
been made with the new building project
on the five-acre block at Waterloo
(Sydney), where assembly works, truck
showrooms and service-station are to be
erected. It was for this purpose that
shareholders put up £200,000 of fresh
capital last term. To cater for still further
expansion, additional freeholds have been
bought in both Sydney and Brisbane,
The market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. £1 shares at 695. 6d.
(565. a year ago), giving a return of 7.2
p.c. on a 25 p.c. div. basis —an interim
at the rate of 25 p.c. p.a. has been de-
clared in respect of the current term.
Excluding the stock reserve, net tangible
cover is 575. 2d.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
, Dividends N Nominal
i —Pref,—To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, served*
£ £ ££ £ £
’44.. 17,551 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 7
To contingencies, £2000 .. j
75 61,243
'45.. 17,581 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 7
To contingencies, £2000 ..J
105 61,348
Share premiums, £10,119 .. ..71,467
’46.. 20,639 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 12,011 3,414 74,881
Net addition reserves, £18,490 .. 93,371
Holeproof and Subsidiaries.t ■
, r Pref. N Ord.
8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 8 p.c.
’47.. 33,701 2214 3000 1823 13,760 106,275
Share premiums, £21,500 .. .. 127,775
Wage subsidy, £1287 .. .. 129,062
Net reduction reserves, £3476 .. 125,586
10i p.c.
’48.. 51,730 2214 3000 7084 19,189 145,829
Share premiums, £23,650 .. .. 169,479
Added reserves, £1367.. .. .. 170,846
’49.. 77,223 2215 3000 8750 24,268 209,836
Share premiums, £36,650 .. . . 246,486
Added reserves, £1627 .. .. 248,113
To contingencies, £35,000 .. .. 213,113
’50. . 137,243 2215 8000 9624 33,287 302,230
* Subject intangibles, £23,265 at 31/12/’50.
f After deducting interest outside shareholders.
The resilience of the post-war figures
of this hosiery and apparel manufacturer
is a pointer to the management’s
vigorous and successful policy of expan-
sion and decentralisation. A growing
and hungry market, largely shut off from
overseas competition and spurred by in-
flation, has provided the opportunity for
expansion, while decentralisation has been
undertaken partly to overcome the labor
problem and partly to quicken and
cheapen deliveries. A lot of new plant
has been installed, much of it for pro-
duction of nylon stockings, men’s socks
and rainwear and other apparel, includ-
ing women’s scarves and men’s dressing-
gowns, ties, fashion shirts, etc.
Output of the parent’s main factory at
Brunswick (Vic.) is supplemented by the
products of half a dozen auxiliary units
in and around Melbourne. The major
part of profits comes from this section
of the organisation. However, the N. S.
Wales offshoot, of which more will be
said presently, is stepping along in fine
style, and promises soon to become a
more substantial contributor to the pool.
And last term anew subsidiary, Holeproof
Apparel, Ltd., was formed in Melbourne
to take over the manufacture of apparel,
begun by the parent some three or four
years ago. This offshoot has a paid
capital of £275,000 in 100,000 £1 5 p.c.
prefs., put up by the public in Nov. last,
and 175,000 £1 ords., taken by the parent
in exchange for premises, plant, etc. It
has also taken over the plant, stocks,
etc., of Swann Waterproof Pty, (paid
capital £21,345), a small concern acquired
by the parent early in 1950.
Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd., a subsidiary
since 1935, became a public co. in May,
1949, when 75,000 £ls p.c. pref. shares
were issued. The £IIO,OOO of ord. capital
is held by the parent in exchange for
assets transferred. For the year to
August 31, 1950, co. netted £22,006 (up
£11,969), or enough to pay the pref. div.
(£3750) and show 16.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
Substantial additions have just been made
to premises and plant at the co.’s main
Rydalmere factory (near Sydney), which
turns out women’s hosiery and men’s
socks, and also to the near-by Ryde
factory, where rainwear is produced. To
help meet the outlay and provide for
further growth, paid capital has just been
doubled by the issue of 185,000 new £1
ords. at a premium of ss. each, one for
one, to those on both the pref. and ord.
registers. The rights to the new ords.
sold at up to ss. lid., making total cost
31s. The return at 3 Is. would be 3.8 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis, which, together
with pref. requirements, would call for
£556 less profit than was shown for the
year to August 31 last.
Turnover of parent and subsidiaries
last term increased by £632,000 (30 p.c.),
reaching £2,666,000, of which £2,064,005
represented the cost of raw materials and
their manufacture. After allowing for
depreciation (£69,474, up £19,474) and
taxation (£111,582, up £54,210), combined
net earnings were £137,243 (up £60,020).
That covered the parent’s pref. divs.
(£14,839) and 38.6 p.c. on its average
ord. capital as against 27.3, 21.6 and
15.5 p.c. for the three preceding years.
The ord. div. was kept at 10i p.c., and
£89,117 was ploughed back into the busi-
ness. Free reserves totalled £302,230,
subject to £23,265 of intangibles.
The expansion and rising prices show
up again in balance-sheet figures:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1049. 1950.
Ord. . . £172,000 £204,799 £258,000 £371,000
Pref. .. 202,685 252,685 252,685 287,685
Outside interests
Mortgages ..
Overdraft .. 202,390 448,218 125,174 79,946
Creditors .. 111,218 140,752 186,956 393,913
Tax reserves* 71,440 102,067 124,233 219,881
Final divs. .. 11,.310 18,875 23,081 29,719
Freehold,
plant, etc. 213,572 419,916 681,892 906,582
Shares other
cos. .. 175 175 175 275
Stocks .. 421,349 662,445 600,322 886,712
Book debts .. 226,077 230,974 116,138 249,680
Cash, etc. .. 195 265 365 14,723
Goodwill . . 15,950 15,950 17,823 23,265
* Includes provision for contingencies.
The net addition to fixed assets was
£224,690, to stocks £286,390 and to book


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Aitur
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW & STAR LIMITED.
(Incorporated in England.)
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 69.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
First INTERIM DIVIDEND of SIXPENCE
per Share Sterling in respect of the year
ending 30th JUNE. 1951, less United
Kingdom Income Tax at NINE SHIL-
LINGS AND SIXPENCE in the £ (Two
decimal point eight five pence per Share
Sterling), has been declared and will be
payable on 22nd MAY, 1951, to all
persons registered as holders of shares on
the Australian Register at the close of
business on 30th APRIL, 1951.
The Net Dividend is equal to Three deci-
mal point one five pence per share sterling.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
Ist to 3rd MAY, 1951, both days in-
clusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend will
be calculated at the rate of Exchange
ruling on Ist MAY, 1951.
For Lake View and Star Limited,
R. D. MORRISON,
Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, W.A., 13th April, 1951.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOREEN ELYA FITZGERALD late
of Heme Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOSIE ELLA INNES-BROWN has filed
a Petition No. 8010 of 1950 praying for
a Divorce from FREDERICK ALAN
INNES-BROWN on the ground of his
adultery with you You may apply to
the Court on or before the 25th June
1951 to be let in to defend and you may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. CLAYTON, UTZ
& COMPANY. Solicitors, 136 Liverpool
Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HELEN MURIEL BUCKLEY late
of Newcastle. —TAKE NOTICE that
MICHAEL BUCKLEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1108 of 1951 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
29th day of June 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor, of Federal
Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
cM"otel
FRCIHG fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park ... yet
it Is merely "round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
looms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WEHTWORIH
In
Thone BW 1361 { lO lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
CUARD
C4&01
AiSttUl/ Cls
PROTECTA _
Surd-SfU RtgU&nTtig
TILL
Suitable for e.er, tTpr ol bo.lne., •< «*"«»
all Sale*. Credits. Payouts etc. StronElj’ bol t,
pleasing In appearance. Send tor full dels
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing AgentP~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE a
ADELAIDE
PERTH •
w. C Penfold 8t Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
m Vardon & Sons Ltd.
m Docket Book Co. (Aust.l
ĝ
TODAY'S PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-six years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policies
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
m-'.
5 1 !#' -
1K...C
mn
M
Miuiiiy.n
ğ
g
g
The Union Bank has .been:
mi| friend
3*5
>1
Jfy-
In good times and bad, the Union Bank has
made thousands of friends—customers who
appreciate the service tendered by the Bank.
The Manager of the Bank's nearest branch is
an understanding and accessible person to
whom you can confidently turn for helpful
guidance in your financial affairs.
It is when your means are small and your
experience short that this service can prove
particularly valuable.
c lhc
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England )
Branches throughout Austraiiq t and New Zealand and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world. A
Telephone:
74387.
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Works of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
g
JUMP
awoHs
ooa
MiHl
g
Security
and Happiness... J
hand dnhand!
J »TUi» nnvr mt
■IMiNIfMNI OINMVId
/iaCag//o
11l If
For £27 (approx.)
You become a shareholder in
The North Shore Gas Co. ltd.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. ltd.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.
The Australasian Paper & Pulp Co. ltd.
Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd.
Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd.
Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd.
The Broken Hill Pty. Co. Ltd.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia Ltd.
Dunlop Rubber Australia Ltd.
Electricity Meter & Allied Industries
Ltd.
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd.
General Industries Ltd.
Goldsbrough Mart & Co. Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative Ltd.
Howard Smith Ltd.
Newbold General Refractories Ltd.
Broken Hill South Ltd.
There are HO LIMITS
TO YOUR DIVIDENDS!
★
Your capital earns more than
double Savings Bank interest.
★
There is no limit to the amount of
your ‘interest-earning’ investment.
★
Every penny you invest earns you
the same high dividend rate, and
holdings can be cashed at any time.
★
For as little os approx. £27 you
become a shareholder in 20 of
Australia's largest and safest
companies.
★
INVEST NOW!
Sub-Units in the First Security Unit
Trust purchased before 4 p.m. on
Tuesday, 15th May, 1951, enjoy a
full six months’ Dividend dating
back to 15th November, 1950 .. .
Dividends payable 15th June, 1951.
SECURITY UNITS PTY LTD.
To Mr. Bertram A. Farrin, General Manager, First Security
Unit Trust, 28 Grosvenor Street, Sydney. BU 3744.
Please send me Post FREE your booklet “Security and
HaDDiness.”
NAME
ADDRESS
. B/25/4/51
debts £133,542. To help meet
the outlay £221,009 net was
added to the outside debt. New
capital and surplus earnings and
provisions provided the balance.
And shareholders are presently
to be asked for more to meet the
cost of yet further expansion
and continued modernisation of
plant, etc. Anticipating the
request the market prices the
f.-p. ss. ords. at 14s. 7d., giving
an immediate return of 3.6 p.c.
on a 10i p.c. div. basis. At
245. lid. and 20s. the 6 p.c. B
and 5 p.c. C prefs. yield 4.8 p.c.
and 5 p.c. respectively. The
8 p.c, A’s seldom appear on
’Change. Net tangible cover is
£33 17s. sd. A’s, £lB 4s. B’s,
£4 Is. lOd. C’s and Bs. 9d. ords.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
t —Dividends— s Re-
Feb.. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ &
1942 . . 41,423 8 12$ 37,390 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 12$ 37.391 226,116
To staff fund, £IO,OOO.
1944 .. 47,642 8 12$ 37,391 236,867
To staff fund, £IO,OOO.
1945 . . 59,237 8 16 44,709 250,895
1946 . . 51,830 8 15 44,709 258,016
1947 . . 76,328 8 15 44,709 289.035
1948 .. 87,737 8 15 44,709 332,663
1949 .. 89,530 8 15 44,709 377,484
1950 . . 70,868 8 15 44,709 403,643
1951 .. 78,910 8 15 58,491 429,062
This well-handled drapery busi-
ness —the shop is at one of the
busiest intersections in the city,
facing King- and George-street
—is also one of the best profit-
earners and highest dividend-
payers in the retail group. Over
the past 31 years shareholders
have received divs. averaging 13
p.c., the rate being steady at 15
p.c. for the last seven of them.
The only distribution of bonus
scrip was a one-for-five issue
(£58,545) last term to celebrate
the diamond jubilee of the
foundation of the business. It
was made from excess provision
for taxation during the war
years, thus leaving the large
accumulation of visibly free re-
serves intact. At £429,062 they
exceed paid capital by £67,791,
and there is a large inner reserve
in the freehold, unrealised, of
course. Stocks and other assets
appear at figures which “can be
accepted with confidence,”, the
chairman says.
Over the last nine months the
market lengthened its bid for the
f.-p. £1 ords. from 695. 6d. to
78s. 6d., the return at the higher
figure being 3.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover
is visibly 445. sd. The rise in
equity prices generally is in part
a hedge against inflation, which
has become marked since the out-
break of hostilities in Korea, and
which has not yet turned full
circle —current high prices for
commodities, and the big De-
cember and subsequent lifts in
the basic wage, have not yet
completely percolated through
the whole process of manufac-
ture and distribution and into
over-the-counter selling-prices.
It is security of capital rather
than the immediate yield or
return thereon with which the
market is primarily concerned at
the moment.
Last term McDowell’s gross
earnings (£712,878) increased by
£113,685, due largely to price
and wage inflation. For the
same reason exes, gobbled all
but £8042 of the gain. Still, the
£78,910 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the small pref.
div. (£800) and show 22.2 p.c.
on the £351,271 of ord. capital,
thus leaving a comfortable
margin between earnings and
distributions.
Balance-sheet figures disclose
a sound financial position as well
as buoyant trading conditions:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. 302,726 302,726 361,271
Overdraft .. 15,619 20,808 28,031
Sundry creditors 200,177 165,970 210,411
Tax reserve .. 129,425 122,509 154,009
Final div. .. 29,673 29,673 35,527
Freeholds, etc. 371,836 378,330 383,108
Stocks .. 344,829 350.271 415,912
Book debts .. 192,299 166,730 211,112
Investments .. 47,502 47,400 98,172
Cash, etc. . . 7,735 11,694 19,104
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903
Including shares in the cash-
order subsidiary (W. T. Waters
and Cos., Pty.), the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£407,225) was
£79,187 stronger than at the
previous balance-
Kuala Lumpur Tin, N.L.
This co.’s two dredges at
Selangor (Malaya) together
handled less but richer ground
for the year to Sept. 31, 1950.
The London average spot price
of tin for the calendar year
1950 was £8745.9 as against
£5606.4 for 1949. So, despite
rising costs, profits were £31,498
better at £76,187, of which four
divs. each of Is. a share (total
2s. a share for previous term)
took £40,080. And another 3s.
a share has been sent out since
the close of accounts, making
total divs. paid to date £451,318.
Paid capital is £130,800 in
200.400 £1 shares,, of which
113.400 are f.-p. and the balance
paid to 4s. each.
Overall dredge performances
compare:
Treated, Tons. Yield,
No. 2 c.y. t.o. c.y.
1949 .. 1,750,866 200.9 .2561 b.
1950 .. 1,269,375 188.3 .344 „
No. 1—
1949 . . 626,622 111.7 .397 „
1950 . . 960,585 181.2 .422 „
The average value, cost and
profit per cubic yard were:
Per c.y.— ——^
No. 2 Value. Cost. Profit.
1949 .. 8.49 and. 6.36 and. 2.13 and.
1950 .. 13.16 and. 8.63 and. 4.53 and.
No. 1—
1949 .. 14.56 and. 6.83 and. 7.73 and.
1960 .. 16.64 and. 7.39 and. 9.25 and.
Dredgeable ground ahead of
No. 2 machine is put at
9,133,957 c.y. and of No. 1
833,411 c.y., with a potential 73..
acres held under agriculture
licence and not yet tested.
The average London spot
price of the metal rose frorr
£5882.8 for Oct., 1950, tc
£51470.3 for Feb., 1951, and ther
dropped to £81318.2 for March
On April 18 the figure was
£Bll2O. The rise was due
largely to the supply “squeeze”
which followed U.S. Govern-
ment buying for stockpile pur-
poses, and with the recent
easing of these purchases the
price has eased, too. Owing to
international developments, the
future price of the metal remains
speculative.
When the books closed the no.
had current assets totalling
£287,460 to meet outside
liabilities of £22,622. In addi-
tion unsettled war-loss and re-
habilitation claims totalled
£33,599. The market prices the
f.-p. £1 shares at 295. 6d. as
against 19s. Id.' a year ago.
A 1 Consolidated, Gaffney’s
Creek (Vic.), is back on the divi-
dend list with Is. a share (12 j
p.c.), payable May 31, making
total distributions to date
£720,000. Paid capital is
£36,000 in 10s. shares paid to
Bs. each. Last previous hand-
out was 2s. a share in Feb.,
1949. For the year to Aug. 31,
1950, 11,101 tons ore was put
through the mill for 41860 z.
standard gold, and a loss of
£12,143 showed up. The high
values in the Victory reef in the
upper levels diminished, and
attention was turned to develop-
ment of the mine at depth. Here
the grade of ore has improved
considerably since the close of
accounts, 6430 tons yielding
42170 z. gold for 27 weeks to
March 6, 1951. Ore reserves at
Oct. 31 last were estimated at
11,600 tons, averaging about
9dwt., and subject to revision
as development proceeded.
Sellers recently asked 70s. for
the scrip, the price of which had
dropped from 1245. in 1948 to
30s. in June, 1949.


\9
ĝ
.Am
iff
<y>
g
/m
No.
4 IN THE
-6UUOINO »
BETTE*
•pfEES*
This calendering machine thoroughly insu-
lates with rubber each cord in the special
tyre-making fabric and keeps it friction-free
for life.
!
0!
onr49.ie.si
SaUAJL
ĝ
IMU
Business.Rollery. Etc.
The Stock Exchanges
Though the trend in the bond
and fixed - interest - security
market is towards higher yields,
support for industrial equities
was at a high level last week.
B.H.P. went to a record figure,
and many other stocks regained
part of the ground they lost fol-
lowing the fall in wool prices
early in April.
Mt. Isa had an outstanding
rise to 545., while all other silver-
lead stocks were firm. King
Island Scheelite was a shade
weaker at 395. 3d. following a
slight slackening in the overseas
price of tungsten.
Sydney was waiting on the
John Vicars share-offering early
this week. It seemed assured of
a cordial reception. Otherwise
there was a momentary lull in
the new offerings. The Van-
guard insurance issue was over-
subscribed.
Sydney and Melbourne
brokers are overtaxed in keep-
ing pace with trading. Sydney,
though the investment list is
now called only once a day, is
probably busier than Mel-
bourne. The new company-
names appearing in the share-
lists of both cities are legion.
Greatest impetus to listing was
the alteration in the method of
taxing private companies in
1949.
After a three-day conference
in Sydney, the Associated Stock
Exchanges of Australia forecast
possible increases in commis-
sion rates, which have been
unchanged since 1939. 'The con-
ference also decided to recom-
mend to listed companies the
universal adoption of stock-units
to expedite the handling of
scrip.
OH in Australia
“Petro”: The article by John
Pain (B. 11/4/’5l) offers a
partial reply to a question often
asked with reference to the
necessity for the employment of
specialist geologists in the search
for oil. It is argued that a
geologist himself is a highly-
specialised scientist, and should
be able to tackle any problem
within the limited sphere of his
profession.
The answer is that the
geological approach to the
problems encountered in the ex-
ploration for oil is so different
from that in other branches of
geology that it is extremely diffi-
cult for the average rock-hound,
without long experience in
petroleum, to attune his mental
processes to the special demands
of oil discovery.
Geology is still, in the main,
an inexact science; there exists
so little really positive know-
ledge as to why commercial oil
is found at one location and is
absent at another that the
efficient petroleum geologist
must not only possess a very
soypd scientific foundation, but
he must also be, in the true sense
of the word, a craftsman. Much
as he is loth to admit it, his
greatest successes are often
founded on “hunches,” but he
has learnt to examine and
control these by cold scientific
analysis.
It takes many years of oilfield
experience, and many post-
mortems of admitted mistakes,
to do so. Unfortunately, this
technique, as far as superficial
appearances are concerned, is
very easily copied, and this fact
has left the industry, particularly
in the past, wide open to the
plausible charlatan.
One great difference between
the petroleum geologist and his
confreres in other branches of
the science is that the former has
to work and think in terms of
miles and tens of square miles,
while the mining geologist, for
example, deals with tens of
yards and acres. Although they
“I'Ve been here all morning and I haven't I hit the jackpot
yet!"
employ much the same instru-
ments, their respective jobs are
as far apart as those of a
theatrical scene-painter and a
miniature artist.
Broken Hill Pty. “old” shares
touched 58s. last week, and the
lOs.-instalment-paids were dealt
in at 355. 9d. Taken together,
this represented a record post-
war price for B.H.P. shares.
When the latest issue is fully
paid B.H.P. will have a capita]
of £25,000,000, an 8| p.c. div.
on which would call for over
£2,000,000 a year. More capita]
is likely to be issued within the
next couple of years. The New-
castle and Port Kembla enter-
prises will be in urgent need of
more coal before long. Some of
the new capital is being devoted
to 7 increasing coal supplies
through greater mechanisation.
* * ♦ *
N.Z. Forest Products’ £1 ord,
shares have risen strongly in
price over the past 12 months.
Lowest price during 1950 was
6s. 9d.; highest this year, 13s.
Last week the level was around
12s. 6d. Efforts are being made
in New Zealand to utilise the
Pinus insignis trees of all the
Lake Taupo district afforesta-
tion cos., and Australian con-
sumers are interested even to the
point of providing capital for
forest exploitation. There is a
world shortage of timber and
woodpulp. All Australian paper
mills, on the mainland and in
Tasmania, could make good use
of Maoriland woodpulp if it
were available. N.Z. Forest
Products originally began as
New Zealand Perpetual Forests,
which sold “bonds” representing
acre-lots planted with pine-trees
at £25 an acre and upwards.
Most of the bonds were later
converted into shares, but some
are still outstanding. N.Z.
Forest Products today has a
capital of £6,203,283 (of which
£994,368 is in 5 p.c. non-cum.
prefs.) but not enough actual
cash to exploit its forest re-
sources fully.
* * * *
The £1 shares in Frederic Ash,
Ltd., opened up in Sydney’s un-
listed market at 425. last week.
At that price the return would
be £4 15s. per cent, on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, £6 per cent, if the
rate rises to 12£ p.c. The co.
—in the retail hardware trade
in Newcastle, Sydney, Cessnock,
Lismore and Wollongong, with
subsidiary interests in Brisbane
—is financially strong, well-
managed, and has been in
business for nearly a century.
Last year’s profits were equal to
19.2 p.c. on capital. The shares
at last week’s price should be
attractive for income and hold-
ing purposes.
* * * ♦
R. B. Davies Industries, of
Sydney, has arranged to take
over the shares in four estab-
lished companies—W. H. Wells
Pty. and Wells Export Co., Pty.,
both of Melbourne, and Daw
Pty. and Victor Motor Co, Pty.,
of Sydney. The Wells acquisi-
tion will give R. B. Davies
manufacturing facilities in Mel-
bourne, while the other cos. will
fit into the Davies line of busi-
ness. Purchase consideration
(there will be an exchange of
scrip) has not been disclosed.
R. B. Davies Industries is the
largest manufacturer of builders’
hardware in the Commonwealth.
Its £1 shares have risen from
28s. 6d. to 38s. 6d. this year.
Last div. was 7 p.c., paid out of
earnings equal to 12 p.c. on
capital.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Two of the most disappointing
investments (from the specu-
lator s point of view) on ’Change
in recent years have been Robert
Reid and Sargood Gardiner.
Yet they are first-class businesses
of their kind, well managed and
solidly entrenched in the whole-
sale-softgoods trade. Robert
Reid has net tangible backing
(no doubt at conservative book-
values) of £2 behind each £1
share, yet the market pays only
3 Is. 9d. for the scrip, and gets a
5 p.c. yield from the 8 p.c. div.
(last year’s earnings were 11.8
p.c. on ord. capital). Sargood
Gardiner claims to net assets of
345. 9d. behind each £1 of ord.
capital, with earnings of 11.1 p.c.
Since the interim div. was cut
from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c. (tax-free)
the market has dropped to
275. 6d. for the ords., showing a
yield of 5.1 p.c. if the full year’s
div. remains at 7 p.c., or 4.3 p.c.
if it falls to 6 p.c. Highest price
for Robert Reid ords. in 1950
was 40s. 3d. (before the new
issue); Sargood’s touched 345.
* * * •
The offer of 120,000 ss, stock-
units in Stott and Underwood,
Sydney (B. 18/4/’5l), at 7s. 6d.
a unit was heavily oversub-
scribed. Earnings for the year
to May, 1950, were equal to
17 p.c. on present capital.
» * * ♦
More pastoral cos. are
coming on Sydney ’Change.
Australian Wool Brokers made
its appearance a few years ago,
and more recently Newstead
South was listed. It has a
capital of £160,025 in £1 shares.
These went to around 755. this
year, but since the drop in
wool values they have receded
to 68s. In its last term
the co. earned 37.8 p.c. on
capital and paid 26i p.c. It is
an interesting stock. A concern
with minor pastoral interests is
Associated Rural Industries,
Ltd. (B. 4/4/’5l), but it is more
concerned in the M.I.A. rice
industry. The ss. shares, offered
at par recently, were taken up
before many outside investors
could get in.


miiMmu
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
FARM-PROVED THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
fOeAL AtfSTAAI/AA COAfO/T/OAS
WMg ; J -v>&, ' -
.. v '
mmm.
■,
mmzm
- 'A " :"« :
mm
m
sm?
>
*r
it
ms
mM
m
<
■ms
m.j%
fffr-
* t -
m
m
M
m - ■
X,
%:
mmmm
/,N ' a 1 4 - m*;'
-fe <'%'<" J . § ''
j W „ r . p j
. , ,;x ■ - : ; ■ v.,v .. sw
••■■., fto,^
The NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL HAS EVERY-
THING . . . 6-way power, 5 forward
speeds, independent fuel circuits, anti-
hunting governor, adjustable track.
It is an exceptional tractor built and
backed by a name you can trustl
Distributors for New South Wales:
PETER LLOYD
LIMITED
213-217 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Phone MA 6357
(Next T. & G. Building)
NOFFSUI
DEALER
(Above). NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL
TRACTOR trailing 3-furrow mould-
board plough. Width of cut 12in.
Cutting to a depth of Sin. (The
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL works all
types of equipment, mounted or
trailing.)
The Nnffiefd Universal Has
Everfhing ... Does Everything
gĝ
ALSO SOLD AND SERVICED By AUTHORISED
NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
NAP/24/N2/BO
■V
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.; ? VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
i
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
GEORGE BASS
Having completed two successful voyages with
Matthew Flinders, George Bass, former snip s
surgeon, was given command of an open whaleboat
and a crew of six to explore the coast of New South
Wales south of Sydney.
He left Pott Jackson in December, 1797, and
followed the coast southward, completing the detail
omitted from Cook’s chart and charting about 300
miles of new coastline. Rounding the south-east
corner of the continent, he sailed into Western Port,
His study of the currents, winds and tides in this
new area prompted him to suggest that Van Dieman s
Land, as Tasmania was then known, was separated
from the mainland by the strait which now bears
his name. . .
His last exploratory voyage, once again in company
with Flinders, was to chart the coastline of Van
Dieman’s Land.
On the occasion of the Jubilee of the Commonwealth
of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales
Australia!s pioneer Bank— honours the explorers who
opened the way for the development of this great
country.
/" o# >
1
g
bank of
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOBDOBATED IN NEW SOUTH WALKS WITH
LIMITED LIABILITY)
AW 030
Torquay Conference
Whatever the merits of the
aims of the International Trade
Organisation, its very secrecy
of operation has damned it in
the eyes of those representing
several British Commonwealth
industries, both manufacturing
and rural. Many people sus-
pected that Imperial preference
was in danger as a result of the
Geneva, Havana and Torquay
conferences, more especially,
from Australia’s point of view,
when there was a Socialist Gov-
ernment with “internationalists”
like Dr. Evatt and Mr, Ded-
man in charge at Canberra.
The Associated Chambers of
Manufactures of Australia
(A.C.M.A.) have taken a keen
interest in the Havana and
Torquay proceedings, and
though their interest is a
sectional one, it is interesting
(perhaps entertaining as well)
to read the opinion of the
director, Latham Withall,
writing from Canberra:
The trade and tariff negotiations
had “foundered on the rock of
Imperial preference,” declared Michael
Hoffman in the “New York Times.”
Mr. Hoffman had covered the Inter-
national Tariff Conference at Tor-
quay, Devon, for that newspaper; he
had previously reported the proceed-
ings of the Geneva, Havana and
Annecy meetings.
The Torquay conference began on
September 28 last year, and ended on
March 30. Six months of secret
intrigue and bickering.
Mr. Hoffman said there will be no
tariff agreements between the United
States and Britain, Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa; there
probably would be an agreement
between the United States and
Canada, “but not as broad as either
country would wish.”
However, tariff cuts made at Tor-
quay apply to all the countries, so
that the one that gives least gets most.
A “Guard the Empire” rally was
held at Torquay on the last day of
the sittings. It had been arranged
by the Empire Industries organisation,
with which A.C.M.A. is closely asso-
ciated.
Speakers expressed anxiety about
the outcome of the conference. Mr.
L. S. Amery, a former Cabinet
Minister, said neither Parliament nor
the nation knew what was happening
at the conference.
Mr. Lennox-Boyd, M.P., said the
British public had learned try chance
of secret talks about a sugar agree-
ment between Cuba and the United
Kingdom.
“These talks might profoundly
affect sugar development in Queens-
land and the whole future of the
British West Indies,” he said. “Yet
neither Australia nor the West Indies
was even told that the talks were
taking place. We repudiate the con-
ception that Empire preferences are
discrimination. We claim the right
to restore the old conception that the
British Empire is an entity, however
loosely knit together.”
Lord Balfour of Inchrye said there
were forces abroad that declared
openly their determination to break
down the political and economic
bonds which held the Empire together.
“There are voices that whisper
‘Empires are outmoded.’ They can
be heard in every Government, every
Ministry, every party. Little men
who live their lives in low gear are
frightened at the word ‘Empire.
Whenever we find such men whose
dreams of an international millennium
endanger our Empire hope, we must
assail them,” he said.
Obviously the ill-fated conference
at Torquay ended in the same un-
happy atmosphere of unreality and
conspiracy in which it started. During
it, however, the objective of the
proposed bureaucratic International
Trade Organisation was finally
scrapped. That is one thing that
could be put to its credit, although
actually the decision was made in
U.S.A. Nonetheless it was decided
to continue G.A.T.T., a wholly un-
lawful organisation sponsored and
operated by the Washington State
Department in defiance of Congress.
G.A.T.T. has for its sole motifying
incentive a fanatical desire to destroy
the British pattern of economic co-
operation. This shortsighted objective
has been repudiated strongly by
American industrial and commercial
organisations, and it is wholly spon-
sored by the post-war planners of the
U.S. civil service.
Here in Australia A.C.M.A. will
continue to oppose the continuation
of G.A.T.T., and will urge the
Federal Government to discuss the
Torquay conclusions and schedules
with a committee representing Aus-
tralian industry before any official
action is taken to approve or imple-
ment them.
Something official is now
wanted from Canberra.
N.Z. Strikes and Costs
After a couple of months of
feud on the waterfront, in the
coalmines and in cement-works,
price-rises in all directions in
New Zealand in April were be-
ginning to bring home to Maori-
landers the cost of all the
mischief-making. The infla-
tionary strain showing up in the
cost of living made housewives
and the man-in-the-street think
hard about where the Commos,
their dupes and fellow-
passengers were leading them.
Everything was “all set” for
a jump in prices at the time of
the waterfront showdown late in
February, and the first rises had
their parentage in uptrends
abroad, the 15 p.c. lift in Maori-
land wage- and salary-rates,
more costly materials and halt-
ing production, but the big
battle came at the right moment
to catch the blame and blur the
real causes, while pouring oil
on the inflationary fires.
Maorilanders will have to
pay dearly before this account
is settled months after industry
gets back into harness again, and
first they’ll have to rein in costs
and prices, which will lead them
a merry dance. They can t
cancel, dodge, scale - down,
shelve or sidetrack them in the
final reckoning, can’t suppress
or smother them under controls,
and can’t shelter behind “easy-
money.” There’s no painless
remedy, no miracle-cure for the
inflation that has been pumped
into the system ; the only course
is to work it out.
No one can estimate the loss
due to slowing-down factory
output, construction schemes
and expansion of industry, but
any child can see it’ll be a big
sum. M.L.’s pulse today is
erratic, and a period of calm
will bp needed to restore its
steady and healthy beat. This
will be the convalescent stage
before Maorilanders can begin
to work their passage back.
Any who think about deflation
meanwhile will be living in a
dream world.
M.L.’s slumping pound, which
the Holland Government
promised to put firmly on its
feet again, looks more anaemic
than ever, and traders, merchants
and manufacturers deeply in-
debted to the banks, and private
individuals in the same box, are
far from comfortable. Still, it’s
mainly a case of being taken by
surprise, and given time they 11
be able to pay all. With millions
of pounds’-worth of stuff lying
in ships at anchor, wool sales
temporarily called off, and busi-
ness losing momentum, the
banks have refrained from
harassing the patient and have
been quietly holding his hand.
The picture looks worse on a
close-up scrutiny, and is best
viewed from a distance. There
are still plenty of Maorilanders
with bulging wallets and fat
bank accounts, and most of the
others should be able to smile
again when they’ve had a chance
to cash-in. Investors have been
purring as buoyancy in shares
has helped to offset the shrinking
pound, and they haven’t been
worried about low div. yields at
peak prices. They’ve been get-
ting a better return than if they’d
put their money in the bank,
with capital appreciation to
boot. __
Freight-rates
When another 10 p.c. was
loaded on shipping freights to
N.Z., to date from May 1,
Maorilanders hadn’t a word of
protest. They felt they couldn’t
kick against this rise when go-
slow and strikes on the water-
front had twisted the tail of New
Zealand Conference Lines
beyond the limit. It might cost
Maoriland another £1 million
and lift its inward freight bill
from the Old Country and the
Continent to a round £lO
million, and there’ll be another
half-million added to make a
rise of £1,500,000 in retail prices
for imports.
To sting N.Z. further, cargo-
space is to be halved, and ton-
nage will be the lowest since war
years. Shippers felt they were
on strong ground when they
made the moves, because there
weren’t enough ships in the
world, and there wasn’t much
risk that tramps would steal the
business, though it’s doubtful
whether they could, what with
demands for refrigerated space
and special equipment, and well-
insulated freight contracts with
John Bull’s Ministry of Food
on M.L. meat, butter and
cheese.
Freights on M.L. imports
are now more than double
before the war, rates on wool
shipped are up in proportion,
charges on butter are doubled,
and there’s a rise of at least 60
p.c. on meat. How much of
this must be laid at the door of
trouble-makers on the water-
front can’t be figured out, but
it must be a whopping sum.
This season should see the
end of the Joint Organisation for
marketing war-time surplus
wool. It began with 10,407,000
bales, and by June 30 last year
only 484,400 bales were left.
J.O. has made total profits of
£125,740,864 to June, 1950, ex-
cluding £27,830,159 of war-time
profits transferred to it at the
outset. In 1949-50 Australia got
£2O million, N.Z. £5 million and
the U.K. £25 million from
J. 0., and balances remaining
were £35.1 million, £9 million
and £51.8 million respectively.
* * * *
Among well-established Aus-
tralian stocks one of the few
classes offering 6 p.c. or more
are the motor-discount and
furnitur e-finance houses.
Mutual Acceptance offers 6.8
p.c.. Mutual Credits 6.9 p.c.,
Australian Guarantee 5.8 p.c.,
Automobile and General
Finance 7 p.c. The reason for
the high yield in these cases is
principally the fact that the cos.
concerned deal in money rather
than goods, and do not appeal
as hedges against inflation.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The new values prevailing in
Sydney these days were well illustrated
by the woman who last week was asking
all her friends if they’d like her electric
toaster for “a good kerosene lamp
guaranteed to work.” She didn’t get any
takers.
Everything went exceptionally well at
the opening of the second programme by
the Borovansky Ballet, which was rather
a tribute to the level-headedness of stage-
manager Keitha Munro, whose marriage
to David Cahill was due the following
morning. David is a member of the
“Worm’s Eye View” cast at the
Royal, and after the wedding the
couple went back to their respective
theatres for the matinee. Keitha
wore a ballerina-length dress of
brocade, which was pink or grey or
mauve or blue, depending on how you
looked at it. The hat was blue, with mauve
feathers. There was no scene-stealing
by the bridesmaid at this wedding,
although she stepped up the aisle most
gracefully—and not surprising, as she
was ballerina Dorothy Stevenson, clad in
straight, tailored, unemphatic black.
Jean Carling’s party at the Women
Pioneers’ Rooms reproduced very re-
spectably the atmosphere of a drawing-
room entertainment in the 1850’s. The
performers were dressed in period-
costume, the music and “recitations” all
had an old-world flavor. One noted how
much the audience enjoyed Beatrice
Wenban’s humorous excerpts from an
old scrap-book, a type of entertainment
now lost to favor, but apparently still
capable of amusing. Jean said that in the
fifties gold nuggets used to be thrown
at the performer’s feet by the audience,
and that a singer might receive £BOO in
one night. At the party the other night
no nuggets were thrown, but a few hand-
fuls of wool might have kept up the
tradition just as profitably.
The Jubilee march of the Catholic
schoolchildren through the streets —
though it did hold up the traffic —was
the best parade of schoolgirl fashions
ever seen in this town. Certainly school
uniforms have become most attractive
during the past few years. St. Vincent’s
College, Pott’s Point, which is the senior
college—being 80 years established—led
the girls’ march in uniforms of sky-blue
with white hats. A group from Pymble
in henna tunics and hats, with fawn
blouses, stood out among the greens,
greys, whites and navys, which were all
sufficiently becoming to satisfy the young
girls’ desire to look pretty without over-
stating it. The girls in white serge tunics
with white blazers were much admired,
but practical-minded mothers (who can’t
keep up with the washing as it is)
regarded them with some dismay.
Mothers and grandmothers among the
crowds watched anxiously for their own
little ones, some losing all joy in the
march because they didn’t see Judy or
Janet or Gay. Some of the boys, too,
were disappointed because they couldn’t
wear their glamorous cadet uniforms,
but consistency was more important, and
battledress did, somehow, seem to stress
the all-Australian nature of the march.
“Ice Follie” opened at the Tivoli with
a fine skating display by international
stars observed by an audience which also
had an international touch. Consul-
Generals with their wives abounded,
including Mr. and Mrs. Donald Smith
(Apxerica), Mr. and Mrs. Nicola Simone
(Italy), Mr. and Mrs. Hedinger (Switzer-
land), Mr. and Mrs. Balent (France), the
Klingenbergs from Norway, the Van
Swinderens from the Netherlands, the
Senior-Consul Mr, Vrisakis and Mrs.
Vrisakis (Greece) and the Minister for the
Philippines, Dr. Regala, and Mrs. Regala.
The Roderic Quinn Memorial is well
under way. Tom Bass has finished the
bust in bronze of the poet he has been
making, and the Quinn grave, where Rod
and his sisters Frances and Nora are
buried, is being cared for. Mrs. Lucy
Cassidy, who looked after Rod Quinn
during his later years, tells a charming
dog-story about their kelpie. Bill, who
every night of his life used to sit listen-
ing with apparent interest while Rod
read him Kipling’s poem “Thy Servant a
Dog.” Even on the last day of his life
Bill asked for his poem, listened to the
whole of it, then went away to die.
For the past two years war-widows and
widowed mothers of ex-service people
have been admitted to the Concord Re-
patriation General Hospital, where they
have always received first-class treatment,
but the War-widows’ Guild is still agitat-
ing for treatment for outpatients, specially
necessary for T.B. cases. One war-
widow who lives at Concord has to travel
to North Shore every week for treatment,
which should really be available almost at
her own front door. As many of the war-
widows are working, they cannot afford
the time to go into hospital for a week,
say for an X-ray which would take con-
siderably less time in an outpatients’
department.
Cake-decorating is undoubtedly the
most spectacular form of cookery, as
the display at David Jones’ George-street
store shows. All the cakes on display
were made by members of the Home
Service Clubs organised by the Australian
Gas Light Co. Two prizes went to mem-
bers from Lindfield (Miss D. Palmer
and Mrs. Milden Hall), the first prize
being awarded for a cake representing a
white box half-opened to show
exquisitely-made flowers of many kinds,
including orchids. Awards for novelty
went to a fairy house, complete with
Snow White and her Seven Dwarfs, and
to a gay barrow of fruit with a striped
awning, which was made by Miss E.
Smith of Maroubra Bay.
These Home Service Clubs are estab-
lished to teach home-making, give mem-
bers opportunities for social entertain-
ment, and to help charitable institutions.
Admission and tuition is free, but a fee
of 30/- is paid for practical courses.
There are branches at Burwood, Bondi,
David Jones’, Parramatta and Hurstville.
This is Mrs. W. Bridgeford, who
recently arrived from Melbourne. Her
husband. General Bridgeford, is acting-
Commanding Officer, Eastern Command,
and will be in charge during Lieutenant-
General Berryman’s absence. At the
Eastern Command Ball last week Mrs.
Bridgeford and her husband welcomed
the Berrymans as guests-of-honor, Mrs.
Bridgeford wore a sumptuous gown of
eastern brocade. Mrs. Berryman’s red
silk draped jersey was almost the same
color as her husband’s jacket.
At the ball the 12 debs were partnered
by Army officers wearing their new
walking-out dress, which is navy with a
red stripe down the side of the trousers.
Other attractions were the Eastern Com-
mand Band playing in the foyer, and the
unlimited free beer for the boys.
Warrant-Officer Ryall did the organising,
and the debs included Brenda Mitchell,
Joyce Meredith, Anne Lynch, Marjorie
Newall, the Clementson twins Dorothy
and Audrey, Mary Mansfield, Barbara
Gaynor and Leonora Warwick.
There will be quite an English atmos-
phere at the University Settlement
Village Fair to be held on Saturday, May
5. Madrigals, Maypole- and folk-dancing
are part of the programme, and the
British Council has lent a model of an
Essex Village made by Mrs. Thomas
Wood (widow of the author of
Cobbers). Visitors will also be able to
visit various departments of the Uni-
versity, where displays of birds and
butterflies, botany specimens, counting
devices, map-making, etc., can be seen.
Those of us who “can’t get Indiana
off our minds,” and who find ourselves
warbling about how much we love the
Swanee River, should soon be able to
exchange these sentiments for something
more national —that is, if there is a good
response to the Jubilee song competition
arranged by the A.B.C. Anyone can
send in the words and music for a song
about a place in Australia, and if it
reaches a certain standard it will go
over the air on Monday nights at
7.15. Cunnamulla and
shouldn’t be hard to fit into a popular
song, and there are real possibilities in
names like Gigilgo-gigilgo-gumba.
From Melbourne
Mrs. Preston Shelmerdine, chairman of
the women’s committee of the Women’s
Hospital Building Appeal, registered the
joy she obviously felt when at the cock-
tail-party she gave at the Australia she
received from Mrs, Reg, Ansett and Mrs.
Peter Mountjoy a cheque for £3OOO for
the appeal, the result of the Transport
Industries Ball held on March 28. Mrs.
Shelmerdine’s frock of lichen-green faille
was worn with a matching hat. Mrs.
Bill Cook contrasted her black suit with
a ruby-red velvet cloche hat. Mrs. Ben
Dunlop’s turquoise-blue velvet jacket
with its embroidered collar went with a
junior-blue frock and matching hat, Mrs.
Frank Tail added a pearl-embroidered
velvet cap to her black frock. Lady Mc-
Connan was in ice-blue wool, matching
jacket and blue feather-toque, Mrs. H. V.
Holmberg’s grey suit was worn with a
citron-yellow hat, Mrs. Alan Tate’s brown
coat had a lynx-fur collar. Mrs. John
Haysom, who is conducting a baby con-
test for the appeal, wore a black frock
and hat. In this contest any group,
organisation or individual may nominate
a baby, but five pounds must be raised
for the appeal to make the baby eligible.
Judging will be by photograph only.
Entries close on May 28, and photographs
must be sent to the Women’s Hospital,
Carlton.
Here- is Daphne Winslow, who appears
in the role of a vinegary village spinster
in “See How They Run,” the comedy-
farce now at the King’s Theatre, Born
in Wiltshire, England, Daphne’s early
stage career in London was in musi-
comedy. Coming to Australia on holi-
day she began playing straight roles with
J.C.W. A multitude of interests keeps her
occupied; clay- and papier-mache-
modelling, designing, sewing and knitting.
In private life she is Mrs. Jack Gibson.
“See How They Run,” a quite rollick-
ing farce, had its premiere at the King’s
Theatre. It is the last live show to be
presented at the King’s, for it shortly
becomes just another filmhouse. Mrs
Rupert Downes and her daughter, Mrs
Jim Campbell, were there; so were the
A. T. Smitherses with daughter Mrs
Brookes Jackson. Mrs. Isobel Green, in
rust-toned taffeta, was with Mrs. Eric
Harrison, whose white ermine coai:
covered a parchment-toned gown. A
mink stole was worn by Mrs. Con
Curtain with her lichen-green faille ankle-
length frock. A small white velvet
theatre hat embroidered in jet was worn
by Mrs. A. C. Haworth with her black
frock and ermine jacket.
The shipboard party given by Com-
modore H. E. Pullen and officers of
H.M.C.S, Ontario was a bright affair
Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins and Lady
Collins, the latter wearing a black wool
frock with grosgrain facings and a small
black hat with beige colored feathers,
were among the guests. Colonel and
Mrs. R. W. Spraggett represented Govern-
ment House. With the Lord Mayor,
Sir James Disney, was his wife in platina-
fox shoulder-cape, ink-blue suit and a
hat in matching blue.
Of inter-State interest is the engage-
ment of Peter, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
Peter Kirchner, of Adelaide, to Pauline,
eldest daughter of Mrs. H. Wise, of
Broken Hill, and the late Mr. F. V. Dow-
dell, This was announced at a dance
given by Mr. and Mrs. Kirchner at their
home at Comonella, Prospect, when
150 guests gathered in the big flower-
decked marquee set up in the grounds,
A brazier, heaped with glowing coals, was
a welcome addition,
Mrs. Kirchner, with her husband,
received the guests in a gown of amethyst
shot chiffon embroidered with moon-
stones and gold sequins. Pauline’s
ballerina frock of pink and silver lace
was worn over mauve-and-pink-striped
faille. Mrs. Mary Pierson Lewis, Peter’s
aunt, from Melbourne, was there;
she wore filmy black Chantilly lace
over tulle and taffeta. Another aunt,
Lena Lewis, chose a black faille ballerina-
length frock. Mrs. Tom Warhurst’s black
lace ankle-length frock was contrastec
by a Juliet cap of black-and-gold
sequins,
Mrs. Alan Britton-Jones had gold
sequins on her black faille gown and Mrs.
-Tom Mcßride’s gown was of pink
slipper-satin. Diana Begg danced in ice-
blue taffeta. Carol Coburn’s moire taffeta
was pale-lilac. Judy Glynn’s rust-shot
taffeta was made with an overskirt.
Black tulle veiled the green-blue satin
gown worn by Judy Brownrigg.
Bishop Riley, of Bendigo, officiated at
the wedding of Janet Mary Coverley,
elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Henry
Maling, of Portland, and Graham Delano,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. H. S.
Fowles, of Mittagong (N.S.W.), whi
was celebrated at St. John’s, Toora
Janet made a lovely bride in her gow
of parchment satin which had pearls anc
opalescent beads on the bodice, with 1 ic
wide overskirt extending into a train,
satin cap finished with an embroiderec
rouleau held the flowing tulle veil, anc
she carried a trailing bouquet of Ophe a
roses. The four bridesmaids were Ros
mary Grimwade, Jill Manifold, J
Fowles (sister of the ’groom) and S
Boyd. The bride’s four-year-old sist
Anne was flower-girl. They were dress
alike in bouffant gowns of waterlily-pin
tulle topped with “Swan Lake” caps
white feathers. Their bouquets were o'
gardenias and Cecil Brunner roses. Pet
Cowper was best man.
Many country guests were present a
the reception, which was at No. 20
Domain-road. Mrs. Maling’s gown w
of midnight-blue cloque taffeta, and h
small matching hat was finished with
side-drooping feather. Mrs. Fowles cho
a gown of black Chantilly lace with th
flower pattern outlined in gold thread
her halo hat was of black cocq feather
From Adelaide came Mrs. Jack Rundl
who wore a black gown with silver-fo
furs. Mrs. John Davoren’s filmy blacc
tulle gown had diamente shoulder-strap
With her white crepe pleated gown Mr
Jack Teague wore a little cape of leaf
green velvet. Bardi Grimwade was i
white organdie over primrose taffeta
Robin Learmonth’s slim-fitting gown wa
of pink-patterned chiffon. Althea Dawes
lattice-printed organza gown was
mixture of pale-lilac, blue and pink. Pat
McCrickard’s pale-lemon organdie we s
worn with a black lace stole. Barbar
Cox wore with ice-blue tulle a pearl -
tiimmed blue satin Juliet cap. The heav
white linen gown chosen by Mrs. Deni
Cordner was corded in a scroll design
and outlined with silver.
No exotic ensembles were seen at the
Princess Theatre when the Nationa
Theatre Arts Festival committee pre
sented Tennessee Williams’s “The Glass
Menagerie,” a play peopled with a few
unlovely characters. Sir John Latham
was in the official party, which includec
Lady Knox and Sir John and Lady
Medley. A short gold lame jacket was
worn by Mrs. Heathcote Wright over her
slim black gown. The full-length azure-
blue wool coat worn by Mrs. F. H
Wright was heavily embroidered in gold
The skirt of Mrs. H. Bettle’s black gown
had a floating back panel lined with
powder-blue. Mrs. J. Campbell was in
black velvet, Madame Reshid Bey wore a
gaily-patterned silk shawl over her ankle-
length black frock. Mrs. Herbert
Pacini’s taffetas were striped Over a
bouffant gown of pale-blue satin brocade
Mrs. lan Potter wore a blue-fox jacket.
Barbara Newman, wife of James
Pemberthy, who is director of music with
the National Theatre, and Margaret Ben-
well, wife of Dr. W. S. Benwell, are hold-
ing their first exhibition of paintings at
the Melbourne Book Club. Noted
sculptor Ola Cohn performed the open-
ing ceremony and was presented with a
posy of flowers by Barbara’s two-year-
old son Richard and Margaret’s elder
child Josephine. Barbara comes from an
artistic family: she is the daughter of
Betty Paterson and niece of Esther
Paterson. Margaret is encouraged in her
painting by her husband’s helpful
criticism, and next year they will go off
to Italy for a holiday as Margaret is
anxious to study in that country. With
Esther Paterson was her husband, Com-
mander George Gill. Others at the ex-
hibition were Mrs. Daryl Lindsay, Dr.
and Mrs. Glanville Hicks, Mrs. John F.
Paterson and Lynette Young.
The Loreto Old Girls’ annual ball is
scheduled for May 9 at St. Kilda Town
Hall. Mrs. John O’Sullivan, president of
the Old Girls’ Association, will receive
the debutantes, and tickets may be
obtained from Mrs. G. Mjflvaney
(UL1878) and Mrs. F. QuJgg (WF5913).


Esdaile’s have a full range of
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
g
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Se\’eral models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/18/6.
Price includes tax.
g
ĝ g
g
WTOIBiISMSBBaai
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HOTEL IVSETROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
sstaasssa.
(
m
in
I!
I’li
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra,
ROOM-ONIiY RATES:
Sin (fie Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 23/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,”
Sydney.
Telephones;
8W2061 (9 lines)
PERSONAL ITEMS
Resigned from the presidency of the
Victorian R.S.L., G. W. Holland, after a
reign of 22 years. The “baby” of his
battalion, he enlisted in War I at 17, 15
days after the gong sounded, fought on
Gallipoli and returned sergeant, M.M. A
State public servant, he organised the
League from its inception, his enormous
energy raising its membership from
round about 8000 to 90,000 after
the second shindy. He helped
force the Scullin Government to
reaffirm soldier-preference in the de-
pression and fought for better pensions,
repat. conditions and the unemployed
Digger. He still retains the presidency
of the Federal organisation.
Harold Blair, the 26-year-old aboriginal
tenor whose natural geniality Dubois has
here captured, is due to open his Jubilee
Year concert season under the A.B.C. in
Sydney tomorrow (Thursday) night. He
has returned after 18 months’ study in
America—the first of his race to do so —
under the mentorship of baritone Todd
Duncan and Todd’s teacher, Sara Lee.
Blair’s introduction to music was as a
SINGER.
trumpeter in the band of the Salvation
Army, which operated on the Govern-
ment reserve at Murgon (Q.), where he
was reared. Holidaying in Brisbane from
a canefields job, he was given an audition
by Marjorie Lawrence, who urged him
to make music his career. The generosity
of Dr. Duhig, of Brisbane, made
it possible for him to attend the Melba
Conservatorium, where he studied with
Harold Browning. Sturdily-built, with a
speaking voice as mellifluous as his sing-
ing one, Blair has shown a remarkable
facility in mastering languages for the
purposes of his art.
One of Australia’s younger sculptors
whose monumental works are getting
prominence in Melbourne, Raymond
Boultwood Ewers, was born at Wyalong
(N.S.W.), and began life with an agricul-
tural education at Dookie College (Vic.).
At 19 he turned to sculpture, and was
associated with W. L. Bowles on the
modelling and casting of the celebrated
“Diana” in the Fitzroy Gardens, Mel-
bourne, and the memorials to General
Monash and King George V. In 1941
he joined the A.1.F., served with the
engineers, and towards the end of the
shindy was appointed official war
sculptor, roaming round New Guinea and
Borneo. His present job is producing
sculptural works and dioramas for the
Canberra War Memorial.
One of the few rocky bastions of
Empire which haven’t turned to sand,
Aden gets a new Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief in Major Tom Hickin-
botham, Sandhurst graduate who entered
the Indian Army in 1923 and has been
east of Suez ever since. As a political
agent for years in Bahrein, Muscat and
Kalat, as well as chairing the Aden Port
Trust for the past three years, he has
a sound knowledge of the area he now
bosses. He was born in Carnarvon
(Westralia), 48 years ago.
When U.S. Senator Arthur Vandenberg,
an undeviating Republican all his life,
died in Michigan last week. Democrat
President Truman lost a source of con-
stant solicitude. Before 1943 an uncom-
promising opponent of conscription,
collective security and lend-lease,
Vandenberg switched in that year to most
of what Roosevelt and Truman stood for,
bringing most Republicans round with
him. Born in the Republican town of
Grand Rapids, with his grandfather a
delegate to the Republican convention
which nominated Abraham Lincoln for
the Presidency, Vandenberg was the son
of a harnessmaker, and entered the Senate
in 1928, after a successful career as editor
and author. Genial, bespectacled, a
devotee to cigars and bow-ties, he had
outstanding oratorical gifts, which, with
his ability to work with all elements of
his party, won him its spokesmanship.
He died at 67, at a time when his cham-
pionship of international co-operation was
never more needed.
Professor of English Literature at the
University of Tasmania since 1926,
Albert Booth Taylor is off on a seven-
month trip to Britain and the Continent
to study latest developments in teaching
methods. Manchester-born, he was edu-
cated in New Zealand and at Oxford,
where he graduated M.A. with first-class
honors in English Literature, after serv-
ing with the Maoriland forces in the
Kaiser’s war. Before coming to anchor
in Hobart he held lectureships at Leeds
and Durham Universities. Taylor has
made a special study of medieval litera-
ture ; possibly that is why he numbers
Royal Tennis among his favorite
pastimes.
“G. Elburg”: If the official jubileers of West
Australia want to jube over historic events they
might re-enact the launching of the Goldfields
Water Supply. But let them get the story
straight. C. Y. O’Connor is usually credited
with being the author of the scheme and
designer of the work, but actually O’Connor
had his doubts, and was at pains to disavow
responsibility for the plan. The real credit
belongs to “Big John” Forrest and Nat Harper,
who, at 85, still walks St. George’s Terrace
to his bank and club. In August, 1895, Forrest
toured the fields and listened to deputations
which asked what he proposed to do to give
them something better than their precarious,
inadequate and costly supply of water. Forrest
didn’t know. He rejected the suggestion that
the shallow claypan Hannan’s Lake could be
made the main source; he mentioned deep
boring as a possibility. At Kanowna, respond-
ing to the toast of his health, Big John declared
that if the mining industry was to live a regular
supply of good water was essential, but con-
fessed that he didn’t know how it was to be
obtained. Nat Harper, mjne-manager of Fraser’s
Reward, replied that the water of the Avon
River could be conserved and pumped to the
fields. His statement was received with derision,
but Harper stuck to his guns. In New Zealand
and Tasmania he had had experience of lifting
water, and he argued that the principle behind
a lift of 300 ft. and 300 miles was identical.
Forrest discussed Harper’s suggestion with
him and was satisfied that it was practicable.
His only amendment was that better water and
a more constant supply could be had from the
Helena River and Darling Range catchment.
The work was commenced early in 1898 and
completed in January, 1903. Forrest, in and
out of Parliament, acknowledged his indebted-
ness to Harper; but the school history-books
and official handbook continue to be silent
about the part he played.
“Waddlin’ Willie”: When Captain
P. G. Taylor, back home from
Chile, dropped Pitcairn’s first air-mail it’s
odds-on that Andrew Young, descendant
of the Bounty mutineer of the same
name, was there to catch it. Chief radio
op, and postmaster on the island, Young
is the link between the islanders and the
outside world. Through his radio con-
tacts with passing ships, the islanders are
still able to trade their fruit and vege-
tables for other needed goods. Back in
1937 Young was in a desperate plight;
his old spark-transmitter and crystal-
receiver were becoming out of date as
the valve had replaced the spark.
But American radio amateurs successfully
persuaded top Yankee radio manufac-
turers to build Young a new set. He got
this in 1938 and it’s still working. Quiet
and unassuming, Young has left the
island for only a few brief periods to
visit New Zealand. When some crank
spread a rumor in 1939 that there was a
typhoid epidemic on Pitcairn ships
avoided the island and the inhabitants be-
came desperately short of food. Young
and an American radio-amateur subse-
quently killed the rumor, although they
were almost strangled in American and
British red-tape. Food arrived, and so
did President Roosevelt’s public-service
certificate for Young.
This year’s award of the Australian
Medal of Agricultural Science goes to Dr.
E. A. Cornish, head of the mathematical
statistics section of C.5.1.R.0., and
formerly agrostologist at the Waite
Institute, near Adelaide, where he de-
veloped the maths-stats method in rela-
tion to agricultural research which he is
now applying with the C.5.1.R.0. The
medal is awarded annually by the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural Science
for outstanding work in agriculture.
When members of the Queensland
Turf Club, drinking to the success of the
club, say “More power to its elbow,”
there’s more than the usual significance
in the remark. Dr. J. J, Power, chairman
of Q.T.C., sketched here by Gordon,
comes of a family whose connections with
the club go far back into last century.
Justice Virgil Power at one time held the
post that is now his nephew’s ; Dr. Joseph
Power was one of the club’s first starters
and F. I. Power, father of J.J., a com-
mitteeman and honorary steward. The
present chairman earned his medical
degrees in Sydney and Edinburgh and put
RACER.
in four years with the First A.1.F., winning
a D.S.O. and a “mention.” Under his
chairmanship the club has been carrying
out a progressive policy of developing
Eagle Farm racecourse and, by offering
big prizemoney, making the Brisbane Cup
carnival one of the most attractive meet-
ings on the Australian racing calendar.
He’s owned some fast neddies himself.
In these days of easy air travel it is
salutary and pleasant to talk about the
pioneers, and this is one —Captain C. D.
Pratt. A Maorilander, he started flying
in 1917 when serving with the K.Z.
expeditionaries in Egypt. Nineteen-
twenty found him opening a flying school
at Geelong. He was one of the few to
make a success of aviation in those pre-
FLIER.
carious days, and, by 1938, his business
had grown sufficiently to warrant a move
to Essendon. He was still prospering
when Hitler broke loose and compelled
him to close his aeronautical academy,
but in 1942, at an age when most men
give up commercial flying, Pratt had only
started and from then on until 1947 he
captained D.C.-3 aircraft for A.N.A.
When the age-limits disqualified him
from that career he embarked on a new
one. Always interested in photography
and owning his own plane, he determined
to become one of Australia’s finest aerial
photographers. Today, under the name
of “Airspy,” he has succeeded.
“W.E.F.”: Kabbarli is dead, and the
natives from the Bight to the Fitzroy are
mourning. Born in Tipperary, she came
to Australia a colleen of 20, and married
Jack Bates, a stockman, from whom
she parted after the birth of their only
child. Returning to England she worked
on “The Review of Reviews,” and came
back to Australia in 1899 to investigate
for London “Times” allegations of
cruelty to the abos of the nor’-west.
Thereafter, for the better part of 50 years,
she lived among them, ate their foods,
traded, worked and cared for them. Her
headquarters was a tent on the Nullarbor
Plain, where she lived in the clothes-
fashion of 60 years ago. She spent a
private fortune in making more pleasant
the last days of old natives and was re-
warded with a C.B.E. Her work is
recorded in her book The Passing of the
Aborigines. A brave, kindly woman, her
story is one of the strangest and most
moving in Australian history.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 64, Hobart Tuckey, one of the
three members for the South-western Province
in Westralia’s Upper House. Born at Mandurah
(W.A.), he started as a telegraphist in the
P.M.G.’s Department, rose to postmaster, then
left mailbags for fish-canning with his father, a
one-time north-west pearler. He’s pulled his
weight in public affairs, first as a member of
the Murray Road Board (chairman for 30
years), then as foundation member and twice
president of the Westralian Justices’ Association.
He had 17 years in the Legislative Council.
In Hampshire (Eng.), at 73, Admiral William
Napier, R.N. (retired), Australia’s First Naval
Member in 1926-29. With mines his speciality,
in War I he was head of the Portsmouth
Mining School, where trained most of those
night-workers who laid their explosive under-
water bulbs round Germany’s seaboard. On
the active side he earned D.S.O. while mine-
sweeping.
At Oamam (M.L.), in her 101st year, Jane
Dunbar Sutherland, a native of Caithness,
Scotland, who settled in Oamaru nearly 80 years
ago, and reared nine children in the house her
husband built three-quarters of a century ago.
A brother, Robert Dunbar, was Australian
Commissioner of Railways in days lang syne.


INTERNATIONAL
INCIDENT
by MACNELL
CAPTAIN GUS
BOREHAM, all bulk and
bellicosity, blew through
the swing-doors of Hong
Kong’s Retreat Bay pub,
straddled his muscled legs like a
pair of compasses, sighted his
favorite table near the acreage
of glass opening on the water,
heaved under way again and,
with his chief-officer in tow,
shouldered through the throng.
“Boy!” he roared “Beer!”
He gulped half the tankard’s
liquid, brought by a scuttling
Chinee, before resuming the
conversation broken by their
alteration of course.
“Did you ever see the like of
those blasted Limeys!” He
swivelled and stared at his
companion. “I tell you, Mac-
intosh —give me that four-incher
we had in the war, and I’d have
blasted the bilges of that scow of
a Chinese gunboat! Hole me,
would he? And what does the
great and glorious British Navy
do? Stand off like a maiden
aunt feared of gettin’ her feet
wet and watch the yellow b s
pump shells into me!”
“Yeah, captain, I know—but
they have got a three-mile-limit,
and we were”
“All right, all right! We were
inside their bloody three-mile-
limit. So what! D’ you think
one of Uncle Sam’s tin-cans
woulda stood by and seen the
Stars and Stripes belted by a
joss-juggling bilge barge! God!
Talk to me about the King’s
Navy! ”
He upended the rest of his
beer down a hair-matted throat,
thumped the tankard on the
wicker table and turned to Mac-
intosh with his mouth open to
fire another broadside. It
stayed open.
Standing facing him —hardly
looking down on him, for his
slim, white-clad length barely
reached over Boreham’s seated
head—was a British naval
officer, glittering on his
shoulders a commander’s three
gold bars, creasing his sun-
reddened face in an appreciative
grin at the merchantman’s
fluency.
“I say, old chap.” The voice
matched the figure—slight, thin,
one that would require the boost
of a warship’s microphones to
carry it over the competition of
any sort of a wind. “Congrats!
I must say I haven’t heard such
a flow since the Atlantic convoys
days. Though Ido think” —his
eyebrows drew together in
gently - reproving admonition —
“you’re a trifle hard on the old
Service, what?”
Macintosh, a dark little rag of
a man with a face pinched into
seams like a relief-map, drew
down the corners of his mouth
in his effort not to grin.
Boreham began to rise,
stopped half-way when he saw
the size of what faced him,
rested his paws on the table a
moment while he ran a brow-
hung eye over the Britisher, and
with a grunt dropped his weight
back in his chair. An open
sneer would have been only half
as obvious.
Macintosh thought he saw the
Britisher’s eyes narrow a frac-
tion before they resumed their
good-natured blue. He could
have been mistaken —hje was
sure he had been when the
Britisher spoke again.
“No need to rise, old chap.
Frightfully rude of me to butt
in at all. But I couldn’t help
hearing your—er —complaint.
Actually, it’s my ship you men-
tioned—and anything I could do
to set matters right” He
trailed off in polite suggestive-
ness.
Boreham cocked his head
slightly and looked up at him
“That’s all right, old chap,
Rearly, it’s nothing at all. Just
seven holes in my hull, port side
of the flying-bridge in splinters,
the helmsman with a nice deep
canal carved across his chest and
—oh, but rearly, nothing at all
for the old Service to worry
about.”
He got up, and bent to look
into the other’s face.
“And the dear old Service
didn’t bloody well worry—oh,
no, not at all. Eight four-point-
sevens and 36 knots, 200 men
and not a spark of guts in the
damned crowd of ’em.” He
turned to his chief, “There 1 go
again. Mister. You must remind
me —I keep forgettin’ that three-
mile-limit. It’s only a line on a
chart” —his voice swelled. “But
enough to keep a blasted British
destroyer out like it was a mine-
field ! Come on, Mister —this
joint stinks!”
He kicked his chair behind
him, and strode through a
channel of turned faces for the
door. Macintosh picked up his
cap, hesitated, then followed.
Still standing at the table, the
dapper little naval man watched
them. Then he slowly pulled
a cigarette from his case,
shrugged his faultlessly-sheathed
shoulders and lit up.
BOREHAM was still growling
when they climbed the
gangway. Macintosh, after
nearly forty hours of the
captain’s ire, was getting a trifle
tired of it —until he glanced up
as he climbed inboard and saw
the star-shaped holes, jagged and
blackeyed, punched in the ship's
hull. He instantly remembered
the blast of sound, and the tear-
ing slivers of steel on the flying-
bridge, and the startled, almost
comical look of surprise on the
helmsman’s face as he stared
down at the running red weal
that had suddenly creased his
chest; remembered the look
changing to a grimace of shock
and pain. Most of all, he re-
membered the helpless im-
potence of trying to run from
the rust-streaked gnat that fol-
lowed them from Swatow, at
close, safe range, spitting brown
smoke and a stab of flame every
few seconds. Even at that range
some lobbed over or short in
abrupt spouts of dirty brown
water. The others, most of
them, savaged through her wall-
like sides in sharp, smoke-
flowering explosions which
buckled a few plates here and
there and lacerated their Yankee
pride to raw, fist-shaking shreds.
The Old Man had tried ram-
ming. She had hauled her great
fat belly round and snorted for
the gunboat—she was too far
off ; it was like to trying to swat
a fly with an acre of earth.
That’s when they’d aimed for the
bridge. And while the shooting
and cursing was in full swing,
the lean, grey, heavily-gunned
length of one of H.M. destroyers
hung off two miles to seaward
and watched. What was that
answer to the signal the Old
Man flashed in angry stutters
from the bridge lamp?
“Sorry. International rules
prevent me closing you. Steer
to open land by three miles and
I will escort you Hong Kong.”
And flashed back with such
superior efficiency the signalman
had to ask for a repeat three
times before he got it.
Yes, he could understand
Boreham’s feelings. Admit-
tedly they had coasted in a bit
close in order to make port be-
fore dark, but was that reason
for the dod-blasted Chinee to
start target-practice? A shot
across her bows from the de-
stroyer would have sent her
scuttling—as for questions after-
wards, what was the word of a
rat-ridden Chinee against that
of an American merchantman
and a British warship? With
plenty of repair work in the few
hours before they made Hong
Kong the chief-officer had had
hardly time to scratch himself,
let alone think. Now, and under
the influence of the Old Man’s
justified ranting, the gall of that
scow’s attack was working on
his normally - peaceable soul.
Come to think of it, the heathen
hound had probably flung good
U.S. ammunition at them.
By the time Macintosh reached
his cabin he was pretty well as
ropeable as his captain. Which
accounts for his later acquies-
cence in operations normally
anathema to his good Board of
Trade soul.
Boreham was not the type
which would sooner ride a gale
of wind than a pen to make a
report. His was a fluency of
words as well as voice ; and now
he had a grievance which would
make of this report something
worth reading in head-office back
in ’Frisco.
Face running like a tap in the
humid heat of his cabin under
the bridge, where the ship's
carpenter was already hammer-
ing at the torn varnished wood
and canvas, he spread his corded
arms over the table and poured
his ireful heart out on to the
sweat-mottled sheet of paper
under his nose. The fourth salvo
had just crashed inboard when
he looked up, remembering the
exact spot it had struck. That
wasn’t the one that caught the
lifeboat —or was it? No, he
recalled staring aft at the burst
of black smoke and noting they
still had that boat. The fourth
had entered just abaft the funnel.
Yes, because he’d immediately
thought of the boilers. He bent
to begin again ; and his dropping
eye swept over a photograph
propped against the ashtray.
With a sudden grin he dropped
his pen, picked up the photo and
leaned back in his bolted chair,
the grin widening till it split his
face athwartships from ear to
ear. God, what a liver he’d had
—to make him forget Nina, and
that tonight was their night to
howl!
APTAIN BOREHAM was
' s —* a fine figure in white and
gold as he swung along the pier-
side in the warm dusk that even-
ing ; not even the sight of those
shell-holes, black blobs against
the grey, could effect more than
a temporary tightening of the
anticipatory grin wreathing his
mahogany features. Nina at any
time was a chop-licking proposi-
tion ; after a month at sea she
—Captain Boreham left it to
his imagination.
He would give her a slap-up
party tonight. When Nina drank
she was in another world. She
seemed to prefer that one —and
so did Gus, for then Nina
possessed a strong affirmative re-
action to characteristic queries.
He stopped off at The Retreat,
gulped the first whisky, sampled
the next, and thought how like
Nina it was —liquid and smooth
and fiery. Liquidity in her
sinuous walk, inherited from her
dancing mother; smoothness in
the way she could melt against
a man, and give any morals he
had about as much future as an
ice-cube; fieriness that made its
quenching all the more delect-
able, again a maternal inherit-
ance —he didn’t know who her
father was, and doubted if she
did. With a gesture of im-
patience he thumped his third
glass on the bar and strode
eagerly out into the star-
glittered night.
IN her flat on The Peak, high
1 above the harbor where ship-
ping at anchor reared its masts
in slender tracery against the
sky, Nina was well into her
other world, and using to
experienced advantage her main
attraction, sliding and gliding its
scantily-gowned length before
and beside the white-and-gold
figure lounging in anticipatory
admiration on the long settee.
With practised ease she slid in,
berthed alongside and threw a
mooring arm round the bollard
of his neck.
Her lips a scarlet wound in
the dusk of her face, she
searched up, kissed him full on
(Continued on page 22.)
VARIOUS VERSE
THE SAILS OF TASMAN.
[From “Tamaki-Makau-Rau,” a poem on the history of Auckland.]
It is the time when trees by the riverside
Redden the waters of their own shadow’s jade,
And careless of such brief glory that is theirs
Let fall their summer on the ebbing tide.
High on a branch, with stare that never veers.
The old shag watches petals drifting by—
Then suddenly swoops down and disappears.
The waters ripple out, but who can guess
The spot where stem-like from the surface
His unexpected thin black neck will rise?
So history will play at subtleness,
Swoop down and then pursue a hidden course,
Man in his lifetime may not see the truth
Of strange events whose ripples soon disperse.
A rumor from the dunelands on the coast —
How people, looking across the western sea,
Perceived an awesome thing, they could not say
Whether an ocean god or monstrous ghost.
Rumors ripple, "An evil thing," they said,
“It swallows clouds! it creeps upon the seal
It flies through foam with luminous wings
outspread!”
Tamaki’s people gossip from hill to hill.
Her seers rake their hearts for prophecies,
Elders sit in Council, Chiefs look grave—
Then as sudden as it began all talk is still.
Event dives deeply under the flowing days.
It seemed to them no more than a shadow passed
Over the warm light of old familiar ways.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
SUN ORCHIDS.
Again next spring when the heath blows white and pink
And ants come out of their holes and run on the rock
Those clear blue flowers will stand on the blue sky’s brink
And close in rain and open in sun and look
Except for the cup at the centre, some flecks like sand,
More like a distillation of sapphire air
Than anything out of the earth; and when they stand
So clear, so candid, somebody else can peer
As I once did in that deep silky cup
Whose seed of light would drown in a drop of rain,
For there’s no orchid of gully or mountain-top
But holds some secret knowledge best left alone;
And small as it was, blue on that sandstone spur,
Once was enough: it held the sun in there.
n.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
LINES TO A FIRST WIFE.
Within our eyes, mine brown, yours blue
Rests the same image as we speak.
The well-known features; true, untrue?
Our glances play at hide-and-seek
And what have I to say to you?
Do you wish me to reassure
You with oblique disparagement?
You are the wonderer, I am sure
Though pitying your bewilderment,
Your tentative words, your insecure
Advances. You alone have sought
This meeting, then what shall I say?
His love on each of us has wrought
Some loveliness, and, though you may
Be bitter, have no angry thought
For him or me; for our life’s themes
Contain some music of yours; a growth
Continuous. And know we share regimes
For still a name strange to us both
He mutters when he speaks his dreams.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


Cuti£. &
THE COMMUNIST STRANGLEHOLD ON PRICES AND PRODUCTION...
THE COMMUNIST DOMINATION OF KEY TRADE UNIONS...
HEPE ts THE PASS our
CHECH FOP THESE
■
DIXON
B
m
keae?
w
BAIt.ES
J
A.
BOSS,
B
B.
m
smsn
CONBOBS
a
c
gj SARWA. *•
yOWX>E®', J
ASHLEY. W. P
Armstrong, J
ARNOLD, 3 -
grant, d. m.
amohb. s. k.
LARGE. w J -
• *D’
[J] SPOOHER. V*. H.
[g REID, A- ®-
jj] MeCM-IOM, J- A-l
[4] TATE, J- **•
ra mcMUIUH, a. m.
fg WRKBY, T. F.
Ungrouped
, B. H.
i. 0.
LANG, j- T -
WEBB, W.
UJ SPENSLEY
ASSTBE, I
g


Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
5
JACKSON
OSIIMJVAV* /
pmTD.
*leas ssrtS? - S}'
Manufacturers of:
Roll Feed Stationery
Sanders Patent Binder Files
“National” Rotary Duplicators
“Protecta” Self-Registering
Tills
Process Engravings
Stereotypes
Pure British Parchment
Butter Wraps
Waxed Milk Bottle Caps
Rubber Stamps
Office Systems & Equipment
JACKSON AND
O’Sullivan
Ptt. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2o*.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Flue Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good
Write: MAIL ORDER DEFT*
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BAHRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort ana
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28B), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ĝ
g
FOR EVERY
PAINTING JOB!
•■'i;
A portable unit for
oil, water paints,
lacquers quickly
and easily applied
at a pressure up to
30 lbs. Supplied complete
with 1 h.p. Amplion motor
or as 32V. or 100 V. D.C.
mo'! I for lighting sets. Three nozzles
fan type fine spotting type and angle
type or ceilings. Air chuck for tyre
pump in- can be supplied.
Also available as electric 240 V. A.C.
model.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pt>
Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd
PERTH, W.A.
J. W. EAR NS HAW PTY. LTD.
139 195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney XB 3950
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for X, 4. 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free, C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges,
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 25/4/’51
BRISTOE TRADING COMPANY,
1st Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7350
"Phenovls” Worm Remedy
aching tS
time
/
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
m
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
g
g
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-BJ9I
the lips, sank back and
murmured:
“You sailors do things to me.”
Which profundity white-and-
gold answered by clinching and
washing away the salt of a
month’s sea-time in a long and
lingering contact.
And thus, after hurling the
frightened house-boy down the
passage along with his protesta-
tions, Gus found them.
IT was, admittedly, not an
original scene ; nor was it the
first in which Gus had figured.
His opening conversation,
neither, had the stamp of in-
ventive genius upon it.
“You!” he snarled.
Nina was on her feet like a
coiled spring, instinctively, fac-
ing him, in one lithe movement,
crouched, the fingers of her
hands extended.
“Gus!” was her somewhat
superfluous addition to the
dialogue. Then reason overcame
instincf. She tried to hang a
look of concern on a face that
offered it scant foothold ; a face
as bright and empty as an
electric-light bulb.
But Gus, for once, had no
eyes for her; and, for once, his
vocabulary was restricted,
“You!” he repeated, in a
feral snarl that bared his teeth,
white as sugar in the teak
of his face. In two strides he
crossed the room and closed his
paws round the neck of the other
in a savage, instinctive and quite
unscientific vice. White-and-
gold, about to be lifted clean off
the floor in the choking grip,
reacted as savagely and instinc-
tively by bringing one sharp
knee with breath-gouging force
into Gus’s stomach. The big
fellow relaxed his grip, the other
cleared the range with a couple
of quick backward steps, Gus’s
brain sent an activating impulse
to hands and legs and an impera-
tive knock rattled on the door.
Nina cast a swift, examining
query into the invitations section
of her mind, as quickly reassured
herself, and called, gratefully,
“Come in.”
A bluejacket in white drill and
gaiters entered with the self-
conscious bearing of a bringer
of serious tidings; he sighted
his captain and stepped smartly
across the room.
“Urgent signal, sir—immediate
sailing orders.”
The destroyer captain read the
pink form quickly, as he leant
over and grabbed his cap. He
looked up to call “Wait for me,
Smithers —I’m coming right
away,” finished reading, stuffed
the form in his pocket and
murmured;
“You will excuse me, Miss
Captain. I’m afraid I
really must rush. Chin chin.”
Then he was off, the sailor
trailing close astern.
It is unnecessary to detail the
following scene. But its violence
can be indicated by revealing
that, even after a celibate month
at sea, Gus returned on board
from Nina free of the necessity
of surreptitiously washing his
handkerchief in the bathroom,
and with his white uniform as
uncrushed as when he stepped
ashore.
LIE had started his second
I 1 bottle of whisky when the
signalman entered and handed
him a signal. Gus read it with
his eyes narrowed, slouched
across the table.
Sait as soon as possible for
?oTUT C mm dZZr Zl
j imit
Thompson, San Francisco.
The signalman had taken
three steps outside the cabin
door when he heard a crash, as
of a flung bottle, against the
cabin bulkhead behind him.
Hell’s bells, he’s in rare form,
was the immediate conviction of
Macintosh as he stepped into
his captain’s cabin. Aloud, he
said: “You sent for me, sir?”
Gus gestured. Macintosh
stepped round the table and
leaned over to read the signal
resting in the claw-like enclosure
of Gus’s arms.
“See it! See it!” He stabbed
the last line with a pencil,
viciously, so that the point broke
and a jagged black score ran
across the sheet’s white face.
“A British destroyer will escort
drunken. “But only outside the
three-mile-limit, mind. Mister.
And you know who’ll command
this great and glorious bloody
gna t, don’t you? None other
than our own flash little pansy.
Yes, Mister, none but!
Guardian of’ our far-flung
Empire if I get my hands on
him I’ll fling him a blasted sight
further! Guardian’s right—the
dirty, snotty-nosed, bludgin’
httle tripe-hound He guarded
my property all right! Enough
Q ’ that! Now see here, Mister
_r ve got a plan. That gunboat
w m be sure to have another go
0 g Swatow Here bend
over”
TT’* f " ‘° P '
‘° PrePare fot *“•
A FRESH sou’-easter was
**■ whipping near-by swells
into smoke as Gus swung her
through Lyeemoon Passage, with
the peaks of Kai Tak aerodrome
rearing on the port bow, and
pointed her blunt nose north for
Swatow. A mile to seaward the
lean greyness of the destroyer
sliced her raked stem into the
following seas, lifted her low-
hung waist, spawned a smother
of white from her raised tail,
and sank it down again in a
rhythmic seesaw of forward
motion. Across the liquid cor-
rugations to port the China
coast showed, stark and bare,
its rounded hills rolling like the
chest muscles of a giant.
Sober now, quietly jubilant,
Gus paced the bridge. He pulled
up by the compass, where Mac-
intosh was checking his devia-
tion.
“Barometer’s falling, Mac.”
The altered title was in keeping
with the situation —they were
partners now. In crime, Mac-
intosh would have said.
“All the better,” Gus ran on.
“His gunnery’s punk at any
time —in a bit of a lop it’ll be
putrid. And the weather will
make our steering all the harder
—yeah! ”,
He chuckled deep in his
barrelled chest. Macintosh
looked up at him dubiously.
“I still don’t like it. What if
we miss? At that range he
won’t. And if we do pull it off,
it could rate an international
incident.”
The other dug him with a
marlinespike finger,
“Garn, Mister, you’re windy!
International incident, eh?
Ain’t his opening fire on us an
international incident? Our
escort handled an international
incident hunky-dory last night—
see what he can make of this
one.”
At Macintosh’s stare Gus fell
again to pacing.
The sun was poised a few
degrees above the hills to port,
ready to slip from the rim of
the world, when they shaped up
next day for Lu Yu Channel,
outside Swatow, and snored in
for the landing. Well clear to
seaward the destroyer waited, a
grey silhouette on the horizon’s
fanged edge.
They had rounded Sugarloaf
Island in the channel when Gus
and Macintosh, sweeping ahead
with glasses, sighted the thin
black stick jutting above the
island’s near headland on the
port bow. Gus swore softly be-
neath his binoculars.
“There he is all right. Like a
bloody spider.” He snapped
over his shoulder, “Full speed
ahead! Mister, tell the engine-
room to stand-by.”
Slowly and evenly the pencil
ran along behind the headland,
till it met the low, short strip
of beach, when it grew suddenly
into a mast, funnel, bridge and
gun-mounted bow.
Macintosh left the cover
of the engine-room voice-
pipe open and stepped up be-
side Gus, straddle-legged at the
fore end of the bridge. The
chief-officer’s heart played post-
man at his ribs; he breathed
quickly. Now that the die was
cast, and the Old Man’s plan
had to be pursued, he forgot his
harbor qualms in the swift
memory of that other shelling,
and the vindictiveness engen-
dered by the threatened promise
of another.
“God,” he whispered through
a dry throat, “if we only had a
gun.”
Gus didn’t answer. He was
conning her by eye, one on the
gunboat, now in full view with
a cloud of white foam at her
bows, the other judging, with
(|Continued on page 24.)
MARSDEN.
(From a sequence of poems.)
Round and round and round, bare feet, striped shirt
and canvas trousers, tramping they wind the spring,
wind the spring that starts the heart of my ship
beating, beating. And her great white lungs
breathe in great gouts of air.
She leans over and bites her mouth,
foam-flecked with the urgency of her hunger,
deep into the green flank of the sea.
The shrouds sing . . .
Or have we wound the heart of the hapless beast
that lies below in chains, begins to roar,
sprawled in stench and darkness on the floor?
Ha! . . . young Mr. Fantastic, dressed in his clerical black,
accompanied by his missus, comes on deck.
“How d’ye do, sir! How are ye, madame.
Trust you find your quarters comfortable." Hell,
here’s a white-faced proper young sod!
Wants to preach the gospel to sailors,
wants to extort the roaring beast below.
“This ship, sir, wishes to talk with ye. Listen!
Can ye hear what she’s trying to tell ye, can ye? ~No?
There’s a ’normous organ for ye, if ever there was!”
She’s alive, alive, young Mr. Fantastic.
God and the Devil; and God’s good Son.
And how do ye stand for Eternity, brother? Aye.
My heart’s full wide to the terror and wonder of it,
young Mr. Fantastic; but the weather’s squally . . ,
“And you’ve come to preach religion to the sailors,
tell o’ the tug-o’-war
between the Devil and the Lord . . .” He’s like a bollard
himself: the whitest, thickest, newest rope would snap
before he’d groan or bend. Wooden head, yea,
bound with an iron strap!-
N . z .
W. HART-SMITH.


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagb
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Ertceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
H. C. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months £1 16 0
6 „ 18 6
3 „ .. .. .. 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
Regd.
HAVE YOU TRIED THE
"HAPPY’’ MANTLE?
THESE ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES WILL SURPRISE
AND DELIGHT YOU
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
ADEQUATE STOCKS ARE NOW AVAILABLE
AT YOUR LOCAL DEALERS.
IF IN ANY DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:—
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
ONLY
“ HAPPY ”
BEAR
m
1
''’ i-' ’
REGD.
GENUINE
MANTLES
THIS SEAL!
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY SHOWS
Peggy Sager.
In case anyone has omitted
to mention it, the Borovansky
Ballet company is one of note-
worthy brilliance: A company
finely organised and controlled
by Borovansky himself, who
seems to have the strange idea,
for these times anyway, that
ballet must be either beautiful
or gracefully humorous ; a com-
pany possessing several excel-
lent principal dancers of varying
types ; and a company with a
corps-de-ballet which is as
pleasant to contemplate for its
dancing and well-drilled preci-
sion as for its proportions and
good looks—matters of more
importance than is generally
conceded.
It is also a company which
generally contrives to be pleas-
antly surprising with each pro-
gramme, the revelation at the
opening of the current bill at
Sydney Empire last Friday night
being the dancing of Peggy
Sager in the customary abridg-
ment of “Swan Lake.” From the
last dozen or so performances of
this ballet the present commen-
tator has, frankly, come to
accept it as a pretty little legend
about a prince and the queen
of the swans, told to Tschai-
kowsky’s music by the graceful
movements of a white corps-
de-ballet and principal ballerina,
by the prince and a collection
of oddly superfluous huntsmen
in multicolored costumes —all
of it quite beautiful, but as coolly
undramatic and unemotional as
“Les Sylphides.”
Miss Sager’s dancing last Fri-
day completely confounded any
such previous impressions. With
dancing that was as precise as
it was exquisitely graceful, and
with arms, shoulders and neck
as fluently and exactly expres-
sive as her feet, she made the
whole ballet such an extra-
ordinarily moving business that
one believed, if not the fairytale
itself, at least the emotion and
poignancy in it. It was beauti-
fully expressive classic dancing
that one will remember for a
long time.
After Miss Sager’s dancing
the rest of the programme came
rather as a disenchantment. “La
Boutique Fantasque,” graceful
and jolly, was notable particu-
larly for artist Constable’s good-
humored scenery and brilliant
costumes, for Borovansky’s per-
formance as the old toymaker
who is as confounded as his
customers when his toys come
to life, and for the dancing of
Kathleen Gorham and Paul
Grinwis as the two can-can
dancers.
“L’Amour Ridicule” appeared
to depend mainly on two things
—the movement of a thickly
and brilliantly populated stage
and some Spanish dances by
Dorothy Stevenson and Paul
Grinwis. The first requirement
was, with support of Constable’s
sets and costumes, amply pro-
vided for, but both Miss Steven-
son and Mr. Grinwis seemed
unable to bring to their dancing
the necessary fieriness and taut
elasticity—qualities so much in
evidence in the dancing of La
Joselito a year or two ago in
Sydney.
"Don't Listen, Ladies."
Sacha Guitry’s comedy is a
light, slightly wicked Gallic
trifle about a husband with a
past, including a first wife, and
a second wife who looks like
having a future when each of
them gets round to suspecting
the other and being equally
resentful of each other’s sus-
picions. Guitry is no Pagnol in
the matter of humorous examina-
tion of character and motives,
but he is amusing in his polished,
witty way, and his craftsman-
ship makes almost any of his
trifles agreeably digestible.
The Kuringai Theatre Guild’s
performance at the Killara Hall
preserved most of the essentials,
even if it was difficult to believe
that there was anything Gallic
or even slightly wicked about
O. D. Bisset’s Anglo-Saxon
polish as the husband or about
the beautiful and beautifully-
groomed young ladies on the
stage. Naida Redshaw and Val
Edelsten made the harried hus-
band seem a singularly fortunate
man in the matter of wives ; Joe
Campbell showed how an ageing
baron can be done up as spring
chicken, and Lily Moore gave
the best and most amusing per-
formance of the evening as an
ageing actress with a philosophy
as wide as the horizon and a
past as long as a telephone-
directory.
"Mysfery at
Greenfingers."
The present commentator has
had the unfortunate experience
of believing that each successive
play he sees by J. B. Priestley
must be the worst that the play-
wright ever wrote. The latest
to be so distinguished is
“Mystery at Greenfingers,” put
on by the Sydney Drama
Society. It has most of Mr.
Priestley’s tricks and mechanics,
the main ones being the arrang-
ing of a highly artificial situa-
tion to produce some sort of
highly artificial tension under
which some highly artificial
characters reveal their highly
artificial secrets.
The situation in the current
item is the supposed murder of
a mysterious old lady in a snow-
bound hotel, which is occupied
only by the m.o.l., her equally
mysterious companion and a
skeleton staff supposed to be pre-
paring the pubbery for its open-
ing. Most of the staff, of course,
are chock-a-block with secret
lives, which Mr. Priestley reveals
with the cheerful banality of a
conjuror pulling rabbits out of
a hat.
Producer Ethel Gabriel and
the cast made the most of the
piece, with the most imagina-
tive work coming from Thora
Small, Mardi Small, Edna
Fullerton, Keith Goddard and
Alfred Edmondson.
"Caroline Chisholm."
The Independent Theatre’s
selection of George Landen
Dann’s “Caroline Chisholm” for
presentation at their North Syd-
ney playhouse as “an official
jubilee production” was not a
particularly happy choice. The
play attempts, in seven dis-
jointed episodes, to tell the life
of that remarkable woman’s
passionate devotion to the cause
of English emigrants to Aus-
tralia in the last century, but
whatever its historical accuracy
it never seems to reach into the
character—into the mind and
heart or whatever it was that
was responsible for her driving
obsession with her self-appointed
task.
There was a certain nervous
intensity about Marjorie Wes-
ton’s acting as Caroline Chis-
holm, but it seemed to spring
more from the actress’s anxiety
to inject some urgency into the
role than from any conscious
portrayal of qualities in the
character. Miss Weston was
most convincing and often
quite moving—in depicting the
relationship between Caroline
Chisholm and her husband
(Patrick Hackett), which seemed
to suggest that, while the actress
could feel and portray normal
human reactions easily and
naturally, she could not show —
without more assistance from
the playwright, anyway—the
extraordinary forces that move
such extraordinary people as
Caroline Chisholm.
More Monotypes.
The evergreen Tom Garrett is
showing at Sydney Grosvenor
Galleries another collection of
his old stone farmhouses, his
rivers glimpsed through vistas of
trees, his grey roads lit with a
red or a green cart, his gay picnic
parties under dense foliage; a
private, romantic world which
has filled his mind and occupied
his brush for many years.
It is a limited art. It resembles
Blamire Young’s but without
Young’s dramatic obsession with
giant mountainsides; it resembles
Hilder’s but without Hilder’s
piercing lyrical vision in which
a cart or even a wheelbarrow
could turn into an astonishing
crystallisation of sunlight.
It is an art, in short, of charm
rather than of passion. But there
is no doubt about the charm
nor about the ultimate good
taste which, often by a hair’s-
breadth, preserves it from de-
generating into the pretty-pretty.
Some of the monotypes this time
are rather scratchy, but there are
some very pleasant oils in Tom
Garrett’s curious watercofor-like
technique, notably “Lake Side.”
4-* 4- 4*
William Prater’s show at the
Stanley Coe Gallery, in Mel-
bourne, indicates that he has
followed on Hans Heysen, Bat-
tarbee, the Rowells, Namatjira,
Pareroultja and a score of others
by treading the well-worn track
into the Never-Never and re-
turning with a score of land-
scapes. Strawberry red and
carrot juice, in various combina-
tions, are the prevailing colors
in Mr. Prater’s collection, and
some of the patterns would look
nice on a carpet. Still, the artist
may only be trying to make
pleasing patterns, and in that he
succeeds, particularly in Nos. 9,
2 and 7
Music.
Melbourne’s Assembly Hall
was packed by what seemed to
be an audience entirely com-
posed of connoisseurs for the
first performance of the Griller
Quartet. The three items they
played—Beethoven, Bax and
Mozart —gave plenty of scope
for a skill that could only be
called amazing. Melbourne has
never heard soft ensemble play-
ing such as it got at the end of
the slow movement of the Bax
quartet.
■3*
The Sydney Musical Society’s
production of “The Pirates of
Penzance” was uncommonly
good amateur fare, owing much
to the keen musical direction of
Ivan Rixon and some good sing-
ing by Nerissa Niblo as Mabel;
Geoffrey Layton as the
guardian of the Law; Keith
Walshe, who also wrung a rea-
sonable modicum of humor
from the patter singing of
Major-General Stanley; Neil
Easton as the resonant-voiced
Pirate King and the tenor of
Connell Byrne, though a more
relaxed air would improve his
performance. A general atmo-
sphere prevailed, too —which
can’t always be said of profes-
sional teams that everyone
seemed to enjoy what they were
doing.
4* *J*
Joan Sutherland’s dramatic
soprano has all the ingredients
which, if properly mixed over
the next few years of advanced
study, should carry her to the
very top of the tree: a truly
remarkable range which allows
her to use it almost as a colora-
tura or again as a mezzo ; purity
of tone ; excellent quality; easy
production throughout its
gamut; flawless diction ; with a
first-rate intelligence informing
its use. These qualities, as well
as a most attractive concert-
platform manner, she exhibited
at her Sydney farewell recital
before going abroad. Power and
beauty were admirably blended
in the “Pace Pace” from “La
Forza del Destino.” Liszt’s
fragile “Lorelei” demonstrated
the singer’s mastery of the half-
voice.


‘1921-1951. Congratulations to the R.A.A.F. on its 30th Birthday.”
Time
flying
too
is
When you have to count the minutes,
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
all over the world—including those of
Melbourne and Sydney—it gets you on
your way in the shortest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
m
Anglo-lraman Oil Company. Ltd
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES JL/I’IX, MELBOURNE.
Telegraphic Address. “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
073/9512
fausa° e
m
V
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Jre
yo%
9f 1 1’
« -U t
■~rrr+i
¥
P
/9
Vi
22
si*
fit.
L
*t>
MOW is the ti
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT a COLD
If your home Is still In course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for all
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is com*
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modem
insulator— B. I. SIAGWOOL
ğ
Tjmwm
g
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE, HU3506
BRISBANE, B3B04 •ADELAIDE, C7257 • PERTH, L2107
ġ
*S
*V* C
S
c
the ujhiskij is:
'‘Many things
impossible
to thought
Have been
by need
to full perfection
brought . . .**
(T^Cdllura’s
6i
Scots Cllhisky
jd
«6i|f tun<iM f?owAc6 mxjt)* rrft»»«*
thirty years’ experience, his turn-
ing circle.
He shouted over his shoulder
to the helmsman “Stand-by,
Thompson!” Took one more
swift checking stare at their
relative positions—then bawled:
“Hard-a-port! Slam her on!”
The broad, heavy bow faltered
in indecision a moment, driving
on her course at 16 knots, then
round she came, slow at first,
then increasing to a swing that
heeled her bulk to starb’d, and
sent a clatter of instruments to
the deck of the chart-house
below. She came broadside on
to the following seas, still choppy
in the channel, and a lather of
flung spray slapped their faces
on the bridge. Then she was
round, quivering with thrust and
heading straight for the low
length of the gunboat.
Macintosh yelled, above the
w tod.
Destroyer signalling!
Gus bawled back: Thought
he would. Never mind what
he’s saying. Now, Mister, send
° ur si S nal! “° ut °f contwl
Steerm 8 gone-
Two hundred yards, and the
gunboat was still on her con-
verging course,
“Watch her, Thompson,”
Gus warned. “Steady as you
go.”
He had judged the turn per-
fectly. Another 100 yards and
the gunboat could stand on her
hindlegs for all he cared—he
had her! The fool! He thinks
I'm trying to run. Stay on
course another half-minute —one
short half-minute.
Concentrated on her stern,
Gus saw the swirl of white as
her rudder was put over. Too
late! Too late! The cry rang
savagely in his brain.
“Starb’d ten degrees,” he
yelled at Thompson.
A second before they hit, the
gun exploded almost in their
faces, a blinding burst of orange
flame that spewed its shell in a
vicious screech over their heads.
Then 10,000 tons of driving steel
lifted on a wave; lifted, poised,
and plunged down in a biting,
tearing crunch that seemed to
halt her in mid-flight; then came
the crash, the shrill tearing of
tortured steel as the merchant-
man’s weight and thrusting
screws savaged her bows on deep
into the gunboat’s vitals.
The stricken ship heeled in
agony, over until the sea poured
inboard in an unbroken water-
fall from the break of her
fo’c’sle aft. Only the last-minute
alteration in course saved her
life; it had swung her, slightly
slanting, to receive the blow.
After the first deep bite Gus’s
ship, with all its weight and
speed, bent back the other’s thin
stern-plates like a can-opener,
straightened them out as the
jagged edges slid down her sides,
then ploughed on into clear
water, leaving the gunboat rock-
ing crazily with a quarter of -her
length wide-open to the sea.
BENT over the wing of the
flying-bridge as she swept
past, Gus looked straight down
into yellow faces of terror; he
laughed like a motor-bike.
“That’ll learn you yellow
s!” He stabbed an arm
aft at the whipping flag. “See
’em? Stars and Stripes! Re-
member ’em!”
He stamped back to the bin-
nacle, jubilant, thumping one
clenched fist into the other.
“Boy, oh boy, Mister—we
made it! Lucky if they beach
her before she sinks. Won’t
hurt us if the scow does. Hell,
before I forget—get a couple of
hands on to rigging a jury
steering-tackle aft. Our steer-
ing’s gone, remember!”
Macintosh was grinning, now
that the tension in his stomach
had uncurled.
“Yes, sir! Nice work. Cap-
tain. You handled the old bitch
like a destroyer.”
The two looked at each other,
then made a beeline for the port
rails. There she was already,
half a cable off the wallowing
Chinaman, her whaler alongside.
As they watched, while Gus ran
back, steadied her on course and
reduced speed, the whaler pulled
back, was hoisted inboard and
-the destroyer, making way so
soon as her boat left the water,
closed the merchantman.
She slid abreast, fifty yards
clear, a beautiful brute of a
ship, all grace and guts. They
saw a rating train a loud-hailer
on them, saw a slim, white-and-
gold figure beside the binnacle
pick up a microphone, then a
voice like a bugle rang metalli-
cally across the white-streaked
sea.
“What the blazes do you mean
by ramming? Didn’t you get my
signal to heave-to? There’ll be
hell to pay over this. You can’t
go into Swatow—they’d tear you
to pieces.”
Gus gestured behind him, and
Macintosh, ready, passed him
the megaphone. Gus’s bellow,
though conciliatory, could have
been heard in Swatow.
“Hold on, Captain. Didn’t
you get my signal? My steering
broke down. No time to rig
jury gear. He altered course to-
wards. Damned bad accident,
but couldn’t be helped. Are they
all right?”
“Oh, yes, they’re all right—
only cut nearly in half. Not
your fault half her crew’s not
dead. Only thing you can an—
and course for Hong Kong. You
might make it.”
“What d’you mean —might
make it?”
“If you can forget your
flotilla manoeuvres for a
moment, take a look at the
barometer —it’s tumbling. Then
inspect your forepeak. You’re
opened forrard below waterline
for about twenty feet aft. Or
did you expect to chip your
blasted paint-work?”
The voice clipped off. Both
Gus and Macintosh together
stared forward. Now they
noticed it, already she was heavy,
her bow, instead of lifting,
boring like a dead weight
through the rising troughs, Gus
dropped his conciliatory tone
with his megaphone.
“Mister, get the carpenter
forrard. Should have done it
long ago. Check watertight
doors. Jump to it!”
RY the time Macintosh had
regained the bridge, running
up the ladder in short jerks as
she pitched, the wind was a
snarling whine in the rigging and
the seas had lifted into peaks and
vales of tumbling brine. The
entire aspect of the south-
eastern horizon had changed.
From the dim line of the hori-
zon it was as though the inert
mass of low-lying cloud was
being rolled up from the line
of the sea in dark, horizontal,
moving folds, from which
dripped folds of paler color,
trailing like an immense opaque
curtain over a sea that was dark-
furrowed and streaked white by
the advancing wind,
“She’s got a nasty gash in her,
Captain.” Macintosh gasped
from the exertion of his hurry,
“Nearly eight feet of water in
the chain-locker, and making it
in the paint-shop.”
Gus grunted. I knew I’d
dent her, but not that much. The
barometer’s just about hit rock-
bottom—never seen it so low. I
don’t like it. Mister. If she swal-
lows much more we’ll have ’em
(Continued on page 32.)


LABOR will do
Here is a summary of what LABOR
has undertaken to do—
m
- v ■
'
%
m
mm
■mmm
G FIGHT THE RISING COST OF LIVING
Labor guarantees to seek an immediate referendum on prices
to provide the Commonwealth with power to fight the rising
cost of living.
• INCREASE PRODUCTION
As during the war, Labor will co-operate with employers'
organisations and leading trade unions in a vigorous production
drive.
• FIGHT SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY
Labor will fight subversive activity wherever it may be found.
Offenders will be prosecuted with the utmost rigor of the law-
• BUILD UP AUSTRALIA'S DEFENCES
Labor will build up our defence forces on sound lines.
• SPEED NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
and force ahead the great National projects planned for every
State.
• 10/- FIRST CHILD ENDOWMENT-
INCREASE PENSIONS—EASE THE
MEANS TEST
• FULL NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE
Expand medical and pharmaceutical benefits—improve hospital
facilities.
9 FREE DENTAL CARE FOR CHILDREN
m REPEAL THE WOOL TAX
e MAINTAIN THE EXCHANGE RATE
m GUARANTEE PRICES OF PRIMARY
PRODUCTS
and extend the guaranteed price arrangement for wheat and
dairy products for an additional 5 years.
LABOR WILL FIGHT FOR A FAIR DEAL FOR THE PEOPLE AND WILL END THE MENZIES MUDDLE
y
'I
OH
■
::
• j
• * k v
» A'
r ,
, \ * ' * "
, .. \
►,
Mpp>
' 'V
s>m;;
IMPORTANT!
¥sm
7
Take great care with, your Senate Vote. Make sure you get your “Labor
How-to-Vote Card” at your Polling Booth and follow it exactly. You must
place a number in every square.
Authorised by IV. E. Dickson , M.L.C„ Parliament House, Sydney.
L213.14N


BAGAT.—Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of next-of-kin of SARAH LOUISA
BAGAT, who married WILLIAM MILLS
at Birkenhead, Cheshire, 1885, are asked
to communicate with THOMAS JOSEPH
PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King Street,
Sydney.
Missing Friend.
Public Notice.
WOULD ARTHUR THOMAS PARROTT
and HUBERT DOUGLAS PARROTT, sons
of the late ALBERT CHARLES PARROTT,
or anyone knowing their whereabouts,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE, Cambridge, New
Zealand ?
Divorce Notices.
TO KENNETH DAVID BRUCE DANIELLS
address unknown Labourer. TA K E
NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
Fourth day of February One thousand
nine hundred and forty-nine has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of Western
Australia citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of IVY OUVE DANIELLS of
40 Duff Street Merredin in the State of
■Western Australia Married Woman pray-
ing for a dissolution of marriage IN DE-
FAULT of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce sentence
therein AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within TWENTY-ONE DAYS after the
date of the publication of this Notice to
attend in person or by your Solicitor at
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
of Western Australia at Perth and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided
for that purpose. DATED this 9th day
of April, 1951.—Q. J. RUSE, Acting
Registrar. FRED CURRAN. ESQ., Soli-
citor, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Petitioner herein.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES LESLIE BROWN late of Cess-
nock.—TAKE NOTICE that VALMAI
MILLIOENT BENITA BROWN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1417 of 1951
on the ground of habitual drunkenness and
cruelty during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
2nd July 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. R. GOLD-
STON, Solicitor, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
-J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PAULINE ADA VERONICA POLLARD
late of Merrylands.—TAKE NOTICE that
AMBROSE POLLARD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1350 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
2nd July 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J. R.
GOLDSTON. Solicitor, 34 Martin Place,
Sydney.-—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN CLIFTON PARKER for-
merly of 17 Archibald Street Granville. —
TAKE NOTICE that LILLIAN MAUDE
PARKER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 384 of 1951 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 25th day of June
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. T. G. D.
MARSHALL, LANDERS & GIBLIN. of
9 Martin Place, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Tenders.
TENDERS addressed to Burns, Philp &
CO., Ltd., South Sea Department, 7 Bridge
Street, Sydney, are invited and will be re-
ceived up to Noon, Tuesday, July 3, 1951,
for the purchase of the following coco-
nut plantation properties situated in the
British Solomon Islands Protectorate:—
KBPIAI.
Situated about 2 miles west of Faisi on
Shortland Island. ,
Comprises 640 acres Freehold and 325
acres Leasehold —99 yoars from 1/1/1913.
The pre-war output from the developed
area of about 540 acres was about 80
tons per annum.
kinbar.
Situated at Hathorn Sound at end nearest
Diamond Narrows. r
Comprises 1680 acres Freehold, including
the small Island of Beraki.
The pre-war output from the developed
area of about 769 acres was about 125
tons per annum.
SIMBILANDU.
Situated on the Island of Vella LaveUa,
Comprises 547 acres Freehold, partly de-
veloped.
The pre-war output from this property was
about 20 tons per annum.
KIAE POINT,
Situated on the Island of Gononga.
Comprises two Crown Leases each otu
acres—-99 years from 1912.
One lease partly developed, the pre-war
output from which was about 70 tons.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Terms with suitable guarantee
will be considered. Transfers subject to
approval of Resident Commissioner.
Further particulars will be made avail-
able on application
BENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
Shortland Islands Plantations Ltd.. Box
543, G.P.0.. Sydney, are invited and wm
be received up to Noon, Tuesday, July 3,
1951, for the purchase of—
LOFUNG COCONUT PLANTATION.
Situated in the Shortland Islands (Bntisn
Solomon Islands).
Area —approximately 1753 acres.
Tenure —Freehold. .
This property sustained some damage
during the late war, but the pre-war
planted area of 1008 acres yielded an
average of 450 tons.
VIRGIN LAND—SHORTLAND
ISLANDS. , ... .
Situated in the Shortland Islands (British
Solomon Islands).
Area —approximately 12,500 acres.
Tenure —Freehold.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Terms with suitable guarantee
will be considered. Transfers. subject to
approval of Resident Commissioner.
Further particulars wfll be made avaiiauie
on application.
TENDERS addressed to the Liquidator,
Solomon Islands Development Co. Ltd. (m
Liq.), Box 543, Q.P.O, Sydney, are invited
and will be received up to Noon, Tuesday,
July 8, 1951, for the purchase of the
following coconut plantation properties
situated in the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate: —
BBRANDE. „ . ,
Situated on the North Coast of Guadal-
canal. ,
Area —approximately 2000 acres.
Tenure —Freehold. ,
The pre-war output from the develops
area of about 845 acres was about m
tons per annum, and 122 acres wer
planted with rubber.
manning straits.
Situated on a number of Islands betweea
Ysabel and Choiseul Islands.
Area —approximately 5000 acres.
Tenure —Leasehold —99 years
The^pre-war output from the developing
area of approximately 1248 acres wa
about 180 tons per annum.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Terms with suitable guarantee
will be considered. Transfers, subject to
approval of Resident Commissioner.
Further particulars will be made a 'aii
able on application.
from
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCE AS AN ALLY.
In the past few months not
only the Prime Minister but, as
well, the President of France
have made special visits to the
U.S., intent on convincing
Americans that if it comes to
war France will prove a sound
and dependable ally.
President Auriol, in Wash-
ington at the end of last month,
was especially emphatic on
France’s will to fight, about
which some experienced
observers have expressed consid-
erable doubt, with particular
reference to the strength of
Moscow’s fifth - column in
France.
“We resent,” M. Auriol said,
“the accusations made against
France which characterise her as
without thews and sinews, and
without the will to defend her-
self against aggression. The
insistence with which such
accusations are made constitute
an insult as cruel as it is unjust.
France without thews and
sinews! ”
He gave details of what had
Richmond ( U.S.A .) “News Leader."
“HEY, YOU’RE LOOKING THE WRONG WAY!"
been done since 1945 to rebuild
France and the level of produc-
tion compared with 1938. “It
has been said,” he went on, “that
France would not have the will
to resist an aggression. We have
good reason to know what an
aggression is and what it costs,
and that is why we are doing,
and shall do, all in our power
not only to resist aggression
should it occur, but to deter it
and save the peace. To those
who state that France is weary,
France answers: ‘My alleged
weakness is the temporary limit
of my strength, which two
invasions in less than 30 years
have not succeeded in destroying.
I know what isolation means,
and that is why I am working
for the organisation of collective
security. That is why I strive
in spite of certain misunder-
standings to unite Europe to
make it strong and prosperous,
and to give men new reasons to
defend their freedom.’ ”
Making a sober survey of
France as it is today, London
“Economist” sees it as being
now in the convalescent stage,
and hence well worth supporting.
It lists some of the obvious
discouraging features: the pre-
carious Governments; the
general French community
apparently unaware of its com-
mon bond and common interest;
a foreign policy that lacks single-
mindedness and resolution and
is for ever darting off in pursuit
of bright ideas; an economy
that has recovered remarkably
without achieving either the
stability or the broader distri-
bution of wealth indispensable
to a united national State;
“This —some Englishmen and
Americans are prone to say
among themselves —is not the
ally for the dangerous days
ahead. This is a people resigned
to a future in the second rank,
that has lost faith in the nation
State and seeks oblivion in some
wider political system, that lacks
leadership, that has shared the
disillusionment of Candide and
wants to be left to cultivate its
garden.”
Against that conclusion, the
“Economist” sets the recent de-
cline in the power and influence
of the Communists ; the refusal
of French workers to sabotage
the Marshall Plan and American
arms deliveries; the determina-
tion of the Government to re-
build the army, and, above all
(if it is national morale that is
in question), the sharply rising
birthrate.
Allowing also that the
“peasant and bourgeois virtues
of France have a way of sud-
denly rising to the occasion and
confuting the pessimist and the
Communist,” the “Economist”
finds that this present year must
bring exceptional strain. Some
elements of that strain:
The aim is to produce 20
French divisions by next year:
and the back of that task has to
be broken this year. Members
of the Communist party have to
be got out of those positions
where they can do mortal harm
to the machinery and morale of
defence. New elections have to
be faced. The Government
must raise, and enforce, the
collection of taxes for re-
armament. It must work
in harness with an American
foreign policy that many French-
men regard as dangerously
impatient.
Meanwhile, the prime need
“is to restore confidence in
Frenchmen by showing con-
fidence in them. For, if
the British and Americans
believe them to be un-
reliable allies, incapable of
resisting if Russia attacks, then,
in fact, they will probably
prove unreliable. But if
confidence is shown....
France, given time, can rise to
the occasion. There can be, in
fact, no other basis for the
alliance, for better or for worse.”
As the Frenchman sees it,
America and Britain should do
everything they can to minimise
the risks that he feels he is being
called on to run. The Eisen-
hower policy of gathering
strength to prevent war is
bound to provoke Soviet threats,
which will be deliberately
addressed at France. “It
is, therefore, inevitable that,
just as the British tend to ask
caution of the Americans in
Asia in order to avoid a full-
scale war with China, so—and
even more strongly—will France
seek to avoid war in Europe
now. If the French contribution
to the essential European region
of Atlantic defence is to be
secured, the geographically less
vulnerable Anglo-Saxon Powers
must scrupulously adapt their
own utterances and deeds to the
unique objective of defence in
Europe, and defence only.”
The “Economist’s” survey
concludes on the hopeful note
that those who know France
best are convinced that the
French Army “can reach a
pitch of excellence that will
revive pride and confidence
throughout the nation. But the
condition of this is that Britain
—and France’s other allies —
support what is strong and
hopeful in the nation against
what is weak and defeatist.
What is significant in the con-
valescence of an old ally is not
the weakness that still lingers
but the strength that is being
slowly gathered.”
MacArthur Defended.
Though much of the criticism
of General MacArthur
emanated from a Britain fearful
of seeing his policy lead to U.S.
entanglement in a Far East war,
there was just as severe criticism
of him in America, too, and he
did have some defenders in the
British Press. As an example,
just before his fall the “Daily
Mail” pointed out some of the
conflicting directions under
which he was expected to act in
Korea:
“The sour critics have never
pointed out that MacArthur
crossed the Parallel by order of
the United Nations. That was
on October 7.
“On February 12, after the
retreat and the new advance,
Mr. Attlee said the Parallel
should not be recrossed until
there had been full consultations
with the U.N.
“On the morning of February
15 Mr. Acheson said meetings
were being held with the other
Allies to agree on a common
military policy.
“In the afternoon of February
15 President Truman said it was
up to General MacArthur
whether the Parallel was crossed
or not.
“In the evening of February
15 Washington hastened to ex-
plain that the ‘military talks’
mentioned by Mr. Acheson in-
cluded political discussions also.
“On February 21 Mr. Ernest
Davies, Britain’s Foreign Under-
secretary, said the Parallel could
be crossed for ‘local tactical
reasons,’ but any ‘substantial
crossing’ would be a political
matter.
“On March 21 Mr. Acheson
said that no fresh authority
would be needed if General
MacArthur ordered his troops
over. He added that before this
was done there was ‘need for a
common point of view.’
“The history of war and
diplomacy,” the “Daily Mail”
commented, “offers few counter-
parts to these cross-purposes.”
Price of Aggression.
Doubt having been cast in the
British Press on American figures
for enemy casualties in Korea,
a Washington report in New
York “Herald Tribune” counters
with the claim that, if anything,
the aggressors’ losses have prob-
ably been understated. It ex-
plains :
“The Air Force habit of count-
ing corpses from the air, and
making foolishly detailed claims,
has given rise to scepticism.
Yet careful testing of the day-to-
day claims, both of the air and
ground forces, has revealed that
current casualty estimates are,
'if anything, too low. There have
by now been many such episodes
as that at Namdae, where the
Air Force claimed 75 enemy
killed on January 16, and the
next day advancing ground
forces counted over 800 dead.
“All kinds of evidence from
within China have also con-
firmed that combat attrition,
cold, hunger and disease are
crippling the Communist armies.
“The enemy has been losing
men at the staggering rate of
200,000 a month, and has seen
one-third of his whole force melt
away in this manner in the short
period since the New Year.
These appalling losses are
largely due to the fact that
Chinese and North Korean
armies have been fighting with-
out tanks, without artillery, and
without air cover.”
In the same New York paper,
David Lawrence quotes an
“official spokesman” in Tokyo
for the striking comparison:
“Do you realise that the 4880
casualties we inflicted yesterday
represent more casualties than
the entire Allied Army suffered
on D-Day in Europe?”
Indo-China Future.
American journalist Louis
Fischer, in the course of a
London “Time and Tide”
article:
“Indo-China is now a dike
against the Red tide in South-
east Asia. Strategically and
politically, Indo-Chma is in-
finitely more important than
Korea. With Indo-China in
their hands, the Communists
would soon knock at the gates
of India, which is the democratic
anchor of Asia.
“The defence of Indo-China,
therefore, is the concern of many
nations —not only of France. It
is also an impossible task for
France alone.
“Since France cannot hold
Indo-China singlehanded and
must not relinquish it to the
Communists, there would appear
to be only one realistic solution:
internationalisation. Indo-China
has become a world problem,
and before it is too late France
should place the Indo-Chinese
issue before the United Nations,
or, better still, before a special
conference of those nations
whose interests are intimately
affected by the fate of Indo-
China. These would include
India, Indonesia, Great Britain,
Burma, Ceylon and probably
Australia.”
Hollywooden Turkey.
A “Manchester Guardian”
special correspondent reports
from Ankara:
“For the traveller in search of
the fabled East, Turkey is defi-
nitely not the place. What with
the innumerable American cars
that crowd the streets of Istan-
bul and Ankara, the American
magazines on the news-stands,
American films in the cinemas,
and the American accent so fre-
quently overheard in hotel
lounges, one might think one had
arrived in the Middle West
rather than the Middle East.
“Even the political field does
not seem to have escaped Coca-
colonisation. For where only
a short time ago an all-powerful
and irremovable oligarchy held
sway two political parties, styled
Republicans and Democrats,
now compete for the public’s
favor.”
Mao’s Korea Snag.
Quoting General Omar
Bradley’s judgment that the
Communists “just can’t drive us
out of Korea.... ..unless they are
willing to pay an exorbitant
price,” New York “Herald
Tribune” sees that opinion justi-
fied by the recent hurling-back
of the Red Chinese forces.
Washington military authori-


m
ammm
in his football boots.
Big, brave, bonny and bold,
Hope of his team was Timothy Toots
Pity he caught that cold!
Only two days to the greatest match
Of the famous football tour,
How did our Tim the victory snatch?
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!
Carry forward
today’s big profits...
s m
H *
mssm
m
m
m
S :
m
I
: --
m
m
m
8
SSMS
':• ••
IH
.
H
w&itu,
■ • '...:■
INVEST IN
HADDON RIG BLOOD!
Today’s bumper wool cheques are not due solely
to unprecedented demands. The heaviest
gainers are those who have looked well ahead.
They have recognised the remarkable worth of
Haddon Rig Blood, and are benefiting by their
foresight and judgment. If you are anxious to
safeguard future profits, you will carry forward
some of today’s profits in the form of Haddon
Rig Blood.
Haddon Rig sires are distinguished by massive
frames, true conformation and dense, soft-
handling wool. They are renowned, too, for
high lambing percentages, unusual adapt-
ability and other valuable characteristics. At the
1950 Sydney Ram Sales, Haddon Rig Stud
dominated the bidding. 148 Haddon Rig Rams
averaged £296/5/- to realise £43,853/5/-,
further striking proof of the tremendous value
placed on Haddon Rig Blood. Comprising only
15% of the total rams sold, the Haddon Rig
team realised approximately 30% of total
Merino Ram Sales.
HADDON RIG STUD
WARREN. N.S.W. PHONE WARREN 74
HB2-61
ADULTS ONLY.
MEMORISE
Pass exams.. Speak without
Notes, Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Write for free hook, postage 3d.
REV. W. ROWLANDS
12a Younger Ave., S. Caulfield, Vie.
CINZANO
SWKBT OR DRY ,
avnaurf
jt^nce
IS/6
mimimM
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
THE BEST IN
a
ICE
SERV
5%
V- ■
S 5?
s 5
</
- 5
S 5
g
TO THE PRINTING AND ALLIED TRADES
is rich in good printers.
At last reckoning there were 1,842
Printing and Allied Trades establish-
ments employing 40,622 men and
women who were paid £15,417,000 in
wages for the year.
These Printers have £9,872,000
invested in plant and machinery but,
like so many other business men, they
have periodic need for "finance".
There are shipments of paper arriv-
ing from overseas; a large order going
through their shops calls for extra
outlay. These are the times when
printers need their Banks.
This Bank provides a full banking
service for concerns in all industry,
its managers are always glad to dis-
cuss its services with those who may
need them.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
With which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Indonesian Claim.
Dutch New Guinea, Western
New Guinea, or Irian ; by what-
ever name, Australia, in the view
of London “Time and Tide,”
has reason to be concerned over
the Indonesian claim to it:
“It is all very well for the
Indonesians to say, as they do,
that the ‘liberation’ of Irian from
‘colonial bondage’ will satisfy
their last claim and that they
have no interest in the eastern
portion of the island, which is
under Australian trusteeship.
“If ‘manifest destiny’ impels
Indonesia to swallow one half
of the island now, there is every
probability that at some time in
the future the new republic will
want to take a second bite.
“There are bigger headaches
than Irian in south-east Asia to-
day, but Canberra takes the
matter seriously enough, and, if
Australia does, then so should
we all, for it becomes a matter
of general concern to the Com-
monwealth.”
ties, it states, now estimate that
if the Red Chinese double the
half-million men they are be-
lieved to have in Korea now,
they might drive the U.N.O.
troops into a restricted beach-
head. Tripling the force might
win a victory, but it would
mean committing threequarters
of Red China’s trained troops
in a deadly conflict.
Economically, the strain
would be very great, militarily
it might open all of China to
assault by anti - Communist
guerrillas and Nationalist
armies. To risk China (and, by
extension, all South-East Asia)
for Korea would be a most
serious gamble for world Com-
munism, particularly since the
commitment of the West is
growing relatively smaller with
each day that passes, with each
new man called to the colors in
Europe or America.
Thus, it is held, the balance is
shifting in Korea. Where once
it seemed that U.N.O. must
risk a great deal, for small
strategic stakes, “the burden of
choice” is passing to the enemy.
Where once the West was stig-
matised as a “paper tiger,” the
Communists are assuming that
role.
“The end is not yet; there are
still dangers ahead, but Mao
must be giving serious thought
to the possibility of cutting his
massive losses in an adventure
which seems more and more to
be Red China’s curse.”
Dragnet Digest.
Unions Ape the Corns. —Claiming
that in the past eighteen months
Communists’ active influence in
Britain has decreased, and is still
decreasing, London “Economist”
adds: “It should, however, be realised
that this is so in part just because
non-Communist unions are taking
over policies and principles originally
sponsored by the Communists. Some
of these policies are reasonable
enough, and fit in with the traditions
of the trade-union movement, but
others could be almost as disastrous
for the country as Communist con-
trol of the unions.”
* * * *
U.S. Needs Europe. Editorial
summing-up by New York “Herald
Tribune”: “If Europe should be lost
to the free world, Russia’s steel
production would be tripled; its coal
production would be doubled. Our
own [U.S.] steel output would be
rivalled; our coal output, like our
output of electricity, surpassed.
Beyond this would be results of a
less immediately evident kind which
would cripple our whole productive
system, as well as undermine our
supremacy in atomic energy,”
* * * ♦
German War Casualties. An
official report issued by the Bonn
Government shows that more than
3,000,000 Germans were killed either
at the front or qt home in the second
world war. Up to October 29, 1946,
the deaths of 1,650,000 soldiers had
been confirmed, and it was to be
assumed that rpost of the 1,600,000
who were at that time reported as
missing had also died. The report
estimates the number of civilians
killed by enemy action, particularly
in air attacks, at 500,000. The total
of those incapacitated in the two
world wars is given as 2,011,887.
Especially high, the report says, was
the number of soldiers who were
frozen in the Russian winter of
1941-42.
• * * *
Breakaway Italian Corns. —-In the
Left-wing “New Statesman and
Nation,” Francis Noel-Baker, who in
this respect may be regarded as some-
thing of an expert, sums-up on the
Italian breakaway Corns Magnani
and Cucchi, who, he says, were still
“a little undecided” about their
future when he saw them: “But they
clearly felt that it was now their
duty to help to create some new
Socialist and democratic alternative
to the Communist party for the
Italian working class. Whether they
can still be considered orthodox
Marxists is doubtful: they intend to
act exclusively in democratic, constitu-
tional ways. But they remain well
to the Left.”
* * * *
Worse Than Munich. —Contending
in a House of Commons debate that
Americans had “a legitimate griev-
ance” against British Leftists, Earl
Winterton pointed out that, while “the
North Korean aggression and the
U.N. reaction had been unanimously
endorsed by the House,” after the
Chinese intervention a considerable
body of opinion there veered round
and said that in no circumstances
should we impose sanctions: “Was it
surprising that other nations said
that they liked the British although
they were ‘the biggest something
humbugs’? It was the height of
hypocrisy to attack the Tory party
for alleged appeasement when this
was something far more than any-
thing that was done at Munich.”
Settlement Years Q.ff. London
“Observer” editorial comment on
Herbert Morrison becoming Britain’s
Foreign Minister “at a peculiarly
difficult and treacherous moment”:
“The prospective Four-Power meet-
ing provides a temptation to try too
hard for an immediate diplomatic
success which could easily be over-
paid. The time for a permanent
settlement with Russia is not now.
If we keep our nerve it will come in
two or three years, when the true
proportions of world power will have
become operative and visible to all.
In the meantime we must convince
the Russians that they stand to lose
infinitely less by accepting the pros-
pect of a peaceful settlement than
they would suffer in war. But we
must equally avoid signing away our
rights or those of any other nation.”
* * * ♦
Joe’s Troubles. ‘ —London “News
Chronicle” puts on its best rose-
colored pair and looks abroad:
“Whatever kind of muddle the
Western democracies are in at the
moment, there is plenty of evidence
to show that all is not well on the
far side of the Iron Curtain either.
In Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland
and Albania there is trouble and dis-
sension. Mistakes are being made.
Plans are going awry....lf we were
all more conscious of each other’s
shortcomings the world might not be
a safer place, but it would certainly
be a much more cheerful one!”


g
“Didn’t yon
know?”
“You entertain a lot—you
ought to have a useful opinion
about Whisky.”
“Yes, I’ve had a lot of exper-
ience, and an ounce of exper-
ience is still better than a ton
of theory.”
“Well, what would you say was
Australia’s best Whisky ? ”
“Oh, unquestionably Corio
Special wins, no matter what
standards of comparison you
take ! Everything’s the same
at Corio Distillery as overseas.
Nothing used but pure malt,
pure grain and Anno Domini.”
“How do you mean, Anno
Domini ? ”
“Age ! Ageing ! That’s what
makes a pure whisky a good
whisky.”
“How long do they age it ?”
“At least five years —nearly
three times as long as Common-
wealth laws require. They
absolutely guarantee it against
flavouring agents or adulter-
ants. Do you drink whisky ? ”
“Thanks—l don’t mind if I do!’
“Here, you come and try a
Corio now. It has real char-
acter and it’s Australia’s best
whisky.”
CORIO SPECIAL
Whisky at its prime
“It’s 5
years old”
5*
iHS
£
m
C35/I6
PRIVATE SECRETARY.
APPLICATIONS are invited for this posi-
tion by writer of “best seller.” Prospec-
tive trip overseas. Address “Author,” C/o
Bulletin Office, 24? Collins St., Melbourne.
Missing Friend.
DAMYON, BRUCE (or BRUCE LONG),
born in Victoria, now about 55 years of
age. Any person knowing him or of him
please communicate with PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Enjoy
DE-LUXE
CABIN SERVICE
all-the-way—
'■Jfy ter
THE SHORTEST, CHEAPEST,
MOST DIRECT ROUTE.
Your personal comfort— aloft and
aground—is the first consideration of
Qantas and 8.0.A.C. on the popular
“Sterling” route to Europe. Seasoned
travellers and first flighters, alike, say
flying this route is a delight—with the
service of 2 stewards and a smiling
hostess always at one’s command.
Fine food and drinks—constant,
yet unobtrusive attention, in the
air—and concern for your com-
fort make all the difference, all
the way 1
ALL these extras —
NO extra cost!
■fc Expense-free sight-seeing tours of Singapore,
Cairo and Rome.
ic Stop-over anywhere at no extra fare,
★ Fly by Constellation a.' the way—no change
of aircraft.
it Finest cabin service two stewards, one
sac/
tz\
*o*
a
p>.
\
C“'>
Vu-
\
KS3
g
hostess. No tips, no extras.
-. jj/ -v
★ First class hotel accommo-
dation included.
.
Five services weekly—fly via Calcutta 00
Colombo. Consult your travel agent.
QAHTASBOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“To most girls opportunity no
longer knocks at the door. He sits
outside and blows the horn.”
—Humorist Joseph Salak.
One toot and they’re oot!
•h 4* •£•
“Man’s best friend is not his dog,
brut his wife.” — "New Idea.”
Unless she’s the sort that
hounds him down.
•h 4* 4*
“Women are tricky all right.”
—From article in "World’s News."
And even trickier when they’re
all wrong.
4* 4* 4-
“Wanted, kind home for young pet
goat, good lawnmower.”
—Suburban paper.
But won’t the steady hum
annoy the neighbors?
“It’s time the three-minute time-
limit of other years was reimposed
in public phone-booths.”— Letter to
Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
There’s a lot to be said for
this.
4* 4*
“Water is always a great peril to
small children.” — Women’s paper.
Except to the shrewd ones who
never stick their necks out.
In Another Light.
“The one bit of machinery most
needed in the interests of the Aus-
tralian nation is an efficient humbug-
detector.”—Melbourne "Argus:”
Perhaps you’ll wonder in what
way
This much desired humbug-
detector
Could do the greatest service to
Mankind ? By helping people
who
Have met that figure glib and
gay.
The bogus company-director
Who leaves a trail of deep dis-
may ?
Maybe you'll think that it instead
Might well assist police in balk-
ing
The crook who blandly says that
he
Can treble your gratidty.
But one machine that some
would dread
Would show, when parlor-pinks
are talking,
The humbug-sign by glowing red.
D.H.E.
The Miracle.
“ ‘We have done the impossible,’
says a scientist.” — Sydney "Sun.‘”
I don’t know what they’ve done;
I didn’t read the story.
Sent rockets to the sun.
Or plumbed oblivion,
Or dimmed Doc. Evatt’s glory
Perhaps ? Again, maybe,
(Repentant of past sins)
At last they’ve made a key
Which opens sardine-tins !
P.O.M.C.
Up the Poll.
“Labor’s” election-campaign
machine was just beginning to
show the benefits that had come
from its having been heavily
lubricated with molasses. Ex-
cept that the flywheel was red-
hot and was causing deep cracks
in the smokescreen box, and
that it had stopped after the
driver, who had had vast experi-
ence with engines, had, while
going along in top, slammed it
straight into reverse and stripped
the gears, all was well with it.
“The self-starter’s jammed—
it’ll need a crank, be the look
o’ things,” said Big Ben.
“Well, we can’t get Senator
Morrow now—he’s stumping
around Tasmania somewhere
looking for another Commo
Peace Council meeting to
attend,” said Cocky Calwell.
“Dump it on the side of the
Golden Age Highway, Ben—
but perhaps it might be easier
to push it into one of the pot-
holes. It was pulling up our
speed, anyway.”
“Well, what about the last
few days of the campaign?”
quavered an ancient Senator
from the West. “We’re the
favorites in the race, ain’t we?
Let’s put in a paralyzin’ gallop
in the last furlong and pip
Menzies on the post by”-
One of the alphabetical
Senators from N.S.W. shuddered
violently at the allegory. “Shut
hup, can’t y’! ” he barked
angrily. “That sorta talk gits me
“Here you are, dear—and don't forget his malted milk
every night at ten o'clock .”
as nervy as a broody ’en siltin'
on a clutch o’ heggs.”
“Yair, wipe y’r chin, Don—
you want a bib,” snarled the
genial representative of Wool-
loomooloo. “All you can do
these days is sit on the fence and
watch the snails tear past!”
“One very telling line we
could take for the final burst,”
put in Bert pompously—“and
here you must remember the
vast experience in polemical
strategy which I acquired at
United Nations, where I would
assuredly have scored heavily
over Vyshinsky and Gromyko
had it not been that I was able
mostly to see eye to eye with
them in their attacks on Britain
and America —is that Menzies and
Fadden have to take their orders
from outside interests —vested
ones, of course. They represent
the moneybags. We represent
fittingly, I think these
humble hewers of wood and
drawers of water who are con-
demned to live on a mere pit-
tance: the wharfie who can earn
no more than eighteen pounds
a week if he works all the time,
the poor miner who has a terrific
struggle to live on five pounds
a day, the downtrodden brickie’s
laborer who, slaving his five-hour
day, can’t afford on fifteen
pounds a week to have more than
six bets a night at the dogs—
they”
“But we can’t take that line
without getting permission from
the Federal A.L.P. Executive —
you ought to know that,” inter-
posed McKenna. “They haven’t
okayed that tactic yet.”
“Well,” pursued the irrepres-
sible Bert, “we could concentrate
on that brilliant period when I
directed the whirlwind of inter-
national affairs, in the days when
I achieved a real kaleidoscopic
effect by changing our diplo-
matic plumage in mid-flight,
when”
“Save us from that! ” implored
someone from the back who had
to defend a rickety seat. “Do
you want Bob to have a bigger
landslide than last time?”
“Well, I think we should
hammer the Government’s
defence policy,” said Cocky.
“You know the stuff —the
Menzies warmongering will
mean every third young Aus-
tralian being ploughed into the
ground.”
“You borrowed that phrase
from the Yanks,” remarked Ben.
“Shame on you. Cocky, when
you know our party hates the
Yanks for having saved us from
invasion and for spoiling my
chances of winning the war by
using push-buttons.”
“Well, I still reckon most
people in this country think, like
the Movement does,” went on
Cocky doggedly, “that if we’ve
got to defend the place it should
be done by any mugs who like
to volunteer after war has
broken out. Why should men
be made to defend the country
that only gives them everything
they have—they didn’t ask to be
born in it, did they? And we
should stress the vicious
economic result which must en-
sue from taking men away from
essential work like building new
racecourses and pubs, printing
betting- and lottery-tickets, brew-
ing, etc., to do useless work like
learning to repel an invader.”
“What about that stunt of
getting Lord Mayor O’Dea to
promise Doc, to appear against
the Commos in court in case a
case comes up?” put in the legal
light of the alphabetical trio
bugfttly. “We can build him up
into such a fighter against die
Reds that he’ll make Bob look
like an appeaser.”
“Put briefly, that’s a good
idea,” said Bert. “It might make
my Barton constituents forget
about my impassioned —and if I
may say so who should —brilliant
defence of the Communist union-
leaders just lately.”
The Bathurst Burr shifted his
pipe and spoke oracularly.
“We’ll stick to a tried and
trusted phrase of mine to get us
through, one that appeals to the
clod and the poet alike —I refer,
of course, to those words which
not only comprise a battle-cry,
a slogan and a promise, but have
received the approval of the
Executive” —here he gave a slight
genuflexion—“you know the one
I used in me policy speech: ‘The
Light on the Hill’.”
There came another strangled
noise from Eddie. “You can’t
win with that,” he snarled. “The
light’s gone out —there’s been a
blackout on now for five hours! ”
S.W. KEOUGH,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Three Sheets in the Wind.
“Surely beer is not a necessity.”
—Sydney "Daily Telegraph.”
What causes men to take to
liquor.
Consuming quantities of beer
All undeterred by any fear
Of aftermaths when on the
shicker ?
Some chaps will tell you it’s the
homely
Surroundings of a friendly bar
’Mid cobbers where libations
are
Dispensed by barmaids pert and
comely.
This may be true, but I would
sooner
Believe the cove who claims
that he,
When setting out upon life’s
sea.
Feels sunk without a decent
schooner !
BERT.


X
o
0
10&*
HO
I'pw
C 0$ H j
m
0
o
*z
T/Me FOR A
CAPSTAN
g
B+4D-3.51
• »
£
THE
"‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
STARTER
HEADLIGHT
HORN
WIPER
RADIO
Hwt-
INTERIOR
LIGHT
TAIL USHT
g
TO START WITH-
MORE POWER
TO KEEP GOING
For quick starting for
all the extra power you
need get a guaranteed
Goodyear Battery. The De-
Luxe has Felted Fibre Glass
insulation that adds 50% to
battery life, increases starting
power by one third. For general
service the heavy-duty Alim
Weather satisfies every requiremenl
GOODYEAR
BATTERIES
"As good as the name they bear **
gat-4-is
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The class of sprinters at preseni
eating oats in Sydney had anothe
severe showing-up at Rosehill or
Saturday, when what passes as a goot
field of speedsters were trounced by
the imported English-bred gelding
The Pilot (G. Moore) in practically
the same manner that imported
Donegal beat much the same bunch
at Randwick a fortnight earlier. I
Donegal can do the same to the
Stradbroke field in Brisbane nex
Saturday it will be a rather harsh
comment on Australian sprint form
altogether—but that is another story
Main differences between The Pilot’s
effort and Donegal’s were that The
Pilot wasn’t giving the lot of them
weight (as a good English winner he
was perhaps luckily handicapped),
and he didn’t give them quite so
much start. Against that, The Pilot
won by a comfortably bigger margin.
In any case, he gave them start
enough, being second-last of the field
of 12, with only the non-sprinter
Fra Diavolo behind him, till they
turned into the straight. He had to
come wide out, but he fairly mowed
them down. In fact, he made them
look poor class as he swept past
them nearing the post. And these
were the Sprinters described in some
sporting columns as a “super field”!
The ones The Pilot beat included
(in order of weight) San Domenico,
Buzmark, Heroic Sovereign (third)
Aqua Regis (second), Hesdin and
Midwise —if decidedly not “super” in
the event, at any rate quite a rep-
resentative Sydney sprint field. The
importation carried 8.1, and cut out
the seven furlongs in 1.25. San
Domenico had 9.12, and seemed to
be made carry it all the way by
appearing to be forced along to hold
a position up with Titian and Aqua
Regis in the lead, hardly the most
helpful tactics for a horse flattered by
at least 51b. The previous Saturday’s
sprint winner, Buzmark, had 8.11, and
finished even further back than San
Domenico. Aqua Regis gave the
most promising performance for
future reference, with Titian for a
shorter sprint, and Hesdin perhaps
not as poor as he appeared to be.
The adverse comment on the current
Sydney sprint form was emphasised
by the fact that, whereas The Pilot’s
time was slower than Cragsman’s
record for the race, Beau China then
came out and equalled the race
record for the 10-furlongs Rosehil
Handicap, so the track was all right
Persist’s finishing run from well back
to be a good second was decidedly
promising; Wiranya (third) found the
extra furlong too far, but is one to
note for, say, a Randwick welter.
In present onlooker’s view of the race,
however, the one to keep in mind
for any distance event is Silver Buzz,
though the fact that he hasn’t won
a race since bagging last year’s Bris-
bane Cup isn’t exactly encouraging.
Nicely ridden by Barry Smith (the
ex-country jockey’s first winner since
he was injured), the lolaus filly Lianda
pounced on them in quite The Pilot
style for a narrow win over the War
Eagle-Joie de Pere colt Whirlwind
and the Delville Wood-Kaylah colt
Lord Saunders in the Two-year-old.
Lord Saunders, from the McCarten
stable, was labelled for the race, and
very nearly brought off the plunge.
He should do better. So also should
both Whirlwind and Mercury.
Lianda and Maiden Handicap win-
ner Miss Moya (R. Selkrig) returned
doubles-tote punters £l9 18s. 6d. per
five-bob, but this was chicken-feed
to the £2Ol Os. 9d. collected by
those who, by some marvellous feat
of imagination, had Welter-winner
Harrap (V. Lawrence) the second leg
of their double with Iroquois (G.
Moore), who easily won a division of
the Parramatta Mixed. It would take
the same sort of feat to imagine the
doubles MacShortodds, who still
temporarily flourish at Randwick,
giving anything like such odds with
a second-favorite as the first leg.
Harrap, a bush horse little known on
these tracks, just scrambled home
from Grand Archer (a very good run)
and Granite.
Another of these invaders from the
bush, the wintrily-named Perisher,
failed to race up to the previous
Saturday’s showing, on the strength
of which he Was a hot favorite for
the other Parramatta Mixed. Still,
as he looks a tractable beastie, he
may yet do better when he isn’t
forced to be pacemaker. Previous
Saturday form came good in the
same race, however, the evidently
more-than-useful three-year-old Helios
colt Ananzi (A. Ward) repeating his
win of a week earlier, with the single
difference that he this time did it a
lot easier. He ought to win a lot
better races than these.
The other event on the Rosehill
card, a middle-distance Auburn
Mixed, was won by Sea Edge (C.
Kellner), downing Lord Swynford and
Le Petit Due, both of whom did well
enough to keep in mind for similar
events. As often happens with these
S.T.C. meetings catering mostly for
f,a.q. horseflesh, it was as good a
day’s racing as anyone could wish to
lose at, which most no doubt did,
The Pilot being the solitary favorite
to raise that hoarse cry of punters
"Why don't you two make up and be friends ?”
which is quaintly denominated
cheer.
* ♦ * *
There is little at all in the racin
line that was not embraced by t
admirably drawn-up programme
Moonee Valley on Saturday, With
Two-year-old Maiden Plate and
Suburban Handicap both divided, t
eight-race card was made up of fo
sprints, a one-mile Highweight,
middle-distance and a distance even
and a Steeplechase. Insistence
both a distance and a jumping eve
on every programme thus keeps Me
bourne racing out in a class by itse
The distance event was confined
three-year-olds, and the Helios co
Sun Kist very nearly brought off
all-the-way win over the mile-and-
half. Passed by Mollundry in th
short straight, Sun Kist came again
and was only just pipped. Howeve
odds-on favorite Clutha was distinct
unlucky not to beat both of their
He gave them a lot of weight and
lot of start, and with another strid
or two to go would have won comfor
ably. Sun Kjst should be improver
Jockey S. Ralph, who was roaste
by the crowd after his showing o
Clutha, brought off another of h
regular doubles by getting there o
Prosola in the 10-furlongs Banyul
Trial and on Bright Flare in a divi
sion of the Two-year-old. A ba
filly by Flare Path, Bright Flar
narrowly downed Blue Beggar. Th
Whirlaway colt Rotate won the othe
division of the Two-year-old from
Final Four and King Amana in
tight finish. Regal Scout and Macray
won the divisions of the Suburban
Handicap sprint, and the Fair Aim
mare Zezette again beat the consisten
Siren Song, with the consistently
disappointing Daksha third, in the
Airport Highweight mile.
Tanakee’s win in the Travancore
Steeple was one of the day’s best
Winner on the previous Saturday
and up in the weights for it, he was
passed by others in turn over the
last few furlongs, but kept coming
again, and got there comfortably
enough at the finish. More should
be heard of him before the winter
jumping is all over.
* * ♦ ♦
At time of writing Donegal heads
the quotes for the Stradbroke in
Brisbane next Saturday. He has to
overcome a considerable amount of
history, topweights or favorites or
visitors having very rarely won this
top-class sprint. Also, as well as
the fairly good contenders who know
their way round on what will be to
him a strange race-track, he has to
give weight and a beating to such
other fair sprinting visitors as Eclair,
Mighty Song and Merry Scout, to
say nothing of having to give 91b.
to Lucky Ring, who has won the
Stradbroke twice already! And he
certainly won’t want to give this field
a lot of start through tardiness at
the barrier. If he can overcome all
this and win, he will make a decidedly
drastic comment on Australian sprint-
ing form. This page inclines to one
of the locals, with Mighty Song and
Eclair, both getting over a stone from
Donegal, the best in it of the visitors
at the weights. So, for the Strad-
broke : Glen Armour, 1; Proud
Denis,, 2 ; Eclair, 3; Mighty Song, 4.
Visitors might perhaps be expected
to do better in the Brisbane Cup. At
time of writing it was not known
whether last year’s winner, Silver
Buzz, would be in it. He showed
form enough at Rosehill last Satur-
day to have a chance of repeating the
dose. However, from those known
to be almost certain starters next
Monday, the choice is: Grey Boots,
1; Basha Felika, 2; Bankstream, 3;
Playboy, 4.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Novice (fillies): De-
fame, 1; Guilty, 2; Cle d’Or, 3.
Two-year-old Novice (colts and geld-
ings) : Militant, 1; Alkanna, 2;
Whirl, 3. Three-year-old Novice:
Grand Union, 1; Tapoaki, 2; Sap-
risti, 3. Carlita Handicap: Lady
Rosetta, 1; Chastise, 2; The Duchess,
3. Flying: San Domenico, 1; The
Pilot, 2; Aqua Regis, 3. Warwick
April Handicap: Persist, 1; Great
World, 2; Blue Ocean, 3. Moore-
bank Handicap: Bahram’s Double,
1; Crag Son, 2; Captain Theo, 3.
* * * ♦
Scotch made a clean-sweep of this
year’s Melbourne Head-of-the-River
on the Bar won, very easily downing
Wesley and Xavier and trouncing the
opposition in the seconds and thirds
also.
* ♦ » *
Melbourne football drew about
140,000 to the six opening V.F.L.
games on Saturday, and the 18,000
at Richmond got the best for tl
money when the Tigers trailed Foo
scray, caught and headed them, fe
back, and came on again to lose b
a point in the last kick; ’Scray, 15.1
to 15.9. At Essendon the 195
premiers bolted from Melbourne t
an eight-goal lead in the third, didn
bother to score in the last, and go
there by 13.8 to 10.16, a result ex
plained by one sporting scribe thus
"Had the Melbourne forward zon
functioned with reasonable accurac
the 1950 premiers might have bee
beaten.” That should stop anybod
blaming the umpire. Fitzroy disposer
of St. Kilda, 16.12-10.18; Colling
wood sported with North to the tun
of 20.21-7.6; Carlton outed Haw
thorn, 13.9-7.15; and down at Gee
long the locals, aided by a Mallee
recruit named McMaster, belted Sout]
Melbourne, 13.17 to 6.5.
* * * *
“Pass-it”: With two rounds of the
Sydney Rugby Union competition
over, indications are that this season’s
competition will be one of the mos
open for some years. Manly and
University are already showing the
high standard expected of them, while
Randwick, Easts and Gordon wil
no /ioubt make their presence felt
when the pressure is on. With shock
wins in the opening rounds, lesser
favored teams Norths and St. George
have raised hopes that this season
will see them make a long-overdue
return to the top of the table. The
remaining teams, Parramatta, East-
wood, Wests and Drummoyne, will
make the others play for their points.
With a win over Manly last Satur-
day, University have become firm
favorites; their brilliant backline will
no doubt win many matches for
them, but a premiership side must,
above all, have a strong pack of for-
wards. Whether the University coach,
Don Kraefft, can mould his youthful
and inexperienced forwards into a
solid unit has yet to be seen: Kraefft
himself was the outstanding forward
of the last Wallaby tour of Great
Britain, and is undoubtedly well
equipped for the job.
In last Saturday’s matches Univer-
sity beat Manly, Randwick beat East-
wood, Norths beat Gordon, Easts
beat Parramatta, Drummoyne beat
Wests, and St. George had the bye.
• * * *
Filipino Little Paras (9.7) and
Sydneysider Charlie Dunn (9.6£),
meeting for combat at Leichhardt, put
less action into the first three rounds
than any Government Department
can put into three years, but all was
forgiven after round four, wherein
they had at one another with intense
enthusiasm. However, the Filipino’s
speed had very much the best of it
throughout. Little Paras on points.


Cut Irrigation costs —and work —by one third
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
WITH
A
SP
IMS
lil
m
m
H
1
So light a child con carry a 24ft. section with ease.
-
POWERFUL SPRAY HEADS
ĝ
Throw a fine spray
over an area 48 ft.
square, or a heavy
spray up to 72 ft.
square.
Only half the weight of
ordinary piping. Rainbow's
Aluminium sections save
your precious time and
labour. Rustless, seamless,
the 24ft. sections may be
used for all water pur-
poses and are supplied
with flexible couplings and
non-flexible underground
joins.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS GIVE
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25*
g
Worked In a bad
and socket principle,
the Rainbow coup*
ling is easy to con*
nect and disconnect,
provides a positive,
watertight joint in
any direction better
than 25 s .
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordi-
nary outlet, but does
the work of hydrant as
well! Simple to operate,
this practical unit gives
trouble-free operation,
reduces obstruction in
outlet and main.
g
STURDY ANGLE IRON
STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24-ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tail stands
eliminates Interference to
growing teg elation.
g
g
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone BU 3425.
Branch Offices: C. Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont, Mildura; C. Beaumont,
64 King Street, Melbourne.
Distributors: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street,
South Brisbane; Ralph Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; F. C. Korwill,
68 Hobbs Avenue, Nedlands, Perth.
Representative for New Zealand: Freshfields Ltd,, Wellington.
oWtaoi
—■■■“'lf
YfcSTßdfy
1 % <
/ModehH Ajetfiod
EUSTMTOB
REGD. TRADE MARK i
ĝ
Obtainable at ail Station Suppliers, Stocfs and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St., Melbourna.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mulesing and Crulching.
“Dungaree”: “C.L.M.’s” ques-
tions (B. 11/4/’5l) were
answered at a recent field day
at Crookwell (N.S.W.) by
Grahame Edgar, Director of
Veterinary Research, and V. G.
Cole, Grazcos’ Veterinary
Officer. Before Mulesing was
introduced, two crutchings were
necessary in most years to keep
the breech wool short and dry.
But wrinkly breeches and saucer
tails still retained sufficient
moisture and skin debris to
attract the fly, and jetting was
advocated to overcome this.
There is no indication that the
Mules operation will be super-
seded by jetting or spraying. The
100 days’ protection against fly-
strike quoted by “C.L.M.” is
much longer than the normal
period obtained by spraying with
D.D.T, or B.H.C. It is also pos-
sible that “C.L.M.” is confusing
C.5.1.R.0. reports on body-strike
control with crutch-strike pro-
tection, which are two different
propositions.
At Crookwell, Edgar quoted
departmental field work against
body strike. At the height of a
severe fly-wave sheep sprayed
on the back with two pints of
1 p.c. D.D.T. had complete
immunity from strike for 32
days. Untreated sheep running
in the same paddock had a high
percentage of strike, while un-
treated sheep in another pad-
dock had a still higher rate of
strike. These figures are in line
with recent C.5.1.R.0. experi-
ments in various parts of the
country.
When Cole demonstrated the
radical Mules operation, which
combines removal of a crescent-
shaped piece of woolbearing skin
from each side of the breech with
the removal of the wool-bearing
skin from the tail and the join-
ing of the cuts above the tail,
older members of the crowd
thought the operation was more
severe than anything the blowfly
could inflict.
However, when Cole exhibited
several young ewes from an ex-
perimental batch Mulesed at
lamb-marking time in 1949, and
carrying 11 months’ wool, which
have never been crutched or
jetted and are perfectly plain
“I'Ve finished my side, Lofty."
and dry in the breech area, the
advantage of the operation was
obvious at once.
These ewes were pastured on
irrigated lucerne on a western
river frontage all through the
flystrike period, under ideal con-
ditions to attract fly, yet there
was not a single case of crutch
strike.
During the 1950 floods in
Western N.S.W., when it was im-
possible to reach mobs of
stranded sheep, many thousands
would not have survived had
they not been Mulesed. Even if
the advantages of Mulesing were
no greater than those of crutch-
ing, plus jetting, which is not
the case, compare the cost. If
a man keeps a sheep for
years, one Mules operation will
protect it for life against crutch-
strike, and the cost will be less
than one crutching. The alter-
native will be the cost of ten
crutchings and resultant fleece
depreciation, plus at least five
jettings, 15 musters, cost of
material, hire of labor and
knocking about of sheep.
A Beef Comparison.
“Oxo”: F. H. Finch, Aus-
tralian-born manager of a cattle-
ranch in Argentina, says that
planners who talk blithely of
increasing Australian beef pro-
duction forget that Australia
would have to increase her beef
cattle by 9,000,000-head before
another 300,000 tons of beef
could be exported annually.
Here is a comparison of beef
production and consumption in
Argentina and Australia:
Argentina, total cattle stocks,
45.000. ; beef cattle
(estimated), 41,800,000; dairy
cattle (est.), 3,200,000; cattle
killed for home consumption,
7,223,131. Total weight of the
7,223,131 - head slaughtered
could be estimated at 1,444,626
tons. As the Argentinian popu-
lation was 17,000,000 people, the
home consumption of beef and
veal was 1871 b. annually per
person, or 3.61 b. per week. Total
cattle killed for export in 1949
was 1,693,100,
In Australia total cattle
stocks, 14,597,000; beef,
9,730,000; . dairy, 4,867,000.
Total killed in Australia for
home consumption is not avail-
able, but, assuming that three
and a half beasts yielded a ton
of meat and that from 1936 to
1939 yearly consumption aver-
aged 442,000 tons, the number
of animals killed for domestic
consumption was approximately
1.547.000. As the total popu-
lation in 1936 was 6,800,000
consumption of beef and veal
was 144.21 b. per head per
annum, or 2.771 b. per week.
It had been stated, said
Finch, that “it is anticipated that
Australia will yield an addi-
tional 300,000 tons of beef
annually within 10 years and
a further 300,000 to 400,000
tons annually inside 20 years.”
As only about 1.2 per cent, of all
cattle stocks are available for
slaughter each year, to produce
300,000 tons of beef 1,050,000
animals must be slaughtered, and
to produce that 1,050,000 yearly
existing stocks must be in-
creased by nearly 9,000,000-head
within 10 years and by a further
9,000,000-head within 20 years.
In other words, Australia’s
14,597,000-head of cattle must
be raised to 24,000,000-head
within 10 years and to
33,000,000-head within 20 years.
Optimism of this sort 111
official calculations could lead to
disaster. A couple of years ago
Africa was to be the Eldorado
in the cattle world; now it is
Australia. No account is taken
by those “prophets of plenty
of any increase in the Australian
population, and increased
home consumption both m
Argentina and Australia has a
very marked effect on the
quantities available for export.
Artesian Water.
“Outback”: Queensland’s Co-
ordinator-General of Public
Works, J. R. Kemp, told the
Royal Commission on pastoral
land-settlement that the dis-
charge from the artesian basin
in Queensland, over a period of
53 years, was not more than lin.
A report to be issued shortly
would be reassuring to those who
had heard rumors regarding the
diminution of the basin. A
scientific committee had found
that diminution of bore-flows
w'as due to other reasons than
diminution of the basin.
General indications of the
committee’s report would be
that a considerable number of
bores would stabilise at a con-
stant flow; a considerable
number would stabilise at a
static level and be capable of
being pumped to maintain that
level, and a number would
recede to an extent where it
would be uneconomical to re-
cover the water.
The pessimism regarding the
diminution of the basin was not
so great now as it had been.
Kemp pointed out that the zone
in which most of the State’s
sheep losses occurred coincided
with the great artesian basin.
New Sugar canes.
“Beroo”: J. H. Buzacott,
canebreeder, and C. G. Hughes,
pathologist, of Queensland
Bureau of Sugar Experiment
Stations, are going to New
Guinea to collect sugarcanes
from both highland and coastal
areas.
They follow a long line; the
first collection was made in
1893, and three years later the
famous Badila, to this day one
of the topnotch Queensland
canes, was brought back from
near Milne Bay. Later expedi-
tions from Queensland in 1912
and 1914 returned with some
useful canes, but the area
covered was limited until Dr.


MAKING AUSTRALIA STRONG.
O
A syruping, closing and
sterilising machine in a
modern fruit processing
plant.
We solute the
FRUITGROWER/
DOMESTIC and overseas Irade figures grow mightily
from the work of our orchardists. Theirs is a substan.
tial contribution to the stability of our national economy.
Since we built our first orchard Spray Plant some twenty-
five years ago, we have developed and maintained a very
close association with Fruitgrowers all over Australia.
By supplying them with such vital equipment as Spray
Plants, Engines, Pumps and other machinery, we have
helped them to increase their production and maintain a
high level of efficiency in their operations.
KONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
MELBOURNE Office: 628 Bourke Street. N.S.W.
Distbrs.: Konaldson Bros. & Tippett, Ltd., Frazer
House, 42 Bridge St., SYDNEY. QTand Distbrs.;
Konaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union
House, 137 Eagle St., BRISBANE.
RO N ALDSOW-TIPPETT
ğ
■
K-rm
im
V
S~2
-V- -.
m
'm.
& ■ I
■
Va
•*’
TIMBER AWAY! 6 ACRES PER DAY
CLEARED THE OLIVER-BRITSTAND WAY
.... ...
sm
mm
® For the Queensland Housing Com-
mission, Swift Brothers, big Brisbane
contractors, are clearing 600 acres of
heavily-timbered land at Serviceton,
near the City. Two mighty Oliver
FOE tractors, equipped with Britstand
cable trailbullders, are used. Under-
brush and smaller trees are ’dozed
into windrows (lower left), and the
largest trees are pulled out, roots and
all, by wire rope drawn by the two
Olivers (above and right).
For land-clearing, tank-sinking,
for all earth-moving jobs, an
Oliver-Britstand combination is
the answer. Tractors from 22 to
110 drawbar h.p.—and a full
range of agricultural and indus-
trial equipment. Check to-day
with your Oliver-Britstand dis-
tributor.
OLIVER-BRITSTAND
DISTRIBUTORS.
Q.: U.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-
379 Wickham St., Brisbane. N.S.W.:
Britstand Distributors Ltd., 56-64
Gardeners Rd., Mascot, Sydney. VIC.
& TAB.: Queen’s Bridge Motor &
Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 31-43
Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne, 5.C.4.
S.A.: Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd., 42
Waymouth St., Adelaide. W.A.:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900
Hay St., Perth. N.Z.: Frederic W.
Smith Ltd., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey
St., Wellington, 0.1.
■
m
■
i
sms
H;
m
* :♦/.
E. W. Brandes, of U.S.A., and
Prof. Jeswiet, of Java, in 1928
travelled by seaplane and boat
over thousands of square miles.
They were the first to search for
wild canes for cane-breeding
work.
Collectors from Hawaii visited
New Britain as well as New
Guinea in 1937, and the present
Queensland jaunt is the first
since then. Canes being sought
include both the wild canes,
which will be used to impart
hardiness and vigor to the fail-
ing commercial varieties, and
chewing-canes found in the
native gardens, which, like
Badila, can be grown as com-
mercial canes without any cross-
ing. Early maturity is a feature
being sought, so that cane crops
will have a reasonable sugar
content when the mills start
crushing.
It is remarkable that although
New Guinea and neighboring
islands appear to be the centre
of origin of all cane species, not
a single specimen of wild cane
has been found growing any*-
where on the mainland of Aus-
tralia.
Piggery Layout.
“Waverly”: A bad one can
mean loss. Choose the site care-
fully ; land should be easily
surface-drained, preferably with
a gentle slope. Sandy soil is
always healthier than clay.
Victorian Dairy Industry Act
provides that*no pigs should be
kept within 50 yards of any
milk-room, bail or yards. It is
therefore necessary to arrange
the buildings in such a way that
the job of feeding and tending
the sties is simplified, allowing
for the 50-yard limitation.
There should be sties set
apart for breeding and farrow-
ing ; roomy, with plenty of yard-
space for exercise. Fattening-
pens could adjoin these, facili-
tating rapid transference. All
the feed-sheds, etc., are best in
a central position, handy to all
pens and built, if possible, on
high ground. Grazing areas
could be fenced off from each
set of pens.
The more yards you have, the
longer they can be spelled, which
is beneficial to the health of
pigs.
A good, wide road, running
right around the yards and pens,
is an asset. It’s wise to allow
for extension when planning the
original buildings.
A quarantine sty is essential,
set well apart from the rest. All
buildings must allow for plenty
of sunlight entering them with-
out interfering with the comfort.
New Citrus Disease.
“Hortus”; Anew collar and
bark-rotting disease has become
active in the Gosford (N.S.W.)
area, said to be caused by
Phytophthora parasitica. It
spreads rapidly round the butts
of trees and then upwards
beyond the fork. In about two
to three months of late-summer
conditions the disease has been
known to extend to a height of
2ft. to 3ft. from the fork.
Washington navels have
suffered most; 270 trees on one
grove of 300 are so severely
affected that there is little hope
of saving them.
Symptoms? The affected area
appears a little darker; it looks
as though it had been soaked
in some liquid. Later a white,
pink or buff spotted effect
appears. A strong odor, as of
a freshly-cut rotting potato, is
noticeable.
Inspect each individual tree.
Spray the boles of all trees with
Bordeaux (1-1-10), plus half a
gallon of white oil.
Lore of Bunny.
“Rabbit-O”: It is high time,
owners of rabbit-infested pro-
perties ceased blaming their
neighbors and got to work to
help eradicate the pest. Myxo-
matosis may be the answer, but
we have seen too many of these
wonder cures prove utter flops.
Recently some authority! ?) pub-
lished figures to show the rapid
rate at which the rabbit breeds.
Based on the belief that each
pair of rabbits breed six or seven
times a year and that their young
breed at six months, the astonish-
ing figure of nine million was
given as the number of offspring
one pair could produce in three
years. Rot!
Any experienced person knows
that two litters are the average,
and this onl y in a good season -
Young rabbits do not breed until
the Mowing spring While
some litters may be of seven or
ej gH four is the average.
Taking an average of six for
each litter and two litters each
year one pair will produce 614
offspring in three years, and this
does not allow for any casualties
from any cause at all.
In a fortnight I have cleaned
over 800 carcasses for a freezer,
and in no case did I discover a
doe in young. The young were
half-grown and larger and had
shown no signs of starting to
breed.
The answer to the rabbit
plague is less talk and more
work. More and still more net-
ting is required, and then the
landowner should be able to cope
with the problem. In a well-
netted property, trapping on
runs to drive bunny under-
ground, then fumigants or
digging out is the way.
After a hard day’s work the
farmer may feel like a bit of
arithmetic. If so, let him take
the figures I have given and work
out the offspring which can be
produced by that 50 or 60 pairs
he failed to kill. He’ll find
quite enough to account for any
plague without listening to the
rot about nine million from one
pair in three years.
Battery Care.
“Wilco”: Small faults may be
responsible for the self-starter
not starting. The connections
should make perfect contact with
the battery, the nuts being
screwed tight. Corrosion on the
battery-poles will not only pre-
vent self-starting, but may also
cause “kicking” when the crank-
handle is used. The battery may
be discharged, but if it sounds
the horn smartly it is all right.
Accumulated dirt on the battery-
top can cause it to “run down” ;
the battery will soon be ruined
if the separators are not kept
covered with pure water.
The garage should be ratproof,
for rats will gnaw away the
electrical insulation and cause
“shorts” that will exhaust the
battery while the car is standing
idle.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Every house in the
tropics should have a monsterio
deliciosa .shrub. The plant is
novel and attractive, besides its
delicious fruit. It grows well in
a sheltered position where it gets
the early sun, and appears to
favor a soil rich in leaf-mould.
Any stable-manure given should
be well rotted, and any weeds or
grasses pulled up near the shrub
should be rotted down near it.
Sinking a leaky tin in the earth
beside the shrub enables water-
ing to be done without loss.
“Ben Acre”: A portable forge
of the metal-pan type should be
emptied or kept dry when not in
use. Charcoal has an acid
which, with the aid of water,
corrodes metal severely.
“Metax”: Don’t leave objects
and heaps of rubbish in one ;
place too long. A move at
regular intervals will disturb the
haunts, and help to reduce the
number of vegetable-devouring
pests bred on the premises.
“Rooster”: If horses are
working unshod the feet should
be pared occasionally to keep
them level. Uneven hoofs often
cause lameness. When the
ground is soft and “sticky” the
frogs should be cleaned regu-
larly ; hard “cakes” of dirt make
the legs wobbly and weakness
develops in the tendons, extend-
ing sometimes to the knees.
“Billjim”; A manganese defi-
ciency in apples, shown by
paling of the leaf, may be cor-
rected by spraying with 41b. of
manganese sulphate and 41b. of
sodium carbonate in 40gal. of
water. Dissolve both elements
separately and then mix and
apply soon after the calyx stage.
In W.A. a soil dressing of 21b. to
41b, of manganese sulphate
applied in August has been suc-
cessful.
“Aerogenes”: When cultivat-
ing paddocks with boggy patches
carry a strong rope, about 20ft.
long, firmly fixed to both tractor
and implement, but coiled out of
the way when the normal hitch
is in operation. As soon as the
tractor begins to burrow into the
mud drop the normal hitch and
drive forward until the load is
taken up by the rope. This will
usually place the tractor on
ground good enough to support
the pulling-out of the cultivator.
If not, you’ve at least got the
tractor out of the bog.
“Dot”: Experiments by the
United States Department of
Agriculture show that as little
as 0.031 per cent, of D.D.T. in
the daily ration can be harmful
to egg production. Greater
amounts will produce toxic
symptoms and death, early signs
being emaciation, a tendency to
lie on the keel or side, loss of
weight, moulting and a drooping
of the head, with tremors and
staggers.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Joncs
The normal cyclical sequence for April has been dis-
turbed recently by the clash of the two cosmic factors which
give rise to great vagaries and erratic storms, etc., as note
that just recorded near Perth, and by a sudden drop of
southern sunspot energy. Now a very fine and complex
northern sunspot group has appeared and was joined by a
large southern group. As the two groups are level with
one another they may give the greatly enhanced and com-
bined effect that such a junction often produces. These
groups should reach their normal active position between
April 22 and 25. According to the cyclical chart there is
held in suspense a good general rain for almost all Australia,
except the far inland and central areas, and, as the sunspot
group is near the sun’s equator, the tropics may get some
of their delayed rains.


MORE SPACE
PER PASSENGER
S 3
by Q&M&Sa&M
There’s room to s-t-r-e-t-c-h out at ease in your
reclining “Lounge-aire” chair aboard a Canadian
Pacific “Empress of the Air”. Fully pressurized
cabins are specially designed for more space per
passenger . . . more travel comfort. Enjoy famous
Canadian Pacific service, hospitality and fine
food on the “Comfort Cruise” route to Vancouver.
-> I'M
-y% in \
Spend 14 hours at Fiji, then 32 glorious hours in
Honolulu. Hotel and meals at no extra cost. From
Vancouver, convenient connections speed you across
Canada to U.S.A. or the U.K.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents), 247 George
Street, Sydney, and 59 William Street, Melbourne, or any
authorised Tourist Agency.
CLhoAom Okcifa
"THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM"
Canadian Pacific Air Linet Limited Incorporated in Canada
g
Bora mO-
ItHI going tftong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
breaking over her green. What’s
more, we’ll be heading nose into
it.”
He thought a minute, casting
his mental eye along the coast to
Hong Kong. To Gus place-
names on this coast were names
as well known as Paris to a
Kansas-city tourist.
“There’s nothing we could
duck into this side of Hong
Kong. Looks like us for the
big dipper, Mister—a hundred
and eighty miles of it.”
Within an hour Gus knew
they’d never make it. Under the
driving sweep of the gale the
sea was really up ; it looked like
an immense ridged plain, a
roaring mass of foam. Occa-
sionally a Himalayan sea would
dash itself against her dead bow
in a spate of pouring green,
smothering, pounding, forcing
her head down under the ad-
vancing seas. Gamely she stag-
gered upright, shaking tons of
white off in a rushing cascade,
only to be smitten again and
again as the weight of water
inside tugged her down and
smack into the oncoming
combers.
Soaked by lathering spray,
Gus bent and bellowed in Mac-
intosh’s ear, his voice punctu-
ated by the whipping wind.
“No good, Mister—she can’t
—much more. Bulkheads—go—
minute. Have to ask—tow.
Stem-first—might make it.”
Macintosh nodded his stream-
ing head and staggered to the
bridge-lamp. In jerky yellow
stutters the call for help flicked
across the wind-whipped waste,
ALMOST at once the grey
shape, a misty silhouette be-
hind the spray, acknowledged,
A pause, then a bright orange
eye blinked from her bridge.
Gus and Macintosh read it
together. Macintosh saw Gus’s
mouth open and shut—he didn’t
need to hear its comment.
“Have been waiting,” the
bright eye told them with un-
answerable asperity, “for you to
request tow. You could have
waited till height of blow. Turn
stern-to wind. Will use my wires,
They will hold. Use own engines
astern and I will keep you
stern-to sea. Stand by.”
In the shelter of the wheel-
house Gus let go.
“That half-pint seaman telling
me his wires will hold! Use
your engines astern, he has to
tell me! What does he take me
for—a blasted naval officer! I
was at sea before he’d wet his
pants! ”
Macintosh waited for a lull in
the blast and chipped in.
> “I’d better look after things
aft. Use the starb’d bollards?”
“Yes. And lug down all the
fenders you can muster. He’ll
probably try to climb inboard.”
He paused; remembering, sud-
denly, just what seamanship
would be involved in getting a
wire across in that mad
wilderness of tossing water. Gus
feared little on land or sea—he
respected, above all, fine sea-
manship.
He went on soberly.
“Yes, all right. Mister, I’ll
leave it to you. I hope you
don’t have to use those fenders.”
Macintosh halted at the door.
He looked old and drawn under
his spray-shining sou’wester,
crusted with salt. He nodded
slowly,
“So do I. If he gets that line
across in this he’s entitled to his
brass rings and pansy voice so
far as I’m concerned.” Then he
was out in a s P lash and splatter
of s P ra V and the door crashed to
behind him.
D ACK on the bridge Gus
' showed his seamanship. She
was heavy to the wheel, like a
truck manoeuvring on flat tyres,
He eased her round degree by
degree, roaring his orders above
the plucking slap of the wind,
until she was almost broadside
on to the frenzied seas. Then he
put her rudder hard-over. She
was almost round when the
storm shouted aloud and fell,
in a solid mass of wind, sea and
rain commingled, upon her,
catching her faltering as she
swung broadside on to its fury.
She heeled under the blow and
lay like a thing dead. A tre-
mendous wave roared against
her waist, made a clean breach
over her ; the next one heeled
her over till the lee scuppers
were awash; and before she
could stagger upright a third
reared up and crashed upon her
in a furious tonnage of tossing
white. A two-ton reel of two-
and-a-half-inch steel wire rope
tore loose from its welded
fastenings, and the heavy mass
hurled itself through the super-
structure.
But the old girl was game.
Shaken and head bowed, drink-
ing deep of the battering sea, she
still had a seaman on her bridge
—and her engines, forcing and
twisting her bulk round against
wind and sea until the critical
angle was passed. The enemy
suddenly gave up and allowed
her to swing easily right round
stern-to wind.
Out of the physical ache of
that buffeting wind Gus wearily
sponged his face with a sweat-
rag ; a lively ship exercises every
muscle in a man’s body. Then
he started to the side of the
bridge and saw a sight that
tingled his spine, old hand as
he was.
The destroyer was heading to-
wards him, from leeward, so that
she was bucking wind and sea.
Brown smoke flat at her funnel-
lip, she splintered each comber
into acres of white, slipped head-
long into the deep hollow be-
yond and regained her pace with
cataracts spilling from her
fo’c’sle like long grey beards
streaming in the wind.
Though he couldn’t have told
you in so many words, Gus was
thinking she is a child of such
storms, created by an age of
them. She was —here a little,
there a little, ten feet added for-
ward, ten taken off aft, she had
changed in centuries of striving
for perfection, from the wooden
sail-flung speed of Nelson’s line 1
to the slim steel-hardened
strength of today. She had been
made to receive and sustain ten
hard blows at once, plus the
blasting punch of high-explosive
shells; and to yield and rise
again. She required only one
help: a true man to stand-by
on her bridge, to lend a hand
and haul her up when her head
bowed down. The storm would
show if she had such a man.
PASCINATED, Gus stared,
t his paws gripping the
bridge-rail, swaying like a drunk
with the roll of the ship, now
reduced to steerage way. The
destroyer seemed such a midget
to buck those roaring seas. A
midget, with forty thousand
straining horses in her guts and
a brace of screws bigger than
Gus’s own.
While he watched she was
round, broadside-on ; he thought
she must roll right over. He
caught himself wondering if then
the gun-turrets would drop out
of her. Her mast swept in great
sweeps across the streaming sky
and her low midships poured a
miniature Niagara back into the
froth as she rolled. Even
amongst that sea, now almost
wholly white, Gus caught the
spawn of white from her tail as
her captain, at exactly the right
moment, gave her her horses and
her spinning screws bit and
thrust and dragged her round.
Then she was right round,
almost alongside, so near he
could hear the scrunch of her
bow slicing deep into the retreat-
ing waves, right down to the
flair of her uppers, and could see
the ridiculously puny figure of
her captain shouting his orders
into the wheelhouse voice-pipe.
Gus was breathing heavily, his
lips parted, and it wasn’t the
wind. A stupid lump of emotion
kept forming in his throat. He
crushed it down with a mental
sneer and it formed again. How
long had he been at sea—thirty
years—and he’d seen better than
this. Hadn’t he?
Then a brief burst of white
smoke broke on the destroyer’s
quarter-deck, to be whipped
instantly to shreds. A long,
quivering line at the end of its
brass projectile trailed high in
the sky, floated a moment, then
fell in snaking coils across Gus’s
poop.
Down there the merchantman’s
hands worked as if they owned
the patent rights on time. First,
hand over swift hand, the light
grass line, then the five-inch
manila, then the steely strength
of the four and a half wire,
And all this time the destroyer
kept station in the gale on her
wall-sided consort as effort-
lessly (apparently) as a sailor
pacing his girl on a pavement
sidewalk.
Craning alt, Gus watched the
cluster ol lain-stiearning figures,
He saw Macintosh stand clear,
raise his arms above his head
and cross them. Gus leaned far
over the canvas weather-dodger,
faced the destroyer’s bridge and
repeated the signal. Tow passed!
A wave of a hand answered him.
Slowly, carefully, with infinite
tenderness the destroyer went
ahead. The dripping tow-wire
came up out of the water,
straightened, tautened to a bar
of steel, shook itself like a wet
terrier and held. Gus worked his
engines. Savior and cripple
moved slowly off into the teeth
of the storm.
<<*>}ISTER MACINTOSH.”
IVI Gus smoothed his
starched drill-tunic and eased
the collar round his sweating
neck. Macintosh grinned at the
signs. “I think you should
come with me. You know—first-
officer. These naval johnnies
usually have a spare hand along
when they go visiting. And
you’d probably like to board a
destroyer. Ever been on one?
I haven’t, and I think”
Macintosh laughed up in his
face.
“All right. Captain, all right.
I was going to suggest it, any-
way. There’s a certain character
I want to meet—again. I’ll just
collect my cap.”
Gus noticed as they walked
down the pier beside the
destroyer the only sign of her
battering was the salt rime high
up on her funnel. The quarter-
master who saluted them aboard
was as smart as her quarter-
deck, its brightwork twinkling
in the hot morning sun. He led
them down an almost vertical
ladder into the wardroom flat,
where, waiting, Gus shifted
about as if he were still storm-
bound.
Then the quartermaster came
out and a cheery voice called
“Do come in, blokes, won’t
you?” and a trim, slight, white-
and-gold figure followed the
voice, lost his hand in Gus’s
paw and ushered them to leather-
covered chairs,
He bustled round a tray,
handed them a frothing glass,
cocked his up, said “Chin, chin,
chaps,” and took a sip. Gus
gulped thankfully and felt for
his pipe.
» Er jyiister I mean Captain,
j want t 0 say wbat a damned
fine bit work you put j n out
tbere
“Fortret it old bov foreet it.
NoSatall You h’andled her
yourself, a hundred and
sixty miles stern-first. Damned
i uck y y OU got your steering-gear
r igg ec | j n time.”
Gus spluttered in his beer,
“Now, look here. I’ve got to
te ll you about that. The whole
tbing was my j was out
to »
“Q et our friend the gunboat,
Eh? Nice : ob you made it>
too ’Nother beer?”
jje jumped up and looked
down a t g U s, bottle in hand,
tb j nk j know all I want to
know about that little accident,
report, y’ know. But I do
w ish I could explain to you coves
our f ee iing S about the three-mile
limit.”
Gus held up his hand,
“Now we know all we want to
know about that. Captain. Eh,
Mister?” Macintosh grinned
his acquiescence,
“Oh, I’m jolly glad of that,
Rotten things, these international
misunderstandings. I’m afraid
I was a bit terse in my signals
out there—bit rattled, I suppose,
The least thing rattles me, y’
know. Bad show, really. By
the way, I’m throwing a little
dinner-party aboard tonight,
Your—er—your friend Nina will
be in it. Like to join us?”
Gus grinned, sank his beer
and got up.
“No, thanks. I’ve slipped the
tow—remember? Anyway, I’ve
got a report to make — on the
British Navy. But you could
come and have a pre-party snort
aboard with me—about six?”
“Love to, Captain, love to,”
said white-and-gold and held
out his hand.


Your vacation
self-drive car -
anywhere Britain
arid continent -
Davy
Europe’s most reasonable rates!
Host friendly service from £1 per
day for 30 miles, then 6d. a mile.
150 new Jaguars, Austins, Fords. Also
chauffeur-driven. Brochure from J.
Davy. 9 Logan Place, Kensington.
Cables: Jaydeecars, London.
ALL-BRITISH
€
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
mk
g
THE
POPULAR
with the
PEN
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
B
A
a
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT m
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY V
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. O. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty.
Ltd., Port Pirie, S.A.
LEAD BURNERS
The Company -will be requiring the services of a group of fully
skilled and qualified Lead Burners in connection with the con-
struction of their new gas treatment plant for the production or
sulphuric acid. It is expected that active employment on this
project will commence in nine months’ time.
The terms and conditions, unless amended by statutory enactments,
will be as follows: —
40-hour week of 5 days (Monday to Friday inclusive)
Wage payable for ordinary time (subject to cost-of-living Per week
adjustments) s— 40 hours.
B.H.A.S. base rate, plus margin for skill and loading £l2 6 6
(Base rate subject to cost-of-living adjustments)
Plus—Lead price bonus at present rate (maximum) of
fl per day of eight hours 500
Total rate of wage, including lead price bonus .. .. £l7 6 6
Bonus is based on the price of lead —the above maximum applies
if the average realised price is not less than £B3 per ton.
Accommodation, etc.: Single or twin beds available in Company’s
Hostel. All bedding supplied. Hot and cold running water, washing
and shower facilities. Recreation room—Wireless, Billiard Table.
All under control of Supervisor, who provides necessary house-
keeping staff. Present tariff 10/- per person per week.
Occupiers are able to secure satisfactory meals from restaurants
fairly near to the hostel at an, average tariff of approximately
£2/15/- per week.
Persons interested and with the necessary qualifications are invited
to forward their applications addressed to the Works Manager,
Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd., Port Pirie, South
Australia.
/
rZ-
***** ,v
.<,w| *
■>••;:■:' /j>y{
/ . jf
4.5?' ... .... *
' 5 V ..
•N V \V <y%^V\‘JK (
* ' .i*'<‘ *VvsS >' 4-?
->>w. ••!♦ ..• o* -y.
Asss3
%
■S&N
♦*?
•V’Xv
1
•Ss\\
M
<■
1|
an
,^\\\
s\^
~%N
&V
m
'*C
.\\V»
*.XVS'
KK
I
1
s:
a
W*'*
‘J.
Saw*
TOP DOG
g
FOR MEN AND BOYS
sr
J
IMS HAND WIM * MOWOI
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy The Story of Australian
Art by Moore, Footscray’s First Fifty
Years by Jamieson and back numbers
of the “Victorian Historical Maga-
zine.” —5011.
To buy copies of The Passionate
Heart, Hound of the Road and
Tiddleywinks by Mary Gilmore.—
5013.
To buy copy of The Winning Post,
a small book of jokes.—sol 2.
To buy copies of books of verse
by Oscar Walters. —5010.
To buy copy of The Overlander by
Will H. Ogilvie, or copy of his poem
“The Bushfire” in that book. —5009.
Information Sought.
What is ormolu ?
Ormolu is an alloy of copper and
zinc, sometimes with an addition of
tin. The name is also used to
describe gilded brass or copper. The
tint of ormolu approximates closely
to that of gold; it is heightened by a
wash of gold lacquer, by immersion
in dilute sulphuric acid or by bur-
nishing. The principal use of ormolu
is for the mountings of furniture.
With it the great French ebenistes of
the 18th century obtained results
which, in the most finished examples,
are almost as fine as jewellers’ work.
The mounts were usually cast, and
then chiselled with extraordinary skill
* * * *
When does copyright of a literary
work exist in Australia, and how can
copyright of a published or unpub-
lished screen-play be obtained in the
United States?
Copyright exists in a work of Aus-
tralian origin as soon as the work is
created, and extends throughout the
British Empire and the principal
foreign countries who are members of
the Copyright Union without registra-
tion or any other formality. The
United States is not a member of the
union, but grants copyright for any
unpublished work which is the sub-
ject of Australian copyright. To
obtain copyright in United States for
a printed or published work it is
necessary to register the work at the
copyright office, Washington, and
comply with the prescribed formali-
ties. It is advisable to obtain copy-
right registration in United States for
an unpublished work which may be
used in that country. For forms of
application and information as to fees
payable and procedure for obtaining
copyright registration in the United
States applicants should write to the
Register of Copyrights, Library of
Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
* * * *
What is a mulatto ?
The offspring of a white person
and a negro. The true mulatto is
characterised by woolly black hair
and flat features, and is more usually
the child of a black mother and white
father. The degrees of negro blood
are, or were, indicated by quadroon,
three-fourths white and one-fourth
black; and octoroon, seven-eighths
white and one-eighth black, etc. But
special countries have different terms
for mulattos. In Latin America they
are sometimes called mestizos, and in
Brazil a mulatto is a pardo.
* * * ♦
What is a spoonerism?
A spoonerism is the accidental
transposition of initial letters or
syllables of two or more adjacent
words. The term owes its name to
the Rev. W. A. Spooner (1844-1930),
warden of New College, Oxford.
Instances are “Kinkering kongs their
tatles tike” for “Conquering kings
their titles take”; “Will nobody pat
my hiccup?” for “Will nobody pick
my hat up?”; and “You are occupew-
ing my pie” for “You are occupying
my pew.” While some of the first
cited may be attributed to Dr.
Spooner, most are apocryphal.
* * ♦ ♦
Some particulars about Eugene Sue,
a French novelist?
Joseph Marie Sue (1804-59), French
novelist, known as Eugene Sue, was
born in Paris, studied medicine, and
served in Spain and at Navarino as
an army surgeon. In 1829, on his
father’s death he inherited ample
means and settled in Paris. The
novels Flick et Flock and Atar Gull
were published in 1831. In 1835-37
his conspicuous failure VHistoire de
la Marine Frangaise was published.
His novels, realistic and ingeniously
constructed, had great popular suc-
cess, perhaps the best known being
Les Mysteres de Paris (1842), describ-
ing the underworld of the capital. Le
Juif Errant (1844-45) was an attack on
the Jesuits. Les Mysteres du Peuple
(1849-56) was suppressed in 1857.
In 1848 Sue, who was an extreme
Socialist, was elected a representative
of the Assemble Nationale, but on
the election of Napoleon 111 was
expelled from French territory, and
retired to Annecy.
* * * ♦
What is the longest recorded jump
of a kangaroo ?
The maximum leap of any species
of kangaroos cannot be said to be on
positive scientific record, but the
journal “Wild Life” for February,
1951, quotes an apparently authentic
observation of a “blue flyer” or
female red kangaroo, chased by a
speedy horse, and carefully tracked
on a dusty plain, as having averaged
37ft. over a series of 10 jumps and
as finally teaping 42ft. in clearing an
Bft. dingo-netting fence. In the book
Furred Animals of Australia the
nature-writer “Mopoke” is quoted as
measuring the leap of a large ’roo,
chased by dogs, hurdling a 10ft. 6in-
high pile of dead timber, the length
of the leap being 27ft. As the author
points out, numerous leaps of up to
nearly 40ft. (as is suggested by the
number of kangaroos found entangled
in high fences) have been reported,
but such are doubtless due to unusual
circumstances of fear and more-or-
less favorable take-off.
Brief Answers.
R.T.G.: Write Miss Ellen Thomas,
hon. secretary, Sydney Drama Society,
Hamilton Chambers, 9 Hanulton-
street, Sydney S.L.: “The Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine,” obtain-
able from the Australian Museum,
College-street, Sydney; quarterly, 2s.
per copy, annual subscription, 8s. 6d.
. ...E.M.A.: The Skyline Riders and
Other Verses by Henry Lawson, pub-
lished by Fergusson, Ltd., Sydney, in
1910....J.H.: See “The Glen Davis
Story” printed in The Bulletin of
January 17, 1951... .R.J.C.: Wilfrid
Mailler was born in Sydney, and
during his early manhood contributed
verse and prose to The Bulletin and
other Australian papers. He became
an Anglican clergyman, and was
appointed vicar of St. James’, Wil-
cannia (N.S.W.), where he died in
1911. A volume of his verse The
Secret Garden and Other Poems was
published posthumously in 1912.,..
L.A.: The pomegranate plant even-
tually grows into a tree about 10 or
12ft. in height, and it would be quite
suitable for the centre of a lawn.
Pomegranates will grow from cuttings
inserted in the soil in early spring
or from seed sown at the same time,
the former being the best method.
No special process is needed to ger-
minate the seed. Pomegranates will
grow round Melbourne if watered
during the summer months at about
the same rate as for lemon-trees. They
need pruning in the winter months,
as fruits are borne on new wood,
.... W.H.P.: San Demetrio, British
oil-tanker, when sailing in the famous
Jervis Bay convoy on November 5,
1940, was shelled by a German
pocket-battleship and set on fire.
After two days in an open boat six-
teen of her crew reboarded the burn-
ing tanker, managed to put out the
fires, and, without compass, map or
chart, accomplished the almost impos-
sible feat of bringing her safely to
the Clyde R.T.L,: Some Modern
Maoris by E. and P. Beaglehole
(18s. 9d.), from Angus and Robert-
son, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
....L.S.: Mrs, J. V. Blanckensee’s
Peninsula and C. Perry’s Rukin Lass
both jumped Bft. Sin. at Cairns on
July 23, 1941. C. Russell’s Flyaway
jumped Bft. 4in. at Cairns on July 29,
1939, and E. Nelson’s Plain Eagle
jumped Bft. 3-jin. on July 27, 1939.
E.J.S.: The lines are from C. J.
Dennis’s “Sawin’ Wood,” which will
be found in his book Digger Smith.
... .L.M.: Koolkan is a railway-
station just north of Grafton
(N.S.W.), and Kankool is a crossing
loop between Willow Tree and Ard-
glen (N.5.W.).., .L.N.F.: Really suc-
cessful proofing is beyond the home
worker, particularly with woven
materials which have cellular spaces
between the threads. There are some
commercial watershed preparations
which might be tried to save trouble-
some mixings. A home method
recommended is as follows: In a
bucket of soft water place ilb. each
sugar of lead and powdered alum,
stir at intervals until it becomes clear,
then pour off into another bucket.
Place the garment in this, leave for
24 hours, then hang out without
wringing... .T.J.A.: The Anatomy of
Satire, compiled and edited by C. E.
Vulliamy; published by Michael
Joseph, London L.H.0.: Write
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd., 424
George-street, Sydney.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2fd. per line.
France, 1915
Who, even among 1914-18 Diggers,
knows there were other Australians serv-
ing on another front during the Gal-
lipoli campaign in 1915?
In 1914 there sailed from Australia
with the first fleet two companies of
motor transport enlisted as the Bth and
9th A.S.C. They left the Aussie Army
in Egypt and went on to Romsey, in
Hampshire. There they trained in an
English spring while the divisions in
Egypt sweated and toiled in heat and
sand.
In July, 1915, some 10 weeks after
the landing at Gallipoli, the m.-t. com-
panies landed in France. Under Colonels
Tunbridge and Moon respectively, and
known as m.-t. “parks,” they were
equipped with new Peerless and Daimler
lorries and moved out immediately for
the front. Of the old mixed assortment
of vehicles requisitioned in Australia, both
parks retained only their mobile work-
shops. They were probably the best-
equipped in the whole British Army.
Their mechanics swore by them —and,
incidentally, N. S. Wales staff in one of
them was a collection of experts hard to
excel in any motor workshop today.
At Steenvoorde the parks were halved,
creating four sub-parks. A sub-park
each of “ammunition” and of “supply”
was allotted then to serve respectively
with the 17th and the 23rd British Divi-
sions. They served eight months in
France before the Australian divisions
reached there, including five months
during the Gallipoli occupation period.
The roads behind the Allied lines had
never reached the state of chaos of those
later on the Somme, and the m.-t. lorries
at times were able to take shells, camou-
flage, etc., in the hours of darkness right
to gun positions and sometimes to the
reserve lines.
Severe casualties occurred right from
the start, although their number did not
compare with those in the units the m.-t.
served. Ypres and Armentieres were the
early sectors—-and the shelling and wreck-
age on the Menin-road were the tests
that would discover for you whether you
had the “guts” you saw in others. Ypres
was raked heavily but irregularly by
shellfire and was dark enough to make a
nightmare of any traffic jam you were in.
Early in 1916 the 23rd Division moved
south to Souchez, with the French lines
on its immediate flank. Seven times
fought over, this little town left little to
imagine about the destructive power of
war. Fritz had now held the ridge over-
looking the desolation for five months
and all honest soldiers paid the francs
they owed before crossing the “suicide”
points that Fritz by now ranged to an
inch with fixed machine-guns.
This open hill country increased danger
to transport in daylight—but there were
fantasy and romance in feeling one’s
way in convoy in utter darkness under
clouded skies. A cigarette kept alight in
the preceding lorry could hold you from
piling up on it. Out ahead was a carnival
of starshells and gun flashes.
In March, 1916, the commander of
the 23rd farewelled his Australians —
“Fearless,” he said. “Taken lorries into
positions that were believed impossible.”
We were glad he felt that way.—E. W,
Edwards (N.S.W.).
Farmers
There were three in the group, and. they
all owned what used to be known as
good mixed farms. Standing in the High-
street of a mid-Victorian town, they were
discussing some disease affecting their
sheep. One of them, who seemed to know
all about such matters, said that the
remedy was to turn the sheep into a
fallow paddock. But he didn’t have such
a paddock—neither did the other two.
The three farms had been switched over
to grazing sheep, and no other farming
activities were being followed. It’s such
easy money, so why bother about any-
thing else?
I followed one of the three farmers
into the general store and heard his order
in the grocery department. It included
three dozen eggs at 4s. Id. a dozen, three
pounds of bacon at 4s. 3d. a pound, four
pounds of butter at 2s. a pound, and
three tins of powdered milk at 7s. 9d. a
three-pound tin. That sort of stuff go-
ing out to a “farm”!
Too-easy money from sheep is having
many effects other than inflation, and
it is going on all over Australia. Men
who used to be producers of eggs, butter,
bacon and milk are now consumers in-
stead. There is another aspect as well.
The paddocks of the average smallish
mixed farm will suffer from this constant
stocking with sheep. Sheep may yet
prove a very mixed blessing unless there
is a fairly rapid return to a more reason-
able level of wool prices, etc. — Ceg (Vic.).
R.A.A.F. Wireless Reserve
Making a plea for the re-forming of
the pre-war R.A.A.F. Wireless Reserve,
“Waddlin’ Willie” (B, 28/3/’5l) misses
the point. “Now this valuable institution
has been lost,” he states. The truth is
that the institution is not necessary now.
The Air Force, with its Active Reserve,
has provided an organisation which
covers all musterings and, in the radio
field, is an improvement on the old
reserve.
There are no set camps or parades, but
every member may serve for up to 28
days each year with a permanent
osm^/ rBBWPE
TICKETS
"No use me having a go—I've never Won a thing in my life.”
R.A.A.F. unit at full Air Force rates of
pay, at times most convenient to himself.
He is provided with full kit and, at the
outbreak of war, can become a fully
effective member of the service in the
shortest possible time.
The advantage is that these men will be
not only wireless operators, but airmen
as well, experienced in the methods and
discipline of the service, as well as in
handling its signals traffic. — Mullum
(N.S.W.). .
Prices
Those pessimists who believe that
present high prices will, like the poor, be
always with us should take note of the
Wholesale Commodity Prices Index of
the British Board of Trade from the
years 1800 to 1947.
In the early 1800’s Napoleon was the
Joe Stalin of the period, and the index
figures rose to their peak at 190 in 1815,
when Waterloo cut short the dictator’s
career. Prices fell in a gradual decline
to 79 in 1851, when the threat of the
Crimean War and disturbed political con-
ditions in Europe caused a rise to a new,
but lower, peak at 116 in 1872. Possibly
one of the reasons for the gaiety of the
’nineties was the fact that prices reached
their all-time low in 1896 with an index
figure of 64, but with the outbreak of
World War I the inevitable climb began
again, to reach the highest peak in 1920
at 263, a peak that had not been exceeded
by 1947 when the last figures were avail-
able. Few people will remember, or
believe nowadays, that the A.W.U.
applied for a basic wage of £lO on
January 23, 1920, to meet the costs of
living.
Following a dip into the pit of the
depression years of 1932 and 1933 when
the index was down to a mere 84, the
figure rose to 189 in 1947, and is now
probably past the all-time high of 1920.
Most memories are short and un-
reliable and the difficulties and conditions
of today seem greater than those of 30
years ago, but on the evidence available
over a century and a half the cost of
living is due for a considerable drop in
the next five years, unless Joe comes
from behind his iron curtain and upsets
the law of averages.—S. H. G. (Q.).
Honest Thinking?
“Fradelle” (B. 11/4/’5l) is a bit too
general when he says “the individualist,
the man with the astringent mind, seems
to have disappeared from our midst.”
What of R. G. Menzies? Isn’t he an
individualist; hasn’t he an “astringent
mind”? And, surely, among Menzies’s
associates there are other individualists
and men of initiative. And, even if
there were no such men in public life,
surely some of the leaders of business
and commerce must be go-ahead, alert
men.
Is it true that no one argues any more?
These elections seem to be proving other-
wise. And is “honest thought” being
smothered? I have not heard of anyone
being prevented from expressing his
views.
And I don’t believe the casting aside
of tact and diplomacy will enrich the
world. How will it? Will it help us in
any of our urgent problems—will it
curb inflation, bring greater production
or defeat our enemies? I can’t see any
way it will benefit us. Judging by the
story in “Nothing But the Truth,”
the expression of every “honest” thought
and idea, however unpleasant, would
make life unbearable.
There is a great deal which we need to
do for our country (i.e., for ourselves),
but I’m not so sure that the best way
we can do things is to let every Tom,
Dick and Harry have a voice in affairs.
There are already too many people tell-
ing others what should be done and not
enough getting stuck into the job itself. —
K. Ross (N.S.W.).
Our Handicapped Museums
Under our present laws, donations to
educational institutions are free from
taxation or death duties, but museums
do not share that great advantage be-
cause they are not classed as “educa-
tional.” No matter what the taxation
people may think, however, a properly-
managed museum is one of the finest of
all educational institutions. In S.A. an
escorted visit to the museum is regarded
as an indispensable part of the school
curriculum, and a special children’s
section also draws so many youngsters
who come of their own accord that the
paint is worn off the fronts of the cases.
That section, however, was not brought
into being by the State Education Depart-
ment, nor did the Government help to
establish it. The whole thing was
financed by a grant from the Carnegie
Corporation of the U.S.A.
To put exhibits on display in an in-
formative and attractive way, and to
teach the public as much as possible
about the flora, fauna and geology of
their own country, is only half the work
of a museum. The other half is done
behind the scenes in the form of basic
research work which is invaluable to our
Departments of Agriculture, Forestry
and Fisheries, yet none of our Australian
museums gets anything like adequate
funds to defray the cost of additional
research.
Members of museum staffs do as much
research as possible because it is in their
blood to do it, but what they accomplish
under this handicap is only a fraction of
what could be done if money was avail-
able. Only one of our museums has
vehicles equipped for field-work ; in the
others, the staffs are compelled to spend,
most of their time as chair-borne
scientists in offices when they should be
in Jhe field, combing the farthest portions
of this continent for natural treasures,
and at the same time collecting some
of those basic facts without which applied
science is hobbled.
Here is the record of one department
of an Australian museum: (1) Found a
predatory insect which controlled the
moths whose larvae were destroying the
coconut plantations of Fiji. (2) Saved
plantations of eucalypts worth millions
of pounds in South Africa, Algeria and
Brazil by discovering a small wasp which
would control the leaf-eating weevils
which were destroying the trees. (3)
Helped to save the lives of countless
servicemen during the last war by supply-
ing full information about the life-cycle
of the jungle mite which transmitted
scrub-typhus. These and similar services
are rendered possible by the fact that
museum staff have done so much work
in the field of pure research.
Governments usually adopt the stand
that universities can do all the research
work which is necessary, ignoring the fact
that no work can be done on some
specialised subjects without the aid of
the museum collections and the scientific
data which have been gathered by
members of the staffs. The position calls
for adequate grants to museums for
research work, and they should also be
classed as first-class educational institu-
tions, to which private benefactors can
donate or bequeath funds without having
to pay twice in the form of thumping
taxation on the gift.— H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Interest-rates
“Den” (B. 28/2/’5l) says that “one
contribution towards putting value back
into the pound would be the raising of
interest-rates,” but does not substantiate
that statement. He has seen only the
point of view of a private lender seeking
an income for his old age. That is an
aspect that must be considered, but if
money is to earn interest it has to be
lent, it must be used by the borrower, and
we should consider how it is spent by
him. The spending by the borrower may
be far more inflationary, than if the lender
had spent it himself.
Presumably higher interest-rates will
encourage the lending of money. During
the past 12 months there has been a
dramatic change in Australia, from a
surplus of funds seeking channels of in-
vestment to the present “lenders’ market.”
Today large institutions lending money
can discriminate in their investments to a
far greater extent than has been possible
for at least 15 years, and private and
institutional investors now have industrial
borrowers begging their aid. Recent
banking restrictions have, of course, facili-
tated this movement. It is a good thing
that it is becoming more difficult for
borrowers to obtain finance for specula-
tive enterprises, and an increase in
interest-rates, which would encourage
lending of money in these inflationary
times, is the very thing that we do not
want.
The cure for inflation does not lie in
increasing interest-rates. There is far
more money in circulation than there are
goods. The encouragement of some
forms of capital investment, particularly
in basic industries, will do something to
ease the situation in the long run, but
only in the long run —it does nothing to
ease the inflation at the present time as
capital investment itself involves a demand
for goods.
We must see that such goods as are
available are wisely used with a proper
balance between consumption and capital
investment. Although controls generally
are to be deplored, direct control of
capital issues, if properly and effectively
applied, is something that can produce
results reasonably quickly and so help
control inflation “in the short run.
Control of capital issues by itself, ot
course, is not nearly sufficient, but it can
help and, if anything, it could be made
more effective by reducing further those
interest-rates which are above bond rate,
e.g., rates for loans on overdraft or mort-
gage. If the maximum interest-rate that
a banker or institution can charge is
reduced, surely those lenders will proceed
more cautiously and so in a more anti-
inflationary way?— Sher (N.S.W.),


BOOKS FOR SPORTSMEN
LET’S GO FISHING, by F. D. Marshall.
A detailed guide to fishing in Australia. Lavishly illustrated.
9/6 (post 7d.)
BOWLS, by Gordon Sargeant.
An Australian champion s text-book; with photographs and dia-
grams. 10/6 (post jd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
DYMOCK’S CATALOGUE
of New and Recent Books
includes Books for the Whole Family
Send for our latest Catalogue, it has an excellent selection of
Books listed. 32 Pages of interest to the Discriminating Reader.
For your convenience our Catalogue is now published each
month. Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List.
Monthly Special Feature: How Books Are Made: Of Interest To All.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD. 424 r -
GOLF--THE PICKWORTH WAY
By OSSIE PICKWORTH
Australian Open Champion, 1946-47-48
Golf secrets revealed that will enable you to become a successful player,
together with preliminary advice, essential features of stroke-making, general
hints, how to practise, etc., with 37 photographs as illustrations for right- and
left-hand players.
5/-, Plus 4d. Postage.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
PLAYS OF THE YEAR
A series of books which reproduce the best plays of each London season.
Each volume contains 5 or 6 plays, about 650 pages and details of London
production. Recent volumes have included such plays as Bonaventure,
Young Wives’ Tale, Dark of the Moon, Cockpit. These books are indis-
pensable to theatre lovers.
AT ALL GOOD BOOKSHOPS
Send for contents’ list and details of other
theatre books to the sole Australian
distributor: —
JOSEPH WATERS
Boom 90, Third Floor, Collins House,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me your list of books on the Theatre
and Contents’ list for the Plays of the Year
series.
NAME
ADDRESS
• •
READY SHORTLY
James Ramsey Ullman
River of the Sun
• A new novel by the author of THE WHITE TOWER.
• That rarity—a second novel as good as the first.
• A story of both physical and spiritual discovery-—a novel that
combines great story-telling with a strong appeal to the
intelligence.
• A tale of desperate search and adventure in the South American
jungle, the famous “green hell.”
• Can be read as a yarn in the Conrad tradition or as a travel
book —or both!
• Book of the Month Club Choice in America.
COLLINS
how they were written, how I tried to
sell them, and what I think they are
about, and will you read it and tell me
what I’ve got?”
Here Saroyan puts into your hands his
book with a fake-surrealist wrapper, The
Assyrian and Other Stories (Faber),"and
you murmur that you will do what you
can and write to him, at what address?
“Oh, anywhere will find me,” Saroyan
says; “and, by the way, the book; the
rascally publishers charge ten-and-six-
pence (English) for it. Thank you. If
you are not satisfied with it, send it back,
or give it to the hospitals. Good-bye.”
So there you are, at the end of the
book, very much as the buyer of patent-
medicines finds himself when the side-
shows have packed up and moved on.
Still, the methods of the travelling-show-
man have a better’chance of working in
art than in medicine; they inject a kind
of irresponsibility into the short story
which in these precise days it is in danger
of losing; and when they come off, the
Saroyan stories are very good indeed,
notably “The Poet at Home,” which no
editor would buy, and “The Pheasant
Hunter,” which brought in 3000 dollars ;
and a good word might be said for “The
Foreigner.”
“The Poet at Home” is a charming
thing, a careful, room-by-room study of
an unsuccessful playwright’s menage,
with a witty and surprising development.
As to the name-story, “The Assyrian,”
it is Hemingway at Saroyan’s worst.
R. McC.
New Forester Novel.
C. S. Forester’s Randall and the River
of Time (Michael Joseph) apparently
marks the first of several books about a
central character, similar in design,
although not in subject, to the Horn-
blower series.
Charles Randall, described on the blurb
as “a modern hero,” has nothing of Horn-
blower’s distinctive idiosyncrasies. He is,
so far at any rate, but indifferent stuff.
While a boy subaltern in the closing
months of the First World War, he drifts
perfunctorily into the clutches of a
scheming widow, some years older than
himself, who humors him, marries him,
cuckolds him and, when he is arrested
for the manslaughter of her lover, cheats
him out of his savings.
Mr. Forester, sharply perspicacious as
always, has painted in the background
with graphic fidelity: the mud and horror
and fatalism of the trenches; Blighty
furloughs; the tedious drabness of a
schoolmaster’s household in a South
London suburb; and a trial which is a
model of credibility. Unfortunately, the
scientific expertise of his story-telling
tends to give a machine-made precision
to his characters which deadens the
warmth of their interest.
Landau in Morocco,
Rom Landau’s latest travel-book is
Invitation to Morocco,
He spent some time interview-
ing people; liked the Moroccans and
Berbers better than the Europeans; there
was a Sharif whose teeth were all gold ;
and when Landau told a shaoush he was
afraid he was 20 minutes late for his
appointment, the shaoush turned the clock
back 20 minutes: “Monsieur Blanc won’t
know.”
There are descriptions of Berber
feasts and dances ; of medicine-men who
remove parts of broken skulls and operate
for cataract; of a Sultan who went part
of the way to a celebration in a large
American car, and the rest, because of
the narrowness of the streets, in a jeep
painted bright yellow; of the hatred of
the Moors in the Spanish zone for their
“protectors”; of orgeat, expensive as
champagne, made from the , juice of
crushed almonds, essence of orange
blossoms, a few drops of rose-water, and
a little sugar; of the “great charm” of
Prince Moulay Hassan ; of the Sultan’s
ability to talk between the lines; of the
hair of the girl-dancers at Gouliraine,
dozens of little plaits twisted about orna-
ments, beads and jewels, that takes a
day, or more, to prepare ; and of Mar-
raksh, which “the French are doing their
best to turn into a centre of film industry
and tourist traffic,” with a gambling casino
and one of the most luxurious and ex-
pensive hotels in the world.
Reviewed Briefly,
Wheat and Chaff: A. G. Street (Faber).
Mr. Street’s B.B.C. talks on rustic matters,
including wildllowers, weasels and tres-
passing cows. There is a nice day’s fish-
ing in it when the author catches a trout
described by the locals as “Well awver
dree poun’, ’ee be, and ’ee wor a-rising
’eesterday.” ‘Ee wor voi poun’, as it
’appened, when Mr. Street landed ’un.
* * * *
A Boy in Samarkand: George Sava
(Faber). The well-known surgeon-author
has turned out a story for children set in
pre-Bolshevist Russia; adventures with
wolves, a little skating, life in the mansion
of a huge Samarkand estate, camel
caravans, runaway horses and the droll
game of kok-buri, in which you kill a
goat, thrust it under your knee on horse-
back, and gallop about until someone
manages to take the goat from you and
thrust it under his knee.
* * * *
Roads to Ruin: E. S. Turner (Michael
Joseph). Following his microscopic
exploration into the byways of schoolboy
fiction ( Boys Will Be Boys) Mr. Turner
has now given his attention to the argu-
mentative pros and cons of minor social
reforms, and has set into sharp focus the
moral humbug brought out to defend
such unsavory practices as spring-guns in
landed estates ; infant chimney-sweeps;
hanging, drawing and quartering;
“coffin” ships and juvenile drunkenness.
He deals also with marriage and divorce
reforms and with the battle over the
Married Women’s Property Act. Mr.
Turner sometimes weakens his case by
overstating it, but he is entertaining, and
has enlightening words to say on the
make-up of reformers, not always to their
credit.
* * * * *
Return from Utopia: Richard Law
(Faber). Mr. Law, who is Bonar Law’s
son and has held Ministerial rank in the
British Cabinet, has a rare gift for clear
thinking. Thus, in answer to the
Socialists who say that “the nation” takes
over an industry he points out that
while it may be proper to speak of “the
nation” voting at an election or “the
nation” taking up arms, “When on 1st
January, 1950, we said that the coalmines
of Britain were being managed by the
nation, we did not mean anything of the
kind; we meant that they were being
managed by a youngish university
lecturer, of much ability but with no
particular qualifications for the task he
had undertaken.” He sees the Socialist
revolution in England as “disquieting”
because “for the first time for 300 years
a popular movement in England has pro-
duced an impulse to suppress personal
liberty rather than to assert it.” The
idea underlying the book is that modern
man’s search for a materialistic utopia
is driving him to war and revolution and
that a reassertion of spiritual and religious
values is the way out.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 118
Across.
I—Light you between the sick and
the excavation. (8)
4 —Threaten death to a sprite. (6)
9 —Reference work makes one cicada
yelp. (13)
!1 —Hungarian man’s name. (5)
12 — This chiseller may sometimes take
a plane and saw a fish come in. (9)
13— Flowers that wait for snicks in
the herd’s cricket-match. (8)
14— Waggish structure with a path
through it, (4)
18—Has a late meal up in the
steamer. (4)
20 —Meat the French he follows to a
vehicle general of olden times. (8)
24 Agreed to study the mongrel
Communist. (9)
25 — See a bone for a Central Ameri-
can. (5)
26 — Christmas decoration to court
before the coppers “attack” the
batsmen in a place for music
al fresco. (9, 4)
28 — Rodent’s mother assassinated by
Corday. (5)
29 — Locks up, but this is true of me
when I’m made of money. (8)
Down.
1 — Playthings for an Eskimo kinder-
garten might be bought from
confectioners in summer. (3, 6)
2 Ringlet and a lot of talk caused
by tetanus. (7)
3 Prefix signifies the new change of
one. (3)
5 Crazier dye. (6)
6 Precise alternative of a one-time
Thespian, (2-5)
7 To owe the heart of the doctor
is the wealth a bride brings to
her husband. (5)
8 — Why follow the blond spirit? (5)
10—Throw the French feature of
Windsor. (6)
12 —Headland garment for a pub-
lisher. (4)
15 — These birds know the cost of
some blasted instruments. (9)
16— Pallid coppers might be carried
by 8 down. (4)
17 — Sticky six’s hero of old Spain. (6)
19 —Gasp by her wildcat. (7)
21— Such art has nothing in a
package, or art swallowed by a
nigger. (7)
22 — Chop stroke in cricket allowed?
(6)
23 — Yards contain such vehicles with
500 beams. (5)
24 —Attractiveness to scorch 1000. (5)
27—On his Majesty’s unit of electrical
resistance. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 117.


This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Vtopared monthly by MOFFAT-VIKTCB LIMITED
r -
m.v. agricultural news
April
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1951
New, Low-Voltage Electrical Equipment
Brings City Comfort to the Country
Many years ago a man named Bach composed music by moonlight. He had
to do this because his parents disapproved of his musical leanings, and
would not let him have the candles,
Bach suffered badly from eye-strain, but even if he had been using candles
he would not have been much better off.
Candles, oil-lamps and non-pressure
kerosene lamps have all cast their
none-too-brilliant beams over the pages
of lighting history, but it was not until
the discovery of electricity that this
particular field of human endeavour
began to reach something like
perfection.
In recent years thousands of Aus-
tralian homes have installed Council
electricity. Thousands of others, using
their own power plants, make electricity
for themselves.
At first, thole people with 240 volt
current were lucky enough to have all
.manner of electrical appliances, as well
as electric lighting.
People making use of their own little
32, 50 or 110 volt generating sets had
to be satisfied with just having light.
To-day, with newer and bigger light-
ing sets available, it is possible for
low-voltage generators to run almost
any piece of electrical equipment it is
practicable to run on 240 volt supply.
THE MODERN FARMER CAN SHAVE
IN BED
One of the first electrical amenities
to be made for 32, 50 and 110 volts was
the vacuum cleaner. The latest is an
electric razor which, according to the
manufacturers, can be used whilst read-
ing the paper, lying in bed, or eating
your morning porridge.
Washing machines, irons, toasters,
fans, radios and sewing machines (all
for operation on 32, 50 or 110 volts)
are now being made by several well-
known manufacturers.
Small electric motors are also avail-
able for use on low-voltage systems. By
coupling these motors to your workshop
tools you can bring the tools into
operation with the flick of a switch.
On the modern farm, mother cleans
her all-electric home in half the time it
took her in the pre-electric era, whilst
dad goes off to his all-electric workshop,
starts up his all-electric drill, lathe or
saw, and does all those little repair jobs
with one quarter the effort of the old
“crank-cum-foot-pedal” days.
There have been great changes since
the days when Mr. Bach wrote concertos
by moonlight. To-day, no matter where
you live, you can have bright, constant
electric light to read by, and electric
power to drive those comforts and
labour saving devices that were once
for city dwellers alone.
g
STREAMLINED
PRODUCTION
LOWERS UNIT PRICE
Here is a Type KB 1,000 Watt M.V.
Lighting Plant being prepared for
shipment from Moffat-Virtue’s
modern factory at Rosebery, N.S.W.
Up-to-the-minute production tech-
nique makes it possible for M.V.
plants to be turned out economically.
You are not paying for the waste-
ful mistakes of old-fashioned equip-
ment, or unplanned methods.
Every step in manufacture—from
drawing board to final packaging and
despatch has been planned for
utmost efficiency and economy.
Fork-lift trucks, as seen here, are
used for transport of goods through-
out the factory.
Batteries of machines work day
and night on crankshafts, engine
blocks and so on, keeping production
at a record level despite raw material
shortages, power blackouts and other
industrial troubles.
Production at Moffat-Virtue is on
the increase all the time.
Economy and efficiency go into
making M.V. equipment the best that
money can buy.
Electricity . . .
IT'S SOMETIMES CHEAPER
TO GENERATE YOUR OWN!
With a shorter working week, and rising wages the cost of a unit of electricity
has climbed to as high as 9d. in some parts of the Commonwealth.
A Moffat-Virtue Home Lighting Plant,
rated at 1,000 watts, produces one unit
of electricity for approximately B£d., in
running costs.
Although you provide your own
labour —to the extent of pressing a
starter-button and occasionally refuel-
ling with petrol, kerosene and oil—you
must admit you’re working on a pretty
sound basis when you can beat the large,
highly organised bulk supplier at his
own game.
M.V. Lighting Plants can only give
this performance because they have
been skilfully designed and carefully
manufactured.
• The engines used range from the
2\ h.p. M.V. Petrol Engine, in the 750
Watt Type JB Plant, to the 8 h.p. M.V.
Type MH Diesel, in the 4KVA Type D4C
Plant.
• Generators have been especially de-
signed for cool, trouble-free running.
Housing and armatures are larger than
standard, thus limiting the temperature
rise to 40 degrees C. above the
surrounding atmosphere.
9 Switchboard instruments are mounted
on a highly polished black panel. A
complete range of first-class instruments
are used, varying in quantity with the
requirements of the plant.
• The engine and generator are mounted
on a rigid steel base. All plants are
fitted with an efficient vee-belt drive,
which can be adjusted for tension by
sliding the generator.
Full particulars of all M.V. Lighting
Plants can be obtained from any of the
distributors listed at the bottom of this
P a g e ’
aumdi-vu-iuß £-ngxneors, Manufacturers, Machinery
Merchants. Epsom Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane.
Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-Operative Limited, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co. Limited,
Adelaide; Stockowners Co-operative Shearing Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder. Smith & Co.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty- Limited, Hoba.
and Launceston.
