

The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3713
Wednesday, April 11, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Conway’s Stormy History
Centres Round Its
Sturdy Castle
AT the northern extremity of the
County of Caernarvonshire is
Conway, which is reputed to be the finest
example of a medieval walled town in
Britain. It stands on the left bank of
the estuary of the River Conway, and its
massive walls, which, until 1934, entirely
surrounded the town, are still in a
remarkably good state of preservation.
Their circumference is a mile and a half,
strengthened at intervals by twenty-two
semicircular towers,
# Forming the same scheme of fortifica-
tion and built on a great rock is Conway
Castle, which was founded by Edward I
in 1283 as one of the three Edwardian
castles to be established in North Wales.
Its immense walls, fifteen feet thick, are
flanked by eight circular embattled
towers, forty feet in diameter. Built in
the shape of an irregular oblong, 300 feet
in length, it is washed by tidal water on
two sides and one third of the fortress
stands within the town defences. Its
original entrance was by a drawbridge
over a deep moat and through a
portcullised gateway.
Notable features within the castle are
the state apartments and the oratory,
which is a splendid example of the archi-
tecture of the latter part of the thirteenth
century when the Early English style was
merging into the Decorated;
The first episode of the Castle’s stormy
history was in 1294 when King Edward I
was besieged there during a Welsh rising
which was due to the first attempt at
direct taxation for the French wars. The
defenders of the Castle were almost
reduced to famine before they were
relieved by the arrival of a fleet with
provisions. It was in Conway that
Richard II signed his abdication, and the
castle was again besieged in the Glen-
dower Rebellion of 1401. During the
Civil War it was garrisoned for King
Charles but surrendered in 1646. Later
the fortress came into the possession of
the Earl of Conway, who removed most
of the lead and timber from its roof and
interior for use in Ireland, but the vessel
in which this material was being conveyed
was wrecked and all the property was lost.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B» SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


TWO OUTSTANDING BOOKS
FLYING DOCTOR CALLING,
by Ernestine Hill.
The inspiring story of one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest achievements. Illus-
trated. IS/- (post 9d.)
A HOUSE IS BUILT,
by M. Barnard Eldershaw.
Reprint of a famous prize-winning
Australian novel, set in Sydney in
1837. 7/6 (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
. , .
Booksellers; Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
DYMOCK’S CATALOGUE
of New and Recent Books
includes Books for the Whole Family
Send for our latest Catalogue, it has an excellent selection of
Books listed. 32 Pages of interest to the Discriminating Reader.
For your convenience our Catalogue is now published each
month. Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List.
Monthly Special Feature: How Books Are Made: Of Interest To All.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
Now available again
KNOCK ON ANY DOOR
by Willard Motley
“Extraordinary and powerful: Motley is one of the
finds of the year.”
’New York Times’’ Book Review
COLLINS
liMi
Write now for Stott’s FREE
Prospectus, giving full details of Stotts
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT."
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vlc.^
—— CUT HERE AND UAIL“~‘ mm ~
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.151) Age
The Red Page
"IMMINENT SUMMER."
1 am of my century and would not be
otherwise
Either in place or Time,
says Nancy Keesing in her poem “Winter
Coal Strike, 1949” ; and throughout her
first book. Imminent Summer (printed by
Edwards and Shaw for the Lyrebird
Writers), she is of her time and place
more certainly, more naturally, than any
other contemporary Australian poet one
can call to mind.
Her time is now, the twentieth century,
the machine age, a most difficult time to
put into verse ; a time in which drama
is expressed in the detective story, archi-
tecture in a block of flats, and music and
the march of progress in the pneumatic-
drill,
Nancy Keesing has made poetry out
of all these things : and, in the most
astonishingly masculine and modern of
all her poems, out of the engineer:
All joy for him existed in a smooth surface,
Music was in the purr of a good flywheel,
A satisfactory evening’s conversation
Concerned the nice efficiency of steel.
We can assume that it was business that
forced him
To drive down the Windsor-road at the
end of the day
When, for an hour, the landscape is sharply
focused
Before night smooths each long contour
away.
With every mile the mountains close on
the traveller
Who, with a sudden, a wholly astonishing
vision.
Finds they are part of a plan, an entire
conception
Terrifying in its harmony and precision.
It is a poetry in which the modem
world, enriched by history and dramatised
by intimations of eternity, is wholly
accepted; and this is where it
differs from the historical poems
of Robert D. Fitz Gerald, or Judith
Wright’s poems of nature and human
relationships, or Rosemary Dobson’s
sensitive reinterpretations of medieval art.
And if it is not necessarily better or
more significant poetry because of that,
it is obviously a good and a valuable
kind of poetry for somebody to be writ-
ing : the verse of the age of Auden, from
whose contemporary pioneering, though
without direct influence and with a
happier tone, Nancy Keesing has re-
ceived the freedom of the modem world
and the clean-cut, direct technique per-
fectly suited to express it.
But if the time of Imminent Summer
is the machine age, the place is Sydney ;
and Sydney is a long way from Auden’s
Black Country ; the bush and the sea are
still as much a part of our lives as are
the pneumatic-drill and the tar-spray.
And what is most charming about this
book —if the engineering poems are the
most striking—is the complete, and com-
pletely natural, picture it gives of Sydney
life as w© all know it:
This is my city. 1 was born here and I
love it
From the Harbor to Brickfield Hill, its cow-
track streets.
Its strong, exciting smells.
Its clanging Sunday bells,
The haze that before has made it familiar
and mysterious . . .
“Coal Strike” and “Pitt-street Statue”
give you the centre of the city, drawn
hard and deaf like an etching; there are
the old men spinning out time in Hyde
Park ; there is the old house “caught in
a dream” among the flats at Elizabeth
Bay : then, as everyone in Sydney does,
you go out of the city to the surf, the
rock-pools and the cliffs “splendidly
angry, terrible, lonely, Whose destiny is
the land’s own life and promise” ; then
to the bush of French’s Forest or
Kuringai Chase or the Blue Mountains,
a landscape lit with “thin little lizards of
laughter,” where
Love followed twisted tracks in damp fern
valleys,
Was brewed with tea from a billy, Mack
and sweet.
The outstanding poem among these
Sydney and near-Sydney landscapes is
“Imminent Summer,” which Nancy Kee-
sing has chosen for her title-poem and
which Norman Lindsay has illustrated in
a sparkling and rhythmical pen-drawing
reproduced as the frontispiece; a poem
in strong contrast to the severe machine-
age verses, with a rich and sensuous blend
of femininity and Australian sunlight that
gives it the same quality as some of
Judith Wright’s lyrics (“Summer’s bubble-
sound of sweet creek water”) or Eve
Langley’s “Native Bom”:-
A girl is sleeping beside the fallen tree
Whose limbs were charred by fire six years
ago;
Her limbs are blackening now in the bright
spring sun,
Lying like her neighbor, stretched careless,
breathing slow.
The black ants crawl from the wood to
the skin of the girl,
The wind plays with loose bark and with
loose hair;
Tree knows they both must fear the
imminent summer,
But cannot tell her while she sleeps on there.
Imminent Summer is a selection of 28
poems, mostly reprinted from The
Bulletin. It is all good writing, clear
in meaning, courageous and distinctive in
its modernity ; and at least three of the
poems, “Revelation,” “Water Diviner”
and the title-piece, could take a permanent
place in Australian anthologies . . . which
is all you can reasonably ask from a
first volume by a young writer, and far
more than you get from most.
"The Banjo."
ŵ
ẁ
Australian Crime Novel.
ẅ
"The Ausirovert."
It is time the Red Page extended its
blessing to “The Austrovert,” a literary
magazine from Melbourne which has
already performed the remarkable feat
of running for two issues; and which
deserves to continue.
It is printed by Hall’s Book Store for
B. W. Muirden, 16 Rix-street, Mel-
bourne ; price sixpence; circulation 400
copies. Articles in No. 2 are on: the
Jubilee (debunked); “The Sad State of
Australian Letters”; Kylie Tennant;
Xavier Herbert’s Capricornia; “Carring-
bush in the ’Nineties” ; the support given
to “The Austrovert’s” first issue ; “Mean-
jin Papers”; Ned Kelly; the lending-
library public; and the poetry of Max
Dunn.
There is nothing very solid in all this.
Mr. Muirden, who writes the whole paper
himself and who was until recently an
undergraduate at Melbourne University,
is young, high-spirited and —since he has
the habit of reprinting from other
reviews; what the Red Page said about
Max Brown’s Australian Son, contrasted
with what Vance Palmer said about the
same book —alarming.
But the Red Page at any rate, besides
w
Melbourne Pacifist.
ẁ
O'Reilly Rides Again.
ẅ


I
mm.
';; m
■BB
IN ADVERTISING
ilUli
BOAT . . PLANE . . PICNICS . . TRAIN
Travel rugs always make that journey
Above Left. The s “Highland,” a comfortable warm pure wool rug in McLeod tartan check with fringed
ends. Size sSin. x 68in. Price 88/3. Right. Photo. Left. The “Greenwood,” an attractive rug brushed
wool finish, smart check designs with fringed ends. Size 68in. x sSin. Price 82/3. Right. The Manor. A
reversible rug of merino wool in lovely tartan check designs with fringed ends. Size 68in. x 58in. Price £B/18/3,
L
mmM
'■
-■
/
;
was s&^&sS&s&r.
9 V" ' • f
V I
-••••••"
L k~~- - - «« X t
m~r* \s%% - ■■
|S
V
v •
m
•4 X
X
m
i
;
» s i
£
;«:W,%
.WK
£«***
<* I
Vtl
ill
■ <
: iy< :
Hi
Vi>£> -w
Wlf;
m
mm*
m
m...
m . ■
-
i i
' 5
a
m
111
\
•■ • :•- :■ •:
64/3
53/-
The “Conway.” A serviceable rug in
smart check designs with fringed ends. Size
70in. x 54in. Price 42/6
Right. The “Tamariel.” In colours of green or blue
this lightweight knitted rug has fringed
ends. Size 63in. x 73in. and is priced at only 46/-
s*
The "Woodland" Merino Wool Rug
An Australian lightweight rug of pure wool, merino
finish with fringed ends in plain colours of Tan,
Blue or Green in size 72in. x 60in. and priced at 64/3.
Pure wool brush rug with bound edges in colours
of Blue, Green, Fawn or Maroon. Size 84in.
x 54in. A wonderful value at 53/- each.
HORDERNS- TRAVEL WEAR DEPARTMENT-GROUND FLOOR. PITT STREET. PHONE M 2401-MAIL BOX 27.2 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
EXTRA
■


These are
the Beat issues
ot the Election!
1n1949 you—THE PEOPLE-refused
to re-elect the Chifley-Evatt
Government. You preferred to
endorse the policy put before you
by Mr. Menzies, the leader of the
Liberal Party.
CHIFLEY & EVATT V. THE PEOPLE
But Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt defied YOUR
mandate. Having rigged the Senate in
anticipation of their Party's defeat at the
1949 Election, they used their false majority
in that House to obstruct, delay or reject
every measure introduced by the Menzies
Government to give effect to YOUR wishes.
After more than a year of frustration. Mr.
Menzies forced a dissolution of the Parlia-
ment in order that you ... THE PEOPLE ••.
could have the opportunity to—
BREAK THE SENATE
ON APRIL 28
LIBERAL
Authorised by J. L. Garrick, 30 Asih St n Sydney. FG.W7.44
Two Mokes and a Mong
By WILL LAWSON.
w
HEY were a community
of their own, living in
the backyard of my
home in Brisbane,
long ago. This back-
yard was called by
courtesy the horse-
paddock, because two horses
lived there, in two loose-
boxes —Laddie the saddle pony,
and lanky, stupid Hector, the
buggy horse. Not being very
fully employed, they had plenty
of spare time on their hands,
which they spent trying to get
out of the loose-boxes. Only a
single rail resting in slots kept
them in, a fact that annoyed
Laddie, who had brains. The
catch was that the rail was stuck
in a socket at one end, while at
the other a swinging piece of
wood was supposed to prevent
its being lifted.
The third member of this
community was Toby, a small
terrier type of dog. I never
found out just what kind of
terrier Toby was; in fact, the
only kind of dog just like him
I ever saw was in Kowloon,
near Hong Kong. A Chow dog,
I was told, was the name.
ONE afternoon I was doing
some digging in the horse-
paddock when I saw Laddie
leaning over his loose-box rail,
trying to break it loose. Quite
a hopeless task. Then, I saw
him try to lift the rail; also no
use. He stood then staring at
Toby, who squatted, watching
him. Toby whined, and Laddie
stared at him. Then Toby ran
to the rail and leaped up at the
piece of wood that swung.
Laddie touched the wood
with his lips. Toby whined
again. He had brains. Next
thing, I saw Laddie spin the
wood on the nail at dizzy speed.
And while it spun, he put his
head under the rail and lifted.
Bad luck. The rail hit the
wood. Laddie spun again, while
Toby ran about, whining. At
about the tenth try, the rail
missed the wood and fell on the
ground. Toby capered and
barked, while Laddie walked
from the stall, trotted about, had
a roll, and then began to graze.
But poor old woodenheaded
Hector, the buggy horse, was
still in his stall. He leaned on
the rail, then put his head
under it, trying to lift it. No
good. So he went down on his
knees, trying to get under it.
This interested Toby greatly; he
whined and ran about; but
Hector didn’t understand his
lingo, as Laddie did.
After a time, Laddie nosed
down to Hector and had a good
powwow with him, which
seemed Jo cheer old Hector up.
Toby gave up the job. He was
used to intelligent folk.
After he had yarned to
Hector for a time. Laddie pulled
his head out of the loose-box,
put his lips on Hector’s spin-
ning-ginny piece of wood and
sent it flying round.
But Hector hadn’t the idea of
lifting the rail. It seemed a
hopeless job. I was just knock-
ing off my gardening when I
saw Laddie, after spinning the
wood, shove his head under the
rail and lift it. No good. The
wood blocked it. I left them at
it.
BOTH horses were in their
loose-boxes when I went
back to feed them, and I let
Laddie stay loose, which proved
to be a serious error, though
none of us found that out till
the next afternoon.
Toby was very busy getting a
big shinbone through the bars
of our front gate. It would
not go. He laid it down on the
ground outside the gate, jumped
through the bars, and pulled it
under the gate with his paws.
He had just finished doing
this when a very well-dressed
lady stopped at the gate and gave
a look at Toby, who was
innocently regarding her with a
grin on his face. She was a
stranger to Toby.
“Now be a good doggie,” she
said kindly. “Don’t bite me, will
you?”
Toby still grinned. Under-
neath he knew this was an
enemy. Her mission was not a
peaceful one. But he stepped
back on to the lawn to let her
sail regally up to our front
door. Then, just as she passed,
he made one leap, and ripped
her lovely black dress from
waist to ground. After which he
sat down, still regarding her
with his smile.
The angry lady sailed to our
front door, rang the bell and
when my mother came to the
door, she said:
“Look what your nasty dog
did to me! Look!”
Toby had followed to the
front steps.
“Our dog, Toby, did that?
He never bites!”
“Well, he did this time.
Look!” She was very angry.
By this time my mother had
recognised the lady as Mrs.
Ryland, who lived at one end of
the horse-paddock.
“I’m so glad you called,
Mrs. Ryland,” she said. “Do
come in and have a cup of tea,
and I’ll get a needle and thread
and mend your dress.”
“Well,” the lady said, some-
what mollified by my mother’s
kindly voice and manner. “I
would hardly say I called—
really I came to complain about
your horses.”
“Our horses. But they’re in
the horse-paddock at the back.
We only use them a little, and
the rest of their time they’re in
their loose-boxes.”
“Indeed, Well, they were not
in their loose-boxes last night.
No, they were not. They had
their heads over our fence, and
they tore every vestige of the
honeysuckle from the fence,
every bit of it, and ate it—at
least there isn’t a scrap left.”
While my mother got the tea,
Mrs. Ryland enlarged on this
story, till it sounded like a case
of high treason, and all the
time Toby sat with that grin on
his face.
I carried the tray in for my
mother and had a good look at
the lady. My word, she was
wild. But I said nothing about
seeing Laddie getting out of his
stall. Presumably he had got
the buggy horse out, too.
BUT as soon as Toby got a
piece of cake he trotted off
round the back and I followed,
just to see what he would do. I
had queer ideas about Toby: he
seemed almost human.
When Toby squeezed under
the gate into the horse-paddock
Laddie and Hector were fooling
with their rails, trying to get
them out. Toby barked twice,
jumping up at their noses, and
they pulled back and seemed
very interested in Toby, and
what he was telling them. I
swear he was telling them all
about the lady and her com-
plaints about them eating the
honeysuckle, and how he had
ripped the dress of so obvious
an enemy.
When Toby finished dancing
and whining and yapping at
them old Hector opened his
jaws wide, lifting his head out
horizontally, and if he didn’t
give a horse-laugh he meant to.
Laddie just danced round in his
stall like an excited girl.
When my father came home I
was feeding the horses and he
came out and said: “What do
you make of this story about
our horses tearing the creepers
off Mrs. Ryland’s fences?”
I shook my head.
“It’s just incredible,” he said.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3713
Wednesday, April 11, 1951
A.L.R
FAMILY EMBARRASSMENT.
“Out! And don’t darken my door again—not until after April 28, anyway.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
.Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"THE ISSUE IS
COMMUNISM. "
If Mr. Menzies has one gift it is the
ability to put issues clearly and under-
standably. He is a constructive speaker,
and never gets down to the gutter, as his
political opponents so often do —even
Mr. Chifley.
It is not, however, quite fair to judge
the two men on the same plane. Mr.
Menzies is still a leader and a free man
who can express his own thoughts, his
policy based on the maintenance of free
enterprise. But Mr. Chifley, “the moder-
ate” once in Labor propaganda, is a
member of the Communist-ridden camp
which once used to be a “Labor”
movement.
He and his followers have become so
abject that they cannot imagine any influ-
ence on public affairs which springs from
the individual will. They cannot imagine
anything succeeding which is not “con-
trolled.” They cannot conceive that it is
safe to allow anybody to have the
freedom which they do not themselves
possess. They have come to believe that
nothing should be allowed to exist with-
out their permission—or, rather, the per-
mission of their masters of the A.L.P.
They believe, further, that the world
belongs to one class, and that all other
classes must be submerged by the “class-
war.” The “toiler” —still “oppressed” by
the bloated capitalist, the noisome “ex-
ploiter,” even though “the toiler” earns
£25 a week as a wharfie or shearers’ cook
—is still supposedly the paramount influ-
ence, the only section of humanity to be
considered. He, supposedly, in the ex-
pressed theory of the Chifleys, Evatts and
Fergusons, alone is fit and entitled to
run the world; though actually they are
only jollying him along in order to peel
votes off him, just as they are at present:
jollying along the woolgrowers with tears
of sympathy because the horrid Tories
are taking income tax from them in
advance.
So obsessed is “Labor” with the idea
that everything must be controlled by the
trade-union leaders and that their rights
transcend the law that it basically sub-
scribes —though not publicly at election-
time —to the plan of post-war reconstruc-
tion put forward in 1945 by Mr.
Ferguson, as secretary of the A.R.U. —
the president and general secretary of
which are leading Communists despite
his and “Labor’s” supposed hatred of
Communism:
We say that if it is possible for the
Commonwealth to organise the nation for
war; to take to themselves, as they have
done under the National Security Act and
Regulations for war purposes, power to
control and regulate the industrial and
financial resources of the Commonwealth,
and authority to regulate and control the
economic and social life of the community
so as to regiment the people according to
the Government’s view of the nation’s
need for war purposes—then it is equally
possible for all these things to be done by
the Commonwealth Government for the
purposes of peace.
There is “Labor” policy—Chifley policy
—expressed by the present Federal presi-
dent of the A.L.P., the head of the junta
which Mr. Chifley says must dictate the
line and actions for “Labor” in Parlia-
ment. When some of the masters of
political “Labor” left the Communist
party behind them they did not leave its
policy behind.
It is necessary to go into all this to
understand the full significance of Mr.
Menzies’s policy speech and that of Mr.
Fadden. The essence of both was that
the issue of the election is Communism.
Mr. Menzies said that “The real disease
of Communism is deeper and more
deadly” than appears when viewing it
merely from the point of view of the
damage it does to industry and produc-
tion, and that “unless we attack it by all
possible means, it will infect the whole
of our community life,” This is a re-
strained view of the position, since every
phase of community life is already in-
fected or threatened.
The very subservience of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party to a secret outside
junta not elected by the people is in
line with Communist practice. The
doctrine that expediency and not principle
should be the guiding influence in public
conduct and action is a doctrine com-
pletely foreign to European political
philosophy, and is imported straight from
Moscow.
To this principle the Australian Labor
party—so-called—has come to subscribe
since it adopted, at the instance of a
joint trade-union committee of the heads
of “Labor” and of the Communist party,
the furtive Socialist objective which it
never parades in election campaigns.
Only that can account for the free-and-
easy manner in which Parliamentary
“Labor” changes its mind.
Mr. Chifley, after condemning compul-
sory training at the Triennial Conference
a few weeks ago, meekly accepted it as
an objective at the orders of the con-
ference, thus exhibiting a symptom of
“Labor’s” ready acceptance of the Asiatic
Socialist conception of the ethics of
expediency.
Dr. Evatt, when the secrets of the
rocket range were menaced by Com-
munist spies, proclaimed in an official
pamphlet that Communist propaganda
against the range was “for the sole pur-
pose of defeating the Australian defence
policy in the interests of a foreign Power.”
In the same pamphlet he declared that
to ban the Communist party or deport
its members would be to “reach the point
which reached under Hitler”
(and) “tend to introduce Fascism and
destroy democracy.”
Out of Federal election-time Mr.
Chifley is prepared to admit frankly,
as he said at Bathurst last April,
that in the fight between “Labor” and
Liberal-C.P. there is only one issue—
Socialism v. Capitalism. During election
campaigns he and his fellow-serfs of the
A.L.P. and its background Communist-
led unions mention “our one objective,”
the serving of the common people. They
speak of price- and capital-controls with-
out explaining that these are important
factors in attaining the Socialist govern-
ment-by-regulation which is the ideal of
Mr. Ferguson and of the party. They
change their attitude from active military
support of U.N.O. in Korea to with-
drawal from Korea with bewildering
facility which would be unexplainable if
the public had not already seen their
policy on Indonesia revised for them
openly by the Wharflaborers’ Federation
and the Communist-led Ironworkers.
So they have appeared like raging lions
in the path of the Government’s defence
plans against the ominously looming
threat of Russian aggression. So they
have blocked measures to halt inflation,
which the Communist union-leaders
seek to intensify in order to increase
economic chaos. So they have fought
legislation to suppress the Communist
party itself and draw the claws of its
union-leaders. Their whole programme
as set out in this election campaign
flows towards disarmament, towards
government by control and regu-
lation, towards socialistic handouts on a
scale which will enhance the inflation
which the Communists, as Mr. Menzies
points out, desire. Whatever their objec-
tives and whatever their formal professed
hate of Communism, everything they do
tends to the advantage and protection of
Communism, and their policy smells of
this hateful foreign creed. So long
as they make Socialism their prime objec-
tive this must continue to be so.
Mr. Menzies and Mr. Fadden
are literally correct in holding that there
is one issue only at this election—whether
this country is to continue in the British
way of life, or whether it proposes to
pursue an objective which was imported
direct from Moscow into the “Labor”
party in 1921.
The Prices-canfrol Bluff.
Despite all the “Labor” propaganda of
the past, Mr. Chifley now admits that
price-control as the panacea for inflation
is bunkum. He goes all the way with the
Prime Minister in declaring that the key
to reducing prices is greater production,
and that what Senator Ashley calls “the
probable truth” lies in the Government’s
policy which “Labor” in Opposition has
been frustrating for 16 months.
Mr. Chifley began his admission at
Lithgow before he left on his election
tour of the States. “The A.C.T.U. and
the A.W.U.,” he said, “have promised
an all-out drive for greater production
if the ‘Labor’ party is successful at the
elections.” If “Labor” is not successful,
will they then, as during the past 16
months, refuse this co-operation in order
simply to “defeat the Menzies Govern-
ment”?
The Government’s campaign must
have made some mark with the public,
for it has certainly brought up with a
round turn the “outside” bodies
which dictate political “Labor’s” tactics.
Last week in “an election declaration”
the A.C.T.U. pledged itself to assist in
checking inflation in these words:
The A.C.T.U. would readily confer with
a “Labor’’ Government on the steps deemed
necessary to ensure economic stability, and
would co-operate to increase the productive
capacity of the nation, particularly in the
basic industries.
The organised trade-union movement
through the A.C.T.U. will not hesitate to
condemn and isolate all strikes which are
subversive in character and poUtical in
origin.
One of the bars to the A.C.T.U. joining
with employers in production-talks has
been the question of incentive schemes,
on which the A.C.T.U. has always opposed,
extensions. The whole question of in-
centives is certain to be raised at the Trade-
union Congress in Melbourne later this
year. There is a possibility of the con-
gress agreeing to an extension of incentives
in some industries as part of a plan to lift
production.
Now to observe how the flower of Mr.
Chifley’s policy has unfolded under this
trade-union pledge. First, his opening
“statement of policy” in Sydney:
We will negotiate with trade-unions and
employer-organisations with the object of
increasing production, minimising stop-
pages of work and giving the unions a
share in the responsibility of production
drives [has anybody ever denied them
this?]. Such agreements would most cer-
tainly lead to a firm understanding that,
subject to effective price- and profit-control,
the trade-unions would co-operate to
achieve economic stability.
Then at North Sydney two days later
he said “Labor” could only do all this
with additional powers through an altera-
tion of the Constitution. “We believe
that Communism can be destroyed only
by the ‘Labor’ movement working in
conjunction with the trade-union move-
ment.” Apparently during the five years
of his previous term in office the “Labor”
movement and the trade-union move-
ment were not working together and so
Communism flourished.
At Lithgow he announced that the
trade-unions’ all-out drive for more pro-
duction was “a promise.” At Cairns he
explained that the A.C.T.U. henceforth
would provide the law, the court and the
trial of an industrial dispute, would
determine whether it amounted to “indus-
trial sabotage, with precipitation to strike
or political action,” and if so would
“outlaw the stoppage.” He concluded —
“I hope the worker from now on will
give of his best in the service of his
country. By failing to do this he is cheat-
ing his fellow-workers.”
If all this means anything at all, it
means that Mr. Chifley is coming to the
Menzies Government’s outlook, even if
only for the duration of the election. He
agrees now that high prices are the result
of Communist policy in the unions, that
Communism must be destroyed, and that
“Labor” has not destroyed it in the past
because political “Labor” and union
“Labor” (to say nothing of himself) were
not in agreement about it. He agrees
that increased production is essential in
combating high costs and that the unions
must be persuaded—they have now
promised, he says—to co-operate in this.
If prices and profits are controlled wages
must be controlled also, and he looks
“most certainly to a firm understanding”
with the unions to furnish wage-controls.
He agrees there must be incentive pay-
ments and a union share in responsibility
for more efficient industry. He admits
that hitherto the workers have been giving
something less than their best for wages
received.
In effect, he is borrowing—for the pur-
pose of the election platform, anyway—
very belatedly, the Prime Minister’s out-
look and policy of the previous elections,
now reiterated by Mr. Menzies—the
policy which the Chifley party has
hitherto frustrated —and he even adds, at
Rockhampton (heaving a brick at the
prices-control cat), a hint that unpopular
measures will be necessary.
Inflation will not be controlled by half-
measures. The people will have to give the
Commonwealth power to handle the prob-
lem, and unpopular measures will be neces-
sary if inflation is to be controlled.
Whether Mr. Chifley can do Mr.
Menzies’s prescribed job better than Mr.
Menzies, whether “Labor” only (as he
says) can “destroy Communism,” the
electors must decide. They know just
what sort of a fist Mr. Chifley made of
this business in five years of futile
exhortation of the unions, appeasing of
the Communists, and sitting down under
the A.C.T.U. s refusal to co-operate in
boosting production, and finally how,
through a rigged Senate majority, he
blocked thereafter every attempt of the
Menzies Government to carry out the
policy he now professes to want to
appropriate for himself.
Meanwhile everything Mr. Chifley
undertakes depends on (1) the A.C.T.U.
being able to control the Communist-
bossed unions which have so far success-
fully treated that body with derision, and
(2) the outside chance that the electors
will approve a referendum for Common-
wealth price-control, with reintroduction
of “unpopular measures,” such as petrol-
rationing and every other sort of ration-
ing, high taxation for price subsidies (the
sure aid to further inflation), and the
return of blackmarketing, which boosted
prices for cornered goods to any level
that greedy purchasers would pay.
While Mr. Chifley says he will ask for
control of profits (which never defeated
the blackmarket yet), his lieutenant, the
aged Senator Cameron —famous while a
Chifley Cabinet Minister for saying the
only thing wrong about the strikes was
that there were not enough of them —
announces in Victoria his idea of profit-
control with the comment “there is no
such thing as a fair profit.” That other
star in the late Senate blockade. Senator
McKenna, has already admitted that
prices-control, even if carried by refer-
endum, would be challenged in the High
Court on the question, for instance,
whether “prices” includes wharflumping
charges. It is clear, therefore, that if
the electors voted it they would be en-
dorsing another three-year constitutional
wrangle between a Chifley Government
and objectors in the High Court, with,
the Communists and inflation meanwhile
alike free to do as they like.
With petrol-rationing back again and
railways and shipping held up by coal-
shortages and strikes, this would be indeed
a happy land! How a universal return
to ration-tickets would increase produc-
tion must defy anybody’s intelligence.
The plain truth is, as Mr. Menzies
says, there is no simple painless remedy
for inflated prices, based on inflated
wages. The people cannot simply vote
themselves out of inflation. Central
price-control has never yet anywhere
stopped prices from rising on a seller’s
market. Its only effect is to drive out of
the market what goods there are in excess
of famine-necessities. To quote Mr.
Menzies again;
There is no power on earth that can
compel anybody to sell goods or services
at less than their cost.
And he names the simplest instance. If
price-control will do the trick, then since
the McGirr Government in N.S.W. owns
the trams and controls tram-fares and
there aren’t any profits made at all, why
do tram-fares keep on rising? What
could a “Labor” Government in Canberra
do which the McGirr Government cannot
do?
Mr. Menzies does not exclude the
possibility that the increasing international
tension may necessitate the Government’s
seeking emergency defence-powers, which
would entail the setting-up of any controls
needed. “But these will be adopted only
if the emergency renders them necessary
for the protection of our people.” And
under the Menzies Government the deci-
sion will be made by Parliament, and not
by a sectional outside body which has
already bound Mr. Chifley hand-and-foot
against making any decision at all with-
out reference to it.
Bleating Without Thinking.
Last month Professor Marcus Oliphant
rose up at a management conference in
Melbourne, and told 500 business execu-
tives, Government officials and service
chiefs that sheep were “eating the guts out
of Australia,” and he wondered whether
it wouldn’t pay us in the long run if
myxomatosis wiped out a few thousand
sheep as it is wiping out rabbits.
This, to a nation which lives on sheep,
eats sheep and often thinks like sheep,
was a heresy not to be tolerated. Yells
of outrage and derision arose in all
quarters, and the professor’s remarks
were stigmatised all the way from
“ignorant outpourings” to a “sweeping
and reckless attack on the wool industry.”
Nobody, it seems, stopped to consider
the remarks:
Sheep (said the professor) are causing
erosion and taking away our natural
vegetation. Unless something is done about
the sheep menace Australia is not going to
last very long.
That has been lost sight of during the
recent good seasons and record prices
for wool. How much of the money is
being spent or set aside for erosion-
control and -repair, fodder-conservation
against inevitable drought or even water-
conservation is doubtful. There is no
indication that the sum is impressive.
Sheep, however, may be a menace in
other ways. The colossal wobl income of
the past few years is undoubtedly an
important factor in inflation ; acres are
given over to wool production which
should be producing food ; overprosperity
from wool has gone to the national head.
Worse still, sheep have invaded our
thinking. People want to be sheep when
they demand “social security,” expect
somebody else to guard them against
foes, won’t hunt for food or work to
produce while they can lie in the sun and
chew their cuds, and when they sheep-
ishly accept the dictum that by socialising
everything they can graze for ever in a
pastoral paradise.
And when somebody like Professor
Oliphant gets up and tells them a truth
they run together in mobs, bleating at the
tops of their voices, and are too well-teo
and lazy to even try to discover what ne
means. .
TUMMAS MCNARK.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Menzies and the Pound.
Mr. Menzies was modest about his
Government’s achievements in his policy
speech—about, for instance, removal of
petrol-rationing, which the “Labor” party
said could not be removed without dis-
aster ; but he mentioned the complete
confusion of “Labor” on its prophecy of
calamity to employment if his Govern-
ment were returned at the last election.
Then voters were told in Labor’s
propaganda that the Liberal-C.P. formed
a “pool of unemployment parties”—
“You’ll be mighty cool in Menzies’
pool.” In plain fact there is so little un-
employment that.“ Labor” has long ago
furtively thrown overboard the tenet
which it has always preached as the very
core of its industrial policy—“one man,
one job,” and all jobs governed strictly
by union rules.
The blackmarket for labor has be-
come enormous, and there are thousands
of unionists ranging the country doing
two jobs, loafing on the main one and
profiteering in a second job, usually at
weekends, at far above union rates and in
competition with members of other
unions.
Mr. Menzies made it clear that his own
plans for an Australian defence-force
nucleus provided for 178,000 men in all
services by the end of 1953, which should
meet reasonable necessities and at the
same time not put an undue burden on
the country if those concerned are pre-
pared to work at a normal rate at their
peace-time occupations and to make a
little sacrifice for military preparedness.
The “Labor” attitude that defence
preparation is a sort of luxury which
should only be indulged in to give the
boys a holiday in opulent surroundings
when they feel the need of rest from the
monotony of Randwick and Doomben is
almost as appalling as their shocking
surrender on defence policy to the Com-
munist-led unions.
Of migrants, a record number were
brought to Australia last year, including
also a record number of British immi-
grants. On the matter of the cost-of-
living and the control of prices, Mr.
Menzies is lucid; his answer to
“Labor’s” campaign “against inflation”
is devastating, and gives the lie to the
“Labor” cry that he promised to put
value back into the pound, a libel
accepted with sheeplike readiness by
editors on his own side who have been
too tired to turn up what he actually
said in his 1949 policy speech.
He made no promise, but said that the
greatest task would be to put value back
into the currency, and that this could
only be achieved by getting prices down
through increased production. This in-
crease of production is being deliberately
stifled by Communist leaders:
The cause of high prices in Australia is
low production. And the greatest cause of
low production is go-slow and absenteeism,
the twin poisons of Communist technique.
Mr. Chifley is well aware of this truth;
that prices must rise until supply of goods
catches up with demand. He said so when
he was Treasurer many times.... But
“Labor” has been on the side of the
Communists and has encouraged those
things which reduce national produc-
tion 1 go further: I say to you that the
“Labor” party has, all through these 15
months of my term of office, wanted prices
to rise Mr. Calweli said, when I
challenged the Opposition to give us a
double-dissolution, that “Labor” would
have an election in its own good time; and
that time would be when two more basic-
wage increases had pushed prices still
higher... .You will realise that on this
matter the “Labor” leaders and the Com-
munists are on a common platform. They
both want inflation; the “Labor” party
because it hates the present democratic
Government, the Communists because they
hate all democratic Governments.
As he said, “value will continue to drain
out of the pound until we have con-
tinuous and efficient production and law
and order and good relations (instead of
class hate) in industry, along with the
destruction of Communist influence in
key industries.”
While wool is at an inflated price and
industry is loaded down with loaf, go-
slow, sabotage, strikes and huge labor
blackmarkets condoned by the unions in
defiance of all expressed union principles,
there is bound to be a shortage of goods
and an overabundance of money.
Under those conditions no Govern-
ment can cure the present inflationary
evils. Inflation will be beaten only when
the country gets a fair day’s work for
a fair day’s pay.
Hot News for Barton.
Dr. Evatt’s Communist clients —re-
member them? —the wharfies’ executive
leaders, have just shown what they
think of those famous “principles of
British justice” upon which Dr. Evatt
waxed so eloquent on their behalf.
Remember how the deputy-leader of i
the “Labor” party let himself go before ;
the High Court, demanding a declaration
of invalidity against the Communist-party
Dissolution Act? That was the Act on
which a Communist leader —Dr. Evatt’s
client, Healy, boss of the waterfront
union, for instance—could be “declared,”
and, if his appeal were unsuccessful,
barred from holding union office. Re-
member how Dr. Evatt for Healy in-
veighed against the travesty of justice that
put onus of proof on a Communist to
“prove his innocence,” and denied trial
by a jury and in open court?
Last week Dr. Evatt’s client showed
what a mockery it all was. The secretary
of the Melbourne branch of the water-
siders, Mr. H. E. Clarke, and three other
officials in turn, were charged by Healy’s
Federal executive with “disloyalty” to
the union, because, in defiance of orders
from Healy, they recommended their
branch union to vote for abandonment of
Healy’s direct-action overtime ban and to
take the dispute before the court; and
the Melbourne branch did so.
So Comrade Healy’s Federal council
held a special meeting in Melbourne, con-
stituted themselves a little Moscow
closed “court of justice,” summoned the
“guilty” before them, and Comrade Healy
then read out the framed charges of dis-
loyalty and called on them to “explain.”
The “onus of proof” was on the accused.
The “court” then voted three of them
guilty, just like a lot of little Vyshinskys,
Of course over here they can’t shoot them
—yet—but the penalty they have readied
up—dismissal from their employment
(remember how Dr. Evatt wept about
any unionist official being treated like
that?)—was reserved.
The Melbourne branch at a mass meet-
ing turned down Healy’s Moscow-trial
verdict by 12 to 1. Healy’s trial “court”
then summoned them all on fresh charges.
Objectives are two —(1) to collar £60,000
or so of Melbourne union funds, and (2)
to prevent these non-Communists, if put
under suspension, from nominating for
the coming branch elections.
But the story of it ought to be hot
election news in Barton. Maybe Dr.
Evatt will discover that his late client
and grateful admirer is really one of
Menzies’s friends who has staged this
business in order to crab honest,
Communist-hating “Labor’s” election
campaign. Maybe.
Sydney's Blighted University.
The position of Sydney University,
according to Professor Hunter, who is
managing its appeal for funds, is “really
desperate.” It is not the only university
which is suffering, but, like most other
institutions in Socialist N. S. Wales, its
plight is more tragic than that of similar
bodies in other States,
Even if all the grants that could
possibly be hoped for from the Federal
Government and the State materialise, it
will still be £50,000 to the bad this year.
But it is not asking the public to sub-
sidise this in contributing to its £500,000-
fund scheme launched in June last year.
It is asking for “capital for development,
including such things as student hostels,
new buildings and conversion of some
of our disgracefully antiquated lecture
theatres.” The public has shown what
it thinks of the value of university train-
ing in N. S. Wales by subscribing £78,360,
including gifts in kind totalling about
£lO,OOO, in 10 months.
Yet the bulging institution becomes
fuller and fuller of swotting memory
experts, beads of perspiration on their
foreheads and hoods and diplomas as
their goal. The university is now about
twice the size of Oxford at 1945 level.
It is a. great, overgrown qualification-
factory to which the public attitude is
entirely wrong; an institution for lifting
by the bootstrings youths and maidens
who are the makings of perfectly good
artisans and typists into the much over-
crowded “professional” classes.
Most of them are so busy in their uni-
versity days being crammed with tech-
nical knowledge that they have no time
to acquire any of the real education and
breadth of outlook which a university is
primarily intended to produce.
What philosophy is taught usually leans
over to the Left, and is calculated to un-
settle youthful minds and breed dis-
content and help develop the “class-war.”
These tendencies have not been checked
by Government interference, and
Socialist impact on university life grows.
The senate itself during the war preferred
Professor Julius Stone, an ardent Leftist
and Zionist who could see little good
in the British system, to fill a leading pro-
fessorship in law in preference to a
brilliant Australian scholar who was
fighting in North Africa for his country.
Such instances are scarcely offset in the
minds of those “capitalists” who are being
asked to subsidise the university by
the appointment to the senate of such
scholars as Mr. Clarrie Martin and Mr.
Abie Landa, M.L.A.
Perhaps if, outside one or two technical
faculties which do good work, the
university were reoriented in pur-
pose, and some scheme were adopted
whereby its students were weeded down
to a number within its compass, it might
retrieve its reputation.
But at present there is a growing feel-
ing among the classes which are usually
generous to universities —and which have
been here, in the past, as elsewhere —that
in making money available to that insti-
tution they are helping to subsidise their
own would-be destroyers. As a start to-
wards helping to assure a more friendly
public attitude, some of its professors
and lecturers might hasten to get out of
Leftist politics and devote themselves
entirely to scholarship in the knowledge
that they are being paid to cater for all
classes.
Senate Pltch-and-Toss.
It is a sorry commentary both on the
Senate electoral system and the intelli-
gence of Australian electors that all
political parties awaited the result of last
Friday’s draw for positions on the Senate
ballot-paper with a degree of interest that
will be surpassed only by the eagerness
with which they will be waiting for the
final election results.
The reason, of course, is that first place
on the list brings to the party fortunate
enough to draw it many thousands of
unintentional votes, the contributions of
those whose idea of an intelligent exercise
of their franchise is to number straight
down the card without troubling to see
whether the candidate they place number
one is “Labor,” Liberal, Communist or
Hottentot.
This is no new phenomenon—several
“Labor” Senators today owe their high
estate to their forethought in having been
bom into families whose surnames com-
menced with A, It was to avoid the
possibility of having a Senate-roll com-
posed entirely of names from the first
few pages of the telephone directory that
the present system of balloting for posi-
tion on the card was substituted for the
old method of arranging the names in
alphabetical order. It is rather ironic
that it should be tacked on to that mathe-
matician’s dream the present half-baked
system of proportional - representation,
with the effect that the draw for positions
may affect the result of an election.
With 10 Senators to be elected from
each State and a more-or-less evenly
divided electorate, there is very little
chance of any party receiving sufficient
votes to win six seats in a State and thus
break the threatened 30-30 Senate dead-
lock. There is no chance of a party
doing it without the benefit of first place
on the ballot-paper.
The Government parties can therefore
congratulate themselves on the result of
Friday’s draw. In Queensland, where, on
the 1949 figures, they have the best chance
of picking up a sixth seat, they drew
first place, with its accompanying bonus
votes from blindfold electors. Luck was
also with them in three other States —
S.A., Westralia and Tasmania. Only in
Victoria did “Labor” draw the lucky
marble, although in New South Wales
the party will be the ultimate beneficiary
of the Communists’ drawing of first place.
It was estimated here last week that
provided they drew first place it would
only be necessary for the Government
parties to improve their polling in Queens-
land by shghtly more than one-half of
one per cent, to win the extra seat that
would mean control of the Senate.
They’ve managed the first hurdle.
N.Z. Shows How.
What is in store for the Australian
waterfront and shipping industry if
“Labor” and its Communist allies are
voted into power at Canberra is pretty
plainly foreshadowed by the N.Z. Gov-
ernment’s seven-weeks-old fight to beat
the attempted blockade of New Zealand
by the Communist wharfies’ executive
there.
The Communist party, through the two
waterside unions, have long planned in
common their attacks on Australasian
maritime trade, as part of the Soviet’s
world-wide strike-campaign against the
British Commonwealth. Last year
the N.Z. Communist gang began
the splitting of the N.Z. Federa-
tion of Labor, and as soon as
they had formed a Red breakaway
section they withdrew representatives
from the Waterfront Industry Authority
—the body set up by the late “Labor”
Government, corresponding with the
Stevedoring Industry Tribunal in Aus-
tralia. In February there, as here, the
Communist wharf-union bosses banned
overtime in revolt against an arbitration
award.
In N.Z. the Holland Government is
not, however, restricted by Constitutional
limitations, as is the Commonwealth
Government, from proclaiming a state
of emergency. Having done that, the N.Z.
Government announced that overtime
would be enforced. A general wharf
strike followed. The Government then
called on servicemen to work all ships.
Numbers of unions were involved in a
sympathy strike—especially miners and
railway, freezing-plant and road-trans-
port workers—and volunteer services
were gradually enlisted. The emergency
services took some weeks to develop an
organisation, but they succeeded, especi-
ally as the Government declared there
would be no yielding, and that it would
clean up the wharfies’ rebellion once and
for all.
Towards the end of March one
union after another voted by ballot for
the return to work, and the Prime
Minister simultaneously announced in a
national broadcast that a new “open”
waterside union would be recruited in
place of the present “closed” one, that
union officials would no longer be allowed
to decide who should be employed in
it, and that engagement would be placed
on a permanent instead of a casual basis,
with insistence on discipline under the
arbitration authority.
That the Communist strike is running
towards collapse is shown by the over-
whelming vote of railwaymen, harbor em-
ployees and transport drivers to return
to work and handle cargoes worked by
volunteers and servicemen. Even more
significant, the N.Z. “Labor” Opposition-
Leader has asked the Government to call
a compulsory conference to save the
wharfies’ face, saying that the families
of the “workers concerned” are suffering
food-shortages. Since the Communist
strike-leaders have throughout ignored
the food-shortage of the entire com-
munity, the appeal, as the hour of their
final defeat approaches, is not likely to
save their bacon.
Peanuts, Eggs, and Sorghum.
Fire got into the Queensland-British
Food Corporation’s sorghum stores at
Bajool, near Rockhampton, last week and
destroyed £70,000-worth of grain intended
for shipment to Britain. The burnt grain
came from a harvest of 28,000-odd tons,
taken from the corporation’s 60,000-acre
1950 crop, and for those who wonder
why so small a crop came from that area
the answer, in the corporation’s six-
monthly report to September 30, is:
Persistent and unseasonal heavy rains
during autumn and winter hampered opera-
tions as much as 30 inches fell on some
portions of the crop before it could be
harvested a serious mouse-plague also
increased losses.
The weather never has been kind to this
Socialist enterprise. In the 2\ years of
its existence the Peak Downs country has
suffered drought, frost, flood rains and
mice. It has also, to judge from the
latest report, suffered from other things.
On the figures produced, the show is
down £213,241 since its inception. Its
advances from the British and Queens-
land taxpayers run into nearly £2.4 mil-
lion.
After the peanut and egg fiascos in
Africa, the British people cast suspicious
eyes at sorghum, and London “Times,”
never an enemy of the Socialist Govern-
ment there, was impelled to question the
whole thing and suggest that the Queens-
land Government should agree to turning
the 700,000 acres in Queensland over to
private farmers or pastoral companies,
whereupon “the British taxpayer would
then have the satisfaction of seeing some
of his money returning intact.”
This British Food Corporation was
“dissolved” on April 1, and Premier
Hanlon had to have the Act making
Queensland a partner amended to transfer
the partnership to the British Ministry
of Food. He was invited by Opposition-
leader Nicklin to “prove the value of the
investment before any more finance is
made available to it by Parliament,” and
it came out that instead of sending the
promised 500,000 pig;s to Britain a year,
the show is now buying store cattle, fat-
tening them on the sorghum, and selling
them to butchers in competition with
local cattle-raisers.
Maybe this was a result of the failure
to raise eggs in Gambia, since a rasher of
bacon isn’t much good without an egg.
Anyhow, tax money is now being used to
“acquire Croydon, a property of some
360 square miles, to be used for cattle-
breeding purposes,” and the corporation
is expanding “rapidly.” So is the cost.
Mr. Sparkes (Aubigny) alleged in the
debate that the array of farm machinery
at Peak Downs would make deprived
farmers’ mouths water, that cattle raised
(Continued on next page.)


For election comment in this issue David
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
ẁ
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable In
lO’s & 20’s
590515-1?
CARRERAS LIMITED ■ OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
there were not being killed for export but
brought to Brisbane and sold for local
consumption, and that instead of pigs all
the stunt had produced was squeals. And
Mr. Ewan (Roma) said the cattle were
either eaten locally or sent as meat to
“the islands, Malaya and Honolulu.”
To which Premier Hanlon replied that
the English were on short rations because
they “would not be robbed by the ex-
porters of Argentina,” and that if the
Peak Downs undertaking “could be put
into liquidation tomorrow it would show
an immense return on the money that
has been put into it.”
But surely Queenslanders don’t have
to wait for the thing to be liquidated to
discover if they’re getting any return for
their money!
POLITICAL POINTS
Chifley says we should get out of
Korea as soon as possible, and let the
Koreans hold free elections. Evatt, vary-
ing the theme slightly, suggests that the
time has come for negotiating a peace,
with adequate military safeguards against
further aggression by North Korea.
When Chifley explains how free elections
could be held without U.N. forces to
see fair play the Doc. will probably
explain how military safeguards can be
given without a fighting army to enforce
them.
In case Caims doesn’t know, when
Chifley parades his secret information
“from an eminent statesman” about inter-
national affairs, he means Pandit Nehru,
who seems to have almost converted Ben
to BudShism. Even so, Chifley doesn’t
even yet understand that the Korean war
■ is not just a row in Korea, but a symptom
of the threat of general war which
Menzies is trying to make Australians
appreciate in its true seriousness.
S. Australia’s L.C.L. Senate team can
claim to be the most representative of
all parts of a State among the six batches
of State nominees: George McLeay
(Adelaide), Ted Mattner, M.C., D.C.M.,
M.M. and one of the best farmers
in Australia (Eastern Hills), D. C.
Hannaford (Northern Wheat Dis-
tricts), Pearson (Eyre’s Peninsula),
Laught, formerly of the 9th Div.
cavalry (South East), and Proctor, ex-
-2/27 Battalion, A.I.F. (Southern Hills)—
a combination of much-better-than-aver-
age quality. “Labor,” which in the last
Parliament held seven out of the ten seats,
has nominated six city men, which should
provide a distinct inducement for the
country to go solid for the L.C.L, team.
There’s not much chance of seeing a
politician bombarded with eggs during the
election campaign. Not at 4£d. each.
“Labor” won’t be able to pose as the
party of Youth in its Sydney stronghoios
East Sydney, Dailey and Cook. The
three Liberals up against Ward, Rosevear
and Sheehan are all much younger than
the “Labor” trio. They are A. A. Stewart
(32), John Laffin (35) and R. H. Hatfield
(29); all three are ex-servicemen.
Attlee’s Defence Minister Shinwell, in
stating that the Socialist Government
would stay in office until defeated on a
censure motion, admitted one circum-
stance which might change this resolve:
if the Government considered the situa-
tion for a general election favorable from
its own and the country’s interests.
The last few words seem unnecessary.
There is no Government, certainly not a
Socialist one, that doesn’t consider its
own and the country’s interests to be
identical.
The McGirr Government plans to in-
troduce power-zoning on April 30, under
a scheme whereby each of five zones will
be completely blacked out for one day
each week from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. The
plan involves spreading the working week
over six days, including Saturday, though
no individual worker or establishment
will work more than five days. General
attitude of the employers towards the pro-
ject is that if blackouts are to be a semi-
permanent feature of N. S. Wales indus-
try, it is better to have them organised and
predictable; attitude of the employees is
less hopeful. The Metal Trades Em-
ployees’ Federation secretary states that
his members will expect full pay for the
day on which they are stood down, as
well as penalty rates for Saturday. That
means six-and-a-half to seven days’ pay
for five days’ work; yet the union cry is
“Stop inflation”!
High Court judges can’t complain about
the lack of variety in their job—Banking
Acts, inter-State trade, airways, murder
appeals. Communists, Ginger Meggs . . .
One way of eliminating “the luck of
the draw” in Senate voting would be to
vary the order of party groups on the
ballot-papers. In half the electorates of
a State the “Labor” group could be
placed first; in the other half the Lib.-
C.P. team could go on top. The un-
conscious votes would still be there, but
they would more or less cancel out.
Another method would be to permit an
elector to vote the whole party-ticket
simply by placing one mark on the
paper.
There’s a lang, lang trail a-winding into
the land of his dreams.
Mundingburra Aikens is nothing if not
picturesque in his language. Speaking in
support of his fellow - Independent,
Marriott, in the Bulimba by-election for
the Queensland Assembly, he alleged that
police took shorthand notes of every
campaign speech he made. This was
denied by the Government, but Aikens’s
attitude seemed to be that he’d prefer it
to be right. Quoth he: “They can chisel
what I say in granite, and cart it along
to Hanlon in a wheelbarrow.” Stone-
masons being an almost extinct race, no
rock-carving resulted from this invitation,
but had the challenge been accepted, one
item to be chiselled in the record would
have been Aikens’s comment on Bulimba
Gardner; “He had to be prised from his
seat like a barnacle from a ship’s bottom.”
In his nomination for the Corio seat,
which he lost to Hubert Opperman at
the last election, Dedman describes
himself as a “farmer.” In his proceedings
against the Geelong “Advertiser” and the
Liberal-party organisers recently he de-
scribed himself as a “gentleman.”
Booze was an easy winner in charges
brought by N.S.W. police last year for
traffic offences which involved automatic
loss of driving licences. Charges of
driving while drunk totalled 2023, of
whom 195 had no licence, 1451 were con-
victed and 572 released under the First-
Offenders’ Act. Next came dangerous
driving with a mere 157 charges and “not
stopping after accident’* 33 And the
merry and menacing 6-o’clock line-up at
suburban pubs goes on.
There’s a widely held impression that
U.S.A. dominates the wool market and
that high prices come from the efforts of
American buyers to grab all the best
wools. Britain is still by far our most
important wool buyer, with France next,
then U.S.A. Shipments for last season,
in bales, read:
United Kingdom 670,798
France .. .. .. .. 283,230
U.S.A .. 234,341
Belgium 207,070
Italy 142,100
Japan 114,769
Italy and Japan between them took more
than the U.S.A. Actually, in the season
reviewed U.S.A. bought about 3 p.c. more
wool than for the four-year average.
A question being asked in political
quarters is what oratorical dynamite C.
E. Martin, N.S.W. Attorney-General,
applied to Dr. Burton to blast him out
of his Ceylon High Commissioner’s job
and send him hurtling home on a couple
of hours’ notice to contest Lowe, Pos-
sibly he recited to him the Eureka Youth
League’s oath.
Somebody should bring Victorian
“Labor” leader John Cain up to date with
his party’s current line of election guff.
Recently he said:
Menzies will bring about a revival of the
“good old days” when 31 per cent, of the
nation was unemployed and thousands
more working part-time.
That was the unemployment-pool bogy
with which “Labor” tried to scare the
electors in 1949. Sixteen months have
passed without any sign of the prophecy
coming true, so the party has dropped
the story. Apparently no one thought to
tell Cain.
As Mr. Wilkins Micawber put it:
Annual income twenty pounds, annual
expenditure nineteen nineteen six, result
happiness. Annual income twenty pounds,
annual expenditure twenty pounds ought
and six, result misery.
As N.S.W. Transport Commissioner
puts it, for every £1 of income;
1938-39, 1948-49. 1949-50.
Wages, salaries,
etc 12/- 15/2 15/10
Material and ser-
vices .. .. 4/11 4/5 4/9
Debt charges, etc. 3/- 1/1 1/2
Total expenditure 19/11 £l/0/8 £l/1/9
Total income £1 £1 £1
Result per £1 of
income .. -t-ld. -Bd, —l/9
Further result, up with the fares.
Coal report: Lost through strikes, week
ended March 3.1 (second election week),
16,770 tons, making losses for 11 weeks
675,070 tons. Comparative losses in 1950
for same period, 448,839 tons.
Senator Morrow, whose habit of assist-
ing at Communist-run “Peace” meetings
and of seizing every opportunity to
eulogise the Soviet and attack America
is a source of embarrassment to “Labor,”
looks like causing the party even more
embarrassment on April 28. He came
within an ace of missing endorsement,
but in the subsequent draw from the hat
he scored first position on the “Labor”
card. That’s going to be a big weight
for his party to carry; there must be
shoals of Tasmanian Laborites who will
swallow the pencil rather than put
Number One opposite Morrow’s name.
Lang’s “Century,” venturing into the
shareraarket by way of variety, claims
that the A.L.P. gave Dan Muicahy £4OOO
for his shares in 2HD ; market value, on
the basis of the price admitted to have
been paid to two other shareholders —
neither of them a member of the party—
was £BOOO, and that was the figure
Muicahy had been asking. Dan retained
the nomination for the Lang electorate.
Says the “Century”: “He can always
look back to the 1951 elections as the
occasion when his endorsement cost him
a cool £4000.”
There should be plenty of “dearly
beloveds” flying around in the Wihnot
(Tas.) electorate in the next three weeks;
sitting “Labor” member Duthie was a
Methodist minister before he won the
seat in 1946, and his Liberal opponent, the
Rev. Lionel Browning, is resigning the
Rectorship of Sheffield in order to con-
test the seat.
Comrade Don Thomson’s Red Build-
ing Workers’ Federation in Melbourne is
out to “get” the building tradesmen who
want to work for themselves and be free
of Red union bosses (B. 4/4/’5l). It
seems these chaps are taking on building
work by contract and making big money
by really working. The Corns dub them
“Get-rich-quick” schemers and want to
expel ’em. What really worries the Reds
is that men on contract really do a job
and won’t stop at the behest of a Com-
munist agitator.
When the High Court threw out the
Communist-party Dissolution Act the
Comrades became optimistic regarding
the appeal to the N. S. Wales Quarter
Sessions Appeal Court of W. F. Bums,
publisher of the “Tribune,” against his
sentence of nine months’ jail for sedition.
The charge arose out of an article pub-
lished last July opposing Australia’s par-
ticipation in U.N. action in Korea. Judge
Lloyd last Friday dismissed Burns’s
appeal. He said:
I am satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt
that the article is not only seditious, but of
a particularly seditious nature.
To counsel’s plea for leniency the judge
replied that the offence called for punish-
ment, not merely a bond or a fine. He
reduced Bums’s sentence from nine to
six months because of the long delay
in hearing the appeal.
Queenslanders are glumly watching
their eggs go south. Fixed price in the
Hanlon State is 3s. Bd. a dozen, against
4s. 6d. in N.S.W., and the Queensland
eggs naturally take wings for the south.
Egg Board bosses in Queensland first
tried to bar the trade, but somebody
bounced Section 92 at them, and now
they’re gleefully sending the eggs south,
while the locals go short. Which, in a
way, shows the fallacy of price-fixing, the
Chifley-Evatt panacea for all our ills.
/
“Labor,” so we are told by its leader,
deputy-leader and most of their followers,
is the only party that can control Com-
munism. “Labor,” we are told by the
same authorities, plus Mr. McGirr, is
the only party that can control prices.
Yet these experts at control can’t control
their own Parliamentary members, can’t
control their own rank-and-file, can’t, in
many cases, control their own tongues,
and in every case can’t control their urge
to do anything and promise anything that
may help them to get back into power.
As to McGirr, if he has ever yet con-
trolled anything successfully, his pub-
licity-men must have overlooked it.
Senator Cameron, selected No. 1 of
Victorian “Labor” team for the Senate
elections, signalised the event by declar-
ing that there was no such thing in indus-
try as a fair profit. All profits ought to
be controlled out of existence. This is
the same bright specimen who, when
Postmaster-General, said the only thing
wrong with strikes in Australia was that
there weren’t enough of them.
When Chifley talks about inflation he
conveniently forgets that many thou-
sands of his supporters are thoroughly
enjoying it; a very large item in the in-
creased costs of goods today is made up
of shorter hours, appearance money, high
overtime and holiday pay, annual holidays
and othdt “amenities” which, however
necessary they may be to a high standard
of living, must be paid for by somebody.
“Labor” never will admit that the con-
sumer, i.e., the worker, is the one who
pays.


[w* r, °*
sCIEW* 1
hei< £ J
mf\
[sixers
CUSTOMS!
7
7
%£?*■ h
Gt-PiO To LEAVE
TUftT BEHIND." .
No MORE RGO-TAPE,
Taxes, comtrous,
Coal. - Shortages.
STRIKES,,
high prices V *
or blackouts"
lU£ MUST 0E
Passing through
The Stratosphere/
ẃ
M.
VV y synh
mzm
TE EMI MATES
HERE
\(o>.
fe.
' s^ rr q
_
|l +®tt
QjjftfJWJWS
C-W&CK^V
?^hbre
ẅ
M(T
w
fv*w
I full Mom
7^SfW
l^mk
“°tOup I
ŵ
r no\
Mmi)
P RWftTt'
ONEW|§
dM
WM
(ft
fS^j
/iMO\
(NOV
MO \
n^OINOJ
S 3
ho'
VCF^TP
(AOVJ'I'TG’
ncl
Step
mow
GETTING AWAY FROM IT ALL.
“A rocket-airline company is accepting tentative bookings for a trip to the moon.”


w
ŵ
*
ẁ
jn
m
p
ADULTS ONLY.
MEMORISE
Pass exams., Speak without
Notes, Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Write for free book, postage Sd.
REV. W. ROWLANDS
12a Younger Ave., S. Caulfield, Vic.
GET THERE SOONER
STAY THERE LONGER
ẃ
i.O.A.C. sets the standard
in luxury
1
5a
h
%
Your personal comfort is 8.0.A.C.’s first concern on
Speedbird routes to any of 51 countries. Now on the new
“Monarch” service from London to New York you enjoy all
that is best in 8.0.A.C. service. At no extra cost passengers
enjoy a seven course dinner with cocktails, champagne or
wine—and liqueurs. Breakfast in bed, if desired. Speed-
bird beauty kits for women, and attractive cabin bags.
Attentive steward and stewardess cabin service. And
courtesy is always a 8.0.A.C. tradition.
FROM
AUSTRALIA
YOU CAN
■
BOOK
I
Sydney to London, via the East —or cities en route.
Singapore to Hong Kong and Tokyo.
Tokyo and Hong Kong to London.
London to New York or Montreal.
London to South and Central America.
London to Cairo or East, West, and South
Africa. • And other Speed bird routes
covering 80 ports of call.
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General
Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin or from
Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
A2O/AU
nr- to ac
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Business. Rollery. etc.
Inflation and Landmen
From “W.H.S.” (Q.):
I read with interest your article in
B. 21/2/’5l re the inflation in Ger-
many and how the businessman fared.
Can you say how the countryman
fared, particularly the mixed farmer?
I see the effects of inflation all
round me in this Queensland district.
Prices being paid for land that are
fantastic compared with pre-war
figures. Banks lending freely—almost
canvassing for overdrafts. While
seasons last and prices of wheat,
cattle, sheep and wool maintain their
dizzy heights, okay, but if conditions
reverse, then lots are going to drag
heavy chains for a long while to
come.
Any people who sold properties
thinking they were catching a “mug”
found after they had their cash that
they could not find investments for
it as good as what they sold, and
finished up being the “mugs” them-
selves. Now all they have is a credit-
balance in a bank on which they are
constantly drawing to live at a high
cost —all going out and nothing
coming in—with what is left steadily
decreasing in purchasing-power.
Some of the things that have hap-
pened here resemble the tales in kids’
story-books, with a “good fairy”
watching over the interests of a
“hero.”
Here’s one. A farm with a crop
of wheat just through the ground
sold at £l5 an acre. Pre-war price
£5. Season favored the buyer. He
took off a 10-bag crop at what will
bring him 12s. a bushel (£lB per
acre). Enough to pay for the land
and harvesting expenses in one year.
This was at the commencement of
the inflation; now the buyer can
resell the land —bare —at £25. This
is one case of many, but not
all quite so lucky. The buyer often
got his purchase-price back in two
years.
Here’s another case —but of the
opposite nature. A buyer pays £3O
an acre for a farm ready worked up
to sow wheat. He plants the crop,
and everything favors a big yield at
harvest. Flood rains reduce his
country to a quagmire when wheat is
ripe, with a total loss of the crop.
The buyer now is without carrying-on
expenses for the ensuing year, and
with an overdraft that can’t be,
extended or increased. Unless he can
raise the wind somehow, he’s done.
Can The Bulletin advise where
the end is of this sort of thing, for
end there must be some day? Infla-
tion in Australia will not go to the
dizzy heights it did in Germany, but
Germany’s experience may point the
way, and what ultimately happens
to the landman would be interesting
to know, I believe in holding on.
Whatever comes, whatever goes, the
land still remains, and will prove a
source of livelihood when it is all
over.
Details of the German rural
experience are not to hand. But
any industry which deals in
the necessities of
life food, cloth-
ing, etc. —gets a
kick out of infla-
tion, as a rule, in
the initial stages.
It lightens the debt
and interest burden
to start with
assuming that assets
in the particular
industry are
mortgaged.
Inflating costs, on
the other hand, may
affect land indus-
tries more slowly
than in the case
of manufacturing
enterprises, where
so great a part of
the total cost of an
article is made up
of wages charges.. In many
smaller rural industries direct
wages are a comparatively minor
item, though costs of all
necessary materials are inflated
in proportion to urban wage and
other costs.
It so happens at the moment
that food and raw materials
throughout the world are, gener-
ally speaking, in short supply.
Wheat, rice, butter, meat and
tea, etc., are sought after in the
world’s markets at prices often
several times more than the pre-
war level. With metals and
rubber the position is still more
pronounced. And with wool,
cotton and other clothing fibres
the rise has been much greater
still.
While the Basic wage in Aus-
tralia has a little more than
doubled since war started, the
price of wool has increased at
KlAStrN&l
CVVNtrER /
PAM /A/ /
mocieES.s
:>• -
“A fizzer !”
least 15 times. Wheat has also
multiplied four times in price.
Dairy products have not risen
so much, but meat is particularly
dear among foodstuffs.
In Australia the exchange-rate
is giving a boost to income from
our exports. It is a definite in-
flation factor in the income of
landmen and the price at which
rural properties are changing
hands.
All over the world there has
been a tendency to raise the liv-
ing standard of the masses. In
Australia itself there is overfull
employment. The average Aus-
tralian is eating more food be-
cause he has more money and
is more often in a job than he
used to be.
But the condition of full
employment has meant a greater
drift than ever to the cities.
There is no longer any pressure
on the city youth to go to the
dairying or wheatfarming dis-
tricts in order to earn a living.
And thus the production of food
in Australia is not increasing in
proportion to our consumption.
It is the same in most countries
of the world.
For the present most landmen
are experiencing a period of
buoyant incomes. It is probably
true that before World War II
the prices they received for
wheat, butter, wool and meat
were too low. It is certainly
true that at present overseas
wool, wheat and meat prices are
too high. The saddest thing
about the whole business, how-
ever, is that landmen are unable,
because of the shortage of
manufactured goods, to improve
the quality of their fields and
pastures and the efficiency of
their properties as they might
easily now do from the monetary
point of view.
Another thing should not be
overlooked. Just as the world
price of food and raw materials
has risen out of proportion to
the rise in wage costs —and this
because of a shortage of the
products concerned —so is the
price likely to fall out of propor-
tion to any decline in wage costs
when overproduction of raw
materials again happens in the
world.
When such an overproduction
is likely to occur no. man can
say. But that is the particular
contingency that all landmen
should prepare for, more especi-
ally when they are buying pro-
perties based on present-day cost
levels.
Whatever happens to prices,
it is certain that, under present
conditions, the cost of produc-
ing wheat, dairy products, wool,
etc., will continue to increase.
Costs will probably continue to
increase even when rural
revenues start to fall. That is
the time the overcapitalised rural
property will start to be a drag.
It is unfortunately likely that
capital expenditure will be
absolutely necessary in many
cases by the time prices start to
fall.
With these general reserva-
tions it may be accepted that
rural properties are good things
to hold during times of inflation
and favorable seasons, subject
to any discriminatory taxation
or “control” that might be aimed
at rural producers.
In the case of a severe
drought, also, a reduced wool,
wheat or dairy-produce yield
would mean that a greater
proportion would have to be
sold at the home-consumption
price, which might mean a
heavy fall in the average price
regardless of world prices.
Share Prices
The drop of 25 p.c. in wool
prices in Melbourne last week
had little effect on the price of
leading industrial stocks on
’Change. Broken Hill Pro-
prietary “old” shares went to
575. 3d., by far the highest price
since the issue was quoted ex-
rights, and there was a keen de-
mand for the rights at prices up
to 245. At last Friday’s quota-
tions (565.) B.H.P. scrip was
back to near its peak of 1951
(655.), taking the value of the
rights into consideration.
In the sharemarket continued
attention was given to engineer-
ing and other “heavy” in-
dustries. Nearly all these issues
were active, and though Mc-
Phersons’ shares sold at a lower
level, the general trend was to-
wards higher prices.
Duly and Hansford rights
were bought extensively at firm-
ing prices, and Bradford Kendall
10s. shares went to 19s. 6d. for
the first time. R. B. Davies
scrip remained at its highest
level since listing (38s. 6d.), and
William Adams ords. were
sought after at 605., with no
sellers offering. Thirlwell and
McKenzie shares, after drop-
ping to 375. following announce-
ment of the new issue without
an increase in the div., were then
sought after at that price, and
eventually rose to 38s. The
scrip recently was over 40s.
The price of the rights is
awaited by many people. It is
a sound stock, but the present
yield is low. For that matter
most yields are low in the in-
dustrial field,


£>(>»
£
tisamim
patrolled the park.
He heard two sneezes in the dark.
With staff gripped tight, he flashed his
light.
His stern tones echoed through the night,
"Kape ahf th‘ grass! ye coople there;
Yure dith av cowld ye’ll get, f’r shure!
Come! hurry home, ye love-sick pair,
And both take Woods’ Great
Peppermint Core.”
Champion
’SPoKrems
rr
m
L
AT
IN 1828 A GELDING NAMED
"THE ARROW* AND A PIG TOOK
PART IN A RACE -OVER 130 YDS
THE PIG WHO GAINED AN
ADVANTAGE AT THE START
WAS THE WINNER. HEAVY
WAGERING TOOK PLACE
ON THE EVENT.
' .a
rs* :
> /
f
mm
MOM nOA
<r/a
JTOCCURED AT BRISTOL (ENGh
IN A MATCH BETWEEN GEO. HORTON
AND P. WILSON. THE
KNOCKOUT HAPPENED IN THE \
25™ ROUND. NO DECISION WAS GIVEN
w
itimz
im mwmm
5765 D-11.49
CMMPmrmmi s
THE CHOICE OF SMOKERS WHO*
APPRECIATE A REAtIV SATISFYING
SMOKE. 4VAUABIE IH FINE CUT,Oft.
READY RUBBED, JIT ISWtY A
MAMMON SMOKE.
8188
.
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe,
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In ail Country Centres
as
Bovs
tot
rtoo'N® 8
off\ct*s
OOP®
Catoot
H HIM-
HaW
watt®®
MS
BoV® v
100
««Wi r *
I
if VOUf SON
Is In one of the three age
groups specified below, and is suitably qualified, he has
an opportunity to be trained as a permanent officer
in the Royal Australian Navy and thereby enter
upon one of the most honourable and fascinating
careers open to our youth. In whichever branch of
the Service a Naval Officer specialises, his duties are
such as to absorb his Interest throughout his career
and added to this are the attractions of world travel
and the opportunities for high advancement and
distinction.
Successful candidates will begin their training at the
Royal Australian Naval College and on graduating
will proceed to England for about 3i years' further
training.
Candidates must be the sons of British subjects by
birth or naturalisation and of pure European descent.
After satisfying the educational qualifications required
of their particular age groups, candidates must undergo
a strict medical examination and, if fit, appear before
a selection committee.
* CAD£T MfDSHIPMSK (U UAH-OW BNTRt)
For Boys who attain the age of 13 during the calendar
year 1951, 1.e., those born in 1938.
Entries In this group will serve in the Executive,
Engineering, Electrical or Supply and Secretariat
branches of the Royal Australian Navy.
Candidates will be required to sit for a qualifying
educational examination in September next and
those who qualify will, subject to medical fitness and
the approval of the Selection Committee, enter the
Royal Australian Naval College about the end of
January, 1952.
Applications close with the Secretary, Department of
the Navy, Navy Office, Melbourne, S.C.I, on 15th
June, 1951.
£ CADET MIDSHIPMEN ISPECIAL ENTRY I
For Boys who attain the age of 18 years during the
period Ist January, 1951, to 30th June, 1952, Le.,
those born on or between Ist January, 1933, and 30th
June, 1934.
Entries in this group will serve in the Executive,
Engineering or Electrical Branches of the Royal
Australian Navy.
Selection will be made from youths who have passed
school or technical school examinations of Matricula-
tion standards in Mathematics, Physics and English.
Satisfactory passes in two other subjects, not neces-
sarily of Matriculation standard, are also required.
Successful candidates will enter the Royal Australian
Naval College early in July, 1951. Applications close
with the Secretary, Department of the Navy, Navy
Office, Melbourne, S.C.I, on 15th April, 1951.
* C ADET MIDSHIPMEN (s)
For Boys who attain the age of 18 years during the
period Ist January, 1951, to 30th June, 1952, i.e., those
born on or between Ist January, 1933, and 30th June,
1934.
Entries will serve hi the Supply and Secretariat Branch
of the Royal Australian Navy.
Selection will be made from youths who have passed
the Leaving Certificate, Senior Public or Tasmanian
Schools’ Board Examinations.
Successful candidates will enter the Royal Australian
Naval College early in July, 1951.
Applications close with the Secretary, Department of
the Navy, Navy Office, Melbourne, 5.0.1, on 15th April,
1951.
APPLICATION FORMS AND ALL PARTICULARS CAN BE
OBTAINED FROM NAVAL RECRUITING OFFICE IN YOUR
CAPITAL CITY.
SPECIAL NOTE.—Actual date of birth should be stated
in your enquiry.
NC7J42.41
OIL IN AUSTRALIA
By JOHN PAIN.
It has long been conceded by
those with sufficient experience
in the search for petroleum that
the only reasonable hopes of
attaining commercial produc-
tion on the Australian mainland
are confined to the compara-
tively restricted areas in which
marine beds have been deposited
and preserved in thicknesses
measured in thousands of feet.
Another essential is that these
beds have been folded or
faulted to form traps of such a
nature that the structural
“highs” form reservoirs of
adequate thickness and extent to
contain tappable oil in a quantity
which will repay the costs of
exploration and exploitation.
(The ridge of a house-roof
may be described as a structural
“high” with reference to the rest
of the roof.)
It is necessary, also, that the
edges of porous and permeable
beds, capable of acting as oil
reservoirs, have not been
exposed and denuded to an
extent sufficient to allow the
escape of the oil which may
have accumulated in them.
The opposite is the case in
artesian basins of value as water-
suppliers. Here it is essential
that the edges of the porous beds
have been exposed and denuded
to a sufficient extent to allow
their outcrops to act as intake-
areas from which the water of
the aquifers is obtained and re-
plenished by rainfall.
If the eroded beds are after-
wards sealed by being covered
with impermeable clays or
similar strata, evidence of the
aerobic phase often persists in
the form of carbon-dioxide,
which, in such a case, may com-
prise a large proportion of the
gases encountered in bores.
The conditions favorable to
the formation of petroleum
source-beds occur so commonly
in a marine environment that
the occasional presence of small
amounts of petroleum or
petroleum gases in such beds is
to be expected and should not
be used as a basis for over-
enthusiastic reports, nor should
structure alone, nor surface
evidence suggesting a great
thickness of sedimentary strata.
The Shell Company’s search
for oil in Queensland has,
doubtless, been conducted
throughout with these factors in
mind, and the prospects of strik-
ing commercial oil in Australia
suffered a severe setback at the
beginning of this year when its
subsidiary—Shell (Queensland)
Development—decided to cease
drilling operations at its itest-
well at Morelia (near Rolleston,
100 miles south of Springsure),
in south-west Queensland, and.
subsequently, to abandon its
search for oil in that State.
This decision was made very
reluctantly after every avenue
which might lead to the striking
of petroleum had been explored.
A statement, made jointly by
the Queensland Minister of
Mines (Mr. Power) and the
managing-director of S.Q.D.
(Mr. Avery) and issued to the
Brisbane Press on March 7,
leaves no doubt as to the final
nature of the step:
After having spent more than £1
million in about ten years, Shell
(Queensland) Development Pty., Ltd.,
is abandoning its search for oil in
Queensland. The company has found
it impossible to continue its efforts,
as there are no further worth-while
possibilities which offer any reason-
able chance of commercial success
within the company’s area of interest
employing the techniques known at
present.
The work leading to the selec-
tion of the Morelia location was
initiated in 1940 by a critical
study and checking of all known
data, including any relevant in-
formation obtained from
thousands of water-wells sunk
in the Great Artesian Basin.
This was followed by a
geological reconnaissance cover-
ing over a quarter of a million
square miles of terrain. About
200,000 square miles was
examined geophysically, using
gravity - meters, and 12,600
square miles was considered
worthy of detailed trigo-
nometrical, geological and
geophysical survey, while 10,000
square miles was photographed
from the air.
Owing to war-time difficulties
in obtaining equipment, work
was suspended in 1943 and was
not resumed until 1946, when
the geological and geophysical
deductions were checked by
slim-hole drilling.
Then, and then only—in
September, 1949—the site for
the first major well was selected
on a structure known as the
Morelia anticline. The well
was spudded-in at the end
of April, 1950, with equipment
designed to reach a depth of
10,000 ft. and capable of con-
siderably exceeding this figure.
Surface evidence in Queens-
land and the results of previous
drilling had led to the expecta-
tion of great thicknesses of sedi-
mentary strata at picked loca-
tions ; one artesian well had
been drilled to a depth of over
7000 ft. without recording the
striking of the basement rocks,
and the Arcadia bore was dis-
continued at 6025 ft. in what
were, apparently, sedimentaries
of Lower Bowen age, although
the penetration of conglomerates
at 5955 ft. and below suggests
that the basement was being
approached.
Be that as it may, the dis-
covery of igneous rock in the
Morelia well at a depth of
4363 ft. was a disappointment;
the fact that the rock was some-
thing more than a thin flow is
proved by its persistence for
another 271 ft. to 4634 ft., at
which depth the well was
abandoned.
What had been described as
“vague indications around
3100 ft.” proved, on test, to be of
no value.
Drilling at Comet (near
Emerald, about 100 miles
north of Morelia) had been con-
templated. A seismic test —by
the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources, which had the necessary
equipment available at Roma —
is stated to have clearly indi-
cated, however, that the whole
of the Comet structure was
underlain by igneous rocks at
around 2000 ft. to 3000 ft. from
the surface.
Whilst these facts have amply
justified the abandonment of
prospecting for oil in Queens-
land, it must not be assumed
that the other artesian basins of
Australia are entirely condemned
as potential producers of
petroleum. It should, however,
be clearly recognised that only
those restricted portions of the
basins which possibly include
the requisite geological condi-
tions are worthy of detailed
study, with the inversion of
either public or private funds
which such study entails.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
252 George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
“El V.”: These re-enactments of
historical events are beginning to irk me.
Why don’t the organisers show a little
imagination, and bring back the past in
a form which would give real pleasure
to hungry middle-class who are not get-
ting the benefit of the lead bonus and
the price of wool? A “re-enactment” of
1900 hotel tariffs, for instance, would be
a popular item, with beer at threepence
a pint and the Hotel Australia, by adver-
tisement in The Bulletin, actually
begging visitors to stay with it —“Rates
12s. 6d, per day inclusive of all meals
and attendance or £3 10s. per week” —
and citing Dr. G reswell, of the Victorian
Board of Health, as saying “There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at the present
tkne. Of course, it depends a great deal
where visitors go. To come to a place
like the Australia Hotel is to run no
risk at all.” Today anybody who gets
out of the main dining-room of the Aus-
tralia for 12s. 6d. for a single meal, much
“Oi! Who pinched the flies off me leg o’ goat?”
less a day’s bed and board “inclusive of
all meals and attendance,” is apt to hurry
away lest somebody has forgotten to put
something on the bill.
* * ♦ ♦
“Sebak”: The train was crowded
before \t left our station. At the next
stop more passengers streamed in,
amongst them a teen-aged girl, who stood
near me. A young fellow smiled and
offered her his seat. To the amazement
of the carriage she refused—and really
meant it. Several stations further on
another teen-ager entered and wormed
her way down the aisle. Shirl obviously
knew Myrt, their permed heads went
together to the accompaniment of much
tittering. Presently Shirl withdrew from
the huddle, mirth quivering her shoulders.
Another halt brought in another girl,
who wriggled through the crush to join
the other two. Immediately Kath was
taken into the secret —with many unin-
telligible splutterings and surreptitious
pointings at the young Lothario’s back.
Only one sentence emerged clearly from
the general hysteria; it came from Shirl.
“Listen, listen, Kath; for three months
she’s caught this train and nobody ever
offered her a seat —but today, today,
somebody did!” Chorus of explosive
titters. And then I caught one word that
explained the whole filing. Ungallant
things, boils.
» * * *
“Vingter”: Against those patently
foreign names whose owners served long
and honorably in the British Service I
cite, from Bean’s Official History of the
A.1.F., the case of Ponsonby Lyons, who,
as an aide of Liman Von Sanders, con-
ducted on behalf of his German boss the
negotiations attendant on the surrender
of one section of the Pozibres sector in
1916. The incongruity of the oberlieu-
tenant’s ultra-English patronymic seems
to have been overlooked in the diversion
caused by his Teutonic insistence that he
represented the commander of the Pozieres
sector, a point on which he was some-
what unceremoniously corrected by
Diggers, that status having passed to
General Monash some hours earlier.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Jasby”: As a member of the Unin-
hibited Society of Flea-catchers I hasten
to commend “Tedscor” (B. 4/4/’5l) for
bringing to public notice his method of
catching fleas. He is wrong, however, in
thinking he is the original discoverer of
the system ; actually it is the only method
practised and recommended by our
society. It has, of course, the drawback
that it is effective only against the flea
that attacks in bed; those that operate
at the pictures, at the office or in the
street still, in nine cases out of ten, escape
our scratch-and-miss attempts to nail
them. Some members of our society—l
among them —claim that the flea at
present so active in Sydney is a different
creature to the one that took familiarities
with us in pre-war days, or even two or
three years ago. He is smaller, much
more nimble and agile, and his bite is
more acute; people bitten by him stay
bitten for quite an appreciable time.
With the pre-war flea, if you scratched
in the vicinity of the bite, as likely as
not you found the culprit. It isn’t so
today. By the time you feel the bite the
little blighter responsible is elsewhere, ex-
ploring other regions of your person. Our
theory is that this season’s flea is a new-
comer, who arrived here as a stowaway
three years ago. He is smaller, much
more nimble and agile, and his bite is
more acute; people bitten by him stay
bitten for quite an appreciable time.
With the pre-war flea, if you scratched
in the vicinity of the bite, as likely as
not you found the culprit. It isn’t so
today. By the time you feel the bite the
little blighter responsible is elsewhere, ex-
ploring other regions of your person. Our
theory is that this season’s flea is a new-
comer, who arrived here as a stowaway
on the persons of New Australians and,
finding the flavor of Old Australians to
his liking, has multiplied abundantly.
Entomologists, please confirm or refute.
« * * *
“Bo”: The premiere of “The Masked
Ball,” the Verdi opera which has just
finished a successful Sydney season, gave
its composer one of his greatest head-
aches. Originally it was titled “Gustavus
III,” after the Swedish king, who was an
eminent historical essayist and dramatist,
friend and protector of poets and artists,
“Has anyone seen my sporran?"
reformer and shrewd political strategist,
and who was shot in the back by a con-
spirator at a midnight masquerade at the
Stockholm Opera House. Somma’s text
cut the political assassination and made
it the work of his secretary Reinhardt,
with whose wife the king was having an
affair. The premiere was scheduled for
the San Carlo at Naples, but the an-
nouncement created a riot among what
Owen Seaman called the “hordes of
heated Dagoes.” Verdi was forced to
change the tscene from Stockholm to
Boston and rename the opera, taking it
to Rome for the premiere. The hacking-
about of the text has made the chief
character slightly ludicrous. His name is
Riccardo, Count of Warwick and
Governor of Boston, the setting being
Boston at the end of the 17th century;
but everything about the opera is Euro-
pean. But despite such a rousing chorus
as “Oh, Son of Glorious England” (“O
Figlio d’lnghilterra”) the character re-
mains about as English as a Spanish
hidalgo. And why an Italian mob should
have got so hot under the collar about
a music drama based on the death of a
Swedish king 67 years before will remain
a mystery.
» ♦ ♦ *
“Eve”: There was a rumpus in our
suburb last Saturday ; someone’s dog was
supposed to have bitten a man, and the
dog’s boss swore it never happened. The
cop said to the man from the house next
door, “Did you hear a dog barking?”
“Too right,” said the man, who apparently
didn’t like the dog or its owner. “And
I know exactly what time it was. I was
lying on my bed listening to the wire-
less.” “Good,” said the cop, wetting his
pencil. “And you heard the time
signal?” “ ’Struth no,” said the bloke.
“But I can tell you the time exactly. It
was right between the Maiden Stakes
and the Flying Handicap.”
« ♦ * »
“L.W.L.”: My experience of the goat-
and-galah menu. On a cycling tour of
England some years ago we put up one
night at a cottage in a tifly village. At
supper we were asked “Will you take
butter with your bread —or cheese?”
We slept pretty well, but were mighty
hungry when we came out to breakfast.
The landlady put a basin of thick
porridge before each of us and asked
“Will you take milk with it or sugar?”
* * ♦ ♦
“Spoke”: The “adventurous spirit”
mentioned by “Harold Hardupp” (B.
28/3/’5l) was partly responsible for my
great-grandfather becoming a New Aus-
tralian. He was a printer, and occupied
an old building in London which was so
dilapidated that the machines were threat-
ening to fall through the floor. The
landlord refused the repairs, and my g.-g.
had to seek accommodation elsewhere, so
he made a job of it, shipped himself, his
family and his gear aboard South Aus-
tralia’s first fleet and did his next printing
on the beach at Glenelg. He spent the
rest of his life fighting the Government
in his newspaper, while his wife spent
hers writing nostalgic poems about the
lost beauty of English gardens and
English spring.
* ♦ * *
“Kali”: A “Wanted to Buy” advertise-
ment for “freshly-killed crows” took me
back 30 years to the time when I made
a few bob by supplying crows to Ah
Fong Lee, our local gardener. I don’t
know what he did with the cadavers, but
X have since found out that the gall
certainly went into his home-made medi-
cines, though for what illness the stuff
was needed I know not. Even in this
Atomic Age the Chinese dispenser of
medicine is apparently an alchemist plus
a worker of miracles. The lack of any
essential drug or herb does not worry
him unduly. It is only necessary to
write the name of the missing ingredient
about a dozen times on rice paper. The
paper is then burnt and the ashes mixed
with the rest of the ingredients, thus
making up the deficiency. Perhaps, after
all, it doesn’t make much difference.
* # ♦ •
“Harold Hardupp”; It will always be
my contention that “Orright, but take
your boot out of my mouth” is one of
the strangest sentences I have ever heard.
A row had sprung up in a pub in lower
George-street, and in a moment there was
a struggling mass of humans in the middle
of the saloon bar.
A tall bloke I
knew as Angus
was handing out
good punches
right and left. He
called, “Come on,
Sandy! We’ll
show these
cows!” Sandy’s
voice came,
strangled, from
the floor under
the warring heap, with the words quoted;
they so startled the fighters that, in the
strange way in which pub brawls fre-
quently end, the free-for-all finished and
Sandy, spitting out teeth, was helped to
his feet by friend and foe ; the publican’s
adroit suggestion that everybody should
forget any differences and have one with
him made the ending of hostilities definite.
Apart from its value as a fight-stopper
the reply must have a place of its own
as a word-picture.
* * ♦ •
“Fairf”: Women and superstitions!
Twelve months ago there was consterna-
tion throughout the female branches of
the family: the ancestral eight-day clock
had stopped at twenty-past-two, and by a
coincidence my watch had downed tools
at the same moment. The Sex knew that
it “meant” something—something terrible
was going to happen at that decreed time
o’ day. I’ve waited patiently for the anni-
versary to arrive so I could smirk nastily
and drawl: “I thought something ghastly
was going to happen at twenty-past
two?” Alas, I realise now that I can
never win. My newspaper reports a
female winner of a lottery:
was fated to win first-prize-—a tortun-
teller told me I would win riches, thirty-
two years ago.”
A CLARION-CALL.
ŵ
RONALD McCUAIN.


FOR SALE
by order of the owner, Russell C. Ibbott, Esq.
“STRATHAVEN,” including FRYING PAN ISLAND
BERRIEDALE, TASMANIA-6 MILES HOBART
Tasmania the Garden State Ideal Climate
r< ...
GENTLEMAN’S HOME OF UNUSUAL CHARM
AND 10i ACRES
A Unique Holding with Great Possibilities
“STRATHAVEN” commands one of the best home sites in Australia
on the banks of the River Derwent, large road and water frontage,
includes historic landmark Frying Pan Island, quiet, unspoilt.
Substantially built brick 12 years ago, contains 15 main rooms,
3 bathrooms, 4 toilets, usual offices, imposing entrance hall and large
reception rooms. OTHER IMPROVEMENTS private jetty and
moorings, tennis court, rock garden and terraces, all electric home.
Included in sale all window blinds, curtains and carpets.
Will be offered for sale by Public Auction
FRIDAY, MAY 4th, 1951
FREEMAN, DUFF & CO. ,148 COLLINS STREET, HOBART
yvbteX itokleJ?/
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of the Art.
Dewar’s famous “White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR’S
"'White label”
Stmtotu. SCOTCH
n&ttek
AWAR
w med
50 Goli
Wti
Prize Medoisf
50 Gold
«»4
Prize Mcbotz
BY APPOINTMENT
SCOTCH WHISKY OISTILICM
JOHN DEWAR A SQNS. LTD
AM * ICa Wlosset* ANTWERP CAIRO
dlC9€
A “White Label’ v
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE ACE. .
Dewar & Sons I-
DISTILLERS
pe s r cotlanp
COAM»~ *FT CONTENTS I PINT 6FL. OZS-
WBour Bismifß matured aiid blended ih scd 1.
“Latilla”: No dealer in dead-marines
had been her way for over 12 months,
and the little shed at‘the bottom of the
garden was chock-a-block with empties
from the continuous stream of tenants
of her holiday cottage next door. Hear-
ing the call of
“bottle-oh” in the
distance, she sat
at the gate until
she could grab
him. He slouched
in with a large
sack, took one
look at the
bottles, ceiling-
high, and backed
his cart down the
drive. It took
him a solid hour, plus morning tea, plus
some very involved financial calculations.
to load up. The transaction completed,
bottle-oh threw her a knowing wink from
the top of his clinking cargo and shouted
“Want me to call again next Monday,
Missus?”
* * * *
“Long Road”: The news that the king
has promoted Cambridge to the rank of
city puts that flat and lonely haven of
science on a level with Oxford and at
the same time advertises the curious
unobtrusiveness of the British municipal
mind. Other English-speaking countries
are full of committees named after the
original, and none of them gets beyond
the dimensions of three men and a dog
without aspiring to the status of city.
Cambridge on the Choptank (Maryland)
was a city when its population was 4192
(1958 of them negroes); Cambridge on
“Same to you, Sir —I never seen such magnificent generals, either!"
Wills Creek (Ohio), about the same size,
and Cambridge (Mass.), home town of
Harvard, were both cities before they
owned much more than a hitching-post
and a fire-engine. But Cambridge on the
Cam, seat of the Alma Mater of Chaucer,
S. T. Coleridge, Herrick, Wordsworth,
Sterne, Horace Walpole, Charles Kings-
ley, Strafford (not to mention his collateral
descendant, W. C. Wentworth), Crom-
well, William Pitt, William Wilberforce,
Newton, Herschel and Rutherford, has
been content to jog along as a borough
for 900 years. Oxford, of course, had a
charter making it a city and the equal of
London in its rights and liberties as far
back as Henry 11. But it still can’t pre-
vent its boat from sinking at Henley on
a windy day,
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: That divorce judge’s
remark —“If a man drinks at all his wife
is always prepared to say he is a
drunkard” (B. 28/3/’5l) —could fit almost
any of man’s so-called vices. If a man
bets ever so moderately bis wife will
declare him a gambler; let him rap out
an oath occasionally and he is, in her
opinion, a foul-mouthed beast. Women
invariably resort to exaggeration when
hard-pressed, and no woman in any cir-
cumstances shows the average man’s
respect for the truth; fancy mingles
blithely with fact in the ordinary woman’s
conscience. Indeed, the female code of
honor just isn’t kin to that of the male,
and the general prejudice against women
serving on juries or in other judicial
capacities is plainly founded upon the
feminine lack of appreciation of the finer
points of fairness and justice.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A watchman who caught two
young men outside a robbed flat in Mel-
bourne let them go on conditions,
allegedly suggested by themselves, that
they leave a note admitting that one of
them had done the burgling and also their
fingerprints on the glass of a photo-
frame ; further, that they should promise
to surrender themselves the following
midday. The watchman agreed, and then
phoned the police, who nearly blew his
head off with indignation. For the next
so many hours the watchman was the
fool of Melbourne, but at a quarter to
12 next day two men called at the flat
and were picked up by amazed detectives.
♦ * * *
“Bamekaw”: Among the forgotten
arts is the shop-assistants’ ability to wrap
a neat parcel. The forced use of shop-
ping-baskets, shortages of paper and
string, and the popularity of gummed-
paper tape prevent new hands from be-
coming dexterous, and deprive older ones
of practice. Nowadays anything wrapped
begins as an untidy parcel strapped with
sticky paper and finishes as disintegrat-
ing mass. The old-time grocer could
hand you a bar of soap, a tin of jam
and a dozen of matches in a compact
parcel that could be fitted in the over-
coat pocket, while the kids received a
paper cone full of lollies, neatly folded
at the top, and made, with a deft twist or
two, from a comer of a sheet of paper.
I’d like to see some of the supercilious
lasses behind the counters of our modem
chain stores have a go at snapping off a
length of string round the finger Without
removing the top joint.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Life springs some un-
expected surprises at times. My phone-
call was pretty urgent, but there was one
woman waiting outside the booth and
another busy inside. Five minutes later
the position was unchanged and the
phoner hadn’t even reached the first of
the preliminary “tat-a’s,” Several minutQs
later they came on, drifted in and out
of several postscripts, got to “Well, tat-a,
Dais,” and three minutes after that the
lady emerged. One down and one to
go! I reckoned the box would be mine
in about 10 minutes. The other woman
opened the door, stepped inside, and in
less than five seconds, was out again and
holding the door open for me. I suppose
I looked staggered, for she explained:
“You see, I’ve been to town, but I told
my son to call at the dry-cleaner’s on his
way home from school and pick up his
father’s trousers. If they weren’t ready
he was to write ‘No’ under the phone-
book, then I’d know to collect them my-
self, I’ve had to wait fifteen minutes to
read that one word.”
* * ♦ *
“Dahaka Las”: The wife of a friend
who is something in radio recently enter-
tained a few guests. The night was
humid, but even so the party appeared
to be dragging considerably. For half an
hour the hostess struggled bravely to keep
the conversation flowing ; then, when she
was fast approaching a state of collapse,
she discovered the reason for the apparent
flatness. The rest of us were in the know
—a hidden wire-recorder was produced,
and the conversation, mainly a solo on
her part, was played back to us.
m * * «
“C.Q.”: So many people seem to be
having babies that there is an acute hous-
ing problem for new Australians of local
vintage as well as the variety from over-
seas. The Women’s Hospital in Mel-
bourne is receiving more expectant
mothers than it can handle —last year
6000 babies were born there—and cribs
are full up. Consequently mothers are
being requested to get a move on, and
occupants of beds are being discharged
six, five or even four days after the arrival
of their baby. Fortunately, this is in
line with modern scientific opinion, which
holds that long lying-in, especially after
operations, is often detrimental to the
patient. Bones and muscles become stiff
and functions tend to get lazy. The case
of the abo. mother who steps out of the
tribal procession on walkabout, has her
baby and then catches up again has been
quoted.
SHARK-EATING MAN.
ẁ
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“H.C.8.”: Bert was disconsolate. “Y’
think you’re being kind to your kids by
lettin’ ’em have pets, and all you do is
bring trouble on y’self,” he mourned.
“First they had a poddy lamb. What
happened? It grew up and used to bunt
’em every time it got the chance. They
gave it away completely—but when I
started talkin’ about mutton, they nearly
howled the place down. Somebody gave
’em a pup. It got distemper and died—
and the waterworks was turned on again.
Then they got a kitten. It grew up ; now
there’s a wail every
time I got to
drown her families.
But you wouldn’t
think a man could
strike trouble by
lettin’ ’em make a
pet of a white Leg-
horn pullet, now
would y’?” I
admitted that I
couldn’t see how.
“Well,” the sad story went on: “They
got this chook trained to come in the
house for titbits; the next they’ve got it
sittin’ on chairs and in the doll’s pram.
Th’smornin’ I goes in the kitchen, and
there’s the blasted thing standing on the
table peckin’ bits out of the bread. I
let out a holler and it flutters down and
streaks for the door. There’s a cushion
on the chair, I grab it up and pelts it
after the flamin’ thief. And —look, you
wouldn’t read about it—the cushion
misses the chook, hits the door—and
slams it slap-bang on the fowl’s neck.
Now there’s no earthly reason .why you
couldn’t eat that chook, but you ought
to ’ear them kids! They don’t only seem
to think a man’s a murderer, they act as
if I’m a blasted cannibal!”
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay: How do the Dyaks of
Borneo bore a hole |in. diameter straight
down a blowpipe 7ft. long (B. 21/3/’51)?
In the first place, it is made from a log
of the required length from 4in. to 6in.
diameter. By twirling a short iron rod
between the hands, a hole about 4in.
deep is bored into one end. This log
is then placed vertically on a kind of
stage, with its lower end about Ift. above
the head of the workman. Everything
about that staging is very solid, and the
log is lashed securely so there is no
wobble or vibration. The maker stands
“My number four~one~o, boy.”
below the log with a long, straight iron
rod having a chisel end. This is placed
in the hole in the end of the log and
“jumped” up and down ; at the same time
it is turned between the fingers. There
is no forcing of the tool; it is allowed
to bore its way gently, thus obviating any
tendency to bore off the direct path. The
advantage of working upward instead of
downward or horizontally is that all dust
from the boring falls out; it never sticks
behind to clog the boring. Of course
it takes plenty of time, but that’s a com-
modity cheap in Borneo, After many
days of steady work the point of the
iron rod at last emerges from the upper
end of the log. It seldom comes out at
dead centre, but again that doesn’t matter
so long as the hole itself is straight. Then
the whole of the surplus wood in that
log is adzed away, leaving the thin tube
which is the finished sumpitan.
* * * *
“Jay Bee”: “Rumberg’s” problem of
the perfect bore of a Borneo blowpipe
(B. 21/3/’5l) is a very simple one. The
wood, as he says, is heavy and close-
grained, but it has a small pith in the
centre. It is a comparatively easy matter
to ease this pith out until a string can be
passed through. The string is then
stretched tightly between two trees with
the pipe on it. Running the pipe
repeatedly along the string, using an
abrasive in the shape of mud and sand,
plus time and patience, drills a perfectly
true bore. Why, it’s so easy even a sugar-
mill engineer could do it.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We had a pretty close
shave at Cowra (N.S.W.) the week we
stayed at the Royal Exchange. Mat went
up to Canowindra one day to see about
some fencing and didn’t get back for tea.
After tea the publican called me and
said he was shifting us into another
room, and he and I transferred Mat’s and
my gear into it. About 10 p.m. I went
to bunk. Somewhere after midnight Mat
got back from Canowindra, slightly
elevated, went to our original room, and,
deciding not to wake me because he
knew what my reaction would be, slipped
off his clobber in the dark, pyjamaed
himself and was about to creep into his
bunk when, with a touch of alcoholic
affection, he put his big paw on the head
of the sleeper in the other bed and gently
ruffled the hair, murmuring, “Sleep y’r
ruddy head off, y’ old goat.” But the
hair he ruffled was long and silky. He
snatched his hand back and stood, sud-
denly cold sober, holding his breath.
Then it was he smelled a faint perfume.
Mat backed out of that room into the
passage, knocked up the publican and
learned the truth. As he said afterwards,
“Gripes, what would have happened had
I done what I thought o’ doin’ when I
first come in: Grabbin’ y’ by a leg an’
draggin’ y’ out on to the floor!”
* * * ♦
“Tidapa”: The sea anemone has a
unique alternative method of reproduc-
tion. Fish might take a mouthful of
anemone once in their lifetime, but rarely
more, the stinging-cells on the numerous
tentacles giving the fish a nasty taste in
the mouth. But the armor-plated crab
doesn’t worry about these poisonous
cells, and the crustacean is keen on
anemones. In the process of a meal the
crab breaks up the rock-dinger into
many small pieces, some of which are
swirled away into rock pools. No matter
how infinitesimal these pieces may be,
they quickly attach themselves to some
handy rock, and gradually grow again
until they eventually assume the propor-
tions and shape of a perfect specimen of
their kind.
“Solitude”: The township was out of
bread, and in the bar Seventyfiver men-
tioned that we’d better make tracks home
and build ourselves a feed. “You want
to make some fritters,” suggested Charlie
Riley. “They’re not bad. You get some
flour an’ mix in water for plain ones,
or you can chuck in something—anything
at all, long as you can eat it—to make
’em different.” Seventyfiver wasn’t im-
pressed. “Well, what about some pufta-
loonies?” Bruiser broke in. “You stir up
some flour an’ milk —or water’ll do —
and you cook ’em on something flat.”
“Don’t reckon they’d be as good as pufta-
tooties,” came Herb’s contribution. “With
’tooties y’ mix flour an’ water sort o’
thin, and y’ have real hot fat.” “Well,
if I was you I wouldn’t go past pan-
cakes,” old Bob told Seventyfiver. “Y’
use flour an’ some water, see? Then
pour some at a time on a flat somethin’.
An’ turn ’em, see? Or you can roll ’em
up. They’re good-oh. You try ’em.”
The old bloke looked hopelessly vague,
but managed to shake off his bewilder-
ment by the time we reached the shack.
He picked up the flour and the water-
bucket and got busy. “Them fancy panta-
loonie-fixin’s they were all talkin’ about
might be awright f’r Gover’ment banquets
an’ things, Sol,” he said, pouring the
“Gee, Mum, look—one o’ DAD'S catches!”
mixture here and there on the hot camp-
oven, “but f’r a good fillin’ feed I bet
y* can’t beat these flapjacks!”
* * * ♦
“Bogaduck”: Soaring birds such as
the albatross did guide our pioneer
aircraft-designers (B. 21/3/’5l). A
French sea-captain named Le Bris shot
an albatross, fixed the wings of the dead
bird in an extended position by means of
wooden rods and lashings, and tested out
its behavior when it faced the wind, re-
cording the amount of lift and other
data. Otto Lilienthal, a German, built
gliders on the principle of the wings of
soaring birds, and made flights of impres-
sive length in them. In Australia,
Lawrence Hargrave didn’t get far so long
as he was experimenting with flat wing
surfaces, but when he built a box-kite
with curved wing surfaces —the original
model is preserved in Sydney’s Techno-
logical Museum —he set the world’s air-
craft-designers on the right track, as the
Wright brothers acknowledged when
their first aeroplane had made successful
flights. And Hargrave got the inspira-
tion for his first crude yet
effective aerofoil shape by
watching seagulls soaring
with stiff wings. The
albatross rises from the
water with little effort for
the same reason that the
modern man-made soaring
glider lifts when towed
against the wind —because a
current of air passing over
the cambered upper surface
of the wing creates an up-
ward suction, or “lift.” An
albatross cannot rise from
a ship’s deck because the
deck is smooth; there are
no waves to create air eddies
which provide the initial lift.
In a flat calm the big bird
has to paddle furiously to
rise from the water because
it has to create its own
breeze before it can become
airborne.
“Lower Tops’!”: Swans settle in queer
places at times. Recently saw eight of the
elegant black birds squatting on the
ocean off Barwon Heads (Vic.), and when
we altered course towards them —we
couldn’t make out what they were —the
big fliers took off despite the choppy
seas. Another mob this summer took up
residence on a rain-formed swamp on a
Sandringham golf - links. But the
rummiest place I’ve seen these birds is
among the shipping on the Lower Yarra.
As a large tanker was getting under way
by the Williamstown Short - road
vehicular ferry a pair with four cygnets
were chasing scraps in the edge of the
propeller-wash. The ferry-hands told me
they breed twice yearly on the river-bank
hard by, and they aren’t the only long-
necked avian family there. Several tug-
crews keep their scraps for the birds, and
the swans from a distance know the
friendly tugs. They swim out in mid-
stream and almost block their course
until someone hurls overboard a bucket
of titbits.
♦ * * *
“Bass”: Admittedly shags can take off
from water when wet (B. 21/3/’5l).
They do it regularly. But they don’t do
it with any great alacrity after a long
immersion. “W.H.S.J.” credits his bird
with a speed—after “using every effort”
to get clear of the water —of 45 m.p.h.
If there’d been a couple of black ducks
on the water at the same time they’d have
made the shag look slow. It’s no effort
to them to leave the water, and their
heavy casualties at the hands of pot-
hunters is due not to any lack of speed,
but to their unfortunate habit of taking-
off into the wind, circling and coming
down-wind straight into the second
barrel. At that they come fast. A bloke
who was born with a shotgun at his
shoulder once told me that, with a.
moderate breeze, they were good for
200 m.p.h. I’ve put up many a flock
since, and I still won’t swear that he was
exaggerating.
THE CROSSING.
Remember last winter, the night of the full
moon,
Cold air filled with water voices, the boom of
the sea,
The running and rushing of creeks pouring
down from the uplands
(Where darkened on rolling heath and on
storm-bent tree
The shade of the galleon clouds of the great
rains clearing)
Over cliffs in long columns of silver all wreathed
with spray,
Sparkling out from the jet hanging leaves, and
down in the valley
Babbling on past the deaf white houses, content
there to stay
Each huddled against its warm chimney, and,
silent at last.
Swelling the lake by the sandhills till, rapid
and thin,
A finger of water thrusts over the wide pale
beach
To the milky churning of surf and the tide
coming in.
Over, leap over —only the moon is watching
With broad and glittering stare to see us run
Like children along the sand, only the flashing
And sidelong glance of the curving waves, and
the one
Red eye of the lighthouse burning far to south.
Over, and now for the northward track, where
high
And sheer through the mist of the thundering
foam rise the mountains —
How black in the moonlight!—but only a fool
would try
The path, for where it climbs it has gone with
the landslides
And where it dips it is gnawed by the white-
toothed sea;
Turn back —but behind us the channel has
widened and deepened.
Now strong hands must help, that with laughter
and splashing we
May land safely oyer, marvelling as those who
saw
The worm grow a dragon, ravening to
destroy . . .
Far and small the beach looks from the moun-
tainside
But farther yet is last year’s careless joy.
For the stream of love, out of high and secret
places.
Comes down in beauty, apd lightly the eager
heart
Leaps over, not dreaming how sudden and
swift its rising
Nor yet of a strong hand failing in its part.
Deep torrent and cold, swelled by the rains of
death,
I dare not gaze beyond to the pleasant shore,
The grassy foothills, the scattered roofs whose
blue
Smoke-signals spell the peace I find no more.
In the blind rocks there is fear in looking
forward,
But there is death in too long looking back,
Here only the desperate moment’s foothold
serves
And faith, stripped naked, on the dark north
track.
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD.


Yet another reason why
FORDSON FARMS AUSTRALIA
f
ADDS THESE 7 INCREASES
IN TRACTOR EFFICIENCY
ẅ
w
/rr
| 9 Improved Idling.
2, improved Vaporisation.
3, Even easier Starting.
4» Quick changeover from
petrol to kerosene.
S* Decreased Sump Dilution.
£• No fiat spots on taking
up load.
7« Less frequent cleaning
required.
CONVERSION
KITS
are on the way for
fitting the new Vap-
oriser to Fordsons
and Fordson Majors
already in use. Place
your order now.
Enquire from your nearest Fordson Dealer
FM67-HP
w
“Macquarie”: Old Denny had been
an honest employee of the shire council
for 38 years, and at 64 still really liked
hard work, so it came as a surprise to
hear he’d resigned. There was a story
behind it: “The ganger dropped me on
that stretch of road way out the back
because he.knew I was the only bloke he
could trust to keep workin’. Well, it
come on to
rain; there was
no shelter, so I
thought I may
as well get wet
workin’ as sit in
the scrub and
get soaked. I
didn’t have no
watch to tell
when it was
dinner-time, and
the sun wasn’t out, so I reckoned I’d
knock-off when I’d done a fair morain’s
work. By that time the rain had stopped.
I went to boil the billy, ’n’ soon’s I did
the rain rocked down again. It took
best part of an hour to get the can goin’,
and I kept workin’ in between stokin’s.
As soon as I put the tea in, the rain
stopped. I was shiverin’, and me tongue
was hanging out for a drop of hot tea
when I put the billy against the tool-
box, lays me bacca handy on the sloping
top and reaches for the pannikin. And
that’s when the bacca slips—straight
down into the billy! There I was, siftin'
shivering, eatin’ damp sandwiches, me
tea ruined and me bacca saturated, when
that flash young engineer bloke drives up
in a car and comes rushin’ up demand-
ing to know why I’m still sitting down
havin’ me dinner at ten to two.” Denny’s
smile touched both ears as he reflected
smugly: “Gripes, he looked funny with
that tea runnin’ down his face!”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Scot’s” method of
erecting strainers—one-man style (B.
21 / 3 / ’5l) —wouldn’t have worked with the
posts we used at Mukinbudin (W.A.) 25
years ago. A cocky over towards the
Babalin Rock got the idea of using white-
gums with an 18in. diameter, and he set
a fashion. Unfortunately there weren’t
enough trees that small, and one bloke I
fenced for settled for two-footers. They
“Joe still on holidays ?”
had to be solid and he wouldn’t have
them split, and I’ve seen four experienced
men struggling to erect one. Those
fences will be standing when I’m not, and
they’re a wonderful incentive to sobriety.
It just didn’t do to hit the gate-post com-
ing home from a sale.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: The new jackeroo turned
out to be Scotch, and when he proposed
to practise the bagpipes on the homestead
veranda the boss forcefully told him to
go not less than half a mile away, and to
pick a spot where the wind would not
blow towards the homestead. Angus
mooned about for a while and finally
located himself to the north. Occasion-
ally we caught fitful wails and moans
from his direction, and ignored them. It
was after midnight when Big Fleming
stirred, listened, then awoke Pocketknife.
“That ruddy Scotchman’s still playin’
them flamin’ pipes,” he said. The pair
listened, amazed, then awoke Little Curl
and the rest of us. We listened in
astonishment and then decided to investi-
gate. In the bright moonlight, with the
lake behind him and surrounded by a
ring of station cattle, Angus sat on the
ground, the pipes wheezing. When we
shooed the cattle and got to him he col-
lapsed. Taken to the hut and revived
with rum and hot tea, he explained “Ah
hardly got tae pipin’,” he said, “when
yon beasties rin doon an’ gathered aboot.
Wi’ the water ahint me an’ them pawin’
an’ brutin’ in front. Ah concluded the
only thing tae do was tae keep on pipin’.
Losh, was Ah glad tae see you fellers
cornin’ doon at last, for Ah couldna piped
much langer, an’ Ah was sure they’d ha’
rooshed ma the meenit Ah stopped.”
’Twas his first experience of the curiosity
of cattle.
♦ * * *
“Betcha”: Charlie overtook me at the
racecourse gate and I waited while he
explained to the bloke that he’d come
back later and pay for his ticket.
“Trouble is, I only got two bob,” Chari,
confided as we went on. “So I got t’
win a bit t’ get me through.” “Just like
that?” I grinned. “Aw, it won’t be no
trouble,” was his reply. “This bunch of
nags were all running in Drysville the
other day, an’ I was there. Didn’t do
any good meself then, but now I know
’em I can study form an’ pick out who’ll
win.” Squatting on the grass, Chari,
opened his race-book, and, interested to
see how it was done, I dropped alongside.
“Now, take this first race,” he began.
“Bill Hall’s pony won at Drysville, an’
Sam Pascoe’s followed, but he wasn’t
under the whip. Well, seeing nobody
ever puts anything over Sam, it’s easy
seen it’s Sam’s turn today. Wait till I
get me two-bob on.” With his assets
increased to eight shillings, Chari, re-
turned to study the next event. “Looks
like this chestnut,” I said, pointing.
Chari, brushed me aside. “Not a chance,”
he scoffed. “The jockey’s engaged t’ Hal
Bent’s girl, an’ Hal’s got a nag running.”
“But could Hal’s nag beat Black
Diamond?” “No,” frowned Chari. “He
couldn’t; only—well, don’t y’ see, Hal’s
cousin ain’t riding this old brown here
f’r nothing, an’ leaving an outside jockey
fT Hal’s nag. No,” he decided, “it’s t’
be Hal’s nag awright.” The race started,
and half-way round the old brown’s rider
mistook the posts and carried Black
Diamond with him clean off the course.
Plain bad luck, as everyone agreed; but
just the same, Chari, ’ll do me as a
connoisseur of form.
* * * *
“Bo”: “It’s not until y’ get out into
the plains country that y’ realise how
dried-out everything and everyone can
get in a scorcher,” said the man with the
tobacco-stained whiskers. “I’m in a little
joint one day where it’d been nothing
under a hundred an’ ten in the shade for
a fortnight on end. One day I see a cove
mooch out of the post-office shoving a
letter into an envelope. He opens his
gob to go to seal it down, then shuts it
quick. I know what he’s thinkin’ —that
he might need a surgical operation to get
it off again if he does. Then he looks
down at his dorg that’s walkin’ along
beside him—its tongue’s hangin’ out
about a foot. He can see it’s no good like
it is, so he sends the tyke over the road
to the horse-trough outside the baker’s
to get a drink, but by the time it could
get back on the other side blow me if it
ain’t dried out again. It took four trips
for the dorg to get enough moisture on
its tongue so the bloke could seal his
letter down!”
COMING HOME FROM SCHOOL.
What a lot of things there are,
Coming home from school,
Throwing things and knowing things—
Rock and road and pool.
What a lot of talk to do,
Wandering along,
Kicking things and picking things,
Doing lots of wrong.
What a lot of bits to see,
What a lot of looks,
Finding things and minding things,
Prying into nooks.
What a lot of play there is,
All the lessons done,
Forgetting things and petting things,
What a lot of fun.
What a lot of laughs there are,
What a time to fool,
Cheeking things and seeking things,
Coming home from school.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Group of Experts to Manage
m
m
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Companv
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, VJ).
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.R.Ch.M., FJt.A.CJS,
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White,
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart,
COMPANY OF N.S.W. U9ffHD
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAP PEACE TREATY.
■ The urgency with which the
U.S. is now pressing for an early
peace treaty with Japan—carried
a big step forward by John
Foster Dulles in his outline of
the U.S. treaty proposals —was
explained by the well-informed
“New York Times” shortly in
advance of the Dulles statement:
“The situation inside Japan
has reached a point where we are
losing more by the status of
occupation than gaining. The
Japanese are more or less on the
Asiatic firing line and they are
understandably, nervous. They
are an energetic people who can-
not be expected to accept
domination interminably with
good grace. A subservient
Japan would be no asset in the
Far Eastern struggle. We want
to see a Japan friendly and
democratic enough to choose
our side in the cold war against
Communist aggression. As
things stand now we have a
good chance of getting what we
want, but there is not too much
time to lose.”
London “Economist,” com-
menting on reported Australian
and New Zealand agreement to
“some form of Japanese re-
armament. ... .in addition to the
retention of American bases in
or near Japan” (such agreement
was as good as proclaimed in
the Dulles statement), pointed to
three things which, it holds,
must be assured before a Jap
treaty can be made a reality:
“First, it would now be wrong
to stick rigidly to the principle
that Japan must not in any way
rearm; before the last war the
Japanese had to stockpile both
steel and oil, and there is at
present no possibility either of
their doing this again without
being clearly observed, or indeed
of their being able to recreate
armed forces of any menacing
size—particularly a navy—for
several years. In other words,
rearmament can be controlled
if there is the will to do so.
“Secondly, it would be
dangerous to hold up a treaty
any longer because Russian and
Chinese agreement cannot be
obtained to its terms; the
Russians will certainly be given
a chance to adhere, and so
should the Chinese, but the
British would make a serious
mistake to press for more than
this. Events must move forward
without the participation of
either of these Communist
Powers should that be their own
choice.
“Thirdly—but perhaps most
important of all —the time has
come for Washington to give
Australia and New Zealand
publicly some form of definite
security guarantee. The integrity
of both territories is a vital
American interest, and indeed is
well recognised to be. But
nothing has ever been said in
public to this effect —as, for
instance, it has about the security
of the Philippines. Without this
Washington can hardly expect
to secure the necessary support
and unhesitating co-operation of
Australia and New Zealand for
the vital steps now proposed in
regard to Japan.”
As the “New York Times” has
interpreted U.S. policy towards
a Pacific Pact, any such pact
would for the present be defi-
nitely restricted; to begin with,
very much so, and on lines
most welcome to Australia and
N.Z. The same interpretation
might be calculated to steady
European and British jitters
caused by a nightmare view of
Uncle Sam hogging to fight all
Asia:
“The United States remains
reluctant to enter into a mutual
defence pact with countries
which are either situated on the
Asiatic mainland, such as India,
fR Jyf
* Ws M
« k
\h v—
sA », -
&wV>
tfik >».
—London “News Chronicle."
CHORUS OF NOBLES:
“If you want to know who we are,
We are gentlemen of Japan ”
“The Mikado."
Burma and Thailand, or have
important interests there grow l
ing out of former colonial
regimes.
“We [U.S.A.] are willing to
assist these nations in their
struggle against Communist
aggression, but not willing to
assume obligations which might
bog us down in a major Asiatic
war.”
For that reason, the “New
York Times” stated, the U.S.
had discussed the possibility of
a preliminary triangular defence
pact with Australia and New
Zealand which might be enlarged
later to include the Philippines,
Japan and perhaps Formosa and
other Pacific island States.”
The U.S. proposals on the
pact, as cabled last week, proved
the accuracy of the “New York
Times” information. The Philip-
pines, however, will be included
from the start.
On the enlarged pact
“Washington Post” commented
that “It appears to be
aimed primarily at a sort of
reassurance to the Australasians
against a resurgence of Japanese
militarism. This might not seem
the proper spirit in which to go
into an alliance.
“Australasian fears, how-
ever, are understandable, and, if
this is the way that our friends
down under want to assuage
them, there seems no objection
to the venture.
“The time is long overdue to
bring the Japanese back into the
comity of nations, and, if entry
into the United Nations might
be blocked by Soviet veto, then
the next best thing is to create
a Pacific concert pending that
event.”
“Parallel” Pussyfooting.
If some sections of the British
Press —and apparently not only
these in Britain, either —had
their way the U.N.O. forces in
Korea would knock off and sit
down and wait the instant they
got within their longest gun-
ranges of the 38th Parallel.
Naturally (losses and other
things compared) that outlook
gets off lightly if it is merely
ridiculed in the U.S. Even the
“New York Times” —always
very friendly to Britain —
inclines to lose patience on this
issue. “There is something
bitterly unrealistic,” it com-
ments, “about the latest hulla-
balloo over whether United
Nations forces fighting in and
for Korea should.... .recross the
38th Parallel.”
Confusion on this point, it
finds, obviously arises from the
assumption that the original
Chinese Communist interven-
tion in Korea was brought
about by the first crossing of the
Parallel by MacArthur’s men.
“This bit of fantasy was useful
to the Communists in gaining a
two weeks’ period of irresolu-
tion while the United Nations
debated and the Chinese Com-
munists grouped. Later on it
was used to give an air of
legalistic ‘self-defence’ t o
Chinese ‘volunteer’ intervention.
But the real design of Com-
munist imperialism has never
been concealed and there is no
reason for suddenly pussy-foot-
ing about it. The Assistant
Secretary of State, Dean Rusk,
who is in charge of Far Eastern
affairs, was quite explicit in a
Voice of America broadcast.
He stated ;
“ ‘We now know that consider-
able Soviet military equipment
for the North Korean forces
was shipped through Manchuria
(Chinese Communist territory),
with the heaviest shipments, in-
cluding aircraft, taking place in
April and May prior to the
aggression. There can be no
doubt now that the Chinese
Communists, from the very
start, had every intention of
intervening actively should
North Korean forces fail in
their mission to seize all Korea.’
“We are now engaged in a
struggle of manoeuvre and
attrition in Korea. The United
Nations objective, militarily, is
to inflict a maximum amount of
damage on the intervening
Chinese Communists. It is not
to hold one particular line or to
establish one hypothetical
frontier. Admittedly, the whole
Korean territory north of the
Parallel must be kept under un-
remitting air attack to make this
possible. Why, then, is it
necessary to have prolonged
discussion as to whether patrols
can cross an imaginary frontier
in this operation? The United
Nations objective, politically
and morally, is still supposedly
the establishment of a free,
united, democratic Korea on the
whole peninsula. How is this
to be served by the sudden
access of timidity about a
boundary that the enemy has
already destroyed?”
Dragnet Digest.
West’s Inferiority Complex.—Lead-
ing American commentator Walter
Lippmann touches on a complex that
must have puzzled or amused quite a
number: “I do not know where it
came from, but somehow or other we
have acquired an inferiority complex
about the Russians which, when one
thinks of the grandeurs and the
glories of our Western civilisation, is
really too ridiculous for words.”
Joe’s “Paradise.’ 1 ' “Borba,” the
organ of Tito’s Communist party,
makes an expert assessment: “The
truth about the prevailing system in
‘Stalin’s paradise’ has crossed Russia’s
borders, and the world knows about
Soviet concentration camps, about the
mass annihilation of non-Russian
nationalities in the Soviet Union,
about the political massacres without
trials, sentences or even evidence, and
about the murders and many other
manifestations of Moscow despotism.
These things show whether the
Government of Russia is qualified to
give lectures on democracy.”
♦ * * *
Der Gate Alte Vinston. —Reprint-
ing a drawing of Winston Churchill
from the Dusseldorf “Mittag,” which
is currently serialising a life of him, a
London “Daily Telegraph” columnist
reports that Mr. Churchill still holds
the curious distinction of being, to
Germans, the most popular figure in
European or even world politics.
“They see him as a man who com-
bines in the highest degree the prin-
ciples of democracy with those of
compelling leadership.”
* * * *
German Contribution “Superfluous. ’’
—Worry over German rearmament
can at least be postponed, going by
the German publication “Welt am
Sonntag,” which quotes Bonn
authority for its news that the United
States can arm only twenty European
divisions for the present and that
General Eisenhower and M. Pleven
of France have “got together” and
decided that fifteen of these should be
French. A German contribution
would thus be superfluous. In addi-
tion, General Eisenhower is now
hailed as the arch-defender of full
German sovereignty who will have
no German soldier under him until
that has been achieved.
* * * *
Joe Spars Jor Time. London
“Economist" sees it as becoming
increasingly clear that the purpose of
Stalin’s political strategy is to gain
time, “by stimulating colonial libera-
tion movements, by turning the desire
for peace to subversive ends, by post-
poning the settlement of the problems
arising out of Hitler’s war, by seeing
to it that every Communist action—
whether in Malaya, or the Balkans,
or the docks of Australia, or the
streets of Paris—is carried on regard-
less of defeat or casualties.’^
* * * *
Europe’s Self-help. —ln a lengthy
survey headed “The American Stake
in Europe,” featured in New York
“Herald Tribune,” John Gunther put
in a word on what Western Europe
has done for itself in the past year
or so: “It has become a kind of
parlor game to malign the Europeans,
but, all things considered, they have
made a substantial contribution to
their own survival. Take one figure
only—that during the second quarter
of 1950, the industrial output of ten
Western European countries was at
an all-time high—24 per cent, above
the pre-war level.”
♦ * * •
Under Which King, Btionian ?
Lord Craigavon, Lieut.-Gen. Sir
Giffard Martel and other protesters
against the Red Dean’s Redness may
perhaps have had a thought of
“Henry IV” in drawing up the down-
right letter they sent to the Dean
on his trying “to serve two religions
at the same time: Christianity, which
believes in God, and Communism,
which denies his existence." The
letter added: “We do not attempt to
judge you, but as loyal Christians
we do believe that it is impossible to
serve two masters, and so we must
ask you now to dissociate yourself
from Communism or else to resign
from the office of Dean of Canter-
bury... .We are deeply grieved that
in your high office you should so
consistently support the ruthless and
Godless tyranny which is responsible
for the violent deaths and sufferings
of so many thousands of innocent
Christians."


■ S nSS
I ||i| ■
mm
Wtmmm
B
. .
m m
m
. HI
'■■ ;S V- ■
WsBF
llili
■H
ta
V
:::--V;xS
n
H
ijyi
WBtU&m-W: mk
mm<m
m
n
m f
Ssm*r
m.
I
Tie feat
(tou4
mwi
Mf
are ahead when you
come to Hayman
Island. The charm
and distinction of
the Royal Hayman
Hotel heavenly
climate lovely
tropic island scenery
and swimming,
cruising, fishing, the
fascination of Coral
Reefs, dancing at
night. . . make this
the holiday of a
lifetime.
i
mm
■y
| * The sophisti-
cated Cocktail
[i Bar is a favour-
\ ite rendezvous
for social fun ,
The Dining
Room. Glass
doors often on
the Swimming
Pool Terrace ,
set with tables
for outdoor \
meats.
ẁ
Luxurious
Sleeping Lodges,
each suite in-
cluding private
bathroom and
sun-verandah.
53
m
Melbourne; MU 6921; Sydney: BW 2921; Adelaide; Cen. 2514;
Brisbane: 82291; Hobart: 7470; Launceston: 1760; Cairns: 2570;
Canberra: F 390; Townsville: 1150; Wagga; 2036 ans %ii
recognised travel agencies.
ẃŵ
uicvmut
(when they’re warm)
“It’s as cooling as an ocean
breeze on a hot day—and popular!
—one of the most popular of all the
Vickers Gin coolers.
The gin gives it a wonderful
flavour. I won’t take a moment to
“SHADY GROVE
COOLER”
Into a long glass put
half tablespoon of
sugar, juice of half
a lemon, 2 oz. Vickers
Gin,
Mix with plenty of
ice and fill with cold
ginger beer.
prepare it—then you taste it. Make
a note of the recipe too—add it
to your collection.”
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
w
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
A request to The United Distiller* Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box
759 G. Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, will bring you FREE,
an attractive book containing 60 tested recipes lot
cocktails and long drinks. Write tor It now.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
V T T
“Nearly every man has some sort
of pain when his wife is expecting a
baby, a leading British social-research
scientist finds.”
Frequently housemaid’s knee.
4* 4* 4*
“Abolition of bookmakers would be
the best thing that could happen to
racing.” —Sydney “D.T.”
You bet!
. 4* 4* 4*
Spring-cleaning too vigorously can
stir up dangerous germs in your
home.” —“Flew Idea.”
Let sleeping wogs lie.
“You can kiss an elbow and send
a woman skyhigh—if you know how
to kiss it.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
As long as you don’t strike her
funny-bone and raise a laugh.
4* 4* 4*
“After six years of Socialism, Old
Mother Hubbard has replaced Brit-
annia as the symbol of British great-
ness.” —Randolph Churchill.
It’s this change which is the
bone of contention,
“Why not have an annual book-
returning day?”— Woman’s paper.
Libraries will claim this as a
fine suggestion.
4* 4* 4 1
“The N.S.W. Agent-General’s office
would ‘snap up’ a Glasgow tram-
driver if he wanted to migrate.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
And see that he gets a fare go,
too.
4* 4* 4*
“A train service between Oxford-
shire and Buckinghamshire was sus-
pended for a fortnight because the
train’s fireman got married.”
Allowances must be made for
tender emotion.
4* 4* 4*
“Lots of money may not bring
happiness, but it does quieten the
nerves.”
—Publisher Daniel Macmillan.
It’s remarkable how soothing
a good pile on the carpet can be.
4* 4* 4*
“The cult of slim loveliness has
become a highly-profitable luxury
trade.” —Beauty article.
The promoters drawing fat
dividends.
Sheer Good Luck.
ŵw
BERT.
On the Nose.
“In new rules announced for Soviet
boxers, when any boxer is knocked
down the referee must count eight
before the fight can bo resumed, even
if the boxer is up and ready before
that count. Bouts are usually of
three rounds.”
It was, as “Depravda” said in
a leading article prior to the
great contest, a wonderful day
for Soviet sport, for the world
heavyweight champion title fight
was between two boxers of the
U.S.S.R. True, one correspon-
dent had written asking where
Ezzard Charles and Joe Louis
stood; he was arrested and
liquidated for harboring anti-
Stalinist thoughts, he having
obviously listened to an
American broadcast. As Ameri-
can boxers had given evidence
of their decadence in having
15-round contests they had been
barred by the Spviet for a world
title. In any case, their lower
standard of skill automatically
barred them from competing
against the Russians.
The great October Purge
Stadium in Moscow was rapidly
filling as the happy workers, in
complete enjoyment of their
glorious freedom —a freedom of
“We're very fortunate, John, being about the same build."
which the wretched slave-
workers of the Capitalist Demo-
cracies knew absolutely nothing
—were marched into the
bleachers by armed guards.
These were guards from
the factories in which for the
glory .of the Fatherland they
were privileged to work their 10-
hour day—how easy was their
lot compared with the 14-hour
day which the plutocratic ex-
ploiters of the West demanded
under penalty of torture for their
slaves! And, except that they
had to pay entertainment tax,
Communist-party Welfare tax,
summer relief tax, Collectivised
State Boxers’ Provident tax.
Applause tax and a special
Stalin Appreciation tax, their
seats were absolutely free.
As they all stood and
mechanically gave the clenched-
fist' salute to the Beloved Leader
they undoubtedly would have
idly wondered which, if any, of
the nine short, stocky men wear-
ing handlebar moustaches and
seated with various party officials
behind their shields of grenade-
and bullet-proof glass was Joe,
had not their power of thinking
about anything been atrophied
by the ceaseless blasts of the
propaganda machine.
At last, after the Stadium’s
Political Commissar had given
them an exciting address for an
hour on price-indices as they
related to production, followed
by half an hour on the iniquities
of the Western warmongers in
having started hostilities in the
Far East by invading North
Korea, the preliminary bout
began.
As it had to be a contrast
to the main event, the bout, be-
tween lightweights, had to be
limited to half a round.
The boxers left their corners
as the bell went and began
warily circling one another.
Suddenly one of them drew back
his right arm in dreadful
minatory fashion. Before he
could let the punch go, how-
ever, the bell went again and
the referee immediately crowned
him the winner. The applause
for his brilliant win was deafen-
ing, and he was immediately
given the award of Hero of the
Soviet Union, and was joyfully
transported to a special ringside
seat for the title fight. The loser
was transported to Siberia.,
There was great excitement as
the contenders for the world
heavyweight title entered the
ring.
Ivan Arztileft, from Yuzbeg,
would have stood about sft. Sin.
in his sox if he could have
bought a pair at the State shops.
So strenuous had been his
gymnasium- and road-work in
preparation for the gruelling
three-round contest that he had
developed a chest expansion of
three-quarters of an inch. He
was not a member of die party.
His opponent Nokiz Blokkoff,
the Yellow Peril from Vladi-
vostok and the Army cham-
pion, was long and nuggety, and
the hair on his chest, almost as
thick as on a soup-plate, de-
noted his gigantic strength.
Nokiz was a faithful party
member.
As the bell went for the start
of the fight Nokiz and Ivan
advanced to the centre of the
ring, and stood flat-footed about
6ft. apart practically facing
each other. For two minutes
they eyed each other warily.
Once Ivan made as if to leap
forward, then they both jumped
back and eyed each other again.
End of Round One.
Nokiz’s seconds had to work
strenuously on him, but he came
up at the bell for the second-last
round showing few effects of
that terrific first round.
In the centre of the ring again,
Ivan suddenly went berserk and
tapped the Army champion
sharply on the wrist. Nokiz
spun around and hit the canvas,
but at the referee’s “Oneski” he
was back on his feet. Having
nothing to do until the stipulated
other seven were called he retired
to his corner and read the “Red
Star.”
As he walked back to resume
the fight Blokkoff turned around
to acknowledge applause and
walked into Ivan’s stiffly-held*
out left and he went down again.
Only for one second, though—
the other seven he filled-in by
folding bis arms and doing the
traditional dance sitting on his
hands. At “eightski” he bounced
up and again they circled each
other. End of Round Two.
In the third round it was
obvious that the stupendous pace
was telling. Both had to hang
on repeatedly. Once Nokiz
tried to bring his bullet-head into
Ivan’s chin, but he missed. As
he stood wondering what next
to do Ivan connected on the
point with the famous punch he
had evolved through swinging
his billy of imitation coffee
around at the factory during
lunch-hour to cool it. Nokiz
fell in a heap.
Twenty seconds later, when
the referee had got to “fiveski,”
his seconds rushed in and hauled
Blokkoff to his feet, upon which
the ref. held Nokiz’s hand up.
The applause for the new world
champ, might have lifted the
roof only that there was no roof,
sabotage in its new Five-Year
Plan having drastically cut the
Timber Ministry’s production
figures.
Ivan was shot for Devia-
tionism, after confessing under
torture that he’d meant the shot
for Nokiz Blokkoff’s stomach.
BO.
Song in Season.
Suburban Salons warned him
not
To strive for such a goal.
But an ambitious urge had got
Implanted in his soul.
‘Til go ahead ,” he proudly said,
“Fate favors those who try”
Whereat he tilled a garden-bed
For growing broccoli.
BRIAN BUREAU.


tWR
BEHIND THE
AUSTRALIAN SCENE
u
Uill
\
X
set-
St
m
i
I
i I
5 £
I s
British
«C 3
THE ENGINE THAT LASTS/
World-famous Lister
engines are available
in a variety of types
and horsepowers (2 to
40 h.p.) for petrol, kero-
sene and diesel fuel.
E 19.103
THE LION-HEARTED
is
THE ENGINE THAT LAST
World-famous Lister
engines are available
in a variety of types
and horsepowers (2 to
40 h.p.) for petrol, kero-
sene and diesel fuel.
Distributed in Australia by:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street, PERTH.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited,
12-36 Cross Street. WEST FOOTSCRAY.
QUEENSLAND:
Wincheembe Carson Limited
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Norwood Bagshow Limited,
78 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Missing Friend.
TO WILLIAM THOMPSON formerly of
219 a Weston Street East Brunswick in
the State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that GEORGE PATERSON haa instituted
proceedings against his wife IRENE ALMA
PATERSON as Respondent and you as Co-
Respondent for adultery Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotaiy’s Office
of the Supreme Court William Street
Melbourne on or before the First day of
June 1951 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this case
you must also file an answer in the said
office on or before the Twelfth day of June
195!.—O’CONNOR & PHILLIPS, 742 High
Street, Thornbury, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, by LOUQHREY k LOUGHREY.
Solicitors, 108 Queen Street, Melbourne.
A WARNING
TO MEN
IN MID-LIFE
At about 50 years of age many
men show a marked decline in
virility and vigour. At the same
time, and for no apparent reason,
they suddenly develop a nervous
tension and emotional instability;
they are unable to sleep and lose
interest in life; they suffer from
joint pains, become irritable over
nothing, easy to aggravate,
moody, indecisive, unable to con-
centrate, and over all there’s a
constant dragging tiredness.
But this change is not confined to
mid-life only. Quite frequently
these symptoms appear at the age
of 35, and there are many cases
of men as young as 30 who have
lost their powers.
Do YOU suffer from any of these
symptoms? If you show signs of
just one it Is a sure indication
that your natural production of
male hormone is decreasing be-
cause it is this male hormone
that governs the whole character
and characteristics of the male.
Because NU-MAN contains testos-
terone, the genuine male hor-
mone. it replaces the natural
supply and so prevents the
mental and physical decline that
must otherwise surely follow.
That is why, from the day you
start NU-MAN you will find re-
newed virility, increased vitality,
immediate relief from worry and
a new, energetic, determined
approach to life.
Tear this out now and write
TODAY for Free sample and full
details of NU-MAN to
A. B. WARD & Co.
(Dept. B 5),
Box 3323, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please PRINT your name and
address.
Xiadies—-send for health chart!
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BABRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine m
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28B), 243 Elizabeth St, Sydney
STOP SMOKING
In only one day you too can Per-
manently overcome the ceaseless
craving for Tobacco with my famous
"SMOKENDA"
A really scientific method. Swift,
Pleasant, Harmless. Succeeds where
other methods fail. Save money-
Double Your Energy. Improve
Health. SMOKENDA is yours for 12/6
Post Free. (Plain wrapper.) Success
Guaranteed.
KEN G. McCALL, Dept. Wl,
Smoking Cure Specialist,
BOX 4535, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
4
To buy English translation of Emile
Zola’s L’Assommoir. —5001.
Copy of essay containing the fol-
lowing quotation, believed to be from
Carlyle: “1 see a woman gathering
nettles in a field; and I see also a
perfumed seigneur who hath a subtle
alchemy whereby he extracts from her
every fifth nettle, and calls it Rent.’
—5002.
War widow (Sydney), only son (20)‘,
wants to rent small flat or cottage,
furnished or unfurnished. —5006.
Words of verse “Godolphin
Arabian” by James Brunton Stephens.
—5005.
To buy copy of The Glugs of Gosh
and Rose of Spadger’s Lane by C. J-
Dennis. —5003.
Words of verse by C. J. Dennis
called “The Post-war Cup” (or
similar title), beginning:—
I ’ad it in me ’and I did.
—5004.
Information Sought.
A few particulars about Cardinal
Mindszenty and his trial?
He was the son of a peasant couple
named Pehm. During World War 11,
while still a parish priest, he changed
his name to Mindszenty after the
village Csehimindszent, where he was
born. He openly defied the Nazis,
and was imprisoned by the Germans
until his release by the Red Army.
He was made cardinal in 1945, and
his popularity soon made him a
powerful force in Hungary. The
advent of a Communist regime
brought him into conflict with the
State. He refused to compromise on
Christian principles, especially in
regard to education, or to leave the
country, and in 1948 was arrested on
charges of offences against the State,
having previously warned his people
against any confessions that might be
extracted from him. His trial was a
travesty of justice, and he was sen-
tenced to life imprisonment.
* * * *
Some hints on growing marjoram ?
It may be raised from seed or from
root divisions. It will grow in any
well-defined soil. Sow the seed in
either the outdoor seed-bed or where
the plants are to remain, covering it
very lightly with fine soil. Trans-
plant from the seed-bed in rows 18in,
apart each way, and thin out early
those grown where they are to remain,
to the same distance. In order to
prevent “misses,” it is advisable to
thin gradually, starting at 6in. apart
and deferring the last operation until
the plants are well established.
Should further plants be desired these
may be had from root divisions, which
may be taken in the spring or
autumn, or from cuttings taken in the
summer. In the latter case set in a
shady place and water until estab-
lished. As soon as the plants are
growing well the leaves may be cut
as wanted. Divide the roots of mar-
joram and re-set the plants every
three years. Four or five plants of
marjoram will supply the needs of
the average household.
* * ♦ *
Who was the first world’s heavy-
weight champion under Marquess of
Queensberry rules ? Did John L.
Sullivan hold this title?
James J. Corbett was first world’s
heavyweight champion under Marquess
of Queensberry rules. John L. Sulli-
van was recognised as world heavy-
weight champion under London Prize
Ring rules, but he was only American
champion when Corbett k.o.’d him in
21st round of a glove contest at New
Orleans on September 7, 1892. Cor-
bett then clinched the world title by
knocking out Charlie Mitchell, British
heavyweight champion, in round three
at Jacksonville, Florida, on January
25, 1894.
* * * *
Did “Philadelphia Jack” O’Brien
ever win the world’s heavyweight
championship? If so, whom did he
beat for that title?
“Philadelphia Jaick” O’Brien was
never recognised as world’s heavy-
weight champion, although he de-
feated Tommy Burns in 1904 and
they fought a 20-rounds draw in 1906.
O’Brien won the world light-heavy-
weight crown when he k.o.’d Bob
Fitzsimmons in round 13 at San
Francisco on December 20, 1905, and
still held that title when he relin-
quished it to fight as a heavyweight.
♦ * * *
Who was Paul Revere?
He was an American patriot, born
in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1735.
He served as a soldier, became a gold-
and silversmith in Boston, where he
printed the paper money ordered by
Congress in 1775, and established a
powder-mill, took part in the “Boston
Tea Party” (1773) and became a
member of the Boston to Lexington
Society. His midnight ride to Lexing-
ton and Concord (April, 1775) to
warn the people of the approach of
the British troops was rendered
famous by Longfellow’s poem “The
Midnight Ride of Paul Revere.” He
died in 1818.
* * ♦ *
A few i details about the history of
the English newspaper “Reynolds’s
News’' ?
It is a London Sunday newspaper,
founded May 5, 1850, by George
William McArthur Reynolds, eminent
Chartist politician and prolific Vic-
torian novelist, who edited the paper
from 1859 until his death in 1879.
Established to “defend the rights of
the masses,” “Reynolds’s News” was
a powerful champion of trade-
unionism, and was particularly noted
for its support of the successful
dockers’ strike of 1889. For a period
in the early part of this century the
paper came under the Liberal owner-
ship of Lord Dalziel. The paper was
purchased by the Co-operative move-
ment in 1929, and reverted fully to
its Socialist background. It is now
the only Sunday Labor and Co-
operative newspaper.
Brief Answers.
J.S.: F. S. Felbert, 146 Regent-
street, Redfern, N.S.W., may be able
to meet your requirements in marine
plywood... .P.L.F.: “Addled Parlia-
ment” is the name usually given to
the English Parliament which met on
April 6, 1614, and sat for two months
of violent debate, and was finally dis-
solved by James I without having
passed a single bill. Seven years
elapsed before another Parliament was
summoned W.H.C.: Rock-soap or
saponite is a black or nearly black
mineral consisting of a mixture of
aluminium silicate and iron oxide.
It is a soft, friable substance, with a
greasy touch, and is used for the
preparation of artists’ crayons
T.McN.: The lines are from Henry
Lawson’s “The Star of Australasia.”
P.C.L.: Max O’Rell was the
nom-de-plume of Paul Blouet, French
author and journalist, who was born
in Brittany in 1848 and died in Paris
in 1903. He is chiefly remembered
for his once-famous book John Bull
and His Island. ... W.H.A.; Volume
1, Australia Felix, was first published
in 1917 under the title of The For-
tunes of Richard Mahony ; vol. 2,
The Way Home, was first published
in 1925; and vol. 3, Ultima Thule, in
1929. The first complete edition,
comprising the three volumes, was
published in 1930....J.A.: Thomson
River, a tributary, 240 miles long, of
Cooper’s Creek (Q.), was discovered
and named by Edmund Kennedy, on
August 13, 1847, after Sir Edward
Deas Thomson, one-time N.S.W.
Colonial Secretary, and afterwards
Chancellor of Sydney University
T.S.M.: The Outline of Art, edited
by Sir William Orpen, revised by
Horace Shipp, published by Newnes,
London P. 8.: Royal Australian
Historical Society, History House, 8
Young-street, Sydney R.O’S.: The
song “Jeanie With the Light-brown
Hair” was written by Stephen Foster
(1826-64), who also wrote “My Old
Kentucky Home,” “Massa’s In the
Cold, Cold Ground,” “Old Folks
At Home,” “Old Black Joe,” “Oh!
Susanna” and other songs E.F.F.:
Write Gaston Renard, antiquarian
bookseller, P.O. Box 5295, G.P.0.,
Melbourne L.P.: Write C. B.
Berckelman, hon. secretary, Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia, Box
905, G.P.0., Sydney... H.W.H.:
There are 2722.2 troy lb. in one ton
avoirdupois of gold W.R.D.; The
price for mercury, quoted in London,
is £A3I 17s. 6d. per 751 b. flask.
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty.,
Ltd., 20 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
may be interested in the metal....
E.M.A.: “Flying,” official organ of
the Royal Aero Club of N.S.W.,
Bankstown Aerodrome, Bankstown
(N.S.W.) P.T.M.: Write hon. sec-
retary, Melbourne Bread and Cheese
Club, 980 High-street, Armadale
(Vic.) A.C.H.: Suggest you use
urea formaldehyde resin glue, obtain-
able from any of the following
Melbourne firms —Imperial Chemical
Industries, Beetle-Elliott, Ltd., or
Monsanto Pty., Ltd L.W.R.: The
Ingoldsby Legends are a series of
legendary tales in prose and verse,
supposed to have been found in the
family chest of the Ingoldsby family,
and told by Thomas Ingoldsby, the
assumed name of the Rev. Richard
Harris BaTham (1788-1845)... .K.L.:
Get in touch with Lewis Berger and
Sons, Box 23, Burwood (N.S.W.).
doorkeeper, we fear you have met a
journalistic chucker-out G.R.H.:
Incredible... .L.H.; There’s some-
thing there, but you have the secret
of transmuting gold into brass
P. 8.: If your initials began with W,
your story need have gone no further.
J.McM.: Go in for girdles and
use up those elastic coincidences
R.L.W.: Tuttifrutti.... J.H.S.: No
hatters by request J.T.N.: Not
ours C. 8.: Well, it’s a good effort,
but the girl is a little dim, and you
take too long to get into the con-
versation and action.... A.L.: The
things the Bomb’s been responsible
for! J.R.: Just another bit of
human geometry 8.J.T.5.; Now is
not the time for sad stories about pretty
little rabbits K.L.: Yes, we’ve
heard about love R.M.G.: By
page 14 we got it: you were trying
to say that absence makes the heart
grow fonder A.M.: The ending,
with the Greek spoiling his kid’s
hopes of school-friends by uncon-
sciously waving a knife, was like a
tin tied to a cat’s tail R.W.:
Fancy writing all the way from
Glasgow to tell us that second-rate
American writing is second-rate!
F.C.: “Hurtle Burkit” much too long,
much too grim E.A.K.: Slight.
K.H.H.: Too long for what hap-
pened J.McM.: You don’t make
much of it R.A.: You make too
much of it....8.C.: 510 p... .R. 8.:
There is a precise ritual at execu-
tions ; the hangman pinions the
prisoner in the cell, for instance —
you should not attempt such things
without undergoing the experience
yourself W.R.: Pleasant little
story, might go elsewhere G.B.
and S.G.: Not quite the right
approach... .E.V.C.: Well, it’s got
everything except credibility.... A.P.:
Shaw did such dialogues a little better.
R.A.W.: “Maleesh” is a good
effort, a little late for then, a little
lacking in point for now.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will he taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
I.W.: The story still doesn’t quite
equal the cracks R.A.F.: When
following-up on a character, the
second story should be better than
the first—“Miracles by Natural
Causes” takes too many corners too
fast A.F.: “Marvellous how your
thinkin’ drifts when you’re relaxed”
—yair, you’ll never get nothin’
printed thataway R.M.: Only a
string of anecdotes D.T.: “Out-
cast” cast out J.S.: Cardboard
characters R.B.: Short and trite.
Ox: Here’s a stall for you,
then: —
VALE MOUNT RENNIE, MOORE PARK
SIDNEY.
Mount Rennie
There isn’t any;
It’s levelled flat
And that’s just that.
. ...R.M.: As a small-town-ball


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ELIZABETH EVA NEWMAN late
of Hamilton.—TAKE NOTICE that
GEORGE LANNOX NEWMAN has filed
a Petition in Divorce No. 2006 of 1950 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 11th day of June 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MR. A. A. McLELLAN,
Solicitor, Scone; or his Sydney Agents,
MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOMSON,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ISABELLA ATKIN late of Sydney
and Newcastle.—TAKE NOTICE that
LOUIS HEXHAM ATKIN has filed his
Petition for Divorce No. 1194 of 1950 on
the ground of your desertion without just
cause or excuse,for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
12th day of June 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition, without charge from
HAROLD MUNRO & SERIO, Petitioner’s
Solicitors, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ARROW SHIRTS
Pi
m
r
/ ,
W
mm. i®. i
m&m, <s?i v
AM m
'
HR
%
mh
mmm
is
Notv available at Peapes
The world famous Arrow shirt has been hard
to get. It is still in very short supply but a
special purchase makes it available to Peapes
customers.
The Arrow shirt is noted for the stylish fit and
comfort of its collar. It takes any type of tie,
Windsor knot, ordinary knot or bow tie, and
is the only shirt made with the form fitting,
“Archer” back, that gives freedom of action
without excessive blousing.
Made of hard wearing English Poplin, with
collar attached, it is available in sizes 14 to 17.
Price 37/- each.
PEAPES Pty. Ltd.
285 George Street, Sydney
Opposite Hunter Street
Address mail orders 165 G.P.0., Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE.
One of the most delightfu
things about the Borovansky
Ballet is that it is always better
than one expects. It is always
good—a part of Australian
theatre which should never be
too lightly appreciated but
whenever it arrives, with its
excellent team of dancers, and
Borovansky using their indi-
vidual characteristics as skilfully
as any general using his forces
or an artist using his colors, it
always seems just that much
livelier, more competent and
more enthusiastically successful
than last time. The current
season, at Sydney Empire,
opened, naturally, with an alto-
gether lovely performance of
“Les Sylphides.” There seemed,
perhaps, too much sharpness of
outline about it —a suggestion of
mathematical precision of
pattern where one would have
preferred a more freely-drawn
line, but that was only a passing
impression, and the total effect
of Chopin’s music, of Fokine’s
drifting, melting patterns, of
Edna Busse’s graceful fragility
and Kathleen Gorham’s pertness
and warmth —now perfectly dis-
ciplined—was as it should be:
white, moonlit and lovely.
“Petrouchka,” with a great
flaring curtain and scenery by
Constable and costumes by the
same artist, spilled its tumbling
jumble of color across the stage
like a prodigal scattering of
gemstones. The drama and
tragedy of the conclusion didn’t
break through the color and
merriment as forcefully as they
might have, but Miro Zloch as
Petrouchka, Charles Boyd as the
Moor and Peggy Sager as the
Ballerina danced out the story
with character, grace and
comedy. The mannered pleas-
antries of “Beau Danube” —what
a soft pleasing blend of browns
it is—were conveyed by Edna
Busse, Kathleen Gorham and
the whirling dramatic figure of
Dorothy Stevenson; by Charles
Boyd as King of the Dandies,
Paul Grinwis as the Soldier and
by Borovansky himself in his
delightful clowning caricature of
the Athlete.
4* 4* 4*
The tartans are swirling and
the pipes skirling at' His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, where the
Scottish invasion of the City,
started by the Black Watch, has
been taken over by “Brigadoon.”
Even the name of the producer,
James MacGregor Jamieson,
sounds a wee bit Scotch. He
dances magnificently, too, and
adds a touch of tragic drama,
never changing his grim expres-
sion even after the final curtain,
for he is in love with Jeannie
Mac Keith, who is about to
marry another, and he cares
naught for her sister, who is in
love with him. That is how
things go in Brigadoon, a village
which, owing to the spells of
witches, only comes to life for
a day once every 100 years. If
one of its inhabitants leave it the
spell will be broken and it will
never appear again, but its re-
appearance is assured if a
stranger falls in love with a
Brigadoon lassie and elects to
stay with his sweetheart.
On the present occasion the
village has made one of its
periodical appearances just at
the time when two Americans
stumble on it, and one of them
becomes involved with a lassie
who becomes the victim of a
conflict, inasmuch as her going
off with her boy-friend entails
the most serious consequences for
the whole population, including
her family. Then the village is
threatened with destruction from
another quarter. Being odd-man-
out at his girl’s wedding, Harry
Ritchie decides to revenge him-
self by deserting his village, and
the horrified townsmen pursue
him into an oak wood. There
is a frenzied hunt for Harry and
he is run to earth and killed,
though the killing is accidental.
His corpse is brought back and
there is a melancholy funeral
and the lament of the bagpipes,
and then the American, who has
gone back to his homeland, does
the decent thing by returning to
his beloved and everybody is
doomed to live happily ever
after, or at least for one day
every 100 years for ever and
ever. For a musical comedy this
airy fantasy in the J. M. Barrie
manner sounds heavy business,
but it isn’t. After a slow be-
ginning the tartans start whirling
and continue to whirl through
pre-wedding dance, sword
dances, manhunt and funeral
procession until they come to
rest through sheer exhaustion.
The savage scene in the oak
wood is particularly well
rendered. The music is pleasant
and the principal singers, Ken
Cantril and Gwen Overton, have
agreeable voices.
Music.
Rare indeed it is to hear play-
ing of four stringed instru-
ments of such virility, precision
and general musicianly qualities
such as marked the first Sydney
recital of the Griller Quartet.
Led by Sydney Griller, the
quartet opened with the second
of Mozart’s “Haydn” quartets
—the D Minor (K 421) —a work
less sunny than is usual with
Mozart. Light and shade here
were admirably blended, with
delicate balance held between
the instruments. The compact,
dramatic Beethoven work, in F
Minor, opened with a spectacular
attack in which the quartet is
voiced in unison. High emotional
tension informed the whole of
the Allegro con brio, the four
working like demons. Relaxa-
tion came with the Allegretto,
some beautiful interweaving of
strings producing the very
essence of brooding sorrow
which rides this movement. In
the final Larghetto the viola
(Philip Burton) contributed a
lovely solo voice to enrich this
profound music. The third
work, the G Major Quartet by
Arnold Bax, is quite a listenable
affair, and the four players lent
great rhythmic strength to its
opening, and at the last, where
the music dies away to nothing,
the playing reached an extra-
ordinary high standard of
delicacy and beauty. Jack
O’Brien, as the second violin.
and Colin Hampton at the ’cello
were the other two players.
4* 4* 4*
Iris Donohoe’s recital at
Sydney Con, was chiefly re-
markable for the intelligent
artistry with which she used a
lyric soprano which is good but
not great. In the opening
Scarlatti group she combined a
fine legato with a well-controlled
half-voice in “O Cessate,”
whilst the “Spesso Vibra” was
the essence of charm and
vivacity. Herein lies the reason
for Miss Donohoe’s success: she
renders to each song a carefully-
prepared treatment in terms of
mood and color, and she is com-
pletely convincing whether she is
interpreting the tragic, as in the
“L’Altra Notte” from Boito’s
“Mephistofele,” the coquet-
tishness of Wekerlin’s “Petro-
nille,” the girlish yearnings in
> Brahms’s “Och, Moder,” the
vivacity of Spanish songs by
Granados, or just in charming
repose. Her enunciation in each
of the five languages over which
she ranged was on the same high
plane as, the rest of her artistry.
4* 4* 4*
John Franks, a Latvian now
settled in Australia, used in
polished style a tenor of fine
quality when he appeared with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Eugene Goossens. He
succeeded admirably in invest-
ing Lenski’s aria from “Eugene
Onegin” and “None Shall Sleep”
from “Turandot” with the
dramatic qualities peculiar to
each. Franks should be a de-
cided asset to future operatic
productions here where a
heavier-than-lyric voice is called
for. The orchestra orched through
Roussel’s very ordinary Suite in
F Major, Margaret Suther-
land’s neatly-contrived little
tone-poem “Haunted Hills,” an
exuberant reading of the Good
Friday Music from “Parsifal”
and the naive and sometimes
cloying sentimentalities of
Tschaikowsky’s Polish Sym-
phony.
Art.
Dargie’s portrait of Sir John
Northcott, Governor of N.S.W.,
which was commissioned by the
Royal Exchange of Sydney, is
now hanging in the Exchange
building. It is one of the best
Dargies to date, an admirable
likeness, pleasantly arranged,
and with a solid quality in the
paint and characterisation that
recalls Longstaff. The portrait
keeps company with paintings
of Sir Charles Fitzroy, who laid
the Royal Exchange foundation-
stone 100 years ago, and of 'Sir
William Denison, who, five years
later, officially opened the
building.
* * *
Mrs. H. B. Minchin has in-
troduced a principle new to Mel-
bourne art-shows in her exhibi-
tion of oils at Kozminsky’s.
Patrons are asked to state how
much they are prepared to pay
for a picture, and if it coincides
with the artist’s opinion they get
the picture. Throwing the onus
on the customer in this way re-
calls Whistler’s famous retort
when the judge in the Whistler-
Ruskin libel case asked the
artist if he demanded 300
guineas for 20 minutes’ work.
“No/’ replied Whistler. “For the
knowledge of a lifetime.” Mrs.
Minchin was a pupil of Max
Meldrum, but her work doesn’t
show much evidence of that
master’s teaching.


THIS BOOKLET
ON REQUEST
[Z,
e WrL Ls
****&*
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UTS
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
DO you know: when, how and why a Will
should be made or revised?—that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified ... of Trusts and what they involve
... of how you can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends <
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 12$ p.c. serves.*
£> £i £> £> £
1945 .. 172,073 7500 14,000 133,680 610,180
Added share premium res., £7600.. 617,680
1946 .. 188,830 7500 14,000 133,855 651,155
Insurance reserve appears, £35,000.. 686,155
16 p.c.f
1947 .. 270,282 7500 14,000 178,640 756,247
Staff bonus, £22,330 .. .. .. 733,917
15 p.c.
1948 .. 305,923 7500 14,000 209,343 808,997
Share premiums, £307,037 .. .. 1,116,034
1949 .. 339,810 7500 14,000 223,300 1,210,544
Share premiums, £428 .. .. 1,210,972
1950 .. 323,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
Share premiums, £382,828 .. .. 1,665,132
1951 .. 364,882 . 7500 14,000 286,438 1,722.076
* After deducting goodwill ( £165,227) and excluding
depreciation reserve (now £495,232) and deferred
maintenance reserve (£7500). t Includes 2 p.c.
victory bonus.
The scrip of this big variety-chain-store
organisation ranks high among industrial
equities in the market. Among the
factors upon which investors base their
assessment are robust earnings and divi-
dends, combined with vigorous and con-
tinued expansion and recurrent new share-
issues, punctuated at intervals with the
distribution of bonus shares, and an en-
couraging outlook. On the merchandising
side the stores are a special development
of the bazaar-type of trading. Quick turn-
over for cash reduces the risk of loss
from price fluctuations, there are no book
debts in the ordinary retail sense of the
term, and research and buying depart-
ments keep the shops in the chain filled
with new and other lines having a high
general appeal.
The Woolworth group, with head-
quarters at Sydney, consists of parent and
eight subsidiaries, which together operate
a chain of 115 stores or more scattered
throughout Australia and New Zealand.
From 1928 (when the public became in-
terested) to 1938 paid capital shot up
from £63,264 to £1,388,999—£944,712 of
the increase was bonus scrip and the
other £381,023 brought with it £199,977
of share premiums. War interrupted the
growth, of course, but there has since been
a resurgence of the pre-war trend. Over
the half-dozen years to January 31, 1951,
£992,970 was added to capital and
£697,793 to the share-premium account.
That lifted paid capital to £2,331,969 in
75,000 £1 10 p.c. and 200,000 £1 7 p.c.
prefs. and 8,227,875 ords. of ss. each at
Jan. 31 last.
A year ago the board had planned a
programme of expansion involving expen-
diture of some £1,250,000 “during the next
few years.” To meet part of the outlay
shareholders were offered 1,533,023 ords.
at a premium of ss. each early last term.
Another 235,520 ords, were issued fully-
paid at par in exchange for 58,830 f.-p.
£1 ords. held by outsiders in Woolworths
(W.A.), Ltd., making it a wholly-owned
subsidiary. A further 318,587 ords, were
also issued f.-p. at par in exchange for
half the ord. capital (637,174 f.-p. ss.
shares) in Macduffs, Ltd., a rival chain-
store organisation in New Zealand. The
other half of Macduffs’ ord. capital was
acquired by Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.,
which later took over the Macduff shares
held by the parent in exchange for
318,587 of its own f.-p. ss. ords.
At the close of last accounts, those
on the parent co.’s ord. register (at Jan.
31) were rewarded with a twofold
issue of new shares, one lot for cash and
the other lot a gift. The cash portion
consisted of 2,742,625 ords., one for three,
at par; the gift was a like number af
ords., one for three, and was charged
against share-premium reserve. That will
lift paid capital to £3,703,287, on which
pref. divs, and 12 p.c. to the ords. would
call for £432,894, or 9.1 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined). And 12 p.c. to the ords. would
be equal to 15 p.c. on their capital less
the bonus issue. Pref. requirements and
15 p.c. to the ords. would take £535,743,
or 11.2 p.c. on shareholders’ funds. Last
term’s profit (£364,882) was equal to
9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds as they
stood at Jan. 31, 1951. Also the tax-
gatherer might ask for a bit more in the
near future. Maintenance of the 15 p.c.
div. is thus in doubt at the moment.
However, the market expects share-
holders to be asked for more later,
and therefore prices the ords., ex
rights, at 245. 9d., giving an immedi-
ate return of 2.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. There is nothing to be gained
from purchase of the rights at 19s. 9d.
The 10 p.c. prefs. at 455. and the 7 per-
cents. at 325, 6d, yield 4.4 p.c. and 4.3 p.c.
respectively.
After allowing £88,121 (up £47,705) for
depreciation, and paying the previous
year’s tax bill (£155,844, up £75,651) but
making no provision for the next one
when it arrives, the year’s net earnings
increased by £41,772, reaching £364,882.
That covered the pref. divs. and 18 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 19.6,
22.4, 20.3 and 22.3 p.c. back to 1947.
Some of the new capital, however, had
contributed little, if anything, to the pool
when the books closed. The div. was
kept at 15 p.c., making average distri-
bution over the last five years 15.2 p.c. as
against an average of 11.9 p.c, for the
preceding quinquennium.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect the
growth in capital (up £521,783) and share
premiums (up £382,828):
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. . 1,670,624 1,810,186 1,810,186 2,331,969
Liabilities .. 390,175 439,194 547,141 619,949
Freeholds . . 41,881 44,506 44,987 44,993
Leaseholds .. 86,392 78,355 98,401 92,477
Plant .. 874,725 891,666 411,797 530,190
Shares other
cos. .. 1,429,127 1,546,662 1,556,662 2,413,704
Stocks .. 1,077,065 1,371,238 1,061,611 1,190,573
Debtors* .. 270,138 643,226 1,106,149 778.450
Cash . . 173,483 16,583 19,553 390.785
Goodwill . . 165,227 165,227 165,227 165.227
* Includes advances to subsidiaries —£229,029, 1947 ;
£206,172, 1948; £562,539, 1949 ; £1,078,124,
1950; £721,340, 1951.
The holding in subsidiaries, etc., in-
creased by £857,042, plant by £118,393,
stocks by £128,903 and cash by £371,232,
Book debts (down £327,699) are mainly
advances to subsidiaries.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
1941.. 65,348 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,720 12 „ „ 48,000 5,720 144,731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ „ 40,000 14,552 159,283
1944.. 55,751 10 „ ~40,000 15,751 175,034
1945.. 63,360 10 „ „ 40,000 23,360 198,394
1946.. 64,504 10 „ „ 40,000 24,504 222,898
1947.. 66,124 10 „ ~40,000 26,124 249,022
1948.. 65,986 10 „ ~40,000 25,986 275,008
Share premiums, £47,706 .. .. 322,714
1949.. 82,301 12$ p.c. = 60,000 82,801 355,015
Share premiums, £2294 ~ .. 357.309
1960.. 91,566 12$ p.c, - 62,500 29,066 386,375
* Subject to goodwill, etc. £80,508 at Sept. 30, 1950.
From a string of seven factories —three
in Victoria, two in N. S. Wales and
one each in S. Australia and Tasmania —
this 29-year-old turns out a wide range
of high-grade canned foods, condiments,
etc. Over the last 32 years shareholders
have had annual divs. averaging over 11
p.c., sweetened with periodic new share-
issues. Moreover, in its incessant assault
against costs, the co, has provided its
workers with the most modern plant and
equipment available.
To help finance expanding turnover,
spurred by growth of population and in-
flation, 100,000 new £1 ords, were issued
at a premium of 10s. each just before the
close of accounts in 1949. Now more is
wanted for the same purpose, and for
the erection of a large new warehouse at
Richmond (Vic.), So, subject to
official sanction, a further 100,000 new
ords. are to be issued at an early date on
terms yet to be announced.
The market for the f.-p. pound shares,
which rose from 555. a year ago to 68s.
in January last, strengthened to 725. last
week. Assuming that the pending new
issue, which is in the proportion of one-
for-five, will also be made at a premium
of 10s. a share, the net price at 725., after
exercising the rights and allowing for
brokerage, would be 655. 7d. At that
figure the return would be 3.8 p.c. on a
\2\ p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
would be 355. 2d.
Last term local demand for the co.’s
products strengthened, and the export
market improved as the year advanced.
The growth in output and sales —most of
the co.’s selling-prices are controlled—
more than took care of the advance in
wage, fruit, sugar, fuel, transport and
other outgoings. Of the increase of
£58,330 in gross earnings (£555,640),
exes. (£464,074) made off with £49,065,
leaving a net gain of £9265. The £91,566
of profit was 18.3 p.c. on average capital
as against 20.5, 16.5, 16.5, 16.1, 15.8 and
13.9 p.c. back to 1944. The div. was kept
at 12i p.c., which on £600,000 of capital
would call for £16,566 less profit than
was claimed last term.
To carry an extra £284,660 of stocks
the co. added £262,851 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc.:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. £400.000 £400,000 £495,411 £500,000
S’dry creditors* 180,898 307,208 301,212 564,063
Final div. .. 40,000 40,000 50,000 62,500
Property .. 221,248 252,128 280,190 316,013
Plant, etc. .. 91,696 118,873 126,199 125.291
Stocks .. 311,611 474.632 611,658 896.318
Debtors . . 92,159 146,265 152,783 144.432
Cash. etc. .. 122,682 287 349 376
Goodwill, etc. 30,531 30,531 30.508 30,508
* Includes “provisions.”
The more-or-less liquid surplus (£414,564)
was £lOO5 stronger, despite a net addi-
tion of £35,823 to freeholds. The new
capital will, of course, substantially ease
the debt position.
Sales have been fully maintained since
the close of accounts, inter-State trading
being very encouraging, the chairman
says. The big fight will be against wage
and other costs, which are rising steeply.
Tin-plate stocks are low, the price of the
stuff is rocketing, and the forward supply
position is “most disturbing.”
Goliath Portland Cement Co. (Ta«.)
f Dividends s
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept.,Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
’41..34,220 10,016 13.1 p.c. = 38,579 33,516
’42-24,250 10,016 6.3 „ „ 15,990 31.760
’43-12,794 10,016 2.5 „ ~ 6.396 28.142
’44-12,596 10,016 2.5 „ „ 6,896 24,326
’45-20,708 10,016 3.76 ~ ~ 9,594 1,093 25,419
’46-26,126 10,016 5.06 „ „ 14,391 1,719 27,138
’47-44,361 10,016 11.1 „ „ 28,781 5,564 32.702
Add plant renewal res., £25,000 .. 57,702
’4B-42,268 10,016 11.1 p.c. = 28,783 3,469 61,171
Add plant renewal res., £25,000 .. 86,171
’49-36,767 10,016 11.1 p.c. = 28,782 84.140
Add plant res., etc., £25,183 .. ..109,273
’5O-39,563 10,016 11.1 p.c. = 28,782 765 110,038
The £398,926 of paid capital is in 143,092
£1 7 p.c. prefs. and 383,751 ords. f.-p.
to 13s, 4d. each. Last week the board
announced that each existing ord. would
be exchanged at an early date for two
new ords. f.-p. to 10s. each. That is
equivalent to a bonus-scrip issue of
£127,917 (50 p.c.), to be met out of a
reserve created by revaluation of free-
holds. It will lift paid capital to £526,843,
of which £383,751 will be on the ord. and
the balance on the pref. register.
The gift surprised the market, and the
price of the old 13s. 4d. shares advanced
sharply from 355. 6d. in January to
40s, last week. At 40s. the net cost of
the new 10s. shares will be 20s. So the
investor who looks for 4.5 p.c, on his
money counts on a 9 p.c. div., which
together with pref. requirements would
call for £44,554, or £4991 more profit
than was claimed last term. The prefs.
at 31s. yield 4.5 p.c. Allowing for re-
construction of the capital account, net
tangible cover is £4 9s, prefs. and 12s, lOd.
per 10s. ord. share.
The co.’s 100,000-ton-p.a. cement plant
at Railton (Tas.) is an efficient unit, along-
side good shale, clay and limestone
deposits, with comparatively cheap hydro-
electric power available. And a new
asbestos-cement sheeting factory, put up
alongside the cement works, came into
production in Oct., 1947, and is now
giving a good account of itself. Nearly
100 p.c. of the sheeting and about 75 p-c.
of the cement produced are sold on the
Tasmanian market, and the balance is
snapped up on the mainland. The order-
book is well ahead of output for each
plant.
Last term the co.’s production of
cement increased by 5 p.c. and of
asbestos-sheeting by 16 p.c., and the
board figured net earnings £2796 better
at £39,563. That was after allowing the
usual £lO,OOO for depreciation, setting
aside £41,343 (up £10,862) for the tax-
gatherer and sending £25,000 (same as
previous year) to a plant-replacement
reserve (now £75,000). Whether the
profit was any better than claimed
depends upon whether the ordinary
allowance for depreciation proves
sufficient to cover actual replacement
costs, which have rocketed, like the cost
of everything else, owing to inflation.
The true economic cycle of a business
enterprise starts not with money, but with
plant and goods ; and until provision has
been made for replacement of the appro-
priate proportion of fixed and liquid
assets there are no real profits. If the
board’s estimates concerning replacement
are correct, then the Government is
actually taxing capital as well as profit,
which is thoroughly bad in both prin-
ciple and practice.
The co. is well-shod financially, and
few industries enjoy a more satisfactory
outlook at the moment than cement:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital . . 398,926 398,926 398,926 398,926
Sundry creditors . . 16,405 18,896 28,475 37,495
Tax provision . . 31,000 49,00 0 35,000 42,000
Staff funds .. 4,949 5,367
Freehold, leases,
plant, etc. . . 187,839 190,153 190,081 205.533
Stocks . . . . 90,762 115,110 135,387 141.013
Book debts .. 62,640 84,354 89,139 91,233
Cash. etc. . . 149,916 150,938 136,630 154.126
Shares in other cos. 17,000 17,000 19,500 20,750
The year’s net addition of £15,452 to
fixed assets was largely on account of
extension of the asbestos-cement section.
Shareholdings include 25,000 £1 ords.
(paid to 3s. each) in the recently-formed
North Australian Cement Co. (Towns-
ville), in which Adelaide Steam and
Queensland Lime and Cement are also
interested.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Ho- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 19,045 10 p.c. = 19,400 200,389
To staff fund, £5OO .. .. 199,889
From tax reserve, £3247.. .. 203,136
1943.. 16,410 13$ p.c. = 19,400 7
To staff fund, £5OO .. J
199,646
From tax reserve, £ 1297 ..
1944.. 18,165 13J p.c. = 19,400 7
To staff fund, £5OO .. J
200,943
199,208
From tax reserve, £340
1945.. 21,335 15 p.c. = 21,825 7
To staff fund, £750
.. 199,548
198,308
1946.. 33,114 18$ p.c. = 26,675 1
To staff fund, £lOOO .. f
5,439 203,747
1947.. 33,430 18$ p.c. = 26,675 1
To staff fund, £lOOO .. J
5,755 209,502
1948.. 37,300 20 p.c. = 29,100 1
To staff fund, £ 1500 .. )
6,700 216,202
1949.. 34,672 20 p.c. = 29,100 1
To staff fund, £l5OO .. S
4,072 220,274
1960.. 43,226 20’p.c. = 29,100 1
To staff fund, £2OOO .. )
12, 12G 232,400
. ~ - A nTft R Pin
Asset revaluation reserve, £47,250.. 279,650
Bonus share issue, £47,250 •• 232.400
Few cos. have done better for their
shareholders than this furniture, furnish-
ing-drapery, chinaware and cash-order
business —it pioneered the cash-order
form of consumer credit in Sydney. From
the beginning (in 1903) to end 1930
£222,400 of bonus scrip was handed out,
and divs. averaged 18.7 P-C. over t “ e
last 18 years of the period. Then, slump
having reduced capital requirements,
£174,833 (more than was originally put
up in cash) was returned to shareholders.
Another one-for-four gift was made in
1935, and divs. averaged 12.6 p.c. for
the decade to the end of 1940, followed
by an average of 16.3 p.c. for the ten
years to the close of last accounts. Mean-
while (in 1943) another £48,500 was re-


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Adtt.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
The Real Soviet Story
Hard to believe the Russian
revolution in 1917 was origin-
ally democratic. Lenin and
Trotsky weren’t even in Russia;
Stalin was in exile. Com-
munists seized power 8 months
later. Finally, Lenin came to
hate his strong-arm henchman,
Stalin. In his famous last
"testament” to the party his
advice was “get rid of Stalin”.
April Reader’s Digest brings
you the little known story of
how a few fanatics stole the
Russian people’s achievement
in freedom.
Your whole family will enjoy
April Reader’s Digest—packed
with 33 stimulating, informa-
tive articles from leading
magazines, current books. One
shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookata.iia T
Your vacation
self-drive car -
anywhere Britain
and continent -
Davy
Europe’s most reasonable rates!
Most friendly service from £1 per
day for SO miles, then 6d. a mile.
150 new Jaguars, Austins, Fords. Also
chauffeur-driven. Brochure from J.
Davy, 9 Logan Place, Kensington.
Cables: Jaydbecars, London,
mv mom mfe*
SANDERSI
QM& FILE|
w
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Price* tod f»r-
*t»er tniurir.&tlua
• pou Application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DutnhtUin/ Agrrt
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
•SBTU
C Prnfold * Co Pty, LM.
Nurmao Bros Pty. Ltd.
Vordon 4t Sous Ltd.
Docket Boon Co (Aool.i
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT
COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in Queensland]
ADDRESS BY CHAIRMAN (MR. J. H. HOLMES)
To the SHAREHOLDERS OF CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY LIMITED,
at the Fifty-fifth Ordinary General Meeting of the Company held at the Registered
Office of the Company, 156-166 Boundary Street, Brisbane, on 30th March, 1951.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I now have the honour of presenting to you at this
the Fifty-fifth Ordinary General Meeting of th
Company, the report of your Directors and the Profi
and Loss Account and Balance Sheet for the yea
ended 31st January, 1951.
We are very gratified at some of our achievement
during the year. On the other hand, we also sufferet
some real disappointments, I will deal first with ou
disappointments.
INCREASE IN COSTS:
Once again, we have been faced with rapidly risin
costs. At our last Annual Meeting I told you that
had hoped, as a result of the increase in tariffs ther
granted, that, during the past year, in addition tc
meeting all necessary provisions from revenue, w
would be able to restore to the Reserve Fund th
amount withdrawn for the equalisation of dividends
Unfortunately, prices rose even faster than we hac
anticipated. The result has.been that whilst we have
had a gratifying increase in our profits, we have been
able to increase our Reserve Fund only by £15,822
instead of the greater figure at which we had aimed
A further tariff increase has been granted to redres
this balance. While prices continue to rise, the price
charged for electricity must rise in keeping.
The present soaring prices are beginning to reach
alarming proportions. It is important that drastic
action be taken to prevent any worsening. As I have
told you on several previous occasions, inflation can
be prevented only by increased production. Increasec
production can be achieved only by breaking once and
for all the Communist grip upon the key industries
Up to the present time, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has been frustrated in its efforts to deal with this
dangerous situation. There are now good grounds to
believe that the Government will in the near future be
able to deal with the Communist menace and so bring
to a halt the rapidly recurring rises in prices.
SHORTAGE OF MATERIALS:
It will not surprise you that the materials which we
require remain in scarce supply and that the programme
for our new generating station has been seriously
delayed. Your Directors, long ago, recognised the
need for increased generating plant and placed orders
accordingly. If we had been able to carry out our
plans, Bulimba “B” would to-day be in operation anc
actually generating electricity. Although we obtainec
steel from England at greatly increased cost and
authorised our suppliers similarly to obtain materials
from abroad to meet schedule dates, Bulimba “B” is
not operating. Furthermore, there is no likelihood ol
its being able to operate at any time during this year
or next. This was our most serious disappointment.
A year ago I told you that unless Bulimba “B” was
operating during the winter of 1952, regular and con-
sistent rationing of electricity in South-Eastern Queens-
land would be unavoidable. That is the position which
your Directors had to face up to during the past year.
“PACKAGED” POWER PLANT:
Fortunately, we were able to do something to avert
this disaster. As you have been told in our Annual
Report, we have entered into a contract for the supply
from the United States of America and the erection
here of a Westinghouse “packaged” power plant of
10,000 kilowatt capacity before the winter of 1952. I
am reasonably confident that this can be achieved. On
a kilowatt basis, the capital cost of this power station
is necessarily higher than that of Bulimba “B.” How-
ever, by locating the power station in the Ipswich area,
and making full use of our distribution system and the
proximity of coal supplies, we will be able to reduce
generating costs substantially. The net result will be
that the cost per unit supplied from this power station
will be only slightly greater than the cost per unit
from Bulimba “B” when that station comes into
operation. The installation of this plant will in no way
affect our plans for the completion of Bulimba “B.”
OUR SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES:
Last year, I warned you of the serious danger that,
because of the rapidly increasing demand for coal,
supplies of coal from the West Moreton field might
within a few years completely fail to meet the demand.
Coal is not the only item essential to our operations
which remains in short supply. We are experiencing
great difficulty in obtaining most of the materials which
we require. To make provision for our requirements,
your Directors have found it necessary ourselves to
undertake the production of many of the materials in
short supply, particularly coal, timber, building
materials and engineering supplies. After very careful
investigation, it was decided that it was not practicable
to undertake small-scale production solely to meet our
own requirements, but that we should have to under-
take large-scale manufacture to meet public require-
ments as well as our own requirements. The industries
which we have selected are basic industries. We believe
that no other body in Queensland has the resources
available to develop these industries. Furthermore, we
regard it as our duty to Queensland to play an even
greater part in its development in the future than we
have in the past. In selecting these industries, we
received all possible encouragement and assistance
from the Government of Queensland and the officers
of the Queensland Public Service. I desire to express
our thanks particularly to the Premier, the Hon. E. M.
Hanlon; the Deputy Premier, the Hon. V. C. Gair;
the Minister for Mines and Immigration, the Hon. W.
Power; the Minister for Labour and Industry, the Horn
A. Jones; the Under Secretary Department of Mines,
Mr. G. F. Clark; and the Director of Forests, Mr. V.
Greening. This list is by no means exclusive. I wish
to take this opportunity of publicly thanking all those
who have assisted and are still assisting us in develop-
ing these industries so vital to Queensland’s future.
QUEENSLAND INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.:
To develop these industries, a subsidiary company,
Queensland Industries Pty. Ltd., was incorporated on
the Bth September, 1950, with a nominal capital of
£500,000. 250,000 shares of £1 each have been issued
to your company and its nominees, and at the close of
accounts £100,002 had been paid up. It has the same
Directors as your Company, with our Managing
Director, Mr. E. S. Cornwall, as Chairman of Directors.
The company is in process of establishing four different
industries. Firstly, it has acquired interests in coal-
bearing lands which are at present under test. Secondly,
it has purchased an existing sawmill, which is being
replaced by a new mill on a new site at Peachester.
Thirdly, it has purchased as a going concern a very
efficient foundry and engineering works at Ipswich.
Fourthly, it has taken up areas of clay-behring lands,
and plans are in hand for the erection of a modern
and up-to-date brick works. Your Directors believe
that these industries, when firmly established, will give
to City Electric Light Company Limited, a satisfactory
return upon its investment.
QUEENSLAND CONTRACTORS PTY. LTD.:
In order to carry out the necessary engineering works
for Queensland Industries Pty. Ltd., that company in
turned formed another subsidiary, Queensland Con-
tractors Pty. Ltd., which was incorporated on the 10th
October, 1950. 50,000 ordinary contributing shares of
£1 each were taken up by Queensland Industries Pty.
Ltd., and at the close of its accounts, they were paid
to £27,500. This company is at present drilling the
coal-bearing lands at Ipswich, and, in addition, is
carrying out other drilling work including contracts
for the South Coast Hospitals Board and the Queens-
land Wheat Board. Already, it is the largest mineral
drilling organisation in Queensland.
SCOTT’S FOUNDRY:
The foundry and engineering works which we pur-
chased in Ipswich is a very efficient and well-known
business conducted by Mr. A. McConechy Scott. I am
happy to be able to tell you that Mr. Scott and his
entire staff remain with us. Almost the first question
that Mr. Scott asked us in our discussions with him
was whether we would be prepared to continue to do
the work required by present customers. We assured
Mr. Scott that not only would we do this, but we
would expand the works immediately to cope with
orders which he had had to turn away. Already, we
have been able to expand the operation of the works
very considerably. To meet our own requirements as
well as those of the public, further rapid expansion is
required. On the new and very suitable site which
we have purchased, and which has been approved by
the Ipswich City Council, Scott’s Foundry will play
an important part in the progress, development and
prosperity of Ipswich.
MANAGEMENT OF SUBSIDIARIES:
As Manager of our subsidiaries, we have appointed
Mr. G. G. L’Estrange, who is well known to you as a
Director of this Company. Mr. L’Estrange has been a
Senior Engineer of City Electric Light Company
Limited for many years past. He resigned from that
employment and took up his new position on the Ist
January last. He had to collect an entirely new staff
and organise the establishment of four separate
industries. The progress already made is an indication
of his abilities,
\) f ' . v ’ - ,IT;:V.■ ■ ~ -
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION:
During the year, Mr. S. F. Cochran, who has
controlled the electrical development of this State since
1937, first as Chairman of the State Electricity
Commission of Queensland, and latterly as sole Com-
missioner for Electricity, resigned to take up the
position of Chairman of the Joint Coal Board of New
South Wales. Mr. Cochran will be missed in Queens-
land. Queensland’s loss is Australia’s gain. lam
confident that Mr. Cochran will be equally successful
in his new position in New South Wales as he was in
Queensland. I am very pleased that in his place was
appointed Mr. Neil Smith, who has been associated
with Mr. Cochran for many years past, and is well
qualified and suited as his successor.
TRADING DEPARTMENT:
The Trading Department did not commence opera-
tions until sth June, 1950. During the year, it has
had no more than very inadequate and temporary
showrooms. In spite of this, it is already on a
profitable basis. Under the direction of our Sales
Manager, Mr. D. J. Lambert, we expect the Trading
Department during the current year to make a sub-
stantial contribution to our revenue.
FUTURE CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS:
Our present programme provides for the making of
the last call on the current issue of contributing shares
in November next. The acceleration of our programme
of development and the need for making advance
payments against our “packaged” power plant will
require further capital at a somewhat earlier date than
we had anticipated. In addition to raising further loan
moneys, arrangements for which are now in hand, we
will be giving our shareholders the opportunity of
subscribing further share capital. This will be required
very soon after the present share issue is paid up or
even perhaps before that time. Your Directors con-
sidered that it would be unfair to make a further share
issue while the contributing issue was current without
giving the holders of those shares an opportunity of
paying them up in full. It has been decided, therefore,
to allow the holders of contributing shares to pay for
shares in full at any time before the 2nd May, as from
which date the further amount paid up will rank for
dividend. Notices to shareholders will be posted at
the close of this meeting with dividend cheques.
OUR EMPLOYEES:
I should like once more to express your Directors’
appreciation of the efficient service of your Company’s
employees, all of whom have loyally served the Com-
pany in carrying out its extensive programme of
development and maintaining a very efficient service.
turned to those on the register,
reducing paid capital to
£145,500. Since the close of
accounts (in Feb., 1951) there
has been a further gift of
£47,250-worth of bonus scrip,
one for three, made from a re-
serve of like amount created by
revaluation of freeholds—the
£47,250 is only part of the
surplus (amount unstated) dis-
closed by the revaluation. The
gift will lift paid capital to
£192,750, on which 20 p.c. will
call for £4676 less profit than
was claimed last term, and it
will make 20 p.c. worth 26.5 p.c.
on capital as it stood before the
handout.
The f.-p. 15s. shares, now
covered by 375. 2d. in net
tangibles (book-value), are
tightly held. Buyers offered
755. before the gift-scrip issue,
but there have been no recorded
sales on ’Change since the
beginning of 1951.
Last year there was again a
“substantial” increase in turn-
over, especially in furniture and
furnishings. In the cash-order
section activity has been, and
still is, hampered by central-
bank restriction of credit for,
and by Government regulation
of, this class of trade. How-
ever, despite a reduced margin
of gross profit and growth in
operating costs, declared net
earnings were £8554 better at
£43,226, best since the palmy
1920’5. The div. was kept at
20 p.c., and prospects of suffi-
cient being earned during the
current term to maintain that
rate look bright enough at the
moment. Owing to the housing
position and growth of popula-
tion, augmented by immigration,
there is a large potential demand
ahead of the furniture and
furnishing trades. The specu-
lative question is what effective
demand will be in the less
immediate future. It will depend
largely upon the relative levels
of incomes, costs and prices.
The co. trades well within its
own resources:
£ £ £
1948. 1949. 1950.
1 Paid capital.. 145,500 145,500 145,500
Sundry cred.* 68,957 68,449 84,605
Overdraft .. 13,017
Staff fund .. • 10,399 11,783 15.174
Pinal div. .. 16,975 16,975 16,975
Property and
plant, etc... 94,494 •94,808 141,805
Stock .. 67.388 89,885 104,824
Hire agreements 123,769 1 , Qa Q 1„
Book debts . . 44,569 ] 198,613 258.310
Shares, deben-
tures, etc... 45,452 43,922 23,724
Mortgages .. 2,188
Government se-
curities .. 74,591 50,111 12.300
Cash, etc. .. 2,085 160 5.942
* Including taxation.
To carry an extra £54,697 of
hire agreements, add £14,939 to
stocks and wipe out the over-
draft (£13,017 at the previous
balance), the holding of Gov-
ernment securities, debentures,
etc., was reduced by £58,009,
and £16,156 was added to the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc. The growth in fixed
assets (up £46,997) reflects the
writing-up of book-values fol-
lowing revaluation.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
This Adelaide-controlled co.
operates two mines at Norseman
(W.A.). One, the Norseman, a
gold-producer, ceased opera-
tions early in 1947, when the
grade of mill-feed fell to
2.64dwt. per ton. Since then
earnings have come from min-
ing the pyritic ore-body in the
Iron King. Now that exports of
sulphur from U.S. (the world’s
biggest supplier) have been cut,
the stuff has become a scarce
commodity the world over,
and looks like remaining
so for some time. One
result has been a sharp increase
in the demand for locally-pro-
duced pyritic concentrates, thus
brightening the outlook for
Norseman, which sells its con-
centrates (used for making
sulphuric acid) to two super-
phosphate cos. in W.A.
At the end of last month
shareholders were asked to put
up an extra £62,500, lifting paid
capital to £187,500 in ss. shares.
The new money is wanted
mainly to expand production of
pyrites, and partly to test-drill
probable extension of the gold-
bearing ore-bodies in the Norse-
man. Additional areas have
been pegged in the vicinity of
both mines on the recommenda-
tion of geologist H. J. C.
Conolly. At the Iron King ore
reserves at Oct. 31, 1950, were
put at 1,073,000 tons, estimated
to average not less than 25 p.c.
sulphur.
For the year to Oct. 31 last
48,750 tons pyritic ore, averag-
ing 25.9 p.c. sulphur, were
crushed, from which the flota-
tion plant turned out 24,435
tons of 46.2 p.c. concentrates
with a total sulphur content of
11,289 tons. In addition 12,464
tons high-grade ore were
crushed and railed direct to
manufacturers. Average at-
works price received was
£l3 2s. per ton sulphur.
Costs were ss. lOd. heavier at
665. per ton ore. The profit was
£20,775, of which a 3d. div. took
£6250. When the books closed
current assets totalled £64,815
and current liabilities £85,618.
The co.’s f.-p. ss. shares,
which had dropped to 2s. in the
market in 1949, recently fetched
9s. 6d.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
April swept in with a westerly so cold
that even the most improvident rushed
to the shops for winter clothing, generally
to find that the provident had bought up
the best things last month.
The good basic skirt and twin-set can
run you into a lot of money this year.
The cashmere sweater and cardigan costs
from eight to ten guineas, an imported
skirt from seven guineas upward. People
have grown used to the £2O-touch in
topcoats, and a suit at 18 guineas is now
regarded as “very cheap,” as 25, 30 and
40 guineas are by no means uncommon
prices. The cry used to be “madam must
get used to , the new styles” ; now the
salesgirls say “madam must get used to
the new prices.”
At the opening of the Borovansky
Ballet season the dressing was rather
mixed, though large numbers of the audi-
ence shivered elegantly in evening-dress or
huddled into fur coats. Mrs. Shirley
Colechin managed both glamor and com-
fort in a long-sleeved evening sweater of
pink wool embroidered with jet and worn
with a black skirt; - Mrs. Eugene Goossens
wore a gold brocade gown which
emphasised the golden look of her skin
and hair. Mrs. Robert Paterson’s onyx
and diamond earrings were as dramatic as
her black-and-white dress. William Con-
stable, who had designed some beautiful
clothes in subtle colors for the cast,
made a straight-out bid for color in men’s
clothes by wearing a sky-blue dinner-
jacket with a white shirt, black tie and
black trousers.
The costumes for “Les Sylphides,”
which led the programme, are of course
always traditional. They date back to
1827 and represent the evening-dress
fashionable at the time. In that year
Taglioni danced an earlier ballet, “La
Sylphide,” in a dress of white muslin
with an underskirt of the same material.
Fashion expert James Laver says “So
great was her success that she stereotyped
ballet costume for the rest of the century.
Her influence on contemporary dress was
no less important, for she inaugurated a
rage for white and flimsy materials —not
used, as they had been at the beginning
of the century, in order to define and
reveal the figure, but to wrap woman up,
as it were, in a haze of moonlight,” Even
today, in our hard-hearted age, this
romantic effect is the most persistent and
sought-after in evening-dress.
Seventeen debs were presented to the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress at the
Loreto Old Girls’ Ball, which was
held at the Trocadero during the
week. At the official table were
the N.S.W. Agent-General, Mr. J. M.
Tully, and Mrs. Tully, Dr. H. C.
Coombs and Mrs. Coombs (their
daughter Janet made her debut), Mr.
Justice De Baun, Judge and Mrs. Clancy.
The hostess was Dr. Tess Carmichael,
president of the O.G.U. Among the
dancers were Mrs. Tim Loneragan, wear-
ing a beautiful dress of copper satin em-
broidered with pearls, Mrs. John Murray
Curtis, Mrs. Tom Bateman in black
sparkling all over with emerald and
crystal beads, Dr. Sheila Drescher in pink
georgette, and Mrs. Greg Flynn, wearing
a dress of exotic brocaded silk.
Those of us'who love theatre and wish
to see it grow strong in the land should
support the Children’s National Theatre
movement, which is at present showing
“Smugglers, Beware! ” on Saturday after-
noons at the St. James’ Hall. One has
only to see the enraptured faces of the
kiddies in the audience to realise that
stage plays can hold even more fascina-
tion for youth than moving-pictures. The
actors come down among the youngsters
after the play and show them that they’re
real people, then take them up on to the
stage so that they can see the smugglers’
well and all the props, which seems to
fill the children with wonder and excite-
ment. This type of entertainment can do
as much for developing a love for the
stage in Australia as the Youth Concerts
have done for the appreciation of music.
It’s something that all parents, at any
rate, should foster and support.
“Worm’s Eye View,” which started at
the Royal during the week, is a fight-
hearted and slightly lightheaded comedy
about English Airforcemen in billets dur-
ing the war. They seem a remarkably
well-mannered lot compared with the
boys of “Rusty Bugles,” but then they
have the “refining influence” of women,
one of whom is an incredible battle-axe,
the other a complete simpleton. Appar-
ently we women have surprising power to
tone down the conversation, no matter
how silly we are.
C.W.A, members in country districts
have had an opportunity to meet Lady
Albemarle, who visited Glen Innes before
she left for Queensland. There she in-
spected the C.W.A. Mountain Home and
then drove with Mrs. V. Golfius, president
of Northern Tablelands Group, to Ten-
terfield, where she laid the foundation-
stone for the new Baby Health Centre and
had afternoon-tea with members. When
she was at Dubbo Lady Albemarle met
members from as far west as Coolabah,
and at Canberra visitors came from the
Hume, Riverina, Sturt and South Coast
Groups.
This is Marion Davies, 21-year-old
British skating star, who is now in Sydney.
She represented Britain in the skating
team for the 1948 Olympic Games and
was British figure-skating champion in
1947. Marion took Up ballet-dancing to
help her with her skating, as she thinks
that training n ballet is essential to
skaters. She was a member of the Ram-
bert ballet in England, but did not
accompany it to Australia during the last
tour. At the end of the war she toured
Czechoslovakia, Switzerland and France
as a solo skater. She can be seen in the
“Ice Follies” at the Tivoli when this show
starts on April 20.
Receptions for the Griller Quartet
seem to be the order of the day. There
are two listed for the coming week, and
last week the Musica Viva gave a party
for them in the rooms of the Chief Secre-
tary. Mrs. Clive Evatt wore a suit and
hat in larkspur-blue. The guests included
Erik Langker, Dorothy Helmrich, Mrs.
Charles Moses, Mrs. H. Findlay and Mrs.
Hope Gibson, The Quartet will give
concerts this week on Thursday and
Saturday at the Conservatorium.
Other treats for music-lovers are the
chamber-music concert to be given by the
recently-formed Kammermusik Group
tonight at the Con., when there will be
works by Beethoven, Schubert, Haydn,
Tate and Rubbra, and the Elgar concert
on Saturday at the Town Hall, when
part-songs will be presented by the St.
George Choral Society in association with
the Sydney Male Choir and the Phyllis
McDonald Chamber Orchestra.
Most depressing news of the week is
that the electricity zoning, instead of
solving things for the housewife, is going
to make them much worse. The an-
nouncements by the Electricity Under-
taking always sound so stern and puri-
tanical, so insistent that discipline and
hardship are not only inevitable but good
for us. If there was ever a word of
apology or even a lower account we might
be able to co-operate more cheerfully.
The next two functions arranged by the
Royal Empire Society are a social even-
ing on Thursday at 8 p.m. and an At-
home on Wednesday, April 18. To-
morrow the party will start at 8 p.m.
with a talk, “The Port of Sydney,” by
Mr. Charles R. Bickford. The At-home
will be hostessed by Mrs. F. E. Manning
and Mrs. A. W. Keighley. It will start
at 2.30 and will take the form of a
musicale, with Mrs. Lindley Evans as
guest-of-honor.
There’s a good deal of interest being
shown in furs at present, no doubt be-
cause the winter prospect seems pretty
bleak with no coal, and blackouts. The
styles of furs have improved vastly over
the past five years or so. All sorts of
designs are shown, boleros and stoles that
can be made into muffs, swingback coats,
smoother shoulders and variety in sleeves.
Prices have risen lately, but a fur coat
is still a good investment. One furrier
says that a good rabbit coat is very
durable, contrary to general belief. All
white rabbitskins, he reports, are im-
ported from China or Belgium. The
Australian watermole is still available,
but it has now become a protected animal,
so it will become much rarer. Its price
ranges from a bolero at £3O to a full
coat at £3OO. The possum, our only other
Australian fur, is popular in America, but
is generally found to be too heavy for
wear here.
From Melbourne
The reception given by the Victoria
League at the Hotel Windsor, at which
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, was
guest-of-honor, was timed to coincide
with the golden jubilee of the League in
London —it was founded on April 2, 1901,
with the promotion of friendship within
the Empire as its main objective. Two
hundred guests were received in the
beautifully-decorated reception-room by
the deputy-president. Lady Herring, and
the senior vice-president, Mrs. Cairns
Officer, assisted by Mrs. H, F. Maudsley
and Mrs, lan Connell. Lady Herring
topped her navy-and-white-patterned silk
ensemble with a small navy straw hat, its
upturned brim finished at one side with
loops of white ribbon. A black jacket-
suit and black hat trimmed with ospreys
was worn by Mrs. Cairns Officer. Mar-
jorie Tatnall, leader of the Young Con-
tingent, gained contrast for her navy
tailored frock with a scarlet velour boater,
Mrs. H. W. Spraggett’s navy, white-
spotted tie-silk frock was worn with a
navy hat which had a white feather-wing.
Lady Disney’s brown-and-white dogs’-
tooth-check suit had a small brown
velour beret for company. Mrs. J. J.
Booth, wife of Archbishop Booth, chose
a black satin frock and a small black,
pink-silk-lined hat. Two members
present who looked back over the years
with no little pride were Miss Mary
Chomley, first honorary-secretary of the
League when it was formed in Victoria,
and Miss Beckie McDonald, who has
been honorary-secretary of the Ballarat
branch since its formation early in the
century. The Governor, on behalf of
members, presented Miss P. Williamson,
who has been secretary to the league for
the past three years, with a wallet of
notes. Miss Williamson has enlisted for
service with the Australian Women’s
Army.
The Town Hall was comfortably filled
for the first of the 1951 celebrity con-
certs, when Isador Goodman played the
Third Piano Concerto of Rachmaninoff
with the Victorian Symphony Orchestra
under Prof. Sir Bernard Heinze. In the
audience were Mrs. M. Sloman, a, mink
coat worn over her ankle-length dinner-
frock, Mrs. Arnold Richardson, in hip-
length black Persian-lamb jacket and
short black frock, and Mrs. L. Cran-
bourne and Mrs. W, L, Ryan, both of
whom wore dyed-ermine coats over black
frocks.
Here is Olive Lucius, tall vivacious
brunette who appears as a very ardent
but unappreciated Scots lassie in “Briga-
doon,” now at His Majesty’s. From the
performance she gives it is hard to believe
that Olive once taught at a girls’ school
in Cheshire; while there she decided to
become an actress. After taking her
L.R.A.M, and L.G.S.M. degrees in
London she joined a repertory company
in Manchester. With the war came a,
year in the 8.8. C. Rep. and then a singing
tour of 600 hospitals. In various West
End performances she . appeared with
Sybil Thorndike, Laurence Olivier and
Henry Ainley. Olive’s last film role was
that of a cabaret artist in “Noose,” which
gave her an opportunity to play the piano
and sing French songs.
Audiences at the Princess are seeing
Shakspeare’s “Taming of the Shrew” just
as it was presented in the days of Eliza-
beth. The curtain is up as the audience
files into the theatre. On stage there is
the bustle and a hurrying indoors as a
band of Globe players arrive, but,
having persuaded the innkeeper they
mean no harm, he gives his con-
sent and “The Shrew” is per-
formed, with an “audience” on
stage. This presentation opened the
drama festival arranged by the National
Theatre. In the official party were Sir
Robert and Lady Knox, the latter wearing
a gown of royal-blue crepe, the waist en-
circled with a sash of multicolored
ribbon. Mrs. A. T. Smithers’s gown was
of dove-grey brocade. Anne Spraggett.
who was with her parents, Col. and Mrs.
H. W. Spraggett, wore primrose faille.
Mrs. F. R, Dennett chose a gown of black
satin embossed with a velvet tulip design.
Under a coat of black Persian lamb Mrs.
C. R. Duncan wore a floral satin gown.
The ankle-length frock worn by Mrs.
Hamilton Sleigh was of bronze faille.
Mrs. Norman Myer wore diamente-
studded gloves with her black gown and
white ermine stole. Her daughter, Mrs.
Simon Warrender, covered her short
black theatre-frock with a hip-length
jacket of white lamb. A soft blue
quilted satin jacket was worn by
Mrs. Rupert Downes over a slim-
fitting black gown. Mrs. Paddy
Moran’s midnight-blue crepes carried a
girdle of opalescent cyclamen sequins.
American-beauty crepe fashioned the
gown and stole worn by Mrs. Eric Ross.
Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute of Research, Sir Macfarlan
Burnet, was in jocular mood when he
opened the display of magnificent furs
shown at George’s for funds to assist the
institute. Those present learned that
minks are inoculated at birth for dis-
temper, and that strange things are also
done to silver foxes to keep them strong
and healthy. Lady Burnet accompanied
her husband in a shrimp-pink velvet
jacket and black skirt. Diana Burnet,
who, the next day at Holy Trinity Church,
Kew, became Mrs. Paul Dexter, wore an
orchid-pink taffeta gown and short match-
ing jacket. Mrs. John George chose a
bouffant gown of grey satin brocade and
a hip-length jacket of pastel-pink faille
embroidered in pearls, moonstones and
diamente on the full sleeves. Mrs.
Gordon Chirnside’s ballerina frock was
of black velvet, A slim-fitting black crepe
gown and a silver-fox cape stole made
smart alliance for Mrs. Geoffrey Grim-
wade, Mrs. H. Silk’s gown was of tur-
quoise-blue crepe. Mrs. R. Joseph was
in gold-embroidered white crepe. Mrs.
F. P, Selleck’s black gown featured a
flowing accordion-pleated skirt.
Among the collection shown were three
minks: natural, raven and starlight. The
first was priced at £3OOO, the second
£2600, with the starlight quite a cheap
model —a mere £llBO. Newest styles
combine suede or pony-skin with fox.
Most striking was a finger-tip length coat
of cherry-red suede with tuxedo fronts
of platina-fox fur. Cape stoles and tiny
pouched back jackets with batwing sleeves
were shown in many styles for evening
wear, A “fairytale Princess” effect was
achieved by a white Russian ermine
jacket worn over a white tulle gown with
iridescent sequins at the Waist and halter-
neckline. The charm of black and white
was demonstrated with, a reversible stole
fashioned of black broadtail and white
ermine. It was worn over a black
sequinned dinner-gown. Fur coats are
full or threequarter-length, with the full
swinging back, wide sleeves with cuffs
turned back to bracelet length and or ten
finished with decorative buttons.
A long-sleeved magnolia satin gown,
beautifully embroidered in iridescent
beads and tiny seed-pearls, was worn
by Corinne Maree, only daughter of Mrs.
Arthur Keegan, of Toorak, and the late
Mr. Arthur Keegan, when she was
married at St. Joseph’s, Malvern. Frotn-
ing over the bridal gown was the long
tulle veil, which fell from a coronet or
orange blossom. Her bouquet was com-
posed of gardenias and tuberoses, There
were four attendants. Mrs. L. Mc-
Dermott, of Sydney, was matron-ot-
honor, and Margaret O’Grady, Ann
Brennan and Jill Barclay were brides-
maids. Their unusual frocks featured
cream satin brocade bodices with scal-
loped shawl collars and bouffant skirts or
tulle flowing from scalloped brocade
peplums. The bridegroom, John Anthony
Pierson, who is the younger son of Mrs.
M, Pierson Lewis, of St. Kilda-road, an
of Mr. Jack Pierson Lewis, of B ul § unu
Station, S.A., had his brother Peter _as
best man. Bob Britten-Jones and 1 eter
Kirchner, both of Adelaide, and Neil
Donovan were groomsmen.
Reception was held at the ‘c,
where Mrs. Arthur Keegan and Mrs.
Lewis received 200 guests. Mrs. Keegan
gown was of ice-blue self-patterne
brocade; her small pink velvet =£=*
cap was beaded with pearls an T '
A tiny gold Juliet cap was worn by Mrs.
Lewis with a frock of fil ™ y h]ack velvet.
Mrs. Eric Thonneman was in blaclcveiv
Mrs. R. Buchanan wore an ujj u s uag ° e
of steel-blue taffeta veiled with black ■
Mrs. J. P. Fogarty’s crepes
phinium-blue. An ice-blue cr fi P P 1
gown was worn by Mrs. R. H.


A light and
mellow Port
ŵ
■s a
PERSONAL ITEMS
Back in Melbourne, Sir Guy Gaunt,
K.C.M.G., C. 8., looking as spry as ever
despite his 81 years largely spent looking
for and finding adventure. Windjammer-
sailor, master-mariner, admiral, M.P., he
has lived strenuously since his youth on
the Ballarat goldfields, where his father.
Judge Gaunt, was Chief Commissioner
back in the ’eighties. Destined for the
church, young Guy ran away to sea in a
sailing-ship and ended up in the R.N.
He was in the Philippines during the
Spanish-American war, raised and com-
manded “Gaunt’s Brigade” which helped
to quell a native rising in Samoa, and
served on the China station during the
Russo-Japanese war. After several big-
ship commands he was sent to Wash-
ington as naval attache in 1914, but
finished up World War I on convoy
service. Promoted rear-admiral in 1918,
he retired shortly afterwards. Probably
the slowest four years of his life were
those he spent in the House of Commons,
1922-26, as member for Buckrose.
This is Prior’s impression of the
energetic gentleman responsible for
persuading the millions to say “Palm-
olive, please.” Managing-director of
that concern in Australia, Joseph
Langley first took his brisk intelli-
gence and habitual grin round the
grocery-shops in Melbourne’s suburbs
24 years ago. Soap proved any-
SOAP.
thing but slippery—his climb thence-
forward was slow and hard, but
it’s given him a knowledge of the business
few men can surpass. With the initial
hurdles taken, he shot up—soap sales-
manager in 1939, general sales-manager,
1944, and, a few weeks ago, kingpin.
Close to No. 1 advertiser in the com-
mercial sphere, his firm has done, in
passing, a deal of incidental good—Joy
Nicholls and Dick Bentley (now leading
the 8.8. C. entertainment stakes) and
Richard Farrell (the young Australian
pianist now on a concert tour of the
country) got a handy leg-up from Palm-
olive’s radio shows. Langley hails from
Manchester (Eng.), 1903 model.
New senior air 5.0.. Eastern Area,
Wing-Commander R. F. M. Green, is a
nuggety, active 34 with a wide range of
sporting hobbies. Bom at Pingelly
(W.A.), he left the family farm to go to
school and university in Perth, and had
a stab at both law and engineering, before
going to Point Cook as an R.A.A.F. cadet
in 1937. He carried off the sword of
honor on graduation, won the D.S.O.
while in command of No. 11 Squadron in
New Guinea in 1943, and was service
adviser to the Australian Consul during
the Dutch-Indonesian negotiations in
1948. Off duty, he fishes with both hook
and spear, and goes to the races, where
his knack of picking winners has given
rise to a legend that he has an infallible
system. Green’s mildest recreation is
golf, his most strenuous, ski-ing, which
he has practised in places as far apart
as Japan and Mt. Buffalo.
Retired after more than half a century
with the Westralian Government Rail-
ways—a record which he shares with
some of the department’s rolling-stock—
Oliver Watson entered the service as a
cadet in the general-traffic-manager’s
office, and finished up in the g.t.m.’s chair
after learning his traffic-lore as district
superintendent at Geraldton, Bunbury
and in other parts of the State. Watson’s
hobby, indulged whenever he has been
able to get away from timetables, is band
and orchestral music. He was a member
of the Perth Brass Band almost as soon
as he joined the railways—he toured the
Eastern States with it in 1907 —and later
played in several orchestras. His
assistant, J. Ridley, succeeds him as
g.tm.
P. W. Crohn, a young Mines Depart-
ment field geologist, and gold prospector
Cecil Cooper share the distinction of
having discovered, high up in the ghost
goldmining town of Sunnyside in the
savage mountainous country beyond
Tallangatta, the first uranium in Vic-
toria. In the course of his investigations
Crohn dropped in at the hut of Cooper
who works a crushing plant on the slopes
of Mount Wills, and suggested that these
days he should keep his eyes open for
uranium minerals as well as gold
Cooper casually walked across the room
and took a small lump of stone from the
mantelpiece. “These specimens, Mr.
Crohn?” he said. “They might be
uranium.” The department is now off on
a State-wide search for the stuff.
Dorian le Gallienne, who has won the
Commonwealth Jubilee Scholarship in
music, which entitles him to a year’s study
in Britain, is Melbourne-born and was
musically educated at the Melbourne Con-
servatorium and the Royal College of
Music, London. One of the most prolific
of young Australian composers, he has
been more continuously on the air than
any of them, at any rate in Melbourne. He
has scored the music for numerous stage
productions of Shakspeare and other
dramatists, and his works have been
sought by conductors like Ormandy and
Goossens and by Australian and overseas
broadcasters. Le Gallienne, balance-
and-control officer of the A.B.C. for
some time, teaches theory and com-
position at the Conservatorium. As
music-critic of the “Argus” he strikes a
new note in Melbourne musical criticism ;
he writes pleasantly and sympathetically,
as if he knows the thing he is talking
about by acquaintance. He is a nephew
of poet Richard le Gallienne.
“El V.” recalls a type who reverted;
Old-timers in Labor politics will remember
a perfervid political meteorite, Vernon Gordon
Childe, son of a North Sydney Anglican parson,
who whizzed across the Queensland and N. S.
Wales political skies in 1919-21, full of en-
thusiasm for the new era which was about to
arise from Socialism and imbued with all the
confidence of one who has just taken a B.Litt.
at Oxford with first-class honors. Private-
secretary to John Storey, Premier of N.S.W.,
1919-21, he seemed after that to disappear into
the ocean, the baneful emblem of his Shore
old-school tie waving behind him and his
magnum opus, How Labor Governs, held
proudly in his right hand, as always when he
appeared in public. Six years later he had
become one of the world’s most famous
archaeologists, and was appointed Professor of
Prehistoric Archaeology at Edinburgh University
after two years as Librarian to the Royal
Anthropological Institute. His old Socialist
companions would shudder if they met him
now —Professor of Prehistoric European
Archaeology and Director of the huge Institute
of Archaeology in London University, he is a
D.Litt. of Harvard, a member of the august
Athenaeum and devotes his leisure to bridge and
motoring. He is among the world’s two or
three primary authorities on Europe during
and before the Bronze Age.
Dead at Collaroy (N.S.W.), at 67, Cyril
Weaver, for 25 years honorary secretary
of the Australian Numismatic Society
and one of the leading authorities in Aus-
tralia on the science of coins and medals.
He began collecting old coins and medals
when a schoolboy at Braidwood (N.S.W.)
and devoted more than a half-century to
the hobby, earning recognition and a high
reputation not only in Australia and New
Zealand but in Britain and America.
For 25 years he was of considerable help
to The Bulletin’s Service Department,
for which he answered numismatic in-
quiries. A quiet citizen, reserved and
courteous, he taught music when he could
tear himself away from his hobby.
When Albert Sherbourne Le Souef
died in Sydney last month, at 74, the last
link was severed of a family connection
with Australian zoological gardens
extending back over 80 years. His father,
the original Albert, was first director of
Melbourne Zoo, which was founded in
1863 ; three of his sons followed him
in the profession. Dudley, who succeeded
his father as director of Melbourne Zoo
in 1902, specialised in ornithology, and
had one of the finest collections of birds’
eggs in Australia. Ernest took a degree
in veterinary science, and was vet. as well
as accountant at Melbourne Zoo until
1897, when he went to Westralia to
establish Perth Zoo. He was director of
that institution until 1932, taking time off
to attend the South African war and the
First World scrap. Albert II was secre-
tary and assistant-director at Melbourne
in his father’s time, and took charge of
the old Sydney Zoo at Moore Park in
1903. He was in large measure respon-
sible for the selection of the site of
Taronga Park, which he directed from
1916 until his retirement 10 years ago.
Little has been heard of Nancy Weir
since she left Melbourne in 1930 as an
infant prodigy of the piano, although her
career has been a succession of achieve-
ments. At 14 she was awarded the Carol
Rowe scholarship, then the highest musi-
cal award ever gained by an Australian
student. She studied in Berlin for 2\
years, won the “News Chronicle” £lOO
prize at a London musical festival, while
at the Royal Academy won an exhibition
every year and in her final year was
awarded the academy’s gold medal for
being its most distinguished student. She
dropped her studies to join the W.A.A.F.
in the war, then joined the staff of
Bangor University, Wales. Now back on
a concert tour of Australia for the Jubilee
year, she commenced her Melbourne
season last week.
Adelaide has been entitled to a
Bishop for close on 104 years ; as the
reverend gentleman here presented is
only the fifth to hold the see in that con-
siderable time the surprised brow-eleva-
tion featured by Coventry can have no
relation to the fact that Bishop Bryan
Percival Robin has just entered the tenth
year of office. Springing from that fertile
training-ground of bishops the Queens-
land Bush Brotherhood, in which he
served seven years, the Bishop was
ordained in England in 1910, had four
years as Townsville’s sub-dean, then
shifted south to Brisbane, warden of St.
CHURCH.
John’s College. In 1930 he had another
look at England, as rector of Wood-
church (a living his father had held for
some years), and as canon of Chester,
whence he came to Adelaide. Now 64,
author of a book. The Sundowner
(written, of course, in his Bush Brother-
hood days), when not smiting the devil
the Bishop takes it out on a golf-ball.
It seems understandable that a face as
granite-like as this Lambart offering
should deal in a hard commodity like
cement —anyway, owned by Philip
James Symes, it does. Born in Bristol
(Eng.), 85 years ago (by calendar, not by
looks or vitality), P.J. helped to found
the Queensland Cement and Lime Co.,
became its chairman, and, as a director,
had a hand in Queensland’s pride, the
CEMENT.
Hornibrook Highway (which has quite
a bit of cement in it). Queensland Cement
is enlarging its present sizeable plant at
Darra so that its estimated 240,000-tons
production yearly will satisfy the north’s
demands. A lifelong lover of horses,
PJ. was a member of the old Brisbane
Hunt Club, formed in the 1880’s —now
he contents himself with the less strenu-
ous membership of the Royal National
and Agricultural Association, of which
he’s vice-president.
“Fitz”: Guy Innes, the “Aboriginalities”
versifier, has had a long connection with The
Bulletin. It began in the ’9o’s, at 12, with
his first effort earning an answer in the
Correspondents column. Six years later he
broke into the Red Page with a column putting
Kipling in his place. From 20 onwards Innes
had a long succession of verses and occasional
sketches printed over the pen-names of “Kettle-
drum,” “Ponemah” and others. Pseudonyms
were necessary while Innes was on Melbourne
“Argus,” because it was as much as an “Argus”
man’s job was worth in those days to con-
tribute to any paper other than his bwn. When
Innes joined Melbourne “Herald” under Jack
Davidson in 1911 this prohibition became
inoperative, for Jack used to write for The
Bulletin himself. A contributor to many
publications, from the “Times” and the “Man-
chester Guardiain” to the “New Statesman,”
Innes has been 50 years in journalism. He
wrote for the “Passing Show” on the “Argus,”
and founded the “Under the Clocks” column
in Melbourne “Herald” (where he was asso-
ciated with C. J. Dennis) and introduced novelist
Dale Collins to metropolitan journalism. When
he left the “Herald” as editor-in-chief Innes
became manager of its London cable-service.
He attended many international conferences;
has been with the Australian Newspaper Cable
Service and the Australian Associated Press in
London; and was an executive member in the
Information Ministry during the war, after
which he joined the Foreign Office. Innes was
born at Ballarat (Vic.), and his mothers people
were related to Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”),
of Such Is Life.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 76, Walter M. Marks, M.H.R.
for Wentworth, 1919-31. Solicitor by profes-
sion, Marks was a commander in the R.A.N.
during the First World War. A keen yachtsman
and bowler, he won many sailing champion-
ships and he captained more than a dozen
N. S. Wales bowls teams on inter-State tours.
His son. Commander Marks, is in command of
H.M.A.S. Bataan, on service in Korean waters.
In Melbourne, at 56, Alfred John Bampton,
general secretary of the Australian Steamship
Owners’ Federation. He had been in the ship-
ping industry for 42 years, was an officer of
the Shipping Control Board in the war years,
and from 1946-49 was shipowners’ rep. on the
Stevedoring Industry Commission.
In Sydney, at 42, J. A. (“Jimmy”) Carlton,
one of Australia’s greatest sprinters. In 1932,
at the peak of his athletic career, he retired
from competitive sport and entered the priest-
hood, but about six years ago he renounced
his vows, married, and became a master at
Barker College, Hornsby. He had since success-
fully coached many young athletes.
At Yea (Vic.), at 90, C. Peter Blom, probably
the best-known stockyard expert in Victoria.
He reported the Newmarket stock sales for
Melbourne “Argus” for a period extending
back beyond the memory of the oldest hand
on the paper.


EVERY
Jl’lt
•IS
FOR 100% DIPPING OF YOUR FLOCK USE
TAUBMANS RU-GAIM B.H.C. SHEEP DIP
1 PINT MAKES 2rO GALLONS OF DIP
SHEEP
0W
P
A PRODUCT OF. TAUBMANS LIMITED. CHEMICAL D IVISIO N. SYDN E Y. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Myxomatosis.
“J.R.D.”; It was introduced
by the C.5.1.R.0. years ago as a
possible means of destroying
rabbits, and extensive tests were
made to ensure that it would
not spread to other animals or
to humans.
Claims that dogs have died of
myxomatosis are untrue. The
disease is deadly on rabbits but
does not affect any other animal
—not even the closely related
hares.
Experiments on Wardang
Island demonstrated that in-
fected rabbits passed on the
disease by contact and in this
way entire warrens were cleaned
up. But it was also found that
the rabbit is not the roving,
promiscuous animal that we
imagined, and so the spreading
of the disease is limited.
Apparently rabbits live in
colonies, and strangers are dis-
couraged—in fact they are
summarily driven out if they
attempt to take up quarters in
a strange burrow, so one sick
rabbit’s effectiveness ends within
its family limits.
At the end of last year a
number of rabbits were infected
with myxomatosis on the
Murray, and things started to
happen. First came a report
that the common of a small
Murray township that had been
teeming with rabbits was free of
the pest, and in neighboring
districts sick rabbits were
observed. The symptoms were
confirmed as of myxomatosis.
It was established that the
disease was being spread by
mosquitoes. A type of daylight-
operating mosquito was pre-
valent near watercourses and in
recently-flooded country, and it
was found that where a
mosquito had bitten an infected
rabbit, it could infect every
rabbit it fed on for a fortnight
thereafter. Knowledge of the
habits of this mosquito was
limited and it was not
anticipated that its range would
result in more than local dis-
semination. But reports came
in from places hundreds of
miles from the original source—
from Hillston on the Lachlan,
from Condobolin and Forbes,
from the Darling, from its
tributaries in the north-west of
N.S.W., then from across the
Queensland border. Apparently
mosquitoes travel farther than
was thought possible. Districts
which had been swarming with
rabbits reported, “None to be
seen.”
Many graziers drove hundreds
of miles to capture sick rabbits
to infect their own country, but
lost most of them on the way.
In some districts the disease has
been hard to establish. The
usual practice of transferring
pus from an infected eye to a
clean rabbit has not always suc-
ceeded, and in several instances
infected rabbits have recovered
from a mild attack. It is not im-
probable that they may have
developed an immunity, a
possibility which will have to be
considered.
The surest way is to inject a
small quantity of the virus into
local rabbits. Glenfield Re-
search Station (N.S.W.) has
been supplying the vaccine to
stock inspectors. It has to be
carefully handled and kept at a
very low temperature, which
means special packing and rapid
transport. Inoculations should
be organised to have rabbits
ready for the arrival of the
vaccine. If mosquitoes are work-
ing, hold infected bunnies in
roomy cages or yards with feed
and water. One mosquito will
infect far more rabbits than one
rabbit released to join his mates.
A danger arising from
myxomatosis is not its possible
effect on country freezing-works
or the export fur trade but on
those individuals who are
notorious for their disinclination
to make any attempt to control
rabbits on fheir properties.
These people will welcome
myxomatosis as the perfect
excuse for doing nothing about
their rabbits.
Rather than regard myxoma-
tosis as a cure-all, effort should
be made to follow up the effect
of the disease with an organised
drive to clean up certain areas.
To be effective work must be
properly organised and it must
be compulsory. When a district
is selected for cleaning up, every
acre should be done whether it
is private or Crown land.
Providence has offered us a
practical method of getting rid
of one of our most serious
national pests and it costs
nothing. Now we can show
whether we are in earnest about
rabbit extermination.
Cattle for the Tropics.
“Oxo”: W. Webster, Director
of the Animal Industry Division,
Queensland, told the royal com-
mission on pastoral land settle-
ment in Queensland that serious
consideration should be given
to importation of exotic breeds
of cattle to establish a new
breed for Northern Australia.
Whether the zebu hybrid was
preferable to British breeds was
another story, said Webster, but
if comparisons were to be made
final judgment should be de-
ferred until a thorough examina-
tion of the various strains of
British breeds had been made in
the north, and an effort made to
breed bulls in which needed
characteristics were fixed.
The two best-known types of
exotic breeds which would prob-
ably be useful in Australia were
the Afrikander and the zebu,
the former having the advantage
of having been evolved for beef
production. So far as Webster
knew, however, the Afrikander
was not found in any country
from which it could be imported
into Australia. Field trials with
zebus in Queensland had been
sufficiently favorable to warrant
some experimental work.
Unfortunately the zebus im-
ported into Queensland con-
tained a higher percentage of the
Guzerat breed, which probably
originated in the Guzerat Pro-
vince of India, and was known
there as the Kankrej. This was
an animal very suitable for arid
areas, but authorities he met in
India recently said it was one
of the wildest of the zebu
breeds. This was probably the
reason why the Queensland zebu
hybrid had not been entirely
successful, and why it was not
persisted with on the only very
large property where it was
used.
The hybrid had been reason-
ably successful in fenced areas
closer to the coast, but, as the
Kankrej was more suited to arid
conditions, it would have been
preferable to use another breed,
such as the Gir or Nellore
(Ongole), both of which were
suited to humid conditions and
were reasonably quiet.
The Santa Gertrudis breed,
evolved by Kleberg, of the King
Ranch (Texas), from zebus with
a high percentage of Nellore
blood crossed with Herefords
and Shorthorns, had produced
an outstanding bull of three-
fifths zebu blood. It was gener-
ally thought that the Santa
Gertrudis was a hybrid, but the
breed had now been fixed, and
although it contained blood
from two species should be
looked upon as a breed and not
as a hybrid.
As that breed had been
evolved for conditions very
similar to those in Queensland,
it would appear wise, said
Webster, to take advantage of
the work successfully completed
by Kleberg, and, when it was
possible, import males and
females for trial under Aus-
tralian conditions.
Pigs on Pasture.
“M.”: Allow not less than
half an acre for each brood sow
and her progeny to bacon
weight; subdivide so as to
always have some paddocks un-
stocked and freshening to
prevent the land from becoming
pig-sick, and graze them in rota-
tion ; put the youngest pigs on
the cleanest ground; have
shelter-sheds and troughs on
skids for ease of movement to
prevent fouling of the soil.
To protect pastures against
rooting, place a wire-ring in
the snout, or cut-off the cartila-
ginous tip of the snout when the
pigs are one month old.
Mules Operation.
“C.L.M.”: I’ve a question or
two about the Mules operation.
It’s a harsh operation, but it
does give relief from fly-strike.
All the same, Fd like to know to
what extent it reduces the neces-
"See, Mat, I TOLD y' the bees’d all mizzle off!”
sity for crutching. Also, if
proper crutching controls
breech-strike, and a seasonal
application of the latest insecti-
cides keeps the fly off, is the
Mules operation becoming out-
moded? The annual report of
the Wool Board (1949) claimed
that “one hundred days’
immunity” from fly-strike “was
provided by proper application
of modern chemicals.” Before
anyone starts after me with an
axe I hasten to say that all I
seek is knowledge. There are
only two questions to answer.
Septoria in Citrus.
“Yabbie”: Citrus - growers
last season were hit very heavily,
especially on the N.S.W. M.I.
areas, by a serious outbreak of
septoria-spot. The spots on the
rind of the fruit caused by sep-
toria are dark brown and
sunken; the infection bites in
deeply and the fruit develops
off-flavor and drops prema-
turely.
Symptoms appear in early
winter and spread rapidly in
showery weather or when there
are long periods of dew. For-
tunately, control of the disease
is very simple, and has now be-
come a regular part of orchard
hygiene with most citrus-growers
on the M.I. areas.
The application of a single
spray in early autumn is suffi-
cient, and Bordeaux
plus half a gallon of white-oil
is recommended, Septoria spray
may be combined with other
sprays, thus saving working
exes, but if more than 2\ p.c.
oil is included the work should
be finished no later than March,
and should not be followed by
fumigation.
One of the worst features of
septoria is that affected fruit
which may appear perfectly
healthy when harvested early
breaks down completely en
route to the consumer, in which
case the grower loses his freight,
case, cartage and packing costs
as well as his fruit.
D.D.T. Dangers.
My house in N.Z.
was sprayed with D.D.T. (B.
21/2/’5l). My wife and three
children were all affected, and
we nearly lost one child before
we found the cause.
We are now back in our
house after many attempts at
decontaminating. We finally
had to repaint and paper the
house and sell all clothing,
carpets and bedding.
Any ferric salt solution will
decompose D.D.T. in the
presence of sunlight, and,
though it leaves a temporary
brown stain, I have sprayed
concrete paths and wiped over
utensils, etc., with ferric
sulphate, recommended by the
University of California to get
rid of D.D.T.
Contact with D.D.T. affects
some people, bringing on a pro-
gressive eczema, as well as chest
cramp and faintness. N.Z.
Health Department now recom-
mends that D.D.T. should be
applied only with a brush and to
areas out of reach of children.
Fence Heights.
"Ngaduri”: In a subdivision
fence it is better to have an
animal jump over a 40in. high
barrier (and possibly break the
top wire) than to jump through
a 45in. one and break most of
the wires. For cattle alone three
barbs at 15in., 27in. and 40in.
intervals Is effective —except for
a jumper, where a higher topwire
is required and the alternate
wires electrified. For sheep
alone, 36in. high is ample, but
the wires must be close together.
It is more important to have the
second two wires close
together than the first two; for
a lamb will push its head through
at very little below normal head-
height before it will attempt to
crawl beneath a fence.
For normal sheep—excluding
inveterate fencers —a six-wire
fence with the bottom wire Sin.
above the ground, 6in, between
the rest and Tin. between the top
pair is satisfactory, provided the
droppers are not too far apart.
Droppers should never be
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The increase in the sunspot group, with a southern
extension, was immediately responded to hy a tropical
cyclone. As this was occurring a new southern group
appeared, hut at'once began to fade and with it the cyclone
died out. There is, however, a new southern sunspot visible
this morning (April 1), but it is as yet about a week off its
active position and this fits in with the distribution of the
Main Cycle; the progress of this new group is now to be
closely watched.
April is mainly broken weather with two heavier falls
at the beginning; at the close the long Uranian Cycle shows
some very heavy falls, but these will need strong sunspot
help and at present this is not showing. In the southern
States, except perhaps at the head of the Bight and in
Centralia, April shows nice rains but nothing outstanding,
and the only thing now of note is the possibility of some dry
periods in the spring after September.


nfrs *.
tvcfo* 1
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KINO GEORGE VL
naqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
C ttui/uv
Gordon’s
Stcmds Sup'&wuL
WbSS&SfA
s
I" in
MCjjj&
“1921-1951. Congratulations to the R.A.A.F. on its 30th Birthday.
Time
fly
too
IS
mg
When you have to count the mUrotesv
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
all over the world—lncluding those of
Melbourne and Sydney—it gets you on
your way In the shortest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air Lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company. Ltd.
wsmmm
V. ,31 A, .
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
C73/9512
Reduce lamb losses
by mmkiag with
ELASTRATOR
ẁ
ELASTRATOR
RCGD. TRADI MARK
CASTRATOR S JAILER
k lambs ?calves^
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St, Melbourne.
KLG
SPARKING PLUGS
I
i
WITH
‘CORUNDITE*
INSULATION
ẃ
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
ẅ
:
IfM-
%: wa*
' &; * * - j^v%l
-j
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
0 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
O Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
O Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion —Eye relief 3±in.
to siin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 234 ft. per
100 yards.
Telegrams
“Esdailson/’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
ms
ANO SON*
P TV. ltd:
trre
LYS
PROOF
- 00% Australian-made
rom Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting .
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
m
■■uv
m
-
m
mm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros.&Co. Pty.,Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
■ . . Si ttitlS.-jLIU
II
.i ■
LYSAGHT’S" WIRE
WIRE NETTING
■ '
jnore than 10ft. apart; and
should be only 4ft. or sft. apart
for Downs and longwool breeds
of sheep. Strains of fence should
be from five chains in sharply
undulating country to eight
chains in flat country. Above
and below these there will be
trouble keeping the wires taut.
Posts can be up to 30ft, apart;
but the greater distance between
posts, the greater number of
droppers must be used.
Ophthalmia.
“Rooster”: Early treatment is
important. No ointment is
effective in the tertiary stages;
seldom in the secondary stages.
When the trouble first appears
get to work with a mildly anti-
septic and non-irritant eye-
lotion. Boric acid can be used
as an irrigant in a 4 per cent,
solution or combined with 2 per
cent, zinc sulphate. Organic
preparations of silver, such as
argyrol, are useful and easily
applied.
As a precaution mass treat-
ment of a herd or flock will
limit the percentage of infection.
Treatment should be daily for
several days. Keep the eyes free
from dirt and dust.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: In sub-tropical
parts a troublesome lantana bush
makes a good trellis for climbing
French or lima beans. First cut
through the stem of the clump
without chopping away more
branches than necessary. The
lantana will die and drop its
leaves. Next work the soil freely
in a circle round the clump, and
sow the bean seeds several feet
apart. The soil is always rich
and loose where lantana has
grown, but give the vines a
dressing of super, when climbing
begins.
“Hortus”: When selecting
plants for tomato seed don’t take
the bottom bunches of fruit.
They are more valuable on the
market. Apart from this, they
contain little seed compared with
fruit on the top of the plant.
“My”; To check disintegra-
tion of concrete caused by acid
from milk and other foods, give
it three applications of soda
(waterglass). Mix a gallon of
silicate of soda with 4gal. of
water, and spray on the concrete
just as it is beginning to set.
Repeat the treatment twice at
intervals of 24 hours.
“W. Court”: Use an electric
torch when examining the car-
or radio-battery at night. A
naked light may cause the fumes
rising from the battery to
explode.
“C.A.A.”: Never let a tractor-
engine idle on a steep slope for
more than a few minutes, as oil
in the crankcase will run
forward or backward, and
damage bearings. If a stop can-
not be avoided, pull the machine
on to level ground or turn off
the engine.
“Sundowner”: Careful grad-
ing of tomatoes will result in
considerably-improved returns.
Most essential is to grade for
color, and to eliminate rough,
diseased and overripe fruit. At
the same time sort into gradu-
ated sizes with a half-inch
separating each grade, and place
into convenient lines for
packing.


IN JUST A FEW FEAR,
&
. At \
fW? I .
HAS i
m
v '4i
uw\
m
m
w* *>' %
mm
L I
m
v>
■
• ' '
as m
m
the great name in Swing Saws
This is the machine that has won the Wood Cutter, the Contractor and the
Primary Producer alike. It is shaft driven with quick, positive hand lever
positioning that sets the blade in any position right through 360°. Clutch
disengages blade when net cutting. Blade spins away from or towards operator
as required. Mobilco is the rugged machine which one man can use in rough
country on the toughest timber.
A BENCH ATTACHMENT TO FIT YO UR MOBILCO
The Mobile© Bench Attachment can be fitted to the Saw 1 Head
in five minutes. With it you can mill the tops and light branch
wood into saleable firewood, and you can move the machine
around a tree easily even when bench is attached. With
Mobilco nothing goes to waste. AND YOU CAN ALSO get
an Electric Wood Boring Attachment and an Electric One-
Stand Shearing Machine to drive from your Mobilco Swing
Saw. Yes, Mobilco IS versatile. Write now for full particulars.
\
11,. ll'*.
S' 1
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
w
EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.
252 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE. TEL; CENTRAL 4799. AFTER HOURS; WF3IIB
than
fi FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney'*
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
'fWf
Thone BW 1361 (10 line*)
c D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
a
H)
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
• 319 George Street
SYDNEY
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-MEiAii
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
lineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, fi, 8 cylinders, 10/6,,30/-,
45/-. 60/-. Call, write or phone MA<ZSU.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D. s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-MEIAG
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N. _,, ,
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 11/4/’5l
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7~00
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC" Fine Cut Beady Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2os.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Weii
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced *B/
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. !*’» k"® 4
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT-
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Hi
Box 77, Valley P. 0.. Brisbane.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
City Tatt’s, for their Randwick
meeting on Saturday, fluked the sort
of sunshiny autumn day on which
an afternoon’s racing looks its
brightest. It should have suited
punters, too: with one exception, all
winners were heavily backed, about
half of them favorites. The day’s
gem, both of horse and horseman-
ship, was Darby Munro’s ride on
Donegal.
Apart from the soundness of the
going, and Munro’s power on a horse,
and the quality of the horse him-
self, everything was against Donegal.
Certainly the French-bred importa-
tion looked the best horse in the
saddling-enclosure, and in the event
proved to have more horse in him
than all the rest of the field put
together, but he had 9.9, giving from
151 b. to 371 b. to the rest, his barrier
manners have been notoriously
chancy, and odds of 7 to 4 in the
circumstances looked far too poor a
risk fop the present light-punter’s
pocket.
Last out of the starting-boxes by
a good dozen lengths, the French
horse was a bad last at the end of
the first furlong. He looked to be
clean out of it, and the interest of
the race seemed to be in Heroic
Sovereign, Trover, Valiant Lee, High
Brow, Journalist and Hesdin. With
half the six furlongs covered, Donegal
was still ahead of only one straggler,
Validas, who had dropped back past
him, and he was still giving them an
enormous start not only when they
faced up in the straight ’ but when
they were half-way down it. Then
he was seen coming with an astound-
ing and remarkably true run on the
outside, Darby riding him just about
perfectly, not so much vigorously as
by beautiful balance, helping a good
horse to win if he could. Thirty
yards from the post Hesdin got
through on the inside, passed Heroic
Sovereign, and was the winner till
the second-last stride, when Donegal
got his head in front, and in the last
stride was a clear neck to the good.
Anyone who saw Donegal’s win
saw one of the best horsemen Aus-
tralia has had ride one of the best
races he has ever ridden, and that is
saying a great deal when the cider is
one of Munro’s experience. Simply,
there could not be better riding.
Hesdin’s second to Donegal pre-
saged an early win, and old Trover
still has a win in him; so, maybe, has
old Heroic Sovereign (third) —but
Donegal would need to be elsewhere.
The French horse is now favorite for
the Stradbroke, and could win it.
However, the Brisbane handicapper
has assessed Sydney form somewhat
flatteringly ever since the big clean-
sweep by the southern invaders a few
years ago, and Donegal, with 9.5, has
a tidy share, though he is a very
powerfully-built horse. And he won’t
want to give the Queensland sprinters
both weight and a start!
Donegal’s time for the 6 furlongs
13 yards, 1.1 H, was extra good, all
things considered; the good filly
Golden Chariot took 1.12£ in down-
(IMiPiS'u'
“I was told to always share my penny.”
ing Gilmara and Pretty Buttons, and
Fengari took 1.12 i in beating Sol
Rex and Pressman in the youngsters’
events over the same course.
The day’s single outsider was
the Kei so-trained Genetout gelding
Amoroso, who downed Poitiers,
Bahrain's Double, favorite Thunder
God and other three-year-olds.
Poitiers is definitely the one to
follow-up on. Topweight and strong
favorite Great World easily defeated
Sea Wolf, Erpingham and others in
the 10-furlongs City Tattersall’s
Handicap, Mulley following up that
winning ride by taking the mile welter
on Star King, with Gene Tunney and
Joy Court both running promising
races. Skystreamer narrowly beat
Campus in the 10-furlongs Novice.
* * * v
The Rogerstone Castle colt Wessex
returned to racing and the winning
list in a narrow victory over Macray
and Merry Scout in the 7-furlongs
Neerim Handicap at Caulfield. He
will win good races this year, all
going well. Wessex’s rider, S. Ralph,
had earlier won a division of the
Orrong Two-year-old on the good
El Golea colt El Sovino, downing
Miss Behave and Bandar —making a
hat-trick of doubles for Ralph on
successive Saturdays, and three-in-a-
row for the colt. The Bold Ben colt
Ben Sun (T, Unkovich) put up a
fine performance in defeating Demos
and Milesian in the second Orrong.
Coming from well back, after the
prime stopper Royal Consort had
bolted away and strung them out,
Ben Sun thoroughly earned his win;
but Demos was very unlucky.
A change of jockeys was apparently
what Eucardius had been waiting for
—-a fairly long wait of about twelve
months. Anyway, with Purtell in the
saddle, Eucardius, last at her pre-
vious start, comfortably beat Robert
Bruce, Our Love and others, including
the very disappointing hot favorite,
Milford, in the 12-furlongs Glen-
huntly Handicap. Just as comfort-
ably, Zezette toppled Siren Song,
Great Trek and the rest in the mile
Kooyong Handicap. The Hurdle
produced the unusual result of three
equal favorites (at threes), Promise
You, Midhurst and Finentigue, finish-
ing first, second and third, in that
order. The day’s sting for punters
was in the tail—Society Belle, at
fifties, getting a rails run and a break
which the heavily-backed Star Port
narrowly failed to bridge. Riptide
ran a promising third.
* * * *
The crack New Zealand colt Main-
brace should not have much trouble
collecting a fine w.f.a. swag if they
bring him across the Tasman a little
later. Present Australian w.f.a. form
is very much down, and autumn per-
formances haven’t suggested anything
very remarkable coming on. Against
this, Maihbrace’s record looks excep-
tionally good. His latest win, in the
Awapuni Gold Cup, was not only in
time equal to the race record, but
made his own fifteenth win in suc-
cession, a record for N.Z. He has
now won, in N.Z. coinage, £21,590
for the season, topping another N.Z.
record which he himself had already
set. There is nothing in Australia
just now with anything like that sort
of form.
* * * *
When weights were declared for the
English Grand National two horses
were asked to carry 12.7 round that
fantastic course, another 12.5, another
12.2 and three others 12.0, and as
well there were six others weighted
above list. None of the lot of them
so much as got round the course.
The winner, Nickel Coin, a nine-year-
old mare, had only 11b. above the
lOst. minimum; second, Royal Tan,
carried 10.13; third (by about a
quarter of a mile), Derristown, was
on the minimum. All were outsiders,
and they were the only three to finish
out of the 36 starters. Yet, a good
month before the event, sporting
scribes were confidently forecasting,
and punters punted, if not with con-
fidence, at all events with good
money!
* ♦ * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) ;
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies):
Defame, 1; Sea Ruffle, 2; Lady
Cape, 3. Two-year-old Maiden (colts
and geldings): Royal Pretender, 1;
Trizarni, 2; Militant, 3. Maiden
Stakes (w.f.a.): Legal Wig, 1; Le
Frere, 2; Battle of Agincourt, 3.
Parramatta Mixed: Sapristi, 1;
Redondo, 2; Burncourt, 3. Auburn
Mixed; Bahram’s Double, 1; Cam-
pus, 2; Skystreamer, 3. Flying:
Blue Flag, 1; New Look, 2; Buz-
mark, 3. Welter: Wiranya, 1;
Erpingham, 2; Persist, 3.
❖ * * *
For the second year in succession
Victorian John Marshall bagged the
triple crown of American swimming
—the 1500 metres, 220 yards and 440
yards of the National Amateur
Athletic Union. The baths being too
short for world-recognition, his
wonderful swim of 18m. 10.8 s. for
the distance event doesn’t go into
the books.
* ♦ * ♦
Darby Brown (9.13£> could have
been much more Christian-like in his
brawl with Novocastrian Clarrie
Gordon (10.2) at Leichhardt and still
won. Butting and throwing the
enemy out of the ring were rather an
excess of enthusiasm, considering that
Brown, anyway, kept forging ahead
on points, looked like winning on a
k.o. in the fifth round, and even-
tually got there by that route in
round eight. In another scheduled
12-rounder Norm Praine (9.1) ston-
kered Clive Mclnnis (8.11|) less than
a minute after the second round
started.
**■ * *
“Pass-it” on Waratah football:
This year the old favorite of decry-
ing Waratah tactics will not be at
R.U. critics’ disposal: for the first
time since the war there will not be
any Waratahs on the N.S.W. and
Australian selection committees.
The election of Travers, Pauling
and Cerutti, to the exclusion, or
retirement, of Wallace, Malcolm,
' Towers, Ford and Tancred, may
mean the end of a controversy which,
over the years, has been superficially
argued on styles of football, but
which, actually, goes much deeper.
During a tour of the British Isles
in 1927-28 the Waratahs, under the
inspiring leadership of Wallace and
Lawton, developed a style of football
which was attractive to watch and
play, and at the same time brought a
large measure of success. More im-
portant than the football was the
very high spirit of camaraderie with
which these men returned, something
which, even after more than 20 years,
still brings them from all over the
country to attend regular reunions.
Many of these men, imbued with
Rugby Union ideals, continued to
take an active part in the administra-
tion of the game after their playing
days were over: but so great was
their loyalty to one another that the
Waratahs came to be regarded as a
definite clique within the Union; and
much of the criticism of the selection
and play of representative teams
handled by Wallace and his co-
Waratahs has actually been an outlet
for attacking this clique.
For anyone to suggest that any of
our post-war representative teams
have used Waratah tactics would be
foolish. It would be a practical
impossibility for Wallace, or any
other coach, to take a team com-
prising players coming from the
hands of a dozen different coaches,
with conflicting ideas on how a player
should play his position, and within
the space of two or three short
training runs mould them into pre-
conceived tactics.
Perhaps if more of the Waratahs
had learnt from their mentor the
fundamentals of his football, and
had returned to their clubs as coaches
to instil these principles into players
under their care, then, when rep-
resentative teams were selected, the
task of moulding the team into a unit
would have been greatly lessened, and
we might have seen Waratah tactics
given a fair trial. As it is, any suc-
cess that the new selectors might have
on the field of play would deal a
death-blow to Waratah influence in
our football. With all due respects
to the ability of the new selectors, it
would be a pity to see this happen,
for the Waratahs did bring something
back with them, and that something
could have been a basis upon which
we could have built an Australian
style of football.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Honest Thinking
We are long overdue for a wave of
honest thinking and speaking. The social
graces of tact, diplomacy, the quick
donning (or perpetual wearing) of kid
gloves have been overdone. The sleek
head of hypocrisy has pushed its way
into the business world, into professional
life, and, worst'of all, into every branch
of politics. Kotowing and humbug are
rife. The deplorable policy of “you
scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours”
could be thrown on the scrapheap for
evermore and everyone would be spiritu-
ally enriched.
Is it a sense of fear, insecurity or in-
feriority which turns so many into “Yes”
men? The individualist, the man with
the astringent mind, seems to have dis-
appeared from our midst. Where has he
gone? Perhaps, disgusted, he has sold
his inheritance and joined the sheep. He
is a great loss. His honest voice would
be welcome today.
An air of corruption and deceit seems
to pervade our daily lives, and, through
it, defeatism has thrust its worthless head
into our very homes. No one argues any
more, although argument is a good thing
because it clears the clutter from men’s
minds and leaves the fine austerity of
fact.
We can still do a great deal for this
country, but we will go on crippling it
and ourselves if we smother honest
thought and speech.— Fradelle (Vic.).
Rents and Interett rates
“Jindivick” (B. 28/2/’5l) complains of
the comparatively slight increase in rents
and the plight of the elderly investors who
get their living thereby. It’s only half-
true. Very few rents are at pre-war levels,
as any near-frantic househunter can
testify. I pay the screw Who owns the
block of harborside flats where I live the
best part of four quid for a damp base-
ment. I know the family that rented the
same flat before my time, and they paid
£1 10s.
This landlord is somewhere in his early
fifties, and during the last 15 years has
done nothing except collect his rents.
There is nothing to stop any honest
landlord who feels his rents are pegged
too low from appealing to the Fair Rents
Court, as tenants sometimes do. As for
“J.’s” talk of thrift, his sympathies are
in the wrong camp. Most flat- and
investment-house owners bought up during
the cheap years, many in the depres-
sion, and the leturn on their original
capital investment is still good. The un-
fortunates are the thrifty middle-classes
of the younger order struggling to save
enough money to buy homes of their
own in face of inflated living and build-
ing costs.
Second, I’d like a piece of “Den” in the
same issue. He maintains interest-rates
should be increased to offset inflation.
What sort of economics is that? It
has taken nearly a century of social
progress to bring interest-rates down to
their present level. Only a few years ago
usurers charged anything up to 25 per
cent, and imposed almost impossible
conditions of repayment, as many men
living today can testify. Despite the
efforts of extremists in the opposed camps
of Communism and capitalism, society
has advanced, in the British Empire
especially, and is moving in a definite
direction. Nor will it be goaded by the
one side, or driven by the other, to retrace
its footsteps.
Life in Australia is open to many
legitimate criticisms —the time-serving
tactics of “Labor,” the un-Australian out-
look of coalminers and wharfies, the
universal greed and money lust that has
settled like a blight- on far too many
people in all sections of the community.
Worst, perhaps, is the fact that
property-ownership, with its accompany-
ing civic responsibility and stability, is
fast getting beyond the reach of most
young middle-class people. Ownership
of a home, once within the reach of any
thrifty laborer, is beyond the powers of
those not lucky enough to inherit, win
McGirr’s lottery, secure a bookmaker’s
"He bought one o' them imitation Woollen singlets as advertised."
or wharfie’s licence, or become the
endorsed candidate for the ruling party
in Newtown or Vaucluse.
It is all part of the crazy economy, I
suppose, and, unfortunately, the honest
suffer the most, ex-servicemen particu-
larly. And to suggest that higher interest-
rates and higher rents, on top of higher
food-bills, higher fares, etc., will solve
the problem just won’t wash. — Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Simpler Spelling
The last will and testament of George
Bernard Shaw suggested that anew 40-
letter alphabet should be devised for the
English language, and set aside a sum
of money bequeathed to carry it out.
Something of the kind is already in
existence.
Years ago English-speaking scientists
realised that our language, as spoken and
written, could not give the correct pro-
nunciation of words used in the native
languages of the world, without hideous
conglomerations of double vowels. These
had the further disadvantage that foreign
scientists, used to sensible spelling, were
completely baffled by them. As so many
words of native origin appear on the
maps as place-names, it was decided to do
something about it, and the modern
“geographic” spelling was evolved. It
has the great virtue of simplicity.
All silent vowels were dropped and the
vowels were given the Italian pronuncia-
tion ; “a” as in “father,” “e” as the “a”
in “say,’’ “I” as we pronounce double-“e,”
“o” as in “home” and “u” as we pro-
nounce double-“o.” No pronunciation
of consonants was altered and the result
was place-names spelt exactly as they
should be pronounced, including combina-
tions of native words which appeared
to be absolute jaw-breakers when spelt
the old way. It also enabled us to pro-
duce dictionaries and grammars of native
languages which taught the white man
to speak in a way which the native could
follow.
Nothing save prejudice and apathy
stops us from adopting this clear and
sensible spelling for the English language.
The Americans have already gone some
distance along the road with their “thru”
for “through,” “ax” for “axe” and the
dropping of the silent, useless “ue” on
the end of “catalogue.” At no cost, save
the gradual replacement of existing
dictionaries and spelling-books, this
reform could be made in the spelling of
English. Thereafter future generations of
children would learn useful things in-
stead of cluttering up their minds with
the details of freak spelling.—H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Conservation
Western Victoria has experienced the
driest season since the 1914 drought, and
it is staggering to see the predicament of
farmers and graziers because of the lack
of water. In some districts water has
been carted up to 50 miles by road and
rail for domestic and farm use. Large
sums have been spent on boring plants
with only partial success.
Winter and summer rains are usually
so reliable that few properties have
storages of any sort, and on those few
where dams do exist supplies have in
most cases long since been exhausted.
Some municipalities, seized with their
responsibility to the present and future
generations, have taken the opportunity to
use heavy machinery to clean out and
deepen existing waterholes on stock-
routes and in reservations. But what of
the individual?
Apart from a few who have struck
good water by boring, hardly any have
learned the conservation lesson When
the present trouble passes they will relapse
into thinking again that when the next
drought comes they will either have
passed on or be no longer in occupancy
of the land. Can that attitude be defended
either from the viewpoint of a farmer’s
obligation to his land or to the
national economy? Farmers who are
conservation-minded, whether it be in
relation to water, soil or trees, are what
our dry continent needs if it is to support
the population it must have. The in-
efficient farmer who works only for the
present is as bad for this country as the
go-slow worker, Plain Australian
(Vic.).
ẁ
“What Does It Mean?”
From “Libra” (N.Q.):
I wonder if Mr. Kevin J. Piper’s poem “An
Us Out There” (R.P. 28/ 2/ ’5l) baffled any
other Bulletin reader apart from myself. The
five questions arrayed in verse form by Mr.
Piper leave only the impression of nonsense
with me.
From “Herbert Dawson” (Q.):
I do not pose as a critic of poetry, but if 1
am to preserve any measure of sanity I must
have Kevin J. Piper’s “An Us Out There”
explained to me.
From The Bulletin's Explanations
Department:
The poet was simply writing about a
pair of lovers who had once been together
—an “us”—and at the time of writing
were separated. The ingenious word-
play of the poem should be regarded as
a modern version of the word-play of the
Elizabethan lyrists and sonneteers; com-
pare some of the punning lyrics of Donne,
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 116
Across.
I—Clogged with some rubbish 150
gave voice to, (9)
s— Defeats the uplands. (5)
7 Daughters who come home at
3 a.m. are thus to expose any-
thing to the sun’s rays. (8)
8— has nothing but decora-
tive panelling. (4)
11— (3)
12— Man like a top (anagram). (11)
13— Ancient money is advanced with
thanks, but it isn’t enough for
genius. (6)
14— Disturb Edna at growing close
to the stem. (6)
17—Half direction is death. (6)
19—Medicine enables an American
uncle to attend a French ball. (6)
22 Provide the tucker and grub by
the column. (11)
23 — Newt is left without a head. (3)
24 — Front-runners hold this metal. (4)
25 Continental affirmative and a
saint takes it before I finish off
the wistit. (8)
26 — Theme of a dictum on a Kipling
poem. (5)
27—Make a pledge to engage in some
very dead business. (9)
Down.
I—A hundred on a country bump-
kin and a bridge call perishes
among little children, (13)
I —Vicissitudes that complement 5
across shed tears when like some
modern coiffures, (7)
3 Narratives about a Swiss patriot,
or something much less credit-
able. (9)
4 Germ in it changes about a
feature of a car-engine when
clocking again. (8)
5 An assistance upset by a hunt-
ress. (5)
6 Town in N.S.W. urges you to
court a girl. (7)
9—Temporised although the sports-
men. having performed, were
rewarded with watches. (6, 3,4)
10 —Insect. (3)
15 — Whoever breaks up an assembly
is the one who mislays 5 down. (9)
16— Laraine when plump refers to
the work of a reporter who works
during light hours. (3, 5)
18—Tenanted market is Shakspeare’s
“guest of summer,” (7)
20 — Pacific island mother takes 50
to another island before a con-
clusion is arrived at. (7)
21— Enclosure for swine (3)
22 Banter fodder. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 115.


(ADVERTISEMENT.)
3eykveto d their Host
A.LJP.
EXECUTIVE
-rfOSS-
\
r
r>.
When you elect a representative to Parliament, you expect him
to think for himself and act conscientiously for the public good.
BUT LABOR MEMBERS ARE NOT ALLOWED TO DO SO-
THEY HAVE TO DO AS THEY’RE TOLD.
Every Labor candidate must sign a pledge, not
only to support the Party's socialisation
objective but also to vote as a majority of the
Labor Party may decide at a Caucus meeting.
But in practice not even the whole of the 81 Labor
members, meeting in Caucus, can make their own decisions.
They are obliged by Party rules to obey without question
the instructions of their outside masters —-the A.L.P.
Executive and the Triennial Labor Conference.
This system of outside dictatorship ensures that the strong
Communist influence in the Labor Movement can be brought
to bear on Parliamentary members by means of a technique
perfected by the Communist Party,
In the last Parliament 81 Labor M.P’s obeyed
implicitly the orders of the 12 members of the
A.L.P, Executive, resulting in the delay and
obstruction of Government legislation designed to
smash the Communists,
Labor Senators shelved their decision on the National
Service Bill for months, thereby delaying the defence
programme, while they waited for orders from outside
bodies.
Some Labor members are complaining about this
“dictatorship” but they can’t do anything about it
They must do as they’re told or be expelled from
the Party .
NO COUNTRY LABOR MEMBER CAN MAKE AND
CARRY OUT HIS OWN DECISIONS
VOTE
Remember "'A Victory for Labor is a Victory for Communism
FOR MEN OF ACTION AND DECISION
COUNTRY PARTY
Your Senate Vote is Especially Vita!
(Authorised by J. F. Dredge, General Secretary, the Australian Country Party, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney.)
