

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A- *JTmUL*
A PRO
df
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
mm,
fmM
MELBOURNE
E L T
AND
&
s o
NS LTD.
HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4
The Bulletin
“THE LETTERS OF RACHEL HENNING page 18
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3730
Wednesday, August 8, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BORDERLAND CARLISLE CATHEDRAL HAS FELT THE GRIP OF WAR
BESIDE the River Eden in Cumberland is the ancient county town and
cathedral city of Carlisle. For centuries it was a border citadel, and the
scene of much bitter fighting between the English and the Scots.
Originally a Celtic settlement, it became a station of some importance
during the Roman occupation owing to its proximity to Hadrian’s Wall.
It was known to the Romans as Luguvallium, and after their departure m
the fifth century, owing to their crumbling empire at home, the Piets swarmed
across the Border and destroyed the settlement. It was rebuilt by a King of
Northumberland, only to be sacked and burned by the raiding Danes in 875.
Two centuries later William Rufus recognised the military importance of
Carlisle’s location, and during his reign the work of rebuilding the town was
carried on. Before the fortifications had been completed, however, David of
Scotland stormed and took the town. Twice besieged, it was at last regained
by the English, and rapidly grew in importance. After the Battle of Bannock-
burn Bruce besieged the town, although without success.
The story of violence continued through the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries and through the period of the Civil Wars, until, in 1745,
Pretender entered Carlisle mounted on a white steed and preceded by “the
hundred pipers” of the well-known Jacobite song, but a few weeks later the
city was retaken by the Duke of Cumberland.
Carlisle’s Cathedral, one of the smallest in England, has suffered more
from fire and war than any other in the country. During the Civil War the
nave was pulled down by the Scots and used to repair the castle, which they
had temporarily captured. During the Stuart wars the building served as a
prison. It stands upon the site of an Augustinian Priory founded in 1101 by
Walter the Norman, a follower of William the Conqueror, and the diocese
of Carlisle was founded thirty-two years later. In the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries extensive rebuilding and restoration took place in the prevailing
Decorated style. The Cathedral is famous for its magnificent East window,
which rivals in beauty of composition the West window of York Minster.


ml*
EiliMJ
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CPRRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
too Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
. CUT HERE AND MAIL f
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary >
| Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name •
Address I
I (5.8.151) Age J
L-
C. J. DENNIS.
Alec H. Chisholm, who made such a
lively and worth-while job of C. J.
Dennis’s life in The Making of the Senti-
mental Bloke, has now edited the Selected
Verse of C. J. Dennis (Angus and
Robertson).
Dennis was a Bulletin poet; and it
ris interesting to turn him up around 1913,
when his “Backblock Ballads” first
appeared and were reviewed on “The Red
Page” (21/8/T3). The book contained
four pieces entitled “The Sentimental
Bloke”- —“Poetically,” said the Red Page,
“they are the finest things in the volume.”
“Doreen” had appeared at the head of
the “Aboriginalities” page as early as
September 30, 1909 ; and they were still
coming out —“The Spring Song of a
Bloke,” which opens the sequence as com-
pleted, had appeared on March 13, 1913,
on page 43, in two columns of reading-
matter flanked by six columns of adver-
tisements, signed, as usual, “Den. Vic-
toria.”
Years before, the only other Australian
bloke of equal fame, “The Man from
Snowy River,” had been as quietly bom.
Paterson was by no means unappreci-
ated ; he seems to have been the main
poetical drawcard of the early Bulletin,
more so, even, than Lawson. “The Man
from Ironbark” and “A Bush Christen-
ing” received full, front-page treatment,
not only illustrated, but with the verse
drawn on the block; yet “The Man from
Snowy River” was as quietly strung down
a back column as “The Spring Song.”
There is more than casual interest in
the comparison of Paterson and Dennis,
because the first things Dennis thought
worth saving from The Bulletin and
putting in a book were ballads in Pater-
son’s style:
He lived in Mundaloo, and Bill McClosky
was his name.
But folks that knew him well had little
knowledge of that same;
For he some’ow lost his surname, and he
- had so much to say—
He was called “The Silent Member” in a
mild, sarcastic way.
There is no very high place in the
history of literature for the imitator;
and, indeed, in 1913, Dennis was merely
one of a tribe of Bulletin rhymesters—
“ Kodak,” “O. C. Cabot,” “Curse O’
Moses,” Harrison Owen, “Monty
Peet-,” R. J. Cassidy, “Pat O’Maori,”
Grant Hervey, “Eddyson,” Edmund
Fisher, Arthur H. Adams —to give
only a few of the names and
pen-names that appeared again and
again in the paper in those times. They
were all, by present-day standards (which
well may be ceded by default), extra-
ordinarily competent; smooth, suave and
facile; they liked, probably for fiscal
reasons, to run to length; they wrote
mostly topical verse —a snippet from a
newspaper, and their song of praise or
blame underneath it —and, of the topical
verse, most was political.
Dennis appeared in The Bulletin
about once a fortnight in 1913, but others
appeared oftener; he had a slight
advantage in length over most other con-
tributors, running often over the column ;
and his verses appeared more often and
at greater length on the main-double-page
editorial spread. He was a topical versi-
fier among topical versifiers; and it
should comfort any struggling rhymester
to know that Dennis could write in the
worst style of the worst influences of his
period, as for instance when objecting to
the slurs cast upon illegitimacy by the
unco’ guid:
Shall our good money go to succor that
Unhappy woman and her nameless brat?
When she some secret means might well
have sought
To save the insult that its birth had
brought....
He could be as indignantly second-rate
over flogging:
And what has Reason now to say,
Chief of the modern gods?
And Mercy? “Keep the man apart,
And harm not such poor clods”?
“Nay,” saith the Law, “we’ll truss him up
And scourge his back with rods.”
Dennis had attracted some notice in
1908 with his slang national anthem,
“The Austra laise,” but the full
popularity of this piece waited upon
the fame of “The Sentimental
Bloke” and the 1914-18 war —the
reader of 1913 might be pardoned
for finding it hard to differentiate Dennis
from his fellow-contributors; they were
as dexterous rhymers and as witty. But,
wise after the event, we can see now
that he had one thing the others lacked —
a sense of character. Where others were
content with flat statement, Dennis was
never really happy unless he was setting
a scene, putting people in it, staging
monologues with accents, or
conducting arguments as fugues for two
or more voices. He was an excellent
mimic of the upper-class accent of those
days:—
“Haw! Good fellow I’m not doubting
Your intentions are all right,
And your general appearance
Is intelligent and bright;
But the question you’re discussing
Rather flicks me on the raw,
And it really doesn’t matter:
So we’ll close the subject. Haw!”
But there are comparatively few ex-
amples of this; in fact, he liked to
satirise the rich by making them speak
in the accents of the poor, as in “Terrible
Bill,” inspired by an “Argus” leader say-
ing that Mr. Hughes’s anti-trust proposals
were only window-dressing, but that he
must not be given power for fear he might
put them into effect:
Though you’d think be the look of this
Hughes, Bill Hughes,
That ’e’d eat the monopolist band,
It’s only ’is gammon; ’e’s really a-shammin’;
’E’d let ’em eat out of ’is ’and;
’E’d let ’em lie down be ’is side," though ’is
frown
When ’e forks is an ’orrible sight;
But if they was slaughtered by Hughes, Bill
Hughes,
Why, ’e wouldn’t ’ave nothink to fight!
But still ’e’s a puzzle is Hughes, Bill Hughes,
To a Tory like me or like you,
With ’is plottin’ an’ schemin’ an’ darin’ an’
dreamin’,
You never know what ’e might do.
So it’s plain that you must, if you cherish
the Trust,
Vote a “No” to all six of his schemes,
For I ain’t very certain of Hughes, Bill
Hughes,
An’ he mightn’t be quite wot ’e seems.
Side by side with this kind of thing
(imitations and parodies for mainly poli-
tical purposes of Kipling, W. S. Gilbert,
Paterson, etc.; chanties, monologues,
dialogues, patter-songs, mock-Grecian
choruses —most of them done with verve
and dexterity, but few or none of them
ranking higher than as applied art) went
“The Sentimental Bloke,” a larrikin bal-
lad of larrikin spelling and slang words,
written not in the racy waltz rhythms of
the day but in pentameter; the English
grand style:
The world ’as got me snouted jist a treat;
Crool Forchin’s dirty left ’as smote me
soul;
An’ all them joys o’ life I ’eld so sweet
Is up the pole.
Per, as the poit sez, me ’eart ’as got
The pip wiv yearnin’ fer —I dunno wot.
The remarkable thing to anyone who
has studied the early Dennis is not the
novelty of this slang style, but its purity—
how everything he is capable of doing
goes into it and seems in keeping:
Wot wus I slung ’ere for? An’ wot’s the
good
Of yearnin’ after any ideel tart? . . .
Ar, if a bloke wus only understood!
’E’s got a ’eart:
’E’s got a soul inside ’im, poor or rich.
But wot’s the use, when ’Eaven’s erod’d ’is
pitch?
I tells meself some day I’ll take a pull
An’ look around fer some good, stiddy
job,
An’ cut the push for good an’ all; I’m full
Of that crook mob!
An’, in some Spring the fucher ’olds in
store,
I’ll cop me prize an’ long in vain no more.
(Mr. Chisholm has dropped these two
stanzas from the “Spring Song” ; and in
this selection, following the precedent of
the first edition, a line is weakened to
“ ’Eaven’s crool’d ’is pitch” instead of
“Gawd ’as erod’d ’is pitch” as it was
in The Bulletin.)
Dennis wrote in many different styles ;
and it would not be right to say that
he found himself in “Doreen” or the
“Spring Song” and stayed found —the
styles overlap ; but it is true that he is
never quite so much himself as when he is
writing and thinking in the slang dialect he
found or invented ; it is as though he had
to take off his coat and collar and tie to
feel completely at ease. There is often
more poise and certainty in a man’s
invented character than in his own twist-
ing circumstances and shifting beliefs:
“Give a man a mask,” as Wilde says,
“and he will tell you the truth.”
This is true of Dennis’s later work, as
demonstrated by Mr. Chisholm’s selec-
tions. The last pieces, in straightforward
English, are hardly more than competent
versifying ; and when he modified his use
of slang in “Jim of the Hills” he was
only a weak imitation of himself.
In one’s youth one was apt to pass over
the slang and spelling of “The Sentimental
Bloke” as meretricious, and “patronage
of the poor,” and hold up for commenda-
tion “The Glugs of Gosh.” Nowadays
one is more apt to find “The Glugs of
Gosh” a brilliant but lightweight exercise
in a style which has been done at least
as well before; and to appreciate the
strength and vividness of scene and char-
acterisation in “The Bloke.” Such things
as “The Play” and “Mar” have a solid
and comic realism far beyond their
novelty of slang and spelling; they
achieve something of the largeness of the
style they set out to caricature; especi-
ally “Mar”:
“ ’Er pore dear Par,” she sez, “ ’e kept a
store”;
An’ then she weeps an’ stares ’ard at the
floor.
“ Twas thro’ ’is death,” she sez, “we wus
rejuiced
To this,” she sez . . . An’ then she weeps
some more.
It has been said, although no on© seems
to have pinned it down precisely, that
Dennis’s model was some similar kind of
verse in London or America —not that
this would take away from his peculiarly
Australian achievement. The larrikin was
getting considerable attention at the time
from such as Louis Esson, Edward Dyson
and Louis Stone. Probably nobody will
ever be able to decide who first began
the theme; larrikins; like voyagers and
explorers today, were “in the air”; but
the important thing is how well or ill each
writer handled the theme.
Dennis, for instance, could not have
done the scene in Stone’s great
novel where the old father thrust
a few hard-earned pounds on the young
couple, and still have kept it free of
sentimentality ; and, at any rate in Jonah,
Stone was absolutely incapable of the
flood of sloppy feeling which spoils so
much of “The Bloke” for present-day
readers. But Stone could never have
created with such rich comic force as
in “The Intro,” or interested so large a
public. It is a difference not so much of
quality, as of kind: Stone was an artist;
Dennis was a poster-artist; and with his
flowing sentimentality went propaganda —
for marriage, as in “The Bloke”; for
patriotism, as in “The Moods of Ginger
Mick” ; and for whatever “awareness of
national danger” may be found in “The
Glugs of Gosh.”
To say that a man is a poster-artist in
poetry is only another way of saying that
he is a popular balladist —the scene done
in broad, sweeping strokes ; the individual
merged in national characteristics. A
hundred years hence some ardent re-
searcher may well opine that the most
perfect and well-equipped of all Austra-
lian poets up to the first half of the
twentieth century was Kenneth Slessor;
but that the most representative were the
balladists Paterson and Dennis.
RONALD McCUAIG.
The Red Page
Herbert Read's Essays .
An unexpectedly consoling note for an
Australian reader to come upon in
Herbert Read’s Collected Essays in
Literary Criticism, newly reprinted by
Faber, is Mr. Read’s analysis of the
profits of provincialism. You get this, a.
little reluctantly, in his account of Haw-
thorne and The Scarlet Letter, where he
crosses swords with Henry James: —
On the question of substance I must hark
back to Hawthorne’s provincialism and
insist that here was a positive color, a
depth, a density—something of an integrity
worth cultivating. It was a tender growth,
but how vivid!... .And if in his devotion
to it Hawthorne sacrificed the finer graces
of ancient culture and the surer power of
established tradition, who shall say what
the alternative would have cost in moral
questionings—the alternative being, - as
Henry James was to demonstrate, expatria-.
tion?,...It would be obvious nonsense to
deny to the New Englander of the nine-
teenth century, above all to one of such
refined sensibilities as Hawthorne, the fullest
range of human emotions. And where
there are emotions there can be tragedy,
and all the forms of literature leading up
to tragedy.
We have the same note, and in a more
positive form, in the essay on the
Brontes: —
They are the least influenced and most
original geniuses in the whole history of the
English novel. What Charlotte in her
Introduction to Wuthering Heights wrote of
the others was equally true of herself:
“Neither Ellis nor Acton was learned: they
had no thoughts of filling their pitchers at
the well-spring of other minds; they always
wrote from the impulse of nature, the
dictates of intuition, and from such stores
of observation as their limited experience
had enabled them to amass.” It is this
quality of innocence that gives to Wuthering
Heights its terrible and unique intensity;
It would be hard to find any Australian
novel, of course, with the “terrible in-
tensity” of either The Scarlet Letter or
Wuthering Heights, for these novels are
canalised into compact form and fierce,
irresistible movement, and the best Aus-
tralian novels wander into the saga and
the picaresque. Yet there is something
of this quality in My Brilliant Career, in
The Pea Pickers and in For the Term of,
His Natural Life. And certainly an “in-
nocence” like that of the Brontes, a pro-
vincialism like Hawthorne’s, is by no
means difficult to find—it is, in fact, the
distinguishing characteristic of most of the
established Australian classics —Such Is
Life, On Our Selection, Up the Country,
even Lawson’s short stories; and when
some successor to Mr. Read discovers
Australian literature he will have to
account its innocence, here as in America
or Yorkshire, in part at least, as a virtue:
making for freshness, richness of local
color, vitality, writers who dare to be
themselves as distinct from writers who
imitate European fashions.
Mr. Read’s essays have been reviewed
before on this page. One finds them, as
always, stimulating, full of deep thought
and sound criticism, appealing in their
grave sincerity ; but far too much over-
loaded with that habit of Freudian psy-
choanalysis which makes Mr. Read unable
to refer to a writer as an artist but only
as a “case”—the case of Dostoevsky, the
case of the Brontes, the case of Shelley
and so on —and upon which, obviously as
an oblique warning to himself, he com-
ments: “The frequent introduction of
mesmerism and spiritualism in the plot
[of Hawthorne’s novels] merely shows the
contagion of contemporary enthusiasms,
and is a warning of how psychoanalysis in
modern fiction may strike a reader 50
years hence.”
Riln.s and Roses .
Robert Payne’s Journey to Persia
(Heinemann) is a singularly restful book
to read in these troubled times, for he
contrives to travel through Persia with-
out once mentioning an oilwell; and
writes, instead, about roses; —
Shiraz is full of surprises. The roses, of
course, were everywhere, though in this
late spring they were already dying. I have
never seen such roses. Plump, wine-
colored, thick with bunched petals as soft
as flesh, they stood massed in their vases.
You could buy a hundred for ten cents —
There was one garden I particularly
cherished, called the Garden of Paradise—
Bagh Eram. The roses were in floods. There
were yellow English tea-roses, but there were
also dark scarlet roses which glowed
savagely, there ware trellises on which solid
sheets of roses clung, and somehow the
wind came into the high-walled garden and
sent all the roses spinning
Old men walked down the streets holding
bouquets to then nostrils.- Men took roses
out for a walk as in Peking they take chaf-
• finches out in cages, and every motor-car
was full of them, so many roses plastered
on the windscreens that you wondered how
the driver could see through.
If the oilwells —mercifully or disap-
pointingly ; depending on what you want
to find in a travel-book—did not
lie in Mr. Payne’s itinerary, he does
occasionally touch on politics. A pro-
fessor tells him, “There will be a social
revolution. It will have to come. If the
Americans support the feudal lords, then
they will make in Persia the same
disastrous mistake they are making in
China.” A student, with the equivocal
attitude towards Russia common to most
of the people Mr. Payne talked to in
Tehran, declares, “There is a new spirit
coming. God help those who try to keep
us in the dark. The Tudeh party was in
the pay of the Russians, but a new
Socialist party will emerge sooner than
you think.” The Shah, or Shahinshah as
Mr. Payne likes to call him, “young,
nervous, dark-faced under beetling brows,
the dull scars glowing on the face which
had been wounded in an attempted
assassination two months before; a dare;
devil pilot as well as a social historian,"
tells him diplomatically that every Iranian
is an artist and Persia intends to “con-
tribute our share to the culture of the
world.”
But Mr. Payne didn’t go to Persia for
politics, and it is not much use going to
his book for them. He went there in
1949 with some scholars and archaeo-
logists from the Asia Institute of New
York to look for antiquities; and, paus-
ing to remind us that Persian art is to
be traced everywhere in the Gothic
cathedrals —in the blue tiles, in the
stained-glass windows, in the domes-'
and that Persian carpets found then way
into the paintings of Vermeer to “give
depth and color to our Western art,” he
certainly found what he was looking
for: —
Then the moon rose. Now all Persepolis
exploded in silver... .You could see more
clearly the lions, the bullocks and the
bearded kings, huge animals full of power,
leaping in a moonlit heraldic world of their
own, not dead nor ever dying, but eternally
vigilant here, on this stone parapet in a re-
mote valley of Persia. .
We would come across the lower jaw of a
lion, weighing half a ton, blue in moonlight,
and all the savagery of all lions was ex-
pressed in that gaping jaw with its lolling
tongue and hideous white teeth; or else
there would be a bull with humped back:
about to spring, all the muscles tense, un-
yielding, or a huge and bearded King with
the body of a bull from whose shoulders
{Red Page continued on inside back
cover.)


rn
:
smmm. ■
n
H '
■■ MB
as*-
I ■■ H
K I
If
'
f
m
m
" -y.,
■
... *
:v
:
**-••. •>/
B - A ' «t88S&«h- - v«» 5* ■
•;. .
•■■: ; v.
,
■' m
' n
wm
mmmim %
i .-..■ :
m
n ■■
■
I , **
n
3 -T^
*/?•
am
I $
- -|
•
-'I
i> ■
■l%
C 3
„V.
.
■ : :.:.•.
s~-
11
sd
IN ADVERTISING"
f
Dickins Cutler”
Roll Top Desks, £59'11'6
The “Dickins Cutler” Roll Top Desk with interlocking
system, is fitted with eight roomy drawers and fourteen little
cubicles under the roll top for all those spare ‘ whatnots
that invariably collect in the office desk. Solidly constructed in
Manchurian Oak, dimensions 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. £59/10/6.
Above. Writing Table 3ft. x 2ft. with two drawers,
built of Medium Oak colour. Priced at £7/11/9.
Chair to match above desk, shaped back, bolted under
frame. Light or Medium Oak colour. £3/16/6.
Telephone “Gossop Seat” with extra storage space
under seat, and swivel back. Available in a variety
of quality tapestry coverings. Priced at £9/17/9.
The perfect “Office Unit 99 for tf our home
This Office Desk is in a beautiful Walnut colour and has four spacious
drawers, 4ft. x 2ft. Sin. Price, £l5/8/3. Swivel type Office Chair, very comfortable
with sprung seat and upholstered in quality leatherette. Adjustable
height. Priced at £9/7/6.
OFFICE FURNITURE —THIRD FLOOR. TELEPHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT); MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


PRODUCTS OF THE
RooteS
GROUP
Famous Hames
from a Famous
Australian Factory
Wherever you see the red, blue and
gold Rootes Group sign you’ll find the vehicles
and genuine spare parts that are the products of
Australia’s Friendliest Factory. The sign
is a symbol of friendly service to the thousands
who own Rootes Group cars and trucks.
■ ■■
1
hiuman
sShbeamtaibot
COMMER
HARRIER J|
SALES SERVICE
: ■'
mi
/
tf J?
wgm&Mi 1
:p**
✓
- h
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT,
CUMMER, KARRIER
PRODUCTS OF THE
toons group
FISHERMEN’S BEND, MELBOURNE—AUSTRALIA’S FRIENDLIEST FACTORY


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—-No. 3730
Wednesday, August 8, 1951
Jmbm &
f
$<^S§
EXPERT OPINION.
“All these politicians can do about it is sit and talk, talk, talk.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
DIVIDED WE FALL.
Mr. Menzies’s public conference on in-
flation ended in the fashion expected. It
enabled the representatives of those upon
whom the burden of checking the drift
must fall to hear each other’s views. It
sounded the possibilities of voluntary co-
operation as an alternative to compulsory
Government action, and found these to
be mostly lacking. It passed the problem
to the meeting of Governments in the
Loan Council next week, where some-
thing in the nature of another Premiers’
Plan will be canvassed—a prospect which
has put all State “Labor” Premiers on
the defensive, remembering what hap-
pened to their predecessors in the early
’thirties.
The conference marked some advance
on the non-political attitude of 12 months
ago, just before the Korean war began.
The directors of the Victorian Institute
of Public Affairs then wrote, in urging
just such a conference as this:
The great obstacle to stabilisation lies
in the reluctance, and up to the present
tacit refusal, of the representatives of any
section to contemplate any measures which
would involve some immediate sacrifice on
the part of their members.
This is not quite true today. Measures
requiring a sharing of the cost of
stabilising the economy are today
regarded as inevitable. But it is the
general view that Governments, especially
the Commonwealth Government, must
take the initiative. The Prime Minister
clearly sees it like that, and his argument
is invincible that, since his Government
has only some of the powers for action, it
must demand and receive co-operative
measures as necessary from the State
Governments.
This is true and necessary not only be-
cause of auxiliary powers which those
Governments possess, but also because
the States can, by selfish action or refrain-
ing from action, hinder what the Com-
monwealth attempts to do. The Com-
monwealth, if next week it proposes
joint Governmental action, has this shot
in its locker which was not there 20
years ago—that it collects all the income
taxation and, on the late Mr. Chifley’s
precedent as Prime Minister in receiv-
ing requests for increased shares of
income tax from the State Treasurers, can
ask pointed questions about their Budget
expenditures.
The Prime Minister’s outline of the
causes of the increasing cost of every-
thing in terms of today’s money, and of
the developments, partly domestic and
partly universal, which are rapidly
aggravating the condition, cannot be
gainsaid. He showed that the originating
cause of the trouble was the exhaustion
of savings and resources during the
second world war. The post-war demand
for goods and services which unrestored
output could not meet resulted in the
bidding by consumers against each other,
openly or in the blackmarket, for the
commodities and the labor available.
Higher incomes (nominal at least) boosted
purchasing-power and prices paid for
everything from basic foods to company
shares; costs of raw materials soared on
every hand through increased demand
from overseas, with reciprocal increases
in our imports; and a world-wide build-
ing boom put the costs of the smallest
houses sky-high as compared with those
of pre-war days. On top of this came
the aggressive challenge to the Western
Powers from their former allies, the Com-
munist States of Russia, and a new arma-
ment race which is part of the Russian
economic campaign against all demo-
cracies, Australia included.
Rearmament has, in the period since
the Menzies Government took office,
vastly augmented the pace of inflation,
as a local symptom and as part of the
world-wide influences which nothing done
in Australia could avoid. To the causes
of high prices which the Prime Minister
detailed the late Chifley Government
contributed not a little. The ambitious
immigration programme has undoubtedly
complicated our short-term trouble; but
it was initiated by “Labor,” and has been
maintained since with the approval of the
“Labor” Opposition. The Chifley Gov-
ernment’s whole financial policy was
based on cheap and easy money and the
highest possible rate of spending on
Socialistic schemes, even to the embark-
ing on astronomical public-works pro-
grammes at a time when the only effect
could be a drain on available labor,
already in acute short supply, for com-
mercial industry. “Labor’s” free-
medicine and doctoring schemes while
in office, and its perpetual barracking out
of office for reckless increases in the
range of pensions, stand out as first-class
aids to the inflationary process. Withal
it was quite powerless to get increased
production in essential goods and
services ; it even reduced the popular dis-
position to work by forcing the 40-hour
week on the industrial courts (the
memorial especially of Mr. McGirr in
N.S.W.); and at the time war-time
Federal prices-control was abolished the
cost of subsidies to support it had
reached proportions which alarmed even
a “Labor” Treasurer.
It must now be clear to all alike, Gov-
ernments, employers, workers and the
general public as consumers, that there
can be no remedy for high prices with-
out increased production. Increased pro-
duction means necessarily more coal,
more steel, more efficient transport by sea
and land. For what of these necessities
are available first priority must go to the
basic industries. That diversion from
“milk-bar” activities the Government pro-
poses to bring about through arrange-
ments with the State Governments next
week, and through the Budget with higher
and specialised taxation. Restriction of
capital investment and of Government
works expenditure and heavier taxation
of company profits have been unmistak-
ably foreshadowed.
That price-fixing and wage-pegging are
footballs of party politics was made
abundantly clear. The basic wage is
rising alarmingly with each quarter now,
thanks especially to the court's arbitrary
increase of £1 in the rate last year: that
particular event removed all doubts about
wages as a factor in high prices.
Mr. McGirr of N.S.W. came with a
written speech, doubtless prepared with
the Fergusons and Evatts of the socialisa-
tion platform, to deliver “Labor’s” stand
on Commonwiealth price-fixing as the
cure for everything; and Mr. Monk for
the A.C.T.U, declared the unions’
opposition to any wage-pegging arrange-
ment as a corollary. Strictly it is prob-
ably impossible by Government operation
to peg either prices or wages.
Certainly either of these correctives
alone would never halt inflation. Price-
fixing did not work like that in Australia
up to 1948, and it has not so operated any-
where in the world. Its accompaniments
are rationing, coupons, form-filling,
swarms of inspectors and wholesale
blackmarketeering so long as the
purchaser has money to spend. It can-
not be accomplished without ever-rising
subsidies of prices from the Common-
wealth Treasury.
What “Labor” seeks primarily is not
to cure inflation but to exploit it
as a lever for introducing prices-
control. This regimentation is neces-
sary for the realisation of its aim
to socialise all industry, production, dis-
tribution and exchange. It would hand
the country’s production over to mono-
polies, all Government-owned, when all
market competition would cease and the
only cure for high prices would be pay-
ment of everybody’s wages in the form
of goods, and the exaltation of everything
abhorred by the Truck Act.
That is, until the Communists, whose
game “Labor” is playing, moved in to
take over and life would cease to be any-
thing but a jail term anyway.
Evolution in the Law.
The Seventh Legal Convention of the
Law Council of Australia, which will be
held from August 8-17, represents the
profession’s share in the Jubilee celebra-
tions. It will be marked by the first
official visits to Australia of the heads
of the law from other British Common-
wealth countries.
The ultimate court of appeal for the
Commonwealth is still the Privy Council,
a body of which our own Chief Justice
and leading legal Ministers of the Crown
are members. Not that this is essential to
our being integral in the British system
of justice—Canada remains so though it
has recently terminated its law of appeal
to the highest court of the United
Kingdom, and its own legal system has
become complete in itself without its
courts ceasing to be the King’s courts.
Australia’s legal system had its germ
not in civil but in military law, but it has
always been significant that it was based
on principles unique to the British in that
policy aimed from the first at reform
rather than punishment. The system was
born in a settlement in which all the
inhabitants were either jailers or
prisoners, but it was the plan of the home
Government that, once here, so long as
the convict behaved himself on arrival,
his crimes “should no longer be remem-
bered against him.”
Even the Governor was not informed
of the nature of his offence, if such it
could be called in most cases, since steal-
ing a rabbit, burning a rick of hay or —
in the case of one of our most distin-
guished early feminists, a lady in whose
house the organised private finance in
Australia was bom —“stealing a pony for
a frolic” on a sunny afternoon, the
criminal being a 13-year-old girl.
However, given their chance and fail-
ing to take it, the transports soon learned
that British law had a long arm; that it
ran as readily, with the aid of cat-o’-nine
tails and noose, on the sunny shores of
Australia as it did in Manchester or
Pontefract, a borough which endowed us
with the father of all bushrangers in
Black Michael Howe.
They found also that law as practised
in New South Wales and Van Diemen’s
Land during its infancy demonstrated
beyond doubt the flexibility of the British
system, for much of it was unknown to
the statute-book, and it could have been
written of of the first bluff naval
Governors up to the time of Macquarie
at it was of Governor King:
To every law he, boasting:, did defiance,
Made local laws to suit his own occasion.
There was, in fact, “an absolute omis-
sion of Parliamentary sanction for the
greater part of the colonial Government,”
especially as regards criminal law.
Omitting the tent in which the initial
trials appear to have been held, the first
court-room used after the colony was on
its feet served criminal and civil jurisdic-
tions, for the bench of magistrates and
for the judge-advocate’s office. It was
“a small, low room about fifteen feet in
length and of, proportionate breadth,
which did not possess”—2o years after
the foundation of the colony—“one single
accommodation for the purposes of
justice.” It had “no places whatsoever
for the custody of the records of the
court, nor any desk or box where a
paper can be deposited with safety.”
Often “the publick business of the office
was entirely at a standstill from the total
want of stationery.”
The divinity which reigned over this
hole-in-the-wall was the judge-advocate,
half official under the orders of the
Governor, half presiding-judge and legal
adviser to the court, which in its earliest,
but not palmiest, days consisted of six
military officers. Supplementing this
august tribunal there presently arose a
bench of magistrates whose main weapon
was the lash —some had themselves
“done time.”
The judge-advocate in the first years
was usually a military officer. The first
with any legal connection was no success
—a practitioner named Richard Dore,
whose qualifications appear to have been
vague. He was followed by a delightful
old gentleman, very obviously a
“remittance-man,” and more famous for
his natural daughters and his thirst than
as a jurist, one whom everybody expected
at intervals to die of delirium tremens,
but who survived to brave the rigors of
the Bligh rebellion and to return safely to
his native land, which many others, more
sober and not “accustomed (like himself)
to inebriety,” nor afflicted with a “float-
ing and infirm mind,” failed to do.
With his departure came the Macquarie
era and Mr. Judge-advocate Ellis Bent,
son of a protege of Charles James Fox, a
member of Lincoln’s Inn, 26 years old, an
“eminent” member of the Cumberland
circuit, dowered with a wife who managed
him, a cargo of brandy and madeira for
sale at exorbitant prices; also (vide
Governor Macquarie) with “the most
conciliating manners, good sense and
accurate legal knowledge” blended with
“the mildest and gentlest disposition,” yet
sufficiently steadfast to find himself
plagued by “devil a tear” when he was
called on frequently to pass the death
sentence.
The Government at once gave him
several thousand gallons to build a court-
house and dwelling, a grant of land for
himself and his sons in trust. This he
promptly hypothecated in defiance of con-
ditions of grant.
The colonists then proceeded to
work him to death, a process remarkably
easy. The inhabitants were so inspired
by the coming of the first real barrister
which the Antipodes had seen that, apart
from his duties as legal adviser to a per-
plexed Governor, draftsman of regula-
tions and chairman of the bench of
magistrates, he was called on to try 240
civil actions alone in his first three months
on the bench.
Combining this industry (which
brought him in salary and fees £2300 per
annum) with a curious association with
speculation in promissory-notes and
trade in wine and brandy, and despite
his affliction with “incipient dropsy of
the chest, this busy young man never-
theless found time to draft a plan for
the establishment of a new civil legal
system, a halfway-house to the establish-
ment of British civilian law, which earned
the encomipms of the British legal
authorities.
vP 16 fruit of this plan was the estab-
lishment of a new charter of justice
under which the basic law remained mili-
tary, with Mr. Bent as chief judge in the
office of judge-advocaate. His brother,
Mr. Jeffery Hart Bent, became the judge
(with two civilian assessors) of an insti-
tution which had the grandiloquent title
of Supreme Court, paid its judge £BOO
per annum and endowed him with at
least some of the powers of the High
Court of Chancery. The Governor’s
court, however, remained the high court
of appeal within the colony, and the
register of counsel and attorneys—two,
Messrs. W. H. Moore and Frederick
Garling—was kept in it.
When Mr. Judge-Advocate Ellis Bent
died of overwork and dropsy in Novem-
ber, 1815, and Mr. J. H. Bent was recalled
at the end of the same year after a
turbulent reign, the old rough-and-ready
days of law in N. S. Wales ended.
True, the echoes of their era were
heard for many a year—the tolerance by
Mr. Justice Ellis Bent for his own pur-
poses of illegal speculation in promissory-
notes, for instance, led to the foundation
of the Bank of New South Wales, our
first financial institution. It came into
existence in the office of the new judge-
advocate, Mr. Judge-Advocate John
Wylde, an able member of an able legal
family, brother of Lord Truro (who de-
fended Queen Caroline and became Lord
Chancellor), a man who himself after-
wards became Chief Justice of Cape
Colony, one of the founders of its Con-
stitution and first president of its
Legislative Council.
The heir of Mr. Jeffery Hart Bent as
“Supreme” Court Judge was Mr. Barron
Field, a barrister of only a year’s stand-
ing, but a doughty dramatic critic for
the “Times,” the “distant correspondent”
of Charles Lamb and the author of the
“first fruits” of Australian poetry. These
reflected his gloomy outlook on this
“first part of the earth, which would
seem an afterbirth” and led a sardonic
colleague to write of him:
Thy poems, Barron Field, I’ve read.
And thns adjudge their meed,
So poor a crop proclaims thy head
A barren field indeed.
It is remarkable that from such be-
ginnings the judicial and legal system
should have been able to step, in a com-
munity 12,000 miles’ sail from the foun-
tainhead of justice, inhabited by a people
principally convict or of convict origin
and then limited in number to under
40,000, to the highest standards of legal
practice.
Such men as Sir Francis Forbes, the
first Chief Justice under a civil constitu-
tion, and William Charles Wentworth, the
first Australian-born member of the bar
and the first practising barrister to sign
the roll when it was opened in the courts
under the civil system of justice in De-
cember, 1824, will always be remembered
in history for their establishment of free-
dom of the Press and trial by jury-
Wentworth, as well, was the founder of
the Constitution who ate his dinners in
the Middle Temple, the present Lord
Chancellor’s Inn of Court (where
he was called in February, 1822)
because (as he wrote at the time)
he “calculated upon acquainting him-
self with all the excellencies of
the British Constitution, and hoped at
some future time to participate in its
advantages,” It is a fit occasion to remem-
ber these pioneers—Forbes, the two
Stephenses (father and son), Dowling,
Burton, Plunkett, Therry, Martin and
many more who played a conspicuous
part in the foundation of Australian law,
together with a multitude of eminent
judges, counsel and attorneys who have
lent distinction to the Australian legal
and constitutional scene. The later ones
included Lowe, Darvall, Dailey, Barton,
Deakin, Reid, Higinbotham, Higgins,
Isaacs, Wise, Hughes and Evatt.
The visits of the Lord Chancellor of
England, Viscount Jowitt; Sir Raymond
Evershed, Master of the Rolls; Sir
Leonard Holmes, president of the Law
Society of England; the Chief Justice of
Canada, Mr. Justice Rinfret; the Chief
Justice of South Africa, Mr. Justice
Centlivres ; the Chief Justice of India, Sir
Harilal Kania; and the president of the
American Bar Association give emphasis
to the unity of the legal traditions in the
English-speaking world.
If the visitors are happy in the presence
of the laws with which they are con-
cerned they should revel in the atmos-
phere of the Commonwealth. We may
be short of butter, eggs, coal and steel,
but with laws nature has been, and con-
tinues to be, bountiful to us.
M. H. E.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Exceptional Hardship. "
- Among the applications for deferment
of call-up heard in Sydney last week was
one which held a lesson for all political
parties. A youth, said to be earning £lB
to £2l a week modelling sanitary basins,
asked for his call-up to be postponed for
a year on the ground of “exceptional
hardship.” His trouble was that he had
entered into commitments to buy a £l2OO
car, and would not be able to keep up
the payments on his Army pay. His
application was refused.
A thought the Government parties
should get from this case is that the time
is overdue for a revision of the form of
their publicity and advertising for the
armed services. Advertisements calling
for volunteers all seem to stress the
material benefits to be gained from join-
ing up. They tell how the recruit will be
taught a trade, how generous his pay
will be, how liberal his leave and other
benefits. All the emphasis is on what he
will get out of the services, not on what
he will be expected to give. The appeal
is to the individual’s materialist instincts,
not to his spirit of sacrifice.
A materialist approach naturally brings
a materialist response, and although
Army pay is now, by pre-war standards,
almost princely, it is no wonder that lads
thus appealed to compare it with the
better cash prizes available outside the
services and decide to remain in civvies.
The lesson for “Labor” is that most
of its shibboleths are outmoded. At the
trade-union conference next month all
the old demands are to be trotted out —
a higher basic wage, a shorter working
week, longer holidays and so forth —yet
here is a lad who, under most awards,
would still have to work three more years
before becoming entitled to full adult
wages, yet who admits to collecting £lB
to £2l a week. It would, of course, be
absurd to argue that this is the current
wage for lads of 18, but at the same time
there are thousands of youths today who
are receiving two and three times as
much money every week as their fathers
were getting at the time they were born.
It is idle to talk of inflation to these
youngsters.
Less than two years ago “Labor” tried
to win an election by accusing Menzies
of planning an “unemployment pool,” and
even today a Parliamentary debate touch-
ing ever so lightly on finance is the signal
for “Labor” members to jump to their
feet with their version of what happened
in the depression. Unemployment-talk
and depression reminiscences are just so
much beating the air as far as the young
people of today are concerned. The de-
pression was almost over when this year’s
National Service trainees were born ; no
one under 30 can have any but the haziest
recollection of what it meant. No doubt
it would be a much better world if
people would learn from the lessons of
the past, but apart from one event, the
depression of the ’thirties, “Labor”
itself refuses to learn anything from
history, so it can hardly expect the highly-
paid youth of today to heed its warnings.
It seems that the human animal prefers
to learn the hard way.
Mr. Bland Ss Surprised.
Federal Parliament acquired one new
Sydney member who has caused some
astonishment at Canberra and who him-
self, it seems, is also astonished.
Professor Bland in Warringah replaced
Mr. Percy Spender, who has become an
Ambassador, and there seems to be some-
thing in the Warringah air which infects
its candidates and renders them odd by
political standards of measurement. Mr.
Spender himself was an Independent when
first elected —indeed, his chief qualifica-
tion for election was that he differed
from the party holder of the seat, that
hardened conformer, Sir Archdale Park-
hill. However, Canberra soon took Mr.
Spender in hand, and when it had beaten
him into shape he was the very model
of a party politician.
Professor Bland is not a young man
even for Australian politics. He has taught
public administration at Sydney Uni-
versity to students who are now going
grey-headed. He has mixed with poli-
ticians, lectured them and been lectured
by them, but has retained a crystalline
innocence of mind which has brought him
disillusionment at Canberra, as he con-
fessed —metaphorically in sackcloth —to
the English-Speaking Union last week.
He no longer believes that Parliament
should sit regularly so that it might be
at call when something needs to be done ;
he says that the shorter the sessions the
better, since “Ministers and members
must be allowed to get away from all
kinds of intoxication in Canberra as
quickly as possible.” And, anyway (he
says in mild amaze), when the Houses do
sit members make as much hubbub as
possible to drown the sound of other
people’s oratory. And they do not, it
appears, say what they mean.
Mr. Calwell gave the Professor a
drubbing in which he reflected on his
ancestry and later came over and said:
“Let’s forget it. I didn’t mean it.” Old-
stagers could have told Mr. Bland that
this is not an unusual procedure for Mr.
Calwell. Even neophytes could have
saved him the disillusion of finding out
that “the present Government does not
tell its members in detail what it proposes
to do about certain legislation,” and that
when members attack Government
measures, as he himself did the Defence
Preparations Bill, the Prime Minister
“just smiles.”
Mr. Bland will learn later that there
is some method in the Government’s
madness, since there has long been a
proverb which every Minister sees in
imagination written on the wall like the
mystic words which materialised at Bel-
shazzar’s feast: “Tell the party, tell the
Press ; tell the Press, tell the Opposition.”
So that on matters on which discretion is
called for the party is often left to find
out.
Moreover, Mr. Bland will also learn
presently how lucky he is to have a
smiling Prime Minister. Had he been
on the other side of the House and dealt
as much in unorthodoxy as he did last
session he would have found himself up
before Mr. J. A. Ferguson and his merry
men, grim commissars who would poke
under his nose the pledge to obey them
which he signed as a “Labor” candidate
and adjure him to do better if
he expected renomination at the next
election. Members of the “Labor” party
do not complain if their leaders tell them
nothing, because the leaders themselves
take their orders day by day from outside
the House.
In this fact Mr. Bland will find the root
of most of the evils of which he com-
plains. Nobody cares what anybody says
in Parliament any more, because no
oratory can sway an Opposition and Par-
liament is fast becoming mere registration
machinery for matters already decided
outside its walls.
Consorting Question.
The attitude of “Labor” generally, during
the long debates on the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill inside and outside Par-
liament, has been that the movement
hates Communism as a patient hates
cancer, but that it will die rather than
renounce the trade-union movement’s
right to suffer from cancer if it wants to.
This stand now appears to be rapidly
changing with the approach of the anti-
Red referendum. It seems (if one may
believe the “Tribune,” official organ of
the Communist party, which is not always
to be believed) that the “Labor” move-
ment and its cancer are coalescing into
one group of cells for the purpose of
defeating those who dare to obstruct the
plans of Comrade Stalin.
One little bit in the August 1 issue
of the fifth-column’s rag reads:
Tonight delegates and gang-leaders will
meet at the [wharfies’] union rooms to hear
Chief Secretary Clive Evatt and Jim Healy
and set up the broadest possible “No”
committee.
It is only a year ago since an organisa-
tion on the Government side accused Mr.
Jim Healy of being present at a N. S.
Wales A.L.P. annual conference, quoting
as an authority the report of the con-
ference which appeared in “Labor’s”
official organ. Mr, Healy immediately
issued a writ claiming £lO,OOO damages,
though he forgot all about it as soon as
the election campaign was over.
“Labor” on its side indignantly denied
that Mr. Healy was present (though it
had previously reported his presence),
announcing that a dastardly libel had
been committed, since the Healey who had
represented the wharflaborers at its con-
ference was not a Red like Mr. Jim
Healy, but a dyed-in-the-wool, honest-to-
Evatt moderate named R. Healey.
And now here are Mr, Jim Healy and
Mr. Clive Evatt, a “Labor” Minister of
the Crown, advertised in a Communist
journal as associating together in the
formation of a committee to combat anti-
communist legislation.
There seems to be room for speculation
as to whether:
(a) Mr. Healy will issue a writ for £lO,OOO
against the “Tribune” for charging him
with associating with a “Labor” politician;
(b) Mr. Clive Evatt will take action
against the “Tribune” for charging him
with association with a member of the
central committee of the Communist party;
(c) The A.L.P. central executive will ask
Mr. Clive Evatt whether the report is true
(which nobody says it is at this stage
except the “Tribune”), and if it finds that
it is true (which everybody hopes it will
not) what it will do to Mr. Evatt.
The rules of the A.L.P. expressly forbid
members of the A.L.P. to associate with
Communists at public or other meetings
under pain of expulsion, and this rule
has been reinforced by the ruling of the
1948 Federal Triennial Conference.
Beating the Air.
Clutching their briefs from the bosses
of various trade-union outfits. State
“Labor” Premiers did everything possible
to put a smokescreen round real issues
at the economic conference in Sydney.
The essence of Australia’s trouble,
of course, is the failure of organised trade-
unionism to do a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay.
Mr. McGirr, of N. S. Wales, had no
“positive programme” for increasing vital
coal production in his State. He blathered
instead about price-control and other ex-
pedients that would no more than tempo-
rarily mask a situation thereby en-
couraged to grow worse.
And Mr. Gair, Mr. Hanlon’s deputy,
weighed in with a plan to limit the export
of frozen and tinned meats, with the re-
markable addendum that “expenditure on
advertising” should be discouraged by dis-
allowing it as a business expense for
taxation purposes.
Sham, sidestepping and humbug the lot
of it. The reason why food is scarce in
Australia is because people aren’t work-
ing enough and producing enough. And
the crack at advertising is an attack on
one of the factors in modern mass-
production and mass-distribution. With-
out advertising the American economy of
today, with its enormous productivity,
would not exist. More money is spent
on advertising per head in the U.S.A.
than in any other country in the world.
Its manufactured goods are the cheapest
in the Western world. And in terms of
manufactured goods its living standard is
the highest in the world.
Not one “Labor” Premier at the con-
ference had a word to say against booze
or betting—or the State lotteries.
Together they represent a racket that is
doing great damage to our economy and
our social morale.
Evatt on A.W.A.
Like the Persian Premier Moussadek,
Dr. Evatt has had a brainstorm about
public rights. He worked himself up
into simulated fury over the Govern-
ment’s sale of its shares in the A.W.A.
radio-factory concern, and the cancellation
of its appointment of three or four
directors on the board of the same. This
was the thin end of the unemployment
wedge, this was outrageous, this was dis-
posing of valuable public trading interests
and so forth.
Before he follows the Persian political
artist into a weeping session over these
wrongs done to the national pride or
income, or whatever it is, who is Dr.
Evatt to raise such complaints? When
the Government of which he was the
leading publicity star was in office, did he
lift his voice against his Government’s
selling of the farmers’ wheat at about a
third of its value to New Zealand, and
charging the taxpayer with the bill for the
loss? Not he. When the wharfies’ union
forced on the Chifley Government a
three-years’ ban on Dutch-N.E.I. ship-
ping, at the cost (as stated at the time)
of £20,000,000- or £30,000,000-worth of
trade to Australia, did Dr. Evatt want
Parliament called together to protest and
the Government made to reverse its
attitude? Of course he didn’t.
What did these arbitrary executive
actions by Dr. Evatt’s Government cost
the country? What did the Manus busi-
ness cost? That was in Dr. Evatt’s own
department. His Government could not
fortify or man Manus, and had no desire
to do so; but it rudely refused an
American offer to do so under agree-
ment and thereafter let the war-time plant
there rot, and the jungle resume posses-
sion. Did he feel any qualms then about
the taxpayers’ getting market-value for
an investment?
Professor Bland, M.P., diverted Sydney
people (especially the Press reporters)
last week by declaring that he had dis-
covered these political headline-makers
did not believe what they said in Parlia-
ment. He might validly have added—
“Or outside Parliament either.”
Where Angels Wouldn't.
The case of the Sydney apprentice
jockey who persuaded a magistrate to
defer his military training period because
he might put on too much weight to ride
at the “spring meetings” and because his
master would have to close his racing
establishment if denuded of the appren-
tice ought to set Dr. R. Walker and his
committee to define “luxury goods,
essential goods and less-essential goods”
scratching their heads.
If a midget of 18 and a racehorse-
trainer are, as the magistrate apparently
believed, essential goods, how on earth
is the committee to convince our girls
that expensive frocks and jewellery
aren't in the same category? Good
gracious. Dr. Walker, a girl can no more
compete against the other girls and
attract the other sex without fal-lals and
dil-dols than a jockey can ride over-
weight. Yet somebody in Canberra had
the face to hint that even cosmetics
might be classed as luxuries!
There are probably 4,000,000 adult
Australians, and that means practically
4,000,000 different opinions on what or
what is not a luxury. Some of them
might even consider that Dr. Walker has
a luxury job and the country would be
the better if he took on bricklaying
instead.
The more this is thought about the
more prickly it becomes. A farmer
growing passionfruit would resent being
told that passionfruits are non-essential
and to grow something else. If potatoes
or onions were suggested he could re-
tort that at their prices they’re certainly
luxuries. Are flowers luxuries? If they
are, hundreds of acres and shops and
people are devoted to the growing and
marketing of them. Nobody really wants
the Taxation Department; most of us
feel we could do better without it, yet
Dr. Walker’s committee won’t even con-
sider its abolition.
The idea that luxuries are confined to
high-priced cars, furs, expensive frocks,
costly handbags and jewellery (to quote
a Canberra list) seems to suggest that
these arbiters of our fate have their eye
mainly on the female of our species,
than whom nothing is more deadly when
aroused. The ladies could, with justice,
retort that silk ties, nylon shirts, imported
sports-coats, high-priced wristlet-watches
and bodgy hair-cuts are not really
essential to the nation’s welfare.
In an era when such one-time essentials
as eggs, meat, potatoes, telephones,
postage-stamps, houses, books, children’s
shoes, prawns, petrol, presents for the
wife, blankets, fish and such other items
as the fancy may dictate sell at luxury
prices, any committee taking on the job
of labelling this or that as luxury or
non-luxury will need Solomon’s wisdom,
Ned Kelly’s alleged gameness and the late
Stephen Leacock’s ability to laugh at
himself.
Where Is Corowa?
The argument for new States came up
again the other day, this time at a con-
vention organised by the Murray Valley
Development League, New England New-
State Movement and Murrumbidgee
Water Users’ Association at Corowa
(N.S.W.). It was a Federal Jubilee affair,
and drew about 200 delegates from the
four eastern States.
G. V. Lawrence, secretary of the
M. declared that the nation was
concentrating too much on supplying re-
sources and talents to overcrowded
Sydney and Melbourne merely to make
them “bigger and better atom-bomb
targets.” General Northcott, Acting-
Governor-General, wondered how long
the nation could go on building up the
great cities at the expense of the coun-
try areas. Ulrich Ellis urged immediate
creation of new States in northern N. S.
Wales and North Queensland. A. A.
Calwell, Deputy Federal “Labor” leader,
wanted Victoria split into six States and
N. into four or five.
There are many other reasons why
there should be new States, and a really
impressive one arises from these facts: —
Corowa is a N.S.W. town on the Murray,
in the heart of Riverina. It was the scene,
in 1893, of a convention which formed the
Australian Federal League, which brought
about Federation. The recent convention
was, therefore, a rather significant jubilee
event. Sydney, which runs four daily news-
papers and four Sunday newspapers, is
Corowa’s capital city; there Corowa sends
its State Parliamentary representative,
there the laws are made which Corowa
must obey, there, in general, Corowa’s
destiny is decided. Yet, so Jar as can be
discovered, there wasn’t a word in the
Sydney Press about this convention, nor did
any but a few of Sydney’s If millions
know anything about it.
If ever there was an argument for new
States, that’s it.
Inflation in the Large.
Australia’s anti-inflation problem is
only a small detail in the complicated
international campaign against shortages
and high prices which the democratic
world is now called upon to face by the
Russian armaments challenge.
In the American quarterly “Foreign Affairs”
the deputy administrator of the Economic
Co-operation Administration in Washington
outlines something of this campaign and shows
why, in the E.C.A. view, the chief industrial
Powers may have to get tough with the primary-
producing nations.
Under the Marshall Plan Western Europe by
early 1950 had turned the corner on the way
to economic recovery and had even checked the
{Continued on next page)


4202
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
Is unmistakable
matk specialty it>
pieveri
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION
S' -
onset of inflation. Then came the rearmament
programme, accepted by all the Western democ-
racies in face of the unmistakable Russian
mihtary menace —notably in the Balkans and
orea - .I n Korea it led to actual outbreak
of war against the United Nations. The struggle
for greater production by the Western world
has now become critical.
In 1951 U.S.A. aims to spend 48.5 billion
dollars, 15.7 per cent, of gross national income,
on rearmament; U.K. 3.6 billion dollars, or
9 per cent, of its national income; and France
about the same percentage. These nations are
the backbone at present of the Allied defence
effort. U.S.A. is furnishing its European part-
ners for rearmament with 214 million dollars a
month in ships, tanks, planes, guns, machine-
tools, spare parts and raw materials. Under
the E.R.P. programme (Marshall Aid) recon-
struction credits had run at the rate of about
283 million dollars a month. Marshall Aid is
due to come to an end next year.
The picture early in 1950 showed “an
enormous increase in production (27 per cent,
above pre-war levels for industry and 9 per
cent, for agriculture),” a stabilising and “gentle
decline” of prices and living costs in most of
Western Europe, restoration of internal trade,
and an increase of external trade among Euro-
pean countries by 17 per cent, over 1938. High
tariffs and a system of rigid import quotas had
been reduced. The European Payments Union
had made currencies more freely convertible
than they had been for 20 years. In 1948
Western Europe was importing goods and ser-
vices from the rest of the world at the rate
of 6 billion dollars annually in excess of current
earnings. By June, 1950, the gap was less
than 2 billion dollars. European home invest-
ments were up 10 per cent, and European diet
was up to pre-war value, nutritionally, if not
in variety.
Since the autumn of 1950 two powerful
inflationary influences have been created by
(1) U.S. rearmament and (2) Europe’s own
rearmament under American aid. In U.S.A.
both rearmament and consumer purchases were
fed by a rapid expansion of credit, running at
14 billions annually by the end of 1950. To
slacken the pace of credit expansion Budget
taxation is demanded, “but a dollar taken out
of the spending stream by taxes rarely cuts
the demand for goods as much as a dollar
put into the spending stream to buy military
hardware cuts the supply of goods. Thus the
mere act of channelling more of the taxpayers’
dollars through the Federal Treasury is itself
inflationary.”
By June, 1950, raw materials were being
chewed up in the free world at a rate half
again as great as ever before. Attempts to
raise current production are being thwarted by
lack especially of iron ore and other minerals,
in which production will respond only with
time and after the prospect of high returns
over a long term has provided sufficient induce-
ment. Today an allocation ticket or an export
licence is becoming a more important kind of
currency than a dollar bill. Rationing to
industry is already widespread. And there is no
way in which a country, any more than an
individual, can increase its supply of tickets by
devaluation or any of the techniques of “earning
dollars.”
Everything possible must be done to raise
productivity and improve the distribution of
income in Continental Europe. “This is the
unfinished business of the Marshall Plan.” For
the next two or three years the resources of
the free world will simply not be adequate to
support a further rise in the standard of living.
Since some setback is inevitable from the rapid
gains of the last few years it is doubly neces-
sary that distribution of income be more
equitable in order to help generate a hope of
large and lasting advances over the long haul.
In order that U.S.A. may join with Europe
in an effort to increase supplies of scarce
materials and food, use them with utmost
efficiency and hold down prices, the American
Government, as leader and supplier of credits,
will have to bargain with Europe and with
primary-producing countries “in a tough-minded
fashion.” If agreement is impossible on a
scheme for controlling supplies and prices there
may have to be exclusive buying in particular
markets, as in World War 11, though the
securing of discipline in conditions short of a
shooting war would be a problem, and the
primary-producing nations will not easily be
brought to deny themselves the fruits of scarcity
on a wide market. There must, in the opinion
of this writer, be machinery for concerted
action, including control over the use of scarce
materials thus procured.
POLITICAL POINTS
Inflation-chatter has more or less stolen
the limelight from next month’s refer-
endum on the Communist issue, but in
the shadows valiant efforts are being
made to vamp up enthusiasm for a
“United Front” between the Communists
and the party that is supposed to hate
Communism so much that it insists that
the job of fighting the Reds shall be left
entirely to itself—the “fight” to be
carried on “inside the trade-unions.”
Some of this inside work is reported in
the current “Tribune,” which tells of a
meeting of “enthusiastic wharfies”
addressed by Senator McKenna at their
union-rooms. After Nick had told them
that Menzies was out “to smash every
trade-union in the country, whether mili-
tant or moderate,” the meeting carried a
resolution endorsing his statements and
“calling for the broadest united ‘No’
committees.”
Another inside job advertised by the
“Tribune” was a meeting, also to be held
at the wharfies’ rooms, to enable “dele-
gates and gang-leaders(!) to listen to Clive
Evatt and Jim Healy and to set up “the
broadest possible ‘No’ committee.”
Healy and Evatt minor? Not much
broadness in that combination —if there’s
any truth in the “Tribune” report.
Support for the Prime Minister’s pro-
posal to cut the Commonwealth Public
Service by 10,000 has come from the
secretary of the Public Service Associa-
tion of N. S. Wales, R. J. O’Neile, who
agrees with Menzies that there is a
lot of overlapping of Federal and State
departments. He claims that Canberra
could dispense with the services of not
merely 10,000, but 20,000. At this point
the lines of thought of the Prime Minister
and the P.S.A. man diverge. Mr.
Menzies’s idea is that the surplus Federal
public servants should be diverted into
more productive channels ; Mr. O’Neile’s
plan is to give ’em all jobs in the N. S.
Wales Public Service.
Most obvious fact emerging from the
welter of statements purporting to repre-
sent the views of various organisations
on inflation is that everyone is hoping for
an easy way out of the trouble. That is
a vain hope. Getting into a mess
is easy enough ; getting out of it nearly
always means hard work.
“Pravda,” in its reply to Mr. Morrison’s
message to-the Russian people, asks why
the Soviet was not asked to join the
Atlantic Pact. Well, if the Police Force
signed on gangsters in its Flying Squad
and the Fire Brigade recruited known
firebugs as watchmen, there is no doubt
that both organisations would be more
representative than they are. It is, how-
ever, pardonable to suspect that their
effectiveness might be slightly impaired.
Federal “Labor” executive is reported
to be considering seeking an injunction
restraining the Government from going
on with the sale of its shares in Amal-
gamated Wireless. The executive’s con-
cern is a little late. If it had restrained
its own “Labor” Government a few years
ago from transferring the Beam Wireless
service from A.W.A. the show that Ernest
Fisk used to run could still be classed
as a public utility. As it is, A.W.A.,
apart from controlling a commercial
broadcasting station, is purely a manu-
facturing concern.
Silliest comment on the A.W.A. sale
came from J. Shortell, of the N.S.W.
Trades and Labor Council, who urged
the “Labor” party to announce that when
it returned to power it would buy back
all the shares at their par value. In other
words, after making a profit by selling
the shares at a premium, the Government
should confiscate from the buyers of the
shares a sum equal to the profit it had
already made.
It was at first thought that the heavy
fog that blanketed Sydney last Wednesday
night originated at the Premier’s office,
but according to the Weather Bureau it
was just a normal harbor fog.
McDonald, Victorian Premier by the
grace of Cain, told Melbourne “Argus”
he would go to the Premiers’ Conference
to form a “bloc” with the other Premiers
and “force the Federal Government to
take over price-control.” It would be
interesting to hear Mac discussing the
notion with Playford and McLarty.
U.S. Senator O’Mahoney claims that
Russia is not ready for war. All very
well; but is she ready for peace?
The “more money for less work” disease
afflicting us has a peculiar sort of echo
in the wool cheque. This year it was
more money for less wool. In 1949-50 we
shipped away 4,196,000 bales and got
£313 million for them. This year we got
£635 million for 3,604,000 bales. The
money came from a product sold at open
auction without price or export restric-
tions of any kind, a fact which should
prompt some deep thinking on this infla-
tion business,
McGrrrrr told the P.M.’s conference
that Evatt should have been there because
he “spoke for half Australia.” If a
hundred or so electors of Barton had
voted the other way he would not now
be speaking for anybody but himself.
Anyone want a block of land? Barcoo
(Q.) Shire Council is offering half-acre
blocks free to anyone prepared to build
a house on them. City-dwellers
suspicious of a catch will probably see
it in the proviso that applicants will have
to go and live in Jundah, Windorah or
Stonehenge townships. Still, in this
season of blackouts, gas restrictions and
butter shortage there are plenty of worse
places than Jundah, Windorah and Stone-
henge, Sydney, for example.
To The Bulletin office from a New
Australian comes a copy of a Rumanian
First Primer. Starting off with pot-hooks,
it proceeds to take the youngster through
the alphabet and on to easy words and
simple sentences. For the most part,
judging by the colored blocks of pigs,
peasants, dogs, geese, cornfields, kettle-
drums and rabbits, it seems to be of pre-
Communist vintage, but by the time the
young student reaches page 16—the
longest words he has so far mastered
being ta-ta and tu-tu —he is treated to
pictures of a hammer, a sickle and then
the two combined. There’s a rest from
ideology then until page 32, where,
apparently to illustrate the letter “e,” is
presented a picture of the Order of Lenin.
It’s all plain learning then until letter
“x” is reached—a golden opportunity for
portraits of Marx and Engels, with a
brief story about them. Next page,
Lenin, portrait and life. Then, of course,
Uncle Joe himself, smilingly receiving a
bunch of roses from a group of happy
kiddies. A panegyric on Stalin follows.
Thus fortified, the young kindergarten
graduate is ready to begin his real educa-
tion, Marxian style.
For months blackleg disease has been
killing thousands of cattle in Queensland
and N.S.W., and at last Canberra has
agreed to provide the dollars for 150,000
doses of Cutter’s vaccine, the only known
counter to the disease. Heaven knows
what machinery had to get into motion,
how many forms had to be filled-in, and
how many officials had to take a hand
before the decision was taken, but it shows
how official control bogs down urgent
action, no matter how necessary.
Rejoicing that no Communist or
fellow-traveller now held office in the
Melbourne branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, H. Clarke, secretary
of the branch, said that the new executive
would not associate itself with any poli-
tical hold-ups, although “we can be just
as militant as anybody.” Presumably it
is in order to prove this militancy that his
branch has decided to ban evening and
night shifts “unless the bus service is im-
proved.” It is not so long since the
same Melbourne wharfies banned the
buses because the fares had been
increased by a penny, exemplifying the
“Labor” belief, by no means confined to
the wharfies, that you can have 1951
wages and 1945 prices. It is all very well
to forswear political hold-ups, but the
turn-round of ships is hampered just as
much by the present display of “mili-
tancy” as by any other brand.
An Adelaide “Labor” M.P. named
Davis has unearthed the real cause of
inflation, and knows the remedy. “It’s
been due to profiteering from the be-
ginning,” he burbled, “and the first thing
Menzies must do is freeze profits.” Does
that include profits from overtime and
weekend work at blackmarket prices?
A campaign— not altogether divorced
from august members of Parliament —has
been opened by a Sydney newspaper for
a coalition Government to deal with
inflation. Any coalition Ministry would
first have to deal with Comrade J. A.
Ferguson and his co-commissars of the
A.L.P., who would not agree unless a
bill empowered th n to give orders to the
“Labor” section.
Established in 1926 to handle workers’
compensation insurance, the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Insurance Office was also
authorised to undertake general insurance
for Government and semi-Government
authorities and for Government em-
ployees and contractors. Since 1942 its
facilities have been available to the
general public—provided, apparently, the
general public is prepared to pay through
the nose for the privilege. For instance,
a public servant —the term includes for
this purpose officers of the Common-
wealth Bank—can insure a car for £5OO
on a premium of £lO a year. If he sells
it to an “outsider” and the buyer wants
to cover it with the Government office
for £5OO he is soaked over £22—if he is
foolish enough to pay it instead of get-
ting the same cover from a capitalist in-
surance company for £l9. And to think
that if the Socialists had succeeded in the
Bank Grab the insurance companies were
the next on the list!
People reading of a jump in N.S.W.
coal-production figures from 6,970,892
tons last year to 7,005,592 tons this year
possibly felt a mild rush of gratitude to-
wards the coalies. Then the truth came
out —opencuts were responsible for the
increase, production in deep mines was
down more than 250,000 tons.
J. D. Kenny, M.L.C., a N.S.W. Labor
Council head, who is in America “study-
ing labor-management relations,” said
that American workers preferred private
enterprise to Government control, didn’t
fear incentive payments and were not
being “exploited.” Australian workers,
or some of them, on the other hand, are
being exploited—by their Communist
union bosses.
F. A. Bland, for many years Professor
of Public Administration at Sydney Uni.,
now Percy Spender’s successor as M.H.R.
for Wamngah, has been pained to dis-
cover that Parliament is not the model
of honesty, interest and sincerity he
apparently believed it to be. He has
found that members don’t always believe
in their own words, don’t want to hear
other members and, once having spoken
their own piece, aren’t interested in the
rest of a debate. Parliamentary broad-
casting surely made that clear years ago


,9 M SYDNEV
sdf
ds
« HIGHWAY
N
MELBOUR/Vf
fo «ltU50^
PHOTO-FINISH.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Sack”; As apparently I come within
the paradoxical group, I suppose I should
be elated at the placard flaunted by a
women’s journal: “Hope for childless
parents.” Instead I find myself some-
what bewildered. The role of childless
parent is a difficult one to fill; it places
me in the same category as a headless
axe without a handle, or the colloquial
“used match with the wood shaved off.”
On the credit side the status of parent
qualifies me for the traditional pair of
slippers on Father’s Day, although it
doesn’t supply me with a donor. The
wife, too, claims her rights in this direc-
tion. As a childless parent she can’t be
a father, therefore, she argues, she must
be a mother —with a mother’s dues on
Mother’s Day. Moreover, she is begin-
ning to insinuate that, in the absence of
children, it is my duty to act in loco
childis or something. It is all very con-
"Dad, this is John — he's in the airborne division."
fusing. Still, it may turn out for the best.
When I give my state on my income-tax
form as childless parent what conster-
nation will be caused in the grim build-
ing! What passing on to other depart-
ments and what searching for precedents!
My assessment bill may even be posted
to the Invisible Man.
* * *
“Chink”: Has it ever been resolved
whether the term “to shout” is Australian-
born, and if so how it originated?
Edward Morris (Austral English, 1898)
seems to think that “shouting,” both as
a term and a custom, began in this coun-
try, and he suggests that the word took
its rise through lucky diggers of old shout-
ing to passers-by to cumanavadrink, or,
in the alternative, as a variant of “pay
the shot,” a tavern reckoning. There is
some evidence to support the theory of
local origin in a “Sydney Morning
Herald” report of a meeting called in
Sydney in January, 1882, to form an Anti-
shouting Society, After announcing that
at 8 p.m. only half a dozen persons were
present (the number swelled slightly a
bit later), and revealing that messages of
sympathy were sent by the Governor and
Lieut.-Governor, the report adds: “It was
stated at the meeting that shouting had
first been brought into practice in the
early days of goldmining, and that it had
been productive of great evils.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”; The blitz on late arrivals in
public-service offices recalls to my mind
an appearance-book in a railway depart-
ment office in which I once worked. First
man to arrive after nine o’clock invari-
ably wrote “train late” in the “remarks”
column, and those coming later merely
wrote “ditto.” One morning a clerk was
a few minutes late because during the
night his wife had given birth to twins,
so he wrote his legitimate excuse for
being late, “wife gave birth to twins.”
A dozen clerks who followed that morn-
ing wrote the usual “ditto.” The chief-
of-staff called the staff together and con-
gratulated them on having created a
world’s record.
* * * *
“Melb’n”; Another attempt to make a
brighter Melbourne has received its
quietus, this time from the City Council.
Clyde Horace Hall, the street-sweeper
who made himself as famous as the
whistling policeman by mounting a
tooter on his broom to warn citizens of
its coming, was ordered to take the de-
vice off. He then designed a bodgie suit
consisting of a blue hat, a sky-blue bow-
tie, pegged pants and loose blue joe. It
went out under pain of dismissal of its
owner.
“Ceg”: We had been out in the desert
all the morning and we got back to camp
at the racecourse at Heliopolis about mid-
day, tired and hungry. In the mess-hut
we found to our delight that each man’s
place was supplied with a large slice of
juicy red watermelon. Expressions of
delight at what we thought was an act of
grace on the part of the caterer ceased
when we found the melon was our com-
plete meal. Before much of it had been
eaten round came the orderly officer and
retinue asking the formal question “Any
“ Arthur , you return that birthday present immediately!"
complaints?” One man stood up and
asked “Is this our dinner?” A consul-
tation ensued between the officer and the
sergeant and he was told “Yes.” Fool-
ishly, the 0.0. went on to say that it
was good food for the hot climate and
just what we needed. He informed us
that watermelon was an esteemed dish at
Shepheard’s Hotel, where he had dined
the night before. Complaint dismissed,
the inspection party proceeded to march
out. They hadn’t gone far when a huge
slice of melon hit the sergeant fair in the
back ; and in a twinkling the whole mess-
hut was a shambles with watermelon
flying everywhere. The whole company
got 10 days c.b.—but we didn’t get any
more watermelon dinners.
* * * *
“Harold Ha/dupp”; Every now and
again a dispute about a lottery prize hits
newspaper headlines; the infrequency,
considering the casualness of most of the
transactions, is a tribute to the usual spirit
of fair-dealing amongst Australians. A
woman hopped a fence excitedly to let
a neighbor, who did not read the papers
and, anyway, had not been told the
number of the ticket, that they had shared
the first-prize ; no thought of how the
whole prize might be kept to herself
entered her mind. Another prizewinner
told a reporter that he shared the ticket
with a bunch of blokes he drank with on
Sat’days, and only knew them by their
Christian or nicknames; they’d be sur-
prised, as he hadn’t seen them for over
a week, and they did not know the
number of the ticket —nor, apparently, his
name. There are a multitude of cases in
which methods of “throwing-in” for a
ticket are just as casual, and evasion of
the share-out would often be simple. But
only to an odd person now and then does
the idea of bilking his pals occur.
* * * *
“Bo”: The sympathy expressed for
certain sections of the community, par-
ticularly pensioners and fixed-salary-
earners, in these inflationary days seems
to overlook another group, by nature not
publicity-seeking, on whom inflation has
wrought possibly the gravest hardship. I
refer to those whose malefactions or
vagrancies have resulted in their becom-
ing temporary guests of his Majesty. For
as many years as one can remember one
day in clink has been rated the equiva-
lent, handed out by Beaks, of a 10-bob
fine. “A pound or two days.” “Five
pounds or ten days,” has ever been the
rule. Today the pound is worth, at a
liberal estimate, 6s. Bd. The 10-bob fine
is, therefore, in real money, only 3s. 4d.,
or, in terms of “time,” three days. What
is the effect? A fellow “taking the
option” of time instead of a fiver fine
gets not the 30 days to which under true
present-day monetary value he is en-
titled, but only the old 10 days ; in short,
he is being robbed of 20 days of free
first-class board, with clothing found, of
lolling around in the sun and getting his
bets on with the jail s.-p, merchant, free
library, medical and dental services and
hospitalisation, free talkies, complete
freedom from taxation, with no domestic
worries, as well as the enjoyment of all
those other amenities which prison-
reformers have persuaded Governments
to hand out to the poor inoffensive basher
or crook. In the philosophy of the
present day: “The Government ought to
do something about it.”
“Clooter”: What can Menzies do
about this kind of inflation? A 12-year-
old girl was noticed at her school with
scads of money, buying things for her
friends and sporting a posh wristlet-
watch. The mother was sent for. “Oh,”
she said airily, “the watch is her
brother’s and that’s where she got the
money. He’s making about £lB 10s. a
week, with overtime and all that, and
doesn’t bank his money. I’m always
going crook at him for having his
drawers so full of notes and silver, but
he reckons it’s handier that way, and
Katie just helps herself when she wants
anything. But I better find out about
the watch. That cost him £55, and I
don’t reckon he knew she had it. Of
course, her brother’s only 17, though he
told them where he works he’s 20, and
it’s a bit hard to make kids like that
realise that you shouldn’t leave money
lying about.”
* • ♦ •
“Becks”: This mania for stealing the
traditions of other towns is still raging.
Dubbo (N.S.W.) having explained that its
reported intention to re-enact Lady
Godiva’s ride through Coventry was only
a joke, Salisbury (S.A.) has announced
that its Jubilee celebrations will include a
Lady Godiva, “a beautiful blonde,” who
will ride through the town “on a white
charger.” As I pointed out at the time
of the Dubbo proposal, Coventry has
the exclusive rights in Lady Godiva. If
Salisbury wants to see a naked ninny
riding on a nag, let ’em go ahead by all
means, but they should call the lass Rope-
Haired Jane, Salisbury Sal or Munitions
Minnie, or something of the sort. If
they persist in calling her Lady Godiva
all decent-minded folk should stay indoors
during the ride—and that would be a
shame, because, as “Mo” and other co-
medians have frequently pointed out, it
is so seldom nowadays that one gets a
chance to see a white charger.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: August came to Sydney
with pouring skies and torrents in the
streets which joyfully washed-out the
filling from road potholes from which
previous rains had washed-out the fillings
put there when they originated after the
1950 downpours. On August 1 every
sloping street was shin-deep under a
broad current and waterfalls splashed
and showered from choked gutter and
busted downpipes everywhere. Under
the veranda where I found temporary
shelter a sodden, miserable crowd gazed
woefully into the wetness. Along came
the usual cheerful idiot, who said loudly,
“What’s everybody waitin’ for? Is there
a beer issue or somethin’?” A thin-faced,
sardonic individual, wet to his hocks
and shrinking from the splash of a down-
pipe, answered, “Y* dope, this is one of
the ferry-stops since McGirr took over
the ferries.”
UPLIFT.
“The Electricity Commission has lifted zoning re-
strictions on N. S. Wales lifts.”
In the basement rages
Economic war
While the basic wage is
On the topmost floor;
Living costs are flying
Far above the ground,
But the lifts are lying
Flat-faced as the £.
Pounding at their cages,
Lifts demand a rise;
No smooth talk assuages
Their demanding cries;
State officials sift well
All the facts adduced:
“You can’t make a lift well
When it is ill-used.”
Reading in Press pages
Of the lifts’ release,
James McGirr engages
In campaigns-to-freeze:
“Lifts should all be static—
Their upsweep, I’m told,
Will be automatic
If they’re not controlled.”
Menzies at this stage is
Watching with a frown
Elevator gauges
Going up and down,
Shouting with elation,
“Well! Won’t that beat all!
Here’s an elevation
Followed by a fall!”
Economic sages,
Old and bent and racked,
Murmur, “Once, adages
Pointed out that fact;
Lift life had disgraces;
Many found it good—
They rarely got to places.
But at least knew where they stood.”
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


Champion^ f>
SPOkT£TT£S
n
AT EPSOM (EHCU//D)
IN 1828 A GELDING NAMED j
'THE ARROW* AND A PIG TOOK 1
PART IN A RACE -OVER 130 VOS.
THE PIG WHO GAINED AN
ADVANTAGE AT THE START
WAS THE WINNER. HEAVY
WAGERING TOOK PLACE
ON THE EVENT.
m
z
233*;
'hT
Ti
YOU KNOW
V/D
n
*
Dl
"31*
JTOCCURED AT BRISTOL (ENG)-
IN A MATCH BETWEEN GEO. HORTON
AND P. WILSON. THE
KNOCKOUT HAPPENED IN THE
25™ ROUND. NO DECISION WAS GIVEN
Jl
ft**
DID YOU KNOW THAT
is
C//AMPTOA/TOBACCO \%
THE CHOICE OF SMOKERS WHO
APPRECIATE A REALLY SATISFYING
SMOKE. AVAILABLE IN FINE CUT,OR
READY RUBBED.. IT IS TRULY A
CHAMP/OM SMOKE.
87660-
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe.
OFFICER-TRAINING CO
c©v-
**°° S
fO*
o<>
V*
ft. J
Complete professional career training at Commonwealth expense.
This is one of those rare opportunities
for a young man to embark on an out-
standing professional career. The
two most important advantages are,
(a) The entire cost of the education
and training is met by the Govern-
ment, (b) It is followed by permanent
commissioned appointment with ex-
cellent salary and great prospects.
This opportunity is open to all young
Australian men in the age group 16 to
19. The Royal Australian Air Force
will undertake the complete training
and higher education of selected
applicants. They will undergo a four-
year course as Officer-Cadets at the
celebrated R.A.A.F. College at Point
Cook, Victoria. In some cases com-
plete University courses in Science or
Engineering will be included.
During their course at the College
cadets are accommodated in their own
private rooms. All text books, equip-
ment and study facilities are supplied.
Spacious grounds and material for
sports are available and adequate
recreational facilities are provided.
As well as receiving these benefits,
cadets are paid —£197 if under 18
years and £206 if over 18 years first
training year, £220 if under 18 years
and £229 if over 18 years in the
second, £270 the third and for the
fourth year £307. The college also
provides the finest medical and dental
attention. Annual recreation leave of
approximately six weeks is granted
with free travel to and from home,
plus a special •living-away-from-home
cash allowance. These splendid op-
portunities for training and education
under such ideal conditions are not
granted lightly. The Royal Austra-
lian Air Force seeks Australia’s finest
young men to mould its high officers
of the future. Applicants will be
selected for their character and ability.
These are the factors that will count,
regardless of background, wealth or
social position.
Graduation means appointment as a
Commissioned Officer in the R.A.A.F.
with substantial pay, professional
status and a permanent career. The
way is then open for promotion to
higher rank.
•k ★ ★
Applicants must be at least 16 but should
not have reached 19 before 11th February,
1952. The minimum educational require-
ment: (a) for N.S.W., Queensland and
Western Australia, is that of one (1) year
below Matriculation Examination, (b) for
Victoria and South Australia is that of the
Leaving Certificate, (c) for Tasmania, is
that of the Schools Board Examination.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE
fsd
AUGUST 24th, 1951
Write at once for fully informative booklet on R.A.A.F. Officer
Cadetships, and application forms.
Address letters to:— R.A.A.F. Recruiting Officer, Box XYZ in your
Capital city.
ROLS3.iI
“Ex-Gunner”: If the Army must have
women in it—and, judging by recruiting
statistics, that’s the only way it will ever
reach its establishment figures—surely
the old hands (male) are entitled to insist
on equality of the sexes in the matter of
discipline. Publicity given to the
W.R.A.A.Cs. makes me fear that the
ladies are getting preferential treatment.
One Melbourne paper published a photo-
graph of a W.R.A.A.C. private kissing
the sergeant-major (male) at the con-
clusion of her three weeks’ basic training,
while two other lasses looked on with
evident approval. What is worse, the
sar’-major’s approval was even more
evident. Now, if a male private tried
“He's right for the afternoon —now let's go to the bullfight."
anything like that he’d be up on charges
of assaulting a superior and conduct
prejudicial to good order and military
discipline. Twenty-eight days, at the
least, I should say. Another Melbourne
paper showed a batch of the girls stand-
ing “erect as guardsmen as they obeyed
‘eyes right.’ ” The erectness was a matter
of opinion, but I wonder how a squad of
guardsmen would get on if they “obeyed
‘eyes right’ ” by turning their heads to
the left, which, if the photograph is to
be believed, is what those lasses did.
Come on, girls, fair go.
« * * ♦
“Pontius Penwiper”: An age that runs
greatly to the invention of gadgets to
do things that people would be better
doing for themselves has produced
(according to a U.S. report) a machine
to count sheep for sick people suffering
from sleeplessness. It runs off a picture
of the gate-jumping sheep and tap-taps
off the tally; it is supposed to have the
same somnolent effect without giving the
patient the effort of counting. But is
counting sheep any good, anyway? It
has never worked for me. I find that the
count is interrupted by a savage, giant
ram which comes charging out of the line,
chases me across fields, through houses
and over roofs and finally leaves me in
a wider state of wakefulness than ever.
Or I may be smitten by a horrible feeling
that I have slipped on the count, being
not quite sure whether it was 3479 I had
counted or 5291 and that I’ll have to find
out where the animals have got to and
drive them back to start the count again ;
or that the job I have to do is to reduce
the sheep counted to pounds, shillings
and pence or acres and square feet. I
usually find that a few strong nips of
rum are far better. And you don’t have
to count ’em, either.
* * * *
“A.E.S.”: A carpenter was mending a
leaking skylight in the roof of our
drawing-office. There was a loud crack,
and I looked round to see a huge piece
of glass sweep down in a sinister curve
right past the point in space where my
mate’s neck would have been if he hadn’t
been loafing in the blueprint-room. It
hit the floor with a shattering crash, and
glass flew everywhere. There was a
stunned silence; then, a full half-minute
later, the carpenter poked his head
through the hole and said casually, “You
fellers wanna watch out down there.”
* * * *
“Looby”: Bent on teaching the kids
some money-sense, Bill says he took them
into three different shops before buying
an orange for threepence. The first two
shops had wanted fivepence. Holding up
the orange after paying his trey, Bill
said to the kids “See? Now, what is it
I’ve been trying to teach you?”
Answered the smallest kid promptly,
“How to get a free feed of peas by going
into shops kidding you want an orange.”
Bill’s absentminded one-pod-per-shop
evidently had the youngster’s entire
approval.
♦ * * •
“Zake”: Apparently the girl who
answered the phone in the Government
office forgot to put her hand over the
transmitter, for I heard her say to some-
one “I think he must be half-shot
or” Then she moved away and the
voices became indistinct. Soon she re-
turned. “I’m sorry, but there’s no Mr.
Shthenworter works here.” “That’s not
his name, it’s his occupation,” I
replied. “Listen. I’ve tried to get
the chief clerk, the personal clerk to
the chief clerk, the acting temporary
assistant chief record clerk and his per-
sonal clerk. They’re all out. The last
one I can see in the phone-book list of
your departmental tall poppies is the
Chief Shthndwrtr. I don’t know of a
Shthndwrtr, whether he’s a chief, or
merely an assistant, issues certificates for
licensed joggle-spreaders or puts a rub-
ber stamp on the duplicate copies of duly-
attested application-forms, but I want to
speak to someone in authority, and he
appears to be the only one left. Will
you put him on, please?” There was a
silence followed by a giggle, then
apparently a consultation with the phone-
book. Then she came back. “All right,”
she said, “I’ll have the call put through
to the Chief Shorthandwriter.” So now
you know.
A NEW THEORY.
“The theory has been advanced that obesity can
be the result of fear through abnormal functioning
of the adrenal gland.”
Say, did he get a scare!
Just look at him walk,
Shaped like a Packham pear
Held by the stalk!
Soft as a lump of dough,
Mighty of girth—
How did he get it so?
Surely not mirth.
Remember they used to say
“Laugh and grow fat”?
They’re now saying nay
To the soundness of that.
The skinny one’s glad
And the fat man is dismal.
What makes him so sad
And so fat? —Fear abysmal.
Perhaps he’s been chased
By a 20-foot croc —
A 50-inch waist
Might result from that shock.
PT’aps he put on three stone
When held up by a bandit.
He’d no marrow-bone.
Now, can you understand it?
Don’t think that his size
Is because of his liking
For pastry and pies
And a hatred of hiking;
Of upending unending
Schooners of beer —
It’s just that he’s tending
To fatness from fear.
He who shivers and quakes
(Quite unlike Edward Kelly)
Gets a chassis that shakes
Like a semi-set jelly.
That is why you have heard
People say, looking at
A fellow, “My word
He is fearfully fat!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mac Fergus”: In a town on the
Warrego (Q’land) I sat in a barber’s
saloon next to a muscular young giant
who wore a thatch of wavy blonde hair
that reached to his neck. Answering the
call of “Next, please,” he held Scissors
in parley before occupying the chair. The
barber gave an understanding nod,
gathered up the flowing locks and hoisted
them forward, thereby obscuring the big
fellow’s dial. Beneath the blonde mass
was darkish hair straight as the trans-
raiitrack. Scissors trimmed the dark
growth speedily, and the mane was hauled
back, delicately
scissored, patted
into its ocean
waves and then
the hefty one was
out of the chair.
Finished? Not on
your life! H e
moved up in
front of a mirror,
pulled a comb
from his pocket
and pressed the troughs into their exact
channels. With a final side-glance at
the mirror and another press or two with
both hands, he went. Asking the barber
the occupation of Goldilocks, he
answered “Wool-presser.” Appropriate
enough, but disappointing. Thought I
had seen the only professional bodgie on
the Warrego other than boongs.
* * * *
“Bass”: To say that there are no toads
in Australia (B. 11 /7/’5l) is about the
same as saying that there are no pound-
notes because our currency is not identical
with Britain’s. “Naturala” will probably
say that there are no magpies, wrens or
robins. Strictly speaking, perhaps, there
aren’t, if it be accepted that to be a
magpie the Australian bird must belong
to the same family as his English name-
sake. Our magpie really belongs more to
the crow tribe, and he’s more properly
known as the crow-shrike, or piping-crow,
but he wouldn’t be popularly recognised
under those names even in South Oss, where
on their coat-of-arms they sport a “Piping-
crow, volant, perchant”—flying and perch-
ing at the same time. “Naturala” not-
withstanding, he’s a magpie to every
bush-kid in Australia, and to every
naturalist bar one. So, too, with our
wrens, which are not “true” wrens, and
our robins, which are not “true” robins,
simply because they possess characteristics
not found in their English namesakes. So,
also, with our toads. They are not toads
under the English classification, but they
are sufficiently like toads to be referred
to in an Australian encyclopaedia as
“typical toads.” They are slow-moving,
earth-dwelling creatures, never venturing
into water. They have the squat, bloated
appearance which is typically toad. In
fact, they are toads to all except
“Naturala” and his fellow-pedants. How
else can they be described? If I speak
of a toad, then everyone with any know-
ledge of the subject knows that I am
referring to a beast that is more toad-
like than frog-like, and if a classification
so fits an animal that it is readily recog-
nised thereby, then that classification is
apt. There are birds in Australia that are
known throughout the country as magpies,
wrens and robins, and such, therefore,
they are. Now, as I was saying, these
toads-
* * ♦ #
“Nailil”: Shrewder even than the ban
of silence which he imposes on women-
folk immediately before he starts a
dugong hunt (B. 18/7/’5l) is the Torres
Strait native’s insistence that no female
must eat of the first catch of the turtle
season, a custom which ensures full
bellies for the males should the catch be
scanty. The belief, diligently fostered by
the elders, is that if a woman does have
any of it the ensuing season will be a
lean one. The gastronomic base of this
edict is apparent, but there is a deeper
significance in the turtle dance with which
the season is opened. The first female
turtle captured is not killed but made
the central figure of a sort of maypole
dance, after which she is released on an
outgoing tide to the accompaniment of
a song whose burthen is a plea that, in
return for her release, she will use her
feminine wiles to lure a plenitucfe of male
shellbacks within range of Binghi’s
spears.
* ♦ * *
“Chuck”: Herb took one good look
at his new bush farmland, heaved a sigh,
and rode off to the nearest township to
find himself a long-haired mate. That
was four years ago. Now, most of the
floor-space in his home is taken up by
three lusty youngsters, and, as I propped
myself on the door-frame, I spotted the
two older boys inside on a sheepskin
mat playing with an old shearing hand-
piece, while the third yelled from a home-
made pram. “You’re putting this place
into pretty good shape. Herb,” I con-
gratulated, turning towards his cleared
paddocks where various stock were
grazing. “Yair,” he agreed. “I de-
cided, before I took it on, there’s only
one way t’ make farming pay nowadays.
Man’s got t’ be independent. Take sheep
now,” he explained. “If y’ want a mob
of footrot- an’ disease-free sheep that
suits the country, well, breed ’em y’self,
that’s my motto. Same with nags. Can
a man buy a decent nag? ’Course he
can’t. So” He pointed to a mare
with foal at foot. “Breed ’em y’self.
Milkers, too,” he added. “Breed ’em.
An’ sheepdogs. Good litter o’ pups, them
there. Or, if it’s fowls or ducks y’ want,
or rams, the only way t’ get ’em nowa-
days is breed ’em y’self.” Herb paused
and a slow grin spread over his mug. “I
knew,” he said, jabbing a thumb back
at the trio squalling over the handpiece.
“I knew soon’s I seen this place I’d be
needin’ a shearin’ team here in a few
years.”
• ♦ * •
“Dolmetcher”: Waved “Laetitia’s” par.
(B. 4/7/’5l) derisively before certain un-
believers of the abilities of skin-divers.
Having done a bit of it myself in younger
days, I can even believe the incredible
record of 21 fathoms alleged to have
been performed by a Nip. The greatest
dives personally known to me were one
of 11 fathoms to recover a bag containing
£5O in silver, and another to pass a line
through the shackle of a lost anchor in
14 fathoms by the lead. The first was
done by a New Hebridean, the second by
a Tahitian. Normally Tahitian divers are
employed in shallow water for the first
“Hurry, Sunny — I'm going to sneeze!"
season, and in the middle of the second
season the tyro is taken between two ex-
perienced divers to about seven or eight
fathoms and held there until the head-
membrane fractures. Most of the
trochus-beds hardly pay for such an
effort, as shell in any water much deeper
than eight fathoms is usually oversized
and worm-eaten. Can’t see exactly how
a feet-first dive could be performed. The
usual procedure amongst us was to “fix”
the shell-group required—no easy task in
a variegated coral bottom —through one’s
diving goggles; get about four or five
yards off and turn over into a slanting
dive from a tread-water position. A
dive from a boat, either head- or feet-
first, would lose the group of shell wanted
and valuable seconds would be wasted
before it was distinguished again. A dive
D R FANG
DENTIST
“ Thai’s a badly-fitting denture he's got."
from a boat would not be feasible wear-
ing goggles unless one had them strapped
so tightly to the head that the eyes would
be nearly gouged out. As it is, it re-
quires a long time before a skin-diver
can keep his goggles on for a day’s work.
* * * *
“Bo”: Long Ernie had gone through
the knees of his strides, so he decided to
convert them into a pair of shorts. The
amputation he effected simply by putting
them on the chopping-block and wielding
a tomahawk; then with bag-needle and
twine he “slip-stitphed” the ragged edges.
He came into the men’s hut holding up
the finished article. “Pretty neat job,
eh?” he said modestly. Barker slipped a
wink at a few of the others. “Yair, it’s a
snifter job, Ernie —you’d almost think it
was done be a tailor.” Ernie looked a
bit bashful at the
praise. “Aw, well,” he
said, “y’ can understand
it, in a way—an uncle
o’ mine’s a tailor in
Toowoomba. I s’pose
it’s in me blood.”
* #
“Casma”: Maybe
the bunny running
through the fire instead
of away from it isn’t as
silly as “Vet” (B.
25/7/’5l) thinks. When
there is danger of
being caught in a
bushfire most people
tend to run away—that
is, in the same direction
as the fire. But bush-
fires often travel faster.
That was what hap-
pened earlier this year
when three young men
lost their lives in the
hills bushfires near
Adelaide. Others who
ran at and through the
fire got away safely.
* *
“Solitude”: It had
been a long cold morn-
ing, and the mob were
not travelling well. As
we neared the township
I turned to Seventy-
fiver. “Can’t both
stop,” I pointed out.
“You ride on and get
yourself a hot meal,
and I’ll chew as I go
along.” He demurred
at first, but after a bit
of persuading skirted
the mob and made for
the pub. I eased the bailies over
the bridge, passed the school and
was starting up the long slope when the
old bloke caught up. I glanced at him
suspiciously. “Haven’t had dinner so
soon, have you?” He shook his head.
“No good, Sol. She said all they had
was frisky rabbit, an’ after that some
vericilli custard, so hang it all, I come
out again. Man can’t work this weather
if he don’t get a decent feed.” He eased
himself in the saddle, then: “Righto,”
he called, “chuck us a big hunk o’ that
damper.”
* * * *
“J.M.”: The big crane, wading
cautiously in shallow water, struck sud-
denly and flew to a flat-topped log with
an outsize yabbie in his grip. Realising
he had no chance of swallowing his
armor-plated capture whole, he tossed it
up a few feet and deftly amputated one
big claw with a vicious snap of his long
sharp bill, regaining a body hold of his
victim before the cray could escape.
Another toss followed and another
successful amputation. Then a final toss
and the disarmed yabbie disappeared
head-first down the hatch of the long-
legged juggler.
* * ♦ •
“Wippegong”: From the old grape-
vine along the veranda a wayward trailer
swings between the kitchen window and
the setting sun. On it a few belated
leaves, no doubt owing their longevity
to the warmth of the wall, cling right into
the middle of winter; and on them, in
turn, survives precariously one last vine-
caterpillar. He found this trailer when
the rest of the vine was bare and he him-
self over half-grown; and since then,
with sound judgment, he has eaten from
each oldest leaf until it starred to wither,
then moved on to the next, and so kept
himself in fresh tucker as long as the
season would let him. At least, that
appeared to be his plan, but on the third-
last leaf he fell a martyr to science—l
had to remove him to test a statement
made concerning him. For is it not told
in the bird-books that we should think
less unkindly of the marauding cuckoo,
because this graceless fowl will devour
in large numbers the vine-caterpillar,
which has for reasons of its own taken
to itself an odor, taste or stench so high
that no other bird will touch it? Right!
Now my boy’s bantams will have a go
at anything. The ways that they
can bash snails, gulp slugs, slice centi-
pedes and generally find and demolish
crickets, grubs and all destructive crawl-
ing pests has earned them a permanent
place on my payroll; when they’re run-
ning loose there isn’t a slater in the
garden—so I tossed in the victim of
research. The little rooster, a gentleman
to his hackles, called the harem, though
Betty as usual already had the prize and
set off for the corner; but she dropped
the wriggler after three strides and con-
tinued to the fence, there to wipe her
beak vigorously on the ground. Goldy
and Speckly thereupon grabbed the offer-
ing and were about to stage one of their
celebrated tug-o’-wars, but decided they
needed a drink more, let go their rope
and dashed for the trough. The lesser
hens thereupon hopped in for the leav-
ings, but within 10 seconds all were shak-
ing their heads and glaring at their lord
still clucking invitations but blissfully
unaware of the extent to which courtesy
pays —while a badly-shaken caterpillar
was trying to raise his head high enough
to take a bearing for a less hostile vine-
yard. After that, he must be crook; so,
although I hate their dismal wailing, the
cuckoos may call at this address next
spring.
THE DANCING BOUGH.
The dancing bough beyond the darkened window
Means more than wind, inaudible yet seen;
The moving cloud that trails a lazy shadow
Plays unheard melodies, like a violin
Regarded through the soundproof glass of Time
In an old film, upon the silent screen.
Oh, timeless music sounds beyond the window
In pulsing light of stars, the heat-hazed plain
That undulates in tune, the moving shadow
Of leaves, the wheatfield rippling to the same
Rhythm that like a ghostly violin
Plays sombre music deep within the brain.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


m-y-yX
m
ms
p - • ■ SMmeWMuSSmmw
Sailing is a man’s job. It looks easy, but it
takes training, and skill, and above all —team-
work. Many things which look simple need
team-work and organising, too. Take sugar, for
example.
,
m
It takes long months of hard work to produce
those glistening white crystals. Up in the
northern sugar lands, 9,000 independent farmers
grow the cane on their own farms. Raw sugar
is made at 35 diherent mills—seven of them
owned by C.S.R. The raw sugar is purified in
C.S.R. Co., and Millaquin Sugar Co. refineries.
This big partnership of farmers, millers and
refiners brings cheap and pure sugar to Aus-
tralian homes.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LTD.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
|| , IjWll/
HI;
& . swy
'"1
tx> s s^i
\ %:
■ -=*
m
*JS
•;&m *
\.
2
s i
f \
KK
JV?
*-»•'
A?wV '
FOOD PRODUCTION
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRIAL POWER
WITH the passing of the first 50 years
as a Commonwealth, Australia enters
a new era of progress and development,
brought about by an urgent need to safe-
guard and provide for a rapidly increasing
population a need to further increase
food production, to improve transportation
services and to complete major develop-
mental projects. Further, Australia wants
to keep her place with other exporting
nations in making food and necessary raw
materials available to less fortunate
neighbours. To accomplish these vital tasks
Australia must have the tools.
International Harvester Company of
Australia Pty. Ltd. is helping to provide
the essential equipment to strengthen
Australia’s Foundations of Progress by
continued importation of some major
products, but particularly by the manu-
Foundations of Progress
facture in Australia of modern McCormick
International tractors and farm machines
for agriculture . . . International motor
trucks for transportation . . . and Inter-
national tractors and power units for
general industrial purposes. In addition,
imported International crawler tractor
power with allied earth moving equipment
is playing an important part in contributing
to the many state and national develop-
mental schemes. All of these products are
the tools essential to Australia’s great
nation-building activities which are going
forward today.
International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Mi
1326-24
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Truck*
Defender Refrigerator*
International Industrial FgMMf
“Old-timer”: “Don’t talk t’ me about
big bunches o’ grapes an’ XOS sizes in
spuds or Murray cod,” said Fleming.
“When we was up at Forbes me ol’ man
planted a watermelon, an’ somebody told
him t’ mix liquid manure in a tin an’ let
it drip on the melon plant. Well, after
about a month that there melon was
rampagin’ round Camp Hill, spread over
inter the police paddock an’ was climbin’
the ’orspital fence. The sergeant opened
up on it with a double-barrel gun, but it
just come on, an’ he sent t’ Parkes for
reinforcements, but they went t’ Con-
dobolin instead because they couldn’t see
Forbes—the whole flamin’ place was
buried under watermelon-vine. There we
was, livin’ like that Tarzan bloke in a
jungle, an’ four out of the 11 pubs closed
because nobody knew where they was.
The council had a meetin’ an’ declared
somethin’ under the Noxious Weeds Act,
but it didn’t do no good because the
town-clerk got buried under melon-seeds
or somethin’ an’ old Carrawobbitty Smith
thought it was a Mallee-hen an’ shot him
in the right ankle, and 17 of us had t’ get
out axes an’ cut a way through the melon-
leaves t’ let the ambulance in. Only thing
that saved us was when the melon got
tangled up in the post-office an’ Warroo
Walters —he used to run the mail t’
Bedgerabong—breathed on it. He was
full of plonk, an’ that melon couldn’t take
it. Don’t you blokes talk t’ me about big
potatoes an’ cod an’ that!”
* * * ♦
“Shadow-chaser”: I was driving cattle
along the bank of a creek and one beast’s
hoof went through the top of what
proved to be a platypus’s nest. Ma and
Pa Plat promptly bolted through the exit,
a foot or more beneath the surface of
the stream. Thus, until the cow altered
ooOK^r.
fsdf
*■ S«r> Bl»hjs
“Two front stalls, missus."
the design, therp was only one entrance,
and that submarine. The nest was of
bark, grass and leaves. All material
must have been conveyed through the
only entrance —under water. Yet the nest
was warm and dry. It must have been
taken in wet and allowed to dry out, or
the building material was kept dry by
being transported inside the freak’s bill.
“Ringwood”: All through the winter
months, when hares are strict indi-
vidualists, and the wheat plants are only
inches high, no traffic problems confront
them. But when spring—and mating-
time —comes, and the hares congregate
in dozens, forgetting their sturdy indi-
vidualism, good fast roads are essential.
By that time the ripening wheat plants
are in ear and present a 4ft.-to-sft.-high
obstacle —almost an impenetrable barrier.
So a pathway is cut, about 6in. wide, in
almost a direct line from the point of
entrance to the desired exit. Should the
fence be wire-netted a hole is made with
the teeth in the netting large enough for
admittance and exit. How they steer so
direct a course through the thick forest
of wheat, sometimes a mile wide from
fence to fence, is just another of nature’s
wonders. Further, when two hares make
camp together they prepare their forms
facing in opposite directions some 40 to
50 yards from, but parallel with, their
main road, thus eliminating the risk of
surprise by an enemy from either direc-
tion. When disturbed they invariably
bolt for safety in opposite directions.
♦ * * *
“Brick E.”: Day dawned with the
rain pelting down so furiously it was
futile to think of working. I decided to
go to the city on business. Tramping into
our local railway-station I called in on
the job to see if any of the gang had
turned up. Nobody had, apparently, but
the ganger of a Water Board job opposite
was sitting in his little corrugated-iron
shed. “Nobody been here this morning,
I suppose?” I asked, and was told I sup-
posed rightly. I continued on my way.
Before I’d reached the station one of
those unpredictable breaks occurred: the
clouds dispersed, the sun came out —
within 15 minutes a perfect day seemed
assured. The logical thing to do was
postpone the trip to town. I returned
home, changed into old shirt and shorts,
hopped on the bike and 20 minutes later
was getting my tools out of the shed.
The ganger chap came sauntering over.
“A bloke was round here earlier,” he
volunteered, “asking questions about
youse fellows.” “What was he like?” I
asked, puzzled. “Aw, I’d say about your
size ; had a raincoat on and a blue serge
suit. Looked like a white-collar bludger
checkin’ up on yez,” he opined. Sud-
denly the light dawned on me. If ever
1 have to serve on a jury I’m afraid I will
never be able to place much reliance on
eyewitnesses’ identification. When a
fellow will come and tell you you’ve been
snooping on yourself!
* * * ♦ .
“Mat’s Mate”: First bloke we sighted
in Tullamore was Harry Barnes. He was
talking to a pretty good-looking sort of
woman, and we waited till the conversa-
tion was finished. Harry then spotted us,
and all three made for the pub, where
Mat said, “Was that your missus?”
Harry downed his drink and replied
“What give y’ that idea? That’s the
boss’s sister.” “Aw,” Mat said, “I
thought be the way y’ was frownin’ an’
pullin’ faces at her she must ha’ bin yT
missus.”
WILLIE WAGTAIL.
Flighty little wagtail,
Wagging his behind;
Happy little fellow,
Shaking like the wind,
This way and that way
All the busy day,
On his nimble toes,
Twisting and turning
As his fancy flows.
Flirty busybody,
Fussing on a stump,
Here, there and everywhere,
Hop and skip and jump;
Waltzing on a bough,
On a sleepy cow,
Cocky, cheeky mite,
Bobbing like a cork afloat,
Elusive as a sprite.
Funny, feathered dancer,
With his restless tail,
Bowing and scraping,
Jigging on a rail;
Flitting here and there,
Snapping in the air—
What a box of tricks,
Wriggling and wobbling
Like a cat on hot bricks.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSION.


£1
INVESTMENT IN SATISFACTION
Cool, mild and satisfying Army Club cigarettes are, indeed,
your soundest smoking investment. Proudly made in
Australia from the world’s best leaf, ripened by sun,
mellowed by time, they are rolled in pure, filigrained
paper, free from printers’ ink.
CORK TIPPED
ssi
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£,* £,* £* £* £*
:943.. 94,709 13,152 8* p.c.= 44,234 37,383 492,706
To patriotic funds, £7365 .. .. 485,851
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 480,351
1944.. 99,088 13,152 81 p.c.- 44,236 41,700 522,051
To patriotic funds, £lBO5 .. ~ 250,246
To University scholarship, £25,000.. 495,246
Inner reserves disclosed, £128,000.. 623,246
1945.. 94,678 13,162 10 p.c.= 52,041 29,485 652,731
1946.. 94,210 13,152 15 „ „ 78,059 2,997 655,728
Capital profit, £42,872 .. .. 698,600
1947.. 548 13,152 10 p.e.= 52,040 38,536 736,956
To staff funds, £25,000 .. .. 711,956
Capital profit, £41,154 .. .. 753,110
1948.. 885 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 52,693 805,803
Capital profit, £9740.. .. .. 815,543
1949.. 382 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 51,190 866,733
Capital profit, £27,597 .. .. 894,380
1950.. 639 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 50,447 944,777
Capital profit, £9150 . . .. 953,927
1951.. 437 13,152 10 p.e.= 52,040 61,2451,015,172
* Fijian currency.
J. M. Hedstrom (later Sir Maynard
Hedstrom), who with P. H. Morris
took over the present business in
1902, died on June 2 last. First as
n;anaging-director until 1947 and then
as chairman until his death, he was
largely responsible for laying the sound
financial and other foundations upon
which the co. has been built. Acting-
chairman and managing-director H. E.
Snell has been long associated with the
business ; so the policy adopted in the
past is likely to be continued in the
future.
With headquarters at Suva, the co.
does an extensive merchandising business
throughout Fiji, Samoa and Tonga, and
is a large plantation (copra) owner as
well. For many years the board has fol-
lowed a cautious dividend policy, the
aim being to build up strength, visible
and otherwise. The ords. received an
average of 5.7 p.c. for the 16 years to
the close of accounts in 1939, followed
by three lots of 6 p.c., two of 8 p.c. and
then 10 p.c. for the last seven years, with
a 5 p.c. victory bonus added in 1946.
And since 1942 £288,000 of inner reserves
have been disclosed, while capital profits
from sale of securities totalled £130,513.
The £739,613 of capital (it includes
£219,206 of 6 p.c. prefs.) now has the
support and assistance of £1,015,172 of
visible reserves; so the two combined
need turn in only 3.7 p.c. to cover current
rates of distribution, whereas last term’s
profit was 7.2 p.c. on shareholders’ funds.
Since V.P.-day the inflation of com-
modity prices and hungry markets have
given island merchandise and other trad-
ing an extraordinary boost. Fijian copra
—taken by the British Government under
a nine-year contract from the beginning
of 1949 at prices to be fixed annually—
averaged £FS3 14s. 3d. per ton for 1950
as against £F49 10s. 6d. for 1949. The
price of sugar, also sold to Britain under
an eight-year contract, increased, too.
The co.’s gross earnings from all
sources advanced by £52,719 last term:
Gross earnings— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Trading .. .. £238,160 £245,162 £300,688
Other . . .. 168,119 167,675 164,868
Total .. .. £401,279 £412,837 £465,556
Exes 306,436 321.998 364,887
Profit claimed .. .. £94,843 £90,839 £100,669
Unexplained additions., 21,539 24,800 25,768
Profit per table .. £116,882 £115,639 £126,437
Including a generous £51,022 (up
£14,970) for depreciation and an unstated
provision for taxation, exes, gobbled
£42,889 of the gain, leaving the declared
net result £9830 stronger at £100,669.
Taking into the reckoning an unexplained
addition of £25,768 to the insurance fund
(now £215,697), the all-in profit was a
record £126,437 (up £10,798), which was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
21.7 p.c. on ord. capital as against 19.7,
19.7, 20.1, 17.3 and 15.5 p.c. back to
1946.
The co. continues to finance expansion
out of earnings, and its already
strong financial position has further
strengthened:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
(Fijian.) ((Fijian.) (Fijian.) (Fijian.)
Paid capital. . £739.613 £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . 2,680 2,640 2,485
Creditors, etc. 109,175 138,902 148,279 99,736
Suspense* .. 150,818 137,901 133,800 150,168
Final divs. .. 26,020 26,020 26,020 26,020
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 239,338 278,313 281,092 269,310
Plantations .. 19,363 14,796 69,988 67,633
Stocks, etc... 640,225 519,209 450,997 531,544
Capital value
branches .. 111,178 113,192 94,681 116,907
Book debts, etc. 178,676 210,026 298,475 241,130
Investments &
cash .. 645,329 776,279 799,740 804,183
* Provision for income tax, exchange, etc.
The year’s growth in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,417,840) was £84,531.
Fixed assets appear at cost less deprecia-
tion and/or reserve. A large building
programme awaits availability of
materials and labor.
Fijian traders are not subject to the
same economic and fiscal influences as
those prevailing in the Commonwealth
at the moment. Trade activity in the
islands is more directly associated with
the state of commodity markets in U.S.
and Britain ; and the long-term contracts
for copra and sugar (the two staple
exports) suggest maintenance of favor-
able conditions for the current term, at
any rate.
On the now-nervous Sydney market,
the co.’s pound ords. dropped from
70s. 3d. to 675. 9d. over the last few
weeks. At the lower figure the return
in Australian currency (at current rate
of exchange) is 3.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for, say,
4.3 p.c. on his money counts on a one-
for-three bonus share-issue or other
benefits. The prefs. at 295. yield 4.5 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £8 prefs. and 595.
ords.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1940.. 12,585 8 p.c. = 11,127 1,458 146,430
1941.. 12,332 8 „ „ 11,127 1,205 147,635
1942.. 12,007 8 „ „ 11,128 879 148,514
1943.. 22,423 8 „ „ 11,128 11,295 159,809
1944.. 25,593 8 „ „ 11,128 14,465 174,274
1945.. 38,140 8 „ „ 11,128 27,012 201,286
Taxation, £22,258 179,028
1946.. 39,806 16 p.c. = 22,254 17,552 196,580
1947.. 39,734 16 „ „ 22,255 17,479 214,059
1948.. 59,346 16 „ „ 22,255 37,091 251,150
1949.. 78,551 16 „ „ 22,255 56,296 307,446
1950.. 124,811 20 „ ~ 27,818 96,993 404,439
1951.. 150,407 20 ~ ~ 41,707 108,700 513,139
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 488,139
The extraordinary resilience of profits
of this ably-handled and well-shod under-
taking mirrors the boom in the motor
trade. The co. holds the Morris fran-
chise —third-best seller in the post-war
market for Queensland and the
Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales, as well
as refrigeration, radio and other agencies,
including a remunerative sub-agency for
International trucks. And it gathers some
nice picking from the servicing of
vehicles and sale of parts, too. Inflation,
the quick industrial and other develop-
ment in Queensland, a run of good sea-
sons and steady improvement in the flow
of chassis all combined to send turnover
up with a rush.
Last term’s sales increased by a million
pounds, or thereabouts, passing the £3£-
million-mark. So, although gross margins
were the narrowest in the co.’s history,
gross profit stepped up by £175,204:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Gross profit.. . £308,265 £425,678 £570,352 £745,556
Exes. .. 209,919 297,127 365,541 470,149
Tax provision 39,000 50,000 80,000 125,000
Net profit . . 59,346 78,551 124,811 150,407
A tight hold was kept upon exes, (up
£104,603), which took 63 p.c. of gross
profit as against 64 p.c. for the previous
year exes, include something for
contingencies. After setting aside an
extra £45,000 for the taxgatherer, the de-
clared net result benefited by £25,596,
reaching £150,407. That was a juicy 72.1
p.c. on capital as it stood at the close of
accounts (£208,533, of which £69,440
was issued at par, one for two, at end
February last) compared with 89.7, 56.4,
42.6, 28.5 and 28.6 p.c. back to 1946.
The div. was kept at 20 p.c., and a full
year’s rate was paid on the new capital,
although it was in hand during only the
last four months of the term. Over the
last six years divs. have averaged 15.6
p.c. as against 8 p.c. for the preceding
six years. After earmarking £25,000 for
the staff fund, £83,700 of the year’s de-
clared profit was ploughed back into the
business, lifting visible reserves to
£488,139. Shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) need turn in only
a shade under 6 p.c. to cover 20 p.c. on
capital alone.
The financial position strengthened, the
growth in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£629,442) being £171,884:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. ..£139,093 £139.093 £139,093 £208,533
Overdraft 145,480
Creditors .. 147,402 115,820 190,425 215,090
Unearned
interest .. 10,148 11,594 15,100 20,750
Tax provision 54,484 67,647 97,728 142,497
Final div. . . 22,255 22,255 27,811 41,707
Freehold .. 67,095 67,095 79,895 85,355
Plant, etc. .. 4,359 5,442 0,080 0,875
Stocks . . 318,736 299,467 585,234 402,350
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 233,405 235,122 352,998 438,279
Cash. etc. .. 937 50,735 1,942 215,457
The contraction of £182,884 in stocks
(due to shipping difficulties), together with
the new capital and an extra £19,265 from
creditors, plus surplus earnings, etc., was
used mainly to strengthen cash, etc. (up
£213,515), wipe out the overdraft
(£145,486 at the previous balance) and
add £85,281 to book debts and invest-
ments. A new motor-vehicle assembly
works is to be erected on land recently
bought at Hendra, near Brisbane, as soon
as the building-control authority shows
the green light, hence the large cash
holding. »
What effect Government action to con-
trol inflation will have upon the motor
trade depends largely upon what is done
in connection with taxation, allocation
of materials and hire-purchase finance.
The market, nervous but mindful of the
co.’s strong position, including the wide
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions, priced the pound shares at 80s. last
week, as against 83s. 6d. a couple of
months ago. The return at 80s. is 5
p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 665. lOd.
Automobile Fire and General (Melb.)
Bonus , Dividends 1
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 25 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1944 17,342 4157 625 25 p.c.=11,875 685 114,506
1945 17,863 4354 625 25 „ „ 11,875 1,009 115,515
1946 20,004 4401 025 25 „ „ 11,875 3,763 119,278
5 p.c.
1947 14,538 125 5 „ „ 2,375 12,038 131,316
18 p.c.
1948 20,353 450 15 „ „ 7,125 12,778 144,094
Added investment reserve, etc., £2407 146,561
20 p.c.
1949 29,143 500 20 p.c.= 9,500 19,143 165,704
25 p.c.
1950 17,172 625 25 „ „ 11,875 4,672 170,376
Unexplained reduction, £llO .. .. 170,266
1951 38,478 625 25 p.c.=11,875 25,928 196,194
Surplus shown before allowing for unexpired risks.
With headquarters in Little Flinders-
street, unobtrusively tucked away from
the cluster of competitors in near-by
Queen-street, this underwriter, whose
business has always consisted largely of
automobile risks, has a very pleasing
record as a profit-earner and dividend-
payer. Although the co. ran into a lean
patch just after the war, and the div.
dropped from 25 p.c. in 1946 to 5 p.c.
in 1947, the rate climbed to 25 p.c.’fegain
in 1950 and remained steady last term.
For the 22 years to April 30, 1951, the
ords. received divs. averaging approxi-
mately 18 p.c., and there are now reserves
totalling £196,194 (including £93,982 ear-
marked for unexpired risks) to support
and assist the £50,000 of share capital,
of which £2500 carries a cumulative 8 p.c.
and advances with the ords. beyond that
point.
Considering the unprofitable nature of
third-party risks, due to the rising tide of
road accidents and heavy compensation
awarded by the courts, and the extent to
which the mounting cost of repairs has
eaten into margins on ordinary motor-
vehicle business, last term’s underwriting
result was a surprisingly good one. Net
premium income increased by £46,545:
Net Loss Exp.
Apr., Premiums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
£,£/£> p.c, p.c.
1940 .. 112,208 48,455 51,942 43.2 40.3
1947 .. 139,275 77,530 55,525 55.6 89.8
1948 .. 104,509 91,603 00,116 55.6 36.5
1949 .. 201,304 105,193 73,043 52.2 30.3
1950 .. 190,428 119,533 06,090 62.7 34.9
1951 . . 230,973 130,632 73,946 57.7 31.2
And not only was the larger business
handled at £3 14s. p.c. less cost, but the
loss rate —it took a big leap in 1950
following termination of an old reinsur-
ance contract on third-party risks—was
£5 p.c. lighter. The gross underwriting
surplus was thus £22,106 stronger at
£26,395, and interest, divs., etc., turned
in £12,083, making the total surplus
£38,478 (up £21,306) as shown in the intro-
ductory table.
After allowing the customary 40 p.c.
for unexpired risks, the net amount avail-
able for distribution was £20,211 (down
£641), or 40.1 p.c. on capital as against
43.7 p.c. for the previous year. So nothing
had to be strained in order to repeat
the 25 p.c. div. As from September 1
next premium rates on third-party risks
in Victoria are to be increased by 50 p.c.,
and more in some cases, and a revision
of motor-vehicle rates is under considera-
tion.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilitiesf .. 73.877 84,008 97,510 126,290
Tax reserve .. 5,962 10,930 13,085 20,685
Freehold ~ 48,548 48,548 49,487 52,487
Furniture, etc. .. 4,193 3,862 6,271 7,208
Investments, etc... 189,750 217,889 224,139 252,590
Book debts . . 86,952 45,446 57,999 84,999
Cash, etc 2,066 1,145 1,175 3,386
t Excluding provision for unexpired risks.
Of the £252,590 of investments, £116,448
represents shares in other cos. and
£100,173 Government securities.
For the pound ords. paid to 10s. each
buyers recently offered 445., giving a
return of 5.7 p.c, on a 25 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 51s. sd. The well-
protected prefs. are not listed on ’Change.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
—Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 74 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1943.. 24,022 9,000 15,000 22 100,412
1944.. 24,366 9,000 15,000 866 100,778
124 p.c.
1945.. 36,689 9,000 25',000 2,689 103,467
1946.. 45,825 9,000 25,000 11,825 115,292
1947.. 43,705 9,000 25,000 9,705 124.997
Unexplained addition, £5OOO ~ 129,997
1948.. 47,091 9,000 25,000 13,091 143,088
1949.. 53,558 9,000 25,000 19,558 162,646
1950.. 48,520 9,000 25,000 14,562 177,172
Revaluation assets, £200,000 .. 377,172
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 277,172
1951.. 72,045 9,000 32,500 30,545 307,717
* After deducting goodwill (now £16,659).
The continued inflationary pressure of
overfull employment at rapidly-increas-
ing wage-rates, a buoyant national
income and bigger Government spend-
ing, especially on social services, com-
bined with a better flow of goods, lifted
retail turnovers to fresh peaks last term.
So, despite lower gross margins and a
considerable increase in payroll and other
exes., this tailoring, mercery and sport-
ing-goods business, which has always
been a good profit-earner and dividend-
payer, was able to show an extra £23,519
of profit at £72,045 —double the 1945
figure and best since the business was con-
verted to a public co, about 40 years
ago.
The £72,045 was enough to pay the 9
p.c. pref. div. —a reminder of the dear-
money days of the 1920’s —and show 21
p.c. on ord. capital as it stood at the close


Colony of North Borneo
KUHARA RUBBER ESTATE
The Government of the Colony of North Borneo invites applications for
99-year leases of the constituent divisions of Kuhara Rubber Estate,
2. The acreages for Imam, Burnt and Merotai Divisions are based on
preliminary Government survey figures, and are subject to slight
adjustment. The figures for the Tawau Division are taken from Estate
demarcations and no guarantee is given as to their exactitude.
3. The Estate, the divisions of which are contiguous, lies behind the
port of Tawau on the East Coast of North Borneo, commencing 2 miles
outside the town and extending Northwards for 21 miles.
4. The Estate, formerly the property of the Nissan Norin Kogyo
Kabushiki Kaisha, has been worked conservatively as a Plantation Estate
by the Custodian of Enemy Property with the exception of the Tawau
Division, which is sub-leased by the Custodian on yearly leases subject
to three months’ notice.
5. Applications will be for the divisions as going concerns, and
buildings, plant, equipment, vehicles and craft situate on or attached to
the divisions will be included in the sale.
6. A standing timber charge of (M)530.00 per acre will be payable in
respect of those areas of undeveloped land which are under forest.
7. Quit rent will be payable at the rate of $3.00 per acre per annum.
8. The titles issued to successful applicants will be subject to the law
for the time being in force, including the law relating to rubber export duty.
9. Applications for permits to view the divisions, accompanied by a
deposit of (M)flOOO.OO for each of the divisions, should be made to:—
The Custodian of Property, Messrs. Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Central Government Offices, 37-43 Pitt Street,
Jesselton, North Borneo. Sydney, Australia.
This deposit will be refunded on receipt of an application accompanied
by an offer for the division concerned.
No applications for permits to view will be entertained after the Kith
day of September, 1951.
10. Applications must be made on the official form attached to the
permit and should be accompanied by—
(a) an offer of the price which the applicant would be prepared to pay
by way of premium;
(b) proposals for the development of the land; and
(c) a statement as to the financial standing of the applicant.
Applications must be sealed and marked “Kuhara Estate,” and should
reach the Chief Secretary’s Office, Jesselton, North Borneo, not later
than the 30th day of September, 1951.
11. Government is also prepared to consider applications for the Estate
as a whole.
12. Plans of the Estate may be seen at the offices of the agencies
mentioned above.
13. The titles to the various divisions will be subject to certain
easements, covenants and cultivation clauses. Particulars of these
easements, covenants and clauses and any further particulars relating
to the estate or title thereto may be obtained from the Office of the
Custodian of Property, Jesselton.
14. Government does not bind itself to accept the highest or any offer
accompanying applications.
From Scotland
—every
precious
drop
/i-'
<• \ >
? U «VwillTl
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK * WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment ,
|o H.M. King George VI)
25
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
HIE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Finer
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
As At Close Of Business On 30th June, 1951
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each £3,000,000 0 0
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each .. 2,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares fully paid in
cash to £lO per share
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid in
cash to 10s. per share
£5,000,000 0 0
£2,117,350 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of
the Bank) ..
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in
the business of the Bank)
Final Dividends proposed payable
August, 1951
Balance of Profit and Loss A/c
£4,117,350 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
250,000 0 0
142,347 0 0
157,261 18 0
Total Shareholders’ Funds ..
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
provisions for Taxation and Contingencies
Notes in Circulation ..
Balances due to Other Banks
Amount due to Subsidiary Company
£6,666,958 18 0
158,296,016 8 3
5,103 0 0
6,445,007 9 11
100 0 0
£171,413,185 16 2
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obliga-
tions of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, &c.) .. .. 19,535,<88 5 9
£190,948,974 1 11
£9,296,468 3 6
6,161,321 5 1
108,575 8 1
10,250,000 0 0
4,182,662 9 2
47,448,000 0 0
11,209,154 9 9
42,836 4 10
£88,699,018 0 5
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) .. 80,450,837 1 9
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less amounts
written off) .. • • • • • • • • • • • • 2,263,230 14 0
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost).
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at any time,
and has made neither Profit nor Loss; its only Asset
is a Deposit of £lOO with this Bank) .. .. .. 100 0 0
£171,513,185 16 2
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, &c., as per contra .. .. .. 19,535,788 5 9
£190,948,974 1 11
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1951.
To Expenses—Head Office, 620 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Fees £4,763/15/6) .. .. £3,023,795 1 1
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes .. .. .. .. 446,372 2 4
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down .. 336,012 0 2
£3.806.179 3 7
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commis-
sions and Other Income after deducting Interest
Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Accounts (out of which
Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts
has been made) .. .. ■ • • • • • • • £3,806,179 3 7
£3.806.179 3. 7
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Treasury Bills —
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market value) —
Australian Government £1,635,851 1 2
Other Government .. .. .. .. 2,332,422 2 10
Local and Semi-Governmental Authori-
ties 214,389 5 2
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia ..
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Stamps .. .. • •
To Amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1951
Final, proposed payable August, 1951
„ Balance carried forward
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year
£142,347 0 0
142,347 0 0
By Balance
£35,000 0 0
284,694 0 0
157,201 18 0
£476.955 18 0
£140,943 17 10
336,012 0 2
£476,955 18 0
£157.261 18 0
I, PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON, General Manager of The
ommercial Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare
mt the Reserve, the Exchange Adjustment Reserve, and Accumulated
rofits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet
id Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the best of my
nowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are the Directors
: the Company at the date of the Statement: WILLIAM JAMBS BYRNE,
ilicitor, Melbourne; WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON, Merchant,
elbourne; WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, Merchant, Melbourne; VICTOR
ULB KIMPTON, Flour Miller, Melbourne; STANLEY THOMPSON
DWARDS, Shipping Director, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
> be true and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of
ictoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for
ilful and corrupt perjury. na .. , , T .
ECLARBD at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 26th day of July,
ne thousand nine hundred and fifty-one. nnnnnM
Before me — 1 • G. GORDON.
H. F. CLARKE, _ ,
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.
We WILLIAM SYDNEY REID and STANLEY THOMPSON
DWARDS, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of
ustralia Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing
nlance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true
nd correct view of the state of the Company s affairs, and that the
tatement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the
ssults of the business of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board,
W. S. REID,
S. T. EDWARDS,
»ated at Melbourne this 26th day of July, 1951.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO July> IML
° BANK OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
' ad We I we have audited the accounts of h J '°^ r gpeetMs
ear ended 30th June, 1951, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is
roperly drawn up. and exhibits a true and correct view of the state ot
lie Comnanv’s affairs and that the Statement of Profit and Loss is
roperly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results
f the business of the Company for the year, according to the best of ou
iformation and the explanations given to us and as shown by the boo .
f tl The C °lA.ndon Office Return to the 30th June, 1951, duly audited by
lessrs Jackson Pixley & Co., has been submitted to us, the Assets and
liabilities at the Branches being taken on the Certificates of the Managers
nd We C have a ?e t ceived every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and
liey have supplied us with all the information and explanations we have
squired. „ ~
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully.
E. FOOKES.
WM. S. PHILIP.
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
of accounts as against 19.7, 22.2,
19, 17.3, 18.4 and 13.8 p.c. back
to 1945. And the I2i p.c. div.,
repeated for the seventh year in
succession, was sweetened with
a one-for-two bonus-scrip issue
(£100,000) just before the books
were ruled off. This gift scrip
participated in the final distri-
bution of Is. 6d. a share ; the
scrip was provided out of an
assets revaluation reserve of
£200,000, created by writing-up
the book-value of the freehold,
which was bought in the early
1920’s and is situated at one of
the busiest corners in the city,
namely Bourke- and Elizabeth-
street, opposite the G.P.O.
The co. buys and sells largely
on a cash basis, and there is
nothing to worry about in the
finances;
1949. 1950. 1951.
£> & £*
Paid capital.. 300,000 300,000 400,000
Mortgages .. 99,000 99,000 99,000
Creditors .. 29,396 42,314 60,414
Tax provision.. 35,000 30,000 44,000
Pinal div. . . 15,000 15,000 22,500
Property, etc. 444,456 444,690 644,993
Plant, etc. .. 2,693 3,424 3,467
Shareholdings .. 4,188 4,188 4,188
Stocks .. . . 170,832 177,012 199,480
Book debts .. 18,490 16,217 17,102
Cash, etc. .. 383 17,955 64,401
The year’s growth in property
(up £200,303) and capital (up
£100,000) reflects the writing-up
and bonus share-issue already
mentioned. The moderate trade
debt (up £18,100) was more than
covered by cash, etc., alone (up
£46,446). Rising prices and
early arrival of overseas goods
sent stock up by £22,468.
Turnover has continued on
the upgrade since the close of
accounts, and so have wages and
other costs. The background,
however, is fluid, and likely to
remain so until measures to be
taken by the Government and
others to check inflation are
known. If prices are pegged
and wages and other costs
allowed to rise profits will be-
come very sensitive to the level
of turnover. It is too early yet
to say what effect increases in
selective and other taxation will
have upon spending and co.
profits. Investment (public and
private) and immigration
promise to continue at high
levels, which, combined with
defence expenditure, are likely
to mean a high level of employ-
ment, wages and costs, provided
the last-mentioned doesn’t get
out of hand. Our most urgent
need is more and still more pro-
duction, combined with careful
spending. The market sums up
the position by pricing the pound
ords. at 475. to return 5.3 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. The
prefs, at 355. 6d. yield 5.1 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £7 Is. 6d.
prefs. and 40s. 6d. ords.
Wellington Alluvials, digging
auriferous flats on the Mac-
quarie River (N.S.W.), records a
loss of £26,744 for the year to
April 30 last as against a profit
of £21,644 for the previous
term. That was after allowing
£13,782 (down £635) for depre-
ciation.. Lower values, higher
costs and loss of 48 days’ dredg-
ing time owing to floods, major
repairs and power - rationing
were the chief troubles. Slightly
more payable wash was handled
—1,599,000 c.y. for 73550 z.
(down 21920 z.) fine gold—the
yield per yard being 1.53 gr., or
11.83 d., and costs were 13.37 d.,
leaving a loss of 1.54 d. on work-
ing account. Previous year’s
figures were 1.85 gr., 12.95 d.,
9.54 d. and a profit of 3.41 d.
Sales included £1412 from small
industrial diamonds recovered
from the wash. When the books
closed current assets totalled
£82,632 £36,707 cash and
bonds and the balance mostly
spares, etc. —and current liabili-
ties £11,124. There are many
years’ work and some richer
ground ahead of the dredge. Last
div. was 2d. per 2s. share in July,
1950. After sales at 2s. sd. a
couple of months ago (3s. lOd.
early in 1950), sellers recently
asked 2s. for the scrip.


FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
I-'':
m i
m
■
m
m
wmm
m
FlYt,
HONG
KONG
Colourful, cosmopolitan Hong
Kong, fascinating city of the
Orient, is only 48 hours by air
from Sydney—by comfortable,
modern Qantas Skymaster.
Excellent cuisine and first-class
steward service cater for your
comfort all the way. Regular
weekly services.
i*
s
v:
r.
JUD
’.^r^G^L-^gKrW
\ »
For full information consult your travel agenf.
f
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia's International Airline
"Fly (pantos there's a world at difference"
I<?CI4
What makes
CORK)
SPECIAL ?
Two things. The way
it’s made from
the finest barley,
malt and grain
and the way it’s
aged. Made in ac-
cordance with the
accepted practice of
the world’s greatest
distilleries, Corio
Special is matured
in oak casks
for at least
five years nearly
three times the
period required by
Commonwealth Law.
VL
it
%
om
OLD
SjJa^
Yon and your guests will appreciate
CORIO
SPECIAL
Old Whisky
Ml
V
4 Us
tr °lia’ a
OID
nhiskyl
C 37/le
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Sharemarket Shakeout
Last week’s sharp, short slump
in the sharemarket was the most
disconcerting since the Korean
war broke out. It brought
speculators, especially, face to
face with imminent economic
problems for the first time for
years. Hitherto sharemarket
setbacks have been mostly based
on international issues or upon
market - created conditions
sharemarket indigestion, for
example.
But the latest shakeout indi-
cated more definite trends. Hire-
purchase concerns, because of a
tightening-up on the issue of
consumer credit, were hit,
especially those which have not
been long established. Those
without reserves of any conse-
quence went below par in several
cases. The Bulletin has made
a point of steering investors
away from these cos. principally
on the ground that they offer
little refuge to savings from the
effects of inflation.
The slide in nearly all share-
issues during the setback was
definite. Among the exceptions
were Edwards, Dunlop and
Linoleum Holdings in Sydney,
These stocks are among the
most tightly held on the share-
lists.
The market was concerned, of
course, about the price-freezing
order by the N. S. Wales Mc-
Girr Government and talk about
material and financial controls,
plus higher taxation from the
Federal Government. The in-
flation talks were held in Syd-
ney, and it was in that city that,
significantly, the heaviest share-
selling occurred.
There appears to be a world-
wide economic change on at the
moment. How long it will fol-
low its present course it is diffi-
cult to say. There has been
increasing buyer-resistance to the
high price of raw materials.
This has been noticeable not
only in the case of wool, but in
other fibres as well as in foods,
metals and fats. The United
States Government, being a
large single influential buyer, is
able by itself to exert a con-
siderable influence on com-
modity prices, and since it has
slackened its stockpiling opera-
tions, which were accelerated by
the Korean war, there has been
a natural reaction throughout
most of the world’s commodity
markets.
However, there appears to be
little in the way of a world sur-
plus of most commodities,
especially fibres (such as wool)
and food. It would seem that,
after the present sharp recession
in wool, for instance, is over,
there will be a levelling-off at a
price below last season’s peak,
but still high by the standards of
previous years.
One of the chief dangers to
the Australian economy resides
in the fact that Australian in-
dustrial production is not in-
creasing at the same rate as in
other countries. And this not-
withstanding that we are a
young and expanding country
which suffered less than almost
any European nation during the
late war.
Since 1937 Canada’s industrial
production has doubled, likewise
that of the U.S.A. That of the
United Kingdom has increased
by 44 p.c.
The per capita rate of produc-
tion of essential commodities in
Australia and the fall in the rate
of goods-handling and transport
is the most serious problem that
Australian industry has to face.
It is not only the chief problem
with which Federal and State
Cabinet Ministers should be
concerning themselves about. It
is the fundamental problem for
the sharemarket to ponder, be-
cause it involves the real costs
of production.
There is plenty of work for
most of the Australian industrial
set-up to do for many years to
come. It is just a matter of doing
it efficiently and at a level of
costs in keeping with produc-
tivity and in keeping with over-
seas levels. No Government
“controls” will be of the slightest
“This one Was taken in me student days.”
value in the fight against infla-
tion unless a frontal attack is
made on the problem of increas-
ing production. And that in-
volves a show-down with the
trade-union movement.
There has been an excess of
speculation in the sharemarket
recently. And as a result of that
speculation it was noticeable last
week that the greatest weakness
existed among the ss. shares, the
centre of previous market specu-
lative excess. At 7s. Bd. last
week Mainguard (Sydney) shares
were 2s. 4d. below their peak
price, and that represented a
drop of 9s. 4d. per £ of capital.
Some other ss. shares were hit
equally badly. Market leaders
in the 60s. to 80s. class did not
suffer nearly so much in propor-
tion.
There is likely to be a good
deal less money coming into
Australia from abroad during
the next 12 months. This will
not only affect the level of
spendng on many classes of
goods; it will also affect the
taxable income of the com-
munity and present budgetary
problems, which may bring
higher rates of taxation. And
there may be less pastoral money
awaiting investment.
On the other hand, local in-
dustry is unlikely to be able to
supply anything like the amount
of essential production needed
by our expanding population,
and so it should be kept very
busy. And capital-issues con-
trol is likely to restrict oppor-
tunities for investment in new
floats, thus making existing
investments more sought after.
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
After years of warming-up,
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
Maoriland’s outsize co. and top-
ranker among privately-owned
forestry enterprises in the world,
is beginning to force the pace.
Hungry markets are clamoring
for sawn timber, pulp, wallboard,
boxboard, multiwall bags and a
growing range of other fines, so
there’s no selling problem. Plant-
capacity is the only limit to
turnover. As the co. is pushing
out in all directions it’s doing its
best to get over the hurdles, but
on today’s prospects there’s a
long race ahead before it will
catch up with demand. At last
Maorilanders are beginning to be
really impressed by the rising
strength of the young giant.
For the latest term, to March
31, the co., with 55,000 share-
holders (two-thirds of them Aus-
tralians), claims profit and pro-
duction records that are mile-
stones on the path and stepping-
stones to higher goals. Net
profit, at £176,027, from manu-
facturing, investments and forest
revenue, notched the biggest in-
crease yet. Here’s the trend:
Net Accumulated
March Profit. Profits.
31, £ £
1944 .. .. 25,034
1945 .. .. 42,010 20,041
1946 .. .. 45,109 60,844
1947 .. .. 65,222 98,716
1948 .. .. 87,243 184,834
1949 .. .. 116,462 272,077
1950 .. .. 137,750 388,539
1951 .. .. 176,027 526,289
In nine years since manufac-
turing operations were launched
the co. has netted £702,316. It
is too early yet to think of divs.
on the 5,207,380 £1 ords., but
hopes are rising. In the past
twelvemonth the scrip has lifted
on M.L. exchanges from 6s. 6d.
to 11s. 3d.
Among markets abroad, Aus-
tralia is roomy enough to take
all surplus output for years to
come, but the trade isn’t flowing
as smoothly as it should. Partly
this is a matter of shipping, No.
1 bottleneck today, but it isn’t
this only. There’s scope for
more Government co-operation
and encouragement.
Taxation has been one of the
worries ever since the enterprise
started to pay, but the tax-com-
missioner has been more dis-
posed to play ball lately, so
assessment of forest tax-liability
isn’t as one-eyed as in earlier
, years.
At Kinleith the co. is pushing
up new mills to turn out pulp and
sawn timber. Plant from sterling
and dollar makers will be set up
and boosting production within
six months.
As for the most ambitious pro-
ject of all, the co.’s plan to make
newsprint—6o,ooo tons annually
—it’s been waiting since the end
of April to learn the outcome of
its application for a licence from
M.L.’s Bureau of Industry, which
would give it the green fight to
go ahead. This is an alluring
field for a co. big enough to
enter it. What with tight dollars
and rationing of supplies from
the other side of the world,
there’s nothing N.Z. and Aus-
tralia would welcome more than
independence in newsprint.
Besides F.P.’s plan, there’s the
Murupara scheme, sponsored by
the Government, with an esti-
mated cost of £l4 million, most
of which might be met by out-
side capital. Between the two
plants newsprint output should
be at least 110,000 tons, of which
two-thirds will be exportable
surplus. M.L. is entering on a
decade of forestry enterprise that
seems likely to dwarf all other
industrial growth.
For the purposes of protect-
ing against inflation a few
hundred pounds held for a
specific purpose some years
hence, the ord. shares in Patons
and Baldwins at 375. seem made
to order.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign 0/
Oeorge 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATI. AS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. Y. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia, and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
Know About Your
Bock!
“Once a bad back, always a
bad back” is an old saying
that Isn’t true today. The
modern orthopaedic specialist
knows so much about your
back and what ails it that he
often can perform seeming
miracles.
In August Reader’s Digest,
C. Lester Walker tells how
some bad backs just happen—
as from sneezing while sitting
in the bath; from picking a few
blades of grass; from opening
a tight screw top jar—and how
most are preventable.
Get your August Reader’s
Digest today. 31 stimulating
articles condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
Unparalleled reading value at
one shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
mv mom
SANDERS
60ce,FlVE%
Correspond one*. I o * o IC •
sd
statement*, etc.. Oled In lh#
"Sandere" can be purely
bound and converted Into a
period book of reference a*
the end of each n-onlh —of
rvUov aatf (■»•
Ifcar latoraiUM
tI»M appllullta
any other period.
Jackson & O’Suu.ivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
!1S
State Electricity Commission of Victoria
(Constituted under Act of Parliament of Victoria)
£6,000,000
POWER AND FUEL DEVELOPMENT
LOAN
(No 85)
NOW OPEN
Cash subscriptions to the Loan will be applied to finance
capital works associated with the expansion of the Com-
mission’s undertakings, including the development of the
Kiewa hydro-electric project and the [Morwell briquette
project, and the extensions to the Yallourn power station.
1
2
Price of Issue . . . PAR (£100)
Currency ... 10 Years
(. Repayable at Par ist August, 1961)
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATIONS
Copies of the full prospectus can be obtained from and applications
may be lodged with any office in Australia of The National Bank
of Australasia Ltd. (including The Queensland National Bank Ltd.)
or the Commonwealth Bank of Australia ; members of recognised
Stock Exchanges in Australia; the Head Office of the Commission
22 William Street, Melbourne, or any of its offices in Victoria.
The Loan is secured upon the revenues of the Commission.
Principal and interest guaranteed by Government of Victoria.
The Loan is a trustee security in Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania.
% per Annum
Interest Rate
rhe Loan will close on or before 21st August, 1951
Issued under authority of the State Electricity Commission {Financial)
Act, 1937, No. 4j 12 ( [and Amendments) of the State of Victoria.
22 William Street,
Melbourne.
R. A. HUNT,
Chairman.
Loan Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The Englishman who, like
this one, has just returned from
a trip across Europe is likely
to find his reflections oddly
mixed.
On the pleasurable side, there
are all the tonic properties of a
holiday away from home. It is
a joy to travel long distances in
comfort and to watch foreign
scenes flash past the window. It
is novel to see women in color-
ful native dress and the majority
of the adult males in buckskin
shorts, fancy braces and jaunty,
feathered hats —even when it is
realised that the musical-comedy
touch goes no further. And,
when his normal vision is con-
fined to slopes no more for-
bidding than Ludgate Hill, it is
enchanting to measure heights
in thousands of metres and to
take in, with one quick glance,
pasture, forest, crag and snow.
These pleasures are to be
found in Europe’s newest play-
ground, the Austrian Alps, and
are shared, in varying propor-
tion, by a dozen nations to the
west of the Iron Curtain. What
tends to strike the British visitor
with such force is the apparent
realisation that these other
nationals —including those from
the defeated countries —are not
nearly so hard-pressed as he is
himself. In any one day he
can eat the equivalent of a
week’s meat ration at home, and
the menus in the restaurants
seem extravagantly varied in
comparison with his own. People
seem to work harder and longer.
The shops offer him a wide selec-
tion of goods. In short, he tends
to feel like a child of over-
cautious parents who is suddenly
let loose at a party.
Local Color
It is impossible for any lover
of music not to be in debt to
the Austrians, whether they be
natives like Haydn, Mozart,
Schubert, the Strauss family and
Lehar, or domiciles like Beet-
hoven and Brahms. Nor, may it
be said, is any visitor allowed to
forget that he is moving about
in a land of composers. Haydn’s
ugly but pleasant features adorn
banknotes. Mozart, in court-
dress, decorates chocolate-boxes
and gives his name to cafe,
square and hotel. Schubert’s
wry, goggly grimace appears to
blink from match-boxes. Lehar
shares with Emperor Franz
Joseph I the distinction of hav-
ing lived at an important spa.
He also shares with Johann
Strauss II the honor of repeated
performance, far in excess of the
classical masters.
The zither is indigenous to the
provinces of Upper Austria and
has even been heard to great
effect in open-air church services.
But how everybody sits up when
silence is called for and the words
“The Third Man” are heard!
The English film-producer, Carol
Reed, seems to have ensured a
good living for the Zither-
Meister (sometimes self-styled
Karas Parodist) for many years
to come.-
Meanwhile, the locals put on
their formal clothes and slide
away, whenever possible, to a
Tanz-Abend of a different kind,
where they seriously glide and
shuffle to the metronomic reeds
and brass of Tin Pan Alley.
Back Home
The Government White Paper
has confirmed the report of the
Beveridge Committee on the
8.8. C., whose constitution will
probably remain substantially
the same for another 15 years.
A rather naive bureaucratic
touch to the Paper has also un-
leashed a downpour of invective
on Mr. Patrick Gordon-Walker,
who, with the Tshekedi Khama
affair on his hands, must be the
most harassed Minister in the
Government. The suggestion is
that “in present circumstances
the 8.8. C. should make some
contribution to the general
revenue” and the Government
accordingly proposes to appro-
priate 15 per cent, of the annual
licences (nearly £1,500,000).
Hence the outraged protests on
all sides at what is no more than
an ingenuous grab. Another
controversial point is the sug-
gestion of broadcasting “coun-
cils” for Scotland, Wales and
Northern Ireland by which, it is
argued, sectional politics would
influence control of the Regions.
Mr. Arthur Horner, secretary
of the National Union of Mine-
workers, has got away with his
overt threat to democracy. He
is reported to have said, at a
miners’ rally: “If a Tory Gov-
ernment is returned it is certain
that there will be a national
strike of the miners.” That is
to say, if the will of the people
returns a Government that is not
to Horner’s liking, he will use
his persuasion to try to sabot-
age it. The outcry that followed
his threats has caused the
Attorney-General to state that
there was no prima facie case
for a prosecution.
Horner, who is an active Com-
munist, made two other main
points that have been less
widely noticed. He affirmed
that “it is only loyalty to the
Labor Government that has
caused the miners to pull their
punches,” and complained that
trade-unions are not allowed to
apply their funds for political
purposes at the unlimited dis-
cretion of the majority. In other
words, the nation should con-
sider itself lucky at not being
held to ransom; and it is a
matter of great inconvenience to
Mr. Horner and his fellows that
these funds are not available for
wider employment than miners’
welfare. Much depends upon
what is meant by “political.” At
all events, Mr. Horner is not
thinking of the Labor party.
Who else could it be?
The Bevanites’ publication,
“One Way Only,” has been ex-
posed, castigated and tom to
pieces by the British Press. The
Bevan organ, “Tribune,” boasts
that comment has occupied more
than 800 column-inches. Further
space can be saved by remark-
ing that only the “Daily
Worker,” in a veritable torrent of
eulogism, had kind words to say.
Where, then, does Aneurin
Bevan stand, in his determined
bid for power? The answer
would seem to depend upon what
happens in the not very-distant
future. Most of the “safe”
Labor seats are T.U.C.-
sponsored, and in favor of the
Attlee-Morrison group, so that
a general election is not likely to
overthrow the moderates; simi-
larly, the card-vote at the
October conference will probably
have the same effect. But it is
already clear, from the publica-
tion of the resolutions for this
conference, that the diehards of
the constituency committee-
rooms are substantially behind
Bevan, with their verbose and
laboriously-contrived protesta-
tions of faith in all-out Socialism.
Call it muddled thinking or
heads-in-the-sand or what you
will, but it’s certainly not a case
of the blind leading the blind.
The leader, at any rate, is wide-
awake. His interest is as strong
as his means are shallow, and
his determination is as high as
his cost to the nation. The
nation, it would seem, should do
something about it. Perhaps it will.
A Few Words
The foundation-stone of our
National Theatre has been laid,
but that doesn’t mean that it will
come into being soon. Its
fruition will depend upon the
course of “national and inter-
national politics.” There are
also doubts as well as enthusi-
asms as to its artistic fulfilment.
Every theatre-lover will hope for
something better than the in-
scription on the foundation-
stone, which reads: “To the
living memory of William Shak-
speare on a site provided by the
London County Council in
conformity with the National
Theatre Act 1949 and in the year
of the Festival of Britain this
foundation stone for the
National Theatre was laid on
July 13 1951 by Her Majesty
the Queen.”
It is hard to imagine anything
so typical of the times we live
in, or anything so wordily bad.
Wrote Shakspeare: “Whate’er
you think, good words, I think,
were best.”
Agreed.


The Letters of Rachel Henning
Introduction
IHESE letters, as a collection, give
a first-hand account of almost
day-to-day life in different parts
of Australia during the years
following the first gold-rushes
of a century ago—of the restless cities and
the rapidly - unfolding “outback,” of
pioneering, of tedious and hazardous
travel, of bushrangers, of the social
interests of the day, and of the reaction of
people who had left culture and comfort
in England to try their fortunes in a
money-chasing, landseeking new com-
munity. There is also the complementary
side of the picture: the Home-country left
behind, and the long sea voyage to and
from Australia.
The letters are written from England,
from Sydney, Appin and Bathurst in
New South Wales and from North
Queensland, where Rachel Elenning first
began to “cotton on” to Australia.
Not only as a fascinating, authentic
fragment of Australian history, but as
part of a life-picture painted almost
unconsciously by a cultured, sheltered
young Englishwoman who, at first an
intellectual exile, became an Australian
pioneer, these letters will be printed in
The Bulletin over a period of weeks.
They are published by arrangement with
Mrs. Gerald F. Dampney, of Newport
Beach, N.S.W., who is a niece of the
author (and the daughter of “Biddulph”
in the correspondence), and who holds
the originals of the letters.
Adlington Hall,
Cheshire,
August 12, 1853.
My Dearest Annie,
I was so rejoiced to see your hand-
writing again and to get the two letters
from you and Biddulph. How kind it
was of you to write twice to me before
the ship sailed, in the midst of all the
confusion there must have been on board!
What a wretched day that Thursday
was! After I had watched the steam-tug
you went by, out of sight, I came back to
the pier, for I could not rest anywhere
else while 1 knew the ship was still in the
river, and I saw the last steamer, with
Mr. Bright and his friends and the mail,
go off, but they refused to let me go.
After that I went up in the town,
shopping. But came down to the
magnetic pier again in the afternoon, but
the Great Britain had then gone down
the river ; so, finding it was all over, I
betook myself to our lodgings, where
perhaps it was as well that I had my
hands full of work till quite late at night.
I do not know why I am writing you
this long account of that miserable day.
Before this reaches you, it will be one
of the many black days we have to look
back upon in our lives. It is already a
past thing, and I suppose we shall not
always have such a vivid remembrance
of it as I have now.
You left behind you your two tea-
spoons after all. I am so sorry I forgot
them. Everything you or Biddulph have
had or used seems valuable now, cer-
tainly the way to be valued and missed is
to go to Australia. I think I shall try
it next year, and see if it will arouse my
friends to a due sense of my merits, but
I am sure nobody could miss me as I
do you and darling Biddulph. Even here
I am reminded of you by something every
hour of the day.
Colchester, September 27.
I sleep in the room looking out on the
garden, the same that we had when we
were here together six years ago. Dear
Annie, you cannot think how everything
here puts me in mind of you and of the
time when we were here together. All
the walks here and the garden, and above
all our room, where you used to read to
me sometimes when we had taken refuge
there from the numerous troublesome
children (it is better supplied with
drawers now than it was then, for I have
a whole chest to myself instead of the
one drawer we had between us, and the
room is not a refuge now, for some of
the girls are always there ; however, I
like them far better than we did then).
There is more in parting than we
thought when we used to talk so quietly
about it. I only then thought of the
actual loss of your company (you will
say I valued it little enough when we
were together!), and I forgot the terrible
Rachel Biddulph Henning, the author, was born in England 125 years
ago. She was the eldest of five children who, when Rachel was 14, lost
their father, and when she was 19, their mother. She then became, in
effect, head of this youthful family.
Her father was the Rev. Charles Wansborough Henning, M.A.
(Cambridge), and formerly chaplain to H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge.
Her mother, who was born Rachel Lydia Biddulph, married Charles
Henning in 1825.
The letters begin in 1853, when Biddulph, Rachel’s only brother (then
19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23) set sail, on
August 11, for Australia in the Great Britain, a crack passenger-ship of
its time, renowned for its ability to reach Melbourne 60 days out from
Liverpool travelling round the Cape.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta (“Etta” of later letters, who had
married the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851) and Amy were thus
separated, for the time being, from Biddulph and Annie. It is to the last-
mentioned two that Rachel’s first letters are addressed.
feeling of regret with which one looks
back to almost every incident of our
lives, regret that it is all past and sorrow
at the countless things I was wrong in,
things seem so pleasant when we look
back upon them.
September 29. Michaelmas Day, and
the girls have been pestering Aunt to order
a goose for dinner, and she replies “My
dears, the housekeeping is beyond all
reason already,” which I do not doubt,
as no one ever looks after the servants,
and from Priscilla’s account they ate
butter enough last week to supply most
families for a month. No doubt you
will be favored with geese on board ship,
though I do not know where the sage
and onions are to come from.
We are just now sorely set with a
second cousin of the Carrs, whom Uncle
has inconsiderately asked here for a few
days. He is rather a nice-looking young
man, and has just left Oxford, but he is
either shy, or stupid, or both, and most
difficult to amuse. (I don’t try.) He only
came yesterday, and Uncle is just come
up to announce that he stays till Satur-
day. Carry is very fond of flirting, but
it is no use, because he will not be flirted
with.
• I need not tell you anything about Col-
chester life, because you have been here
so lately. My principal employments are
writing letters to a considerable extent,
doing wool work and reading Scott’s
Life. The wool work consists of another
square for Aunt’s unhappy ottoman,
which is not finished yet, and it was in
progress when we were here six years
ago! I found there was only one square
wanted to complete it, as some lady had
sent one so atrociously worked, it could
not be put in, so as I have not anything
particular to do, I thought I would finish
it for them. I got a very handsome
single-flower pattern at Spadings—a
great tiger-lily with its buds and leaves.
It is to be grounded with white and will,
I think, look very well.
They are reading Chilton aloud, and
though we read it at Backwell,* I have
forgotten the story, so it is very pleasant
to work the square and be read to. I
think our four squares are among the
prettiest in the lot, and yours and mine
the prettiest of these. I suppose you
saw the piece they have put together, it
looks very v;ell.
I suppose you hardly remember our
reading Scott’s Life at Dawlish —how
;Miss West used to read it in the evenings
and dear Papa used to go to sleep. I
remembered it as being very interesting,
and it is so, one of the very few
biographies which are readable. Some
of it is like a romance, it is so amusing.
We get very nice books from the Castle
Library, but Uncle is very particular
about what they read. Carry got the
Life of Salvator Rosa, but was not
allowed to finish it.
We got a novel called Ruth, by the
author f of Mary Barton, but we took the
precaution of keeping it out of Uncle’s
way.
They have a new piano here, a very
pretty rosewood Piccolo. I think
Priscilla plays nicely and they both sing
well. There is a Miss Meadows here
who sings beautifully ; she is the daughter
of a clergyman, whose father was
Brakarn, the great singer, but he changed
his name to Meadows because he did not
like the stage associations of “Brakarn.”
She is a very fat, vulgar-looking girl, but
good-natured enough.
I am helping Priscilla arrange her
dried flowers, which are in a great mess.
She does not know much about them.
She brought down some which she
brought from Cromer and left upstairs to
dry, and they were all mildewed, and
one of them, a sort of stonecrop, so
damp that it was actually growing little
branches, shooting out at the joints of
the stem.
I hope the Great Britain will not be
much behind her time, else I am afraid
your supply of clothes will run short.
I am glad you took one warm dress with
you, as Biddulph says it will be so cold
during one part of the voyage. Also his
pilot-suit will come into requisition if
you go as far south as the Shetland
Isles are north. I hope all your things
will reach their journey’s end in safety,
without any visitations of saltwater. If
they do, you will not want any new
clothes for a long time.
When I was at Adlington, Mr.
Buxtonj: gave me one of those printed
muslins, the same that you had. I had
only blue and pink to choose between,
and I chose the blue. I shall not make
it up till next year: it is too late for
muslins now. I hope you will like your
new bonnets, etc., when you unpack
them. Do you remember that busy week
in Liverpool?
I hope to hear that you are with the
James Tuckers. I am sure you will be
more comfortable in Sydney than any-
where up the country till Biddulph has
a farm of his own. If so, if you and
Biddulph both settle in Australia, I shall
certainly come out unless you had rather
I stayed at home.
Believe me, my own dear Annie, your
most affectionate sister.
RACHEL HENNING.
Danehill,
Sussex,
January 30, 1854.
My Dearest Annie and Biddulph,
I am getting very weary of the long
time which has passed since you left
England without our even hearing a word
from you. We were very thankful to
hear of the safe arrival of the Great
Britain at Melbourne, for I was beginning
to make myself miserable and to fancy all
sorts of things, it seemed so long since
she had been heard of. Brown, Junior,
wrote to Etta the moment he saw the
news in the shipping intelligence, which
was very kind of him, for otherwise we
should not have known it till today.
You seem to have made a splendid
passage and to have been only one day
behind the time fixed upon for the
passage to Melbourne. The news came
by the Hurricane, and we have been look-
ing out ever since for letters from
you, which we think she may also have
brought, as you could probably have
written from Melbourne.
Etta and I have been talking of you
this morning, and I have done little else
but think of you for days past, partly
perhaps because we have been getting so
very anxious to hear from you and also
because I want so to see you again. I
have quite made up my mind to go to
Australia. Sometimes I think of going
with Amy and the Tuckers, and some-
times that it will be better to wait for
another year. However, what we hear
from you will greatly decide this.
Vincent Macey has come back, and by
Lucy’s account brings a poor idea of the
* Backwell, a village in Somerset, where
Rachel’s father, while alive, had a “living.”
t Mrs. Gaskell.
j The Buxtons, of Adlington (near Maccles-
field, in Cheshire), were cousins of the Hennings.
Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, born 1837, became
Governor of South Australia from 1895 to 1899.
PEOPLE IN THE LETTERS
RACHEL. HENNING, the writer of the letters,
born 1826.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING, born
1827, married Rev. T. W. Boyce, and re-
mained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830.
AMY HENNING, born 1832.
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834.
[The foregoing were the children of the Rev.
Charles Wansborough Henning, M.A. (son of
Edmund Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee Biddulph).
The parents were both born in 1797, and
married in 1825. Charles died in 1840, his wife
in 1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TREGENNA
BIDDULPH were cousins to Rachel Henning
on her mother’s side, and belonged to the well-
known titled family of the name.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hennings and
Biddulphs. WILLIAM TUCKER was
founder of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


prospects in Australia and says it is a
great chance if you can get a living.
However, he had no money to begin with.
His health is quite restored.
There is an account in the London
news today of a terrible wreck of an Aus-
tralian passenger-ship* off Dublin Bay,
only one day after she had sailed from
Liverpool. She was a very large ship
and had too small a crew to manage her
and struck on a reef of rocks. The
greater part of the passengers were
drowned. We were very thankful to hear
the same day that the Great Britain had
arrived safe at Melbourne, for such an
accident brings more vividly before one
the dangers of the sea.
It is nearly dark, and your birthday,
Biddulph, is coming to an end as far as
England is concerned. I suppose it is
only just dawning in Australia. I must
put away my writing till tomorrow.
February 1. No letters from you! We
are rather disappointed but we must now
wait patiently for the regular mail; per-
haps the Hurricane did not bring letters,
for I am sure you would have written if
you could.
Mr. Boyce has just set off to Uckfield
in company with Mr. Hughes, Colonel
Davis and Mr. Pluckerrett, in Mr.
Hughes’s carriage ; they are all going to
appeal against taxes, and will probably
drive the commissioners out of their
senses.
I like Danehillf more and more. The
country is so beautiful, and 1 have plenty
of time to do just as I like, and this quiet
sort of life is most pleasant.
February 2. Aunt Pinchard writes to
me: “The girls have some very pretty
new dresses. Rose, however, began
taking some music-lessons of Miss
Wingrove today. She accompanies John
Lester’s flute and wants a little help
“Bella gave an immense ball last night,
the last she is to give; none of our party
were present, all gave it up at my request,
which I consider very good of them.
“On Friday, we have a party here. I
feel everything is for the last time that
we shall all be together as one unbroken
family. Tregenna and Rose will certainly
be gone before another Christmas, if not
Rachel. I suppose Kate will live with us
till she is married. If Mr. Arnold were
not a poet and a professed squire of
dames, I should have no doubt of his
intentions regarding Kate. He is now
reading for a “first.”
“I intend Rose to have a very elegant
trousseau, but not many things, as she
will have her Indian outfit to get after-
wards. John would load her with presents
if I did not interfere. He has magnifi-
cent ideas.
“Tregenna hopes to be ordained in
June and marry soon after, but I don’t
think he can be.”
All this is from a letter I received from
Aunt last week. In one dated January
29, she says, after mentioning the arrival
of the Great Britain at Melbourne, of
which she also had heard:
Rachel’s love affair [not Rachel Hen-
ning’s] is the most fierce, and throws all
others into the shade. I suppose it is their
youth; they have neither eyes nor ears for
anyone else. They sometimes walk twice a
day, and Shields slips into the drawing-room
immediately after dinner and spends the
evening with us. We all increasingly like
him. There is an honest simplicity in his
character; his face also improves, he is very
handsome, in short, and has a splendid bass
voice, a great addition to our musical quire.
His mother is coming to see us at Easter,
and then we shall talk about their future
plans.
John and Rose have fixed the early part
of August for their wedding, which will
give them a few good months of travel on
the Continent. Rose wishes so much to
spend another Christmas here. We aie
already beginning to think of the wedding,
which will be on a magnificent scale if John
has his way. I really am not equal to the
occasion.
I shall see that Rose is very elegantly and
very youthfully drest. We are to have eight
bridesmaids, your royal self among the
number if you will come, and eight brides-
men, all in white (the “maids,” not the
“men”), and Mr. Parr and Mr. Barne to
marry them.
There is a dreadful fear hanging over us,
lest in consequence of the war and the part
Persia is taking, all officers should be
ordered back to India. John hears from
his friends that it is expected. Being on
sick certificate, it would not necessarily
affect him, but he has a conscientious feel-
ing that he ought to go, and the whole
matter would then have to come off in a
fortnight. It is too bewildering to think of!
Rose’s habit and hat came home today, a
wide-awake and feather, and they take their
first ride on Monday. I know pride will
have a fall.
There, Annie, I hope I have told you
enough “Mount”J news, but Aunt con-
trives to put things down in such a much
more entertaining way than I can, that I
prefer copying her words to distilling
them into mine.
I think she ought to ask Etta and Amy
to Rose’s wedding also, but very likely she
will, as it was the bridesmaids she was
speaking of when she only mentioned
me, but Amy will very likely be on her
way to Sydney, for Mr. Tucker’s health is
so failing that I think they will very
likely go out
earlier than they
intended doing.
I am not sure
that 1 shall not
also be on my
way, for I have
quite made up my
mind to come out
unless indeed I
should hear any-
thing from you
that would make
it downright
foolish to do so.
But if you both
settle out there, as
I fully expect
you will, I shall
come out also,
either this year
or next. If I dp
not, perhaps we
shall never meet
again, and that is
not for one
moment to be
thought of. I
have felt that
more and more
every day since
you went. I don’t
think I should
dislike Australia
after all; and I
would rather be
anywhere with
you than in the
most beautiful
place without
you.
I am very
happy here
indeed. The
country is lovely. Mr. Boyce generally
sits in his study now, having had a new
grate put in there, large enough to roast
a sheep by, rather to Etta’s dismay, who
mourns over the consumption of coal,
which is 50s. a ton in London this winter.
But, though I like Danehill very much,
I do not like the idea of always living
at one end of the world and you at the
other.
I am reading Gibbon by way of history,
and have been very busy arranging the
flowers and mosses I got last summer.
They all put me so in mind of you both,
for we were generally together when we
got them. I have finished my square for
Aunt Carr’s ottoman, and it looks very
well. lam going to send it to her soon,
and then I hope the unlucky ottoman will
be made up. It has been in hand these
seven years,
I am going to do one of Mr. Boyce’s
slippers, and Etta the other. We got a
very pretty pattern from Mrs. Hughes.
She is most good-natured and lends me
all her music, which it is not everyone
would do. Few people like lending new
music.
It is getting dark and I am afraid the
postman will come every minute.
God bless you, my dearest sister and.
brother,
Ever your affectionate
Rachel Henning.
DANEHILL ,
February 27, 1854.
My Dearest Annie and Biddulph,
I do not think you can have the least
idea of the delight it was to us to get
your parcel with such quantities of
letters. It did not arrive till late Saturday
afternoon, for Vince Wood did not arrive
"He will not be flirted with.”
on Friday as we expected, and the revil-
ings bestowed on him in consequence
would have overwhelmed him if he had
only heard them,
I was practising when Etta came into
the drawing-room with the parcel in her
hand. I have never exactly discovered
how it came, but there it was! We cut
the string in a moment with my old knife,
though Mr. Boyce suggested we had
better untie the knot! And then we saw
the delightful collection of letters and
the journal! It was just post-time, and
I hope you will properly appreciate my
self-denial in rushing into the other
room, before I had opened a single letter,
and stamping and sending off those
directed to others.
Then we sat down to read and finished
the letters before tea, and after we read
the journal aloud. I cannot think why
Annie made any excuses for it. It was a
capital journal and most interesting to us.
It was very good and kind of her to keep
it, for I am sure it must be a very difficult
thing to do on board ship among so many
people.
The wooden pear arrived in high
preservation. What a curious thing it is.
I suppose it is not intended to be eaten.
Thank you, dear Annie, for the beautiful
collar you sent me. Indeed I shall not
put it away after my “old fashion.”
You must forget and forgive the crochet
collar which, I am afraid, I did treat so,
but this one is really beautiful. You
have arranged and sewn on the Honiton
so tastefully, and it is not the least larger
than some collars I am wearing now. So
I shall be sure to wear it thankfully. I
am sorry for one thing, though. lam
quite convinced that you must have put
all the Honiton on it and not kept any for
yourself.
February 28. All letters from here
must be dull to yours ; everything you
can tell about yourselves and your new
country is so interesting. Thhnk you,
dear Biddulph, for your long letter to
me. We were very much amused by it.
I should have been very uneasy about
you if I had had the least idea the Great
Britain contemplated an exploration of
the South Pole, for the sudden change
from great heat to great cold was enough
to make anyone ill, and especially you.
However, Annie says you are well and
we were most thankful to hear it. I
rejoiced to think that you had a “pilot-
suit” to keep out the cold, but Annie was
not the least prepared for it, and I cannot
think how she got on. I am sure she
must have had chilblains and all sorts of
cold discomforts. However, you seem
to have enjoyed the voyage in spite of
everything and some of it must have
been very amusing, crossing the Line, for
instance. I am glad Biddulph escaped a
drenching; he must be quite a sailor to
climb to the masthead.
We seem now to know all your friends
on board, thanks to the letters and
Annie’s journal. I should like to see Mr.
Gray.f How kind and pleasant he seems
to have been. Mr. Boyce wrote to him
yesterday to thank him for sending the
parcel and to ask him when he would
sail again, as we are going to send you a
budget of letters, etc. It is too good an
opportunity to let slip. If the Great
Britain makes such a good passage again,
I daresay you will get them nearly as
soon as this.
Melbourne must be rather a nasty
place from your description of it, and
the prices of everything seem enormous
—fancy £3 10s. for three unfurnished
rooms —I only wish we could transport
Backwell House out there —our fortune
would be made.
I am very glad you have such com-
fortable lodgings and so cheap, too. You
would not have got them for less in
England. It must be very pleasant for
you to be together in the mornings and
to have a sort of house of your own,
but I forget that it is three months ago
that you wrote, and that you are prob-
ably settled elsewhere by this time. I
hope Biddulph’s advertisement is
answered, and that he is deep in the
mysteries of cows and sheep.
March 1. It is a lovely day, fine and
bright and warm as summer. We are sit-
ting in the dining-room with the window
open and (don’t be too much surprised)
the blind drawn up! And the rays of
the sun falling full upon Etta’s mahogany
table and upon a great plate full of prim-
roses, dressed with moss, which I brought
home from some of my walks. Mr,
(Continued on page 32.)
•The Tayleur, Jan. 20, 1854, with 380
drowned.
t The home of Rachel’s sister and brother-in-
law, the Rev. T. W. Boyce, where Rachel at
this time was staying.
t “The Mount,” Taunton, was the home of
Biddulph Pinchard, a cousin of the Hennings.
Commander of the Great Britain.
THE PERIOD
The letters from England begin on August 13, 1.803, at an h ‘ st ®!‘ c Ju " C ‘ ur ,
in Australian history. Three days before William Charles Wentworth had
Introduced his Constitution Bill in the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, and the colony
resounded with the shouts of the resultant class-conflict between the
and the “democracy,” and with the rallying-cry of the organisers of the great
popular meeting: held in Sydney on August 15, at which Henrj
first public appearance as an orator.
Gold had been discovered only two years before at the Ophlr, and Sydney
and the farming districts were stripped of labor, so there was a ° ‘ t
in the city. Governor Sir Charles Eitzroy had recently moved his * S 1
from Parramatta to Sydney, and Victoria had not long become a separate
The railway by 1833 went as far from Sydney as Parramatta, but roads stretched
far into the country, to the great satisfaction of the bushranger-. . . .
necessary a few years before to turn some of the English garrison . y
cavalry at Bathurst to suppress them under martial law. ___
Rachel Henning’s first Australian letter is dated from Appln in 185 a. By thlat
time Wentworth had steered the Constitution Bill through-The Bnitis.i^ Pai’
and Stuart Donaldson (whom she mentions) was on his way out, to become the flist
Premier ofi N. S. Wales under responsible government.
Gregory was just through his great exploring trip across the
The outback and northern settlement of Queensland was just beginning—there was
no Townsville, Cairns, Rockhampton or Bowen yet Sydney was preoccupied
with the Russian scare and the Crimea, and Pinchgut was a-bu.ld.ng Ami
Appin, adjoining the Cowpasture—a district settled by Governor Macquarie 40
years before the home of the Humes and the Brownes—was flourishing, one of
(lie most populous and busv farming districts in Australia, though just
up* wheat-growing B because of the rust. The population of Australia was 470.000
There was no cable communication between Australia and England, andl it
often took six months to get an answer to aletter sent from eit he r conntrj
Uniform Australian twopenny postage had come in in 1849, the year of the exodus
to the Californian goldfields.
In Britain Charles Dickens had not long published “David Copperfleld, while
mid-Victorian England was still rather startled by the novels, a few years earlier,
of Charlotte and Emllv Bronte, and young women were amazed that females
should pubUsh such books. Queen Victoria’s eldest son and second child, later
to reign as Edward VII, was just 13 years old.


'Wj
o
&
A
mm
%
A
\
m
's\N
m
m
s
f />
$
s:
\\w *:
y
v%
&
3
s9r«s..»
sdf
<y
=s
'<K> >
C^iTs-
N
saf.suppowwG
i
IWt BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
NO ELASTIC TO PUCKER OR PERISH
Occasions when no Gift is
more acceptable than a
IA VINA
SWISS MASTERPIECE
On every
occasion
which traditi-
onally calls for a
gift of lasting value,
give a 17-jewelled
Lavina Swiss Watch. It
will be cherished through
the years for its exquisite
perfection.
IAVIMA
WATCHES
The Choice of Millions
Established 1852. Villeret, Suisse.
' LWI9.il
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
The TEARER
by A.E. STURGES
“1 OOK at old Tearer.”
“Where’s the fire,
I Charlie?”
“Hurry up, Charlie,
or the works’ll stop.”
Charlie, bustling in with his
quick, jerky step, arms waving
excitedly as he gabbles at his
men, ignores the baiting, except
to dart a sideways look at the
shop-fitters leaning grinning
against the bench. His men,
used to his ways, go stolidly
ahead with their job: sling the
motor and hoist it from the
shelf, one on the chain, two
restraining its sudden swing into
space, then trundle it along, sus-
pended from the squeaking
beam, to the truck waiting at the
shop door; pack the tool-bag,
collect oil and waste from the
store, lift the Megger and leads
on to the truck. Charlie dodges
from one to the other, babbling
orders, checking oil, rubbing the
brass nameplate to check the
horsepower. The shop - men
make merry at Charlie’s expense,
but he gammons deafness.
Suddenly the men at the
bench move swiftly apart, ham-
mers bang, hacksaws squeak, the
power-drill roars to life, heads
bend low over vices. The boss
walks into a busy shop. With a
word to his men to wait, Charlie
hurries across to the office,
knocks and goes in. The boss
swings round in his desk-chair,
tilts back and looks up at
Charlie, his eyebrows raised
slightly above horn - rimmed
spectacles, a faint smile touch-
ing the turned-down corners of
the thin mouth.
“Good morning, Charlie;
what news?”
Charlie breaks into rapid ex-
planation ; in the next office the
shop-foreman holds his fingers
in his ears in mock alarm.
“Motor in the pulp plant
went up in smoke a few minutes
ago. The shift-boss is yelling
for a spare. We’ve got her on
the truck now. But she’s the
last twenty-horse on the shelf,
so you’d better tell old George
to get the gear ready for re-
winding the one we’re going to
pull out. No good me telling
him, he won’t take orders from
me. And we might want one
any tick of the clock.”
The boss gets up. He stoops
over Charlie, puts a paternal
arm round him and pats one
shoulder. His eyelids mask both
his eyes and thoughts. He
speaks softly, soothingly. “0.K.,
old son. I’ll tell George. You
slip away now and get the spare
in as quickly as you can and
send the other one back as soon
as you can afford a man. Be
careful when you’re starting up
that there’s no one in the tank.”
Charlie comes out, jumps
aboard the truck and off they
go ; a shop-fitter gives them a
send-off with an imitation of a
fire-truck siren.
The boss leaves his office;
the noise at the bench increases.
He steps inside the shop-fore-
man’s office.
“ ’Morning, George.”
“ ’Mornin’.” A dour man,
George waits quietly. The boss
coughs.
“George, Charlie’s just gone
to change a twenty-horse at the
pulp plant. You’d better get
Don to have a set of coils ready
and the rest of the stuff for a
rewind. Put young Westcott
with him, he hasn’t been on a
winding job yet. Tell Don not
to waste any time ; she’ll be here
pretty soon.”
George nods. “Sure, sure,
we’ll fix it. Needn’t rush,
though; old Charlie’s all
blather ; he’ll be hours yet.”
The ghost of a smile touches
the boss’s mouth. “Don’t make
any mistake about Charlie,
George. He does talk a bit, but
he’s a good man on a break-
down. He gets them moving.”
George grunts, and the boss
goes out. Funny beggars, these
men. He looks with veiled
amusement at the busy shop ; if
they worked like that I’d have
to sack about half of them.
DOWN at the pulp plant
Charlie’s men unload the
lorry, then start on the wrecked
motor: uncouple it from the
impeller-shaft, disconnect the
leads, loosen the baseplate bolts.
Charlie stands a few yards off'
talking to the shift-boss, inter-
rupting himself now and then
to shout a suggestion to the men.
As they lift the motor clear they
grunt under the load, and
Charlie jerks forward to lend a
hand; they stand it clear, then
Charlie gives the order for a
spell. Then they lift the spare
into position, check the align-
ment, couple up, tighten the
baseplate bolts, Charlie
straightens up, his face red
above the collar and tie he
always wears as a badge of
foremanship.
“Good work. Only got to
connect her up now and she’s
ready for a trial.”
Scotty moves to the leads.
“Whoa! Whoa!” Charlie
raises a forbidding hand, gives
a twisted smile. His gestures are
a little larger than life-size, like
those of an actor. “Ross, nip
into the fuse-room and make
certain the links are out. Bring
’em with you for safety. Can’t
trust these plant blokes.”
He winks at his men with
heavy humor and glances
obliquely at the shift-boss. The
shift - boss, an old hand, is
momentarily deaf.
Ross brings the links, the
leads are connected, the bear-
ings filled with oil, rings
checked, the air-gap measured.
The Megger is lugged forward
and Charlie himself turns the
handle and watches the needle
swing over the dial. “O.K.
Shove ’em back in, Ross.”
Charlie makes a final inspec-
tion: no loose waste, no tools,
no one near the impeller. “Right,
give her a kick.”
Ross flicks the starter handle
over, the motor grunts and turns
a couple of revolutions. Charlie
guffaws. “Bad guess, Scotty.”
Scotty disconnects and re-
verses two leads, tapes up the
joints. Ross shoves the handle
over, holds it as the motor
whines up to speed, then pulls it
to the “on” position. The motor
hums sweetly; the impeller
turns in the tank. Charlie lifts
the bearing-caps and peers in ;
the rings, shining with oil, turn
surely with the shaft. He rests
a pudgy hand on the stator-
frame and feels the warmth
slowly mounting.
The shift-boss comes over.
“Can I use her now, Charlie?”
Charlie shakes his head im-
portantly. “Have to give her
ten minutes to see she’s not
going to run hot. Let you know
when you can put the load on.”
The shift-boss nods. “Thanks
for the quick job, Charlie.”
Charlie looks pleased. He
waves a hand at his men:
“Service with speed our motto.”
The shift-boss grins at the
men and walks off.
T" HE men lounge about, tak-
ing their ease, watching
Charlie and the motor. As
Charlie stands with his hand on
the frame his restless eyes keep
returning to the burnt-out
motor. He asks a man to keep
an eye on the motor tempera-
ture, and walks over to inspect
the wreck. He grips the shaft
to spin the rotor and gives a
shout. “Hey, she’s seized up
as well as burnt out.”
His mouth moves thought-
fully. “Let’s have a look at her
while we’re waiting. It’ll take
’em a week to get her apart in
the shop.”
The men look at each other
with raised eyes and resigned
grins. Poor old Charlie, can’t
let well alone, wants to do the
other bloke’s job as well as his
own.
They undo the studs ; one end
bell comes away easily, but the
other is fast on the shaft. They
lift the rotor clear with the end
bell attached.
“Swing her up vertical.”
Charlie grips the edge of the
end bell. “Right, give her a
lift.”
To the men’s surprise Charlie
lets the end of the shaft thump
on the floor. They look at each
other over Charlie’s head. Much
more of that and he’ll burr the
end or put a set in the shaft.
Rough as guts, old Charlie.
Another thump; the end bell


It’s that
Ingrams lace
m
m
Jkfo~u*vro*%
When "she" plays, Mister, her goal is that
Ingrams face ! ! . . . because an Ingrams
face is S-M-O-O-T-H . . .
Ingrams Shaving Cream marks up a cool,
comfortable shave every day for 120 days
from just one Jar!
Combines its own face lotion, too! Set
Ingrams from your Chemist to-day.
A Product of Bristol M/ers
IS-25
Q
i/ngmms
SHAVING CREAM
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Make this change
and gain a future
Give yourself a lift
in life. Switch to a
new career as a
sailor, a soldier or an
airman. Share the
sense of pride and
satisfaction that
comes from making
a worthwhile contri-
bution to Australia’s
most urgent task
defence.
It’s easy to change
to a Service career.
From then on you’re
facing a brighter
future —a future
with guaranteed per-
manent employment.
A future filled with
opportunity to in-
PAY PLUS EXTRAS
An 18-year-old Service-
man who has completed
his basic recruit train-
ing (normally 3 to 6
months) is paid over
£B/7/6 a week, (This
rate is subject to further
increase during August.)
In addition, food,
accommodation, cloth-
ing, medical and dental
care are provided by the
Services. (Special extra
allowances for married
men.) All Services give
at least 3 weeks’ holiday
on full pay each year,
with travelling time and
fares to home and back.
JL M. •>
crease your skill, your rank and your pay. A
future completely secure because every
serviceman gets a pension or gratuity on
retirement. A future that will bring you many
new benefits you never enjoyed before.
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets: In Sydney:
Car. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide: Richards Building, 99 Currie
Street; In Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart: Franklin Sauare;
In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
DR54.112J1
moves on the shaft. “Got her,”
Charlie crows.
The men examine the shaft.
Straight as a die, and not a
single burr. Can’t beat old
Charlie; he’d get away with
murder.
j N the big lunch-room the
1 whole electrical gang —shop-
fitters, laborers, outside fitters,
linesmen —sit at the long, zinc-
topped tables, crib-tins open,
tea-billies steaming. Some read
as they eat, some play draughts,
some cards. Some yarn, others
merely chew stolidly and gaze
into space. In one corner two
radio-mad apprentices practise
Morse code with a buzzing like
giant blowflies. Above the
steady hum of conversation
Charlie’s voice booms as he tells
his neighbors of his morning’s
work. He breaks off at inter-
vals to eat —two bites to a
sandwich and a great gulp of tea
to wash it down. Cat-calls come
from all over the room.
“Give it a break, Tearer.”
“Wonder what ’e breathes
through?”
“Why don’t you write a book,
Charlie?”
ON a Monday morning, in a
corner of the shop where,
to George’s constant annoyance,
the outside gang have a locker,
Charlie’s men stand in an un-
certain group, betraying that
lack of ease common to men
who are without a definite pur-
pose.
“Must’ve missed the train.”
“Garn, old Charlie’d never
miss a train. Gets there half an
hour ’fore she starts.”
“P’r’aps he’s won Tatts.”
“Wouldn’t keep Charlie from
work.”
The boss comes briskly in,
and the men make themselves
busy coiling wire, sorting bolts,
cleaning tools. One, conscious
of old George’s glare, goes to
inspect the batteries on charge.
The boss’s telephone rings.
When he hangs up the boss looks
over his glasses through the win-
dow to the group in the corner
and beckons to Frank, Charlie’s
leading hand. Frank hurries
across.
“Bad news, Frank.” Frank
knows what is coming. “Charlie’s
ill, taken to hospital this morn-
ing.”
“Sorry to hear that, sir.
Thought he must be crook when
he wasn’t here first thing.
Charlie’s never late. What’s
wrong with him?”
“I don’t know. Something to
do with his lungs, though.
Trouble from the first war. I’ll
let you know when I hear any-
thing.”
“Thanks, sir.”
“You’d better get the men on
to the sluice-plant job.”
“Right, sir.”
“And, Frank, be careful at
the high-tension pole. Send
someone reliable up.”
“We’ll watch it, sir. Scotty’s
a good man in the air.”
Frank goes back to the men
“Charlie’s crook. In hospital.”
The news spreads quickly.
“Hey, old Charlie’s crook.”
“The old Tearer’s in hospital.”
“ ’Struth, the place’ll close
down.”
“Better look for another job,
boys. She’ll never go without
the Tearer.”
“Garn, yer hardhearted
b s. Old Charlie’s all right.”
For a few days men ring the
hospital inquiring after Charlie.
Weeks pass, still no Charlie.
Gradually his name drops out of
conversation, and the men settle
to working under Frank. Even
without Charlie the works
rumble on, twenty-four hours a
day, seven days a week,
ONE Monday morning a
stranger walks uncertainly
into the shop. Men stare ; there
is a shout of recognition.
“Charlie! ”
“Hooray, old Charlie’s back!'' 1
It is a ghost of Charlie ; gone
the quick walk and the waving
arms, the darting eyes and loud
voice; a slow, pale man has
taken his place. Men crowd
round, shake his tired hand.
“Good to see you, Charlie.”
“Thought you were dead.”
Charlie greets them quietly.
“I’m coming into the shop to
work for a few weeks. The
doctor reckons I’m not strong
enough yet for my old job.”
“Well, don’t look so down-
hearted about it, Charlie. We’ll
look after you.”
“Clear a space for Charlie,
boys.”
“Here you are, Charlie, take
my vice. I don’t want it.”
Charlie smiles. “I’d better go
and see George.” The men smile
at one another. Old Tearer in
the shop, eh. A bit of fun
now.
George and Charlie shake
hands, and eye each other
warily. George makes what is
for him an expansive gesture.
“Sure, don’t worry about work
today. See Barney about a
locker and a tool-drawer and
just settle yourself in. I’ll fix
you up with a job in the morn-
ing.”
Charlie nods and walks slowly
back to the bench. The day
stretches before him,
CHARLIE hammers back the
second leg of the earth clip,
takes it from the vice and tries
it on the sample piece of water-
pipe. Blast! Must have cut it
a bit short. To hell with old
George and his earth-clips and
saddles. He glances slyly up and
down the shop, then across the
bench to where Neilsen is busy
on a cluster. No one looking.
Quietly and quickly he opens his
drawer an inch and drops in the
clip.
Neilsen leans across the bench
with a grin. “ ’Nother one
mucked up, Charlie? You’ll
soon have a drawer full.”
Charlie reddens, mutters, and
turns away. His heart is heavy.
Can’t stick this place much
longer. He almost wishes he
were back in hospital; nothing
to worry about there. He walks
down to the battery bench, and
sits brooding. Barney, the store-
man-cleaner, strolls across for a
yarn. Charlie grunts at his
greeting. Barney looks at him
sharply ; no* like old Charlie to
be surly.
“What’s up, Chari?”
“Ar, I’m sick o’ this place.
I’m going to tackle the boss
today, ask him for my old job
back.”
“Eh, don’t be a fool, man.
You might crack up again.
What’s wrong with it in here ; it’s
easy enough, ain’t it?”
“Too easy; I like a bit of
work.”
“Here he is now.” Barney
moves off smartly, and begins to
tidy the steel rack.
Charlie hesitates, then marches
doggedly across the shop to the
office. He knocks and goes in.
The boss looks up and raises his
eyebrows.
“Well, Charlie, old son?”
Charlie looks at the floor, then
straight at the boss. He stam-
mers a little with excitement.
“Want my old job back, sir.
Sick of it in here.”
The boss looks concerned. He
gets up and puts his arm round
Charlie, pats his shoulder gently.
He speaks quietly. “Look,
Charlie, you take it easy for a
while. You’ve earned a spell;
you’ve carried the outside gang
for years, and done most of the
hard work yourself. Let some
of the young ones earn their
money for a change. Perhaps
you’ve got it into your head that
i think you’re loafing. I want
you to loaf. You’ve given us
our money’s worth ; now get a
bit of your own back.”
“But I don’t like loafing, sir.
Fd rather be in the thick of it.
I’m not busy enough in here.”
“I’ll speak to George, and see
that he gives you plenty to do.
Now, you run along, old son,
and we’ll see what’s doing in a
month or so.”
Charlie walks dejectedly back
to the bench. The men dart
questions at him in a loud
whisper.
“When are you leaving us,
Charlie?”
“Who’s going to make the
earth-clips, now?”
“Want a good leading-hand,
Charlie?”
Charlie feels too miserable to
answer. Gloomily he measures
a piece of copper strip, cuts it,
and starts another clip,
DOWN in the winding-room
Charlie sits on an upturned
o Continued on page 24.)


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Dr. James Conant, president of Harvard
University, and Mrs. Conant were guests-
of-honor at the reception by the English-
Speaking Union, Mrs. Conant, tall and
graceful, wore a dove-grey wool frock
with touches of black embroidery on the
sleeves, and a small black, veiled hat.
There were four hostesses; Lady Scott,
Lady Lowe, Lady Dixon and Mrs. Gerald
Bacon. Among the American women at
the party were Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, smart
in junior-blue frock and white panne-
velvet cloche, Mrs. Les Perrott, who con-
trasted her checked coat with a brown
velvet hat, and Mrs. Frank Gillespie, her
plum-toned suit featuring black bead-
trimming on lapels and pockets of the
jacket. A black feather cap was worn
by Mrs. F. Fraser with her hip-length
jacket of Scotch mole. The black velvet
hat worn by Lady Murdoch with her
black-and-grey Persian-lamb coat was
trimmed with one large pearl ornament.
Mrs. Charles Burge topped her mink
coat with a grey feather-trimmed hat.
Mary Paterson’s jewel-trimmed black
velvet cloche went with a black coat which
had a large lynx-fur collar.
At the party given at Menzies’ to
launch the Council for the Petroleum In-
formation Bureau (Australia) by its
director, M. T, Lloyd, Mrs. Eric Avery
wore a pale-lime frock, blue-fox jacket
and a white satin cap finished with a
spray of white ostrich feather fronds.
Gold beads and embroidery encrusted the
pastel-pink Dutch cap Mrs. lan Potter
wore with her black frock and black
Persian-lamb-trimmed jacket. Mrs.
Arthur Colley’s velvet was deep-green.
Mrs, Charles. Duncan’s wool jersey frock
was donkey-brown, her corded velvet
cloche toning with it. Mrs. J. J. Brophy
topped her winter-white wool coat with
an osprey-trimmed black velvet cap. Mrs.
J. D. Rogers, who, with her husband,
leaves shortly for the U.S.A., where she
will live for two years, was in black.
Invitations have been issued by Mr.
and Mrs. L. R Webster, of Tumut
(N.S.W.), for the marriage of their
daughter, Noelena Jean, and William
Hedley, only son of Mrs. W. H. Horsfall,
of Toorak, and the late Mr. Ladd, for
September 8, at Littlejohn Memorial
Chapel, Scotch College. The reception
will be at the Delphic in Collins-street.
Gloria Ladd and the bride’s sister will
be in attendance.
Bales of hay, dray-wheels covered in
colored paper, bowls of flowers and the
inclusion of square-dances in the pro-
gramme were features of the Night in
Ole Virginy dance organised by Iris
Williams at the Wattle, Little Collins-
street. Proceeds will assist the funds of
the Mt. Lamington Disaster Citizens
Appeal. Supper included such dainties as
Virginia baked ham, bubble-bread and
American salads. Iris wore a red-and-
silver-striped taffeta ballerina frock.
Members of the committee of the appeal
included Mrs. Guy Bakewell, in royal-
blue gown and cyclamen wool jacket
embroidered with matching sequins ; Mrs.
D. D. Barclay, her choice garnet-red wool
encrusted with matching beads and
sequins ; Mrs. A. Pringle, who teamed a
black tulle skirt and a white lace blouse ;
Mrs. R. Winnacott in turquoise-blue
crepe ; and Mrs. H. Grover, the bodice
of whose Parma-violet crepe gown
carried pastel-toned silk flowers. Among
the dancers were Mrs. Bill Hanbury, who
wore ice-blue crepe, Mrs. E. Laticq in
black skirt and evening sweater of pink
angora, Mrs. J. Davies, her gown of
black crepe having a yoke of hyacinth-
blue, and Edith Downie, who dressed for
the square-dances in short full-skirted
blue gingham frock and red ballet shoes.
At the coming-of-age party in the
Delphic given by Mr. and Mrs. Alec Mil-
ledge, of Brighton, for their son Alec and
niece, Margot Veitch, the hostess wore a
black Chantilly lace gown mounted on
pink taffeta ; hand-made pink roses cas-
caded down the skirt. Margot’s full-
skirted white organdie frock had a strap-
less bodice and an apron of embroidered
Swiss organdie. The magnolia-satin
gown worn by Margot’s sister, Mrs. Joan
Ente, had an off-the-shoulder bodice and
unusual draped skirt. Val Kennedy’s
frock was of ice-blue moire faille and
tulle. Mary Caldwell’s pale-blue tulle
was mounted on pink taffeta. Judy
Carter danced in pink hailspot-net;
Adele Geard in white broderie Anglaise.
Beth Mann floated on a sea of pale-blue
organdie. Nona Williams danced with
her fiance, Tony Watt, in sea-green
organza patterned in tiny white flowers.
Mrs. Neville Laidlaw wore pink-and-
white checked organza and Joan Richards
green-leaf-patterned white taffeta.
Judith, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Alan
Tate, of South Yarra, has announced her
engagement to John, only son of Mrs.
Hartley, of St. Kilda-road, and the late
Mr. Hartley. Wedding plans—the hous-
ing position allowing—are for the end
of the year.
Mrs. T. T. Dickson, president of the
Victorian Association of Day Nurseries,
chose an unusual way to express her
thanks to committee-members who helped
in the recent appeal for funds for the
association. Instead of the usual luncheon
or afternoon-tea, she invited them to a
private screening of “The Great Caruso,”
generously donated by M.-G.-M. The
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, his wife,
who is patroness of the association, and
daughter Jeanette were present. Lady
Brooks wore a gown of old rose brocade
and a blue-fox bolero ; Jeanette’s brocades
were ice-blue. Betty Everard, who was in
attendance, wore a bottle-green velvet
jacket over a slim-fitting white frock.
Anne Spraggett, also in the vice-regal
party, was in hyacinth-blue ripple-taffeta.
Mrs. Dickson’s chenille velvet was mid-
night-blue. Mrs. Alceo Galliera wore
gunmetal tulle mounted on taffeta. Mrs.
Oswald Steedman’s full-skirted gown was
of ice-blue satin. Lady Martin’s choice
was heavy cream lace and blue-fox furs.
Petite, vivacious Madame Marguerite
Cockerton, a Frenchwoman, came to this
country in 1913 from Charente Maritime,
a district famous for its Cognac brandy.
All her family and relations were
vignerons and distillers. Married to an
Australian, she was for 17 years hon.
secretary of the Alliance Fran?aise, and
for the past six years has been its
general secretary. During this period
Madame was honored by the French
Government with the Grand Silver
Medal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
the Grand Silver Medal of the Alliance
and she was lately made
Officier d’Academie and Officier de
ITnstruction Publique. Part of her work
entails planning for plays and readings in
French for members of the alliance, and
visits to schools to further interest in and
knowledge of the French language.
Head-hugging hats and berets, some
finished with gold ornaments, were a
feature of the dressing for the Australian
Hurdle meeting at Caulfield. Mrs.
Geoffrey Grimwade wore with her
tangerine tent-coat a black velvet hat and
black patent-leather accessories. Mrs.
A. G. Silk contrasted her black tailored
coat with an emerald-green cloche,
matched by her umbrella. Mrs. Norman
Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C. chair-
man, wore a forward-tilted hat in a rich
claret shade ; its black veil was caught
with a jet-pin. A small red feather hat
and red handbag gave color to the black
suit Mrs. Geoffrey Christian wore under
her dyed-ermine coat. Mrs. W. L.
Russell Clarke wore a smart little hat of
winter-white velour with her brown suit.
Mrs. S. J. Fletcher’s unusual coat of grey
otter fur was worn over a junior-blue
suit.
University Union House was the set-
ting for a late-afternoon party given by
the Ormond Professor of Music, Sir
Bernard Heinze, and Lady Heinze, when
plans were discussed for the recital which
Rosemary Bassant will give shortly in the
Town Hall. Rosemary is the present
holder of the F. W. Homewood
Memorial Scholarship Fund, and the
recital will help augment its funds. Lady
Heinze, wearing a brown squirrel coat
over her black French crepe frock and a
black felt fur-trimmed cloche, helped her
husband receive the guests, who included
a number of former pupils of the late
Mr. Homewood. Rosemary, who is
planning to go abroad next year for
further pianoforte study, wore a tobacco-
brown tent-coat and white melusine hat.
Mrs. G. R. Nicholas is defraying cost of
the Town Hall hiring for the recital,
which will be held on September 24. It
is hoped to raise £6OO, the sura necessary
to keep the three-year scholarship
functioning.
From Sydney
Spring anticipates itself in this season
of fashion-shows which give one time to
view, plan, design and budget for those
clothes in which one is to blossom out
come Eight-hour day. At David Jones’
mannequin-parade is to be seen a good
representative range of what the fashion-
conscious who do not have unlimited
incomes will wear. It shows the crystalli-
sation of styles that were introduced last
spring but worn only by the advance-
guard. Duster-coats are an example of
this. They have grown steadily more
popular and this season are almost a
necessity. They are made of shantung
pique, satin, taffeta or organdie and in
black, white, grey, blue or brown. They
look best on the young and slim but will
be worn by the well-upholstered, too,
because the beholder doesn’t know which
is you and which is coat. There is also
shown a type of housedress which is like
a duster buttoned-up and which, when
belted, makes a good morning dress.
There is a good deal of mauve being
shown as the new color. It’s a rather
tricky color and hasn’t been a real top-
liner since Edwardian days, but it may
come back with a dash this spring. Red
is dominant, too, but looks a bit hot for
summer. Other colors are a subtle lime,
primrose, pink, blue, ruby and persimmon.
Skirts are fairly short, fairly narrow
and feature accordion-pleats sometimes.
Sun-tops and jackets are rampant. There
is plenty of cotton, some printed in Indian
designs (not the Red Indian type) and
shantung is tops everywhere. The sub-
ject of suits must be treated later because
at this stage of the parade the strawberry
shortcake was served and the suits were
very imperfectly observed by your Letter.
In our picture is titian-haired Patricia
Douglas, who is honorary organiser of
the R.S.L. Double Bay Branch Younger
Set and who recently announced her
engagement to Leslie Winter, of Annan-
dale. Members of the Younger Set have
formed a social club amongst the teen-
agers of the Eastern Suburbs, who
organise dances and tennis matches and
pay regular visits to the Repatriation
Hospital, Concord, where they distribute
magazines, candy, sweetness and light,
etc. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
The annual dinner of the Newman
Association held at the University Holme
and Sutherland room was characterised
by a preponderance of men, which is
quite a strange social phenomenon these
days*. It was also characterised by a good
deal of lively talk. The guest-of-honor.
Archbishop O’Brien, stressed the need
for undertaking our task of citizenship
with balance, humor, understanding of
human nature and the joyfulness that
comes from the knowledge that God is
living amongst us. There was a good
representation of the legal confraternity,
including Sir Edward McTiernan, with
Lady McTiernan, Judge Kinsella, Jock
McClemens (presiding with a good deal
of bonhomie), Eric Miller and Norman
Nelson. Members of the committee
doing a good job of entertaining were
Joan Delaney, Eva Sullivan, Mrs,
Burrows and Irene Manton.
The birthday of the foundation of
Switzerland comes round every year like
most birthdays, and when it’s on the
Swiss don’t miss much. The club has a
party, the community has a ball and the
Consul-General gives a luncheon for lead-
ing citizens at which the famous onion-
tart, mille feuilles and cheese-tart are
presented (along with other decorative
vittles, of course). Mrs. Hedinger, the
Consul-General’s wife, says that Switzer-
land has no real national dish, as they
draw from the best cooking of the French
and the best of the German. At this
luncheon nearly everyone seemed to be
present to represent Parliament, Govern-
ment House, Army, Navy, Law, diplo-
matic and Consular Corps, etc. There
were a few sugar-babies who couldn’t
come, however, as it was raining with a
good bit of spirit.
Fever seems to be mounting about the
Spring Carnival at Young, mostly about
the Lady Godiva event. Nobody seems
to mind about “The End of the World”
or “Coney Island on a Saturday Night”
which are also in the festival. A faint
memory from schooldays recalls to this
Letter that Lady Godiva undertook her
ride so that the townspeople might have
a tax remitted. This is E. & 0.E., as
the schooldays are rather far back, but
if the purpose is the same today, let
Young have its Lady Godiva by all
means.
The exhibition of the Arts and Crafts
Society at the Education Department’s
Gallery is so artistically arranged that one
wonders whether the exhibits would look
quite as well on their own as they do
in the exhibition. As it is, they seem to
reach a very high standard of quality.
Nell McCredie’s set of soup-coupes and
plates in pearly-fawn and brown colors,
which won the Elizabeth Soderberg prize,
was very lovely and marked at an amaz-
ingly-low price. The committee ran into
some difficulties with this exhibition, for
not only was Bank Holiday a closed day,
but also the “zoned day” of the week.
There will be an opportunity to see it,
however, till Friday, when it closes,
“It is only in Australia that you are
having such wonderful flowers and
birds,” was Madame OdnoposofFs reac-
tion to the bouquet presented to her by
the Sydney Symphony Orchestral com-
mittee at their reception during the
week. “Not even in South America,
which is next, are they so beautiful,” she
continued. Hie bouquet was composed
of large wine-colored magnolias, white
blossom and daphne. Madame Odno-
posoff, a Viennese, should be able to
judge, for she has travelled all over
the world with her violinist husband
Ricardo, who is giving recitals in Sydney.
Present at the reception to welcome the
violinist and his wife were Lady Ander-
son, Lady Butters, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Moses, the R. J. F. Boyers, Dr. Grace
Cuthbert, Dr. Harold Wyndham, Mrs, P.
Gibson, the Edgar Baintons, Mrs. Hope
Gibson and Mrs. Arthur Hirst.
Over 6000 children and sundry adults
saw the two presentations of the Junior
Red Cross’s Jubilee Pageant at the Town
Hall. Guests-of-honor were the Lady
Mayoress at the morning session and
Elizabeth Northcott in the afternoon. It
was a specially pretty pageant, with color
groupings and costumes particularly
notable. The children presented dances
from Mexico, Latvia, Switzerland and
America. The most charming dance
was the Latvian, the prettiest costume the
Mexican, which was black with a rain-
bow of crepe-paper frills round the
skirt; but by far the most popular was
the square-dance from America. The
kiddies in the audience acclaimed it in
advance, could scarcely keep their feet
during it and nearly brought the house
down with their applause after it.
Talking of square-dancing, the com-
mittee for the Overseas League Ball have
arranged for an exhibition to be given
during their birthday party on August 21
at the Troc. The idea is to give the older
people at the ball something extra to
interest and entertain them, but it seems
now that square-dancing is nearly every-
body’s baby. Princess Margaret has been
asked to give her patronage to this ball,
which is being held on her 21st birth-
day, and for which proceeds are to go
to Torchbearers for Legacy. Among
the younger set working for the ball are
Ruth Germer, Beth Midleton and
Madeleine Archbutt.
“Whoopee” is an old-fashioned word,
but there doesn’t seem to be anything
quite to replace it and it always comes
to this Letter’s mind when mention is
made of “The Naughty-Nineties” Ball,
perhaps the liveliest party of the year.
It’s coming up again on September 28
at the A.C.I. Ballroom, this time with a
pantomime flavor (it was the circus last
year), and prizes are being given for the
funniest dame and the principal boy with
the best pair of pins. The committee
hopes to have this competition judged
by “a famous Australian who is arriving
shortly.” Now who can he possibly be?
The committee won’t say, as he hasn’t
consented yet, but the newshounds have
a shrewd idea. The Smith Family benefits
from the “N.N. Ball” (tickets are £2 2s.
each), and Mrs. W, J. Smith is president


sis
BSS
GP
StlU-
vih®* 1
£xioe
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1 888.
/:
-57
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OE
AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Wing-Commander Derek Cuming, pilot
of the Canberra, the R.A.A.F.’s first jet-
bomber, has upwards of 4000 hours in his
logbook, many of them spent diving,
speeding, banking and generally trying to
tear the guts out of aircraft on test-flights.
He became a test-pilot in 1943, one of his
earliest jobs being in captured Jap planes.
Made the R.A.A.F.’s chief defect-detec-
tive in 1944, he was sent to England in
1946 to test Meteors and Lincolns, and
returned to Australia to put our first
locally-made Lincolns and Vampires
through their paces, in between making
the first flight, in 1947, to Macquarie
Island. Hailing from Yarraville (Vic,),
he’s 34, has been in the service 12 years,
and wears A.F.C. and Bar.
Breezy Will Lawson, drawn here by
Milton, has been bounding up The
Bulletin stairs and filling the office with
robust laughter since about 1912. He
was 36 when he came from Maoriland ;
over there he had written fathoms of
rollicking nautical verse, the best of
which was reprinted in The Red West
Road, Between the Lights and Stokin'
and Other Verses. Since settling in Aus-
tralia Will has been on several news-
papers, has been a livewire for various
travel agencies and, since the early
’thirties, has been freelancing with more
than average success. His name appears
on the title-page of 26 books—ls novels,
six books of verse and a handful of his-
tories, travel-books, reminiscences and a
WILL LAWSON.
work on Henry Lawson, written in col-
laboration with Bertha Lawson, Henry’s
widow. He was probably the first poet
in these parts to do honor to the steam-
ship, and his rhymes are known to many
a skipper and deckhand. A jovial fel-
low with a capacity for getting on with
all sorts of people, he has a special fond-
ness for out-of-the-way ancient charac-
ters like retired coach-drivers, river-boat
captains and gold-fossickers. His latest
novel, Gold in Their Hearts, sold out
soon after publication.
Colonel Vassily de Basil, whose ballet
companies charmed audiences in many
countries, was a distinguished Tsarist
soldier before he became an impresario
second only to Diaghileff. He became
manager for pianist Horowitz and then
for the Russian Opera Company, of which
Chaliapin was a member. In 1931 he
started giving small evenings of ballet
connected with opera in Paris ; they were
enormously successful. He then started
the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, with
Massine as ballet-master and Massine,
Fokine, Balanchine, Nijinska and other
famous choreographers to make his
ballets, and dancers like Danilova,
Baranova, Lichine, Woizikovsky and
Markova to dance them. Some of these
were in the two companies which toured
Australia. De Basil took his final curtain
in Paris, aged 63.
Gyle Soilleux, the Melbourne architect
who was the only Australian member of
the Board of Design for the U.N. build-
ing in New York, has been given another
honor—an invitation to send exhibits to
an international architectural exhibition
in Brazil conducted by the Sao Paulo
Museum of Modern Art. Designer of
many theatres and broadcasting studios
in Australia, Soilleux is now on the job
of reconstructing what the Japs knocked
over—as designing-architect of Works and
Housing, planning the new Darwin. Some
of his plans will go to Brazil.
N. S. Norway, who is Nevil Shute to
somewhere round 1,000,000 readers, will
soon have another bestseller on the
market. His latest brain-child, Round
the Bend, is due out this month in
an Australian edition of 30,000. The
book has already had 100,000 pre-
publication orders within the British
Commonwealth, said to be a record.
Films are being made of two of his books
at present— A Town Called Alice and
No Highway. Shute had a severely
academic education (the military school
at Woolwich and Balliol College,
Oxford) and emerged from it a mathema-
tician. He served in War I, became chief
calculator for De Havilland aircraft,
worked on the construction of Rigid
Airship R.lOO and on two occasions
crossed the Atlantic in it. He sub-
sequently founded Airspeed, Ltd., aero-
plane constructors, and was a lieutenant-
commander in the late scrap. He burns
the midnight oil at Mount Eliza, near
Melbourne.
“El Verdugo” on a member of the
Legal .Conference:
The gathering of legal lights at the Seventh
Legal Convention in Sydney is one of the most
distinguished ever seen in the Antipodes. No
Lord Chancellor has ever been sighted before in
this part of the world, and a Lord Chancellor
is probably the world’s most august and well-
established Crown judicial official. The lineal
successor of a roll of great officers marching
back to the days of Edward the Elder in
a.d. 920, Viscount Jowitt, the Lord High
Chancellor of England, ranks above all dukes
not of Royal blood, and next to the Archbishop
of Canterbury. He is the Chief Judge of
England, with a seat in the Cabinet, sits on
the Woolsack as Speaker of the House of Lords,
and when retired from office usually presides
over the House of Lords as a Court of Appeal
and over the Privy Council. He draws a salary
of £lO,OOO a year and a pension of £4OOO on
retirement. Fie is the legal guardian of all
infants (hence “lolanthe”), the custodian of
all lunatics and idiots, can sit as a judge in
appeal, always as president, and is official
chief of the chancery division of the courts,
appoints the judges in appeal in the High Court
and in the County Courts, also County Justices
of the Peace, local magistrates and commis-
sioners of oaths; signifies the Royal approval
of Speakers of the House of Commons, and
when the King is not present reads his speech
at the opening of Parliament, and is official
visitor of all colleges and hospitals founded
by the Crown. Viscount Jowitt has held office
since 1945. He was a son of a rector of
St. Nicholas Stevenage in Hertfordshire, an
old Danish and Norman town, went to Marl-
borough and New College, Oxford, was called
to the Middle Temple in 1909 and took silk in
1922, entered the Commons for Labor (Hartle-
pool) in 1929 and was at once made Ramsay
MacDonald’s Attorney-General. He has held
numerous Ministerial offices, and he combines
a democratic political background with member-
ship of the Beefsteak and Travellers’ Clubs
(the Athenaeum atque).
Victorian rail-chief R. G. Wishart,
who, with his former boss, Sir Harold
Clapp, sponsored the Spirit of Progress
14 years ago, has always claimed it to be
Australia’s No. 1 train. But now he in-
tends transferring the title to “The Over-
land” expresses soon to run nightly
between Adelaide and Melbourne.
Wishart has promised passengers some-
thing new in luxury travel; special
single-berthed roomette sleepers for those
who want to be alone, double twinettes
for man and wife and an air-conditioned
“sit-up” car with adjustable aeroplane-
type seats in a redesigned saloon car.
And to replace the handsome Spirit,
Wishart has a smart, slick 1500 horse-
power, 80-m.p.h. diesel-electric loco-
motive, built partly in America and now
having the finishing touches put to it by
the Clyde Engineering Co., of Sydney,
Called it a day after 44 years in the
mining game, J. W. Salter, who graduated
from the Bendigo School of Mines to
become chief-inspector of mines for
N.S.W. The climb took in copper-mining
in Cloncurry, surveying and the under-
ground management of three mines in
Broken Hill. His main interest in recent
years has been boring for coal at Burra-
gorang and Awaba. He retired, appro-
priately, on Independence Day, but is
tempering his slippered ease with consult-
ing work.
Peter Finch, the young Melbourne
actor who caught the eye of Laurence
Olivier when he was in Australia, con-
tinues to make good in England. Next
October he is to play lago to Orsen
Welles’s Othello at St. James Theatre in
the West End. Finch was already making
a name for himself in repertory and radio
circles when Hitler erupted, and he con-
tinued his studies while a gunner in the
A.I.F. in tlie Middle East, giving Shak-
spearean readings to his cobbers before
lights-out. The worst that can be said
against him is that he was assistant-
director in the “Eureka Stockade” film.
Other visiting legal lights:
The Master of the Rolls, Sir Francis Evershed,
is a Balliol and Lincoln’s Inn man, with a vast
experience of Royal Commission inquiries into
industrial matters and of appeal work in the
higher courts. He was appointed chairman of
the Royal Commission on Historical Manu-
scripts in 1949. The C.J. of Canada, Mr.
Justice Thibaudeau Rinfret, has held office since
1944. He has been a Silk since 1912, and is
unique among CJs. in the Empire, being
learned in the law both in Canada and France,
where he studied (apart from McGill, Laval,
New York and Toronto) at the universities of
Caen and Poictiers. He is a Roman Catholic —
which would debar him from being Lord
Chancellor of England—and a Grand Officer of
the Legion of Honor. But he is no more
versatile than Mr. Justice Centimes, C.J. of
S. Africa, who has to combine under his aegis
the systems of British and Roman Dutch Law,
which work together in the Union. The head and
front of the organisation of the conference has
been Harry Graham Alderman, K.C., of Adelaide,
president of the Law Council of Australia since
July last year, a pupil of the inimitable Paris
Nesbit, K.C., former partner of the equally
inimitable Villeneuve Smith, K.C., adviser and
confidant to the C.-in-Chief of the Australian
Land Forces during World War 11, War
Damage Commissioner, and chairman of the
Marine Charter Board and an organiser par
excellence.
They breed ’em tall and wide in
Western Queensland’s cattle country —the
original of Lambart’s sketch reaches 3in.
over 6ft. and outwards to balance. At
37 Bill Gunn, new president of the Q.
United Graziers’ Association, is the
youngest to hold the office. Stock of a
well-known Queensland pastoral family,
he hurried back to the land from six
FLEECES.
years’ schooling at The King’s (Parra-
matta), and in five years was managing
the 35,00 C-acre property Tarawinnabar,
at that time running not much more than
brigalow and belah scrub. Now it’s one
of the best-watered and -stocked holdings
in the Goondiwindi district. Bill also
finds time to sit, on the Federal side, on
the Australian Woolgrowers’ and the
Graziers’ Councils, and to run a cattle
property at Tara.
Caught by Coventry, Superintendent
Bill Sheridan was chief of South Aus-
tralia’s C. 1.8. till he retired the other day.
The first C-LB. boss to hold the rank of
superintendent, Sheridan joined the force
as a mounted constable in 1921, gradu-
ated to control of the Licensing and
Gaming squad, had two years of special
training in Sydney (presumably because
of that city’s advanced methods, not its
crime record), after which he was
attached to the C. 1.8. and in 1937 became
SOUTH AUS. POLICE.
its chief. At one time Sheridan was the
youngest commissioned police officer in
the Commonwealth.
John Casson, son of Sir Lewis Casson
and Sybil Thorndike, who, as the Firm’s
general-producer, will help to make “The
Moon Is Blue” rise in Melbourne has
been putting a little diplomatic salve
on the city’s soul, injured by some
remarks of Mrs. Menuhin anent the Aus-
tralian accent. Asked whether he had
anything to say on the burning subject,
Casson remarked that when he was in
Australia he was the one with the accent.
At the end of the Japanese war, Vic-
torian Leopold Stach joined the occupa-
tion force as head of research in the
Natural Resources Branch. Under his
competence Nippon’s crude-oil produc-
tion improved from some 125,000 barrels
a month in 1945, to well over 200,000 in
1950. Recently his team discovered a
large natural-gas well in Tokyo. One
of the last Australians at occupation
h.q., Stach retired the other day, but
intends to stay in Japan to put the history
of its oil-industry between covers.
Into the Silence:
At 72, in Sydney, Captain Storey Walton,
one-time Union Steamship Co. marine-superin-
tendent in Sydney. He joined the company
in 1905, after seven-seas experience in sail,
came ashore in Hew Zealand 10 years later,
shifting to Sydney office in 1923. Storey by
name and nature, he was claimed by shipmates
to be one of the best dit-spinners under the
Red Duster.
At 76, in Melbourne, Bert Luttrell, who, as
curator of the Melbourne Cricket Ground,
became internationally famous for his “shirt-
front” wickets. He invented an absorbent
roller which soaks up water from rain-drenched
turf.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 59, Lieut.-Colonel
Gordon Hanmer Tomline, who won his M.C.
with the Enzed machine-gunners in War I. In
War II he went with Maoriland’s 29th Battalion
to Fiji, and later commanded the 35th Battalion
in the Pacific. A son, Lieut. G. R. Tomlme,
graduated from Duntroon, and is now serving
with the N.Z. Army.
At 68, in Melbourne, Rev. Dr. Robert Wilson
Macaulay, former Moderator-General of the
Presbyterian Church and one of the best-
known churchmen in Melbourne.
At 84, in Sydney, James Rutledge Louat,
one of Sydney’s notable architects, particularly
in the flat-designing line. His father was a
French engineer, who later managed Sydney s
Mort’s Dock. Dr, Frank Louat, the barrister,
is his son.
In Sydney, at 71, Robert A. Malloch, for 35
years head of Dangar, Gedye and Malloch.
Westralia knew him as a young man.
At 63, in Melbourne, Lieutenant-Colonel
G. W. S. Anderson, M.8.E., Chief Com-
missioner of the Victorian Boy Scouts. He was
a barrister in his spare time.


Achievements of on Industry — No. 13
MBBDEB BY HOBMONES
“METHOXONE” is the proprietary name given to the sodium salt of
4-chlor-2-methyl-phenoxyacetic acid. Its development at the Jealott’s
Hill Research Station of 1.C.1. marked a revolution in the technique
of weedkilling. “METHOXONE” represents the achievement of agri-
cultural scientists probing the mysteries of plant growth. Growth in
plants, as in animals, is controlled by minute secretions known as
hormones. These are complex substances, but physiologists are now
a.ble to isolate them and to produce similar compounds artificially. In
1940 the Jealott’s Hill biologists discovered that certain concentrations
of plant hormones could hinder as well as assist growth. Some plants
were more affected than others, and as many weeds of cornland were
among these, it was at once seen that hormones held the possibility
of selective w'eedkilling. The next step was to find a synthetic
hormone with the maximum effect in retarding growth. Drs. W. G.
Templeman and W. A. Sexton of 1.C.1. undertook the necessary
research. Of the many compounds which they produced and examined,
“METHOXONE” gave greatest promise, and in nation-wide field
trials, their laboratory results were amply confirmed.
Today, “METHOXONE” preparations made at the ICIANZ Chemical
Factory at Yarraville in Victoria, can be obtained by farmers every-
where. Thus the age-old problem of the wheat and the tares has been
brought a noteworthy step nearer solution.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Cl
'L13.C.14
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
m
■ c
m
i
nwm
ss
iff
the 'N° rW s
greatest onejnan
lean*
For the first time in years
the complete Allis-Chalmers
ONE-MAN POWER-OPERATED
harvest team is available. The
revolutionary roto-baler, the
high-speed rake and tedder and
the famous all-crop harvester
provide a practical, versatile
team. One man can do the work
of many . . . giving more profit-
able crops and independence of
hired labour. Best of all, this
equipment is priced to be within
the reach of the one-man
property. The whole team is
provided with adequate adjust-
ments for all crop conditions.
A 1. THE ONE-MAN POWER TAKE-
ip OFF OPERATED ROTO-BALER
2. THE ONE-MAN POWER TAKE-
OFF OPERATED ALL-CROP
HARVESTER
3. THE ONE-MAN POWER TAKE-
0FF v OPERATED RAKE AND
TEDDER
Ask your local Allis-Chalmers
dealer for full particulars abouf
this amazing one-man harvest
team.
AfC
CHALMERS
N.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA: Mitchell
& Co. Pty, Ltd., Footscray, Victoria, S. AUST.: John Shearer & Sons Pty. Ltd., Kilkenny. W. AUST.:
Westralian Farmers Co-Operative Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
Brisbane. TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
,1 1/83.27
Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin'
F.E.De groot
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
box, watching the apprentice
strip a burnt-out motor.
“Who’s going to wind her?”
“Reg. He’s good at it, isn’t
he?”
Charlie grunts. “Mm, not
bad.”
The boy looks up. “You done
any winding, Chari?”
Charlie smiles patronisingly.
“Sure have, son. I’ve had a go
at every different job on the
plant.” Charlie’s eyes look into
the past. “Two of the big
motor-generators went together,
once, in a storm. Must have
been struck. We stripped ’em,
rewound ’em, and had ’em both
running in twelve days. Worked
twelve-hour shifts. Take ’em a
month now.”
Charlie sits dreaming. The
boy pulls out the wire, soft and
black with heat. “Know the
battery-room up at the station?”
The boy nods.
“I did all that.”
“What, on your own?”
“Only had a couple of helpers.
I was the only electrical man.
Know old Johnstone, boss of
B plant? He was one of ’em.
He was waiting for B plant to
be finished. Funny, old Johnno
my laborer.” Charlie chuckles.
“The other bloke was a rum ’un.
Started up a shop when he left
here, and under his name he had
printed ‘Late Electrical En-
gineer.” Charlie laughs. “He
didn’t know an amp from a
volt.”
The boy grins wisely. He
knows an amp from a volt.
A face appears in the door-
way. “You’re getting a good
hearing, Charlie.” A wink at
the boy. “Charlie told you how
he built the place yet? He
wouldn’t have his job only for
you, would he, Chari?”
Charlie gives a half-hearted
grin, looks anxiously at the boy.
The boy’s eyes are down on his
work, but Charlie feels that he
is laughing. He gets up, and
goes out.
At the far end of the shop his
old gang are assembling gear for
a new job. Charlie goes over.
“Howdy, Charlie.”
“When you coming back with
us?”
Charlie looks aggrieved. “The
boss won't let me.”
“Well, what the hell are you
worrying about? On a good
wicket, aren’t you? Nothing to
do, and all day to do it in. Wish
I had half your luck.”
Charlie nods at the gear.
“Whafs the job?”
“New mixing-plant at Number
Three. Six vertical drives ; two
pumps ; lights.”
“What size motors?”
“Thirty-horse.”
Charlie eyes the heap. “What
size wire’ve you got there? Not
heavy enough for a thirty-horse,
is it?”
The men grin. “Now then,
Charlie, don’t you worry your
guts about this job. We’ll fix
her. You go and make us some
saddles, Chari.”
They laugh. Charlie swallows
and turns away. His eyes smart,
Damn it, a man’ll be crying next.
HP HE boss’s phone rings. He
1 lifts the receiver, speaks,
listens, then almost runs into the
shop. Men stare ; not like the
boss to panic.
“Where’s Frank?”
An outside fitter comes up.
“Frank’s in town, sir, checking
the gear for Number Three
control panel.”
The boss swears softly. “Hell,
The No-Lag on the gas offtake’s
given up the ghost. Fan’s
stopped and there’s gas every-
where. The shift-boss’s yelling
for us to get her going. Any of
the gang know how to handle
that motor?”
The fitter looks uneasy. “Well,
no Frank’s the only one,
really ” He pauses. “ ’Cept
Charlie, of course.”
The boss’s head jerks up.
Charlie. He looks over at the
bench to find that Charlie is
watching him.
Charlie walks over uninvited.
“Anything wrong, boss?”
“No-Lag gone. Gas every-
where. Frank’s away.”
Charlie starts. “I can fix her.
Know her inside out. Give me
a couple of the old gang and
I’ll have her going in half an
hour.”
The boss looks worried. “I
don’t want you to do anything
that’ll hurt you, old son.”
Charlie grabs the boss’s arm.
“Let’s have a go this once, boss.”
He shakes with excitement.
The boss frowns, then nods.
“0.K., but don’t do anything
heavy yourself. Let the others
do the hard stuff.”
Charlie turns to the fitter. The
boss is forgotten. “Ross, get
Scotty and Sam. Ring Trans-
port for a truck. Then go to the
store and get six new brushes.
Check the box yourself
Number One No-Lag Motor,
Gas Offtake Fan. Hurry.”
Charlie walks jerkily to his
drawer and selects tools. The
shop men crowd round.
“What’s on, Charlie?”
“Your pants alight, Charlie?”
“The old Tearer’s back, boys.”
Charlie smiles his first real
smile for weeks. “Going down
to fix the No-Lag at the gas
plant.”
He sweeps aside a pile of
earth-clips. His men come in.
Charlie hurries over.
“Sandpaper for bedding the
brushes. Megger and leads.
Oil, waste, test points. Respira-
tors and vaseline.”
The truck draws up. They
load the gear. Charlie fusses
round like a hen with new chicks.
The men swing aboard.
The boss pokes his head out
of the office. “I’ll ring the shift-
boss that you’re on the way.”
Charlie waves a hand. The
driver moves over and Charlie
jumps in. The engine starts.
Heedless of the boss, the shop
men crowd the doorway.
“Now she’ll go, boys.”
“Good old Tearer.”
“You’ll fix her, Charlie?”
The truck moves off. Charlie
leans forward, spanner and
screwdriver clutched in one hand.
His eyes are shining.
RHYMES FOR FOOLS AND LOVERS.
Two lovers were walking in the showery weather
As sad and as happy as they could be
And I heard one say as they held one another.
What, my love, will you give to me?
I will give you a mountain hare
And if with the heart he makes his lair
The one Will dance while the other sings
Though a heart and a hare are the shyest things.
The hare lay down in the lady’s breast
But the heart was away in the hare 9 wild nest.
What is your sign that love is true?
A window bird in a cap of blue
Will sing to you in a shower of rain
And one note of his song will cure your pain.
But when the trailing clouds came by
The wren flew in at the crow’s blue eye.
What is your wedding-gift to be?
A magpie sitting in a bluegum tree
With a prophet’s tongue and a fool’s pled coat
And the foot of the rainbow in his throat.
They sought the magpie in the dew
Where he was dining on a rib of ewe.
0 what do lovers love the best:
Upstairs naked or downstairs dressed?
Windy nights and hot desire;
Or an old book and a steady fire?
When in age as once in youth
The mirror clears and shows the truth.
Two lovers were walking in the showery weather,
More sad and more happy they shall never be.
And I heard one say as they held one another,
1 love you, dear, in eternity.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Legal Notice.
TO MR. 0. E. McINTOSH formerly of
Penneshaw Kangaroo Island in the State
of South Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that
an action has been commenced against you
in the Local Court of Kingscote No. 12
of 1951 by R. N. NEAVE of Penneshaw
in which the Plaintiff’s claim is for £67
for board and lodging AND IT HAS
BEEN ORDERED that service of the sum-
mons in the said action on you be effected
by this advertisement If you desire to
defend the said action you must within 21
days from the publication of this adver-
tisement inclusive of the day of such pub-
lication enter an appearance at the office
of the Local Court of Kingscote Kangaroo
Island in the said State In default of
such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.—P. D. WAYE, 73 King
William Street, Adelaide, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
8
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
' *KD PERTH
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In (he
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MURIEL MAY PILLING late of 12
Mary Street Lidcombe in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ROY
ARTHUR PILLING has filed a Petition
No. 1304 of 1951 asking for restitution
of conjugal rights by you If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Bth day of October
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HERALD, BRUCE
BRIERLEY & ENGLAND, Petitioner’s
Solicitors, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ROY CHARLES BURNS late of
Kogarah.—TAKE NOTICE that BRITTA
MAY BURNS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2710 of 1951 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you might enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 9th day of
October 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALLAN E.
CUPIT, Solicitor, of Federal Mutual
Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALFRED PAUL formerly of
Newtown Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY MAY PAUL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2593 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the sth
October 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition from A. ALISTER JOHNSON &
McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall, 2 York
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO YERA FULLICK formerly of Queen’s
Street Cooks Hill Newcastle. —TAKE
NOTICE that RICHARD FULLICK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2808 of
1951 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for 3 years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 6th October 1951 and obtain
a copy of the Petition from A. ALISTER
JOHNSON & McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall,
2 York Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JACK FOTHERSGILL late of Dolans
Bay via Caringbah.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY FOTHERSGILL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2550 of 1951 on the
ground of habitual drunkenness and
habitual cruelty during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 16th October 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
A. J. P. HALL & HALL, Solicitors, 44
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO KENNETH JOHN FITZGERALD late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that RENE
ELIZABETH FITZGERALD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2700 of 1951 on
the ground of habitual drunkenness and
habitually leaving without the means of
support for three years If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 22nd day of October
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from E. G. SAYEGH,
Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
SCOfllii
© ewafv's
nww vairi'©®
For over one hundred years
.. . the same distinctive
character, mellow flavour,
and rich, heart-warming
qualities . . •
DEWAR’S
*'WMte ImheT
3turiaui. SCOTCH QVkhhif
11l
awar
SOME
SOOOIJ
«a*
Prize Medal*
SO Got)
an*
Prize Medals
SCOTCH WHISKY OIGTILIERJ
r-T* V iOUU MMM A WMS. UP
.. m
***** MUSSES ANTWERP CjgJ
“White Label Y
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RAREACEif y
John Dewar & Sons v
DISTILLERS
®' B « Hott»e, H apaurlui SWL PE SCOTLA^
. HBT COHTEHTSitPINT. 6
eiweAKrsD wnSur, oisnao.iiATuaEß **» BUM °!?JL
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Anna Christie."
The present commentator
always sees this 1922 Pulitzer
prizewinner of Eugene O’Neill
as a stillborn comedy—an
author less obsessed with tragedy
and of a slightly more detached
view might have found cause for
uproarious mirth in the story of
a great, life-hungry Irish stoker
enjoying the sea, his strength
and a trollop in every port;
of his superstitious faith in his
religion and his demand for a
chaste young woman for a wife ;
of his finding and falling in love
with the woman who seems to
have all the qualities of his
ideal; of his horrified discovery
that she is as professional a
bedfellow as any he has known ;
and then, after his tormented
struggle between his ideals and
his appetite, of the practical
reconciliation he makes between
them.
That, however, is probably a
most irreverent view, and one
should, no doubt, be satisfied
with the conventional con-
troversy—does the fire of poetic
idealism illuminate Johnny the
Priest’s smoky saloon, the fog-
ridden old coal barge and the
story of a prostitute who is re-
deemed by love for, and of, the
honest Irish stoker, Mat Burke ;
or is it all, despite its charac-
terisation, simply another
example of the ingenuous
solemnity with which American
playwrights reveal the undis-
covered sins of saints or virtues
of sinners—a typical sentimental
melodrama of an innocent girl
being forced into prostitution
and eventually saved from her
wickedness by true love.
Probably there’s a measure of
each quality in it—a case of
high intent only partly accom-
plished—one or the other pre-
dominating according to the in-
tensity and integrity of the per-
formance. At any rate, in its
presentation of the play (pro-
duced by Harvey Adams) at the
St. James Hall, Sydney, the John
Alden Company seems content
to give a good working version
of what’s in the book.
The result is mainly compe-
tent melodrama. Lou Vernon,
as Anna’s father, Chris Christo-
pherson, stomps his way through
the piece, carefully changes his
“js” to “ys,” appears suitably
delighted to meet his daughter
after 15 years and then appro-
priately stricken and bewildered
by the tragedy he seems to have
caused —altogether the sound,
uninspired performance of a
capable actor. Lily Moore, in
moments of inspiration, makes
color and comedy and life of
the old harpy who shares the
old chap’s barge until the arrival
of his daughter makes such
goings-on improper.
Lyndall Barbour goes right
through the role of Anna with a
high unvarying emotional in-
tensity that suits it only in parts
—some of the quick, ophidian
gestures with which she decorates
her acting in the opening scenes
could be dispensed with —while
Lloyd Berrell, as Mat Burke, is
inclined to clown too much
where he should rely on the
natural comedy of the Irishman’s
great unconscious vanity; in
other moments, such as the
storm of his disillusion, he
shows genuine power—some-
thing of the strength and easy
assurance of Kevin Brennan be-
fore he disappeared up a radio-
mast.
Donald Friend.
By the day after the opening
Donald Friend’s tinted drawings
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
had practically all sold; a success
the artist well deserves, for there
is a sincerity of purpose in this
exhibition much deeper and
finer than his previous exhibi-
tions, as a whole, have indi-
cated.
One or two of the drawings
still show the child-art influ-
ences which, if they made for
a certain gaiety, tended to de-
value his more serious work
with an impression of artistic
trifling. “The Tropics” and
“Flying Foxes” have a skittish-
ness like that of Sidney Nolan,
and there is something of the
same note in “The Lyrebird”
(No. 20) and perhaps in the
head of his otherwise very lively
“Goanna.”
But in the exhibition as a
whole you are chiefly aware of
strength and grace of line,
suavity of color, harmony of
design and, above all, of vitality
and integrity of characterisation.
At least one of the several
attempts at the lyrebird (No. 6 ;
“Lyrebird and Grasstrees”)
comes off as a delicate and
decorative fantasy, catching the
image of the lyrebird infinitely
more effectively than could be
done by the photographic like-
nesses of the naturalists. “Grass-
hopper” has just the right wiry,
scrawly animation for a creature
of the grass, and is, too, the
right size for its theme—most
of Carl Plate’s attempts at the
grasshopper have been too large
for anything except decorations
for a restaurant.
His groups of portraits—
“ Head Studies” and “Studies of
Attilio”—are full of the drama
of character, and there is the
same feeling for life, whether
lyrical or dramatic, in “Boy and
Girl” and “The Rabbiter”: the
one a study of lovers in the
bush, the other of a lethal-look-
ing youth with a rifle and a slain
rabbit. “Hill End Prospecting”
and “Boy in a Country Town”
are portrait-studies and land-
scapes combined, admirable as
both and doubly admirable for
the success of the combination,
the way the figure fits naturally
into the landscape and the
character into its environment.
The George Bell Group.
Modernists, so-called, would
be hard put today to convince
themselves that they are wild
revolutionaries starving in
garrets while they fight with
brush and pencil a fierce fight
against conservatism, officialdom
and the critics.
The George Bell Group may
once have thought it was in that
position—didn’t the late Bernard
Hall say that a modernist pic-
ture would only enter the
National Gallery over his dead
body? It certainly isn’t now.
Its latest show is at the very
swagger George’s, was opened
by a Gallery director, the Gal-
lery bought a picture and every
local critic sang its praises in
harmonious chorus. In fact, it
would be most unfashionable to
do otherwise at the present
moment, and one wouldn’t be a
bit surprised if the next artistic
knight was a Bell Grouper.
So, if the artistic hats the
group was wearing in 1940
weren’t fashionable then they
must be fashionable now, just as
they were correct wear in Paris
in 1930. But, strange to say, the
one exception seems to be the
founder of the group himself.
He seems to be lagging a bit
behind his own movement, and
the late Bernard Hall still keeps
cropping up«in his pictures. It
is evident in “Ermyntrude,” a
portrait of a girl with a round
face, and in a landscape in
which the Hall hat is seen com-
ing up over the horizon.
There are echoes of almost
every one of the popular French
schools of the last 50 years in
one or another of the pictures,
but very little of the universal,
that inner thing which makes a
Titian, a Rembrandt or a
Cezanne look as modern as
when it was painted and which
is independent of any fashion.
Sali Herman gets some of the
effect of chaos into his “Recon-
struction,” a study of slum-
demolition ; Russell Drysdale
has some of the vigor of draw-
ing of Dobell, but less of his
depth of observation in “Sketch
for Painting,” depicting a stout
man who looks as if he liked his
tucker; and Geoffrey Jones
catches the limpidity of the
water in his “Fishing Village.”
Music.
Melbourne Town Hall for the
past fortnight has been almost
the sole preserve of Father
Sydney Mac Ewan, and the sing-
ing priest has experienced no
difficulty whatever in filling it
with audience and his tenor,
which, though light, is wonder-
fully expressive, and can make
itself felt even when only half
a degree above the zero of
silence. He has used this ability
of his mainly in Scotch and
Irish folksongs, all so lovely that
it is difficult to differentiate be-
tween them, but one that sticks
in the mind is “Birlinn of the
White Shoulders,” a love-song
written by a fisherman of the
Hebridean isles to his boat and
probably the only song of its
kind in existence,
4* 4*
Breach Riley’s tenor is easily
the best male voice heard in the
current Jubilee season. Of rich
quality throughout its respectable
gamut, he uses it with polished
artistry, nowhere better exempli-
fied in the farewell concert he
gave in Sydney before returning
to England than in some 16th-
and 17th-century songs by
Dowland, Handel, Scarlatti and
Pergolesi, in which he employed
the half-voice in legato phrases
with admirable judgment. Of
the “attack” on a high note
pianissimo —one of the most
difficult of vocal technicalities
—he showed he was an easy
master in some delightfully
interpreted lieder of Schubert
and Schumann, and in an
operatic group he rose to around
high C with swelling resonance
and no suggestion of strain. In
some lighter material he em-
ployed an engaging platform
manner to good effect. Much
more of this young Australian
should be heard overseas. Julie
van der Klei played ’cello solos
with justified confidence, and
Werner Baer’s accompaniments
were unexceptionable.


One of the most Important
Documents you
will ever sign . . .
n
'J
•9
YOUR WILL is a document that vitally affects the
welfare of your dependants. It should be competently
drawn; it should be promptly revised whenever
necessary; and it should appoint an efficient Executor
and Trustee for your Estate. In this regard, a wise
choice is to appoint the Permanent Trustee Company
specialists in Trust and Estate management since
1887, with over £1,000,000 of uncalled capital and assets
as your guarantee of security.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation,
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
Permanent
Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E.,
M.B.ChM., FJIA.CS.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N, L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager:
F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary:
S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector:
Hugh Stewart.
rr.M.ia
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WORLD MADE SAFER.
Holding that the Korean war
is merely an incident in the “de-
liberate and defined” American
policy of “resisting and contain-
ing Soviet expansion,” which
was proclaimed by President
Truman four years ago, London
“Economist” regards that policy
as demonstrably succeeding.
The question that should be
asked by those who would pass
judgment on American policy
under Mr. Truman, it suggests,
is whether since 1947 what that
policy represents has advanced
towards its professed objectives
or retreated from them: is there
a better chance now than there
was four years ago of resisting
Soviet imperialism without war?
It thinks there is, and, with
certain qualifications, finds that,
as seen from Britain, the Ameri-
can foreign policy of these last
four years seems to have
been “intelligent, consistent,
courageous and in a high degree
successful.”
When the various qualifica-
tions to that sweeping finding
have been given due weight the
balance is seen as strongly
favorable: “The world is, by
several perceptible degrees, a
safer place than it was in 1947.
The fact that very few people
think so shows only that they
are less blind to the dangers
than they were then, and that
they have forgotten how shaky
the structure then was.”
It is, however, “beyond doubt
that the great majority of people
in the free world are living
better, earning more and produc-
ing more efficiently than they
were four years ago. For any-
one who remembers the moral
and physical condtion of the
European continent and of war-
damaged Asia in 1947 the im-
provement is astounding. To
that result many human efforts
have contributed. But the
largest share of the credit be-
longs to the Marshall Plan,
which the Russians determined,
and failed, to break,”
Pointing out that any effort of
rearmament by the weaker side
“runs the risk of provoking the
strong,” and allowing that the
risk of a Soviet preventive war
cannot yet be written off, it in-
sists that the risk has been
clearly seen by the leaders of
American policy and taken with
open eyes, and goes on to tabu-
late some of the long list since
1947 of risks taken and out-
faced: the building up of Wes-
tern Germany ; the provocation
of Tito’s split with Moscow;
the resistance to the Berlin
blockade; Norway’s adhesion
in the face of Russian threats ;
the defeat of the Greek guer-
rillas by American intervention ;
the successful resistance of
French and Italian Govern-
ments to strikes and disorders
fomented by the Communists
against the Marshall Plan and
rearmament; and finally the de-
cision to take up the challenge
offered in Korea.
“Can anybody,” it asks, “rea-
sonably doubt that, if similar
courage had been shown in the
years between 1933 and 1939,
Hitler’s war would never have
happened? As an achievement
in policy, the extent of the pre-
sent [U.S. and general West] re-
armament is itself not the least
remarkable ; no one else in his-
tory has been able to persuade
a group of peace - loving
democracies to arm themselves
betimes.
“The test of the policy, of
course, will be whether it works,
whether it succeeds in averting
the war. For that the event must
be awaited. But at least war no
longer seems inevitable, and, as
we move through the critical
period, every day gone is a day
gained. Other Governments,
most notably the British, have
played their parts in the policy;
but the ideas, the money and the
resolution have come from the
Americans, and if the chances
of avoiding war are greater to-
day than they were in, say,
1938, it is to the American Ad-
ministration that the major
credit belongs
“The policy is hardly yet in
mid-course ; the dangers are still
pressing and enormous; mis-
takes have been made and will
doubtless be made again.... .But
for what has so far been
achieved we are truly thankful.”
Excluded Turks.
In the view of Turks —and not
only them —the greatest mystery
of Western defence planning has
been the failure to welcome
Turkey in with open arms and
specific guarantees.
On their request to be included
in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation the Turks have
been strangely snubbed, with
every one of those in the pact
evidently trying to blame the
others for it.
Now that Britain —no doubt
belatedly seeing the light
through Persia —has “examined
the matter fully” and swung
round to supporting the inclu-
sion of both Turkey and Greece
both should soon be in.
The Turks’ insistence on in-
clusion (as reported by London
“Times’s” Istanbul correspon-
dent) is due not to “pactomania”
but to a desire to obtain an
assurance that the U.S. would
consider an aggression against
Turkey as a casus belli, implying
the use of the atomic bomb,
which, in Turkish opinion, is the
only effective deterrent against a
prospective aggressor.
The “Times” man points out
that the collapse of Germany
after the last war caused deep
concern in Turkey feelings
prompted not by any sentimental
reasons, but by the historical fact
that Turks and Germans fought
for centuries to oppose Slav ex-
pansion towards the south and
west. Hence the revival of Ger-
many and the integration into a
system of European collective
defence has caused great satis-
faction in Turkey:
“With regard to the defence
of the Middle East, the Turks
hold the view that the Middle
East begins in the Caucasus and
the Straits. It is feared that
British and American strategists
might be inclined to think that
the Taurus mountains constitutes
the best line of defence on the
Middle East. This difference is
vital for Turkey. It means that
the greater part of Turkish terri-
tory would be abandoned to the
invader and the defensive effort
concentrated in the Taurus. In
other words, the Turkish soldier
would be expected to fight for
the defence of the Middle East
while his country and kinsfolk
were left to the tender mercies
of the enemy
“The Turkish Government
and leading politicians of both
the Democratic and the People’s
parties are more than ever con-
vinced that the only possible
foreign policy for Turkey is full
co-operation with the Western
democracies. Nevertheless, an
indefinite postponement of a
decision on some form of
Turkish guarantee might dis-
courage even the warmest sup-
porters of collective security and
lead to uncertainty and hesitancy
from which only the enemies of
peace would profit.”
The Future Japan.
Speculating on possible de-
velopments in Japan after the
treaty, “Manchester Guardian”
voices a doubt which most Aus-
tralians probably share and in
regard to which they will watch
Nippon with a special interest.
“The real danger,” it says, “is
that Japanese society may still be
fundamentally too much like pre-
war society for Japan’s behavior
to have altered very greatly. A
disappointing change may come
over Japanese politics when the
occupation ends and when poli-
ticians can safely drop their
masks. The liberal groups may
be ousted by a surging-in of the
reactionaries, whose exclusion by
law from politics is already being
lifted. Members of the most
notorious secret societies, such as
the Black Dragon society, are
already at work again.”
One suggested precautionary
measure is that “if Japan builds
a new army it would be prudent
for the West to try to get it
contained inextricably in an
international force.”
The Hungry World.
Every three seconds (Sir John
Russell points out in the course
of a London “Sunday Times”
St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) “ Post-Dispatch."
FEEDING-GROUNDS.
article) two additional mouths
have to be fed in the world.
This goes on day and night,
year after year ; and the two is
steadily moving on to three as
medical science keeps more and
more of the babies alive.
At the same time the cultiv-
able area of the world is shrink-
ing because of soil-erosion and
other causes.
“Can the farmers of the
world,” asks this expert, “go on
increasing their output of food
so as to feed all these multi-
tudes, or are the newborn babies
spared an early death only to
live a hungry life?”
For the Western peoples (he
holds) the problem is difficult
but manageable given proper
organisation: their rate of in-
crease is slow, somewhere about
five per cent, in 10 years. Their
agriculturists, using modern de-
vices, push up their yields and
also bring into cultivation land
long unused —even in crowded
England, though its soils have
been farmed for hundreds of
years.
Britain and some parts of
north-west and central Europe
are unlikely to become self-sup-
porting except at much lower
standards than at present, but
their own contributions to their
food supplies can still be in-
creased, ,pnd they can always
rely on the surplus countries to
supply food in return for some
of their high-quality desirable
products.
The problem is much more
difficult for the peoples of
Africa and Asia, especially of
Japan and India. The root prob-
lem is the unequal expansion of
the world’s population: the
rapid growth in great parts of
Asia and Africa unable to pro-
duce adequate food supplies, and
the much smaller growth of the
Western peoples who possess the
ability to devise better methods
of food production for meeting
the growing needs.
It is “the dilemma of our
age.’’
Prospering Canada.
Picture of a greatly prosper-
ing Canada drawn in an Ameri-
can “Foreign Affairs” article by
John L. Stevenson:
“At the end of 1950 Canada’s
population, augmented by the
inclusion of Newfoundland in
1949, showed its greatest
increase for any decade
2,500,000, or roughly 22 per
cent —and reached 14,000,000.
“In that year the value of her
national production and her
national income attained the
record levels of 17.5 billion dol-
lars and 14 billion dollars
respectively.
“There are odd patches of un-
employment due to seasonal
conditions, but elsewhere there
is full employment at good
wages for every worker and in
some industries a serious short-
age of labor.
“Discoveries of rich oilfields
in Alberta and immensely valu-
able deposits of high-grade iron-
ore in north-western Ontario
and in Labrador will fill serious
gaps in the national economy
and promise a large increment
for the nation’s wealth.
“The outlay of 4.5 billion dol-
lars on capital investment
planned for 1950 suggests a
continuance of the present high
level of prosperity for some
years ahead.”
The Hour, and the Man.
Having a shot at picturing
what the present day will look
like to the future historian, a
London “Twentieth Century”
writer expects him to see exactly
what anyone with his eyes open
must see now.
That is, the Western world in
mortal terror of destruction from
the East; Europe and America
trembling on the brink of war
with the Soviet Union and
Asia ; no one able to see more
than a few months ahead, and
almost no one able to suggest
anything that might be done
about it.
“There was living, however
[the historian would declare],
one man who had shown by
grim experience that he had the
vision, the wisdom and the energy
to lead the peoples of Europe
and America through the ordeal.
He was the one man, moreover,
whom every single country in
the Western world trusted as
their leader, irrespective of
nationality. He was getting on
in years, it is true; he had at that
date perhaps another five years
of active work before him. That
was still another reason for


■
11
> u m
/
1
•v:
%
t
A
/
o (-
vi
-
I A: :**m
\\L v .
ip#
v
:rf:
■ ■
v|
..
J
,- .
.. 'A*'
mm
k:; *j
>a<;>
'
tx
“ 2ca asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes , Madam ”
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
contented mood .
'test
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
sd
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
nrul
using his services to the utmost
while they were still available.”
The crystal-gazer sees the his-
torian asking what was that man
doing as the disaster loomed
nearer?
“And how are we going to
explain ourselves to the historian
of the future?
“We know that from the
middle of 1945 until—when? —
Mr. Churchill held no executive
position whatsoever in national
or international affairs. And as
soon as we put it like that, we
see why it was inevitably so: be-
cause the principle of sovereignty
in the system of national States
was such that only those who
held executive positions in the
national States could hold execu-
tive positions in the international
system. The British people had
twice decided that they did not
want Mr. Churchill as Prime
Minister. Therefore the Western
world had to go without him,
too. What could be clearer or
fairer than that? And what,
the historian of the future will
ask, could be more senseless?
“If the twentieth century had
had any sense of its own his-
torical significance, he will argue,
it would have seen that what
the happy instinct of the British
electorate had done by rejecting
Mr. Churchill as Prime Minister
was to release him for the one
task to which his abilities were
even better adapted—the leader-
ship of the Western world. What
the politicians failed to see, he
will point out, was that National
Governments in Europe were
gradually sinking to the status
of glorified county councils ; the
real power was passing to a
higher level of sovereignty,
where Mr. Churchill, alone
among European politicians, was
really at home in a way that he
was not in national politics.
“No blame attaches to the
politicians for failing to see
what the historian of the future
can see so easily—after all, even
Aristotle remained blind to ex-
actly the same transition in the
fourth century b.c. But the
instinct of the British electorate
just as blindly hit on the right
answer, by twice in five years
electing a glorified county
council to rule it from West-
minster. The inexplicable thing
is simply that Mr. Churchill,
having been thus released from
running the domestic affairs of
this island, was not at once
harnessed to the more important
task of running those of
Europe.”
“Adding that Americans are at
one with the historian of the
future in finding it completely
senseless that Mr. Churchill
cannot be used by Europe simply
because the British electorate
prefers Mr. Attlee to run its
glorified county council, the
writer completes his imaginative
picture with Mr. Churchill
finally appointed Minister of
Defence for the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation, the British
reputation for political sagacity
thereby salvaged, and Mr. Attlee
left to perform “the administra-
tive functions for which he and
his followers were so well quili-
fied.”
U.S.-British Differences.
In Moscow, where provoking
ill-will between America and
Britain is a prime objective, such
reports as the following, from
an article by a London “Daily
Mail” staff correspondent,
no doubt make good reading:
“It is only necessary to plough
through the tens of thousands of
words of testimony of the Mac-
Arthur hearing to realise that
there is not a single Congress-
man or Senator who is now
prepared to take the political
risk of making a detailed de-
fence of Britain’s Far East
policy.
“That is not to say that quite
a few of them do not agree with
that policy privately. That is
not to say that Britain’s Far
East policy is necessarily wrong.
It is merely a rather impressive
comment on current Anglo-
American relations.”
Also, “Manchester Guardian”
comments:
“There was never a time when
it mattered more that the two
countries [Britain-U.S.] should
act in accord. But there was
never a time when the people
of each country were more
sensitive about pressure from
the other. President Truman’s
critics think nothing more
damning to say about General
MacArthur’s dismissal than that
it was forced on Washington by
the British, and a great number
of people here [in Britain], by
no means all of the far Left, are
acutely alarmed at the prospect
of being ‘dragged at the heels
of the Americans.’ Each Gov-
ernment hesitates to make the
most of acts which might com-
mend it to the other, for fear
of being accused at home of
‘appeasing’ the other.”
Against such surface signs,
however, “New York Times”
holds that actually a steady
consolidating of closer relation-
ships is going on all the time:
“Great Britain, Canada and
the United States have rather
quietly reached an agreement on
the standardisation of more
than 400 defence items. There
is still not an accord on the cali-
bration of the rifle, and there
are a few other differences that
can be brought into line in good
time. But the basic intent to
agree is obvious. This is to be
a joint effort, and the massive
areas of common interest make
picayune the areas of temporary
disagreement.
“What may not be adequately
realised is that there is also an
important and deep trend to-
ward agreement in some areas
of policy, notably in respect to
the Far East. At the present
time the United States and
Britain are actually nearer to
full accord on Asiatic policy
than they have been at any
previous time in the past 17
months. There have been
gradual shifts in ground on both
sides of the Atlantic that have
often been overlooked in the
clamor about ‘cleavage,’ ”
Dragnet Digest.
An Axis Becomes a Triangle. —
“Der Tag” (Berlin) comment: “Co-
operation between Germany and Italy
is today considered by the statesmen
of both countries no longer a German-
Italian affair, but a European mis-
sion. There is no longer a Rome-
Berlin Axis, but instead a Bonn-Paris-
Rome triangle which does not want
t.o form an exclusive bloc but hopes
to be supplemented by a fourth party,
Britain.”
♦ * *
Britain’s Paying Tourists. —Accord-
ing to the annual report of the
British Travel and Holidays Assoc.,
total earnings from tourists visiting
Britain last year were 25 per cent,
higher than in 1949. Visitors spent
£54,500,000 in Britain and paid
£26,500,000 in fares to British carriers
on international routes. This was
£l6m. more than the previous year.
Receipts from United States visitors
were estimated at £2sm. In the last
few years the car-hire industry had
become an important factor, and in
1950 earned over £lm. in foreign
currency. It was estimated that pur-
chases made in British shops
amounted to £llm.; earnings under
the personal-export scheme alone
were £4,121,680.
* * « *
Soviet Planes. —Noting a good deal
of boosting of Soviet air strength, par-
ticularly in regard to the La 17
plane, a “Yorkshire Post” writer con-
tends that, while the Russian Air
Force is a strong force, it is not over-
whelmingly strong. The performance
figures for the La 17, he says, show
that this fighter has a maximum speed
of 650 miles per hour at sea-level.
It climbs at 6600 ft. per minute and
its operation ceiling is 40,500 ft. It
has a rocket attachment fitted to the
power unit to improve performance:
“No figures are available for the
latest British machines, but recently
an obsolete mark of the Meteor was
stated to give a maximum speed of
592 miles per hour at sea-level. It
can be safely assumed that the latest
British machines are very consider-
able improvements upon this aircraft.”
* * * *
Yugoslav Aid. —Britain, France and
the U.S. having agreed together “in
principle” to give economic aid to
Tito, “New York Times” sees the
agreement as “highly interesting” on
two counts: (1) It indicates that Tito
is prepared to take the most decisive
step yet across the dividing line from
one world to another, a step forced
on the Yugoslav regime by the
Cominform blockade, but proving
that no country can live on the divid-
ing line, as detached from both sides
as Tito would certainly prefer to be.
(2) It will be the first time the Big
Three have entered jointly into a plan
of economic assistance.
* * * *
Russia’s Non-Russians. —A former
Soviet staff officer, pointing out in a
London “Economist” article that the
“Soviet Union is an empire of 200
peoples whose histories, lives, cul-
tures, languages and religions are
quite different,” adds that in the
Politburo no fewer than 197 of those
200 assorted peoples are not rep-
resented : “And if one takes into
account the fact that the non-Russian
peoples form a very large proportion,
if not the majority, it is easy to under-
stand how much potential inflammable
material there is in all this. It is
significant that in the army by far
the greatest number of repressions for
political reasons are inflicted on
people of non-Russian nationality.”


s£
ii
w
d*
ran round the little school,
A cough, and then three more;
The ‘Master climbed down off his
stool,
And in a glass did pour
Some wondrous drops of magic
balm
To make each child secure
From cough and cold that wintry
day,
With Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure.
Give Devil Dandruff!
the'brush-off
with Jtjsftc-
*nifllßDßESSlNG
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing^ -
has a high quality Lanolin
base that h best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down” look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
e Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
Sold at all *\ IO
Chemists & Stores “7 *
fs
SSSBS
m
mm
MAKE THIS YOUR WINTER AT
_ —— roCAT BAH
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
#ca#
_ great barrier reef
Nowhere else in all the world
is such a wonderful holiday
possible for so reasonable a
tariff, so make up your mind
NOW to slip away to this para-
dise of sunshine, fun and gaiety.
Come and cruise, fish, swim,
df
play, sunbake at the world’s
finest tropical holiday resort—
Royal Hayman by the Barrier
Reef.
Though a world away in
climate and delightful pas-
times, Royal Hayman is within
easy reach by giant four-engmed
flying boats right to the island.
Make this your winter for a
gay, informal holiday in
glorious tropical sunshine.
WM |
Ha®
P*
■e?
' f77.V.'
■ . -
IB
*s
Bookings at —
A-WSBTT TRAVEL. SERVICE
Melbourne: MU6921; Sydney: 8W2921; Adelaides
LA2075; Brisbane: 82291; Hobart; 7470; Laun-
ceston: 1760; Cairns: 2570; Canberra: F 390; Towns-
ville: 1150; Wagga: 2036, and all recognised Travel
Agencies. RHI-16
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“There’s more to see than just the
sea at Sydney beaches.”
—Sydney “Sunday Herald.”
Particularly the beauties be-
neath the permanent waves.
4* •i*
“Winner was Joe Kirkwood, jun.,
with 271 for the 72 hoes.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror .”
He collected the chips.
►h -I*
“New washrooms at Tring Council
offices, Hertfordshire, England, are
labelled ‘men’ and ‘women.’ ”
Under the socialistic regime
ladies and gentlemen have
thrown in the towel.
•E 4*
“When are restaurants going to
have just a little consideration for
customers and provide pepper-pots?”
—Letter to Sydney “D.T.”
Surely the prices are hot
enough without.
Capricious Circle.
When first we met we hoped to
wed
Before that year was <\ut.
Instead,
Considering the basic rate
Of pay I earned, we thought
we’d wait.
We’ve dallied years. But still
the day
We long for seems as far away.
For while my screw has soared
by twice as
Much again, sweet, so have
prices.
Now, though my heart would
marry you
At once, my head supports the
view
That spinster you had best
remain
Until my wages fall again.
P. O. M. C.
Less Risk.
“Some waitresses in New York
restaurants wear ugly-looking revol-
vers and transparent skirts.”
—Returned traveller.
“Say it, bud—pronto!”
Involuntarily he clawed the
tablecloth and looked down the
barrel of a six-shooter held by
a bristling blonde waitress.
“Sausages and mash,” he
gasped. A flash of nylon and
she was gone. His brow was
wet as he rolled a piece of bread
into a little ball. Heavens!
What sort of service was this?
There came a soft rustle. He
looked up. Great Scott! A
vision in a transparent skirt was
coming towards him with the
wine - list. As she swayed
voluptuously his mind flashed
back to a perfume-haunted night
in Madrid. His senses reeled ;
he couldn’t think what brand of
bombo to order. As she moved
softly to his side he said
hoarsely: “Look, babe, send
back the blonde dame with the
gat, will you?”
JONAS DILL.
Making It Simple.
“The N.S.W. Attorney-General has
announced that the State Government
had prepared a comprehensive marital
conciliation scheme to cut the high
divorce rate. Lack of finance had
held up the new scheme, but he
hoped it would operate soon.”
Undoubtedly there would
have been a much earlier im-
plementation of the Govern-
ment’s latest Master Plan, blue-
prints for which had been re-
vised, re-revised, altered back to
the original form and then re-
vised again by various sub-
committees, had not two very
important factors militated
against this.
The chief one was that the
McGirr Government had such a
limited time to devote to gov-
erning owing to the necessity for
it to bolt into recess immediately
after the opening of every ses-
sion in case its majority took it
into his head to turn nasty on
his former pals. The other rea-
son was the priority given to
more pressing and more im-
portant legislation: the bill to
provide pensions for book-
makers who have attended at
least 20 meetings a year for five
consecutive years and for publi-
cans reaching the age of 50 who
have held licences for ten years,
and a bill to establish a dog-
racing university.
The creation of the new de-
partment which it was con-
“Lend me a hand — quick!”
sidered necessary to administer
the scheme was delayed until
finance was assured. Eventually
it was decided to finance it from
the accumulated deficit of the
Transport Department.
The “machinery” for the new
department was set up, but, as
with all Government machinery,
no oil was used, the Govern-
ment either firmly refusing to
concur in the general belief held
in all other circles that lubrica-
tion is necessary to prevent fric-
tion in moving parts, or decid-
ing, on past experience, that
Government machinery doesn’t
have moving parts.
The new department’s first
patrons were a Mr. and Mrs.
Yike, who had been ordered by
the Registrar to report to the
new Conjugal Conciliation De-
partment after the legal proceed-
ings for divorce had first been
instituted.
An official came to the general
counter.
“You are the subjects of —
ah —certain apparent marital
misunderstandings?” he asked.
“Dunno about that gyvo,” re-
plied Mr. Yike, “but me and the
missus here are always having
barneys, and we want to split
up, see. I’ve had her.”
“What was the nature of the
altercation concerning which you
were impelled to take this step?”
“Eh? Oh, brawl? Well, Elsie
here will chew cashew-nuts
when I’m tryin’ to study form.
With that crunchin’ goin’ on I
can’t think —I haven’t picked a
winner in two months. She”
“Y’re a liar, Alf. You know
you couldn’t pick a winner if
there was only one in the race.
It’s your bad temper that’s the
cause of”
“You shut up or I’ll give y’ a
swipe across the kisser, and let
me tell y’ this”
The official smote the counter.
“That’s enough! ” he said
sternly. He reached under the
counter and pulled out buff
form X 21 B.
“That altercation comes
under the category of ‘tempera-
ments, unadaptable, relating
to spouse’s hobbies and/or
pastimes,’” he said. “You will
have to fill this in. And
see”
“But listen—all we want
is”
The official frowned. “What
you want doesn’t concern the
department. You will have to
see, in filling in this form, that
every question is answered cor-
rectly—severe penalties are pro-
vided for any breach. You
must fully disclose all the events
that led up to the disagreement
and/or altercation. You must
also state clearly why you failed
to take remedial measures if you
had cause to suspect that
an argument was pending.
Full”
“But look here”
“Full details of all family
rows extending over the past six
years must also be furnished,
and all disagreements involving
in-laws must be filled in on
blue form B 32a here. If the
rows have been accompanied by
physical violence on the part of
one or both parties, green form
X 322 X —here is one —must be
filled in and signed by two inde-
pendent witnesses and a J.P.
Where such violence involved
destruction of, or damage to,
crockery which had been pro-
pelled forcefully during the said
altercation, pink form 4DB must
be used —here it is. You’ll see
the appropriate heading :
‘Utensils, household, destruction
of or damage to.’ To all
the”
“We don’t want to go filling
in”
“Kindly desist with your in-
terruptions while the department
is endeavoring to assist you. To
all these forms you must attach
copies of birth- and marriage-
certificates, dog-licences, if any,
attestation forms giving details
of operations, any fines for taxa-
tion evasions or for using un-
licensed wireless-sets, gifts made
to charity (not including betting
transactions with licensed book-
makers) over the past ten years,
any physical abnormalities of
both parties, including bunions,
warts and moles (where visible),
whether any relatives of either
side have ever suffered from
dizzy spells, annoying neighbors
or nagging wives and a list of
all the things done by one party
which may, or may not, irritate
the other.”
“Statutory declarations will
have to be appended showing
what, if any, divorces, separa-
tions or restitution orders were
obtained by or against your
parents, grandparents or great-
grandparents and all other rela-
tives to the fourth remove, as
well as sworn statements by any
neighbors or relatives who have
at any time been witness to any
altercation in which you have
both been involved. Stamp duty
will, of course, have to be paid
on all such statements, attesta-
tion forms and declarations. A
full statement of moneys in
bank accounts, real estate or
stock, share or bond holdings
must also be submitted.”
“I’ve told you we”
“If any children,” went on
the official, “heard, or took part
in, or were the cause of the
altercation and/or disagree-
ment which was the subject of
your application for a divorce,
this special form G 12 B will
have to be filled in in triplicate
—here, where are you going?”
Mr. Yike grabbed his wife by
the elbow and piloted her to-
wards the door.
“It’ll be easier to go home and
put up with y’r maggin’!” he
rasped.
Bo.


m
1915
m
m
1924
1936
ICO
1944
1951
GOODYEAR
TYRES
have changed,too!
The improvements that the years have brought to
car performance have, to a large extent, only been
possible because tyre development kept pace with
progress, Goodyear has made many historic con-
tributions to the development of tyres to their present
standard. The outstanding safety, longer mileage
and greater comfort of today’s Goodyear Tyres are
the results of unparalleled experience that Goodyear
has gained in producing more tyres than any other
manufacturer.
Again in 1951 ... as
in every year for the
last 36 years, more
people, the world
over, ride on Good-
year Tyres than on
any other make.
•a.ie
I
ALL OVER THE WORLD
© W®
>Gpod ; mornings h|gin with iGillei|g:=
The Dutchman’s a hard-headed
sensible man
And his shaving is done
to a sensible plan;,
He knows that the Blue Gillette
Blade is a treasure
For making his shave
every morning a pleasure.
Gillette Razors and Blades
are made for each other.
In Holland, as in every other
country, the smart men know
there is nothing to equal
Blue Gillette Blades for a
clean, comfortable shave.
And because they last so long,
no blade is so economical.
Blue Gillette Blades
1/8 for five ... 3/4 for ten . . . 6/8 for twenty
(plastic dispenser)
9/ 161
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
While Melbourne owner O. R.
Porter’s venture into the cross-country
game .by the acquisition of the
hurdler Foxen enabled him to set a
new Australian record figure for
stake-winnings by an owner in one
season, his venture has been
productive of considerable grief and
pain to punters. Having obtained
Foxen more-or-less for a song, Porter
then paid a hefty figure for Tiercel,
whom he reckoned the only jumper
in sight likely to upset Foxen at a
stage when Porter needed only a few
hundred pounds for the new record.
Foxen won the Leamington Hurdle
at Caulfield to give his owner the
coveted record. But since then the pair,
Foxen and Tiercel, must have yielded
bookies considerably more than the
£29,896 in stakes with which Porter
wound up the season.
At the time ruling favorite for the
Australian Hurdle, Tiercel started a
red-hot favorite for the Mia Mia
Hurdle at Moonee Valley on July 28
and made a miserable showing. He
cost straight-out punters a packet,
and, as well, his consequent scratch-
ing from the Australian Hurdle left
the doubles books holding a swag of
dead money and the punters holding
a corresponding swag of useless briefs.
Stablemate Foxen then became
favorite for the Australian Hurdle,
and his abject failure in that race at
Caulfield on Saturday further light-
ened the never-seriously-oppressed
hearts of the bookmaking fraternity.
And, if the mere scratching of one
favorite and failure of another were
not enough, the doubles bookies
could scarcely have hoped for a better
result than was represented by the
five-lengths victory of the 25-to-l
chance Roygl Reward over Hiatus,
who started friendless at 33 to 1.
To a degree the Australian Hurdle
was ruined by the earnest endeavors
of Councillor to win the race after
parting with his rider early in the
piece. Sans rider. Councillor led
from the half-mile onwards, and
showed a diabolic ingenuity in resist-
ing any attempt to pass him. Mean-
while supporters of the favorite,
Foxen, had rapidly lost interest in
proceedings. Foxen clouted prac-
tically every hurdle, and at no stage
looked even a remote chance. Get-
ting to the front at the furlong mark,
Royal Reward eventually won very
easily from the veteran Hiatus, with
Student a moderate third.
A not-much-better result for fol-
lowers of the jumping game was the
success ©f Auto Prince (R. Dean) at
tens in the Godfrey Watson Steeple.
Auto Prince won by a modest dozen
lengths from favorite Bronze Laddie,
with equal-favorite Maelstrom a
remote third. Actually it was Auto
Prince’s third successive win, but
punters evidently didn’t attach much
importance to his previous successes
in moderate company. On Saturday’s
absurdly easy victory the Prince
would be a hot chance for the Aus-
tralian Steeple, but unhappily his
nomination for that event was received
after closing-time.
Flat events at Caulfield gave punters
a rather better start for the new
season. Opening the card, divisions
of the Elsternwick Stakes (7f.) for
three-year-old fillies went to the solid
favorites Beta and Audit, ridden
respectively by the top riders of the
previous season, W. Williamson and
J. Purtell. Beta turned on a really
remarkable performance to win the
first division; seemingly hopelessly
placed at the rear of the big field
entering the straight, she fairly flew
home to win by a matter of three
lengths from Private Affair. Audit
won the second division by a reason-
ably comfortable half-length from
Super Set.
After making this promising start
punters found their luck fading fast.
A fortuitous rails run saw the
MacArthur six-year-old Douglas (R.
Hutchinson) just force through to
down Milford and Solarate by mar-
gins of a short half-head and a half-
neck in the 12-furlongs Balaclava
Stakes; Douglas started at 14 to 1.
The Porter stable retrieved what it
had lost on Foxen in the Hurdle
when St. Falcon (R. Hutchinson),
starting at tens, just pipped Gilt
Archer and Filbasket in the 6-furlongs
Moondah Plate. Ellerslie’s run in
that race, incidentally, was one to
keep very much in mind. To round
off a generally doleful day, another
very close finish saw the 20-to-l
chance Palatial narrowly shade Great
Trek and Resurgam in the mile
Mornington Welter.
* * * *
Saturday’s S.T.C. meeting was
originally set down for Canterbury,
but after that course, particularly
vulnerable as it is to surplus moisture,
had stopped torrential rain during the
week, the club, with some recent
experiences in mind, wisely decided
to transfer the meeting to Rosehill.
Whether or not it was that the
change of venue upset the plans
of some stables, acceptances were
surprisingly poor for an b.I.C-
-meetin g—nine starters in the Frederick;
Clissold Handicap, seven m the
Auburn Mixed and a bare half-dozen
in the Rosehill Handicap.
For the principal event, the Frederick
Clissold Handicap (6iD, bookmakers
rather naturally opened Aerofoil
favorite in the light of an excellent
win at his previous start, but punters,
“ Who's next?”
after their odd fashion, took a set
against the seemingly obvious pick,
who proceeded to drift from 5 to 2
out to 11 to 2, what time three of
his eight opponents were backed
ahead of him. However, in the event
it was the 7-to-l chance Perform that
Aerofoil really had to heat. Perform
jumped out to a good lead from
the start, was well clear at the turn
and hung on gamely when challenged,
but, with the luck of the stride, Aero-
foil won the photo by a nose. Third,
some four lengths further back, The
Duchess finished closest of the more-
fancied brigade.
It is very seldom that leading rider
J. Thompson comes to light on a real
outsider, or for that matter even
accepts such a mount. However,
his mount in Saturday’s second
Parramatta Mixed, Vimy Ridge,
drifted in the betting to start
at 25 to 1, and, hanging on gamely
after taking the lead at the top of
ihe straight, he won by a neck from
Nobility. Coupled on the doubles
tote with the previous winner, Aero-
foil, Vimy Ridge paid the reasonable
dividend of £llO 10s., but that was
far from being the best divvy sighted
on a day which altogether gave the
new tote a splendid advertisement.
The programme opened with a
Maiden Handicap for three-year-old
fillies and a similar event for colts
and geldings. Notwithstanding that
the filly started equal favorite at
5 to 2, the winning combination of
Friendly Feeling (W. Cook) and
Heraldry (W. Camer) returned £269
19s. 3d. for five-bob. Then, to set
what is to date a record dividend
for the new machines, Heraldry,
coupled with Triclinium, who won
the first Parramatta Mixed at sixes,
paid a dividend of £423 ss. 6d.
The result of the first Parramatta
Mixed touched off a specially
vicious demonstration. It is notice-
able, by the way, that Rosehill seems
to be a particularly favored, if not
exclusive, haunt of a few individuals
very much addicted to such vociferous
resentment of their probably purely
theoretical betting losses. Saturday’s
outburst was directed not at the win-
ner, Triclinium, but at the badly-
beaten favorite, Free Rule. A
strongly-fancied Derby candidate,
Free Rule had drifted in the betting
from 6 to 4 on to 6 to 4 against,
whereupon one of the stipes made a
special trip round to the start to
acquaint Free Rule’s rider with this
circumstance and to notify him that
the horse’s performance would be
closely scrutinised. Free Rule, who
was having his first start since the
autumn and his first outing as a just-
turned three-year-old against all-ages
(both facts applicable also to the
winner), was fairly and squarely
donkey-licked by a matter of four
lengths.
Other results at Rosehill represented
a mixed bag. Dinanda started a
5-to-4 favorite to beat the poorish
bunch opposing him in the Rosehill
Handicap, and duly did so with
extreme ease. However, in the field
of seven contesting the 10-furlongs
Auburn Mixed the winner Elias (J.
Tinson) was a comparative outsider
at 7 to 1, and Goldak (A. Eaves),
who downed favorite Saville Row in
the Welter (9f.), started at 15 to 1.
* * * *
The V.R.C. handicapper dropped a
bombshell last week by announcing a
51b. Melbourne Cup penalty for the
Sydney Turf Club Cup winner
Yeoval. It seems a most extra-
ordinary action. Weights for the
major spring handicaps were issued
only a couple of weeks previously,
and in the interim Yeoval had had
two runs. At the C.R.J.C. meeting
at Grafton (N.S.W.) he started an
odds-on favorite for the Grafton Cup
and finished a poor third to a couple
of local performers. Back in Sydney
he just scrambled home ahead of the
50-to-l chance Revenue and Wanfield
in the S.T.C. Cup, a performance of
which this page remarked “Yeoval
looked more than a shade lucky to
win. Either of the minor place-
getters might have won, and won
comfortably, with a spot more luck
in the running.” Other runners in
both events were a poor bunch, and
it is difficult to understand how the
two performances in question could
lead a handicapper to alter his assess-
ment of a horse by the thumping
margin of 51b. within a couple of
weeks. Certainly the handicappers
responsible for the Epsom, Metrop.
and Caulfield Cup weights ignored
Yeoval’s mediocre win. Possibly the
V.R.C. man was hit by a rankling
recollection of Foxzami winning the
same S.T.C. Cup, escaping penalty
and going on to win the Melbourne
Cup.
* * * *
Heavy grounds and bustling foot-
ball kept scores low in the V.F.L.
games on Saturday, though it was
hardly to be expected that the Gee-
long-Collingwood clash at Geelong
would give the Magpies a win by the
absurdity of 4.7 to 3.11. Geelong
had ten straight wins up their sleeves,
and still head “the four,” with ’Wcmd
next, then Essendon and Fitzroy just
ahead of Footscray. ’Scray’s young,
fast team got home by 11.15 to 10.10
against North Melbourne, and has to
beat Fitzroy next Saturday to make
“the four.” Fitzroy finished well for
8.21 to 6.9 against Melbourne, but
will need better play to Imld Foot-
scray. Essendon, fully revived now,
had a picnic at home with South
Melbourne, garnering 16.10 to 8.12
(Coleman 7 goals); Richmond and
Carlton indulged in a morose affair
at Richmond for the Tigers to get
9.12 to 4.9; and St. Kiida astonished
itself by beating Hawthorn, 11.8-9.14.
* * * *
“Pass-it”: In Sydney Rugby Union
last Saturday co-leaders University
lost their position on the competition
table when they were trounced by
Randwick, 11-21. Easts, who had
the bye, now become outright leaders,
and the consistency of their displays
throughout the season has made them
firm favorites to go on and win the
premiership. Although not a brilliant
side, Easts are very sound, both for-
ward and back, and have a sufficient
blending of youth and experience to
carry them through the rigors of the
finals.
Norths beat Parramatta 20-12, and
now occupy second place on the
competition table, but they were
again unimpressive. There was far
too much uncertainty in their attack,
and glaring lapses in defence were
noticeable among their forwards, who
were also badly beaten for the ball.
In other matches Gordon beat East-
wood, 6-3 ; Manly just got up to beat
St. George, 18-17; and Wests retained
possession of the wooden spoon by
losing 6-18 to Drummoyne, their only
rivals for the “trophy.”
* * * *
Victorian bantamweight Ernie “Bull-
ant” Simms (8.4) appeared to have
left his sting somewhere south of the
border when he journeyed to tackle
Sydneyite Eddie Marks (8.5) at Leich-
hardt last week. Actually there was
little in it—possibly just the slight
difference in the weights. Simms
began well, and won the first round
with a battery of straight lefts to the
dial. Marks then discovered an effec-
tive right swing, and used it to good
purpose in the second round. The
scrap see-sawed thus back and forth
most of the trip, but Marks knocked
Simms on all fours with a cracking
right to the chin in the seventh, was
on the whole a little too busy for
the Victorian, and at length received
a narrow but quite just points deci-
sion.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
*D%c • €a£- (M*
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058. Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
Bsdaile’s have a full range of BROADHVRST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
sd
Illustrated:
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
« Also
Telescopic
Prismatic
Binoculars,
Sights,
Compasses.
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
fsd
fs
SII
ATISW
•I*3 i
N oO* rnS
"uu* 0
. fa***
Nil
lia»“
rt*
m
»o<m«
IKSCC2
■ nui uu
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dokin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dokin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged reliej is also given
because Dokin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able
to work —thanks to the relief from
pain Dokin has brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet
firm.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
1/121
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR 12/4
dolcin
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.O., Sydney,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Pasture-improvement.
“Hortus”: Recent trials at
Merryville (N.S.W.) showed
that fine-wool Merino sheep do
well on sub.-clover. Three sheep
to the acre in 12 months made
average weight gains of 411 b.
per head, and cut 111 b. of wool
per head. On natural pasture
one sheep per acre gained 211 b.
and cut 101 b.
Many practical sheepmen,
however, have not been keen on
the change. They arc not too
sure about the continued pro-
duction of fine and superfine
wools, if pasture-improvement
is taken to the extreme. The
Merryville trials may allay their
fears. The wool grown on sub.-
clover gave a high clean scoured
yield, the staple was o.3in.
longer, there was no tendency
for the wool to become stronger
(in fact, the fibre was if anything
slightly finer). Trials showed
that improved pastures were not
likely to cause any deterioration
in the quality of Merino wool.
The introduced grasses and
legumes must suit the specific
district. On N.S.W. coastal
areas these have been recom-
mended: Paspalum and white
clover, Rhodes-grass and lucerne
for summer pastures. For
winter, Phalaris bulbosa and
white clover; cocksfoot,
perennial rye and red clover.
The latter mixture, of course,
does well in southern coastal or
cooler areas. In New England
and northern tableland the fol-
lowing are satisfactory: Cocks-
foot, perennial rye-grass and red
clover; Phalaris bulbosa and
white clover; perennial rye and
Kentucky blue. The latter grass
is slow in becoming established,
so a strong covering grass like
rye is necessary to give the best
result.
On the southern tableland the
danthonia grasses have done
well. In the 1919-20 drought
the sheep kept in good condition
on these native grasses. It looks
as though it will be unwise to
cultivate introduced grasses in
intermittent-drought areas.
Rhodes-grass and Sudan-grass
have given satisfaction in the
western division. The mixture
is a good one, as the Sudan acts
as a satisfactory cover-crop to
the Rhodes until the latter is
thoroughly established.
The Future of Sheep.
“Rooster”: Present infla-
tionary wool prices won’t last;
in fact, they’re due for decline
in the not distant future. Quite
apart from the competitive effect
of synthetics on world markets.
the international trend of
economy today is to balance, as
far as possible, imports and ex-
ports. This cannot be done while
primary products remain at
fantastic price-levels.
The U.S.A., U.S.S.R. and
Japan are among the biggest
buyers of Merino wool. Each
of them is now committed to de-
fence measures to the maximum
of their ability. Already the
U.S.A. is planning to cut the
national expenditure on Merino
wool by encouraging the manu-
facture of synthetics.
' It seems the future of wool
depends on the success or failure
of synthetics. The question of
the comparative qualities of
synthetics and natural wools has
a direct bearing on this. Propa-
ganda for synthetics insists that
they compare favorably with
wool. If they can be produced
cheaper than the natural pro-
duct the inference is obvious.
If we are to anticipate a
rapidly-falling wool cheque we
must prepare to offset it. The
only way to do that is to adopt
at once the strictest anti-infla-
tionary measures. A wool
cheque of £300,000,000 with the
£ worth 17s. 6d. is infinitely
preferable to a £600,000,000
cheque with a purchasing-power
of only 40 per cent.
In the last decade our popula-
tion has steadily increased. That
means increased home consump-
tion of wool. At reasonable
prices there is no reason why
any future surplus of wool
should not be consumed right
here in Australia. It boils down
to this: The wool bubble is
about to burst, and, depending
on how we prepare to face up
to it, we’ll find ourselves with a
lot of wool but only a few
customers.
Improving Wool.
“Casma”: Does “Archaps”
(B. 25/7/’5l) mean to suggest
that there have been no real
improvements in a scientific
direction in wool production?
Granted the Merino may not be
carrying heavier fleece, but in
certain areas wool quality has
been definitely improved, thanks
to C.5.1.R.0.
Ten years ago Merinos around
the coastal areas of S.A.’s south-
east produced wool that was
never better than halfway to the
top price. Last year, following
steady improvement for a num-
ber of years, Merino wool from
the Kingston area topped one
of the sales. The improve-
ment is due to soil treatment —•
adding copper sulphide—recom-
mended by the C.5.1.R.0. There
must be plenty of similar land
along the coastline which, with
similar treatment, can produce
high-quality wool.
The Wool Clip.
“Graz”: The 3,547,195 bales
sold during 1950-51 realised
£636,330,574 compared with
£38,674,000 fqr the last pre-war
clip. Greasy averaged 144 d., or
nearly 14 times more than the
10i-d. obtained for the 1938-39
clip.
Actual number of bales from
last season’s clip was 3,520,313,
which was 4526 better than the
previous year. The current
year’s clip is estimated to be
slightly larger, but this is doubt-
ful, as many owners in warmer
parts shore their flocks prema-
turely in autumn to catch the
abnormal prices, and many who
usually hold their after-shearing
oddments, such as lambs’ wool
and crutchings, until the dispatch
of the following main clip, sent
them in earlier.
In the United States sheep
numbers have fallen from
47,441,000 in 1941 to 28,065,000
this year. Per capita consump-
tion of apparel wool in America
has increased from an average
of 2.21 b. in the five-year period
1935- to 3.31 b. for the 1946-50
period.
An American authority cal-
culates the world’s sheep popu-
lation at 762 million, or only 2
per cent, greater than the
1936- average. Production is
not nearly keeping pace with
increase in population.
Silage.
“Mr.”: It takes less labor and
equipment to make than grass
hay and, moreover, can be made
intermittently (an important
factor on dairyfarms) and over
a longer period than hay.
Additional advantages are —
silage provides a succulent,
palatable fodder for dry periods
when paddock feed is scarce.
and, if well stored, does not
deteriorate appreciably over a
long period. Stored in trenches
it’s immune to damage from
weather, fire and vermin.
The best type of trench is one
cut into a bank or hillside, the
floor sloping outwards, blind at
one end and open at the other
for drainage. Depth could
vary from sft. to 12ft. Fill and
keep topping up as the material
sinks, finally consolidating the
mass by driving a vehicle from
one end to the other. Cover
with 6in. to Sin. of soil, accord-
ing to the succulence or other-
wise of the contents. If moist
the covering could be lighter ; if
approaching maturity, rather
heavier.
Care with Nurslings.
“Mac F.”: The greatest care
should be exercised when un-
wrapping bundles of young
“He sends a commercial for witchety-grubs between
news-flashes."
fruit-trees, particularly if they
come from any distant source.
On no account should they be
opened where it is intended to
plant, but should be carried to
some place where there are
facilities to burn the coverings.
Straw, grass and moss
frequently provide the protect-
ing packing, and can introduce
the seeds of noxious weeds. A
“foreigner” has invaded the
garden here in western Queens-
land and has proved difficult to
control. Its presence is attri-
buted to young fruit-tree wrap-
pings.
History for Threepence.
“C.S.”: Victoria is celebrat-
ing its centenary of freedom
from N.S.W., and, among other
things, the July issue of the Vic-
torian “Journal of Agriculture”
devotes itself to a review of the
progress of Victorian agricul-
ture in the 100 years since the
State achieved separation.
There are 70-odd pages of
most interesting historical
matter, well illustrated and
worth reading. The price is only
3d., plus postage, which is nearly
twice as much, but that shouldn’t
stop landmen from ordering a
copy.
For Egg-production.
“Myrrhee”: Feed one of these
mixtures: Bran 30 parts, pol-
lard 50, maize-meal 10, meat-
meal 10 (or five meat-meal, five
butterfat); bran 20, pollard 20,
ground wheat 36, oaten pollard
10, meat-meal 14 (or 7 meat-
meal, seven buttermilk); bran
30, pollard 55, meat-meal 15 (or
10 meat-meal, five buttermilk).
Mix bran and meat-meal to-
gether, moisten and dry off with
the pollard and other fine meals,
adding chaffed green-feed to
make a crumbly mash. If
cooked meat is used to replace
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
Normal seasonal showery weather along the southern
littoral is likely to be intensified by the action of a southern
sunspot group now drawing near the active position. This
acceleration is likely to be considerably increased by the
sudden advent of a new group which has appeared quite
suddenly. It was only first seen on 29/7/’5l, and it may
begin to operate before these notes appear.
It should give added strength to coastal gales along the
Bight, with possibly more southerly gales along the southern
coast as far as Sydney and possibly farther north, though the
actual cyclical records do not seem to support this forecast.
General rains are likely south of the tropics about mid-
September.


CHAMPION
iMi
tfatfruAs m
td tke tfaMm
WITH
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
df
World’s favorite spark plug for
more than a quarter of a century
CJtZ-t
T he ease
that AGA brings
gem, . •
There is only one AGA, and
only a demonstration proves its
wonderful efficiency, its con-
venience and coolness in cook-
ing. The vitreous cream enamel
is so simple to clean, and the
delectable way the AGA cooks
defies description. Fuel economy
is guaranteed!
i
Wa
Wm
H
m
©T
> Q'y
<3
V
C«» V „ i(h „„
COOKER
»np i
5 1^-
:?/Un ,
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING 'AGA*
or write for full particulars to:—-
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A. O. WEBSTER
& SONS LTD.. HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD.. PERTH.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in ail Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
sdf
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
ON THE HOOF
s*V??
OR ON THE HOOKS
ELASTRATOR LAMBS
ARE BEST!
THE Pastoral Review (February 16th, 1951),
quotes Mr. M. D. Campbell of Spring
Creek on Elastrator “ It is easy to operate and
the result is first class. I run a Southdown x
Romney lamb and I mark about three to four
weeks after lambing. As for safety, I do not
think you could get a better method. Over the
four years just completed and taking into con-
sideration more than 1,200 marked, my total
losses over the whole period following castra-
tion and tailing is one lamb.”
Why don’t you benefit from the experience
of stock owners for four seasons through-
out Australia.?
ELASTRATOR
(Registered Trade Mark)
CASTRATOR AND TAILER
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station
Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT Or ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
|EL./7|
LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
y&§t
Wm,
* >
?:>
&m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC,
meat-meal feed no more than
joz. to each bird or 2oz. per
bird per week. To each 1001 b.
of mash add |lb. of salt.
Suitable green foods are oats,
barley, lucerne, rape, mustard,
silver-beet, lettuce, choumoel-
lier, cabbage and mixed grasses
and clovers, chopped fine. From
51b. to 61b. of greens are
required for each 100 birds per
day.
Checking Weeds.
“Billjim”: A low - volume
spraying plant is valuable in
checking weeds in growing crops.
Use of 2, 4-D in powder form
at 7oz. per acre is recommended.
First mix in water and pour
into a 200 gal. tank of water with
pump working at 161 b. pressure.
With the tractor speed reduced
to four or five miles per hour,
four to five gallons of the mix-
ture can be sprayed to the acre
at 12 acres an hour.
Apart from killing weeds the
practice pays useful dividends in
time saved, ease of reaping the
subsequent crop, low cost of
parts and clean and heavier
crop. The value of stubble is
higher.
The plant can be fitted on a
four-wheel trailer, together with
tank. The motors will run off
the tractor’s batteries.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: When choosing
plants for a rock-garden a
primary consideration should be
to have blooms for the longest
possible period. For this pur-
pose small-growing bulbs flower-
ing in the late winter or early
spring are the best. To achieve
as wide a variety of species as
possible and avoid overcrowding
it may be necessary to plant
only single specimens. Fill
crevices in which plants are to
grow with gritty soil rammed
firm.
“Sundowner”: Spring is the
time to replant or extend the
rhubarb bed. Make a clean cut
with a knife or spade. Best site
is a well-drained area away from
trees. Cover crowns to a depth
of lin. or 2in. and set out 24in.
to 30in. apart. Beds will benefit
from a dressing of compost or
farmyard manure lightly worked
in.
“Waverly”; Carrots may be
sown in southern States during
July or August. Shallow dril-
ling is advisable—an inch deep
is enough, lOin. apart and four
rows to the span. Cultivate as
soon as plants are up ; continue
once a week until they reach
full growth. The crop should
be ready for digging in late
November. Fowl and stable
manure ploughed in before
planting ensures rapid growth
and maturing.
“M.”: An examination in
chick-sexing by Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture will be
held on October 2, 1951. The
fee is 10s. 6d., and candidates
pay for the chickens (£3 15s. per
hundred). Applications to the
Chief Vet., Treasury Place, Mel-
bourne, C. 2, by September 1.
“My”: Concerned at the con-
tinued decline in the State’s
horse population, particularly
among the heavy breeds, the
Victorian Government has ex-
tended its £4 bonus payment to
the owner of any new-born foal,
the progeny of an approved
draught mare by an approved
draught stallion, provided the
owner applies on or before June
30, 1952.
“Big Billy”: When harvesting
asparagus consider the age and
vigor of the crowns. Cut only
as much as will not exhaust the
plant. Usually a light cutting
lasting about two weeks can be
made in the second year. In
the third year cutting may con-
tinue for a month, in subsequent
years about eight weeks. Stop
cutting in time to allow the
plants to develop strong fern
growth. Cut the spears a little
below the surface with a knife
having a chisel-like point. Be
careful not to damage young
spears and buds.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. O. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
\S
vVv c
S
c
the whisky is;
*Many things
impossible
to thought
Have been
by need
to full perfection
brought . •
Cn c CdlUuT2’s
(frvfettiSZ’
Scots CUhisky
Q*p«u»qu frrnmteb 1907)1 rtbmt*
WHERE MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
:
Hiiiiiii
H ' - •;
H
•v -X;
>/*
TWO OF
POST-WAR DESIGN
OTIS ESCALATORS
INSTALLED AT
MARK FOY’S LTD.
SYDNEY.
★
OtU ESCALATORS MEAN
MORE TRAFFIC, MORE SAEES,
MORE PROFITS . . .
This Otis escalator installation at Mark Foy’s Ltd., Sydney,
makes shopping easier, more enjoyable, by extending an
attractive invitation to visit every department without effort
and without waiting.
Continuously moving escalators move merchandise because
they cater for people—people who are tired and weary,
people who are impatient, people who are lazy and people
in a genuine hurry.
People plus Otis escalators mean traffic—and traffic in a
store means sales. A survey of your store may provide you
with interesting facts.
1
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART . NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE
COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
In next week’s instalment
Rachel Henning sail* for
Australia.
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
STOPvoub Rupture |
Worries/
Mark 'r' lotahi4«
nfYOUR rupture
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for detada, self-
measurement form and U Dayr e
Trial Ofier. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
Boyce is walking about outside,
superintending Baker’s opera-
tions, which I hope may be
rather hastened thereby, for the
field, as we call the lower part
of the garden below the banks,
has not been cleared yet, but lies
in its primitive state of brambles
and stumps and pools of water.
I think that by the end of next
summer it may be in order.
Mr. Boyce has felt himself so
much encouraged by the fine
weather that he has just written
off for the paperers to come and
finish papering the house. I
hoped they would not be here
till April, when I should be
gone to Exeter, for as Etta’s
room and the dressing-room
have to be done, I must move
into the little room with bag and
baggage, dried plants and all;
besides which I am convinced
that Etta will take the oppor-
tunity of turning the house out
of window to clean it, and of all
minor afflictions, house-cleaning
is the worst. Think of all the
carpets up and the floors flooded
and tables with their legs in the
air and chairs piled up in towers
and Etta reigning queen of the
confusion, for she is in her glory
when cleaning is going on. Mr.
Boyce says he is sure she was
born with a duster in her hand.
We have been walking about
a great deal lately, or rather, I
should say, I have, for I gener-
ally take long solitary rambles,
while Mr. Boyce and Etta make
a solemn march down to the
turnpike on Sheffield green and
back again; the former not
“feeling equal” to long walks.
I am very fond of exploring
the innumerable paths in Shef-
field Woods, but I do not
believe anybody knows them
all, or ever will. I am not the
only person, it seems, who is
fond of exercise in the neighbor-
hood, for Cherriman went to see
her little boy the other day, and
on her return she informed us
that she had asked someone to
accompany her home “because
a woman walks on the Sheffield
road” ; and on further inquiry
as to what objection there could
be to any respectable female
using that mode of progression,
it turned out that several
veracious witnesses had seen an
Apparition disappear among the
bushes by Ormiston’s cottage,
nearly opposite Colonel Cavis’s
gate.
You must remember the place.
We heard this story at night,
and the next morning at break-
fast, Etta and I were laughing
about it and wondering whether
Cherriman really believed it,
when I saw Mr. Boyce looking
very much the reverse of pleased,
but I thought that perhaps his
breakfast had not agreed with
him.
However, he got up and rang
the bell for prayers, a thing
which by no means happens
every day, and after reading the
chapter he began an extem-
porary commentary on it. He
talked about ignorant super-
stition, and said very gravely “I
understand there’s been .an
Apparition seen.” Human
nature could endure no more.
Etta, I and Cherriman all
laughed, and Etta out loud! Mr.
Boyce was, of course, extremely
angry, broke off and went and
shut himself into his study, leav-
ing us all divided between laugh-
ing and consternation; and
Elizabeth, a sort of human cor-
morant, who helps Cherriman,
with her mouth wider open than
usual.
I am very glad you kept clear
ef the “Gambling Club,” Bid-
dulph, not that I should ever
have suspected you of playing
high, but yet the excitement of
it must be very fascinating on
board ship, where there is so
little to do. I shall be very
anxious to hear your account of
Wollongong in your next letter.
I think Lindon's establishment
must be a queer one from all
accounts, and I hope you will
not belong to it. The stars are,
no doubt, very beautiful and
desirable objects in themselves,
but it is too much of a good
thing to be able to make astro-
nomical observations through
the roof of your bedroom,
I am very glad Biddulph is
going to farm. I am sure you
will like it far better than busi-
ness. When I come out 1 expect
I shall find you in a bush farm,
galloping after cattle with a long
whip and quite expert in brand-
ing unruly ones. lam certainly
going to Australia, but whether
this year or next, I don’t know.
It will be Annie’s birthday the
day after tomorrow. With my
kindest love I wish her many
happy returns of it. I had no
room to write about it in my
yesterday’s letter. Do you re-
member Annie’s last birthday?
We walked along the cliffs to
that sunny field by Turret Castle
and found the first primroses.
What do you think of our
being at war again, for I sup-
pose it is inevitable. I hope'
the Russians will get well beaten
and I think it pretty certain with
such enemies as France and
England. I saw an article in the
paper about the defences of
Australia, which appear to
amount to little. If they call out
a force of volunteers, do not
join them ; you are far too good
to be shot at.
Good-bye, my dearest Annie
and Biddulph. You will soon
hear again I expect, as of
course, we shall write in the
parcel and the Great Britain
sails this montfi. How I wish
you were here to take a walk
with me in the woods this lovely
afternoon. You don’t know
how I long to see you again.
Well, perhaps I shall before
long.
Till then, believe me, your
own affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
P.S., March 31. I liked the
account Biddulph gave of the
country in his last letter very
much. I think Wollongong
must be beautiful and that a
farm in that neighborhood
would be anything but un-
pleasant. I believe I shall come
out with Amy after all, or if I
did not this year I certainly
should next year, but very likely
it will be this. It would be very
pleasant to be together again
and I should delight in a warm
climate.
We are in great confusion this
week, as the house is being
papered and we are fairly
blockaded, the enemy being in
possession of the passages, stair-
case and all the rooms except the
drawing-room, in which “missis
lives,” as Elizabeth remarked,
and two bedrooms. We usually
get out of the drawing-room
window and in again by the
front door to go upstairs. Etta’s
room is the only one done; it
has a handsome crimson paper,
but the pattern is too large, so
that it makes the room look
low. The two other bedrooms
and the drawing-room were
papered last autumn.
We are having a most lovely
spring to make amends to the
sharp winter. The woods are
full of wood anemonies, wood
sorrel and primroses and all our
Wilmslow flowers are out in the
garden, hyacinths, polyanthuses
and hepaticas. Mr. Boyce
spends lots of money upon
shrubs and new loads of them
constantly arrive, but the field
is not made yet, nor do I think
it ever will be.
RACHEL HENNING.
{To be continued next week.)


Missing Beneficiary.
ESTATE OF HENRY MILNE CHRISTIE.
TO GEORGE CHRISTIE and any children
or remoter issue of his (other than the
issue of ANN MURRAY PERCY (nee
CHRISTIE), and all persons claiming by,
through or under them or any of them.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are required to
send in to the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 'Wel-
lington, New Zealand, your claim to share
in the estate of HENRY MILNE
CHRISTIE, late of Christchurch, in New
Zealand, Retired Civil Servant, deceased,
on or before the 31st December,
1951, failing which such estate will be
distributed disregarding your claim.—
THE SOLICITOR, Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
sd
fsd
Successful farming with BUUPOGS
'This
Tractor
ran on
©BO r
O
I HAROLD
of RENLAW via
HORSHAM. VIC.
p 3 'V V \
S3 ■'■:
: ; : :
4
mi
m
.
M
BS
i ig R
A &8K --.- v
y ■> » ws 55* > pg
.
.. ■■•■'-. ■■ ...
~v v, a ■■ ' i'w> % 'x
E. FRIEBEL, a partner in 800 acres of land
* with G. Hoffmann, both of Renlaw, has a Bulldog with
a colossal record of service. People for miles around talk
about it! For instance, with this 20/24, 13-year-old
Bulldog:
pulls 2 scarifiers together — a 15 ctnd a 19 —cultivating to a,
width of 18 ft....pulls a 5 and a 7 furrow plough together,
cutting 4 inches deep to a width of Sft. gin strips T3O
acres of wheat on one 44- gallon drum of fuel and has
stripped 595 bags in a single day with
his one Bulldog.
“During the war,” says Harold,
“fuel of all kinds was scarce. I
bought up all the sump oil I could
lay hands on in the district and the
Bulldog ran perfectly well on that!
Today, on regular crude oil, our
Bulldog is amazingly economical.
Not only is the fuel very much
cheaper, but you cover much more
ground per gallon.
( Above ) Harold Friebel’s attractive home
situated amid cool trees and a pleasant shrub
garden.
“These Bulldogs are unquestionably the most troublefree
tractors money can buy. With no delicate parts requiring
finicky adjustment they always start first kick. We can put
a man on ours and know they’re BOTH right for the day.
“After 13 years and over 28,000 hours, the Bulldog still
doesn’t need her first rebore. In fact, she’s still on the
original hot bowl!’’
“Our drivers say they prefer the long, steady stroke of the
Bulldog to the high pressure ‘roar’ of kerosene tractors —
and so do I. Why, I’ve worked this
tractor for 23 hours flat—and with
relay driving help for six 24-hour
days without stopping the engine.
“In the 13 years we’ve had our
Bulldog we’ve made great strides.
Of course, we can thank good rains
and prices in recent years to a large
extent, but nevertheless I feel that
our Bulldog has played an invaluable
part in our success.”
Councillor Cuts Kero Costs 40%
m
OWaA
Cr. W„ W. Schodde of Murtoa, Vic.
supplies some cogent reasons suppor-
ting his preference for Bulldog Crude
Oil Tractors:
On Bulldog’s ECONOMY he says,
“Definite comparisons made on this
property have proved beyond doubt
that Bulldog operation costs are 40%
less than Kerosene tractors, under
the same conditions over a period of
years. This includes not only fuel, but
also maintenance and running costs.”
On Bulldog’s SIMPLICITY he says,
“It’s simplicity is remarkable in
fact, * the basic reason behind Bulldog’s economy, relia-
bility and long life.”
On DRIVING COMFORT he says, “I’ve driven both Bulldogs
and Kero tractors for long periods, and I find a Bulldog is
much better. When actually working, it’s vibration is neg-
ligible.”
Looking back, Mr. Schodde says, “When I went in for trac-
tors people said I’d go broke! You see, horses were still pre-
dominant then. But quite the opposite has happened. So
much so that I attribute my farming success very greatly
to the Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor.”
' y:
S your
*
s^Uot
oil
O
INTerst a t
$-4 MaU och p hon e Mm 9 o
Pf-Uy m ith & Co' jl o ' l4 You " V " s '-V. J -l® pen o.
UftfeSJvtSat*. S*-
‘° rn Pany i "/;■ Kpbart.' L ’ n 9j Bt nbuf^L td -> 3i’a A u r e -l aid <
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Shipwreck by
Douglas Stewart. —5145.
To buy copy of The King’s Caravan
by E. J. Brady.—sl44.
English collector of cigarette-cards
would like to exchange English cards
for Australian cards. (Reply direct
to Mr. J. M. Guyton, 5 Birchwood-
road, West Byfleet, Surrey, England.)
Urgently; instruction manual for
1947 Singer motor-car. —5150.
Words of poem “Flying Kate.” —
5149.
Copy of magazine containing article
“The Crazy Capital” by Randolph
Bedford. —5148.
To exchange Opal by T. C. Wollas-
ton for The Sunlit Land by Barret,
or for another good book. —5147.
Words of verse beginning with the
line “There’s a race of men who
can’t fit in.” —5146.
Information Sought.
Particulars of the basking shark ?
Has it any commercial value ?
One of the largest of existing
sharks —sometimes attaining a length
of 35ft. —the basking shark derives
its name from the habit of floating
motionless just below the surface of
the sea. It feeds upon minute float-
ing animals, which it strains from the
water by means of peculiar comb-
like structures on the gill-arches.
Teeth are small, weak and very
numerous (about 200 in each row).
A characteristic feature is the great
size of the gill openings. The basking
shark is normally quite harmless to
man, but, when being captured, can
give a blow with its tail sufficient to
stave in the side of a whaleboat.
Commercially it is sometimes sought
for its liver-oil, of which a large
quantity is obtained from each shark.
* * * *
How to put a shine on semi-stiff
white collars?
Cream together one tablespoon
starch, half teaspoon borax and two
tablespoons cold water; pour on
boiling water, stirring the whole,
adding at the same time a small piece
of paraffin-wax. For semi-stiff collars
dilute this starch by allowing four
parts cold water to one part starch.
* * * *
What are martello towers?
Round towers formerly used in
English coast defence. The name is
derived (altered) from Mortella Point
in Corsica. In 1794 an English fleet
under Lord Hood supported the
Corsican insurgents, and a small
round tower on the coast withstood
its fierce cannonade. The strong
resistance shown by this tower led to
towers of a similar nature being
erected along the English shores,
especially on the south and east
coasts. They were about 40ft. high,
and situated on the beach.
« $ : *
Where and what in London is the
“Queen’s Tobacco Pipe”?
It is the name facetiously given to
a kiln situated at the London Docks
in which tobacco and other contra-
band goods are destroyed. Most
saleable goods are now sold by the
Customs authorities or given to
charitable institutions, but useless or
damaged goods are still destroyed in
the “pipe.” The fire never goes out,
for it is continually supplied with
goods of every description.
He * * *
Details of the career of a bush-
ranger named Jackey Jackey?
William Westwood (Jackey Jackey)
was transported in 1837, at the age
of 16, and took to the bush in the
Goulburn district in 1840. For some
time he robbed mail coaches on
the Bungendore-road; growing more
daring he frequented the main
southern road, and even visited
Sydney. In 1841 he was captured
and sentenced to penal servitude for
life, and after an attempt to escape
from Cockatoo Island was sent to
Port Arthur. He escaped, but was
caught in Hobart, and sent to Nor-
folk Island. There, in July, 1846,
he headed a riot, killed four police-
men, and was hanged on October 13,
when only 26.
* # * *
Brief Answers.
C.S.: No. The beneficiary may
apply for administration with the will
annexed K. 8.: He may disclaim
at any time before acceptance of its
provisions, but once he has elected
to accept he cannot thereafter dis-
claim it W.J.: Glass is treated
with nitric acid, washed till absolutely
cleared and then silvered... .R.C.:
Gene Tunney was born in New York
City on May 25, 1898. He began
boxing while in France with the
United States Marines in 1918, and
won the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship by outpointing Jack Dempsey
over 10 rounds at Philadelphia on
September 23, 1926. Tunney retired
as unbeaten champion after k.o.’ing
Tom Heeney (11 rounds) in 1928....
H.C.C.: Write United Kingdom
Trade Commissioner, 39 Martin-place,
Sydney.... G.R.L.: Without seeing
the negatives it would be impossible
to estimate their value. However,
Sydney newspapers and magazines
offer from £5 to £25 for a series of
interesting pictures. Overseas or
syndication services, such as the ones
mentioned, pay considerably more for
pictorial scoops R.J.K.: Depends
upon condition, but copies of the
de luxe edition of Norman Lindsay’s
Paintings in Oil in perfect condition
sell for £2O in the second-hand book-
shops. .. .L.F.G.: Write D. Raymond,
numismatist and philatelist, 128
Bathurst-street, Sydney 0.J.M.:
Paragraph concerning E. H. Stanley
(“Bad Australian”) appeared in The
Bulletin of November 22, 1950
D.F.: The total area of Sydney
Harbor is 14,284 acres, or about 22
square miles, of which approximately
half carries a depth of 30ft. or more
at low water, ordinary spring tide.
The mean range of tide is about 3ft.
6in. The foreshores extend over 188
miles... .N.McK.: Zora Cross wrote
Songs of Love and Life, The City of
Riddle-Me Ree, The Lilt of Life and
Elegy on an Australian Schoolboy—
all verse — Daughters of the Seven
Mile and The Lute Girl of Rainyvale
—novels—and An Introduction to the
Study of Australian Literature. —
S.W.D.M.: See “Plain English page
of The Bulletin, June 27, 1951
L.J.C.: Winston Churchill, the
American novelist, was born at St.
Louis (U.S.A.) in 1871. He is
especially known for his historical
novels, including Richard Carvel
(1899), The Crisis (19C!), The Crossing
(1904), Coniston (1906), Mr. Crewe’s
Career (1908), A Modern Chronicle
(1910), The Inside of the Cup (1913),
A Far Country (1915) and The Dwell-
ing Place of Light (1917)... .E.S.A.:
Full particulars on the bleaching of
wood can be obtained from the Divi-
sion of Wood Technology, Forestry
Commission of N. S. Wales, 96
Harrington-street, Sydney M.E.S.:
(1) The chairman is the controlling
authority at all meetings of the com-
pany, and usually addresses the share-
holders. He may take no active part
in the co.’s business affairs. (2) The
managing-director is more directly
concerned with the control of the
trading activities of the company.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character ) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertatken
re contriubtions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
8.T.: Keep at it. But read some
contemporary Australian poetry
S.F.: “What shall I do with ‘The
Egg’ if you don’t want it?” Boil it.
, ...M.G.C.: Stories about story-
writers —they irk u 5.... D. 8.: A
jumble of chopped sentences, like
steak-and-kidney pie R.N.C.: Tiny
anecdote... .G.E.8.: “The Man 1
Fear” —No fear, we fear L.H.:
Swift did it better with a broom, and
he was burlesquing... .A.M.: Not
bad, but the lad doesn’t have to feel
the world has come to an end just
because some joker pulled his pants
down H. 8.: Might go elsewhere.
R.W.M.: Maybe we’re the strong,
silent type, but we feel a lot too
much pumping goes into these stories
of anxious waiting in dentists’ waiting-
rooms... .P.S.: Neither either good
or bad... .G.McG.: Look, it’s no
use breaking our hearts H.W.:
And it’s no use expecting us to weep
tears of joy when a girl marries a
shearer F.F.: “She came wander-
ing down the street”—like your prose.
M.I.: Badly enough written to
have a double meaning 8.M.:
Machine-made Z.V.W.: Might go
elsewhere... .C.FI.: There’s too many
magical machines... .A.M.M.: Maybe
some women’s paper... .N.C.: Ditto.
E.W.: We knew the vinegar
wasn’t going to do that pearl any
good H.W.: So many of these
flood rescues... .P.C.; About the only
regular short-comic writer practising
nowadays is Jack Davey. Other
people couldn’t buy the space....
G. 8.: It’s “The Blind Ploughman”
all over again... .G. 8.: But the Japs
are our friends, nearly... .M.E.P.:
“Luck!” had none... .J. 8.: Nothing
happened, all right... .H.U.: You
forgot to put in that they lived
happy ever after... .H. 8.: Neither.
A.C.: Scottish tribe not belonga
us D.G.; We don’t aim at being
an encyclopaedia... .I.McD.; Try a
daily paper... .R. 8.: Generally, Miss,
if you want to write about war,
you’ve got to be a man....5.W.;
Fancy. In England they put hops in
beer! Z.V.W.: Trouble is, you’re
too expert.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
“Coddling the Thief”
In the old-fashioned State of S.A. the
law says that he who takes another’s
motor-vehicle without the owner’s con-
sent (B. 11/5/’5l) shall be imprisoned—■
and he is imprisoned. The same law also
says that he who drives “under the influ-
ence” shall be fined at least £2O the first
time and must lose his licence for at least
three months and may lose it for two
years; he is fined and loses his licence
accordingly.
The magistrates found that low fines
and short terms of disqualification had
not the desired result, so now they start
off with a £4O fine and disqualification
of at least 15 months. For a second
offence imprisonment and disqualification
for at least two years are certain and at
the end of the term of disqualification the
offender may obtain a licence again upon
application to a magistrate—but he has
to put up a pretty good story and elect
between drinking and driving and support
his election, if it be for driving, with
some sort of bond about not drinking.
The Government, which does not like
doing its own barking after hiring a dog,
does not interfere with what a magistrate
does, and there is always the safeguard of
appeal to a Supreme Court judge.
Bashing policemen, too, is made very
unpleasant for the bashers by (a) the law,
which fixes a stiff term of imprisonment
without the option, and ( b ) the onlookers,
who are rather inclined to bash the
bashers.
Of course, S.A. is rather old-fashioned
in other ways of dealing with trans-
gressors—it hangs people for murder and
flogs ’em if they commit foul assaults on
children or rob people with actual or
threatened violence. But the State, risk-
ing the charge of being weak, does draw
the line at hanging males under 21 and
females of all ages and leaves it to the
prison m.o. to see that a man sentenced
to flogging is fit to take it.
Premier Playford, who has run the State
since he took over in 1938, is a queer
sort of chap; he builds a lot of houses
and generally acts like an honest man.
The Liberal-Country-League supporters
nearly went mad a few years ago when
Playford, after requesting the monopoly-
holding Adelaide Electric Supply Com-
pany to use Leigh Creek coal to ensure
unbroken service and to extend its mains
to country centres without regard only
to profits and after being refused, took
over the whole undertaking by the simple
expedient of compulsorily acquiring all
the company’s shares at the market price
at the time he made his request.
He was forgiven. The commission
which he set up to run the electricity
business supplies electricity without
blackouts and makes profits, and it has
on it as one of the L.-C.-L. Government
nominees an executive of the Electrical
Trades Union. —C. K. (S.A.).
A.B.C. News
So “Waddlin’ Willie” (B. 2/5/’5l)
thinks that the A.B.C. news service is
“almost perfect,” does he? I don’t.
Here are samples of the major items of
“Home News from Australia” for the
last two nights. Last night, the first item
was a long rigmarole about land the
Commonwealth is going to hang on to in
Melbourne. Next, in most chatty fashion,
a conference called by a judge to dis-
cover why 11 ships are held up in major
ports is to be postponed because the
reps of the seamen hadn’t bothered to
turn up. Next, and the longest on the
list, is a story about what the secretary
of a racing club saw on his trip to the
U.S. Australian jockeys are far superior,
and it’s remarkable that only 40,000 people
out of New York’s eight million go to
the races on Saturday. I won’t comment
on that aspect.
Tonight we start with American diesel-
electric locos and German streamlined
trains for the Trans railway, more diesels,
British this time, for the other Common-
wealth lines, and this is followed by
“news” about Westralian railways serving
abandoned mining areas. To close or not
to close. Item three, again the longest,
deals with the story of a taxi-driver in
Cloncurry, how many miles he’s done,
how many politicians, publicans and
brides he’s carried and so on.
That is ordinary week-night stuff.
Friday night it excels itself. Once in
three times you’ll get a news-item first,
usually you have a list of the runners
for tomorrow with their chances and
the history of their jockeys, followed by
lesser sports.
That is what this “perfect” news service
offers the exile and foreigner alike. —
Transporticus (Singapore).
As an Australian living alone in an
isolated spot in Siam, out of the reach
of newspapers and dependent on a battery
radio-set for news of the world, I am
appalled at the so-called “news-session”
put over by Radio Australia, sponsored,
I understand, by the Australian Broad-
casting Commission.
Hungry for news, I tune-in at the
appropriate hour, to hear an announce-
ment, following a relay of the 8.8. C. news
from London, “And here are some items
of home news.”
Here is a precis, from memory, of what
I heard tonight in a five-minutes news-
session.
A detailed description of the intention
of an N. S. Wales schoolteacher to en-
“ Hold her until you get to the straight , then let her go."
deavor to germinate some 100-year-old
wheat found by a friend of his when
demolishing an old dwelling.
Native cats were thought to be extinct
in northern N.S.W., but specimens had
recently been seen in widely-scattered
districts and one caught in a. rabbit-trap
weighed four pounds.
Detailed arrangements for the opening
of the Returned Soldiers’ Congress in Mel-
bourne.
Volunteer labor in Lismore had added
a wing to a children’s home or hospital.
The Flying Doctor had flown 30,000
miles in 12 months and had attended
2000 patients. He was shortly getting a
new plane.
The only item which, in my opinion,
could be classified as news was that 12
ships were held up in various ports in
Australia owing to shortage of crews.
Plenty of men were present at “pick-ups”
but would not offer for work.
That is not an isolated case. I have
“listened-in” practically every night for
the last four months, on this and most
other Australian news-sessions, and they
are all about the same standard. At least
90 per cent, of the “news” put over could
be, and probably is, gleaned from any
week-old newspaper, except on Friday
night, when 75 per cent, of the session is
occupied in giving latest form and tips
for the following day’s races in Sydney
and Melbourne. That may be of interest
to the troops in Japan and Korea, where
no doubt the s.p. bookmakers ply their
trade, but not of much interest to any-
one else.
Where I am living we can, on an
ordinary short-wave set, pick up stations
in many countries in all parts of the
world, most of them having sessions in
English, so we have an excellent oppor-
tunity of making comparisons. Aus-
tralia runs a bad last. I have often picked
up important items of Australian news
from other stations of which no mention
has been made on the Australian session.
In criticising the A.B.C. service I feel
sure I am voicing the opinion of hundreds
of Australian listeners, perhaps thousands,
in all parts of the East.— Orang Puteh
(Siam).
“Too Old at 65”
“Laetitia’s” item (B. 9/5/’5l) had
the flavor of a protest at enforced retire-
ment at 65 and a plea to keep ’em work-
ing at that age. Why? Surely a man of
65, having probably done 50 years’ work
by then, is entitled to a few years of
freedom before he dies?
School begins at five with compulsory
attendance until about 15, and a job at
that age with compulsory attendance until
65 means 60 years of daily attendance
except for illness, weekends or short
vacations. With the allotted span esti-
mated at 70 the average man can expect
only 10 years of his life in which to do
as he pleases—five in infancy and five
in dotage. Surely he is entitled to some-
thing better.
What is the use of labor-saving devices
and reduction of the working hours if
the working years remain as many as
ever? It is a sad commentary on our
way of life that many men cling to a
daily job as the only relief from boredom.
The average man of 65 or even 55 who
claims to be as able and efficient in his
work as in his younger days is kidding no
one. Many such are merely passengers
and are only obstructing younger, more
efficient and ambitious men from promo-
tion and the chance to execute construc-
tive ideas. It is better that they should
retire at 55 and make way for their juniors
before the latter, too, by frustration and
hope deferred, themselves become less
enthusiastic for succession. There is
plenty of part-time and casual work for
the retired to employ themselves at if so
inclined.
A prison sentence is usually shortened
for good conduct, whereas the better the
conduct the longer the sentence is for the
working life of man. How many public
men die in their tracks because they refuse
to pay attention to their doctor’s warn-
ings by retiring while there is yet time?
Many more in private life do the same
with less publicity.— Macklin (N.S.W.).
The Corns
“Madam,” a psychiatrist once said to
a woman whose small child he had just
psycho-analysed, “you must not forget
that you are dealing with a sensitive,
highly-strung little stinker.”
That description fits the Communist
party in Australia perfectly; and, like
any other highly-strung little stinker, it
flourishes and grows more stinking on the
mamby-pamby treatment handed out to
it. For years it has been the practice to
handle Corns and near-Coms with kid-
gloves, the general arguments being that
they are keen psychologists who will be
quick to take advantage of any sign of
“persecution” and use it to gain sympathy
and greater support; and that “rough”
methods will drive into their camp
waverers and fence-sitters.
There’s only one way to treat Corns —
full-frontedly. They are not the intel-
lectual, broadminded crusading minority
that they claim to be. They are, in the
main, the spoilt children of the country,
and they are being led by a gang of un-
scrupulous would-be dictators who are
neither as intelligent nor as strong as they
appear to be. They will respond to firm
action as any other group of spoilt
darlings would respond—rebelliously at
first, mouthing hysterical threats and
breaking, perhaps, an odd piece or two
of furniture; then sulkily refusing to co-
operate; and then the decent element
will emerge, all the better for the dis-
cipline which was delayed too long.
There’ll always be a few malcontents
who will refuse to accept democracy.
While Mr. Menzies, with the backing
of 90 per cent, of Australia, is belting
the tails off the Corns some unions may
be tempted to intervene. If they do, it
will be necessary to lengthen the strap.
One fact must be kept in mind; the
majority of unionists are good Aus-
tralians with a stake in the country and
a hatred and contempt for Communism.
They may be led by the nose occasionally,
but in the main they’ll follow the right
lead.
The idea of Mr. Menzies leading Aus-
tralian unionists doesn’t seem as strange
to many of them as it did once. He’s
becoming increasingly recognised as a
good psychoanalyst who’s not far wrong
in his advice to Australia on how to
handle the “little stinker.”— Bass (W.A.),
Motor-bikes
None of the relevant State authorities
seems able to solve the problem of in-
creasing motor-cycle fatalities.
In Victoria, by far the majority of
accidents occur to cyclists between the
ages of 18 and 23. Raising the age at
which licences could be taken out to 23
or 25 would probably go far towards
reducing the accident-rate.
As young men become more mature
both their judgment and their sense of
responsibility to themselves and the
general public increase.— Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic.).
“Beef in the Tropics”
Further to “Guzerat” (B. 11/7/’51):
In 1907 I brought two mobs of fat cattle
from the downs country south of
Katharine River in the N.T. to Humpty
Doo, which is low down on the Adelaide
River and about 40 miles from Darwin,
From the day the cattle crossed the
Katharine River they hardly ever put
their heads down to feed, although grass
and water were in abundance. Much of
that northern coastal country in the N.T,
—the Gulf and Kimberley is the same-
has plenty of grass and water, but the
country is “sour” and the grass will not
fatten our British beef breeds.
I believe that a good deal of the long-
grass country in the tropical areas of
Australia would be most suitable for the
zebu cross with our ordinary beef
breeds. Many years ago Goldsbrough
Mort took up Humpty Doo, but the cattle
did not thrive there and the company
moved them away. A few that were
left crossed and bred up with the zebu
cattle.
Although our beef breeds on the
Adelaide River are generally poor, I
never saw a poor zebu cross. TTiey arc
a shy, small, yellow-colored cattle and
their beef is bright cherry color with
plenty of fat steaks all through it. They
are not a big breed— not more than about
four or five hundredweight—but with
proper selection they could be improved
— Michael Sawtell (N.S.W.).
Level Crossings
Almost every week someone is killed
at a Victorian level-crossing, yet no real
effort is made to reduce the death-toll
The State has 24 per cent, of Australia’s
level-crossings, and during the year ended
June 30, 1950, 55 people were killed or
injured in crossing accidents. The need
for drastic action is not confined to Vic-
toria, however, as during the same period
198 people were injured and 46 killed at
level-crossings throughout Australia.
There is only one real solution:
gradual replacement of crossings by over-
head bridges or viaducts. Until that is
done, deep guttering in the road surface
for 100 yards on either side, compelling
motorists to slow down, is the only pre-
ventive measure likely to be effective.
First crossings to be abolished shoulu
be those at which the greatest number oi
casualties have occurred, not necessarily
those considered “dangerous” by expert
I live close to the level-crossing at
Horsham (Vic.) where 11 passengers in a
tourist-bus were killed and 12 injurec
early this year. By commonsense
standards this crossing could well »
regarded as safe —the road is wide, has a
good surface and crosses the line at right
angles, the only hazard being a cluster
of houses which obscures the view on
one side.
The same applies to a crossing at outer-
suburban Boronia (Vic.). Five roads meet
there, but there is excellent visibility and
no hint of danger. Yet there have been
something like 19 casualties there over
the year, and after each fresh disaster the
experts meet, reiterate their former
verdict that the crossing is “safe,” and
no action is taken. ,
Obviously finance is the main deterred
to the complete abolition of crossings
but that could be overcome by State
Governments setting up a fund with the
aim of replacing one or two cross-
ings each year. — Carlyle (Vic.).
" ' M


BOOKS WORTH KEEPING
THE BIG SHOW,
by Pierre Clostermann.
A tense narrative of the fighter
pilot’s day-to-day life,
16/- (post lOd.)
AUSTRALIAN
SHORT STORIES.
Selected by Walter Murdoch and
H. Drake - Brockman. Forty - eight
authors.
6/6 (post. 4d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers : Publishers : Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
fsd
HEINEMANN
PERSIA IS IN THE NEWS
JOURNEY
TO PERSIA
ROBERT PAYNE'S delightful book of travel, rich in
'descriptive passages of the colourful present, thrilling in its evocation :
of the ancient splendours of Persia. ILLUSTRATED.
sfe AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
NOW READY
The Beautiful Is Vanished
By Taylor Caldwell
Author of "Dynasty of Death,” "This Side of Innocence,”
"Let Love Come Last,” etc,, etc.
Available from all booksellers
COLLINS
DYMOCK’S CATALOGUE
A guide to good, tasteful reading is yours every month in our
NEW AND RECENT BOOKS CATALOGUE.
More about new books and the best books than you II find
anywhere else.
Make sure your name is on our Mailing List. Write today.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone BL 3611.
The Lyrebird Books of
AUSTRALIAN POETRY
LANGUAGE OF THE SAND, by Roland E. Robinson
THE DARKENED WINDOW, by Nancy Cato
IMMINENT SUMMER, by Nancy Keesing
(frontispiece by Norman Lindsay)
From leading booksellers or direct from
Roland E. Robinson, 18 Manion Avenue, Rose Bay, Sydney
_ I, I
“Handy Hints for the Farm
PRICE ON
SHILLING
•\ Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle,
Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne;
239 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 33 Barrack St., Perth.
there rose enormous wings; and all these
carvings of men and beasts showed them in
the attitude of preparedness, virile and
quivering with life. This was their achieve-
ment, to have made out of rock and stone
a palace where there was shown the robust
strength of man and the delicacy of woman.
Persepolis was destroyed by Alexander.
One story has it that he was annoyed at
discovering there 6000 Greek prisoners
whose noses had been cut off ; or, accord-
ing to another version, he allowed the
dancing-girl, Thais, Ptolemy’s paramour,
to set fire to the golden palace in revenge
for the burning of Athens by Xerxes ;
and anyhow, says Mr. Payne, basking
above the ruins next day and reading
Proust, “a lizard is king of Persepolis”
and Alexander must have thought he had
-■put an end to the power of the East and
destroyed every vestige of its magni-
ficence.” And so, even among Mr.
Payne’s tranquil, expressive and mar-
moreal musings, you come back, if not to
a contemporary squabble about oilwells,
to something very like it.
The Throne of Cheyney.
Peter Cheyney wrote so fast that Dark
Bahama (Collins) is probably not his last
book; it continues the trend which
inspired remarks on this page, made
rather unkind by his death a few weeks
ago, that the old man was breaking-up ;
the one strong detective pursuing the one
trail with brilliance and violence, and
concluding in the'arms of a glam or-girl,
breaks into a set of detectives, ingeniously
at cross-purposes; though there is some
effort to atone for the conventional
marriages which blemished the con-
clusions of a few previous books: the
heroine shamelessly leaves the detective
who has been adoring her throughout
the book to go on an island holiday
with the master-mind detective.
Nevertheless, if these later books have
not the single-minded simplicily op The
Urgent Hangman, they still justify the
appreciation of their author by one of
Britain’s most superfine critics, Peter
Quennell, quoted on the dust-cover of
Dark Bahama; a suitable and enviable
epitaph: —
Heavens, what a craftsman! How
adroitly he keeps a story going; bow
cleverly, like an experienced bartender, he
slaps in and briskly shakes together all the
right ingredients—sex, violence, mystery;
laced, when the occasion serves, with an
entertaining fashion-hint!
There will be plenty of writers anxious
to shoot their way to the throne Cheyney
stole from the Americans, and from
which, disguising with Irish charm his
flagrant abuse of a form which sprang
from the real life off the people, he
exacted tribute, according to his pub-
lishers, from a million readers every
year.
Some of the older school have made
prim visits to night-clubs ; one remembers
with ashamed relish a new writer, Gerald
Bowman, whose Sawdust Angel behaved
in a way that made Cheyney’s heroines
look like wallflowers ; but by chance
one of the best efforts in Cheyney’s style
happened to come in with the armounce-
nnent of his death: Secret Ministry, by
Desmond Cory (Shakspeare Head). Mr.
Cory’s hero is an ex-gunman of the
Resistance, Johnny Fedora, employed by
the Secret Service to track down and
kill an ex-Nazi spy-ring, which is cele-
brating its war-time defeat by converting
the Free Nations of the World to drug-
addicts.
Mr. Cory, a war-veteran, still only 23
years old, has not yet achieved Cheyney’s
easy assurance ; but there is a piece of
ingenious violence at the end of the book
which enables high hopes to be held out
for him: an expert gunman has his gun-
arm cracked by a powerful villain, and
is in a room with a heroine tied to a
chair, at the villain’s mercy. Outside,
another villain awaits him with a tommy-
gun and instructions to shoot. The hero
swings the door open, and falls flat. The
outside villain shoots ; the bullets miss
the recumbent hero and kill the inside
villain—surely, that is the stuff of which
great thrillers are made.
But besides writing thrillers, Mr. Cory
is studying Anglo-Saxon at Oxford —it
would be too bad if literature got him,
after all.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Voice of the Mind: E. Herbert-
Caesari (Hale). A technical book on the
art of singing for singers and teachers;
recommended by Gigli.
* * * *
British Scientists: E. J. Holmyard
(Dent). A booklet of 86 pages outlining
the work of British scientists from Bacon
to Rutherford on the atom and Fleming
on penicillin.
* * * *
The Steinbeck Omnibus: John Stein-
beck (Heinemann). Contains Of Mice
and Men (complete), The Red Pony, with
short stories and complete episodes from
eight novels including The Grapes of
Wrath and Tortilla Flat.
* * «= *
Dogs Since 1900: A. Croxton Smith
(Dakfers). What, after' all, have dogs
been doing since 3900? Why, field trials,
working trials, sheepdog trials, dog shows.
Kennel Clubs, Agreed Standards,
advances in veterinary science, improving
the 90 breeds which Mr. Croxton Smith
discusses with the aid of 117 illustrations
—one had not known that dogs have
been so. busy.
* * * *
Unseen Array : Winifred Peck (Faber).
A nicely-turned-out ghost-story plus
romance with a historic and aptly-named
old Scottish house as background. The
author manages to infuse the necessary
amount of eeriness into the story without
overstraining credibility, and there are
some interesting sidelights on Scottish
history.
* # * *
The Wooden Statue: Dorothy Mac-
kinder (Macdonald). A life-size wooden
saint is presented to a French convent-
guesthouse in the west of England ; its
arrival is closely followed by that of a
rakish and cynical Dr. Gabriel, whose
campaign to disturb the guesthouse ends
in self-contempt. The writing is sensitive
and the novel better-than-average light
reading,
# * * #
The Throne of Saturn: S. Fowler
Wright (Heinemann). The dozen of his
short “science-fiction” stories (the author
calls them “phantasies”) considered by
Mr. Wright to be worth reprinting from
30 years of this kind of writing. All
more-or-less on the soulless-scientist
theme, with slight variations, and all a
bit thin. The title has no easily-discover-
able relation to the contents of the book,
though it lends itself to the attractive
jacket-design,
* * * *
The Making of a National Theatre:
Geoffrey Whitworth (Faber). History
relating exactly how Britain got its
National Theatre —committee meetings,
speeches, plans, views of prominent sup-
porters, Parliamentary debates —until at
last the institution “is now to become an
accomplished fact, with the blessing of
Parliament and a site on the South Bank
of the Thames where his Majesty will lay
the Foundation Stone during the Festival
of Britain.” Not for general reading, but
it should interest the people who are
gallantly trying to do the same sort of
thing in Australia.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 133
Across.
I—Grooving ermine is imitating the
Volga boatman. (9)
s—Low-class Oriental fissure. (5)
B—Check flower has a new embodi-
ment. (13)
10— Girlie, I imitate Caruso for fishy
gelatin. (9)
11— A mark changed by destiny. (5)
12— Go-between is a polite bloke. (5)
13— The difference between the “Just
Men” and the “Graves to Cairo.”
(3)
14— Poem on a presiding Lord Mayor
of Sydney. (4)
16—Dog fighter? (3)
18—Italian soul of Mrs. Gustav
Mahler. (4)
-o—Flier is sometimes carried by the
unconquered. (3)
211—Males disturb Miss Lagerlof. (5)
26 East-lake is weird. (5)
27 A beheaded square soldier from
U.S. and a solvent of gold. (4-5)
28— European ruler gets the customary
money with nothing. (7, 6)
29 Quick letter periods of abstinence.
(5)
30—Sweet month what can be seen
through. (9)
Down.
1— Tree relatives in a barrel. (6)
2 Bantering a device that prevents
you from dropping off. (7)
3 Obstructive incursion. (6)
4 His Majesty like to warble when
dropping a catch, for instance?
(8)
5 Jails the sounds of metal against
metal and 100 one-hundredths of
a chain. (6)
6 American soldier upset no radical,
but is completely slighted. (7)
7 One who was in no hurry to
score fifties against a state in the
key. (8)
9—Firm fellow is forceful. (6)
13—Not at home. (3)
15 — Drink 50 of a Nobel prizewinner
in 1909. (8)
16— Pun parent to tease mutton. (8)
17 — Whoever puts up with porter. (6)
19 —Illusions provide as many furies
as there were Arabian Nights. (?)
22 — Mum gets around the go-between
color. (7)
23 Love belongs to its unskilled
practitioners when half a score
upset evil. (6)
24 — Denser. (6)
25 — Hollywood Dorothy makes mother
solitary. (6)
Solution to Crossword No. 132.


This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared memfMy by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LDtr^
IR.V. fIGRICULTURHL REIDS
August
A monthly feature for all those Interested In Agriculture.
SALES FIGURES INDICATE INCREASING
POPULARITY OF HORMONE WEEDICIDES
“Sales figures for Hormone Weedicides have risen remarkably in the last
few years,” says Mr. K. R. Green, Weeds Officer, of the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture. “In 1946 they were practically nothing. By 1948 they had
risen to £250,000 a year, and over the last financial year they reached nearly
£1,000,000”
These figures are the only reliable
guide to the extent of Hormone Spray-
ing being carried out, and are based on
the sales of four leading marketers.
The figures indicate a remarkable
growth in the use of this type of weed
control and, to a certain extent, can be
said to reflect the effectiveness of the
method.
WIDE VARIETY OF USES
The first hormone weedicide to be
introduced into Australia was 2,4, 5-T.
This was used for spraying blackberries,
with remarkable results.
Later, another hormone, 2,4 D, was
used on crops, to control weed growth
before harvesting, and in pastures to
stop the growth of broad-leaf weeds.
Using low - volume, high - pressure
sprays, both farmers and spray contrac-
tors have covered thousands of acres
with hormone weedicides since they
were first introduced in 1946.
SMALL POWER SPRAY PROVES
VERY POPULAR
A small power-spray, which builds up
a pressure of 2501b5. per square inch,
has become very popular amongst the
users of hormone weedicides.
This Spray can be easily carried by
two men, yet produces a performance
better than many big power sprays.
Used in conjunction with a boom and
hormone weedicides, it has been found
ideal for covering large areas of pasture,
and getting through pre-harvest cereal
spraying.
This Plant is the M.V. Roller Spray,
designed on an entirety different prin-
ciple to any other Power Spray on the
market.
In conjunction with Hormone Weedi-
cides it has proved one of the most
highly efficient weedkillers yet developed.
Full particulars of the Roller Spray
Plant can be had from any one of the
Distributors listed at the bottom of this
page.
Roller Spray's
Remarkable
„ Performance
During a recent test a Moffat-Virtue
Roller Spray Plant, which is powered
by a 1.3 h.p. Villiers Engine, and weighs
only 1401b5., developed an operating
pressure of over 5501b5.
This is a remarkable performance for
such a small power spray . . . consider-
ing that it already leads the small plant
field with a recommended operating
pressure of 2501b5. per square inch.
The Roller Spray gets its performance
from one unique principle used in its
design. This is an eccentric roller drive,
which enables the duplex piston pump
to make about four times more strokes
per minute than a normal piston pump.
Originally, the Roller Spray was de-
signed to overcome the problems created
by hilly country. In many places, or-
chardists and banana growers needed
high-pressure spray plants, yet could
not get them on to the job, because of
the rugged nature of their properties.
A Moffat-Virtue Roller Spray Plant
mounted on a vat and hand-cart. This
set-up is used for spraying tomatoes in
glass-houses.
These farmers needed a plant tk
was easy to carry. It had to be capafci
of producing an output of over to
gallons per minute at a pressure of me*
than 200Ibs.
The Roller Spray gave them tl
answer. It more than fulfilled ever
requirement the growers asked for, a:
became the first plant of its kind in t
world.
Since then the Roller Spray has bt
used for practically every type of spr
job, from jetting sheep to whitewash
walls.
It is used extensively for sprayi:
hormone weedicides. The high pressi
and comparatively low output make
ideal for this job.
Orchardists and vegetable grom;
used it because the extra long lis
weight hoses it is equipped with n&
it easy to cover their crops.
The Roller Spray is the most versa!
power spray on the market to-day.
will save work and make money t
any agriculturalist, no matter wt
type of property he has.
&
0
WEEDKILLING. High pressure and
low-volume combined make the Moffat-
Virtue Roller Spray ideal for spraying
weedicides.
(Sj>
N,
I
5S
PORTABILITY. — It's so light two men
can carry it with the greatest of ease over
the roughest country you can find.
<c>
a
$3
r
•m
SHEEP JETTING. For small ■ s
sheep jetting it’s the perfect fian‘
When you’re not jetting you can sprd
the sheep-yards , whitewash your shed'
and do all sorts of spray jobs.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manufacturers,
Machinery Merchants, Epsom Road, Rose-
bery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith &
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.Lfe
Hobart and Launceston.
