

The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 72-No. 3736
Wednesday, September 19, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Times Finger Has Etched
its Mark on
Jedburgh’s Sturdy Walls
IT is now long since the Border Country heard
the clash of arms and the shout of clansmen
as the English and Scots fought it out back and
forth across each other’s borders. As a result
of these remorseless struggles, however, there
stand today the ruins of the magnificent abbeys
of Jedburgh, Dryburgh and Melrose, around
which were fought those battles of long ago.
Jedburgh, the county town of Roxburghshire,
is situated in the valley of the Jed, forty-eight
miles from Edinburgh, and is famed for the
noble ruins of its abbey and other relics of its
historic past. In the ninth century a town
existed at Jedburgh which grew up around a
stronghold-—in those turbulent days no com-
munity was rash enough to establish itself
without the protecting shield of a castle. Before
the end of the eleventh century there existed at
Jedburgh a castle of formidable strength, which
was used at frequent intervals by Scottish kings
as royal residence. There, in 1165, d*
Malcolm the Maiden, and from there many
charters were issued by David I (1124-1153),
by William the Lion (1165-1214) and by
Alexander II (1214-1249). Because o' its
strength Jedburgh was a constant bone of con-
tention, and the town was taken and retaken
by forces of the two nations. Ultimately, n
1409, the Scots themselves destroyed the castre,
for they resolved that ii they could not hold it
permanently neither would the invading armies.
The Abbey stands upon a site which was
originally occupied by a church founded in the
ninth century by tire Bishop of Lindisfarne, who
died in a.d. 845. This was succeeded by a
priory founded in 1118 by David I, and by the
year 1147 it had become an Abbey. There, in
1285, was married Alexander 111 to a daughter
of the Count of Dreux. During the stormy
days of the thirteenth century Jedburgh Abbey
was sacked, partially destroyed and the lo ad
stripped from its roof>. In 1523 it was o. a-
barded by the invading forces of the Earl of
Surrey, and in 1544 it was again sacked by
raiders under the Earl of Hertford. Built of
red sandstone, the massiveness of its walls
preserved the Abbey from total destruction, and
it exists today as a fine example of Early
English and Norman styles of architecture.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEP PELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


11l
awoH jd
USI\DUJUIO l
uaDai
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.161) Age
The Red Page
NEWS OF SHAKSPEARE.
“One always makes a mistake,” says
Sir Ralph Richardson in his preface to
the British edition of Shakspeare of
London by Marchette Chute (Seeker and
Warburg), “when one thinks that one
knows all about everything, even when it
comes to the few simple facts that we
think we know about the life of Shak-
speare.” He goes on to mention one or
two points on which Miss Chute has
enlightened him. Sir Ralph, as an actor,
may be supposed to have all the details
of Shakspearian research at his finger-
tips ; but for this reviewer, whose
researches have always ended in a vague
resolve one day to turn over the pages
of the big William Shakspeare: A Study
of Facts and Problems by E. K. Chambers
in two volumes at Sydney Public Library,
Miss Chute’s book is a page-by-page
surprise.
Miss Chute’s knowledge of Shakspeare
and London seems restricted to what she
could find out about them in the New
York Public Library, and other United
States libraries; and she has further
restricted herself by using no documents
that are not contemporary with
Shakspeare;
In dealing with Shakspeare’s life, I have
taken what seems to me the safest course,
and have based it entirely on contemporary
documents. 1 have used no evidence that
is dated later than 1635; and I have
accepted a document as late as this (nine-
teen years after Shakspeare’s death) only
because it records testimony given by
Cuthbert Burbage, the last survivor of the
original group of London theatre men who
had worked with Shakspeare.
Now, popular dealings with Shakspeare
have had for the most part as little regard
for historical truth as Shakspeare had in
his plays ; and facts produced by modern
psychological divination, poetical inter-
pretation, or such gossip as is recorded by
that lovely liar, John Aubrey, take a heavy
beating from Miss Chute,
Shakspeare’s father was not a Stratford
butcher, but a master-glover; he was not
illiterate, for although he signed his name
with a mark, he became chamberlain, or
treasurer, of Stratford and administered
the town’s accounts ; and later he became
High Bailiff, or mayor, the highest office
the town could bestow,
William Shakspeare did not steal deer
in the deer park of Sir Thomas Lucy;
for the Lucy family did not have a deer
park in the 16th century. Jonson’s
remark that Shakspeare had little Latin
and less Greek must be understood in
the realisation that the only thing Shak-
speare could have been taught at Stratford
grammar school in the guild buildings
over the council-room was Latin; what-
ever he subsequently learned about
English, history, mathematics, geography,
etc., he had to pick up out of school.
The story that Shakspeare held horses
outside theatres when he first came up to
London is “supposed to have originated”
with Sir William D’Avenant, the noseless
Poet Laureate, who was only 10 years
old when Shakspeare died, and who used
to boast in his cups that he was Shak-
speare’s illegitimate son —John Davenant,
the poet’s (legal) father, had been mayor
of Oxford. Miss Chute will have none of
any of this.
Shakspeare’s first child was born six
months after the wedding; but Miss
Chute argues against those who consider
that Anne Hathaway, aged 26, used this
method of forcing an 18-year-old lad to
marry her; a “pre-contract” for marriage
in those days was almost as binding as
the ceremony, and covered a multitude of
sins. Miss Chute further opines that
Anne was a Puritan—her father used a
“Puritan phrase” in his will; her brother
and all his sons were churchwardens;
and the brother “requested a Puritan
burial” —and this would be a good reason
why she did not accompany William to
London when he decided to be an actor,
for to Puritans actors were
crocodiles which devour the pure chastity
both of single and married persons....ln
their plays you shall learn all things that
appertain to craft, mischief, deceits and
filthiness.
This view of the Elizabethan stage,
which seems to have been encouraged by
the actors themselves, on the principle
that everyone will want to read a banned
book, must remain largely with most of
us who have not troubled to go into
the matter, helped on by such fiction in
the Stevenson vein as the short story by
Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, reviewed a
while back in this page, which portrayed
Shakspeare showing his father the
London sights, notably a huge party of
actors disporting themselves in a riot of
booze and noise in a veritable thieves’
kitchen. It is Miss Chute’s most worth-
while accomplishment to modify this
notion.
At its highest levels the London stage
was a worthy, even a reputable, profes-
sion. The acting companies were under
the protection of the Court; during the
reign of Elizabeth, Shakspeare’s com-
pany had as patron Lord Hunsdon, the
Lord Chamberlain ; in the reign of James,
his company became the King’s Men, with
a royal patent, “the most prominent group
of actors in England for the rest of
the reign.” When the Constable of Castile
came as Spanish Envoy to London, and
Queen Anne vacated Somerset House for
him, the 12 actors of the King’s com-
pany were among those “chosen for their
good disposition and nobility” to be the
Spanish Ambassador’s Grooms-of-the-
Chamber.
Acting was no walk-on, walk-off
matter;
[The actor] worked on a raised stage in
the glare of the afternoon sun, with none
of the softening illusions that can be
achieved in the modern theatre, and in plays
that made strenuous demands upon his skill
as a fencer, a dancer and an acrobat....
Battles and sieges were very popular with
the audiences, with the upper levels of the
stage used as the town walls and turrets,
and an actor had to know how to take
violent falls without damaging either him-
self or his expensive costume.. The
average Londoner was an expert on the
subject of fencing, and he did not pay his
penny to see two professional actors make
ineffectual dabs at each other with rapiers
when the script claimed they were fighting
to the death.
A young actor like Shakspeare must have
gone through long, gruelling hours of prac-
tice to learn the ruthless technique of
Elizabethan fencing. The London audience
also expected to see bloody deaths and
mutilations; and it was necessary to find
some way to run a sword through an actor’s
head or tear out his entrails without impair-
ing his usefulness for the next performance.
This involved not only agility, but a
thorough knowledge of sleight-of-hand,
since the players were working close.to the
audience and in broad daylight When
the English actors travelled abroad special
mention was always made of their ability
as dancers.
Keeping all this in mind, the
Elizabethan actor had to blow like an
organ down a community ear trained to
the appreciation of words spoken, when
Shakspeare first came to London, in a
“heavily end-stopped” verse, and later,
thanks a great deal to his endeavors, in
the more intricately-rhythmical blank;
he played a different part every day,
since no play was given two days in
succession ; and could expect little help
from the prompter, who was generally
busy with the timing of trapdoors and
ropes—the public stage used, perhaps,
fewer complicated effects than were to be
found in the Court Masques, the descrip-
tive books of which have to be seen to
be believed, but
a single play in which Greene and Lodge
collaborated required the descent of a
prophet, and an angel let down on a throne,
a woman blackened by a thunder-stroke,
sailors coming in wet from the sea, a serpent
devouring a vine, a hand with a burning
sword emerging from a cloud and “Jonah
the prophet cast out of a whale’s belly
upon the stage.”
The men of Shakspeare’s company
were all good family men. Richard
Burbage, one of the greatest actors of
lis day, lived all his life in his father’s
>arish of St Leonard’s, Shoreditch, and
rad seven children. John Heminges and
Henry Condell were neighbors of the
parish of St. Mary Aldermanbury;
Heminges and his wife Rebecca had 14
children ; Condell and his Elizabeth had
nine. Thomas Pope was “unmarried
but he brought up a series of fatherless
children, and had help in rearing them
from ‘good-wife Willingson, who is the
keeper of my house.’ ” The actors
Phillips and Gough had five children in
each of their families. Shakspeare, prac-
tically alone of them, had no fixed London
establishment; v but it is interesting to
notice, of a writer whose scant references
to orthodox Christianity have caused
many learned and speculative essays, that
be was Church of England, and that
when he first came to London
He worshipped on Sundays at the church
of St. Helen’s, whose graceful Gothic spire
could be seen from the river, and whose
tombs and monuments were second only to
those in Westminster Abbey.
Shakspeare’s company worked amicably
together until late in his career, and then
the trouble was that on the death of a
member his shares would go to people
who did not understand the theatre —
Shakspeare and Thomas Heywood were
about the only playwrights of the time
who were also actors. Shakspeare’s com-
pany held the copyright in all his plays,
to be published or not as the company
saw fit. When, after Shakspeare’s death,
Heminges and Condell decided to put out
the folio edition of his plays, they chose
for printer William laggard, who had been
blind since 1612; so that Britain’s most
noble heritage of words was edited for
the Press “conceivably” by laggard’s son
Isaac, “who was made a freeman of the
Stationers’ Company at the early age of
18, the year after his father went blind”
—i.e., he would have been about 28 in
1623, when the first folio was published.
On the romantic mysteries which time
has woven about Shakspeare’s life, Miss
Chute throws little light: in the sonnets,
he is merely advising a young friend to
get married, and a phrase like “master-
mistress” would have been interpreted in
Shakspeare’s day as wordy metaphor, and
without the ambiguous sexual overtones
of our day. The reality of the Dark Lady
is mere speculation; the dedication to
“Mr. W.H.” of doubtful authenticity, and
unascribable; the proper order of the
sonnets not proven. Of the “Dark
Years,” in which poetic critics have seen
Shakspeare writhing in spiritual torment.
Miss Chute has little to say, other than
that people should try to remember that
Shakspeare was an actor, and a writer
of box-office successes. One of the chief
of these was “Hamlet,” to the popularity
of which many contemporary records
testify ; and here Miss Chute circum-
navigates whole libraries of commentary
on Shakspeare’s gloomy purpose by put-
ting forth “Hamlet” as a kind of witty
commentary on a marked type of his
contemporaries:
Hamlet was bora in part of the young
man who had been glooming about the
universities and the Inns of Court in the
fin de siecle atmosphere of the late ’9o’s,
and passing remarks on the hollowness of
life, the futility of heroic action and the
degrading nature of sexual intercourse; but
he was also the product of a more
specialised group that was interesting the
doctors of the period. A competent London
physician like Timothy Bright would have
diagnosed Hamlet as a melancholic and
put much of his “internal darkness” down
to physical causes. Melancholics, as Dr.
Bright explained, “be not so apt for
action”
Miss Chute puts great emphasis
throughout her book on the fact that
Shakspeare was the people’s playwright,
writing with a special word for the penny
standers in the pit, never sneering at them,
as did the University wits and the
adherents of noble dilettantes who were
trying to establish a classical stage with
Senecan rules and an audience of the
highly-educated. And, very properly, she
attributes some of his success to
fortune:
Shakspeare came to London at a for-
tunate time. If he had been born twenty
years earlier he would have arrived in
London when underpaid hacks were turn-
ing out childish dramas about brown-paper
dragons. If he had been born twenty years
later he would have arrived when the
drama had begun to lose its hold on
ordinary people and was succumbing to a
kind of self-conscious cleverness. But his
arrival in London coincided with a great
wave of excitement and achievement in the
theatre, and he rode with it to its crest.
In illustrating this point. Miss Chute
shows us a great deal of Elizabethan and
Jacobean London, preparations to produce
plays at court; an actor-manager, tricked
out of his theatre and his land, removing
the theatre piece by piece, and setting it
up on a new site; actors on tour of the
provinces; the social and administrative
mechanisms of Stratford; negotiations
with the College of Heralds for a crest ;
pulpit denunciations ; land-deals —all
gathered into one volume for general read-
ing, a most solid and worth-while little
book.
R. McC.
AUSTRALIA.
The brown round of the continent tonight
Rises up, shoulder on shoulder, searching
for the sun;
And all the white French rains that once
took flight
Into the earth, rise slowly, one by one,
Remembering Villon who left a rag on
every tree.
Perhaps he walked Australia long ago,
Mourning for all those women white and
sad as snow.
Verlaine perhaps enchanted by our seas
Cried in his lyric voice that purple hours
Lay waxen-mitred in our purple flowers . . .
The wildflowers of Australia; a thin brown
Veil of lost Autumn is somehow caught
around
Their stalks unspeaking, as though Spring-
time at the core
Was a small child lost in the bush for ever
more.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.
A New Rabelais.
The ideal illustrator for Rabelais needs
two qualifications: first, because The
Heroic Deeds, of Gargantua and Panta-
gruel is one of the great universal classics
an artistic technique of comparable
quality; and next, a sympathy of out-
look so that the immense, gusty and
superbly healthy humor of the original
which is like the earth itself speaking’
shall not be in any way lessened or dis-
torted.
We are so accustomed to seeing
Rabelais illustrated in precisely this way,
whether in the dramatic richness of Dore’
or the lighter, wittier grace of Pape, that
it is difficult to find any particular rea-
son for the existence of Angus and
Robertson’s new edition illustrated by
Francis J. Broadhurst. The only Aus-
tralian artist with the two essential quali-
fications (unless Unk White is a possi-
bility) is, of course, Norman Lindsay,
whose scenes from Rabelais in the “Art*
in Australia” collection of his pen-draw-
ings, as brilliant in style as they are vivid
in humor and characterisation, must rank
equal with— if not above—any that have
ever been done.
If Mr. Broadhurst has a genuine sym-
pathy w'ith the Rabelaisian spirit, which
one presumes he must have or he would
not have attempted the illustrations, it
does not show in his work. There is no
laughter in his drawings, either on the
grand scale of Pape and Norman Lind-
say, or even like the laughter of Emile
Merder’s drawings, rough but spon-
taneous. There is, instead, a kind of
mask of laughter, a mere outward ap-
pearance, drifting towards the grotesque
and the monstrous . . . but without the
earthy vitality of Dore’s grotesques or
the drama of his giants. Warts in Dord
grow out of the earth, or in it, as
naturally as potatoes ; here they are stuck
on like conscientious poultices.
Technically, Mr, Broadhurst lacks
both distinction and originality. There
are the warts from Dore, decorative
touches from Beardsley, women from
contemporary magazine styles, and faces
—such as that of the woman on page 123
—which seem to come straight from
Grant Wood’s “American Gothic”: a
medley of attempts and influences which
separate, broadly, into two entirely unre-
lated styles conflicting with each other
throughout the book: an angular, cari-
caturing manner, probably German in
origin but now popular in magazine
joke-blocks ; and a more rounded and
strangely furry type of drawing in which
some contemporary mechanical technique
has replaced the rich tones of Dore’s
wood-engravings. The general effect is
harsh, uneasy and cold.
With Urquhart’s translation set in clear
type and compact form, the book will
doubtless serve well enough for a popu-
lar edition. But this is not, as one ex-
pects in a Rabelais, a piece for collectors.
INHERITOR.
These hills my father’s father stripped
and, beggars to the all-year wind,
they crouch like shoulders naked and
whipped—
humble, abandoned, out of mind.
Of their scant creeks I drank once
and ate sour cherries from old trees
found in their gullies fruiting by chance.
Neither fruit nor water gave my mind ease,
i dream of hills bandaged in snow,
their eyelids clenched to keep out fear.
When the last leaf and bird go
let my thoughts stand like trees here.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Joad on Shaw.
In 1949 Victor Gollancz, Ltd., pub-
lished a book by Dr. C. E. M. load
entitled Shaw. Most of it deals, very
fluently and competently, with Shaw’s
politics and philosophy, in which field
Dr. load is thoroughly at home. But the
chapter on Shaw’s style—presumably a
foreign territory for Dr. load: at least
he admits somewhere in the book that
poetry means nothing to him, or very
little —calls for some remark.
In this chapter Dr. load gives the fol-
lowing quotation from The Irrational
Knot, an early effort by G.B.S. :
“Mr. Reginald Harrington Lind, at the
outset of his career, had no object in life
save that of getting through it as easily as
possible; and this he understood so little
how to achieve that he suffered himself to
be married at the age of nineteen to a
Lancashire cotton-spinner’s heiress. She
bore him three children, and then eloped
with a professor of spiritualism, who
(Red Page continued on inside back
cover.)


mm'
gf
Favourites for Summer • • •
these “Packards” give you smart styling, expert cratsmanship and
comfortable fit in a shoe that’s as perfect with any good
formal wear as with casual knockabout clothes.
“Packard” Moccasin Derby with smart wall toes
in Tan Calf or Brown, Grey or Black Suede
with leather soles and heels, 79/6. Tan Calf
with non-slip rubber soles and heels, 81/6.
Replaceable screw-in spikes for golf. £5/11/-.
">’vSUi
m
m
in
:::x>;;; y --: :: :.
\ ,/
>:,i -;:
. -*
m-'i
I
>•■?* f
C**
■rx
m
m
J
>**■«• -
c
M
4.,
1
4#
«:>
m*
mfmm
&'J&
4&
L/C.
jp
v*>
o
c
m
O
MM
0*
ft
S 3
3
so
l4PKtar
*>*
o'*
fO
X
■
K 9
.yW’iyn
& -
:
II
THB
“Packard” No-cap Derby. A very smart shoe
with roomy toes and snug fitting heels. In
Tan Calf, Black Box Calf or Brown Suede.
Sizes 5 to 14, fittings B to F. Price, 74/6.
•‘Packard” Brogue with extra stout soles and
wide welts in rich Tan Calf, Black Box Call
or Brown Suede. Sizes 5 to 14. Fittings B
to F. Priced at only 85/6 a pair.
"Packard” Oxford with neatly
punched caps and comfortably
built round toes. In Tan or Black.
Box Calf. Sizes 5 to 12. Fittings
A A to F. Priced at only 74/6.
MEN’S SHOES —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. ’PHONE M 2401; ADDRESS MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


THE PATTERN OF PROGRESS
H m
m 1
:
■
m
u
ms
m
iiiiii
I:
x
■
m
I
ar
n
■
■
■
wm
:; :
P: :X : ;
. ~
1111
I
tm&m
: :■
■ :
if,'.';
■I
f 8
:
INTERNAIIONAI
INDUSTRIAL
POWER
Throughout Australia today vast
plans for the development of our
natural resources are taking
shape.
Mighty machines, crawler trac-
tors, scrapers, excavators, rock
crushing plant and all the para-
phernalia of modern construction
allied to International Power and
ranged against the forces of
nature to keep faith with the
steady development begun by
our forebears 150 years ago.
We of ISAS are justly proud of
our association with this massive
array of equipment which, during
this year of Jubilee, is contribut-
ing to this pattern of progress.
SOLD AND SERVICED BY
Wmm
lilii
w
wmur
international
harvester
AO7O
fS
si
u
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVILE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HOBART ADELAIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FDR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3728
Wednesday, September 19, 1951
FELLOW-TRAVELLERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ‘Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
RED CRIME AND LIBERTY.
In considering all the talk about freedom
of speech and association and of the
rights of the trade-unions which has been
heard lately, particularly from Dr. Evatt,
it is healthy to remember why these
things exist in British communities.
They certainly are not recognised
merely that people may do as they like
and say what they like without limit.
That would involve complete anarchy
and breakdown of law and order and
bring about the very condition which
they are intended to avoid.
In accordance with the doctrine
' of the British freedoms, a line is
drawn between liberty of association and
speech and action and criminal licence in
the same field. It is not an arbitrary
line, and where it lies is pretty generally
recognised—on the borders between
legal and illegal intention. It is per-
missible for honest men to associate for
honest and lawful purposes and
to express their views vigorously
for those purposes. But it is not
a recognised principle that criminals
should be allowed to associate to con-
spire in criminality or that they should
be allowed to position themselves with
intent to commit crime.
Thfc law goes a long way in defining
the position. There is a Consorting Act
which prevents criminals from associat-
ing. There are other laws which prevent
people from being on premises or in
certain situations with intent to commit
crimes. There are other laws which make
it dangerous to incite to crime, and
particularly to aid and abet crime.
Against all these wise provisions
necessary to help prevent civilisation and
law and order from breaking down
nobody has ever heard any responsible
“Labor” man say a word —not even Dr.
Evatt or Mr. Eddie Ward.
Yet, in spite of this, dozens of worthy
(or reasonably worthy) “Labor” members
and trade-union leaders have been ruin-
ing their overtaxed voices during the past
few weeks persuading the country that
it is healthy that a criminal conspiracy,
the Communist party, should be allowed
full freedom of action in carrying out its
treasonable designs in the interest of a
menacing foreign enemy, and that it is an
act of “Fascism” and a threat to all the
freedoms we hold dear to interfere with
its liberty of voice and action.
There is no doubt about the nature of
the Communist party and its intentions.
Its objectives are quite clear, since they
are stated openly and have been proved
again and again, notably by the royal
commission on Communism which sat
in Victoria in 1949 under the presidency
of Mr. Justice Sir Charles Lowe.
Mr. Justice Lowe found that the aims
and objects of the Communist party were
to overthrow the Capitalist State, to
establish the dictatorship of the pro-
letariat (which he quotes Lenin —as
accepted by the Australian Communist
party —as saying is “rule won and main-
tained by the use of violence by the pro-
letariat against the bourgeoisie, rule that
is unrestricted by any laws”). This occurs
in a book used by the Australian Com-
munist party as a textbook.
He found that the party was “prepared
to use any means to achieve a desirable
object, so long as it regards the means
as fitting and the results as not on the
whole disadvantageous.”
He found that the party was prepared
to resort to fraud, violence, intimidation
and defamation to gain its ends, and he
gave specific instances in which these
methods had been used. And he accepted
the fact —as does the Communist party
openly for that matter —that while Com-
munists are prepared to make every use
possible of the law to protect themselves,
they do not recognise any obligation to
respect the law when it conflicts with
their purposes.
Such a body needs to work under a low
moral code. And indeed Mr. Justice
Lowe was able to quote from another
Lenin textbook, prescribed for the higher
education in the official schools of the
party in Australia:
We deny all morality taken from super-
human or non-class conceptions. We say
that this is a swindle, a befogging of the
minds of the workers and peasants in the
interests of the landlords and capitalists.
We say our morality is wholly subordi-
nated to the interests of the class struggle
of the proletariat. We deduce our morality
from the facts and needs of the class
struggle of the proletariat.
It is also a party of which Mr. Justice
Lowe found;
The Monarchy as a separate institution
seems to come into consideration by the
Communist party as a matter for contempt
or derision. There Is in evidence an exhibit
headed “Jehovah, George Wettin and the
Hempire.” It speaks of “the specious
humbug of Monarchy” and of “the pro-
cession of pimps, harlots and criminal
lunatics who have occupied the English
throne since the Norman Conquest.”
The commissioner had no doubt about
the utter disregard of the party for the
law. He had no doubt that it intended
insurrection as early as possible. He
quoted from the resolutions of the Ninth
Annual Conference of the A.C.P. a
passage which throws a strange light on
the outlook of a body which is just now
screaming for “peace” and for the pre-
vention of bloodshed:
When war comes the workers must be
prepared not to boycott war by refusal
to render service or by inaction or by
pacifist means but to take advantage of the
opportunity to acquire arms and turn
them to their account. The workers alone
can end war by smashing for ail time the
present cause of war, capitalism.
He further quoted from the same
resolutions a determination by the party
to stimulate mass opposition to con-
scription, “not merely for the defence of
the ‘democratic’ rights of Australian
citizens” but because it was proposed that
out of the anti-conscription movement
there should “grow larger and more class-
conscious movements determined to wage
civil war rather than be conscripted and
eventually to press forward through mass
political strikes t 0.... .the establishment
of our dictatorship.”
Finally, Mr. Justice Lowe showed both
that the trade-unions were the primary
and essential weapon in the carrying
forward of Communist plans to the point
of fruition —that “the C.P. is not in-
terested in securing an increase in pro-
duction in industry under the present
conditions, but that it is interested in
obtaining positions in the trade-unions
in which it can carry out its functions as
a vanguard.”
Why should a free hand be given to this
dishonest, disloyal and treasonable
association of criminal agents of a
foreign Power who, as the royal com-
mission found, intend to achieve their
objectives, inter alia, by “leadership and
influence in trade-unions,” “the use
of political and general strikes
demonstrations and armed demonstra-
tions where the C.P. considers them
necessary,” “armed insurrection (if
necessary), the seizure of power by the
proletariat and the smashing of the State
as we know it,” as well as by “the
forcible suppression and expropriation of
the owning class who have resisted” and
the eventual management of the State by
the dictatorship of the proletariat “based
on violence and untrammelled by law”
and “using the trade-unions as levers or
instruments to carry on Socialist produc-
tion”?
Yet Dr. Evatt and his ex-Communist
boss, the president of the Federal A.L.P.,
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, declare that it would
be an infringement of the principles of
freedom to put any check on these pro-
ceedings and an infringement of the
rights of trade-unionists to take steps to
protect them or their union funds and
resources from being misused for treason-
able purposes by these treacherous
ruffians. If Australia agrees with them on
September 22 it will be a poor lookout
for the Commonwealth. The vote should
be an emphatic “Yes.*
Jap Treaty Signed.
It is a measure of Russian obstruction of
all plans for re-establishment of inter-
national peace that six years after the
end of hostilities the only ex-enemy
countries of World War II with whom the
Allies have been able to make a treaty
for the resumption of full political and
commercial intercourse are Italy and
Japan, lying outside the areas of occupa-
tion by Soviet armies.
The Balkan countries do not count,
for the “peace” settlements have never
been honored by them under Russian
domination. The treaty which the
Western Powers are about to finalise with
West Germany is not allowed by the
Soviet to do anything to heal the division
of Germany, and even peace with Austria
has been resisted on every lame excuse
by the Communist occupying Power.
This keeping alive of the embers of the
late war is as eloquent as any other
feature of a Russian malignancy,
designed to impose on international
society not the security sought by the
United Nations but constant threat of
aggression— not those “human rights” ex-
pressed in the “four freedoms” or any of
them, but rearmament as the only pro-
tection of the most elemental liberty —
not peace, but a sword.
It is providential that Dr. Evatt and
“Labor” were not in power for the com-
pletion of the Japanese treaty ; and grave
mischief will be done to the reputation
of this Commonwealth if Dr. Evatt’s
reckless abuse of the treaty’s terms be
continued now that the peace instruments
are irrevocable and the reinsurance agree-
ment offered by and accepted from the
United States is all that our people, or
any others in the world, could reason-
ably desire or expect. Propaganda
against restored peace in the Pacific is the
business only of Soviet Russia, and Aus-
tralian “Labor” can do no worse dis-
service to that objective than to
join Russia in that dirty work. Dr. Evatt
has been howling in the Press and on the
radio about the treaty as an “open and
unashamed abandonment of all standards
of international justice,” as “a menace to
security,” as “forced on Britain” by the
Menzies Government in some sort of
political blackmail, as “designed to
commit Australia to the inevitability of
war.” This is claptrap, but also highly
dangerous for such national respect we
may have won in east Asia and the
United States.
Dr, Evatt, on behalf of Australian
“Labor,” rants about the insincerity of
Japan as a signatory to this treaty or to
any substitute for it. Leaving aside the
very obvious retort of insincerity against
Australia which Dr. Evatt is inviting,
there is one fact to which history can
bear witness: whatever other nations
may have to say, neither Britain nor
Australia can deny that for 20 years,
until Britain reluctantly terminated it in
1922, the Anglo-Japanese treaty of
alliance was observed loyally and to our
great advantage by every Japanese Gov-
ernment. When Dr. Evatt talks next
at)out “standards of justice” let him at
least tell us what his “standards” are. So
far he can discern no “warmongering”
in Moscow but only in Canberra and
Tokyo, and by implication in Washington.
Are Australian soldiers, ships and airmen
under the U.N. flag in Korea fighting in
alliance with the Communist armies
against “American warmongers”?
What sort of a Japanese treaty (if any),
or reinsurance pact with the United
States either, should we have had if an
Evatt Government had been in power in
Canberra, with the “larrikin strain” still
dominant and the 0.F.P.-bird ever
“changing its plumage in mid-flight”?
Would Dr. Evatt have refused to sign
and told the U.S. Government to go to
blazes —as over Manus —with its offer of
a security pact? Would he have walked
out of the room with Gromyko and that
Polish Evatt-admirer, Wierblowski?
Would he have demanded in defiance of
50 U.N. nations that Japan be kept dis-
armed for ever, and have offered a
sufficient Australian Army of occupation
to police the country indefinitely? There
can be no carefree times during the
coming generations for White Australia
even with the most robust military
strength and under the most statesman-
like direction. But the Evatt policy
would lead White Australia straight to
perdition, despised by friend and foe
alike. To what better fate his policy
would condemn us let this ballyhoo
artist explain when the treaty comes up
for ratification during the coming
months in Parliament.
Details of the,treaty have been widely
published and the Australian public has
no excuse for ignorance of them.
Obviously it is more than a peace settle-
ment after the late war: it is also, along
with its concomitant pacts between
U.S.A. and (1) Australia and New
Zealand, (2) the Philippines and (3)
Japan, an instrument for mutual defence
against aggression from any quarter.
It is not, and could not be, a treaty
guaranteeing us security in peace for
evermore ; it is rather a mutual series of
pacts under the United Nations Charter,
looking towards guiding and encouraging
Japan into the paths of law-abiding inter-
national society. Those local radio and
Press commentators who have not given
up hopes of resuming happy days in
Foreign Minister Evatt’s back-room are
already descanting with horror on the
obligations the treaty lays upon Aus-
tralia, as though it were an injustice to
this country that any rights it claims
should require reciprocal obligations.
Under the pacts an attack on Australia
will be regarded as an attack on the
United States and vice versa; but an
attack on Japan will also be an attack on
the United States, and it is intolerable,
they say, that in such event we should be
required to make common cause in it.
The answer, of course, is that either
emergency would, on the Korean pre-
cedent, involve participation by all U N
countries which (in the Evattian phrase)
support U.N.O. ’ Moreover, the eventu-
ality suggested is with us today, for the
Russo-Chinese Communist invasion of
Korea is an attack directed as much
against Japan as against the South
Koreans. Let anybody who denies this
ask himself how the newly-restored
Japan would be likely to react if the
Communists, resuming their aggression,
could succeed in driving the U.N. forces
out of Korea.
On the day after the San Francisco
conference finished the real motive of
the Evatt-“Labor”-Communist objec-
tions to a Japanese peace made itself
vocal. It came with the outcry against
the inroads which Japanese trading will
make on the high cost of all commodities
and shipping services, against “cheap
goods” produced by “cheap labor.” Have
dear goods and dear labor become vested
interests with us? In so far as
internal inflation is caused by the
general shortage of goods in international
markets, Japanese (and German) com-
petition will undoubtedly reduce that
shortage and help to bring prices back to
a reasonable level. It will also
make the luxury of a 40-hour week
look sillier than ever at such a time
as this. The restrictive conditions of the
Japanese treaty, limiting some 85,000,000
of people to a home area which was too
small for fewer of them 20 years ago,
and requiring them to earn a higher
standard of living and pay reparations to
boot, will not encourage any 40-hour
week in Japan ; and that is where the
Australian “Labor” shoe rubs. There
are no such incentives to production as
those felt by Japanese and Germans, two
of the most industrious peoples on earth,
with a golden opportunity to work them-
selves back to that state of prosperity
which, they are told, all true democracies
deserve to enjoy.
If “full employment” is good for part
of the world, it must be good for all the
world. The harshest peace treaty could
not prevent the return of Japan (or
Germany) to the leading ranks of the
world’s workers. With the world-wide
deficiency of goods and services, and in
pursuit of “the greatest benefit for the
greatest number,” that return can hardly
be denied.
Eden Preferred.
From London: The Gallup Poll,
having consistently forecast a defeat for
Attlee and Co. when Britons are relieved
of their suspense, has now turned to side-
issues. Latest figures show that Anthony
Eden is more popular as prospective
Prime Minister than Winston Churchill,
the respective percentages being 49 and
54, This gives a “sample” of the nation
as a whole. Among Conservatives only,
50 p.c. favor Churchill and 45 p.c. Eden.
Non-Conservatives appear to have
made up their minds quite decisively, if
these percentages are a true guide:
Eden. Churchill.
Labor 52 17
Liberal .. .. .. 60 24
Independent .. .. 48 26
There is nothing surprising, in informed
quarters, about these revelations. The
British electorate has Churchill well
identified in its mind. Partisan Labor
sees him as a formidable opponent, more
devastating than the gentler Eden. Of
the rest, the reason would seem to be that
there are two, not one, Churchills: the
greatest Englishman of his —or any—age,
and also a party-leader belittling his
stature by party tricks.
Why is he out of full favor as Prime
Minister? Probably because of his age,
his independence, his diversity of inter-
ests (the war history, for example), the
need for a change and, finally, a genuine
desire to watch him enjoy a fruitful re-
tirement —and to hang on to every word
of occasional speeches made with the
authority and detachment of an elder
statesman.
Although it is not impossible that Mr.
Churchill might hand over to his lieu-
tenant when he feels that the ship or
State is well-found and set to a stable
course, any suggestion of premature re-
tirement is incomprehensible. Mr.
Churchill’s age is to be noticed in body
and voice, but certainly not in mind.
He has never been Prime Minister in
peace-time and, given the opportunity,
is hardly likely to refuse an honor that
none has merited more. And his attacn-
ment to the House of Commons should
last as long as his ability to rise to ms
feet from whichever Front Bench the
political situation allows him to occupy.
Nevertheless, his respect for public
opinion can hardly make him impervious
to its trend. Perhaps an early general elec-
tion will give the answer: several ener-
getic and vital months in Downmg-street,
followed by an honored retirement to the
easel and study at Chartwell.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Issue.
Amid all the nonsense of the referendum
campaign on Communism the issue is
really clear and simple.
It is not, as Dr. Evatt suggests, a
referendum to give the Government
power to pass “a most wanton, foolish
and cruel Act” to enable the authorities
to override the powers of the High Court
on individual freedom. It is not, as the
same authority declares, something to
give the Government tyrannous and un-
exampled power over the lives of busi-
nessmen, private citizens in general and
every facet of industrial life. It is nothing
abnormal in legislation or even anything
to which the “Labor” party has hitherto
objected. It is not something to cut off
citizens from the protection of the High
Court.
Despite the unanimous propaganda of
Communism and so-called “Labor” (of
which one of the features has been that
what Communism has said during the
campaign one day “Labor” has said the
next), all that is asked for is a mere trifling
fraction of the power which “Labor”
itself asked for in Dr. Evatt’s 1944
Fourteen Points referendum, and con-
tinues to ask for in its platform, which
calls for “the clothing of the Common-
wealth with sovereign powers,” the
States surrendering their sovereign
powers to it on all matters whatever.
Mr. Menzies, however, puts the case
clearly:
The real issue is whether the Australian
Parliament shall have power to deal with
a treaeheroxis foreign conspiracy whose
intentions are avowedly treason and
avowedly illegal.
Every other national Parliament in the
English-speaking world has these powers
and uses them when necessary, as has
been done in the United States and
Canada. The High Court has said that
the Australian Parliament has not got
these powers despite the clamor from
Dr. Evatt and his followers that they
exist under the Crimes Act—which
“Labor” and Communism alike profess
to abhor in any case, and which they
demand shall be repealed.
Every Australian State has these
powers. Four of the States, including
Tasmania, “Labor”-governed, and Vic-
toria, whose Government exists by grace
of “Labor,” have offered to transfer them
to the Commonwealth. Only Queensland
and N. S. Wales refused.
So that all that is being asked is some-
thing which a majority of the States have
agreed to give, which a majority of the
people have approved at two general
elections, and which the “Labor” party
itself voted for when the Communist-
party Dissolution Bill was before Parlia-
ment. It asked for the powers under
orders from its central executive, of which
the president is an ex-Communist.
Now it says that they are everything
which is evil and dangerous.
Persia Drifting to Ruin.
Move and counter-move in the Persian
deadlock on Abadan oil seem to trend
in favor of Britain, despite the most
recent outburst of Dr. Mussadiq, who a
few days ago made what sounded like an
admission that the hand of Russia was
held out ready to be shaken if need be.
If he takes it he will be the sorriest
Persian Premier ever born.
It is only a few months since the
Russians were organising Kurdish and
other “nationalist” rebellions in Persia.
To secure help from Russia, technical or
political, on the oil question could have
only one result for Persia if the world
allowed it to be made effective. The
Russians would arrive in Abadan with
large numbers of troops. The Persian
workers would be thrown out in favor
of other workers —like those who are
being infiltrated into border industries in
Slovakia and other Eastern European
countries.
The Persian people would suddenly
develop a remarkable urge to ask Moscow
to protect them against the wicked British,
with the result that large forces of
Russian troops would go to other strategic
centres besides Abadan. Wherever
Russian troops went the population would
be consumed with an overwhelming love
of the beautiful Red Army. Elections
would be held at which —as in the pro-
tected Baltic States in 1939 —the polls
would be supervised by the Red Army,
whose members would vote like the rest.
A majority of 99.983 per cent, of the
population (dogs and camels included)
would be cast for inclusion in Soviet
Russia.
And in next to no time there would be
no Persia, only another satellite of
Moscow; no Mussadiq, only another
corpse or another worker in the mines of
nether Siberia. There. would be large
Russian forces on the borders of India,
large Russian air forces threatening the
traffic on the Indian Ocean to Australia
and elsewhere. There would be Russian
submarines based on the Persian Gulf.
There would also be a vigorous demand
from Russia for a dominating share in
control of the Suez Canal. The new
Israel, Syria and Lebanon, not to mention
Egypt, would all be dominated from the
flank, Turkey threatened more
imminently and almost surrounded.
It is not a pleasant prospect. The entry
of Russia into the Persian field would
almost inevitably mean world war —if
not immediately, before long.
Mussadiq’s measures last week included
first a threat to expel all Britons from
Abadan if they did not knuckle down and
get on with the job of producing oil for
Persia. Britain responded by blocking
Persia’s dollar and sterling exchange
facilities, and virtually telling the Persians
to take their balances out of Britain if
they cared to do so. Mussadiq’s counter
to this was to deny Britons remaining in
Persia exit visas without special permits
from the Persian Foreign Ministry. In
other words, he virtually decided to hold
them as hostages.
Britain responded by opening the
largest oil refinery in Europe at Fawley,
in the New Forest, a giant concern erected
in the usual silent British manner without
noise or fuss or advertising. It must
have had a stunning effect on the
Persians, more especially as at the opening
Mr. Attlee announced that Britain had
been guaranteed enough motor spirit to
replace Persian spirit up to the end of
1951, and that she had only a small
deficiency in some Persian oil products,
while there was every reason to believe
that the position in 1952 would improve.
Britain’s trade policy towards Persia
is being revised to divert scarce goods
which the Iranians have been obtaining
—sugar, steel rails and railway-sleepers.
And, of course, even if Russia were to
buy Persian oil to replace the British
market, the Russians would be at least a
couple of years before they could trans-
port it —if they wanted to transport it —
and they could not sell it unless the
“capitalist” world would carry it, since
the U.S.S.R. has no tankers.
Meanwhile the “revolt in Persia against
Mussadiq” was reported at the weekend
to be “steadily gaining force.”
General Marshall.
Deserves citation before the whole
Western world if any man does —George
Catlett Marshall, General of the Army
of the United States, Knight Grand
Cross of the Bath, of the Legion of
Honor, and member of the highest
military orders of every other country
in Europe, including Russia; Chief-of-
Staff of the U.S. Army, chief of
Combined Chiefs-of-Staff which directed
the war of the West against Hitler;
architect (as Secretary of State) of the
Marshall Aid plan for the restoration of
European economy; finally, for a
special term. Secretary of Defence at
Washington while the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation for rearmament of
the Western Union against Communist
aggression got under way . ..
And (for Europe anyway) probably
ranking with Roosevelt as the greatest
American since America’s foundation.
Other American senior service chiefs —
and they exert enormous power behind
the scenes in their own country —may
have quarrelled among themselves at
times, but they all had the highest
respect for Marshall. Eisenhower’s great
merit as Allied C.-in-C. has been named
as his drastic suppression of any
antagonism between his American and
British subordinates: in this as in other
things he was the instrument of
Marshall’s policy. Marshall was, indeed,
the natural choice for an American
appointment at the head of the Allied
armies, but, as everyone intimate with
the facts has recorded, there was nobody
who could fill Marshall’s place as head
of the combined Chiefs-of-Staffs, and
Marshall, no seeker of the limelight, said
his only desire was to serve wherever
the President wished.
He leaves public life now at the verge
of 71, having stayed a little over the time
he agreed some 18 months ago with
President Truman. Marshall was more
than a great soldier and administrator;
there was no authority he asserted —and
under the President no man held any
higher—which was not enhanced by his
own character. His verdict was as a
rule undisputed by an audience of his
own countrymen or any others. As
special Ambassador for the President in
China after the end of the late war
Marshall’s report finally settled the Ion"
uncertainty in the Washington attitude
towards China; and he will be remem-
bered among all those who have sat in
the futile Foreign Ministers’ Council with
Soviet Russia as the man who succeeded
in putting Molotov out of countenance.
The Europe which is standing on its
own feet again owes more to Marshall
than to any other one man. If the war
threatened by the Russian Communist
bloc is averted, the whole world will be
due to acknowledge its debt to him.
"Labor" and the Crimes Act.
“The Menzies Government has got all
the powers it can want for action against
Communists under the Crimes Act,” says
Dr. Evatt and every other “Labor”
spokesman in trying to swing the Aus-
tralian electorate to vote “No” next
Saturday.
And when “eminent churchmen” enter
the party-political arena to re-echo this
statement. Dr. Evatt extols them to the
skies. It isn’t true, and none knows
better than Dr. Evatt that it isn’t true.
His own opinion as Attorney-General to
his late leader as Prime Minister was that
the industrial clauses of the Crimes Act
were framed to deal only with transport
disturbances, under Commonwealth
powers oyer inter-State trade and
commerce.
While Dr. Evatt is bearing all this
false witness, with intent to mislead the
electors, these are the orders he is
required to take through the outside
executive which dictates political “Labor”
policy. They were drafted earlier this
month, and during the referendum cam-
paign, at the A.C.TU. biennial con-
ference ;
This congress declares that the con*
tinned existence of the Industrial and politi-
cal sections of the Crimes Act constitute
a threat to the freedom and independence
not only of the trade-union movement, but
of the Australian people....
We demand from the Government the
immediate repeal of the obnoxious indus-
trial and political sections of the Crimes
Act.
We call upon the Labor-party Opposition
in both Federal Houses to take whatever
steps are available to them to move im-
mediately for this repeal....
We call upon the workers everywhere to
approach their local members of the
Federal Parliaments and the Senators for
their State to secure their support for the
immediate repeal of the obnoxious sections
of the Crimes Act.
What the Evatt crowd means is that
they will not stand for action against
Communist sabotage (through the unions)
of coal, steel, gas, engineering trades,
ships, wharf-services, or the nation’s
defence plans, under the Communist-
party Dissolution Act or the Crimes Act,
and that Soviet agents should have the
right to be above the law in carrying out
any orders for wrecking Australian in-
dustry that they may receive from their
foreign masters.
Levelling Down.
If anyone should appreciate the absurdity
of the theory that all men are born equal
it should be those who set out to teach
the young; yet here is David Jordan,
head of the Teachers’ College in Wor-
cestershire (Eng.), come among us in this
jubilee year to declare that a child’s posi-
tion in the class should not be revealed
either to the child, his classmates, or his
parents.
This can only mean that aptitude, in-
telligence and application are neither to
be rewarded nor encouraged. The idea
carries other bad aspects—let it be suffi-
cient to note its resemblance to a far-too-
common outlook in adult industry, where
“near enough is good enough” is only
too obvious and the man who seeks to
do more than his “mates” and lift him-
self to higher ground is regarded with
suspicion, jealousy and dislike.
All teachers know that the child is
stimulated by competition and is born
with a desire to emulate others. Rare
indeed is the original juvenile mind that
sets its own course uninfluenced by
classmates, teachers, parents and the
personalities of its reading and dreams.
Mr. Jordan doesn’t want Johnny Jones
to know how well Billy Smith is doing.
He doesn’t want Johnny to emulate Billy
or compete against him —he seems to
think that Jonesy will be deeply wounded
if his position as 23rd in a class of 24
is revealed, and, in order to protect
Jonesy, will deprive Smithy of the satis-
faction of knowing that he is top.
This sort of thing was introduced into
N.S.W. a couple of years ago with the
elimination from the Intermediate-exam,
results of graded passes. The immediate
and continuing result was that both pupils
and teachers adopted the natural attitude
that it was silly to work hard, since all
you got was a mere pass, a version of the
“near-enough-it-good-enough” outlook.
It won’t do, or rather it will do only
if the community is to accept a future of
“near enough is good enough” and is
convinced that an unskilled laborer is
just as valuable to society as a pathologist.
As yet this community isn’t ready to
accept such a future and has no such
conviction, and it ought to be mighty
careful about these people who want to
carry their socialistic experiments into the
schools.
Walsh Island Goatyard.
By all the signs, after a few more years
have run, the State-owned Walsh Island
dockyard at Newcastle will soon be
fit to go under the hammer again as
nothing but a burden on the taxpayer.
Then there will be the same old howls
about disposal by a reform Government
of “a national asset” —said “asset” being,
in fact, merely something for the unions
to exploit.
Last year, while the boom was still
with us in full vigor, Walsh Island showed
a profit. The management, experimenting
with profit-sharing technique as practised
in the best industrial circles, announced a
bonus to employees. Boilermakers’
Union, apparently alone among those en-
gaged there, refused it and demanded
instead “a straightout wage increase,”
profit or no profit. To enforce this
demand they started an overtime ban, the
fashionable method under Communist
rolling-strike tactics of substituting work-
ing loss for working profit in key
undertakings.
Business promptly began to leave Walsh
Island. A British tanker, taken there in
tow after a breakdown off the Victorian
coast, will now cut Walsh Island out and
be sent to Japan for repairs. Pre-
sumably this is what Dr. Evatt currently
calls “the readiness of the Menzies Gov-
ernment to open its arms to Japanese
imperialism.”
After the overtime ban was brought
before Federal Conciliation Commissioner
Galvin, the union secretary said the union
had “decided to call off the ban.” A
perfect example of a bit of union dictator-
ship which did nobody any good and
merely knocked a nationalised industry.
Bunnerong Blows Up Again.
Sydney got another shock about its
dilapidated and mismanaged Bunnerong
powerhouse when it came out that power
output was 61 million kilowatt-hours
below estimates, and the show had lost
£1,659,746 in a year’s operations. Thou-
sands who’d been listening to comforting
statements from people like Electricity
Commissioner Conde were confronted
with the statement that before the end
of the year they’d be short of another
45 million kw.-h., making a loss of over
100 million kw.-h. altogether.
All this was followed by Minister
Cahill with an announcement that his
Government “hoped to take control” of
Bunnerong and Pyrmont powerhouses
before 1952, and that a “highly qualified
British engineer” would be hired to report
on both outfits. How this will improve a
situation that has been steadily worsening
for ten years and is due as much to poli-
tical muddling and worse as to anything
else is a mystery.
Bad coal, of course, was blamed for
breakdown of Bunnerong, but everybody
familiar with the place knows there are
lots of other reasons. Political inter-
ference, union antics, divided authority,
passing of the buck —all have played
their part. Only a few weeks ago an
industrial court was plainly told of the
blackmail and loafing which has held up
work at Pyrmont for years. From
Premier McGirr down to the most junior
clerk in the Coal Board, all the way
through the useless Electricity Commis-
sion and the County Council, nobody
will accept responsibility for anything or
.admit that his particular side could pos-
sibly be at fault.
Meantime the Electricity Commissioner
himself has been tootling round America
and Britain in what appears to be a vain
search for plant, there has been great talk
of “package generators” and such —even
unto spending a couple of million on a
floating generator to sail up and down
the coast—and promises galore of plans
and schemes and “decisions” calculated
to cure the problem overnight.
Practically every industry in the area
served by this so-called powerhouse has
had to instal its own generating plant;
there is a “blackout bureau,” no less;
and from the McGirrs and the County
Council has developed a crossfire of
abuse and counter-abuse almost sufficient
in itself to run the turbines if the heat
could be applied to them.
The pitch of absurdity is the notion
that the McGirr Electricity Commission
can do what the County Council can’t do.
The Japanese submarine which pitched
its shells uselessly into Rose Bay golf
course one night in 1942 might have
done Sydney an immense service if it
had blown Bunnerong into Botany Bay.
The place was conceived in corruption
and mismanagement, and there is little
hope for it.


[For referendum matter requiring signature,
David Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is
responsible.]
4203
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED -OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
w
POLITICAL POINTS
Greatest NO-hoper—Doc. Evatt.
“In response to many requests” Jack
Lang broadcast on Saturday night his
views on the Referendum. In pattern
they don’t differ much from those of
official “Labor.” He has been “fighting
the Communists for 25 years” (A.L.P.
speakers make similar claims), but is not
prepared to give the powers sought in
the referendum (neither are Evatt and
Co., although their party platform seeks
full power for the Commonwealth),
Lang accuses the Government of deliber-
ately omitting the words “subject to this
Constitution” from its proposed new
Section 51A in order to keep the powers
outside the jurisdiction of the High Court.
He claims this view is supported by .“two
very distinguished constitutional lawyers.”
Jack has not disclosed the names of his
advisers. Evatt and McKenna? Or just
Evatt and Evatt minor?
Sydney is plastered with posters depict-
ing a policeman putting a gag on a
presumably worthy citizen. The posters,
which appeal to electors to vote “No”
and “defend freedom of speech,” bear
the name of well-known Communist
Adam Ogston. Yet at every meeting at
which the Prime Minister appears
Ogston’s comrades howl themselves
hoarse in an attempt to prevent Menzies
being heard.
In a statement issued by “Ten Pro-
testant Clergymen” in opposition to the
Referendum, it is claimed that:
Banning of Communist parties in Aus-
tralia and other places has often produced
resolute underground Communism, which it
is difficult to expose and defeat.
The Communist party has been banned
only once in Australia —in 1940. Natur-
ally it carried on as best it could under-
ground with the encouragement and
assistance of many of “Labor’s” present
leaders, including Dr. Evatt. Nonethe-
less, Comrade Sharkey is on record as
testifying that the ban greatly handi-
capped the party.
This legend that Communism thrives
on suppression has been repeated so often
that the unthinking are beginning to
accept it as fact. Working underground
may make some Communists tougher,
but it doesn’t make their work any easier.
In most of the satellite countries the Red?
came to power not through being banned,
but by taking advantage of a partnership
offered them by Social Democrats or other
European equivalents of the A.L.P.
Tolerance, not suppression, brought them
to power.
Every gardener knows that weeds will
grow despite his best efforts to keep them
under control. But that is no excuse for-
giving them an open go.
The N. S. Wales talking-shop reopened
last week for what may easily be
McGnxrr’s last ride. First hurdle to be
surmounted was a censure motion on the
Government’s mishandling of the butter-
price question. The session was preceded
by arguments in caucus, where a con-
siderable section agreed with the Opposi-
tion’s contention that Noo South should
fall into line with the other States (except
Queensland) and accept the Federal
recommendation of 3s. a pound.
When it came to a vote, however, the
boys all toed the party-line, including
Nott (Liverpool Plains), who had been
most vociferous on the subject. Motion
lost 47-44.
Nott admitted to the Assembly that
he had publicly criticised the Govern-
ments of N. S. Wales and Queensland
for their attitude. As Canberra had
refused an increased subsidy, and there
was no hope of the people of N. S. Wales
getting butter while the price was held
down to 2s. Bd., it was wrong to try to
hold the price at that figure. “There
must be realism.” He displayed his
realism by opposing the censure motion
because he regarded it as a censure
“against Cabinet only, and I know Cabinet
was not unanimous.” He and others are
hopeful that they can achieve in caucus
this week what they refused to help the
Opposition to do last Thursday.
Prices Minister Finnan calculates (or
accepts someone else’s calculations) that
an increase of s|d. in the McGrrrrr-Gair
price of butter would have the effect of
adding about 2s. 6d. to the next basic-
wage increase. The Finnan household
must be pretty heavy on butter; those
figures would require a consumption of
five and a half pounds a week.
Final counting in the N.Z. election gave
the Holland Government an even better
win than early figures indicated. The
National party won 50 seats —a gain of
four —to Labor’s 30. Despite a smaller
poll than in 1949 the National vote was
up 21,000; Labor’s was down 16,000.
Evatt and his not-so-merry men won’t
draw much comfort from the fact that
on the other side of the Tasman, as on
this, the issue was Communism.
Two U.S. Air Force jet pilots report
having chased in vain a flying saucer
doing about 900 m.p.h. Sydney house-
wives experience the same chagrin when
vainly chasing spuds and butter.
Reports that Melbourne toy-manu-
facturers had issued thousands of copies
of a pamphlet depicting emaciated Aus-
tralian soldiers in a Jap p.-0.-w. camp,
with the caption “Have You Forgotten?
Ban Jap Toys” (B. 5/9/’5l) have been
denied by the United Toy Traders’
Association, whose secretary says that np
such pamphlet was issued, nor was it
contemplated. Victorian Assemblyman
Norman, who first drew attention to the
story, later told Victorian Parliament that
he had found that a member the
association had scribbled the words “Ban
Jap Toys” on a p.-0.-w. pamphlet and
had suggested that it be distributed. The
association had rejected the proposal.
Perhaps as part of the A.C.T.U.’s
eternal study of the incentive-payment
proposal, which it has stood-off now for
three biennial conferences, two of its
executives, secretary Broadby and indus-
trial officer Evans, are to visit America
shortly at the invitation of the A.F. of
L. They should now be set to learn
something. The A.C.T.U. wouldn’t accept
the invitation last year because the
A.W.U. was also invited —and went.
A.W.U. secretary Dougherty came back
and said the common enthusiasm of
American employers and employees for
high production and profit-sharing had
to be seen to be believed.
It came out in the N.S.W. royal com-
mission on the booze trade that a Molong
(N.S.W.) hotel was “tied” to Tooth’s
brewery until the year 2000. And there’s
no certainty that the beer will be “on”
even then.
N.S.W. Minister for Works Cahill on
the subject of taking over the Sydney
County Council’s powerhouses at Bun-
nerong and Pyrmont: “The Government
has power to do a lot of things.” Well,
if its powers include power to get power
why doesn’t it get some and put an end
to zoning and blackouts?
At the weekend the Commonwealth
statistical office carried out a census in
Canberra. Published explanation was
that it was merely official curiosity con-
cerning the growth of the Federal
capital’s population since 1947, but in
other departments there was an uneasy
feeling that it had something to do with
those staff reductions.
When Evatt used portion of a state-
ment by Lord Jowitt to bolster up the
“No” case the Lord Chancellor was quick
to deny that he would attempt to take
sides in the domestic politics of a country
he was visiting. Not all visitors have the
same fine feelings on this subject. On
Sunday Dr. Soper, a Methodist evangelist
from London, in answer to a question,
told a Domain audience that if he had a
vote he would vote “No,” and that the
Government had power under the Crimes
Act to deal with subversive groups. Like
Lang he did not quote his authority.
Possibly Soper was goaded into giving an
answer he could easily have avoided,
but another visitor, John Platt-Mills, one
of the group of Left-wingers expelled
from the British Labor party in 1948 for
signing the “Nenni telegram” sent to the
leader of the Italian Communists, cannot
claim that excuse. On Saturday he was
advertised to give an address on the refer-
endum at the Communist-controlled Iron-
workers’ Hall in George-street. The
advertisement was authorised by J. Healy,
104 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Canon Davidson, one of the Sydney
clerics who have brought politics to the
pulpit in advocacy of a “No” vote, told
his congregation on Sunday to “go home,
turn off th’eir radios, not read their Sun-
day papers, and shut themselves off from
all referendum propaganda.” The advice
was scarcely flattering to his flock, whom
he apparently regards as children incap-
able of distinguishing between true and
false arguments. It seems the canon be-
lieves in freedom of the Press and
freedom of speech as long as no one reads
or listens to arguments opposed to his
own.
What these churchmen —who ha.ve
shown a singular facility for party politics
—ignore is that the anti-Communist legis-
lation does not seek to make a Com-
munist “a martyr” for his opinions, but
to forbid him a position, in Government
employment or on a trade-union execu-
tive, where he can pursue active treason
against the Commonwealth.
Premier McDonald (whose voice is the
voice of Jacob Cain) finds, after his vital
interview with Mcnzies, that after all he
can get along and keep his star works
going on the year’s allotted amount of
loan money. He and his “Labor” allies
worked the stunt of disaster-if-we-don’t-
get-what-we-ask for all it was worth in the
Press, but it had less than no effect upon
Menzies, who was probably from the
wrong clan anyway to have wool pulled
over his eyes by a McDonald.
P.M-G. Anthony told a meeting at
Wagga that the movement to permit a
greater production of margarine was an
attempt to dragoon dairyfarmers into
accepting the McGrrnr-Gair price for
butter. He pointed out that margarine
was made largely from coconut and
palm-oil produced by native labor at
rates of pay of about £6 a month. Maybe
he’s right on both points, but how much
a month does a cow get?
Writing in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” the secretary of the Egg Market-
ing Board of N.S.W. claims that “penny
for penny, eggs at today’s prices repre-
sent a value which compares more than
favorably with most food items.” Penny
for penny! What on earth have pennies
to do with the price of eggs?
According to Eddie Ward the “Labor”
party recognises the Communist party
“as a rival political party fighting for the
rights of the working-class.” And as far
as Ward is concerned it’s a very friendly
rivalry.
The Commonwealth Statistician an-
nounces that the number of dairy cattle
fell away by 77,000 in the 12 months
ended on March 31 last. That’s as much
as to say that 770 average dairyfarms
went out of production. Total dairy cattle
was about 4,813,000, or roughly a cow
to every two people. With the people
increasing and the cows decreasing the
answer is as simple as, but a lot more
disturbing than, the answer to two plus
two.
A new kind of bread is reported, made
to a formula evolved by the Bread
Manufacturers’ Research Institute in
Sydney and C.5.1.R.0. chemists. It is
guaranteed to stay fresh for a period not
longer than two price-rises.
Six years after the collapse of Hitler
and Tojo Britain’s Socialist Government
still retains the identity-card system that
grew up during the war. Fortunately
Britain still possesses its quota of village
Hampdens, and recently one of them, a
Mr. Willcock, refused to produce his
identity-card to a policeman who bailed
him up for a traffic offence. He carried
his case to appeal, and lost on a legal
point, but the Chief Justice, in delivering
judgment, described the regulation as a
“petty inquisition.” The final victory
was Mr. Willcock’s. The London police
have now been instructed not to ask
citizens guilty of such minor crimes as
breaches of the traffic regulations for
their cards. Nevertheless the law still
stands: maybe a few more Hampdens
are required to blow the system out
altogether.
Just before he left for England,
Commerce Minister McEwen—without
intending to —revealed the fallacy of this
Government - to - Government trading.
Stating that he was to dicker with the
British Food Ministry over butter prices,
he said that the contract entered into by
the Chifley Government for supplying
Britain with all surplus Australian butter
and cheese from 1948 to 1955 was on the
basis of annual price adjustment, with a
limit of p.c. on fall or rise. Now
Australian costs are so high that Aus-
tralia will lose 7d. a pound on all butter
to Britain this year.
Professor Fuchs, father of the atom-
traitor, holds the chair of theology at
Leipzig. According to London “Daily
Herald” the Russians have appointed him
to a committee whose job is “to build
ideology between Marxism and
Christianity.” He will find the job much
simpler if he co-opts the Red Dean —and
maybe a few clerics in this part of the
world could help a little, too. But for a
real authority on the subject the professor
cannot overlook the claims of E. J.
Holloway, Minister for Labor and
Industry in the last “Labor” Government,
who told Parliament on October 10,
1947: “If I were to permit myself to be
drawn into a philosophical discussion I
could show that every aim of the Com-
munist movement throughout the world
is based on the teachings of Christ.”
A German steel company is to erect
three gasometers in .Sydney; a Dutch-
South African firm is to dredge Newcastle
Harbor; an American engineering
concern is doing part of the work on the
Snowy River project; French, Italian and
Dutch companies are putting up pretab.
houses. All this may mean that there are
not enough Australians to do the work,
but it could mean that not enough Aus-
tralians are doing enough work.


A BALLAD OF
BLOODTHIRSTY
BESSIE
By RONALD McCUAIG
By a bank of the old George’s River
A boat was tied up to the wharf.
The deckhand, a handsome hard-liver.
Was watching the cargo go off.
A farmer came over and beckoned,
His beard was all matted with grime,
He smiled with two teeth at the deckhand;
“Young man, you are wasting your time.”
Oh, the waste!
Oh. the waste!
What is wasted can never, never, never
Never be replaced.
“You won’t get a house to keep warm in
By sailing about on the cheap,
So why don’t you take on the farming—
Ten shillings a week and your keep?
You can see that my life’s getting shorter.
And it’s time 1 was being replaced;
Besides, there’s my beautiful daughter—
Poor Bessie, she’s going to waste.”
Oh, the waste!
Oh, the waste!
What is wasted can never, never, never
Never be replaced
The deckhand soon made his decision
And shortly retired to his bunk.
And not asking any permission
Came back with his coat and his trunk;
And then in a farm-cart that rumbled
On the ruts of an old country road
As the cart-horse jog-trotted and stumbled,
They drove to the farmer’s abode.
And there for a month the new bumpkin
Went combing the paddocks with ploughs.
And filling the pigs with chopped pumpkin.
And pumping the milk out of cows;
And night after night he lay pitching
And tossing about in his bed
As he dreamed of the girl in the kitchen
And all that her father had said.
It is natural beauty that matters,
And this went for Bessie, because
Although all her clothes were in tatters
They showed what a beauty she was;
for all that, she would not be played with,
And Tom thought at times she was shy.
But then she would have him dismayed with
A fierce kind of look in her eye.
He'd often engage her in tussles
Fhat did nothing better than prove
How Bessie’s unwomanly muscles
Were stronger than his, or than love;
And when she fought free, she’d berate him
To show him how much he was loathed,
But still, while she cursed, she’d look at him
As if absolutely unclothed.
Oh, the waste!
Oh, the waste!
What is wasted can never, never, never
Never be replaced.
Tom fancied himself with the ladies.
He didn’t like being rebuked,
He longed for the Sallies and Sadies
Who acted the same as they looked;
And one day, while having his dinner,
He said. ”J’ll be taking my pay—
I en shillings a week since I've been here—
That's forty. I’m going away.”
The farmer got up from the table:
“We’d best have a man-to-man talk.
I'm funny that way—l’m unable
To think without taking a walk;
There’s a rock on the top of the gully.
It seems to be floating in air.
And Tommy, 1 tell you this truly,
I’ve dealt with some tough problems there.”
"I'll go along, too," Bess decided,
"To cut myself down a new prop";
At the hillside their pathways divided.
The men going on to the top;
And there they surveyed the horizon:
The farmer said, “Look at those trees—
You can see them much better than I, son—.
Is the mist there a big swarm of bees?"
When Tom, interested in nature.
Leaned forward a little to peer.
The farmer said, "Fly there, poor creaturel”
And gave him a push from the rear.
Tom flew down the cliff-face, and landed
At the bottom, spreadeagled and lax.
Where Bessie by custom attended
To cut off his head with her axe.
The women are mostly a willing
But slummocky kind of a mob,
But Bessie was fond of her killing,
And took a great pride in the job;
She stood back with wild exultation.
Aglow like a beautiful pearl;
She was lovely in all her elation.
Though hardly a nice type of girl.
Oh, the waste!
Oh, the waste!
What is wasted can never, never, never
Never be replaced.
Now. lately, an envious neighbor
Had worked it all out in his head.
How the farmer was getting cheap labor;
And he went to the police, and he said:
"I know I’m an old busybody.
But feel it is time 1 should speak:
If a man goes to work'there, by God, he
Disappears in a month, or a week."
The Law said, "You mention a matter
That’s recently worried us, too;
There’s river-men leaving the water.
And nobody knows where they go" ;
And the Force fixed it up, and they planted.
When next the old man went to mart,
instead of the deckhand he wanted.
A spy to take home in his cart.
The spy was a tough-looking fellow.
And Trooper Jim Pearce was his name.
His hair was more greying than yellow—•
A pretty old hand at the game.
One morning he shouldered a mattock
And wandered off, under pretence
Of being required in the paddock
Where the neighbor was fixing the fence.
He said to the neighbor, "Get moving.
And flog your best horse into town;
Your charges no longer want proving.
1 know all that needs to be known;
1 found eighteen graves by the creekside.
And worse—in a cave on the hill
Where the mist hangs about on the bleak side.
The scoundrel is running a still I’’
Oh, the waste!
Oh. the waste!
What is wasted can never, never, never
Never be replaced.
The neighbor ran off for his saddle;
The Trooper went home to the range
Where Bessie with saucepan and ladle
Was making pea-soup, for a change;
She peered at the joint in the oven.
And sat herself down by his side
And, stroking his arm soft and loving.
She gently began to confide:
"I am only a poor country virgin.
And so will remain all my life.
Though not for the lack of the urging
To be a man's lover, or wife:
When you see a man charmed by your beauty.
And sex is about to set in.
It becomes any good woman’s duty
To kill him, and save him from sin.
"My father dealt thus with my mother
When 1 was a dear little child,
She was causing a whole lot of bother.
Her nagging was driving him wild;
He sobbed and he cried as he chopped her,
'Poor woman, she worked like a horse.
But she talked me half-dead, so I’ve stopped
her
From killing herself with remorse.
"And so," Bessie said, "it behoved me
To save from despair and disgrace
The seventeen farmhands who loved me
But yours is a different case:
My seventeen lovers before you
Went off in surprise to their rest.
But 1 want you to know 1 adore you
And that all will be done for the best. "
Oh, the waste!
Oh, the waste!
What is wasted can never, never, nevei
Never be replaced.
The farmer had been in the cowshed
Repairing the roof and the bails;
He came in to where, in the house, he'd
A drawer of washers and nails;
He listened while Bessie related
Her story of death and decay.
Then he crept to his shotgun, and waited
For what the new farmhand would say.
The Trooper was long in replying.
Then said. "Girl, it’s murder you’ve done."
The farmer said, "Bessie, he's lying!”
And blew off Jim’s head with the gun.
And then he remarked to his daughter.
"I see we shall never agree:
You talk far too lightly of slaughter—
It's a serious business with me.”
She sat like she’d suffered a seizure.
And suddenly started to cry,
“Oh, father, you’ve stolen the pleasure
That was to be mine, by and by I
The farmer said, “Bessie, don’t worry;
Just clean up the mess, and be quick,
While I take the barrow and bury
The corpse with the rest by the creek
Oh, the waste!
Oh, the waste!
What is wasted can never never, never
Never be replaced.
The farmer went off with his barrow
And all that was left of Jim Pearce.
And buried him shallow and narrow
Without any prayers or tears;
And when he got back from the burying
In the light of the late afternoon
The breeze from the roadway was carrying
The lilt of an old Army tune.
He shouted, "They've called out the sodgers!
And entered the house with a rush:
“Come, Bessie! They’re coming to lodge us
In prison—we’d better go bush.”
She made no delay in appearing;
They paused as they ran from their home
To roll near a log in the clearing
A barrel of overproof rum.
The soldiers arrived at the double,
A sergeant and file of eight men.
They went to a great deal of trouble
To search attic, barn and pig-pen.
At last, with the evening approaching.
They gathered at ease by the log
Where the sergeant was thoughtfully broaching
The challenging barrel of grog
“Now, men,” said the sergeant, “I’ll fill you
A pannikin each of this brew,
Which same I am hoping won’t kill you—
I leave the decision to you:
My faith in your judgment s implicit.
So when you have tasted your fill,
I’ll want to know if it’s illicit.
Or if it is Government swill.”
A private sipped slow at his liquor.
And, when they had seen him survive.
The rest put their portions down quicker.
And still appeared well and alive;
Some thought it had paid the vice regal
Excises, but couldn't be sure.
And some thought it tasted illegal.
Or might, if they had a drop more.
Far into the shadows they tasted.
And argued the right and the wrong,
The night and the barrel were wasted
With story and laughter and song;
And midnight, had grown an hour older
When the soldiers at last fell asleep.
Each propped on another man’s shoulder.
In a sodden but soldierly heap.
Oh, the waste?
Oh, the waste!
What is wasted can never, never, never
Never be replaced.
Then, into the moonlight that glittered
On polished green leaves of blue-gum
A thin shadow silently flittered.
And picked up the barrel of rum.
And. pouring it into a bucket.
He drenched all the sleepers’ attire;
Then he took out a lucifer, struck it.
And set his pursuers on fire.
The soldiers flared up with a crackle.
But over the roar of the flames
Came the farmer's demoniac cackle
And Bessie’s recalcitrant screams;
"Oh. father, 1 say it is cruel.
Oh, father, 1 say it’s unfair—
Your using my sweethearts as fuel.
And doing me out of my share!"
For some to be foiled in their passion
Is more than their reason can stand—
The farmer saw firelight flash on
The axe Bessie held in her hand,
He shouted. "No, Bess; you're my daughter!
To threaten your dad is a crime!"
Then he out with a pistol, and shot her
Through the heart, for the first and last time.
Next morning a search-party found her.
Poor Bessie was lying alone.
The cinders were blowing around her.
Her father, the farmer, was gone.
And maybe that able destroyer
Is burning for ever in hell;
But some say he’s still an employer.
And doing remarkably well
Oh. the waste!
Oh, the - waste!
What is wasted can never, never, never
Never be replaced.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Sack”: My niece has the same
exuberant, spontaneous good nature as a
pointer pup. Her boisterous arrival
generally begins with a ring at the front
doorbell, followed, when the door is
opened, by an explosive, giggling attempt
to adopt a stem, masculine voice snap-
ping : “I’m Mr. Conde; what have you
been using the radiator for?” or some-
thing equally fatuous. Occasionally
the procedure will be varied with an
endeavor to imitate the late Hugh
Herbert’s comical trick of looking away
and absentmindedly knocking on the
door-opener’s forehead. Last Sunday
morning we knew she was coming; the
bell rang as I was having a shave;
against the glass-panelled door I could see
her lanky shadow. The opportunity was
too good to miss. On tiptoes I reached
the door, waited for the second ring, then
swung the door back and swiftly dabbed
with the shaving-brush. What can you
say to a spare, angular woman carrying
a sheaf of religious pamphlets—when
you’ve splathered her face with lather,
filled her mouth with soap and knocked
her glasses swivelling from one ear?
* * * *
“Macann”: Up the street I met my
neighboring, always nicely-spoken, just-
turned-five acquaintance coming home
satchel on back from his second day at
school. “Hullo,” I said, “school, eh?
How do you like it?” “Well,” said Five
in his most Oxfordian voice, emphasising
every word of his considered verdict, “I
raylly don’t like it at all!”
* * ♦ ♦
“Queenswegian”; During a short trip
on a rail-motor in the outback I had
occasion to use the only convenience on
the train, situated in the very middle of
the car. The “Vacant-Engaged” was
missing, but presuming the place un-
occupied, I pushed. The door remained
shut. I raised my eyebrows at a woman
friend in the rear, and when she gave an
answering shake of the head, I pushed
harder. Still nothing happened!. Be-
ginning to feel quite conspicuous, I turned
to make my way back to my seat, when
a gentleman rushed forward, with a hearty
shove pushed the door wide open, then,
while all the passengers in the rear
watched interestedly, with a gallant
flourish, ushered me in! Never let it be
said that the Age of Chivalry is dead!
* * * *
“Old Camp”; Pay envelopes full of
singles (B. 22/ 8 / ’51)? Before the Kaiser’s
war fortnightly pay-envelopes in Kal-
goorlie were usually made up of one big
note, five or ten, the odd pounds in gold,
the fractions in silver. One day in front
of the pay office a little Welshman, a
newcomer, opened his first pay: Nine
pounds—a fiver and four sovereigns.
Thinking the blue note merely the piece
of paper the gold was wrapped in he threw
it away and pocketed the King Georges.
“I thought I’d get more than that,” he
said. “Two pounds a week! I was
doing as well back home.” On being
told that the thrown-away paper was
money, too, he was stunned: he had
never seen a bank-note before. No, no
one beat him for his fiver ; it was pressed
back into his hand.
* * * *
“Yair”: Offered a flat at normal rental,
my friend was almost signed up when
he was informed by the owner that,
owing to an epidemic of burglaries in
the neighborhood, he’d be well-advised to
buy a special lock for the door—the
owner could let him have one which he
claimed was “burglar-proof.” He
/VE
CIOVtVXfR^
"Here's a toddy , lady—you look cold!"
brought out an ordinary lock, to be fixed
to the door in the ordinary way, and
mentioned mildly that he couldn’t dream
of letting the flat to anyone who wouldn’t
buy that lock —for 200 quid. “That’s less
than you’d lose by burglary,” he smiled.
My friend let the kind-hearted soul keep
his flat. Still, at least he hadn’t asked
for key-money.
* * * *
“Kanimbla”: Reservoirs of the same
type as those underground Roman cisterns
in the Western Desert of Egypt, men-
tioned by Ritchie Calder in his Men
“Do the Walls and you're engaged."
Against the Desert (B. 15/8/’5l), should
be worth adopting in the drier regions
of Australia. In his book Across the
Great Deserts, Colonel Etherton describes
these cisterns as being generally 28ft.
square, by 20ft, deep, with a mouth of
only 2yft. The small size of the mouth,
compared with the underground excava-
tion, retarded normal high evaporation.
Colonel Etherton says that in the North
African campaign of World War II some
of these old Roman watering-places were
successfully cleaned out and used by the
Allied armies.
* * * *
“Digger”: “Harbel’s” elongated loaves
of bread (B. 5/9/’5l) were the delight
of First War Diggers who used to buy
them by the yard in French villages.
The way we snapped up supplies on
offer while we entrained at Le Havre
and revelled in eating the sweet-tasting
bread is one of my two most distinct
memories of that port. The other
concerns a little old woman fruit-seller
who, with her basket on her arm, hobbled
along at the side of our troops marching
from the transports to the camp on the
hill, trying to sell her measly-looking
fruit. “Appoos, appoos; three for a
pen-ny each,” was her appeal. The
“apples” were pears.
* * * *
“Ceg”: An explanation I’ve always
accepted of the origin of the name jew’s-
harp is that it is a reference to the
characteristic Hebrew gesture made by
the hand when playing the instrument.
“Becks”: My first acquaintance with
a jew’s-harp was made in the long ago
when the century and I alike were very
young. It was at my first Christmas-
party, and in common with the rest of
the youngsters there I clutched a
numbered ticket entitling me to a present
off the Christmas-tree. Unfortunately I
clutched it too long. At the end of the
party I was still clutching it and one of
my elders, consulting the list of numbers,
broke the exciting news that it entitled me
to a “Daisy” air-gun. I was marched
up to collect the trophy, but alas! no air-
gun remained on the tree. In fact,
nothing remained on the tree except a
solitary, unwanted jew’s-harp. That is
probably why my sympathies have always
been with the Arabs on the Palestine
question —and now after all these years
I find that the real name of the thing is
jaw- harp! &
* * * *
Pipk Tape : Singularly unfortunate
J.O.M. ’ (B. 29/8/’5l) must have been
to meet a stamp-machine which was a
“one-armed bandit.” The machines are
constructed so that when a spool of
stamps is exhausted a metal disk with
“Empty” on it drops into place; if,
ignoring the warning, coins are dropped
into the slot they should run right through
and drop out into the cup at the base of
the machine. If this honesty machinery
fails the customer can
claim return of his money
from the p.- 0 . Many
people do not know how
readily the post - office
makes refunds of money
to which it is not entitled
—it is a mere matter of
filling in a form. A queer
sort of thief was bowled
out when it was noticed
by an official checking re-
funds at the G.P.O. that
a number of claims from
p.-os. all over the metro-
politan area for “two
shillings placed in p.t. slot
in mistake for a penny”
bore the same name. In-
vestigation Branch inter-
rogated this claimant, who
confessed. He had
gambled on at least one
florin going into each
public telephone in
mistake for a copper and
being found there when
the money-boxes were
taken out and the cash
counted. The thief must
have gone to a great deal
of trouble for small profit,
but some people, normally
lazy, are prepared to go to
extreme trouble for a
nefarious gain.
* *
“Chev”: Highest speed
yet recorded by any
member of the Victorian
Soap-box Drivers’ Associa-
tion is 41 m.p.h., attained
by Bill Hei 11 y, at
Buninyong, Vic. Last
year’s championship
drivers reached 37. This
year’s Jubilee Derby, run
off on a steep hill at
Balwyn, Melbourne, did
not reveal such spectacular
speeds, the fastest time being Brian
Levitt’s 440 yards in 28 seconds. A St.
John’s ambulance team attended, but
there were only minor casualties, two
drivers suffering bumps and bruises. A
crowd of over 3000 watched. A dinner
was given afterwards by General Motors-
Holden’s to the 30 boys and girls who
took part in the classic.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Shortage of private garages
in many Sydney suburbs compels
motorists to park their cars in the streets
all night. To avoid the tail-light drain
on the battery, one man who parks nightly
near my place has suspended a red-
globed hurricane-lantern from his
number-plate; another seeks to foil
thieves by padlocking his car to an
electric-light pole.
* * * *
“Craiser”: An English boy of 14 who
reputedly smokes 30 fags a day is one
of a family of 10 who all smoke, but he
smokes most. His father says he started
at three, and at six was consuming an
average of six coffin-nails a day and has
gradually increased his quota. There is
a law in England against children under
16 smoking in the street but none against
home smoking.
* ♦ * *
“C. 8.”: Work has begun on the fore-
court, designed by Austrian sculptor
Mullstein, to honor the fallen in Wor
War 11, to Melbourne’s Shrine of
brance. It will replace the Pool of Re-
flection. The City Council wants the best
part of it completed in time for the King
to dedicate it.
♦ * * *
“Derwent”: In these days of brick
scarcity, a Tasmanian has picked up 1
few thousand for a couple of ° -
Demolition of a Launceston bark-mill,
dating from last century when the export
of mimosa bark was a flourishing in-
dustry, left the owner puzzled wha o
with the 85-foot chimney. “You haw
it for a shilling,” he told, a business
friend. “I’ll give you two, the fnend
said ; “that’ll give you a shilling to bu
a drink on it.” The buyer has to get th
stack down, but considers that h
a tidy profit from the cleaned-up brick
and rubble.
A BIT OF DOOR-TO-DOOR.
“Senator Armstrong said Mr. Menzies had power
to deal with Communists under the Crimes Act.”
When Menzies came down our street, demon-
strating his vacuum-cleaner,
He was jostled by a horde of people, some of
very threatening demeanor:
A gaggle of Labor heelers, a Senator, a Doctor
of Laws,
Two bishops, some clergymen, and a kennel of
red setters barking and snapping their jaws;
So the first thing Mrs. Smith saw when she
opened her door was the Senator,
Then she hurriedly closed it to a slit, not want-
ing all those men at her,
And the Senator said, “That’s right, Mrs. Smith
- —don’t let Menzies into your home —
There’s nothing his vacuum-cleaner can do that
cannot be done by your broom.”
Then Menzies said, “Madam, don’t give any
heed to the Senator’s abracadabric—
My vacuum-cleaner goes down, and draws the
dirt right out of the fabric;
Your old broom will only collect what is lying
about on the surface”
But Doctor Evatt approached Mrs. Smith, and
thrust his face into her face:
“Madam,” he said, “I am a Doctor of Laws,
and all the newspaper cuttings I can amass
Prove that this fellow Menzies is guilty of a
Notorious Offence against Whereas,
Also of a Felonious Neglect of the Lessons of
History, Arithmetic and Geography,
And a Disreputable Concatenation of Eucalyptic
Cosmography,
Which means, in the simplest language a well-
educated person can utter,
His vacuum-cleaner is responsible for the high
price of meat and the shortage of butter,
And if your son and bis girl-friend can’t rent a
cottage, view mat.,
Or if your husband’s got influenza, or run off
with another woman, it’s responsible for
that”
Here Menzies interrupted, saying, “Madam, this
will never do!”
Upon which the rest of the assemblage broke
into such a loud hullabaloo
That Mrs. Smith closed her front door, and ran
hurriedly thence
Out through her back door, calling to her
neighbor over the kitchen fence:
“Are you there, Mrs. Jones? Come and tell
me without any hesitancy
Why all these people are making such a hideous
noise round my residency!”
“Well,” Mrs. Jones said, “while my son Jack
is away in the Korean rough-house,
An Australian trade-unionist leader’s in China,
advising the Corns to be tough Chows.
And, whether at peace or at war, or at home
or Korea,
We don’t want our Communists helping to fight
us from hea.
Now, the Crimes Act won’t sweep them away
till they’ve acted a crime.
But the vacuum-cleaner removes them before
they get time;
Is.- if you want Communist hands out of public
affairs,
You vote Yairs;
If you think they should get a fair go
At contriving your own overthrow,
You vote No."
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.


A GOOD MEMORY IN FIVE HOORS WITHOUT STUDY OR PRACTICE.
How? By “Controlled - visualisa-
tion.” “Controlled-visualisation” is
the psychologically correct way of
harnessing the faculties which govern
your memory.
You learn and remember through your
mind’s eye, by means of your natural
faculty of visualisation. You are visualis-
ing UNCONSCIOUSLY all day long. In
its copyright course of instruction on
“Controlled - visualisation,” the National
Institute for Visual Learning shows you
how, by applying this faculty CON-
SCIOUSLY, by means of “Controlled-
visualisation,” you can instantly remember
anything you want to—facts, figures,
things to be done, studies, details of your
speech, office routines, music, the fall of
cards, racing data—and, valuable accom-
plishment, PEOPLE’S NAMES.
NEITHER STUDY NOR PRACTICE
REQUIRED.
There is nothing to study and nothing to
practise. You merely read the course, and
put it into practice as you go. On com-
pletion you are guaranteed that you will
forthwith be able to remember at least 20
unrelated things after seeing or hearing
them once, and the names of at least 20
people introduced one after the other. As
a matter of fact, such unusual feats as
memorising a complete pack of cards or a
thousand names and faces cut from maga-
zines, can be accomplished by “Controlled-
visualisation” with accuracy and ease.
OBTAIN PARTICULARS—FREE.
We offer to send you, FREE and WITH-
OUT OBLIGATION, interesting and in-
structive literature about “Controlled-
visualisation.” Also, photographic copies
tof some of the thousands of letters re-
ceived from notable people and firms all
over the world, extolling, from their per-
sonal experience, the merits of “Con-
trolled-visualisation.’ ’
You need a good memory. Irrespec-
tive of your age, youth or education,
“Controlled - visualisation” will
quickly give you one. Write, today,
for full particulars.
USE THIS FORM.
FREE
TEAR OFF
AND POST
TODAY
NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR VISUAL LEARNING, Operating in England, America, Canada, South Africa, Australia A. Daking House, Sydney.
W" If coupon has been used, address enquiry to BOX 280, G.P.0., SYDNEY. __
TEAR
OFF AND
POST
The National
Institute for
Visual Learning
BOX 280, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Without obligation to
me, please send me by
return, full details of
“Controlled - visualisation”
under plain cover.
Name (clear)
Full Address
81U951
“Queenswegian”: Travelling by car
from Winton, Western Queensland, to
Brisbane, we stopped overnight at a small
one-pub “town.” After a full day on
dusty roads we all felt that a bath before
dinner held No. 1 priority. A shower
only was at our disposal—one of those
double-bottomed kerosene-tin affairs.
One could fill it first, and then by pulling
a chain regulate the
flow of water as
needed. A chain
looped over a staple on
the wall held it in posi-
tion. As the contrap-
tion had to be lowered
to be filled, I asked
one of our male com-
panions to help me,
and he readily obliged.
He lowered the
shower and I held the
end of the chain while
he filled the tin with
water. As I am only
five-feet-nothing in height I had to stand
on tip-toe to reach the end of it. When
he was pouring the water in, I suddenly
realised that he was convulsed with
laughter, and that there had gathered at
the door a crowd of amused spectators.
Then I found out why. I had been so
interested in the apparatus that I hadn’t
noticed that my 96 pounds was no longer
on the ground but suspended several
inches above it by the weight of my
“bath.”
4c 4c 4c 4c
“W.M.H.”: When a loud-mouthed
drunk boarded an Adelaide bus his
fellow-passengers exchanged apprehensive
glances. Two sections* later he alighted,
leaving nearly everyone laughing and
talking like old friends. This remarkable
transformation was brought about by the
inebriated one’s complaint about the high
cost of living. “Gripes,” he moaned to
the long-suffering conductor. “By the
time a bloke spends a quid a week on
cigarettes, a coupler quid on beer, an’ a
coupler quid on bets, there ain’t enough
left to live on!”
4c 4c 4c 4c
“Spoke”; Melbourne dailies had a
three-day sensation when a cow was
reported voyaging around off Gabo in
sole command of a dinghy. She was
being towed to the mainland from the
lighthouse for a refresher and started on
her solo voyage of discovery not far from
where Captain Cook made his first Aus-
tralian landfall. The motor-boat towing
“ He's all right , I suppose, but hardly MY type."
the dinghy capsized in the surf, and by
the time her owner had sorted things out
Dolly was well over the skyline. From
Bastion Point on the Mallacoota Inlet,
where 82-year-old poet E. J. Brady still
writes verses, south to Little Ram Head
and Sand Patch Point, trawlers and
R.A.A.F. helicopters searched for Dolly,
but found no sign of the intrepid
navigator. Possibly she was picked up by
an ocean liner whose crew will have a
good story to tell when they get home
about this fantastic country of songless
birds, scentless flowers and seafaring
cattle.
♦ 4c 4c 4c
“Cauboy”: The jubilee of the Aus-
tralian film industry has passed almost
unnoticed. It jvas the 50th anniversary
of the screening of the first motion
picture produced in Australia. A quiz
question as to its title got the reply that
it was “Ned Kelly,” but it wasn’t. It
was “The Early Day Christian Martyrs,”
and its author was Joseph Henry Perry,
a young immigrant Salvation Army
officer. The film was made on the tennis-
court of the Salvation Army Home for
Girls at Murrumbeena (Vic.).
4c * 4c 4c
“Melb’n”: The imminent approach of
Show week and Wirth’s circus in Mel-
bourne reminds me of an incident in the
life of the late George Lambert, whose
son Constant recently died in London.
Lambert, Bulletin caricaturist Mcßeath
and architect Annear were standing in
Collins-street watching the Greatest
Show on Earth making its annual
progress from Spencer-street station to
its ancient stamping-ground across the
Yarra. Annear bet Lambert and Mcßeath
10s. that they would not hold the lead-
ing elephant’s tail from Elizabeth-street
to Swanston-street. He lost his money.
4c 4c 4c 4c
“Craiser”: Air Force Public Relations
told Melbourne that the Canberra jet
bomber “would fly up Swanston-street
and back down Elizabeth-street” at noon-
day. A sound like the explosion of a
large cracker started the event, and also
closed-it, and nobody saw anything, so the
plane must have woven its way through
the traffic without touching even a police-
man. It would have been more surpris-
ing if it had carried out the schedule at
the speed announced by one of the dailies
—66 m.p.h.
4c 4c 4c 4c
“Sgt. A.”: If “Bass” (B. 5/9/’5l), who
wrote in “The Other Fellow’s Mind” in
defence of Public Honesty, turns to the
“Society” page in the same issue “Bagot”
will tell him how 2000 people made
solemn declarations that they had pur-
chased tote tickets on a winning horse
when only 90 tickets had been sold. This
occurred in Adelaide, and a similar case
was reported from Perth, so apparently
there are plenty of Australians who, where
easy money is concerned, are prepared
to stretch their definition of honesty.
♦ * * *
“Hamfat”: Hillgrove (N.S.W.), which
was a boom town when the rich Baker’s
Creek mine was going, but has faded right
off the map, was a splendid town for
melodrama and comedy, but didn’t like
vaudeville. I once received a letter from
a fellow-entrepreneur who had taken a
variety show there. It ran: “Advise
Martin not to bring his vaudeville to Hill-
grove. Its inhabitants believe in leaving
no turn unstoned ”
* 4= * 4c
“Eurimburra”: I commend to “Rann”
(B. 22/8/’5l) the scheme evolved by
several Kempsey residents about 25 years
ago. The Main Roads Board dug a pit in
the main street, ran a fence round it, hung
a couple of lanterns and
left it for some months.
The day following the dis-
covery of a huge white
cross on the site bear-
ing the legend “Sacred
to the Memory of the
M.R.B. that Departed
This Life (date given),
R.1.P.,” several indignant
board workmen arrived,
filled in the hole and
removed the cross, but not
before it had been well
and truly photographed.
As far as I know there’s
still a framed c,opy in the
bar of the Royal.
* *
“C.CThe grand-
mother of one of our
prominent medicos,
scouring around for a
little piquant entertain-
ment, went tp Sydney
Palace tp see Noel
Coward’s “Private Lives,”
starring Madge Elliott
and Cyril Ritchard.
Giving her impressions
to the family circle
afterwards, she men-
tioned that it was one of
those cases where a wife
falls in love with some-
body else. “Just as well
it was only a play,”
hazarded a grandchild. “Only a play
be hanged! It’s their private lives, isn’t
it?” said Grandma. And, the matter
having been cleared up, she said
indignantly that if she had known it was
only a play she wouldn’t have bothered
going. i
“Harold Hardupp”: A seat on the
water-wagon is usually a precarious one ;
but amongst all the falling-offs that have
come my way that of a usually hard-
drinking friend was the swiftest. For-
getting that he was rather proud of his
reformation I asked him, as we walked
past a pub, whether he would have a
drink. “Didn’t I tell you I had cut it
out?” he asked. “A man’s better in
every way keeping off the booze.” He
gestured contemptuously at those who
were hurling themselves off slowing buses
and dashing for the pub doors. “There,
but for the grace of God, go I,” he said
loftily. We had gone only another five
paces when he grabbed my elbow.
“Grace and all thrown in,” he said, “I’m
going to have one. Come on.” He was
missing from work next day.
4c 4c 4c 4c
“Jade”: Fifteen years ago Grandma
put a wool-upholstered chair against a
door that squeaked in the wind. The
chair is still there, and the upholstered
back has worn a deep groove in the pine
door. The wool has not been worn at
all. Some kind of insect has riddled the
chair seat, but has left the part where the
chair rubs the door severely alone.
* * * ♦
“Will Hall”: Whenever I read
Lawson’s poem “The Last Review,” the
line “With the smell of gum-leaves burn-
ing, and the scent of wattle-bloom,” takes
me back to the desert campaign of 1941,
when we were holed-out for a while with
the dust, Stukas, fleas and, of course,
flies. Somebody had sent one of our
section, Norm, I think it was, one of those
ever-welcome parcels. But instead of the
usual paper packing, the parcel was
packed with gum-leaves. We piled them
in a small heap and burned them with
almost reverent ceremony.
4C * * ♦
“Sing 9”: I possess a 15-year-old light
car. To climb a hill without changing
down it is necessary to get a good run
at it, consequently I frequently surge
past large modern cars which can crawl
up such a hill in top. Almost without
exception, after such a passage, I can
“Gunner Popkins is having a little jumble-sale ,
sir—the leave-passes are going like hot
cakes!"
expect to hear a blare behind me, and
see the large car whiz by and leave me
behind, its driver almost apoplectic
because I’ve had the cheek to pass him.
Blast him, it doesn’t matter to me at all,
but it just shows how touchy these big
shots are.
NOT SO DUMB.
"After conducting 1700 aptitude tests a panel of
psychiatrists has decided that the silly woman has
the same chance of getting a husband as the clever,
accomplished one."
Eve- may have a reputation as a “brain,"
To knowledge have the open-sesame,
And with very little difficulty gain
Highest honors with her ’varsity degree.
A true blue-stocking, able to debate
On subjects that are awfully profound.
On Einstein’s Theory she’ll elaborate;
Or the sayings of philosophers expound.
Should the world of commerce be her chosen
sphere—
She a competent and cool executive —
Quite rational, and prompt, and, oh, so clear
Will be the big decisions that she’ll give.
Yet though her cerebrum with smoothness tick,
Her intellect be keen-edged as a knife,
They’re never really worth a fiddlestick
When it comes to qualifying as a wife.
For man regards askance the woman who
Has brains kept in the very best of trim,
And which are patently superior to
The ones allegedly enjoyed by him.
There’s never a son of Adam—this I’ll swear —
Who cares to think his long-haired mate may
tote
A head that soon may drive him to despair,
That makes him look an intellectual goat.
But the blonde who’s classically classed as
“dumb,”
Who wants to know if Voltaire is a crooner,
Who’s never even heard of radium,
And only knows one meaning of a schooner,
She may not have the gumption of a flea,
And she may be quite as useless as the lily,
But when it comes to grabbing husbands, she
Can make the brainy one look very silly.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; In the bar at Murray-
ville old Mac was mellow and slightly
boastful. “Take young Jim,” he said,
“he’s me third son. Just turned sixteen,
he has. Y’ orter see him hop inter the
yakka. Nilly as good as Bob. Eh?
Yair, mine’s a pot. Bob’s nineteen. Solid
kid, believe you me. An’ when him an’
young Tom get goin’ with their
Douglasses in good timber it’s pretty to
watch. Well, here’s a go.” Mac downed
his drink, savored it and put the empty
pot back on the counter. “Yair,” he
went on, “they’re good kids. Never
much trouble t’ rear, ’cept when Bob
got that spell o’ eerysipaliss—least, that’s
what the quack called it. Looked more
like swine-fever t’ me. But he soon
pulled through. Good-natured lads, too.
Had a few brawls among theirselves, o’
course, but nothin’ t’ worry y’. The
missus tongue-bangs ’em sometimes, but
me, I never had t’ lift me hands t’ ’em”—
he paused, slowly took the refilled pot
and raised it tentatively—“except in self-
defence.”
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: As to the origin and
variation of color from the way in which
light-beams fall on a surface (B.
22 /8 / ’5l), the richest color in nature is
that of pure metallic gold. In the com-
pletion of the cyanide process the gold
passes into solution as a double cyanide
of geld md potassium. Brought into
contact with metallic zinc, the gold is
released, the cyanide having a greater
affection for the zinc. Gold thus
released (or precipitated, to be scientific)
;s act ually atomic in size, or at most
molecular. In Shis form it is without
color, merely a muddy black. Treat this
mud with sulphuric acid, to dissolve out
any fine fragments of zinc that may have
become intermixed; then melt in a
crucible; and the gold color is regained
—obviously a matter of crystallisation.
How infinitely fine the crystals of gold
are can be seen when the gold-cyanide
solution is brought in contact with lump
charcoal. Here again it is precipitated:
becomes coated on to the charcoal. The
faintest tinge will show yellow, while a
coat the thickness of a cigarette-paper
will shine like the best gold leaf.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat threw the book
aside, yawned, stretched, rolled a
cigarette and remarked “Y’ know, I
reckon these yarns y’ hear about poets
an’ authors an’ them sort o’ blokes doin’
a starve in London an’ Paris an’ them
towns must be fair dinkum.” “How do
y’ make that out?” I asked. “Well,
haven’t y’ ever noticed in these books
how they write about the hero or the
girl or somebody goin’ t’ a slap-up
dinner an’ the pages they waste describin’
how they had turtle-soup, an’ fish, an’
chicken, an’ roast pork, an’ champagne
an’ nuts an’ this stuff they call soofle an’
all that. You remember that time we was
in Melbourne an’ had the fiver on
Windbag in the Cup an’ how we went t”
that flash pub that night an’ got ’em to
turn it on? ’Member how we had ago
at everything they had, an’ all them
weird drinks, an’ dooked the waiter an’
walked out smokin’ cigars an’ drifted up
Collins-street not sayin’ much? An’
when we hadn’t said much for a while
you suddenly said ‘Well, strike me fat!
Is that flash eatin’? I’d sooner have a
coupler mugs o’ beer an’ a big plate of
steak an’ eggs any day.’ ’Member?”
“Yair,” I said. “Well, that’s what I
mean,” Mat concluded. “If them blokes
had ever had a real feed they wouldn’t
go round writin’ in their books about a
lot o’ flash tucker like that. They’d know
it wouldn’t make a decent feed for a
man.”
* * * *
“Elgey”; A calm balmy moonlight night
with the incoming tide gently rocking the
16ft. fishing-boat on the broad bosom
of the Burrum. In the bows were Tenna,
intejntly watching his heavy groper line,
and old Tom, philosopher and orator,
standing negligently holding a stout line
in his left hand with a full glass of wine
carefully clasped in his right. Two old
mates were quietly watching their groper
lines over the stern and occasionally in-
dulging in a glass of the wine from the
half-dozen bottles lying near the tin of
mullet-gut on the bottom of the boat.
“What more,” asked Tom poetically,
“could the heart of man in the twilight
of his life desire —harmonious surround-
ings, congenial companionship, a balmy
breeze, a beautiful stream, a glass of good
red wine, the thrill of the big-game
hunter, for at any moment we may be
battling with a monster of the deep,
calmly and with all the skill garnered
over” Just then there came a mighty
tug on old Tom’s line, which pulled him
“And I'm goin' to have a moat round it to keep out the price-control and
income-tax people."
overboard. As he disappeared with a
heavy splash into the murky river, the
glass of wine held high over his head in
his right hand, while his line-cork
bounced over the bottom of the boat, one
of them in the stern grabbed it and man-
aged to steady the first mad rush. Tenna,
wine-bottle in hand, peered intently over
the side as the boat strained on the bow
anchor-chain. Then, as Tom’s upraised
right hand, still clutching the wineglass,
slowly reappeared, Tenna leaned over,
quickly tilted the water out of it and
while Tom’s left hand groped for the
taut anchor-chain, quickly refilled the
"I used to be anchor-man in a tug-o'-War team .”
glass with wine. Tom shook the water
out of his eyes. “There’s calmness for
you, men,” he said blithely. “Down to
the bottom of the Burrum and back and
never spilt a drop!”
* * * *
“Bo”; The new brick company had
acquired for its operations on the out-
skirts of the town Crown land which
many years ago old Joe the hatter had
selected for the wattle-and-daub kipsy
he eventually erected. The co.’s solicitors
had given Joe legal notice to quit; it was
just a notice of some sort to him, so he
promptly diced it. Around the property
was erected a fence ; Joe took no notice.
Someone in the company thought a
touch of persuasiveness might be better
than going to court to get an ejectment
order. The reverberating roar as a big
tree was felled about 10ft. from his
chimney, setting that crazy structure
rocking, didn’t have the desired effect;
Joe just set about chopping up the
branches for cheap firewood. Then the
company got tougher. One pension-day
Joe got back from the township and
several beers to find that excavation
operations had commenced immediately
in front of his door—there was a
straight drop of 6ft. from his hearth.
Joe stopped on the edge of the moat that
had been created and looked across at
his hut, then took off his hat and
scratched his head. “I believe,” he said
slowly to himself, “that them blanks are
wantin’ to git rid o’ me.”
* * * ♦
“North-5-West”; A suggestion made in
our local weekly that a clay-bird gun
club be established brought an indignant
letter from a lady who made an im-
passioned plea for “God’s feathered
creatures,” and bemoaned the brutality
of the “so-called sportsmen” who wish
to so desecrate our peaceful neighbor-
hood. In a reply to this the lady has
been advised that on a rifle-range not
far away bulls are regularly used as
targets by brutes with rifles, and that
bulls’-eyes are frequently hit. That such
unfortunate bovines are left to wander
sightless is expected to arouse the crusader
to great wratn.
* * * ♦
“Sackville”: Most newspaper articles
that essayed to foretell the things to come
are laughably astray when you look back
on ’em; but as we were about to start
off for a spot of shooting I recalled an
article I’d read 15 years ago. It had
stated: “Within the next ten or fifteen
years will come the Plastic Age; almost
everything will be made of plastics.”
Buckling on my plastic cartridge-belt I
noticed Bert filling his pipe from a plastic
tobacco-pouch, Charlie was getting a
drink from the tank in a plastic mug;
there was a plastic band on his wristlet-
watch. His nephew, going shooting for
the first time, was greatly excited,
although the only weapons he carried
were a plastic toy revolver and a pen-
knife with a plastic handle. Out in the
bush Bert came on a snake’s slough. He
winked at me as he kidded the boy:
“Look, here’s a snake! ” The kid looked,
then scoffed: “Huh, that’s not a snake.”
Bert is too genuine to be a good kidder.
“No,” he admitted. “It’s a snake’s skin
—you know they shed their skins every
year, don’t you?” “You can’t kid me,”
the boy grinned. “But it’s fair-dinkum,”
Bert explained. “See where the skin split
on the head, then he twisted around in
the bushes till somethin’ caught on the
scales and peeled the slough back inside
out?” The youthful grin grew larger.
“I’m not that silly,” was the disconcerting
reply. “But you can see for yourself,”
chipped in his uncle. “Why, what do you
think it is?” The kid’s reply was quite
serious: “Just a bit of old plastic,”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: It intrigued me to discover
that the Melville and Bathurst Islands
natives (B. 12/9/’5l) had stopped carv-
ing grave-posts and simply used
“discarded no-parking beacons” instead,
not because I’m against using the beacons
for such a purpose, but because I can’t
help wondering where they get them.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Steve was travelling through
a new district, and as the afternoon closed
in he glanced at the petrol-gauge and
pulled up at the small township’s garage.
“Sorry, mate, but our supply hasn’t come
in yet,” the bloke at the bowser
explained, “How far you going? Next
town? Aw, what y’ got’ll just about get
you there.” Steve nodded, parked his car
under a gum and sought the store for
smokes. “Sold the last packet not
more ’n a couple of hours ago,” apolo-
gised the storekeeper. “Anything else?”
There wasn’t, and Steve mooched on to
the pub, had
tea and put
himself into
the bar along-
side several
locals. One
drink went
down, then as
Steve settled to
enjoy himself
Bung banged
down on the
bar. “Sorry,
gents, but
that’s the last
of it. Be
plenty more tomorrow when the trans-
ports arrive.” Steve made for his car,
and set out for the next town. Darkness
had settled in, his lights were bad and
the road narrow; failing to see the
sudden sharp bend to the left he kept
straight on and went over the bank,
dropping several feet to the creek-bed
below. Slowly Steve climbed out. “Well,
of all the blasted places!” he growled,
looking back up at the bank. “They run
out o’ petrol, smokes and beer, and now
I’m damned if they ain’t gone an run
out o’ road! ”
LION ISLAND.
This lion, couchant on a ragged shield
Of green and broken water, ceaselessly
Beset, rides out the storm with head upheld
And keeps a baleful watch upon the sea.
Like hungry dogs come hunting with the tides
In from the wide waste miles the long waves
roll.
Smother and rush and leap upon his sides,
Baring their gleaming teeth, and growl and fall.
Unshakable and silent here he lies.
No storm that blows can turn him from his lair,
By some armorial sea-change moved to rise
Rampant upon one foot and claw the air.
But still he keeps an ancient reckoning;
Patient for Judgment Day he waits to spring.
n.s.w.
ALEC BOLTON.


Andrew McGEE’S famous “NIMROD
DRYSMOKER PIPES incorporating the amazing hygienic filter
Choose from 29 different shapes and weights
You're sure to find a pipe to suit your indi-
vidual taste in the extensive “Nimrod” range.
Illustrated are the most popular pipes in the
eight distinct styles. All “Nimrod” pipes
are broken-in for instant
smoking pleasure thanks to
the specially-prepared car-
bonised bowl which makes
even the first smoke taste
mild and agreeable.
27/6
Add 1/2 postage
for mail orders
ENJOY A MILDER,
COOLER SMOKE
This amazing filter makes
this possible. Tobacco
burns evenly, bowl
stays dry, tars and
oils are removed
leaving only the
full flavour of
the tobacco.
fdg
ANDREW M C GEE
70 PITT and 1 CASTLEREAGH STREETS,, SYDNEY
PIPES
EXPERTLY
REPAIRED
BILLIARD
997 (Heavy)
Also 941 (Light)
dfg
PASTIME
992
n
BLOCK
982
df
WINNI
957
gdf
BULLCAP
884 (Panelled)
gf
945 (Plain)
dg
POT
827
dfg
BENT
946
dfg
INVERNESS
970
fgfgdfgfgf
“H.C.8.”: The corner-post is a bit
pitted on top and it is greyed by the
weather, but it looks good for yet another
34 years. Which just goes to show the
ineffectualness of juvenile curses. My
memory had preserved it as a log 24in.
is diameter; actually it is about a foot.
When we decided to chop down that
ironbark it seemed a feat about the
equivalent of climbing Everest, and, con-
sidering the condition of our “tommy-
axes,” it was a mighty undertaking. For
nearly four sweaty hours we three kids
hacked and toiled —and chased the head
of Puddin’s tommy-axe. When the tree
finally fell —leaving a stump like a pencil
sharpened by a woman —it was the
sweetest of all possible victories. We
were debating what would be the longest
length we could balance across the billy-
cart when the bloke from the poultry-
farm came strolling up. He opened up
with a solicitous: “I don’t want to see
you kids get into trouble, but do you
know you can go to jail for • stealing
timber?” We were staggered. Darby
recovered quickest and triumphantly
quoted bush law: there was no fence and
no sign. “That belief is a fallacy,” the
man replied coldly—and winded us with
the strange word. “However, if you want
to see your fathers in jail, take the tree.
But I’ve warned you —and I’m the care-
taker.” And that’s how that bloke got
his comer-post. It’s still there, despite
the curse we put on it —and the allies
we conscripted to avenge us. I wonder
why those white-ants didn’t go on with
the job?
* * * *
“Harbel”: The woman in the little
place up on the hill seemed a good type,
and Charlie Jones, the storekeeper, was
a trusting soul. He gave her credit and
she paid—well, enough to cover the inter-
est. Gradually the orders grew heavier
and the payments lighter. The carter
began to report: “There was nobody
home; I left the box on the step.”
Jonesy began to worry. He called on the
lady. She was obviously out. He called
again. The place was still as silent as the
renowned Dean. On his third visit he cun-
ningly approached via the back paddock.
“Your mother in?” he asked a team of
playing kids. “Yair,” they chorused
cheerfully, and went on with their game
He had almost reached the house when
a sound as of the door being stealthily
shut came to his suspicious ears. There
was no response to his knock, so he
walked around the side and peeped
through the window. As he stared a kid’s
voice wafted up from the paddock:
“Norma —behind the tea-tree. One, two,
three!” A wicked grin spread over the
shopman’s face. His voice rose in a
childish chant: “Mrs. Crookpay—under
the table. One, two, three!” He saw the
lady start so violently that she bumped
her head, then he added exultingly: “All
in, the wippy’s taken! ” It takes poise, hide
and quick wit to get out of a situation
i
dropped a coin under the table,” she ex-
plained haughtily And that’s the legend
behind the fact that three generations of
Joneses are known locally as “Wippy
J ° nes - * * *
* , *„ * . * .
“Shadow-chaser”: Nesting magpies
apparently have a well-defined “sphere
of influence” within which no other
Ak s
“With the O.C.’s compliments — he'd like you to do cookhouse fatigue
tomorrow."
maggie may intrude. Observing the
proprietors of two nests a few hundred
yards apart, I noticed that the trespasser
always seeks safety in flight until he
reaches his boundary. Should his
pursuer cross the 38th Parallel the
pursued immediately turns on him and
the position is reversed. A large propor-
tion of maggies never nest at all. They
live in commujiities in clear cultivated
country, flying nightly to a clump of
green trees to camp. On very hot days
these gifted warblers seek the shade of
their camp and hold community concerts.
* * * *
“Bujo”: When does life actually quit
the reptilian body (B. 15/8/’51)? I too
have seen an apparently-dead snake
squirm when thrown on to an anthill:
though my scientific companion assured
me that since the head had been pulped,
thus destroying all the conscious nerve-
centres, the squirming under the ants was
merely subconscious nerve action. Much
like when a recently-caught eel is sliced
up and placed in the hot frying-pan. The
efforts of those separate pieces in trying
to get out always spoiled my appetite.
* * * *
“Solitude”: It was Saturday morning,
and I found Seventyfiver outside the hut.
the bush cut-off, and past B
Gorge/ at weekends
been helping the cockics ai w k
Pretty good with (he
dn sight and the old bloke
nan § He turned the lead into
collected his nag. He turneu me r i
the bush and waited while
spurred along the flank, and met a beast
that wheeled head-on. “Get inter the
blasted thing,” came from the old bloke.
“Oh, dear me!” The schoolie swung
his whip, watched and, nipping in at the
right moment, turned the belligerent.
“Oh, good gracious!” he exploded, look-
ing round then at the scattered tail.
“Here, doggie, go ’way there. That’s it;
good old fellow.” When Seventyfiver
returned that night I made inquiries and
received a sorrowful headshake. “But I
thought he was good with cattle,” I per-
sisted. “Can’t he ride?” “Wa-al, yair,
come t’ think of it, he c’n ride tip-top.”
“And they say he can swing a whip like
a veteran.” “Yair, he can, too,” agreed
the old bloke. “An’ he knows cattle, an’
what they’ll stand, and he looks after ’em
awright, but —aw, cripes, the blanker’s
got a helluva lot t’ learn yet afore any-
body’ll take him serious!”
* * * *
“M.S.”: Brought home a large hare the
other evening, and, finding the old cat
waiting for me as usual by the back gate,
I skinned the catch and tossed him the
carcass. After a bit of delighted fuss he
started in on a hind leg, and I left. Next
morning he was still there, squatted along-
side, with front paws planted* on the ribs,
guarding his prize from a couple of
magpies and the attentions of two other
cats which, much to the old black’s dis-
gust and hatred, have recently been intro-
duced to the place. At midday I looked
again, but couldn’t see the hare. Then
a heap of rubbish caught my eye. I in-
vestigated, and found it. It had been
completely covered with grass, sticks and
the leaves from a tree a yard or two away.
Can’t believe it was an effort at tidiness,
and though it is a common enough
practice with a dog, it’s not often you
find a feline stockpiling tucker.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: It is strange that those
bush weather-prophets who swear by the
antics of various fauna haven’t remem-
bered the humble leech. As well as being
used in medicine even to this day, he’s a
complete barometer on his own. The
gear required is quite simple; an Boz.
bottle, three-quarters of a pint of water
and a lively leech, the latter readily
obtainable by dangling any bared portion
of your anatomy for a few minutes in any
old-established waterhole. Place water
and leech in the bottle and cover with a
piece of muslin. In winter change the
water once weekly, fortnightly in the
summer, and read your barometer as
follows: If fine weather is to prevail the
leech will lie in a coiled position at the
bottom. If rain is to be expected he’ll
go to the top of the water and stay there
till the disturbance is over. If a cyclonic
storm is due he’ll move about like a
startled trout, not resting till the fowl-
shed roof is in the local park. Thunder
is foretold by his coming right out of the
water to stay there for days, often going
into convulsions. If frosts are likely he
will stay indefinitely on the bottom, but
if snow is possible you’ll find him
jammed against the muslin.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: That yarn about magpies
pinching tie-wire for nest-building in Vic-
toria (B. 12/9/’5l) is probably true
enough, but what sort of birds are they
that illustrate the par? I’ve never seen
a white-billed, white-chested and -bellied
magpie with only three tail-feathers any-
where in Victoria —not even when drunk.
* * * *
“Amdee”: In Barrier Reef waters the
lightest of breezes barely kept way on
my small sailing boat as I steered towards
a shapeless brown object floating on the
surface. Approaching noiselessly I was
soon close to an enormous turtle.
No attempt
was made by
the creature to
dive out of
sight even
though I had
approached t o
within reach of
the weed-grown
shell. The
reason for
such un-
usual be-
havior was
that it was
c a r r y ing
such a
cargo of
sucker-fish, each from 2ft. to 3ft. long,
on the underside of the shell, that a
rest on the surface seemed necessary
while this aquatic bus thought out ways
and means of ridding itself of the non-
paying passengers. A sudden grasp or
my hand on the slippery tail of one of
these pests caused every “deadhead' 5 to
alight forthwith. I’m positive the turtle
gave me a look of gratitude before it
plunged out of sight.
SCISSORS-GRINDER BIRD.
What is the point of the joke,
bird?
Do you cackle continuously
At some quip heard
From Kookaburra on fence,
That fatuous merry bloke?
Am I uncommonly dense
That I fail to see the joke?
Or did you invent your voice
Solely to sharpen your wits
Upon its rasp. All afternoon
Old Kookaburra sits
Singularly unimpressed
As if pondering the choice
Whether to claim the jest
Or merely ignore your voice.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


—> .a »wi -i
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.Mt, F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson. M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heifer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
FO
Continuity . .
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of your Witt you
arc assured that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts are C °“P *
In addition, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 7 years p
experience in the administration of Estates.
No individual can offer such permanence, experience or security*
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.
This business, now the largest mass-
producer of builders’ hardware in the
Commonwealth, had its beginnings as a
manufacturers’ agency in Sydney in 1923.
At the end of 1929, because of the de-
pression, it was decided to manufacture
many of the lines previously imported. A
small factory was established at Annan-
dale, and in 1938 a large factory was set
up at Marrickville, which now covers
most of acres. A fire damaged the
factory in October, 1947, but activities
had fully recovered by the end of 1949.
It has always been the policy of the
board, wherever possible, to enter into
licence arrangements with established
overseas hardware concerns to manu-
facture their products in Australia. Made
thus under licence by R. B. Davies are
Victor rabbit-traps, L.C.N. hydraulic
door-closers, Schlage mortice locks. Eagle
padlocks, Invizible sash-balances and
other not-so-well-known lines. In addi-
tion the co. turns out a mass of non-
patented lines, such as hinges, handles,
brackets, etc.
The public came in in March, 1950,
when R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd., took
over several operating cos. and placed
them under one ownership. For shares
with a face value of £106,020 the new
cp. paid £328,019 in ords.; there had
been 9191 ords. already issued for cash ;
the public was now offered 100,000 ords.
at par. This made paid capital £437,210,
at which figure it remained until just
before the close of last accounts.
The subsidiaries controlled comprised:
R. B. Davies Pty., Ltd.
Consolidated Hi-Lift Holsts Pty., Ltd.
Bristow’s Pty., Ltd.
Consolidated Engineering Pty., Ltd.
K. B. Davies (Export) Pty., Ltd.
R, B. Davies (Plastics) Pty., Ltd.
And towards the close of last accounts
the parent acquired all the shares in:
W. H. Wells Pty., Ltd. (Melb.).
Wells Export Co. Pty., Ltd. (Melb.).
Victor Motor Co. Pty., Ltd. (Sydney).
Daw Pty., Ltd. (Sydney).
These concerns were considered to fit in
with the Davies line of business.
Apparently as a result of this acquisition
paid capital was increased by £84,157 last
year, raising it to £521,367, all in ords.
There is £74,500 of 7 p.c. and 8 p.c. pref.
money in the subsidiaries held by out-
siders.
The Consolidated co. makes electrical
hoists from scwt. to 10 tons. Bristow’s
trades as metal-merchants and distributes
under an arrangement with one of the
large base-metal cos.
About three months ago it was an-
nounced that the parent had entered into
an agreement with the Yorkshire Copper
Works, of Leeds, whereby a jointly-owned
Australian subsidiary would be set up to
manufacture brass capillary fittings for
water, gas and refrigeration trades, and
for which the Yorkshire co. holds world
patents.
Subject to approval from Capital Issues
Control, R. B. Davies proposed to make
a one-for-three issue at par, in order to
acquire its proportionate share in the new
enterprise. Such an issue would raise
paid capital to nearly £700,000.
No mention of this matter is made in
the brief directors’ report, though more
may be heard of it at the annual meet-
ing tomorrow (20th). It is obviously an
important venture in the co.’s career.
The co. should have little difficulty in
getting Capital Issues approval; it did an
excellent munitions job during World
War 11.
For the term to June 30, 1951, the
R.B.D. Industries co. and its subsidiaries
made net profits of £65,031 ; of this £5715
belonged to outside pref. shareholders, and
the net figure (£59,316) showed an in-
crease of £25,952 over the result of the
preceding year. Because of div.-payment-
date differences, the parent’s profit of
£59,163 for the latest term was only
£16,383 greater than last year.
The consolidated net profit was equal
to 11.4 p.c. on ord. capital, and an 8 p.c.
div. (up 1 p.c.) was paid by the parent co.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures show
the following position:
1950. 1951.
Ord. capital ~ ..£437,210 £521,367
Pref. interests .. .. 75,500 75,500
Reserves and p. and 1. .. 26,441 66,241
Secured creditors .. 92,156 134,210
Sundry creditors .. 100,345 120,816
Final dividend .. .. 24,966 41,709
Freeholds and plant .. 383,729 440,302
Stocks 283,939 366,421
Debtors 69,285 107,847
Cash, etc 522 6,511
Goodwill, etc 19,143 28,762
The business is well managed ; its pro-
ducts are in keen demand, and are likely
to remain so as long as the building lag
remains. The co., through subsidiaries,
has a considerable export business, which
it has been developing since before the
war.
At the moment the co. is in the process
of further expansion, especially as regards
the association with the Yorkshire Copper
Co. Though increased capital is in-
volved, on last year’s figures the co. should
have little difficulty in maintaining 8 p.c.
on the enlarged share-register, especially
as the additional money introduced
should start earning its keep as soon as
the new plant is operating.
R. B. Davies scrip is tightly held. At
405., ex div., the yield is 4 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis and the backing 21s. Id.
a share in visible net tangibles.
Apac Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £20,000
1948.. 13,644 2,680 8 p.c. = 13,613 f 48,503
1949.. 12,377 2,680 8 „ 7,360 2.337 50,840
1950.. 15,464 2,680 8 „ ~ 7,360 5,424 56,264
Share issue expenses, £1941 .. .. 54,323
1951.. 32.309 4,020 8 p.c. = 9,200 19,089 73,412
To staff fund, £3113 70,299
* After deducting intangibles, £2158. f Includes
dividend from tax-free profits paid to old shareholders.
Stated to be the largest manufacturer of
automotive jacking equipment in the
southern hemisphere, this South Aus-
tralian co. was founded in 1923 by the
present managing-director. It was not
until 1939 that the co. added other lines,
mechanical handling equipment and steel
balls, to its activities, while the latest addi-
tion has been industrial coating and
spraying equipment. The latter, under
the trade-mark “Alemite,” covers a range
of products, and is manufactured under
licence from Stewart Warner Corporation,
of Chicago. This franchise was pro-
cured in 1948, but production did not
begin until 1950.
At the end of the war the co. had three
factories in operation which were
unified into the present modern plant at
Finsbury in 1947. Here it has 149,000
square feet of floor-space with an adjoin-
ing 10 acres of land leased from the
Commonwealth for 42 years, with first
option of purchase. There are branches
in Melbourne and Sydney which look
after the selling.
In 1948 the first public issue was made
with 40,000 £1 ords. at a premium of
10s. each. This was followed by 56,600
£1 prefs. and 46,000 ords. at par in
December last. This lifted paid capital
to the present £245,200, which includes
107,200 5 p.c. cum. prefs. The addi-
tional funds have been used to purchase
plant and stock, and under the board’s
energetic guidance, except for 1949, sales
have increased yearly.
Attention has also been paid to export
markets, which include India, Pakistan,
Ceylon, Malaya, South Africa and New
Zealand. Import-licensing by many
countries operate against Apac’s interests,
which are also affected generally by rising
costs of production due to inflation, thus
lifting the prices of the goods.
Assessment of performances at home
must take into account the favorable en-
vironment of the post-war motor-trade
boom and the lack of mechanical equip-
ment generally, also a conspicuous
absence of overseas competition. Where
this has been met in one line, steel balls,
the co. has sought tariff protection. How-
ever, with the foreseeable future reflect-
ing the immediate past, much will depend
on continued sound establishment and the
width of the product range.
It is last term’s earnings which catch
the eye. Gross profit improved by
£29,194, only £12,349 of which was
absorbed in higher administration ex-
penses (£29,629, up £3340) and taxes
(£14,789), leaving net profit £16,845 higher
than in 1950 at £32,309, On average
ordinary capital is represented 24.6 p.c.
(nearly double the 13.9 p.c. of 1950), and
compares with 10.5 p.c. and 13.9 p.c. for
the two preceding years.
The consistent 8 p.c. dividend was re-
peated, with £19,089 to spare, which was
carried to reserves, now £70,299 after
deducting intangibles. On the new capital
next year 8 p.c. plus the preference divi-
dends will absorb £16,400, or less than
half last year’s profit.
The outside debt includes £32,271 bank
overdraft which was reduced by £96,580
during the year:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £145,600 £145,600 £146,600 £245,200
Creditors,
overdraft . . 63,670 97,443 157,974 81,274
Tax provision 4,653 3,801 5,775 14,580
Final divs. .. 1,340 8,700 8,700 11,880
Buildings .. 10,359 10,484 10,579 9,435
Plant, fittings,
0 et c- .. 90,797 97,660 89,838 94,733
Stocks .. 127,791 150,553 201,963 223,726
Debtors .. 35,381 47,576 71,792 94,998
Cash .. .. 50 in i4i 2 91
Intangibles .. 2,158 2,158 2,158 2,158
Total liabilities were down by £76,700.
But the balance of the new capital enabled
stocks to be increased by £21,763 and
debtors by £23,206, reflecting the year’s
expanded output and sales. With current
assets exceeding liabilities by £211,331,
the liquid position is £109,884 better than
in 1950. Plant, etc., showed an increase
of £4895 above an offsetting amount for
depreciation of £43,844, which was in-
creased by £7795 during the year.
The preference shares are priced at
par, and the ords. at 265. 3d. yield 6.1 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. dividend or 7.6 p.c. should
it be lifted to 10 p.c. Asset backing
(book-value) is 58s. lOd. for the prefs.
and 30s. 2d. for the ordinary shares.
Frederic Ash, Ltd. (Newcastle)
Converted into a public co. m
February this year after nearly 96
years as a private concern, the New-
castle (N.S.W.) builders and plumbers’
hardware business of Frederic Ash, Ltd.,
has produced excellent accounts for the
year to June 30 last. Profits represent
25.1 p.c. on present paid capital of
£270,000, compared with 19.2, 16.5, 14,
10.4 and 8.4 p.c. back to 1946.
A final dividend of 2s. a share has been
declared, making 15 p.c. for the year.
Reserves have benefited by £33,446,
carrying them up to £145,988, equal to
10s. lid. per share.
Net profit of £67,946 was arrived at
after setting aside £54,000 for taxation.
The directors say, in this regard; “We
believe that provision made for taxation
should be ample to cover the taxation
due on the current year’s profit, and also
the unassessed tax due on the undistri-
buted profits of the years 1949 and 1950,
as yet unissued under the sections of the
Taxation Act relating to private com-
panies.” Provision for taxation appears
at £BO,OOO in the balance-sheet.
Latest balance-sheet figures compare
with the prospectus statement of assets
and liabilities as follows:
Balance-
Prospectus, sheet,
_ , June, i 960. June, 1951.
Paid capital .. .. £270.000 £270,000
Creditors, etc. .. 74.648 79,466
Tax provision .. 66,000 80 000
Freeholds .. 129 ,i50 139.179
llant . . .. .. 15,868 22,663
Investments .. ~ 82,874 69,190
® t(^, k 186,327 224,942
Debtors .. . . 110.557 146,397
Cash, etc 15,859 83
A striking feature of the accounts is the
low valuation of stock in relation to the
year’s earnings. This is partly due to the
rapid. rate of turnover in building
materials at the present time and partly,
apparently, to conservative valuations.
Turnover for the past year eclipsed all
previous records, and has since been well
maintained ; but the directors add that
“future expansion must depend upon the
availability of stocks and Government
policy on the control of finances.”
Set up in 1855 by Frederic Ash, an
Englishman newly arrived in Australia,
in 1887 this paint, hardware and timber
business was converted into a limited
company with a paid capital of £30,000.
Expansion involved acquisition of
additional premises; also, in 1910, a
branch was established at Lismore
(N.S.W.). Another was opened at
Cessnock in 1924, a third at Wollongong
in 1928. A glass, shop-front and glazing
branch was opened in Sydney in 1930.
The co. acquired, in 1933, “substantial
interests in the old-established company,
R. S. Exton and Co. Pty., Ltd., of 280
Queen-street and The Valley, Brisbane,
also Toowoomba, a co. trading in
similar lines to those of Frederic Ash,
Ltd.” The other controlling interests in
Extons are believed to be influential and
the business to be now soundly
established.
Capital of Frederic Ash in 1920 was
increased from £30,000 to £150,000, and at
this stage £60,000 of the capital had
been issued for cash, £90,000 of it for
consideration other than cash. Though
£120,000 of bonus scrip was issued dur-
ing the recent conversion, partly financed
from reserved profits and partly from
assets-revaluation, no cash has been
sought from shareholders for at least 30
years.
The co. has “considerable financial
interest in Vencore Veneers Pty., Ltd..”
of Newcastle, manufacturers of patented
core-boards, and in Harlequin Products
Co Pty., makers of disinfectants,
polishes, liquid soaps, etc. The Frederic
Ash concern itself manufactures sheet-
metal products for the building trade, and
specialises in shop-front and office
fittings.
All premises occupied by the co. (four
in Newcastle alone), except the Sydney
glass store, are freehold. The co. also
owns land for future building purposes
at Taverner’s Hill, Sydney, and at
Corrimal.
At 50s. the £1 ords. give the attractive
yield of 6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis,
with a wide margin of cover for the
dividend.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
June Profit* Dividend. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £
1942.. 35,529 8 p.c. = 9,985 25,594 167,867
1943 . . 88,498 8 „ „ 9,935 28,563 196 430
To staff fund, £3044 .. • • • • i
1944.. 23,496 8 p.c. = 9,935 13,561 206,94/
1945.. 20,402 8 „ „ 9,935 10,467 217,414
1946.. 17,998 10 „ „ 12,419 5,579 222,993
Profit sale investments, £2298 .. 225,291
1947.. 24,396 10 p.c. = 12,419 11,977 237,263
1948.. 32,879 10 „ „ 12,419 20,460 257,-28
To staff fund, £2300 .. •• •• 255,428
1949.. 44,143 12i p.c. = 15,524 28,619 284,047
To staff fund, £4119.. •• •; 2/9,928
1950.. 48,465 12£ p.c. = 15,524 32,941 312,869
To staff fund, £929
Goodwill written off, £l7BB .. •• 310,10-
Profit sale assets, £4252 .. ••
1951.. 44,964 124 p.c. = 19.131 25,833 340,23/
To staff fund, £2568 .. ■; •• 337,669
* Includes additions to depreciation reserve, etc.
(now £76,000).
Although gross profit and income
from investments (£104,974) rose by
£BOl6, more than half of the increase
was absorbed in higher administration


Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone claiming to be or know-
ing the whereabouts of MRS. MAYRO
STELLA CONNELL, formerly MANLEY,
who married ROBERT CYPRIAN CON-
NELL at Williamstown in July, 1901,
kindly communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne?
MAHER.—WouId THOMAS (EDWARD)
MAHER, born 24/12/1878, son of JAMES
MAHER and JULIA (formerly HIGGINS),
or any person knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE. 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
quoting the estate of JOHN MAHER?
WILL anyone knowing the present where-
abouts of ALLAN GORDON HOGBIN,
aged about 41 years, and about sft. 7in.
tall, dark complexion, bald, please com-
municate with D. W. ABBOTT & CO.,
Solicitors, Glen Innes, N.S.W. ?
It’s that
Warns face
atfain...
#1
kl
0
\
V
And an Ingram face means success, popu-
larity, acceptability!
Man, if you’re not an Ingrams user today,
start being one from tomorrow. The jar of
Ingrams Shaving Cream on your bathroom
shelf is a MUST! Get one from your
chemist tomorrow.
A Product of Bristol-Myers
m
IS-20
SHAVING CREAM
We
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
a
Circular Chart* for all Ijfpci
of Becordlng Instrument*
tor inf dtu of Mschiwory
or Equipment
HCTfIK CHARTS • lp«c UHf
JAC^WO’SDIUVAN^L^
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months £1 16 0
6 , 18 6
3„ 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
Telephones: B 9573, B 6232,
B 6130
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
m
...accident?
and iMtm
dffike' Mtddmfy-
The “PERFECT POLICY’' of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accident or specified illness —and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
AOSTR A LI A W
ASSURANCI COMPANY ITD
HUNTER. AMD BilG-H STRUTS.SYOMIIfc
%mmryonu4 to QutaubuuL 10k
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
gdf
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
routee/Mi
I
A
GomxJxom
Gkeiftc
ACROSS THE PACIFIC TO USA & CANADA
Comfort Aloft I Fly in pressurized Canadair
Airliners enjoy the added comfort of
“Loungaire” reclining chairs.
Comfort Ashorel Spend 10 hours at tropical
Fiji ... 33 hours at romantic Honolulu. At
both stopovers first class hotel room and
meals are provided free! Only Canadian
Pacific gives you these two stopovers at no
extra cost. Travel relaxed —arrive refreshed
when you fly Canadian Pacific.
Canadian Pacific Railway Co., Union Steam Ship
Co. (General Agents), at 247 George St. and 14a
Martin Place, Sydney, or any authorised Tourist
Agency will be glad to offer you full information.
NO DOLLARS NEEDED
GomcJlom (jojuJ^c
AIRLINES
•< wiNSS OF THE WOXLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM 1 '
Canodion Rociflc Air Lines Limited -- Incorporated in Canada
costs (£28,010), excluding £6OOO
for depreciation (up £1000). The
tax allowance (£26,000) was also
higher than in 1950 by £6OOO,
leaving the net profit at £44,964,
or £3501 less than in the pre-
ceding term. It was a return of
29.4 p.c. on average capital, com-
pared with 39, 35.3, 26.4 and
19.6 p.c. for the four years back
to 1947. A \2\ p.c. dividend
was repeated for the third time,
and included a seven-months’
payment on £49,678 of new
capital gathered in October last.
The dividend absorbed £19,131,
or £2603 less than the full pay-
ment will require next term, a
figure more than twice covered
by last term’s profit.
The established business of
Cameron’s Pty., Ltd., was
acquired late in 1950, and there
was some preoccupation last
term integrating it into the com-
party’s own manufacturing activi-
ties. Since transfer from
Ballarat (Vic.) to Maryborough
(Q.) in the ’eighties and the
switch from mining machinery to
sugar-mill equipment, and, later,
railway locomotives, the com-
pany has moved with the times,
changing production to meet
demand. Output has ranged
from steel bridges and cranes to
boilers, dredges, crude-oil
engines and heavy castings, while
last war the emphasis was on
shipbuilding and construction of
marine engines and ordnance
equipment. At present there is
a large demand for sugar
machinery, structural steel and
general engineering works.
Shortages of steel restrict out-
put, the board reporting “con-
siderable difficulty last term in
maintaining raw-material sup-
plies.” Yet, despite this, stock
and work-in-process figure at
51 p.c. of current assets, com-
pared with 44 p.c. in 1943 and
32 p.c. in 1939, indicating as
much the company’s expanded
activity and orders on hand as
it does its difficulties in complet-
ing them.
The reserve position shows up
further strength. With more
profits accumulated than have
been paid in dividends over the
last decade, the figure is almost
twice paid capital. The addi-
tions last term, including £6OOO
added to depreciation reserve
besides the amount written off,
and allowing for £2568 carried
to the staff fund (up £1638), were
£4252 from sale of assets and
£25,833 (or 57 p.c.) of current
profits.
Well-balanced growth can be
traced in the expenditure of
the new funds gathered:
1949. 1960. 1951.
Paid capital .. 124,193 124,193 173,871
Overdraft .. 93,478 75,122
Sundry cred’rs.* 77,539 76,780 92,008
Staff fund .. 10,000 10,000 12,000
Final div. .. 15,524 15,524 19,131
Freehold,
plant, etc. .. 156,451 197,686 249,809
Stock .. .. 63,174 103,123 109,535
Work in progress 76,030 117,992 124,844
Book debts ~ 76,976 80,253 94,235
Investments
and cash .. 134,045 130,573 131,378
* Includes provision for taxation and con-
tingencies.
The undistributed profits, new
capital (£49,678) and £15,228
from creditors, etc., enabled an
£18,356 repayment of the bank
overdraft, the balance going
£52,123 into freeholds, plant,
etc., £13,264 in slock and work-
in-process, and £13,982 in book
debts, and the liquid position also
improved. Current assets ex-
ceeded liabilities by £261,731, or
£27,572 more than last term, and
include £131,378 cash and in-
vestments. Last term these
netted just over 4 p.c. in returns.
The shares rose from 60s. to
755. with the announcement of
the issue in October and steadied
at around 725, for the rest of the
term. Sellers are now asking
735. with no buyers. At 70s.
the yield is 3.6 p.c. on the
present distribution, with the
books showing an asset backing
of 58s. lOd. for each share.
The dredge of Wellington
Alluvials (N.S.W.) worked 566
hours during August, handling
308,000 yards of material and
recovering bullion estimated to
contain 899 ounces of fine gold.
Working costs are reckoned at
9.54 d. per cubic yard. Last div.
from this B.H.P. offshoot was
2d. a share, in July, 1950. The
scrip is now around par (25.).
It touched 3s. lOd. in 1950.
* * * *
For the four weeks ended
August 14, Norseman , Gold
Mines, N.L. (W.A.), took to the
plant for crushing 1211 long wet
tons of selected ore and railed
1263 crushed selected ore to
manufacturers. It treated by
flotation 6269 long wet tons of
average ore for a recovery of
2663 long wet tons of concen-
trate. Estimated sulphur con-
tent of concentrate and selected
ore railed was 1525 long dry tons
of an estimated value of £22,162.
Sulphur production is a vital
matter in Australia today.
♦ # * *
Enterprise of New Guinea
(which has issued 21,122 £5
shares, called to 795. each) re-
ports that its mine manager has
made application for a gold-
mining lease situated approxi-
mately two miles from the co.’s
present holding, and that the
Warden’s Court has granted the
application. Installation of a
small sluicing plant has been go-
ing on and it is hoped to com-
mence treatment this month. The
ground so far tested amounts
to approximately 5000 c.y., and
varies from 12in. to 12ft. deep.
There is no overburden. Several
small earth dams are being con-
structed for water-supply, which
will be carried across country by
small races. Bullion weighing
14oz. 7dwt. has been gained in
the course of preliminary work.
No yardage is available.


Accepted as Australia 9 s OLD whisky!
CORIO
SPECIAL
aged full 5 years in the wood
g
)He
The championship whisky
was a Corio Distillery
product. Keen judges of
whisky everywhere appre-
ciate the maturity and
mellowness of Corio
those special qualities
that only age can bring.
Every drop of Corio
Special—Australia’s OLD
whisky —is aged in oak
casks for at least five
years, nearly three
times the period required
by Commonwealth Law.
So look for the word
“OLD” on the label of
every bottle of Corio
Special; it is your pro-
tection.
cno
jupjaj^
°auooj
l n «
when you buy insist on the whisky
of outstanding merit
CORIO SPECIAL
/
Old Whisky
Aus ‘rol ia -
-2Ao
whi *h!
C3B/1&
THAN**
SO
Ho*
dtm
IV
W>
V
m
o.
Q»
o»
&3
VMf fat A
CAPSTAN
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Business Setback
Business in Sydney has taken
its most severe jolt for 10 years.
It is, apparently, in the first in-
stance the result of restriction
on financial accommodation for
many types of enterprises. The
property market has been par-
ticularly affected after a long
period of uninterrupted “boom.”
Without considerable financial
help most prospective home-
owners are unable to cope with
present-day housing costs, and
until recently building loans
have been liberal indeed ; this
has added to the inflation in the
property market. Now the
banks and other lending insti-
tutions have tightened up, and
the effect has been most notice-
able in the prices offering for
homes built before the war. For
the first time in many years the
trend is towards a buyer’s
market, only the buyer is now
finding greater difficulty in get-
ting the wherewithal to buy.
The retail trade is also going
through its sharpest setback since
the end of the war. Financial re-
striction coincided with a slack-
ening in the demand for clothing
following several months of
domestic “stockpiling.” In
Sydney there have been some
remarkable “sales” by one of
the bigger stores, and shares in
retail stores have weakened
sharply on ’Change.
All this has been happening at
a time when our export income
has contracted suddenly as a re-
sult of the fall in wool prices
and the decline in our export
surplus of wheat and dairy pro-
duce. Repercussions are bound
to be widespread, though on a
basis of readjusted costs the in-
dustrial position of Australia
w 9H| d k® ver V s .^ on f-
P/*°hl eni wlB be to
m pailiful. and are
usua iiy prolonged because of
political and trade-union oppo-
sition.
The Federal Government’s
efforts to deal with Communism,
a potent factor in our present
inflation, are most opportune,
But other matters, including
working hours and production
per man-hour, will have to be
studied ec * ua realistically by
* ™ der sect,on of the com-
°£ One’ls that, on
For wo'rk
to be done in Australia to satisfy
ordinary deveiopraental demands.
The second is that it will still
w difflcult .. ya , back
into , he if a
policy £ .. (u ’ u e^ploy^ ent ..
governs the shape and extent of
t h e Federal Budget. Investors
an( j industrial managers should
take full note of these things,
Qur main problem remains
production per man-hour and
the nature of our production.
We need more coal, steel, cement
and transport facilities. We need
a great deal more housing. To
achieve these things we will have
to produce fewer non-essentials
generally and produce more
essentials every working hour,
Once we have a higher level
of essential production it will
be perfectly in order to ease
financial restrictions and use
credit more freely for reproduc-
tive works. But price-control
and other inhibiting factors may
have to be reconsidered before
our economy will function at
its maximum capacity.
Cheaper Shares
Prices of many good-quality
ordinary shares are now much
lower than they were three
months ago. Some of them may
go lower still. But to those
people who previously missed
out in the buying of industrial
equities, the present is a good
opportunity to get one foot out
of the money-savings camp and
over the inflation hedge.
Taking the eye among shares
offering are:
Frederic Ash, hardware distri-
butors, listed In Sydney, last year’s
profit 25 p.c. on ord. capital, div.
15 p.c., price of shares 505., yield 6
p.c. (Interesting: comparison with the
yield offering: from Swans, Malleys,
etc., in same type of business.)
Fatons and Baldwins, earnings last
year 16 p.c. on capital, no div. yet as
public co., shares available at 345.
The fall In wool prices may affect
current earnings, but long-term
prospects appear good. Divs. for
some time will be conservative.
Xhirlwell and McKenzie, ords. at
275. would return 4.4 p.c. on 6 p.c.
div. basis. For longish holding. The
co.’s activities are centred in the ex-
panding Fort Kembla (N.S.W.) area.
Broken Hill Proprietary at 525.,
down ss. since the new issue. Yield
only 3.2 p.c., but attractive bolding.
John Mcllwraith Industries, 10s.
shares at 235., yield 5.4 p.c. on 12J
p.c. div. basis. In the very active
plumbers’-suppiies business.
F. J. Walker, 10s. shares at 18s.,
yield 4.2 p.c. if 7£ p.c. div, is paid.
A leader in the and
allied trades.
Ford, Sherington, Ud., for tax-
free income; at 14s. the ss. shares
yield 3.6 p.c. so long as the tax-free
10 p.c. continues.
Moran and Cato, X,td., at 28s. 6d.,
will yield £5 ss. p.c. if the 15 p.c. div.
is repeated, £4 7s. 6d. p.c. if 12£ p.c.
is paid.
Investors should be careful, at
this stage, of buying slow-
moving stocks that have not yet
recorded the same rate of fall as
the market leaders.
N.S.W. Liquor Inquiry
In Sydney, before royal com-
missioner Maxwell, J., S. J.
Burt, assistant general manager
of Tooth and Co., stated that
the co. had a total of 1003 N. S.
Wales hotels tied in some way
or other. Of these hotels, 429
were in the Sydney metropolitan
licensing area, 120 were in New-
castle and 454 were in the
country. Freehold hotels were
332 in the Sydney area, 110 in
Newcastle and 186 in the
country—a total of 628. Lease-
holds were 54, five, 26 and 85
respectively.
“Ties” usually meant that the
licensee would deal with
Tooth’s only for beer, wine,
spirits, cordials and aerated
waters. But the brewery did
not insist on 100 p.c. observ-
ance of the tie except in respect
of draught beer.
J. M. Kelly, secretary of the
N.S.W. Licensing Reduction
Board, said there were 2028
hotels licensed in N. S. Wales
on August 20 last. Of these
Tooth’s owned 625. Toohey’s
owned 78 in the metropolitan
area and 137 in the country ;
S.A. Brewing Co. 22 in Broken
Hill; Carlton and United, nine
in Aibury; Richmond and N. S.
Brewing, three in Riverina;
Maritime Services Board, 22 in
Sydney; Sydney City Council,
13; companies other than
breweries —in the country, 86, in
the Sydney area, 58 ; individuals
in the country, 856, in the city,
119.
Kelly said there were seven
brewery licences in N.S.W. They
were held by Tooth and Co.,
Ltd., two licences —one at Broad-
way, city, and the other at
Dowling - street, Redfern ;
Tooheys, Ltd., Elizabeth-street,
city; Robert William Miller
(British Breweries), Parramatta-
road. Petersham; Ales Mario
Kapral, Mitchell-road, Brook-
vale ; Federal Brewery Pty.,
Ltd., Mudgee ; Alfred Norman
Wyld, Lithgow.
There was one hotel in N.S.W.
in 1950 for every 1566 persons.
Mr. Burt, of Tooth’s, said
that since 1930 his co. had spent
£3,186,919 on alterations, erec-
tions and rebuilding of its own
hotels. It had also spent
£1,204,434 on other hotels.
Tooth’s had an interest in 69.4
p.c. of the metropolitan hotels,
36.1 p.c. of the Newcastle hotels
and 69.9 p.c, of the country
hotels. The estimated expendi-
ture in building a new hotel was
6s. 9d. a cubic foot, against
Is. sd. to Is. 7d. in 1939.
Burt said Tooth’s did not own
hotels in the Riverina. In 1926
the company made an agreement
with Victorian brewers not to
sell Tooth’s beer in the southern
Riverina, but it supplied bottled
beer.
“It was a gentlemen’s agree-
ment which lasted for many
years,” Burt said. The company
had a similar arrangement with
Queensland brewers in northern
N.S.W.
In return, Victorian brewers
agreed not to send Victorian
beer north of The Rock, and
Queensland brewers agreed not
to send beer into N.S.W. The
arrangement applied only to
draught beer.
The largest shareholder in
Tooth and Co., according to a
statement submitted, was
Edmund Resch, with 645,992
shares; Mrs. F. M. Resch held
50,000. One group of people,
including one of the Tooth
family, held 195,729 shares. The
Hon. T- G. Murray, M.L.C.,
held 27,587. Penfold’s Wines
owned over 27,000 Tooth
shares.
Roma Oil
“Petro”: The reason for the
objections to spending further
public or private funds in the
search for oil within the limited
area now under consideration at
Roma, Queensland, has been
entirely misunderstood by F.
B. Menadue (B. 12/9/’5l).
While I am in complete
sympathy with the attitude that
“if there is oil in Australia we
must find it,” I believe that such
a search, under present-day con-
ditions, can have a reasonable
chance of success only if the
organisations engaged in it are
possessed of a large specialist
staff with long experience in the
many distinct technical problems
of petroleum exploration and
exploitation. Moreover, they
must have very ample funds.
That has been the consistent
point of view expressed, and the
suggestion that it is contrary to
healthy Australianism falls far
short of “plain commonsense.”
The opinion, on this matter, ex-
pressed by the writer and others,
is in fact a corollary to Mr!
Menadue’s statement of the un-
fortunate truth that “it is pos-
sible to spend a lot of money on
the search for oil but have bad
fortune.”
Incidentally, the discovery well
of the Turner Valley oilfield in
Canada, although located out-
side the limits of the then known
occurrences, was sited after many
years of costly exploration and
investigation by every means
available. This work was mainly
carried out by a subsidiary of
one of the major oil companies,
and it is technically incorrect
to refer to such a location as a
“wild-cat.”
Incidentally, also, there are
several reasons why the Roma
district is not favored, by many
experienced oil technologists, as
a potential commercial producer.
Of these, the very small yield
from wells which have been
drilled down to basement and
the meagre sedimentary cover
over the basal complex may be
mentioned.
Not only in Oklahoma but
in most areas where a great
thickness of sedimentary beds
occurs under conditions favor-
able to the formation, segre-
gation and preservation of oil in
commercial quantities, repeated
seismic and other geophysical
investigation is a commonplace.
None of the data collected over
the 20 years and more of spor-
adic work at Roma, nor that
much more systematic examina-
tion of the surrounding region
by oil companies of standing,
have pointed to the existence of
such conditions.


Safeguarding your
family’s future
A way to avoid much
future care and worry
By the appointment
of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as
your Executor and
Trustee, you will ensure
the maximum protec-
tion for your
dependents.
The Company has a
wide knowledge of in-
dustrial, investment
and pastoral problems.
By efficient manage-
ment and courteous,
friendly service, it has grown to be the
largest Trustee Company in the Southern
Hemisphere.
\\v
3 IB
ihai
m
3«933M5J
An ever-increasing of profes-
sional and business men, realizing the need
to provide the maximum protection for their
dependents, are following the example of
men with larger Estates who have appointed
the Company as their Executor.
If you would have further ' information
as to the services rendered by the Com-
pany ring B 0377 or write and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will gladly
give the information you desire.
[ TRUST FUNDS TO LEiVp]
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director
A. 0. ARMYTAGE, Manager
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £72,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAW ORTH AND ORANGE
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... >_« L ._.: 2/-
Yearly Subscription 22/6
&
- a
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
CHARLES STURT
A severe drought in New South W^ales in 1826-7-8 led
to the discovery of the river Darling.
In 1818, an earlier explorer, Oxley, had been prevented
by swamps from continuing his survey of the Macquarie
River Governor Darling, thinking that the prolonged
drought might have dried up the swamps, appointed
Captain Charles Sturt to complete Oxley’s work.
Sturt left Wellington, N.S.W., in December, 1828 and
proceeding past the marshes which Oxley had considered
to be the termination of the Macquarie, followed the
course of the Bogan River, dry except for occasional pools
until in February, 1829, he reached a river which he named
the Darling.
On a later expedition, Sturt followed the Murrum-
bidgee River down to its junction with "a broad and noble
river” which he named the Murray. Actually, it was the
same river that the explorers Hume and Hovell had crossed
in 1824, and called the Hume. Sturt explored the Murray
down to its mouth.
On the occasion of the Jubilee of the Commonwealth
of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales Australia’s
pioneer bank, established in 1817
honours the explorers who
opened the way for the development
of this great country.
i
dfg
. BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
{INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
Telephone;
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. Db GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Vine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
To treble Australia's output
of FINE SHEET STEEL
rcT*
T
When ample supplies of
suitable raw steel are avail-
able, this great Mill will roll
upwards of 80,000 tons of
the highest grade sheet steel
a year—three times more
than was available before.
Because only Lysaght’s
C.R.M. Division makes Aus-
tralia’s high grade sheet
steel, this is significant news
for many manufacturers and
the public generally. As
well, this Cold Reduction
Mill, the largest in the
Southern Hemisphere,
strengthens Australia’s
defence potential.
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT’S
WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limbed—General Salas Agents.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place.
MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon
Street, South Melbourne. ADE-
LAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner
of Short and Pakenham Streets.
WELLINGTON, NX; John
Lysaght’s Bristol Works Limited.
CB2A-51
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The Labor party’s statement
of policy, “Our First Duty —
Peace,” is a clear indication of
the bankruptcy of Socialism as
a political driving-farce, of the
disillusionment of the policy-
makers and of a perfunctory,
half-desperate closing of the
ranks before the T.U.C.
Congress and the forthcoming
annual conference. With the
exception of its own party sheet,
the “Daily Herald,” the Press
has swooped upon the pamphlet
and torn it to pieces. The
“Times,” in a leader headed “No
Policy,” affirms that the Labor
party is going to appeal to the
country with a programme based
on illusions. “Manchester
Guardian” treats the statement
as “the product of tired and dis-
illusioned mind s.” “News
Chronicle,” using almost the
same phrase, adds the observa-
tion, “doggedly holding on to
the rump of their ideals.” And
these are three journals that
firmly supported the Attlee Gov-
ernment during its early years.
This policy-statement is a
“grapeshot” prescription put out
by a practitioner who knows
that many of his patients have
left him because of lost con-
fidence. So, not altogether self-
confident himself, he seeks to
rally the faithful and sympathetic
by a pleasant-tasting panacea
for all their ills, and hopes that
one at least of the mixture’s
ingredients will take effect.
Astringents in the nature of
plain words affirm that our first
duty, peace, cannot be attained
without rearmament (“a real
peace is worth paying for”); and
that rearmament means sacrifices
and reduction in living standards
despite what the Bevanite
quacks may say.
Sedatives are added in the
shape of guarded tributes to
public ownership (“now firmly
established elements in our
national economy”); more
exports and fewer imports; more
fuel; no interruption to the
housing programme ; the rich to
make the biggest sacrifices ; and
(somewhat in contradiction to
the first declared objective,
peace) the social services to be a
first charge on the community.
Remedies take the form of
price-controls; high taxation
where it can best be met (“the
small minority who draw large
unearned incomes from private
fortunes”); “public ownership”
of distribution, including green-
groceries, and restriction of
dividends.
Finally, as tonics, there are
full employment (“the fruit of
Labor rule”); a high level of
social security; the comforting
assurance that Britain’s standard
of living is “higher than in most
nations”; and an expression
that Britain’s resources will be
used in the service of the people
“only if the people themselves
decide how.”
The narrow isolationism of
the pamphlet’s appeal is
widened by a scant acknowledg-
ment of the Commonwealth and
a studied avoidance of mention-
ing the United States by name.
Since the object of the Labor
party is to save the peace its
opponents must automatically
be warmongers. Every chapter
ends with a dreadful warning
against the Tories, who, besides
provoking unemployment and
grinding the faces of the poor,
are now alleged to be capable
of precipitating “a world war
without the support of Britain’s
allies.”
Tory Challenge
The chief danger before the
British people is not that
they will fall for this clap-
trap (the heads-in-the-sand die-
hards of Labor committee-
rooms are excepted), but that the
Conservative party will also lack
courage to present the facts
objectively and realistically.
Every sensible elector knows
that the present world situation is
irreconcilable with the lotus-
land his politicians would have
him believe it is his good fortune
to enjoy. The same people who,
not many years ago, rose to the
bleak promise of “blood and
tears, toil and sweat,” now find
that politicians of both parties
are avoiding any intimation that
might spell or define sacrifice.
The Conservatives, who prob-
ably fear the sharp-eared dis-
tortionists of the Left far more
than they do the electorate, have
been especially cautious, for
hard-hitting home-truths have a
way of coming back at them
ingeniously distorted.
The tremendous industrial
vote springs not so much
from confidence in the
Labor party as from deeply
ingrained fear that conditions
would be less favorable under
the Tories; and, similarly, the
steadily increasing swing to the
Right is due not t® the convic-
tion that the Tories have solu-
tions to offer, but to disgust at
the crippling failure of Socialism
and Socialists.
“Bohemian Girl” Exhumed
Sir Thomas Beecham’s long
and untiring service to music
has been distinguished by two
attributes not by any means
common to all conductors: a
zestful championship of for-
gotten works and neglected com-
posers ; and an aesthetic sense so
keen and revealing as to be a
creative act in its own right.
Much, then, has been expected
of “The Bohemian GkT’ which
he and Dennis Arundell,
Britain’s leading opera producer,
have revived at Covent Garden.
These two have obviously
given themselves to their task
with great energy, and have
spared nothing either in research
or imagination. They have dis-
carded “Poet” Bunn’s pre-
posterous libretto except for the
well-known songs, and in its
stead have adapted and trans-
lated the French of Balfe’s
friend and collaborator, De
Saint-Georges. The recitatives
are from Balfe’s own notebooks.
A superb cast, with a small corps
de ballet, plays faultlessly in
settings that alone justify a visit.
And the orchestra, whether
under the direction of Sir
Thomas or his remarkable young
associate, Norman Del Mar, is
a model of balanced discipline
and solo virtuosity.
Yet this rich profusion of
applied talent adds up to no
more than a profligacy of treacly
sentimentality. Balfe’s melodies
are wheedling, facile and banal
—or seem so to modern ears.
The singers avoid burlesque only
by their own skill and sincerity.
(“I dreamt that a sui-uitor sou-
ought my hand” in slow tempo
and jogging rhythm, for
instance.)
That audiences in all parts of
the civilised world could be
moved to genuine tears in the
1840’s and for several decades
after is sufficient proof that this
opera had more than a super-
ficial appeal. Perhaps it has been
too successful. The educated
man who sees “Hamlet” for the
first time finds it full of quota-
tions, but the familiar tags open
out a wider perspective. “The
Bohemian Girl” is no “Hamlet.”
Remove the creamy succession
of ballad-like tunes, and little is
left except distant memories of
reluctant half-hours thumping
out “When Other Lips” from
the piano-tutor, and of sup-
pressed boyish titters when a
maiden aunt faltered defiantly
through “Marble Halls” or
“Childhood Years.”


The Letter of Rachel Henning
[These letters begin in 1853, when Biddulph, Rachel Henning s only
brother (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie ("»)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta (“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce In August, 1831) and Amy were thus separated, for
the time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
In August, 1851, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
Tregenha Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 23. Six days
later Rachel and Amy went to Appln, in N.S.W., where her brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
1855, and while Riddulph was establishing a new place on Bulli Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1856.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly live years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on February 17, 1861. On her arrival she started preparations
to go to Queensland, where her brother Biddulph was preparing to leave
Marlborough, near Rockhampton, for a large selection in new country
near what is now called Bowen.
This is the seventh instalment of the letters.]
Sydney,
August 15, 1 862.
My Dearest Etta,
I hardly expected to write to
you again from Sydney, but our
going up to Rockhampton has
been a little delayed, as after
Annie came down we decided
upon going up by the Boomerang
instead of the Eagle. Annie has
had dreadful experience of the
rollings and pitchings and cock-
roaches of the latter boat, and
he Boomerang is nearly twice
ier size, and, I hope, cleaner,
iesides which, we thought Bid-
lulph could hardly calculate on
eing back from a 700-mile
)urney exactly by the 14th or
sth. In fact, if the rivers are
up he might be detained for a
eek or so, and it is better that
he should wait than that we
should, there being no inn fit for
ladies at Rockhampton.
Annie has a great many
friends here whom I do not
know, and she and Emily have
been visiting about together with
great glee, Annie and I make
shopping appointments together,
and I go over to the Surry Hills,
and then we proceed into Syd-
ney and buy the thousand-and-
one things we want for the
station.
Annie has got herself a new
habit —a very thin cloth one,
and we have each got a black
silk dress to wear till the hot
weather comes. They do not
spoil, and yet always look nice,
and Biddulph has a mortal
horror of seeing people shabby.
We both have those green
mohairs, almost new —I mean
the one you gave Annie, and she
has, besides, quantities of mus-
lins and prints and ginghams,
and two other thin dresses.
I have been obliged to get
another mohair —thin —and also
a muslin—rather a pretty lilac
one, for, as usual, I am very
short of garments, having
bought but one dress since I
came out here. I am going to
make my two old prints do. I
do not think they will ever wear
out.
Bonnets, of course, are no use
in the bush. X got a new hat
when I first came down here,
rather a pretty black straw, and
I have had my old one cleaned
and trimmed and have a riding-
hat besides, so I think I shall
do. I have that old brown
shawl, you remember, and a thin
one I got last summer, so I
think I shall do very well,
though Annie and Emily bewail
over my deficiencies.
Annie dresses exceedingly
well. She is looking very nice
just now. The cold climate of
Bathurst has done her good, now
that the work there is over. She
is in capital spirits, and is look-
ing forward to another six or
seven months’ stay in the bush
with great delight.
There is a very good opera
company here now, and they
have been playing some of the
best operas ; and the Chapmans
have taken me five times, to my
great delight. The singing and
acting are exceedingly good. Not,
of course, equal to London
opera, buf better, it is said, than
in any provincial town in Eng-
land. They have performed
“Lucretia Borgia,” “Trovatore,”
“Maritana,” “Satanella” and
“Farouita.” I know it is a sort
of thing I should get a great
“We could hear the horse-bells as they were feeding round us.”
deal too fond of. I hate parties
and abhor balls, but the music
and acting, and all without any
trouble to oneself, is what I
greatly enjoy.
Last night a gentleman of our
acquaintance took a whole box
and invited Annie and Emily
Tucker, Mr. and Mrs. Chapman
and myself, besides several other
people. So we all went together,
and great fun it was.
Annie does not care for th«
opera, but she likes to see the
people and talk to her friends,
and it appeared to me that the
effect of her presence was to
bring some dozen gentlemen to
the back of the box between the
acts to talk to her. She has such
a number of acquaintances here.
August 13. I came back to
the Surry Hills on Monday, and
since that Annie and I have
lived in a continual skirmish.
We shop all day and go out
every evening. It is like going
to Australia over again. We are
obliged to take so many things
up to Exmoor, as it will be
nearly impossible to get anything
till we come back again. Annie
made purchase of a large case
yesterday, which stands in the
back veranda at present, and is
destined to hold an extra-
ordinary assortment of goods. A
little ironmongery, a little
crockery, some of our clothes
and endless odds and ends.
Annie was pretty well pro-
vided with necessaries at Marl-
borough, but she could not pack
the things herself for Exmoor,
and the chances are that every-
thing useful has been left be-
hind, or broken. Biddulph got a
quantity of things when he was
here. A breakfast-set, dinner-
set, any amount of books, etc.,
but it is little things that we
shall probably be short of,
I am staying at home to write
my English letters and get my
things in general a little forward
and in order, but all the rest of
the family are gone to Waver!ey
to a picnic. They have a lovely
day for it, and it will be very
pleasant on the hills by the sea,
but I would not afford the time
to go. I hate to be “driven up”
at the last, and the Boomerang
may be in any day now, and
then she goes 48 hours after
arrival. Saturday she is ex-
pected to sail, and that is only
two days hence.
We shall have an escort up,
as Mr. John Stewart, a brother
of Biddulph’s former partner, is
going up with us, also a Mr.
Wise, a friend of Annie’s, and
popularly supposed to be rather
more than a friend if he had the
wherewithal. He has a station
somewhere up in the north, but
a non-paying one.
Biddulph, in an evil hour, in-
vited Mr. John Stewart to visit
him, and now he has chosen to
accept the invitation and accom-
pany us to Exmoor. I think he
hopes the warm climate will cure
the asthma, from which he
suffers dreadfully, but it will be
rather awkward if he is ill by
the way.
I am not looking forward to
the voyage with any great plea-
sure. The probability is that we
shall both be seasick. I believe
it is the close air which makes
me ill on board those coasting
steamers. The ladies’ cabin, as
they call it, is a dreadful hole,
and there is no escape from it
unless it is fine enough to be
always on deck.
August 15. Our last evening
has come, and we sail for Rock-
hampton by the Boomerang to-
morrow afternoon at five o’clock.
We have been terribly busy these
last few days. Today we have
been packing all the morning
and shopping all the afternoon.
Then we went straight from
Sydney to Paddington to wish
Lizzie Chapman goodbye. There
was quite a party there to meet
us, but we could only stay to
tea and come away directly after.
We have so very much still to
do. Then we missed the Pad-
dington omnibus and had to
walk back nearly three miles in
the dark (Emily, Annie and I).
We got back to the Surry Hills
at nine o’clock, and now I have
half a night’s work before me
in the way of writing and finish-
ing up things.
The English mail is in, and the
letters will, we hope, be delivered
tomorrow, just in time for us to
get them before we go. It will
be very vexing if we cannot get
them. Among other things, we
have had each a carte de visite
likeness taken. Annie has dis-
tributed any amount among her
friends here. I have sent one
each to Aunt Henrietta and
Aunt Vizard. 1 thought you
would not care about another,
as you have a much better like-
ness, and I look remarkably
hideous in a carte de visite.
I have also one for-Amy and
Emily Tucker. We have bought
ourselves some waterproof
cloaks with hoods for the
journey, for as we have to travel
nearly 400 miles in an open dog-
cart, we should certainly get the
rheumatics if it came on to rain.
We have also invested in a rail-
way rug lined with waterproof
for camping out, as we shall
have to spend four or five nights
in the bush and the ground may
be damp.
Annie and I have given Caro-
line a very nice black silk dress
as a sort of “testimonial” for
her kindness. We really come
and go, and lumber up the house
with parcels and pack and
skirmish here exactly as if it was
our own home. Nothing can be
kinder than the Hirsts always are
to us.
I am writing a most stupid
letter, but it has been written
under great hindrances. At
this moment six people are in
full talk round me, and I am
dead tired besides.
Goodbye, my dearest sister. I
feel as if I was going further
away from you than ever, but
we shall always remember and
love each other and I trust meet
again in God’s own good time.
We expect to be back again in
eight or nine months if all is
well. If possible I will write
you a line from Rockhampton
to tell you of our safe arrival
there, and after there you will
not hear again very soon, but I
will write whenever there is a
chance of sending.
My kindest love to the darling
children.
Ever your most affectionate
sister.
Rachel Henning.
Marlborough,
Queensland,
August 28, 1862.
My Dearest Etta,
We have got thus far on our
journey, and I most unexpec-
tedly have time to write to you,
as we are luggage-bound here
for two days.
I wrote to you from Rock-
hampton just before we started
on our northward journey. We
stayed there two whole days,
and on the 24th Biddulph
came over for us about the
middle of the day.
It was raining when we left
Rockhampton, but we were so
tired of the place, and Biddulph
was so tired of waiting also, that
we preferred taking the chance
of bad weather, and the result
proved we were right. Biddulph
had oyr horses waiting on the
other side of the river, and by
a superhuman effort of packing
we crammed our dresses and
crinolines into a valise which
he carried before him, while the
rest of our property went into
that little black bag we bought
at Bristol and which I fastened
to my saddle. All our other
goods had been sent on the night
before to the camp. The
“camp,” namely Mr. Hedge-
land, Mr. Stewart and the
horses, started before Biddulph
came over for us.
I think I told you before that
he had been encamped on the
other side of the river for more
than a week. We caught them
up after a ten-mile canter, and
then proceeded more quietly.
The whole concern formed quite
a cavalcade and looked so
picturesque winding through the
bush. We had five saddle-
horses ridden by Annie and
myself, Biddulph, Mr. Hedge-
land and Mr. Stewart, five pack-
horses and six spare horses
driven loose. We had to lea%e
a good deal of our luggage at
Rockhampton to be sent round
to Port Denison, and the rest
was packed in six “bushel bags
and slung on the said pack-
horses, to the sore discomfiture
of our dresses, etc.
We made twenty-three miles
that afternoon and got to a
station called Yamba for the
night. We had some storms by
the way, but nothing to matter
much. Annie and I went up to
the house, where we were very
kindly received by Mrs. Mac-
donald; the rest of the part
camped in the bush as usual.
We saw quantities of blacks that
day; a whole tribe seemed o
be camped on the station.
are the queerest-lookmg mortal
certainly, with their long lean
legs and arms without an atom
of flesh on them, more like
spiders than anything humam
Their costume is usually a shin
and nothing else. Men and
women wear the same, an .
laugh and show their white tee
whenever you look at tue™-
The next morning Biddulph


came for us about nine o’clock.
Fortunately it was very fine, and
we soon joined the camp and set
off again. We only made about
twenty miles that day, as we
had to stop about four o’clock,
having reached the only
camping-place where there was
good feed and water for many
miles. We made our first
acquaintance with „ “camping
out” that night, and found it
rather pleasant than otherwise.
It was a very pretty spot on
the bank of a creek, with shady
trees and plenty of green grass.
The blackboy they had with
them had run away at Rock-
hampton, so Biddulph, Mr.
Hedgeland and Mr. Stewart had
to do everything themselves.
They are first-rate bushmen —
the two former at least—and in
no time they had the horses un-
loaded, hobbled and turned out
to feed, then a great fire was
lighted by a fallen tree.
Mr. Stewart went to the creek
for water and proceeded to boil
it in quart pots while Biddulph
and Mr. Hedgeland unpacked a
very nice little tent, which was
slung between two trees.
Biddulph chopped down a
sapling with his tomahawk and
cut it into pegs, and in less than
no time we had quite a comfort-
able little abode in the wilder-
ness.
By the time the tea was boiled
in the quart pots they spread
blankets on the grass, and we
each had a pint pot into which
the hot tea was poured. We had
some very good damper, fresh
beef, cheese and jam and I was
never so hungry in my life, hav-
ing had nothing since breakfast
and ridden twenty miles.
When it got dusk we all drew
round the fire, and I wished I
could send you a picture of the
camp then. Annie and I had a
very comfortable sort of sofa
made of a railway rug and the
packs off the horses to lean
against. Biddulph was sitting on
a log in his shirt sleeves reading
the “Home news” by the fire-
light, Mr. Hedgeland kneeling
on the grass manufacturing a
damper for next day’s consump-
tion, and Mr. Stewart intent on
boiling some more tea for the
refreshment of the establish-
ment before going to bed. There
was a tremendous fire, and it
looked so pretty against the
background of dark bush. We
could hear the horse-bells as they
were feeding round us, and the
frogs croaking in the creek, else
you may fancy it was quiet
enough.
Annie and I betook ourselves
to our tent about nine o’clock,
where they had made us up a
"Our only misadventure that first day.”
very comfortable bed of
blankets and rugs, with our
carpet-bags for a pillow, and
you will wonder to hear that we
slept as soundly as possible in
our novel bedroom.
We turned out about seven the
next morning and found the fire
lighted and the tea boiled and
Biddulph driving in the horses,
wet up to his knees with the
dew. Annie and I went down to
the creek and washed our hands
and faces ; then we had break-
fast, damper, beef, jam and
quart-pot tea again, TTie others
had slept by the fire under their
blankets.
I do not think Mr. Stewart
much appreciated the oppor-
tunity, as he is new to this sort
of thing ; of course it is nothing
to Biddulph and Mr. Hedge-
land. Then the horses were
loaded, a work of some time,
the saddles put on, and off we
went again. Annie and I did not
always keep up with the pack-
horses. When it was very dusty
we walked our horses some
distance behind them and
cantered up to them now and
then.
We got to Princhester in the
middle of the day and got some
dinner there, the usual beef and
damper and a higher table than
usual. It is a remarkable
peculiarity of the bush tables
that the top is about on a level
with the nose of a short person.
We did twenty-five miles that
day and reached Marlborough in
the evening, with ourselves and
baggage none the worse for our
journey. We took up our
quarters at Biddulph’s old
house, a very comfortable sort
of abode, and they say the house
at Exmoor is better, so we shall
do very well. There is no glass
in the window, and certainly
there are interstices between the
logs, but they are not very wide,
and then the climate is
wonderful: the mornings and
evenings are cold enough to
make a fire pleasant, but in the
middle of the day it is hotter
than most English summer days.
The thermometer was seventy-
eight inside the house at dinner-
time and one hundred and
fifteen in the sun.
The new house Biddulph built
is a very nice one, ten good
rooms with glass windows.
What a pity we cannot put it on
a dray and carry it with us to
Exmoor!
We then took a walk down to
the creek where we picked
branches of fire-tree; it bears
a most beautiful crimson
blossom and keeps some time in
water. There is to be a town-
ship on Marlborough station,
and all the part about the house
is to be sold in allotments. All
Biddulph’s improvements are
capital, the woolshed, meat-
house, forge, kitchens, men’s
huts and dwelling-house are so
very well put up.
We have been very busy since
we came here, packing the things
for Exmoor. Biddulph sent on
some of the furniture by drays
before he came down to meet
us, but it has not yet arrived,
having stuck in a creek and
come to grief. By the way, the
books, I am afraid, are nearly
all spoiled, as the water rose in
the creek.
Besides the packhorses we
are going to take with us a
springcart and the dogcart.
Some mattresses and bedding are
to go in the springcart, as it is
doubtful whether any has arrived
at Exmoor yet. Mr, Stewart is
going to drive it. We should
have been off today only that
the said springcart wanted
mending, and nobody could
be persuaded to do it, so Bid-
dulph and Mr. Hedgeland have
been tinkering at it themselves
today. It is a matter of curious
calculation how far it will hold'
together.
Biddulph will drive a tandem
in the dogcart himself, but I
dare say we shall ride a good
part of the way as we have the
horses with us. We shall have
to camp out a good many nights
going up, as what stations there
are are mostly off the road.
We shall take about ten days
about it, as you cannot make
more than twenty-five miles a
day with two vehicles and sixteen
horses. Packhorses cannot be
driven very fast.
Our escort up the country
consists of just Biddulph, who
is looking very well and hand-
some just now and who is as
easy and good-
tempered as ever,
taking strayed
horses, damaged
carts, unpunctual sisters (for we
kept him waiting a week at
Rockhampton) with equal and
imperturbable good temper;
then there is Mr. George Hedge-
land, who has been with Bid-
dulph a long time and is going
to stay on at Exmoor with him.
He is going to run some sheep
on the station, and I dare say
will do very well. I like him
very much. He is Biddulph’s
right hand and works harder
than Biddulph himself, being
much more methodical. I do
not think we should ever get
through all the packing and
arranging without him.
Then there is Mr. Stewart, a
brother to the Mr. William
Stewart you know, a quiet,
good-natured little man with
bad health; he is going up to
see if the climate of Queensland
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
agrees with him ; and finally we
are to take a certain “Tom” to
cook for us at Exmoor and
catch the horses, etc. We have
seven revolvers among the
party, for which there is not
likely to be any need. Biddulph
drives the dogcart, Mr. Stewart
the cart, and Mr. Hedgeland and
Tom drive the horses, and we
start early tomorrow morning.
And now I must stop as it is
late, the springcart is packed,
our “Sunday best,” as Annie
says, is once more deposited in
three “bushel-bags,” some fowls
that we are going to take are
cackling on the floor with their
legs tied, the horses are in the
stockyard ready to start, and
tomorrow will see us on our way
to the far north. We shall be
able to write as soon as we get
to Exmoor, as some drays are to
be sent down.
With love from your affec-
tionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
x moor,
Port Denison,
September 23, 1862.
A ay Dearest Etta,
I wrote to you last from Marl-
borough, and now that we are
arrived at Exmoor and a little
settled, I will begin to tell you
of our adventures by the way,
as we may have an opportunity
of sending a letter in a few days.
August 29. We left Marl-
borough about three o’clock in
the afternoon, after a great
scrimmage to get off, and this
was the cavalcade that started:
first Biddulph driving a tandem
in a dogcart, the back of the
dogcart being packed with an
infinity of things including a
crate with some fowls in it, who
cackled as we went. Annie and
I took it in turns
to ride on horse-
back or drive with
Biddulph. I was
in the dogcart the first
day and was exceedingly
entertained by the second part
of the procession, which con-
sisted of Mr, Stewart driving
the springcart with the luggage.
He is a funny-looking little
man, and had seen fit to array
himself in a Crimean shirt which
he put on over his other clothes,
and he sat perched on a carpet-
bag, holding the reins in his
hands in the most helpless way,
for he had never driven before
and letting the horse go exactly
where he pleased, to Biddulph’s
infinite disgust
He kept shouting “Mind that
gum-tree, Stewart! Look out
for that log!” and then sotto
voce: “I know that man will
smash the cart before he has
gone a mile.” Behind came a
mob of twenty-two horses.
some of them packed but many
driven loose, to change the
draught-horses. Annie, Mr,
Hedgeland and Tom rods
behind them, the two latter driv-
ing them, and quite enough they
had to do. Tom came up to
Exmoor to act as cook and
waiter; he was with Biddulph
at Marlborough, has been
steward on board a ship, and is
a very handy fellow in every-
thing but driving horses, which
he performs as a sailor might be
expected to do.
Well, our only misadventure
that first day was that Mr.
Stewart at last contrived to lock
the wheel of the cart safely
against a gum-tree; the horse
was a powerful one, the gum-
tree was strong, something must
give way, and fortunately it was
the harness, not the cart, and the
horse walked off without a strap
upon him. Mr. Stewart tumbled
out of the cart and stood look-
ing on aghast while all hands
patched up the harness with
ropes, etc.
We camped about five o’clock.
Annie, Mr. Stewart and I lit the
fire and boiled the tea while the
rest were for two hours trying
to catch and hobble a refractory
mare belonging to Mr. Hedge-
land, which he was driving up to
the station with the other horses.
She was unbroken and had a
foal with her. The first thing
don© on coming into camp
always is to hobble all the
horses, which is fastening a strap
round each foreleg with a short
chain between ; it is intended to
prevent them straying far, but
does not always succeed.
They caught the horse at last
and w© had tea, a talk round
the campfire and such a sound
sleep in our tent. We brought
two small mattresses on with us
from Marlborough and so were
exceedingly comfortable.
August 30. The usual bustle
of catching the horses, packing
and saddling. I rode today and
Annie went in the dogcart. Mr.
Morisset, one of the mounted
police officers, joined us in the
course of the morning, and we
all stopped at the Toloomba Inn
and dined off sucking-pig! We
had had nothing but salt beef
since leaving Rockhampton, and
you would have laughed to see
how that sucking-pig disap-
peared. Mr. Morisset left us at
Toloomba.
Our afternoon’s stage ended
rather unluckily; just before
reaching our camping-place we
had to cross a dreadful creek.
These creeks are the great plague
of Australian travelling; they
are deep river-beds, sometimes
narrow, sometimes very wide,
often with the sides nearly
o Continued on next page.)
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and settled permanently
in Australia in 1861.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
his married cousin Lindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, tljen
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Later he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bulli Mountain, at 25s. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. Bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £900 in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1810, his wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. WILLIAM
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


mm
dUfl' ¥ wlth
Mobilco
ONE MAN POST HOLE DIGGER
Just wheel it along the fence line and dig fifty holes an hour. This rugged
light-weight moves easily over rough country on pneumatic tyred, ball-
bearing wheels. Tough steel Auger sinks and clears average post hole in ten
seconds. Digs to 2 ft. 8 ins. deep, clean smooth holes. Designed in Australia
for Australian conditions, in-
corporating roller bearings,
aluminium alloy gear box,
working parts precision mach-
ined to an accuracy previously
unknown in farm implements.
Powered by 6 b.h.p. B.S.A.
air-cooled petrol engine.
i
One machine does many Jobs .
dfg
You can bore fencing posts as you dig the holes
with this machine plus the special Mobilco-
Electro 32 volt, 500 Watt electric generator
and sturdy Mobilco-Sher power drill. Reliable
generator is coupled to the Post Hole Digger
in a few minutes. It enables you to run a mobile
one-stand Shearing plant ideal for paddock
crutching. Also adaptable for shed and field
lighting. Or a 3 in. centrifugal pump that shifts
300 gallons a minute at a 50ft. head can be installed. Post Hole Digger, with or
without attachments can be towed to the job behind a car or fitted to utility
or where convenient it may be horse drawn.
Write now for details.
dfg
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT Limited
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Cent. 4799, after hours WF3IIB
MCI 24
perpendicular, except where
drays have found some sort of
passage.
Biddulph is a capital driver.
If you could only see the places
we took the dogcart down into
and out of again. I believe it
was the first vehicle, except
drays, that was ever taken up
the country. Well, this Toloomba
creek was worse than usual, the
banks being like the roof of a
house. Biddulph got the dogcart
safely into it —and then the get-
ting out!
Two fresh horses were put in ;
Biddulph and Mr. Hedgeland
went at their heads, Tom and
Mr. Stewart ran behind with
logs of wood to put behind the
wheels the moment the horses
checked. A tremendous strain,
a shout and a tug and the dog-
cart was safe on the opposite
bank!
Then came the springcart that
was heavier, and weak in its con-
stitution besides; it was got
half-way up the side when the
horses jibbed and backed, and
in a moment the cart was upset
and lying in a smash at the
bottom of the creek. Its bones
repose there now. It was hope-
lessly broken, and there was
nothing for it but to unload and
leave it to its fate.
We camped that night beside
the creek, and a very pretty
creek it was, with pools of clear
water lying about among the
trees in it. Annie and I did a
little “Dorothea” and washed
our feet in a sequestered water-
hole the next morning.
Sunday, August 31. Sunday
is not much like Sunday when
travelling in the bush. Very
early in the morning Biddulph
packed the dogcart with all that
could be spared of the baggage,
and took it back to the
Toloomba Inn to leave it there
till the drays are sent down from
Exmoor. A great deal of the
furniture is also at Toloomba, the
dray that was taking it up having
come to grief in the same creek.
Mr. Stewart also left us here ;
ho had had quite enough of
bush travelling by the time he
got to Marlborough and only
accompanied us another day
under protest till Biddulph could
find a man to drive the cart. He
was no great loss, as he was
utterly unused to bush-life and
a most helpless individual, with
ill-health into the bargain,
Biddulph did not get back
from Toloomba with the dog-
cart till about twelve o’clock, so
we only made a short day’s
journey with our diminished
train. I went in the dogcart,
Tom drove the horses, which
were getting used to the road
now, and Annie rode with Mr.
Hedgeland.
We camped early, and were
sitting round the fire resting and
peacefully drinking our tea when
Tom came running up to say
that “the old black horse” had
bogged himself in a creek; that
is, had stuck in the mud, and,
being hobbled, could not get out
again. Off went Biddulph and
Mr. Hedgeland, and for two
mortal hours they were all three at
work up to their knees in water
trying to get that horse out.
They caught the strongest
horse of the mob, harnessed him
to the other, and by alternately
dragging at his head and tail
extricated him at last, in a very
woeful condition, covered with
mud from head to foot. They
came back wet and weary and
we were all glad to turn in.
I never slept in my life as I
did in that tent. Biddulph
insisted on bringing on our
mattresses, so they were rolled
up and lashed behind the dog-
cart, to the great improvement
of its appearance. We had
plenty of blankets and were as
warm and comfortable as pos-
sible. Living in the open air
and riding twenty-five miles a
day is a great promoter of sleep.
We used to turn in about nine
o’clock, and got up at sunrise.
We were usually waked by the
cock we were taking up with
us. Every night I used to take
him and his wife out of the crate
in which they were travelling
and tethered them by the leg to
the wheel of the dogcart, “for
exercise,” and put them back
again in the morning.
Mr. Hedgeland slept in a ham-
mock which he slung between
two trees, and Biddulph usually
took up his rest on the dogcart
cushions by the fire, while Tom
made a little pirate fire of his
own and rolled himself up in
his blankets.
September 1. Great tribula-
tion this morning. Three of the
horses were missing and could
by no possibility be found. We
camped all day to look for them.
Two of our escort were per-
petually out scouring the country
while one stayed with us, as
they did not like to leave us
alone in that wild country.
However, the day wore away
and the horses could not be
found. Annie and I improved
the time by mending sundry
rents in our habits and gloves,
and generally polishing up our
garments, which suffered
grievously from the dust, which
is dreadful. They gave up the
search when it got dark, and we
sat round the fire and discussed
things in general.
September 2. Wc could not
wait any longer. Biddulph was
so dreadfully afraid of bad
weather coming on, so we started
with the dogcart and horses,
leaving Mr. Hedgeland to go to
Wiangii, the nearest station, and
try and get a blackboy there to
come and track the horses.
In the middle of the day we
got to Waverly, Mr. Macartney’s
station, where we stopped and
dined. Mrs. Macartney and her
sister were at home, rather
pleasant people. They had a
comfortable little bush-house
with a veranda covered with
passion-vine and a garden full
of petunias in most brilliant
flower. We begged a whole
bundle of cuttings, and after
dinner started again and made
a long stage to get to the foot
df the Collaroy Range, so as to
climb the mountains in the
morning. We did not arrive till
dark, and Annie and I made the
fire and boiled the tea, while
Biddulph and Tom unloaded and
hobbled the horses.
We camped in a sort of valley
at the foot of the mountains
near a creek, quite a romantic
place. On our whole journey
from Marlborough to Exmoor
we never went to a station at
night. The few there were lay
off the road, and would have
cost us several miles’ journey,
and we liked camping better.
When we got in tired after a
long day’s journey, it was much
pleasanter to pin up our habits
and repose ourselves on very
luxurious sofas made of blankets
and saddle-bags in front of the
fire, while Tom got our tea and
Biddulph and Mr. Hedgeland
made fun of things in general-
much pleasanter than to go to
a station, dress and make our-
selves agreeable —or disagree-
able to strangers all the
evening.
September 3. All up veiy
early. Biddulph and Tom
directly after breakfast put the
two best horses in the dogcart
and set off, to get it up the
Collaroy Range, an ascent of a
mile long and about as steep as
the roof of a house. Annie and
I stayed in the camp to take
care of the property and keep
the horses in, the latter office
we found it so troublesome to
perform on foot, that after two
of them had led me a dance of
nearly a mile through long grass,
I caught one of the riding-horses
and we took it by turns to
mount him and keep the rest
together.
Biddulph and Tom came back
about twelve, packed the horses
and off we all set to climb the
range. I never saw anything
more beautiful than that moun-
tain scenery. It was threatening
for rain, and some of the moun-
tains were in mist, some in sun-
shine, and you cannot imagine
wilder crags and mountains
rolling behind mountains.
Annie got giddy about half-way
up and got off her horse, but
was peremptorily mounted again
by Biddulph with the assurance
that she would kill herself if she
tried to walk up. ,
We reached the top at last,
and found the dogcart safe an
((Continued on page 24.)
VARIOUS VERSE
DRAW DOWN THE BLIND.
Draw down the blind and let the dark
Around the spinning starlight mark
That there’s a stillness in this room
When Love the planet circles home.
And, from its chaliced beauty, lays
And legends of the world’s first days
Move to our lips, from which shall flow
Another lay that earth may know
When men and women worshipping
In far centuries at evening
Are glad our stillness and our song
Were here a legend of their own.
Draw down the blind and now between
The Eden and the ending sun
Cleave ages and evade all death
Like the planet that we lie beneath.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
ZIGZAG.
Out of the printed page leaping high,
Twin forks of lightning to the eye,
From the middle of puzzle,
Muzzle or guzzle,
Sharp determined zigs and zags and angles
Who zestfully do challenge and contemn
Those helots with their paltry curves and angles:
The paling m,
The serpent s, the bottom-heavy g,
The ramrod 1, the indefatigable e.
The goalpost H, the bloated b,
The queer left-handed q
Arm in arm with u,
The leering c.
The perky j,
The curly k,
The velvety v,
The gaping y, the twittering t,
The staring o, the prim old-maidish p.
The i attended by his satellite,
Pot-bellied a, the thing indefinite.
Patrician z lords it above all these
Dazzling us with his brief appearances.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
LADIES’ MATCH.
The sun is a cricket ball, spinning in the sky.
There is no cloud to catch it: it may never fall.
The ground is a billiard table.
Conscious of white skirts, sweaters, our critical eye,
the women form patterns of cleanliness on the green ground
and we males lean back in the shade and pretend to frown.
We are sports-wear advertisements; the Australian myth, tall
and strong, and silent: tolerant youths with a style
aimed at the impressive fable.
We fold arrogant arms. We decorate the summerhouse wall
with an air of ownership. Or we flex muscles'; yawn
and snigger at the way these women throw the ball.
We are amused, and put-out, but willing to humor them all.
And we watch with a half-ashamed grin; an occasional clap
when someone forgets to fumble.
A girl fields towards us: hands tight, head back,
her legs strident and ugly, sweet jangle of her breasts —•
she picks up the ball, poses . . . and misses the stumps.
And we manage a groan for the game. We cheerfully slap
at backs and hands. We put on a laugh for the play.
But we are uncomfortable.
For a moment we’d forgotten the game, forgotten ourselves,
been only male. And now we’re alone, and ashamed
to have caught one another out. It is terrible, terrible
to lose interest in the game, not to care about the ball.
It isn’t cricket. No. It isn’t cricket at all.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


JIN NO UNCEMENT
MORLEY BUILDING
# • • • a 15-storey block of professional and company office suites
to be erected in Elizabeth Street, between Martin Place
and King Street, next to University Chambers.
A limited amount of space will be available to
approved professional and business firms on the basis
of individual ownership of office suites through share-
holdings in CITY BUILDINGS CO-OPERATIVE
No. i LIMITED, which is a non-profit-making co-
operative organisation formed specifically to develop
this extremely valuable and outstanding property.
Primarily, the building is for the purpose of providing
accommodation for the occupiers of professional
chambers that have been scheduled for demolition
arising from the development of the Eastern Suburbs
Railway.
As a portion of the space to be provided will not be
required to meet this obligation, it can be offered for
general subscription in minimum areas of 360 square
feet.
Each floor will be approximately 2150
square feet in area with an average front-
age of 80 feet to Elizabeth Street, thus
assuring maximum natural light and ven-
tilation.
t m »
*j
'-O
W^Li
jj^.
m
Hi
s*
««
;**srs
*i
«i
*
n
»»i
»i
H«
•■I
!&
Hi
Hi
H
is
mk
m
ii
m
SI
I
«l
is
ii
ill
Mi
ii
i
ii
m
:
■ h %
mmm
mm
*■'■*
-:
it
m
m
9
wm
W*
MB
m v «g^i
hmhi
m
■
1
Hi
i|
Hi
Architect,
A. F. BLACKWELL, A.B.A.LA.
The building will be of steel frame and
concrete construction.
The bulk of the steel required, which has
been imported from overseas, is already
in the hands of the builder, C. A. Gaskin
Pty. Ltd.
Building operations are scheduled to
start in November with completion
within a period of two years.
Applications for space in this building are invited.
Applicants will be required to subscribe for a number of £1 shares in the Society,
appropriate to the space required with a payment of 7/6 per share on a PP h J*f!°JJ-
The unpaid balance will be due in progressive amounts during the period of constructs .
The controlling Society, City Buildings Co-operative No. 1 Limited, is the latest^ Unit
in a group of Co-operative Societies known as Urban Co-operative Multi H
Nos. 1 2 3,4, 5 and 6 Ltd. which have been concentrating in the held of domestic
building, having constructed a group of residential flat buildings on the basis o
individual ownership of Units, notably the 10-storey block of apartments known as
17 Wylde Street, which was completed earlier this year.
plans of the proposed building for Elizabeth Street may be inspected and further information
obtained at the offices of the Society, Suite 3-4, 2nd Floor, House. Angel Place, Sydney.
J. K. MORLEY PTY. LTD.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
A reception in honor of Clement
Hosking was given during the week by
the New Australians’ Cultural Association
at the Women’s Club, to congratulate him
on the publication of his new book Fine
Song for Singing. The reception-room had
been beautifully decorated with spring
blossom and azaleas by Mrs. Wilfred
Arlom, and the guests were received by
the president of the association, Miss
Eileen Lower, whose gown was parchment
taffeta with a fichu of old lace. Several
New Australians from Latvia, White
Russia, Hungary and Yugoslovia made
very creditable speeches of congratulation,
and the guests had also the pleasure of
hearing a short talk by Dame Mary Gil-
more, Among those present were Mr.
J. G. McKenzie, Director-General of
Education, Dr. and Mrs. Bainton, Miss
Nancy Jobson, Miss Helen Morton and
Miss May Brahe.
Miss Norma Parker, of the Depart-
ment of Social Studies, at Sydney Uni-
versity, left during the week for America,
where she will study at the University of
Chicago under the terms of the Fulbright
Smith-Mundt Award. She will principally
look into the research work that has
been done in America on such subjects as
marriage-guidance and problem-families.
Although Social Studies has been estab-
iished in Australia for only 10 years,
the work has long been carried on in
England and was started in America in
1890. Miss Parker says that the expan-
sion of the work in Australia since the
war has been phenomenal, so that there
are now very many more openings than
there are qualified people to fill them.
Miss Parker is a graduate in arts from
Perth University, and took her Social
Studies course at the University of
Washington. She will study in Chicago
for about seven months.
When Elfrida Regala, daughter of the
Minister for the Philippines, married
Felix Maramba at Wesley Chapel, one
couldn’t help noticing the contrast be-
tween the severity of the chapel and the
spectacular quality of the dressing.
Elfrida’s dress, which had been made by
her mother, featured the butterfly-sleeves
which make any Philippine dress look
gala, and an elaborate sequin and pearl-
embroidered train which was detachable.
Several of the women at the wedding,
including Madame Regala, were hatless,
and there was rather a mixture of winter
and summer dressing seen among the
guests. For the ball which was given at
night by the bride’s parents, the garden
of the Regala home was decorated with
illuminated wedding-bells, and the arch-
way and silver bell under which the couple
were married were placed at the entrance
to the ballroom.
The exhibition of crafts by the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children was opened
at David Jones’s Walk Gallery by Frank
Muir and Dennis Norden, visiting
8.8. C. script-writers, who were so amus-
ing that one felt they should not only
do the writing but also the talking. They
alleged that they were petrified, as
nobody had ever before asked them to
open anything (unless it could be opened
with a corkscrew). They felt, however,
that it was rather appropriate that they
should open a crafts exhibition, as the
idea of “Take It From Here” was for
someone to learn a trade. But, seriously,
they considered that the cause of the
crippled children was about as worth-
while as you could get, and they exhorted
their audience to do something them-
selves that would help the work, of the
society.
The hard white light that beats upon
a premiere was seen in all its glory at
the opening of Hoyt’s new Park Theatre,
which is the old Tatler rejuvenated.
Electric lights, floodlights, spotlights, flash-
lights shone brilliantly upon an audience
that seemed well able to take it, so
well-dressed, coiffured, befurred and be-
jewelled were they. Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere, wearing an oyster satin cocktail
dress, did the welcoming, as the proceeds
of the first night were donated to the
Black and White Ball, of which she is
president. Lady Lloyd Jones wore a
beautiful white mink cape over a pale-
caramel chiffon dress. Mrs. Noel
Vincent’s dress was rich, black velvet.
Mrs. Roy McCaughey anticipated the
B. and W. Ball by wearing a floating
white dress embroidered all over with fine
black lace. Mrs. Pierre Mann wore em-
broidered ice-blue satin. Mrs. Laurence
le Guay looked demure in black with a
white collar. . There were many young
girls present, including Madeline Arch-
butt, in black, Mrs. Jock Simpson, in
broderie Anglaise, and Annette Dunlop,
who probably took some tips from the
superfluity of dancing in the picture
shown.
Mrs. Murray Robson has been
appointed an honorary director of Red
Cross branches for N.S.W. in succession
to Mrs. G. R. Strachen, who retired from
the position last year. Mrs. Robson, as
Sue Other Gee, was well-known for her
work during the war, first as a V.A. and
then as a member of the A.A.M.W.A.S.
In her new work she will administer the
644 branches of the Red Cross in this
State.
The hundreds of exhibits in the Grafton
Contest for a dress fabric design brought
out some very interesting motifs. There
were horses racing (in a very strung-out
field), fish, mermaids, church-spires,
buxom bathing-girls, surrealist horses,
banksias, aborigines, etc., all convention-
alised so that one had to look twice to
see what they were. If all dress-materials
were of this nature we’d never have a
dull moment. The standard was very
high, the prize (300 guineas) being won
by Douglas Annand with a delicate white
design on pale-green. Many schoolgirls
competed, including twin sisters Mary
and Barbara Carroll, whose work was
specially mentioned.
This is a Nortpn-Trevaire study of Mrs.
Eric Bennett, who is metropolitan vice-
president of the central council of the
R.S.L. Women’s Auxiliaries. At their
recent conference Mrs. Bennett was
awarded the Certificate of Merit for her
splendid work.
A gay garden-party parade will be
held at Kirribilli House on Sunday,
September 23, at 3 p.m. The invitation
issued by the Younger Set of the Black
and White Ball committee, which has
arranged the parade, says “champagne
served,” which always adds a "note of
gaiety, for even those who don’t like
champagne admit that its very name is
lighthearted and festive.
The Genesians last week won the
N.S.W. section of the Commonwealth
Jubilee contest for amateur theatrical
gioups with their fine production of
“Murder in the Cathedral.” Competing
in the finals were the Wagga Wagga
School of Arts Players, who presented
Priestley’s “They Came to a Citv,” the
Bowral Choral Society Dramatic Group,
whose offering was “Mate in Three” by
L. Du Garde Peach, and the Sydney
Drama Society with “Ann Veronica.”
The Genesians, who will compete against
other inter-State winners in Hobart in
November, take their name from the
first play they performer, Henri Gheon’s
“Comedian,” the hero of which is St.
Genesius, actor and martyr.
“September Tide” with Evelyn Laye
and Frank Lawton, opened at the Royal
on Friday, and was received in very
friendly fashion. Evelyn Laye, who is
well-known for the elegance of her dress-
ing, doesn’t get much chance to display
her fashion-sense in this play, for the
leading lady is a quiet middle-aged type
whose charm is her femininity and
domesticity. As she lived in a cottage at
the seaside, however, her clothes seemed
rather inappropriate to Australian
onlookers. A coat and skirt doesn’t seem
quite the right thing to wear while
struggling with the household chores,
and a silk dress with a flying panel in
front seems singularly unseaside-like.
Frank Lawton’s concession to the Cornish
coast was to change shoes for sandals
and a scarf for a tie. One couldn’t help
feeling that the Australian man has it
over the Englishman for casual clothes —
though not, of course, in the formal
line.
From Melbourne
Backdrop on the stage of St. Kilda
Town Hall when the Air Force Women s
Association held the Battle of Britain
Ball showed an air battle over the dome
of St, Paul’s. Spring flowers and blossom
cascaded everywhere. Place-cards in the
form of pale-blue Spitfire aircraft were
the work of the son of Mrs. F. M.
Wright, president of the ball committee,
whose gown was of deep-mauve crepe
ornamented with rhinestones in deeper
tonings. Guest-of-honor was Air Chief
Marshal Sir Christopher Courtney, R.A.F.
Mrs. George Jones, wife of Air-Marshal
Jones, chose a pretty gown of mushroom-
pink lace. Mrs. E. C. Wackett, president
of the Air Force Women’s Association,
wore silver-grey brocade. Mrs. Richard
Williams’s black gown had embroideries
on the front of the bodice. Mrs. W. L.
Hely’s choice was white moire, Mrs.
John Daveren’s, black chiffon. Brown
satin highlighted with bronze sequins was
worn by Mrs. J. A. Alexander. Mrs.
Douglas Candy was in hyacinth-blue
crepes. Mrs. Henry Dennett’s pale-blue
satin frock bared one shoulder. Mrs.
Eric Hewitt’s gown of Patou-pink brocade
had the bodice draped with pink tulle.
Pale-mauve brocade was worn by Mrs.
Dick Noone, Mrs. Norman Poulton’s
choice was burgundy and blue taffeta.
R.A.A.F. headquarters mess in St.
Kilda-road was the setting for the buffet
dinner-party given by Air-Marshal and
Mrs. George Jones to wind up Air Force
week celebrations. Mrs. Jones wore a
navy frock and a scallop-brimmed wide
blue hat trimmed with pink and blue
flowers. Mrs. T. T. Hollway’s junior-blue
chiffon frock was pleated, her small
matching hat finished with tiny wings.
With Archbishop J. J. Booth was Mrs.
Booth in an ice-blue wool jacket-suit
and a small black hat with blue and black
ribbon-trimmings. Mrs. Norman Robinson
added a small black velvet pillbox hat
to her black suit. A diamente-studded
veil was over the small white hat Mrs.
Rufus Ramey wore with her deep-blue
suit. Mrs. lan McLaughlin wore a mink
stole with her black ensemble. Of black
moire taffeta was Mrs. Reggie Radford’s
cocktail frock.
Pictured here is Mrs. Iris Clarke,
formerly Iris Connolly, who, when she
returned from her English finishing
school at the age of 18, worked in an
honorary capacity at the old Melbourne
Hospital. When the late James Fair-
bairn, who was Minister for Air in the
early days of the last war, suggested
founding Air Force House for R.A.A.F.
personnel, Lady Brookes, Mrs. Fairbairn
and Mrs. Clarke became members of the
committee of management. Recently
Mrs. Clarke was organiser for the Eye and
Ear Hospital, but she has now joined the
staff of the Opportunity Clubs, of which
Mr. Eugene Gorman is chairman, as
public-relations officer. Mrs. Clarke’s
capable organising was mainly responsible
for the success of the recent Dorchester
mannequin parade, at which were shown
clothes from the salon of Mrs. Harold
Holt.
A fashionably - dressed audience
greeted the gala opening of the
Borovansky ballet at His Majesty’s. One
of the loveliest gowns was worn by Mrs.
John Hollard. Of dove-grey organza,
the skirt was very wide and trimmed
with rows of tiny white straw flowers,
which were repeated on the strapless
bodice. Dove-grey faille was the choice
of Mrs. Tom Carlyon. Pastel-blue satin,
with an unusual stole trimmed with black
fringe, was worn by Mrs. Gordon
Coulter. Rust lace was used to make
Mrs. Bowen Pain’s short frock, worn
under a duster-coat of rust-toned velvet.
Diamente shoulder-straps were a feature
of the aqua-blue satin brocade frock
worn by Mrs. Beveridge Henderson.
Mrs. Jim Campbell, in ice-blue satin and
cerise chiffon stole, had small daughter
Virginia with her. With the Hon. Simon
Warrender was Mrs. Warrender, in gown
and swingback jacket of black faille.
Anne Baillieu in black gown and scarlet
stole was with fiance Dr. John Cordner.
Mrs. Beryl Hadley wore black organza,
Mrs. Walter Ebstein primrose faille.
At the interesting fashion-show at
George’s for the teen-age group, designs
were fresh and the colors exciting. Each
dress shown had its own special detail—
there were ball-fringes, gay pipings, eyelet
borders and lace trimmings. The fabrics
were fine white pique, shantung, Honan,
a white pique printed in a gay flower
motif, frail organza and satin, whilst for
sports clothes ticking and sailcloth were
used. Innovations included black for
teenagers, Chinese necklines on sports
outfits and dressier clothes, and bell-
skirts which hang most gracefully. There
were also tiny boleros with day and
evening models, and visor caps. Most
unusual was “The Thing” ; cut in one
piece from either faille, taffeta, shantung
or plain and floral cotton, it ties around
the waist and is ultra smart. One of the
prettiest dresses seen was of natural
Honan, cut on tailored lines and with
pipings and tiny buttons in flamingo-pink.
The visor hat was in matching pink gros-
grain. Navy faille fashioned a duster-
coat which had the new dropped shoulder-
line, and the wide sleeves were gathered
on just below the shoulders and were
then pushed up above the elbows.
A deep-bronze look was given to a
wide-skirted brown organza gown by
making it over a green taffeta slip. The
mannequin added to her hair-do a wide
bow and ends of green grosgrain ribbon.
One pretty mannequin looked like a
Tenniel illustration of Alice in Wonder-
land. In a bouffant pink tulle ballerina
frock, she wore a band of pink satin
ribbon across her sleek coiffure. White
daisies nodded in the bustle-bow of a
black taffeta gown. A huge bow at the
back of a pink tulle gown had a dual
purpose, for it could be drawn up and
worn to cover arms and shoulders. Rows
and rows of delicate white lace trimmed
the strapless top of a navy organza
gown, whilst bands of matching lace were
featured on the wide skirt. A detach-
able wide ruffle of the organza, also
trimmed with lace, covered the shoulders.
Sprays of primroses were embroidered
on the skirt of a pale-yellow organdie
gown, and peony roses were splashed
over a pale-grey taffeta. This print was
used for a smart ballerina.
It was the women in the audience who
supplied the color and glamor at the
first night of “The Moon Is Blue” at the
Comedy, June Drayton, the American
star of the show, being just a “white-collar
girl,” and wearing only simple, tailored
clothes. Over her white lace gown Mrs.
Maurice Nathan wore a scarlet wool stole.
Mrs. Athol Shmith chose scarlet chiffon
for her gown and sari. The wife of the
U.S. Naval Attache, Mrs. Robert Mach-
lin, wore white taffeta. Mrs. Frank
Gillespie was in black velvet. Black
faille fashioned Mrs. Norman Spry's
gown. Of shot ripple-taffeta was the
strapless gown worn by Jill Daveron with
platina-fox furs. Mrs. S. Aarons wore
a short black chiffon theatre-frock. Mrs.
Ron Marriott’s black velvet gown was
highlighted with a large brilliant orna-
ment at the waistline. Pam Sallman’s
bouffant frock of white nylon was
appliqued with black Chantilly lace. A
white fox stole was worn by Mrs. Graham
Nathan with her black beaded frock.
Mrs. Olive Thring’s gown was blue and
silver lame.
High on a hill at Toorak stands the
charming home of Mr, and Mrs. Gordon
Coulter. There is a small garden at the
street-level entrance apd visitors who
enter the house walk straight through to
the drawing-room, where wide landscape
windows look out on a terraced garden
down to the river’s edge. The garden
around a horseshoe-shaped lawn is now
filled with hyacinths, camellias, daffodils
and primroses, tulip-magnolias and
boronia, while over the river’s brim hang
branches of weeping-willow. Guests in-
vited to a small luncheon-party there in-
cluded Mesdames A. G. Silk and George
Mendes, Tora Beckingsale, Jean Davies
and Peggy Telleck.
Giro’s will be the setting for a manne-
quin parade and dinner-dance on Oct. 2
in aid of the Deaf and Dumb Youth
Hostel Appeal and the Royal Melbourne
Hospital Almoner Ambulance Auxiliary.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside is president of the
committee, and ticket-secretaries are Mrs.
S. P. Kroussos (FW5598) and Mrs. J-
Pettingall (8J4979). Tickets are £2 10s.
each. Model hats and accessories to be
shown are by William Beale; frocks are
from Du Barry; Stell-Ricks is providing
the coats and suits; F. I. Schilling the
furs. There will be a floor show and
dancing until 2.30 a.m.


S7S
GP.1.25
JIIVV ** h<> ,.
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1 888.
\
trxice
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST..
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Edwin Van-der-Vord Nixon, who owes
his middle name to his parents being
Channel Islanders (he was born on
Jersey), was in 1940 added to the muni-
tions-production staff with power to
ascertain costs and check profiteering. The
other day he was elected to do a job
something the same —one of a panel of
five topline accountants who wifi look
after Government interests in its defence
contracts with private industry. Now 75,
of forcible intelligence, Nixon was
a lecturer on accounting at Melbourne
University in the late ’twenties, and has
since sat on a string of royal commis-
sions on taxation, banking and other
monetary matters.
Left Australia last week, Albert Allan
Tregear, who will be especially missed
(temporarily) by the many Federal Parlia-
mentarians who have been able to turn
to his encyclopaedic mind for enlighten-
ment whenever a knotty point of pro-
cedure or call for a precedent cropped
up. Assistant clerk to the House of
Representatives, he has won by his rigid
impartiality the respect of all parties,
and his special Melbourne University
training in commercial subjects and
accountancy has made him equally valu-
able to the Speaker, who is joint business
manager with the President of the Senate
of Parliament House. Tregear’s journey to
Europe will make history. As the result
of an arrangement entered into last year
by Mr. Speaker Cameron while in Eng-
land, he is to be the first of a succession
of Commonwealth Parliamentary officials
to have the chance to spend a year as
assistant clerk in the House of Commons
to put a final polish on his knowledge
in the best Parliamentary school in the
world.
One by one the star performers on the
world-stage of the past 10 years are
dropping out. The villains disappeared
early in the piece—Hitler, Mussolini,
Tojo. Taken their final curtain or retired
(or been retired) Roosevelt, Curtin,
Blarney, MacArthur, and, a few
weeks ago, his . Air Chief, George
Kenney. Now U.S. Secretary for Defence
George Marshall goes to the wings, after
having prepared his audience for what
could be their greatest show on earth.
The world will need, in its next 10 years,
stars of equal magnitude to pull it
through that performance.
“Fitz”: Hugh Maclean, whose humorous
drawings of the prize-ring, larrikins and children
brightened the pages of this paper, “Smith’s
Weekly,” “Aussie” and other periodicals, died
recently at Manly (N.S.W.). Thirty years ago I
camped with a colony of black-and-white artists,
including Hugh, Mick Paul, Cecil Hartt, Fred
Brown and Jack Sommers, in a banksia grove
on the sand dunes between Dee Why and
Collaroy (N.S.W.). At night, around a camp-
fire of banksia cones, Hugh would entertain us
with stories of his early life in Melbourne, to
which he came as a boy from New Zealand.
E. W. Cole had given him a job in the artists’-
supplies department of Cole’s Book Arcade.
He lived with the Coles, and got a magnificent
ten-bob a week until E. W. Cole, with great
magnanimity, whispered that he intended to give
him another bob a week in recognition of his
good work. “But don’t let Mrs. Cole know
about it,” he added. Some of Hugh’s first
artistic efforts were printed in Cole’s Fun
Doctor, and attracted the notice of Melbourne
“Punch” cartoonist George Dancey, who
induced Hugh to join the Melbourne National
Gallery Art School. Hugh also studied art
under George Coates, and was a member of
the Prehistoric Order of Cannibals, a club of
young artists whose ranks included the three
Lindsays—Percy, Lionel and Norman —Will
Dyson, Max Meldrum and Hugh McCrae, and
whose lively antics provided Norman Lindsay
with material for his A Curate in Bohemia. For
a while Maclean and Alex Williams, another
young artist, collaborated under the nom de
plume “5.A.A.,” then he branched out on his
own as “Huia,” and began to draw for The
Bulletin, receiving much encouragement from
J. F. Archibald. Later, for 10 years, he was
Boxing Editor and cartoonist for Sydney
“Truth,” then he enlisted with the Ist A.I.F.
On his return he took up freelancing until his
retirement some years back. Hugh was a man
of simple tastes, easygoing, genial, and with an
amazing fund of stories of the old Bohemian
days. For years his old friend Les Robinson
and I tried to persuade Hugh to write his
reminiscences, but neither had any luck. A
great deal of unrecorded history of Australian
black-and-white art is buried with him.
Honored in his time by half a dozen
countries and many more scientific
societies, Sir Douglas Mawson has landed
further recognition, this time closer home.
For the first time Adelaide University has
decided to name one of its buildings
after one of its professorial staff. The
Antarctic man has been the University’s
Geology and Mineralogy Professor for
the past 30 years, and the new building,
the Mawson Laboratories, will house in
its two stories and basement a new
economics and mining geology depart-
ment, as well as lecture-rooms and
laboratories. Sir Douglas is 69, still very
much on deck.
Passed on at 59, Major-General
John Joseph Murray, D.S.O. and Bar,
M.C., one of the brilliant old brigade
who came out of World War I with field
rank young enough to serve in World War
11. An expert in city transport who had
served as the chairman of the N.S.W.
State Transport Advisory Committee in
the early ’thirties, he enlisted for War II
in September, 1939, and in the Middle
East in 1940 commanded the 20th Infantry
Brigade. He was in Tobruk with the
Ninth Division, won a bar there to his
D. 5.0., and afterwards commanded the
Tenth and Fourth Divisions during the
Pacific War, leaving behind a trail of
legends about his vigorous self wherever
he served. After the war he had a spell
as Australian Trade Commissioner in
Maoriland and in 1949 was appointed
Trade Commissioner in Ceylon, a post he
held until illness due to war experience
brought him home. His name is one
among senior officers of World War II
that will crop up in reminiscences so
long as there are any servicemen of
1939-45 alive.
For 33 years the late Edward Goll was
the finest teacher in the musical line
that the University of Melbourne
has probably ever had. His repertoire
was enormous. He played over 900
different works on concert platforms in
Australia. The other day a plaque
designed by his former concert-manager,
Bertha Watson, was unveiled at the Con-
servatorium by Professor Heinze,
The slight look of wonderment on the
face of Sidney Powell, here studied by
Coventry, could stem from thinking about
how he’s going to fit his latest
appointment into his working day. New
chairman of the S. Australian Fire
Brigade Board, Powell commenced his
BUSY MAN.
career as a civil servant, studied account-
ancy on the side, and is now one of
Adelaide’s leading chartered accountants,
chairman of directors of Guinea Airways
and of the Adelaide Cement Co. Other
activities —directorially • connected with
the Executor Trustee Agency, Actil and
Onkaparinga Woollen Cos., the Bank of
Adelaide, and, in 1940-42, president of
the city’s Chamber of Commerce, now a
member of it. A little over 50, he plays
golf and tennis—sometimes.
The accompanist is virtually the Cin-
derella of music—plenty of hard work
and a paucity of plaudits, which, in the
case of Raymond Lambert, Prior’s sub-
ject, is unjust. One of the finest accom-
panists in Australia, Lambert in chamber
music is, as well, an excellent collabora-
tor, as he proved in his recent Sydney
concerts with violinist Odnoposoff. Born
in Ostend, his mother an operatic singer
and his father a world-known violinist
and concert-master, young Lambert
studied at the Liege Conservatorium,
came to Australia in 1926, and has since
come to be the first thought in the minds
ARTISTS’ CHOICE.
of touring celebrities. As witness some
of the artists he’s accompanied—John
Brownlee, Florence Austral, Clara Butt,
Joan Hammond and Marjorie Lawrence
(four tours). Off the concert platform
he’s chief study-teacher at Melbourne
University Conservatorium, examiner for
the Australian Examination Board and
official A.B.C. pianist and accompanist.
In Melbourne he’s playing for Galliera.
“X.S.”: The Bulletin’s old quip about
the Melbourne Lud Mayor’s “bunny-
skins” turns out to have been nearer the
mark than the author of the joke
suspected. The city’s new civic
head. Councillor Oliver J. Nilsen
(B. 12/ 9/ ’5l), made the remark
after his election that he had always
imagined that he would inherit the ermine
robes along with the office but had dis-
covered that he couldn’t, as they were the
private property of the outgoing Coun-
cillor Disney, who wants to retain them
as a keepsake. The new First Cit. added
that he couldn’t afford ermine. They
aren’t ermine—they are watermole.
After half a centuiy of service with the
Salvation Army, which took in England
and India, Lieut.-Colonel John Percy
Dean hands in his uniform this month.
His father, John Dean, was one of the
earliest Salvo officers in Australia, and a
noted preacher.
G. A. W. Laird, general manager in
Australia of Rootes, Ltd., who is at pre-
sent in the U.K., has been appointed a
director of the Rootes group, which
makes Humber, Hillman and other cars
and trucks. During World War II he
was business manager of the four large
Rootes aero-engine factories in Coventry.
These factories produced two 1600h.p.
Hercules engines an hour, day and night,
employing 10,000 workers and a staff of
1400. At the end of the war Laird came
to Australia and was responsible for
acquiring, tooling and staffing the Rootes
factory at Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne.
He first joined the Rootes group in 1934
after serving with the R.F.C. and R.A.F.
in World War I.
Probably the first civil-engineer to
serve 50 years continuously with one Vic-
torian municipality, Algernon Abbott,
M.C.E., of Dundas shire, Hamilton, is
still going strong in the eighties as
assistant-engineer. The old-stager has
also six years’ service with the neighbor-
ing Kowree shire up his sleeve. His first
road inspections were made on a bicycle
and involved trips of up to 100 miles.
Another Melbourne singer to make
good is Kenneth Neate, the “Singing
Policeman.” In 1939 he held up the
traffic with his first appearance at the
Town Hall. He later went to London and
was recently billed by the 8.8. C. as
leading tenor in a televised version of
“Boheme.” He had to fly to England
from Italy, where he has been singing to
the Italians in most of the big opera
houses.
When Victoria follows Britain’s pattern
by separating the legal office of Solicitor-
General from the political job of
Attorney-General H. A. Winneke, K.C.,
0.8. E., is likely to be the first incumbent.
The son of a County Court judge, H.A.
was Director of Personal Service for tfie
R.A.A.F. in the late war and looked after
the personal affairs of upwards of 180,000
airmen. Last year he was appointed
Senior Counsel to the Attorney-General.
Among his big briefs have been the Cos-
grove inquiry in the Speck, the milk-
bribery investigation and the Kerr murder
case.
With his dream not yet materialised.
Sir Harold Clapp retired the other day
as Director of Rail Standardisation, plans
for which he began preparing in 1944.
Born in Melbourne, apprenticed to a
local engineering-firm, he had for father
an unusual man, $n American who landed
in Melbourne to start its cable-trams.
Clapp, Jr., also took to trams, in Bris-
bane for four years, then crossed to the
U.S. for experience. He learnt well
enough, reaching the vice-presidency of
a large power co., and cutting a wide
electrical swathe across the continent,
converting a number of Uncle Sam’s
suburban railways from coal to volts.
Back in Victoria he switched to railways,
chairman of the Victorian Railways
Commissioners for 19 years from 1920.
In the early war years he took his
vigorous competence into the Aircraft
Production Commission, chairman. Now,
at 76, ill health forces his retirement,
though he’ll be available still for advice.
One of these days grateful drinkers
might erect a memorial to D. M. Camp-
bell, K.C.; he has been Melbourne’s most
successful pleader before the Licensing
Court. His arguments have gained
licences for many hostelries in town and
country, and the other day he scored a
successful application for the first licence
at Preston, within eight miles of the
G.P.0., the first in that radius to be
granted in the past 22 years. He lives in
a dry suburb.
Into the Silence:
At Yallourn (Vic.), at 54, Edgar George
Chisholm, chief clerk to the State Electricity
Commission’s Yallourn undertaking, and per-
sonal adviser to the last three general-superin-
tendents, including R. A. Hunt, now commission
chairman.
In Caulfield Military Hospital, at 74, Licut.-
Colonel William Walter Tracey, M.8.E., veteran
of three wars and one of the few Australians
entitled to wear the Mons Star. Diggers of
War II remember him as the Commandant at
“Pucka,” and later as O.C. Stonnington con-
valescent depot.
In Adelaide, at 73, Arthur (“Pop”) Sheard,
one of the early pioneers of morse-telegraphy
in Australia. He could send and receive moise
messages at the same time, and receive ana
transcribe two messages at once.
At Moss Vale (N.S.W.), at 61, Old Digger
of Gallipoli and France, Major D. H. Anthon.
He was in at the Mont. St. Quentin and Hinden-
burg Line attacks, and came out D.S.O. and
M.C., won mainly for single-handed combat.
In Melbourne, Madame Gregor Wood, one
of Victoria’s leading singers. She was contralto
soloist with the Philharmonic Society for many
years, and toured Australia with her husband
with a repertoire of Scottish songs.
In Sydney, at 68, Dr. Norman Bennington
Watch. He himself, in anticipation of the end,
wrote the following to be forwarded ( to The
Bulletin as his own “Into the Silence notice •
“Arrived in Tasmania 1910, practised at Ulyer-
stone. Took part in motor-cycle reliability
trials, Launceston to Hobart and back in 1910.
In 1911 went to Kanowna (W.A.). Subsequently
to Worsley, Collie, Sons of Gwalia and Perth.
From Perth went to France with A.1.F., and
on return travelled W.A. on Pension Board for
Department of Repatriation. Appointed M.U.
in New Guinea 1921, subsequently resigning
and resuming private practice at Rabaul.
Awarded M.B.E. for service in 1937 eruption.
M O of New Guinea Volunteer Rifles, taken
prisoner by Japs at Rabaul. After Second War
went to South Africa and practised in Uganda,
when health failed and he returned to Australia
to end his days.”


8.0.A.C. covers
6 Continents
With an all pressurized Speedbird Fleet
Constellation Speedbirds speed their way from Australia to
England through the historical East—and also from England
to the colourful, exciting West Indies —at 317 m.p.h. flying
high above the weather.
Thirty-eight passengers can relax in comfort in this fully
pressurized and air-conditioned world famous long-distance
aircraft—one of 8.0.A.C.’s modem Speedbird fleet.
SPEEDBIRD ROUTES LINK 51 COUNTRIES
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia ) at Sydney’, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
GET THERE SOONER • STAY THERE LO
REWARD
for
service
to
Australia
f-
m
r=
You can share in the rich rewards that are
coming the way of Australian Servicemen
to-day. You can enjoy the special privileges,
increased pay, excellent conditions. You can
gain that sense of pride that every sailor,
soldier and airman gets from the knowledge
that his is Australia’s most important job.
Here are examples of the practical rewards of
a career in the Services. Take the case of an
18-year-old Serviceman: —
0 After completing his basic recruit
training (normally 3 to 6 months) his
pay is £B/15/- a week. (Special extra
allowances for married men.) In
addition , his food, accommodation,
medical and dental care, etc., are
provided by the Services. He also
enjoys
0 Generous annual holidays three
weeks, plus travelling time and free
travel to home and return.
0 Special on-the-job training to increase
his skill and pay.
£ Generous pension or gratuity on
retirement.
£ Assured continuity of engagement.
Make your future secure and profitable. Find
out more about the big opportunities Aus-
tralia’s expanding Defence programme is
opening up for young men.
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
n Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In .^rrnlnn
!nr. Martin Place and Phillip Street: In Brisbane: Scottish Union
louse, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide: Richards Building, 99 C ;“ rr ‘ e
itreet; In Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart: Franklin Square,
n Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
non I II HI
the horses tied to a tree, and
while they were being harnessed
up again, the rain, which had
been threatening, came down.
Such tremendous mountain
rain ; fortunately we had bought
in Sydney some waterproof
cloaks with hoods or we should
have been wet through in five
minutes. They kept us tolerably
dry, and it was rather satisfac-
tory that we had not bought
them for nothing, for hitherto
the weather had been lovely.
We had storms all the after-
noon, but not settled rain, which
was fortunate, for the road over
and among the mountains was
so frightfully bad that both
Biddulph and Tom had to attend
to the dogcart, one at the head
of the leader and the other of
the wheeler, and in consequence
Annie and I had to drive the
nineteen horses, no sinecure
among those ranges and gullies,
where they kept bolting out of
the road in search of “feed,”
and we had to gallop after them
among rocks and roots and in
all sorts of undesirable places.
We had a long and tiresome
day’s journey, but at last got out
of the mountains and camped
by a creek at their base.
We had hardly stopped when
the rain, which had ceased for a
time, came down in a pelt. Mr.
Hodgeland overtook us just as
we halted. He had found the
horses by the help of a black-
boy. They had not strayed at
all, but had been “planted” by
some miscreant, in the hope of
stealing them when we were
gone. They were found in a
creek, each with one leg tied
up, and with the bell silenced
that was round the neck of one
of them. He only got them that
morning, and had ridden hard
after us, leading them three in a
string, as they objected to being
driven.
Biddulph was in great tribula-
. ,
tion for fesr wc should cd.tch
cold by camping in the rain, but
I was not the least afraid of it;
however, they pitched our tent
in a twinkling, covered the
ground with branches to keep the
mattresses off the wet, hung our
waterproof cloaks over the tent
where there was a hole, and
very soon we were sitting under
shelter wrapped up in our
blankets, and as warm and com-
fortable as I ever was in my life.
Of course they pitched their own
tent, which they never did in
fi ne _ weather.
lorn lit a great fire and made
some beautiful “Johnny cakes”--
thin soda cakes which are baked
in about ten minutes and are
the best bread you ever ate, and
with Johnny cakes and jam and
hot tea, which was brought us
in the tent by shiny mackintoshed
figures, we continued to do’ very
well. A tin pannikin of hot
wine and water was put under
the curtain the last thing with
the remark from Biddulph that
it was to keep off the
rheumatism, and we slept as
sound as if we had a dozen
roofs over our heads instead of
the rain pattering upon the
canvas.
September 4. Rainy morning,
and Biddulph had some thoughts
of camping all day, but a
council being holden round our
tent, and we being decidedly of
opinion that we would rather
ride in the rain than sit there
all day, the order was given to
saddle up and, the rain having
abated, we set off again.
We were still among moun-
tains, though off the Collaroy
Range, and the scenery was
very beautiful. We had storms
all day, but not settled rain, so
we thought ourselves very for-
tunate. I cannot tell how often
the waterproofs were put on and
t#ken off, nor what queer
objects we looked in them on
horseback. We had to camp
again in the rain, but it did not
last very long, and we had a
dry night. The camp was in the
prettiest spot we have had on a
sort of range chosen for its dry
and stony properties, with
mountains all round us, the mist
rolling over them.
September 5. A beautiful
morning, and the rain quite
over, so we thought ourselves
very well off, for after the long
dry weather we have had we
expected at least a week of it.
We got clear of the mountains
today, and took to the dogcart
again. Annie rode the first half
of the way, and I the latter.
Camped on a plain by a very
muddy waterhole, where wash-
ing was the pursuit of cleanli-
ness under great difficulties, as
we had to stand in the mud to
wash our faces, which I fear
came our rather dirtier from the
process. No one would drink
such water in England, but it
was not so bad in tea.
You must travel in the hush
to know how good quart-pot tea
is. About five quart tin pots are
filled with water and set to boil
before the fire. At the moment
of boiling a pinch of tea is
poured into a pint pannikin,
and, thirsty and dusty as you
generally are, it is the most de-
lightful draught you ever tasted
in your life. You think milk
would only spoil it!
We did pretty well in the com-
missariat department. The
“ration bags” contained flour,
sugar, tea, sardines, bacon,
cheese, salt beef and salmon and
jam; and we had two bottles of
wine and two of brandy in a
small box in the dogcart. Tom
made capital damper and soda
bread, and that sort of outdoor
life makes you hungry and
thirsty as you never are in a
civilised country.
September 6. Very fine, and
we made a good day’s journey.
We were out of meat, so in the
middle of the day Mr. Hedge-
land was detached from the main
body in search of supplies. He
took with him a lead horse and
an empty ration bag end pro-
ceeded to the nearest station,
where he obtained some mutton,
which, however, was very lean,
or, as Tom expressed it,
“Showful” —not knowing the
derivation of the word I cannot
say how it is spelt—some dried
apples, flour, sugar and other
necessaries, pipes included.
We camped by a very pretty
creek this evening, and Mr.
Hedgeland joined us with the
above refreshments just as we
had unloaded. We passed some
very bad creeks today. How the
dogcart has held together con-
sidering the places it has been
run into and dragged out of is
a perfect marvel to me. We had
vegetables with the “showful”
mutton, for Tom discovered
some “fat-hen” in the creek, and
when boiled it is not at all unlike
spinach. I think it is a species of
goosefoot; it is exactly like the
English plant of that name.
September 7. A very hot
day’s journey, and at the end of
it we seemed to be come to a
standstill altogether, for we
arrived at a creek to which there
seemed no possible passage,
They rode a mile or two up and
down it, to find a crossing, and
at last decided on trying the
hopeful one before us. Biddulph
led the horse down the precipice,
Tom and Mr. Hedgeland cling-
ing on behind to hold the dog-
cart back a little. • Then came
the getting out again, which I
think took nearly an hour,
Horse after horse was put in
and jibbed, and two could not
pull there. It was got to the top
at last, and we were very glad
to camp on the spot, for it was
all but dark.
September 8. Another hot
day, travelling through the
Fort Cooper station, so called
from a queer pyramidal hill
which looks almost as if it were
artificial. Made a long stage
that day, as we had to reach a
camping-place where there was
water.
Annie and I both rode in the
afternoon, as we were going
over the Exmoor Range, a range
of low stony hills that separate
Exmoor from the next station.
Camped at half-past five on the
top of a small hill entirely
covered with stones, very sharp
stones, too, and the way that
ourselves and the horses hobbled
about was something dismal to
look at.
The water that we had taken
such pains to reach was con-
tained in a small and very
muddy hole at the foot of the
hill, as we found next morning
when we walked about a quarter
of a mile to wash our hands
and faces.
September 9. We both rode
as the road was bad. Beautiful
weather again, and the country
very pretty, but very dry, and
we hurried on to reach a creek
((Continued on page 32.)
THE ABORIGINAL AXE.
Hyacinth orchid, butcher-bird,
Rain on a sharp black stone:
What years like smoke and years like mist
While the butcher-bird sang in the banksia tree
And, lovely and leprous, flushed and spotted,
The hyacinth orchid bloomed and rotted,
That wet black stone has known
Since first in the scrub where the butcher-birds call
And the orchid stands up glowing and tall
Those coppery fingers let it fall
And down the track by the stony tree
The shade slipped by like a ghost.
Shaped with such care to fit the hand,
Polished and washed by the crystal shower
From stain of clay and smother of sand,
Now it lies in my own,
Warm to hold as the butcher-bird,
Cold as the rotting flower.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
‘ AND PERTH
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed , no matter where you live.
FI? 1717 oall or 6end stam P for
r rVi-ita FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
ADVERTISEMENT
A
I -i\ v v
«i
mi
\ \
yiM
/
?L
■ /
Don’t let the Communist Rat get
away this time. On Saturday you
will have the big stick
in your hand.
Authorised by Ben Doig, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring St., Sydney
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO JOHN BRUCE late of 18 Thompson
Street Gladesville N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE
that FANNY ELLEN BRUCE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2574 of 1951 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 23rd day of Novem-
ber 1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from M. B. GILES, Soli-
citor, of No. 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY BOWEN (also known as ROY
MORLBY BOWENjI late of Ashfleld
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that IDA ELIZA-
BETH BOWEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3170 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office King Street
Sydney by the Twenty-sixth day of Novem-
ber 1951 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from LEWIS C. ABI-
GAIL, Solicitor for the Petitioner, 56
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HEIJRY CLIVE GEORGE
formerly of Sackville Street Maroubra.—
TAKE NOTICE that ESTELLE PHYLLIS
GEORGE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2480 of 1951 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse during
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 23rd day of Novem-
ber 1951 and obtain a copy of Die Peti-
tion without charge from G. B. MORRIS,
Solicitor, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Spring Show.
A flock of small oils and
watercolors from Norman Lind-
say is the principal attraction
of a Spring Show at the Gros-
venor Galleries—the flashes- of
color and vitality which the artist
continues to paint at Springwood
with undiminished energy but
which have been too rarely seen
,n Sydney since he gave up ex-
hibiting with the Watercolor
Institute and the Royal Art
Society.
They are by no means major
works for Norman Lindsay, but
the small watercolor “Incanta-
tion,” with its nudes against a
dark-blue background, has a
dramatic impetus and a jewel-
like clarity of technique which
you will not find anywhere else
in Australian art, and there is a
richly lyrical tranquillity in the
four oils of nudes among sunlit
foliage, particularly the “Naiad”
on her rock.
Made up throughout in the
same way, of small paintings to
live with rather than major works
to admire in a gallery, it is an
exceptionally pleasant little show
all round: a bush landscape by
Lance Solomon in which fallen
timber is strongly contrasted
with red earth; a romantic
Murch impression of moonlight
on the ocean; a quiet Upper
Harbor scene of bush and ship-
ping which is the best landscape
Garrett Kingsley has yet ex-
hibited ; a sparkling watercolor,
“Near Murwillumbah,” by Frank
McNamara; a couple of bold
dark landscapes (and one that is
much too large and muddy) by
George Lawrence ; a small beach
painting by Woodward Smith,
thin in technique but beautifully
precise in observation; and an-
other small beach scene by
George Colville which —a strange
visitor in 1951 ; but perhaps it is
an early work—has obviously
been influenced by Conder or
Julian Ashton.
Travelling Art Prize.
Yet another of the bewilder-
ing series of Jubilee art compe-
titions is on view at the Sydney
Gallery; the travelling scholar-
ship for students donated by the
N. S. Wales Retail Traders’
Association, in which Miss
Michelle Wunderlich was
awarded £lOOO, lan Armstrong
£5OO and Ronald Thackeray was
placed third.
The award was for a group of
paintings—nude, portrait, com-
position, drawing of hands and
figure—and Miss Wunderlich,
though her nude is cotton-
woolly, probably has the best all-
round panel, particularly her
still-life and her drawings. The
reason for placing Mr. Arm-
strong second eludes the present
commentator. Mr. Thackeray,
though he has yet to detach him-
self from Cezanne in his land-
scape and Picasso in his canary-
yellow nude, has at least one
forceful drawing and would have
been a better choice. The
judges were Sir Marcus Clarke,
Erik Langker and Daryl Lind-
say.
Among the best paintings sub-
mitted—though good groups are
hard to find —are the portrait by
Lola McCausland, influenced by
Arthur Murch but admirable
in its own right for quality
of technique and strength
of characterisation; Ronald
Chapman’s nuggety small
boys done-over with a palette-
knife, Brian Seidel’s landscape
and dockyard scene under the
divergent influences of Drys-
dale and Ivor Hele, Valerie
O’Neill’s Meldrumite portraits,
Elizabeth Rooney’s sensitive still-
life and John Rigby’s conscien-
tious studio-nude who at least is
made of flesh. After those, still
with a touch of promise, are
paintings by Gladys Jones, Nella
Steele, Samuel Davey and
Barbara Robertson. And after
those is an amiable bedlam in
which anything at all can
happen, and does.
Grafton Prize.
For two reasons the Grafton
Prize textiles at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney, are singularly
pleasing: first, because a sur-
prising number of the hundreds
of entries are quite admirable
designs ; and second, because the
majority are based on Australian
themes—wildflowers, butterflies,
fish and shells as well as such
more obvious subjects as the
Harbor Bridge, the lyrebird,
banksia cones and motifs from
aboriginal art.
Thus ? from the work of such
naturalists as Thistle Harris
among the wildflowers and Joyce
Allan among the shells, national
sentiment grows, deepens, be-
comes more intimate, art be-
comes more firmly based in our
own soil; and there seems very
little point, however pleasing or
otherwise the designs may be in
themselves, in horses from
Chirico or fawns from Walt
Disney.
A couple of particularly
pleasant designs among the wild-
flowers are those numbered Fl 7
and H 5 2; S2la puts aboriginal
motifs harmoniously with Sturt’s
desert-pea; M5O is the freshest
of the sea-shell offerings; G3Ba
is quite a good lyrebird, just
escaping from the literalness
which makes some of the designs
look like illustrations for a
museum ; M6O is the best of the
banksias; and F3l enlivens the
Bridge with a fireworks display.
The prize, intended to be an
annual award of 300 guineas,
was awarded by F. W. Grafton
and Co. It went to Douglas
Annand’s “Scherzo.”
This is a delicate, lacy design
and may satisfy the special re-
quirements of textiles —which
have to look harmonious from
all angles—better than many of
the other entries, but it expresses
nothing in particular except a
light frivolity and a reaction to
the drawings of Paul Klee, and
it is a great pity that the prize,
which originated as a Jubilee
gesture, didn’t go to one of the
pieces of Australiana among
which Mr. Annand’s own “Bush
Walk,” though a coarser design
by comparison, could have been
considered.
The judges were Mrs, Gregory
Blaxland, Miss Jean Bellette,
Douglas Dundas, Mr. K. A.
Pittman and Mr. G. Colvin.
Maximilian Feuerring.
A European artist and pro-
fessor of painting who first ex-
hibited in Sydney about a year
ago, Maximilian Feuerring shows
a slighter assortment of the same
wares at the Macquarie Gal-
leries; oils, gouaches, and paint-
ings in Indian ink, in all of which
the principal intention is to
present color in a deep
iridescent glow.
Though the drawing mostly
looks casual, even crude, it is
no doubt a deliberate attempt
to capture the animation of the
quick sketch ; but animation is
precisely what these pictures
lack. There is no personality, no
life in the acrobats, the people in
cafes and at theatres or the
mother combing her daughter’s
hair; only art for art’s sake, the
warmth of color.
This is effective, so far as an
art so essentially abstract can be,
in several of the small sketches.
Most of the larger paintings are
merely empty; but one, “The
Garden,” where the colorist has
a weeping-willow to work on,
has a rich green and feathery
look about it, like a Mary
Edwards.
"Misalliance."
In the last few years around
Sydney theatres one has seen a
good deal of excellent Shaw re-
duced to passable entertainment,
so it is pleasant to note that excel-
lent entertainment is being made
of passable Shaw by the
exuberant and intelligent vitality
of the John Alden Company’s
performance of “Misalliance,”
at the St. James Hall.
More, it would seem, for the
sake of somewhere to talk than
for any other reason—two argu-
ments, or characters, arrive per
aeroplane crashing into the
greenhouse—Shaw sets the play
in the Surrey country house of a
self-made clothing manufacturer
and there, not unlike a nimble
and slightly garrulous gardener,
forks over the soil, bringing up
for inspection and lively com-
ment all manner of items, includ-
ing the ostensible subject of the
play—parent-children relation-
ships—but also ranging from
Ibsen to acrobats and marriage to
colonial administration.
In turn, producer John Apple-
ton and an admirable cast in
admirable accord Edward
Howell, Therese Desmond, Owen
Weingott, Muriel Steinbeck,
Marie Clarke, Richard Trent,
Hal Rogers, John Ewart and
Rodney Taylor— toss the Shavian
comment and argument about
with a polished dexterity and a
mannered assurance that hurry
by most of the garrulity and hold
up the clowning, comedy and wit
for full and fine enjoyment.
The Firm’s Gilsullivan Co.
followed up a routine perform-
ance of “The Pirates” with a
first-rate airing of “The Yeo-
man,” the meatiness of the plot
—Gilbert’s best —to the obvious
liking of all concerned, with
Richard Walker’s oafish Shad-
bolt outstanding. The madrigal
singing was especially well-done
by the four principals involved,
and the Beefeaters beefed with
clarity and resonance, with Ivan
Menzies giving the authentic
touch of near-tragedy in the
final few bars.


H
\s>
a.
<
If you want the best Kerosene pressure
lighting you must have TILLEY!
TILLEY Table Lamps, “The Queen”
(illustrated) height 21 and “The
Princess” height I6|", give you perfect
300 candle power lighting for 12 hours
using only l| pints of Kerosene.
TILLEY Lamps are trouble free,
require fewer spares and less
maintenance, and are the finest lamps
you can buy today.
Made only by
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
OF
HENDON, ENGLAND
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer's Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE,
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
nCIIIIIVAv f.
OSIUXTVAJT
nun a.
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
(AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MARINE ENGINEERS & ENGINE
DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering
and desirous of passing examinations
for advancement, write for prospectus
regarding Engineering Correspondence
Courses, Tuition for Engineers and
Engine Drivers’ Examinations, also
Special Courses for Engineer Appren-
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.1.N.A., M.I.Mar.E.,
M.I. Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A.
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, C.l.
P.O. Box 904, NEW ZEALAND.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
%
01
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PERSIAN DEBACLE.
On what should be done next
in Persia, London “Economist”
suggests that one possible course
would be to seize the refinery by
force and work it on crude oil
from other sources, the disad-
vantages being that this would
be likely to be frustrated by
labor troubles on the spot and
that it would lead Britain into
impossible complications with
the Americans and the United
Nations.
The other clear-cut solution it
sees would be to withdraw all
British subjects in a body, so as
to make it quite clear that what
happens hereafter is entirely the
Persians’ own doing: the British
Government Mien could declare
—as it hardly could so long as
any British staff remained on
the spot—that it would regard
any oil coming out of Abadan
as stolen property.
Noting that a middle course
between these two extremes
would be to leave at Abadan as
many civilians as can be per-
suaded to stay, partly in order
to be able to say that there was
no withdrawal, and partly in
the almost certainly vain hope
that something may after all be
patched up, it comments: “The
middle course is not always the
right one; in this case it would
simply confuse the issues once
again. It would be much better
to be forthright: either to use
force, or else to leave the
Persians unequivocally to stew
in their own oil ” (In any case,
Britain having announced that
the talks have been “broken off”
as far as it is concerned, the
Persians threaten the expulsion
of the remaining oil co. staff.)
Re-emphasising what is still
WHOA!....OH!. ... WHOA!
Providence ( U.S.A. ) "Journal"
at stake, “New York Times”
speaks of the $1,000,000,000 in-
vestment in the oil properties as
the least of the factors involved.
Persia, it points out, was pro-
ducing nearly one-fifth of the
entire world output of oil, of
which more than half went to
the Mediterranean countries and
Western Europe. India, Paki-
stan, South Africa and other
countries east of Suez depended
on Persia for motor fuel. The
Abadan refinery is the largest in
the world. A great and success-
ful reshuffling of oil resources
has been going on, but it will be
months before the oil industry
makes up for what is being lost.
Meanwhile, it adds, the de-
fence of Western Europe will be
temporarily handicapped. The
effects on British economy will
be serious. The gain to Russia
and the Communist bloc
through the democracies being
deprived of Persian oil is obvi-
ous. Political chaos in Persia is
going to be extremely difficult to
avoid; economic chaos seems a
certainty since oil provided the
only important State revenue;
“It has to be taken for granted
that the Persians cannot run the
industry by themselves ; it must
also be clearly understood that
the United States is not going to
help run the industry.
“The final item in this list of
probable calamities is the inter-
national complications that now
threaten, since the British are
committed to the protection of
their nationals in Persia and to
holding the Abadan refinery.”
“There should,” comments a
London “News Chronicle”
correspondent, “be no failure to
appreciate the implications of a
complete abandonment of the
Persian oilfields. A total loss
would be gravely to our
[Britain’s] disadvantage in nearly
every phase of rearmament;
there would probably be an
early threat to our strategic de-
fensive in the Middle East; and
British prestige in the Arab
world would come tumbling
down.
“It must be obvious to the
West that something bigger than
a British interest is now involved
in Persia.”
Jap Treaty Comment.
New York “Herald Tribune" :
“Under intelligent but undicta-
torial leadership from the United
States, it [the general planning]
has produced the first true peace
treaty—wholly satisfactory to
none, but viable for all —which
has emerged v from the vast
tragedy of the war.”
London “Times" : “The treaty
has many admirable features
and was drafted with far more
care and consideration for the
views of other nations than its
critics are willing to concede.”
"Manchester Guardian”:
“The ideas of the Japanese have
been curiously little reported.
Whatever they may say in
public, most Japanese have
hardly been able to believe their
good fortune in getting such a
remarkably lenient treaty.”
“San Francisco Chronicle":
“We know what kind of
arrangement results from
Russia’s having a commanding
voice with veto power at a treaty
conference. The German and
Austrian talks have droned on
for years, and are still hopelessly
deadlocked. In so far as these
deadlocks impede economic,
political and spiritual recovery,
they operate against the interests
of the people themselves, against
the interests of the Western
democracies and against the
interests of enduring peace.
They serve only the disruptive
purposes of Communism.”
“Christian Science Monitor ” :
“It is understandable that the
Philippines, Indonesia and
Burma should be deeply disap-
pointed at receiving no sub-
stantial reparations for their
heavy war damage at the hands
of the Japanese. Yet there is no
capacity in Japan to pay such
damages if Japan is to be a
stronghold in the defence of
these countries against Com-
munism. Understandable too,
is the reluctance of some of its
neighbors to see Japan built up,
but the American-Australian-
New Zealand Defence Pact
should hold a balance of arms.”
London “ Economist ” :
“Britain must accept the fact
that to give Japan a major role
in the development of South-
East Asia is the only alternative
to its either remaining an in-
tolerable burden on America’s
shoulders or drifting into the
Communist camp. The United
States must in turn appreciate
the very real fears which the
return of Japan as a sovereign
trading nation is awakening in
South-East Asia. These fears
can only be laid at rest, to the
mutual benefit of both areas, if
America and Britain take pains
to ensure that ‘development’
under the Point Four and
Colombo plans is genuine
development in the interests of
the Asian countries themselves,
and not veiled exploitation on
behalf of Japanese industry.”
“New York Times”: “What-
ever the motives and calculations
of the Japanese may be, there
can be no better test of the
quality of a peace treaty than
its grateful acceptance by the
vanquished. It may not be a
perfect treaty, but it is a good
treaty, considering all the
circumstances. It may leave the
just claims of some injured
countries for immediate repara-
tions unsatisfied, but if that be
an error it is an error on the side
of magnanimity and realistic
policy. Under no circumstances
can the treaty be misrepresented
as an instrument of ‘American
imperialism’ as Soviet propa-
ganda attempts to do, or as fall-
ing short of consideration for
Japan’s own interest, as Mr.
Nehru implies. In fact, Mr.
Yoshida’s praise for the treaty
leaves Mr. Nehru in the odd
position of being more Japanese


Public Notice.
JOHN DOUDICAN, who died intestate at
Waitara, New South Wales, Australia, 23rd
September, 1936, aged about 94 years.—
PURSUANT to decretal order of Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity,
dated 9th March, 1951, in suit No. 716
of 1950 entitled, “In the Matter of the
Estate of John Doudiean formerly of Wai-
tara in the State of New South Wales,
now deceased, Between The Public Trustee,
Plaintiff, and The Attorney-General for
the State of New South Wales, Defendant,
whereby the following enquiry was
directed, viz., “that it be referred to the
Master in Equity to enquire who were the
persons entitled as the next-of-kin of the
abovenamed deceased living at the date
of his death to his estate and whether any
of them have since died and if so who are •
their respective personal representatives”—•
Notice is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said
enquiry are to send by post prepaid to
The Public Trustee, O’Connell Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales, Australia, so as t6V
reach him on or before the 30th November,
1951, their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions, and full par-
ticulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said decretal order, unless
on application otherwise ordered. Claimants
are to attend personally or by solicitor
before the Master in Equity at the Supreme
Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney, on the
14th December, 1951, at 11 a.m., being
the time appointed for adjudication on the
claims. A claimant not residing in New
South Wales must send with particulars of
his claim the name and address of a
person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent. Third
September, 1951.—A. C. R. TWIGG, 160
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Soli-
citor for Plaintiff.
>
• j
V:,.
#
N.S.W. LABOR MINISTER ASSERTS
The Communists must he banned. Communism is a force in this
country that seeks to destroy the Constitution in accordance with a
foreign-inspired formula.
Communists are enemies of the country. They are enemies of the
trade-unions.
“Objective consideration of the proposed bill leads to the conclusion
that it is designed to preserve the security of this nation from the evil
designs of those who would “sell out” this country to a foreign Power
and deny us the freedom they seek to use to effect their own nefarious
purpose.
“I cannot see any design to destroy the trade-union movement in the
Bill. Our democracy—Parliament—is the bulwark against that!”
(S.M.H., 4/5/1950.) Mr. W. F. SHEAHAN, M.L.A., N.S.W. Minister for Transport, McGirr Govt.
STATE LABOR PARTY SUPPORTS BILL
"It is practically the unanimous view of the State Parliamentary
Labor Party that the (Communist Party Dissolution) Bill should be
supported by the Federal Labor Party." (28/4/1950.)
Mr. R. G. Hamilton, M.L.A., Acting Chairman, N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor Caucus.
AUSTRALIA VERSUS COMMUNISM!
SEPT.
22
VOTE
Authorised for The Liberal Party by J. L Carrick. 30 Ash St.. Sydney.
FG. 162.44
than the Japanese themselves,
which puts in question either his
judgment or his real motives.”
New Com. Ports Plot.
The International Transport
Workers’ Association is authority
for the warning that Communist
elements in trade-unions in
Western Europe are planning
“another vicious attack” on West
European ports to be launched
within the next month or two.
Unless Corns are meanwhile
curbed in Australia the plot, of
course, will not be confined to
Europe.
The International Transport
Workers’ Association set up in
1949 a vigilance committee to
counter Communist efforts to
stir up trouble in the ports and
so hinder shipments under
Atlantic Treaty arrangements.
Regional sub - committees
covered ports in Scandinavia, the
Baltic, the North Sea, the
Mediterranean and along the
Atlantic coast, and, says London
“Times’s” labor correspondent,
they discovered that a new drive
was to be made in the European
autumn. Therefore, the regional
committees “must be prepared
to repel moves organised by the
Cominform or the World
Federation of Trade Unions and
their agents.”
German Frontiers.
In a White Paper the Govern-
ment of West Germany (as re-
ported by “New York Times”)
maintains that the borders of
Germany are those of Decem-
ber 31, 1937, and it therefore
lays claim not only to the Soviet
zone now ruled by a Communist
puppet regime but to all lands
detached from Germany since
the war, both east and west.
It renounces all Nazi military
and political conquests, such as
Austria, Czechoslovakia and
Poland. But it repudiates any
border changes made since 1937,
and it specifically claims East
Prussia and other territories be-
yond the Oder-Neisse demarca-
tion line, unilaterally annexed
by Soviet Russia and Poland, as
well as the Saar and the border
lands taken over by the West.
The New York paper allows
that the claims “rest on a sound
legal basis.”
Various Voices.
Stalin (addressing a group of
Baltic doctors); “As you gentle-
men can see, I get older just
like other people, but since I
changed my diet two years ago
I feel remarkably well, and I
still smoke much, even though
the tobacco in my pipe hardly
contains any nicotine at all.”
The Duke of Edinburgh:
“The instrument of scientific
knowledge in our hands is grow-
ing more powerful every day,
indeed it has reached a point
when we can either set the world
free from drudgery, fear, hunger
and pestilence or obliterate life
itself., . .It is clearly our duty
as citizens to see that science is
used for the benefit of mankind.
For of what use is science if
man does not survive?”
Francis B. Sayre, U.S. repre-
sentative in the U.N. Trusteeship
Council: “Soviet Communism
will not win. Neither authori-
tarianism nor ruthless dictator-
ship can ever permanently pre-
vail, Free men working together
throughout the world for human
freedom possess matchless
power. Today they are uniting
as never before. Their power is
unconquerable.”
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“The stronger we [Germans]
unite ourselves with the other
European nations and the Wes-
tern world, so much more safely
will we be able to work for our
German east, which will eventu-
ally return to us.”
British Commissioner in
Germany, Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick
(at the West’s Lorelei interna-
tional youth camp): “I think that
the efforts of the young people
and their enthusiasm may
succeed in building the kind of
Europe we all want sooner than
some of the old pessimists of
my generation would have
foretold.”
U.S. Air Force Secretary,
Thomas K. Finletter (on the use
of air-power to repel a ground
invasion); “It is not too much
to hope that if we [Americans]
put the proper effort of industry
into this operation and if we
have sufficient imagination to
detach our minds from past con-
ditions of warfare, we may be
able to assure our European
allies of a much greater striking
power on our part than we had
hoped for, and even, indeed,
make it unlikely that an enemy
attack on the North Atlantic
Treaty forces on the continent
of Europe would have a hope
of success.”
John Foster Dulles: “It is
important that Japan become a
peaceful member of the free
world, but this must be on a
voluntary basis. The free world
does not operate by compulsion.
It does not want slaves. Only
the free choice of the Japanese
people to throw in their lot with
the free world will be of import-
ance. We do not want to, in
fact we cannot force them to do
so.”
French statesman Robert
Schuman: “Although France
and the Associated States of
Indo-China were not a party to
the Pacific Pact, the French Gov-
ernment had obtained the
insertion of a clause providing
for consultation between the
signatories of the pact and other
Powers concerned with the situa-
tion in the Pacific.”
London “Daily Telegraph”
military correspondent Lieut.-
General H. G. Martin: “An
American in a position to know
summed up the situation to me
like this. ‘There’s Monty,’ he
said, ‘the most intensely inde-
pendent and individualistic of
men—so darned independent
that he doesn’t care when his
motives are misunderstood ; he’ll
never explain. Yet his loyalty
to Ike is absolute: he takes his
orders, touches his hat and off
he goes on his inspections. It’s
remarkable. He’s hard-boiled—
there’s no throwing dust in his
eyes. He makes shrewd appre-
ciations and renders trenchant
reports, and woe betide the Gov-
ernment that fails to heed him.’ ”
U.N.O. Secretary - General
Trygve Lie: “For the past few
years the world has been so
dominated by strife and tension
that political and social conflict
has come to seem almost the
normal condition of interna-
tional life. During recent
months there have been indica-
tions —perhaps real, perhaps
artificial of relaxation of
tensions. The signs of relaxa-
tion may be misleading, may be
only trial balloons intended to
test the opposition and from
which little may be expected.
The stakes for humanity as a
whole and for the destiny of the
United Nations are so large that
no opportunity should be lost to
examine the genuineness of
every overture.”


110 industry is more closely related to the
realms of pure science than the radio industry.
No industry is more dependent on the findings
of the physicist and the research engineer for the
refinement of its existing products or the
development of its new.
A.W.A. pioneered radio research in Australia
and today possesses the largest and best equipped
commercial radio research laboratory in Aus-
tralasia.
Backed by research of this order A.W.A.
products include : the renowned Radiola re-
ceiver, Broadcast, Radio Communications and
Navigation Stations, and all ancillary equipment
for use on land, sea and in the air.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney (N.8.W.), Melbourne (Vic.), Wellington (N.Z.), London, New York.
~'vrej aiAoui * si
mxm
Every boy is a half-built man,
Every boy of the "make-good” sort
Sticks to study as well as sport.
Every boy with a healthy brain
Will greet a sneak with a boy’s disdain.
Every boy with a cold, be sure,
Barracks for Woods* Great
Peppermint Cure.
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
.RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can be yours with
ti&ams
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
Doldn has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN it easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLCIN
Helpful and informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Doldn (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
df
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Prices of cotton goods made in
Australia would drop about 20 per
cent, next April, Mr. T. A. W.
Furphey said.” —Sydney “D.T”
Perhaps, though, it would have
carried more conviction if an-
nounced by someone with a
less appropriate name.
“Mr. and Mrs. Hammersley are
now in a flat in Longwall-street,
Oxford, overlooking the grounds of
Maudlin College, but plan to move
to a house later.” —Adelaide “Mail.”
Let’s hope they weren’t Dag-
dalen there!
“Children prefer a sloppy, untidy
mother who is kind and happy to
one who is always smart and neat
but cross.” —Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
The latter is more likely to
clean them up.
4* 4* 4*
“Most men do not want a life of
complete leisure when they reach
retirement age.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Telegraph.”
Many have a bias towards
bowls.
4* 4* 4*
“It is so silly for a woman to lie
about her age.”— Women’s magazine.
It tells on her, anyway.
“Wanted, laundress, 8.20 till 1.20,
to fit in with bus, mainly ironing.”
—Suburban paper.
A pressing transport problem.
+
“A stable marriage is essentially an
important part of the integrity of
society.” —Sydney ‘‘Sunday Herald.”
But a nag often breaks it up.
4* 4* +
“Australian women should ‘stick-
up’ for themselves more.”
— Women’s magazine.
But those who demand their
rights are generally left.
Facing the Issue.
“After the referendum we shall
know whether this country will adhere
to British traditions of liberty or go
over to a form of authoritarian re-
pression.”—Columnist Clive Turnbull.
When spring is in the air it’s
nice to know
A man can pack his car and
* take a run
With no one to direct where he
may go
Or nosey Commissars to spoil his
fun .
Or if he doesn’t own a bus he
may
Collect his mates and take some
mountain track
To make the most of each un-
fettered day
Beyond Clear Hill with rucksack
on his back.
And when the summer comes to
shoot a wave
On beaches where the breakers
thunder in
Is his to do if he will only save
His country from the enemy
within.
So let him, heedless of the union
boss
Who whinges of imaginary woes,
Assess his joys and conjure up
the loss
If skulking Commas lead him by
the Noes.
D. H EDMONDS.
No Logic.
“The water wouldn't run out
of the tubs when I pulled the
plug out after I did the wash-
ing,” announced Agapanthus. “I
think the drainpipe must be
choked.”
Such a redundant comment is
typically feminine. Woman
lacks man’s inexorable economy
of words. Ipso facto, if there
had been no blockage the water
would have run away.
“You’d better get the plumber
up to fix it,” she concluded.
“And contribute to the up-
keep of his new Lincoln Zephyr,
the cost of his wife's mink coat,
the college education of his
numerous progeny and all the
other appurtenances to his
luxurious living?” I said. “Cer-
tainly not! Do you consider
my intellectual gifts so poverty-
stricken that I am unable to fix
so simple a thing as a blocked
pipe. I’ll do the job myself and
buy a couple of new suits with
what I save.”
Making preliminary survey
with the aid of a tome on
plumbing I got from the library,
I found under the tubs an S-trap.
Clearing a space among the few
dozen empties, I borrowed
Nexdoor’s footprints, got on my
back with my feet against the
tub-supports so as to get a
purchase, adjusted the footprints
on to the nut, then paused.
Which way to turn it?
I remembered then reading
somewhere that, in contrast to
regions north of the Equator, in
the Southern Hemisphere water
runs out of plug-holes clock-
wise. Wouldn’t it therefore be
logical for the screw to be set
"He looks as if he'd turn nasty if you stared at him too
hard."
in arc/Z-clockwise so as to offset
the natural action of the water?
In which case a clockwise twist
would be necessary to loosen it.
Renewing my grip and tensing
my legs, I heaved.
After I’d swept up the 10
broken bottles I pondered the
problem again. The S had now
assumed a shape somewhere be-
tween a G and a Dutchman's
pipe, whilst a fracture had
appeared in the lead above the
brass connection. Obviously
the geographical knowledge of
the plumber who had fitted it in
the first place had been so crude
that he thought Australia was in
the other hemisphere. I got
another grip and heaved the
other way.
It was with great satisfaction
that I felt the nut give. After
several turns it was loose enough
to remove with the fingers.
About two pints of water shot
down my collar before I was
able to jam the nut back again.
Agapanthus is like that
wouldn’t think of warning me
she’d left the water in the tub,
assuming loosely, no doubt, that
it would stop there no matter
what I did. Women are like
that, though—never think ahead.
Judging there was something
less than a bucketful left in the
tub, I put the empty bucket
under the tap and removed the
nut again. It proved to be a
bucket and a half, and after
mopping up I tackled the prob-
lem afresh.
It was then I thought of the
hose-flush test. I got Agapan-
thus to hold the nozzle of the
hose against the small grating
in the bottom of the tub while
I turned the hose full on from
the garden, deducing soundly
that a sudden force of water
might shift the obstruction. I
only thought afterwards (as
Agapanthus was wiping herself
down and I was mopping up
again where the water had shot
straight through the hole where
I hadn’t put the nut back) that
only a fool of a woman would
have held the nozzle so close that
she’d get the backwash. Depart-
ing to change her soaked shoes
and stockings, she commented
tartly and unjustly on my
alleged idiocy in not getting a
plumber in the first place, and
announced her withdrawal from
all further part in the proceed-
ings. But this heartless defection
served only to arouse in me
greater determination to see the
thing through to successful con-
clusion.
Pursuing the problem with
that cold and remorseless logic
which has ever been my greatest
gift, I began again. If there were
no blockage between the tub out-
let and the S-trap (or what was
left of it) it stood to simple
reason it must be between the
S- and the grease-trap outside
the house.
I took the hose outside, in-
serted it as far up the pipe as it
would go and turned the hose
full on. Despite the pressure,
only a trickle was coming back
down the pipe. This was indeed
puzzling. After some time I
could feel my sox getting wet.
As I glanced down the mystery
of the disappearing water be-
came crystal-clear —I must have
poked the end of the hose up
right through the hole in the
S-trap in the laundry, whence
the deluge flowed out through
the kitchen, through the back
door, down the pathway, around
the corner of the house and so
to my boots. Agapanthus’s
stormy arrival at the door amply
confirmed my ratiocinatory de-
duction.
Well, my logic had triumphed!
I had definitely pinned down
the trouble to the bend in the
lead trap itself. It but remained
to remove it.
Belting the pipe with a hammer
must remove the obstruction,
and this 1 proceeded to do,
vigorously.
I got the bill only the other
day from the plumber:
£ s. d.
Removing obstruction from
pipe 5 0
Replacement of damaged S-
trap and connections ..250
. £2 10 0
The damned profiteer! Five-
bob for removing an obstruction
it didn’t take him two minutes
to do!
Bo.
South Yarra.
Old South Yarrah
In opera-hats.
Sticks and spats;
The dignified walk
And the tony talk;
Butlers and maids,
Gold livery, braids;
Strauss on the lawn,
Dancing till dawn.
Still South Yarrah,
Famed Punt Hill —■
Oh, exclusive still!
Less of the spat
And things like that;
But wearing the air
That’s always been there:
Never struck pink.
Kick up no stink.
And, strike me dead,
Nevah “Pull in y’r ’ead !”
HACKO.


■< V
m
m
h/uvu&f
m
I
' WHAT / WANT TO KNOW IS
what's beh/np th/s change
Of MINP
> OF
YOURS!
you'd change YOUR/V/ND'
\too /f someone you loved
V HAD BAD BREATH.FRED. <
WHY DON'T YOU SEE /
YOUR DENT/ST/)
•XT''
EREP SEES MIS DENTIST
DENTAL CREAM CLEANS
YOUR WH/LE /T CLEANS''
YOUR TEETH AND THE COLGATE WAY*
OF BRUSH/HC YOUR TEETH R/OHT)
AFTER EAT/H 6
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST J ,
£2
4
BRUSH/A/G MY TEETH N
THE COLGATE WAY HAS MAPS
ME A HAPPY MAN _
. TOPA'r
0
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST !
Most thoroughly proved and accepted home
method of oral hygiene known today
Yes, and two years’ research
showed the Colgate way
stopped more decay for more
people than ever before re-
ported in dentifrice history!
No other dentifrice offers
such proof —the most con-
clusive proof ever reported
for a dentifrice of any type.
Buy the Big Family Economy Size.
USE COLGATE PENTAL CREAM
f \S* TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
WHILE YOU CLEAN VOURTEETH
V' anp help stop tooth
' DECAV BEST
A • . , —~ D4/161
America s largest, Australia's largest, the World's largest selling dental cream
GOODYEAR TYRES
HAVE
CHANGED
TOO!
1915
1931
1951
The improvements that the
years have brought to car
performance have, to a large
extent, only been possible be-
cause tyre development kept
pace with progress. Goodyear
has made many historic contributions to the development of tyres
to their present standard. The outstanding safety, longer mileage
and greater comfort of to-
day’s Goodyear Tyres are the
results of unparalleled ex-
perience that Goodyear has
gained in producing more
tyres than any other
manufacturer.
Again in 1951 ... as in
every year for the last 36
years, more people, the
world over, ride on Good*
year Tyres than on any
other make.
1
CiOOD/yEAR
*3.16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
On form revealed at Rosehill on
Saturday one would feel more con-
fident in encroaching on Mr. Inigo
Jones’s purlieus by predicting a torrid
summer than in attempting to fore-
cast the probable outcome of the
Epsom-Metrop. double. The day was,
for this time o’ year, uncommonly
and uncomfortably warm; the equine
form unveiled in the Theo Marks
Quality Handicap (7f.) and the Rose-
hill Handicap (lOf.) yielded sufficient
food for fresh thoughts to ensure a
bad dose of that seasonal ailment
prognosticator’s indigestion. However,
while the Epsom-Metrop. situation
was little clarified, there was certainly
no gainsaying Hydrogen’s Rosehill
Guineas victory as an outstanding
Derby trial.
The running of the Guineas calls
for little description. Some of Hydro-
gen’s supporters were beginning to
get the fidgets by the time the
favorite, tailing the well-strung-out
field, had passed the half-mile peg
still without making a move, but once
Munro asked for an effort in the
straight Hydrogen immediately re-
sponded so handsomely that he was
again being eased up before they
reached the line. Passing the post
with his ears pricked, Hydrogen won
by two lengths from Montana, with
Neat Andrew a handy third.
Hydrogen’s slashing win completely
changed the complexion of the
Derby. A few weeks back the classic
had seemed likely to be one of,the
most open in years; now it looks,
instead, the most thoroughly sewn-up.
Those who were reserving judgment
on Hydrogen, despite his Hobartville
Stakes victory and his excusable,
though quite good, second in the
Chelmsford Stakes, could scarcely
remain unconvinced after Saturday’s
run. And connections of the half-
dbzen or so other colts for whom a
good case could be made a few weeks
ago must have watched the finish of
the Guineas with heavy hearts.
Aside from the totally unexpected
(which is nevertheless the thing to be
most expected in racing), the only
fashion in which one can really
visualise Hydrogen being beaten
would be for some tearaway bolter
either to steal the race himself or to
so string-out the field that the trailing
Hydrogen would find it impossible to
make up the leeway, as he did, to an
extent, when such tactics were adopted
in the Chelmsford Stakes. The one
Derby candidate who might just pos-
sibly make matters difficult for
Hydrogen in this fashion is Trizami,
who was one of the culprits in the
Chelmsford. Trizami has the speed,
and his classic breeding suggests that
he may also have the stamina to be
still plugging on towards the end of
12 furlongs. Nevertheless it is unlikely
that much sleep is being lost in the
Hydrogen camp over such theories;
under the Derby weight of 8.10
tearaway merchants seldom have any
fight left at the end of the 12-furlongs
trip, and the field this year seems,
generally, of much too high a stan-
dard to permit of race-stealing
tactics.
In winning on Saturday, Hydrogen,
incidentally, clipped a second from
the race-record, thereby bringing to
mind one of those oddities which
make racing the fascinatingly unpre-
dictablfc sport it is. The previous
record of 2.6 was established by
Royal Andrew when he won the
Guineas in 1948. In clocking that
time Royal Andrew beat, surely, one
of the best fields of coming winners
that has ever been collected together in
one race. They included Comic Court,
Carbon Copy, Sir Falcon, Snow-
stream, Freedom, Ungar, Bold Duke,
Bernbrook, Vagabond, Clement and
Riptide. Yet the horse which, on the
day, was able to toss that galaxy of
talent has never since won a race in
Sydney, and has only this year re-
entered the winning list by picking
up a few races at Newcastle. At
Rosehill on Saturday, scene and anni-
versary of his former triumph, Royal
Andrew failed to fill a place in the
Welter won by Old Jamaica (B.
Smith).
The Midstream four-year-old Bank-
brook upset sundry Epsom calcula-
tions when, scorning the Parramatta
Mixed, for which he had also been
entered, he tackled, and comfortably
bowled over, a good-class field in the
Theo Marks Quality. Bankbrook (S.
Taylor) finished fast, to score by
two lengths from Aerofoil, who had
looked home and hosed inside the
distance, after leading all the way.
Aerofoil’s run, nonetheless, was a
fairish one; possibly too much use
was made of him when he was
scrubbed along to hold the lead five-
furlongs from home. Aside from the
winner the best Epsom trial noted
was that of Coniston. This fellow
has yet to prove his ability to get a
mile, brut he certainly looked the part,
as he finished-on strongly for third
money at the end of Saturday’s 7-
furlongs journey.
Completing a stylish double for
progeny of Midstream, Snowstream
(W. Cook) turned in one of his best
efforts to win the Rosehill Handicap.
Under topweight of 9.4 Snowstream
pounded home very purposefully to
score by a long neck from Socrates
(carrying 7.1) and Golden Brew (8.3),
and in doing so Snowstream clocked
2.3? —one-and-a-quarter seconds faster
than recorded by Hydrogen, and like-
wise a race-record. For a moment
admirers of his Metrop. prospects
were in high glee, but the handsome
big chestnut returned to scale lame,
and may not race again. Stiff luck,
as Snowstream broke down last year
after winning the same race and
appearing to have the Metrop. in his
grasp. Still, with a stud career in
view, it is a strong note on which to
wind up a most successful racing
career.
* * * «
At Flemington on Saturday the
w.-f.-a. Craiglee Stakes (10f.) gave
Chicquita a chance to once again lock
horns with her old rival Ellerslie, and
in the outcome it was very much
Chicquita’s day. As it happened the
challenge, if such it could be termed,
came from the Queenslander Basha
Felika, who, making his first appear-
ance in Melbourne, and that on a
pretty light preparation, gained many
Melbourne Cup admirers by very
comfortably beating all but Chicquita.
Given the run of the race by Purtell,
Chicquita bounded away in the
straight to score by nearly three
lengths. Ellerslie was a similar dis-
tance away third. Basha Felika is
now mentioned as likely to tackle
both Cups. On Saturday, Basha
Felika met Chicquita at an advantage
of 21b.; in the Caulfield Cup it will
be Chicquita 9.3, Basha Felika 7.13.
Chicquita was one of only two win-
ning favorites produced from Satur-
day’s card of eight events, and neither
of those was much to the taste of
small punters. The mare started at
11 to 8. In a field of 30 three-year-
olds contesting the Exford Handicap
the Despatch Case colt Diplomacy,
under topweight of 9.5, started at
10 to 9 on, and, in a scramble up the
straight six, showed that he has lost
none of his two-year-old brilliance.
Diplomacy (L. Lott) won by three-
parts of a length from Burdindi and
Inprose, both at hefty odds'.
In both divisions of the 10-furlongs
Burleigh Handicap for three-year-olds
the fancied runners bit the dust in
profusion, and on the face of matters
there wouldn’t appear to be much
future in any of the Melbourne colts,
or, at least, of those sighted on Satur-
day, going north for the AJ.C.
Derby. The Burleigh Handicap gave
jockey G. Bougoure a fantastically
rough double when he won the first
on Bronton at 40 to 1 and the second
on Consider at 20 to 1. A double
it was, also, for imported sire Helios.
Bronton (Helios-Battle Royal) led all
the way to win from the fancied pair
Shoreham and Redden. Consider
(Helios-First Ring) beat another out-
sider in Beau Cavalier; second
favorite Quite Talk was third, and
odds-on favorite National Hope,
looking a pretty remote Derby hope,
was fourth.
Both tolerably familiar with the
straight-six course as winners of the
Newmarket in successive years,
Reperio and High Jip fought out the
finish of the Northcote Handicap.
Enjoying a great advantage in the
weights, Reperio (W. A. Smith)
scored by a half-length, with Filbasket
a close third. Aside from his carry-
ing a steadier of 10st., against the
winner’s 8.3, High Jip was probably
not helped much by a very rushed
trip to Melbourne. He arrived from
Sydney by plane only late the pre-
vious night. Other Flemington win-
ners were Well Spoken (G. Waller)
taking the Guildford Hurdle and
Rpyal Brocade (S. Ralph) bagging the
Kingsford Highweight.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances): —
Three- and Four-year-old: Baal, 1;
Whirl, 2; Lloric, 3. Parramatta
Mixed; Triclinium, 1; Lucky Draw,
2; Bobbery, 3. Auburn Mixed; Dea,
I; Channel Rise, 2; Mr. Ajax, 3.
September Handicap: Jan, 1;
Dinanda, 2; Bilafillas, 3. Hill
Stakes; San Domenico, 1; Aristocrat,
2; Blue Ocean, 3. Flying: Aerofoil,
1; Golden Wedge, 2; Mid wise, 3.
Welter: Grand Archer, 1; Lunarian,
2; Ajanni, 3.
* * * *
At its Wednesday meeting last
week the Hawkesbury Race Club
revived one of its major events of
other days, the Rowley Mile, which
was won by the Law Maker four-
year-old Legal Wig. Considering that
the club put up £lOOO for the race,
more than some provincial clubs are
wont to allot for a whole meeting,
the entries were disappointing as
regards to class, possibly because,
under present-day training methods,
trainers of Epsom candidates do not
wish to race their charges over the
full Epsom distance nearly three
weeks before the big race. Next
Wednesday the club will stage the
second leg of its main double, the
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap, again
with £lOOO added, and, with the
distance 11 furlongs, this may prove
more attractive to connections of
Metrop. candidates.
* * * *
Prior to the running of Saturday’s
1 St. Leger Stakes at Doncaster (Eng.),
Australian jockey Rae Johnstone was
reported as declaring that he wished
the race was run over three miles, as
his mount, Marcel Boussac’s Talma
11, could stay all day, but lacked
finishing dash. Evidently he didn’t
particularly need it. Giving the
Boussac-Johnstone combination its
umpteenth classic victory of recent
years, and second successive English
St. Leger Victory, Talma II won by
10 lengths from the Irish Derby win-
ner Praise Dubois 11, who was
favorite. Talma II is a son of
Pharis-Thaouka. On Sunday, for
good measure, Boussac and John-
stone added the French St. Leger to
the bag with another colt, Stymphale.
What would be really interesting to
learn, in view of the endless French
victories of recent years, is which of
the two colts was the more highly
rated by the stable.
* * * *
Geelong made hacks of Colling-
wood before nearly 75,000 at M.C.G.
on Saturday, kicking a second-semi-
final record of 22.20, with a second-
quarter burst of 8.3 to the Magpies’
1.2. In previous clashes this season
Collingwood had beaten Geelong, and
they seemed still to have their
measure on Saturday, when they
kicked 6.3 to 2.3 in the first quarter.
But when the lads from Sleepy Hollow
woke up in the second, the result was
never in doubt. Long, high kicks to
well-placed ruckmen resting on the
forward line, shooting for open
spaces, where Davis or Fulton bolted
away from the opposition, and the
accurate boot of star forward
Goninon (he kicked 11 goals, and
went to the top of the season’s goal-
kickers) left the Magpies bewitched,
bothered and bewildered. They man-
aged to kick 10.10. To foreigners—
that is, people who live outside Vic-
toria—the win means little, but to
all rural Victoria it is a triumph over
the city, for Geelong is the only
V.F.L. team that doesn’t roost in the
metropolitan area. Minor premiers,
Geelong now rest, while Collingwood
meet Essendon next Saturday to see
who will play the triumphant country
chaps in the grand final.
Possibly just a coincidence, but in
view of the behavior of Melbourne
football crowds this season we think
not: on Saturday the police put on
the road the first of two new wireless-
patrol riot-wagons which, it is
announced, “will be directed to attend
brawls and trouble-spots.”
* * * *
“Pass-it”: At North Sydney Oval
on Saturday Easts beat Manly, 9-3,
in the Rugby Union final, and won
the right to play University in the
grand final next Saturday. The
Eastern Suburbs Club has turned-in
a fine performance this season, for
not only the firsts but also the
reserves and the thirds have won their
way to the grand finals, while the
fourths failed in the final on Satur-
day only after extra time had been
played.
The first-grade match between Easts
and Manly was played with no
quarter given; tackling and mauling
were vicious, and invariably invited
retaliation. For such tactics the
Manly backs soon exhibited profound
distaste, with the result that they lost
the rhythm which has been a feature
of their play this season and became
hesitant and uncertain in their move-
ments. Noting the success of their
tactics Easts never let up their relent-
less driving, and always had the game
well in hand.
Easts will face a different proposi-
tion next week when they bump Uni-
versity ; the University backs are a
solid lot, and can be relied on to
more than hold their own if the
opposition chooses to adopt rough-
house tactics.
* * ♦ *
As mentioned at the time, this
page’s interest in the Turpin-Robinson
return fight for the middleweight
championship virtually evaporated
upon receipt of the intelligence that
“titleholder” Turpin had agreed to
accept 25 per cent, of the gate, while
the “challenger” took a calm 30 per
cent. The great event took place last
week, and ended in the 10th round,
when referee Goldstein, having no
desire to add fuel to the current out-
cry against the calamitous number of
deaths which have occurred in
American boxing-rings recently, inter-
vened on behalf of the helpless
Turpin. As soon after the fight as
he was capable of coherent thought
Turpin began to protest loudly ag'ainst
the fight having been stopped: “1
was quite all right, etc., etc.” That’s
really getting in early with the build-
up for another return bout, which
will doubtless take place in London.
Turpin at all events achieved a
record: no world middleweight
champion has ever held the title for
a shorter period. However, Billy
Papke went pretty close. Papke
knocked-out Stanley Ketchell in
round 12 at Los Angeles on Septem-
ber 8, 1908, and Ketchell, in turn,
bowled Papke in the 11th round on
November 26. Another brief title-
holder was Tiger Flowers, who out-
pointed Harry Greb in New York on
August 19, 1926, and was outpointed
by Mickey Walker in Chicago on
December 3. The brevity record for
any world titleholder, however, is
credited to Eugene Criqui, who took
the featherweight championship from
Johnny Kilbane on June 2, 1923, and
passed it on to Johnny Dundee on
July 26.


Hard or Soft?
Thick or Fine?
Upright or Oblique?
The nib that suits one man will drive
another to distraction, so we make Swan
nibs in such variety that everyone can
find one that will "answer” to his hand
exactly. That’s one of the reasons why
it is so satisfying to own a Swan —the
precision writing instrument that is
made for a lifetime of faithful service.
Swan side-lever and leverless pens are
available at all better jewellers, stationers
and stores.
Write for life
with a.. •
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
83,62.1 ____________________________________
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
'Die-€a£-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
A
CHANGE
FOR THE
BETTER <
11l
OiOlU
mm® B!
9fM
mu
■
j
m
C/uWfC
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
gdf
favorite spark plug for
pmore than a quarter of a century
C-23 6
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Menace of Rain.
“J.R.D.”: The past two or
three years have taught graziers
to regard wet seasons with as
much fear as they have regarded
droughts. Droughts kill millions
of sheep but they develop slowly
and there is nearly always a
chance of saving flocks so long as
the water holds out, by hand-
feeding or moving to more
favored districts on agistment.
There are definite advantages
in droughts, although at the time
they may be hard to see. There
is nothing like a prolonged dry
spell to kill the teeming millions
of larvae of internal worm para-
sites and to sterilise the worm
eggs passed by the sheep in their
droppings. Blowflies don’t like
hot, dry weather, and scores of
bacteria and other wogs are kept
in check.
During the recent abnormally
wet season more sheep were lost,
directly and indirectly, than in
any recent drought. Under
direct effect may be listed losses
from drowning, which were con-
siderable, from body-strike,
which were very heavy and were
aggravated by the impossibility
of tending to flocks cut off by
flooding. Bacterial fleece-rot
spread by the hot, humid con-
ditions attracted the blowfly, and
young sheep in particular suffered
heavily.
Moist soil conditions were
ideal for hatching of worm eggs
and survival of an incredibly
high percentage of larvae to in-
fect grazing sheep. Regular
drenching could have controlled
chronic worm-infestation, but
under these conditions the sheep
were picking up massive doses
of young worms which are not
affected by drenches, and the
animals wasted and died in the
midst of apparent plenty. Sheep
in districts that had never seen
a drenching-gun had to be
drenched regularly.
N.S.W. had a body of grass,
such as hasn’t been since we took
over from the blacks, but this
huge growth was devoid of
nourishment and even when the
ground dried out it remained to
smother the new green feed.
With the outbreak of stock
diseases came new strains of
known diseases that gave the
veterinary profession a large
headache. Sheep and large stock
were affected. It is possible that
the heavy mortality in young
cattle from blackleg in the
northern N.S.W. and Queens-
land, where vaccines have broken
down, may be another result of
the abnormally wet year.
Latest reports from many
parts of N.S.W, are that lambings
have been very bad this winter.
Losses are due partly to the
bitter winter, but also to the
fact that ewes are weak through
lack of nutritious feed. Where
the lamb does not die immedi-
ately after birth, it survives only
a few days. Ewes are short of
milk, and thousands die of mal-
nutrition before lambing—again
because of that mat of rank,
fibrous grass.
The blacks used to handle such
a situation by burning off the
rank growth, but in closely-
settled, fenced country that is
out of the question. We will
probably endure many droughts
before we hit another wet year
like 1950. Neither of the ex-
tremes is good for the grazing
industry, but too much rain can
be worse than too little.
The Small Wool Clip.
“Big Billy”; Classing is easier
if the flock be drafted prior to
shearing to allow fine-woolled
sheep to be separated from the
rest. If the flock is sufficiently
large, shear the ewes, hoggets and
wethers and bale separately.
When skirting, handle a fleece
carefully, first throwing it well
on to the table. Before skirting
is begun straighten any portions
that have been doubled under.
Skirting is to remove inferior
portions of the fleece. For a
fleece free of seed and burr, re-
move only the sweaty edges
around the shoulder, point of the
foreleg, fuzzy short wool from
the head, coarse wool in folds
of the neck, strong wool in the
breech, urine-stained pieces from
the ewes. If the fleece is heavy
with seed or burr, take off only
the heaviest edges. Scrub sheep
often have sticky necks and this
wool also should be removed.
Also take off the brands and pack
them separately in bags.
With skirting completed, turn
the fleece from either side to-
wards the centre and fold from
the breech end towards the
shoulder, leaving the best
shoulder wool exposed.
From a staple of this, strength
and quality can be determined.
Don’t mix lamb’s wool wih
fleece wool. Cover the table with
hessian and pick the wool over
by hand, placing the longest and
brightest in a pack placed at one
side, and shorter and heaviest in
another pack.
Keep all ram’s fleeces separate
from other sexes. Class backs,
pieces, bellies, stained pieces and
locks separately.
Pastures in N.S.W.
“B. Cubbin”: Some notes
from the report of John L.
Green, N.S.W. Agriculture
Department, after judging this
year’s R.A.S. farm and fodder
competition in north, west and
southern inland N.S.W.: —•
Outstanding feature was the
spread of pasture-improvement.
In the south skeleton weed has
done much harm to wheat areas,
but there is compensation in the
fact that sufferers have been
compelled to sow pastures which
will eventually improve the fer-
tility of the wheat soil. Though
the southern plains are favored
by being able to grow Wimmera
rye and sub. clover, north of
them lucerne can be used with
success.
Usually where lucerne has
failed it is because the seed has
been sown too deeply. Small
seeds should not be sown as
deeply as seed wheat. Where
there is a grass seed-box attach-
ment on the combine, let the
tubes run and cover the seed with
light trailing harrows. Without
a box, sow pasture mixtures or
lucerne after the wheat sowing,
either by lifting the combine
tynes out or by following the
combine with a manure broad-
caster spreading the small seed.
It’s unwise to cut a wheat crop
for hay if it is a cover crop for
lucerne; better to strip it and
leave the stubble as shade for the
young lucerne.
Lucerne sown without a cover
crop should be untouched
throughout the winter and cut or
grazed only late in spring ; some
find it pays to wait until the
lucerne is in flower.
Where Wimmera rye and sub.-
clover have been sown with
wheat, and the wheat is cut for
hay, don’t graze until rye and
clover have set seed and dried
off.
If sown without a cover crop,
and depending on the locality
and climate, close the paddock
some time in September and keep
it closed until the clover runners
have gone their full length and
have seeded. It might be neces-
sary to repeat this process in the
second year.
If possible, when putting im-
proved pastures on slopes, make
contour furrows to stop water
erosion and keep the rainfall on
the land.
If possible, bale all the lucerne
hay you can. With a good store
of baled lucerne and grain oats
in silos, cereal hay is unneces-
sary, as the lucerne and oats will
see the stock through.
Wheat Quality.
“Grano”: Writing in the
Journal of the Australian Insti-
tute of Agricultural Science, J.
Griffiths Davies, head of the
section of pasture plants in
C.5.1.R.0., seems to have
“I never guessed you felt like that about 'er, Joe."
got off the track by say-
ing that a “consequence
of taking wheat into the more
arid areas has been the increas-
ingly poorer nitrogen content of
the grain.” The truth is the
diametrical opposite.
Farrer found that wheat-
growing was largely confined to
high-rainfall regions, where
yields were relatively high, but
the gluten or nitrogen content of
the grain relatively low. He en-
visaged Australia supplying the
world, not from these regions,
but rather from the drier areas
over which he had travelled ex-
tensively as a surveyor. Before
he died in 1906 Farrer had the
satisfaction of having largely
fulfilled his dream by breeding
wheats for the drier areas.
By this shift of wheat areas
Australia was able to meet the
demand from European coun-
tries for wheat of specific rela-
tively high gluten or nitrogen
content. Davies suggests that
“wheatgrowing should now be
taken back into the better-rain-
fall areas, where improved
pastures have now transformed
the yield potential and the
quality potential.”
In addition to the influences
of the nitrogen content of the
soil and the inherent character of
the variety on the nitrogen con-
tent of the wheat grain, there is
a third and most powerful influ-
ence not reckoned by Davies.
That is climate.
A cool, good-rainfall, slow-
ripening climate induces a heavy
translocation of starch into the
wheat grain, whereas a hot, dry,
quick-ripening climate tends to
cut short this development, thus
producing a grain of relatively
low starch content and coires-
pondingly relatively high nitro-
gen content.
Many European countries have
found that attempts to improve
the nitrogen content of their
wheat through soil-fertility and
breeding measures have rather
severe limitations, because of the
strength of the climatic influ-
ence on grain quality.
A Good Lime Wash.
“Hortus”: With paint at
high prices it’s good to have a
substitute. For brickwork,
corrugated- and flat-iron, timber
(smooth or rough), use a cheap
lime wash.
Ten pounds of unslaked stone-
lime, lib. of alum and 11b. of
glue are all that’s needed. Use
hot water when slaking the lime
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The period of cyclical general rains, repeated from the
season of 1880, is at hand, and there is a supporting sunspot
group which should reach its active position at about the
prescribed time.
The prospects look fairly favorable, and recently there
have been changes in the weather indicative of a general
weather movement for a good early spring. The rains of
1880 were general and beneficial; heavy on the central coast
of New South Wales.


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
/IciN Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
572 PASSENGER MILES
PER GALLON WITH
Iptond,
ROYAL TIGER
Unusually economical in operation and easy to maintain,
quiet, well balanced and well sprung, allowing wide scope
in body design, and offering maximum seating capacity and
comfort, this under-floor chassis is destined to set a new
standard in public transport vehicle design for many years
to come.
★ OUTSTANDING FUEL
ECONOMY
★ MAXIMUM SEATING
CAPACITY
m
OUTSTANDING FEATURES
OF THE ROYAL TIGER CHASSIS
Light, positive and vibrationless steering with divided track rod.
125 h.p. flexibly mounted diesel can be maintained from sides ol
vehicle. Powerful brakes with quickly accessible i-inch thick liners
and 16f-inch dia. drums. Flat-tube type radiator and built-in
engine-driven fan unit, Easy-change inertia-lock synchromesh
four-speed gear-box. Long-life spiral bevel drive carried on pre-
loaded angular-contact races.
MOTORS LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 153-167 George Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AND AGENTS: NEWCASTLE: D. L. Norton, 484 King Street.
BRISBANE DEPOT: 476 Adelaide Street. MELBOURNE DEPOT: Cnr. Courtenay
and Yilliers Streets. Nth. Melbourne. HOBART: H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
53-63 Bathurst Street. ADELAIDE: Flinders Motors Limited, 62 Currie Street.
PERTH; West End Motors Limited, 1056 Hay Street.
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists p
or Naturalists.
gdf
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/10/-,
+ B*% S.T.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
ds
ƒg
WORMS
GUARD HIM
AGAINST
How long is it since he was wormed ?
Worms sap a dog's energy, impair his
health and lower his resistance to disease.
All dogs and puppies that have
been exposed to the risk of
infestation by worms
should be worm-
ed regularly
every three
months
m
BARKO Worm Powders
have been prepared speci-
ally for the elimination
of Tape Worms and are a
safe and reliable medicine
to use for this purpose.
BARKO
WORM POWDERS
PRICE 2/- a box. ALL CHEMISTS
ON THE HOOF
OR ON THE HOOKS
ELASTRATOR LAMBS
ARE BEST!
THE Pastoral Review (February 16th, 1951),
quotes Mr. M. D. Campbell of Spring
Creek on Elastrator “ It is easy to operate and
the result is first class. I run a Southdown x
Romney lamb and I mark about three to four
weeks after lambing. As for safety, I do not
think you could get a better method. Over the
four years just completed and taking into con-
sideration more than 1,200 marked, my total
losses over the whole period following castra-
tion and tailing is one lamb.”
Why don’t you benefit from the experience
of stock owners for four seasons through-
out Australia.?
ELASTRATOR
CASTRATOR AND TAILER
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station
Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(Registered Trade Mark)
and keep covered during the
process. Dissolve the alum and
glue in boiling water separately.
Then add to the slaked lime.
Don’t make the mixture too
thin. Take care to strain the
whole. This is absolutely essen-
tial. Cover for three days, when
it will be ready for use.
If color is required, you can
add ochres easily. It’s best to
apply this lime-wash during cool
weather, if using it on roofs or
tanks. Remember, this wash on
roofs reduces the house’s tem-
perature just as well as the best
refrigerating paint procurable.
Give two coats in every case.
Table Poultry.
“Mr,”; To put the finishing
touches on young birds use a
fattening coop for the last two
weeks prior to marketing and
feed a flesh-building ration. It
“plumps” them quickly, adding
tissue that otherwise would be
lost by exercise.
A coop 7ft. 6in. long by 20in.
deep by 20in. high, divided into
three compartments, will com-
fortably hold 18 birds, six to
each section. Enclose back, top
and bottom with battens or Hn.
wire-netting, and the front with
vertical battens 2jin. apart to
allow the inmates to feed from
a trough placed outside. The
wire-netting floor is raised Sin.
from the ground to dispose of
droppings.
Feed a mixture of ground
wheat or barley 301 b., ground
maize 301 b., ground oats 301 b.,
meatmeal 51b. and dried skim or
buttermilk 51b. (or liquid skim
milk—lgal. equals 11b. of dried
milk). If ground maize or milk
is hard to get, a mixture 751 b.
of ground wheat or barley, 201 b.
of ground oats and 51b. of meat-
meal is a good substitute.
Set the coop in a sheltered
position away from dogs and
other excitement.
Sunflowers.
“H.”: To make the poultry
feed last longer, grow as many
as possible. Now’s the time to
sow the seed. Choose a sunny
spot. The sunny edges of maize
crops are ideal. Land that has
been well-cultivated and manured
for a previous crop is suitable.
Giant Russian is the best variety,
as you get a larger return from
this for the amount of space
used. Plants should be 2ft. apart
in the rows. Don’t let weed-
growth spoil the crop. Keep the
ground well worked between the
rows. The seeds provide a good
fattening food for the fowls,
owing to their oil-content. It
can be mixed with cattle feed,
too. Feed the grain during
winter, as it acts as a good
warmer.
Sheep in New Guinea.
“Saltbush Bill”: Road
“Murrawong” (B. 25/7/’5l) with
much interest. I was somewhat
surprised to see a photo of a
consignment of Nundugl wool on
its way to Sydney: reason for
surprise being that we had all
been led to believe that this wool
was to be woven into blankets
by the natives.
“M.” asks what are the most
suitable sheep for N.G. The
Romney is a lowland sheep, its
wool is marred by the presence
of strong fibres on the low end
of the fleece; even after cross-
ing. The fleece of Romneys is
all right if kept on the fine side,
but is almost impossible to class
if on the strong side ; as both
46’s and 32’s may be found in
the same staple. Probably for a
high - altitude, high - rainfall,
tropical area a coarser type of
sheep would be better, both for
the conditions and the wool for
the natives’ hand-weaving.
The Wensleydale is a lustre-
wool type, one of the finest in
fact, but probably better used as
a cross with coarse-woolled hill
sheep. The Welsh mountain is
a coarse kempy type. The
Radnor is a better class of Welsh,
and the Kerry Hill is a fair-
sized animal with a short, com-
pact fleece of about 36’s.
Perhaps the best hill sheep
would be the Cheviot, but a good
flockmaster is required, as the
wool is inclined to produce
greasy fibres. In my opinion a
Cheviot-Ryland or a Cheviot-
Dorset Down cross might pro-
duce a medium, coarse-woolled
sheep with a good mutton body.
But for the purpose at present
required any wool would seem to
do.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Hydatids is still too
common in country districts.
Simple precautions when killing
stock ensure its reduction. Put
all offal beyond the reach of
dogs, which are the usual carriers
to children. Contrary to a wide-
spread belief the tiny hydatid
cysts seen in many rabbits are
not injurious to human beings,
“Sundowner”: The tendency
of pot-plants set from rooted
cuttings to become “leggy” will
be checked by pinching the tip
of the shoot as they grow. This
will produce well-branched
plants.
“M.”; Proven windbreak trees
for Victoria are; For the warm
inland, Cootamundra wattle,
pepper-tree, pincushion hakea
{Hakea lamina ), Osage orange,
olive, boobialla and tamarisk ; for
the cooler lowlands and foot-
hills, various species of pitto-
sporum, privet, hawthorn, Irish
strawberry (. Arbutus unedo), tree
lucerne and Chinese hawthorn
(Photinia serrulatd) ; for cold
mountain climates, holly ( Ilex
aquifolium ); and for coastal
localities, tea-tree, boobialla and
looking-glass plant {Coprosma
lucida).
“Myrrhee”: Nitrogen defi-
ciency of fruit-trees is indicated
by yellow-green foliage, small
highly-colored fruits and (in
apple- and pear-trees) a reddish
tinge in lateral growth. In
severe cases shoots are thin,
foliage is sparse, leaves are small
and pale-green, blossoming is
poor, but storage quality of the
fruit is good. The deficiency
can be remedied quickly by
giving the tree an application of
51b. sulphate of ammonia or
151 b. to 181 b. of blood-and-bone.
“C.S.”: A booklet entitled
“Fodder Trees,” by H. A. Corbet,
gives the botanical and common
names of a list of fodder trees,
and the localities in which they’re
most likely to thrive. It is avail-
able from the Imperial Printing
Co., Perth (W.A.).


GOOD OLD
JOHNWE
WAWKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH /
V WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK, /
\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY. k
JW.lt7S.ft
REMEMBER -
ROAD COURTESY
Means
ROAD SAFETY!
JS
l ufAY*
%& x \
to
vi M
VOOO
0*
Published in the interests
of Road Safety by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Commonwealth of Australia and
Anglo-I ranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
■C94/t761«
where Biddulph meant to camp,
as the horses had no water since
the morning. We reached it
about four o’clock, and desper-
ately thirsty we all were. The
pint pot was untied from the
splashboard of the dogcart,
where it always travelled in
company with spare hobbles,
straps, pieces of hide and rope
and a general arrangement of
rubbish which would have had
a cheerful and pleasing effect if
anyone had been there to see it.
A double-barrelled gun was
lashed on each side of the dog-
cart and the mattresses were
slung behind, the back seat being
one that shut up. However, this
fascinating vehicle was left in
the road, and men, women and
horses made a general rush to
the creek—it was perfectly dry,
not a drop of water left in it.
With very blank faces we
were turning away when Tom
called out: “Look, sir, there’s
a mudhole chock-full of black
snakes! ” On investigation, how-
ever, it turned out that they were
not snakes, but eels, which had
taken refuge in the last remains
of damp mud. In a moment
Biddulph, Mr. Hedgeland and
Tom were armed with sticks and
an exciting scrimmage ensued,
More than a dozen fine eels
were knocked on the head and
deposited in a bag, which Tom
hung on his saddle. Then
instead of camping we all started
again to get to the river, which
was seven miles further, but
there was no water nearer and
it must be reached.
I was riding in the dogcart
with Biddulph, and a most extra-
ordinary country we passed
through: low hills covered
thickly with small granite
boulders from one to six feet
high, and all smooth and
rounded as if water-worn. We
also picked up great pieces of
petrified wood on another hill,
The granite hills were pleasant
for the dogcart; how we did
bump round and over and
through the boulders ! The
country was so perfectly new
that I quite enjoyed the drive,
only I was so thirsty,
Just at sundown we reached
the river, a deep precipitous
bank, and at the bottom a small
clear stream of running water,
How the horses rushed down
the bank and how they did
drink: and how the tin
pannikins came out and were
emptied at a draught! You
never know what thirst is unless
you have travelled a whole day
under an Australian sun without
water,
We crossed the river—the
Burdekin—and camped on the
other side in Biddulph’s country.
The eels were boiled for supper
and were exceedingly good ; and
as we sat round the fire and dis-
cussed them, I think we were
rather sorry it was our last
camp, for the journey on the
whole was very pleasant: that
outdoor life is so healthy, too.
I was perfectly well from the
time I sailed from Sydney till I
reached Exmoor. Annie was
pretty well, too, but she got
rather tired with the daily travel-
ling and “shaking up,” as Amy
calls it.
September 10. Travelling
through the Exmoor country,
and very pretty it is, low un-
dulating hills excellent for sheep,
and here and there broad grassy
plains. It was all very brown
though, as we are sorely in want
of rain.
Biddulph has fine natural
boundaries to his station —a
range of hills, or rather moun-
tains, on each side; those on
the eastward are rounded hills
like the Quantocks ; those to the
west are most picturesque. On
the side towards the station they
are cut down from the summit
into a precipitous wall of rock,
which runs for miles and miles
and seems to shut out the world
beyond with a natural wall.
Annie and I both rode the
first part of the day, as the road
was bad, and Tom in the excite-
ment of getting home drove the
horses along so frantically that
he shook off all their packs,
and had twice to go back and
look for bags that had been
dropped off. We overtook the
dogcart at last, Biddulph was
waiting for us by the side of a
running creek, so we stopped
there and had our lunch. We
never camped in the day during
the whole journey, but put some
bread and cheese in our pockets
which we ate as we rode along,
and got some water with it when
we could.
Annie got into the dogcart
when we overtook it, and I rode
the rest of the way. We crossed
a wide open plain at a gallop,
for the horses knew they were
getting home, and then a clear-
ing through the gum-trees
brought us in sight of a long,
low building of dark slabs, with
a deep veranda in front, with a
variety of doors and windows
opening into the same. A neat
little building, evidently the
kitchen, a short distance off,
some tents and men’s huts
behind where there were slabs
piled up, and various prepara-
tions for building. The rails of
a very strong stockyard appeared
between the trees further back
still.
The house stands upon a low
hill; the ground has been
cleared in front, and the creek
which supplies us with water
runs at the foot of it; beyond
there is an interval of bush, the
whole closed in by the eastern
range of mountains before men-
tioned ; and a very pleasant
prospect it is. At all times of
the day they are beautiful,
especially in the evening, when
they take generally a deep violet
hue.
*Mr. Devlin, the superin-
tendent, was away at Port
Denison ; so was Mr. Robert-
son, so we had the place all to
ourselves. I was surprised to see
such a good house and one that,
though very rough, possessed
such capabilities for improve-
ments.
But rough it undoubtedly was
at first. The furniture consisted
of: in the sitting-room, a table
and some wooden benches round
it, a few stretchers made of
rough wood were scattered about
the establishment, one of which
Annie had, while I, fearing
aborigines [insects], put my
mattress on a sheet of zinc sup-
ported on two boxes. However,
we were prepared for all defi-
ciencies of this sort, as we knew
from Mr. Hedgeland that not a
stick of the furniture had yet
arrived ; indeed, we had seen it
packed in the veranda at the
Toloomba Inn. The books only
had arrived, in a state of soak,
for they had been capsized into
a creek and all spoiled as tar as
appearance went, and a great
pity it was.
It seemed quite strange to
sleep under a roof again,
though it certainly was a very
airy one. We sat in the veranda
all the evening and discussed
our journey, and ought to ha%e
been very thankful to ha\ -
arrived at home safe and wen.
With love from your affec-
tionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
(To be continued next week.)


UNIVERSAL TOOL
FOR EVERYBODY
NVkNAQNVH
HOUSEWIFE
JUNIOR
FARMER
"B O B"
THE MULTI-PUKPOSE STAPLING
TOOL
Staples, drives nails, hooks, tacks.
Ideal for fencing, etc.
For every home, household, farm or
workshop “Bob” is indispensable.
fg
s
"Bob" repairs everything.
'S,
f dsf
AMAZING VALUE!
Complete with 2 lock-
ing levers, magnet and
1000 assorted stainless
staples as pictured. I
29'6
SEND ORDER TODAY TO
DOMEX TRADING CO.,
Dept. 22, 243 Elizabetb St., Sydney
Domex Trading Co., Dept. 22,
243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Please send me one “Bob,” com-
plete in wooden box, for which
I enclose 29/6 (add postage 2/-).
NAME
ADDRESS
Divorce Notices.
TO JOHN CHARLES McKENZIE for-
merly of Nedlands Western Australia. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EVELYN
ELIZABETH McKENZIE has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of five years continuous
separation IF you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within Thirty clear days from
the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the case may proceed
and the Court will pronounce Judgment
and make Orders against you in your
absence. Dated this 21st day of August,
1951.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. H. T.
STABLES, Solicitor, 37 St. George’s Ter-
race, Perth, Agent for STABLES AND
CLARKSON, Kalgoorlie, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK BORNEN formerly of
Hughenden Queensland.. —TAKE NOTICE
that GLADYS KATHLEEN BORNEN has
filed a Petition No. 2653 of 1951 praying
for a Divorce under Queensland law on the
ground of your desertion for three years
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 4th December 1951 A copy of the
Petition may be obtained from P. L.
NOLAN, Town Agent for MESSRS.
KINSEY & CALLAN, Cootamundra, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner, 11c Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Achievements of an Industry, No. 9.
POLYTHENE was essential for the development of
another great achievement of British research —radar. The illustra-
tion shows the radar installation at the port of Liverpool. Polythene,
or polymerised ethylene, is a tough yet flexible plastic with remark-
able qualities as an electrical insulator. The name is generic for
a range of solid polymers of ethylene, a gas derived from alcohol
or petroleum. Ethylene will not polymerise easily, that is, the
molecules will not join together in long chains, but in 1933, ;1.C.1.
chemists found that under extreme pressure they could be made to
do so. This was in itself a major scientific achievement, but equal
skill and more patience were needed to develop polythene to the
stage of commercial production. The pressures used —sometimes
exceeding 10 tons per square inch —had never been employed before
in chemical processes, and at the beginning there were many
explosions, one of which almost wrecked the laboratory. The
process was finally mastered in 1936, and the first plant manufactur-
ing polythene came into production on Ist September, 1939, the day
the Germans invaded Poland. Never was a product more timely in
its arrival. Today it is finding many uses, the most important being
the improvement of submarine telephone and telegraphic cables.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
L 9.0.1
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
WHERE
CdCalatWA MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
1
: BBS
f . ■ ?
mm :: m
' ' Y
hH
ill
$ ’mmm
\ --.-V< :v x
■/-r'
f..'... :..
" V .
m
m
m
This Otis escalator installation at Anthony
Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney, invites cus-
tomers to see and buy goods on other floors.
Offering convenient, constant and immediate
transport, escalators step up traffic volume
. . . distribute a greater flow of customers
quickly and easily to all merchandising areas
. . . and permit maximum sales to be
realised. Otis will be glad to survey your
store and report on the facts discovered.
rwo of Yen
Post-War Design Otis Escalators Installed at
SYDNEY!
MELBOURNE!
ADELAIDE!
BRISBANE!
PERTH!
Anthony Hordern
& Sons Ltd. ......
David Jones Ltd. ....
Mark Foy’* Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. .
Manton & Sons Ltd. ~
Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd
McWhirters Ltd. , . • •.
Boans Ltd. •••••••••<
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney
$
r/.
.i
m
n
If
>1
*jh
s
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE
COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Autobiography of
a Yogi by Paramhansa Yogannanda.
—5199.
To buy Life's Testament, 3rd edi-
tion, and Moreton Miles, 2nd edition,
by William Baylebridge; also copies
of articles or other material relating
to Baylebridge’s life and works. —
5198.
Names and addresses of Sydney
people interested in forming a Sydney
branch of the Kipling Society. (Reply
direct to Mr. J. V. Carlson, secretary,
Kipling Society, Melbourne branch,
15 Craigrossie-avenue, West Coburg,
Vic.).
Information Sought.
Some information about Rares, a
boy bushranger in Tasmania’s early
history ?
Transported in 1832, when only
nine, for having stolen an apple, he
finished his seven-year sentence at
Port Arthur, only to be sentenced to
a further seven years “for bad con-
duct.” Successful in the perilous and
very difficult task of getting across
the Eaglehawk Neck (which frustrated
most of the attempts by convicts to
escape), he took to a life of armed
robbery and hold-up. After one
robbery he was captured in Hobart,
but once more managed to get away.
Then he joined two other bushrangers,
Lawton and Cowden. They success-
fully robbed the home of one settler,
but in an attack on another home-
stead Rares was taken, with his right
hand blown off when his gun
exploded. For over a week he lay
semi-conscious, then was sentenced to
death and hanged (1839). He was still
only 16.
* * * *
How to clean a Brussels carpet?
If the carpet is old and worn it
will not stand the weight of water
and rubbing, but if in fair condition
proceed by beating out as much dust
as possible with beater or vacuum
cleaner. Spread it out on the grass
and proceed to wash it with warm
suds containing cloudy ammonia,
using a brush lightly. Rinse well by
pouring clean water over it, and hang
it over a line or low railing. Watch
during drying, and turn it about to
prevent uneven patches; if necessary,
pull it into shape. When dry roll up
and return to its floor. There are
good carpet-soaps on the market, and
one of these should be purchased and
directions followed if doubtful of
results.
* * * *
Who are the world boxing cham-
pions, in all divisions, from flyweight
to heavyweight?
Flyweight, Dado Marino; bantam-
weight, Vic Toweel; featherweight,
Sandy Sadler; lightweight, Johnny
Carter; welterweight, Kid Gavilan
(“Sugar Ray” Robinson held this
title for years, but had to relinquish
it when he won the middleweight
championship from Jake La Motta
on February 14, 1951); middleweight,
Randolph Turpin; light-heavyweight,
Joey Maxim; and heavyweight, “Jer-
sey Joe” Walcott.
* * * *
Does the taipan look somewhat like
the large brown snake of northern
Australia, and is the taipan the largest
venomous snake in the world?
The taipan can only be dis-
tinguished from the large brown
snake and brown Pseudelaps of
northern Australia by close examina-
tion. In the former the number of
scales around the body is 21 to 23,
and they are bluntly keeled. There
are only one or two maxillary teeth
following the fangs. The head shield
is distinctive, but requires specialist
interpretation. For this reason the
taipan is generally confused with the
large brown snake. The taipan is
the largest venomous snake found in
Australia, and is not far behind the
largest in the world (hamadryad of
India), attaining a length of over
10ft. The fangs are almost -jin. in
length, and inject a large amount of
very potent venom,
* * *
Was Jack Dempsey knocked down
by Gene Tunney in either of the two
contests they had? Which of their
bouts was the long-count one ? Did
Dempsey win, or look like winning,
in either contest ?
Gene Tunney dropped Jack
Dempsey for a short count in their
second contest, at Chicago, on
September 22, 1927. The long count
occurred in this contest, and report
said Tunney was down for 14 seconds
while the referee was counting nine,
because Dempsey refused to return to
a neutral corner. Tunney won both
contests on points. Dempsey was
always well behind on points in both
bouts, although he might have won
the Chicago clash on a knockout had
he returned to a neutral corner
immediately Tunney was floored.
Brief Answers.
F.Y.: Write Bureau of Mineral
Resources, 485 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, for a copy of Summary
Report No. 16*.... J.S.: James Tyrrell,
281 George-street, Sydney, may be
interested T.U.: Suggest that you
advertise in the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” 38 Hunter-street, Sydney,
or “Poultry,” 13 Goulburn-street,
Sydney CJ.: (1) A number of
claims have been paid from the
Solicitors’ Guarantee Fund. (2) Inves-
tigations would probably take some
time. Don’t give up hope... .H.J.8.:
There is no bar to a spinster apply-
ing to the court for an adoption
order in respect of a male child....
J.H.V.S.: Stamp Duties Office im-
pressed stamp indicating the imposi-
tion of a fine for late stamping, whicn
has been paid.... J.G.C.: Without
knowing the type of foreign matter
in the water it is difficult to suggest
a remedy. Noricene, an 1.C.1. pro-
duct, will probably do the job
R.N.P.: The Railway Standardisa-
tion (South Australia) Agreement Act
of 1949 provided for the conversion
to standard gauge of the sft. 3in. and
3ft. 6in. systems of the South Aus-
tralian railways and for the acquisi-
tion of the Silverton tramway....
8.D.H.; There is no agricultural
college for women in any of the
Australian States H.S.J.: Write
Registrar-General’s Department, Trea-
sury Building, Brisbane. Copy of
birth registration costs 25., plus
postage.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the‘MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
A.E.W.: Adelaide, wattle, spring,
etc., are familiar subjects for rhapso-
dies J.L.: Very little good poetry
has been written, so far, about Dr.
Evatt John Dawes: Right. We’ve
straightened the record 1.J.F.:
Well, you’ve certainly sunk the old
Kyogle M.A.W.: Promising. Tell
him to read Angus and Robertson’s
annual Australian Poetry anthologies.
E.T.: You’ll find it hard work
to say anything new about the sunset.
E.N.: Have a look at the earth
about you, and forget about such
large subjects as birth, death and
eternity H.P.: “Fountain Pen”
issues a very watery humor....
E.M.S. : Bird-parliament poem might
do for children.... J.S.L.: One story
told at those campfires would be
better than that long lament for them.
Bellerive: Glad to note that you
have not taken the count: —
R.L.A.: The more of those place-
names you put in, and the more
directly you write about the places,
and the less you surround them with
hackneyed sentiments and images, the
closer you’ll be J.G.; Translations
from Gautier are a bit out of our
way, though that’s quite a pleasant
one Leslie: Send us a potato, not
a poem about one.
SELF-DEFENCE.
My pen-name is “Bellerive,”
Author of varied poems.
Known around the suburbs
In many family homes.
I don’t claim to be a classic
Nor brand myself a fool.
To do my best like others
As always been my rule.
I won’t throw in the towel
While I can move about.
I don’t like idle hours
Time will count me out.
Years ago a stirring poem
On The Bulletin’s jubilee,
And other welcome tributes
Were written by old me.
My pen-name’s “Bellerive,”
White haired, sere and bent.
As long as I am able I’ll
Write to my heart’s content.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Why not 10,000?
Perhaps “Libra” defends only some
section of the public service in which he
knows a reasonable quota of work is
being done (B. 29/8/’5l). My own ex-
periences would justify a look-see into
what goes on behind the iron curtain of
bureaucracy.
Early in 1948, while holidaying in
Queanbeyan, I made friends with a public
servant of many years’ standing, and,
acting on his suggestion, applied for
admission to the public service as a
temporary clerk. To my astonishment —
for I had been in the locality only five
days—l was signed on almost without
question, a “character” reference from
my five-day-old friend being considered
sufficient. As well, I was not directed
to a place of employment, but allowed to
choose. Naturally, 1 selected the depart-
ment that employed my friend, and was
sent there without argument. The staff
clerk welcomed me, relieved me of my
initial subscription to the F.C.U., and
from that moment on I became a fully-
fledged deadhead.
My first duty was to report for work
at 8.30 a.m. On arrival, which was
usually at about 8.40 or later, 1 would
sign the clerks’ attendance book (which
was accessible all day) stating I had
arrived at 8.30, and then settle into the
arduous tasks of the day.
There were about 20 employed in this
branch, plus an office boy. I had a desk
and a swivel-chair to myself, and, being
quick on the uptake, I saw that the first
task of the day for everyone in the
office was to settle himself comfortably
in his chair and make a thorough study
of the daily newspapers. After that came
a discussion of all matters of interest to
men. At 10 o’clock the office-boy made
his rounds, collecting orders for cakes or
biscuits or pies to be bought from the
itinerant vendor who parked outside our
building each morning. At 10.15 sharp
the swinging doors into the office would
be thrown open, and an attractive young
woman would tell us that morning-tea
was ready.
At 11 my “duties” would commence.
These consisted of making entries on
certain cards of the progress that had
been reached in dealing with somebody’s
application to our department. Any
curiosity as to what the original applica-
tion had been was laughed at; I had to
concern myself with what was written on
the top sheet of the inevitable red-taped
file, and with seeing that I filed my
entry away in its correct section. During
my holiday in this department I suppose
I averaged about eight or ten of these
entries per day, making a total of perhaps
half an hour’s work.
One thing I liked about the office —
everybody had a finger in the pie. One
single application, on receipt, was immedi-
ately subdivided into at least 20 sections,
so that everyone in the office could have
something to keep him from succumbing
to ennui. My humble role was to make
a note of what had already been made
a note of by 19 others. Had I stayed,
undoubtedly I would have been promoted
to the point where somebody else would
have had to make a note of my note.
To while away the rest of the day I
soon fell into the habit of bringing my
personal portable to work, which estab-
lished me at once as a friend of the
s.-p. bookie. Other divertissements in-
cluded telephoning girl-friends or falling
asleep, secure in the knowledge that some-
one with sporting instincts would give the
alarm if danger threatened. Only once
was there a suggestion of danger, and
that was when it was rumored that the
departments would in turn be visited by
efficiency experts, to see whether em-
ployees understood their jobs and whether
their employment was actually neces-
sary. For three hectic days, all block-
heads like myself were schooled' in what
we were supposed to be doing, but the
invasion of experts never eventuated.
If the foregoing appears ludicrous,
that’s how it was. “Libra” mentions ’39
values; I quote ’4B values, and will be
very surprised to find any appreciable
change. I, and thousands like myself,
were the “surpluses” he wants the public
to be informed about. I don’t think it
would be too hard to round up 10,000
of us all told. — Arjar (N.S.W.).
Level Crossings
If, as “Ah Bee” claims (B. 22/8/’5l),
overhead bridges and viaducts are not the
solution to rail-crossing accidents then
there is no solution. The modern
motorist, “for ever gnawing the nails of
hurry,” is deaf and blind to screeching
whistles, wig-wag signals and warning
lights—last June 29 gates were smashed
by motor-cars.
If a closed gate is unobserved, or
ignored, what is the use of warning lights,
screeching whistles or wig-wags? Many
roads approach rail crossings at acute
angles, making it difficult for the car-
driver to see a train approaching from
the rear, and the noise of his engine
effectively eliminates all other sounds.
Such approaches should be altered so
that all crossings are made at right-
angles, or as nearly so as possible, and
all obstructions to sight removed. That
would give the careful driver a greater
margin of safety.
For the other kind of driver there is
only the overhead or the viaduct. He
may not be worth the cost, but those
whose lives he endangers are, and the cost
of saving human life should never be
reckoned. Starting with the most
dangerous, all level crossings should be
eliminated as fast as labor and material
permit.— Ringwood (Vic.).
Cuts in Works Programme
Cuts in the Victorian works programme
necessitated by the Loan Council’s refusal
to meet the State’s needs are a blessing
in disguise, despite the attacks on the
“ Don't you know it's your watch below ?”
Federal Government by State politicians
and Government department heads.
Money has been so wasted in State
instrumentalities that many, in fear of
becoming overcapitalised, will have to re-
strict their works by cutting down on
capital expenditure. That will mean a
lower interest rate to be paid off eventu-
ally by the consumers or users respon-
sible for the upkeep of the departments.
Perhaps the greatest offender in regard
to waste of money is the State Electricity
Commission, which, fortunately, is the
most seriously affected in the 25 per cent,
works cut ordered by Victorian Premier
McDonald. Already the commission
chairman (Mr. R, A. Hunt) has rushed
into print giving a seven-point cut-in-
works programme which he claims will
have to. be adopted because of the lack
of finance.
His “programme” includes a general
stoppage of the Kiewa “white elephant”
hydroelectric project except for the finish-
ing of an underground power-station now
nearing completion ; delays to the new
Morwell briquette opencut and the
country thermal power-stations under con-
struction at Shepparton and Warrnam-
bool; cessation of work on the electri-
fication of the Gippsland rail line between
Melbourne and Morwell; a 50 per cent,
cut in the number of new consumers,
including housing estates and soldier-
settlements, and a general restriction on
increased use of electricity by industry.
While some of these threats are clear
“kite-flying,” some major cuts are neces-
sary and are certain to be carried out.
Possibly the biggest saving will be the
stoppage of the Kiewa project, already
under severe criticism by Melbourne’s new
Lord Mayor, Or. O. J. Nilsen, one of
Australia’s biggest businessmen in the
electricity trade.
In Mr. Hunt’s works-cut warning no
mention was made of any reduction in
administrative costs, which are mounting
rapidly. Thousands of pounds could have
been saved by reducing expenditure on
minor items and letting the bigger works
in the brown-coal fields at Yallourn and
Morwell continue.
In the financial year just ended, thou-
sands of pounds were wasted on the fol-
lowing :
(1) Overseas trips by senior executives.
These have become a “perk” for men
about to retire. Early this year seven top
executives all receiving £2OOO salary were
abroad on various missions, most of
which could be done by trade-commis-
sioners.
(2) Use of commission cars by staff for
private work. Dozens of the staff take
the commission cars home, and during
the weekend they are a common sight
outside sporting functions, etc.
(3) Rail-trucks used to carry briquettes
from Yallourn to Melbourne return to
the coalfields empty, while large tonnages
of new equipment do the same journey
by road.
(4) S.E.C. huts on the Bogong High
Plains used extensively by ski-club
members.
(5) Huge advertising bill for the last
two £6 million S.E.C. loans, both of which
were only half-filled.
(6) Special staff used to enforce re-
strictions, yet few prosecutions launched.
These extravagances are likely to con-
tinue again this present year despite Mr.
Menzies’s warning that all wastages must
be curtailed.
Complete revision of all S.E.C. works
is essential if the organisation is to be
placed on a sound economic footing.
Elimination of all waste in minor ex-
penditure and the provision of an ade-
quate “paying” works programme is the
only answer.
Kiewa hydroelectric scheme would be
best wiped off for all time, for, after all,
it was only going to provide about per
cent, of the State’s needs yet to cost £lOO
million. Expansion of the huge brown-
coal resources in the Latrobe Valley could
still continue. There is adequate loan
money for that if administrative losses
are curtailed.
If Mr. Menzies had not restricted the
loan money the S.E.C. would have become
so overcapitalised that consumer bills in
the next seven or eight years would.
include more for interest than for elec-
tricity consumed. —J. J. (Vic.).
Queensland Railways
The Bulletin lately quoted a South
African expert who had been called in
to examine the Westralian railways and
reckoned them the worst in the civilised
world. He hadn’t seen Queensland. I’ve
seen both, and if his statement was rea-
sonable mine was certainly not grotesque,
as Clem Lack suggests (B. 15/8/’5l).
Despite “C.L.’s” defence, the fact re-
mains that Queensland railways are a
shabby, neglected, Cinderella service. It
wasn’t always. Years ago it was out-
standing in its class, but the blight of 30
years’ “Labor” rule has left its mark.
What it does accomplish and its war-
time achievements reflect every credit on
the Railways Administration, none what-
ever on the tools they’re forced to use or
on the people who supply them.
I don’t profess to know whether or not
it’s intended to scrap all coal-burners in
favor of diesels, nor is it obvious that
the latter are to be used on passenger-
trains, but I do know that 10 diesels were
ordered in the middle of 1950, whereas
Queensland Transport Minister Duggan
made his New York pronouncement that
Queensland must have diesel-powered
trains a year later. The inference there is
reasonably obvious. Furthermore, it’s
essential that the cost of the servicing
and maintenance facilities be spread over
as many units as possible, and you can-
not mix diesel and even modern steam
stock in service, operating characteristics
being entirely different.
I know the State is to have eight fine
new trains —some day. But with Can-
berra prepared to lay out £10,000,000-a-
-year-plus to foster “cheap” air-travel, the
value of a passenger-train on a poor
narrow-gauge track must be doubtful, to
say the least. It’s certainly insufficient to
justify costly imported haulage.
I’m fully conversant with the ad-
vantages of the diesel —in fact, its only
serious disadvantages are high cost and
the need to import fuel —but to suggest
that they’re rendered necessary by the
low-axle loading permitted in Queens-
land is a puerile argument. Surely, after
all these years, it’s time that limit was
raised, thus permitting a better perform-
ance from every train rather than from
the few. I’m well aware that lack of
“hammer-blow” is a strong point in favor
of the diesel, but modern steamers can
be built without overbalance, therefore
without hammer-blow, and, anyway, if
Minister Duggan can run 15-ton axle-
loads—4s tons to a bogie—over track
which barely carries eight tons with
steam there’s clearly something seriously
wrong with the PBIS and Cl 7.
I know they’re building a “new” Cl 7
at Ipswich—they’ve been building it now
for three years —but it will remain merely
a modification on a 35-year-old design,
just as the English-built BlB* is only an
improved 1926 model. I know that mil-
lions are to be spent on improvements,
about half the total on a futile electri-
fication system for Brisbane which, as
planned, will be two ends and no middle.
I also know about the Beyer Garratts
built “specially to meet Queensland con-
ditions.” So were their predecessors, and
that fact alone seemed sufficient to cause
disastrous strikes in two States before the
things were banished to Tasmania.
Queensland coal output last year may
have been a record, but the fact is irrele-
vant. One efficient mine would supply
the whole demand, present and potential,
but take away or reduce the local market
for which the railway is almost entirely
responsible and most of the small shows
would close automatically.
My “jibe” about the failure of
Queenslanders to do anything about their
coal may make strange reading—to a
Queenslander. That’s why I made it Of
course it’s the height of insanity to pay
foreign exchange, plus £6 a ton freight,
for African or Indian coal, but the whole
point is that a purchaser from Victoria
or S.A. not only finds the coal ready at
The Bluff or Kidderpore but gets it put
aboard ship swiftly and efficiently. Let
Queenslanders offer similar facilities an
they’d have no * trouble in selling their
coal. Today their determination to do
nothing about it is exceeded only by their
enthusiasm in damning other people tot
not doing the job for them—Trans-
porticus (Singapore),
Butter .
Dairyfarmers have been feeling a little
of the' heat that N. S. Wales Premier
McGirr has for so long turned onto t.
execrated “landlord.” They shoul n
have some idea of the battle the owners
of rented property have been waging t *
years past.
The joke is, of course, that most butt.
cockies are Country-party supporters,
whereas Labor voters are butter-eaters.
While industrial workers can get P .■
increases merely by going on strike -
was threatened that the butter man ,
be dealt with if he organised anything-
the sort, the McGirr Government chum
ing, under legislation controlling
the right to seize controlled g -
if the owners refused to P lac ® . .
on the market. Striking factory_
or wharfies or seamen or miners,
course, are in a different categor,.
If Mr. McGirr seized the butter
the factory stores the position wel-
come interesting. Look at it . g. ,
owners conscripted to su PP Iy - cesa 4
accommodation at Government pres^
under conditions dictated by
owners of country holdings U | e .
into “selling” their land for _
ment under pain of having it
a mere fraction of its curr
value; and then butt f er . to turn to &
to order regardless of the retu
producers. Ned Kelly wasnt m »-
Cave (N.S.W.)*


AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
KUNAPIPI,
by Ronald M. Berndt.
A study of an Australian aboriginal
religious cult. Illustrated.
39/6 (post 7d.)
SAUCE OR MUSTARD?
by Emile Mercier.
122 pages of laughs in hilarious
cartoons with a topical touch.
7/6 (post 4d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
DEVASTATING! aptly describes . . .
The THOUSAND DEATHS
of MR. SMALL
GERALD KERSH at his very best—a novel rich in savage humor,
radiating life and vitality.
A CHILD’S GARDEN OF CURSES
by S. J. PERELMAN
An omnibus containing CRAZY LIKE A FOX, KEEP IT CRISP,
ACRES AND PAINS. “Side-splittingly funny!”—James Agate:
Daily Express. “. . . The extreme comic richness of his writing.”—
Punch.
At all booksellers. HEINEMANN
To he published this month
The Houses In Between
By HOWARD SPRING
This long, closely-packed novel unfolds a wonderful panorama
of English life during the last hundred years, concentrating not
on the high peaks of history but rather on the human drama of
successive generations of English folk.
COLLINS
AUSTRALIA-WIDE APPEAL
New Revised Edition
AN ENCYCLOPAEDIA
FOR AUSTRALIAN GARDENERS
By P. J. HURLEY
A complete outline of all aspects of gardening—flower, fruit, vegetables, lawns,
etc. —described in a very simple manner for the amateur. Profusely illustrated,
plates in colour, many in black-and-white.
It tells you all about plants, their growing habits and favourite locations,
climatic chart. PRICE, 15/6.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE BL 3611.
shrubs,
twelve
also a
“Handy Hints for the Farm”
PRICE ONE
SHILLING
• Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle,
Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne;
239 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 33 Barrack St., Perth.
deserted her on the eve of her fourth con-
finement, in the course of which she caught
scarlet-fever and dipd. Her child survived,
but was sent to a baby farm, and starved
to death in the usual manner.”
load commented thus (page 68):
Here clause has been fitted into clause so
ingeniously that never a joint can be seen,
so that a sentence made up of many
separate items lies as level as a spear and
streaks past, as though it were launched
with a single lunge. Note how the crowded
middle sentence, telescoping, as it does,
four travails, two tragedies and a comic
professor of spiritualism, produces an effect
of imperturbable audacity which nearly
takes one’s breath away.
And on page 69 load added the observa-
tion :
Shaw stripped his sentences of those
trailing wreaths and ropes of metaphor
that Ruskin wound round his message and
then multiplied still further the effect of
impetuousness thus produced by using all
the energy that might have gone to the
making of the garlands, to accelerating the
pace and so intoxicating the reader with
the thrill of sheer speed.
Let us pause to refer to one Dixon
Scott, a most promising literary critic,
who died on active service in the 1914-
18 war. In 1916 some of Scott’s best
pieces were collected in book form and
published by Hodder and Stoughton,
Ltd., with the title Men of Letters. Max
Beerbohm wrote the introduction. A
second edition appeared in 1923.
One of the best criticisms in the book
is a witty, shrewd analysis entitled “The
Innocence of Bernard Shaw,” On page
19 of the 1923 edition Scott quoted the
extract from The Irrational Knot given
above, but before doing so he, wrote:
Shaw stripped all his sentences of those
trailing wreaths and ropes of metaphor
which Ruskin, nis predecessor in these
paths of sensual socialism, had elaborately
wound round his message—-and then he
multiplied still further the effect of
impetuousness thus obtained by devoting all
the energy that might have gone to making
garlands to the task of fitting clause into
clause with such ingenious sockets that
never a joint could be seen, and a long
sentence really made up of many added
items lay when finished as level as a spear,
streaking past as though launched with one
lunge.
Further on (page 20) Scott wrote:
Already, it will be seen, the desired effect
of imperturbability is there, gained by that
diligent maintenance of a monotone; and
the crowded middle sentence does nearly
take the listener’s breath away by telescop-
ing four travails, two tragedies, and a comic
professor of spiritualism into a couple of
level lines.
How are we to account for the remark-
able similarity of language in two books,
one published in 1923 and the other in
1949? A possible explanation can be
deduced from the psychical section of
another book by load, Guide to Modern
Thought. Can it be that the “mind” of
the dead Dixon Scott has directed the pen
of the living load? Anyhow, whether
you like this theory or not, there is more
evidence of similarities in the two books.
On page 69 of Shaw load gave a long
extract from one of Shaw’s prefaces and
proceeded:—
Once again we have a series of separate
statements so ingeniously socketed together
that the sentences seem to go whipping
through the semicolons much as telegraph
wires do through their posts, when you
watch them rush past the windows of the
train. The effect is torrential. Lightened
of all adjectives, nimble with nouns, turn-
ing categories into keyboards when it wants
to ripple a run, and avoiding vowels in
order to get the snap of consonants, Shaw’s
style rattles at a rate that makes the pace of
Swift seem slow.
On page 21 of Men of Letters Scott
gave the same quotation and continued:
It is nothing but a series of separate state-
ments, but they are so socketed that the
result is torrential: the sentence seems
positively to go whipping through its sup-
porting semicolons much as a telegraph
wire does through the posts when you watch
it racing past from a swift train
And on page 22 Scott goes on;
Lightened of all adjectives, nimble with
nouns, turning categories into keyboards,
he is wont to ripple us a run and, avoiding
vowels in order to get the snap of con-
sonants, it rattles past at a rate that makes
the best of Swift seem slow, and pelts the
brain with stinging drops like driving hail.
Some further happy coincidences are;
Dixon Scott (page 18):
Conditioned absolutely by the special
character of the campaign he had in view—
submitting to every limitation without
shuffling, and taking advantage of every
licence without shame—it is the very finest
example in the whole range of English
letters of prose written to be uttered with
physical forcibleness on the rapid levels
of man-to-man speech....
Joad (page 67):
Shaw’s prose has an almost physical
forcibleness at the level of ordinary, direct
man-to-man speech. It is, indeed, the
supreme example in English letters of a
style which is at once a writing and a
speaking style....
Dixon Scott (page 22):
And just as an athlete is more beautiful
than an aesthete, so it grows more sensuous
the more austere it becomes, positively
practising a bodily seductiveness by seeming
wholly to rely on an appeal to cold-blooded
intelligence
Joad (page 69);
And just as the beauty of an athlete is
more effective than that of an aesthete, so
the style grows more sensuous, the more
austere it becomes, practising a physical
seduction even when it seems to rely wholly
on pure intelligence.
This sort of thing is stimulating. Can
you advise me how to attune myself to
the “mind” of William Shakspeare or
preferably—in view of the high cost of
iving—to that of Northcliffe?
J. D. CORBETT.
Who Killed the Princes?
In Daughter of Time (Peter Davies)
Josephine Tey has given her sleuth,
Detective-Inspector Alan Grant of Scot-
land Yard, an historical mystery to solve
while he is in hospital after falling
through a trapdoor in the course of duty.
With the help of history-books brought
to him by his nurses and a beautiful
actress of his acquaintance. D.-I. Grant
investigates the mystery of Richard 111
and the Little Princes in the Tower.
Miss Tey does a fair job of dissolving
fairy-tale and calculated lie, going from
children’s histories brought by the nurses
to ponderous histories from the libraries ;
and the reader is with her all the way
until page 210, when the young American
researcher comes in very glum to
announce that the great discoveries and
deductions they have been making about
the innocence of Richard 111 have been
known for hundreds of years. So far
so good. The young man refers to the
researches of Buck, Walpole and Mark-
ham in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries
respectively. But the detective asks;
“And who in the twentieth?”
“No one that 1 know of,” says the young
American.
Now, this is a very terrible thing,
because the Australian, Philip Lindsay,
wrote a book on the matter in 1933:
King Richard, A Chronicle; and again,
in 1936, in his Kings of Merry England,
we find him crying loudly with dismay
because the legend of wicked Richard
and the little princes is still being taught
in the schools. Moreover, he condenses
in a paragraph the solution at which
Miss Tey arrives. Richard’s older brother
was a bigamist; the Princes were there-
fore illegitimate, and could not succeed ;
therefore Richard had to succeed. The
man who had most to fear from the little
princes was Richard’s successor, Henry
VII. Says Philip Lindsay:
Henry VII married the daughter of
Edward IV, hoping to make his claim
stronger, and as he declared Elizabeth
legitimate, he automatically declared her
brothers legitimate, and therefore they
should have taken the crown before him.
Obviously, Henry VII, first of the
usurping Tudors, was the murderer.
ACK-ACK.
The long cold snout barks loudly:
You expect
A violent eruption out ahead.
Instead,
A lazy puff grows shapeless in the sky,
Just like a high
Elusive letter
Errant from a message smoked
Out of a native fire,
Or the huff
Of a black thought, suddenly visible.
The ears go blank, involuntary tsars
Spill from the eyes.
The gunner is a new recruit: he cries,
Yet at the same time.
Placid in the mind, waits for the shout:
"Target—the puff,”
And sights it, so the snout,
Steel, deadly, thin.
Again spits through the din.
Snaps “practice” at its own dark visible.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 139
Across.
I—Young pigeon lost blood but
quarrelled just the same. (9)
s— Defilement site for cricket
neglected by the flat. (5)
8— Capone’s duck as well. (4)
9 Getting back about the bloke
series of Wagnerian operas. (10)
*2—Formed a fraternity with Effie
reduced in rank. (9)
13— Had a session. (3)
1 4— Nelson, like the music, goes
, . round and round. (4)
* s— lntermittent description of a sen-
tence that is not a complete
expression until the very last
, _ word. (8)
4 9—Oboe wind from a creeper. (8)
" -2—A jumbled type and a port in
Samoa. (4)
—Study in the Conservatorium. (3)
—Any mast with any Augustus
when the wriggler has a Jamaican
export backing a savory vege-
_ table. (9)
" 7—When so kindly disposed, I stand
between the cleaner and the fur-
niture. (10)
k/* —’Warbled of blood in Gaul. (4)
—Rouse the state knowledge. (5)
* T—A row in the mess state o£
ground grain. (9)
Down.
1— Coolers upset and ran away when
pinched. (8)
2 Inverted dorsal feathers? (6-4)
3 Tippling barrister might be called
to this. (3)
4 Poles (40 of them) follow the
coppers for a man of mystery. (5)
5 Hairless subject for J. Horner’s
attentions? (7)
6 Surprising scores wag it. (4)
7 Ham to obtain a sheep over one.
(6)
10— I leave the entire French between.
(5)
11 — A way to cook undersized fish. (3)
13 —South Carolina to imitate a fabu-
lous cricketer for a villain. (10)
15 — A block of writing-paper. (3)
16 — Re crossing the Pyrenees. (3)
17 — Nothing about unrefined mineral.
(3)
18 — Applies the principles of physio-
therapy for a parent’s sooth-
sayers. (10)
20— Possible development if inex-
perienced lan takes part in a
rodeo turned out by a Univer-
sity. (7)
21— Plane smash in northern India. (5)
23 —Jersey on the alderman and a
European city. (6)
24 — Is thee collected in galleries? (3)
25 It fractures sleep between
Capone’s fingertip and shoulder.
(5)
26 Riverside place for an account. (4)
28 —45 inches. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 138.


This entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VTRTTE LIMITED
m.V. AGRICULTURAL REUIS
September
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1931
FROG-LEG SOUP FOR A SICK WOMAN
LED TO GREAT ELECTRICAL DISCOVERY
Mrs. Luigi Galvani’s favourite dish was frog-leg soup. She would eat this
when she couldn’t touch anything else ... so when she got sick, one day in
1786, her husband set about preparing this dish for her.
7 * *
LUIGI GALVANI, Professor of Ana-
tomy at Bologna University, was an
expert at making frog-leg soup . . . but
not a very well-organised cook. With
his wife in bed, out of seeing range, he
took the frogs to his laboratory, and
began to prepare them there.
Galvani went to a table alongside an
electrified plate on which one of his
associates was experimenting. Some-
how Galvani’s knife made contact with
the plate. As soon as it touched the
dead frog the slight shock made the leg-
muscles convulse . . . and it began to
kick and buck.
Galvani did not realise what had hap-
pened for a moment. Then he repeated
his movements, and the frog kicked
again. Galvani was elated! He thought
he had discovered the vital power that
causes life.
After several more attempts Galvani
told of his discovery. It was given wide
publicity, and attracted another Italian,
Alexander Volta, who began to investi-
gate the claim. Volta soon proved Gal-
vani wrong ... but in doing so discovered
the first practicable way of making elec-
tricity.
Volta made what is now known as a
Voltaic Pile, using silver coins, zinc
discs, and pieces of salt-water soaked
cardboard arranged alternately in a pile.
When he connected the ends of the pile
an electric current was produced.
This was the first step in the develop-
ment of modern electricity. Prom then
on discovery followed discovery in rapid
succession.
&
C f
a
N-6
• In 1831 Faraday made a genera -
tor that looked something like
this. It was the first of its kind
. . . and really took an effort
to operate .
Power Plants
For the Country
• Here’s a testing bench at Mo f fat-Virtue’s Rosebery , N.S.W. factory.
This is where the M.V. Light and Power Plants undergo a final
rigorous test before being checked out as perfect .
In 1809 Sir Humphrey Davey, using a
Voltaic Pile and two pieces of carbon
produced an effective arc light. In 1831
Michael Faraday made the first genera-
tor; and later still Edison evolved the
electric light as we know it today.
ELECTRICITY 1951
Just 165 years ago Galvani set in
motion a series of discoveries that revo-
lutionised the world. Today modern
scientists are applying electric power to
thousands of jobs . . , from driving jet-
bombers to illuminating neon signs.
In the home electricity has really
proved its worth. Lighting a room by
flicking a switch . . . cleaning a floor by
effortlessly rubbing a light-weight nozzle
over it . . . can only be done because
electricity is there to provide the power.
NEGLECTED RURAL AREAS
In many parts of Australia it is un-
economical to lay power lines. For many
years country people had to do without
electricity.
Engineers at Moffat-Virtue Ltd. ap-
plied themselves to the problem, and de-
veloped small 32, 50 and 110 Volt Light
and Power Plants, which could supply
every farmer with his own, independent
source of power.
This opened the door to new comforts
for the man on the land. Today there
is no more need for a woman to slave
over the wash-board, rubbing dirty
working clothes. She can have a wash-
ing machine, just like her city cousin.
Vacuum Cleaners, Pans, Irons, Toast-
ers, Kitchen Mixers, and many other
electrical appliances can all be run from
Moffat-Virtue Light and Power Plants.
Workshop tools can be fitted with
electric motors making farm repair jobs
faster and easier.
M.V, PLANTS PROVE THEMSELVES
On thousands of Australian country
properties Moffat-Virtue Light and
Power Plants are producing a strong
steady supply of electricity ... bringing
ail the comforts of city life.
The cost of producing power is
cheaper than that supplied by many
Australian bulk producers.
® The engines used in M.V. Light and
Power Plants range in sizes from the
2\ h.p. M.V. Petrol Engine in the 750
Watt 82 Volt Plant, to the 8 h.p. M.V.
Diesel in the 4 Kilowatt 110 Volt Plant.
« These engines can be adapted for
use with other farm equipment. They
are rugged and simple . . . designed to
run economically and smoothly for
years.
• Generators have been especially de-
signed for cool, trouble-free running un-
der all conditions.
• The Plants are assembled on rigid
steel bases, and fitted with efficient, ad-
justable vee-belt drives. Instruments are
mounted on separate switchboard.
• Full particulars of all Moffat-Virtuej
Light and Power Plants can be obtained
from any of the Distributors listed a'
the bottom of this page.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manufacturers,
Machinery Merchants, Epsom Road, Rose-
bery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
' Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & &
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co, Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
