

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3735
Wednesday, September 12, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HADRIAN’S MIGHTY WALL STILL PRESERVES HIS MEMORY
HADRIAN’S WALL, built over eighteen hundred years ago, remains today
one of the most remarkable engineering enterprises ia Britain. For seventy
miles across the whole width of England, from Wallsend-on-Tyne to the
Solway Firth, stretches the great frontier wall built by the Roman Emperor
Hadrian as the northern boundary of the Roman Empire. Where possible, it
marches as straight as a Roman road, but where there is a hill the wall climbs
over it, thereby commanding all the high ground between Newcastle and
Carlisle, and is a lasting monument to Roman military skill and industry.
The wall is built of stone, some six to eight feet thick, with a broad,
deep ditch on the northern side. On the southern side, running parallel to
the wall throughout its length, was a military road and a continuous line of
excavations with earth mounds, known as the vallum, the meaning of which
is obscure. Originally the wall was approximately fourteen feet high,
strengthened at, regular intervals with towers, forts, ramparts, storehouses and
barracks.
Erosion throughout the centuries has obscured some sections of the wall,
but at Housesteads, in Northumberland, where excavations have taken place,
the wall is today some six feet in height, stretching for twenty-five miles.
Hadrian’s Wall, built in the year 122, replaced an earlier frontier wall
erected by Julius Agricola forty years earlier, between the Clyde and the
Forth. This earlier line of forts is still traceable at Caneton and Bar Hill.
The Romans left early in the fifth century, when Britain was finally
cut off from the Roman Empire by the Teutonic conquest of Gaul and the
coming of the Jutes, Angles and Saxons.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


ŵ
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- —CUT HERE AND MAIL
fo STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.251) Age
The Red Page
FLOWERS AND SEA-LIONS.
South of Stewart Island, which is far
enough south to discourage anything
except oysters and mutton-birds. New
Zealand owns the Auckland Islands and,
near by, Campbell Island. Those who
have read Will Lawson’s romance The
Lady of the Heather will know some-
thing of Campbell Island, where his
exiled Scottish princess was supposed to
have been marooned; but for most
readers these remote specks of land on
the fringe Of the Antarctic are unknown
territory.
World War II took J. H. Sorensen
down there, presumably to watch for
raiders or invading Japanese, . and in
Wild Life in the Suhantarctic (Whitcombe
and Tombs) he has written a delightful
little book about the area: the New
Zealand authorities having adopted the
extremely sensible course of sending,
with the three-man or five-man parties
who were relieved only once a year, a
coast-watcher who was also a field
naturalist and scientific observer and who,
apparently with great content, spent a
total of five years on Campbell Island.
Mr. Sorensen found no trace of Will
Lawson’s heroine, not even a recognis-
able grave—“and fiction, however de-
lightful to read, can have no place with
even the amateur historian.” Still, in a
chapter on other islands of the far south,
he mentions Emerald Island, reported by
the ship Emerald in 1821 as “an island,
very high with peaked mountains,” which
nobody since has ever been able to find ;
and he might have made some amends
for his disrespect to the princess by
referring to the admirable ballad Will
Lawson wrote about Emerald Island in
his BUT the Whaler series, turning it into
a kind of sailors’ paradise.
However, except for a brief reference,
Mr. Sorensen is not concerned with Will
Lawson, but with sea-lions. And if you
would expect to read about sea-lions in
a book about the far-south you would
hardly expect to find them rambling
through rich and flowery landscapes like
this;
A visit to Adams Island, separated from
the main Auckland Island by the turbulent
Carnley Harbor, gave me the chance to see
what the original plants and animals looked
like, for on this island neither cattle, sheep,
pigs, goats, cats, rabbits nor rats have
managed to gain a footing Acres of
glossy green-leaved Chrysobactron (Bui-
hinella) with golden flower-heads reaching
2ft. in height, great clumps of mauve-
colored Anisotome and three magnificent
species of Pleurophylhim, made an unfor-
gettable sight.... One of these had leaves
that when expanded measured 3ft. across,
and had eight flower-spikes in full bloom,
with another developing. Each spike had
from 25 to 30 aster-like flowers colored
from mauve to lilac. Through this almost
tropical verdure huge sea-lions staggered
drunkenly along, disturbing dozens of
brilliant green parakeets and dainty little
Auckland Island snipe At the higher
altitudes the hillsides were starred with
hundreds of sitting albatrosses.
However, it is not in the nature of
things for any place on earth to be
wholly paradisal; and whatever the sea-
lions may smell like, the sea-elephants on
Campbell Island smell “something
awful.” The animals lie about in peaty
soil for six weeks while shedding their
coats, in almost incessant rain, and no
one —except Frank Hurley, who, if one
remembers rightly, fell into a whale’s
carcass when he was south with
Shackleton —has tasted the full flavor
of Antarctic experience until he has fallen
into a sea-elephant’s wallow; which
the Campbell Island coast-watchers
frequently did “to the great delight of
the other members of the party.” The
sea-elephant pups also used to fall into
these wallows, and had to be rescued by
the coast-watchers, who, at the same
time, had to fight off the outraged sea-
elephant parents with an oar or a long
stick.
The whole of Mr. Sorensen’s book has
this down-to-earth quality of direct and
amused observation, with a feeling for
the poetry of nature underlying it. Skin-
ning rabbits, he watches one of the
voracious skua-gulls devour five of the
heads in quick succession, “ears, fur,
bones and all” ; and he notes that skuas
usually lay two eggs, but eat one of their
offspring as soon as it is hatched. He is
impressive on the ability of a sitting
petrel, when a bird-watcher approaches,
to “eject a quantity of evil-smelling oil
with skill and precision.” And then, for
contrast, there is a charming account of
the courtship of albatrosses (which,
incidentally, are afterwards obliged to
sit on their eggs for 11 weeks); and, in
one of Mr. Sorensen’s very infrequent
excursions from the material directly
under his own eyes, there is the strange
story of one of the Antarctic molly-
raawks which somehow strayed to the
Faroes Islands, on the other side of the
world between the Shetland* and Iceland,
and became locally known as “the King
of the Gannets.” Eventually, after being
observed consorting with its flock of
gannets about the region for 34 years,
it was shot and is now preserved in the
museum at Copenhagen.
Near the end of the book Mr. Sorensen
has the disappointing information that—
as well as there being no Scottish
princess’s tomb—there is practically no
fishing at the Campbells: a species of
cod is infested with parasitic worms, and,
except when they could occasionally steal
a flounder from a sea-lion while it was
playfully tossing its victim in the air, the
coast-watchers, like so many soldiers
elsewhere, ate “goldfish” out of tins.
But 2,500,000 rockhopper penguins—
the estimated size of the Campbell Island
colony: “I felt like Gulliver in Lilliput”
—are a considerable compensation for
the absence of fish ; and there are “rafts”
of shags, 50 or more floating together
like a small island on the water; and
goats, rabbits, wild pigs—these were
mostly introduced as food for sealers or
castaways —and some unexpected bird-
inhabitants, not only the silver-eyes and
blackbirds which have wandered across
from New Zealand, blit a couple of spur-
winged plover and a swamp-hen which,
for a reason best known to themselves,
appear to have emigrated to the Camp-
bells from Australia.
The only complaint to be made against
this admirable little book is that there
is not more of it. Mr. Sorensen was wise
to restrict it to what he observed himself,
instead of padding it out from earlier
narratives and encyclopaedias as so many'
Australian travellers and naturalists do,
but he might at least have told a little
more about the sheep station which was
established in the Campbells in 1896,
carried a flock of 8000 in 1907 and was
abandoned in 1927, “several thousand
sheep being left behind.” There are now
about 2000 sheep on the island, he says,
“still recognisable as a Merino-Romney
cross; long-tailed, of course, and carry-
ing up to four fleeces or the remnants
thereof.” The lambing percentage has
dropped to about 30, so anybody think-
ing of going shearing to Campbell Island
had better not wait too long L
Six Convicts.
America excels in producing books of
fact, whose greatness is more of energy
and thoroughness than of literary excel-
lence ; one is n.ever tired to trying to get
new readers for The Autobiography of
Lincoln Steffens, or Al Capone: The
Biography of a Self-Made Man.
Steffens was a financial journalist and
magazine muck-raker; the Capone
biography was done by Fred Pasley, a
Chicago journalist—and if a novelist or
dramatist wished in 100 years’ time to
revive America’s early years of this
century in art, then those two books
would be indispensable. And to them,
one would now, tentatively, add a third:
My Six Convicts, by Donald Powell
Wilson (Hamish Hamilton), a professor
of psychology:
I was a professor of psychology when I
reported for duty at Fort Leavenworth
Penitentiary one day in the early ’thirties.
I was a psychology professor when I left
the penitentiary three years later, but not
the same. Not at all the same.
Dr. Wilson was there “to conduct a
unit of research in the relationship be-
tween drug addiction and criminality,”
but although he has several chapters on
this subject, and on old and new methods
of treating criminals, his main subject is
prison life as he experienced it, and par-
ticularly the six convicts who were
assigned to him as office staff.
“Connie” was a sideshow spruiker, and
also a second-story man. Not very high
up in either profession, he had an almost
Presidential ascendancy in the prison.
When the strong-room door of a bank
jammed, “Connie” was let out to fix it,
but only after he had made a bargain
with the warden that he should have a
free day in town—the accounts of how
“Connie” fixed the door and of his free
day in town are his best contribution to
the book.
“Punch” was a young Italian in the
big-time vice rackets; his big moment
came when, almost at the end of Dr.
Wilson’s three years, he threatened, in a
fit of pique, to destroy the tabulations
which had taken all that time to produce.
“Scott” was a southerner of some
class who had taken a dope-running rap
for a girl-friend.
“Ross” was a brilliant engineer, never
at a loss for employment, which gener-
ally ended with his forging cheques to
pay for drugs.
“Gibbs” was a carpenter whose side-
line was what he called “inter-State
commerce”—transporting stolen cars
across State lines.
“King” was the most interesting exhibit
of all—a hotel bellhop, aged about 30,
whose hobby was counterfeiting. He was
fastidious and rich. He had estates and
a fine suite in a big New York hotel. He
liked being a bellhop, and always
returned to it; but the profession had
left him with a great contempt for
women. Wherefore, he desired an idea)
woman ; she must be young, flawless and
of good family. One, who deceived him
by representing that she was of good
family when she was not, he strapped to
a bed and mutilated. At the time he was
in prison, an exquisitely beautiful young
girl was waiting in his hotel suite for him
to come out. She belonged to him, but
he had never asked anything of her other
than that she should pose nude for the
delicate drawings he was always doing of
her.
“Davis” was a laboratory assistant.
His sideline was sadism and murder.
“Davis” did not stay the course with Dr.
Wilson; he just failed to murder a
woman scientist who took him on, against
all advice, as laboratory assistant; cut
off the heads of all the rats and guinea-
pigs in the laboratory and then killed
himself. To emphasise their approval of
his fate, the convicts, with whom the
woman scientist was very popular, secretly
bashed his corpse out of recognition.
But for the rest of his convict staff. Dr.
Wilson had hope, respect and even
admiration. Cautiously taking up their
positions, they investigated him. It was
most, necessary, if prisoners were to tell
him all, that they should know he was
not a stool-pigeon. They put micro-
phones under his desk, They had their
friends outside search his home and his
garage for concealed notes of his prison
doings. They knew his bank balances.
When he gently suggested that they should
allow him at* least one drawer in his
prison office where he could put private
documents, they gave him two cardboard
boxes. Since there was no lock they could
not open, the cardboard boxes, on the
convicts’ assurance, were the best secrecy
he could get I —and he never had any
reason to doubt their assurance.
Once they were sure of him, they
trusted him absolutely. That is why, 20
years later, and no doubt with some
repressions and careful selections, he is
able to say so much about the happenings
behind the happenings in the prison; the
occasional wild parties on raw wood-
alcohol ; the times when, in a narrow
box built under a prison truck, they
transported prostitutes (they had to find
little ones to fit the box) into the prison,
until a runaway truck ran on to steel
piles and transfixed one of the girls ; the
prison break, when his convict staff got
Dr. Wilson, whose regular habits had
marked him down as the best man to
be pushed towards the gates and guns in
front of the rioters, out of the way, so
that another prison scientist was shot in
his stead; and especially the visit
the reticent “King” asked him to
make to “Marion” while he was
in New York, where he got the curious
facts about “King’s” strange life which
“King” would not tell him himself; and,
again, the visit he was asked to make as
“Connie’s” trusted doctor, to “Connie’s”
girl-friend, dying of tuberculosis in a part
of the city where reputable doctors would
not go—at every turn of the way, met and
guided by respectful tough guys, friends
of “Connie’s.”
Once they had decided that Dr. Wilson
was a regular guy, the convicts gave him
their best efforts in the office. They dis-
covered the dictionary in an attempt to
keep track of his scientific terms, and in
a short time their cursing took on a
learned tone, as they discovered the scien-
tific terms for the four-letter words with-
out which no prison sentence was com-
plete. “Punch” discovered the application
of certain mathematical formulas to
racing. They all read-up on the various
T.Q. tests, and became expert in them.
It is not surprising, when we see how Dr.
Wilson handled them, that they con-
tracted a real affection for him. A few
days before he was due to leave, he found
m his garage a fine new sedan of the kind
he liked best-with the numbers filed off.
He had some trouble crying off that.
, As Dr. Wilson points out, few men in
the prison were really big-time crooks;
otherwise they would not have been in
prison. An invocation of idealist ethics
once moved these simple souls to mirth;
a prison captain, an honest, simple man
who was extraordinarily popular with the
convicts, missed his watch one morning,
and walked out of his office and
announced dramatically to his convict
staff: “Men, there’s a thief in this office.”
The men burst into hilarious laughter,
surrounded him, clapped him on the back,
and almost chaired him back to his desk’
And he got his watch back—it had been
taken by someone who didn’t quite under-
stand.
R. McC.
More Mercier.
In the drawing in which one be-
draggled old damsel of Redfern, looking
at a billboard advertising pills, says to
another, “Even though the evocative
lyricism may at times become over-
tenuous, it nevertheless achieves an
aesthetically integrated euphony,” Emile
Mercier neatly links the most rarefied
strata of Sydney’s intelligentsia with the
battered levels of the slums; and the
second collection of his cartoons reprinted
from the "Sun,” Sauce Or Mustard?
(Angus and Robertson), richly and
roundly surveys most of the world that
rotates between those poles.
There is the horse eight miles from
Randwick and still bolting madly above
the caption, “Dear oh dear! 1 do wish
certain trainers wouldn’t resort to the
administering of stimulants.” There are
the two fish contemplating a baited hook
while one observes to the other, “Struth!
With prawns at the price they are we must
be off Palm Beach.” There is the M.P.
orating to totally empty benches, “And
I say. this without fear of contradic-
tion . . , ” There is the small boy seeing
Santa Claus’s coat and whiskers hung
up in a back room of the department-
store—--“Blimey! They’ve skinned him!”
And there are Mercier’s inimitable dead-
beats furiously discussing politics among
empty gravy-tins in vacant allotments.
You get the up-to-the-minute com-
mentary on Sydney life, none of which
is more telling than the picture of the
roadside stall, 40 miles from Sydney,
which sells “Fresh Farm Produce;
Straight From Our City Depot” ; but
Mercier is a good deal more than a
bright topical commentator. Like Lennie
Lower, like “Mo” and like those excel-
lent Continental clowns Wirth’s Circus
had a few years ago, he has a Rabelaisian
delight in the whole spectacle of life and,
sometimes, when his crazy ancient walks
by on stilts of disappears round a corner
in a three-wheeled motor-car invented
before the Flood, there is a touch of pure
comic genius.
Various explanations have been put
forward to account for his humor,
notably that he is of French descent; but
really there is no need to go beyond the
theory very intelligently (and propheti-
cally) worked out by Shakspeare some
three centuries ago:
The quality of Mercier is not strain’d.
Reviewed Briefly.
A Wreath and a Curse : Donald Wetzel
(Seeker and Warburg). This unusual
American novelette is something of a
parable; the river is creeping year by
year nearer to the old house ; Mother
trusts in Providence; Father believes the
Guvverment should be doing something
about it ; brother-in-law Harry concen-
trates oil electrifying the fence to kill a
neighbor’s straying chickens; only the
two younger boys, one a cripple, make a
raft and float stones into position in an
attempt to make a wall that will hold
the river when it floods. They make the
wall ; it holds for a while, and then
cracks, and in the next rains the house
goes. All the family is saved except little
Willie, who made the wall. It is finely
written, and the pathetic earnestness of
the child in little Willie is beautifully
drawn.
■it * « *
The 4th Funeral: Charles L. Leonard
(Museum Press). Mr. Leonard’s detective,
Kilgerrin, gets about in unusual places,
and half the attraction of his books is
the authenticity of the settings: this one
is set in Belem, Brazil, on the Amazon
delta ; where a faceless monster frightens
the wife of a missionary; an old
Englishwoman is poisoned ; the father of
a girl who killed herself dies; the blind
doctor-husband of a French doctor-wife
is found with his brains blown out, etc.


■
i
n
111*11*
Mwi
liiiiii
.
nil
M
Hi
lUi
lilisiii
3K'-' ''o'-' - - I
iliillil
X*XX;
■ v..
- ;’ .
.-A. ;
A:
■
§»*S
j
i
.v : ; V ISI
■■ ; -'KU : s
:
iiliiii
I :
m
m
■■
H
X '
N ' -, - - '
* *>v ■ - iPi h
i m
ifte
: X f
l
: v
HI i
W \:
% m
KSW;
’H
,||ilililil|lli
-
xx-xx
K
■-
;#2
: " x
■
m
a
x I
Miilil™
XxXXXX'X | M
H
SO' ■<. X. <-' > <X? V N X
• • ' ‘'-'* r V,' I
-•■ .i.-.~.™~*-- —~
sPS
a
m
SS
*
u
*
.
■
■
m
Ij;
- #
ii
a
a
iilii
IIMBi
i* ' *., .' , -
X ;.
i
- :
m
mgm
! i
I
&
mm
m
i
x ;
m!m®m
I■■■
1 ■ ■
?X;4x;l .
'-■'<"* *1
'
; X
* ' -
L. - Jr»
* ‘ - »r :
.
.: - :
! x:«x:, W£BS£« ■
xXxX X X X,X
RSxX X s**•'
-
111111
: •
■
flight. Attractive solid hide Suitcase,
cloth lined with pocket in lid. Strong
steel frame and two English safety locks
in colours London Tan, Brown or Black.
24in.£10/5/-,26in. £ll/2/-, 28in. £ll/19/3
Bag in hand. Designed in shape to ensure
true carrying comfort, this bag is made
from top grain cowhide. Strong steel
frame, reliable slide fastener. Colours in
Fawn, Brown, Blue, Tan or Black.
18in. size, £7/16/-. Light or Dark
Crocodile Grain priced at £B/2/6
Left. Genuine cowhide Weekend Case,
with turnover edge, English locks, strong
steel frame and cloth lined in London
Tan, Brown. 20in. £6/13/6, 22in. £7/7/
Centre. A leather Cabin Case with extra
depth and width in genuine cowhide with
two strong supporting straps and English
locks. Sizes 26in„ £l3/1/6; size 28in.,
£l2/17/3; and 30in., size, £l4/15/9
Equip yourself with Travel Qoods of »• »
Modern lines, space tor everything
Incomparably fashioned of rich leather, painstakingly crafted to
gleaming lustrous beauty, you’ll find these pieces will go natmally
with fine clothes . . . beautiful furnishings . . . and good Thing.
Shoulder Carryall Bag. Gay Tartan colourings. Price, £3/10/-,
Leather Hat Box, matching in quality and design this case is square shaped with
cloth lining and pocket in lid. Size 18in. Priced at £9.
Beautiful Australian-made “Onkaparinga” Travelling Rug. Merino wool reversible
in colours of Fawn, Tan, Brown, Blue, Green or Maroon tonings.
Large size 84in. x 60in. Priced at £lO/17/-.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
w
ŵ
m
m
.
m
,:S
-
m
S
//
n
mm
%
0m
mm
J&h.
,
& - «
P*
• x > -
■
I
TRAVEL WEAK—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. ’PHONE M 2401
DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


<r -
i'-M
w| ' | >
,- ■■';•■
m ) »
W" . mm.
■ : -:
, :•■>
i ■■%
I)
i
c
*
m
m
m
m
m:<
mm
454:
f
InJ
\
V
: m
Thc P"« Of •
dan ever * tl,at ,ts more
■» make surc
thc best when y ° U §Cr
buy woo/ ,
' °° Worsteds
50 lnslsr on VJC Ms ,
,•••** •-«» h- -i.- %..Kdf JJ-- is- 1 *- VV. V-V
F, *v# *. •. Tfi, *' ■ A. V **r V
• ■•—!•: s# ■‘■■.s 4» •? •V. S, a* 1
yeJ*f **■■■■■*'
■S'
V V:
e
i“ -• ,v‘
3^ s
o
JOHN VICARS & CO. LIMITED, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
5365


The Bulletin
Vol. 72 —No. 3735
Wednesday, September 12, 1951
w
ŵ
UNDER WHICH FLAG?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE "NO" TWINS.
There could be little new in the Prime
Minister’s speech opening the “Yes”
campaign on the Communist referendum
which is to be voted on on September
22. The whole matter has been
thrashed to shreds over the past two
years, so that electors must already be
satisfied, and become more convinced
every day, that some extra powers to
deal with the Communist party are
needed.
Indeed, if no word at all had been
said by the party leaders the organised
Communist demonstration at Mr.
Menzies’s meeting, in the heart of a
constituency notably non-Communist,
should have been enough to decide the
issue. That menacing, animal-like snarl
rising to a pitch of fury at intervals in
an attempt to stifle the free speech which
the Communists say they are fighting for
should have been enough to convince
any radio listener that the country is
face to face with what Mr. Menzies
himself called “a dangerous internal
f0e.... a highly - organised, disciplined
and conspiratorial group of enemy
agents,” who, if they have their chance,
will destroy all opposition ruthlessly.
There was a vicious note about the
demonstration completely foreign to the
Australian tradition.
It is no wonder that a lot of “Labor’s”
so-called leaders are dumb or nearly
dumb in the cause which they have been
ordered by the A.L.P. bosses to espouse
—men like Mr. Arthur Calwell and Mr.
Rosevear, usually so vociferous but now
apparently treading-water until the storm
abates.
Mr. Menzies emphasised that the
powers asked for under the referendum
were defence powers designed to deal with
an enemy agency—one which is
masquerading under the cloak of a so-
called legitimate political party, sheltering
within and sheltered by the “Labor”
movement, and claiming immunity from
suppression on the grounds of its leader-
ship of trade-unions and of its “demo-
cratic rights” of freedom of speech and
action, a curious claim from a body
which owes allegiance primarily to
Soviet Russia, where there are no trade-
unions in the Australian sense, and the
only “democratic rights” belong to a little
junta of tyrants.
It was striking that Mr. Menzies was
able to deal with the arguments of the
“No” case without separating those
advanced by the Communist party —the
criminal conspiracy with which the
amendments to the Constitution which
he is seeking are designed to deal —from
those of the Australian “Labor” party,
because the cases put forward by the
interested parties on the “No” side are
distinguished only by the relative violence
of their dictions.
As Mr. Menzies said. Dr. Evatt’s
strongest argument is that the new bill,
which it is proposed to pass when powers
are given by the electors, will “oust the
jurisdiction of the High Court.” And so
says the Communist party, which is parti-
cularly alarmed about this fact, though
it has always held and said with great
violence that the court is a part of the
capitalist machinery for suppressing the
toiling masses.
Indeed, in the very pamphlet in which
the Communist party accuses the Gov-
ernment of attempting to get powers “to
confiscate, regiment, conscript, sentence
and punish —by anything up to death—
without citizens having the right to appeal
to the High Court” along with a lot of
other malicious and brazenly lying
rubbish, it prints its programme for tak-
ing over the country under a “people’s
Government” exactly similar to that
which transformed Czechoslovakia into
a Communist State. One item in that
programme promises that “the machinery
of the State will be transformed and the
agents of Collins House in positions of
authority in the civil service, police.
judiciary and the armed forces replaced
by determined and loyal supporters of
the people’s power”—in other words, by
Communists who “will restore Australia’s
independence.” And all this occurs on
the same page, also, as the party’s quota-
tion from Dr. Evatt’s justification of his
stand in the High Court on July 10:
It was proposed that Parliament’s
opinion as to the necessity or expediency
of the law, from the viewpoint of defence
or security, should be unchallengeable in
the High Court It was a transparent
attempt to circumvent the High Court as
the interpreter of the Constitution.
Nothing of the kind was proposed, of
course, beyond the normal practice of
democratic government, and it is a
remarkable interpretation, especially from
an experienced Minister of the Crown,
who knows exactly how much more a
Government knows about the dangers to
security than any Bench of judges, and
who knows also that it is the Govern-
ment’s duty to act instantly in time of
danger.
Dr. Evatt himself and his colleagues
had no qualms in that respect when they
were in office. They had no feelings
then about the rights of individuals whom
they professed to think dangerous or
about the “constitutional liberties” and
access to the courts for which they are
now fighting on behalf of the Communist
party. Now the same voices are for full
freedom for the Communist party, which
Dr. Evatt himself declared, when he was
obliged to take legislative action to
prevent them from sabotaging the rocket
range, to be acting “for the sole purpose
of defeating the Australian defence policy
in the interests of a foreign Power.”
It is strange to hear out of the mouth
of the man who said that, and who poses
as an arch-exponent of British and Aus-
tralian methods of responsible govern-
ment, the plea that the High Court, not
elected by the people and not qualified
by its own information, should be the final
authority in deciding a course of action
when a situation of danger to the country
exists. It is tantamount to handing over
government in the most vital matters
with which any Government or Parlia-
ment can be charged.
The second important count of the
joint referendum case of the “Labor”-
Communist advocates which was dealt
with by Mr. Menzies was the charge that
the Government was proposing to “grab
power to control all industries and busi-
nesses by regulation.” Mr. Menzies de-
scribed this as “pure or impure fiction.”
So far as the Communist party is con-
cerned its claims are undoubtedly on the
impure side, for it quotes the actual
section which it alleges to be the
machinery of oppression;
5 la. The Parliament shall have power
to make laws for the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth with re-
spect to Communists or Communism as the
Parliament considers to be necessary or
expedient for the defence or security of
the Commonwealth or for the execution
or maintenance of this Constitution or the
laws of the Commonwealth.
That, the Communists interpret as
power to “close factories and shops, con-
fiscate goods, properties or industries,
conscript both workers and employers for
forced labor or for overseas wars..,.
decided by whim or prejudice of Can-
berra dictators ruling without Parliament
or by martial law.” In support they
quote Senator McKenna, a lawyer who
has no more excuse than Dr. Evatt,
an ex-Attorney-General, for misunder-
standing the purport of an Act of
Parliament as saying: “The next logical
step will be to establish a Belsen horror
camp,” and the “Labor” party as saying
in its official plea for a “No” vote that
under the present proposals “trade-
unions, Opposition parties and many
other political, social or religious groups
can be suppressed and their property
seized without compensation.” The
identity of view expressed again struck
Mr. Menzies, as also in other points, in-
cluding “the clever Communist tech-
nique” of saying that a move against the
Communists was a move against the
trade-unions, a stand which “Labor”
astonishingly supports.
But on this last the Prime Minister’s
summary of the situation was incom-
plete. It is not based so much on a
“clever technique” as on astounding facts
which explain the striking collaboration
between political “Labor” (which pro-
fesses to view Communism with abhor-
rence as a treasonable conspiracy—
though one which should have complete
freedom of action to conspire so long as
it can cover up its crimes!) and the Com-
munism which it “abhors.” A reference to
the conference of the A.C.T.U. which was
sitting the day Mr. Menzies delivered his
speech explains the position. There
were displayed Mr. J. A. Ferguson, presi-
dent of the A.L.P., and Mr. R. A. King,
an A.L.P. trustee —ex-Communist officials
both —mingling and debating in the same
assembly with notorious Communists,
sometimes joining with them in framing
policy and accepting a unity with them
as part of the controlling body of in-
dustrial “Labor,” which, in turn, claims
to control the policy of political “Labor.”
There was the spectacle of the high
bench of political “Labor” controllers
defeated by a Communist-led bloc in
their efforts to maintain trade-union
movement support of compulsory training.
And there was also the spectacle of
resolutions most damaging to our safety
emanating from members of the Central
Committee or from unions controlled by
them, which are also integral parts of
the N. S. Wales A.L.P. —the Watersiders,
for example, represented by Mr. Healy,
one of the most notorious Communists
in the country.
That spectacle in itself should be
enough to prove how far the treasonable
canker of Communism has eaten into the
very fabric of the country and its industry
and to ensure a “Yes” vote from every
sensible man and woman.
Socialist Shipwreck.
The “great experiment” of socialisation
in Britain is running straight for the
rocks. That is now admitted by the Attlee
Government’s Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, speaking to the Trade Union
Congress and in face of two develop-
ments which would ordinarily call for
disguising the catastrophe at all costs.
One of these is the Government’s fight
for its life against the Bevanite rebellion
within the Socialist party. The other is
the imminence of a general election.
Before Parliament in London rose for
the summer recess the Conservative
Opposition’s “contest of attrition” died
down in a lull which clearly presaged a
storm at hand. Mr. Churchill and his
colleagues had said all there was to be
said about the decline of British prestige
abroad under a Socialist rule which eco-
nomically “had hit Britain harder than
Hitler,” and politically had “cost her her
rank among the nations.”
Countries we defended from Nazi violence
(said Churchill), countries we rescued
after they had been subjugated, countries
which found us strong and steady allies,
are watching with astonishment a Britain
which they think—and will think until we
prove them wrong—is in retreat or in de-
cline. Egypt, Persia, Albania, the Argentine
and Chile compete with each other in in-
sults and humiliations they inflict upon us.
But this sort of thing is not for con-
stant reiteration, and in its very restraint
the Opposition showed more sense of
responsibility for the nation’s foreign
policy than the “Labor” Government’s
own rebels. For the Government to have
rejected the rearmament obligation under
the Atlantic Treaty plans, as the Bevanites
demand, would be more than even the
Socialist Ministry, burnt out as its
leaders are, dare approve. The very pres-
sure on them to do so from within the
party, a challenge which will be fought
out next month at the annual “Labor”-
party conference, has made a general
election, in one Minister’s view, inevitable.
According to the Parliamentary secretary
to the Minister for Labor, speaking to his
constituents three weeks ago, “the Cabinet
is equally divided between October, 1951,
and June, 1952, as the election date.”
June, 1952, it may be observed, will see
the end of Marshall Aid, and to postpone
going to the country till then would
surely be to throw the last rags of politi-
cal decency to the winds. “My predic-
tion,” said this spiller of the beans, “is
that the elections will be held on October
25.”
It is in the light of this situation that
the Socialist Chancellor of the Exchequer
told the Trade-union Congress last week
that, in effect, the Socialist game is up
and that Britain faces insolvency. The
T.U.C. General Council had already, in
its report for the Congress, declared that
“the relative price-wage-dividend stability
of the last few years has broken down
and everything is in movement,” and that
“the present apparatus of price- and pro-
duction-controls and of profit and income
taxes is insufficient to prevent wage in-
creases from being fully offset by price
increases.” In other words, taxation for
payment of price subsidies has reached
its limit, and “it is not practicable” to
raise enough taxation to pay for higher
subsidies (now worth 12s. a week to the
average family). “Only a considerable
increase in production can avoid a fall in
standards of living.”
The party executive (on which the
Bevanites hold three seats out of seven)
followed with an official statement which
might have been written by Mr. Menzies
for the Australian public in our own
crisis;
We do not accept the view that war is
inevitable. But Korea shows that the
Soviet Government may take steps which
involve a risk of world war. It may be
ready to risk the consequences if it sees
prospects of snatching a local gain by
military aggression.
World peace will not be safe until the
free world has produced enough military
strength to deter Russia from such
aggression. Fortunately Britain does not
face the task alone. The potential strength
of the countries which want peace exceeds
all that of Soviet Russia. That potential
strength is a guarantee that our rearma-
ment can deter aggression. If we act now,
the cost of preventing war will be only a
fraction of what would be required to
win it.
On these notes the T.U.C. assembled,
and forthwith the chairman delivered an
address hotly attacking the Bevanites:
To try to convince our people that our
rearmament Is excessive is to play right
into the bands of Soviet propagandists. It
is a grave disservice to our people to carry
on a campaign within our movement which
can only weaken the defence effort by sug-
gesting that the rearmament of the Western
Powers stands in the way of negotiations
with the Soviet Union for an agreed settle-
ment of questions that block the path to
general world peace.
From these defensive gestures Chan-
cellor Gaitskell went straight to the offen-
sive against the Bevan stand of “social
security” before national security. His
points were:
Britain faces a potential threat to her
solvency. There is little extra cake to cut
and it is pledged to the rearmament pro-
gramme.
Increased revenue cannot be got from
increased taxation. High profits have not
been an important cause in the rise of
living costs. A more even distribution of
property would make very little improve-
ment in living standards.
There can be no further increase in food
and other subsidies. The cost of living
will continue to rise if there are further
rises in wages and salaries.
This is the representative of the late
Mr. Chifley’s “brother Socialist Govern-
ment” speaking after five years’ unfet-
tered use of every power of price-control
and other control, including nationalisa-
tion of essential industries, which the
Chifley Government desired and Dr.
Evatt still advocates as the cure for all
economic ills. In particular, Mr. Gait-
skell declared:
The sharp rise in prices is due to world
rearmament pushing up import prices,
and to a less extent to increases in wages
and salaries. Subsidies to hold the cost
of living would mean an extra £600,000,004)
a year on top of the present £400,000,000. It
cannot be done. [Australian equivalent of
£lOOO million stg. in price subsidies to “fix
prices” would be about £208,000,000 to be
raised by extra taxation on top of costs of
rearmament.]
I doubt if we can increase direct taxation
much further. Total profit income of com-
panies and public corporations rose faster
than wages up to 1947 [i.e., during the
war years], but after that there was a
more rapid increase in wage-earnings than
profits. By 1950 profits had gone up pro-
portionately as much as wages, but had
been so much more heavily taxed that,
since more was being re-invested, the in-
crease in dividends was very much less.
We cannot say that high profits have been
an important cause in the rise of the cost
of living.
The idea of avoiding any increase in
prices by cutting profits is attractive, BUT
IT CANNOT HAPPEN IN NATIONAL-
ISED INDUSTRIES. Nor would it be easy
in agriculture.
The Labor movement will have to think
hard in the next year or two to frame a
policy on property which would be popular,
effective and beneficial to industrial pro-
gress.
If those last few sentences do not ring
the death-knell of the socialisation policy,
if they do not admit that the whole “ex-
periment” has bankrupted the Socialist
party politically as well as the nation eco-
nomically, then there is no longer any
meaning in the tongue our peoples use.
These words are uttered by a senior
Socialist Minister to the entire “Labor”
electorate, at a time when his Govern-
ment is enfeebled from the effort of prop-
ping up a programme long since in
corruption, committed to a profligate
financial course permissible only by
American financial aid given for the sake
of what Britain lately was and not be-
cause of what these political fanatics were
trying to make of her, and now facing the
stone end of free hand-outs for every-
body, this being the Socialist interpre-
tation of the aspiration to universal
“Freedom from want and freedom from
care.”
When “the great experiment” started
Prime Minister Attlee’s close personal
adviser and public-relations officer wrote
a book about its emotional inspiration
and the difficulties it was likely to meet
in getting the rank-and-file of Socialists
themselves to play the game. “Socialist
experiments,” he wrote, “in Australia and
New Zealand, for example, are valuable
and interesting to watch. But they are
only on a laboratory scale.”
They cannot have the world significance
that the British experiment has.
stakes are not high enough. But in Britain
they are as high as they could conceivably
be. If the experiment succeeds, the re-
wards will be enormous in terms of human
well-being and national power. If it fails
the consequences may be measureless.
The stakes, every financial resource
Britain had, are just about spent. The
nation’s “human well-being” is what
Mr. Gaitskell says about it. The national
power is something that Persians and
Gyppos hold themselves free to spit at.
The crash came, appropriately enough,
over Left-wing insistence that the Gov-
ernment should pay the entire cost ot
every citizen’s false teeth as an ob } l
tion superior to ensuring the safety ot the
realm.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Peace: 1951 Model.
ẁ
ẃ
name for being the best and safest in
the world up till the Second World War
began, and doubtless the same could be
said today.
The first pilots to fly across the world,
across the Indian Ocean, and across the
Pacific were all Australians. Ross Smith,
Kingsford Smith, Hinkler, P. G. Taylor
—all names famous wherever air-
pioneering is remembered —laid by their
example the foundations of the Australian
aircraft-building industry as surely as
those of international air-routes.
The R.A.A.F. began the celebrations of
its jubilee flying week on Saturday with
a first-class display of jet-planes and heli-
copters at Bankstown, N.S.W. The jet-
bomber Canberra flew between Sydney
and Melbourne the other day in 47
minutes. A generation ago it took two
days to do the air journey from Mel-
bourne to Adelaide.
w
shark tragedies makes all sea bathers
aware of the danger. In this motoring
age the public will continue to die and
suffer injuries until it has acquired, or
been given, a consciousness of road
dangers. That is the aim of road-safety
work.
Meantime, the law can assist by mak-
ing the penalties for glaring traffic
breaches, including the “illegal use of
cars,” so stiff as to deter the most
reckless.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ore richly studded with gold, presented i
to him during her trials. He died as the |
result of wounds received in battle in |
the epic of the Philippines, while captain
of the scarred Australia.
Warramunga had a brilliant record in I
World War 11. Her story in the Korean
business throws a light on the fact (which |
a lot of people are being induced to i
forget) that sea-defence for far-flung |
lands like Australia is the very source
of continuing existence in time of war,
and the prime auxiliary to land action on
a large scale.
Air-power has made tremendous
strides, but it still cannot feed or main-
tain nations. It still cannot carry huge
forces and their munitions to defeat the
standing armies of great Powers. Cam-
paigns like that in Korea cannot be waged
across the sea without naval ships, and
when they serve, it is for 24 hours a day,
week in and week out and “with their
boots on.”
Warramunga in her 13 months’ absence
steamed over 70,000 miles. She estab-
lished a record for the greatest number
of miles by a British Commonwealth
ship in a month —8625, with her sister
Bataan second. Most of her work, as
with most of the ships of the U.N.O.
Fleet, was (as Captain Becher said) “plain
ocean flogging, dull usually but very
necessary to retain command of the
seas.”
Most of it, also, as for hundreds of
years of naval history, has been un-
noticed and unadvertised except at its
end with the customary shouts of greeting
from the wharf for returning “Dusties” or
“Nobbies,” and the equally customary
scene, so regularly touching to those who
witness it, when homing sailors forget
how hard-boiled they like to believe
themselves and are recorded as having
“jumped over the side and run
embrace their sweethearts and wives.”
The little Australian ships, of which
Murchison is already there (“doing very
well indeed”), in place of Bataan, have
a great record in Korean waters, to which
their larger sisters of the Battle-class,
Anzac and Tobruk, are steaming to take
over the day-and-night-long patrol of the
Army’s flanks.
ẅ
w
(Continued on next page.)
Donne and Dungarees.
Announcement of the appointment of
Mr. Wesley Milgate, M.A., to be Challis
Professor of English Literature at the
University of Sydney was accompanied
by the news that Professor Milgate has
been commissioned by the Clarendon
Press to prepare a critical edition of “a
large part of Donne’s works.”
Professor Milgate’s abilities must be
considerable in the field which, some 40
years ago, produced Grierson’s two mag-
nificent volumes, and from which every
important literary essayist since then has
harvested some crop or other, to counter-
balance in the eyes of the Clarendon
Press the disadvantage of his having to
work so far away from original sources.
But Professor Milgate apart, it is dis-
maying to think that year after year of
hard student work produces hundreds of
theses on fashionable and heavily-docu-
mented British authors, while practically
no work is done on Australian authors.
The Australian student should consider
which is more provincial: to want to cut
a dash along the well-trodden paths of
British learning, or to take off his coat
to the hard shovel-work of classifying and
valuing Australian literature. The field
is enormous; it is nearest; and there are
few places in it where a researcher may
not gain the glory of being a pioneer.
There are no satisfactory lives of
Paterson and Lawson ; Brennan’s works
are still in the urn unto us, and when
they come out of it it will not be because
of university scholarship: the compara-
tively few efforts to sort out our litera-
ture have been made as sidelines or by
outsiders.
The thesis-writer would be more profit-
ably occupied in tabulating facts or ex-
posing some phase of the writings of any
of a thousand Australian writers, from
Wentworth to Gellert and Slessor, than
in drawing conclusions about British men
of genius about whose works so much
has been


[For referendum matter requiring signature,
David Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is
responsible.]
i
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
nmk specially to
prevent soie thoak
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
w
which figures prominently in broadcast
programmes and also gives a number of
free concerts, would arouse a certain
amount of public resentment which might
turn the Government from its purpose.
First to enter the lists was the Lord
Mayor of Sydney, Alderman Ernie O’Dea,
who described the sacking as “economy
run mad.” Ernie’s City Council has an
arrangement with the A.B.C. for a
number of Sunday-afternoon free con-
certs in the Town Hall, so its support for
the retention of the band was no surprise.
Beyond that I read one letter in the
“Herald” urging that the band be retained
and another saying it should have been
got rid of long ago.
During my time at the A.B.C. the
sacking of the military band was urged
a number of times at programme con-
ferences as a ready means of cutting pro-
gramme costs without upsetting listeners;
but champions of the band always came
back with figures showing that it would
cost more to fill the gaps with even the
cheapest type of programme than to retain
the band, and the proposal was always
dropped.
The band never rated high in listener-
research returns, but neither do many
other programme features which cost more
in the aggregate. Listeners who like the
band argue that it provides good broad-
cast fare ; others won’t have it at any
price. But if the band goes the pro-
gramme gaps will have to be filled any-
way ; and unless this is done as far as
possible by broadcasting full concert per-
formances, the saving will be problem-
atical.
In my opinion the public would be
more interested in details of administra-
tive cuts among the commission’s “tall
poppies,” for which there appears to be
ample scope.
POLITICAL POINTS
According to Dr. Evatt, the referendum
is on whether the High Court should be
abolished ; according to Brother Clive,
it is on whether 80 million Japanese
ought to be allowed to live ; according
to Bishop Burgmann, it is on whether
the Pope should become dictator of A us-
tralia. Actually it is on whether the
Government shall have power, when
required, to deprive Communists of con-
trolling positions in key unions where
they can stop coal, shipping and every
vital service whenever Moscow orders it.
What the Communists are demanding,
and Dr. Evatt is supporting when he talks
about the forthcoming referendum and
the Atlantic Charter, is a fifth freedom —
to plan unmolested the overthrow of our
way of life.
“D.L.A.”; The “No” cry that the
powers to outlaw the Communists sought
in the referendum is “against British tra-
ditions of justice and fair play” and that
it would be “unthinkable” for any
British Government to enact similar
legislation is eyewash. Back in the 1930’5,
when Irish Republican Army outrages
occurred in England, the Westminster
Parliament passed a law enabling the
Home Secretary to expel from the coun-
try any person not born in England, Scot-
land or Wales, or not resident therein for
at least 20 years. And there was no right
of appeal.
They’re becoming “trigger-happy” at
“No” headquarters, A.L.P. section, presi-
dent Jacky Ferguson especially so. The
A.L.P. Richmond electoral council in
Victoria has refused to join the “No”
campaign, and congratulated Keen, M.P.,
and Scully, M.P., for their anti-Com-
munist attitude. Thereon at a meeting of
the North Richmond branch of the party
a motion of censure was moved against
the two “Labor” M.Ps. recommending
them to “join the Liberals.” The motion
was supported by only 15 out of a mem-
bership of several hundred, and an
attempt at a snap-vote failed. But Fer-
guson took it on himself to “release” to
the Press the “news” that it had been
carried. North Richmond branch retali-
ated by holding another meeting which
“unanimously carried a vote of confi-
dence” in the two members, and called
on Ferguson to resign his post. The up-
roar brought State A.L.P. secretary Love-
grove into the argument; he said Fer-
guson’s statement was wrong and he had
broken the party rules by publishing an
internal decision without authority of the
central executive.
How little State Governments like that
of McGrrrrr really care about conserving
financial resources is shown by the utterly
shameless proposal that State Parlia-
mentarians shall again raise their own
and Ministers’ salaries. That ought to
be enough to goad New England dairy-
farmers, denied by the McGirrs a fair
price for their butter, to serve notice with
no less finality of their intention to set
up their own New State.
Much hullabaloo is made by the Evatt-
Communist faction about the alleged in-
fringement of British justice in the matter
of obliging a suspected Communist to
prove his non-membership of the party.
Onus of proof placed upon the accused
prevails every week in the courts of West
Australia. Any person found in posses-
sion of property may be called upon to
prove ownership; failure to do so auto-
matically brings conviction. The Crown
is not even called upon to show from
where the property has allegedly been
stolen. This law particularly applies to
alleged gold-stealing. Yet Labor, in power
in W.A. for upwards of 14 years, passively
allowed the law to remain in constant
operation.
When Sydney wharfies took only nine
days to unload 8000 tons of Swedish
prefabs from the German steamer
Kolonius (experience suggested it would
take 16 days) it made news. Good work
by the wharfies and good supervision and
organisation were given the credit. It
wasn’t even the ship that was to take to
N.Z. the Watersiders’ Rugby League
team, “the first trade-union team to play
international sport.”
For the third time a jury failed to
agree in the Bulimba (Q.) electoral fraud
case and the Crown thereupon gave up,
entering a nolle prosequi. It all hinged
on the evidence of handwriting experts
as to whether or not the accused, Principal
Returning Officer Maguire, had himself
marked a number of ballot papers.
With rain urgently needed to save its
Darling Downs wheat crop, Queensland
is suffering drought which has already
cost it £lO million in losses of sugar,
wheat, butter, cheese and pineapples. In
N.S.W. the sown wheat area is so reduced
that even with a good season there’ll only
be enough for local needs—about 33
million bushels being the harvest esti-
mate. Some spokesman or other blamed
the “poor home-consumption price” for
this —the real reason is (or was) the boom
in wool sheep.
R. R. Broadby, one of those A.C.T.U.
“moderates,” told that body’s congress
that legislation would not prevent men
from striking against injustice, and, since
human nature is what it is, there would
always be injustice. Precisely, but what
is Mr. Broadby’s view of men who strike
and deprive the community of necessary
services merely at the behest of leaders
who use them for political and alien pur-
poses? And what does he say of men
who agree to submit their case to a tri-
bunal and then strike against its decision?
Of course legislation won’t stop strikes
against injustices, but it could, if properly
used, stop men from cutting their own
and the community’s throats.
A Sydney morning paper suggests that
Stevens, a one-time Premier of N.S.W., is
considering a return to politics. It’s a
game in which comebacks are as hard to
make as in pugilism or acting—and the
gentleman wasn’t very good at either.
These A.C.T.U. chaps can’t even
believe in themselves. They condemn
wholeheartedly the peace treaty with
Japan, yet they oppose military training
for Australian home defence.
In the N.Z. election Labor not
only failed to shift Prime Minister Hol-
land’s National Government but itself
lost support. In all Labor seats save
two there was a drop of 1 p.c. or more
in majorities, and in most National seats
the percentage was increased. Labor had
sought comfort from the reduced num-
ber of votes polled—N.Z. elections being
on the voluntary system—but percentages
tell the real story, which is that N.Z.
wants neither Socialism nor Communist
domination of its unions, and will sup-
port a Government that is determined to
govern—as Mr. Holland’s Government
demonstrated in the waterfront strikes.
There seems to be something quite dif-
ferent from Australian politics in the fact
that, broadcasting after his defeat in the
N.Z. election. Labor leader Nash con-
gratulated the winners and said the de-
cision was made in accordance with
democratic procedure. Nothing about
“vested interests,” or the “capitalistic
Press,” or the “people being misled by
lying propaganda,” terms with which
Australians are only too familiar.
Motto for McGirr; Fine awards butter
no parsnips.
At the end of 1950 Northern Territory
cattle numbers were down 30,000 head
on 1949. N.T. Administrator Wise said
that higher prices would compensate
graziers for the reduced numbers. Yes,
but wlfat will compensate the British and
Australian consumers for the beef not on
their plates?
The A.C.T.U. Congress came out with
a “six-point plan for economic stability.”
It puts defeat of the Menzies Government
as first priority, then follow: Common-
wealth price - control, capital - control,
“maximum” tax on excess profits, buying
of capital equipment abroad, defence
measures “to the limit.” Then the con-
gress decided to increase the affiliation
fees of the 90 unions it represents, prob-
ably on the assumption that if you hire
brains you must pay for them.
N.S.W. Prices Minister Finnan has
asked the N.S.W. Egg Board why it has
not lowered egg prices. But isn’t that Mr.
Finnan’s job?
On news of the development of a seed-
less watermelon in Los Angeles, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture (according to
“S. M. Herald”) promptly sent off a
request for seeds to try it out here.
J. Comerford, Miners’ Federation,
went along to the A.C.T.U. Congress and
told it “a permanent gas-coal famine faced
Australia unless more modern methods
were introduced in the mines.” If anyone
supposes this means the Federation will
stop opposing mechanisation and extrac-
tion of pillar coal he can forget it.
Gromyko told reporters at San
Francisco that a “peace settlement in the
Far East was impossible without Soviet
participation in the Japanese Peace
Treaty.” Why not? Without Soviet
participation until after the k.o. was
given the Allies beat Japan in the first
place and made the peace treaty possible.
According to a note from Canberra
the Commonwealth got £37 million from
beer excise, £lO million from spirit-
drinkers, £44 million from smokers and
qnly £63,000 from card-players in the
last financial year. S’Artie can be relied
upon to reshuffle the pack for this year.
In Australia just now its “big guns
before butter” —the big guns of politics
using the stuff for party ends. “Labor”
Governments in N.S.W. and Queensland
won’t agree to the full price-rise, not
because of any sentiment for dairy-
farmers, but to play the Evatt game of
embarrassing the Federal Government
at every turn.
Victorians are polite people. Their
State Electricity Commission opened a
£6,000,000 loan on August 1 offering
p.c. over 10 years. Before it closed Can-
berra came out with a loan offering 3f
p.c. The Loan Council was asked for
permission to increase the Victorian rate ;
this was refused. The underwriters had
to take up £3,346,800 of the S.E.C. loan,
the largest sum any Australian under-
writers have had to find for a State utili-
ties loan. Not a “Boo!” wafted out of
Melbourne towards Canberra.
The Commonwealth is advertising a
stupendous piece of railway modernisa-
tion in the adoption of diesel-electric
locomotives to cut hours off the trans-
continental run to Perth, an innovation
apparently forced by air-travel develop-
ment. Australian railways are certainly
quick on the uptake. The Germans had
a diesel-electric train which used to
average 78 m.p.h. from Hamburg to
Berlin as recently as in the ’twenties, and
the Canadian railways put on diesel-
electrics for their fast trans-continental
hauls round about 1929-30. McGirr and
Hanlon, or their successors, are expected
to see the light about the year 2129.
Prime Minister Menzies, announcing
that the American scheme for wool
allocations was off, as reported by “S. M
Herald”:
In reaching this conclusion the [Aus-
tralian] Government had recognised that
technical examination had not revealed the
practicability of operating any form of
allocations without a possible impairment
of the auction system of selling wool.
The P.M. is noted for clarity of language
when speaking. He should see that who-
ever issues his Press statements follows
his example. What the statement appar-
ently means is that wool allocations and
a free auction system wouldn’t work.
A Brisbane retailer and Chamber of
Commerce man, home from Europe and
America, told Queenslanders that their
Government should send a “top official”
to Britain to attract capital, industry and
operatives to Queensland. The world is
full of “top officials” gallivanting here
and there with the same object. So far
all they’ve attracted have been a lot of
vague promises. Capital interests, especi-
ally in Britain, are dead-scared of Gov-
ernment officials—they’ve too many of
their own.
The politician’s brain is a rare pheno-
menon. It starts working the day he
decides to seek election and never stops
until he is elected.


I ITIODEL
mm
Deposit
EMOU Ruo
NEW TOY.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Niheru”: We picture the holiday-
maker, too busy to write letters, dashing
off a postcard ; but I find that after de-
ciding on a card that is neither too rude
nor too prim, and considering the few
brief, breezy and original sentences which
always bog into a dull, hackneyed screed
that hardly leaves room for the stamp, I
might as well have run off four pat,es of
letter at my ease. The only man 1 ever
saw write a card without hesitation was a
quiet country lad in Changi p.-0.-w. camp
hospital. For two years the Japs limited
letters to impersonal “I am sick/well/in
hospital” whizzbangs. On the great day
when they allowed us a short sentence of
ou»- own, this lad had his written before
"She made me promise to Wear it always, sir."
we had licked our pencils : “Dear Mum,
Sell cows, buy pigs, Joe.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: If ever I saw a charm-
ing picture of youth and spring it was
the young man and the girl in the white
frock, both wet-through from the shower
that had just passed over, gambolling
along the top of the black pipeline of the
Manly water-supply and waving bunches
of boronia. Alas, the ranger saw them,
too, and as they reached the road that
runs up and over to Narrabeen, he
sprang upon them; and wrote their
names in his sinister black notebook and
impounded their bunches of boronia. I
suppose it is as well that what is left of
the bush around Sydney should be pre-
served ; but why not sprinkle a few
noticeboards around? Obviously you
don’t dance on top of a pipeline if you
know you are breaking the law, but the
notice that used to stand where the pipe-
line meets the road has recently disap-
peared, and most people simply don’t
know what wildflowers may or may not
be picked, what areas are reserves, or even
where Kuringai-chase extends to. I
think, too, the rangers would really do
a much better job if instead of bothering
about a few bits of boronia, they con-
centrated on the people who have made
French’s Forest one gigantic rubbish-
dump.
* * * ♦
“Fodgie”: Stevenson may have “paid
his bills on the nail” (B. 22/ 8/ ’5l), but
not necessarily with his own money. H.
J. Moors, in With Stevenson in Samoa,
records that Stevenson was measured for
dress clothes and other garments in Syd-
ney, but spent most of his time in the
city in bed. Stevenson had just com-
pleted the purchase of the Vailima estate ;
and the purchase and the visit to Sydney
were financed by Moors, to whom at one
time Stevenson owed “over twelve
thousand dollars.” “Sometimes it used to
worry him, but I never pressed him in any
way, simply asking to be reimbursed for
the interest I was myself paying at the
time. I never had any security from him,
and never felt that I needed any; for he
was an absolutely upright and honorable
man in all his business dealings.”
* * * *
“Old Unionist”: New Australians
working under me learn their awards
quicker than they learn the language.
Yaroslav, a professional violinist, has
been getting a fair amount of concert and
radio work after working-hours. Lately,
in sight of release from his two years’
bondage, he has been “using-up” his sick
leave —staying away the number of days
the award provides for sick leave on full
pay—in proper union fashion. Official
notification of one of these sick days
went to the Industrial Officer; but
Yaroslav is a polite chap, and got a fellow
New Australian to bring word to me:
“Yaroslav blay der violeen at der goncert
last night und make himself seeck.”
* * * *
“Dolmetcher”: A woman and a young
girl walked before me round a corner,
and there was a milko’s
cart drawn by a white
horse. The woman gave
a little gasp: “Now you
must keep your fingers
crossed,” she told the
girl, “until you see a
dog.” She could not
explain why—and I was
awaited at the local.
However, the white
horse was the standard
of the Anglo - Saxon
invaders of Roman
Britain; Hengist and
Horsa stallion and
mare —are emblems, not
names. Crossed fingers
are substituted for cros-
sing oneself before the
pagans, inclined to
carve Christians to
pieces. The dog is em-
blematic of the Roman
legion (Rome’s foun-
ders were suckled by a
wolf), or of the auxili-
ary legions left to de-
fend Britain after the
Roman withdrawal.
And so: “If you see
Saxons, trust in the
Cross until you are safe
behind the legions’
lines.” Caesar’s ghost,
as the saying is.
* * *
“Nunk”: Compensa-
tio n s . One man
lamented that his wife had stopped work-
ing: “I hadn’t realised what a help the
extra money was, but”—brightening—“I
don’t have to make the beds every morn-
ing.” The other man lamented that his
wife had had to go to work: “I get the
department poured down my ear all
night, but” —brightening—“it’s a change
from the neighbors.”
* * * ♦
“Uramao”: Queerest sea-rescue (B.
1 /8/’5l) I know of was that of the young
girl thrown into the sea and borne by a
wave back over the funnel of the dis-
appearing Titanic, April 14, 1912, and
sucked down it. A great rush of air up
the funnel as the water closed in on the
submerged ship rocketed the girl out of
the sea and landed her safely in a life-
boat. In the same wreck, the ship’s baker
steadied his nerves with half a bottle of
brandy after the big crash ; he rushed on
deck, but the thought of half a bottle of
brandy going down with the ship was
more than he could bear —he went back
to his cabin, finished the bottle, and as
the Titanic plunged, he jumped hilari-
ously. After an hour in the freezing
waters, he was hauled aboard a raft.
“That makes me one up.”
Doctors among the rescued said that,
without the brandy, he could never have
survived.
* * * *
“5 G.R.”: Award of a Humane Society
Medal to a Gurkha may sound like an
essay in irony; but a Gurkha of the
9th Gurkha Rifles has one. Out
shooting in tussocky country, his officer
was bitten behind the knee by a cobra,
could not get at the wound, and panicked.
The Gurkha orderly laid him out with a
punch in the stomach, plunged his kukri
into the wound, spun it around, sucked
out the poison, and carried the sahib to
the road, whence he was rushed to
hospital. But the little Gurkha, with
mouth wounds from recent tooth extrac-
tions, was the next patient—he was
brought round with anti-vivene in-
jections.
* * * *
“Dodie”: The urchin who got into
Windsor Castle and helped Disraeli to per-
suade Queen Victoria to return to public
life from her mourning for the Prince
Consort has been celebrated under the
name of Wheeler in both book and film
of “The Mudlark,” but no publicity-man
seems to have struck the Personal Item in
The Bulletin of May 20, 1893:
The “Boy Jones,” found in Queen Vic-
toria’s bedroom at Windsor Castle many
years ago, is still living, and practising as a
bill-sticker in Victoria.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne’s thousands
of miles of cypress hedges Cu press us
lambertiana, survivals of Englishmen’s
home-castles, the sport of mad incen-
diarists for generations, the curse of
motorists who like to see round corners,
the Aunt Sally of the modern garden-
planner, will all go off of their own
accord in a few seasons unless botanical
scientists can find a remedy for the dis-
ease that is spreading through them like
myxomatosis. The C.5.1.R.0. and the De-
partment of Agriculture have failed to
find even the cause of the complaint.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Sydney traffic authorities,
stirred by recent figures of road casual-
ties, went forth and spied on drivers in
the city, here and there giving an unex-
pected reward of a couple of quid to
anybody caught displaying road courtesy.
This was felt to have signified some-
thing or other, though I’m too obtuse to
discover what it was. Road courtesy
means one thing to the novice and the
timid, quite another to the expert and
the bold. And an analysis of accidents
would show that the former are respon-
sible for more accidents, though very
often not actually involved in the colli-
sion. My own experience in 16 years’
driving in Sydney is that more care is
needed at weekends, because it is then
the new drivers come forth and timidly
proceed to ignore road lessons which they
haven’t learnt. All the aspiring driver
has to do to get a licence is drive a
traffic-policeman for a mile or two round
the city and, if lucky enough to escape a
hit or a breach, is then authorised to go
forth and do his best —or worst. Under
such a system the wonder is that there
aren’t more accidents.
* * * ♦
“Fairf”: A heavy rain can affect the
memory of the chauffeur of our Muni-
cipal Cleansing Service vehicle, so that a
garbage-tin may do sentry-go at a gate-
post for two or three weeks ; nor are they
that carry out (literally) the nocturnal
branch of the service free from such aber-
ration. A village Hampden bore his bin
to the Council Chambers and emptied
it at the doors with a note promising
less savory leavings next time. But
he had reckoned without the Garbage In-
vestigation Service, and a magistrate fined
him a fiddly and costs. The reader of
whodunits will guess that it was Hamp-
den’s handwriting that put him away ; but
it was not. He had cast away his pay-
envelope, and it had returned to him with
the wages of sin.
♦ * ♦ •
“Aramak”: A man from a radio-quiz
audience was asked to pick the winner of
six horses in a past race; when the
recording of the race was played, his
horse was last at the straight. The re-
broadcast was stopped, and he was invited
to change his selection, but he raised his
clenched hands like a confident pug
before the slug, and told the compere to
carry on. His nag still not in the call
when they passed the post, he returned
to his disgusted wife: “You b
clown,” she bawled ; “spend every Satur-
day afternoon at the races, and still can t
pick the b winner when it’s over!”
My bet —on future Saturdays he’ll be in
his own paddock, riding Lawnmower all
the way.
* * * *
“Echo”: Early this century I knew a
newsboy, “Dick the Goose.” Melbourne
newsboys have always worshipped
boxers; no doubt Dick was called after
“Bill the Goose” (B. 22/7/’5.1). In those
days newsboys were known to each other
only by their nicknames. Dick’s brother
was “Breezer.” Dick is now a successful
businessman in Gippsland. After 30
years he stepped into my,office: “You
know me, all right,” he said. “I’m Dick
the Goose.” We got talking about the
old days, and I could tell him the latest
news of “Growler,” and “Scotty,” and
“Soldier,” and “Gaiety,” and “Crutchy,
and “Pink-eye,” and scores of others,
some dead, some successful citizens and
all of them good honest men.
**' ♦ •
“C.A.L.”: Examiners for steam, diesel
internal-combustion, bus or tram
“tickets!’ thrive on trick questions; the
quizmaster of prospective boiler attend-
ants had a standard poser: “Why is the
manhole plate in a boiler oval in shape.
Few applicants had ever given him the
answer, that, if the plate were circular it
could not be withdrawn from the boilei
when the nuts were unscrewed and it was
allowed to drop inside. In this session,
only one man hazarded a guess: It a
fat man were climbing into the boiler and
his paunch wouldn’t fit through the hole
where it was narrowest, Then he coma
turn sideways and ease it through tore
and aft.”
INCENTIVE.
ŵ
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AT NO EXTRA FARE . . .
SEE ROMP ...
SEE GENEVA and
FLY TO LONDON VIA THE CONTINENT
So much more to see and do! Naturally
most people fly the Qantas-8.0.A.C.
direct overland route the broad highway
to Europe! You may fly to London direct
... or fly cross-Continent via Rome 3
Stopping off at Geneva and Paris at no
extra fare ... or take a low-cost rail or bus
trip from Rome across Europe to London-
De-luxe cabin service by 2 stewards and
a hostess. 3 restful night stops. Fly by
air-conditioned Constellation all the way
to Europe —no change of planes. See
Singapore and Cairo on your way.
Regular route via Calcutta
—alternative via Colombo.
5 services weekly from
Sydney.
SSS 3
KT
Afl
Hlllllf
Consult your
Travel Agent.
QANTASBOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
FLY QANTAS —TH ERE’S A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE
•K 57
m
ẁ
with
Mobilco
ONE MAN ROST HOLE DIGGER
Just wheel it along the fence line and dig fifty holes an hour. This rugged
light-weight moves easily over rough country on pneumatic tyred, ball-
bearing wheels. Tough steel Auger sinks and clears average post hole in ten
seconds. Digs to 2 ft. 8 ins. deep, clean smooth holes. Designed in Australia
for Australian conditions, in-
corporating roller bearings,
aluminium alloy gear box,
working parts precision mach-
ined to an accuracy previously
unknown in farm implements.
Powered by 6 b.h.p. B.S.A.
air-cooled petrol engine.
One machine does many jobs . . .
You can bore fencing posts as you dig the holes
with this machine plus the special Mobilco-
Electro 32 volt, 500 Watt electric generator
and sturdy Mobilco-Sher power drill. Reliable
generator is coupled to the Post Hole Digger
in a few minutes. It enables you to run a mobile
one-stand Shearing plant ideal for paddock
crutching. Also adaptable for shed and field
lighting. Or a 3 in. centrifugal pump that shifts
300 gallons a minute at a 50ft. head can be installed. Post Hole Digger, with or
without attachments can be towed to the job behind a car or fitted to utility
or where convenient it may be horse drawn.
Write now for details.
m
ẃ
j||j^
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT Limited
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Cent. 4799, after hours WF3113
MCI 24
“C.A.A.”: Leaving the boat at Amster-
dam on a European tour, I got talking to
a Dutchman: “Ah, you are from Aus-
tralia. That is where they don’t work
between meals.”
* * * *
“Pontius the Pilot”; References to the
Gloucester Regiment’s stand in Korea
and their association with the A.I.F. in
World War I bring to mind their earlier
associations with Australia. On June 30,
1842, the troopships John Brewer, Kelso
and Arab, with the 28th Regiment of
Foot aboard, were wrecked, and the
barque Hopkinson, which was accom-
panying them, on the Great Barrier Reef
between Magnetic and Palm Passages and
immediately seaward of the Palm Islands.
Collectively known as the Slashers Reefs,
Kelso, Arab and Hopkinson Reefs and
the detached John Brewer Reef remind
chart-studying mariners of the story,
which is briefly outlined in Australian
Pilot, Vol. 3, Some better - informed
CMKE
reader may be able to clothe these bare
bones with fact.
* * * *
“Bo”: In all probability he is unaware
of his accomplishment, but that the driver
of the municipal truck that cruises around
the city squirting a strong jet of water
gutterwards can sum up instantly the
sartorial state of passers-by while keep-
ing one eye on the vehicular traffic I am
convinced. Let my strides become baggy
and unpressed, and I walking close to the
kerb, and he will unfailingly cut off the
water just before he gets opposite me
and when I am in mid-air in my side-
leap to safety. When I have my just-dry-
cleaned suit on, however, he will come
along, jetless, cunningly lulling me into
the false impression that he is empty ;
then when immediately opposite me he’ll
let me have the works, reducing my knife-
edged creases and immaculate cuffs to
sodden wrecks. But I tricked him the
other day. Running a new suit in, I
heard him coming up behind. When he
was a few yards from me I heard the
jet go on. A congested footpath pre-
eluded my side-leap. Then I noticed a
shapely damsel a few paces in front, and
I sprang alongside and kept pace with
her, on the lee side. The jet ceased. It’s
the first time I had seen two expressions
on a man’s face at the same time: the
smirking gallantry indicating that he had
saved nylon-clad ankles from a bath,
and baffled rage at my escape from his
torments.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A surprised Melbourne
tram-driver, urged on from stop to stop
by the punctual ringing of the bell,
reached his terminal in the outer suburbs
after a long night journey to find that
he had no conductor. A passenger in a
hurry had observed that all was ready
except the conductor and had given the
bell-rope two short tugs ; and thus had
continued to his home-stop, from where
his fellow-passengers kept the wheels of
transport turning.
$ * * *
“Jindivick”: A girl in our office
bottling trey-bits for Christmas was
startled to find that a fair percentage
of trizzies of all ages won’t go into her
lemonade-bottle. No doubt the Mint-
checkers feef it takes all kinds of three-
pences to make a quid. But such as like
to calculate how many things laid end to
end would reach how far had better lay
off treys.
* * H= *
“Ike Hollar”; If we were to leave these
years of shortages, to live in “the good
old times,” we would be disappointed.
Our new-born community nearly starved
for lack of supplies, and the backs of con-
victs employed as fishermen were rawed
by the cat if they kept so much as a small
fish for themselves. When properly
established, the colony was riddled with
shortages ; there were some queer ones—
three beer famines when the hop crops
failed and imports of hops, malt and
liquor were delayed ; the shortage of seal-
ing-wax, once essential for sealing goods,
letters and deeds, because an importer
forgot; and the india-rubber scarcity,
when Sydney was quite without erasers, a
publican having bought up all stocks to
make Australia’s first billiard-table.
Among this century’s shortages were: a
potato famine when blight destroyed the
entire Tasmanian crop; a butter famine
after drought in the dairying districts —
butter that tasted like axle-grease was im-
ported from California ; an onion famine
which led to Sydney’s biggest stink when
a shipload of Japanese onions went rotten
on the wharf; and a curious hold-up in
the flour industry which led to the
establishment of the Wheat Board.
Millers claimed that hard wheat must be
blended with soft wheat; and at that time
N. S. Wales had plenty of hard wheat,
but very little soft. Big shipments had to
be imported: the board was appointed
to see that division was fairly made.
A NEW THEORY.
“Character, says a psychologist, can be more
accurately assessed from the hat a man wears, and
his way of wearing it, than by what he says or
does,’ 1
You think, because you may observe a fellow
Slug his connubial partner on the jaw,
And at his kids continually bellow —
Behaving, generally, “in the raw”—
That this must ever be an indication,
Lucid and unmistakable and strong,
Of character. Such casual estimation
Might lead you to a false evaluation,
A judgment wrong.
Conversely—and I put it to you now, sir
(To borrow legal terminology)—
You may consider him a poisonous wowser
Who damns as rankest immorality
Square-dancing or a harmless game of poker.
But how can you be positive of that,
E'en if he warns that hell awaits the smoker?
To determine if he is a crank and croaker
Look at his hat.
Don’t pin your faith to style and cut of clobber
A man may fancy, or the tie he’ll flaunt;
You might mistake a K.C. for a robber
Were both indulging in a Sunday jaunt.
The shoes he wears might be in good condition
Or ill, of coarsest calf or finest kid.
They'd give no clue, though, to his disposition.
But this will yield infallible cognition:
Screw off his lid!
Who wears the thing dead-centre on his noddle,
And never tilts it either fore or aft—
Why, then, you’d gather that he’d be a model
Of rectitude; he’d ne’er get notions daft.
You’ll find some wear theirs at a rakish angle—
That’s devil-may-care, and sticking out a
mile,
Fellows you’d judge who’d not eschew a
wrangle;
The casual cove would look as if a mangle
Had wrecked his tile.
He who has made a study of the cady
May tell, instanter, if the wearer’s one
Of sunny temper, occupation shady,
A miser, spendthrift; gloomy, full of fun;
A sage or fool; one who is too loquacious,
Or taciturn; a goody or a blade;
A churl, or one who is by nature gracious.
But say! How do they judge the disputatious
No-hat brigade?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Columba”; Backyard scene of the
week at Emoh Ruo. The bulldog, full
of years
and dinner,
snoring
p e acefully
in the sun,
jaws agape,
and the ban-
tam chickens
lustily pick-
ing the meat
from his
teeth.
■“Old-timer”: The new lady-help at the
homestead turned out to be a nice young
widow with an infant of some three years,
and her coming worked an alchemy in
the men’s hut which the boss’s four
daughters had never achieved. The hands
took to shaving frequently, watched their
language when within range of the home-
stead, became particular about the.con-
“That enough , Mum?"
dition of their shirts, even cleaned their
riding-boots and once or twice sported
ties. Fleming found out she was interested
in riding and gave her lessons, Pocket-
knife went to town three Saturdays run-
ning and came home stone-cold sober,
young Hull discovered her taste in sweets
and catered to it. But Little Curl proved
the best strategist; he concentrated on
w
was threatening to resign when old
Snorter Watts took the matter up. He
demanded that the mayor receive a depu-
tation, then proceeded to organise his
neighbors. “We’ve got to go down there
on Friday night,” 1m told the selected
deputation, “and howl blue murder.
Nothing you could say about these roads
would be an exaggeration, but if you
can think of a way that’ll make ’em
sound worse, lay it on —it’s our only
hope of gettin’ somethin’ done.” The
rain was still bucketing down when the
deputation arrived at the council
chambers. Old Snorter was not in the
group. One by one the marooned rate-
payers told their tales of woe ; and still
the instigator of the protest had not
turned up. The last man was having his
say when in strode a saturated, mud-
“Pipe down—you 're always looking on the black side of things."
covered little dynamo of a man. “Sorry ;
got bogged a few miles out and had to
walk in,” he explained. The mayor
looked impressed. “Bad luck,” he
sympathised. “Then your car is still
there?” “Me car? Don’t make me
laugh!” exclainjed Snorter. “We don’t
use cars on our roads. I couldn’t get
through with me bulldozer!”
* * * *
“Akrabo”: Have no quarrel with
“Herbert Dawson” (B. 29/8/’5l) as to
the habits of dingoes, but I do dispute his
use of a saddle as a pillow. When I
first went bush, remembering songs and
poems where a saddle had been so used,
I tried it, to the amusement of my
seasoned companions. Was pretty tired,
but the strong effluvia from the lining
side drove all thoughts of sleep away.
The leather side, although tried from
every angle, failed to provide a practical
pillow. I have never met any bushman
who used a saddle as a pillow. Have
come to the conclusion that the only
horses with which the blokes who wrote
the poems and songs were acquainted
have been of the rocking variety.
* * * *
“Shadow-chaser”: Whilst thanking
“Pedant” (B. 29/8/’5l) for setting me
right as to the use of the word “sub-
marine” in connection with a freshwater
stream, I would point out that the term
“creek” is generally applied to all small
streams and not confined to coastal or
tidal waters. Even the G.P.O. and rail-
ways endorse it: one passes countless
“creeks,” sandy and otherwise, from
Perth to Cairns, all basing their title on
a small stream meandering in the
vicinity. As to the platypus’s under-
water activity, it must surface for air
frequently. Fishermen, illegally using
drum-nets anchored deeply in secluded
lagoons, often find a drowned platypus
in their haul, never a live one, making
it appear that a very few minutes’ total
immersion ends fatally. Despite this
unintentional slaughter, their numbers
are on the increase in all the Murray
and Goulburn Rivers tributaries, prob-
ably due to the decrease of their greatest
enemy, the Murray-cod.
* * * *
“V.”: Nowadays we use different names
for it, but whether particular traits or
abilities were in a man’s blood or whether
they weren’t was conclusively accepted
in prior times. It excused many short-
comings, and encouraged many an en-
deavor, but because it was not properly
understood the psychology of a genera-
tion or so ago was sadly misguided.
Reasonable enough that a kid should grow
up to follow in his father’s trade, seeing
that, through family discussion and
possibly assistance, the youngster would
already have certain insight into the busi-
ness, but because his old man mended
boots it was taken that a flair for patch-
ing soles was inherited. If a chip read
Deadwood Dicks at every opportunity, it
was often condoned upon learning the
old block had done the same in his youth.
However, one of the best I’ve struck came
only a few years back, when a youth from
a family of eight sons joined the Navy.
The other seven were loud in their criti-
cism, but the kid s old man accepted
the situation resignedly, explaining that
there was nothing could be done about
it, as “the sea’s in the lad’s blood—y’
see, his grandma’s first husband came out
to Australia in a whaler.”
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: “Brick E.” (B.
29/8/’5l) is right; a faithfully-built brick
smokestack does give in a strong wind
without any fear of its coming down. I
once saw a surveyor sight his theodolite
on the top of a 120 ft. brick chimney and
estimate the sway at fully 18in. out of
plumb in a heavy gale. Brick buildings
also seem to stand up better than any-
thing else to a hurricane ; when the great
storm of some 25 years ago hit Miami,
U.S.A., the brick buildings stood up
wonderfully well to the 100-m.p.h. gusts.
Concrete structures, on the other hand,
began to sway more and more until
finally the cement-work cracked in all
directions, though the steel framing pre-
vented their collapsing. It is a very
different story, however, in a really bad
earthquake. The concrete building then
sways and heaves, yet suffers very little
damage as a rule. The brick building, on
the other hand, cracks all over and only
too often tumbles into ruins.
* * * *
“The Wallum”: The valley was in the
grip of drought as Cowbails gloomily
culled a half-dozen milkers from the herd.
“Hey, Amos,” he yelled to the new
recruit to the farm, “take these poor
blankards round to the south paddock
behind the hill. Git a move on,” he
roared as the Choom’s mouth opened in
one of his eternal questions. “Don’t be
wasting me time with y’r damnfool yap.
Git!” Choom got. As he passed the
toolshed a whirring grindstone pro-
claimed that Wally the joker was at
work. Choom poked his head through
the door and asked for a definition of a
paddock, and this Wally gravely supplied.
Midday moved to the shadows of late-
afternoon before the new hand, still trail-
ing the cows, rounded the corner. “Where
the hell have you been? It was the
south paddock behind the hill I told
y’,” Choom flopped in the shade, and,
mopping a scarlet face, said earnestly:
“Boss, I’ve been behind the hill, round
the hill and over the hill, but dang me if
I could find any meadow!"
>Je sfc ♦ ♦
“Shadow-chaser”: When magpies,
driven by the scarcity of suitable material
in treeless regions, resorted to using
scraps of wire, snipped off by linesmen,
for the
outer walls
of their
nests they
started
s o mething.
The wire
nest proved
so popular
that it is in
general
use in the
vicinity o f
t e 1 egraph-
and telephone-lines all over Victoria.
The supply of scrap wire being exhausted,
the strong-billed vandals then resorted
to unwinding the short lengths of tie-
wire used to secure the lines to the
insulators, thus causing the lines to go
adrift. No matter how tightly the work-
men, armed with strong pliers, twist the
wire Maggie seems able to untwist it.
THE MAGPIES’ FAMILY TREE.
This is the family tree, temple and citadel
Within whose sanctuary the pied hush-pipers
dwell,
A watch-tower looking west, above the neigh-
boring gums.
The last lights stain its crest when sunset’s
ending comes,
Painting the leaning spires where, later in the
spring.
The adolescent choirs are carefully taught to
sing
From dawn till evening’s rich melodies without
words,
The plain-song of the bush, the folk-songs of
the birds,
Gathered whilst centuries grew to vaster names
in Time,
Threading the ages through with sempiternal
rhyme,
Carol and bugle-call, and pagan charms to croon
At the midnight festival of the full September
moon.
It is from here, when fledglings fill the nest.
The magpies dive delighted on man and beast,
Exulting in impudence—but an old fear still
survives:
Dark climbers long ago robbed nests as well as
hives.
And yet we later slaves they look on with
disdain;
Free as the wind that waves the early ripening
grain,
No cat or hawk affrights them, no circumstances
bind,
They arc one with endless skies and the ever-
changing wind.
A source of envy, brother, to such as you and
me
Who, one way and another, have no family
tree.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


LOOK YOUR BEST!
V
style
Everywhere you hear men praising
the superb quality, style and smart
appearance of Akubra Hats.
Made from the finest of pure fur,
your Akubra retains its “New Look”
and colour throughout its long, all-
weather life.
F,or comfort, style and quality, wear
Akubra the choice of all well-
dressed men.
AKUBRA
jhafa ofiQuality
The Popular
HOLDEN
COUPE UTILITY
■m/y.
m
. . offers you
6 CYLINDER POWER
PROVED ECONOMY
SMART GOOD LOOKS
AND DEPENDABILITY
W//.
THE HEART OF HOLDEN
is the powerful 6-
cylinder engine
that provides that
extra power for
easy hill climbing
and the ‘zip’ that
gets you off the
mark like an arrow. Combine
this 6-cylinder power and accelera-
tion with the roomy payload area,
proved Holden economy, pas-
senger car comfort and loading
convenience and you’ll know why
so many utility operators are
placing orders for Holden Utility.
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Utility
4800
if There are two Air Chief Radios specially designed
for Holden a long-range 5-value set and an
exceptionally powerful 6-valve model.
i( Convenient hire purchase terms are available
through G.M. A.C., General Motors’ own Finance
Company,
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
“Solitude”: The stranger stood beside
the window at the end of the bar, and
as Seventyfiver lifted his dial and came
up for air he woke up to the fact he was
being addressed. “Used to it, you prob-
ably look without seeing,” said the
stranger. “Many people in such sur-
roundings do that. Take that tree, now,”
he pointed. “Isn’t it a giant?” “Eh?,
Yair, y’re right,” agreed Seventyfiver.
“Too close t’ Bung’s blasted gate, now y’
mention it. Wonder somebody ain’t took
the flamin’ thing out,” “And the fleecy
cloud above it,” the stranger continued.
“Just look at the whiteness of the other
clouds creeping up behind.” Seventy-
fiver looked. “Yair, not a damn’ drop
o’ rain in the lot.” “And the coloring! ”
warbled the stranger. “See the red-and-
white cow there, cropping the green of
that paddock.” “Gripes, so she is,” the
old bloke nodded. “Must’ve broke the
fence again. I put the blinded thing out
once.” He tried to escape along the bar,
but again the voice caught him. “Or the
color of that black horse as he wanders
along the white road past those rocks.
What do you say to that?” “Plenty,
when I catch it!” snorted Seventyfiver.
“Alwuz undoin’ his blasted bridle, Punch
is.” He disappeared after the nag, and
a bit later reappeared in the doorway.
His gaze travelled along the bar, crowded
except for the vacancy near the window,
and, catching my eye, he jerked his head.
“Might’s well go, Sol,” he sighed. “C’d
do with another, awright, but cripes, it
ain’t worth being cornered again be a
goat that just looks f’r trouble.”
“Espee”: A rough chunk of log 10ft.
long and 18in. in diameter lying near my
home generally attracts the attention of
visitors. To the casual observer it is
simply another log to be split up for fire-
wood. The more discerning, however,
will see emerging from a tiny wax-coated
hole hundreds of small native bees. The
log was felled as a green tree in 1893,
and to my certain knowledge it was occu-
pied by a hive of native bees 10 years
later. During the intervening years the
“Hey! Remember me ?”
log has lain among rough blady-grass
and has been subjected annually to the
usual grass-fires. The heat and smoke
must have taken heavy toll of the little
colony, but apparently there were always
sufficient survivors left to carry on the
hive.
♦ • * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The old bloke we
worked for was one of those whose theme
was the same as that of the Three Grey
Sisters whom Perseus interviewed in the
long ago: “Ah, the old days were better
than the new,” Every darned thing we
did, everything we said, every aspiration
we uttered was heartily condemned on
those lines. What was good enough for
our granddaddies ought to be good enough
for us, and people these days didn’t know
when they were well off and if they’d
had half the things in his time they had
now they’d have thought it was Christmas
and in his time people used to live on half
what they got now and —“Yair,” Mat
cut in dryly, “an’ look what happened
to ’em.” The old cove gaped at him.
“Yair,” Mat insisted. “Look what hap-
pened to ’em through livin’ on
half what we get now.” The ancient re-
covered and snorted, “Well, what hap-
pened t’ ’em?” Mat waved a hand.
“Well, most of ’em are dead, ain’t they! ”
he sneered. Whereafter peace descended.
* * * *
“Picker”: The incident related by
“M.S.” (B. 15/8/’5l) gives the impres-
sion that Mr. Wedgie is a bully in the
home ; actually it is his missus who wears
the metaphorical pants. Ornithologist
Leach specifically states that the female
of Uroaetus audax is larger than the
male. It was therefore Mrs. Wedgie
who lashed into the joint, disdainfully
leaving what was left to her consort.
“Abdul”: The paddocks were still
dotted with pools from the three days
of heavy rain the previous week, and the
long grass and low-hanging wilgas were
ideal harbors for myriads of shrilling
mosquitoes, mutiplying and thriving in
the favorably steamy atmosphere. Old
Charlie and the young bloke were mend-
ing the boundary fence under the con-
centrated fire of clouds of the pests, call-
ing forth from the young bloke
embittered protests that the three months’
growth he sprouted didn’t stop the
attacks. Old Charlie seemed completely
oblivious to their savage onslaughts.
“Well, I dunno, Charlie,” the young
cove burst out at last as he threw down
the mattock, “these mossies are damn’
near chewing me up. How you put up
with it fair dinkum I don’t know, and
you haven’t even got a ziff to cover your
dial.” “Can’t stand whiskers,” grunted the
old chap. “Grew ’em once. Blasted things
nearly drove me mad with irritation.”
* * * *
“A.J.M.0.”: I have always understood
that it was the nest of the grey swiftlet,
and not that of the spine-tailed swift,
which provides the basis of the celebrated
Celestial soup. The grey swiftlet breeds
in only one place in Australia: Dunk
Island, The spine-tailed swift has its
habitat in Japan, Mongolia, Siberia and
the Himalayas.
* * * *
“Wingella”: The aborigines of Mel-
ville and Bathurst Islands are the only
ones who erect grave-posts, similar to
totem-poles, over their dead; the erec-
tion of the posts being the final effort in
a big “pookaminnie corroboree.” The
carving of the posts, always a labor of
love, takes many weeks to complete, and
not till the last post is prepared does the
corroboree take place. But these days
the aborigine has become aware that
“time is money,” so instead of spending
many weeks carving out the tough wood
into the ornamental designs dictated by
tradition he now obtains an old dis-
carded “no-parking” beacon and paints
that up with traditional red and yellow
ochre and white pipeclay in time-honored
fashion. After all, the departed won’t
know the difference between a “no-park-
ing” beacon and a totem-pole ; and the
beacon makes a very spine-chilling grave-
post, especially if one walks on to it
unexpectedly just at dusk.
FARMHOUSE KITCHEN.
The farmhouse kitchen’s warm and good,
And smells of stove and smoke and wood.
It is the time of afternoon
When comes the clink of cup and spoon,
The big fat oven’s opened wide
And there are scones in rows inside,
The noisy kettle, stout and strong,
Begins to blow his well-known song.
While on the shelf the old clock ticks,
Up to the door come chooks and chicks;
The old dog wakes and comes inside
And bites the fleas upon his hide.
Stretched on a string the dishcloths dry,
And Dad’s wet pants hang steaming by,
And while the talk drones droughts or floods,
Mum sits and peels the evening spuds—
Till wheels draw up and up jumps she
And grabs the pot and makes more tea.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


THIS BOOKLET
ON REQUEST
VMt
i X Ecv
I°RS
TRVs
•RI?S
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UTS
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
DO you know: when, how and why a Will
should be made or revised? —that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified'. . . of Trusts and what they involve
... of how you can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated 5a Victoria)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St.. Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and a* Aibury. Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
TEE
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
\Scnnrt i
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1944.. 185,594 6£ p.c.= 175,500 10,094 1,235,154
1945.. 168,180 6 „ „ 162,000 6,180 1,241,334
1946.. 163,438 6 „ „ 162,000 1,438 1,242,772
1947.. 215,439 7$ „ ~ 202,500 12,939 1,255,711
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,245,711
1948.. 244,973 8 p.c. = 221,928 23,045 1,268,756
To provident fund, £20,419 .. .. 1,248,337
1949.. 380,687 10 p.c. = 277,410 103,277 1,351.614
1950.. 641,367 12 „ ~ 339,156 302,211 1,653,825
To provident fund, £25,000 . . 1,628,825
1951.. 727,362 15 p.c. = 423,945 303,417 1,932.242
To provident fund. £52,000 .. ..1,880,242
Meyer before have the growing and
selling sides of the wool industry enjoyed
such phenomenal prosperity, the extent of
which is seen in the following figures
covering the entire Australian clip:
Bales Amount Av. Price
Season. Sold. Realised. Per lb.*
1946-47 .. 2,949,430 £92,335,940 24.49 d.
1948- .. 3,241,616 194,589,170 48.07 d.
1949- .. 3,593,756 286,628,911 63.35 d.
1950- .. 3,547,195 036,330,574 144.19 d.
* Greasy.
The inflationary pressures generated
created many economic and fiscal prob-
lems, and robbed the Government’s anti-
inflationary measures in the monetary
field of some of their intended effects.
However, the picture has changed con-
siderably during the last few months, of
which more will be said presently.
The wool and livestock auctioned by
Elder Smith —activities centre mainly in
South Australia (the co.’s home State),
Westralia and Victoria —have been as fol-
lows over the last four seasons:
Wool, Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Pigs.
1948 .. 310,309 3,110,194 165,136 135,513
1949 .. 329,744 3,414,181 172,621 126.494
1950 .. 377,525 3,813,708 196,542 109.344
1951 .. 393,603 3,905,330 195,135 115,605
Last term’s total sales in this field more
than doubled, reaching nearly £92 mil-
lion. Merchandise turned in over £18.6
million (up £5 million), skins, hides and
tallow more than £3.6 million, and ship-
chartering and other activities and re-
turns from advances to clients and from
a big wad of Government securities and
other investments helped to swell the
pool, too.
In a balanced view of the position the
chairman points out that “in adverse cir-
cumstances profits invariably fall more
rapidly than do expenses, resulting in a
shrinkage in the amount available for
payment of dividends.” So, while
shareholders have joined in the prosperity
the board has not neglected the oppor-
tunity to strengthen the co.’s shock-
absorbers, visible and otherwise. After
writing £113,650 (up £30,314) off
premises and plant, and providing for
bad and doubtful debts, the leap in the
year’s gross earnings was no less than
£1,270,542:
Exes. p.c.
Gross.* Exes.t Gross. Net.
1948 .. 1,434,851 1,189,879 82.9 244,973
1949 .. 1,868,025 1,487,338 79.6 380,687
1950 .. 2,614,020 1,972,653 75.4 641,367
1951 . . 3,884,562 3,157,200 81.3 727,362
* After providing for contingencies and depreciation
of premises and plant. f Includes provision for
taxation, etc.
Exes, and “all other charges” gobbled
£1,184,547 of the gain. The net result
was thus £85,995 stronger at a record
£727,362, or 25.7 p.c. on capital as
against 22.6, 13.7, 8.8, 7.9 and 6 p.c. back
to 1944. The distribution was lifted from
12 p.c. to 15 p.c., highest rate paid for
over half a century. Of the 15 p.c. the
cautious board labels 7 p.c. bonus.
Inflated prices and continued expan-
sion of the business, particularly in Vic-
toria, are further reflected in balance-
sheet figures, which also disclose strong
liquid resources, and therefore the co.’s
ability to further assist clients when the
need arises;
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £2,774,100 £2,826,300 £2,820,300
Deposits, etc. . . 690,244 741,474 824,469
Sundry cr’tors, etc. 4,465,919 6,824,579 12,703,393
Tax provision .. 321,519 499,523 1,190,250
Final div. .. 166,446 226,104 282,630
Freeholds, plant, etc. 1,136,043 1,768,913 2,006,172
Govt. sec. and cash 4,337,144 4,549,756 8,080,657
Advances, etc. . . 3,280,375 4,714,964 8,206,082
Stocks . . . . 740,205 1,287,867 1,955,731
Shares other cos... 276,075 425,305 458,642
The amount coming to creditors, deposi-
tors, etc., increased by £5,961,809. The
growth in advances was £3,491,118, and
£3,530,901 was added to Government
securities and cash, stocks were £667,864
heavier and £237,259 more was spent on
freeholds and plant than was written off.
Shareholdings include 100,000 f.-p. £1
shares in the Commonwealth Wool and
Produce Co. (Sydney), which paid 7 p.c.
last term —its Victorian business was
bought at an unstated figure by Elder
Smith about two years ago.
The current season’s wool clip is ex-
pected to total 3,625,000 bales. At
the first series of auctions the staple
averaged about 7ld. a pound as against
107 d. at the first series in 1950-51, a drop
of 33.6 p.c. What will happen to prices
later remains to be seen. Much will de-
pend upon support from American and
some other buyers, who have not yet
come into the market in strength, upon
how seasonal conditions (propitious over
this co.’s area) develop, and upon the
course of world economic and other de-
velopments. The U.S. has announced its
intention of establishing a defence stock-
pile of 350 million pounds of wool
during 1951-52. The pre-emption plan
for purchase of this wool has been re-
jected, and some of the better-quality
fleeces have yet to come on to the sale
floor. Appearances are that prices will
average out somewhere between the
1949-50 and 1950-51 levels, and will be
very profitable to growers, even at to-
day’s high cost of production.
Further, there is £63 million of profit
on sale of J.O.’s war-time wool stocks to
be distributed among growers sponer or
later. Also, the Federal Government
holds £45 million collected from growers
as a levy to help finance a proposed
stabilisation scheme, which growers have
turned down. When and how these two
amounts, totalling £lOB million, are to be
passed to growers is a problem now exer-
cising the mind of the Treasurer. The
taxgatherer will, of course, demand a big
slice, but tax revenues go quickly into
circulation.
The co.’s pound shares paid to 12s.
each, which rose from 295. 9d. a year ago
to 375. early in 1951, stood at 31s. 6d.
last week, giving a return of 5.7 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. distribution, or 4.5 p.c. on a 12
p.c. basis. The net tangible cover is
visibly 19s. lid.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends s
Pref.*
Mav, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Defieit.t
£ £ £ £
1944.. 31,242 3100 7fp.c.= 25,371 23,608
1945.. 31,660 3100 7| „ „ 25,371 20,419
1946.. 33,468 3100 73 „ „ 25,371 15,422
1947.. 34,018 8100 7J „ „ 25,371 9,875
1948.. 40,769 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 5,843
Reserves.
1949.. 46,192 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 3,612
1950.. 58,780 4000 12i „ „ 46,148 12,250
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . • ■ 7,250
1951.. 56,593 4000 10 p.c. = 36,918 22,925
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
t After deducting goodwill, £115,748.
The slip of £2193 in last term’s declared
net earnings was the first thing of its kind
since 1942. It was due to the sharp rise in
cost of production and distribution, which
outstripped the gain from expanding turn-
over. The £56,593 of profit covered the
prefs.’ full contract rates and 14.3 p.c. on
the £369,182 of ord. capital as against 14.8,
12.9, 11.2, 9.1 and 9 p.c. back to 1947.
And the figure was written after allowing
£21,241 (up £355) for depreciation and
something for taxation and other
contingencies—the possibility of heavier
Government bleeding, risks associated
with carrying large stocks of imported
raw materials, and the liability created by
the McGirr Government’s long-service
leave legislation were not overlooked.
Still, owing to the ugly spiralling of costs
and uncertainties connected with ship-
ments of linseed from abroad, the
cautious board dropped the 2\ p.c. bonus
sent out with the 10 p.c. div. in the pre-
vious year. The £15,675 of the year’s
profit that remained lifted the lay-by
£22,925 in excess of goodwill (£115,748).
The co.’s chief troubles since war ended
have been irregular supplies of linseed,
chiefly imported from India, and con-
sequent intermittent crushings at the
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane mills—last-mentioned only came
into commercial production in Sept.,
1950. Thus output of stockfoods (linseed-
cake and -nuts) and oil has been
irregular ; but the processing and packing
of imported oils have more than filled the
gap, as the steady advance in profits
shows. Demand for the oil, chiefly from
the hungry paint- and lino-manufacturing
industries, still exceeds supply, and the
stockfoods have long enjoyed a ready
market in dairying and pastoral circles.
Last term large quantities of crude
linseed-oil were again imported, and the
mills were kept running, thanks to the
co.’s large stock of seed, helped by a
small volume of home-grown linseed.
Supplies of imported seed contracted
sharply during the last half of the year,
and look like remaining scarce during the
current term. Local growers are await-
ing the result of a Tariff Board inquiry
into the industry before extending their
plantings.
Completion of the Brisbane mill was
mainly responsible for the net additions
of £21,976 to premises and £36,249 to
plant:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. . £367,369 £367,369 £409,182 £409,182
Sndy creditors* 730,312 564,560 1,400,7511,236,246
Overdraft .. 184,037 272,618
Staff fund .. 24,000 24,000 29,000 29,000
Deprec. reserve 196,919 232,106 251,637 270,867
Final divs. .. 22,501 22,501 29,689 20,459
Premises .. 112,675 118,264 136,267 158,243
Plant.. .. 250,980 255,124 292,865 329,114
Stocks .. 833,365 725,458 963,163 859,439
Book debts 146,714 219,209 240,654 246,998
Cash, etc. .. 175,561 168,710 494,559 398,884
Goodwill .. 115,748 115,748 115,748 115,748
* Includes suspense accounts.
The position in respect of linseed imports
shows up in contractions of £164,505 in
creditors, etc., of £103,724 in stocks and
of £95,675 in cash, etc. Despite the out-
lay on fixed assets, the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£219,616) was only £19,320
lighter.
When economic conditions permit, two
new factories —one at Melbourne and
another in S. Aus. —are to be erected.
Meanwhile the board has lifted nominal
capital to £1,000,000 by creation of
500,000 new £1 shares. During the stupid
“price-freeze” by the N.S.W. Government
the co. for a time sold oil in that State
at a loss, and then suspended deliveries.
However, the “freeze” has been removed,
an increase in selling-prices has been
approved to help offset the rising cost of
imports, and the co. is now trading under
normal conditions.
Anticipating its benefits, the market
lengthened its bid for the pound ords.
from 475. 6d. a year ago to 675. in Feb.,
1951. After recent sales at 575. 9d., sellers
asked 575. last week. The immediate
return at 575. is 3.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis the first prefs.
at 38s. 6d. and the seconds at 355. 9d.
yield 5.2 p.c. and 5.6 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £2l 12s. firsts, £2O
12s. seconds and 21s. 3d. ords.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off, Etc. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942 . . 24,141 20,000 2,500 1,641 285,185
1943 .. 25,940 20,000 2,500 3,440 288,625
1944 . . 26,612 20,000 2,500 4,112 292,737
1945 . . 24,304 20,000 2,500 1,804 294,541
124 p.c.
1946 .. 29,192 25,000 2,500 1,692 296.233
1947 . . 27,895 25,000 1,250 1,645 297,878
1948 .. 27,354 25,000 2,354 300,232
1949 . . 26,123 25,000 1,123 301,355
1950 . . 28,180 25,000 3,180 804,534
8 p.c.
1951 .. 17,973 16,000 1,973 306,507
Inflation, which in this case means the
relentless pressure of rising costs (chiefly
wages and salaries) against a ceiling of
fixed corpus and other commission
charges, has robbed scrip in these trustee
cos. of much of its former attractiveness
as an investment. And until the bill now
before the N.S.W. Parliament—which will
permit increased charges for handling
new estates —becomes law, costs can be
expected to go on gobbling the gains, and
possibly more besides, from an expanding
volume of business. And then much will
depend upon how soon inflation can be
halted and upon the rate of its growth
meanwhile.
What the bill fails to do, and what is
still needed, is to give trustees wider
powers to invest, with safeguards for both
preservation of principle and receipt of
reasonable income under the “prudent-
man” rule. With economic conditions
and the law as they are, preservation of
capital and provision of reasonable in-
come are, in many cases, virtually impos-
sible, unless the testator includes a clause
in his will giving the trustee power to
operate over a wider field than is pro-
vided in the list of legally authorised
securities. Hence the need for revision of
wills and inclusion therein of such a
provision.
The Perpetual is Australia’s largest
trustee co., and a very solid institution it
is, too. At June 30 last it had reserves of
£306,507 to support and assist the
£200,000 of paid capital. The amount of
new business entrusted to the co.’s care
during the year exceeded the value of
estates wound up by £1,497,865 :
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1939 ..£57,144,759 £178,385 £152,299 85.3
1946 .. 66,299,103 206,226 178,195 86.4
1947 .. 66,667,159 288,479 211,684 88.7
1948 .. 67,748,618 248,888 222,624 89.5
1949 .. 68,326,006 262,817 236,837 90.1
1950 . . 70,636,805 282,494 257,370 91.1
1951 .. 72,134,670 304,758 289,659 95.0
Income from all sources increased by
£22,264. But exes, (up £32,289) won the
race by £10,025, leaving the declared pro-
fit that much lighter at £15,099, or 7.5
p.c. on capital. The £17,973 of profit
shown in the introductory table includes
a net addition of £2874 to the corpus
commission reserve (now £150,525), which
is the unearned portion of corpus com-
missions. The £17,973 was approximately
9 p.c. on capital as against 14.1, 13, 13.6,
13.9 and 14.5 p.c. back to 1946. On
shareholders’ funds it was a mere 3.5 p.c.;
so it is doubtful whether there is any
profit at all in the trustee section of the
business under existing conditions. The
div., steady at 12} p.c. for the five pre-
ceding years, was cut back to 8 p.c.
The cut surprised the market. After
sales at 995. 6d. at July 31 (peak price
was 120 s. in Jan., 1951), sellers asked
85s. and buyers offered 755. last week. At
the middle price of 80s. the £5 shares
paid to £2 each —£5 of the other £8 is
callable only in event of liquidation-
return 4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Each variation of 1 p.c. in the div. would
affect the return by approximately 0.5
p.c. Net tangible cover is £5 Is. 3d.
When the books closed the capital, re-
serves and £53,493 coming to outsiders
were represented by premises, etc.,
£113,434, Government securities £236,784,
mortgages £109,547, book debts £3259
and cash, etc., £102,976.
Sydney Cotton Mills, Ltd.
To Re- Ee-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, senes.*
£ £ £
1943 .. 10,500 10 p.c. = 8,100 2,400 1,689
1944 .. 10,141 10 „ „ 8,100 2,041 3,730
1945 .. 9,968 10 „ „ 8,100 1,868 5,598
1946 . . 10,182 10 „ „ 8,100 2,082 7,680
1947 . . 10,164 10 „ „ 8,100 2,064 9,(44
Unexplained addition, £3Ol .. •• 10,045
1948 .. 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,100 2,037 12,082
Unexplained addition, £2BO .. .• 12,362
1949 .. 10-817 10 p.c. = 8,606 2,211 14,573
Assets revaluation reserve, £28,699 .. 43,2/-
Reserves capitalised, £28,569 .. .. 14,703
Profit sale -assets, £lO,lOO .. .. 24,803
From inner reserves, £3250 .. 28,053
1950 .. 11,040 10 p.c. = 8,606 2,434 30,487
1951 .. 14,814 10 „ „ 11,463 3,351 33,838
* After deducting intangibles (now £1000).
This little 13-year-old continues to
give a very good account of itself. It
turns out cotton-canvas, ducks, drills,


Telephones: B 9673, B 6232,
B 6130
Telegraphic Address
Corrientes, Brisbane
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Gorrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Coal..
MILLIONS OF. YEARS TO PRODUCE
Burned
a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
f
QI D
n
h
X
Longitudinal section
of High"
Head boiler unit
arranged for pul-
verised coal firing.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
BEAD OFFICE & WORKS - • REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agendas in all States
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notices.
t!Tthe"supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Tft WASSILI WAAPIL formerly of 43
Moore Park Road Paddington.-TAKE
NOTICE that ANNA WAAPIL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2493 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
19th day of November 1951 and obtain a
conv of the Petition without charge from
MESSIEURS E. R. TRACEY & CO..
Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
-j. DQUGHAN, Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND ROBINSON late of 37
Georgina Street Newtown N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that NORMA ROBINSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3221 of
1951 on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 19th day of
November 1951 and may obtain a copy of
the Petition free of charge from HUNT
& HUNT, Solicitors, 15 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Vuesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S, White; A, C. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone; BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN
EDITORS
Hi
it
H
He
IOOKEO SMART
ANO SOT
mm!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn't have to win her "by a whisker"... it was that
smooth, clean-shaven look. Your shave, too, will look good and
feel good with Palmolive the Shaving Cream that gives
better shaves to 3 men out of every 4. Here’s the proof:
1,251 men tried it . . . 81% reported "Beards easier to cut!’*
...76% said "Less razor pull”. ..71% said "Closer shaves”
... 80% found "Smoother feeling skin.” Judge it yourself.
Join the ranks of successful men. Get smoother, more
comfortable shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
ŵ
PS4/121
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN
LAWYERS
TOLD BY BELL’S
No. 2
T 3 Its
iJr
l_J
i
•s
\x«
Sivi' : x\
“Ting! Top!
Fluff!”
one SUNDAY more than two centuries
ago, a rich traveller was passing through
the village of Messingham, in the county
of Lincolnshire, England. He saw an
odd sight. Three men were sitting on the
churchyard stile, shouting “ Come to
church, Thompson! ” “ Come to church.
Brown!” “Come to church, Frazer!” The
traveller was naturally puzzled. It turned out that this was
of calling the village folk to worship—the church being too poor
to have bells. The rich traveller offered to pay for three bells, if the
three men would make them. The men were by trade tinker,
carpenter and shoemaker. Next time the traveller came that way,
the bells were ringing out. They rang “Ting! Tog! Fluff!
because they were made, by the three respective craftsmen, of
tin, wood and leather.
Talking of bells, when you want a smooth, mature Scotch
Whisky—ring for BelTs, the good old whisky!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Distilled and blended by
ARTHUR BELL & SONS LTD.,
Distillers, of Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
a rone
GO -
leatem gp
ow
jeans, etc., from a modern and
well - equipped factory at
Marrickville (N.S.W.). Last term
new plant, ordered from over-
seas some time ago, arrived, and
no time was lost in putting it to
work. A ready market awaited
the increased output, and, after
allowing £6OOO (up £1000) for
depreciation and something for
taxation, etc., net earnings
.j t 9 A 1 •
stepped up by £3774, reaching
£14,814. That was 12.9 p.c. on
capital; the ratio has varied
little either side of 12y p.c. over
the last nine years.
During this period share-
holders have had a steady 10
p.c., sweetened with a cash issue
of 20,250 new £1 ords. at par in
1948 (there is still £15,187 of the
money at call) and with £28,569
of bonus scrip during the 1950
term. The gift was provided by
writing up the book-value of
land and buildings by £28,699,
following an independent valua-
tion.
Balance-sheet figures reflect
increased productive capacity,
full benefits of which have not
yet been felt, and bigger trad-
ing:
1949. 1950 1951.
creditors, etc.'* 9)772 16,707 29)711
Final divs - • • 4 >3os 4,303 5,731
p[ant, ol etc. etc ‘ 21 tlr io.’iss 34)452
stocks ’ .'.' 74,’6i7 42,’i73 ss.’ego
debtors •• 16 ’ 33 * 32,074
Cash, etc. .. 20 30,10 l 20
intangibles .. 1,000 1,000 1.000
* includes provision for taxation.
To meet the year’s net additions
of £46,517 to stock, £14,964 to
plant and £12,857 to book debts
the co. drew upon cash, etc., for
£30,131, went to its bankers for
£26,024 and increased the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc., by £13,004. The drop
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£59,318) was only £11,213.
More plant is expected to arrive
from overseas shortly, and it
might not be long before the
15s. a share now at call on the
contribs. is asked for.
The trade outlook is one of
expanding demand, on both
commercial and defence account,
which should keep local mills
fully employed at their expanded
capacity. On the other hand,
these mills are unable to buy
dollar cotton direct from U.S.,
and therefore have to obtain
their raw materials (which are
in short supply) at inflated prices
from the sterling area. At the
same time their own operating
costs continue to spiral, and
selling-prices are controlled.
With the reappearance of
Japanese and German competi-
tion imminent, the question of
adequate tariff protection for the
infant Australian cotton-manu-
facturing industry looks like
soon becoming a much more
important question than it has
been of recent years.
The market expresses its faith
in the Tariff Board and the
management by pricing the f.-p.
pound shares at 41s. 6d. (395. 6d.
a year ago), returning 4.8 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. Last sale
of the contribs. was at 20s. some
months ago, making total cost
355. when fully paid. Including
uncalled capital, net tangible
cover is 255. 3d. per share.
New Occidental Gold, which
owns three mines at Cobar
(N.S.W.) and is the biggest gold-
copper producer in the State, re-
ports a profit of £82,657 (down
£13,439), or 19 p.c. on the
£435,194 of capital for the year
to June 3 last. Rising costs and
a drop in the grade of mill-feed
were the troubles. On the New
Occidental lease 96,696 tons (up
4297 tons) ore were treated for
25,0060 z. (down 54370 z.) fine
gold, and on the Chesney 52,863
tons (up 1034 tons) ore yielded
30030 z. (down 184 oz.) fine gold
and 788 tons (down 30 tons)
copper. Also, 26700 z, fine gold
was recovered from 60,886 tons
slimes, treatment of which be-
gan a year or so ago. Interest
now centres mainly in the big
drilling campaign to test down-
ward continuation of the ore-
bodies in the area. So far two
holes have been drilled on the
Great Cobar leases. No. 256
showed traces of gold and zinc
and patches of payable copper
between 2500 ft. and 3000 ft. It
bottomed at 3118 ft., having in-
tersected a further 28ft. of cop-
per and 10ft. of lead-zinc ore for
which assays are not yet avail-
able. Hole No. 257 was discon-
tinued at 2659 ft., because it
drifted too close to No. 256.
More will be heard about the
co.’s activities at the annual
meeting later in the month.
* * * *
After four years’ unsuccessful
struggle to extract profits from
a heap of old tailings on the
Ingliston Consols and Fenian
leases (W.A.), Meekatharra
Sands Treatment, N.L., is about
to give up the ghost. High
costs, difficulties associated with
treatment and recoveries and
financial indigestion were the
co.’s chief troubles. Operations
ceased in April last, the loss for
the year being £4635, and the
plant has been on a care-and-
maintenance basis since. There
is £23,473 coming to outsiders,
and current assets total £2097.
Creditors agreed to withhold
claims for payment until the end
of last month.


m.
X
wm.
PSO/52
GOLD DREDGING
Gold dredges perform on a large scale the
functions of the simple dish used by
prospectors to separate alluvial gold from
earth and stones. Gold dredging has been
successful in many parts of Australia and
particularly in New Zealand, where more
gold is produced by dredging than by all
other methods.
For more than 100 years, the Bank of
Australasia has been steadily extending its
banking service in all fields of commercial
enterprise. Today, the Bank’s organization
of nearly 400 Branches and Agencies
provides comprehensive banking facilities
throughout Australia and New Zealand,
and in Fiji.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Limited
shortly to be merged with The Union Bank of
Australia Limited in
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and
in Fiji and London. Agents and Correspondents
throughout the World.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Weak Sharemarket
Though sharemarkets generally
continue weak, there is no clear-
cut issue before the investor.
Inflation (as revealed in the fall-
ing buying-power of money) has
not yet been checked. The cost-
of-living continues to rise. The
Commonwealth bond market
remains weak. And, on the
other hand, a number of indus-
trial companies this year have at
last increased their dividend
distributions. John Mcllwraith
(Melbourne), Electricity Meter
(Sydney) and Frederic Ash
(Newcastle) are cases in point.
The investor’s old problem
remains—what to do with the
proceeds even if he realises on
his industrial investments. The
majority of post-war investors
have bought industrial equities
with the idea of protecting their
money from inflation; it has
been expressing itself in the fall-
ing buying-power of money.
Their aim has generally been
achieved.
A good deal of the selling
taking place now is being done
by speculators rather than inves-
tors In addition to those people
who were interested in invest-
ment from the point of view of
long-term protection of savings
there have been those who, with
little in the way of capital, have
been attracted to the Stock
Exchanges by the steady rise in
prices that occurred during 1950
and the early part of this year.
These speculators have probably
found it difficult to face the set-
back to wool prices and share
prices with equanimity, and may
be reckoned prominent among
the sellers of shares at lower
figures now. Turnover, however,
has been comparatively light
during the past few weeks of
weakness, by contrast with heavy
trading while the market was on
the way up.
The sharp decline in many
quotations on Friday last ap-
peared to have a direct relation
to reports from the woolselling
centres, which suggested still-
lower prices, and to Britain’s
financial difficulties. But esti-
mates of the proceeds from this
year’s clip still indicate prospects
of the second-best wool-cheque
on record.
However, the reverse already
experienced has been enough to
startle many people who could
see no end to the wool boom.
The reaction among these people
was bound to be severe, and its
repercussions may continue for
some time. The trouble about
prices for a commodity like wool
is that they are based on world
conditions, and make no allow-
ance for our own inflation in
costs. Whereas our own manu-
factured goods may be assured
of a protected market within
Australia, our export surpluses
of land products are subject to
fluctuations in world prices,
which recently have suffered a
general setback.
Wool has taken a very heavy
fall by comparison with its post-
war peak, and there is reason to
believe that it will stabilise
before long. At around its
present price it is still profitable.
But the bubble of easy money
has been pricked, and reactions
are bound to be felt throughout
industry.
Essential industry has a very
great amount of work still to
do, and is likely to be little
affected by the price of wool in
the long run. Our chief problem
in the construction trades
remains the supply of labor and
raw materials, and a shakeout
in the economy might assist in
a diversion of those supplies
to where Jhey are most
urgently needed. Brought face
to face with disinflated realities,
it might be easier to get a com-
monsense approach to the
problems of industry by indus-
trial tribunals, Cabinet Ministers,
departmental officials and trade-
unionists.
The factors mainly necessary
to promote still higher industrial
prosperity in Australia are, more
than a return to record wool
prices, an increased man-hour
working output and a more
'wsxtnt ~
bn, ??**
seci/nny
Imam
"Will you give me a fiver. Dad, just to prove to the other
boys that you DO Work in a bank?”
equitable attitude on the part of
price-controllers and taxation
authorities.
Subject to any shocks that may
come towards the end of the
month from the Fadden Budget,
the market at its present level
is worthy of selective investiga-
tion for long-term investment.
“Money-inflation Ending ?”
A prophet, in the shape of
Latham Withall, director of the
Associated Chambers of Manu-
factures, Canberra, has arisen
among us:
Further proof that something like
the end of money inflation has already
occurred js afforded by the opening
wool-sales.
It now becomes clear that very
much more money will be going out
of Australia during 1951-52 to pay
for imports than will be coming into
Australia from the gale of exports.
In the course of the past three
months the fall in value of exports
indicates that Australian income from
external trade will be reduced by
40 p.c. from last year. In terms of
cash this will mean that there will be
about £350 million less real money in
the Australian economy next year.
The story of too much money chasing
too few goods will then be in reverse.
While money inflation is ending or
has ended, cost inflation will continue
for some months because of the
momentum behind the automatic
“wage-plus” system and because retail
prices are always some months behind
wholesale prices.
Costs and wages should level out
early in 1952 unless other factors
intervene to prevent this happening.
Such factors could be increased taxa-
tion on incomes and commodities and
interference with civilian production
by Government controls. Any of
these things would increase the cost
of living and so continue indefinitely
the period of cost-of-living inflation.
Mr. Withall has been strongly
opposed to revaluation of the
pound as well as to the shape
the Government's defence and
economic controls have been
taking.
Taxation and Inflation
The only things to be queried
about proposals for higher
Federal taxation are whether the
expenditure for which the taxa-
tion is proposed to be levied
is justified, and whether the taxa-
tion takes the right form and
follows the right scale.
It is certain that we could well
do without a number of our civil
servants, and that a proportion
of our social-security commit-
ments are completely out-of-
season in this period of low man-
hour production. There are
doubtless many departmental
economies that can be made; also
national works like the Snowy
Mountains project are costing
us a great deal more money
than is really necessary.
But, having taken all these
things into consideration, as well
as the fact that defence com-
mitments are of major import-
ance at the present time, any
likely Budget revenue deficit can
only legitimately be covered in
one way, and that is by increased
taxation. Reproductive national
works can be safely financed out
of loans, but not defence expen-
diture.
In short, with expenditure
reduced to a minimum, defence
and similar costs can only be
met with safety out of taxation.
Amazing as it may seem, many
people appear already to have
forgotten that our present infla-
tion had its beginnings in the
bank-credit Budget finance of
the 1939-45 war. We did not
pay for our World War II ex-
penditure fully in tax, and the
deficit was covered by the Gov-
ernment discounting Treasury
hills with the Commonwealth
Bank, by the investment of
savings-bank funds in Govern-
ment loans and by direct invest-
ment in loans by the public.
The special distinction about
war (or defence) expenditure
which makes it so inflationary,
and which requires that the
greatest possible proportion of
it be met out of taxation, is that
it is waste in the economic
sense. As waste, it represents
an economic tax on the resources
of the community, and should,
as far as possible, be treated
financially as a tax.
It is highly inflationary to
create credit upon a basis of
waste. And defence expenditure
inevitably means that large sums
are paid out to the public for
wages and materials which (the
payments) become surplus
spending-power, since defence
production is not available
(unlike consumer goods) for
purchase by the public which
has been receiving the money.
Hence the necessity for draining-
off as much surplus spending-
power as possible by way of
taxation, and which, after all,
means no more than tackling
the problem with realism.
Treasurer Fadden has yet to
present his Budget. It may have
many defects —even major de-
fects. But there is nothing
wrong with the principle of pay-
ing for defence expenditure to
the fullest possible extent out of
taxation. And that is especially
so during a boom period.
The form and scale of taxa-
tion are important, as already
mentioned. Companies, as com-
panies, are already overtaxed,
and not nearly enough con-
sideration is being given to
depreciation provision. The re-
tention of profits by companies
for industrial expansion should
be encouraged, not otherwise.
Our industrial assets, on a
national basis, are inadequate for
our needs, and need nursing and
building up.
In times like the present the
public needs to give the Govern-
ment every consideration in its
problems. But, by the same
token, the Treasurer and his
advisers need to be fair, even if
necessarily firm, with the public.
The Federal Budget today is


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
&
JACKSON $
OSUMJVAX
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28K), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice -Cb a * )•
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
HENSON’S AERIAL
STEAM CARRIAGE 1842.
Construction : Monoplane of conventional rib and spar construction, wire-braced to
kingposts. Pivoted tailplanc and vertical rudder, both controlled from passenger
cabin. Sprung tricycle undercarriage.
Dimensions : Span 150 ft., chord 30 ft. Wing loading i lb. per sq. ft. All-up
weight 3,000 lb. Power Plant : 25 h.p. steam engine weighting 22 lb. per h.p.
Airscrews : Two 2-bladcd pusher airscrews.
Performance : Designed for the “Aerial Steam Navigation Co.” but never built,
Hensons’ aircraft was intended for passenger and mail services from London to
India and China.
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing
fuelling service symbolised by the green
and yellow colours of the
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO., LTD.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
IY APPOINIMINT
ẃ
ARPAIH TOBACCO CO. LTD SWE (W>R£SS CIGARETTE MANUFACTURERS TO H.M. KING GEORGE M
k
tmmm
f) f) f) J ~ y/^/</
State Express 555*s are made especially for smokers
who demand that extra touch of quality.
Made slowly, and with particular care, from their
own blend of finest Virginia Toba*cqps. State Express 555 Cigarettes
maintain their fine reputation established for over 50 years-
S?qte(2pr£sssss
(THREE FIVES)
Mode famous hy tfie House of State Express
879 C-8.81
PICCADILLY LONDON
so large that it exercises a great
sway over the entire economy
of the country, and it needs to
be finely adjusted in order to
achieve the most from a Trea-
sury point of view with the least
possible disturbance to the indus-
trial machine from which all our
economic motive-power derives.
Sir Arthur Fadden will be
foolish if he is advised wholly
by his departmental heads. Some
of them are indoctrinated Social-
ists, inherited from the Chifley
Government. ' And others are
too concerned with the domestic
problems of their own depart-
ments to be able to take the
broad national view of things.
Roma Oil
F. B. Menadue (Vic.) writes,
in part:
The Bulletin, through “Petro” (B.
29/8/’5l), has made another attack
on the search for oil at Roma. With
due regard for the healthy Australian-
ism that The Bulletin has mani-
fested, this is unfortunate. If “Petro”
would take the trouble to contact any
■authoritative Government Geological
Department and find out the facts
as to the Shell Co.’s “ 10,000-foot”
bore, and the depth and number of
its scout-bores, he would hesitate to
commit himself to the assertion that
because the Shell Co. left Queensland
there is no oil in commercial quan-
tities in Roma or its vicinity.
He should know that it is possible
to spend a lot of money on the search
for oil but have bad fortune. It
should be known that in Alberta,
Canada, despite a galaxy of geological
talent, oil was eventually found from
an “outsider” bore, or, as it is some-
times called, a “wild-cat” bore. Shell
had no evidence of oil such as Roma
(over 100 miles away) has had. Oil
has been found at Roma. Shell has
had no information other than by a
geological search.
“Petro” appears to think he really
has something to bolster up his case
against Roma in his statement that
the Roma companies have reported
that further seismic research is to be
undertaken in the 200-mile permit
No. 678. Here, again, if “Petro” will
take the trouble to make some
inquiries he will find that in the
country of most advanced oil investi-
gation, America, at Oklahoma, seismic
investigation of an area is sometimes
made several times owing to the
nature of the country, and, of course,
the intricacies of the research. A
hundred. thousand pounds spent this
way can soon save a million in boring
and delay in finding and completing
the establishment of the field as a
producer.
I write as a layman, an Australian
who takes up the attitude that “if
oil is in Australia we must find it.”
I assume The Bulletin has the same
viewpoint, and believes it sound that,
especially after consideration of the
many millions of pounds spent on
lotteries, the racecourse and other
avenues of waste, a few hundred thou-
sand spent on a drilling campaign on
an area showing the prospects and
geological indications of Roma is
plain commonsense.
Exit Lakes Entrance
“Petro”: Twenty-seven years
after the sinking of the “dis-
covery” well six miles from
Lakes Entrance (Victoria) in
East Gippsland, and following
upon a sustained effort so per-
sistent that it can be described
as courageous, the only field
which has ever produced a
measurable quantity of natural
crude petroleum on the Aus-
tralian mainland has closed
down, the value of the oil pro-
duced not having covered opera-
tional expenses.
This production has, indeed,
been small, for only on very
rare occasions did any single
well achieve a sporadic yield of
a barrel a day, which is the
smallest unit in which crude oil
is normally measured.
In all, about 100 bores for oil
have been drilled in Gippsland,
and few of them have exceeded
1500 ft. in depth. Of these wells,
about 50 were sunk by small
private companies, the most
active, of which was the Austral
Oil Drilling Syndicate ; this co.
produced most of the oil
marketed. The remaining bores
were drilled at the public
expense and under Govern-
mental guidance, but yielded
practically no oil.
The petroleum occurs, with
water, in a glauconitic sand-
stone of Oligocene age, deposited
in two restricted depressions in
the continental portion of the
Australian basal complex. It
carries no gas in solution, and
production is therefore small in
amount, and represents only a
negligible proportion of the
commercially non-recoverable
oil which exists in the deposit.
As a result of the difficult
petroleum position in 1941, the
Commonwealth brought in a
U.S. technician to advise on
means of increasing production.
He recommended, after a very
short examination, that a shaft
should be sunk to the oil-sand
and that, from a chamber in this
sand, about 20 bores should be
drilled radially just abrve the
oil-water contact for a distance
of approximately 2500 ft. each.
Work on the shaft was started
late in 1941, but it was still un-
finished in 1946 —long after the
urgency for an indigenous
supply of oil had passed, and in
spite of the fact that the Federal
and Victorian Governments had,
between them, contributed
£200,000 as well as technical
help to the project.
Tests carried out at the bottom
of the uncompleted shaft, which,
with a winze, had reached a
depth of 1212 ft, showed that a
horizontal bore driven for r3oft.
in the sand was producing rather
less than a pint in four days for
every foot drilled in the sand.
This was obviously a completely
uneconomic figure, and the pro-
perties and equipment were
handed back to the Austral Oil
Drilling Syndicate, whose direc-
tors then registered a company,
under the name of Lakes Oil,
Ltd., with the object of complet-
ing the work carried out by the
Government.
This co. had a nominal capital
of £200,000, which was increased
to £1,000,000 in 1949, at which
time the production was stated
to range from 175 to 250
barrels of crude petroleum per
month. This production, even
if considerably increased, was
unlikely to cover the most
stringently reduced working
expenses.
The immediate reason for the
winding-up of Lakes Oil, Ltd.,
was the refusal of the Govern-
ment to provide a further
subsidy.
Protected Industries
Next to the waterfront vol-
cano, which is boiling up again,
the most burning issue in New
Zealand today is tariff protection
versus import - rationing, and
there’ll be a lot of hubbub about
it before Maoriland settles the
matter. The “free-enterprise”
goal is a tariff that will do the
job without quotas, and the
Socialists’ target is full-blown
licensing. M.L. is now midway
between the two, and is being
pulled both ways.
Maorilanders know what the
Socialists’ world is like, after ten
years of costly, slow, pinprick-
ing red-tape, but they’ve for-
gotten how it feels to have the
doors open and imports flowing
freely as in the old days.
Professor J. B. Condliffe, who
doesn’t admire quantitative re-
strictions, says in The Commerce
of Nations (just off the press)
that “a tariff has to be very
severe to produce the restrictive
effects of import quotas,” and
“a network of Government inter-
vention is woven which insulates
domestic prices from foreign
competition.” The whole pattern
of production in a closed, or
partly-closed, economy, as he sees
it, is divorced from competitive
tests of efficiency and becomes
only a caricature.
This isn’t flattering to the M.L.
system the Socialists tried to per-
fect, but there are manufacturers,
above all the younger fry, who
think they couldn’t thrive in any
other kind of world. To show
they don’t speak for the crowd,
although they make the most
noise, president D. V. Wilson, of
N.Z.’s Manufacturers’ Federa-
tion, has now come out openly in
support of the Board of Trade,
which has been working for a
year and a half to make a clean
sweep of import controls, and
get back to tariffs.
The board’s big test will be its
performance in defeating dump-
ing, and it is ready to learn from
Australia.


The Letter of Rachel Henning
Introduction
npHESE letters begin in 1853, when Bid-
dulph, Rachel Henning’s only brother
(then 19, and “delicate”),
and her sister Annie (23) sailed for Aus-
tralia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great
Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta
(“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851)
and Amy were thus separated, for the
time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed
from England to Biddulph and Annie in
Australia. She moved around from one
part of England to another, spending
her time agreeably with some of her
numerous relatives, and keeping Bid-
dulph and Annie in Australia informed
of family, social and political doings in
Britain.
In August, 1 854, Rachel and her sister
Amy, with their cousin, Tregenna Bid-
dulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta.
They reached Melbourne on October 1 5
and landed in Sydney on October 22.
Six days later Rachel and Amy went to
Appin, in N.S.W., where her brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev.
Sparling. Rachel soon became very un-
happy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas
Sloman, of Bathurst, in September, 1855,
and while Biddulph was establishing a new
place on Bulli Mountain, Rachel decided
to return to England, where she arrived
in October, 1856. She left Amy, Annie
and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends
and relatives in England, during which
period Tregenna returned home to marry,
prior to settling on the Shoalhaven,
Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great
Britain for Australia on February 17,
1861. On her arrival she started pre-
parations to go to Queensland, where her
brother Biddulph was preparing to leave
Marlborough, near Rockhampton, for a
large selection in new country near what
is now called Bowen.
This is the sixth instalment of the
letters.
Bathurst,
July 20, 1861.
My Dearest Ella,
July 3. 1 am beginning my
letter very early this month as
1 have a good many to write, and
I think your way of writing by
degrees is a very good one. I
am still at Bathurst and likely
to be so for some time to come,
as I do not suppose Biddulph’s
house will be finished till the
end of August or beginning of
September.
1 had a very nice letter from
Annie a few days ago, in which
she says that the framework is
up and two carpenters constantly
employed upon it, that it is to
be a nine-roomed house with
two sitting-rooms, five bedrooms
and office for Biddulph and a
store-room. I suppose also that
it will have windows, but of
these I have not heard yet. I
expect it will be a very com-
fortable abode, and I hope it
will be done before the very hot
weather comes on. lam looking
forward to some rides and some
gardening; they say English
flowers do not grow very well
there, but flowers of some sort
must; at all events I shall try
them.
Annie seems to like the sort of
life she leads very much, and to
be very busy. She says she does
something in' the way of cook-
ing every day and also makes
her bed, etc. I cannot exactly
see the necessity of this last
operation, as if 'you have a
servant she may as well do the
work herself. But the Australian
servants are very bad in general.
She says she does not ride much,
&s Biddulph has not time to ride
with her often and she does not
like riding alone.
When I am up there, I hope
we shall ride every day. Mr.
George Hedgeland is up there
now. Annie says he is rather
pleasant and gentlemanly, more
so than the others. I daresay
you will remember him. Amy
says I have seen him, but I have
not the smallest recollection of
him. Perhaps Annie will write
by this mail herself however,
and tell you all the Marlborough
news, so I will return to
Bathurst.
We went to the Subscription
Ball on the 20th of last month
and were very well amused, for
two or three hours ; we came
home about 1 a.m. There is a
very good ballroom here, and it
was very tastefully dressed up.
Some of the colonial girls are
excessively pretty, while they are
very young—such complexions
as you hardly ever see.
There certainly is a curious
state of society here. The
richest man in the district, who
was the chief steward of the ball,
and who was so good as to
escort Amy into the room, met
with “misfortune” many years
ago, and was transported for
life for horse-stealing. That was
in the palmy days of the colony,
and he soon made a fortune, got
first a conditional pardon, then
a free one and now is a great
man here!
We are having an exceedingly
cold winter for Australia, and
when it is cold you feel it more
here than at home, as there is
less protection from it, the wood
fires are not so warm as coal
ones, and the houses are built
for warm weather. They say
the seasons generally follow
England: that when there is a
severe winter there we have a
severe one here afterwards, and
you know how wet last summer
W'as at home, and the past
summer in Australia was just
the same.
Baby has taken to crawl, and
of course makes himself as black
as possible. He is a dear little
fellow, very lively and full of
fun, and getting to that lament-
able age when he takes up every-
thing he sees and proceeds to
eat it, so that Amy lives in a
constant state of terror lest he
should choke. If he is playing
with ever so large a thing she
labors under an idea that he
might swallow it—a silver
spoon, for instance, or a brass
candlestick, which he got
possession of yesterday.
Another great fear of hers is
the well in the backyard. It is
covered with a heavy door,
which I do not think they, the
children, could possibly lift, as
I cannot, but it is only since 1
have been here that they have
gone out to play in the paddock
at all, and we keep a very sharp
lookout after them. The most
objectionable things in the
paddock to my mind are the
“Bathurst-burrs,” which are a
real nuisance.
Amy got the fringe of her
shawl full of them the other day,
and it took her the whole even-
ing to pick them out. It is not an
indigenous plant, but was intro-
duced from Valparaiso in the
wool of some sheep that were
imported. Now it has spread
everywhere in this district, and
is an awful nuisance to the wool-
growers, as it spoils the fleece.
Another unlucky importation
was the Scotch thistle, which a
patriotic Scotch lady near here
planted in her garden and which,
like most of its compatriots,
took so kindly to the country
that it grows everywhere. The
paddock is half-full of it. We
have, also, rather too much of
even such a good thing as sweet
briar. My friend Mrs. Ranken
first planted it about twenty
years ago, and it has spread so
on her land that some of her
paddocks are a mere jungle of
sweet briar. It must be lovely
when in flower, but is not exactly
“adapted to the wants” of sheep
and cattle, and it is extremely
difficult to extirpate. However,
I have not taken warning, but
have collected some seeds to
sow at Marlborough. I saw it
growing wild in the bush as I
came up to Bathurst, and
rejoiced greatly, as it is the only
approach we have in this country
to wild roses.
I was looking in my diary
this morning to see what I was
doing at home this day year,
July 3, and it was the day when,
after waiting a long time for a
fly in which we were to take a
drive, and that did not come,
you and I took little Constance
through the avenue to a field
beyond, where we got a quantity
of wild roses and then we went
on to a hay field and sat in the
hay. I remember it so well and
“A highly useful article for a general servant.”
how pleasant it was. I daresay
you have been to the same place
with the children this year.
July 11, We have just got the
telegram from St. George’s
Sound with the English news,
We shall get the letters, I sup-
pose, in about a week, though
I am terribly afraid mine may
have been directed to Marl-
borough, as of course, you never
thought of my staying here so
long. There is no very remark-
able news except that the
Southerners appear to be getting
rather the worst in the American
contest, and that the Princess
Alice is betrothed to Prince
Louis of Hesse, and the Marco
Polo has run on an iceberg on
her homeward voyage and has
put in to Valparaiso much
damaged.
This is one of the cold, wet
days of which we have had a
great many lately. Most serious
of all, the road to Sydney is all
but impassable, the mail comes
in later every night, and it is
expected that it will be shortly
swallowed up altogether in the
morass it has to go through at
the foot of Mount Lambie.
Yesterday it cleared up in the
morning, and, as we wanted
something in Bathurst, and the
children had not had a walk for
a long time, we thought we
would take them into the town,
which is about half a mile off,
but we had no idea of what the
mud was like, and they were
soon over their goloshes and
plastered up to their knees;
However, we persevered till
we got to the great square. The
middle of it looked tolerably
dry, but before us was such a
morass that after Annie had
stuck in the mud and lost her
golosh and been only extricated
by the assistance of a passer-by,
and Amy had got nearly up to
her ankles in the attempt, and
Constance had roared under the
impression that she was going
to be then and there buried
alive, we thought that perhaps
we had better turn back, which
we did, and were very glad to
get the children safe home again,
making a great many vows that
they should only go on the hills
and never on the roads till the
weather was better.
Pavements and causeways are
things unknown in Bathurst,
and, as the roads are never
mended, you may imagine what
it is like when it does rain. For-
tunately there is very little wet
weather in this part of the
country.
One evening last week Mr.
Sloman brought home two
gentlemen to tea, one of whom
was a Mr. Millar, of the Sydney
Mint, rather a clever, agreeable
man. I mention it to tell you of
a very curious specimen of
Chinese ingenuity which he
showed us—a sample of what
looked like very fine “nuggety”
gold, which they had manufac-
tured out of copper, mixed with
gold and which was so like the
real thing that they had taken
in a great many of the Sydney
storekeepers till the imposition
was detected at the Mint.
He showed us that it is burnt
green under a blowpipe, which
was almost the only way of
detecting it. He was here on
some Mint business, and was
seized upon by some Bathurst
gentlemen to go and see a
copper-mine, which they fancy
they have discovered, about
twenty miles from here and
which they are all crazy about.
Mr. Sloman has a share or two
in it. I believe Mr. Millar said
there was plenty of copper there,
but he doubted if it would pay
to smelt and send it home. 1
never have the smallest faith
myself in fortunes to be made
out of the “Peruvian mines.”
Those Chinese are dreadful
rascals, though I do not think
they ought to be treated as they
have lately been by the mob at
Lambing Flat diggings. There
are lots of them in Bathurst.
We met some the other day,
evidently newly-arrived from
China, with broad flat hats with
a little point in the middle, like
ancient shields, and carrying their
property slung at each end of a
stick and balanced over their
shoulders, exactly like the little
men crossing the bridge in the
willow-pattern plates.
July 19. By this mail we
heard of the safe arrival of the
Duncan Dunbar, in which the
Tuckers went home, after a very
long voyage. I dare say you
soon received Annie’s and Bid-
dulph’s likenesses, and if they
are as good as those they sent
Amy, I am sure you must be
pleased with them. Biddulph
looks quite handsome, and
Annie’s is a very pleasing like-
ness, far better than the one she
sent me. She appears hardly
altered at all, and, where she is,
has only for the better.
Just about this time, also, you
will get my first letters. I wished


* The accepted discoverer was
Charles Whalan.
I could put myself into the
envelopes.
1 quite hope and believe that
I shall return home some day,
though it may not be just yet.
1 always look forward to it when
1 think of the future and per-
haps living, if not with you, near
you somewhere and Constance
and Leighton being very fond of
their old auntie. But it is in
better hands than ours, dear, and
we will leave it there. It is
enough that we are sure to meet
again, I trust. What a difference
that makes. I have never
regretted having come as I used
to fear I should. I think it was
right and best, and there really
is a great deal that is pleasant
in this country when one is
willing to see it, though I can
never understand people liking
it better than dear old England.
I should like to go to those
church defence meetings with
you. They would be very good
things out here, where dissent is
very rampant. I have taken to
going to church once on a Sun-
day, as some old Sydney friends
have offered me a seat, and Amy
has gone several times with me.
I went by myself last Sunday
morning, it being the Sacrament
Sunday here and heard really a
very nice sermon from Mr.
Sharpe.
All the people in Bathurst
have lately been going to see
some wonderful caves that have
been discovered about fifty miles
from here. Mr. Brady, one of
Mr. Sloman’s partners, first
made them known many years
ago ; he was out after a noted
bushranger, and he tracked him
to the entrance of these caves.*
They are said to be most magni-
ficent, running for an immense
way under the mountain, and
some of them are so large that
there is no roof to be seen. In
one part they slope down to a
subterranean river, but they are
of unknown extent and have
never been thoroughly explored.
Some of them are full of the
most beautiful stalactites.
Several parties have been
formed to go and visit them,
and the week before last Mrs.
Machattie, the doctor’s wife
here, got up a party of twenty-
seven, chiefly young ladies, to
go and see them. They all rode,
as there is no road for any
vehicle, and took three pack-
horses with provisions, and each
carried a blanket for a bed. The
journey took two days each way,
and when they got there they
camped in the outermost cave,
where a tent was pitched for the
ladies and the gentlemen slept
round the fire. They were out
exactly a week and enjoyed
themselves exceedingly.
Besides the wonderful caves,
they say that the mountain
scenery out there is most wild
and beautiful. Mrs. Machattie
asked me to go, and Mr. Sloman
said he would get me a horse and
saddle, but though such an
expedition would have been
delightful with one’s own
people, as the Irish say, I did
not care to go with strangers.
We went to hear a lecture on
Astronomy, which was given in
the courthouse here.
The subject was
“Comets” (“C um -
mats,” as pro-
nounced by the lec-
turer), He was
mounted on a sort
of platform while
the audience sat in
the gallery. We be-
took ourselves to the
jury-box. A most
uncomfortable seat,
built, I should think,
to produce short ver-
dicts, and some little
boys looked through
the bars intended for
the prisoner. We sat
in the dark, as the
lecture was illustrated
by a magic-lantern
which presented
comets of portentous
appearance and
gigantic tails, career-
ing about among the
planets in a most un-
pleasant manner.
The lecture was
rather amusing,
though I regret to
say that a gentleman
seated near me went
to sleep in the middle
of the Ptolemaic sys-
tem and snored
audibly. The room
was very full, and it
is a good thing that
the colonial mind
should be informed
that there are things
in earth and heaven besides
money-getting and the price of
hides and tallow. I was amused
to see that the English telegram
this month was half taken up
with the “firmness” or “depres-
sion” of those savory articles;
wool, of course, is another
matter, as Biddulph “grows” it.
With best love to yourself,
Mr. Boyce and the darlings.
Ever, dearest Etta, your most
affectionate sister.
Rachel Henning.
Bathurst,
September 10, 1861.
My Dearest Etta,
We heard from Annie again
on the 2nd of this month, and
their plans seem now to be
pretty well decided: namely,
that Biddulph, directly after
Christmas, must go out to see
his new station on the Bowen,
and from thence to Port
Denison, and that, at the same
time that he goes, Annie will
come down to Sydney, where I
suppose she will spend three or
four months; that Biddulph will
then come down to fetch her,
and then (“if nothing unforeseen
occurs,” as Grandpapa used to
say) we shall all go back to
Marlborough together, some
time next winter.
But this latter move seems so
distant that I do not think much
about it. I believe the only way
is to live on in the present from
day to day, and do what is to be
done and enjoy what it to be
enjoyed, and there really is
plenty of both here.
Amy and I walk most days,
and lately we have taken to
gardening. There is a large
green paddock round the house
with a wooden paling to fence it
off from the hill; and after a
great many wishes that we had
a garden, we one day got a line
and marked out a long border at
the top of the paddock under
the fence.
Mr. Sloman was incited to dig
it up before breakfast in the
mornings, instead of walking on
the hill. I raked it over, and a
benevolent lady gave us a
quantity of plants and cuttings.
which we planted. By dint of a
good deal of watering and shad-
ing, they are growing very well,
and we have now a beginning
of a garden. It is a very good
time for sowing seeds, and I
shall put in some as soon as Mr.
Sloman has dug up some more
of the border. Unfortunately all
those I brought from England
are packed up in a box at
Sydney, but I believe we can buy
them here. I have a box of
scarlet geranium and petunia
cuttings outside my window
“Bella and I perched on the edge of the punt”
which will come in for planting-
out bye and bye.
Scarlet verbena grows like a
weed here and lives out all the
winter; so will most of the
English greenhouse plants, with
very little shelter. A beautiful
garden might be made round the
house as there is so much land
to it, and the paddock is so green
and so thick with clover that it
would make a pretty lawn near
the house, but it is not worth
while to have much done to a
house not your own. A gardener
charges 10s. a day for his work,
but if we can raise a few flowers
ourselves, it will be worth all
the trouble.
It is quite warm now, as warm
as many English summer days.
All the gardens about us are full
of peach- and willow-trees, and
the light green of the willows
and the masses of peach-blossom
look so very pretty together.
The paddocks are full of clover,
and the flowers are beginning to
come out in the bush ; the yellow
wattle is beautiful, and there are
some pretty little white shrubs
like heaths in flower,
I must tell you about the drive
for which the children endured
their new frocks. It took place
on September 6, Amy’s wedding-
day, when we “did
repair,” not in a
chaise and pair but
in a dogcart to
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
make two or three distant calls
which had long been owing. The
baby was providentially left be-
hind, but Annie and Constance
went, to their great delight. The
former sat on a little stool be-
tween Amy and Mr. Sloman, and
I took care of Constance behind.
We drove first of all by the river,
which was full after the rains,
and the black sheoaks and light
green willows that fringe its
banks made quite beautiful
pictures.
We called first on some people
called Piper who live in a pretty
veranda house, with a grove of
wattle-trees round it, which were
one mass of yellow blossoms
and scented the whole air. Here
we partook of biscuits which
tasted strongly of turpentine, dis-
cussed Bathurst news with the
old lady and her son and
daughters, and then departed for
Mrs. Ranken’s. I was very glad
to see her again, for I had not
been there since the beginning
of June, when I was staying with
her. She lives too far off for a
walk, and she never goes from
home herself. She showed us
her sewing-machine, which they
have just set up. Amy is wild
to have one, and they are now
on sale at Bathurst, but £lO is a
good deal of money.
Here the children laid in a
fresh supply of biscuits and figs,
and then we started again on a
long drive over the plains
through endless green paddocks,
where the unfortunate Mr.
Sloman had continually to
alight and let down sliprails for
the carriage to go through, and
past hedges and jungles of sweet-
briar, which grows like a weed
here, and swampy meadows full
of iris leaves, fpr the iris has
also run wild on these plains.
The farmhouses looked so
pretty standing in the middle of
peach orchards, which were just
coming into flower. These
sunny plains are beautiful in
spring, but terribly hot in
summer.
At last, after about ten miles,
we reached our last house of
call, just as it was beginning to
get dusk. It was the prettiest
hou§e we had been to yet, with
a lovely garden round it, but
we had to cut our visit short
and make haste home, as the
chiuldren were tired.
On our way we passed a
“haunted house,” a little staring
red-brick building, without an
atom of romance about it, but it
has not been inhabited for years,
and the ghost is undeniable, for
a few nights ago a tipsy man
wandered to the door and
was immediately
knocked down by
the ghost, and
could not get up
again till, the morning.
After a beautiful drive of
about twenty miles, in which we
made three calls (I don’t cotton
to calling in family parties) we
were very glad to have tea and
put the children to bed; and so
ended Amy’s sixth wedding-day.
September 12. I have been
drawing a good deal lately,
copying some beautiful little
vignettes of Creswicks that I
found in an illustrated edition
of Tennyson, which was lent me.
Of course I enlarge them a good
deal. Yesterday I had just
finished what I considered rather
a satisfactory copy of “Where
Claribel low lieth” (how I do
like that poem!)—moon, oak-
tree and all. Amy was practising
in the drawing-room, and I went
in for a minute to tell her some-
thing about her music, leaving
my concerns on the table. When
I came back 1 saw little Aimie
covering my drawing with a
paper and tumbling off my chair
in a great hurry, and on investi-
gation I found that she had
helped herself to my blackest
pencil and scrawled my drawing
all over with it!
It was pretty well spoiled, as
the lines were deeply scored in
and tinted paper won’t stand
any rubbing. I gave her a good
scolding and put her in the
corner, where she roared with
all her might, and Amy, coming
in to see what was the matter,
gave her a whipping. I was
rather sorry for it, but I cannot
say she was much hurt and she
deserved to be frightened to
prevent mischief another time.
She is my pet of them all and is
very fond of me. And just at this
moment she is displaying her
affection by bringing me, con-
tinually, handfuls of grass,
clover, etc., from the paddocks,
till I have a heap beside me that
would delight the heart of a
rabbit.
The Bathurst people are wild
about bazaars just now. The
Roman Catholics had one last
week to help pay for the building
of their new chapel, a lofty red-
brick building faced with white,
which quite overtops the church.
One of Amy’s servants went to
the bazaar, and came back in a
state of great delight and excite-
ment, carrying an enormous doll
which she had won in a raffle
for 2s. 6d. ; the price of the doll
was £3. She was dressed as a
bride, in white tarletan, hooped
petticoat, veil and wreath of
orange flowers, and was so large
that she would require to be
kept in a good-sized box all to
herself. Jane says she shall take
her to Sydney with her, and she
certainly is a highly useful
article for a general servant.
The said Jane is going away
next week. She is a good servant
—for Australia—at home you
would not keep her a week
but she has a little weakness for
giving warning whenever she is
told to do anything. So at last
Amy looked out for somebody
else, and last evening engaged a
stout young person, who is so
good as to undertake to do as
much of the work as she feels
inclined for the trifling con-
sideration of 12s. a week and
everything found.
That is the regular sum for a
general servant up here. Amy
gives her nurse 95., but then,
except her unfailing good
nature, she has no single quali-
fication for a servant. So when-
ever your servants trouble you,
think of the unfortunate house-
keepers in Australia.
ẅ
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEE HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and settled permanently
in Australia in 1861.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, horn 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Yisited
his married cousin Eindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Eater he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon s
Pass, Bulli Mountain, at 25s. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. Bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £800 in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Eydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
EINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother’s
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS —friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. 11IEEIAJI
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


Here's the low-down on the
successful ALL-CROP Harvester
TOP NOTCH SHELLING
This big five-foot cylinder is the heart
of the ALL-CROP Harvester. The long
spiralled rubber-faced cylinder bars
reduce crackage and provide ample
shelling capacity for the heaviest of
crops .
Rubber-against-rubber shell-
ing contacts in the ALL-
CROP Harvester give a
natural shelling action, just as
you rub out a head of grain
in the palm of your hand.
The crop falls on a wide,
rubberised draper and rides
straight to the full-width,
spiral bar cylinder in a thin
stream just as it grew in the
field. Rubber-cushioned
cylinder bars rub out the
grain or seeds against rubber
concaves.
This same gentle handling of
over 100 grains, seeds and
beans makes the All-Crop
what it is . . . truly an
ALL-CROP Harvester.
AC
■CHALMERS
o u
N S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA; Mitchell & Co.
Pt'v. Ltd., Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John Shearer & Sons Pty. Ltd., Kilkenny. W. AUST.: Westralian
Farmers Co-operative Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co, of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd.. Hobart,
- 11/83.32.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £SOO,OQO.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St.,
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
w t ttttCHCOCK, Manager.
RIDING THE BOOM
by E.O.SCHLUNKE
RODWAY is one of those
short, sturdy, crisply-
curly-haired men who
can be harried by drover
troubles, transport troubles,
stock-inspector troubles and
troubles from the staff who are
there to save them from troubles,
and always steamroller things
out to a fairly satisfactory con-
clusion.
All the graziers call him
“Bill,” and love to join him in
the bar after a sale, and listen to
his worldly wisdom, his stock-
lore and his ten well-known and
highly-popular anecdotes.
“Good fellow Bill,” they say
to each other as they drift out
in amiable pairs to find their
cars, their families and their way
home. Rodway sees the longest
session through without showing
the slightest sign of wear ; but
what the admiring clients do not
know is that the whisky-bottle
from which he is served con-
tains nothing but weak tea. If
they knew it, they would be dis-
turbed, because it is a symbol
of another aspect of his
character.
The client sitting in the
manager’s most comfortable
chair, and receiving flattering
felicitations on his astonishing
wool cheque, would go as close
to guessing it as any, but he
would have a very poor opinion
of anyone who preferred weak
tea to good whisky. There is
nothing he enjoys more than
having his repressions relaxed.
Although he is one of those
shrewd, rugged-looking types,
he basks in the envious admira-
tion of the manager. He has
always wanted to have a lot of
money; and now he has it,
RODWAY’S secretary is
beaming on him, too, and
that probably has as great an
effect on him as anything else.
Suddenly she can no longer
restrain herself.
“It must be wonderful,” she
bursts in, with thrilling under-
linings of the vital words, “to
have so much money.”
Kirball screws in his chair
to stare at her in surprise. If
there were shows for women as
there are for sheep, this girl
Ronnie would assuredly be
entered. She is a classy animal
with a well set-up frame, stand-
ing attractively on well-propor-
tioned limbs, sound feet and
mouth, eyes clear and healthy ;
a tendency to too much wool
round the face perhaps, but
since it is clean, of good length
and glossily golden, that cannot
be regarded as a serious fault.
She gives Kirball the same
feeling that he gets when he
inspects prize sheep in their
pens ; very nice for the men who
are lucky enough to own them,
but not to be contemplated too
long in case envy should begin
to gnaw at the bowels. She is
Rodway’s secretary, and he
knows it is best to recognise her
position. Not that there is any-
thing official or scandalous about
it. Rodway’s carefully-guarded
reputation says that he is a good
family man ; nevertheless, more
than once when Kirball has
opened the door of the office,
there has been so noticeable
an air of suddenly-commenced
operations that he is sure that
had he been able to look in as
soon as he began to mount the
stairs he would have witnessed
as adept a springing-apart as any
respectable businessman could
achieve.
Kirball does not condemn
Rodway for selecting so unneces-
sarily lush a secretary, nor for
exacting a little surreptitious
pleasure from his acquisition.
He views it as a sort of prize ; a
reward in this world for that
kind of cunning which makes a
successful businessman, and as
little to be questioned as were
King Solomon’s more extra-
vagant essays in that direction
by his admiring subjects.
He looks at the girl long and
hard because her eyes are shin-
ing with wrapt admiration for
him. He knows that to her he
must look an old sober-sides,
with his hair thinning on top and
his sombre grey suit, though he
does wear a near-fashionable
neatly-trimmed moustache. It
takes him some time to compre-
hend that he is now a changed
man. Since that cheque has been
lying in the branch-office safe
where Ronnie can occasionally
contemplate it, it has been
steadily building him up into
something like a movie hero of
the Clark Gable type, a trifle
worn, perhaps...
il \\l HAT are you going to get
VV first?” Rodway cuts in.
“New car? New refrigerator?
New radiogram?”
It sounds like pleasantly
interested chatter, but it is much
more than that. Rodway is so
eager to have a guiding and
directing hand in the spending
of the Kirball wool cheque
that he is prepared, for the time
being, to condone whatever it
is that is happening to his
secretary.
“Oh, I don’t know,” Kirball
answers truthfully enough, be-
cause it isn’t easy at first to
visualise his money except as
figures in his bank-book ; then
his face lights up with a smile.
“I expect I’ll get all of them
one of these days.”
The girl’s eyes brighten up
another fifty watts. What a
man! Buying new cars, re-
frigerators and radiograms as
casually as an ordinary mortal
would collect the groceries on
the way home.
“One fellow you’ll have to
look out for though,” Rodway
breaks in ominously where all
was brightness, “is the Com-
missioner for Taxation. He’ll
have half of it if you don’t
look out!”
Kirball looks shocked and
horrified. It takes him by sur-
prise, because he has had so
many bad years in the past that
he imagined the five - year
averaging provision would pro-
tect him. The light begins to
fade jn the girl’s eyes, proof, if
Kirball needed any, that
Rodway is speaking the truth,
or near enough to the truth for
business purposes. But the
helpful look on Rodway’s face
and the hopefulness of the words
“If you don’t look out” save
him from complete discourage-
ment.
“Have you a financial
adviser?” Rodway asks him, in
tones which impl> that if he
has, the man won’t be much
use.
“My bank manager,” Kir-
ball begins, but Rodway’s
horror stops him.
“He’ll lose you thousands.
All he wants is the use of your
big credit balance. Leave it
sitting up there for the taxation
people to shoot to pieces.”
“Well, my accountant.”
But with another gesture
Rod w a y demolishes all
accountants.
“Accountants are all right, in
a way. They know quite a lot,
but their downfall is that they
write everything down. Once
you write anything down you’re
half-way to being sunk.”
Yesterday this would have
sounded like villainy to Kir-
ball, but the threat of losing
five thousand pounds in cold
blood puts a fiendish strain on
the business morality of even an
honest farmer.
“The first thing to do is to
spend misely,” Rodway goes on,
making it clear that Kirball
has found his financial adviser.
“Repairs is a good spending
line. Repairs to sheds and farm
buildings are allowed as total
deductions for taxation purposes.
And of course, while you have
the carpenters on the place, you
might as well get the house
modernised and put it all on one
bill.”
He watches Kirball shrewdly,
trying to decide how far he can
trusted.
“But fencing is your best line.
It’s the super-champion tax-
beater. You can write a hundred
cheques for fencing materials
and fencing repairs and the
bloodhounds wouldn’t think of
questioning it, because every-
one knows how fences have
fallen into disrepair during and
after the war. About six
thousand you could spend like
that, or seven or eight. The
other two could go as working
and living expenses and your
tax would be negligible.”
HE stops and has a good look
at Kirball. Kirball is
making a face that shows he
expects more of life than miles
and miles of tiresome fencing.
The manager proceeds, re-
o ccnrpn
“This is how I can help you.
Since my firm handles every
class of farm and station require-
ment there is no reason to quev
tion any payment to us for, say,
wire-netting, steel posts, fencing-
wire. But now” —and here he
puts on the utmost worldly-wise,
all-others-excluding, private and
confidential manner —“I can teh
you how you can get a little
benefit from your money. Sup-
posing you wanted a new car
instead of all that netting,
would be all the same to us. e


CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
7 a^noud
j&vnce
- me
mm
THE ability of WUNDERLICH Crafts-
men to produce Architectural Metalwork
of outstanding excellence is traditional, for
with the founding of the WUNDERLICH
INDUSTRY, over sixty years ago, was
established a high standard of workman-
ship and artistry that has remained unsur-
passed in the Metal-working field over the
intervening years.
Address enquiries to Wunderlich Limited,
Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney.
C Mind&t/ccA.
Architectural metalwork
/l IN BRONZE • ALUMINIUM • STAINLESS STEEL • ETC
if any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Smut,
mt
ts haW
Ernie Thornton
(ex-Aust. Ironworkers’ Union Sec.)
now at
Eastern Command
Communist H.Q.
CHINA
jl4 Aust. Communists
(said Sharkey)
would "welcome
Russian Invading
Troops!"
X! J- J- Brown
(Vic. Railway Union Sec.)
has just
visited Moscow
for orders!
“The Communists have allegiance only to a foreign power , which
supplies them with unlimited funds to carry on their policy of
espionage and disruption in this city (Sydney). I have given serious
consideration to the foreign policy of Communists in this country ,
and in some of our industrial disputes we have come mighty close
to a foreign control of the workers in this country, close to treason .”
(M. R. Kenny , M.L.C. , Asst. Sec. N.S.W. Trades & Labor Council.)
UNIONS WELCOME FEDERAL HELP
“Decent Australian workers would welcome Federal Government
action taken to assist those who had consistently opposed Com-
munist disruption within the trade union movement.” (Mr. C. W.
Anderson, President N.S.W. Trades & Labor Council, and Junior
Vice-President of the A.L.P.—commenting on the Anti-Communist
Bill, “Daily Telegraph,” 29/4/50.)
AUSTRALIA VERSUS COMMUNISM!
ON
SEPT.
22
VOTE
w
Authorised for The Liberal Party by J. L. Garrick, 30 Ash St., Sydney.
F 5.151.44
:an put it through as netting or
wire or anything else.”
Kirball’s face begins to
move. He tries to bite the ends
of his too - neatly - trimmed
moustache. He is not actually
shocked at the manager’s sug-
gestion, but he is concerned
about its safety. His lawyer has
warned him about overdoing
things like this.
“Wouldn’t it be sticking your
neck out too far?” he asks,
blandly worldly wise.
The manager is prepared to
concede him credit in a small
way for his point.
“Of course if you don’t like
that there’s another plan, though
it is much more complicated,
whereby you actually get the
netting and the car as well with-
out spending any extra money,
and all sewn up and foolproof.”
Kirball looks mightily in-
terested immediately. This con-
firms impressions which many
farmers hold that certain astute
businessmen have secret methods
of making money which bear no
relationship to the rules of
ordinary arithmetic. The way
the girl is watching him forti-
fies this belief. She seems to
think that he is undergoing an
initiation into a hallowed, ex-
clusive cult. She is encourag-
ing him to be worthy of the gift
which will allow him to worship
in the temple where she is a
vestal virgin; though that is
hardly the title he would apply.
“You put your money into
sheep,” Rodway goes on cun-
ningly. “When you write the
first cheque you enter it in your
books as for netting, but don’t
worry your conscience about
that, because it will all come out
honest as damnation in the end.
You hold the sheep just long
enough for a worth-while rise
and I’ll hold the profits for you
in a little silent account of mine.
You do that over and over again.
As soon as you have enough
profit to buy the kind of car
that a slap-up grazier like you
needs I get the car for you. Then
we let the amount of your first
cheque go through for netting.
You can do that over and over
again, so there is no limit to the
money you can make. And you
see how honest it is? The money
you put down for netting you
actually spend on netting. You
might turn it over a few times
first, but surely a man has a
right to do that in a free coun-
try. You might as well have
Communism if you can’t.”
Rodway looks as straight and
clear-eyed as if he has been ex-
pounding the gospels, and Kir-
ball is staring at him like an
excited boy; not that he isn’t
awake to all the aspects.
“Very good for your firm.”
he says with a sly wink at the
girl; “all that business.”
Rodway nods his head.
“But think of the service we
give you. You would have the
use of all my years of experience
in stock-buying and -selling too,
so that you’d take no risks with
that end of the business.”
“It sounds pretty good to me,”
Kirball says, getting more and
more excited as he thinks of the
coin he’s going to harvest. He
leans back to see what the girl
is thinking now. Her eyes meet
his and hold them in a motion-
picture stranglehold of souls.
Astonishing things happen to his
middle-aged heart. It pumps in
exultant bounds. He is suddenly
as young as he was twenty-five
years ago and not a bit more
intelligent. He jumps to his feet
to shake Rodway’s hand in
agreement, and at the same
moment he is chuckling inside
at the idea of the liberties he
is going to take with Rodway’s
secretary. He believes that he is
going to start enjoying life.
Then there are a few details
to settle. Kirball leaves a
cheque with Rodway so that he
can take home a new refrigera-
tor and radiogram from the elec-
trical dealer in his utility,
“I’ll fix that up for you,” Rod-
way says. “We’ll call it eight
hundred steel fence-posts. It’s
only chicken-feed, anyhow. I
can pay all your bills for you
except necessities, which might
as well stay in the open. Any
time I’m out Ronnie can fix
things like that for you.”
He smiles fondly at Ronnie,
and so does Kirball; thinking
of how many times Rodway is
going to be absent. Rodway
seems to think it necessary to go
over to her and clamp a posses-
sive paw on her shoulder while
giving her instructions. Kir-
ball understands what he means,
but he only grins inwardly.
T" HE new radiogram and re-
I frigerator are to keep Mrs.
Kirball happy: their purchase
is the first outward proof of
Kirball’s new adolescence. He
should know his wife better. She
is a thin, worrying woman, given
to excessive apron-wearing, who
can’t understand why people
should expect to enjoy them-
selves. The great days of her life
were the early ’thirties when
wool was a few pence a pound.
For years she ran the house on
twenty pounds per annum and
never ceased to glory in it. Ever
since she has been preparing for
the return of those magnificent
days with an aridity of living
which is a sufficient excuse for
her husband’s fatal interest in
Rodway’s blonde. She does not
think highly of the new re-
frigerator and radiogram.
“The old ones were quite good
enough,” she says virtuously.
She is horrified when he tells
her that they will soon get a new
car.
“Our utility runs very well,”
she says. “It’s only ten years
old.”
To a man whose age has just
been reduced to round the
twenties, ten years is a terribly
long time, but naturally he can’t
make his wife see it like that.
He starts to tell her cautiously
{Continued on page 24.)


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
“If I do anything outside my normal
routine on matinee-day,” said famous
English actress Evelyn Laye, opening the
Y.W.C.A. mid-century market fair in the
Lower Town Hall, “I do it because I
like doing it and like to be a part of it,
and I do admire this world-wide move-
ment.” Mrs. T. C. Rentoul, president of
Melbourne Y.W.C.A., introduced Miss
Laye; Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald, head of the
appeal committee, accompanied the actress
on a tour of the stalls. These were staffed
by various suburban auxiliaries; Mont
Albert organised the dairy-produce stall,
Mrs. Essington Lewis, president of the
Malvern auxiliary, presided over the sale
of sweets, the Canadian Women’s Club
sold Canadian cookies, Mrs. lan Potter,
of the South Yarra auxiliary, sold tickets
for refreshments which were served by
her auxiliary. Lady Dixon and Lady Hay
were busy at the flower-stall, and at the
Arts and Crafts stall was Mrs. C. I.
Ritchie. The board of directors and resi-
dency staffs also organised stalls.
Nurses of the Sacred Heart Hospital
held their first ball at the Delphic; pink
and blue was the color-scheme for the
floral decorations. Committee-members
Noreen Conway, Jane Bourke, Barbara
Swan and Moya Gleason received the
official party, which included Lady Con-
nelly, their patroness, who wore a lovely
grey satin gown embroidered with mar-
casite and pink stones, and the tutor-sister,
Mrs. John Heard, whose gown was of
pink and silver lame. Dr. and Mrs. John
Gilling, Mr. and Mrs. Kevin Rush and
Mr. and Mrs. E. Grieve were other
members of the official party.
The Littlejohn Memorial Chapel,
Scotch College, was the setting for the
nuptials of Noelena Jean, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. L. Webster of Tumut
(N.S.W.), and Hedley, only son of Mrs.
A. Horsfall, of Toorak, and the late Mr.
Ladd. A well-known mannequin,
Noelena has shown many wedding-gowns
in fashion-parades, but never one lovelier
than that she wore for her own wedding.
Of pure white satin, the bodice had a
draped off-shoulder neckline, with the
skirt, padded at the hipline, full and flow-
ing. From a crown of tiny pearls the
long tulle veil cascaded over the gown.
Her bouquet was of magnolias. The
bridggroom’s sister Gloria and the
bride’s sister Yvonne ’maided in bouffant
gowns of white tulle. Feather head-
dresses inspired by the “Swan Lake”
ballet were worn, and their bouquets were
of miniature white magnolias. Trevor
Preuss was best man.
At the Delphic Mr. and Mrs.
Webster and Mrs. Horsfall received over
100 guests, who included the grand-
mother of the bride, Mis. E. J. Williams,
of Geelong, and Mrs. K. Hedley, grand-
mother of the bridegroom. Mrs.
Webster’s black ensemble was worn with
a swathed toque in old-gold tonings.
Mrs. Horsfall’s slim-fitting dinner-gown
was of dove-grey crepe, her small feather
hat matching. Sydney guests included
Mr. and Mrs. Frank McDonald, she in
black French crepe. Mrs. F. Matthews
was gowned in a sheath of glittering jet
sequins.
The Frank McGraths came from
Albury for the celebrations, and
jovial American Bertie Hotchkiss was
given the task of proposing the loyal
toast. His wife’s satins in aqua-blue ton-
ings had pink and blue rhinestone
embroidery. Mrs. Marshall Gibson wore
white crepe cut on Chinese lines. Mrs.
A. G. Silk danced in an ankle-length
gown of pleated black organza, the hem
of the swirling trumpet-skirt weighted
with heavy white lace which matched the
lace of the bodice. A rhinestone beading
outlined the brim of the dainty black
velvet Mary Queen of Scots bonnet Mrs.
Lionel Newton wore with her black velvet
and tulle gown. Mrs. E. A. Shilliday was
in mushroom-pink, Mrs. A. Colman in
oyster satin. Mrs. George Mendes’s
white crepe frock had a deep V neckline.
The wedding cake, made by Gloria Ladd,
was most unusual; one large circle, it
was delicately painted with tiny cupids
and from the centre rose a spiral stair-
case, with tiny figures to represent the
bride and ’groom on the ascent to
happiness, with a tiny yacht set right at
the top —the ’groom is a keen yachts-
man.
Petite, dark-eyed Mary Evans cele-
brated her coming-of-age with a dance
given fiy her parents Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans, in the ballroom of their
Toorak home. Bowls of spring flowers
were set In the reception-rooms. Mrs.
Evans received her guests in an aqua-
blue satin gown which had a deep-
folded neckline and bouffant skirt.
Mary’s gown of pastel-pink tulle had an
off-the-shoulder bodice misted with a
matching stole. Ruth Tyrell chose pink
self-patterned organdie for her full-
skirted frock. Marian Eager’s white
chiffon gown featured a jewelled halter-
neckline. Pamela Beard’s frock was of
white tulle mounted on taffeta. Lucy
Donne’s choice was a short-sleeved, full-
skirted frock of white tulle. Pink net
fashioned the gown worn by Pat Lowe.
Mrs. John Frith’s white crepe gown was
patterned in gay flowers. Mrs. Barry
Hepworth wore midnight-blue crepes.
Mrs. James Ferguson was in emerald-
green siik.
Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Shilliday have an-
nounced the engagement of their only
daughter, Wanda, to Peter Neal, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. David O. Sillars, of
Hutton Gate, Guisborough, North York-
shire. Wanda, who recently returned with
her parents from a trip overseas, is a
physiotherapist. She is well known in the
hunting-field, and has won many prizes
in the showring. Peter shares in this love
of riding, and in England hunted with a
famous pack. He is in this part of the
world as factory representative for an
English firm, his territory covering Aus-
tralasia and Oceania. Wanda is wearing
a stunning three-diamond ring, and wed-
ding is scheduled for June of next year.
When she was married at St. Mark’s,
Camberwell, to Alan, youngest son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Plumridge, of
Deepdene, Desma, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Watts, of Ivanhoe,
wore a cloth-of-silver gown. A fold of
the material outlined the deep neckline
of the long-sleeved bodice, and the skirt
was cut on full, flowing lines. A pillbox
cap of cloth-of-silver leaves held in place
the long tulle veil, and she carried a
bouquet of white orchids and cyclamen.
Bridesmaid was Barbara Cox, and the
two tiny flower-girls were Elaine McKay
and Judith Cuthbert. They were frocked
alike in pale-blue marquisette and wore
tiny halo hats of matching material.
White hyacinths and forget-me-nots
fashioned their posies. Jack Nagle was
best man. Reception was at the Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Watts, in a gown of raisin-
brown French brocade with a stripe of
gold flowers threading the material and
a small hat of matching tulle, and Mrs.
Plumridge, in a smart black ensemble,
received the guests, among whom were
Mrs. Les Sangster, in grey tulle, Mrs.
Ron McKay, her blue tulle having white
rhinestone trimming, Beverley Bourchier,
wearing turquoise-blue velvet, Janet
Dawson, in beech-brown ripple-taffeta
and matching tulle stole, Mrs. Robert
Spry, who contrasted her dove-grey
taffeta gown with a swing-back jacket
of pale-rose taffeta, Mrs. Norman Pizzey,
whose choice was an aqua-blue self-
spotted lie-silk, and Mrs. Frank Watts in
hyacinth-blue lace.
A few days after her return from a busi-
ness trip abroad Sheila Scottar, model-
buyer for the Myer Emporium, was seen
lunching at the Australia in a black en-
semble, a huge gold chain necklace and
large heart-shaped locket, and a tiny
white felt bowler, banded in black,
from the back of which black veiling
featuring white feather-tufts fell to below
the waist. Sheila has ordered frocks from
English and French designers, specially
chosen for next year’s Royal visit. Gowns
for evening, says Sheila, will be an indi-
vidual choice and will range from the
romantic picture-gown of beaded or
sequinned tulle to the slim-fitting tailored
models. As the Queen is not impressed
with the strapless evening gown, the bare
look has been replaced in some instances
with the halter-neckline. Grille, a French
designer, showed gowns in his collection
which featured jewelled halter-necklines.
The newest color is anthracite, a blue-grey
—and grey is still favorite for suits. Next
season the jackets of suits will be shorter
and definitely waisted and with a rounded
hipline.
From Sydney
Sydney society had a night of innocent
fun when “Let’s Make an Opera” opened
at the Palace. Sponsored by the Arts
Council, this production seeks to teach
children how an opera is made by show-
ing them children making an opera. Part
of the instruction is to have the audience
sing several of the songs, and it was quaint
to see in how unsophisticated a manner
Sydney’s leading citizens earnestly
counted “One-two-three-four-five” to the
bar and imitated turtle-doves, chaffinches,
owls, etc. The music by Benjamin Britten
seemed, to this Letter, to lack entirely the
robustness and vigor of great opera music.
Still, the children of all ages in
the audience took to the songs with great
pleasure, learned something of opera, and
will at least be fully prepared in the
future for its naivete.
Considering that teachers on the whole
are at best taken for granted and at worst
reviled, it was rather shaming to note at
the opening of the New Education Con-
ference how seriously they take their task
of turning us all, adults as well as
children, into good citizens, developing
our minds and characters and enabling
us to lead full and happy lives. One felt
that, in addition to a Mother’s Day and
a Father’s Day, there should be a
“Teacher’s Day” so that we could say
thank-you for at least their good inten-
tions.
Chief speaker at the conference was Sir
Richard Livingstone, who said the aim
of education was to show people what
was first-rate in any subject they studied.
This is done best, he said, in vocational
subjects, medicine, law, engineering, etc.,
but less successfully in the field of human
relations. Religion, literature, history
gave us this knowledge, so that “lifted on
the shoulders of great and good people,
we can see something of what greatness
and goodness are.”
Dr, Margaret Mead also spoke at the
conference, saying, among other things,
that there hasn’t been any “universal
education since the Stone Age,” when all
the girls of the community learned every-
thing that the grown woman knew and
all the boys learned everything that a
man should know. Today there is only
“particular education,” which is the
privilege of the elite, people set aside be-
cause of class, money or I.Q. We must
look for some invention which will give
all a share of the important things
which form the basis of the society we
live in. Dr. Mead also said that, while in
the past older people always knew more
than younger people, today the position
is changing and the young often know
more than their parents or grandparents.
A new system of apprenticeship seems
necessary in which perhaps the older
children will teach the younger what they
themselves have just learned.
There were over 100 delegates to the
fourth Younger Set Annual Conference
of the Country Women’s Association held
last Saturday. Mrs. Barbara Cullen
presented the Cullen-Mclntosh Cup to
the Manly branch, which had made the
greatest increase pro rata in membership
during the year, Peggy Rees received the
cup on behalf of the branch, and gave a
nice little speech of thanks. Second place
was filled by Bendemeer branch, which
was represented by Mrs. A. F. Reid and
Pauline Reid. The Gladys Brooks
trophy was won by the Hunter River
group, represented by Winifred Southwell
and Mrs. P. Banham, with Marjorie Ward
and Marjorie Allen from Singleton. Con-
ference chairman Lesley Goldsworthy
(Albury) presented a very interesting
report and suggested that a weekend at
Kiera House should be organised once a
year, where Younger Set members could
study handcrafts, folk-dancing, etc. Una
Boyle, representative of Victorian
Younger Sets, spoke of their Festival
Week at Black Rock, endorsing the chair-
man’s suggestion. The visitors were enter-
tained by the Metropolitan Younger Sets
at a social evening on Saturday and a
launch-picnic on Sunday.
Remark by a Sydney matron who had
been enjoined “not to be too hard on the
teenagers, as they were going through a
transition stage,” “Yes, indeed, they’re
going from bad to worse.”
Noeline Fantwith was guest-of-honor
at a pleasant buffet-luncheon given by
Claureen Beckman at her Randwick home
last week. Noeline, who comes from
England, has just spent six months in
Tonga, where her uncle was stationed
on a surveying assignment. Other guests
were Terry Tiernan, who has just returned
from a trip to Europe and the Continent,
Mrs. E. Armitage, Mrs. E. Spencer and
Mrs. Helene Rankin.
Dusters with a difference were shown
at Beril Jents’s spring parade. One was
short, white and filmy, and another short
with a stole effect in the front. These
were a welcome relief from those envelop-
ing, maternity-type coats which threaten
to dominate dressing this season. Beril
Jents’s beautiful embroideries in braid,
pearls, beads and shells were seen, also
the extensive and skilful use of guipure
lace. The most striking color was called
“nude,” a beige so pale it was almost,
but not quite, cream. The piece de resist-
ance of the show was a dress called
Beauty in a Cage, which featured a most
unusual jacket. Made of jewelled bars of
material forming four-inch squares, it
ran high round the neck, was sleeveless
and finished at the waist. Outstanding in
more senses than one were the enormous
earrings which will probably be a “must”
in the 1952 season.
The Gilbert and Sullivan company is
back again at the Empire, drawing once
more its following of faithful adherents.
Only at G. and S. does one see such a
varied audience, all willing to laugh at
jokes that brought the house down in
1890 or thereabouts. At the opening night
last week the youngest playgoer sighted
was about four and the oldest about 94.
Perhaps the late-afternoon party ar-
ranged by the Women’s Union for the
University Appeal on 21st of this month
will qualify for the title of most distin-
guished cocktail-party of the year. Cer-
tainly the Great Hall is one of the most
beautiful places to hold such a function,
and the University itself always looks its
loveliest in the evening. The committee
says that it can accommodate 1000 guests
if necessary, so graduates and their friends
will not be disappointed if they apply to
Manning House for tickets.
May Pillinger, subject of this Norton
Trevaire study, is director of the Family
Welfare Bureau which has recently estab-
lished a much-needed baby-minding centre
in the city. Miss Pillinger holds a dip-
loma in social studies from Sydney Uni-
versity, and has had experience as a social
worker in industry and with the Austra-
lian Red Cross, The Family Welfare
Bureau, which is situated on the corner of
Phillip’-street and Martin-place, primarily
concerns itself with helping people
with their problems, domestic, vocational,
marital or dealing with children. It gives
advice, in short, to anyone who wants it
on “what is the best thing to do,” and it
gives assistance in carrying out the advice.
Although it is subsidised in a small way
by the Government, it is well worth the
attention of those people of goodwill who
w ant to see as many happy homes as pos-
sible in Australia.
The N.S.W. College of Nursing, which
provides free post-graduate nursing edu-
cation, is seeking public support for its
Button Day Appeal on Friday, September
21. It is appealing particularly for
button-sellers, and would be most grateiu
to anyone who would volunteer to sell
even for one or two hours. The fun s
from this Button Day will help to provide
scholarships for students, provide lecture-
rooms, etc., and help to P a y urer t
fees, which amount to about £2OOO cacn
The Royal Empire Society has arranged
a social evening for Thursday, September
13, at 8 p.m., when Mr. Norman Jv-
Wallis will speak on his experiences in
Central Sarawak during an exploration
trip along the upper reaches of the Rejang
River. At the Ladies’ “At Home at
2.30 on Wednesday, September 19, to
hostesses will be Mrs. G. Mack, Sta
secretary of the C.W.A. (who will gi
a short talk on “Country Women ), ana
Miss Margaret Gillespie. The music will
be supplied by Judith Staff, Maurice Stead
(who is a holder of four Conservatonum
scholarships), John Young and 0
Aldis.


The PERFECT Port
at the POPULAR price
w
oiAoa
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia' has another ambassador in
the U.S., and an extra good one —Frank
Sedgman. The youngster’s character,
modest, unassuming, in the true sports-
man tradition, plus his sporting skill,
achieves more than could a boatload of
politicians.
Mr. Justice Leslie James Herron, of
the N.S.W. Supreme Court, must often
have heard, in his less exalted judicial
days, the old lag’s exhortation: “Be a
sport, y’r Honor.” Anyway, his Honor
has been a, sport—enthusiastically con-
nected with State Rugby Union for the
past 18 years, and now that body’s head ;
and president of the Australian Golf Club
since 1944. Also, he’s been elected presi-
dent of the Amateur Swimming Associa-
tion.
From the broad reach of his forehead
and his quietly cultured voice to the
gently expressive motions of his fingers,
Sir Richard Livingstone could be noth-
ing but what he is—Oxford don and
classical scholar. Connected tutorially
with Britain’s great centres of learning
since, in 1917, he was a master at Eton,
Sir Richard has been librarian of Ox-
ford’s Corpus Christ! College, vice-chan-
cellor, from 1944-47, of Oxford, and is
the general editor of, and originator of
the methods employed in, the Clarendon
series of Greek and Latin authors, and
publishing prestige doesn’t 1 go much
higher than that. He arrived in Sydney
the other day to lecture as a Jubilee guest.
There’s not much about wireless regu-
lations not known to Jack Martin, retir-
ing this month as Assistant Director-
General (Wireless) after 40 years with the
Federal Government. One of the world's
first radio-operators, he was a British
seagoing sparks in the 1890’s, and was
brought to Australia by the Common-
wealth Government in 1912 to help found
the Australian Coastal Radio Service.
After serving as officer-in-charge of
various coastal stations throughout Aus-
tralia, including V.1.M., Melbourne, then
located in the Domain, he joined the staff
of the P.M.G.’s wireless branch, where
he rose to his present post. A shrewd
thinker who hqs played a leading part in
the development of Australian broadcast-
ing and radio-communication, Martin on
several occasions represented Australia
at important international Telecom-
munication conferences. Known to
thousands of radio amateurs, from the
inception of the Wifeless Institute (Vic-
toria), in 1910, he has maintained a close
liaison with the institute.
“Macnell”: The Royal Navy seems to be
promoting its destroyer captains. On the same
list as Rear-Admiral Eaton, Australia’s new
Flag-Officer-Commanding (B. 22 /8 / ’5l), another
destroyerman, Robert St. Vincent Sherbrooke,
steps up to Rear-Admiral. Sherbrooke already
had D.S.O. for work in the Norwegian cam-
paign when, one twilit, morning in December,
1942, blowing a gale and foggy, a German
squadron consisting of Scharnhorst, a heavy
cruiser and several destroyers, attacked a British
Russia-bound convoy under the apparently-puny
protection of Sherbrooke, in destroyer Onslow,
leading his force of midgets. Sherbrooke at
once attacked. More often under than over
the frenzied seas, the destroyers bore in for
their wall-sided opponents. The Germans
replied with heavy gunfire, but under the threat
of Sherbrooke’s torpedoes withdrew behind a
smoke-screen. The next two hours were violent
—three times the Germans attacked, and each
time were met by the spitting, weaving
destroyers, their ready torpedo-tubes the sole,
and effective, protection of the wallowing con-
voy. Forty minutes after action was joined
Sherbrooke was cruelly wounded in the face
by a shell which exploded on his bridge. He
nevertheless continued to fight his ships till
the vicious pounding Onslow was taking forced
her out of action. Even while below in the
sick-bay Sherbrooke insisted on receiving all
reports of. the action. And all the time the
British torpedoes, cunningly directed by superb
seamen, were forcing the enemy squadron on
to the guns of a heavy British covering squadron
racing to help. When this finally arrived, the
enemy, belted by 14-inch salvos, tailed it for
their Norwegian fjords. The only British loss
was destroyer Achates. Sherbrooke, who even-
tually lost one eye, gained the Victoria Cross.
Appropriately enough, he goes shortly to Ger-
many, Flag-Officer-Commanding and chief
British Naval Representative on the Allied
Control Commission.
David John Muir is to be Queensland's
new Agent-General in London, relieving
Leonard Pike. Muir has claims as some-
thing more than average—Lands Depart-
ment clerk at 17; private secretary to
Forgan Smith, then Premier, six years
later; secretary to the Cane Prices
Board three years later; secretary to
Premier Hanlon four years later ; and,
two years on, appointment as senior
under-secretary, the youngest in the
State’s history. He’s now 35.
A recent and interesting appointment
in England makes Lieut.-General Sir
Frederick Morgan . Controller of Atomic
Energy, a full-time replacement of Lord
Portal’s part-time duties. While reports
that the new man will plan a further
chain of atom-power stations are specu-
lative, there’s no doubt about one chain
of explosive energy he planned—■
unleashed along the Normandy coast in
1944. As Eisenhower’s Deputy-Chief-
of-Staff Morgan was mainly responsible
for the invasion plans, and last year pro-
duced a book about them, Overture to
Overlord. In War I a captain, Morgan
was in active command of several
divisions in War II before joining Eisen-
hower’s select band ; with Hitler defeated,
he headed U.N.R.R.A.’s operations in
Germany till 1946, when he retired.
H. R. Hornsby, new head of Christ’s
College, Christchurch (M.L.), comes from
the headship of an ancient grammar
school founded by Henry VIII —King’s
College, Peterborough. An Oxford
M.A y Hornsby specialises in classics,
history and English. In Hitler’s war he
served in Burma with a Ghurka battalion,
while his wife was nursing aboard a ship
of the Pacific fleet-train.
Behind the bushy eyebrows and
determined phizog here captured by
Prior is a most acute economic
brain owned by Bert Symons,
one of the newly - formed Com-
monwealth Bank Board. Managing-
director of the Waters Trading Co., whose
spicy ramifications range from French
herbs, Beyrout lentils and Brazil coffee
to Mombasa chillies, Santiago beans and
Bombay dill-seed, Symons has been with
his firm 45 years, interrupted by dealings
in France, trading mortar-shells with
Fritz, and, later, a bigger brand in the
artillery line. He came home in the ship
carrying the peace delegation, among
ON BANK BOARD.
them Billy Hughes, Jos Cook and John
Latham. President of Sydney Legacy
in 1940, when that splendid body was
girding its loins to handle its legacy from
Hitler’s eruption, Symonds has since
kept up his Digger associations by self-
less work on the Gowrie Scholarship State
Committee and membership of the
N.S.W. Soldier Children’s Education
Board, arranging for the schooling of
Diggers’ kiddies. He relaxes at reading—
philosophy and socio-economics.
If Councillor Oliver J. Nilsen, Mel-
bourne’s new Lud Mayor, stays as natural
as artist Mcßeath found him he will be
the best First Cit. Melbourne has yet had.
The artist had a hard job to keep him
still for five minutes while he performed
the execution —although he was stationed
in the mayoral apartments at the Town
Hall, his mind was down in the engineer s
office. An electrician himself, O.J. started
at 2s. 6d. a week, and attributes his
success in building up an enormous busi-
ness to his own workmen. When he
visits his factories he is apt to be
IN BUNNY-SKINS.
embarrassed at the affectionate reception
he gets, which took the form in one case
of a full-size bust of his wiry headpiece
modelled in secret by a workman and
then cast in bronze and presented to him.
Coping with the social obligations of his
new status seems to be his main pre-
occupation at the moment —he would
sooner be straightening out an engineering
problem than his necktie. Of Norwegian
extraction with a Scotch mother, he was
born in Melbourne.
“Conda”; Commander John Ramsay
goes back to his old ship, Warramunga,
though this time as the Old Man —he was
well below that status when he served in
her first, at the capture of the Admiralties
in 1944. His crowded war career took in
service in battler King George V
(ofiicer-of-the-watch when she loosed her
10 14-inchers at Bismarck); clearing
minefields from Singapore’s approaches ;
laying minefields round New Guinea and
New Caledonia ; giving the Japs curry on
the Arakan coast, per destroyer Napier’s
twin 4.7’5, and being the first to re-enter
Akyab, complete with Union Jack ; and
the first navigating-officer of carrier
Sydney. Promoted commander last year,
he’s a navigation specialist.
Professor Thomas Harvey Johnston,
passed on in Adelaide at 69, was one of
the country’s best-known biologists when
he switched to zoology, in 1922, since
when he had been professor of the subject
at Adelaide University. Born in Sydney,
M.A. from Sydney University, he
lectured at Sydney Tech, before becoming
prof, of biology at Queensland University.
His most notable achievement in the
northern State was his unremitting war
against prickly-pear, chairman of the
commission which introduced cochineal
to control the pest. Holder of four high
scientific medals (among them the
Mueller and Polar Medals), he was chief-
biologist on two trips to the Antarctic
with Douglas Mawson. Professor
Johnston was to have retired this year —
he died while dressing to attend a meet-
ing to appoint his successor.
New president of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Manufactures, Richard Godfrey Parry-
Okeden was schooled at Eton, son of a
British colonel. In steel most of his
career, he’s managing - director of
Lysaght’s and chairman of Common-
wealth Rolling Mills and of Nettlefolds.
Golf’s his worry.
“Trinco”: Falling-out after 34 years’
military service, General George Kenney
was known to his airmen in the Pacific
as the “hell, let’s try it” guy—the answer
he returned to his War I instructor’s
query as to whether he could fly a plane
after two hours’ instruction in it. Kenney
took command of Pacific Air Forces in
August, 1942—with 12 Fortresses and not
many more fighters. Five feet six inches
of vigor, with a grin as wide as the Pan-
handle, Kenney got into his job—put .30-
calibre guns in his old fighters, eight
m.-g’s, plus a 75mm. cannon in the nose
of a 825, originated an air manoeuvre
which accounted for over 1000 Jap planes,
and borrowed, requisitioned, stormed for
more planes. So that in the days of the
Kokoda Trail he pasted the Japs from
Rabaul to Salamaua, and in a week lifted
2,000,0001 b. of supplies, hundreds of men
and a 250-bed hospital. What he did to
the Bismarck Sea convoy of 12 trans-
ports and 10 cruisers and destroyers is
history. He continued in pounding sup-
port of MacArthur right to the end in
Tokyo Bay, and in 1948 took over com-
mand of the big U.S. air-base at Mont-
gomery, Alabama. He’s just over 50.
Australian-born Sir Leslie Boyce, ex-
pected to be the next Lord Mayor of
London in succession to Sir Denys Low-
son, claims that he will be the first from
the British Commonwealth to hold that
office. Born at Taree (N.S.W.), Sir Leslie
graduated into law at the Inner Temple,
and then served with the A.I.F. on Gal-
lipoli and in France, was wounded, in-
valided back to Australia, and then per-
sonally recruited an infantry unit and
returned in command of it in 1917. He
is chairman of several large steel- and
carriage-works, and, among other pic-
turesque things, can call himself Livery-
man of the Worshipful Companies of
Loriners and Carpenters.
General Sir Rob Lockhart, who knows
the East thoroughly, is to have a go
at Malayan bandits in succession to
General Briggs. Born at Sandhurst,
militarily educated there, Lockhart joined
a Sikh regiment, became military attache
at Kabul, then returned to his old regi-
ment, in command. In India for the
whole of War 11, successively Military
Secretary and D.C.G.S., he became
Governor of North-West Province
after it, and, in 1947, the first C.-in-C. of
the new Indian Army. He’s a brother of
author Sir Bruce Lockhart, who was once
a planter in Malaya.
Air-Chief-Marshal Sir Christopher
Courtney, here for the R.A.A.F.’s
30th birthday, started in the Navy, and
joined the infant R.N. Air Service in
1912. After the Kaiser’s war he switched
to the R.A.F., served in Kurdistan and
Irak, returned to the Air Ministry as
Director of Training, and just before
War II broke out was back in Irak, head
of the R.A.F. there. For almost the
whole of Hitler’s war he was concerned
on the Air Council with the supply and
organisation of the battlers of Britain.
Jack Holt, horse-trainer, of Mordialloc
(Vic.), left estate to the value of £226,681,
A big slice of it goes to the establishing
of a medical-research centre in Mel-
bourne on the lines of the Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 87, Joseph Charles Rundle,
who started a general-agency business at 17 and
ended head of a leading firm of hotel-brokers,
on the boards of many companies, trustee of
the State Savings Bank for over 40 years and
chairman for 11. A president of the S.A.
Bowling Association, he’d also had a term as
president of the Australian Bowling Council.
At Mackay, at 79, Frederick Knobel, pioneer
sugar-grower, and claimed to be the first to
use rotational farming in the north. Shire
councillor for close on 25 years, he had presided
over the Mackay Show Association for years.
At Medindie (S.A.), at 66, Henry Mortimer
Muirhead, from 1934 till he retired last year
chief magistrate of the Adelaide Police Court.
Son of a solicitor, he was admitted in 1909,
but never practised. An infantry sergeant in
France with the old 10th Battalion, before that
he captained the Adelaide Rowing Club, and,
earlier, the University rowers. He was known
throughout the legal profession as “Bonny,”
though no one knew why.


SCOTUSIMO
hlwqv vaipliss
For over one hundred years
~ . the same distinctive
character, mellow flavour,
and rich, heart-warming
qualities . . •
DEWAR’S
3Fantotti>
&.S
SOME Di
50G015
ons
Prize Mcbote
50 Gold
and
Prize Medals
tO, »Su
, "White Label’
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. ,
John Dewar & Sons
DISTILLER S
Houtr. Hojmorkrt, S.WI. p Scotland
NET CONTENTS I PINT. 6 FL. OZS.
.*S EEO wholly DISTILLED. MATURED AND b ™^ N c«°o->
Lysnght’s
is a
front line
industry
now!
"I worked with 'Lysaghts’ during the
war years and saw the vital part the
Company played in rolling steel sheet
for national defence. But today the
Company is playing an even more
important role . . . with its newly
modernized and greatly expanded plant
turning out greater quantities of
Galvanized Iron and Zincanneal than
ever before ... as well as an ever-
widening range of special quality steel
sheets designed to meet the expanding
needs of Australia’s growing secondary
industries. And further plant expans-
ion recently authorized guarantees that
this policy of keeping in step with
Australia’s sheet steel requirements
will continue!”
LYSAGHT’S
Growing with Australia'
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
SyDHEV, MELBOURNE. BRISEaNE,
ADELAIDE, EREMANTUt
1228-1419
about the plan to save income
tax, thinking that that would be
something right after her heart.
But she is ready to pay up every
penny due, and welcome it as a
proof that no one can expect
anything but penury in this
world.
WHEN Rodway goes home
that night he has a bit of
wife trouble, too. He arrives
with his chest out boasting about
his achievements of the day,
thinking he can impress his wife
with business triumphs because
she once worked in his office.
“Wonderful thing, service,” he
says in tones which make her
grimace. “You do this for me
and I’ll do that for you. The
basis of all true business.”
But it only sets Mrs. Rodway’s
teeth on edge. Her two best
friends have been on the tele-
phone with her during the after-
noon, dropping the friendliest
little hints in her ear because
they think she ought to know.
“Got a valuable new client all
sewn up with the firm,” Rodway
goes innocently carolling on.
“Have all his business from now
on until the day he dies.”
But there is acid in his wife’s
reply.
“I’d be more interested if
you’d got a new secretary.”
Rodway is as' astonished as
only a man blameless in thought
and deed can be, who has care-
fully rehearsed his attitudes in
case just such an accusation
might be made against him.
“My secretary!” he replies in
a bewildered voice. “You mean
Miss Winthus. Why, she’s a
most efficient girl, and I’ve only
just got her used to my ways.”
“That’s exactly what I was
afraid of,” Mrs. Rodway replies
coldly.
It isn’t much fun to have
married your boss when it re-
quires so little imagination to
guess what is going on at the
office. She who was chosen for
her looks to be his secretary
only needs to learn that his
latest secretary is superficially
like she then was and gall and
wormwood are her lot.
It takes Rodway quite a time
to admit that it isn’t Ronnie’s
office efficiency that his wife is
concerned about. Then he has
a great laugh at her. The idea!
Nevertheless, he promises to
bring home a nice piece of jewel-
lery next day for her to show to
her friends as a proof of his love.
I N the following weeks Kirball
' and a couple of lesser in-
vestors are practically living with
Rodway. They are buying at all
his sales and travelling with him
to other agents’ sales at every
other town within a hundred-
miles radius. Rodway gets his
commissions and his “introduc-
tion percentages,” and his little
this and little that all the time,
but they don’t mind, because he
is leading them along a royal
road to affluence. They sprawl
about in his offices and make
use of his staff as if they owned
them ; but none of them dares
make as much use of his pri-
vate secretary as does Kirball.
“What would you do,
Ronnie,” Kirball says during
one of his nicely-timed private
interviews, “if you were my wife
and I wanted to buy a new
car?”
But he knows that Ronnie is
not a person with whom one
can make such suppositions in
cold blood. Even to place her
for a moment in the position of
a theoretical wife is to become
involved in all the emotions
properly pertaining to conjugal
intimacies. Ronnie knows it,
too, but she does not sheer off.
“I’d hug and kiss you,” she
says, with shining eyes.
Consequently, when Kirball
gets his new American car at
what Rodway calls “the legiti-
mate free-market price” (“after
all, there is no higher law than
the law of supply and demand”)
it is not from his wife but from
Ronnie that he gets that appre-
ciation and approval which is so
necessary to all car-purchasers.
The drive he takes her for is all
open and above board ; he has
even asked Rodway’s permis-
sion, which can't very well be
refused when the agent has made
a cool five hundred on the
transaction.
Mrs. Kirball is not informed
of the little episode. In the
family prosperity she sticks to
her aprons and her Malthusian
theories. People are saying that
she is a small-minded woman,
unable to live up to her hus-
band’s success.
\\J HILE the price of wool
v v goes bounding up at every
sale and sheep go up with it,
Rodway could be a complete
imbecile and still make a great
deal of money.
Shrewd Kirball has made so
much money that he can pretend
that he no longer values it. He
likes to put on little shows to
that effect at Rodway’s office.
“I’m getting sick of it,” he
says wearily. “I’ve got every-
thing I ever wanted and I don’t
feel a bit happier. Three new
cars, a utility and a motor-truck,
and most of the time they’re
only a worry because I haven’t
got time to look after them. And
all the machines and gadgets for
the house and farm make me
tired when I think of having to
use them.”
“You’ll be glad of them some
day,” Rodway says with the
weariness of a man fairly suffo-
cating under the strain of listen-
ing to the posings of a man
whose money he has made for
him. Rodway is not particularly
happy despite the success of his
schemes. He has to keep nurs-
ing Kirball because he is the
goose that lays the golden eggs.
His wife is giving him hell about
Ronnie, too ; a thing that is hard
to bear with that red-headed
buffoon making passes at her
openly and dangling his money
before her dazzled eyes.
“You ought to get some par-
ticularly nice new thing to in-
terest you,” Ronnie says to Kir-
ball so meaningly that the hair
stands up on the back of Rod-
way’s neck at the suspicion of
what she is suggesting. Kirball
takes a look at Rodway
and what he sees makes him de-
cide to be discreet for once.
“Lots of people are taking
trips abroad,” he says. “But I
can’t stand sea travel. I get
seasick on Sydney Harbor.”
“Oh, you mustn’t go abroad,"
Ronnie says archly. “We need
you here. Don’t we, Mr. Rod-
way?”
She flicks her eyes at her
employer, but he looks grim.
She flashes a smile at Kirball.
“I could show you those
figures now,” she goes on.
She puts them on her desk in
such a position that Kirball
has to stand close beside her and
lean over her to look at them.
Rodway remains tensely thought-
ful, seeing his wife as she looked
when he left her this morning,
after she had thrice referred to
the unnecessarily dandyish way
he now dressed and groomed
himself before going to the
office. His eyes wander over to
Kirball and his secretary, not-
ing how intimately near they
are to each other. He wonders
if a propitious car accident
couldn’t be arranged for a man
who deserves it so singularly.
Then back to the door. For a
moment he thinks that black
magic is taking place. He thinks
he must have conjured up a
vision of his wife by thinking so
hard about her, because there
she is.
MRS. RODWAY comes into
the room on her specially-
purchased crepe rubber soles, so
full of what she’d expected to
see that it takes her some time
to realise it is not her husband
who is bending fondly o%e.
Ronnie. At the same moment
that ability to think and ac
quickly which has served
way so well in many a busmer
crisis goes into operation. F-
jumps up and greets his v. -
with a voice that is reaii}
cordial because she has chosen
(i Continued on page 27.)


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and. business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
TJ&AlbßßinSff
jne all* or’lll are
foiwcug
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
w
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. Ltd.*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
ŵ
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
" National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
built entirely tn Australia hy
JACRSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Divorce Notices.
m THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO ATHOL FRANCIS MURRAY formerly
of Carrick in the State of Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer charges in
the Petition of DOREEN ROSE MURRAY
of 7 High Street Launceston in the State
of Tasmania for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion IN DEFAULT
of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereof AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid within
Thirty days of the last publication of this
Notice an Appearance must be entered at
the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart, or at the Launceston District
Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston, in
the State of Tasmania. —D. W. SHIELDS,
District Registrar.
N.B. • Friends of the abovenamed ATHOL
FRANCIS MURRAY who may see this ad-
vertisement are requested to bring it under
his notice.
TO PHILLIP MAXWELL McKENNA for-
merly of West Perth in the State of
Western Australia Miner. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife DOROTHY McKENNA has
commenced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
divorce on the ground of desertion IF
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central Office
of the Supreme Court at Perth within
THIRTY clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. Dated this
30th day of August, 1951. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED CURRAN,
Esq., of 37-38 Padbury Buildings, Forrest
Place, Perth, in the State of Western Aus-
tralia, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friends.
AVOULD TASMAN CAREY, son of the late
T. G. CAREY, of Sydney, or any person
who may know his address, please com-
municate with Rev. M. W. CAREY, of 42
Empire Street, Haberfield, Sydney, N. S.
Wales?
LAURENCE JAMES ROBERTS, formerly
of Byron Bay and Bangalow, or anyone
knowing his" whereabouts, communicate
with THOMAS E. RUMMERY & LIDDY,
Solicitors, Lisraorc, for information to
his advantage.
ẁ
-
"MM
-■
«l
mm
mm
am
;- : :v
Mi
i
X : : 'X
.Jit- . n
■
-
V
■ :'■■'■■■■
Hi
1:
Nuffield M 4 on 14x30
rear tyres, heavy wheel
centres, pulling 9' 6"
scarifier in 3rd gear.
ẃ
UVtVFRSAL TRACTOR
6-way power including hydraulics,
adjustable track front and rear
speedy 4-wheel t0,3-wheel con-
version and vice-versa, on farm, j
5 forward speeds, convenient I
controls, fully electrical |
these are but a few of the
features which equip the Nuffield
Universal for all work on and
around the farm. It has everything, does
everything! Obtainable in both Kerosene and 'Cold Start 1 Diesel-operated models.
BUILT AND BACKED BY A
NAME YOU CAN TRUST!
ẅ
NUFFIELD PRODUCTS ARE SOLD AND SERVICED
BY AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DISTRIBUTORS ANC
DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
*
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited; VICTORIA: Kellow-Falkiner Pty. Ltd.; QUEENSLAND:
Flinders Motors Pty. Ltd.; SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Kingsway Limited; WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Park Lane Motors Pty. Ltd.; TASMANIA: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND. NEW_SOUTH^
WALES
w
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Let's Make an Opera."
When Benjamin Britten turns
to simple things, as in “Let's
Make an Opera”—given its
Australian premiere at Sydney
Palace under the auspices of the
Arts Council—the result can be
charming.
The children of a family want
to stage an opera, and the first
part is devoted to a playlet, with
the composer putting them
through rehearsal and generally
explaining the workings back-
stage. The second part is the
“opera” itself.
There are no arias or con-
certed numbers, in the accepted
sense. The children are really
the principals, and nobody
expects youngsters of from
seven to 14 years to sing well,
anyway. These don’t, but they
do enter into the doings with
verve and naturalness, and
when children are natural they
are generally entertaining. Adult
stiffening is supplied by James
Wilson, Roland Lucantonio,
Mary Adams, Shirley Brindley
and Patricia Moore, and the
combination of all ages is a
happy one.
Most of the singing is actu-
ally done by the audience, and
that is where the peculiar genius
of conductor Edward Renton
comes in. To him an audience
is just another instrument, and
on it he plays with the same
facile mastery as Menuhin on
his fiddle. It is doubtful if even
the surliest could have withstood
the informal persuasiveness of
Renton, and the audience was
soon making quite a good show-
ing. Their four numbers —
which were repeated by the
players afterwards —are lilting
and tuneful. The libretto by
Eric Crozier is neat and com-
pact. Joanne Priest’s production
left no loose ends lying around,
and the Musica Viva players
handled the score with snap and
discretion.
G. and S.
The Firm’s Gilsullivan Com-
pany kicked off its short Sydney
return season with “The
Mikado.” The purists would
have been delighted that not one
liberty was taken with Gilbert’s
original text, but it seemed a
pity that Ivan Menzies hadn’t
given a topical twist or two to
those “on his list.” As Ko Ko
he skipped about nimbly and
clowned mildly, but he seemed
not quite so funny as he could
be and has been.
Leslie Rands hit the jackpot as
the Emperor, and, taken along
with his reverberating and sar-
donic laugh, the way he rolled
the reference to boiling oil and
melted lead around his tongue
was quite horrific. Helen
Roberts was an engaging Yum
Yum, rather easier on the optic
than the auricular sense, except
when she sang “The Moon and
I,” which she did beautifully.
For the rest the cast was
adequate, though vocally undis-
tinguished. The chorus was first-
rate and the kimonos something
to flutter the feminine heart.
"Mr. Gillie."
This, by the late James Bridie,
is a picture of a gentle old
Scottish headmaster who sees
potential genius in every pupil
any good at his lessons, and
inspires them to go out into the
big world and make use of their
talents, generally against their
parents’ wishes. When they
turn out failures, as they usually
do, and the local parson and the
drunken village doctor heap “I
told you so’s” on his head it
doesn’t make him doubt his
methods.
Then two of his proteges turn
up, Tom Donnelly and Nelly
Watson. Tom married Nelly and
they went off to London as a
potential Shakspeare and a
potential Ellen Terry. Tom
comes back a great film critic,
while Nelly’s supreme achieve-
ment is a sugar-daddy who
loads his girl-friend with jewel-
lery and fur coats. To Mr.
Gillie’s horror they are accepted
by the village as his first suc-
cesses, and the old man’s heart
is broken. He loses hope in
human nature and dies mutter-
ing curses.
Mr. Bridie uses the device of
a prologue and an epilogue in
the Court of Heaven, where a
judge and a procurator discuss
the age-old problem of good
intentions.
Put on by the Melbourne
National Theatre, under William
P. Carr’s direction, the play
could hardly have been better
acted. Reg Dell gave a living
study of the old headmaster,
Ray Lawler was perfection as
the whisky-sodden doctor and
Reg Gillam and Kathie Reed
portrayed the essential com-
monplaceness of the married
couple.
"Morning's at Seven."
“Morning’s At Seven,” by
Paul Osborn, is the Sydney
Metropolitan Theatre’s current
offering and, although it is de-
scribed as a comedy and takes
its title from Browning’s cheerful
song, a note of melancholy per-
vades the piece. Set in adjoin-
ing suburban backyards, it
concerns the problems and
affairs of four sisters past middle
age. One is married to a retired
professor who forbids her to
visit any of the other three;
another has an unhappy husband
given to agonising self-examina-
tion and cries of “Where am
I?” in expression of the belief
that he has failed to find his
place in life; the third lives
next door with her husband and
the fourth sister, who has also
been in love with the same
husband for years —a relation-
ship which provides one of those
smouldering, ill-kept secrets
which poison those who think
they keep them closest. The self-
searching husband and his wife
have a slow-witted son who has
been engaged to an equally
slow-witted young woman for
years, and who, to everyone s
satisfaction, finally decides to
marry her after she reveals she
is to have a baby.
There is a thread of muddled
philosophy about the purpose
of living in the play, and there
is a benevolence in the author’s
survey of his characters and
their problems, but it seems
more like a case of misplaced
charity or an outlook that leads
conveniently to a happy ending.
There is, however, the general
opportunity for the cast for some
character-acting, and they acquit
themselves very creditably
Sheila Reeves, Patricia Assange,
Gwen Harrison and Patricia
Schumann as the sisters ; Robin
Lovejoy, John Barker and
Reginald Lye as the husbands ;
and Wanda Herbert and
Kenneth Warren as the com-
paratively young couple. Joseph
Scully’s ” production, Robin
Lovejoy's set and Richard
Meikle’s direction are up to the
same standard.
The Therry Society, which has
been essaying “Romeo and
Juliet” at the Union Theatre,
University of Melbourne,
realised one aspect of the play
never before realised in Mel-
bourne except perhaps at school-
breakups—in its casting it gave
the heroine an actress almost of
the same age as Shakspeare
intended. The Juliet of the story
was round about 14, and Berna-
dette Day wasn’t very much
older. As she played her part
more naturally than most do, it
gave the role more verisimili-
tude than most of the other
players were capable of giving to
theirs. Neil Fitzpatrick as
Romeo was a reasonably ardent
lover, and the Mercutio of John
O’Hanlon was suitably robust
and noisy. Few of the others
provided sufficient bustle,
passion and fury to keep the
interest moving, and it was not
until 11.30 that “a story of more
woe than this of Juliet and her
Romeo” was finished.
Art.
Max Ragless, of South Aus-
tralia, who weaves the cloth for
his own clothes, owns a vine-
yard and makes his own wine,
still finds plenty of time for
painting judging by the large
acreage of canvas he has hang-
ing at Melbourne Athenaeum.
“Hop Kiln, New Norfolk,” with
its redbrick tower and the hard
sunlight on the mud-brick build-
ings, is a lovely subject freshly
handled. There is freshness, too,
about “Boat Harbor,” with its
dancing foreground, and he gets
the glare of light into “The
White Mill.” His watercolors
and drawings are, generally
speaking, freer than his oils.
“Boats on the Beach” is a nice
sketch.
* * $ 4>
A number of Melbourne
artists have started a private war
on inflation by hanging pictures
at the Stanley Coe Gallery at
what are stated to be heavily-
reduced prices. Keith Nicholas
“Wet Evening” looks like even-
ing and looks wet, and “Double
Decker,” a bus in a mean street,
is atmospheric. Nornie Gude
gets light and air into her “Old
Houses. Most of the rest are
essays in one or other of the
modern fashions. Best of the
abstractionists is Allan David,
whose patterns are pleasing
enough in color to make good
commercial decorations.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CRUMBLING EMPIRE!
It has come to something
when London “Punch” pub-
lishes a cartoon showing a
meadow enclosure with the
notice “Beware of the Bull” and
in the meadow nothing but a
poor sleepy old cow labelled
“British Foreign Policy”!
Or when a British writer in
another responsible British
publication (the “Twentieth
Century”) can head an article
“The Crumbling Arch” and
launch out in this fashion;
“How do empires crumble?
The decline of the British
Empire over the last half-
century might have provided
valuable material for a study of
this question. Yet it has not
done so. Indeed, one remark-
able aspect of the imperial
decline is the lack of interest —
one might almost say the apathy
—with which it has been
regarded in this country
[Britain].
“The process was of course
not clear-cut, but more in the
nature of a transformation
scene; even while the British
public was steadily told that the
Old Imperialism was dead, it was
presented with something new
and strange, something that
might be called the new Concept
of Commonwealth. This concept
has so far remained vague.
This, in turn, is not surprising,
since no one can as yet answer
the basic question whether it will
prove at all possible to integrate
Britain, the White Dominions
and the teeming colored races of
the Commonwealth into any
genuine relation of partnership.
“But there is another point
whichds worth making. The old
British imperialist outlook was
something which was shared by
the man-in-the-street; shared
only in a dim, confused,
emotional fashion, perhaps, but
shared nevertheless. But as far
as British public consciousness
of today is concerned, interest
in the new Commonwealth is
almost non-existent.”
It is not such a long time since
all that would have been the
rankest heresy. Yet the quoted
writer is not’alone. From here,
a regular reading of the British
Press often makes it seem that
the Little Englanders have come
into their own with a vengeance.
The quoted writer proceeds:
“It is fashionable in Tory
circles to lay the blame for this
aoathy on decades of Left-wing
criticism. With such persistence,
so the argument runs, have
British Liberals, Radicals and
Fabian and other Socialists
attacked and denounced British
imperialism that the British
public has finally become be-
wildered, and Colonel Blimp
himself driven to believe that
he and his imperial outlook were
somehow wicked, unjust and an
anachronism —and all this at a
time when Nazis, Fascists, Com-
munists and other ruthless and
cynical power-seekers were get-
ting ready to elbow Britain out
of the way. This explanation of
British imperial decline contains
a grain of truth, but not more
than that. To believe otherwise
is surely to mistake political
comment on historical events for
those events themselves. The
fact is that the decay of British
imperial self-confidence could
be observed long before the days
of the Left Book Club. The
process had already begun
before 1914 when, under the
impact of clumsy German
imperialist rivalry and imitation,
the first sense of guilt and self-
conscious doubt had crept in.”
Be all that as it may, accept-
ance of the idea of decline —
“the crumbling arch” —seems
surprisingly widespread. It is,
to quote another instance, the
provocation of an article by a
London “Daily Telegraph”
writer who has no doubt as to
where the blame belongs:
“When in 1945 the present
[Labor] Government took office,
this country [Britain] had just
emerged victorious from a seem-
ingly desperate struggle with
Nazi Germany. If the cost, in
terms of human and material
resources, had been prodigious,
our fame in the world had never
been greater. Under Mr.
Churchill’s valiant and astute
leadership the humiliation of
Munich had been gloriously
annulled. We were weakened
and impoverished, but we had
every reason to look forward
to a rewarding, if arduous,
future as a Great Power and
one of the major pillars of
Western civilisation.
“Alas! as things have turned
out, after six years of Socialist
government we find ourselves
helpless and adrift, insulted with
impunity by Guatemalans,
threatened by Egyptians, bilked
by Albanians and mulcted by
Persians. Never, it is safe to
say, has victory had so pitiable
an aftermath.
“History, surveying this de-
cline, will estimate Mr. Attlee
and his colleagues not even as
but rather as paltry
instruments of ruin who were
swept helplessly along by events
beyond their control and even
their comprehension.
“When they were claimants
for office they were full of
pious hopes and fatuous con-
fidence. Mr. Bevin ‘staked his
political reputation’ on being,
able to solve the Palestine
problem without any difficulty.
India required only the exercise
of a little tact and goodwill to
settle down to be an amiable
social democracy. Sir Stafford
Cripps held that harmonious
relations with Russia could be
established only under Socialist
auspices. Under their own and
Stalin’s impetus mankind would
move forward to conditions of
enduring peace and felicity.
“Mr. Dalton was confident a
convivial evening with Molotov
would lay solid foundations for
Anglo - Russian collaboration.
Lord Keynes was ready to
undertake the task of procuring
an ample American loan where-
by the wealth of the New World
would be brought in to rectify
the trade-balance of the Old, and
Socialism derive its sustenance
from the capitalism it affected to
despise.”
The writer goes on to recall
how those “illogical and illusory
expectations” were all falsified:
“Far from solving the Palestine
problem, Mr. Bevin added to
the confusion to such an extent
that, after having failed to main-
tain order with some 100,000
troops, the sudden decision was
taken to relinquish the mandate.
The withdrawal which followed
was so hurried, cowardly and
irresponsible that it gained us
no friends even among those
who had advocated such a
course, and made the Arabs, its
chief victims, our contemptuous
enemies.
“In India a like panic with-
drawal cost millions of lives in
communal slaughter, and re-
sulted in a hurriedly devised
partition. Across their bizarre
frontiers the Indian and
Pakistani armies, supported by
grossly inflated military expen-
diture, now glower at one
another.
“The provision [to Soviet
Russia] of jet engines (a model
for those which were later to
make their appearance over
Korea) and other conciliatory
gestures did not serve to abate
the stream of vituperation [from
Moscow].
“If their [the Attlee Socialists’]
blandishments fell decidedly flat
in Moscow, their relations with
Washington were as inept as
their financial requirements were
exorbitant. Our friends in
America were abashed, and our
enemies delighted, by their per-
formance.
“No insults from Peking, not
even the presence of Chinese
troops in Korea or the loss of
British lives at the hands of
Chinese guerrillas in Malaya,
would wean them from the
belief that Mao Tse-tung could
be won by kindness.
“Nothing so qlearly reflects
the mental confusion and
muddled purposes which have
characterised their handling of
foreign affairs as their attitude
to Franco. Ostensibly, their
objection is that he was once an
instrument of Axis policy, and
is now a dictator. Yet Stalin,
to come to terms with whom
they would make any sacrifice,
was not only an instrument of,
but an active participant in,
Axis policy ; Tito, whose regime
can scarcely be described as
Parliamentary, can always safely
rely on sympathetic treatment
from them ; and Mao Tse-tung,
no Gladstone, is, next to Mr.
w
London “Daily Express.”
“....and the delegate affirms his determination to fight the
Capitalo-Fascist Western hyenas with redoubled vigor!”
Nehru, their particular
favorite
“It is true that, to some
extent, the Government are
pushed into their fantasies by
their own Left-wing intel-
lectuals, fellow - travellers,
crypto-Communists, and other
ideological riff-raff, who remain
convinced that Stalin is still at
heart ‘progressive and peace-
loving’ despite slave - labor
camps, the Nazi-Soviet Pact,
vast and ever-growing armaments
and innumerable other unmis-
takable intimations of reac-
tionary practice and aggressive
intentions .
“In no area has this basic
misunderstanding of the present
world situation had more
disastrous consequences than in
the Middle East. In regard to
Western Europe even a Socialist
Government has displayed some
instinct for national self-
preservation; in the Far East,
happily, American policy has
been decisive ; but in the Middle
East, where the major respon-
sibility has necessarily been ours,
the consequences of vacillation
and confusion of purpose are
most clearly seen....
“With such a record of bow-
ing to every storm, and making
each fresh attack an occasion
for yet another futile conces-
sion, it is not surprising that
British influence should have
dwindled to derisory proper-
tions, or that a dangerous power
vacuum should have been
created in a vital strategic area
which is also the repository of
the largest oil deposits in the
world.
“Among peoples for whom
power is the only valid yard-
stick and all the claptrap so dear
to Socialist platforms about
moral leadership and gestures of
goodwill is utterly meaningless,
the spectacle of representatives
of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Com-
pany, with the connivance of the
British Government, suing at Dr.
Moussadek’s bedside for the
right to continue operating their
refinery at Abadan is deeply
significant. They deduce from
it that Britain’s power is spent,
and that they must look else-
where for the support and
leadership they once derived
from London. Men bar their
doors before the setting sun.”
By way of postscript to all the
foregoing, at least one small
glimmer of light amidst the
appalling gloom—Anthony Eden
addressing an American audi-
ence :
“Do not, I beg of you, under-
estimate the part that my coun-
try [Britain], and still more the
Commonwealth and Empire,
can play to guide and strengthen
the free world in the pursuit of
peace.
“The Commonwealth and Em-
pire family may be taking new
shape and forms. But it is my
conviction that the opportuni-
ties now opening before it to
contribute to the wealth and
leadership of the world are
greater than they have ever
been.”
Youth Marches Past.
On the Communist youth
marchipg in Berlin London
“Spectator” reported that “there
can be no doubt that the rally
has been a considerable success.”
As to what sort of success:
“The Nazis in Hitler’s day pro-
duced nothing much better.”
“All this,” New York
“Herald Tribune” commented,
“is made the more fearful and
ominous by the fact that we
have seen it before. What the
Communists are doing now, the
Nazis did to the young genera-
tion immediately preceding this.
The same hysteria, the same
discipline, the same unquestion-
ing and servile adoration that
Hitler evoked, and on which he
built his throne of despotism,
Stalin is calling forth today.
The corruption of youth has
been a bitter crime in all ages ;
but never has it been practised
on so huge a scale and with so
sinister an intent as today. The
Communists are sowing an evil
wind, and the whirlwind may
yet roar across the world.”
“It is discouraging,” ran the
“New York Times’s” comment,
“to see another generation of
youth repeating the tragic folly
of their fathers. What does it
matter that the million
youngsters who walked shriek-
ing through the streets of East
Berlin wore blue shirts instead of
the brown of the Hitler Jugend
or the black of the Italian
Fascists? It is history repeating
itself, but a mad and vicious
history.
“It was the youth of the
and ’thirties that
earned the world into the holo-
caust of 1939 and we who were
young then-or at least younger
than we are now-are, no doubt
open to the jibe that we could
do no better. Perhaps today we
deserve the reproach that we
have failed to catch the imagina-
tion and the ideals of youth the
way the Chinese and German
Communists have done. That
however, depends on who has
the boys and girls to educate to
indoctrinate, to fill with high
ideals or with the hate and
militancy of totalitarianism. It
stands to reason that if Hitler
could train and win over a
generation of youth to Nazi
doctrines, the German stooges
of Stalin could do the same to
a new generation of boys and
girls.”
Dragnet Digest.
Basic Jap Problems Unsolved. —
British business head A. R. Cook
(chairman of Cook Son and Co.), in
a London “Financial Times” article:
“The war has done nothing to solve
Japan’s basic problems—it has only
postponed them, and they still remain
very much the same. A growing
population, with a diminishing power
of supplying itself, and therefore
needing more production, coupled
with emigration, is an even more
urgent problem than it was before the
war.”
* * * ♦
Jap-Commonwealth Trade. —
Editorial conclusion of London
“Times”: “All studies of the possible
means of making Japan’s economy
viable lead to the conclusion that
Japan must find much larger markets
in the Commonwealth and in the
sterling area, and that much of her
raw-material supplies must come
from these sources. It is wise to seek
to ensure that this should occur in
an equitable and orderly fashion, but
almost certainly hopeless to prevent
it from occurring at all.”
* * * «
Tests for the West— Warning
against “the unwise and provocative
use of our strength once we have
obtained it,” Canadian Secretary of
State for External Affairs Lester B.
Pearson lists as the West’s main
tests: “The maintenance of adequate
armed strength for peaceful purposes
and for an indefinite time; the estab-
lishment and preservation of a proper
balance between military pewer and
economic and social welfare; the use
of that power with restraint, to
support a steady and constructive
diplomacy; all this will require a
discipline, a strength of purpose and
a sobriety of public opinion which
will be difficult to maintain.”
* * * *
Wool Overtaking Demand.— Noting
as “one interesting prospect” that
“for the first time since the wool
market was reopened after the war
available supplies of wool for next
season will be larger than the current
rate of world consumption,” London
“Economist” adds: “Total supplies
available in 1951-52 should exceed
2400 million lb. (clean), whereas
world consumption has declined from
2650 million lb. (clean) in 1950 to
an approximate annual rate of 2350
million lb. this year. These figures
do not necessarily indicate a fall in
wool prices. In the first place trade
stocks in all countries are very low,
and, secondly, defence requirements
will have to be met from available
supplies, and they could easily absorb
100 million lb.”
* * * *
Argentine Meat Shortage. —On
Argentina’s being, for the first time
in its history, suffering from a
shortage of meat, the London
“Times” Buenos Aires correspondent
has listed as the four main reasons:
First, a disastrous summer drought
18 months ago caused great losses of
cattle through hunger and thirst.
Secondly, there has been a big
increase in the home consumption of
meat. Thirdly, a winter drought has
prevailed during the past four months
in the north of the Argentine cattle-
breeding belt. Fourthly, Argen-
tine cattle-breeders complain that
they are discouraged by Government
intervention in the livestock industry,
and lately they have shown unwilling-
ness to send their animals to market
because they consider present cattle-
prices too low.
* * * *
The Fascists of the Left— Deputy
Prime Minister of Greece George
Papandreou, in “Foreign Affairs :
“Today we realise that in every
country [in Europe] the Communists
helped organise the Resistance, not
for the sake of the countries of which
they were citizens, but for the saxe
of their ‘spiritual home,’ the Soviet
Union. The Communist resistance
movements aimed at preparing the
ground for the forcible seizure of
power after the war. e fs
reasoned that, just as the First World
War had brought Communism to
one country, so the Second World
War would spread it at least to th
whole of Europe. In short, the Com-
munists were not fighting to end a
war but to begin one. £ ost ‘^ r
events have made it perfectly clea
that Communism—which is tne
Fascism of the Left—is th £ mortal
enemy of freedom,,”


\^ v
No home should
he without it...
O
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
special hospit
and ■omi*«
STREET. SX PETERS. AOEtAlftl.
TOLLC* SCOTT A TOU4*
M. •. w. DISTRIBUTORS! TOOTH
& CO. LIMITED
TST.f9.ft
REMEMBER -
ROAD COURTESY
meuks
ROAD SAFETY!
I Ntf*
10
/
viol
RtOH'
a*
Published in the interests
of Road Safety by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Com monwealth of Australia and
Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
w
fC94 /l 761 ■■■■
just that moment of moments to
come.
“My dear, how nice to see
you,” he coos at her ; then he
looks round as if he’s seen the
other pair for the first time. “But
I’m afraid you’ve caught Kir-
ball and Miss Winthus at an
awkward moment.”
He gives the kind of laugh
that all the world gives when it
is loving a lover. Then he goes
on improving on the situation.
“It’s time for your afternoon
tea. Miss Winthus. I’m sure
you’d like to take her along,
Kirball. You can keep her for
a bit longer than usual today be-
cause I want to have a little talk
with my wife.”
Then he shakes a playful
finger at them.
“But no going into jewellers’
shops. You know how people
talk in this town.”
Kirball co-operates willingly.
This is the kind of joke he en-
joys. He puts his arm lovingly
round Ronnie and gives such an
exhibition of middle-aged love
that Mrs. Rodway could only
conclude that the pair are on the
brink of elopement.
Rodway watches them go with
a tight smile on his face. He
has the little talk with his wife.
He tells her all about Kirball
and Ronnie and their deplorable
morals. Then he tells her about
Kirball’s dubious financial
practices—a good deal more
than any astute businessman
would tell his wife about affairs
in which he is involved, unless
he had some particular motive
for doing so. When his wife
leaves they are on better terms
than they have been for years.
I ATER in the afternoon Mrs.
L— Rodway’s two devoted
friends see Rodway, Kirball
and Ronnie having a drink to-
gether in the Regal lounge and
enjoying a great laugh at some
joke they have played on some-
one. Mrs. Rodway’s friends do
not hear enough to be quite
certain who that person was,
and as they are just lacerated
with curiosity they phone Mrs.
Rodway. Would Mrs. Rodway
have any idea who it could be?
They thought they heard her
name mentioned. Mrs. Rod-
way doesn’t waste any time tak-
ing thought. She grabs a pen
and writes a private and confi-
dential and very strictly anony-
mous letter to the Commissioner
for Taxation, suggesting that he
investigate all the dealings of
Messrs. Kirball and Rodway.
While she has her writing-paper
out she also drops a line to Mrs.
Kirball revealing her hus-
band’s fabulous ill-gotten wealth
and his immoral manner of
spending it on a known loose
woman.
The first result of Mrs. Rod-
way’s, letter-writing is that Mrs.
Kirball astonishes her husband
by a complete reversal of her
outlook on life. She demands
that since he has so much money
he take her on a trip abroad like
so many other people are doing.
She gives no explanation for
selecting this particular form of
extravagance, but it is easy
enough for Kirball to guess
that she wants to get him away.
He resists, but she has a look
that warns him not to be too
obstructive, seasickness or no
seasickness. At length he con-
sents to consult with his financial
adviser about ways and means,
hoping to scheme a way out.
Among the underlings at Rod-
way’s office he finds consterna-
tion. They have heard in ad-
vance by the underground
grapevine that the bloodhounds
are on the way. It is the first
time that Kirball sees any
merit in his wife’s enthusiasm
for a long ocean voyage. Rod-
way encourages him; he is
strangely calm under the distres-
sing circumstances, and willing
to shoulder all the unpleasant
responsibilities; the stout-
nearted reliable business col-
league pulling his partner out of
a tight spot. He promises Kir-
ball with many much-iributhed
phrases that his interests will not
(puffer in his absence, Kirball
is so grateful that he shakes his
hand feelingly. He shakes hands
feelingly with Ronnie, too, and
off he goes on his voyage, pay-
ing a fiendishly blackmarket
price for berths on application.
KIRBALL has had time to
try out only seven different
cures for seasickness when two
surprisingly youthful and guile-
less-looking men arrive at Rod-
way’s office and admit in a some-
what reluctant manner that their
department has asked them to
check over a few things. Rod-
way knows how to treat them,
how much to tell them and how
much he can safely hide. When
they have gone he can talk
expansively about them to his
secretary.
“They treated me well. I
didn’t lose anything. Of course
I had to throw them a few of
the tinpot operators to keep
them from being too hard on
Kirball, I managed to save
something from the wreck for
him. He might have to sell one
or two of his cars, and he won’t
be able to have all those long
expeditions on shore in every
country he visits to get over his
seasickness. But he’ll get along,
alliright.”
Quite clever Rodway is,
really, not showing any trace of
vindictiveness against Kirball.
Ronnie is very sympathetic.
“Poor Mr. Kirball,” she says
in a wistful voice, as if now that
he has lost so much money he is
as good as dead. “He was such
a nice man.”
She stands there thinking about
what a nice man he was, and
quite involuntarily her fingers
move up to her neckline to
caress an attractive design in
rubies. Rodway, who is now
more than usually observant
about such things, is warned by
her voice and the look on her
face. Immediately he becomes
very sharp.
“Who gave you that jewel-
lery?” he shouts. “Was it
Kirball?”
Ronnie won’t admit it, but it
is not much use denying it. She
swears that it was just a senti-
mental gift and that there was
really nothing between her and
Kirball. Rodway, however,
takes a very virtuous attitude.
That sort of thing cannot be
allowed to go unpunished. He
shouts at her in his official
capacity.
“Take this letter : The Com-
missioner for Taxation, Regard-
ing your investigation into the
affairs of T. Kirball. I deem
it my duty to convey to you the
following further facts which
have just come to hand”
The only things he doesn’t re-
veal are his own considerable
profits and his guiding hand in
the whole business.
“Yours faithfully,” concludes
Rodway, “Give it to me to
sign. That will strip him to the
bare boards. If he wants to
come back from Europe he’ll
have to work his passage.”
Ronnie types the letter expe-
ditiously and brings it to him.
While he signs it she stands
humbly before him. He seals it
and puts it in his pocket before
he looks up at her, to meet a
pair of eyes that shine on him
with a great light.


&
r)
m
k
A/otu iA tke
timjjVi ij6m
HAYMAN
ISLAND
keCutcui!
When it’s shivery in Southern States, there's swimming,
cruising, fishing and sunbathing at Hayman Island, and
from now on the climate touches perfection.
Tariff £3-3-0 per day. Nowhere else is the
holiday-maker given better value for money than at
Hayman. Comfortable sleeping lodges, superb meals, an
excellent bar, and an atmosphere of carefree informality.
Barrier Reef Airways’ giant 4-engined flying boats take
you direct to Hayman Island.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Public Notice.
JOHN DOUDICAN, who died intestate at
Waitara, New South Wales. A «straha, 23rd
September. 1936, aged about 94 jears_
PURSUANT to decretal order of Supieme
Court of New South Wales in Equi y.
dated 9th March. 1951. m suit _ No. ‘1
of 1950 entitled, In the Matter of th
Estate of John Doudican formerly of Wai-
tara in the State of New South Wales,
now deceased, Between The Public Trus it.
Plaintiff, and The Attorney-General for
the State of New South Wales, Defendant,
whereby the following enquiry was
directed, viz., “that it be referred to the
Master in Equity to enquire who were the
persons entitled as the next-of-kin of the
abovenamed deceased living at the date
of his death to his estate and whether any
of them have since died and if so who are
their respective personal representatives
Notice is hereby given that all persons
claiming 1 to be entitled under said
enquiry are to send by post prepaid to
The Public Trustee, O’Connell Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales, Australia, so as to
reach him on or before the 30th November.
1951, their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions, and full par-
ticulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said decretal order, unless
on application otherwise ordered. Claimants
are to attend personally or by solicitor
before the Master in Equity at the Supreme
Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney, on the
14th December, 1951, at 11 a.m., being
the time appointed for adjudication on the
claims. A claimant not residing in New
South Wales must send with particulars of
his claim the name, and address of a
person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent. Third
September, 1951. —A. C. R. TWIGG, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., boli-
citor for Plaintiff.
I
*
*
QMAKEACAKE
* Sake a Cake
Bakers man,
Deck it with tapers as quick as you can!
Dozens of kiddies are coming to tea.
Dear little Cuddles has just turned > three,
• Poor little girlie! We thought shed die,
Dread croup is so prevalent in July:
Watching her gasping was hard to endure
Till she had Woods’ Great
Peppermint Care.
Give'Devil Dandruff
the'brush-off
with
lusfac-
jiCmC
HAIRDRESSING
w
m
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —Americas
favourite Hair Dressing"
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down looK.
Try Lustre Creme to-day.
• Relieves dry scalp
o Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
9 Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It's handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
LH2/121
Sold ai oil
Chemists & Store*
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Pretty manners are as becoming as
a pretty hat.” — Women’s magazine.
Becoming ever rarer, in fact.
4* + 4*
“Don’t believe a word of what you
think about redheads.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Your thoughts are apt to lead
you astray.
4* 4* 4* . . .
“Falling in love, exciting as it is, is
only an overture.” — “New Idea.’’
In which the brass is used
extensively.
Bill of Fare.
Three courses — soup, entree and
sweet —
Served in twelve minutes flat.
Plain honest tucker here you
eat,
And not too much of that.
A restaurant without appeal
For gourmet or for snob,
It's serving still a two-bob meal,
BUT NOW IT COSTS FIVE BOB!
P. O. M. C.
Faux Pas.
waiters chuck me out. I finish
up with a night in the cooler, a
fiver fine and a write-up in the
Sunday papers—all for insulting
a hors-d’oeuvre. I don’t mind
telling you, the whole affair was
most unsavory.
“The host’s flair for the artistic was
apparent in the floral arrangements
and the decorations of the hors-
d’oeuvres wlfich circulated among the
guests at his home.” — Social gossip.
I’m sitting down at the cock-
tail-party admiring the floral
arrangements and watching the
hors-d’oeuvres circulating among
the guests, when curse my family
escutcheon if a highly-decorated
stuffed olive wearing three rows
of ribbons, including the brown
star of the Zabrebravian order of
Chastity, Second-class, doesn’t
come up and nip a hefty swig
of my dry martini. I expostu-
late. Then blow me if he doesn’t
give a snooty glance and swig
down the rest! It’s too much!
I do my block and the blue’s on.
Two footmen and a dozen hired
JONAS DILL.
ŵ
“Hurry up, Dad; the 'William Tell Overture's' nearly finished.”
“Bishops should stop going to so
many conferences and devote more
time to active Church work.” — Lon-
don vicar Canon T. P. Stevens.
Congregations are more
Synod against than sinning.
“American delegate Homer T.
Huntington wore a plastic fried egg
in his lapel at the International Poul-
terers’ Conference in Paris.”
Later on, no doubt, other dele-
gates poached his idea.
A Work of Art.
“The Australian delegation to the
Communist Youth Festival presented
East Berlin trade-unionists with a
painting depicting ‘the sufferings of the
Australian working-class.’ ”
The East German comrades
were grouped around, eagerly
scanning the masterpiece. One
of them pointed to a figure on
the big canvas and turned to the
d&legate from the southern land
of the downtrodden slaves.
“Dot verker mitt der miner’s
lamp on his head,” the Lardhead
asked, “he der bigdure of
misery look, ja? Der reason iss
he gannot get enough to eat be-
gause der eggsploiding gabi-
dalist bosses don’t giff him
enough of der monisch?”
“That’s exactly right, com-
rade,” returned the “Australian.”
“The miner in Australia is com-
pelled to slave for fully five
hours a day on the face for a
pittance of twenty-five pounds a
week. By the time he’s spent
five pounds of it on beer and
tobacco and ten on bets and
bought rump steak at four shil-
lings a pound for his greyhounds
the poor cow can only afford to
buy scrag ends of meat for his
family and himself. But a lot
the pitiless, grasping coal-
owners care for his tragic plight!
Why, most of the miners are so
ground down by poverty they
can’t afford to pay more than a
hundred and twenty quid for an
automatic radiogram!”
“Und der vorf-laborer in der
left vorground mitt his right
elbow bandaged—did he get that
from der bashing invlicted in der
gabidalist bosses’ gorregtion-
camp begause he didn’t unload
her ship gervigly enough?”
“Well, not exactly,” answered
the “Australian.” “You see,
that wage-slave had to have his
right elbow treated after leaning
on it all day for several days in
the pub spending his twelve shil-
lings a day ‘appearance’-money
that he’s paid for sitting in the
sun playing cards.”
“Und hiss comrade mitt der
billhook who looks as if he vill
drop vrom exhaustion —der eggs-
ploiders haff been forcing him
to verk a fourteen-hour shift
straight off —two hours longer
than vorfies under der benign
Communist regimes haff to?”
“Not quite,” answered the
“Australian.” “You see, lies
been keeping ‘joey’ while the
mob on duty have been playm
two-up behind the bales of wool
or down one of the holds, and
he can hardly keep awake it’s
a big strain, that.”
“Dere iss a seaman here”—
another of the East Get man
trade - unionists indicated a
mariner sitting with bent head
and an obviously harassed ex-
pression—“he has choost been
given der bashing oft his soles
mitt der rubber truncheon by
der thugs employed by the gabi-
dalist bosses begause he refused
to go ofer der side in a hurri-
cane to help rig a jury-rudder?”
“No —it’s just that he can’t
make up his mind whether to
get the union to demand sponge-
rubber or solid leather divans in
the seamen’s staterooms —you
see, he’s a delegate. Or the
worried look might indicate that
he’s trying to remember which
brand of scented soap it was
that his wife told him to demand
of the ship-owners for the use
of the seamen because she’s
getting short of it. It could also
portray the indigestion he’s
suffering from through scoffing
too quickly the miserable repast
of soup, roast chicken and four
vegetables, peche Melba and
cream and coffee which the ship-
owners grudgingly allow them —
all because he has had to rush
off to call a stop work meeting to
protest against the free beer not
being sufficiently chilled, or the
failure of the company to instal
escalators on their ships in place
of the dangerous companion-
ways, supply the seamen with
crepe-soled casuals for off-duty
wear, or reconstruct the fo’c’sle
to allow a billiard-room and
cocktail-bar for the seamen.”
“Und dot bricky lying on der
ground, all-in?”
“That is a prime example of
how a tradesman is driven into
the ground by the system of
wage-slavery under plutocracy
in Australia. He had risen at
the barbarous hour of eight
o’clock and started work at nine-
thirty, slaving away until knock-
off time at half-past three with
only an hour for lunch, furiously
laying bricks at the rate of one
every two minutes. What bricky
wouldn’t be at the point of col-
lapse by mid-afternoon under
such slave-driving conditions?
Why, he’d barely have sufficient
strength to drag his weary way
to the pub for his six schooners.
It is only by a superhuman effort
that he recovers sufficiently from
this cruel treatment to enable
him to work on Sunday for the
blackmarket wage of six quid.”
Another Fritz pointed to a
crowd of workers going through
a big gate at which was an
attendant. “Der verkers peing
sent to der gonzendration-gamp,
ja?” he said sadly.
“Square up! ” said the delegate
from Australia. “That’s the
down-trodden toilers going to a
midweek international football
match, and the lousy bosses
docked them two hours’ pay
when they took time off to go! ”
Bo.
Irregular.
Although my wife tells me quite
often, alas,
“You’re a regular nuisance, a
regular ass,
You’re a regular this and a
regular that,”
I forgive her for being a regular
cat.
But my rankling resentment was
brought to a head
In my favorite pub when a new
barmaid said:
“Of course you can’t pick up
YOUR bottle of beer—
The list doesn’t show you’re a
regular here.”
BRIAN BUREAU.


IQUGH uej4 WUCH «
poun „d‘p *>«■
cutting ° nd q '
wear,
extra mileage.
even
Built of c ° rd
bru ;T Ü bb=" *ov. *•**
rlh.«<>'« rt<,n " na '
fOOGHfSI
HI-MILER
HI-MILER RlB— For long,
fast hauls on improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER ALL-WEATHER—
Recommended wherever
greater traction is needed.
TRUCK and BUS TYRES
BY
(bOOD
w
YEAR
Performance records of Hi-Milers have proved to
thousands of truck and bus operators all over Aus-
tralia that these famous Goodyear Tyres give most
for the money in mileage and trouble-free service.
Let these tough Hi-Milers keep your vehicles moving,
reduce delays and cut your tyre costs to a minimum.
ASK VOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR YOUR JOB!
10A2-1S
Neveb behrtc a, watch Me ~tkil.
%
I
<s*o
★ BREITLING CHRONOMAT
For Doctors ... Executives . . . Engineers . . <•
Draughtsmen . . . Navigators . . .Airmen ~ •
Turfmen . . . Athletes.
This amazing Wrist Watch calculates speed
(of car, runner, horse, etc.) . . . distance (a
journey, a race track, an aerodrome) . . . fuel
consumption, percentages, rdtes of exchange,
prices, interest, rate of production, etc.
It multiplies and divides, is a stop-watch, and
a perfect timekeeper all the time.
Other Breitling Watches include the Datora
Calendar Watch, Telemeter - Pulsometer,
12-hour Recorder, Waterproof, Breitling
Chronograph,
Ask your jeweller to show you
Sole Australian Representatives: Segal & Co. (est. 1890),
Sydney and Melbourne
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
At the recent annual meeting of the
Australian Jockey Club a member
somewhat tersely raised the question
of why Sydney’s Tattersall’s and City
lattersall’s Clubs should have any
entitlement to the several racing dates
granted them annually at Randwick.
The committee, in reply, wasn’t able
to do much better than cite “tradi-
tion,” which is, of course, quite a
good thing—up to a point. However,
without wishing to buy into any argu-
ments as to whether or not the clubs
should have the dates, it might be
suggested that while they do have
them there is some room for improve-
ment in the programmes offered.
Held at Randwick on Saturday,
Tattersall’s Club’s September meeting
offers the Chelmsford Stakes, Tram-
way and Spring Handicaps by way
of commendably well-endowed, good-
class events, but it does seem a very
notable omission that round this time
of the year, with the Derby coming
up, and in the midst of such events
as the Hobartville Stakes, Canterbury
and Rosehill Guineas, a Randwick
programme should be framed devoid
of a single event restricted to three-
year-olds. And in the light of this
omission it seems quite unnecessary
that the said programme should
include both a Welter and a High-
weight. A Novice and a Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap go to com-
plete a card which is notoriously full
of traps for young punters.
In the absence of an event specially
tailored to measure, connections of
Derby candidates had a choice of the
Three- and Four-year-old or the
Chelmsford as the most suitable alter-
native. The early Derby favorite
Hydrogen tackled the Chelmsford,
and, while to a degree he disappointed
his more ardent admirers, who sent
him out a warm favorite, he really
turned in quite a fair performance
in finishing second to Delta.
The Chelmsford was run in pretty
helter-skelter fashion. In contrast to
his more customary swooping-from-
behind tactics Belshazzar tore away
right from the start in an attempt to
lead all the way. Only Trizami and
Fengari made any attempt to go with
him, and at the half-mile it looked
very much that only those three were
in the event. Such may have been
the case had not Fengari disorganised
matters by coming a terrific (and for
him fatal) crash when seemingly
moving up comfortably approaching
the turn. In the straight Trizami got
to the front, but he was in turn passed
by Delta and Hydrogen, both coming
from a very long way back. Delta
won running away by three lengths.
Although he had not the faintest
chance with the winner, Hydrogen
finished on well, and Trizami, pre-
viously mentioned here as one of the
best-bred colts in the Derby, hung
on gamely.
In chewing over the performances
of Hydrogen and Trjzami it might be
kept in mind that the Chelmsford has
fairly often in the past offered a guide
to Derby prospects. Glancing back,
Carbon Copy, Magnificent, Mam
Topic, Pandect and Phar Lap are
noted as having won the Derby after
filling minor placings in the Chelms-
ford. Ammon Ra won both events,
and Richmond Main, after winning
the Chelmsford, deadheated with
Artilleryman in the classic.
The four-year-old Genetout gelding
French Cavalier ran a splendid Epsom
Trial with a clear win in the 7-
furlongs Tramway Handicap. Good
efforts were turned-in also in that
race by Humming Top and Oversight,
who deadheated for second, and by
present onlooker’s early Epsom fancy
Drastic, who came home stylishly to
finish fifth, after being a very long
way out of his ground at the turn.
Munro, on Humming Top, fired in a
protest on the grounds of interference
at the top of the straight. The
stewards took so very long to decide
the matter that one might well
assume the protest would have been
upheld had the interference occurred
not so far from home; Munro seldom
protests, and never frivolously.
In one way or another the Tram-
way Handicap has consistently in the
past offered some guide to Epsom
prospects. Just look back over the
record. Last year Humming Top
won the Tramway and finished a good
third in the Epsom. The year before
Buzmark won the Tramway and ran
second in the Epsom. In 1948 De La
Salle won the double. The 1947
results may be overlooked, as both
events were won by 50-to-l shots. In
’46 Puffham, who won the Tramway,
finished the closest of fourths in the
Epsom, which was won by Blue
Legend, who had finished third in the
Tramway. In 1945 Shannon won
both events. And in 1944 Prince,
Versailles and Modulation, who
finished in that order in the Tram-
way, finished, respectively, fourth,
second and first in the Epsom. It is
a record which certainly inclines one
to devote considerable thought to
Saturday’s result. Of the four men-
tioned —French Cavalier, Humming
Top, Oversight and Drastic—it might
be mentioned that in comparison with
Saturday’s weights Humming Top
will have much the best of matters in
the Epsom; he will meet French
Cavalier on 101 b. better terms, Over-
sight on 51b. better and Drastic on
141 b. better.
♦ * * ♦
The weather which greeted Satur-
day’s Moonee Valley meeting was so
complete an improvement upon that
which had prevailed for weeks pre-
viously that it was quite understand-
able that punters should eschew an
“Not yet, Major—this will test out a physics theory of
mine."
animal with such a name as Rainy
Day in the first event, the Windarra
High weight (6f.). Rainy Day (S.
Ralph) started at twelves, and won
the Highweight comfortably, but
thereafter punters fared rather better.
Betting was pretty close between
three of the six starters in the prin-
cipal event, the £2OOO John F. Feehan
Stakes of a mile at weight-for-age.
Achilles eventually started favorite at
6 to 4, with Laurie Hussar at twos
and Iron Duke at threes; they
finished exactly t’other way about.
Achilles tried to lead all the way.
Laurie Hussar moved up to join him
two furlongs from home, and the
pair entered the straight on terms.
With half-a-furlong to go Laurie
Hussar had just about shaken off
Achilles, but he had then to contend
with Iron Duke sailing home in great
style after being comfortably placed
throughout. It was a photo-finish, and
the Duke scored by a head, with
Achilles three lengths further back.
It was a fairish Caulfield Cup trial
on the part of the winner, and no
mean Epsom trial on the part of
Achilles. Achilles looked as though
he will be improved by the run,
which seemed in the nature of a
good rousing pipe-opener; he is cer-
tainly unlikely to adopt the same
tactics when carting his near-topweight
of 9.3 in the Epsom.
The crack El Golea colt El Sovino
(S. Ralph) started at the incredibly
good odds of 4 to 1 to register his
sixth win from eight starts, which he
did with a narrow but absolutely
sterling victory over the 2-to-l
favorite Quite Talk in the mile Cum-
berland Handicap. El Sovino isn’t
engaged in the A.J.C. Derby, but
whatever wins that event may have
another think coming if he (or she)
bumps El Sovino in the V.R.C.
classic.
Another winner on Saturday who
seemed at pretty fair odds in view of
her recent form was the very smart
mare Slick Chick (W. Williamson),
whose success in the second Chandos
Handicap was her third from her last
four starts. Winning by a half-length
from the Westralian galloper Prece-
dent, Slick Chick carried 91b. more
than the 8.2 she has in the Epsom.
The veteran stayer Hoyle was, with
9st., assessed by the handicapper as
being more than a stone better than
anything stacked against him in the
13-furlongs Budgeree Handicap, and
that proved to be a gross under-
estimate. Starting a firm favorite,
Hoyle (J. Purtell) won going away;
two lengths to Spearfolio and a
similar margin to Dhostar. Hoyle
will probably be given yet another
crack at the Melbourne Cup, in
which he has been measured at 8.3.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances): —
Cinderella Handicap: Golden
Chariot, 1; Noble Love, 2; Friendly
Feeling, 3. Parramatta Mixed: Tri-
clinium, 1; Bankbrook, 2; Henry the
Seventh, 3. Auburn Mixed; Channel
Rise, 1; Rion’s Pick, 2; Hioniti, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Blue Vest, 1;
Golden Bird, 2; Riptide, 3. Theo
Marks Quality Handicap: Artois, 1;
Pullson, 2; Aerofoil, 3. Rosehill
Guineas: Neat Andrew, 1; Bronze
Peak, 2; Montana, 3. Welter:
Lunarian, 1; Grand Archer, 2; Le
Dauphin, 3.
* * * *
Frank Sedgman made complete and
unqualified amends for his several
disappointing performances in major
overseas tournaments by making a
clean sweep of the United States
National titles. Only a bare handful
of foreigners have won the American
singles title, regarded by many as a
tougher proposition even than
Wimbledon, and Sedgman is the first
Australian to have done so.
Playing well throughout, Sedgman
produced his absolutely devastating
best at the right end of the tourna-
ment, when he blasted the defending
champion Larsen off the courts in
straight sets in the semi-final and just
as easily obliterated Victor Seixas
6-4, 6-1, 6-1, in the final. Sedgman
then won the mixed doubles with
Doris Hart (for which we’ll forgive
him on this occasion), and, of course,
had already won the men’s doubles
with McGregor.
Coming on top of the all-Australian
doubles final, Sedgman’s paralysing
singles victories provide reason to
look forward to the Davis Cup
challenge round with considerable
optimism. However, there are a few
sobering thoughts. One is that Savitt,
acknowledged really the best of the
Americans at present, was rendered
hors de combat by a leg injury during
the American championships, and
was consequently eliminated in un-
satisfactory fashion. Even more
worth pondering is the fact that, with
no reliable second-string singles
player in sight, the entire burden of
winning the challenge round seems
likely to fall upon Sedgman, who, for
some odd reason, has consistently
failed to produce his best form at
White City, where the challenge round
is to be played.
* * * ♦
The 66,135 who went to M.C.G.
to sec the first V.F.L. semi-final
between Essendon and Footscray were
agog with the week’s doings in V.F.L.
“discipline.” In the match between
Carlton and Essendon a week earlier,
Caspar (Carlton) punched Coleman
(Essendon), and both got a month’s
suspension, the decision leading to a
near-riot the night it was announced.
Without Coleman, reigning star for-
ward in Melbourne, Essendon’s tactics
had to be rearranged, and the youth-
ful Footscray team was given a great
chance. They very nearly capitalised
it. Bouncing away to a 6.1-3.2 lead,
the Bulldogs looked like running
Essendon off their legs, had a handy
lead at half-time and were still in
front when the last quarter began.
Then the Dons’ stamina told, and,
with ’Scray tiring, and losing in the
rucks, the Dons overhauled them, got
the lead and held it, to win by 8.13
to 8.5. The game was mostly a
scramble, both sides using spoiling
play. Next Saturday it’s Collingwood
against Geelong, Essendon to play
the loser a week later to see who
plays the grand final.
* * * s *
“Pass-it”: The Rugby Union semi-
final between University and Easts at
North Sydney Oval on Saturday was,
as a spectacle, a most disappointing
affair. University won, 14-8, after a
match in which both sides displayed
a lamentable lack of constructive
ability to score tries. University won
because they were more alert to such
opportunities as came their way.
Easts, who had been strongly favored
to win the premiership, seem to have
lost confidence at a vital stage. Their
backs were hesitant to engage even
in straightforward, orthodox passing
movements, and, despite a feast of
the ball in the second half, resorted
to kicking from the five-eighth posi-
tion. East’s negative attitude is diffi-
cult to understand, as in Tate and
McLellan they have two very strong-
running centres who, even if they
kept running into tackles, would
surely force openings in the long run.
Easts play Manly next Saturday in
the final, and if they are to reverse
the result of their last match against
that team they will have to be much
more venturesome, and go out with
the idea of scoring tries rather than
just stopping the opposition from
scoring.


Hie only, aiding
to North America
providing a
FREE SLEEPER
fo every passenger
w
lnformation and bookings
from your local travel agent
or any airline booking office.
General Agents: Trans-Australia
Airlines. BCPA Head Office:
53 Martin Place, Sydney. Phone:
BW 2741.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH IMMEDIATE CONNECTIONS TO U. K. VIA U. S. A. OB CANADA
8CA.86.12
uim
Him
i
sL
«
li
H
Hi
ii
s
/
f tampion fahes shape
No -9 IN THESE sipc ia i ,C
ER,ES “ BU 'IDING setter
TYRES'
In presses such as this the tyre is shaped prior to
vulcanizing another step in the making of a
Champion!
0T55.12.51
ES
CHAMPIONS OF THE ROAD
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing the Flock.
“R. Ney”: According to S.
G. Power, of Glen Innes experi-
ment farm (N.S.W.), a certain
number of sheep must be dis-
carded every year to avoid over-
stocking. Older ewes will be
included, but frequently some
younger sheep must also be sold,
and, for the sake of the annual
wool-cut and future lambing
percentages, obviously they’ll be
sheep which have been culled
out for poor performance.
Some of the ewes may be out-
standingly superior to the re-
mainder, and if they’re selected,
marked and mated to the best
of the rams, gradually the
progeny of that group will im-
prove the flock.
Classing can be done best
when the sheep are in three-
quarters to full wool, but some-
times it pays to do it just prior
to mating, in six months’ wool.
After a flock has been classed
for about three years the older
ewes should not require further
classing but should go out auto-
matically on age; thus only the
maidens require classing. A
selection of maidens made in a
poor season is more likely to re-
veal the good-constitution sheep.
When culling, these points on
conformation ought to be
watched: Narrow sheep carry
|lb. less wool on the back, and
their skeleton formation is not
conducive to good milk-supply,
successful lambing or well-
developed lambs ; bad udders,
faulty feet and teeth, narrowness
and depression behind the
shoulders should receive more
attention from the classer than
they usually do.
In a season where 10 per cent,
of the flock is fly-struck and 90
per cent., running under exactly
the same conditions, have not
been touched there is a very
good case for culling this 10 per
cent., for, although information
on the cause of strike is not
complete, it is known that this
10 per cent, will be constantly
restruck.
Footrot in Cattle.
“Malvern”: It’s causing con-
cern among Victorian dairy-
farmers. Wet, muddy pastures
and yards provide conditions
suited to the causative organism
—Fusiformus necrophorus. It’s
found in the intestines and feces
of normal cattle, harmless at this
stage, but not so when it enters
a punctured or bruised foot. Its
entry is facilitated by slushy
surroundings. Large numbers
may be affected
Symptoms vary from slight
lameness, with no apparent
cause for it, to obviously pain-
ful swelling of the foot up to
the fetlock. Severe cases show
sloughing of the skin between
the claws, with an offensive dis-
charge. Milk-production de-
clines rapidly; a fat cow or
beefer will become poor within
a few weeks.
The sulpha drugs are more
effective if the condition is
treated early, and there is ex-
terior suppuration. Good judg-
ment and observation will
always differentiate between
ordinary lameness and the early
symptoms of footrot. If not
satisfied about it consult a vet.
Sodium sulphapyridine does the
trick, injected intravenously in
prescribed dosages. In two to
three days pain and swelling dis-
appear, and the animal rapidly
recovers. The foot should be
bathed in mild antiseptic solu-
tion frequently, and care taken
to keep it away from mud or
dirt of any kind.
Poor Fodder Reserves.
“C.S.”: John L. Green, of
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture, who recently judged farms
in a R.A.S. competition, re-
marked that fodder reserves on
the N.S.W. coast, “as in most
other parts of the State,” are at
a “lamentably low ebb,” and
adds: The coastal farmer has
ample opportunities to store
fodder in the form of silage, hay
and grain. Although every farm
may not have an overhead con-
crete silo, there is hardly one on
which a trench silo to hold 30
or 40 tons of maize or sorghum
could not be constructed.
Silage gives the bulk of the
fodder, but is not a ration on its
own. Lucerne-hay is the most
valuable of all the conserved
fodders, and every dairyfarmer
should grow lucerne and con-
serve as much in the form of
hay as possible. Unfortunately,
on all farms lucerne will not
grow successfully but, again un-
fortunately, many farms are
seen where lucerne would do
very well, but none is grown.
Lucerne-hay is much superior
to oaten hay, as it is a rich pro-
tein fodder. Better use could be
made in many instances of sur-
plus pasture growth by mowing
it and making hay. This will do
the pasture good and, in addi-
tion, give a reserve of good type
of fodder, especially if the pas-
ture contained a reasonable
amount of clover.
Improved pastures will not
eliminate the need for fodder
conservation, and farmers must
realise that if improved pastures
increase the stocking of their
properties it is essential to have
conserved fodders for use in dry
times.
For Hot, Dry Country.
“Outback”; The ideal sheep
for north-west Queensland must
first of all have constitution,
said L. V. Hennessey, manager
of Rosevale Stud (Julia Creek),
who paid 2600gns. for a Had-
don Rig ram at Sydney ram
sales. To be a successful top
sire for the north-west a ram
must be without fault —it was
hard enough to correct the faults
in the flock without buying
more.
It must, added Hennessey, be
a solid sheep, well-woolled on
the shoulders, thighs and head,
otherwise wool weight was soon
lost. The big struggle in the
north-west was to keep wool on
the front and under the belly,
which could be done only where
top sires strong in this feature
were used. The wool must be
long-stapled and the sheep show
some development.
Hennessey likes to see a solid,
even front on his rams, and they
can have skin anywhere else as
well, provided it is loose ; there
is no place in a stud for tight-
skinned sheep. A well-developed
loose-skinned sire would breed
a solid progeny with plenty of
wool-growing surface without
being wrinkly. Northern-bred
sheep were inclined to go long
in the leg and light in frame, and
this must be constantly guarded
against. Evenness was the first
essential. Unless the flock was
even it was useless attempting to
develop along any particular
line, and evenness could be ob-
tained only by passing through
the stud and the flock as much
of the blood of as few chosen
sires as possible.
Fire-fighting Gear.
“Ngaduri”: The damage done
by fires each summer would be
at least halved if reasonable effi-
ciency was achieved by fire-
fighters. Too often, when the
alarm is given, men rush madly
in all directions to gather odd
pieces of the fire-fighting equip-
ment (when it could just as
easily have been kept at least in
one place) just when time is
most valuable. Whatever equip-
ment is kept it must be in the
most convenient and accessible
position —preferably on the back
of a truck.
These are essentials: (a) A
\^^ cto
“ Wait—he don’t mention beer !”
tank of water kept full and sus-
pended where the truck, backing
up, will automatically lift the
tank from its suspenders. (b
The spray equipment kept fuelled
and pump bearings greased, with
reserve tins of petrol, oil and
grease. The spray equipment
should be tested every morning
in hot weather. All hoses and
water fitments should be quick
and easy to adjust, (c) A steel
box of tools necessary for on-
the-spot repairs or adjustments
to ( b ) and fencing tools, includ-
ing a sharp axe. ( d ) A steel box
containing tinned food (sufficient
for the men who will operate
the plant for one day), a small
first-aid kit and, possibly, a
change of outer clothing, (e)
Knapsack-sprays, basil-beaters
and bags.
Tn addition water-tanks on the
property should be fitted so that
the water-supply can be re-
plenished with the least possible
delay. All hands on the property
—including the women-—should
be taught fire-drill, and each
person allotted a definite job in
fire-fighting. There should be
an efficient form of alarm-
signal.
Riders should always carry
fencing pliers in the saddle-bag
so that they can get stock awav
quickly.
When a fire occurs even-
second is valuable. A trained
team and a plan to follow may
mean the difference between
little harm and complete destruc-
tion.
Using the Hacksaw.
“A 1 W.”: Different kinds of
steel are used in making blades
for different classes of work.
Tool steel, tungsten (alloy steel)
and high-speed steel are most
used.
A flexible back blade is one in
which only the teeth are
hardened, leaving the back soft.
When the entire blade is
hardened it is called an all-hard
blade.
The blade should be drawn
tight in the frame so that it will
not bend. When using a flexible
blade the tension should be
increased while cutting, as the
blade will stretch because of
heat caused by friction. The
blade cuts only on the forward
stroke. Under ordinary condi-
tions 35 to 40 strokes per minute
is satisfactory. • About 50 strokes
per minute should be the
maximum.
Hard material should not be
sawed too fast, as this will dull
the blade. In cutting a drill
rod, for example, it is better to
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
A new set of sunspots seems likely to be the trigger for
September rains, which may be heavy on the N.S.W. central
coast, though there is some uncertainty, as the full records
do not exist. The rains, as shown in the cyclical we
have, are general and should lead to good spring conditions
over eastern Australia. In general the year 1952 seems
favorable, with a well-distributed rainfall but no excessive
falls, although the falling sunspot activity may reduce this
at times.


Telephone:
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Vine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
‘‘WienoWs" Wo rm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICLANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
ŵ
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
ẁ
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
ẃ
£4O/12/6
BW 8631.
IjJJ
V
tl
N
WUe
kott...
lucky
quctts f
The warm spirit
of hospitality
(D c Cdllums
Scots Ulhisky
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a
cold water and telephone in all rooms.
I
I
M
||
li
iilll
ill
iflmi
**
hi m
Up*
moderate tariff. Hot and
Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
*•METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
ißElLAXspnupainfunit
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAINTS—for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
ẅ
Also available
' as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Xopp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
J. W. EfIRNSHfIW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney-’Phone X 83950
* ett So*
'"-o^''-',7
J&.
v -n>-
'■
.*-> Is.
S>NSS&
m
&
q Tke&teeHT&w
YOUR GUARANTEE OF SUCCESS
0
o
o
(?) Castration and tailing by the old meth-
v »ds is a long, messy, unpleasant job.
Even for the expert it means a lot of
uncertainty with grave rh»k of stock
losses, injuries and infection.
ELASTRATOR is the bloodless,
humane, PROVED way of castrating.
Lambs and calves done the ELAST-
RATOR way show no shock, suffer no
check, and mother up straight away.
It will pay you to castrate and tail with
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
Obtainable from Station Suppliers. Stock and Station
Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD
saw slowly and use greater
pressure than is ordinarily used,
Use an all-hard blade on
brass, tool steel, cast-iron,
rails, etc. Use a flexible blade
on channel iron, tubing, tin,
copper, aluminium, babbit, etc.
An all-hard blade is used on the
former group of metals because
it does not have the tendency to
buckle or run out of line when
pressure is applied. The flexible
blade is used on the latter group
because it does not break so
easily.
Use a blade with 14 teeth to
the inch on machine steel, cold
rolled steel, or structural steel,
The coarse pitch makes the saw
free and fast-cutting. Use a
saw with 18 teeth to the inch
on solid stock, aluminium, tool
steel, babbit, high-speed steel
and cast-iron. This pitch is
recommended for general use, as
a blade with 14 teeth per inch is
too coarse and leaves the cut
too ragged.
Use a blade with 24 teeth to
the inch on tubing, tin, brass,
copper, channel iron and sheet-
metal over 18-gauge. If a coarse
pitch is used the thin stock will
tend to strip the teeth out of
the saw blade. Two or more
teeth should be in contact with
the work. Use 32 teeth per inch
on small tubing, conduit and
sheet-metal less than 18-gauge,
Clamp the stock between two
pieces of wood or soft metal and
saw through all three at once.
Three ways to break a hack-
saw blade: (1) Using a coarse
blade on thin work, (2) drawing
the blade too tightly and then
canting it, (3) using too much
pressure.
Mintweed Control.
“A-Jay”: Mintweed, now
causing concern in north-west
N.S.W., spreads very quickly,
and may take possession on
black soils where the grass cover
is broken. Natural grass allowed
to grow vigorously and form a
complete sward is the answer on
grazing land.
Eradication of rabbits, suit-
able subdivision, even under-
stocking of threatened areas, and
conservation of fodder will beat
the pest. It is no use maintain-
ing a good grass cover to com-
bat the mintweed in favorable
seasons if it is to be lost as soon
as a dry time comes. The rapid
spread of mintweed followed the
drought years of 1944 and 1946,
when the natural grasses were
completely eaten out and there
was nothing to compete with the
mintweed.
Old cultivation ground when
infested will remain so while it
remains in cultivation. The only
thing to do is keep on growing
winter crops or summer crops
which permit of inter-row culti-
vation, or else sow it with some
sort of pasture which will offer
effective competition to the
mintweed. Such a pasture
should have a perennial,
autumn-sown, summer-growing
grass as its chief constituent.
There are grasses still in the ex-
perimental stage which appear
promising, whilst both giant
panic-grass and Rhodes-grass
are good prospects for control,
though having the drawback of
being spring-sown types.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wilco”; When sulky-tyres
become loose the only thing is
to take them to a wheelwright to
have them “cut and shut.” So-
called “cures” such as cover-
ing the wheels with wet sacks,
or soaking them in water, may
tighten the tyres for a while, but
they end up doing a lot of
damage.
“Rooster”: This is the best
time to plant out citrus-trees.
Dig a 6in. trench, leaving loose
soil banked up on one side ; place
roots of trees in this and throw
soil on roots. If soil is dry
water liberally. Sever all
damaged roots before planting
and shorten lager roots to 4in.
to 6in., cutting off twisted roots.
Heap on sufficient soil to allow
of subsidence.
“Sundowner”: Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture claims
that a D.D.T. emulsion spray
will control the Argentine ant.
A strength of 0.25 p.c. was found
to reduce the number of ants
greatly. The department recom-
mends spraying in a continuous
band of the foundations of
buildings, concrete paths, trunks
of trees and shrubs. It suggests
doing it in fine weather and
treating interiors of buildings at
the same time as the exteriors.
It may be necessary to follow up
the initial spraying by another
in two months’ time.
“Big Billy”: To ward off red-
legged earth-mite clear head-
lands of weeds surrounding the
planted areas and lay down a
protective barrier of creosote.
For larger areas two gallons of
the liquid will be required for
each acre. Mites which pene-
trate to the crop can be dealt
with by dusting with 2 p.c.
D.D.T. or D.D.T.-gammexane.
“Billjim”: Phalaris tuberosa
is recommended by Victorian
Department of Agriculture for
spring sowing on pasture too
wet or too dry for rye-grass.
Although not as palatable as rye,
phalaris provides stock with a
varied diet Sow on well-worked
fallow alone or with a small ad-
mixture of sub.-clover at lib.
to 21b, per acre.


w
■A
f 4&
WM
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
INSURANCE —■for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL
IP*
%
c
FOOD PRODUCTION
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRIAL POWER
Foundations of Progress
WITH the passing of the first 50 years
as a Commonwealth, Australia enters
a new era of progress and development,
brought about by an urgent need to safe-
guard and provide for a rapidly increasing
population a need to further increase
food production, to improve transportation
services and to complete major develop-
mental projects. Further, Australia wants
to keep her place with other exporting
nations in making food and necessary raw
materials available to less fortunate
neighbours. To accomplish these vital tasks
Australia must have the tools.
International Harvester Company of
Australia Pty. Ltd. is helping to provide
the essential equipment to strengthen
Australia’s Foundations of Progress by
continued importation of some major
products, but particularly by the manu-
facture in Australia of modern McCormick
International tractors and farm machines
for agriculture . . . International motor
trucks for transportation . . . and Inter-
national tractors and power units for
general industrial purposes. In addition,
imported International crawler tractor
power with allied earth moving equipment
is playing an important part in contributing
to the many state and national develop-
mental schemes. All of these products are
the tools essential to Australia’s great
nation-building activities which are going
forward today.
International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
{incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
m
INTCVMATIONAL
1326-24
McCormick Internationa)
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Pgw U
You Don't Have to
Be Brilliant
Franklin D. Roosevelt made
only mediocre grades at
Harvard. Einstein was back-
ward in school. Edison was a
“dunce.” Eisenhower showed
little interest in his military
studies at West Point.
In September Reader’s Digest,
the Director, Counseling Centre
for Gifted Children at New York
University, says: “Too much
intelligence can actually be a
handicap. Many of the world’s
successes made a poor showing
scholastically in early life. They
possessed, or later developed,
other talents and qualities.”
Get your September Reader’s
Digest today. 29 stimulating
articles condensed from leading
magazines and current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
IS
A
a
Consult us foi
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
cp4 cH'oiel
FACING G PHRK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and bustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
‘Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
.condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7230.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s pin*
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAh
to treat a Cylinder Engine. 1
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 12/9/’5l
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
117 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7250
I am teaching Rachel, the
nurse, to read and write in the
evenings. She is native-born, and
her education was utterly
neglected. But she is quick and
most desirous to learn. Amy
began with her and got her on
very well, but Mr. Sloman did
not like her leaving the drawing-
room of an evening to teach
Rachel, so the education was at
a standstill till I came.
You have no idea what a
plague the servants are here. If
a few married ladies meet, it is
quite ridiculous to hear the
chorus of lamentation that they
strike up. One has had anew
American stove knocked to
pieces ; another every scrap of
crockery broken; another her
gowns pawned; another, bills
run up in her name at every
shop in the town. All the
buckets have been let fall down
all the wells and the name of
the “followers” is legion. I
suppose it is an evil that will
mend itself as more servants
come out here.
September 18. The English
news is come at last, that is to
say, the principal items have
been telegraphed from Adelaide ;
the letters will not be here for
nearly a week, but it makes no
difference to me as all mine will
go to Marlborough. I hoped to
have had your June letters back
in time to answer, but the Rock-
hampton steamer is not in yet.
There seems to be nothing
very remarkable in the English
news, except that France wants
o Continued on page 35.)
Sardinia and the Americans are
calling in the Indians to scalp
and tomahawk for them. There
seems to be some chance of the
war being ended by a com-
promise; what a good thing it
would be.
I see you are still building
iron-cased vessels at home. I
hope they will answer, for they
cost a good deal of money.
Your letters that come out by
this mail will be in answer to
the first I wrote home ; it is very
vexing to have to wait so long
before getting them.
You will be sorry to hear that
I have returned to my old state
of ignorance respecting the time.
My watch has failed me, and I
much regret the £l2 I spent on it.
It is a most unaccountable thing
how it could have broken, and
the worst of it is, it will prob-
ably be spoilt in the mending ;
they treat watches so ill out
here. Annie’s has never kept
time since she had it cleaned in
Sydney, and yet it was a first-
rate English watch and went
beautifully before.
Our only timepiece here is an
old silver watch of Mr. Sloman’s
which hangs over the chimney-
piece, but it gains frightfully and
requires putting back half an
hour in the morning and a
quarter of an hour or so toward
the afternoon before it will do
you credit. Sometimes it stops,
and then I exercise my old talent
for guessing the time, which,
when I had no watch, I used to
astonish Aunt Vizard by coming
home to dinner to the minute,
after long walks on the hills.
The Bathurst dogs are a per-
fect pest. I do not think Con-
stantinople can be worse in this
respect. There is no dog tax,
and everybody, rich and poor,
seems to keep about five. Most of
them are curs and mongrels of
the very lowest description and
endowed with supernatural
powers of yelping. The chorus
they raise at night is quite heart-
rending, and when we take
Prince, our old brown pointer,
who is of rather a quarrelsome
disposition, into the town we
generally get a whole pack after
us. Every now and then I make
demonstrations of picking up
large rocks to hurl at them, but
this only stops them for a
minute, and a few of the most
persevering generally follow us
home and howl at the gate. I
am fond of dogs, but there may
be too much of a good thing.
Another peculiarity of this
country is the incessant galloping
that all the horses keep up. You
never see anyone ride at a trot
or walk ; it is always a hard
gallop uphill and downhill, all
the same. I should think it must
wear out the horses very soon,
and you do see lots of skeletons
lying about in the bush and by
the waterholes and creeks.
Some of them are bullocks, but
the greater number are horses.
The other day I came upon
one quite recently dead, under
a gum-tree. I have avoided the
spot since, for there he will lie
till his bones are bleached white
by the Australian sun. I am
afraid Prince knows the place,
for sometimes he comes in
smelling anything but sweet.
September 19. I must finish
and post my letters this morning.
Amy’s new servant came last
night in a flounced muslin dress
and eardrops, but she seems to
understand her work and looks
very tidy this morning.
It is a rainy day, a great
affliction out here, as the
children yell in the house instead
of being out from morning to
night, as they are in general.
I have just seen among the
English news that Mrs. Barrett
Browning is dead. I feel quite
sorry. An author whose works
you are fond of seems almost
like a friend, and I like her
poems so very much. Amy does
not know them. I said her the
“Romaunt of Margret” onej
day when we were sitting in the
bush and she liked it very much.]


MARINE ENGINEERS & ENGINE
DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering
and desirous of passing examinations
for advancement, write for prospectus
regarding Engineering Correspondence
Courses, Tuition for Engineers and
Engine Drivers’ Examinations, also
Special Courses for Engineer Appren-
tices.
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.1.N.A., M.LMar.E.,
M.I. Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A.
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, C.l.
P.O. Box 904, NEW ZEALAND.
THE “ENGLISH ELECTRIC” “CANBERRA” BOMBER
HISTORY WAS MADE WHEN THE FIRST R.A.A.F. CANBERRA JET COMPLETED
ITS RECORD-BREAKING 24-HOUR FLIGHT FROM ENGLAND TO AUSTRALIA
Making history has been among the achievements of The English Electric Company Ltd.
for many years, for as well as designing and manufacturing the outstanding Canberra and
other famous aircraft the Company supplies to Australia thousands of tons of intricate
heavy and light electrical equipment. This equipment has added to the standard of living
of every Australian and embodies the best of modern design and workmanship. The wide
diversity of plant being supplied by the Company to Australia includes:
wiSSiSgS'
S«s*
• Over half a million horsepower of hydro-
electric and Diesel generating plant,
including the first hydro-electric unit for the
Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority.
• Nearly a quarter of a million horsepower
of rolling mill motors, some of more than
20,000 horsepower, larger than any others
in Australia. • Over two million kilo-
voltamperes of large transformers, including
the largest single units for this country to
operate at 230,000 volts. • Over 20,000
horsepower of electric and Diesel-electric
rail traction equipment involving more than
125 locomotives.
• The first steam turbo-alternator to operate
here at a pressure of over 1,000 pounds
per square inch. • Over 100,000 kilowatts
of mercury arc rectifier equipment for
electrolytic, traction, and industrial duties.
• Switchgear of all types. • Electric
winders for mines, • Diesel-electric marine
propulsion equipment. • Electric motors,
high rupturing capacity fusegear and
domestic appliances.
The English Electric Co. Ltd. is especially
experienced in the handling of comprehen-
sive contracts for complete power stations
and railway and industrial electrification
projects.
At Rocklea, Brisbane, the Company operates a large works, with another
works at Auburn, Sydney. Also included in the English Electric group of
companies are Marconi’s Wireless Telegraph Company and D. Napier & Son.
w
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
(INCORPORATED
ŵ
IN ENGLAND)
Sydney Melbourne
Adelaide Brisbane
FLOWER,
DAVIES & JOHNSON, PERTH, H. M. BAMFORD. HOBART
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Names of buyers of crocodile-skins.
■ —5191.
Words of verse by H. C. McKay
(“Augustus Blowfly”) beginning
“Demetrios keepa do oyster shop, and
make da joint to pay.”—5190.
To get in touch with Australian
collectors of arms, clocks and silver-
ware, with a view to exchange and
information. —5189.
Words of verse “Allman’s Bar,”
published about fifty years ago.—
5195.
To buy copy of Here Lies by
Dorothy Parker and While Rome
Burns by Alexander Woollcott. —5194.
To buy books on western Queens-
land and the Gulf country and the
Northern Territory published during
the past five years. —5193.
To buy books of Australian plays
and books on the Australian theatre.
-5192.
Invalid pensioner, N.S.W., would
like any back-numbers of the fol-
lowing theatrical magazines: “Echo”
(Denmark), “Hopla Hoff” (France),
“Das Organ” (Germany), “Artisten”
(Germany), the “Performer” (England),
the “World’s Fair” (England) and
the “Billboard” (U.S.A.).—5196.
To buy copy of A World Ahead by
Jack Lindsay.—5197.
Information Sought.
For what ailments is brewer’s yeast
considered to be curative ?
Yeast is a natural source of the
vitamin B1 (the so-called anti-
neuritic vitamin), and, as such, is
believed to promote the normal action
of the nervous and digestive systems,
the general growth and development
of the body and the production of
milk by nursing mothers. Conse-
quently yeast is held to be of use in
the treatment of pellagra, neuritis in
some of its forms, arthritis, beriberi,
some digestive upsets and disorders ot
lactation.
* * * *
What is F err el’s law ?
Ferrel’s law is that everything
moving on the earth’s surface is sub-
ject to a deflecting force owing to the
rotation of the earth —in the northern
hemisphere the force deflects to the
right and in the southern hemisphere
to the left. This is specially applic-
able to the air when in motion, the
winds of the northern hemisphere
being deflected to the right and those
of the southern to the left.
* * * *
What are the principles of the Hay
diet ?
Hay founded his dietetic methods on
the theory that proteins and starches
should not be eaten at the same meal.
Starches, he says, need alkaline con-
ditions for their digestion while pro-
teins require acid. The main prin-
ciples of the Hay diet are that one
should eat sparingly, and only when
hungry, that none but nourishing
foods should be eaten and that two
foods should not be eaten at the
same time which cannot easily be
digested together.
* * *
By what other names was Newcastle
(N.S.W.) called?
Governor King refers to “Coal
Harbor” in March, 1804. Shortly
afterwards King reported to the
Home Government that he had named
the settlement he had formed there
“Newcastle.” Lieutenant Menzies,
commandant there, mentions the
settlement as “King’s Town,” and
this name was occasionally used until
about 1830. The name Port Hunter
appears to have been used sometimes,
but there is no evidence that it was
used officially.
* * *
Symptoms of Hodgkin’s disease?
The disease consists in an enlarge-
ment of the lymphatic glands
throughout the body. It is usually
accompanied with a progressive
antenna, and occurs more frequently
in males than in females. Glands in
the neck are commonly affected first,
those in armpits and groin showing
a definite increase in size as the
disease progresses. The anaemia fol-
lows general languor and debility,
with weakness and loss of weight.
Headache and constipation may
occur. At this stage the organs in
general, spleen, etc., become dropsical
or waterlogged, but with treatment
this secondary development may not
occur. It is during young adult life
that the majority of cases occur —cure
is possible with prompt medical atten-
tion at this stage. Diagnosis of
Hodgkin’s disease is often difficult, as
the lymphatic glands may swell for a
multitude of reasons. Microscopic
examination of suspected glands will,
where other methods fail, reveal to
the pathologist the changes charac-
teristic of the disease.
Brief Answers.
W.J.: Sam Langford and Sam
McVea met six times in Australia
and 13 times altogether. Langford
won five of these fights and McVea
one. Four were no-decision affairs
in U.S.A., and three of them ended
in draws J.R.: Cannot determine
legal position without knowing terms
of contract. Normally it would be
two years before a notice to quit
could be given... .C.G.A.: Wessex
Literary Agency, Box 2516 W, G.P.0.,
Melbourne; Mayne Literary Agency,
29 Bligh-street, Sydney; York Fiction
Feature Service, Box 2506, G.P.0.,
Sydney; Peter Dodden, 311 Beach-
road, Black Rock (Vic.); G. R. Pitta-
way, Box 28, Post Office, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne... .W.J.D.: If a
son is left without adequate provision
for his proper maintenance he may
make an application under the Tes-
tators’ Family Maintenance Act for
a further provision out of the
estate. Result of such application
would depend on circumstances
A. : /. J. Miller’s Sporting Annual
should meet your requirements....
B. ; “Penang Gazette,” Penang,
the “Straits Times,” Singapore
J.W.: Suggest you consult writ-
ings on Australian literature by H. M.
Green, E. Morris Miller, M. Barnard
Eldershaw, Zora Cross, Nettie Palmer,
T. Inglis Moore and others
V.CJ.: In 1825 Maurice Barlow,
then commandant at Melville Island,
imported three buffaloes to that sta-
tion from Timor; as they throve, and
the cattle sent up from Sydney did
not, another consignment of, 15 was
imported in December, 1827, and 16
more in August, 1828 H.F.8.:
There is no way of learning profes-
sional photography other than being
employed in a studio, starting as a
beginner and going through all the
departments. There is no school of
photography in Sydney at present, but
the Technical College is considering
starting such a school, and has
appointed an advisory committee to
consider a proposal to establish a
course in photography W.A.R.N.:
The Lottery office makes every
endeavor to pay prizes to the rightful
owners. Where prizes remain un-
claimed it is the regular practice of
the office to forward a result-slip of
the lottery concerned to the person
at the address named on the prize-
winning application requesting that
person to examine the ticket for any
prize won. This action is taken
approximately one month after the
drawing of each lottery C.S.:
Literature on earth-wall construction
can be obtained from the Common-
wealth Experimental Building Station,
Department of Works and Housing,
Box 30, P. 0., Chatswood (N.S.W.).
....W.G.: Write Division of Wood
Technology, N.S.W. Forestry Com-
mission, 96 Harrington-street, Sydney,
for pamphlet No. 14, “Preservation
of Fence Posts”... .S.T.W.: Write
Gaston C. Renard, antiquarian book-
seller, P.O. Box 5295, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne... .H.L.: Write Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, 8 Young-
street, Sydney... .T.H.P.: Home
repairs cannot replace the enamel,
which is fired on at a very high tem-
perature. Clean the spot well, and
when dry paint with a good-quality
bath-enamel; renew when necessary.
H.D.C.: Write Kodak (A/sia)
Pty., Ltd., 379 George-street, Sydney.
W.H.S.: The principal factors
contributing to the deterioration of
stored tyre-covers and tubes are (1)
light —particularly sunlight, which is
rich in ultra-violet rays, (2) ozone
from electrical generators, etc., (3)
heat, (4) air-currents, (5) oils, (6)
water, and (7) dust and dirt. Any
storage-place should, therefore, be
protected from these deteriorating
agencies H.McG.; A claimant for
age pension must be residing in Aus-
tralia on the date on which she lodges
her claim for age pension, and have
been continuously so resident for a
period of not less than 20 years.
(2) A temporary absence in the
United States of America would not
affect her eligibility for pension on
residential grounds.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
D.T.; An idea there, but the canary
is smothered in words Scur Grain:
So you’ve been reading us for 40
years, too. Come on in, then:
He never calls us Reds or anything un-
kind ; _
I’ll let you into a secret —our Bertie’s
color-blind.
E.P.N.: All subjects, no doubt,
are permissible to art; but we do
draw the line at blowflies... .5.J.8.:
Your bodgie isn’t beautiful, and your
typiste isn’t as fetching as Arnold
Wall’s, but we thought twice before
turning “The Wanderer” away....
Muaf: Better than most topical
verse, and at least one memorable
rhyme
Whatever made you issue
Your recent manifesto?
Ten thousand civil servants
To be dismissed —hey presto!
.... Seegee: Tram poem shaky....
A .A.: Suggest you remove the
mopoke, or certainly the line about
“only a poet’s lie,” and resubmit.
J.W.R.: “As a small hobby 1
have started composing.” Yes, but
Pegasus was never a hobby-horse.
A.G.: it won’t do; but at least
you have some wild cherries instead
of the usual vague generalities about
the bush M.T.: Not this time
P.K.: “What shall I do with ‘The
Ham’?” Eat it R.L.P.: But what
a pity that dismal swaggie didn’t
hang himself 10 stanzas earlier
8.N.0.: Take up stamp-collecting;
s.-p. bookmaking; body-snatching;
anything but poetry... .0.L.: Your
handwriting looks like barbed-wire
and your metre trips over it at every
step N.K.D.; “I hope, I hop, I’m
so hip-hip-happy today.” Well, you
hop off and get married C.M.S.:
Pleasingly peculiar.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Lesson of Rome
Most of the current plans for con-
tinued State control and other “new-
order” schemes are ominously similar to
those of ancient Rome when it began to
decay.
Rome, when it started to go down, had
the same sort of Government departments
as we have today. It had a Farm Debt
Conciliation Committee, a Resettlement
Administration, a Public Works Ad-
ministration, a Food Relief Scheme, a
Home-owners’ Loan Corporation and
Agricultural Adjustment Administration,
a Farm Credit Administration, a Prices
and Wages Act and so forth.
The “profit motive” was attacked.
There was a “Price-control Act” in a.d.
301, when the end of the Roman Empire
was near. Prices were set too low, and
at once there was a shortage of com-
modities.
Rome was eaten up by doles and subsi-
dies. At one time 320,000 people were on
the dole for wheat. To keep the masses
quiet they were given “bread and games”
and pauperised by State help. As many
as 200,000 were given free bread —two
pounds of bread a day. They were also
given pork, olive-oil and salt every now
and then. The Government became a
giver. The doles attracted to Rome the
vagrants and the lazy people. They
attracted the German tribes, too, while
most of the enterprising self-reliant men
left and went elsewhere. Soldiers and the
Government employees clamored for
more and more money, and, as a result,
taxation steadily increased until it became
intolerable. Then the currency was in-
flated by a flood of new money. This
inflation destroyed the rich and middle-
class, and almost all private enterprise
came to an end.
Rome fell because of internal decay.
The heart was taken out of the enter-
prising men ; the masses were taught to
expect something for nothing. Rome be-
came totalitarian. The Government set
out to control everything, and as a result
there was soon not much to control. Just
before Rome collapsed half of the people
were on the public payroll, and there was
not enough money to pay them —the tax-
payers had been bled to death.
At the height of its power Rome had
a population of 1,000,000 and ruled
70,000,000 people. But in the year 1400
it had only 20,000 and no empire. It
went back to pasture land, and cows and
sheep wandered about in it.
Rome had a “golden age” under the
“five good Emperors.” It lasted for 84
years, and it was the peak of ancient
civilisation. During that time taxes were
low, private enterprise was encouraged
and businessmen were in high positions.
There was real “social security” for all
industrious people. There were no poor
except those who deserved to be poor.
Then came the politicians, followed by
the planners, and the whole shining
structure was broken down. The story
of how it happened should be taught in
all English-speaking countries. —B. R. H.
(Vic.).
Inflation
Premiers, farmers, trade - unions,
chambers of commerce and just plain
planners don’t seem to have produced
any worth-while check to inflation, and
most of them appear to be strongly united
under the banner of non-co-operation.
Their propaganda speeches, damning
any idea which might hurt their friends
or political prospects, thinly disguise the
fact that they all favor the old refuge of
passing the buck. What used to be
called statesmanship demands that, where
there is no voluntary aid forthcoming, all
must be compelled to assist in dealing
with the problem.
No matter what happens in the refer-
endum we shall still have the cause of the
extraordinary acceleration of inflation
peculiar to Australia: the quarterly
adjustment of the basic wage. That must
be eliminated by an amendment to the
Arbitration Act before any advance can
be made.
Such action would avoid all the evils
of wage-pegging, and could readily lead
to an early demand for incentive-
payments as the only method of expand-
ipg earnings. The inflationary effect of
any consequent larger pay-envelopes
would be automatically offset by
increased production per man.
Import duties should be reduced or
abolished on scarce goods, and the Aus-
tralian pound brought to parity with
sterling. That would bring a flood of
cheap foreign supplies, and so compel
local manufacturers to increase their
efficiency and cease paying inflated
wages—as they do now while they know
they can pass increased costs on to the
public. The inflationary effect of high
export prices for farm goods and metals
would also be checked and the local cost
of capital and consumer goods would be
drastically reduced.
All controls, boards and price-fixing
should be abolished. Subsidies could be
progressively reduced. Prices could not
rise overall, because of the decreased
money in circulation and the abundance
of cheap imported goods. A small army
of men and women would be released for
productive work.
Federal and State public works should
cease, except those necessary for defence
and to improve sea and land transport.
The foregoing remedies should be tried
for a limited period of two years.
Attempts by smart fellows to starve the
home market and cash-in on high export
prices for goods not available except from
home production could be checked by
export taxes as the occasion arose. Gold-
mining, which is the nursery of hard-
“By the time we're old enough t' marry We'll have our own house."
rock miners, who will always be necessary
for metal production in Australia, could
be preserved by allowing the metal to be
sold to the world’s highest bidder.
A practical experiment on these lines
for two years would give us facts on
which to base any adjustments necessary
because of our special position in the
economy of the free nations.
No doubt trade-union leaders would
scream and possibly call for stopwork
meetings to pass threatening resolutions
and declare numerous things “black.”
The “Labor” party would shed tears in
Parliament over what happened to them
personally in 1931-32, Farmers would
collect statistics about lean years and
manufacturers about dumping. But all this
would only emphasise that the burden
had been evenly spread. Pensioners and
others on fixed incomes, as well as the
housewives, would be very happy. —
T. H. W. (W.A.).
Only a few weeks ago economists and
others declared that this country was in
dire straits because the world wanted
our wool and was paying a fantastic price
for it. To save us from being inflated
to bursting-point the Federal Govern-
ment collared much of the wool cheque
and locked it away from the owners.
Now there has been a bit of a decline in
wool prices (still abnormally high), and
an economist warns us that the effect
upon the national economy will be
serious. So what the devil are we to do?
Having a profound disrespect for the
professional economist I find it difficult
to believe that Australia is being
stonkered by being too well off. In the
early 1930 s this country was stuffed with
everything we needed, but was short in
currency (notes). But a cruel and
similarly impoverished outside world
wouldn’t look at our wheat at a bob a
bushel, our wool at 7d. a pound, or any-
thing else we had to sell at any price.
We imported an economic adviser to
tell us what to do about it. Sir Otto
told us to sack as many as possible and
reduce the salaries and wages of the
others. So we took his advice, and traders
looked over the counters of their empty
shops and wondered why the blokes
who’d been sacked were not buying, and
why the coves with reduced incomes were
not speeding as much as before.
What Sir Otto should have advised was
increased wages with compulsory spend-
ing and a Snowy River scheme, getting
all the stuff in the warehouses and stores
into consumption. For hygienic reasons
Governments had to keep the populace
alive, and so hired it to scrape weeds off
footpaths at a bare subsistence wage.
When the weeds grew again they were
scraped away again. There was nothing
to show for the expenditure but some
debit marks in Treasury accounts.
When people’s pants, boots, motor-cars
and lawnmowers wore out they had to
be replaced, and the depression (highly
deflationary) passed away.
Neither economists nor politicians
played any part in the passing, except,
perhaps, to delay it. —G. Elburg
(N.S.W.).
i
Australasian Publishing
M
during the war when overseas publishers
were given paper supposed to be
allocated according to previous consump-
tion by each publisher? They got it on
a basis of sales of books. That helped to
kill our writers more than anything else.
We could not get paper as the overseas
publishers could. 1 know that because
paper for reprints of three of my historic
stories, which were selling well to the
Americans, was taken to print 10,000
copies of one English novel.
“It is obvious that the Australian pub-
lishing industry is at last on its feet.” I
give up after that. I’m only sorry for the
younger writers of books who even win
competitions, but very rarely get their
books published. My latest book sold out
at 13s. in three months. It took three
years to get it published. But when it
comes to another edition there is no
paper available. — Will Lawson (N.S.W.).
While not denying the need for an Aus-
tralian publishing industry, or decrying
the excellent publications mentioned in
B. 29/8/’sl, I feel that the general
standard of Australian publishing is very
poor.
I know there are many difficulties
involved in this business, but why should
an Australian reader who wants to buy
the first available edition of some over-
seas best-seller be compelled to buy a
locally-produced copy that is not only
dearer but poorer in quality? One needs
only to compare the Australian editions
of some recent best-sellers to appreciate
the point. Not only is the binding poor,
but the type and paper are definitely not
what might be expected at the price.
Australian publishers should not try to
compete with the overseas industry by
publishing volumes which can readily be
obtained from overseas. They should
continue to publish Australian works of
merit and keep the publishing standards
high. In this way I am sure the deserving
™? T 7“ and writers -will prosper.-
J. W. H. (Vic.).


1 wish I had bought her poems
in England.
I shall not be able to write to
Aunt Henrietta this month.
Will you, therefore, tell her that
about a fortnight ago I received
a nice, pleasant letter from
Theophilus. He is living with
Mr. Wood, of Brundah, as tutor
to his boys, and seems pretty
comfortable and jolly, though
he says he hates teaching. He
is making a garden round the
house in place of the potato-
ground that formerly existed,
and had introduced Mrs. Wood
to Dickens and the Old Curiosity
Shop , which certainly ought to
be put down among his good
deeds.
The Slomans asked him to
come over here, but he says it
is too far to come at present as
he could not leave for long.
Brundah is forty-seven miles
from Cowra, the nearest town,
and that is upwards of sixty
miles from Bathurst. I am sorry
he cannot come, as I should like
to see him and be able to tell
Aunt about him. I haye at last
sent him his. parcel; it took
nearly a month coming up from
Sydney, and I am afraid he will
hardly get it in time to write
home about it by this mail.
Your ever affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Bathurst,
January 16, 18 62.
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
I have two letters to thank you
for. One dated October, which
duly arrived by the December
mail, and the other dated
September which made the usual
tour to Marlborough, and
reached me the last day of the
old year.
You will see in the papers the
result of the cricket match be-
tween England and Victoria.
I thought England would win,
but nobody expected such a
victory as it turned out that,
II men to 18, they should win
the match in one innings, with
a hundred to spare. The
numbers were: Victoria Ist
innings, 117; 2nd innings, 91;
total, 208. All England Ist
innings, 305 ; winning with , 97
to spare. This ought to take
down the colonial “bounce” a
little.
The English players are com-
ing to Sydney next, I believe, as
the Sydneyites wish for a beat-
ing, also. There was some talk
of getting them up to Bathurst,
but since the result of the
Victorian match came out there
has been nothing more said
about it. It was a most
audacious thing of the colonists
to challenge the first players in
the world, and to imagine that
they could teach their respected
Grandmother.
The English mail-steamer was
telegraphed yesterday, and, as
usual, the chief heads of .he
news she brings. We seem likely
to have a blow-up with America-
The disunited States must be
insane to tempt a war with Eng-
land when they have as much
as they can do to run away fast
enough from the Federalists.
Unless the danger from without
makes them patch up some sort!
of peace, they will have to get
the same sort of lesson as the
colonial cricketers did, before
they will learn to be civil. I
suppose new countries are con-
ceited for the same reason that
very young men are, and when
they have seen a little more of
the world they will learn to
know their real standing—as
John Bull does.
The Australians have nothing
to boast of just at present, for
a most awkward paragraph is
going the round of the papers
about a coachful of passengers
was stopped by two bushrangers,
who ordered them all to get out
and be robbed, and were meekly
obeyed by all the Australians,
till they came to two little
Frenchmen, who made such a
sturdy fight for it that the bush-
rangers decamped—one of them
badly hurt.
How the “Patrie” and the
“Constitutionel” and the rest of
the enemy will boast if it comes
to their ears —but the people
here are great cowards about
bushrangers. Some time ago
one man “stuck-up,” as it is
called, and robbed a whole
coachful of passengers on the
Yass-road. The main thorough-
fares, such as the Sydney-road,
are pretty safe except as to over-
turns, as the mounted police
look, after them, but the cross-
country roads are very
dangerous just now. The bush-
rangers now are not escaped
convicts, as they used to be, but
disappointed diggers and general
ne’er-do-wells.
Your very affectionate sister.
Rachel Henning.
ẃ
My uearest Etta,
I begin my letters early this
month, as I have a good deal to
tell you, and I shall be very busy
at the time the mail goes.
Now for my Shoalhaven visjt.
I started that Friday night, just
as I had finished my English
letters. Mr. Hirst saw me on
board the Hunter steamer, and
we sailed at eleven o’clock. A
very pleasant night it was, blow-
ing hard, and the ladies’ cabin
full of children, who alternately
roared and were seasick. I was
rather sick also, but not very
bad.
At daybreak we touched at
Wollongong, where all the
children landed, and I had the
cabin to myself on to Shoal-
haven. It was so rough that
we did not get to the mouth of
the Shoalhaven River till two
o’clock on Saturday afternoon,
and then the Hunter stuck on a
mud bank, a fate which generally
befalls the Shoalhaven boats, so
I and three or four men, who
were passengers also, had to
leave her in a small boat, and
row up the river in search of
the little steamer that was to
take us on to Shoalhaven, the
town being built about fifteen
miles from the sea.
I rather enjoyed the pull,
though the river is very desolate-
looking down there. Something
like Eden, I should think —very
wide, mud islands appearing
icre and there, the banks per-
fectly flat, the trees growing
down to the water’s edge, and
dead trees torn up by floods stick-
ing in the mud on the banks.
After about an hour’s pull we
found the little steamer taking
in wood under the bank, .got on
board and steamed slowly up
the river. It came on a pouring
evening, so I retreated to the
small cabin, which I had all to
myself, being the only lady, and
after watching the endless
prospect of bush and river till
it got dark, I went to sleep with
my head on the table, and was
only wakened by our arrival at
Shoalhaven about six o’clock.
The inn was close to the
wharf, and when I got there 1
was agreeably surprised to find
that Bella* had ridden over to
meet me, as she said I should
find it so dull waiting for the
steamer all by myself. It was so
very kind of her, and I was de-
lighted to see her. _
We had tea and sat talki««f
Taunton, and old times
friends over the fire till bed-
time. I expected the Terara
Hotel would prove to be a log
hut, but it turned out to be a
most comfortable house, worthy
of any town. We went to the
Scotch kirk next morning. The
church seems to have forgotten
the existence of Shoalhaven. It
would be much better if instead
of appointing new bishops in
Australia they would send
clergymen to some of these
heathenish districts. Then we
dined at the Prosper De Mestres’,
and at three o’clock we started
for Eeree. It was rather late,
considering that we had a
twenty-five-mile ride before us
over a bush road, but we waited
for Bella’s English and
got them.
We called upon Honor by the
way. She and her five children
Jive at Nowra, about two miles
from Shoalhaven. She is wait-
ing to join Lindon. We h%fea
very pleasant ride
bush till we came to the river,
and there we waited nearly an
hour for a man who had
promised to punt us over, a'nH
who did not come.
At last Bella routed out a
couple of Irish settlers, who
lived near the bank, to punt us
over, then the anchor was stuck
in a log, and would not come
up, and the punt was half-full
of water, and the horses would
not go into it, so that it was all
but dark by the time we were
fairly afloat. Bella and I
perched on the edge of the punt
with our knees up to our noses
to keep our feet dry, and the
horses and Irishmen splashing in
the water.
When we got to the other side
we could hardly see to mount
our horses, and the worst part
of the road was before us. Bella
declared she could not find the
way, which I was not surprised
at, for there appeared to be no
track whatever. Howeven. .J
suggested that the horses shot®!
be left to their own devices ,
It was a pitch-dark night in
the bush. I really could not see
my own horse’s head, and could
only feel that he was descending
into gullies and scrambling over
logs, and stumbling among
rocks, and sweeping me against
bushes and boughs of trees, and
once, by a gleam of light on the
water, I saw that we were riding
along a narrow path overhang-
ing the river far below us.
Bella and 1 each kept shout-
ing to know where the other was
and invariably answered “all
right,” till at last Bella pulled
up, and said it was all wrong,
that her horse was at fault, and
she did not the least know where
we were. This was cheerful, and
we began to discuss the proba-
bilities of spending the night in
the bush, and the consequent
rheumatism that we should
catch, when my horse, an animal
rejoidng in the name of
Skittles, after turning round and
round several times, seemed to
find the way.
Altogether it was a most
pleasant visit, and 1 was very
sorry to leave that beautiful
country and return to the dusty
streets of Sydney.
It took me three days to get
back. Tregenna rode with me
one fine morning over the
mountain to a point on the river,
where we met the little steamer.
I got on board her—the only
passenger again—and had a
very pleasant afternoon’s sail,
till it*' got dark. The river
scenery is beautiful.
We had to take in so many
sacks of potatoes and corn by
the way that we did not get to
Shoalhaven till past eight in the
evening. I went to the inn again,
and spent the next day there by
myself. I wrote some letters,
went up to the De Mestres’ to
dinner, and in the afternoon
walked out to Nowra. I had a
quite pleasant walk back from
Nowra by, moonlight along the
river, slept at the inn that night,
and the next morning the
captain of the steamer knocked
up the whole inn for my benefit,
and at six I embarked for
another voyage down to the sea.
It was quite dark when we
left, and the dawn and sunrise
were so very beautiful over the
broad Shoalhaven River. We
got to the sea at eight, went on
board the Hunter, and I had a
very pleasant voyage to Sydney,
where we arrived about eight in
the evening, went up the harbor
by moonlight. It was rough and
windy, but quite fine, so I stayed
on deck all day, ate a good
breakfast, dinner and supper
and escaped seasickness for that
time.
Soon after my return I re-
ceived a letter from Biddulph
with the welcome news that he
will be at Rockhampton to meet
us on the 15th August, so if all
is well we shall sail on the Bth
or 9th of August, as it is nearly
a week’s voyage from Sydney to
Rockhampton.
I told you in my last letter
that Biddulph sailed for Bris-
bane just as I left for Shoal-
haven, from thence he went to
Rockhampton, wrote to us from
there fixing the time of his
return, and then set off on his
long ride to Exmoor, between
three hundred and fifty and four
hundred miles. He had to go
there to make ready for the re-
ception of ten thousand sheep
and two sisters.
He will soon be on his way
back again to Rockhampton,
where I hope we shall meet him
all right, and then we shall set
off on the same bnsh journey of
about three hundred and fifty
miles. He is going to drive the
dogcart, and take saddle-horses
as well, to ride when the road is
bad. We shall make stations at
night, when there are any near,
and camp out when there are
not. If only the weather is fine
the journey will be rather fun,
but if it is wet we shall probably
catch the rheumatism. It will
take about ten days.
Biddulph has bought a
quantity of things for Exmoor.
No end of books, crockery,
American-store cases of jam and
honey, lamps and 1 know not
what besides. All the pretty
presents that were - sent to him
and Annie will come in now.
They were sent off to Port
Denison long ago.
I expect the house itself will
be of the roughest, windows I
know there are none, and I
have great doubts about the
floors ; also the interstices be-
tween the logs may be large, but
I dare say we shall manage to
make it tolerably comfortable.
Do not 'be uneasy about my
catching cold, dear Etta, for I
know you will think of that.
The winter will be over by the
time we get out there, rather
unfortunately, and at Eeree we
lived in a perpetual draught,
front and back door always
open, and half our time in the
yard or veranda, and I never had
the slightest cold, while I am
always getting them in Sydney.
I am sure it is quite right to go,
and that we shall be preserved
from all harm, as far as it is
good for us to be so.
July 10. My late letters
about our Exmoor plans, and
my letter to Aunt Vizard, which
she ought to receive this month,
will already have answered her
very kind invitation for me to
come home to live with her. I
cannot bear to think that she will
be so much disappointed as you
seem to think, and you, too,
seem to reckon on, and wish for
my return, and I know you will
be disappointed at the turn
things have taken.
I need not say what it would
be to me to see you and the
darling children, and to be at
home again. If I were still at
Bathurst, uncertain whether
Exmoor would ever be habitable
or what I should do next, your
letters would have caused me
much deliberation at least, but
now I think my course is per-
fectly clear, and I am sure you
will think so, too.
Biddulph has a house which
he thinks will be comfortable,
and is most anxious that we
should both come out with him
—witness his travelling seven
hundred miles to secure our
company! I shall never forget
his blank look when Caroline
asked him if he would be much
disappointed if we did not go.
I came out on purpose to live
with him, and his change of
place need not change my plans.
The Australians are making a
noble subscription for the starv-
ng Lancashire weavers. Blood
is thicker than- water, as the
Yankee said.
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
{To he continued next week.)
* Wife of Tregenna Biddulph.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 138
Across.
I—Cloth can be cultivated about a
fable that can be mended. (9)
s—Boots, (5)
B~Number is nothing to me, but
this is quite offensive, (7)
10 — Ginn’s hand. (7)
11 — Glassy comedy takes the eye—
or some of it. (8, 6)
13—Won’t be in the big smoke. (4)
15—Singer who may not drown in
water. (4)
18 —Ruder alterations of a Nurem-
berg artist. (5)
30—Beverage. (3)
21— English river takes a half-century
thrush. (5)
22 People who play by it still need
hands. (3)
23 Vehicle in the Andes noted for
its break-through. (5)
25—Calculating asset of the manne-
quins’ manager. (4, 3,7)
30— Sweet spread the first-class cen-
tury on a sugar-producer course
in New York. (7)
31 — Australian fishing resort is upset-
ting an abbreviated bounder and
mum. (7)
32 — Step up when telephoned. (4)
33 Bow feature like 25 across. (10)
Down.
1— The act of imparting newness to
applause in a place for partings.
(10)
2 Gilbertian jester as the interceptor
of square-cuts. (5) .
3 Edward of the river participated
in a civil disturbance. (6)
4 Stroheim makes the east well-
lined. (5)
5 A touching tragedy was his lot.
(4, 5)
6 Agreed that a Conservatonum
mongrel was blushing. (9)
7 Part of a window girdle of
ribbon. (4)
9—Equal bird is behind schedule. (7)
12—A batting partnership is thus only
if the batsmen stay away from it
for a considerable time. (10)
14 —He launders a state general in
America’s civil war. (9)
16 — Flouhderers are at this —in more
ways than one. (3)
17 — Russian gala-dress makes Sally
cooler. (7)
19 —A legendary rubber causes a boy
some tumult. (7)
24—Feathered runner is upsetting to
me and you. (3)
26 — Animal is all right with a ratio
pertaining to a circle. (5)
27 — Eat gluttonously in a ravine. (5)
28— About the extremes of a brick-
carrier island that isn’t an island.
(5)
29 A vessel is partly open. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 137.


ill
""11
n
ii
ll
inffinutmun nil "
i jratmimnn nil II
ilinmnniHin n n u
J 1
sauwt
ii
H
ii
i
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS;
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR. A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
• •
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt. P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.I.C.A.
•
QUEENSLAND;
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager; J. M. Hannan, F.I.G.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
Hon. Frank T. Perry, M.8.E.. M.L.C.
(Chairman)
L. S. Clarkson, J. L. Travers
Manager; D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E,
Ivan Holyman
Manager: L. H. Williams
•
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Manager: W. Dwyer
THE
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878 )
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1950;
★ NEW BUSINESS RECORD established! by the issue of 10,310
Policies assuring £8,255,834.
★ ASSETS INCREASED BY £1,447,334 after providing £33.790
for Depreciation, and now total £19,994,794.
—— mgm » TWWt* UX / VggjßMlllllll 11-9
9 Policies in Force exceed 110,000, assuring
over £56,000,000
f Premium Income amounted to £2,041,391
<1 Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1950,
totalled £821,061, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£13,000,000
tf.
f Special Additional Reserves amount to
£740,000
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
