

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3733
Wednesday, August 29, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
OF RARE BEAUTY AND SYMMETRY IS BEVERLEY MINSTER
IN the East Riding of Yorkshire, eight miles from Hull, is the quiet old
market town of Beverley, which is remarkable for its possession of a
Minster which is comparable in size and splendour to many cathedrals in
Britain. Beverley Minster is so named because there is no Bishop of Beverley,
and so there is no cathedral. No church can rightly be called a cathedral
unless it is the chief church of the diocese—and Beverley is in the diocese
of York,
The early history of Beverley Minster began in 693, when John of Beverley,
Bishop of York, founded a monastery on the site of a chapel dedicated to
St. John the Evangelist. Many monarchs, from the time of the Saxon King
Athelstan (895-940) to the Lancastrian King Henry V (1387-1422), conferred
benefits and privileges on the church in gratitude for victories won after
pilgrimages to Beverley Minster. In 866 the Minster was destroyed by the
raiding Danes; it was soon rebuilt, but in 1188 it suffered severe damage
from fire, although much of the Norman core was preserved and is incorporated
in the present building.
The many styles of architecture used in the Minster during the course of
the centuries have been so skilfully blended that the edifice appears at first
sight to be of a single design. Its magnificent west facade, incorporating two
slender twin towers, 163 feet high, is one of the finest examples in Britain of
the striking Perpendicular style. The beautiful Percy Shrine near the altar is
the work of the English school of sculptors of the thirteenth century, and is
famous for its detailed carving.
Also near the altar is a solid stone chair, called the “Fridstool,” or
sanctuary chair. The privilege of sanctuary was granted by King Athelstan
in the year 938, and extended for a mile around the chair in all directions.
By this grant a fugitive from the law who succeeded in reaching the “Fridstool”
could claim the protection of the church for thirty days, during which time the
church authorities endeavoured to make peace between him and his pursuers.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


freelance
i ClJy I
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stotts
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— CUT HERE AND MAIL ——— - —*
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.151) A S«
The Red Page
PILGRIM FATHERS.
New Zealand centenaries falling close
together have enriched the historic
literature of Australasia considerably and
set an example to the Commonwealth.
The custom on this continent when an
anniversary falls is to issue a large, pre-
tentious, oversized advertising pamphlet
lull of turgid adjectives and stock phrases
descriptive of our tourist and two-legged
beauties, unexampled resources and so
on. These volumes are illustrated with
tourist-bureau photographs of deadly
dullness and unending sameness.
New Zealand does things differently.
When Otago celebrated its hundredth
year it brought out McLintock’s monu-
mental History of Otago, a remarkable
volume seeing that its writing and pro-
duction were supervised by a committee
which obviously had the unusual good
, sense to give the author and editor a free
hand. There were also issued a series of
district histories equally unusual and
equally important historically.
Now Canterbury Province follows suit
with two excellent volumes —one a life of
its Pilgrim Father, John Robert Godley,
by C. E. Carrington (Whitcombe and
Tombs), and 'Letters From New Zealand
—and Australia—by Charlotte Godley,
wife of Canterbury’s founder, written in
the pioneer days of 1850-1853. Both these
volumes are produced in a manner which
would not discredit post-war London for
printing, binding and typography. Both
are important contributions to New Zea-
land history. Both also are thoroughly
readable.
Godley was an extraordinary character
who could only have been produced by
his age—a sort of mid-Victorian Eliza-
bethan, a “solemn young man” of the
early Gladstonian era with a purpose in
life which did not deter him from love
of a good horse and a well-balanced gun.
He was Irish, well born on the fringes
of the peerage in fashionable Merrion-
square, Dublin. He was educated, like
all his kind, at a great English public
school, the school of Churchill and Gals-
worthy—Harrow, where he captained the
XI. He was entered as a commoner at
Christ Church, the most fashionable col-
lege in Oxford, under Dr. Gaisford, the
greatest Greek scholar of the age in the
university. He was polished by a tutor
who was Roundell Palmer, afterwards
Lord Chancellor, and armed with power-
ful friendships which included the future
Lord Dalhousie, Charles Canning and
the sth Duke of Newcastle.
He impressed his tutor as “a born poli-
tician” and as having “high intellectual
gifts and noble aspirations,” a summary
which would have been greeted with a
smile in any age except in the prime of
mid-Victorianism. He took his degree,
saddened by the fact that he had taken
no first-class, and was called to the Irish
Bar, mixed in an intellectual and sporting
society, journeyed to America and pub-
lished his letters, which attracted Glad-
stone’s attention, gave some service in
Ireland during the Hungry ’Forties and
reached 32 without distinction, that year
marrying Charlotte Wynne, daughter of
an old Welsh family, some of whose
sprigs were well known in Australian pub-
lic life and journalism of a generation
ago, and whose seat was at Voelas, in the
Snowdon country; people whose close
friends were the Glynnes of Hawarden,
into whose tribe Gladstone himself
married.
From then onward Godley’s life
seemed to achieve purpose and direc-
tion. He was soon deep in Irish politics,
and out of his experiences in the famine
came thoughts of relief through colonisa-
tion of Upper Canada under a scheme
which had been maturing in his mind
since his American visit. At that point,
amid the controversy which arose on the
merits of his idea, his attention was
called to New Zealand by two colonists,
Edmund Halswell, Q.C., and Captain
Joseph Thomas.
Next came an almost inevitable friend-
ship and partnership with Edward Gib-
bon Wakefield, followed by the forma-
tion of the Canterbury Association, set
on foot bv himself. Wakefield, Gladstone,
a Lyttelton and others in 1848, with
terbury as presi-
\ e array of bishops,
; --peers and elder-
ly r .and i<: lists lumped to-
memben mp. In a word the
•i was £ a body of gentlemen
.. •- ( uh;d . t'oT establishing a
members of the
Church of England.”
Godley went out as Chief Resident
Agent on a salary which was purely
nominal —he reduced it from £BOO to
£6OO a year himself —and surrounded by
the most remarkable types of colonists.
connected with his own and other
colonisation, which a new country surely
ever saw. They included three Coleridges
and Bishop Selwyn, who resembled St.
Carlo Barromeo and was a collateral an-
cestor of A. P. Herbert. He set about the
foundation of the new bit of England,
so remote from Tom Tower and the
Bullingdon, of which, however, the capi-
tal was to take the name of his college
and in which his dynasty was to form a
central core of history through two world
wars—one Godley commanded the New
Zealand wing of the Anzacs in World
War I.
On his return from New Zealand in
1853 he was drafted into the Ordnance
Department of the War Office to organise
supplies for the Crimean War, and at its
ending became Assistant-secretary of
State for War, first under Lord Pan-
mure and then under Florence Nightin-
gale’s friend and patron, Sidney Herbert.
He became engaged in the post-war
reorganisation of the Army while fight-
ing the ill health which killed him in
November, 1861, at the early age of 47.
As a practical colonist he ranks high
in the history of the British race ; as a
theorist in the art of successful colonisa-
tion he should rank even higher, since,
rooted in the British governing class, he
was one of the few men of his time who
realised that the Empire could succeed
only as an alliance of free nations. As
early as December 12, 1849, he wrote to
Gladstone;
We ought not, I am sure, to impose upon
the colonists any form of government what-
ever, even to start with. When we shall
have duly authorised them to act for them-
selves our function with regard to their
internal affairs should end All the best
of the old colonial constitutions were
framed by the colonists; and while many
of them have endured with hardly an
alteration for more than 200 years, all of
them, whether altered from the originals
or not, give (being home-lnade) perfect
satisfaction to those who live under them.
....I define, then, the proper conditions
(as they appear to me) of a colonial rela-
tion to the Mother-country in three terms
—(1) an acknowledged allegiance; (2) a
common citizenship; (3) an offensive and
defensive alliance. Less than these it is
idle to offer, because to these, after what-
ever struggles, we shall come at last; only
that if granted after struggles, and not
freely, they will perhaps lose all their
efficacy.
Charlotte Godley’s Letters From New
Zealand (Whitcombe and Tombs) form
more than a mere series of footnotes to
history. They provide as clear and de-
tailed a domestic picture of life on the
voyage to New Zealand in 1850 and of
life there and in Sydney in the momen-
tous days of 1851-53 as it would be pos-
sible to construct. Her pictures of his-
torical characters—Eyre the explorer and
his wife, Bishop Selwyn and her neigh-
bors and friends, together with their
modes of life—will no doubt provide
background for more than one histori-
cal novel.
To Australians her story of her six
weeks’ sojourn in Sydney just a century
ago, following the discovery of gold, has
a homelike ring, exhibiting the city, then
only holding 47,000 people but going
through a familiarly recurring phase:
one in which labor was scarce, money
abounding, the cabmen, the domestic
workers, the shopkeepers, sullenly inde-
pendent and scornful of mere customers,
and everything in general inconvenient,
uncomfortable and carried on in an
atmosphere not very friendly to
strangers; its society credulous and the
prey of charlatans artistic and otherwise,
its roads rutted and its mosquitoes
flourishing.
About the only feature not familiar to
a modern Sydneian is the Woolloomooloo
of the ’fifties—“the Fulham of Sydney”
—where “a good many people live in
very good houses,” including Sir Charles
Nicholson, who had just returned from
Melbourne with the news that the boots
at the hotel in which he had stayed was
receiving £l6OO a year in salary.
EL V.
Bookishness.
Professor F. Sinclair describes himself
in A Time To Laugh (Caxton Press) as
“a bookish person”; and indeed, though
the professor is human enough to have
had most of his short light essays printed
in the Christchurch “Press,” there is some
truth in the description. There is noth-
ing of the urgent vitality of Hazlitt in
these essays and, if urgent vitality is not
exactly expected at the universities, at
least one would have thought some
breath of New Zealand air, some green
shoot from the New Zealand earth would
have found its way in: but except for a
few references to the Dominion’s need
for a national theatre and the like, and a
note on a schoolboy who spelt “Maoris”
as “Moaris,” A Time To Laugh might
have been written in a vacuum ; or, to
put it more justly, in any university in
the world.
But then Professor Sinclair certainly
does mention Hazlitt; in fact, in the in-
evitable essay on what books he would
take to a desert island, he includes the
essayist along with —there are a dozen in
the game this time —Shakspeare, Chaucer,
Wordsworth, Browning, Boswell’s
Johnson, an omnibus volume of Jane
Austen, the Odyssey, Virgil, Dante, Peer
Gym and the Bible . . . and, however
much a few wild pigs, mountains, earth-
quakes and so on might help to bring the
essays to life, he would be a bold man
who would sneeze at “bookishness” of
this kind, so formidable in its learning, so
easy, graceful, humane and quietly
humorous in expression.
Besides, if Professor Sinclair is a little
severe on Rabelais and Cervantes—there
is a kind of springtime innocence in these
authors which the world could ill afford
to lose—he says he would not take
Goethe to his desert island; and that,
stupendous though Faust is in its way,
like a colossal moraine without much
glacier moving through it, is really a great
relief .... as it is, too, to learn that Pro-
fessor Sinclair can be companionably sus-
picious of Calderon; “No, I remember
the high hopes with which I once came
to that writer. The result was one of the
major disappointments of my career as a
reader.” The reviewer, too, once came
to Calderon . , . and went away again.
These are bookish essays, then, for the
bookish reader; and, as such, all very
pleasant. One of the best is on John
Gay of The Beggar’s Opera, who, Pro-
fessor Sinclair reminds us, was “the most
prolific poet of his age” and wrote the
set of rhymes by which he lives on a
hint from Swift that “A Newgate Pastoral
might make an odd pretty sort of thing.”
There are also notes on the hostile critics
of Shakspeare, with the dreadful informa-
tion that - Charles Darwin, blaming his
own immersion in science for his in-
capacity, found him “nauseating” ; also
that Walt Whitman, prating like some
contemporary Leftist, said Shakspeare’s
comedies “are altogether non-acceptable
to America and Democracy,” being
written to entertain “only the elite of the
castle, and from its point of view.”
Men and Monkeys .
Popul Vuh (Hodge), translated into
English by Delia Goetz and Sylvanus G.
Morley from the Spanish of Adrian
Recinos, who translated it in 1947 from
the Quiche Mayan text of Father
Francisco Ximdnez, who copied it at the
end of the 17th century from a 16th-
century original of unknown authorship
which is now lost, is one of the curiosities
of the world’s literature: the “Old
Testament” of the Quiche Indians, a
branch of the Ancient Maya, who ruled
the Guatemalan highlands at the time of
the Spanish conquest.
The story goes that after Pedro de
Alvarado, ferociously deputising for
Cortes, had executed the Quiche kings
before the eyes of their subjects and razed
their city of Utatlan to the ground, some
intelligent Indian who wished to preserve
the traditions of his race and who learned
from the Spanish priests to write in the
Roman script set down the Popul Vuh
possibly from memories of the oral
tradition, possibly from the ancient
Mayan picture-writings, most likely from
both ; and this is the manuscript, since
lost, which found its way into the hands
of Father Ximenez.
The priest translated it into Spanish as
well as transcribing the Quiche text, and
versions of the manuscript, taken from
his translation, were published in Vienna
in 1857, in France in 1861 and in Ger-
many in 1913. The present volume is the
first English translation and, says Adrian
Recinos, corrects some errors and omis-
sions in the previous Continental versions.
At first glance the Quiches seem to
have had strangely Biblical notions about
the creation of the earth:
This is the first account, the first narra-
tive. There was neither man, nor animal,
birds, fishes, crabs, trees, stones, caves,
ravines, grasses, nor forests; there was only
the sky.... There was nothing standing;
only the calm water, the placid sea, alone
and tranquil. Nothing existed. There was
only immobility and silence in the dark-
ness, in the night. Only the Creator, the
Maker, Tepeu, Gucumatz, the forefathers,
were in the water surrounded with light.
They were hidden under blue and green
feathers, and were therefore called Gucu-
matz. By nature they were great sages and
great thinkers. In this manner the sky
existed and also the Heart of Heaven,
which is the name of God and thus He is
, called....
Then Tepeu and Gucumatz came
together; then they conferred about life
and light, what they would do so that there
would be light and dawn, who it would
be who would provide food and sustenance.
Thus let it be done! Let the emptiness
be filled! Let the water recede and make
a void, let the earth appear and become
solid; let it be done. Thus they spoke
Like the mist, like a cloud, and like a
cloud of dust was the creation, when the
mountains appeared from the water; and
instantly the mountains grew.
This first chapter of the Popul Vuh is,
however, generally regarded as a “pious
fraud”: the original Quiche author had
come into contact with the priests and
was plagiarising the book of Genesis—
a point on which the translator might
have provided further evidence, at least
as to how much genuine Mayan myth-
ology might have got mixed up with the
borrowing from Genesis; for creation-
myths do not differ so very much any-
where in the world, and the gods hiding
in blue and green feathers sound authenti-
cally South American. Certainly, if he
did borrow from Genesis, the unknown
Quiche author added some richly poetic
touches of drama and visualisation to his
material.
The “testament” proceeds to a pleasing
account of how the gods first tried to
make men out of mud, but these melted ;
then they made them out of wood, but
they ran about on all-fours, failed to de-
velop minds and souls, and did not re-
member their Creator:
And for this reason the face of the
earth was darkened and a black rain, began
to fall, by day and by night. Then came
the small animals and the large animals,
and sticks and stones struck their faces.
And all began to speak: their earthen jars,
their griddles, their plates, their pots, their
grinding-stones, all rose up and struck
their faces. “You have done us much
harm; you ate us, and now we shall kill
you,’' said the dogs and birds of the
barnyard. And the grinding-stones said:
“We were tormented by you; every day,
every day, at night, at dawn, all the time
our laces went holi, holi, huqui, huqui
because of you. This was the tribute we
paid you But now that you are no longer
men, you shall feel our strength. We shall
grind and tear your flesh to pieces,” said
their grinding-stones.
Which suggests, maybe, that long ago
the Mayas knew something about revolu-
tion ... At any rate the wooden men,
such as survived the flood and the assault
of their grinding-stones, became “the
monkeys which now live in the forests;
these are all that remain of them because
their flesh was made only of wood by the
Creator and the Maker.”
Reviewed Briefly.
A Source of Embarrassment: Mary
McCarthy (Heinemann). This witty story
of a set of Americans who found a
Utopian colony has been much praised
for its brilliance and beautiful prose ; but
one reader must confess that he found it
a little dry and hard-to-follow, as though
Plato had decided to amuse an audience
with a burlesque strip-tease—the wit mav
be there, but not the reason for look in e
at it.
♦ * * *
Aloha : Armine von Tempski (Museum
Press). Author of several books on her
life on Haleakala Ranch; Hawaii, of
which her father was manager, Miss von
Tempski here tells the story of how, after
her father's death, she and her sister
turned the place into a guest-house; how
she ran the house and taught school at
the same time ; how her friend forsook
her; how she travelled among canyons
and Indians in California ; how a gigantic
Frenchwoman was misled by the richness
of the Hawaiian scene into thinking that
she could act Adam-and-Eve in public
with her inamorata; what it felt like to
be present at an earthquake.
* * * *
The Sons of Brutus: John Culshaw
(Seeker and Warburg). A fine short novel
of desolation in a small Bavarian town
under American occupation; the school-
master turned organiser of a gang of
crooks living on an old boat on the
river, leading a young ex-pupil to theft
and murder, putting him on the spot for
a murder done by another member of
the band; but keeping himself so much
in the good graces of the authorities that
he is chosen to become Burgomeister on
the re-establishment of German civil
organisations. Parallel with these hap-
penings runs the story of Nesseler, who
lives the good life and co-operates with
the Americans; he also is hoodwinked
by the evil schoolmaster —the point
being, no doubt, that on the withdrawal
of the occupation forces, the earnest-
minded Germans will once more be
powerless against the underground Nazi
creed.


a
iM
m
m
'■■r-
mm
Presenting • . •
T,.e “SAKO” L 46 7
x 33mm.
High Powered Rifle
ml
mm-
i'
/ \
« s2^£sS^ / . l \
V «
W \\V
S^S^VNCV^
s^nN
|M(
mmmm
V
V . -rrr-
ym. v- ” — ' ' -.-
*
uw^
i',.\A
_»Jjlj/i|lu* V.Ww vv
i/i ,(U'
»v
Designed and manufactured in Finland, especially
for the small high-intensity cartridges so popular for
small and medium game. Tested by professional Lapp
hunters under rigorous climatic conditions, this rifle stood the
supreme test of the Lapland winter without failing to function.
The “Sako” L 46 is designed for lightness, extra
strength and supreme accuracy.
° ijf'zf-
■'#/
V.
ac
High Velocity
Mean velocity 2*400
feet per second
Poundage 084 ft. lbs.
Supreme Accuracy
7 x 33 cart., 95/- per hundred.
7 x 33 bullet, 80 grn., 45/- hundred.
90 grn. 25.20, 25/- per hundred.
70 grn. 25.20, 22/6 per hundred.
45 grn. “Hornet,” 18/6 per hundred.
Technical Data of the “Saho” L 46 7 x 33mm .
Integral telescope sight base, built into the action. Mounts to fit sight bases allowing
for windage. Open rear sight. Adjustable to 100, 200, 250, 300 metres. Walnut stock
with cheek piece. Velocity 75ft. mean from muzzle, 2,400 feet per second.
Striking energy 984 ft. lbs. “Sako” L 46 7 x 33mm. rifle with hunting sight, £42/10/-.
With peep sight, £45. Telescope mounts, fin., lin., £l2/10/-. Miopter light 4 power
scope, £33/4/6. Cartridge belt, 7/6. Hunting knives, sin., 17/6.
Combination Knife Set with Sheath
The perfect set for the hunter is this combination knife set with leather sheath.
William Rogers’ high-grade cutlery steel knives. sin. blade and Sin. skinning knife.
Both knives have brass guard and laminated leather handle. Price complete, 36/-.
70 grn. 25.20 45 grn. Hornet
7 x 33
cart.
GUN DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, GOULBURN STREET. ’PHONE; M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY FREIGHT EXTRA


%n>
OS
a
/
{:0 :
»®s S
Wo;Mk : >y-r mmm
mm mWm
i#p'
1
sot
Bbbmbl
bbssM te,
*'■<*•d
mmmmiM
tmM):
■V/®* V • V'.V, ;. ':
' ' <,.'■• Mffigf , V -
: ; ,
,
illMiji&sSi-'i
mmt
wm
% wm
mm
i - '<t*Wl! * 1 w i"{^x
v 7 ' "■* ».
lilKifiiiSr:'
< ' ■
SB" sfe Sftsß
M.:PkP
IBmml
■
'
■ ' .-v
■ ■
"I
MiMi
.’(a j ■■ .’ i l ' ‘ ..
*SS ■
:
npH
Hilill /.
» V- • ;
®': . £
i®
it' '
-
ii
MO$M
~ i**
LTD.
wa»Lid
i
,V -v'.'.-V
V M
-- |; I | ; |
ABBOTSFORD. N. 9, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3733
Wednesday, August 29, 1951
Union
ifiQSS
RUBBER DOLL.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" AND RED POISON.
The case put forward by the Common-
wealth Government for a “Yes” vote on
the alteration of the Constitution to per-
mit Parliament to deal with the Com-
munist menace is short and succinct. It
needs little elaboration and little support
in argument. Without such powers con-
ceded in time this country may perish
from internal Red rot.
It is axiomatic that, as the official case
declares, “Communist activity menaces
Australia.” It is a “grave menace to
industrial peace, to production, to
national security and defence.” For
Communism has honeycombed every
agency which is charged to deal with
these matters. Its treacherous and
traitorous emissaries have secured con-
trol in, or ascendancy over, the policy of
the key transport unions; over the
Federal policy of the A.R.U., whose
president has just returned from Moscow
to have his passport confiscated ; in or
over the iron-and-steel and coalmining
unions. High union officials sit in the
councils of the Communist party.
The shipping industry, both at sea and
on the wharves, is at the mercy of some
of the same set of Communist ruffians.
The Federated Clerks’ Union brazenly
subscribes to Communist funds and
vaunts the superiority of the Dark
Age methods of Stalin and his
lieutenants. The Teachers’ Federation,
charged to form the minds of youth,
in N. S. Wales at least is headed by Com-
munists.
Beyond these there are other Com-
munists, secret and otherwise, oper-
ating in every walk of life —agents
direct from overseas carrying on
commerce, journalists who give a
Communist slant to their report-
ing, insidious people who poison the
minds of susceptible clergymen and of
women who fondly wish to keep their
sons out of the defence forces.
A whole army of Soviet agents
cajoles the soft-headed with a delusive
and fraudulent plea for “peace.”
There are also non-party members
who work, not always obviously,
toward the Communist end, creating
industrial disturbance, collecting infor-
mation, carrying on mental and some-
times material sabotage and intimidation
among the families of workers, weaken-
ing loyal organisations and generally
serving the enemy in the meanest way of
which a human being is capable.
It has come to a pass where the whole
of the Australian nation is beginning to
rot to the core with the Red poison of
discontent and the “class-struggle.” We
have reached a stage when the “Labor”
party is run largely by ex-Communist
leaders. The body of the A.L.P. consists
so largely of Communist-led unions and
is so dependent on Communism for its
financial life-blood that it squeaks feeble
protests against Communist principles
but gives the Communist party whatever
service it needs whenever it needs it.
Let there be no doubt about what the
situation will be in case of actual war.
The Communist party will become part
pf the forces of the enemy. There will
be no need for the Government to ask
for powers to deal with Communist
union bosses then. It will be able,
even bound in some cases, to intern them.
They will be liable, if they do then what
they are doing now, to trial and punish-
ment, and even possibly to execution.
Yet now, though the thunder of war
is heard in the north, the Government
is powerless to move against them and
to check their operations, not because
some of them are not guilty of offences
for which they could be punished at law
but because it is constitutionally debarred
from probing their activities or even from
restraining them from treachery and from
occupying positions in which they can do
the enemy’s work.
It is the Communist technique to set
classes and nations at each other’s throats,
as they did in the years before World
War 11, propagating hate, fanning the
flames of suspicion, fomenting grievances,
weakening the fabric of international
amity and internal tranquillity. And hav-
ing involved their victims in “imperialist
war,” it is then their aim to turn it into
civil war with a view to seizing power
for their Russian masters.
As the “Yes” case for the referendum
declares; —
The deadly dangers of war, the actual
operations of war in such places as Korea,
In'do-China and Malaya, in two of which
our fellow-Australians have been fighting
and sustaining casualties, are all the crea-
tion of Communist imperialism.
Aggressive Communism, as is pointed
out, follows the same technique all over
the world. Its “chief instrument is the
local fifth-column, small in numbers, but
led and directed by men many of whom
have been actually trained in the Soviet
Union itself,” and “seeking its effective
strength by getting its members into key
places with the greatest capacity and
opportunity for doing damage at the
chosen time.”
It is easy to name Communists trained
in Russia who are brazenly open in the
statement of their treacherous purposes.
To support the right of such people
to continue to function in positions in
which they can help the enemy is about
as sane and prudent as the act of an
intoxicated citizen who knowingly and
blithely takes a deathadder to bed with
him.
The “Yes” case remarks that it can be
understood that the Communist party
will vote “No,” but it asks why a “Labor”
man should line up with the Communists.
The answer put forward by some “Labor”
leaders is that “in the second branch of
the proposed amendment the Govern-
ment seeks, in substance, to validate the
Communist-party Dissolution Act, 1950,
which was held by the High Court to
be beyond the existing powers of the
Commonwealth Parliament.” But the
case asks: —
What was wrong with the Communist
Party Dissolution Act? Remember that
1. It finally passed Parliament with the
support of the Tabor party.
3. The dissolution of the Australian Com-
munist party was at no stage opposed
by the Tabor party.
3. Knowing all about it, you voted, at the
recent election, to give the Government
a majority in both Houses.
As is pointed out, again, what Dr.
Evatt and his followers seem to be argu-
ing for is a reversal of the mandate given
to the Government at the last election,
and that Parliament should be deliber-
ately instructed by the people that it must
remain powerless, even during a Com-
munist “cold war,” to put a Communist
out of a key position, except by proving
him guilty of a specific act, which is
often unprovable, since Communists
work as cunningly underground as any
other type of enemy agent.
Whatever its purpose, “Labor,” in
pleading for a “No” vote, is actually
campaigning for the right of spies,
traitors »and saboteurs of the country’s
safety to operate with freedom from pre-
ventive action. It might just as well
advocate that the enemy be permitted
to store arms in the country against the
time when they will be needed to invade
us, or that he be allowed to send his
intelligence staff to make reconnaissances
and instal key-men preparatory to attack-
ing and taking over industry and govern-
ment after we have been conquered.
There is too much talk in this country
about the rights of trade-unionists and
too little about the duties which are part
of the contract under which those rights
are conceded.
The Blight of McGirr.
When Premier McGirr of N.S.W. took
the Federal “Labor” leader’s brother with
him to the Canberra conferences of heads
of Governments there was not much
doubt about what that meant. The
younger partner in the political firm of
Evatt Bros, had just been proclaiming
that, in effect, the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment was being added to the strength of
the Opposition in the Federal Parliament,
and that together they would “defeat
Menzies” by refusing to co-operate with
the Menzies Government in any national
matter whatsoever.
In this atmosphere Mr. McGirr’s effort
to peddle price-control as a gesture of co-
operation with the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment was rather like O. Henry’s Jeff
Peters engaged in what he called philan-
thromathematics, or Mr. Parley-voo
Pickens trying to sell a New England
policeman his “Bonanza Budget, consist-
ing of rolled-gold wedding and engage-
ment ring, six Egyptian lily-bulbs, a com-
bination pickle-fork and nail-clipper, and
50 engraved visiting cards (no two alike)
—all for 38 cents.” The composition of the
N.S.W. delegation was of itself a
guarantee of non-co-operation from the
outset. The natural and expected result
being duly produced, Mr. McGirr wished
to be heard maintaining that all
difficulties henceforth occurring would be
entirely Mr. Menzies’s responsibility.
At the Canberra conference Mr. Mc-
Girr could no more rally the other
Premiers to his side on the butter
question than on his own proposal for
transfer of price-controls. Back in
Sydney at the seat of what he calls his
Government, he immediately retreated
from the stand which he refused to
abandon while at Canberra. He offered
to let butter go halfway across the differ-
ence between its “fixed” and its natural
retail price, and he let himself be told by
his Cabinet, what the Cabinet had been
shouting at him for a week, that if he
didn’t “unfreeze” wool prices for the
coming wool auctions the political
heavens would fall on him and all of
them.
The bulk of the prosecutions which
the McGirr inspectors have been prepar-
ing for breaches of the price-freezing
order have been reported as relating to
fruit and vegetable prices, though it had
been obvious that no prosecution on
these counts could stand up against the
defence that any of these perishables sold
since July 18 for more than the July 18
price were of higher than July 18 quality.
These controls were accordingly lifted for
growers, but retained against wholesale
and retail purchasers. That is a fair
sample of the McGirr way of doing
things. So is the decision that over con-
sumer-goods generally application for in-
creased price must “demonstrate increased
costs and that the whole or any part of
such costs cannot be reasonably
absorbed.”
The commercial community has been
since trying to “reasonably absorb” what
this requirement means and also what the
McGirr prices-police will interpret it as
meaning. The effect for the time being
is that N.S.W. supplies of necessary goods
are either being withheld from sale or are
going to other States. If anything were
more certain to drive goods out of the
local market than the McGirr price-
freezing stunt it is the statements
attributed in the Press to McGirr
Ministers that price-pegging on certain
named lines “will probably be lifted in
the near future.”
All this “mixture of politics and
jalap” springs from the McGirr
outfit’s desire to check not so much
inflation as the programme of the
Federal Government. New South Wales
can, as a matter of fact, do a great deal to
combat high prices so far as these are
home-made. It is the chief industrial
State, the main source of coal and steel,
cement and timber, butter and wheat. It
demands the largest share of any State
loan moneys for “development” by
reason of its primacy as supplier of raw
materials and in working population. It
is also the scene of the worst loafing, the
most constant stoppage of work through
strikes, and the highest costs of living
(bar perhaps the Northern Territory) in
the Commonwealth.
Other States’ railways are bankrupt,
their roads broken up, their working com-
munities set by the ear through the Com-
munists’ “class-war”; but New South
Wales outdoes all of them in these
respects, and not merely on a population
basis. Till the McGirr Government
arrived to preside over the senior State’s
rogue’s march to insolvency, the Lang
Government of 20 years ago held the
record in Australia for having inflicted
more damage in the shortest time than
any other in the Commonwealth’s history.
That dishonor now belongs to Mr. Mc-
Girr.
Low productivity, which is the chief
cause and sustainer of Australian high
prices, results from shortages in coal and
steel —curses inflicted on the Common-
wealth by New South Wales, and
especially by the N.S.W. “Labor.” At any
time in the past five years N.S.W. steel
could, with the advantage it held in low
production costs, have won markets any-
where in the world. Under Mr. McGirr’s
indifference to their welfare the steel-
works have not been allowed to function
at more than 60 or 70 per cent, capacity
in order to meet even the Australian de-
mand. In half a decade of record coal-
shortage, with all industry rationed to the
limits of ability to carry on, Mr. McGirr
has never been known to say a word in
reproof of indiscipline on the coalfields,
and his Government has arbitrarily
forbidden the extraction by machinery—
as advised by every local and visiting ex-
pert—-of the vast masses of pillar-coal
which would relieve every local- shortage
for years ahead.
During the war years no other State
railways made as much money from
service transport charges as New South
Wales. The McGirr Government in-
herited’ some £11,000,000 of profit from
this business, earmarked for recondition-
ing of the railways, and now gone with
the wind. The N.S.W. Auditor-General
has reiterated in vain complaints against
the condition of the McGirr Transport
Department’s accounts. The heaviest
railway losses, and the crippling shortage
of staff now compounding the injury
done, are directly traceable .
McGirr’s 40-hour week. 0 Mr,
Federation began, in the days
jubilee is this year being celebrated h ° Se
reluctant co-operation as the S’ Wlth
N.S.W. policy towards the Sf of
wealth idea. “Unless we doming"lo'l-
- play,” was the attitude Dm?’ T
50 years since elapsed that spirit B ?
never quite died out, as events have f
time to time revealed. Awarenessnf -I 0 ®
well as their dependence on N S wV 8
coal, has more than once led Premil i!
conference to regard the situation as n
of New South Wales versus the Res, T
has been made very clear in AI p
ferences of recent years ‘that ‘S'
characteristic has similarly snli 7
“Labor” party, notably on'.he* £
of effective action against Comma"
control over key unions. But for Ns»
“Labor” support, Communist influence i.
Australian unions would by „ ow “ "
ably be well on the way out. P
The “Labor” battle-cry of “ nonf
operation with the Menzies Government
is essentially of N.S.W. design, and?
designers are doing their utmost to Hi
guise the primary direction of this non
co-operation policy to the saving of the
Communists in union executives Fo
there can never be any improvement in
productivity any relief from C oa
and steel shortages, power shortaees
shipping hold-ups, until Communi!
bosses are routed out of the union offices
concerned or while that complacent
observer of Communist sabotage Mr
McGirr, remains in office in New South
Wales as stooge for the union bosses
Australasian Publishing.
An industry which it is hoped will not die
when the production-slump depression
hits us is the publishing business, which
has grown amazingly in the past decade
Before World War II publishers of
Australian books were heroes, their diffi-
culty being chiefly an obsession that
there were not enough Australian books
to make organised publishing on a satis-
fying commercial scale possible, and that,
anyway, the Australian public would
rarely buy a book which cost more than
half a crown. This conclusion had been
reached through experience.
In the cheaper ranges there was a con-
siderable trade in paper covers, mostly of
the works of Bulletin writers, and gal-
lant old George Robertson and a few
colleagues in other capitals did their best
to produce something more elaborate, but
their efforts were sporadic and directed
to the printing of unusual volumes with
special appeal.
The first rays of sunshine came with
the growing sales of the works of Law-
son and Paterson and the successes of
C. J. Dennis. In 1926 Angus and Robert-
son issued an ambitious Australian
Encyclopedia which proved popular.
And round the depression years, astonish-
ingly enough, interest began to grow in
Australian books largely because of the
success of Australians in the literary field
abroad.
Before the period of stagnation was
over The Bulletin, on the inspiration of
Norman Lindsay, fresh home from
abroad, made an essay in publishing on
a European scale with the Endeavor
Press, and, though this failed for want of
material, it probably was the “X” which
marked the spot under which the old
inhibitions about the chances of success
for Australian books was buried.
Within four or five years Australian
publishing was being modernised. Writers
of lighter and more sensational books
and historical novels were having their
works turned out in payable numbers-
lon Idriess, E. V. Timms, Frank Clune
and others—and there was a great in-
crease in the output of more expensive
types of art book from the presses ot
such concerns as that founded ana
carried on by Sydney lire Smith. The
near-war years were marked by the pub-
lication of larger histories— Mackaness s
Bligh and the first volume of Mr. Justi«
Ferguson’s invaluable Australian
graphy —also by a steadily*intP roVin =
standard of printing, format, type an
dust-covers. The general ensemble
Mrs. Ernestine Hill’s My Low M
Wait, which has been one of the larg
sellers of any novel in Australian
tory, in 1940 marked a new era m P
duction. From that point Australian
publishing has never looked back. t 0
Its output is large in re * atl ° .
population and a credit to the cou •
Its faith in the future is marked by j
preparation over a period oi •j,
the new Australian Encyclopedia,
Angus and Robertson have m
tion under the editorship-in-cm® 1 ■
Alex Chisholm, and which will J
something like 5,000,000 ritteD
authoritative information, mamiy
by established authorities.


history, novels, travel, belles lettres,
poetry, art books of the type of the
Howard Hinton memorial volume pour
from the Australian presses in forms
which would do credit to the oldest-
established publishers of London and
New York. Australian publishers are
no longer afraid to risk their money in
a market for volumes costing two and
three guineas in which it used to be an
accepted thing a decade or so ago that
local books would not sell to any extent
save in paper covers.
Angus and Robertson have recently set
their seal on the Australian industry by
carrying their banner overseas. They
have opened their own shop in London,
and they are selling in satisfactory num-
bers the new standard Australian books,
a credit to the country in appearance
and production. Other publishers—not-
ably Georgian House—are steadily bring-
ing out books locally written; and as
well there is the large number of re-
prints of the contemporary works of
British and American writers which a few
years ago would have been imported. The
great English publishing houses are now
nearly all operating here.
It is obvious that the Australian pub-
lishing industry is at last on its feet,
carrying bn with all the necessary ad-
juncts to permanence and stability. But
the high cost of printing—results have to
be in the best-selling class for a book to
make a profit these days; —and the bank-
ing-up of manuscripts with the few firms
that put Australian literature first still
make things difficult for the Australian
writer, on whom in the long run the
future of publishing here depends. The
writer needs a readier welcome from the
overseas firms and those which deal
mainly in reprints; and constant support
from the booksellers, the libraries and the
public.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Wool Scheme Rejected.
The Commonwealth Government —and
particularly Treasurer Fadden —has suf-
fered a severe reverse in the rejection
at a referendum of woolgrowers (on
the eve of the opening of the new wool
season) of the long-term stabilisation
scheme which it put forward last year,
and which was first advocated as an anti-
inflationary measure.
Its basis was the unpopular 1\ per cent,
levy on wool to provide a fund to stabilise
prices on an international scale. Under
the plan the United Kingdom, as the
principal buyer of wool, was to provide
fA 15,000,000, and the chief producing
Dominions, Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa, were to bring this amount
to £A82,500,000 to form a fund to buy
in wool when prices should fall below
a certain level. Of the total amount
£58,750,000 was to be available to
purchase Australian wool if need be.
In Australia £45,000,000 had already
been collected by the levy, and there was
a further £63,000,000 representing profit
made by the Joint Organisation, which
handled the surplus wool held over from
sales to Britain during the war. Both
these sums are to be handed back to the
woolgrowers.
When the handing-back will be done is
another matter. The repayment of the
£45,000,000 will need Parliamentary
sanction, which can be obtained at the
Government’s leisure. The £63,000,000
balance is in the hands of the Australian
Wool Realisation Committee.
The Income Tax Commissioner is the
man most likely to lick his lips when the
juicy morsel showers out of the jackpot.
Mr. J. P. Abbott, chairman of the com-
mittee which organised the opposition to
the scheme at the referendum, says that
the defeat of the Government’s plan is
“a tribute to the wisdom of the wool-
growers and their determination to keep
control of the wool industry in the hands
of those who produce the wool, and a
notification to the world that the growers
will sell their wool on a free-auction
market in the fairest possible way.” And
the large overseas speculators who have
been buying wool for use as international
currency or against the future prospect
of war are alarmed.
Whatever the effects of the referendum,
it will at least serve as a reminder to
the Commonwealth Government that it is
a free-enterprise Government, a fact
which it sometimes seems inclined to
forget.
Korean "Peace" Fraud.
Events in Korea must make the United
Nations Organisation wish that it had
been less gullible in accepting the
Russian-arranged cease-fire armistice
conferences in the face of the opinion
of General Marshall, American Secretary
for Defence, who obviously had no faith
in the approaches of Comrade Malik,
Moscow’s suave Foreign Office
Commissar.
From the first the atmosphere was
dishonest on the Communist side. There
was no genuine attempt to reach a work-
ing agreement, and many genuine
attempts to provoke the United Nations
delegates to take the initiative in breaking
off the talks—provocative sending of
troops into the neutral zone, insult,
obstruction, abuse from Moscow Radio
accompanied by the movement of large
numbers of fresh forces from the north,
It was soon evident that if the Allies
had offered South Korea as a present
they would still have been asked for more,
Then when General Ridgway refused to
lose his temper the Communists, using a
stock trick of theirs, alleged that the
United States had deliberately sent an
aircraft over the neutral area and bombed
it wilfully with intent to murder some-
body or other.
Immediately, without more ado, both
Peking and Moscow Radio opened a
world-wide campaign centring round the
“incident.” Power was stepped up in
particular on Moscow Radio so that it
SHARES, INDUSTRY AND
THE BUDGET—Page 16.
could be heard as clearly in Australia as
the A.8.C., its many sessions devoted to
a vicious campaign of which the theme
was that the United Nations had never
approached the cease-fire conference with
sincerity, but had “entered into it as a
screen for diabolical preparations to
extend the war.”
General Ridgway is not nearly so
verbose in his handling of the incident
as the Communists. He is content to
describe the charge of bombing the truce
area as “a malicious falsehood, pre-
posterous and obviously manufactured
for your own questionable purposes.” He
declared that he had fully investigated
and had found that “no U.N.Q. lair
element violated, or could possibly have
violated, the Kaesong neutral zone in this
or any other instance reported by you.”
But he has expressed himself willing to
continue the peace talks.
The whole business is ominous. There
can be no doubt in the mind of anybody
who has listened to the vilifying rubbish
which is emanating from Moscow that
it is just another piece of fifth-
column activity designed to soften up
the Western world for attack by the
Soviet bloc, and to raise the fear of Asia
of European attack to fever-heat.
The "Key Industry."
For a good many years Australians have
heard and read a lot about their “key
industries” such as coal, iron and steel,
building and so forth, and much of the
national thought, money and effort has
gone into preserving them. All sorts of
laws, tariff provisions, industrial awards,
subsidy payments and so forth exist to
protect these key industries and keep
them running. Meantime, little thought
has been given to the most important —
indeed, the real key industry—food-pro-
duction.
Few Australians outside those actually
engaged in food-production ever won-
dered where the food came from. It
was there, like the sun in the morning and
the stars at night, a sort of fixed supply
of meat, milk, butter, eggs, potatoes, fruit,
flour, sugar, salt and the rest of it. Even
when drought raged the country was
never in danger of starvation, and admir-
ing visitors from other parts frequently
stood amazed at the plenitude of the Aus-
tralian food-supply.
Now, so suddenly as to bring the city
populations to a kind of stupefaction,
basic foodstuffs are scarce. Australians,
reading these past few years of dwindling
world food-supplies, of starving millions
in Europe and Asia, hardly dreamt that
they themselves were about to run short.
Yet it has happened, there is no sign of
immediate relief, and it is being brought
home sharply that the prop and main-
stay of all the so-called “key industries”
is the land industry, and that it is collaps-
ing from a production aspect because of
political and public neglect. What is
worse, the position has been seized upon
by sundry party politicians for their own
measly party purposes.
Various economists and experts of one
sort and another have taken to placing
a limit on the number of people Australia
can support. Some have predicted that
before long we’ll have to import food.
These forecasts are based on the present
system of high wages and short hours
and the high standard of living, also on
the fact that, while cities swell their
numbers, the fanning population is either
stagnant or receding.
They are not based on the soil itself.
People who say there is no more good
land don’t know what they’re talking
about. The land already occupied is not
put to full production. Too many farmers
regard farming as a get-rich-quick pro-
cess. All the same, neither good nor bad
farmers are so soft-headed that they’ll
go on producing food at 1945 prices while
having to meet 1951 costs put upon them
by politicians and others whose eyes can-
not see beyond the outer metropolitan
suburbs.
Plainly, if Australians are to eat as well
as they’ve eaten in the past they must
expect to pay more for it. In other
words, their old but newly-discovered key
industry of food-production has at last
broken under the strain of lopsided eco-
nomy. It took inflation and “full employ-
ment” to do what droughts, depressions
and wars never succeeded in doing, and,
unless there is as determined an effort to
save this key industry as has been ex-
pended in saving others, those now com-
plaining about having no butter will have
a lot more to complain about in the near
future.
Art Competitions.
No doubt those responsible for the various
high-jumps and hurdle races of the Jubi-
lee art competitions feel that the occa-
sion has been fittingly celebrated, A vast
exhibition, in which the ancient abo-
riginal bark-painters (who really have not
very much to do with Federation) were
represented while Namatjira was ex-
cluded, has toured the Commonwealth ;
prizes have been distributed ; a solemn
noise, as of distant trumpets, has been
made; and the organisers and adjudica-
tors, flitting from State to State and holi-
daying in Queensland, have had the kind
of junketing those in high places expect.
But except that the commission to paint
a landscape evoked from the veteran Hans
Heysen a rich and vigorous picture of the
Flinders Range which he might otherwise
not have painted, and that a young
painter—Jeffrey Smart —made a name for
himself by winning the open event, the
artistic profit to the nation has been
exceedingly meagre. The inadequate rep-
resentation of Gruner and Norman Lind-
say and the exclusion of dozens of worth-
while artists, past and present, robbed the
travelling exhibition of much of its sig-
nificance ; the exclusion of Arthur
Murch’s and Lance Solomon’s entries
made the open competition meaningless ;
only two of the seven commissioned
works —Heysen’s and Lloyd Rees’s prize-
winner—rose to the occasion.
Perhaps it doesn’t matter that the only
portable property the Commonwealth
has acquired in return for the £3OOO it has
distributed in prizes are three or four pic-
tures of very uneven merits. But the artis-
tic community as a whole, which might
well have been given some practical en-
couragement as a Jubilee gesture, has got
very little out of it: £lOOO to Lloyd Rees,
£5OO to Jeffrey Smart, a few minor prizes ;
and for the practising artist, excluded even
from the travelling exhibition and strug-
gling in his studio to win the price of a
lamb chop, not a penny.
It might be a much better idea, next
time there’s a Jubilee, not to give com-
missions—which generally put the artists
on their mettle too much and so get poor
results: witness the Dobell this time —
and not to hold competitions, which
always lead to heartburnings and are,
anyhow, vulgar—but to spend the £3OOO
on buying the best paintings of the year
from well-known artists and from the ex-
hibitions in all State capitals; to be
selected by the trustees of the various
National Galleries.
Three thousand pounds spent in this
way would give practical support to a
great number of artists cut out of these
competitions ; the money would go to the
best works instead of the poor efforts
evoked by competitions and commissions ;
and the pictures could be housed in some
school or Government building in Can-
berra to make a permanent record of the
Jubilee.
Waterfront Employment.
It might reasonably be assumed that
union officials representing men em-
ployed in an industry on a casual basis
would jump at the chance to secure for
their members permanent employment,
especially when they have often stressed
in court the disadvantages of a man en-
gaged on a day-to-day basis. Yet last
week the Federal Council of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation turned down
flat a proposal by the shipowners to put
wharf work in the main ports on a per-
manent basis. The proposal was put for-
ward jointly by representatives of over-
sea and inter-State companies.
It suggested that instead of being en-
gaged and paid by the hour wharfies
should in future be employed on the basis
of a 40-hour week, plus overtime. They
would be required to transfer from em-
ployer to employer and from ship to ship
as required, but would be employed as
far as possible by the one company and
would be formed into specialised gangs
for handling cargoes such as timber,
refrigerated cargo, heavy lifts and so on.
There was to be provision for annual
leave and sick leave, and the Arbitra-
tion Court would be asked to fix rates of
pay appropriate to weekly hiring, includ-
ing overtime and shiftwork rates.
Comrade Healy, in announcing his
council’s rejection of the plan, said:
Our examination of the proposals shows
that there could be no increase in the
employees’ present wages by the introduc-
tion of this proposed system in the ports
of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Hobart and Fremantle. In fact, unless the
employees work very many hours longer
than they are working at present, it would
mean a reduction of their present inadequate
wage standards.
The proposals were rejected without
any discussion with the shipowners’
representatives, without any request for
further details of the plan and without
any attempt to sound out the feeling of
the rank-and-file on the subject. Arbi-
tration Court judges have in the past sug-
gested that the best hope for the industry
lay in some form of permanent engage-
ment —Justice Foster described it as
“absolutely essential”—and the union it-
self told the court some years ago that
decasualisation was the aim of those
“who have the well-being of the industry
and those engaged in it at heart.”
If Healy and Co. have the well-being
of the industry and those engaged in it
at heart they would surely at least regard
the owners’ suggestion as a basis for
further discussion in the hope that it
might ultimately lead to a scheme accept-
able to their members. On the other
hand, if they feel that a change from
casual to permanent work might make
for greater contentment in the industry,
thereby making the waterfront a less
fertile field for Communist activity, they
might be inclined to reject it out of
hand. And that is precisely what they
have done.
"Attacking the Unions."
In his address to the Federal A.L.P. tri-
ennial conference last March president
Jacky Ferguson of the many faces and a
dozen jobs strove, he said, to “shake
unionists out of their apathy” towards
the need “for complete and final exposure
by ‘Labor’ of the activities and aims of
the Communist party in Australia.” This
is the same gentleman who four years
previously invited the Communist party
to disband and its members to join the
A.L.P. in a body. His advice to the
A.L.P. in March came just before G.-G.
McKell on St. Patrick’s Day granted the
Menzies Government a double-dissolu-
tion, much to the astonishment and
chagrin of “the movement” he once
adorned.
Under Mr. Ferguson’s direction
“Labor” is now campaigning for a refer-
endum “No”-vote against anti-Communist
legislation twice approved by the electors
and once by the “Labor” party in Parlia-
ment at Mr. Ferguson’s executive’s own
direct orders.
The Communist-party Dissolution Act,
according to Mr. Ferguson and all
“correct” Socialist spokesmen, is an
attack not on Communists but on the
unions. This is akin to the excuse thought
up the other day when Senator McKenna
was caught addressing Commos from a
Commo platform —in breach of a stern
A.L.P. injunction—and it was explained
that, although Comrade Healy of the
W.W.F. may have been present in the
offing, he was there not as a Commo but
as a union executive. To the charge that
the Act is an attack on the unions Mr.
Menzies has already made the complete
reply:
The Government is no more attacking
trade-unions when it attacks a Communist
than the AX.P. industrial groups inside
the unions attack unionism when they
seek to purge out of trade-unionism a
Communist union leader.
The only “Labor” people who have
been trying to shake “Labor” out of its
apathy about Communist activities are
the members of the industrial groups—a
much-persecuted minority in N.S.W., but
coming to assert influence on “the move-
ment” in other States. At the N.SAV.
A.L.P. conference last June delegates from
certain unions with Commo-minded exe-
cutives ripped away official pretences y
declaring roundly that the industr
groups had “helped to put Menzies into
power.” No doubt they did and no doubt
they will vote “Yes” at the referendum
(i Continued on next page.')


[For referendum matter requiring signature,
David Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is
responsible.]
»
4198
Keep to-
CRAVEN*
oiti* ssife
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m
■ :
. :• : -y
y-yy
,V • n
mm
|g
‘XSSKvM
w
‘•Y:?3sS
three weeks hence. They are the only
“Labor” people who ever have “fought
Communism.” They were started origi-
nally with the Chifley Government’s bless-
ing to make the “Labor” party’s “fight
against Communism” appear genuine.
The more real the groups made it, the
less official support they got.
That accounts for the sour milk in the
present “Labor” coconut. Nothing in all
the pains and penalties threatened will
turn the industrial groups into “No”-
voters now. If this anti-Commo Act is
an attack on the unions, it is the kind of
attack the groups have been looking for
from the A.L.P. as a whole.
Many a “Labor” man will offer thanks-
giving for the secret ballot, which as
applied to union affairs is also, according
to A.L.P. officialdom, an “attack on the
unions.” Others do not give a fig for
A.L.P. threats of excommunication: the
abstention en masse by the Tasmanian
State “Labor” Ministry from the plat-
form at Dr. Evatt’s opening “No” meeting
in the Apple Isle is eloquent of a revolt
which should stiffen the “Labor” malcon-
tents in Victoria, and could not be more
openly defiant of the Ferguson junta.
This is one hot iron from the fire on
which Mr. Menzies may be trusted to
hammer effectively next week.
POLITICAL POINTS
A thing the electors should keep in
mind regarding the Red referendum is
that not only is “Labor” opposing the
proposed amendments to the Constitu-
tion, but it also opposed the bill under
which the referendum is being held —i.e.,
it did not wish the public to be given
the opportunity of expressing an opinion
on the issue.
When “Labor” members Keon and
Mullens were absent from the platform
at Doc. Evatt’s South Melbourne Town
Hall meeting “Labor” leaders were
quick to deny that there was any signi-
ficance in their non-attendance. Vic-
torian “Labor,” it was asserted, was
solidly behind Evatt. Lovegrove, secre-
tary of the Victorian A.L.P., said “The
two members have perfectly legitimate
excuses for not attending the meeting.”
Possibly Mr. Keon’s excuse was contained
in the speech he made in Canberra when
the Anti-Red bill was being debated:
I hate and detest Communism, above all
because it abuses and subverts the loyalties
built up by the trade-union movement
throughout the world and uses the solidarity
of that movement as a shield for its dirty
work, and because it has abused all the
slogans of the trade-union movement so as
to enslave half the human race.
When Keon said that he was speaking
from his heart and was expressing the
feelings of a large number of Victorian
“Labor” men. They may be behind the
Doc.; they’re certainly not alongside
him.
With the proclamation of the Com-
monwealth Bank Act, 1951, last Tuesday
the Commonwealth Bank Act, 1947 —
better known by its shorter title the Bank
Grab Act —was removed from the Statute
Book. It was an Act which never operated,
yet it probably caused a bigger stir than
any other Act in Commonwealth history.
It demonstrated clearly that “Labor” was
committed up to the hilt to complete
socialisation ; it was the subject of appeals
to the High Court and Privy Council —
both courts declaring it invalid ; its final
repeal involved a double-dissolution and
the loss of “Labor’s” Senate majority.
Brief history of the Bank Grab Act:
Mr. Chifley announced intention to
nationalise the banks, August, 1947.
Bill passed both houses, November, 1947,
High Court challenge.
Rejected try High Court, August, 1948.
Prjvy Council appeal.
Rejected by Privy Council, August, 1949.
What would have been the next step had
‘‘Labor” won the 1949 election can only
be conjectured. As it was, the Menzies-
Fadden team having won the election, a
bill to repeal the 1947 Act and to re-
establish the Commonwealth Bank
board was introduced by the Treasurer
on March 16, 1950. Passed by the Reps
on May 4, it was sent to the Senate, where
“Labor” used its majority to delete the
bank-board clause. The Government
reinserted the clause and returned the bill
to the Senate, where it was allowed to
remain at the bottom of the notice-paper.
On October 4, 1950, Mr. Fadden intro-
duced Commonwealth Bank Bill No. 2,
identical with the first. This passed the
Reps and was sent to the Senate on
October 11. On the same day “Labor”
resurrected the first bill in the Senate,
again deleted the bank-board clause and
sent it back to the Reps. After a delay
of some weeks it then referred the second
bill to a select committee. It repeated
this performance in March, 1951, where-
upon :
Governor-General granted double-dissolu-
tion on grounds of failure-to-pass, March
17.
General election, April 28.
Commonwealth Bank Bill, 1951, identical
with two previous bills, introduced June 26,
1951.
Passed Senate, July 10, 1951.
Act proclaimed and Bank Grab Act
repealed, August 21, 1951.
The growers, as expected, rejected by
ballot the proposed “Post-J.O. wool
scheme,” alleged to have been thought
up by “some growers’ organisations.”
Prime Minister Menzies allowed himself
to support the idea, but even he couldn’t
persuade the growers that the thing
didn’t mean Government control of the
industry. Now the Commonwealth has
to spar up £45 million which it had taken
in levies from the woolmen to finance
the scheme, and there’s a lot of worry
apparent about the “inflationary” effect.
Wool-sales opened in Sydney this week
in a flare of publicity; defeat of the
“Post-J.O. scheme,” rejection of the
U.S.A. allocation notion and a notable
fall in prices for crossbreds in N.Z. hav-
ing drawn public attention to the Sydney
sales. Press articles and wool-trade
speculation on the Sydney prices—a
barometer for the selling season —filled
columns of newsprint. When this was
printed the opening sales were 10 p.c. to
15 p.c. below last season’s closing quotes,
and with the Continent —mainly Germany
—and Japan bidding freely, the market
was improving.
Moscow announces that 150 coal-
miners have been awarded the decoration
of Heroes of the Socialist Labor—2oo
have got the Order of Stalin. The lists
not being available it is not known
whether the names of Idris Williams and
Edgar Ross are on them.
Peter Dargin, the Portland (N.S.W.)
butcher who became known throughout
the Commonwealth seven years ago for
having the courage to uphold, in the face
of fierce intimidation, the right of a man
to manage his business within the law
and free from the dictation of pressure-
groups, died tragically last month, a short
time after he had closed down his busi-
ness. The Meat and Allied Trades
Federation has started a “Peter Dargin
Fund” to assist his widow and four young
children. Contributions to the fund may
be sent to the Trustees, Meat Trades’
Federation, Daking House, Rawson-
place, Sydney.
Colin Clark, the Queensland economist,
was invited by the Indonesian Trade and
Industries Minister to straighten out the
financial mess which the tan-colored
republic is in. But they learn quickly,
these brothers of ours. Indonesian trade-
unions opposed “importing a foreign
economist,” the Trade Minister resigned,
Mr. Clark believes his appointment is
“cancelled” and Canberra says it’s “up
in the air.”
The British don’t know what to do with
12 Poles who have been acting as poli-
tical spies on their own countrymen in
Britain. Poland won’t take them back.
Good chance for Mr. McGrrrrr to
increase his team of prices-inspectors.
Queensland Acting-Premier Gair, hear-
ing that dairyfarmers there threatened to
keep butter in store rather than sell it
at less than the 3s. a pound agreed
to by Canberra and every other State
except N.S.W. and Queensland, blared
that his Government would seize the
butter. He doesn’t talk like that when
unions strike against arbitration awards—
rather, he upholds the “right to strike.”
“8.L.”: Not only does the public
servant who insures his car with the
N.S.W. State Insurance Office get cut-
rates at the expense of the general public
(B. 8/8/’5l), but when he insures his
home his stamp-duty charges are paid by
the Government Insurance Office.
Another item that may be news to the
general taxpayer is that many public
servants, in particular Clerks of Petty
Sessions, whose salaries come out of the
public purse, are encouraged to spend
part of their working hours canvassing
for life-assurance and general-insurance
business for the State Insurance Office.
Commission is paid and an annual com-
petition conducted for the most suc-
cessful salesman.
Comrade Roach, doing 12 months’
light labor for contempt of the Arbitra-
tion Court, appealed to have his sentence
changed to hard labor. His plea was that
hard labor would be worked in com-
pany ; he could not stand the solitude of
light labor. Whether this was the only
reason or whether Roach felt that “light
labor” would look rather sissy in the
party’s Book of Martyrs is a matter for
debate. Judge Foster refused the applica-
tion.
As its contribution to the anti-inflation
fight the Victorian Government has re-
controlled ice-cream. This means that,
when and if the time comes, the stuff
will be de-recontrolled. In case anybody
thinks this is a unique term, let them
remember that in N.S.W. certain areas
have road speed-limits. These are called
restricted areas. When the speed-limit is
waived they then become de-restricted
areas. There is nothing careless or casual
about these terms. They are chosen
deliberately, for any commodity or area
that is now listed as decontrolled or de-
restricted is henceforth identified as hav-
ing once being controlled or restricted,
and that means a precedent has been
established for recontrolling or re-
restricting it again at the first opportunity.
With only two months of the financial
year gone, the McGrrrrrs are admitting
that they expect to drop a cold £l2 mil-
lion on trains, trams and buses. Basic-
wage increases and staff shortages (with
consequent overtime) are blamed. Noth-
ing is said about administration —prob-
ably because under the McGrrrrrs there
isn’t any that justifies the name. As was
demonstrated the other day when a bus-
men’s union threatened to strike if fare-
collecting was left to drivers of single-
decker buses, it is the employees who
run the three services. The public, as
will shortly be announced, have to foot
the bill by paying more fares and freights
--though both are already scandalously
high.
One of the most remarkable develop-
ments in British industry since the war
has been the growth in oil-refining. In
1938 British refineries had a capacity of
2.3 million tons. By 1950 this had grown
to 9.1 million, and when refinery exten-
sions now in progress are completed in
1954 the capacity will be 23 million tons.
Fawley, in Hampshire, is to be the largest
plant in Europe, with an annual output
of 2,000,000 tons of motor-spirit,
2,000,000 tons of fuel oil, 1,000,000 tons
of diesel oil and 1,000,000 tons of kero-
sene. This refinery alone is expected to
save Britain 100,000,000 dollars a year.
Commodity-shortages in N. S. Wales
are going from bad to worse. First, milk
was in short supply ; then butter ; now
Supreme Court judges.
Con.-men don’t have to be idle while
there is building chaos. Latest racket
is to spin persons wanting supplies of
cement or other materials a tale of
immense supplies arriving by a certain
steamer. They collect substantial de-
posits and continue the racket until a few
days before the arrival of the ship. Then
they vanish.
Ministers of Education would be ex-
pected to have studied dialectics or
sophistry or something, but when Vic-
toria s Mr. Inchbold announced in the
House that clothes today are not so dear
as they were 10 or 15 years ago there
was incredulous laughter. “Wait a
minute,” said the gentleman. “Look at
it this way. As a woolgrower I used to
say I could buy a suit of clothes with a
bale of wool. Now I can buy three.”
“But we haven’t all got bales of wool,”
shouted a member.
Victorian taxpayers are going to pay
heavily for the Kiewa hydroelectric pro-
ject. The original estimate of £25,750,000
has gone up beyond £50,000,000, accord-
ing to Minister for Electrical Undertak-
ings Dodgshun. The scheme won’t be
completed inside five or six years, if then,
so there’s plenty of time for the cost to
double again.
“Oxo”: J. T. Scrymgeour, a well-
known Queensland cattle-breeder, told a
meeting of the Shorthorn Society in
Brisbane that when his family imported
a Shorthorn heifer from Scotland and
applied for the subsidy which the Com-
monwealth Government is supposed to
pay on such importations they were in-
formed the fund had run dry. If this is
true it calls for some inquiry, especially
by a Commonwealth Treasurer suspected
of being about to increase taxes.
Half-Premier McDonald is preparing
to pay another instalment of the price of
“Labor” support—a Greater Melbourne
bill, providing for the creation of a super-
authority to control 660 square miles
stretching a broad arc from Frankston
through Ringwood and Whittlesea to
beyond Werribee. Some municipal
councils are already shouting “dictator-
ship,” and Prahran threatens to call on
other municipalities to form a “war
council.” “Labor” in every State seems
to favor these Greater Wen plans. A
genuine Country party would have none
of them.


1928
| conversion'
Turkish bath
1931
WOT^k;
1932
1935
Miss Victory T- 1944
« V
(A\ss Secuß-iry —1947
1951
THE GILT-EDGED GIRLS.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“S.W.R.”: In a radio-interview Mrs.
Yehudi Menuhin mentioned that when
she returned to Australia the only thing
she would like altered would be our
accent. This is delicate ground, but it
brings a recollection of a remark of my
seven-year-old son when listening to his
mother reading Norman Lindsay’s The
Magic Pudding. Bill Barnacle was being
literally interpreted, and the dramatic
declamation was plentifully besprinkled
“Have one of these, Lady Angela — it'll build you up."
with dropped g’s, together with customary
examples typifying Bill’s grammatical
lapses. Son commented, “I think that
book must have been written by a New
Australi?*n, it’s such bad grammar.”
* * *
“Terence L.”: Over a decade ago I
played Ned Kelly in a radio serial. The
feature had been running a few weeks
when the producer brought along an ill-
kempt, hard-faced old fellow who said
he was Dan Kelly. Though I protested
to the boss that claims to being the
original Dan were as many as political
promises, he insisted that it was good
radio to chat to “brother Dan” at the end
of each broadcast episode to discuss that
chapter’s contents. Our visitor never put
a foot wrong, but he would not be drawn
on his “escape from Glenrowan.” This
was his secret, and he intended keeping
it so. For the rest, his comments were
concise and colorful —until the police
called in and explained to “Dan” that if
he were indeed Dan Kelly he could be
charged with robbery-under-arms, and
possibly with murder. That was that!
Dan went through. He died, an un-
molested pauper, a year or so back. The
other day at the Brisbane Show I looked
in at a waxworks exhibit. A “Ned and
Dan Kelly” group pulled my roving eye.
Ned was the big bearded figure of tradi-
tion ; but the other waxen image, whether
or not like the notorious bushranger Dan
Kelly, was, in truth, a youthful facsimile
of my partner in the radio-chats.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Victorian Prices Minister Mr.
Hyland wants to control everything from
dolls’-eyes to jews’-harps. He means
jaw-harps. The leading musical ware-
house in Melbourne has always sold them
under that—their correct —title,
* * * *
“Bo”: How dreadfully unexciting it
must have been for Grandma when she
ran her house! Never once throughout
her life did she experience that thrill of
anticipation, such as is enjoyed by the
present-day housewife as she takes her
string-bags down to the shopping centre,
that wondering if the grocer would
graciously indicate that she was in special
favor by allowing her a quarter-pound of
butter or even half a pound of margarine.
Grandma must have been horribly bored
by knowing that, come fire, flood or
drought, everything she ordered would
be promptly delivered, generally with
some boiled lollies for the kids chucked
in. How the awful monotony, too, of
being greeted by the tradespeople with
ever-smiling courtesy must have galled
her! If only now and again it could
have been relieved by what today’s house-
wife takes as the normal routine: of
getting her head snapped off if she asks
for a tin of powdered-milk, or of being
greeted with a burst of laughter if she
requests a pound of common salt. She
never knew the delightful gamble of
joining a sugar queue, and with every few
feet she shuffled forward wondering if
the supply would conk out before she
reached the counter, or of having to make
a choice —a real gamble, this —of butchers
in the hope that the one in whose shop
she spent 255. on the weekend meat
would let her have enough meat for the
dog at only what it used to cost for a leg
of lamb. Truly, Grandma didn’t know
she was alive.
* * * *
“Becks”: A Sydney columnist, com-
plaining of the appearance of recently-
minted pennies, says they are blotchy and
uneven in color. One which found its
way into my pocket the other day could
not be faulted on grounds of blotchiness,
and its color was quite even. It was, in
fact, quite a neat piece of work, except
that the Master of the Mint had
apparently forgotten to put any design
on it.
„ A tt* * . * , .
Q , : m HoW fi ,Ud D y °C
P° n^d sor h rst Premier of N. S.
Wales, has been disturbed through manu-
script discoveries of recent years. Rachel
Henning assessed him crisply (B.
15/8/ 51) as very stout, very bumptious
and a great eater.” Her judgment coin-
cided with that of Henrietta Heathorn,
of Sydney (afterwards wife of T. H.
“Try this for size. Madam.”
Huxley), who, in a diary note of May
16, 1849, remarking on the fact that “Mr.
D.” had recently failed in his candidature
for the Speakership, said, “I am glad that
Mr. D. has not got it, or his organ of
self-esteem would have been so prodi-
giously increased that fears might have
been entertained for his sanity.” Julian
Huxley, editor of the Heathorn journal
(published in 1935), does not identify
“Mr. D.,” but he is quite clearly Stuart
Donaldson. Nor were views of the kind
limited to the ladies. As The Bulletin
notes. Sir Thomas Mitchell fought a duel
with Donaldson in 1851, and at an earlier
date John Gilbert, explorer and naturalist,
described him tersely as “an upstart and
a coxcomb.” Gilbert, it appears, tried to
do some business with Donaldson, then
a Sydney merchant, in May of 1840, but
was treated badly, after which he learned
that Dr. George Bennett and others had
been “obliged to cut him, from his always
behaving in an ungentlemanly manner
and with so much hauteur.” Incidentally,
what a dash Donaldson must have cut in
the youthful N.S.W. Assembly if he
appeared there in the draughtboard pants
which (according to Norman Lindsay’s
idea) he wore during his honeymoon
voyage in ’54, when he came under the
discerning eye of Rachel Henning!
* * * *
“Sainty”: Umbrellas in action (B.
11/7/’51)? Many Boer leaders in the
South African War took the field dressed
in frock-coats and top-hats, plus um-
brellas and goloshes. At the Norval’s
Pont scuffle, January 15, 1900, New Zea-
land infantryman Captain Madocks got
the better of it in a point-blank rifle-duel
with the Boer commandant, the loser
being attired in frock-coat and bell topper.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Detached bathrooms (B.
18/7/’51)? Struck one once in a thriving
Victorian town where I was on a
relieving bank-job in midwinter. The
temporary bank-premises had been con-
verted from one of a row of lock-up
shops; above these was a clothing fac-
tory, with a long corridor between the
workrooms and the resident officer’s bed-
room at the far end of the corridor,
above the bank. To reach the bathroom
I had to traverse the corridor, stair and
arcade, then out into the backyard, along
a duckboard track through a sea of red
mud to the far corner, where half-a-
dozen sheets of galvanised iron sur-
rounded a shower, with floor of duck-
boards. But with an unbroken record of
morning cold-showers a bloke could not
renege. First morning a hard white frost
had me frozen blue when I turned the
tap and waited for the bracing rush of
water. Then plop, plop, plop, as the ice-
pellets formed on the shower-holes flew
and I got the peashooter barrage of hail.
Next day was an encore performance,
and as I ran the gauntlet of the corridor
heads popped out of the workrooms with
remarks: “Gosh, his hair’s wet” ; “Aw,
he’s cuckoo.” Third morning my blush-
ing outward course was watched by the
B*Bgling girls from the factory doorways.
j reached the end of the corridor, pushed
tb e half-open door with the bucket of
W ater on top—and copped the lot. And
t^at was tbe co j des t shower ever.
* * * *
“Jasby”: My old friends the hobyahs
are in trouble again ; a well-intentioned
but misguided Mothers’ Club is demand-
ing their expulsion from the Victorian
“Second Grade Reader,” For the infor-
mation of those not familiar with that
work, hobyahs are creatures who live in
the bush and prey upon the old and weak,
They hunt by night—out from their
gloomy gullies they come, creep, creep,
creeping. They have evil designs on a
little old man and a little old woman who
live in a little old bark hut with their
little yellow dog, Dingo. Their cry is
“Pull down the hut. Eat the little old
man. Carry off the little old woman.”
For three successive nights they are
frightened off by the barking of little dog
Dingo. The barking having also disturbed
the little old man so that he “can neither
slumber nor sleep,” he punishes the dog
by cutting off in turn his tail, legs and
head. On the fourth night the hobyahs
carry off the little old woman. The little
old man, realising his mistake, gives
Dingo back his tail, legs and head, the
dog kills the hobyahs and rescues the
little old woman. Those protesting
mothers are on the wrong track. Kiddies
love to have their spines chilled and their
hair made to stand on end provided
right triumphs and there s a happy end-
ing. I tried out that yarn on my own
three and they lapped it up; so did two
others for whom I played baby-sitter. It
the Victorian Education Department
drops the yarn it will lose a technical gem.
As a youngsters’ story it has everything
—suspense, horror, action, a touch of
the impossible, repentance, retribution,
right triumphant and a happy ending. It
“The Hobyahs” are to go, then Hans
Andersen and the Brothers Grimm should
be put on the banned list,
* * * *
“Emel”: Cemeteries have long been a
fruitful source of unconscious humor. In
t Nhill in no rth-westem Victoria,
t b ere j s a handsome monument, erected
devot ed family over the last resting-
f their pa / ents . It is the final
£ . of the ir tribute, with its hint of a
ti £ limit to filial devotion, that sticks m
memo rv •
tWr dust 0 slcred urn*,
Tm we> their children, ask for room,
* * * *
“joM”’ “One-armed bandits” have
j ' * ’ . pMG » s Department,
° n i nto , ate . fe e
Anxious to get a letter mto the la.
box, I inserted my two pe . N o
stamp-machine at the railway- •
stamps came out! Thinking pemaps
another two might do the trick 1 ~ „
lessly pushed them down the ban
throat. When he again failed to di g 8
I protested to the railway bloke on y-
“Oh, you’re not the only one JV d v
fallen for that. It happens eve y Y-
They just cant get eno J? c h „ hic
supply everybody, was his ph P
reply.
FATHER’S DAY.
“Father’s Day falls on Sunday; and now that wives
and families are all working the usual excuse for
No Presents —that ‘it all comes out of father’s pocket
in the end’ —may be considered invalid.”
Wife, go out; and labor at the draper’s;
Get out, woman, and earn some pay;
Run along, boys, and peddle your papers:
Buy me a present for Father’s Day!
People are saying:
“Lookit their Dad —
His pants are ail fraying ’’cause they treat him
bad!
Lookit his collar,
Grimy with dirt,
It plainly must foliar, he’s got only one shirt!”
Used to be times you had no money over
’Cause of stingy Poppa, I’ve heard you say;
Now you’re all working, and living in clover,
You can teach me generosity on Father’s Day.
People are asking :
‘‘Why do his soles
Flap about, unmasking his socks full of holes ?”
People all mutter
‘‘He looks half-dead —
They eat all the butter, and they give him dry
bread!”
You don’t have to take your Poppa as you
find him;
He don’t have to stay in a state of decay;
You can give him presents; you can watch and
mind him,
And brush him up a little bit on Father’s
Day:
Folk will be remarking
‘‘Lookit that Pop —
Seems like he’s been working in a mercer’s
shop!
Lookit him driving
That big sedan —
A present from his thriving boys, to that
deserving man!”
It isn’t the gift, it is just the intention.
So, woman, you needn’t go out of your way—
There’s just a small present I feel I should
mention
So people will speak well of you on Father’s
Day:
‘‘Lookit his blondie!
Cheerful old Turk —
She keeps him from desponding while his wife’s
at work,”
Folk will say: “We gather
His wife gave him that —
Now, there’s a well-kept father, and a credit
to his flat!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


p
m
AUSTRALIAN
MOTORISTS!
H. C. SLEIGH LIMITED, the oldest
all-Australian Oil company, wishes to
announce its continued support of inde-
pendent trading and its opposition to the
tied-house policy, which has been con-
demned by independent resellers through-
out the Commonwealth as foreign to the
Australian way of life.
“GOLDEN FLEECE” Petroleum Pro-
ducts will continue to be available to you
through your independent garageman.
We know that our customers will con-
tinue to support Australian enterprise
by pulling up at the familiar blue and
yellow pump, with the Merino Ram
on top.
GOLDEN FLEECE Petroleum Products
Marketed on Merit by H. C. SLEIGH LIMITED
“Pitt St.”: A gentleman of some
eminence named Sands has a better claim
to fame than anything he may have
achieved in his avocation. On 21 /8 / ’5l
he was the means of making the noon-
edition posters of the rival Sydney after-
noon papers unanimous. Both read:
“Sands Fight Full Story Lottery 2361.”
I doubt if Hitler at his worst or Churchill
at his best achieved as much.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Many years ago a tramp-
steamer anchored off a tropic island and
landed thousands of kerosene-lamps,
which were distributed free to the popu-
lation. Shortly afterwards another steamer
turned up and landed piles of tins of
kerosene and an agent. Before long every
native hut was blazing with the new
illumination, the old half-a-coconut shell
with a bit of fibre floating in it was rele-
gated to the shelf amongst the antiques,
and everybody was working harder to
pay for the latest amenity of civilisation.
The oil-steamer was a regular monthly
visitor after that, and probably still is.
At least those entrepreneurs gave the
unsophisticated native better lighting, but
I read that the Australian Government
has ordained that the inhabitants of its
“You Wouldn't understand —this is objective art."
new dominion. Cocos, must base their
currency in future on the pound Aus-
tralian. The previous token of exchange
on the atoll was bones. The Cocos bone
hasn’t depreciated much in value since
Ross founded his empire, the only
influences affecting it being wear-and-
tear and the weather, and it would require
a powerful microscope to detect that. In
my lifetime the Australian pound has —
well, you can finish the story yourself.
* * * *
“Villefair”: The irate citizen who
declared that there would be a rush for
scissors “if the Government issued regu-
lations that all trousers had to be cut-off
at the left knee” (B. 18/7/’5l) was not
conjuring up such an absurdity as he
thought. Trousers with the right leg
missing from the knee down were worn
in Sydney about ten years ago, but by
whose request or decree I was never able
to ascertain. The wearers were all com-
petitors in Sydney’s Royal Agricultural
Show buckjumping, steer-riding and
camp-drafting events. Presumably there
was a reason for these half-measures, but
the nearest I could get to a logical answer
was an old bushwhacker s \Vell, it s the
leg they throw over the saddle ; I suppose
it lets ’em get ‘set’ quicker.” Whatever
the reason, it seemed to have been for-
gotten in the course of the war, for when
peace brought the traditional exhibition
back all the competitors wore both knees
demurely covered in khaki ankle-
chokers.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Sydney publican who
had a Salvation Army captain arrested
for distributing the “War Cry” amongst
his customers during those hours sacred
to the solemn ritual of drinking could
have learnt a lesson in tolerance from the
monks of a Buddhist monastery on the
holy island of Pootoo, off the coast of
China. Christian missionaries from the
mainland used to spend their summer
holidays on the island, and the abbot
courteously allowed them to occupy
vacant cells in the monastery. Every
evening the missionaries would sally forth
with Bible and Prayer Book at the time
of the vesper service and visit each temple
in turn, praying and singing hymns with
the utmost vigor and doing their best to
drown the voices of the monks, who were
circumambulating the images of the gods
and murmuring the words of their own
service. No difficulty was ever experienced
in arranging accommodation in the
monastery for these Christian workers,
as far as I know, at least until the Com-
munists pulled down the Bamboo Cur-
tain. But it is interesting to speculate
what kind of reception the Buddhist
monks would have got if they had recip-
rocated by taking a trip to London and
singing their hymns in the precincts of
St. Paul’s.
* H= * *
“Rooster”: Economy of words can be
confusing. The woman, obviously a New
Australian, was about to enter a lift in a
city store, when she happened to look
up at a notice-board overhead. As she
turned to her companion she looked
puzzled, shrugged her shoulders, and
resignedly set out to walk up several
flights of stairs. The notice, as she inter-
preted it, read: “Babies must be carried.”
I can only assume she interpreted the
“must” as meaning that a babe-in-arms
was an essential prerequisite to using the
lift.
* * * *
“Macquarie”; If there is one thing you
can be certain of these days it is the
uncertainty of things. Forget to throw
the main switch before doing some minor
electrical repairs on your power-zoned
day and you’re a moral to get a shock;
count on there being current on a day
other than your prescribed day of dark-
ness and you’ll be left like Moses. Failure
to dash for candles immediately the
announcer drones the nightly blacklist
will have the certain effect of bringing
the blackout on within three minutes;
get all prepared, and the forecasted
20 minutes will drag on to an hour. But
even allowing for the uncertainties of
modern life my grocer should have
known that there are some things which
are utterly impossible ; but it didn’t stop
him from placing a cardboard notice in
his window: “The manager of this shop
requires full board and lodging.” His
optimism was almost pathetic. Less than
an hour later he triumphantly removed
the sign. Once again I am lost in uncer-
tainty: was the prompt response a testi-
monial to the shopman’s sterling worth
and character or is somebody really
desperate for butter?
THE ONE-TRACK MIND.
“No matter what international crisis is on, or what
startling item of local news may appear, the first
thing women look for in the dailies is the fashion-
news.” —Radio speaker.
When screamer-headlines blare the news
That some ace jockey’s home’s been robbed,
Of some revolt in Santa Cruz,
Or that some racing moke’s been swabbed,
You’d think that women everywhere
To these “sensations” would react.
Yet of such things they’re unaware.
Strange though it may seem, it's a fact!
Let some old peasant in Zagreb
His local tax-collector shoot,
Some crank approach Sir Gladwyn Jebb
At UNO in his birthday-suit—
Such juicy cabled items will
Never a woman’s interest hold.
They’re not concerned with hem or frill,
And so they surely leave her cold.
A Holly wooden star (no fount
Of talent) seeks her eighth divorce
From some debilitated count.
You’d take it as a matter of course
That such a titbit Eve would heed,
That in her heart ’twould cause a flutter.
But no. Why! She won’t even read
About the shortages of butter!
What Harry, Clem or Joe may say,
The snarls and yappings through the Curtain
(They’re dished-up for ’em every day)
No woman reads about, it’s certain.
Her one big interest is in
The pleat, the sleeve, the shoulder-line,
Whether her frock of angel-skin
Should be in dusty-pink or wine.
It’s sad to ponder—is it not? —
Some pundit’s jewel-laden speech
Is flicked aside in search of what
She’ll wear this season at the beach.
The pros and cons of this and that —
Which in the end will get us nowhere —
Aren’t in it with the dress and hat
That Daphne, Doris, Jean and Flo wear.
The editors of flapper-papers
Might have to rearrange the layout
(They’ve cut, before, some weirder capers);
And this seems quite the easiest way out:
Put all the rag-ads jn the front.
And thus the dames, who never con
The lurid tripe, the silly stunt,
Will know at once what’s going on.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver shoved Blue
aside, turned the small hunk of meat that
was grilling over the coals and unwrapped
a piece of damper. “Not much tucker
left,” he remarked to no one. “Just’s
well we’re nearly home again,” Then,
catching sight of the dog: “Gripes, what
about you, Blue? What you gonner
eat?” The cattledog’s eyes never
swerved from the cooking steak, and he
moved in expectantly. “No, by cripes
y’ ain’t,” snorted the old bloke. “That’s
all I got, an’ I’m hungry.” He lifted the
steak off and settled comfortably. The
mong crowded close, still watching.
“Aw, move over. Why didn’t y’ catch
y’rself a rabbit or somethin’? Eh? Well,
that’s right, I s’pose y’ never ’ad much
time; an’ there ain’t many about.
Awright, blast y’, awright.” The meat
was cut and half passed to the dog, which
wolfed it hprriedly and returned to eye
the other bit. Intently he watched
Seventyfiver saw off a mouthful and
shove in his face. Then, as the old
bloke chewed, Blue licked his chops and
swallowed several times. “Hell, go ’way,
can’t y’?” came the roar. “Y’ make a
man feel lousy when he ain’t. I know y’
been workin’ ’ard. An’ what d’ y’ think
<^&cuppA
f OR I
. I
"an' no gettin' abused by waitresses!"
/ been doin’, eh?” Blue retreated 6in.,
restad a mournful head on the old
bloke’s boots and eyed him reproach-
fully. “Y’ ’ad your bit, y’ greedy, un-
reas’nable cow. Ir ain’t my fault, is it,
if y had no breakfast?’ The argument
was reaching its peak as I went to un-
hitch my horse. When I returned Blue
was several yards off, eating happily and
Seventyfiver, a look of blood and thunder
on his mug, gnawed murderously at the
damper.
“Sackfair”; In 20 years’ time the
velocity of windstorms on the South
Coast (N.S.W.) will undoubtedly still be
gauged by “the big blow in August,
’51,” and with reason. From Bulli to
Beriy the recent gale has left evidence
of ts violence in wrecked fences, col-
lapsed verandas and overturned out-
houses. At Wollongong a church has lost
its roof. Farther along the highway a
building project has suffered: scraps that
were once hard-to-get fibro-sheets are
strewn against the fence-posts on the
opposite side of the road. Paddocks
hundreds of yards away from any dwel-
ling are marked here and there with a
twisted sheet of roofing-iron. We pass
a big old home with tiles missing from
the main roof, and bricks from a col-
lapsed chimney-stack scattered over the
skillion. Another house hasn’t one sheet
of iron left on the western side of its
roof. A building on Shellharbor
railway-station is completely roofless.
We run into timbered country; it is
almost incredible that wind alone could
snap off trunks 15in. in diameter, even
if they are only wild-apple and blood-
woods. A bluegum as thick has been
plucked up by the roots and flung across
the highway ; workmen have had to cut
away the big branches to clear the
macadam. Stout pines and messmates
are flat, with their roots jerked out of the
ground ; everywhere there are split trunks
and huge broken-off limbs. There is a
fresh crop of stripped roofs and capsized
outhouses at every wayside village, but
Berry, crouched in a funnel between the
ranges, has had a terrible drubbing.
There is nothing funny in destruction
that has ruined people’s homes; the one
humorous touch was the rusty half of an
800-gallon tank back near Unanderra.
Lord knows where it came from, but if
a giant had beenplaying hoop-la he could
not have impaled it with more geometrical
precision on the top of a wayside post.
* * * *
“Pedant”: Tell “Shadow-chaser” (B.
8/8/’5l) that the habitat of the platypus
is limited to freshwater streams and lakes,
so that the entrance to its burrow may
be sub-riverine, sub-lacustrine, sub-
merged or simply underwater, but never
submarine. The “creek” alongside which
he found the nest was undoubtedly a
brook, stream, rivulet or river, for a
creek is, properly, a narrow coastal inlet
or the tidal portion of a small stream
flowing into the sea or into the estuary
of a larger river, I have a theory that the
misuse of the word in Australia began in
the gold-rush days with the Cornish
miners, whose previous experience of
natural waters was limited to very small
streams, creeks and sea. The nomencla-
ture of the earlier-settled areas seems to
have been originally free of this misuse,
which is particularly prevalent in the
areas of the early gold-rushes, and where
these stimulated subsequent settlement,
In Tasmania, which experienced no large
immigration of Cornishmen, the misuse
of “creek” is almost completely absent
from the strear^-nomenHature.
• ♦ ♦ *
“Old-timer”: “Things is a lot different
outback to what they was when you an’
me was on Pingprungle,” said old Bob.
“You remember when we met the boss
in Euston an’ he says T’m payin’ twenty-
five bob an’ tucker an’ I don’t give a
damn what the union says, an’ if y’ don’t
like it blow off’? ’Member how we had
t’ hump our knots thirty mile through
the scrub, an’ when we got there he
wanted t’ know where the hell we’d bin
an’ you said we could do with a feed
an’ he said it was after dinner an’ we
could hop in the yards an’ start draftin’
an’ stop arguin’? ’Member how we had
t’ get a. lot o’ mouldy straw from the
stack t’ make our bunks, an’ how we ate
nothin’ but corned-beef an’ green pickles
for the first three weeks? ’Member how
he used to roust us out at dawn an’ keep
“Y es , son —your mummy has gone back to HER mummy!"
us goin’ till dark, an’ how we’d have t’
go an’ hide in the scrub Sundays or he’d
get us harness-cleanin’ or somethin’?”
Old Bob fell silent and absorbed some
beer. “Yair,” he went on, “things has
changed. I just finished up at Back
Ollapine. I bin on twelve notes and
tucker at the homestead, with a bottle o’
beer every night on the table. We never
had breakfast till about nine, an’ the boss
used t’ run us into town in his car pretty
near every afternoon when the beer was
on. There’s a wireless in the men’s hut,
an’ if y’ wanted t’ come t’ Sydney for
the races on Saturday the boss’d pay half
the plane fare down an’ back.” Old Bob
fell silent and drained his beer. “How
did y’ come t’ finish up?” I asked. “Aw,”
Bob complained, “the money was good
an’ the work easy, but he would keep on
callin’ me Mister ; I couldn’t get used t’
that”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In Murrayville and
down to our last bob, we got a letter
from Underbool (about 40 miles away)
to be there next day if we wanted a fenc-
ing contract. There was a train that
afternoon, but to all attempts by us to
raise the fare Murrayville turned a deaf
ear. So we drifted to the railway-station
in the hope of oozing on to that train
minus tickets. But the railway staff must
have heard of us, for wherever we turned
there was a cold, official eye watching.
“Well,” Mat sighed, gloomily surveying
the small crowd on the platform, “looks
like we’ll have t’ fly if we want that job.
You’d think” A gleam came into his
eye, and he shot along the platform and
accosted a fat man. “Can y’ change a
quid, quick?” Mat asked, one hand in
a pocket. The fat man dragged out a
handful of cash and handed Mat a half-
note and silver. Mat grabbed it, dived
to the booking-office and bought two
tickets. I’d grabbed our gear and was
heaving it into the train when he came
back. “Hey,” demanded the fat man,
“y’ didn’t give me the quid.” “Aw, that’s
all right,” Mat called, diving into the
carriage. “I’ll send it back from Under-
bool.” “That’s no good t’ me,” cried
the fat man, now panting beside the mov-
ing train. “I don’t know who you are.”
“You got a lot t’ go crook about,” Mat
snapped back, “I don’t know who you
are, but I owe y’ a flamin’ quid. Any-
body’d think you was in debt the way
you” But by that time the fat man
was fading into the distance behind us.
* * * *
“Betty M.”: The status of the old sled
has been raised lately. Dad was worried
by the sandblows which had the knack
of altering country contours overnight
and as the answer seemed to lie in kikuyu-
grass he evolved a unique method of root-
planting. Mum sits on the sled with a tub
of roots. Grampus, in his old harness and
swinglebar, draws it along at snail’s pace
and a roller is hitched on behind Mum
leans over and dibs the roots in and the
following roller firms them; Dad walks
behind with the rope-reins. In a further
endeavor to overcome labor shortage he
tried the idea of attaching a bag like a
woman’s peg-apron to his rear portion.
This was to slowly drop a trickle of super,
but so far this plan has only qualified
success.
* * ♦ *
“Bo”; The new hand awoke drowsily
when Dad came in as daylight was break-
ing. “I don’t want to disturb y’,” he said,
“but I’d like to get” The hand sat
up. “I know,” he said sarcastically. “All
y’ want is the cornsacks I’m lyin’ on! ”
“No,” said Dad cheerfully, “y’re wrong,
son, it ain’t the cornsacks —y’ can keep
them. All I want is the mattress. Y’
see, Mum on’y remembered last night
that her aunt made it years ago and filled
it with wool. I’m goin’ to take it into
town early today—reckon I’ll get a good
price for it. But you’ll be jonick—there’s
a coupla old horse-rugs you can have in
its place.”
* * ♦ *
“Booligal”: “Queerest town I ever
see was a little joint called Warrigal,
out on the western plains,” said Paddy-
melon Joe. “The westerlies! They’d
freeze the fires o’ hell in winter, an’ all
the crows in them parts had curly feathers
on account o’ gettin’ ’em singed by
them hot winds in summer. But the thing
that struck me most about the place was
that it hadn’t no cemet’ry. Fair-sized
town it was, been there fifty years or
more I reckon, no other town within
cooee, but no bone-orchard. Got me that
curious I asks the shire-clerk bloke about
it. He looks at me hard, an’ without a
blink says: ‘Don’t need a cemet’ry; they
don’t die out here. Y’ see, it’s the wind.
By the time a man gets old enough t’ die
in Warrigal he’s that dried up by the
blasted westerlies he just blows clean
away in a bit o’ dust!’ ”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Naturala”: As a bushwhacker “Bass”
(B. 4/8/ ’5l) must be acquainted with that
batrachian of the inland which forestalls
drought by filling itself with water and
retiring underground. Although this
amphibian is much more toadlike in
appearance and habits than “B.’s” swamp-
haunting “moaning frog,” no man of
science would call it other than a frog—
an aestivating frog. Although a member of
the order Batrachia, along with the frogs,
newts and salamanders, the toad belongs
to the family Bufonidoe: the frog to the
family Ranidce. As to confused avian
terminology, I feel thankful for one thing
—that someone, early, asked Binghi the
name of our prime avian humorist; thus
the kookaburra escaped being called the
great Australian kingfisher, or some-
thing equally long-winded.
GOLDEN GULLY.
Here where the ranges rake down from the sky
Tags of the left-over clouds of July,
No longer the windlass creaks over the shaft;
No longer the airs through the eucalypt waft
The smoke of the campfires, but faithfully still
August hangs banners of gold on the hill.
Over the mullock-heaps, over the mould,
Gold of the wattle—Australian gold.
Now, where the prospectors staked out their
claims,
The mines are forsaken, forgotten their names.
But over the steeps, where the poppet-heads
stood,
October comes in on a flowery flood.
Staring defiantly back at the sun,
Daisy-eyed, daring, ten million as one,
The capeweed takes over, an army of bold
Gold dusty blossoms —Australian gold.
The gully goes bankrupt, the gold fades away
Little by little and day after day;
Bleached with the ardor of arrogant noon,
Changed with the waxing and wane of the
moon,
Till suddenly, over the swathes of the grass,
All is as golden as ever it was.
Hillock and hollow through distance unrolled,
Golden with grasses—Australian gold.
t £
Falling to ashes of amber and rust,
Gone, like King Solomon’s glory, to dust;
Sun-dried and scattered, and yet even now
Coming full-circle with buds on the bough,
Still there is gold in the faraway hills;
Under and over it scatters and spills,
Precious, impermanent, bright to behold,
Gold of the gullies—Australian gold.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Harbel”: “Everyone loves a lover”
may be a true saw —provided the afflicted
male is fittingly reticent and decently
shamefaced about it. But the pimply-
faced carpenter’s “improver” camped
with us on a country job had more mag
about his “dames” than a Hollywood
detective. He loved to produce handfuls
of snaps —girls who were, allegedly,
breaking their hearts over him; and
chiacking that would have made a normal
youth crawl into a hollow log only made
him preen himself more. The mail gener-
ally brought him a letter; a pink-
enveloped, scented thing that brought a
smug smirk to his face which was even
more irritating than his supercilious dis-
missal of experienced tradesmen’s
attempts to
show hi m
how to
do a job
prop erly.
But the
limit was
getting close
when he
passed
around a
sealed
e n v e lope
with five
initials
penned on
the flap:
“S.W.A.L.K.” “That’s what that sheilah
thinks of me,” he boasted nauseatingly.
“Sealed with a loving kiss.” The bell
saved him ; but there were heavy breath-
ings through the nose as we went back
to work. It was Big George, the truck-
driver and incidental mailman, who
finally fixed him. “D’ you know what
that means?” The big bloke handed
over an envelope marked in indelible
pencil: “S.W.T.S.” Casanova was obvi-
ously puzzled. “Well, the envelope had
come unstuck, and your sheilah reckons
she’s wipin’ you for a Bondi bodgie ; and
good on her! And that means I sealed
it with terbacca spit.”
* * * *
“Wandana”: Legend has it that the
Polynesian navigator Kupe (B. 1/ 8 / ’5l)
used a sacred calabash, a navigating de-
vice more than 5000 years old, which
enabled him to steer across the 2100-mile
stretch of water between Fiji and Hawaii
with accuracy. It consisted of a native
calabash with four equidistant holes
drilled just below its upper edge. Filled
with water, it ensured an absolute level to
enable readings to be taken ; if off-level,
water poured through a hole and so in-
formed the operator. Readings were
taken by sighting through the hole next
the eye over the edge of the hole
opposite; and a table of declinations
made it possible to place Polaris where
it belonged. The early Fijians were re-
puted to have had such tables worked out
for years ahead; carrying live sheep,
goats and other supplies on their out-
rigger-canoes lashed together, they
reached the latitude of Hawaii, allegedly
by means of the sacred calabash. By
observing the fall of waves they were
able to navigate perfectly. The calabash
was termed “sacred” because the priest-
hood kept secret the methods of estimat-
ing the tables of declinations used with
it; and ceremonial blessing and dedicat-
ing of the calabash to the sea-gods were
held periodically by the natives of Fiji,
Samoa, and Hawaii.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: I’ve often wondered
whether the local people notice the way
the tall chimney in the old brickyard
sways with the force of strong winds.
Sighted against an electricity-pole during
a recent spell of windy weather, it
appeared to swing a full 9in. out of per-
pendicular. I remember the old bricky
who built it nearly 30 years ago. He
was working on a cottage with my dad
when the owner of the brickyard came
looking for him. “That chimney-stack
you built for me,” began the newcomer
in great agitation. “Come and have a
look at it—quick! ” “What’s up with it?”
demanded Old Bob bleakly. “Matter
with it —why, it’s swaying right over like
that with every strong gust of wind!”
The perturbed one held up his forearm
and demonstrated a startling lean from
plumb. “Yairs?” the old bricky showed
no emotion. “But when it sways over
like that” —he raised his own right fore-
arm—“it sways back again like this,
don’t it?” The owner doubtfully supposed
it did. “Well, listen,” said the voice of
experience. “When she swings over like
that and don’t come back like this, it'll
be time enough to come worryin’ me
about it.” And now, 30 years later, the
stack is still proving the old saw: “Tall
’tins always sway in a gale—if they didn’t
they’d snap off.”
* * * *
“V.”: It all started when Jim remarked
that a bloke on foot could beat a horse-
man over a long-enough distance. “Bloke
gets set to it,” Jim claimed, “and can
keep up his swinging stride every day for
months, whereas a nag has to spell off.”
Herb disagreed. Then Charlie Archer
entered the argument, nominating a man
on a pushbike to beat both the others.
A foot supporter hurriedly pointed out
that in a long distance there’d be rough
country, top, where a bike would be a
handicap, and others mentioned the
hazards of bad weather. The argument
was resumed nightly, and drifted on till
someone organised a handicap over a
short course. Interest was keen, and the
betting high. The contestants were the
best the district could lay hands on, and
included an expert walker, a horse of
many blue ribbons and a local disciple
of Opperman who had put up some
promising performances. The flag
dropped, and immediately the foot cove
hit his stride, the nag getting away next
and the bike-rider a bad last. At the
half-distance there came a clatter of
galloping hooves, and the nag flew past
the walker, to hold his lead to the near
finish, when the pushbike flashed sud-
denly to victory. The contest has con-
vinced none but the winners, but
entrants to prove the issue over a two-
or three-months’ distance aren’t avail-
able.
* * * *
“M.S.”: Yes, “Bogaduck” (B. l/8/’5l),
lambs at the playing age like a log to
jump on, preferably one that rises off
the ground so they can get a good run
up, but, better still, they like a bank. In
one of my lamb-paddocks the sloping
sides of a washout are usually pounded
hard in every accessible place in the lamb
season. However, lambs in good heart
and condition will play together whether
or not they have anything to play on.
They range anywhere up to 60 or 70
lambs to a school, though a couple of
dozen seems to be the most popular. A
boss-lamb jumps on a certain spot, then
races up the paddock. In turn the others
advance, jump on the approved spot and
follow, until the whole school is grouped
motionless some distance off. Who gives
the return signal is a puzzle, but sud-
denly they wheel as one, and race hell-
bent for their starting-point, the younger
members quickly stringing to a long tail.
On a good evening these playing-schools
should be in progress all over the pad-
dock, but in our neck of the woods this
has been a bad season for sheep. With
feed scarce and unpurchasable, the per-
centage of lambs to survive have neither
heart nor energy, and something more
than logs or banks is needed in the pad-
docks before they can raise a game.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’m not starting an
argument—l really want to know. Are
wild drakes polygamous? An oldster
to whose bird-knowledge I defer claims
“ Shouldn't We Wait for a full moon? Then We'd have more to land on.”
that, like most other wild birds, ducks of
all varieties mate for life. I’m not so
sure. For the last couple of months
three musk-ducks have roamed my
swamp, becoming so tame that, without
taking any undue precautions, I can
approach to within 10 yards of them, and
they venture closer while I’m milking the
cow. I think, with a little encouragement,
they’d eat out of my hand. Not so the
drake. He keeps mostly to the far side
where the reeds are thickest and where,
presumably, the nests are situated. I can
see him and hear him, and, although I
could be wrong, I think there’s only one
of him. Shortly after the party first
appeared two drakes staged a battle from
which one retreated. I haven’t seen him
since. Unlike the black drake, who is
indistinguishable from his mate, the
musk-drake can be identified at a distance
by the big lobes which hang from its
“Mind, y' got t ’ be quick!”
head, and if there were a strange drake
on the swamp I’d see him. Now, has the
drake established a harem, or is he mated
to one duck of the three, the other two
being drop-ins? I think the former.
There’s no apparent rivalry amongst the
three ducks, and the way the drake keeps
to the nesting area suggests his keeping
an eye on more than one batch of eggs.
Anyone know for sure?
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: The dingo, cun-
ning as he is, does some damnfool
things at times. A friend of mine was
poisoning prickly-pear on his property
some years ago, before the advent of the
cactoblastis. He generally burnt the
empty poison-tins, but this time, being
in a hurry to get home, threw the
last “empty” into some bushes. A long
while afterwards he was mustering cattle,
and about half a mile from where the
nearest pear-patch had been saw an
empty poison-tin lying in the grass. When
he got close to it he noticed bones stick-
ing out of the hole at the top. Investiga-
tion disclosed the dried carcass of a
dingo in the grass with the remains of its
head inside the tin. Obviously the
warrigal had shoved his head through
the hole in pusuit of a lizard or a quail
or other small prey, and, being unable to
get it out, had stumbled miserably about
unable to eat, drink or see properly and
so the end. It is the human scent which
generally scares a dingo more than the
sight of a human, and for that reason
trappers take all sorts of measures to
kill or deaden the scent when handling
baits or traps. Nevertheless, a small bait
wrapped in paper and dropped by hand
will, despite its human taint, often be
readily eaten by a dog that has walked
around a large fresh bait merely be-
cause a man’s tracks were in the vicinity,
and I have known a dingo to pull a man’s
boot from beneath the saddle that was
used as a pillow and half-chew it up.
And if a boot is not well charged with
the human scent, what is?
“Sackville”; I can assure “Chuck” (B.
11/7/’5l) that there is a vast difference
between the behavior of a city tin-hare
chaser and that of a homestead grey-
hound ; and the reason is not hard to
find. The country dog is reared and
trained just the same as any other tyke
around the place. He learns that he is
expected to kill rabbits and other ver-
min—l’ve known ’em to kill snakes —but
he also realises that he must tolerate
domestic animals ; even his natural enemy
the homestead cat. The pampered city
cousin is not even taught the first thing
demanded in a normal dog,
obedience; the only restraints
he knows are enclosures and
leads. But he is deliberately
taught to chase anything that
runs. And to make him “keen”
he is given cold-blooded “kills”:
rabbits with a leg broken,
guinea-pigs (their squeals as he
rips them are supposed to thrill
him) and possums, because they
are slow to die. Men who, in
other things, would hotly contest
charges of inhumanity will
descend to the most fiendish
cruelty in order to make a dog
“quick out of the box.” I once
saw the result of such training
when two male greyhounds con-
travened the inherent chivalry of
their species by tearing to pieces
a fox-terrier bitch which had
made the mistake of running. It
is not surprising that “Chuck’s”
ex-city coursers will not fight,
since that is another canine
instinct which trainers have
eneavored to breed out. In
short, the greyhound can be a
worthy canine, but what
“training” has done to him is
no credit to man.
Will Lawson: Touching on H. A.
Lindsay’s remarks regarding “Aotea-roa”
and Maori navigators (B, 1/8/’5l), my
reading shows that when the big migration
was on to New Zealand, some Polynesian
canoes were blown by trade-winds to the
North Queensland coast, which is high
and dark with timber of sombre foliage.
The abos drove the navigators off, so
they departed and named this land
“Ulimaroa” —the Long Dark Land.
Later, when they found New Zealand,
they saw snow-peaks and named it
“Aotea-roa” the Long Bright Land.
Incidentally, Kupe and other early
Polynesian navigators always steered due
south or north or east or west. Illustrat-
ing this is the story of Manaia and Nuku.
In their homeland these two chiefs
fought, and, Nuku being defeated, had to
leave their overcrowded island. He duly
departed with his followers in two big
canoes. After he had been gone a few
days Manaia remembered some law of
Utu, or revenge, which had not been
complied with. So he set sails after Nuku,
steering due south. When he was in the
latitude of Cook Strait, Manaia turned
at right-angles due west, and found on the
islands now known as The Brothers re-
mains of still-warm campfires. Rightly
supposing Nuku had steered north he
followed and found the exiles at Porirua
Harbor, then a deep-water port —earth-
quakes have since raised the sea-floor,
making it a very shallow today. For a
whole day they fought, called it a draw,
after both sides had suffered heavy losses.
Then Manaia sailed home again.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Beats me how some blokes
can write reams on the usefulness and
beauty of birds. Some, in their garden
notes, go so far as to say “plant a few
berried shrubs for your feathered
friends.” Friends! For weeks now the
jays have been gorging themselves in my
pepper-tree and regurgitating the berries
on gateways, steps, verandas, roofs and
in the tank-water. The cold weather,
too, has driven the swallows under the
front veranda, where they camp on a
different rafter each night. In the back
garden the magpies have mopped up the
peas, but still hang round the door
despite being regularly chased across the
hospital-paddock. That piece is always
known as the hospital-paddock. In it
I put the sheep that have had their eyes
taken by crows ; though only rarely does
one recover. Everywhere are sparrows;
they pinch the fowl-feed, live in the
horse-boxes and build nests in the spout-
ing. That is, most of the year. In the
summer they help the ring-eyes, leather-
heads and everything else clean up the
fruit in my orchard. Thought I’d beat
the birds by planting almond- and
walnut-trees. There was a grand crop
this year, but after a running fight that
lasted for weeks a battalion of 70 to 80
parrots scored a total victory. So, if any
birdlover, warbling eulogies, should drop
in, he’d be more than welcome to every
feathered fiend round this place well,
maybe excepting my thrush, the waggies
and a colony of goldfinches.
SIGNS AND PORTENTS.
Three magpies cross the road,
The owl in daylight flies,
A dragon eats the sun
When day’s half done;
Is she speaking to us,
The Mother old and wise?
The augur, tohunga, angekok, shaman, each
replies
“Yes, yes, ’tis thus and thus,
Through voices other than ours
That she, the unseen wieider of magic powers,
Reveals what is to be,
The stroke of destiny,
Decree of fate,
Sinister or benign,
By us alone,
The seers, the chosen, the initiate,
Interpreted and known.”
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


THIS BOOKLET
ON BEQUEST
PyWlir
The only Trustee company having
each wim its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UTS
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
you know: when, how and why a Will
should be made or revised? —that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified ... of Trusts and what they involve
... of how you can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in
333 Collins
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Victoria) '
St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney: 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 389,492 7£p.c. = 355,426 35,000 4,428,266
1941.. 384,589 74 „ ~ 355,426 35,000 4,422,429
1942.. 377,162 7$ ~ „ 355,420 25,000 4,419,165
1943.. 374,098 7} ~ „ 355,426 15,000 4,422,837
1944.. 379,823 7\ „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,422,234
1945.. 384,777 7$ „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,426,585
1946.. 387,755 7J „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,433,914
1947.. 393,293 7J „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,446,781
“j®- ” >’ 36 7,237 25,000 4,457,279
1949.. 411,797 8 „ ~ 379,121 25,000 4,464,955
1950.. 426,542 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,487,876
Tax refund, £273,706 4,761,082
1951. . 451,699 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 4’,808’,600
The influence of central-bank control
and the march of inflation upon the bank-
ing system is much more marked and
obvious than the influence of bank con-
trols in damping down inflation. The
rigid control exercised by the central bank
under the Banking Act of 1945 over the
volume, nature and direction of trading-
bank credit, interest charges, investments
and other banking activities has not
prevented inflation gathering momentum,
which suggests that bank-controls alone
are, under existing conditions, insuffi-
cient to guarantee economic stability.
That doesn’t mean that such controls are
useless. In their own sphere they are
both effective and necessary; without
them there would be a grave danger of
inflation developing into hyper-inflation,
with all its attendant evils. -
The trouble is that inflation has been
generated by forces outside the banking
system—such as high export prices,
influx of capital from abroad, inadequate
volume of imports, attempts to do too
much in too short a time with the local
resources available, low industrial and
other productivity, aggravated by hold-
ups and go-slow tactics. The consequent
pressure of money, and therefore demand,
upon supplies has given rise to shortages
of materials and labor, and resulted in a
vicious spiral of rising prices, wages and
costs.
Now new inflationary forces arising
out of the Government’s defence pro-
gramme—the focal point of its policy—•
and the proposed expenditure on public
works are coming on the stage, and the
critical period in connection therewith
has yet to be reached. So, to contain
these forces, the Government proposes to
curtail private consumption, and private
investment in non-essential activities, by
reinforcing a stricter bank-credit policy
with other measures. These include more
rigorous control of capital issues, “selec-
tive” and heavier taxation, an all-out
drive to increase production and thrift,
allocation of strategic raw materials, a
campaign to smash pernicious Com-
munist influences and a Budget surplus.
To what extent this combination will
hold the line so far as prices, wages and
costs are concerned remains to be seen.
To the extent that higher taxation is
necessary, the aim should be to reduce
consumption by heavier indirect levies
rather than to raise income-tax rates,
which tend to discourage productive
effort.
There is nothing at the moment to sug-
gest that current rates of dividends paid
by the trading banks are likely to be in-
terfered with. The level of bank profits,
for which the Act fixes neither floor nor
ceiling, depends largely upon the net effect
of central-bank directives, of which one
fixes the amount of deposits to be frozen
on “special account” at \ p.c. interest.
With interest-rates, cheque clearances and
costs at present levels, it is doubtful
whether the banks are earning an ade-
quate net return on services connected
with advances. There are, of course, good
pickings on inter-State and country
clearances, and in the exchange market.
Still, with things as they are, shareholders
appear to get most of their eggs out of
the investment basket.
The C. 8.5., whose business is confined
mostly to the three eastern States,
doesn’t broadcast gross earnings and
exes. Last term the board wrote net
earnings £25,157 stronger at £451,699, or
9.5 p.c. on capital, which was the best
showing for the last 21 years. On capi-
tal and reserves combined the year’s profit
was a moderate 4.7 p.c. After paying
the 8 p.c. div. and writing the usual
£25,000 off the book-value of premises,
£47,575 was added to reserves, which also
benefited by a tax refund of £273,706,
lifting them £69,647 higher than paid
capital.
How economic reconstruction, develop-
ing inflation and central-bank control
have transformed the banking structure
are seen in the following comparison of
the co.’s balance-sheet figures:
1947. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital ..£4,739,013 £4,739,013 £4,739,013
Notes .. . . 13,519 13,517 13,513
Deposits, etc.*.. 98,952,823 155,384,758 192,283,031
Due other banks 465,428 2,189,114 2,984,200
Liquids .. 71,350,594 114,319,400 141,667,063
Advances . . 35,353,210 48,173,016 55,867,745
Premises, etc. .. 1,020,041 1,186,736 1,203,112
Other assets .. 1,059,430 3,823,580 6,280,058
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Over the last four years deposits have
increased by 95.3 p.c., advances by only
58 p.c. and liquids by 98.5 p.c. At end
June last liquids included £57,500,000
(up £11,150,000) frozen on special
account with the Commonwealth Bank,
or £1,632,000-odd more than the co. had
advanced to trade and industry. Ad-
vances were only 29 p.c. of deposits as
against 78.4 p.c. in 1939. It is an excep-
tionally strong position.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, senes.
1940.. 96,705 121 p.c - 84,233 12,472 460,030
1941.. 98,636 12*,, ~ 84,233 14,403 474,433
1942.. 94,273 12* „„ 84,233 10.040 484,473
1943.. 60,350 7.8 „ ~ 52,045 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 500,678
1944.. 66,180 7.8 p.c.= 52,045 13,541 514,219
1945.. 65,050 7.8 „ ~ 52,645 12,406 520,024
1946.. 00,473 10 „ „ 67,380 525,711
1947.. 67,130 10 „ „ 67,380 ■— 525,455
From doubtful debts reserve. £lOOO .. 526,455
1948.. 07,474 10 p.c. = 67,380 88 520,543
1949.. 07,076 10 „ ~67,386 290 520,833
1950.. 70,098 10 „ „ 67,380 2,712 529,545
1951.. 69,778 10 ~ ~67,380 2,392 581,937
At the moment there is £673,862 of
capital to feed in 748,736 f.-p. 16s, shares
and 187,184 contribs., paid to Bs. each.
Subject to official approval it is proposed
to call up the remaining Bs. a share on
the contribs., and to make a new share-
issue, the amount, terms and date of
which have yet to be made known.
Anticipating the announcement and in
conformity with the general trend, the
market lengthened its bid for the f.-ps.
from 455. 6d. a year ago to 60s. 3d. at
mid-July last. The contribs. advanced
from 245. 3d. to 335. over the same period.
Last week the paids, ex final div., stood
at 555. 6d. and the contribs. at 455. (equal
to 535. when f.-p.) in a reoriented market.
On a 10 p.c. div. the immediate return at
last week’s prices is paids 2.9 p.c. and
contribs. (when the outstanding Bs. is got
in) 3 p.c. So the investor who looks for
no more than 3.8 p.c. on his money
counts on a one-for-two new issue at par
and maintenance of the div. at 10 p.c.,
and/or other benefits. Australian Cement,
Ltd., which is an equal partner with
Kandos in Australian Portland Cement
Pty. Ltd., made a three-for-20 bonus
share-issue (£114,065) in January last.
One of the attractions of scrip in old-
established, efficient and moderately
capitalised cement cos. is that, on the de-
mand side, the outlook for the industry is
one of growing pressure for some years
to come. The heavy consumers of the
stuff —water-conservation and road-con-
struction work, etc., and factory and
office premises—have yet to satisfy their
mounting appetite. Now that a new-
comer, defence, has been put at the head
of the queue, the lag in other construction
promises to become more acute. To re-
lieve the growing pressure of this pent-up
demand, and to cater for the future needs
of an expanding economy, many in the
industry are extending their plant,
although current output is below existing
capacity. Last year output of the industry
in N. S. Wales was about three-quarters
aggregate plant capacity, chief bottle-
necks being coal, labor and transport.
The investor, however, needs to re-
member that selling-prices are controlled,
which means that profits depend partly
upon determinations of the control
authority in relation to production and
costs.
The two holding cos. —Kandos and
Australian Cement —are equal partners in
Australian Portland Cement Pty., biggest
producer of its kind in the Common-
wealth. It operates two plants, one at
Fyansford (Vic.) and the other at Kandos
(N.S.W.). Annual capacity of the
Fyansford works was recently stepped-up
from 275,000 tons to 335,000 tons, and
that of Kandos, now 200,000-odd tons, is
also to be increased. To finance the out-
lay in Victoria, and provide more work-
ing capital, the operating co. issued
£300,000 of fresh capital over the last
couple of years, lifting the total to
£2,300,000, of which £50,000 was still to
come at June 30 last.
Since 1943 the big operating co., over
whose figures the curtain is drawn, has
sent along a steady 6 p.c. as against 9
p.c. for the five years before that. Since
there is believed to be a comfortable
margin between its earnings and distri-
butions, the 10 p.c. paid by Kandos might
be a much more comfortable matter than
it looks.
At June 30 Kandos’s assets consisted
of shares in the operating co. £1,125,000
(with a further £25,000 at call), shares in
and advances to a small subsidiary
£14,000, and Government securities and
cash £109,886. There was only £9394
coming to outsiders.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Bris.)
, Dividends—
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit, p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
7 p.c.
1944. .114,809 10,958 73,320 30,531 195,653
1945. .121,063 10,958 78,320 36,785 232,438
1946. .115,868 10,958 73,320 31,590 264,028
1947. .120,812 10,958 73,320 36,534 300,562
1948. .123,204 10,958 73,320 38,926 339,488
1949. .123,661 10,958 73,320 39,383 378,871
1950.. 93,625 10,958 73,320 9,347 888,218
1951. .128,257 10,958 73,320 43,979 432,197
Between them this co. and Castlemaine
Perkins enjoy a lion’s share of the trade
in the growing and thirsty northern State,
particularly in the southern half. The
abrupt contraction (£30,036) in the 1950
profit figure was due (1) to the nation-
wide coal strike of mid-1949, which held
up production for seven weeks, and (2)
to the increasing pressure of the cost of
production and overhead against the
static selling-price of beer, which is con-
trolled. Over the preceding decade, ex-
panding brewery turnover, which kept
step with the per-capita and total growth
in consumption of beer, had taken care
of the advance in costs. But as usually
happens during a period of inflation, the
stage has been reached when costs have
become the more buoyant of the two,
and, in the long run, they can be relied
upon to become the more stubborn as
well.
To help offset the growth in cost of
manfacture, the price-control authority
granted an increase in the selling-price of
beer last term, when, according to the
Commonwealth statistician, beer produc-
tion in Australia increased by 10.9 p.c.,
reaching a record 173 million gallons,
equal to 20.8 gallons per head of popula-
tion as against 19.3 gallons for the pre-
ceding year and 12.1 gallons in 1938-39.
So, after setting aside £39,992 (up £2363)
for depreciation and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation and other
contingencies, the board was able to write
net earnings £34,632 stronger at £128,257.
That was enough to pay the prefs. their
5-V p.c. (£10,958) and show 11.2 p.c. on the
£1,047,432 of ord. capital, compared with
7.9, 10.7, 10.7, 10.5, 10, 10.5 and 9 p.c.
back to 1944. The div. was kept at 7
p.c., which, with two exceptions (1942 and
1943), has been an annual event since
1932.
And the co. keeps on steadily widening
and tightening its grip upon the trade.
The expansion was rapid before the war.
Shareholders put up £947,815 of fresh
capital at par over the eight years to
1940; the lot, and more besides, went
into fixed assets, including hotel
properties, purchase of which is the form
competition takes. Since 1940 the net
addition to fixed assets totals £293,990,
the last £94,330 of which was in respect
of the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital 1,240,060 1,240,606 1,240,060 1,240,606
Creditors . . 421,850 426,035 474,294 589,725
Final div... 42,139 42,139 42.139 42,139
Fixed assets 1,708,571 1,713,306 1,728,172 1,822,502
Stocks . . 213,078 230,403 287,439 318 176
Book debts 121,712 143,094 128,918 157,729
Investments 0,788 6,788 6,788 12,321
The year’s growth in book debts was
£28,811 and in stocks £30,737. To help
meet the outlay £115,431 was added to
the outside debt, which, together with the
final div., exceeded more-or-less liquids
by £143,638 (up £50,350) when the books
closed.
The outlook for the trade is a mixed
one at the moment. Costs, which look
like continuing to spiral for a while, at
any rate, are the ugly duckling. Until
the Budget is brought down it is difficult
to assess the extent to which taxation,
direct and indirect, can be expected to bite
into takings and/or affect consumption.
Employment looks like remaining at a
high level, and expenditure on defence
and public works will largely offset the
effect of the drop in wool prices.
The market notes the co.’s strong
position in the trade, and hopes that later
on —when materials and labor become
available—shareholders might be asked
for more to assist in modernisation of
hotel properties, etc. Still, in the light
of changing fiscal and other conditions,
there has been a general reassessment of
the effects of inflationary conditions upon
profit-earning, and therefore dividend-
paying, prospects. The price of the pound
ords., which rose from 40s. 3d. a year
ago to 475. in Feb. last, and eased to
455. in June, stood at 40s. 3d. again last
week. The return at 40s. 3d. is 3.4 p.c. on
a 7 p.c; div. basis. The prefs. at 265. yield
4.2 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £8 Bs. 6d. prefs. and 28s. 3d. ords.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends
A B Nomina!
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
1944.. 34,942 10,500 21,600 2400 442 422,299
Added investment reserve, £398 .. 422,697
10 p.c.
1945.. 37,296 10,500 24,000 2400 390 423,093
From inner reserves, £64,340.. .. 487,439
1946.. 40,427 10,500 24,000 2400 3,527 490,966
8 p.c.
1947.. 32,317 10,500 19,200 2400 217 491,183
From tax reserve, £29,710 .. .. 520,893
Unexplained addition, £(5842 .. .. 527,735
10 p.c.
1948.. 42,418 10,500 24,000 2400 5,518 533,253
From inner reserves, £15,925 .. .. 549,178
1949.. 49,730 10,500 24,000 2400 12,830 562,008
Unexplained addition, £4508 .. 566,576
8 p.c.
1950.. 41,249 10,500 19,200 2400 9,149 575.725
Profit, sale assets, £100,932 .. .. 676,657
Unexplained addition, £OBl3 .. • • 683,470
10 p.c.
1951.. 37,581 10,500 24,000 2400 681 684.151
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £85,806.
Too much notice need not be taken of
the drop of £3668 in last term’s declared
profit. The slip was due entirely to
heavier allowance for depreciation
(£42,031, up £28,913), which included an
initial 20 p.c. on new plant. And there
was an unexplained addition of £6813 to
reserves, which also benefited by £100,932
profit on sale of the co.’s old Flinders


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office; 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
STRINGFELLOW’S MODEL AEROPLANE 1848
Construction : Wooden framework, silk-covered monoplane.
Tapered wing with flexible trailing edge. Single tail-
plane without fin. Dimensions : Span 10 ft. Chord 2 ft.
tapering to zero. Wing area 14 sq. ft. Power Plant'.
Horizontal double acting steam engine i in. bore, 2 in.
stroke. Spirit fired boiler. Propellers : Two four-bladed
16 in. diameter pusher airscrews. Performance ; The
first aircraft to fly under its own power. Its best flight
was 40 yards indoors after launching down an inclined wire.
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing ground
service symbolised by the green and yellow colours of the
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY LTD.
\
X. AVIATION
dfg
£
SERVICE^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
¥
Me p
/i
yo%
A
Am.
r
r
rr
Ml
-_- :
MOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT and COLD
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for all
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is com-
pleted, it's still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modus
insulator— 6. I. SLAGWOOL
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, 83504 -ADELAIDE, C 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
dfg
the world over, appreciate
the compliment they are paid when
a host serves Cointreau . . . Not
only does an “Occasion”
call for Cointreau but
Cointreau makes it
one ... Its quiet
ecstasy must be sipped
to be believed.
Limited
supplies of
this old
French trea-
sure are now
available.
2*
T: ' x&,ii /&
spi^
l c l
H
: ::
sS&S
a0 ltS
2S?
Agents for Australia:
McLaughlin & co. pty. ltd.. Sydney
Distributors:
Victoria: Stephen King Pty. Ltd.
Taylor Ferguson & Co. Pty. Ltd.
South Australia: George Wills & Co. Ltd.
Western Australia: Brown & Bureau Ltd.
Queensland: Harbottle Brown & Co. (Q’ld) Pty.
C 1.82
Lane premises at a “most satis-
factory” figure. Further, the
cautious board lifted the distri-
bution to 10 p.c. again by re-
storing the 2 p.c. bonus, which
had been dropped in the previ-
ous year. The 10 p.c. fitted in
pretty well with market antici-
pations, the price of the pound
ords. having advanced from 465.
a year ago to 545. in May last.
In the general recession in the
market since, the figure has
dropped to 51s. 6d., giving an
immediate return of 3.9 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. distribution. The prefs.
at 30s. (335. 6d. a year ago) yield
4.6 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£6 17s. Id. prefs. and 695. lOd.
ords.
The co. has long enjoyed a
very strong position in the diffi-
cult dry-goods trade, where mar-
gins are narrow, competition
keen and selling-price largely
controlled, all of which make
the results sensitive to turnover
and costs. Since war ended an
expanding home market and re-
vival of the Asiatic and island
trade, spurred by inflation, have
absorbed the increasing output
of the co.’s factories, on which
a lot of money has been spent
on modernisation and extension,
thus quickening and cheapening
output and distribution.
On the home market the story
last term was one of inflation
and continued growth of busi-
ness. The external trade has
been difficult to hold, owing to
the steep rise in costs, which
have bumped up prices of Aus-
tralian-made goods faster than
those of overseas competitors.
The £37,581 of profit claimed
was enough to pay the pref. and
“B” (employee) share divs. (to-
gether £12,900) and show 10.3
p.c. on the £240,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 11.8,
15.3, 12.3, 8.1 and 11.4 p.c. back
to 1946.
Although the Government is
taking steps to contain the infla-
tionary factors in the outlook,
internal wage costs continue to
grow in importance, because of
the lag between the rise in costs
and the increase in selling-prices,
and the demands of the tax-
gatherer will become heavier.
Still, shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) need
turn in only 3.3 p.c. to cover
last term’s rates of distribution,
some of the improvements and
additions to fixed assets have
not yet developed their full earn-
ing-power, and the co. is trading
well within its own resources,
which means much in a time of
rising prices and costs.
Here are balance - sheet
figures:
1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 430,000 430,000 430,000
Sundry creditors 99,387 161,080 162,105
Tax reserve .. 44,469 56,381 51,116
Final divs. .. 15,600 10,800 15,600
Freeholds .. 206,559 245,441 233,607
Plant, etc. .. 71.028 148.953 256,434
Stocks .. 218,461 316,519 341,057
Sundry debtors 91,756 123,700 209,951
Shares .. 175 175 29,133
Govt, securities,
cash, etc. .. 483,485 319,198 186,984
Goodwill .. 80,000 80,000 85,806
The programme of modernisa-
tion and expansion, now nearing
completion, shows up in the
year’s net addition of £107,481
to plant, etc. Stocks increased
by £24,538, book debts by
£86,251 and shareholdings
(mainly scrip in rice-milling
cos.) by £28,958. Government
securities, etc., were drawn upon
for £132,214 net. The drop in
freeholds reflects the sale
already mentioned. The more-
or-less liquid surplus (£538,304)
was £6973 stronger, despite the
heavy outlay on plant.
Central Victorian Dredging
Technically this co. (paid
capital £390,000 in 10s. shares)
has put up an encouraging per-
formance under difficult condi-
tions, chief of which have been
shortages of manpower,
materials and electric current,
combined with a steep rise in
wage and other costs, which have
pressed heavily against the static
price of gold.
The co.’s first dredge, a
2,000,000 - c.y. - p.a. electric
machine, set in on some
10.500.000 c.y., averaging 2.12 gr.
recoverable gold, on the Jim
Crow area, near Newstead
(Vic.), in Dec., 1949. It has since
worked approximately 80 p.c. of
possible dredging time for the
following results:
Dredged, Fine Value,
c.y.. Gold, c.y.. Net
March, ’OOO. Oz. Dwt. Profit.
1950* .. 358 2078 2.78 £19,105
1951 f . . 1603 6398 1.92 33,253
* Three months, tl2 months.
For the 12-month period the
drop in grade of ground treated
was due to inclusion of nearly
589.000 c.y. of marginal dirt out-
side the bored area. Average
cost per yard was 9.85 d. as
against a now four-year-old esti-
mate of 4.59 d., the rise being
due to influences outside the
board’s control. The £33,253 of
profit, equal to 8.5 p.c. on capi-
tal, was written after allowing
£13,169 for various redemption
charges and £lB5 for taxation.
The co.’s second dredge didn’t
begin digging until June 12 last,
and has since been engaged
mainly in opening-out opera-
tions. It is also a 2,000,000-c.y.-
р. machine, which was bought
from Victoria Gold Dredging,
dismantled and then transported
and reassembled on the present
site on the Amphitheatre area.
Here there are about 20,000,000
с. expected to average 2.04 gr.
recoverable gold, awaiting treat-
ment in flats and terraces flank-
ing the Avoca River (Vic.).
Average depth is about 35ft., of
which 12ft. is overburden and
the bottom sandstone and slate.
In the near-by Guildford
area there is a further 6,000,000
c.y. expected to average approxi-
mately 2gr. recoverable gold. On
the basis of last term’s costs and
with gold at its present figure,
there is a profit margin of about
sd. a yard in this ground.
Obviously the co.’s future de-
pends largely upon the level at
which costs, which are still
rising, straighten out, and upon
what happens in connection with
the price of gold. When the
books closed current assets
totalled £53,213, of which
£31,268 was stores. There was
£74,348 coming to outsiders. The
f.-p. 10s. shares, which sold at
21s. 6d. early in 1951, recently
fetched 275. 9d.
Mt. Morgan, Ltd.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) reports a
profit (subject to audit) of
£370,707 (down £20,700) for the
year to June 30 last. That was
after allowing £87,900 (up
£16,352) for depreciation and
£40,709 (down £2270) for dril-
ling and sulphur investigations.
Two Is. divs. (80 p.c.), same as
previous year, were paid, and
another shilling a share is to be
sent out on September 29. As
anticipated, there was no marked
change in the quantity of ore
treated, 864,900 tons, up 15,400
tons.
The board is investigating
production of elemental sulphur
from mine-ore. If it can be pro-
duced economically there is a
ready market for the stuff. In-
stallation of the necessary plant,
however, would call for consider-
able capital outlay. The co. is
also treating some of the old
residues on a small scale and
selling the pyritic concentrates to
fertiliser interests. If the Queens-
land Government proceeds with
its proposal to set up nitrogenous
fertiliser works, large tonnages of
pyritic concentrates will be called
for. The exploratory drilling
campaign on an extension of the
ore-body near the old Sugarloaf
mine continues. There is at
least 10,000,000 tons of pay-ore
in this extension, which can be
worked by a continuation of the
existing opencut.
The co.’s 2s. 6d. ords., which
had advanced from 255. at end
1950 to 275. lOd. in April last
and slipped back to 235. 3d. in
July, stood at 245. 6d. last week.
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.)
continues to meet with encourag-
ing developments. At the 3100 ft.
level, Edwards shaft, 95ft. of
j driving on a new lode disclosed
ore averaging 4.7dwt. over a
width of 72in. Higher up, on
the 1900 ft. level, the north drive
advanced 27ft, in 7.2dwt. ore,
width 60in. In the main shaft,
1300 ft. level, a 20ft. winze ran
into some 13.9dwt. stuff, and ore
averaging 7.2dwt. over 76in.
showed up in 66ft. of driving on
No. 10 lode. In June last 9d.
per 2s. stock unit was sent out;
previous distribution was 3d. in
Sept., 1950. But goldmining
scrip is in the doldrums at the
moment, and the price of the
co.’s stock has eased from 9s.
to Bs. 3d., or thereabouts, over
the last couple of months.


mtmi
wmmrnm
AUSfftAUA
aSKSSSE
rc.p.Bo/so
Pulling Together
Sailing is a man’s job. It looks easy, but it
takes training, and skill, and above all—team-
work. Many things which look simple need
team-work and organising, too. Take sugar, for
example.
It takes long months of hard work to produce
those glistening white crystals. Up in the
northern sugar lands, 9,000 independent farmers
grow the cane on their own farms. Raw sugar
is made at 35 different mills—seven of them
owned by C.S.R. The raw sugar is purified in
C.S.R. Co., and Millaquin Sugar Co. refineries.
This big partnership of farmers, millers and
refiners brings cheap and pure sugar to Aus-
tralian homes.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LTD.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
SHARES, INDUSTRY AND THE BUDGET.
The sharemarkets have taken
something of a beating this last
month. Industrial-share prices
generally are now lower than at
any time since the second half
of last year. The flower of the
industrials have toppled; so
have the non-dividend-paying,
speculative ss. issues.
Three major factors have been
at work in the share-slump. First
has been the setback in wool
prices. Second the prospect of
increased taxation. Third—and
very influential so far —has been
the increase in the long-term
Consols interest rate from 3i
p.c. to 3| p.c.
At the closing rates for the
1950-51 season Australian wool
prices were still very satisfactory.
And it should be remembered
that a determined set has been
taken by the United States
against the previous peak prices ;
whatever action the U.S.A. has
so far taken to bring about
lower wool prices may not be
possible of continuation. Wool
is still undersupplied in the
world’s markets, though the
need for stockpiling may not be
so urgent as it was.
A drop in wool prices has
several direct effects. One is
that it reduces the spending-
power of the pastoralist. Another
is that it reduces the taxation
potential of the Federal Trea-
sury, and the 20 p.c. levy taken
last year, refundable this year,
becomes a double embarrass-
ment. A third is that it lessens
the investing-power of the pas-
toral industries, both in respect
of their own activities and the
Stock Exchanges.
The prospect of an increased
rate of taxation on industrial
companies is a very serious one
indeed. Infinitesimal cuts have
been made in company-tax rates
since the war, and it now seems
likely that they are to be raised
to levels never before seen in
Australia’s history. Meantime
tax-rates on personal incomes
have been reduced very appreci-
ably, increasing the consumer
spending-power of the country
and creating a further infla-
tionary force.
Unless Treasurer Fadden ack-
nowledges that industry today is
not earning and reserving nearly
enough net profit in relation to
the national income he will in-
deed be failing Australia badly.
There is a vicious double-
taxation of company earnings at
the moment that is a national
disaster. Be the rate of taxation
on distributed (and spendable)
company earnings never so high,
every essential industry should
be encouraged to earn and
plough-back as much legitimate
profit as possible.
It is out of ploughed-back
profits that industry does its best
job of tooling-up and retooling ;
and one of our greatest disabili-
ties at present is that we are woe-
fully short of essential equip-
ment. Furthermore, normal
allowances for depreciation are
entirely inadequate to restore
worn-out plant at present ab-
normally high replacement costs.
Even if some industries have
been expanding too rapidly it
cannot be said that this applies
to basic industries, such as coal,
steel, chemicals, foodstuffs, ship-
ping, land transport and build-
ing materials. Far better to
restrict expansion in non-
essential industries by discrimin-
ate capital-issues control than
by the indiscriminate bludgeon
of the tax weapon.
The proposal to withdraw the
40 p.c. initial depreciation
allowance a year earlier than
originally intended is clumsy
and ill-advised. Many construc-
tion programmes take several
years to be completed, and large
essential ones already started
won’t be stopped now. But they
will be penalised by the taking-
away of the 40 p.c. allowance on
which they were persuaded to
depend. The 40 p.c. allowance
is important because it is
allowed in a year in which pur-
chase and replacement costs are
something like the same thing.
Many industries in Australia
have, over the past 10 years, be-
come enfeebled by price-con-
trol, inadequate depreciation
provision and inflation. They
have carried on apparently suc-
cessfully under hot-house con-
ditions of inflation and chronic
supply deficiencies, but their
profit figures have been very mis-
leading.
Our most serious basic prob-
lem is the fact that other coun-
tries—even defeated enemy and
ex-enemy countries —are now
showing a far greater man-hour
production than we are in
respect of many essential goods
and services. Our principal need
is lower costs through greater
production per man-hour and
more efficient methods. The
whole Federal Budget should be
planned with this in view, and
with an understanding of the
capital-erosion that is taking
place through all industry.
Consols, 3f Per Cent.
The Thirteenth Security Loan
opened on August 22 with the
Commonwealth offering 3| p.c.
on 11-14-year Consols at par,
compared with 3i p.c. at £99 for
the last loan and 3| p.c. at par in
preceding post-war years. The
three-year loan still carries 2 p.c.
Financial gossip of the previ-
ous few weeks was thus right on
the mark. The rate, too, was in
keeping with the yield, including
redemption, available on long-
term bonds for some time —from
the week beginning June 18, in
fact, when a Press statement
appeared in which Treasurer
Fadden was quoted as describ-
ing the Commonwealth borrow-
ing position as “alarming.”
It has been inevitable —in fact,
desirable —for some time that
interest-rates should rise. But
there have been a harshness and
clumsiness about the Treasury’s
method, especially when the re-
demption, under option, of the
1931-conversion 4 p.c.’s is con-
sidered. These had an addi-
tional (maximum) of three to 11
years to run, but the Treasurer’s
option of redemption was exer-
cisable any time after December
31, 1950. He exercised his
option, and many people were
persuaded to convert into 3|
p.c.’s. These are now well be-
low par.
J, B. Were and Son, the Mel-
bourne brokers, point to another
case. They are underwriters of
the current £6 million 3j per
cent, loan for the Electricity
Commission of Victoria. Up to
August 17 4179 persons had
applied for a total of £2.4 mil-
lion of this loan. But, with this
Electricity loan still current, the
Commonwealth Govern me n t
borrowing-rate has been raised
to £3 15s. per cent., and the
quasi-Governmental rate to 4 p.c.
The Loan Council refused to
vary the Victorian Electricity
Commission rate even after it
had confirmed the new Com-
monwealth rate. J. B. Were’s
put it: “It appears that the in-
terests of the people who were
being invited to subscribe to the
State Electricity Loan were cal-
lously disregarded.” The Elec-
tricity Commission, it might be
added, was perfectly willing to
have the rate raised to 4 p.c. in
view of the rise to £3 15s. per
cent, in the Consols rate.
Commonwealth loans have
been a very poor investment over
the past 12 years. Going back
another eight or 10 years, it is
obvious that the “sanctity of
contract” has not even been ob-
served. In 1930 the rate of
interest payable on Government
loans was scaled down by 22£
p.c., and, as was demonstrated
last year, the Treasury unhesi-
tatingly exercised its option to
convert these to 3f p.c.’s when it
was to its pecuniary advantage
to do so. Now that the open-
market rate has come to around
£3 15s. per cent, there is no offer
to make good the loss of capital
or income which older bond-
holders are suffering by com-
parison with those investing in
the present loan.
A fundamental factor of the
nation’s economy like the in-
terest-rate tells a very far-
reaching story if it is studied
closely. Our own reveals a tale
of war loss and wastage,
Socialist over-spending, inflation
and loss of value caused by war
and low post-war productivity,
artificially low interest-rates in
the past, and an attempt to
ignore natural economic laws.
The unhealthy state of the
bond market now is a sharp
challenge to the Menzies Gov-
ernment to get down to real
problems, especially those con-
cerned with production, even if
it means uproar from the mili-
tant trade-unions.
It has been the habit in the
past to give Government loans
a good Press, But a Govern-
ment security is something like
a woman, who is only entitled to
be treated as a lady so long as
she behaves like one.
N.Z. Wool and Other Prices
When Maorilanders were
promised £l7 million relief in a
pre-election forecast of tax cuts,
subsidies and new Welfare State
benefits by Prime Minister Sid
Holland this didn’t mean the
“free - enterprise” Government
was planning to tighten its belt
and draw the rein on costly State
departments. Mr. Holland was
counting on buoyant incomes to
carry him along, and there was
still a handy margin even when
wool prices plunged down 60-70
p.c. to a 40d. (N.Z.) average at
Auckland in mid-August, after a
six-month hold-up in NZ
auctions through the waterfront
strike.
That was a knock of up to
£35 million on 365,000 bales of
last season s clip that missed the
peak of the market, but wool was
still worth more than at any time
before the boom. (“Painful but
necessary” was how M.L.’s head
woolbroker, G. P. Roberts, saw
the fall.) On balance, wool still
had a long lead on M.L.’s next-
biggest moneymakers, butter and
meat, although they were hitting
record marks, and prospective
Budget handouts looked safe
enough. The tax-cuts and cost-
of-living props were a way of
sharing higher income.
Bread, flour, butter, tea, gas
and petrol are all earmarked for
price-cuts on September 3 if the
Government goes back—a penny
off a 21b. loaf, Is. 6d. off a 251 b.
bag of flour, 4d. a pound off
butter, 3d. a pound off tea, 2s. 6d.
off every 1000 cubic feet of gas
and 2d. a gallon off petrol.
This might lift M.L.’s present
£l3 million annual subsidy bill
to nearly £l7 million, the
Socialist peak, but such a total
hadn’t the terrors for Mr. Hol-
land now that it had 18 months
ago, when he slashed subsidies
to about £6 million and raised
an outcry.
Then he was bold to the point
of rashness. Is there a danger
of swinging in the other direc-
tion now? Most of the lines —
butter, tea, flour and bread—
were in last year’s cuts, and are
in the c.-0.-l. index that governs
wages, so Mr. Holland seems to
have figured out that, desirable
as Budget relief is, it’s better,
after all, to put the burden on
taxpayers, at least for a while,
than on wage-earners, even if, in
the end, they are mostly the same
individuals.
Of course, still-high taxes and
costly subsidies don’t make
things easy for the Welfare State,
which is struggling against a
crop of weaknesses—controls,
underproduction, inflated prices


Union Bank
Business is Built on
Friendii] Service/
Goodwill has always played a major part
in the building of the Bank's constantly in-
creasing business. In many cases up to four
generations in a family have had the willing
and helpful financial advice of the Union
Bank.
Whether your means are small or large, you
will find that friendly discussion with your
local Union Bank Manager frequently assists
to solve an apparently difficult financial
problem,
( The
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England)
Shortly to be merged with Bank of Australasia in
Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited
Sk Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in London.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
‘‘Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
UtHW l W
m&m ■
... V.
“ i O
X LS
S.C.L. 36 TRANSTACKER
Lifts, transports and stacks
up to 2,000 lb. loads.
5)
SKYLIFT MODEL BF4O
Lifts, tiers and moves up to
4,000 lb. loads. Fitted with full
dead-man controL
What will it add to your costs?
With Automatic materials handling equipment you can cut material handling costs by as much
as 50% to 75% and release men for productive work.
One man can do the work of three when operating this electrically propelled, battery operated,
material handling equipment —operate it quickly, efficiently, quietly—lifting, moving, stacking
with “touch-of-thumb” ease.
The Automatic material handling equipment illustrated on this page is now manufactured In
Australia under licence by AUTOMATIC TRANSPORTATION CO., Sydney, who also represent
the Automatic Transportation Co. of America, for their heavier fork-lift equipment.
Write or phone your local distributor for full specifications and a free demonstration of the famed
Automatic range, which includes the Transtacker, Transporter and Skylift Industrial Trucks.
Distributed by: d/Mffa? Oftlnd- Rfof.* Ltfh
& i tusituM w uui iimmu umui O'
61-5 Wentworth Ave., SYDNEY, MA 9141 • 135 Queensberry St., NTH. MELBOURNE, FJ 5678
822-4 Ann St., The Valley, BRISBANE, L 4219 • 217 St. Vincent St., PORT ADELAIDE, J 1815
x 13
INCREASE IN BASIC WAGE!
Attwood Motors (i 934)
.42-32 STIRLING ST, PERTH WA.
/Limited
ANDREWS & BEAYEN LTD.
NEW 'ZEALAND
dfg
TRANSPORTER
(Pallet Model)
Lifts and transports pallet loads
up to 4,000 lbs.
TRANSPORTER
(Platform Model)
Lifts and transports platform
or stillage loads up to 4,000 lbs.
for most goods, excess credit
and shortages of a group of
vital materials, like steel, non-
ferrous metals, coal, cement and
sulphur.
Maorilanders were warned
last year by the Archbishop of
Canterbury that the Welfare
State wouldn’t be reached by
Easy Street. He said; “It is the
most difficult thing any society
has ever attempted. It demands
more deliberate wisdom, a
higher level of detached and un-
selfish thought and a greater
degree of true citizenship than
has ever been asked of men be-
fore. It can’t work by the con-
flict of pressure-groups striving
for their own ends. Strikes and
other less obvious forms of
pressure ought to be recognised
as out of date and destructive of
the Welfare State itself.”
If there is to be real prosperity
in the Welfare State people must
be able to buy what they need,
but up to now they’ve been held
back by import rationing to
bolster up local industry, and the
real attack on shortages, by
opening the door to imports, is
only just beginning. Once im-
ports reach a volume to put
trade on an even keel it should
be possible to make headway,
but this won’t be in 1951, though
m 1952 a plentiful flow of goods
should do for New Zealand
what Socialist money-spinning
and liberal trading-bank credit,
combmed with the export boom
since, have failed to do.
“ R eady Maid” Q.F. Foods
‘Ready Maid’ Quick Frozen
Foods, Ltd., is offering 1,600,000
ss. ords. at par, payable in full
on application. An issue of
40,000 shares has already been
made.
The co. is entering the quick-
frozen food business, and it is
buying land from Snow Crop
Pty., Ltd., at Matraville
(Sydney) for £4525 and refrig-
eration and other plant from the
same concern for £40,700. These
acquisitions are said in the
prospectus to be “based upon
valuations of independent com-
petent valuers,” and “copies of
all valuations may be inspected
at the registered office of the
company.” They would have
been better included in the
prospectus.
Although the co. seeks to
raise £400,000 from the public
for its enterprise figures are not
given in the prospectus to
indicate what all the money is
required for. The minimum
subscription for allotment
(£166,715) only is given, and of
this £45,225 is allocated to the
land-and-plant deal with Snow
Crop, £12,090 for share-selling
and preliminary exes., and
£109,400 for working capital.
Two of the directors —A. E.
Merryfull and H. L. Messenger
—have service agreements with
the co. as joint managing-
directors for three years, other
details of which are not given.
These two directors and the re-
maining director between them
own 13,506 £1 shares in Snow
Crop Pty., Ltd., from which the
land and plant are being
acquired.
The prospectus says that
“satisfactory dividends should be
paid on the capital employed,
as the co. commenced under
very favorable conditions in
having secured from Snow Crop
Pty., Ltd., on licence its regis-
tered trade - mark ‘Ready
fylaid.’ ” But no trading records
of the Snow Crop concern are
presented, and no figures are
given to support any estimate
of probable future earnings of
the new co.
A good deal of space is given
in the prospectus to the
credentials of Messrs. Merryfull
and Messenger as experts in their
respective jobs, as well as to
such information as “In effect
‘Ready Maid’ says to its raw
product (vegetables and fruits)
straight from the soil and sun-
shine ‘You are as nature
intended for man’s benefit—stay
in that state of perfection for
man’s consumption.’ ” But as
a financial document the pros-
pectus itself is rather too raw
a product for investors’ easy
digestion. It contains too much
of what could have been left
out and not enough of what
might have been put in.
Drilling at Roma
“Petro”; In spite of the recent
withdrawal of the Shell (Queens-
land) subsidiary from all
petroleum-permit areas held by
it both north and south of the
Roma district, which followed
on a very thorough geological
and geophysical examination of
the whole of South Queensland
and the drilling of the abortive
Morelia well, negotiations are
stated to he under way to form
a new company to drill on be-
half of the Roma Pool group,
A further request is to be made
for Government aid, as it is an-
nounced that a member of the
Queensland State geological
staff is to confer with the Roma
Pool geologist on the drilling-
sites to be chosen within the
boundaries of the 200-square-
mile permit No. 678.
Some time ago it was stated
that drilling at Roma would fol-
ow a f avora hle report from the
° f ., M ineral Resources
(B. 6/6/51) but now tne ques-
tloa ° f f V rtbe . r seismic surveys
and electrical logging of wells is
bem S fussed with the Com-
monwealth Government,
Before more public, or pn-
vate, money is sunk into this un-
c^ rtai + ? v< ; nbire lt IS . to hoped
f hat tbe full report on the geo-
lo B lcal * geophysical and drilling
c^tothe
ticu i arlv in view of the preS ent
ent for economy.
j t - s re i eva nt to recall the
statement ma d e by the general
mana g er G f shell (Queensland)
DeV elopment Co. in the Bris-
ane p ress on March 7 last:
After having spent more than £1
million in about ten years Shell
(Queensland) Development Pty., Ltd.,
fcjd
i mposs ible to continue its efforts,
as there are no further worth-while
possibilities which offer any reason-
a-JhinC interest
emp i o ying the techniques known at
present.


The
Letters of Rachel Henning
Introduction
RArucr nmnni mv t
ACHEL BIDDULPH HENNING,
author of these letters, was born in
Lngland 125 years ago. She was the
eldest of five children who, when Rachel
was 14, lost their father and, when she
was 19 their mother. She then became.
m ettect, head of this youthful family.
The letters begin in 1853, when Bid-
dulph, Rachel’s only brother (then 19,
and considered “delicate”) and her sister
a • -ijr \ a ner sister
Gre n a. e ß ( rSn. Sa,led ““ " 1116
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta
( Etta ’ of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851)
and Amy were thus separated, for the
time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed
from England to Biddulph and Annie in
Australia. She moved around from one
part of England to another, spending
her time agreeably with some of her
numerous relatives, and keeping Bid-
dulph and Annie in Australia informed
of family, social and political doings ini
Britain.
In August, 1 854, Rachel and her sister
Amy, with their cousin, Tregenna Bid-
dulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta.
They reached Melbourne on October 15
and landed in Sydney on October 22.
Six days later Rachel and Amy went to
Appin, in N.S.W., where her brother
Biddulph had leased a farm. Rachel soon
became very unhappy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas
Sloman, of Bathurst, in September, 1855,
and while Biddulph was establishing a new
place on Bulli Mountain, Rachel decided
to return to England, where she arrived
in October, 1856. She left Amy, Annie
and Biddulph behind in Australia.
This fourth instalment of these letters
opens with a description of the wedding
of her cousin, Tregenna Biddulph, in
England, prior to his return to Australia.
“The Mount,"
Taunton, England,
June 11, 1857.
My Dearest Annie,
I have left my Australian
letters very late this time, and
they must be posted this
evening. I intended to write
yesterday, but had a bad head-
ache and could not. It is now
half-past eleven o’clock a.m. I
am sitting at the round table in
“The Mount” drawing-room,
having pushed into a corner
sundry and various ornaments,
books, etc., to make room for
my writing-desk, a very nice
Russia-leather machine, which
Mr. Boyce gave me on my last
birthday.
Aunt and myself are just
returned from St. James’s
Church, where we have been to
see Tregenna and Bella united
in the bonds of holy matrimony.
So I cannot do better than tell
you all about it.
Tregenna has been a very
assiduous lover, much more so
than I expected; he has been
continually at “The Elms,” also
riding with Bella a great deal.
She also has been up here a
great many times and I like her
much, so I think will you when
you see her; she is good-
tempered and agreeable.
Although Aunt would not go
to the breakfast, she took it into
her head to go to church as if
she was one of the wedding-
party, so when I came down to
breakfast this morning, which
was at eight, an hour earlier
than usual, I found her no end
of a get-up, as Tregenna
expressed it, in a blue flounced
silk.
■ ! egenna also was there,
looking very gentlemanly in a
black morning coat and grey
trousers, and looking much
better than his brother, who
appeared next, very fine in a
claret-colored coat and lilac
waistcoat, also grey trousers.
Then Rachel, with some diffi-
culty, got her hoops through the
door, in a light blue silk over
which she had put on the white
silk jacket she wore at her own
wedding, and finally, very late,
came Mr. , whose collar had
slipped down so as to be invis-
ible, and who was vehemently
assailed by Rachel because
he had white pearl buttons in a
drab waistcoat like a coachman,
as she averred. Rachel’s little
girl came in with a clean white
frock, so short and starched to
such an extent that when she
leaned out of the window the
consequences were awful.
Tregenna was armed with the
licence in his pocket, duly
addressed “To our well-beloved
in Christ, Thomas T. 8.,” etc.,
the ring on his little finger for
security and eight guineas neatly
done up in white paper. He
was in capital spirits and neither
shy nor nervous.
We had breakfast—veal-pie
and beef, if you are curious on
that score—and then we all
began to fidget because the
clergyman who was to perform
the ceremony—a Mr. Coleman,
who was a school-fellow of
Tregenna’s at Broomsgrove
had not arrived. However, he
came when we had all done
breakfast and pitched manfully
into the pie. Then we went up
and dressed.
Rachel, who was going to the
breakfast, was a great turn-
out, and looked very well in the
aforesaid blue dress and white
opera cloak and lace bonnet.
Tregenna’s groomsman break-
fasted at “The
E 1 m s.” He,
Tregenna and
Mr. Coleman
preferred walk-
ing to church,
through the bye-
lanes, which
they did, Mr.
Coleman carry-
ing his surplice
in a carpet-bag.
All Aunt’s
servants turned
out to see the
fun, carrying
baby between
them, and Mrs.
Durin was left
to take care of
the house. Two
carriages came
up for our
party, with pos-
tilions in white
favors, etc., and
very absurd it was. Into
one of them got Uncle
and Aunt, the latter in white
gloves and an old bonnet
with a white veil to hide it, and
drove off. Rachel, Mr. and
I got into the other carriage,
when to our horror we found it
had only one seat, being meant
for but two people.
Mr. refused to sit on
Rachel’s lap, and with her hoops
it was impossible he could sit
between us, so he stood up with
his back in a sort of arch. We
pulled down all the blinds that
the people might not see, and
of course laughed all the way.
We found the church tolerably
full. Tregenna was in the vestry
taking a lesson in the marriage
service from Mr. Coleman, and
Chapman— you remember him
—generally paraded the church,
very affable, with an astonishing
shirt-frill and what looked like
a white peony in his buttonhole.
Well, we waited about ten
minutes, when a single carriage
drew up, and presently Chap-
man ushered up the aisle two
bridesmaids, a large one and a
little one. They looked very
awkward, and, finding no one
else arrived, they decamped
again, to wait for the rest of the
party in the porch. Not long
after the wedding - party
appeared, Bella walking with her
father and six bridesmaids next.
Bella wore a worked muslin,
with a mantle of the same, a
chip bonnet with waterlilies and
the same inside, mixed with
green grass. The bridesmaids
were very prettily dressed, in
white tarletan and jackets of the
same, white lace bonnets and
rosebuds inside. They were
Bella’s three sisters, Georgy and
two other young ladies.
Mr. Coleman read the service
very well, but bestowed the
whole of it upon them, homily
and all, a great mistake, I think.
Bella behaved very well, and
Tregenna said afterwards he
never felt less nervous in his life.
We went into the vestry, saw
the names signed and I think
Uncle shook hands with all the
bride’s party; then they filed
down the church and departed
and Uncle, Aunt and myself
came home.
I expect Rachel in directly, as
she said she should not stay a
moment after Tregenna and
Bella were gone. They leave by
the express for London, where
they will stay about a week and
then go to Preston. I believe
they mean to come back here
again before they leave England.
I came here on May 28 by
the express. I always go by the
express when I can. I think it
is the Australian coaches that
have given me such a love
for fast travelling. I like
being here very much.
And believe me dearest Annie,
your most affectionate sister.
Rachel Henning.
25 Portland Square,
January 6, 1858.
My Dearest Annie,
I was very glad to get your
letter by the Red Jacket. It is
very kind of you to write so
often, my own Annie, when you
must be so very busy between
taking care of dear Amy, and
of your home on the mountain.
You must have a great deal
on your hands, and yet it must
be pleasant to you to feel that
you are so useful, and helpful
to everybody. I was sorry to
hear that Mr. Sloman had taken
a house at Paddington instead of
the one he had in contempla-
tion at Redfern. It is so very
lonely for Amy, when he is
away and so far from all her
friends. I dare say, however,
that her baby will give her
employment enough now,
Bristol does not supply much
that is amusing to tell you. We
went the week before last to
hear the “Messiah” performed
at the Victoria-rooms at Clifton,
and I was very much pleased,
for, though the solo singers
were not first-rate, the choruses
were very good. They gave the
“Hallelujah Chorus” with great
energy.
I have lately accompanied
Mary on some secret missions
for the benefit of Mr. Cates.
He wished to have a photograph
likeness of her.
We went to an awfully stupid
evening at the Hollins’s Monday
night. Mr. Hollins is the in-
cumbent of St. Clement’s. They
had invited a number of rather
underbred young people to meet
us, and the only entertainment
of the evening was music, each
young lady singing rather worse
than her predecessor. I hardly
ever heard such inferior per-
formances. Mr, Boyce was so
disgusted he said he would not
go out any more, and I am sure
I hope he will not, for I hate
that sort of party.
I have been reduced to the
unhappy necessity of taking a
district! Fancy me, and the
good my visitations are likely
to do the people! However, they
have not visitors enough, and I
could not help myself.
January 7. I am finishing my
letter, having just finished pack-
ing the box for Australia. If it
gives you one half the pleasure
to receive it, it has us to get the
things and send them, it will be
welcomed in Australia.
I hope you will like the silk
dress we have sent you. I
wanted a blue, as I think you
look well in that color. I tried
for a larger pattern, but could
not get one. There are fourteen
yards, so make the dressmaker
put you a double skirt or a very
full single one, if you cannot
get a trimming to match well.
Nothing looks prettier than
rows of black velvet. Etta has a
light green trimmed so and Kate
had a blue. Those pink braces
are to wear with your white
dress, the bow goes behind and
the ribbon over the shoulders,
like capes, and the ends cross in
front, fastened with a broach or
bouquet. They are fashionable
here, but should you not like
them, the ribbon will do for
something else.
I send back a portrait of Papa
which belongs to you, and
which was packed in my flower-
chest and brought away by
mistake, also a picture of Bid-
dulph’s, and two anti-macassars,
which last I am afraid you have
wanted in the new house.
Mr. Arnold sent me the
“Press” lately to read a review
of his on the life of Miss Bronte
(author of Jane Eyre), which
has just been published. I
should much like to read the
book itself, but we never get
any new works here, for we only
subscribe to the Atheneum
library, and they are deep in
debt and cannot afford to
purchase new books.
Miss Bronte is said to have
been just what she describes
Jane Eyre, little and plain, and
quaint in dress and manner.
Perhaps you will see the book
in Sydney. I must make an end
now, my own darling sister.
You cannot think how I want
to see you and Biddulph some-
times. I feel as if I would give
anything for a sight of you.
With very much love, believe
me.
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
[ln February, 1861, Rachel Henning
decided to return to Australia after
an absence of five years. The follow-
ing letter is addressed to her sister
Etta Boyce, with whom she had been
staying in England .]
Angel Hotel,
Liverpool, England,
i February 14, 1861.
My Dearest Etta,
I hope you received this
morning the little note I
scribbled in the railway carriage
on hearing from one of the pas-
sengers that we should be just
in time to post it as we drove
to the hotel. We got through
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEE HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1834, returned to England
in 1856, and settled permanently
in Australia in 1861.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Blddulph.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1853,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDUEPH HENNING, born 1834,
settled in Australia In 1833.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A, (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Eydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
IINDON BIDDUEPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDUEPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother’s
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS— friends of the Hen-
Biddulphs. WIEEIAM
ICCKER was founder of the Aus-
flrm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


To Load in the Wellington Dock. Packet of the 15th Feb.
LIVERPOOL AND AUSTRALIAN NAVIGATION CO.
STEAM FROM LIVERPOOL TO AUSTRALIA
UNDER SIXTY DAYS.
THE CELEBRATED AUXILIARY STEAM CLIPPER
GREAT BRITAIN,
5209 Terns Register, and 600 Eorse-power, with Fire-proof and Water-tight Compartment*.
JOHN GRH Y, Esq., Commander ,
IS APPOINTED TO LEAVE THE RIVER MERSEY,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ON THE 15« FEBRUARY • ISGX.
This magnificent and far-famed Ship, fitted *ith oscillating engines, is the roost celebrated Steamer afloat. Her
last passage to Melbourne was made in 62 days, and the previous one m 65 days 16 hours, and back to Queens-
' 69 days performing the whole voyage of 28,000 miles in 4 months and 26 days, mcludmg a detention
J - i. . . v-/._r k,. „r.o ooaaal The m O»«at Britain h aflords an
at Melbourne of 3l days, « feat never before accomplished by any vessel
opportunity for passengers to reach Australia almost m aa short a time ae by the overland route m Sduthampton,
without incurring the very heavy expenses attendant thereon, and avoiding entirely the discomfort of Irequeut
change. Her Saloon arrangements are perfect, end combine every possible Bouuoir.
Bath® 4c., and her noble passenger deck., lighted at interval, by sideporU, afford unrivalled accommodation
for ail classes
FREE LAND GRANTS ARE ISSUED TO EMIGRANTS PROCEEDING TO AUCKLAND. NEW ZEALAND-
CASH ORDERS ON THE COLONIES ISSUED FREE OF CHARGE.
FARES TO MELBOURNE.
AFTER SALOON
’ POOP ... 65 and 75 Guineas.
IBJBLOW 60 and 65 Guineas.
SECOND CLASS 25 atui 30 Guiaenifc
THIED CLASS mi —A.IB tad 80 Guinea
STESEAGfi 16 <****%*.
Including Steward*' Fee*, the attendance of an experienced Surgeon, and all Proviaiona of the best quality, except Wine* Spirit* end Mall
Liquors, which will be auppkied as very moderate price* on board, and according to th# Paasengar Act.
Children under Twelve Yean, Half price. Infanta under T2? elva Wonthe, firee.
Passengers booked to ba forwarded from MELBOURNE by the first opportunity tc-SYDNEY and LAUNCESTON, at
an extra tharga of ? Guinea* Saloon. 4 Guineas other classes ; to ADELAIDE and HOBART TOWN,
8 Guineas extra for SaLoon, and 5 Guineas other claaaea.
The SALOON I* provided with every requiait* Including Bertha. Bed* Biding, Plat* Tabl* Unea Crockery, Olaa* a* It
it .applied with the be* anido# of Food, ud an abundant Dietary Seal* Live Stock. Poultry, k* It contain* a Lad Mafßocdou, Balk* Ac, »c
UtCK. —Thd Fuop Deck U appropriated to the Alter Saloon Paaeengara alone} th* Spar Deck .lawiahlpa w ahe 9eeeM Out raaecager*
and forward to the Third CUu Paaaeugera u
No Passenger can be aoooa mode tod in a State-room by himaelf, eo long ai he can be placed with other P»iiengex*| nnl«i (on Stale-room
ba specially arranged fori berth, may be changed, if ueccMary, unices a whole State-room u aecurcA
DEPOSITS.
One-half of Che paaaaga-money out be paid before a Berth can be secured. The Bertha arc appropriated In routioo at the Depoaiu » r »F» ,a -
Paaaengera in the country can have Berth* secured by encloaing a Bank or Poai-offica order to the undersigned for bait the amount ot pea-
tag*, and they arc requested to giro their CbrUciaa name* age* and trade* and if married, name, and agea of each mcrnbtr of the latauy.
For fanhar putlcolus, apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Merchants, 1, North John Street, and
JAMES BAINES. & CO., Tower Buildings, Water Street, LIVEBPOOL.
*JI B«r» Uu>|. apt b> down li; 13ib Fibnur,. ill mbv Lag(.g. (H»i Bom »o 3 C.rp«t
Uu Ibtb y.bnur, LIVERPOOL, DECEUREX
Bag* txcepted) oa Tbnraday,
ioia, ucu.
Handbill of the shipping company advertising the voyage of the
Great Britain on which Kacbel Henning returned to Australia in 1861.
the journey very well and com-
fortably and without at all feel-
ing the cold. It turned out a
much better day than we
expected.
The “black country” between
Dudley and Wolverhampton was
most curious. The whole
country ploughed up for miles
by mines and covered with
furnaces and tall chimneys and
wretched brick houses. We got
all the luggage safe, and drove
to the Waterloo Hotel, which
was full, so we went on to the
Angel in Dale-street, which is
very comfortable and clean. We
had tea and poached eggs,
settled accounts and went to
bed. Mr. Boyce said he was
hardly at all tired. I was
rather.
This morning Mr. Boyce went
out to Baines’s office, where he
met with Captain Gray, and on
his mentioning my name to
him he remembered me
perfectly at Melbourne and said
he would call on me, which he
did, and very kind it was, con-
sidering all he must have to. do
on the eve of his ship sailing.
He is a most jolly and genial-
looking sailor, speaking broad
Lancashire. He talked much of
Annie and Biddulph, and
seemed to be greatly struck with
the wonderful cleverness of the
former in learning navigation;
said she could calculate the
latitude from an observa-
tion much faster than he
could.
We went to the wharf
at three, only Mr. Boyce
and I, took all my luggage
on board, except the carpet-
bags, and saw my cabin.
It is a comfortable little place
enough, the berths look very
much so, and my cabin com-
panion has been so ill-advised
as to take the upper one, which
I am very glad of.
I heard at Baines’s office who
my cabin com-
panion was a
Mrs. Bronchordt.
They said she was
a nice lady-like person, but
I shall have to find out about
that.
The last steamer, which is
only for the first-class pas-
sengers, goes off at five o’clock
tomorrow evening. I do not
suppose Mr. Boyce will be
allowed to go on board with me,
as it is against the rules.
February 15. Since writing
the above we have been on
board the ship again. Neither
Mrs. Bronchordt, my cabin
companion, nor her luggage had
arrived, so we took possession
of the cabin and I unpacked and
I put some things in order, while
Mr. Boyce screwed-up the little
cupboard in a convenient
corner and made things look
quite comfortable.
Captain Gray was on board
and was very kind to me. We
came back in the “tug” about
three o’clock, with him, and he
then informed us that I need
not go on board till nine o’clock
tomorrow morning, a reprieve
for which I was very thankful.
The evening is a dismal time to
go among strangers, especially
with the knowledge that the
ship is lying near shore and that
I might as well be there. She
will probably sail about noon,
but nobody seems to know
exactly. Mr. Boyce will see me
off, and then start for Kirby
Lonsdale at 11.30.
The Angel Hotel is very com-
fortable. We dined at four to-
day, after returning from the
boat, and since that Mr. Boyce
has been taking a nap and is
now reading “Punch” while I
write.
I do not like to end ; it seems
like saying goodbye again, but
I cannot write for ever. Every-
thing is well, and I am going
out under the best circumstances.
Captain Gray is most kind, and
I am sure I shall be taken care
of.
Kiss those darling children for
me, and farewell my own
dearest sister.
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
‘Great Britain,”
Sunday,
February 17, 1861.
My Dearest Etta,
You will be surprised to hear
from me again, as no doubt you
are thinking today that I am
half - way down the Irish
Channel; but, although we
seemed to start yesterday, the
ship only went a short distance
down the river and then
anchored again. There was some
hitch about her papers, the
captain said.
I am very much afraid
we shall not put in at St.
Vincent’s. I have not had an
opportunity of asking the
captain, but the passengers say
that she never stops anywhere
now, so do not be uneasy, dear,
if you do not hear, as I am
afraid there will be no oppor-
tunity of writing till I reach
Melbourne. Of course, if there
is the smallest chance, as a
passing ship, etc., I shall write.
After I sent off my letter
yesterday, we were called to
dinner. By the steward’s advice
Mrs. Bronchordt and I sat down
at the top of the captain’s table
next him, but I do not think that
otherwise we have got among
a very interesting set of people.
There are several commercial
gentlemen, or rather not gentle-
men, and a little Scotchman,
who looks more polished, also
a pretty German, wife to one of
the commercials, and who
cannot speak a word of English.
They are all very civil and un-
offending, however.
The first evening was sure to
be rather dull and dismal. How-
ever, we got books and sat round
a candle in the saloon (where
they have candles in dishes
instead of lamps. I should think,
in rough weather, the conse-
quences would ne
disastrous), till nine
o’clock, when Mrs.
Bronchordt and
myself betook ourselves to
bed.
I had been busy all day
arranging my goods, so every-
thing came to hand very easily,
and Mrs. Bronchordt is very
civil and accommodating. I
think we shall get on very nicely.
“Then they filed down the church .”
The cabin is so light that I
can read well in bed, and the
lamp shines into my berth, so,
that being the case, I have nailed
up a moreen bag just within
reach of my hand, and put a
little store of books into it; also
my lantern matches, camphor,
etc.
It was not to be expected that
we should sleep very soundly
the first night, especially as a
baby cried in the next cabin
considerably. What a life its
poor mother will have when we
get to sea and she and the
children are all seasick! Of
course the ship is now as steady
as possible, but that will not last
long. The stewardess called us
at eight and brought a jug of
hot water, an unexpected luxury,
and we managed about dressing
very well, as I got up first.
I am so well provided with
everything I want that there
never seems any difficulty; my
dress and jacket are warm and
comfortable and everything just
right. How nicely you helped
me in all that shopping. The
bag of tools is worth its weight
in gold. I have driven innumer-
able nails for Mrs. Bronchordt
and myself, and though the
steward did come and inquire if
the carpenter was in our cabin
yesterday, as he was particularly
wanted, no one has found any
fault with the nails, and the cup-
board which Mr. Boyce screwed
up behind the funnel has never
been seen and is most useful.
They do not feed you so well
on board this ship as they did
in the Calcutta. There is a
quantity of food, but it is
coarse ; great joints of pork and
underdone mutton and chiefly
cold. However, the first day is
not a fair sample, and when the
captain is on board, and we are
fairly off, no doubt all will go
on smoother. I have not seen
Captain Gray since I came on
board yesterday. They say he
is to come off at twelve, and that
we shall sail with the top of the
tide at three today.
Some of the gentlemen went
on shore again last night, to
return this morning. The people
are very impatient to be off
now ; it must be very tantalising
for those who have friends in
Liverpool.
I am very well content, dear,
though a little lonely. There is
nothing to complain of in the
ship or passengers so far,
though I do not see many who
look as if I should care about
them. Mrs. Bronchordt is very
kind and pleasant, but I do not
think there is much in her.
I am writing in the saloon,
after breakfast, with a great
many people writing round me,
for the last mail. The doctor
appeared at breakfast today, a
droll little man, extremely like
Vincent Macey, when we first
knew him, and covered with
yellow buttons to express his
being an officer. I hope I shall
never want him and it is most
unlikely.
There is no clergyman on
board, which I am sorry for;
there is a Scotch minister in the
second class, who will hold a
service, I believe, in the saloon
this morning and preach, but I
like our prayers and shall
presently read them and the
psalms and lessons to myself,
while you are in your corner at
St. Werbey’s reading the same.
How I should like to be there
with you!
The captain sits at the top of
the dining-table, next the mast.
Mrs. Bronchordt sits next him
at his right, and next her I sit;
then a Mr. Brand, a Scotchman ;
the pretty German and her
husband sit opposite, and the
“commercials” down the same
side. I can tell you nothing
about the inhabitants of the dif-
ferent cabins, as, of course, I
know none of them. I rather
like a stout, good-natured
woman, who inhabits, with her
husband, the one opposite to
ours; but she is not a lady.
The “ladies’ boudoir” which
they talk about is a nice little
room enough, but rather dark
and chiefly used by the children.
I shall probably sit in the saloon,
most likely where I am sitting
now by the table just opposite
the entrance to my cabin. I
shall begin the pinafores to-
morrow. I am so glad to have
them to do.
I know you will think of the
Great Britain when you pray
for “all that travel by land or
by water.” Oh, how I should
like to see your dear face once
more before going, but all is
right, and I am going hopefully
and cheerfully. This letter
seems all about myself, but you
will like to hear all I can tell
you about my new abode.
Ever your most affectionate
sister.
Rachel Henning.
Off Queenstown,
[lreland] ,
Friday,
February 22, 1861.
My Dearest Etta,
Unless you have heard by the
papers that the Great Britain
has put into Queenstown, you
will be nearly as much astonished
at the sight of my writing as
you would be if I myself were
to walk in. How I wish I could.
It seems so tantalising to be de-
tained, perhaps for days, within
a few hours’ sail of Bristol.
Still, the Great Britain might set
forth again without me if I paid
you a visit, perhaps.
I must tell you our adventures
in due order, and most thankful
I am to be able to tell them you,
for when we lost a boat over-
board yesterday I was quite
miserable to think of the state of
anxiety in which you might be
kept for months as to the fata
(i Continued on next page.)


REMEMBER
ROAD COURTESY
MEANS
ROAD SAFETY!
Reg
j/uA
w>y.
Ui
.'■'C
x
!fl!
<s^
(1:1
OHB& 1
$
M-
HtVt R
l|Ht S
OOBV-t
O
SaSWYV
yS> : s > ?
Published in the interests
of Road Safety by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Commonwealth of Australia and
Anglo-lranian Oil Co, Ltd.)
WRITE
FOR FREE BOOKLET “WHAT IS PETROLEUM?”
Ideal Study Aid for advanced Primary & Secondary School Students
This most interesting booklet is easy to obtain.
Ail you have to do to secure your copy is to write
your name and address clearly on plain paper,
and send, without stamps, to the Commonwealth
Oil Refineries office in your State. The booklet
describes in simple language and illustrations the
chemical composition of oil, and how it is formed
by nature.
C93/1743
Legal Notice.
IN
OF
THE SUPREME COURT
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
TO MRS. LAURA JOAN LATHAM whose
last known address was Cambridge in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a Notice to you to appear and answer toe
charges in the Petition of CHARLES
JAMES LATHAM of Bothwell m Tas-
mania farm labourer praying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes
aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance
must be entered at the Principal Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Mac-
quarie Street, Hobart.—R. W.
Deputy Registrar. MESSRS. EVERETT
& WICKS, 76 Harrington Street, Hobart
Tasmania, Solicitor* for th* P«tltioa«r.
of this ship, for the boat and
oars had the name of “Great
Britain” on them, and, if washed
ashore, might at least have given
rise to great apprehensions as
to what had become of us in the
awful gales we have met with
since leaving Liverpool.
We sailed, as you know, on
Sunday the 17th, had a quiet
night enough, and Monday was
tolerably calm till the evening,
when it began to blow; and
during the night we had such a
gale as is seldom met with. It
did blow with a vengeance. The
captain and all the officers were
on deck all night; indeed, the
former has not been in bed
since we left Liverpool, such has
been the weather. I saw him to
speak to in the morning, and
he said he had never had the
Great Britain out in such
weather before. However, there
was no great damage done
beyond making everyone,
nearly, extremely ill and sorely
frightened, and the wind went
down in the coyrse of the next
day.
We had very rough weather
during Tuesday and Wednesday,
but still nothing remarkable, but
yesterday morning it began to
blow again, and for about six
hours we had such a hurricane
as no one on board ever saw
before. To say that I never knew
anything like it is nothing, but
all the oldest sailors say a West
Indian tornado was the only
thing it was like.
Providentially it came by
daylight; began about nine,
and the worst was over by
three. I could never give you
the least idea of the force or
roar of the wind, and some of
the passengers who ventured on
deck said the Great Britain, big
as she is, looked like a cockle-
shell among the waves, and that
it seemed impossible but she
must be buried in them.
She behaved admirably, took
in very little water, and came up
as stiff as possible after every
roll. Several seas came on
board, however ; one broke into
the saloon and thence into the
cabins, one of which was three
feet deep in water. The
steward mopped and dipped it
out in buckets. Some water got
into our cabin, and on going in
to investigate, I found that one
of my boxes was standing in a
puddle ; and remembering that
the children’s likeness was at the
bottom of that very box, I de-
termined, gale or no gale, to
unpack it and get the picture
out, which I did.
It was not the least hurt, but
it was so strange and sad to see
their little smiling faces in such
a scene. I was glad enough to
think they were safe at home,
and probably just going out for
their walk, for the sun was shin-
ing, notwithstanding the fearful
wind and sea. Nothing in the
box got wet, so it was all right.
When I came back to the
saloon I found all the passengers
grouped about, looking grave
and somewhat frightened, except
one group of young men, who
pretended to laugh over a game
of cards, but who looked more
alarmed than anyone when a
harder squall than usual came
on. I betook myself to a sofa
at the end of the saloon to try
and console some girls who were
crying with terror, when the
door opened and Captain Gray’s
cheerful face appeared. I asked
him if the gale was abating, and
he said yes, the worst was over
and that he had never seen such
a one before ; and from then the
wind went gradually down,
leaving only a heavy swell,
which has tumbled us about all
night and is now making this
writing almost illegible.
There was considerable
damage done to repair, which
we are now running into
Queenstown as fast as steam
can carry us. The foreyard was
sprung and a spritsail hook
broken ; the bulwarks smashed
in in one place and a boat stove
in and half-knocked away by a
wave, and they had to cut her
away as she was beating in the
ship’s side. This boat was a
great affliction to me as the
name of the ship was on her,
but it will be all right now you
can hear we are safe.
They report that one of the
masts is sprung, but I cannot
make out if it is true. How
they ever stood at all I cannot
imagine. The captain expected
some of them to go, for he had
axes laid all ready to cut away
the wreck if they went over-
board.
We have had a great escape,
for which we are not half
thankful enough.
We hope to be at Queenstown
tonight, and this letter will go
tomorrow morning. I do not
know how long it will take to
repair the ship, probably some
days ; so if you write by return
of post the letter will probably
reach me, and it will be such
a pleasure to hear from home
again. Put your full address,
and if we are gone, the dead-
letter office will return it to
you.
We have made so little way
that we have not been more than
a day’s sail from Liverpool all
this time. Ido not suppose
they will leave Queenstown till a
fair wind comes; it is no use
beating about like this. We shall
hardly be in Australia till the
middle of May. It is very
wearying prolonging the parting
from England like this, but it
is sure to be all right. It is
such an inexpressible blessing to
feel that it is all in better hands
than ours, in a gale such as
yesterday’s, it makes one not
fear anything that may happen.
Although the voyage cannot
be considered a very prosperous
one so far, I have had more
than my usual good fortune as
to seasickness. I have generally
been unwell for a few hours, but
now I have not for a single hour
of it, notwithstanding the bad
weather. Mrs. Bronchordt, too,
has never been seasick at all,
which is fortunate for me as well
as herself, but she is headachey
and poorly and seldom gets up
to breakfast. I am rather glad
she does not, as dressing with
the ship at an angle of forty-
five degrees is quite difficult
enough for one person. We get
on very comfortably together,
as she is pleasant and accom-
modating, but there is no one on
board of whom I know much
as yet.
I rather like an old widow
lady—a Mrs. Ranken —she is
Scotch and the coolest, quietest
person I ever saw. She is going
for the fifth time, and minds
gales no more than nothing.
Curiously enough, she is aunt to
that Miss Ranken with whom
I came home in the Star of
Peace, knows Bathurst and Mr.
Sloman and had seen Annie and
Amy there. She is very good
and kind to the sick people,
nurses roaring babies whose
mothers and nurses are ill.
I have also made acquaintance
with a rather dismal young lady,
who is going out by herself and
is sorely frightened, and a Scotch
lady with two children and a
sort of turban headdress, who
is more frightened; besides a
speaking acquaintance with a
great many people.
The commercials I mentioned
before have resolved themselves
into rather a gentlemanly little
German, with whom I play
cribbage, a large and radiant
squatter, whom may Biddulph
never grow like, though he is the
picture of good nature ; and an
intelligent sort of man, who
really is a merchant, I believe,
and comes from Bristol, besides
the Melbourne merchant with
the pretty German wife.
These are the people among
whom Mrs. Bronchordt and I
sit at dinner. They are not a
very aristocratic set, but they
might be worse, and it doesn’t
matter for two months.
Most of the people have been
frightfully ill and some have not
yet appeared. The old Scotch
lady and myself were the only
ladies that appeared for a long
time, I think we fraternised be-
cause we neither of us mind any-
thing much. I believe she is a
good woman, too, though stiff
and silent and “Scotchy.”
The cabin is wet just now, but
all my things are in pretty good
order, thanks to my exertions
that first day. Mrs. Bronchordt’s
are rolling about in sore con-
fusion. She is not very tidy.
The berths are very comfortable
and I sleep well, when the ship
does not roll beyond measure.
I am at the end of my paper,
and the difficulty of writing is
extreme and of reading it prob-
ably greater. I shall be able to
write again from Queenstown,
perhaps more than once.
My kindest love to yourself,
Mr. Boyce and the children and
Sophy, if still with you.
Ever, dearest Etta, your most
affectionate sister.
RACHEL HENNING.
{To be continued next week)


CINZANO
DRY
SWEET
OR
j&orux
me
Invest for
AUSTRALIA’S
SAFETY
Everyone realises that to defend
Australia we must have arms, air-
craft, ships and trained men. It is not
so readily understood, perhaps, that
the successful functioning of our
defence plans depends to a great
extent upon efficient transport systems,
on adequate power supplies, on good
highways.
To provide money needed immediately
for these urgent national needs, the
Thirteenth Security Loan has been
launched. By investing in this
Loan you will help to strengthen the
foundations of Australia’s defence
preparations.
At the same time, you will strengthen
your own personal security. The
money you invest in the Thirteenth
Security Loan will earn interest regu-
larly, payable to you every six months.
And your money will be safe: repay-
ment of face value of your Securities
in full at maturity is guaranteed by
the Commonwealth.
By investing in the Thirteenth Security
Loan you will hel]} in the fight against
inflation. By restricting your spending
to essential articles, thus withdrawing
your money from competition for
goods in short supply, you will use
your savings to advance essential
national works; you will help ease the
pressure on prices, which is the main
cause of inflation.
For Australia’s sake, and your own,
invest at once in the Thirteenth
Security Loan.
3 TASKS FOR EVERY AUSTRALIAN
SAVE MORE.. . buy only what you really need.
PRODUCE MORE.. .do a better job for yourself
and Australia.
INVEST WISELY. . , subscribe all you can to the
3f°/o THIRTEENTH
SECURITY LOAN
LOAN FACTS: Cl) The main purpose of the Loan is to pay for Public Works and Services
of the Commonwealth and the States. (2) Bonds or Inscribed Stock may be Purchased at
par for cash or by instalments through any Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stoc bro er.
(3) 11-14 Year Securities (minimum subscription £10) will bear interest at per annum.
3-Year Securities (minimum subscription £1,000) will bear interest at 2% per annum.
(41 Interest will be paid each six months. (51 Repayment m full at maturity ox the face
value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
irvimsti
The TUNNEL
By GAVIN S. CASEY
OLD SPLINTER Mc-
GINTY hated farming.
He had hated it un-
waveringly for the whole
of the fifteen years he had been
engaged in it, but lifelong habits
of industry, impatience and use
of his commonsense made him
a success at it. Even after the
decade and a half, when his raft
of sons had grown up big and
amiable like their mother and
could do all the real work
around the place, he still dis-
liked it intensely. Sometimes he
would lean over a rail chewing
his pipe in an aggravated way
for a long time, and looking at
a cow. Then he would most
likely say “Bah!” in unutterable
disgust that Nature should .ever
have created such a creature.
Sometimes the cow would say
“Moo!” in equal unhappy
puzzlement over Splinter, and
any cow he milked put its foot
in the bucket, slashed his face
with its coarse, wet tail and
kicked him whenever possible.
After any unpleasantness with
the animals, machinery or mud
around the place he would burst
forth in sound and fury that
didn’t worry anybody much ex-
cept himself. “What a life! ” he
would roar at Mother Mac in
a voice that suggested that the
whole of his skinny frame was
some sort of sound-box or flesh-
and-blood amplifying system.
“I’ll hold it against you for ever,
woman, that you made me get
out of the mines.”
“You’d be out by now, any-
way—with half a lung,” Mother
Mac would say placidly. “Like
Blacky Drayton, and Joe Searle,
and Pepper Dillington and a
dozen others I could mention. ’
“What about Limpy Raft,
with a staff house and a new
car and a bigger bank-balance
than we ever dreamed of,
woman?” Splinter chal-
lenge in a frenzied yell. “What
about little Pud Deepwell, that
started off bogging for me on
the old Morning Glory? What
about Reilly and McCabe and
that feller with the buck-teeth
from the Mayflower West?”
“What would the toys be on
the mines?” Mother would come
back at him. “Boggers!” she
would answer herself scornfully.
“Not if they had my blood in
’em,” the old man would bel-
low. “Machine-miners in the
big money. Maybe electricians,
surveyors, assayers, engineers.
Not damned clodhoppers punch-
ing udders the way they are
now.”
“Now, McGinty,” Mother
would say, severe at last.
“You’ve no call to be talking
about your own flesh and blood
like that. They’re fine boys, and
you know it. They’re a credit to
one or the other of us, and
everybody except you knows
which one.”
That answer always sent Mc-
Ginty away in baffled wrath to
glare at the cows and curse
under his breath. When he went
into town he got into fights with
the neighbors because he swag-
gered about so much, pretend-
ing that the farmers were men
of different and inferior clay. He
yearned for the days when he
had t-en part of a great indus-
trial pattern of men, ripping the
ore out of the drives while the
boggers and truckers shifted it
to the shaft, and the platmen
hauled it to the surface and the
plant hands sent it through the
mill, and assayers and engine-
drivers and tool-sharpeners and
time-keepers and everybody else
had fitted neatly into the plan.
A life in which a man rushed
from straining fence-wires to fix
the chaffcutter engine, and from
there to drag an old horse out
of the dam or to dig out the
pestiferous rabbits, didn’t seem
right to him.
BECAUSE of all this Mother
Mac should have known
what the gleam in his eye meant
when he first read about the
great Rainy River irrigation and
hydraulic-power scheme. But
Mother had long got out of the
habit of wondering what Splinter
was thinking about, and when
he started to enthuse about it
she just kept on drinking her
tea.
“That’s the sort of thing the
country needs, woman,” Splinter
declared wholeheartedly. “Big
ideas, big plans, big results.
Should have been done years
ago if half the damned politi-
cians weren’t farmers. Some-
thing everybody in the country
should support and help all they
can.”
“Didn’t I read that they’re
going to make a dam in Kanga-
roo Valley?” Mother said un-
guardedly. “It’s all right for us,
but what about the people
who’re going to lose their homes
and their farms? How’d you like
to be one of them?”
“Nothing’d suit me better,”
the old man reminded her with
a triumphant leer. “I ain’t likely
to have that much luck, though,”
Thereafter Splinter’s wander-
ings about the district were wide.
He watched impatiently while
pegs were placed in the ground
and a little earth shifted to make
the roads that would be the first
essential for the great project.
In the pub he talked and drank
with surveyors and engineers,
giving the impression that a; last
he was among men of his own
class and mental calibre, and
thus further infuriating his
neighbors. He wore an irritat-
ingly superior leer at home. The
men on the job began to refer
to him as the Minister for
Works.
“Well, how’s she goin’?” he
{Continued on page 24.)


Women's LetterS
From Melbourne
Sir Dallas and Lady Brooks were at
the Town Hall concert when the Italian
conductor, Fernando Previtali, appeared
with the Victorian Symphony Orchestra,
Lady Brooks’s gown was of orchid-pink
brocade, her cape a blue fox. Lady
Medley’s ice-blue gown was patterned in
a leaf design ; her daughter Diana was
in amber-toned taffeta. Mrs. Con. Charl-
ton covered her ice-blue faille with a
black velvet coat. Signora Previtali wore
a black Italian silk gown and scarlet stole.
Signora Alceo Galliera’s choice was sea-
green net with silver foxes. Mrs. Henry
Maudsley wore black velvet, Mrs. Jim
Fitzgerald pink and black.
The Battle of Britain Ball, to be held at
St. Kilda Town Hall on September 13,
and organised by the Australian Air
Force Women’s Association, will help to
swell the coffers of the Memorial
Scholarship Fund for the children
of deceased and incapacitated R.A.A.F.
personnel. Founded in 1947, the
fund now totals over £5400, and
the first scholarships are now operat-
ing. Ball tickets are one guinea
each, and lucky envelopes are to
be sold. Federal president of the
A.F.W.A. is Mrs. E. C. Wackett, and
chairman of the ball committee Mrs. F.
Wright. Mrs. W. Hely and a sub-com-
mittee will take care of the decorations,
and ticket-secretary is Mrs. G. D.
Marshall (XU 3093).
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the setting for the marriage of Betty
Clare, second daughter of Mrs. Garnet
■Massey, of Camberwell, and the late Mr.
Massey, and Brian Knowles, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Kempton, of
Queens-road. The bridal gown of mag-
nolia satin had a tight-fitting bodice but-
toned to the waist and a full gathered
skirt which fell into a long train. The
three-tiered tulle veil was caught with
marguerites. Her sister Peggy was brides-
maid in a strapless gown of mushroom-
pink and apple-green tie-silk worn with
a matching jacket. Best man was Richard
Kemp. Reception was at the Camber-
well home of the bride’s mother.
Presswomen who were guests-of-
honor at a luncheon-party given by the
Mayor of South Melbourne, Cr. John
Wright, and Mrs. Wright, came away
impressed with two worth-while projects;
one is the acquisition, with Government
aM, of Claremont as a home for
the aged, sick and infirm ; the other a
perfectly-equipped theatrette in the Town
Hall for educational purposes. Working
with the council is a group, mainly
businessmen, who have formed them-
selves into a Community Chest. They
have, to quote their own words, “taken
the chaos out of charity” by banding to-
gether in a citizens committee all the
groups of auxiliaries. To swell the funds
of the Community Chest a mannequin
parade of Prestige hosiery and fabrics
will be held in the South Melbourne
Town Hall on September 6. The new
home, which is in Albert-road, is being
reconstructed and will be ready next year,
when up to 200 elderly people will take
up residence in comfortably-appointed
quarters.
Noted for the unusual and lovely
clothes which are created in her Toorak
salon, Mrs. Harold Holt showed a num-
ber of these at a parade at the
Dorchester for the Opportunity Club
funds. Her flair for combining fabrics,
lavish bead and diamente embroideries
and the brilliance of the colors she uses
were well in evidence. During the first
half of the parade, which was opened by
Carol Griffith wearing a pair of black
slacks and a woollen sweater outlined
round the neck with jet beads, simple
tailored frocks were shown. One, of
cinnamon-brown spotted tie-slik, had a
bloused back and sleeves gathered into
neat cuffs. Other frocks were strapless
or featured halter necklines and were
covered with tiny fitting jackets. The
evening gowns, spectacular and lovely,
were mostly strapless and were often
accompanied with contrasting taffeta or
satin coats or stoles.
An attractive short black lace evening
Foci had a strapless, petal-shaped bodice,
and on one shoulder, at the back,
perched a black lace butterfly. Bunches
of parma-violets edged the strapless
bodice of a bouffant gown of parma-
violet tulle modelled by Mrs. Geoffrey
Grimwade. A sheath gown of white
cotton lace brought enthusiastic applause ;
it was mounted on orchid-pink slipper-
satin, and both strapless bodice and skirt
were encrusted with ruby and diamente
embroidery. With it was worn a balloon
coat of orchid-pink satin with the three-
quarter length sleeves edged with mink—
Mrs. Leo Curtis was the wearer. Mrs.
John Chapman showed a gown of white
faille which had a tight sheath skirt and
a strapless top. Another glamorous
gown was cut on sheath lines, encrusted
with pearls and with a large low-set
jewelled hip-pocket.
In the presence of the Governor’s lady
350 representatives of the Catholic
Women’s Organisation gave a reception
in the Lower Town Hall to congratu-
late Dame Mary Daly on the honor con-
ferred upon her by the King. Lady
Brooks wore a deep-cornflower-blue
jacket-suit and a small matching hat in
the same toning. Mrs. J. G. B. Mc-
Donald, wife of the Premier, added a
London-tan felt cloche to her beech-
brown suit. Lady Disney topped her
black suit with a tiny ocelot cap. The
guest-of-honor wore a black tailored
coat and a large black osprey-trimmed
velvet hat. Her daughter Marie’s jacket-
suit was stone-blue, her wide-brimmed
white hat clustered with flowers. Mrs.
Arthur Calwell contrasted her black suit
with a burgundy beret. Archbishop
Mannix, who spoke feelingly of the death
of former State Governor Lord Dugan,
presented Dame Mary with an illuminated
address and a diamond bracelet, the latter
a gift from anonymous admirers. Bishop
Lyons, of Sydney, was there ; so were
singer Father Sydney Mac Ewan and his
mother. Mrs. T. F. Walsh was presi-
dent of the reception committee, others
on the committee being Mrs. A. A. Lord,
Mrs, F. Cincotta, Mrs. J. E. Frawley and
Miss C. Egan.
Mrs. Jim Peters is on the organising
committee arranging a gala night at the
Astor Theatre, Prahran, on September
19 for a preview of Somerset Maugham’s
“Trio” to assist the Jesuits who went to
India earlier this year in their newest
venture. They had been asked by the
Indian Government if, in addition to the
usual religious work, they will establish
an agricultural college (on the lines of
Dookie) in Bihar. Tickets are one guinea,
10s. and 55., and ticket-secretaries are
Mrs. J. Mortensen (U 1529), Mrs. P. J.
Lachal (LF8381) and Mrs. J. B. O’Col-
lins (Win. 641).
Pictured here is Mrs. P. J. Lennon, of
Brighton, who is on the Sutherland
Homes for Children Auxiliary. With her
husband, Mrs. Lennon has just returned
by air from a short holiday in Colombo.
Both are well-known figures at race
meetings, and own horses.
Over 200 guests attended the party
given by the Australian-Araerican Asso-
ciation at Menzies’ to bid farewell to that
popular couple, the Consul-General for
the U.S., S. J. Fletcher, and Mrs.
Fletcher. President of the association,
Wesley Ince, and vice-president Harold
Rabling, with their wives, received the
guests, Mrs. Rupert Downes, who is
president of the women’s group of the
association, assisting. Tall black ospreys
trimmed the hat worn by Mrs. Ince with
a black suit. Mrs. Rabling contrasted her
blacks with a white satin hat finished
with jet-tipped white feathers. The guest-
of-honor chose a black faille jacket-suit
and white-feather toque swathed with
diamente-studded black veiling. With
Air-Marshal G. Jones was his wife, wear-
ing a black-and-white-check taffeta frock
and white melusme hat. Lady Disney
wore a small white georgette hat with
a drape of heavy fringe at one side to
highlight her black suit. Mrs. S. J.
Rowell’s black taffeta frock had touches
of green-and-black-striped taffeta on the
bodice and draped hipline of the skirt.
Lady Latham had London-tan hat and
accessories for her caramel-toned coat.
Mrs. Gordon Coulter draped a platina-
fox stole over her black frock ; a black
pillbox cap with tall feather-mount was
worn by Mrs. W. Plowright with her
black frock. The presentation oil-paint-
ing which Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher will
take home to America is “The Valley of
the Yarra, Heidelberg,” by Sydney artist
Roland Wakelin.
From Sydney
At the Overseas Ball, which was held
on Princess Margaret’s birthday, there
were many inter-State visitors, members of
the 20th Century Group, which held its
convention last week. Judith Cox, from
Adelaide, was present wearing ruby
velvet, also Pat Steward (Hobart), and
Ruth Wilkenson from Brisbane. Michael
Davis, from Ceylon, who is on his way
to Auckland, was a member of Ruth
Germer’s party, also Robert Colsell, Joan
Cosgrove, Nick Nicholls and Marie
Rodriguez. Torchbearers for Legacy,
which will benefit from the ball, was re-
presented by Madeline Archbutt in blue
net with pink roses. The Troc. was
decorated with pictures of the Princess,
who had sent a cable of good wishes to
the dance, and with emblems of the Over-
seas League and the Torchbearers.
Dr. Grace Cuthbert, the subject of this
Norton Trevaire photo., is Director of
Maternal and Infant Welfare, and was one
of the speakers at the conference on child-
welfare organised last week by the Syd-
ney Day Nursery and Nursery Schools
Association. Dr. Cuthbert told the meet-
ing about the White House conference
she attended in America on child-welfare
at which she was an observer, and to
which there were 5000 American delegates.
Other speakers at the Day Nursery meet-
ings were Dr. Irene Sebire, Mrs. M.
Jarvie, Mrs. J. Clunies Ross, Mrs. M.
Matheson and Miss J. Wyndham. Pre-
siding were Mrs. W. P. McElfione and
Mrs. H. H. McNall.
The Genesians put on a fine production
of “Murder in the Cathedral” at the Inde-
pendent last week. The stagecraft was
excellent for amateurs, and the standard
of acting generally very high. Thomas
a Becket did seem more like the apotheo-
sis of the parish priest than a dramatic
historical figure, saint and martyr, but
that is the fault of the play, which seems
to this Letter a strange medley of
philosophy, straight drama and allegory,
with a bit of satirical comedy, and a
Greek chorus to boot. Still, it’s by poet
T. S. Eliot, who is supposed to be at the
top and who wins all the prizes, so
maybe it’s all right.
Australians do seem to be the most
patient and law-abiding of people. Just
when their families are crying out for a
baked potato with the Sunday dinner,
just a few chips to go with the fish, or a
trifle of mashed for the sausages, a couple
of hundred temporary women-workers
for the Taxation Department have had
to pass every day large stores of potatoes
at Sydney Showground which the Tas-
manian Government hasn’t released for
some reason or other and which are
rapidly going bad. Tantalised as they are,
not one of the women has been infuriated
enough to go berserk among the potatoes
and carry them off to her starving
family. Truly, the spirit of the suffra-
gettes is dead.
The crowd attracted by Dr. Margaret
Mead’s lecture at the Assembly Hall
might almost be described as “milling,”
so large it was and lively. Despite Dr.
Mead’s almost forbidding scholastic
achievements (she holds four University
degrees and is a world authority on
anthropology), her lecture was un-
doubtedly the most humorous heard in
Sydney this year, and her asides so droll
that the audience found themselves laugh-
ing at nearly everything she said. She
spoke on the ever-fascinating subject of
“Men and Women,” this time “in a
changing world,” and she threw out many
provocative ideas.
Dr. Mead said that women’s greatest
contribution to civilisation was her in-
yention of some means of keeping a man
home to provide for the family At first
she didn’t care what man it was—in some
tribes it was her brother who had the
responsibility—but as her husband had to
care for his sister’s children it all worked
out evenly in the end. With another tribe
the grandparents must provide for the
children (this is a tribe where a married
is not allowed to do any work )
From this idea of keeping the men home
arose division of labor and the leisure
that made art, literature, religion, etc.,
possible. Men don’t seem to have any
real biological urge to stay home, said
Dr. Mead, but over the ages they have
been offered many inducements to do so,
such as the lure of passing on their name
to future generations. The French-
Canadians, she said, persuaded men to
marry by the simple means of refusing a
fishing- or hunting-licence to a single
man.
Dr. Mead also said that no matter what
men do it is universally regarded as more
important than what women do. Even in
a community which lives on fish and the
women do all the fishing, the little bit of
hunting (often unsuccessful) that the men
do is the thing that has prestige. Achieve-
ment is more of a masculine than a
feminine need, perhaps because women
feel that having children is a pretty solid
achievement and are satisfied with that,
but a man has to prove who he is and
what he is. This may be due to the fact
that both sexes are reared by one sex.
Boys are conscious that they are being
advised and guided by a creature different
from themselves and feel that they must
set themselves up against her. It is said
that boys are harder to bring up than
girls, but the truth is that they are only
harder for women to bring up. Little
girls, on the other hand, have only to relax
and be like their mothers, so that the
need for achievement is not nearly so
urgent.
This is why. Dr. Mead thinks, women
have made such a disproportionate con-
tribution to art, science and politics in
the wider social world. Perhaps, she says,
women should not be taught the same
sort of things as men, but educated so
that their special aptitude for dealing
with human beings might be more fully
developed, for work in the human-rela-
tions sphere may be a thing that women
can do, not as well as, but better than,
men.
When Judge Redshaw opened Miriam
Moxham’s exhibition of paintings at the
Grosvenor Galleries he spoke of her
“overcoming adversities to produce these
paintings,” Mrs. Moxham herself, who
looked about as happy as any woman
could, explained that he was referring to
the burdens of housework, which are ad-
versity enough for any woman these days.
She works solidly, she said, from one till
five every afternoon at her painting, and
the 28 paintings in the exhibition repre-
sent about 15 months’ work.
The next time you see Paris it will be
at the Troc., when the Black and White
Ball goes into its dance on October 2.
The decorations are to be most exciting,
judging by the plans, with the foyer lit
entirely by street-lamps and the whole
ballroom transformed to a Parisian atmos-
phere. This Letter doesn’t want to sound
too rapturous, but really the prizes are
enough to make any woman’s mouth
water. They include a dress by Peliier, a
suit from Judith, a hat from Lamotte, an
Elizabeth Arden beauty-box, a chiffon
nightgown, a handbag, an enamelled
dressing-table set, a Max Factor beauty-
box and a silver salver.
Dame Enid Lyons, recently retired from
the political scene, has just collected an-
other “first.” As well as being the first
woman M.H.R. (elected in 1942) and the
first woman member of Cabinet, she is
now the first woman to be given the free-
dom of her home-town. The people of
Devonport (Tas.) conferred this honor
on her, presenting along with it a scroll
of freedom and a Chippendale cabinet.
Certainly this is the first time the honor
has been conferred on a woman in Tas-
mania. Is it true of the whole of Aus-
tralia?
There are only two hospitals in N.S.W.
of which the board is entirely composed
of women. One, of course, is the Rachel
Forster, and the other is the Home of
Peace at Marrickville, which has the
distinction of being the only hospital
without a debt. This was announced at
the general meeting of the Nations.
Council of Women held during the week
The council is trying to agitate for.more
women representatives on hospital boards,
of 42 hospitals already investigated, there
are 17 which have no women representa-
tives. At the meeting the speaker was
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, federal president
of the council. She went over the
various points of the speech which sne
made at the anti-inflation conference
recently.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Two War II Diggers recently gonged
in Korea, Lieutenant L. M. Montgomerie
and Corporal D. B. Davie, are both South
Australians. Montgomerie, leading his
platoon to take a strongpoint in the
Chukton area, ran into a short-range
welcome from rifles, machine-guns and
grenades. Outnumbered two to one, his
platoon fixed bayonets, used ’em, took the
first line of trenches, charged twice more,
finished the job and counted 67 enemy
dead. Military Cross. The same day
Davie, at Moktong, sighted a Communist
party manoeuvring to outflank his platoon.
He quietly moved his section to meet
the threat and obliterated it. But other
enemy trenches were on to Davie, and
laid heavy fire upon him. Bayonets again,
trenches cleared, 31 enemy dead and
much equipment. Military Medal.
With his background—son of artist
George Lambert and brother of sculptor
Maurice —it seemed natural that con-
ductors ompo s e r Constant Lambert
(passed on in London at 45) should have
distinguished himself in the world of art.
He started early, being commissioned at
20 by Diaghileft to write the ballet
“Romeo and Juliet.” Three years later,
in 1929, he made a decisive success with
his production of “Rio Grande,” set to a
poem by Sacheverell Sitwell, From then
on Lambert’s mark both as conductor
and critic was made. In 1938 he became
conductor in charge of ballet at Sadler’s
Wells, and was writing as well for the
“Sunday Referee” and “New Statesman.”
A sparkling book followed, Music Ho !
He had conducted the Albert Hall
promenade concerts since 1945.
“Macnell”: Captain K. S. Colquhoun,
who is bringing fleet-carrier Glory to
Sydney from Korea, has been busy
enough up that way. His Sea Furies and
Fireflies have bombed and rocketed
pretty well all over enemy Korea,
establishing two records —they flew 46
sorties of rocket-assisted take-offs in one
day, and flew 350 normal sorties in seven
days. Colquhoun’s brood have main-
tained a daily average of 50 sorties, spot-
ting for bombardments by the Fleet,
cannonading enemy troops, guns, supply-
trains and junks, and bombing to twisted
metal the main span of an important
road bridge north of Kyimpo. Colquhoun
got his D.S.O. in War 11. His ship will be
relieved by H.M.A. carrier Sydney.
“Fitz”: The death of old-time Bulletin poet
S. W. Jephcott (B. 18 /7 / ’5l) reminds me that
the oldest living rhymer listed in Who’s Who in
Australia is Arthur Albert Dawson Bayldon,
who arrived in this world a year later than
Jephcott and whose first contribution to this
paper—his widely-quoted sonnet to Christopher
Marlowe —was printed in 1893. In his time
Arthur, now living quietly at Paddington
(Sydney), has played many parts. He began
as an author in England, where he was born
in Leeds in 1865. The spirit of adventure
brought him to Australia when he was 24, after
extensive travels in Europe, U.S.A. and India,
and at the very outset he struck a Queensland
flood, which washed away his savings. As
far back as 40 years ago Arthur Bayldon was
able to report that he had been a lighter-owner,
a private-secretary and a swagman; a rouse-
about and a phrenologist, a full-time motto-
writer and editor of and canvasser for a comic
monthly; teacher of English composition and
clothiers’ agent among kanakas; platform lec-
turer on Buddhism and Irish subjects, a tea-
traveller and a book-canvasser; insurance agent,
picture-dealer and a professional fancy-swimmer.
As a fancy-swimmer he gave exhibitions over
N.S.W. and Queensland; in fact, wherever there
was a sizeable waterhole. An old clipping
reveals that a Gladstone (Q.) newspaper thought
his feats “marvellous in the extreme,” and noted
how they won for the poet “a great uproar of
applause.” Such exhibitions used to move
Fred Broomfield to growl that they were “a
strange pastime for a practising poet.” But
Arthur was always different from the average
run of poets, and successfully played a lone
hand for many years against the tribe of
Barrabas. He became his own publisher, can-
vasser, collector and book-porter, and a chance
meeting with Bayldon in the street nearly always
resulted in a subscription for a forthcoming
book being extracted. He published several
books of verse and short stories which
impressed the critics at the time. For the most
part they belong to the realm of pure imagina-
tion ; had he allowed more of the varied know-
ledge gained in his travels to have filtered into
his work he would have probably been better
known today.
“1.T.5.”: I was on the administrative
staff of the Glamorgan Education Depart-
ment when Cyril Jenkins (B. l/8/’5l),
then a youth, was awarded a County
Scholarship to the Royal Academy of
Music. Since that early start Jenkins has
proved himself a first-class composer—he
was commissioned more than once to
write the chief test-piece for the world’s
brass-band championships at the Crystal
Palace, and later at Belle Vue, Manchester.
He is an outstanding adjudicator, and in
this capacity I often heard him, in com-
pany with Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, at the
great Welsh Eisteddfodau. But as for his
being an “English” composer—he is as
Welsh as the leek.
After 38 years’ service, Superintendent
Sam Williams leaves the Victorian Police
Force sporting the Police Valor Badge,
Bronze Medal and bar and Military
Medal, He won his first two decora-
tions for catching a bolting horse in
crowded Flinders-street and added the bar
by rescuing two men from a flooded river.
He got the M.M. as a Lighthorseman for
saving a wounded comrade under heavy
fire in the Middle East in the Kaiser’s
war.
“D.H.E.” puts a school-fellow out to
grass;
Retiring after 46 years’ service, James H.
Killip, principal for close on 16 years of
Sydney Boys’ High School and one of the
city’s finest educationalists. A Sydney ’Varsity
graduate, 1912, he began moulding at Broken
Hill, and later Newcastle, then took a hand in
teaching Wilhelm the error of his ways in
France and Belgium. A couple of wounds gave
him the chance to widen his knowledge of
England, a knowledge extended after the war
by a post-graduate course given to soldier-
teachers. With his training finished in London,
Killip set off on an educational tour of Scot-
land, southern France and Italy, bringing home
an undying admiration for old-world culture.
Back in Sydney, he taught successively at
Sydney Tech, and Sydney and Parramatta
High Schools. His first headmastership was at
Hay Memorial High; then Armidale High, and,
in 1936, Sydney High, which developed under
his competence into what is recognised as the
leading State high-school in Australia. Of the
man’s personality it is enough to record that in
the late war scores of old boys returned home,
put up their gongs or pips or rings and trooped
out to see “The Boss.” Hundreds of them
throughout Australia and abroad will wish him
well.
“Pip Tok”; Passed on in Perth, at 49,
Richard W. Hamilton, Canon of St.
George’s Cathedral, rector of Middle
Swan and chaplain of the Anglican
Homes for Children at Swan and Parker-
ville. A younger son of the late Richard
Hamilton (former manager of the Great
Boulder Mine) and a bachelor, the canon
was that rare type, a parson with plenty
of money. This and the fact that he had
no family called the
children of the two homes his quiverful
—enabled him to do much privately for
the welfare of his charges. To develop
the cesthetic sense of his young people, he
presented both homes with a number of
good paintings, and what he did as a
Children’s Court Missionary in the
reclamation of juvenile delinquents is
something known only to himself and his
Maker. Outside the pulpit and the
homes his main interest was music.
Some years ago he saw the Passion Play
at Ober-Ammergau. On his return he
delivered a series of popular lectures on
the Passion Play, highlighting his remarks
with phonograph-records.
When a Bulletin man called on the
8.8. C. “Take It From Here” scripters in
Sydney he encountered no such thing as
an obvious brace of diaphragm-dilaters.
He met the quietly serious couple of
coves —here presented by Dubois—
Denis Norden on the left, Frank Muir
TAKE IT FROM HERE.
(“M” for moustache) on the right
—who find, as most funny men
will agree, that churning out laughs
night after night is the most deadly
serious business. In Sydney to provide
the chuckles behind the “Gently, Bentley”
show, opening this week, the pair claim
they took on writing scripts for soldier-
shows to get out of guard duty—Norden
was in at the Normandy affair, R.A.F.
Mobile Signals Unit, Muir in a Photo-
graphic Recco Unit in Iceland. After the
war they accidentally met at the 8.8. C.,
and ever since have been “accidentally”
turning out some of the radio world’s
finest humor.
Lord Pakenham, First Lord of the
Admiralty, notched a brace of “firsts” in
the English Channel the other day. He’s
the first First Lord to land on a carrier at
sea, and the first to have a 17-gun salute
fired for him while airborne —circling
above carrier Illustrious.
“J.J.A.” (England): Will Ogilvie, just
past his 82nd birthday, is still hale and
hearty—visited him at Kirklea the other
day. A collection of his poems is being
prepared in Adelaide. Will told me that
the publisher flew to Sotland with the
MS., stayed four hours discussing it, then
immediately caught a plane back. The
edition is to be complete, including some
Scottish poetry unknown in Australia —
hard-riding border ballads, they should
appeal to Australians.
Another British ship to acquit herself
stoutly in Korea, frigate Morecambe Bay
has been congratulated on her gunnery
by the admiral commanding the U.S. 7th
Fleet. For 15 days the frigate bared her
four-inch teeth, pinpointing her targets
with persistent exactitude, wrecking roads
and tearing up rail-tracks, damaging
bridges and destroying trains. At night
she fired star-shell, then let go at repair-
gangs shown by the brilliant swinging
lights. She took on two locomotives.
One blew to pieces—the other, though
hit, managed to get to a tunnel. The
frigate’s guns followed, bringing down a
tonnage of rock and earth over the tunnel
entrance. Then she found a diesel loco.,
a train and a mobile repair-unit. All
were destroyed. The frigate’s captain is
Commander James Farnol, D.S.C. Pre-
vious job—in charge of gunnery-training
at the Royal Navy’s gunnery-school,
H.M.S. Excellent.
“Uramao”: Christchurch (M.L.) has a
new bishop, the fourth in its 100 years’
history, in Dean Warren, who succeeds
Primate Archbishop West-Watson. The
new bish., after his M.L. education, was
polished off by Marlborough College
(Eng.) and Magdalen College, Oxford.
A keen oarsman, he pulled for Oxford
and for the Leander Club at Henley,
graduated B.A. and M.A., was ordained
in 1926 by the Archbishop of Canterbury
and returned to New Zealand in 1929.
While shepherding in South Westland he
was responsible for St. James’ Church at
Waihao, world-renowned for the glorious
spectacle of the Franz Josef glacier seen
through the window behind the altar.
Serving with the Kiwis in 1944-45, the
Dean collected an M.C. as well as a
wound.
“A.E.S.”: Reached his three-score
years and ten this month, and to retire
at the end of the year, Edmund Morris
Miller, Professor of Psychology and
Philosophy at the Speck’s University, was
born in Natal and educated at Wesley
College and the University of Melbourne.
A lively life has included chairmanship of
the Speck’s Mental Deficiency Board,
presidency of the Blind Deaf and Dumb
Association, the Tasmanian Public
Library, the Australasian Association of
Psychology and Philosophy, and member-
ship of the Inter-
national Commis-
sion of Mental
Hygiene. His im-
posing bibliogra-
phical record takes
in Australian liter-
ature (his survey
of the work of
Australian authors
in poetry, drama,
fiction, essays,
criticism and an-
thology is one of
his better - known
books), school- and
public - libraries,
mental deficiency,
criminality and in-
telligence (from a
survey of Hobart
jail), psychology,
philosophy, the
doctrines of Kant
and Imperial
problems. It was
Prof. Miller to
whom Dwyer dedi-
cated his book
Leg - irons on
Wings, because of sympathy and encour-
agement received. Joining the Speck’s
University in 1913, the professor was its
Vice-Chancellor from 1933 to 1945, and
has given it longer service than any other
staff member.
Returning to Victoria, where he was
educated at Wesley and Queen’s Colleges,
Rhodes Scholar Dr. C, M. Focken,
reader in physics at Otago University,
Maoriland. The doc.’s new job will be
director of the Museum of Applied
Science in Victoria. He’s had 25 years
at Otago.
A recent posting takes Group-Captain
Frank Headlam up to Singapore, com-
manding Tengah airfield on the island.
From there the R.A.A.F.’s Lincolns take-
off for their pasting of Malayan terrorists,
Headlam just beat the Japs out of Timor
in War 11, and for a time after the war
commanded the R.A.A.F, at Darwin.
Between curl and collar in this
Coventry impression is the dial of J. F.
O’Grady, American vice-consul in
Adelaide, and, at 31, one of the youngest
consuls in his country’s foreign service.
In his nine years “foreign” he has so far
taken in New Delhi, a good deal of the
HERE FROM THERE.
Pacific with Uncle Sam’s war-time Navy,
and three years in Damascus, where he
was in the thick of the 1947-48 disturb-
ances, with the consular office stormed by
a mob of Arabs. O’Grady likes Adelaide
because its people remind him of the
folks back home —Boston.
A Sydney editor:
From when he first spiked copy in the old
“S. M. Herald” office in the early ’twenties
till his passing last week, at 47, Brian Penton
was one of Sydney’s most brilliant journalists.
Brilliant, in his case, is exactly the right word.
In his “S.M.H.” days, when he was in his own
very early twenties, he was already writing
sparkling political comment, and with little
respect for party, though "Granny” then was
as “Tory” as could be. In consequence, Brian
was carpeted more often than anyone else on the
staff; but "Granny” was well aware of his
special flair, and under the different regime
which followed the older Fairfaxes would have
tried harder to hold him. As it was, he later
joined the rebuilding “Telegraph,” eventually,
as editor, to take the leading part in its
remaking. In doing so he had to face a severe
choosing —between literature and journalism.
He chose journalism, with the result stated; but,
with the BULLETiN-published Landtakers and
Inheritors already to his credit, and with the
outline for a third to complete the trilogy, the
choice meant an incalculable and surely very
great loss to Australian literature. A Queens-
lander, he had a most striking personal appear-
ance —in youth a light physique, exceptionally
large brown eyes and straight-upstanding frizzy
brown hair thinning above a high forehead,
with the sardonic element of his character and
writing clearly evident on mouth and chin.
Maorilander John Borrie, a graduate of
Otago Medical School, becomes
Hunterian professor at the Royal College
of Surgeons. After p.-0.-w. experience he
took on research in thoracic surgery at
the North Regional Chest Surgery at
Shotley Bridge, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 75, John Cadell Windeyer,
whom many Sydney medicoes now practising
will remember as the gentle Professor of
Obstetrics at Sydney University for 16 years
from 1925. Son of a pastoral Windeyer from
Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.), the professor was
educated at The King’s School, Parramatta, and
took his medical degree in Sydney before going
to London for post-graduate training at the
beginning of the century. He had been Dean
of the Medical Faculty at Sydney University
and a member of its senate, as well as of just
about every medical organisation in N.S.W.
Modern obstetric methods in Australia owe
him much.
In London, at 74, Lord Dugan, one of the
most popular Governors in Victoria’s history,
and the one who stayed the longest. Appointed
for the usual five-year term after a long session
in S. Australia, he was asked to extend by
successive Governments of various political
colors. He came to Australia with a long record
of distinguished military service, having worked
up through three wars from the ranks to major-
general. He came out of War I with D.S.O.
and six mentions.
At Ayr (northern Queensland), at 58, William
McLellan, known throughout western Queens-
land as an expert horsebreaker. 1911 he was
State buckjumping champion and m 1917 won
the North Queensland title at Charters Towers.
He’d been sugar-farming for the past 15 years.
In Perth, at 65, Oliver Mason Watson,
former Chief Traffic Manager of the Westrahan
Railways, who retired last March, alter }
years’ service. Keenly interested m band-music,
he was for years enthusiastically associated witn
the Perth City Band.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 75, Cyprian Everard
Bridge, an old-time Wellington rep. at hockey,
aquatics and boxing. In Sydney in 193
judged the British Empire Games boxing, and
was earlier manager of the M.L. team at Ad
Australasian championships m Brisbane,


y
%
Fittest —^
Compliment
m.
Scots Whisky
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SHARYN PHEONA HOAD late of
Ounn e d a h.—TAKE NOTICE that
MERVYN JOHN HOAD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2560 of 1951 on the
ground that you have deserted the Peti-
tioner by reason of your failure to comply
with a Decree for Restitution of Conjugal
Rights made on the 10th October 1949
in Suit No. 3754 of 1948 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance _in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 31st October 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. J. McLACH-
LAN HOARE & CO., Solicitors, of 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney, Sydney Agents
for MESSRS. W. A. BAXTER & CO.,
of Gunnedah.
J
Vrusabe
a
N 5
GUARANTEED never to fade or shrin
asked a dusty, stray engineer one
day.
“Pretty slow, boss,” said the
engineer. “Things like this take
a long while, you know.”
“Sure, I know,” Splinter told
him. “I’m not one of these
bloody cockies around here.
Spent the best part o’ me life
underground in the mines on the
Yellow Reef. Machine-miner
on the Golden Hole, an’ knock-
ing out thirty quid a week for
two years in soft dirt on the
Star of Cumberland. Shift-boss
for a year on the Bonanza Deep,
but found out I could make
more an’ have more fun on con-
tract, so I went back to the Star.
Doin’ all right when th’ missus
made me pull out —you know
what women are. Anyway, I
know th’ game.”
“Do you, now?” said the en-
gineer, interested. “Well, we
might be looking for blokes like
you when the tunnelling starts.
We’ve got to make a mile of
tunnel to divert the Gurrulgid-
gee River into the Rainy, you
know.”
“Yair,” said Splinter, with his
old heart hammering like that
of a kid asking for his first job
among men on a mine. “When’s
that likely to be, mister?”
“About six months,” the other
said casually. “In the spring,
when the country dries out a bit,
most likely.”
The prospect of six more
months among the cows slowed
Splinter’s heart down until it
almost stopped, but the winter
passed somehow, and towards
the end of it he had a trip to
the city, signed a lot of papers
and came back with his chest
and his head both somewhat
swollen. “Well, woman,” he
announced to Mother Mac,
“there’s life in the old dog yet.
I’ve got a job.”
“A job!” His wife was
startled. “Are you mad, Mc-
Ginty?”
“Mad like a fox,” he said
proudly. “I’m on the tunnel —
the big tunnel. Shift-boss, too.
It’s more than just a matter of
what I’d like to do, mind you,
though I don’t deny I’m look-
ing forward to it. Anyway,
apart from that, the country
needs men with my bit o’ know-
ledge around these parts just
now. If these cockies started
tunnelling they’d blow their fool
heads off.”
“And that’s most likely what
you’ll do, you old goat,” Mrs.
McGinty said. She sat down
suddenly and, to Splinter’s dis-
tress, started to cry. “Oh, Sid,”
she added pathetically, “I’ll have
to start worrying about you all
over again.”
FROM that point on the argu-
ment wasn’t so happy, par-
ticularly when Splinter revealed
that he planned to take one of
the boys tunnelling with him to
“make a man of him.” There
were tears that made him feel
guilty and recriminations and
abuse that made him spitefully
glad. But despite the woes of
women, there could be only one
end to it, particularly when
Dick, the son who had been
selected to leave the farm for a
while, came around enthusiasti-
cally to his dad’s side.
“Oh, well, if it makes you
happy I certainly wouldn’t want
you to worry about me,” said
Mother Mac unpleasantly in the
moment of her final defeat. “If
this place that we’ve spent all
these years building up goes to
rack and ruin that’ll be just what
you’ve always wanted to hap-
pen to it, won’t it?”
But the farm, naturally
enough, continued to thrive in
the hands of three hefty boys
who had spent most of their lives
on it, and Splinter and Dick took
to their new life with enthusi-
asm. The old man in particular
became too superior to cows
even to look at them, and in the
tunnel he was a mass of fussy
energy, making miners out of
raw bush lads with the help of
one or two old-timers who, to
his delight, had been imported
from no other place than the
famous Yellow Reef. The drills
and explosives bit hungrily into
the mountainside, and there
were months of work ahead, and
then years on other sections of
the vast project. The weeks and
the tunnel stretched on their
way.
Mother Mac began to be
secretly happy that Splinter had
had his way, because he was so
much gayer to live with, and,
despite herself, fond memories
were awakened by the language
of underground on the lips of
her husband and one of her
sons.
'"TERRY DAVIES, the en-
-1 gineer, went to the city for
three weeks and left the trusted,
enthusiastic and experienced
Splinter in charge. When he
came back he brought with him
a superior proud, fat and lofty
engineer who smoked cigars and
on whom his promotion de-
pended. After introducing a
soothing quantity of alcohol into
the bloodstream of his boss he
took him underground to show
him an example of really
modern, practical, efficient tun-
nelling.
The big man was properly
pleased with what he first ’saw
in the workings, but as they
moved towards the face where
the rock-drills were roaring
Terry’s youthful jaw dropped a
little, and he lapsed into a half-
stunned, half - apprehensive
silence. Then his boss noticed it,
too.
“Here, what’s this, Davies?”
the visitor barked. “The damned
tunnel bends,”
“It can’t,” said Terry faintly.
“I know it seemed like it, walk-
ing along, but it —it—well, it
can’t, sir.”
“Does, dammit!” snorted the
fat engineer, the whisky suddenly
sour in his veins. “Plan shows
it as straight as a gun-barrel, and
you’ve got a twist in it, some-
how. Thought you were a
better man, Davies, or I wouldn’t
have given you a responsible
job.”
Davies could, of course, have
explained that the slight but
quite perceptible bend began
just a few feet beyond where the
men had been working when he
had left for town. He could
have made it clear that it was
not his fault, but that would
have done no good. He was the
man who had left that fool
Splinter McGinty in charge,
when he could, and it now
seemed should, have chosen
either of the other shift-bosses,
Rawson or Fennell. He clenched
his teeth, got his furious superior
out of the way and sent for Mc-
Ginty. He waited for him with
a floodlight focused along the
drive, showing up clearly the
disastrous bend.
“Now, you old fool,” Terry
hissed at Splinter without pre-
amble, “perhaps you can tell me
the meaning of this.”
Splinter was pale and fidgety,
like a man with incipient ulcers.
He foolishly tried to bluff.
“Wh-wh-what, boss?” he stam-
mered. “It’s goin’ well. We’re
pushing her through even faster
than they did the Thousand-foot
Level on the Crown of Persia
when they made the record in
nineteen-eleven. ’ ’
“Pushing her through!”
Davies roared. “But where the
hell to, you ape? We’re sup-
posed to come out the other side
of the mountain, not in the
saloon bar of the Wilson’s Spur
Hotel.”
Splinter regretted his feeble
effort at deceit, and looked
pleadingly at the engineer. He
came closer, and lowered his
voice to a confidential whisper.
“I’ll tell y’ the truth, Terry,” he
said. “I shouldn’t have done it,
but I couldn’t resist it. Rawson
and Fennell are old mates o’
mine, and they’re minin’ men,
and they couldn’t resist it,
either.”
“What?” Davies bellowed.
“We’ve struck th’ yeller stuff,”
Splinter announced in tones of
secret exultation. “We’ve hit
color!”
COR a moment the engineer
1 was puzzled. Then, as what
Splinter meant dawned on him,
a curious excitement flowed
through him.
“These bloody farmers here
don’t even know what it is, of
course” McGinty referred
scornfully to most of his work-
mates. “It’s a nice little leader
that oughta run to a reef ten
foot wide. We couldn’t git it
assayed or anything like that, o’
course, but me and Fennell and
Rawson have got a pile of ore
out there, separated from th’
mullock, that might even pay
expenses.”
But by the time McGinty had
got that far Davies was again a
Government engineer, in fear of
the sack. His blood was all in
his face, leaving none in his
veins to carry excitement. “My
God! ” he shouted. “Where do
you think you are, McGinty?
You’re not on the damned
Bonanza Deep now, you’re
working for the Government, on
the Rainy River scheme. Any-
way, you’re not doing that any
more. You’re sacked, mug.”
“All right,” said Splinter with
dignity. “I know I done wrong,
Mr. Davies, but if you was a
mining man you’d understand.
If you won’t see our point of
view me and Rawson and Fen-
nell will all take our time
t’gether, Mr. Davies—an’ my
boy, too, of course.”
Suddenly a greater disaster
than the crooked tunnel loomed
over Terry. Without his only
three experienced men on the
job the place would become a
shambles. The young farmers
were not only incapable of
recognising gold, but were apt
to mistake gelignite fumes for
their own cigarette smoke, and
seemed incapable of counting
properly when charges were
going off. Tunnelling would be
slow and desperately dangerous
without his three shift-bosses. A
position already bad enough was
growing rapidly worse.
He swallowed his dignity and
his temper with an anxious gulp.
“Of course, I didn’t quite mean
that, Splinter,” he said. “I hope
you’ll keep on with the job, but
we can’t have any more of this
nonsense.”
“I’m afraid we wouldn’t be
interested,” Splinter told him.
“It isn’t nonsense. There’s gold
there, and we want to peg a
claim.”
Davies groaned. “What about
the legal side?” he asked.
“You won’t be allowed to sink
a shaft on land the Govern-
ment has acquired for a specific
purpose.”
“The lawyers can decide
about that,” Splinter said. “I’m
not short of a few pounds, you
know. I’ve got a valuable pro-
perty over the hill—and, any-
way, we’ve only got to go down
fifty feet or so and we’ll prob-
ably be on gold good enough
to handle it.”
WHEN Mother Mac dis-
covered what might be
done with the farm, she had
hysterics, made more emphatic
by the strange tendency of even
her farming sons, as well as
Dick, to be bitten by the gold-
bug, filled with clan spirit and
generally willing to be with old
Splinter to the last ditch. The
three ex-shift-bosses, who were
practical miners and not land-
surveyors, spent a lot of time
measuring and calculating to
decide just where they should
sink their shaft to avoid the
Government tunnel and still
pick up the leader. When they
were ready they got to work
with a will on the mountainside,
while a curious farming popu-
lation watched and was inclined
o Continued on page 32.)
FLOOD YEAR.
Walking up the driftwood beach at day’s end
I saw it, thrust up out of a hillock of sand,
a frail bleached clench of fingers dried by wind—
the dead child’s hand.
And they are mourning there still, though I forget—
the year of flood, the scoured ruined land,
the herds gone down the current, the farms drowned
and the child never found.
When I wasi there, the thick hurling water
had gone back to the river, the farms were almost
drained.
Banished half-dead cattle searched the dunes; it rained;
river and sea met with a wild sound.
Oh, with a wild sound water flung into air
where sea met river; all the country round
no heart was quiet. 1 walked on the driftwood sand
and saw the pale crab crouched, and came to a stand
thinking “A child’s hand. The child’s hand.”
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WIGHT.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in Matri-
monial Causes.
TO CECIL JAMES CLANCY late of Tully
in the State of Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that JANE ELIZABETH
CLANCY has fded a Petition for Divorce
No. 1283 of 1951 on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse (under Queens-
land law) If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Twenty-fourth day of October 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ERIC SUNMAN, Solicitor,
110 Bathurst Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO THOMAS HENRY MARTIN formerly
of No. 328 Woolooware Road Cronulla. —
TAKE NOTICE that UNA GERTRUDE
MARY MARTIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce (No. 1251 of 1951) on the
grounds of your desertion without just'
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1949
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Eighth
day of October 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER & COMPANY.
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 850 George
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
ST APPOINTMENT
ftRDATH TOBACCO CO LT©
stqte Qiwgss
CIGaRETTB manofacturew
yTO H.M. KINO CCORSE Vi
555 i
Hilt)
1 »4a
«m m
iWlSuf
&
State
CfPim
s)3
m
§
v 'vs
I?Bfl
c cos
555
y.&
State Express 555 s are made
especially for smokers who
demand tKat extra touch of
quality.
Made slowly, and with
particular care, from their
own blend of finest Virginia
tobaccos. State Express 555
Cigarettes maintain their fine
reputation established for over
50 years.
MADE FAMOUS BY THE HOUSE OF STATE EXPRESS.
Is 8009 3
m
SR
*\
\\
<n2*s •-:
U
r»**- ■ " »,
gSggJv
fr'S
c- \
(three fives)
210 PICCADILLY LONDON W. i.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Australiana.
The Bulletin was drowned
the other day in an ocean of
Australiana, plus a hogshead or
two of Bulletiniana. The place
was Tye’s Gallery in Melbourne,
and the occasion the exhibition
of a very small part of the col-
lection of J. K. Moir, one-time
Knight Grand Cheese of the
Bread and Cheese Club.
Mr. Moir is a natural-born
collector, and his nostalgic
enthusiasm for the past is in-
fectious —you can’t help think-
ing of something you’ve got that
could be added to the collection.
It ranges from the firemarks
which private fire-brigades put
up on Melbourne buildings and
which rival fire-brigades tore
off, to a shirt once worn by
Henry Lawson, and from the
first book of verse published by
a Victorian to the Art of
Namatjira, a book which Moir
paid for out of his own pocket
and which gave such a hand-
some return that he sent a
cheque for £1000 to the Adelaide
University to endow study of
abo. problems.
Every exhibit has a story, and
many of them gave the collector
clues which he followed up with
unusual results, as when he dis-
covered Cabbage Tree Ned,
Cobb’s “gun” driver, was buried
in a pauper’s grave at Ballarat,
and had him dug up and respec-
tably interred in a proper grave-
yard.
Documents range from a
grant of pardon to a convict
sentenced to life for stealing one
sack of spuds after 16 years of
transportation to a receipt given
to a Victorian for the sale of
his wife and family for the sum
of £1, a transaction which
Bendigo Mac, the magistrate of
the time, frowned on and for
which he gave the seller six
months’ jail.
There is a story behind the
portrait of W. C. Wentworth
painted by Thomas Woolner,
the only R.A. to paint in Aus-
tralia, who subsequently told
Tennyson such a moving tale
about colonialism in Australia
that it inspired him to write
“Enoch Arden.” There is a link
with R. L. Stevenson and A. E.
Vidler, the well-known Mel-
bourne printer. He was an
apprentice at Cassell’s when
R.L.S. sent in his MSS. of
Treasure Island under the title
“The Sea Cook.” Cassell handed
the book to the apprentice, and
told him to take it home and
read it and see if it would make
a good tale for children. The
apprentice came back next
morning, and said he had sat up
all night reading it and Cassell
thereupon put it into publica-
tion.
There is the gold licence which
caused the Eureka Stockade
riots; John Batman’s will, in
which he leaves his wife a fiver ;
a landscape painted by Deem-
ing and the cigarette-case J. F.
Archibald presented to David
McKee Wright after reading his
first poem. The Muse of poetry
pilays a large part in the collec-
tion—the first book printed in
Tasmania which was in verse;
the first book of verse to be pub-
lished in Queensland ; the first
to be written by a native-born
Australian and the first book to
be published by an Australian
on the mainland.
That unsophisticated child of
nature, Smiler Hales, is repre-
sented by his first literary effort,
“Wanderings of a Simple Child,”
and George Gordon McCrae by
a letter written after he was 90,
and beautifully decorated by his
own hand much after the
manner that his grandson Hugh
does now. Annette Kellerman,
in neck-to-knees, “The Answer”
of that celebrated sartorial in-
novator, Chidley, and the “Natal
Poem” written by E. J. Brady at
78 to his daughter Edna June
Brady are other items. The
foundation of the show is Vol. I,
No. 1, of Cook’s Voyages.
Mr. Moir was born on Delta
Downs cattle-station in the Gulf
of Carpentaria, and was brought
up among the aboriginals, which
may account for his affection for
everything connected with them,
including the art of Namatjira
and his confreres. He must
have expended an amazing
amount of energy and a lot of
money in making his collection,
which is to be presented to the
Latrobe Library when it is
erected.
Miriam Moxham.
Whether from a mild ad-
venturousness or simply from
uncertainty as to where her
talent really lies there are many
different kinds of paintings in
Miriam Moxham’s show at Syd-
ney Grosvenor Galleries; a
mural-like panel of Randwick
entitled “Sport of Kings,” in
which the artist seems to take a
very dim view of bookmakers ;
a religious painting, presumably
evoked by the Blake Prize, en-
titled “Dark Valley” ; landscapes
inhabited by cows, horses and
even horsemen; studies of
children, including a youngster
on a rocking-horse; straight-
forward landscapes without
figures or animals ; flowerpieces.
The animal and figure studies
are rather flat and cumbrous —
Mrs. Moxham would need a
more vigorous approach to suc-
ceed in the Randwick panorama,
much finer drawing to succeed
in the almost impossible subject
chosen for “Old Farm House”
—a horse about to sit down. The
childhood studies are a distant
echo of Arthur Murch, but
heavy where Murch would be
graceful, static where Murch
would have movement.
Some of the straightforward
landscapes—“Old Sheds, Wind-
sor,” “Clouds Over Dural” and
“Cox’s Farm” — are pleasant
enough, but the adventurousness
pays its best dividend in the
flowerpieces where the artist is
probably following her instinc-
tive feminine sensitivity to
flowers themselves and, more
conspicuously, the decorative
patterns that can be made from
them.
Many of the arrangements
seem to owe something to the
influence of Adrian Feint; or at
any rate —in “Strange Flowers,”
for instance, with the vase set
against a Harbor background—
Mrs. Moxham is working along
the same lines. But “Strange
Flowers,” which consists of the
vivid green and crimson of
kangaroo-paws, has a bold and
bright decorative life of its
own, independent of influence;
and the same is true of many
other flowerpieces—the yellow
and blue “Iris,” the crimson of
“Leaves and Berries” and
“Autumn Flowers,” the flowers
floating in a pattern of green
leaves in “Cactus Decoration.”
Adolescent Art.
Hanging in the Recent Ac-
quisitions court, the Jubilee
exhibition of secondary-school
art at the National Gallery,
Sydney, is practically indis-
tinguishable from what usually
hangs there, or from any of the
exhibitions of those “modernists”
whose art expresses itself in the
unskilful painting of vague,
half-formed or abstract ideas.
That is no criticism of the
juniors on exhibition, how-
ever, and one approaches
their work with much the
same timidity that one would
approach a roomful of the
youngsters in the flesh, wonder-
ing whether to look for signs of
that fine distillate of observation
and inspiration which is the first
part of an artist, or for indica-
tions of that facility for expres-
sion and infinite capacity for
taking pains, which is the
second.
The present commentator
would think that, in children,
anyway, signs of the second
quality are most important
—the first coming and de-
veloping with maturity—but, un-
fortunately, there does not seem
to be much indication of either
quality in the exhibition as a
whole. In fact, if it is representa-
tive of secondary-school art, it
is an unconscious recommenda-
tion that a good deal more
attention might be paid to the
discipline of elementary drawing
and less to freedom of expres-
sion, There seems to be promise
of developing ability behind
“Girl’s Head,” by H. Black, and
“Life Sketch,” by M. Moody,
and Judith Haynes appears to
be feeling out the possibilities of
color and drama in “Card
Game.”
Past and Present.
The Victorian Artists’
Society’s Past and Present exhi-
bition of members’ work since
1870 is a parade of most of the
best-known Melbourne painters
of the last three or four genera-
tions —Louis Buvelot, Charles
Conder, Streeton, Roberts,
George Coates, Phillips Fox,
Freddie McCubbin, Bernard
Hall, Hans Heysen, Meldrum,
Blamire Young and John Long-
staff. When seen in mass the
show looks oddly enough like a
cavalcade of fashions with, here
and there, a sketch or a small
landscape with something indi-
vidual about it. That impression
prevails even more strongly
when one comes to the modern
section where the various prac-
titioners seem to be either taking
in each other’s washing or
Cezanne’s or Matisse’s cast-offs.
The pictures that don’t look
entirely reminiscent could be
counted on the fingers—a
Meldrum, a Conder, Justus
Jorgensen’s “Cassis, France,”
and Colin Colahan’s “Burwood
Road.”
John Ticehurst.
Its rachitic legs giving it the
appearance of being on trestles,
the box of richly - polished
mahogany reposing on the stage
at Sydney Con. was so shaped
(from the auditorium angle) and
so embellished that one would
not have been surprised to see a
few lilies resting on it, or a
reverent and dignified mortician
standing beside it holding some
wreaths. Then John Ticehurst
came out, took the front off his
harpsichord, which was made in
England five years before
Governor Phillip landed at Syd-
ney Cove, and proceeded to his
recital.
In contradistinction to the
pianoforte recital, that of the
harpsichord is quite an intimate
affair —at least Mr. Ticehurst
sensibly makes it so ; which is
fitting, for the harpsichord was
made for the drawing-room, or
at least the small hall. He also
gives a running commentary on
the composers who wrote for it,
on the instrument’s works and
peculiarities and, generally, on
everything pertaining to what
the audience was going to hear
—and that touch was as far re-
moved from the austerity of the
Steinway executants as the
equator is from the poles.
At first this ancestor of the
modern grand, with its wondrous
sonorities, sounds rather half-
way between a soft jangle of
bells and a zither. But the ear
quickly becomes attuned to its
peculiar beauties. The “harpsi-
chord age”—from 1500 to 1800
—had a very full representation
in the programme, ranging from
William Byrd and Orlando Gib-
bons to Couperin, Purcell, Scar-
latti and Bach. One of the most
charming items was a suite by
William Croft. Works by other
English composers made it plain
that in the pre-Bach era they
could more than hold their own
with any in Europe, and ex-
plains in part why Purcell has
never been excelled by any com-
patriot. Bach’s “Concerto in the
Italian Style” was given treat-
ment of flowing grace; there
were also four brief but lovely
Scarlatti sonatas.
Jiri Tancibudek collaborated
to good effect in two sonatas for
harpsichord and oboe: one a
fine work, by Telemann, and the
B Flat of Handel. Mr. Tanci-
budek conjures a melting tone
and commands no mean pul-
monary powers.
At the end of the concert Mr.
Ticehurst took his final bow with
a touch of that old-world
courtesy and swept his hand to-
wards his instrument in affec-
tionate acknowledgment as
though as to say: “It did all
the work, not I!”


Foil Made Your WUi?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor and Trustee under
your Wall, you safeguard your Estate and secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered by Special Acts of
Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following: • Advantages of appointing the
Company, either alone or jointly, with some trusted relative or friend • Moderate and fixed
scale of charges • Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
mjm
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Al e xander Stewatt ( Chairnian); Sir Lennon Raw*.
C.B.E.J G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
FR AC p‘ ,rL cB,e * u Ch M > F R C.P. London,
KK.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Worshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DISHONORABLE OIL EXIT.
As already noted, the British
Press generally has been re-
markably patient (to say the
least) throughout the oil dispute.
London “Time and Tide,”
however, is one that finally got
fed-up with things and let go
with both barrels:
“From beginning to end—
and the end is now —the British
Government have played a
lamentable part in the lament-
able affair of the liquidation of
British oil interests in Persia.
They have been inconsistent.
They have been feeble. They
have been evasive. They have
been undignified and cowardly.
“In politics these are compre-
hensible faults. But in dealings
with the peoples of the East
they are fatal faults.
“It was perfectly possible after
the death of General Ali Raz-
mara to negotiate from strength.
To do this it was necessary
merely to have a policy and a
plan and to hold to both. One
by one—and very swiftly—ali
the positions of strength which
could have been adopted were
abandoned by the British Gov-
ernment. They were, to all
seeming, unprepared for the
crisis when it broke.
“Had nobody ever hinted to
them that nationalisation is a
game which two or more can
play, with zest if hardly with
profit? Had nobody ever told
them that the Persians—a proud,
likeable, sophisticated and silly
people—were subject to moods
of intense and doubtless foolish
exasperation with the barbarous,
uncouth and discourteous West?
Had nobody in London, Tehran
or Abadan seen the danger-
signals?
“While the [“nationalising”]
law was being prepared and
promulgated, while the fantastic
oil commission was in its birth-
pangs, it was still possible to act.
But no. Anybody here in Lon-
don who urged that some show
of strength be made was
peevishly reproved for being
animated by an old-fashioned
imperialism. A whiff of old-
fashioned realism —whether or
not it can be called imperialism
—would, at this stage, have
blown away the whole dismal,
dangerous fog of illusion, boast-
fulness, lies and fears.
“Why were the British Gov-
ernment so blatantly afraid from
the outset? They were afraid
—so paralysed with fright that
they hardly dared mention it —
that if British troops, aircraft
and warships were sent to pro-
tect A.1.0.C.’s installations in
Southern Persia and their
officials and technicians, Russian
troops and aircraft might move
into Northern Persia. Why was
this possibility so appalling? It
would lead, hissed the scare-
mongers when they could bring
themselves to give shape and
form to their nightmares, it
would lead to a third world war.
“Well, would it? Germany has
been partitioned for years ; and
it is unpleasant and uncomfort-
able for Germans. Allied troops
and Russian troops confront
each other daily across frontiers
as artificial and as inflammable
as any that there would be in a
partitioned Persia ; and there is
no third world war. To whom,
then, would a renewed partition
and a divided military occupation
of Persia be most uncomfort-
able? The answer really is
simple: to the Persians, and
above all to the present Persian
Government. In protection of
the vital interests which Abadan
and the oilfields used to em-
body, this was a risk which
might have been taken
“This is not Singapore or
Rangoon in 1942. This is not
Jerusalem in 1948. But it bears
all the familiar marks of dis-
creditable rout and retreat. And
like its predecessors, it brings a
harvest of violent disillusion and
bitterness.....
“It is a dishonorable deed. It
is retreat and defeat, brought
about by the cowardice and
foolishness of the British Gov-
ernment. Why should we mince
words now? Forty years of
British labor and sweat and
bravery and intelligence have
been swiftly and supinely be-
trayed. Decent and honorable
men have been turned into fugi-
tives. Whose is the responsi-
bility? From the beginning it
has been the British Govern-
ment’s.”
War Prisoners in Russia
At last —six years after the
war—a U.N. Commission is to
inquire into Russia’s retention
of over a million and a half
prisoners-of-war —an estimate
based on the difference between
the numbers taken by the Soviet
during the war and returned
afterwards.
Although these prisoners are
only a part of “many more mil-
lions of many nationalities
seized, deported or abducted by
Soviet slave-hunters,” they are,
“N. Y. Times” points out, “in a
class by themselves, and both the
Western Powers and the United
Nations bear special responsibili-
ties toward them. Their cases
are covered by both inter-
national conventions and specific
international agreements pledg-
ing the Soviets to return them
by fixed dates long since past,
and these are conventions and
agreements to which the Wes-
tern Powers are parties and
which the United Nations is sup-
posed to uphold.”
No doubt many thousands of
the prisoners will not have sur-
vived Russian incarceration, but
official sources estimate that
there are 400,000 German
prisoners in Russia of whom
260.000 have been identified as
still living, while the Japanese
Government estimates that
370.000 of its former soldiers
are still alive and held prisoners.
Thousands more include Italian,
French, Spanish, Hungarian and
other nationalities.
The “Times” sees the Soviet
Government’s refusal to co-
operate in the inquiry as a strong
presumption of guilt, but hopes
that the commission “will not
be restrained from making all
ascertainable facts public and
branding the crime and the
criminals for what they are.”
Australia’s Inflation.
Although they are by no
means unanimous in suggested
cures, U.K. papers run pretty
parallel in their diagnoses of the
causes and the state of Aus-
tralia’s current financial head-
ache.
In a fairly typical and com-
pact summing-up, the “News
Chronicle” opines that the Aus-
tralian case may rank as “classi-
cal” to future students. As
“salient and distinguishing fea-
tures” it lists:
“The pressure of the long-
term immigration and develop-
ment plan; the tremendous
creation of incomes arising
from the boom in wool; and
the unexampled monopolistic
‘squeeze’ which the trade-unions
Sueddeutsche Zeitung, muntch, Germany.
PEACE APPROACH IN KOREA.
have been able to fasten on the
economy.
“The effect of these three
forces working together has
been an expansion of monetary
circulation, wages and other in-
comes and prices which exceeds
that recorded in almost any
other country.
“Wages, for example, in the
18 months June, 1949, to De-
cember, 1950, rose by 244- per
cent, in Australia against 1\ per
cent, in the United States and
4i per cent, in the United King-
dom.
“Retail prices in the same
period have risen 11 per cent, in
Australia against 5 per cent, in
U.S. and 4 per cent, in U.K.
The volume of money has risen
25 per cent, in Australia, 7 per
cent, in U.S. and 4 per cent, in
U.K. There have, of course,
been further big increases in
prices, wages and money in the
past six months.”
The trade - union “squeeze”
not only accounts for pressure
for higher wages but for restric-
tion in output, especially in the
basic industries, “while on the
other hand an increase of 16 per
cent, in domestic refrigerators
typifies the ever-increasing im-
portance assigned to the secon-
dary as against the primary
industries.”
Noting that proposed remedies
include “the balancing of the
Commonwealth Budget, restric-
tion of hire-purchase and other
forms of credit and new price-
controls” the paper, slightly
ahead of Mr. Menzies’s an-
nouncement on the subject, holds
that Australia’s insistence “in the
policy of keeping interest-rates
low because she has a big capital
programme was a cardinal mis-
take. She ought to have allowed
rates to rise because she has a big
capital programme. High rates
do not add to the cost of de-
velopment ; they lower it be-
cause they tend to keep prices
down and have selective effects,
weeding out the more wasteful
or extravagant projects.
“In Australia, as elsewhere,
strong monetary action is the
key to the whole problem. But
will Australian Labor stand for
strong monetary action or rather
for its reactions upon itself?
That is another question.
“The attitude of Australian
labor lies at the root both of
the ‘too much money’ and the
‘too few goods’ facets of the in-
flation problem. Unless Aus-
tralian labor can be brought to
realise the consequences of its
actions the problem may in the
last resort prove insoluble.”
The “Financial Times,” citing
much the same causes but tak-
ing a slightly more optimistic
view of Mr. Menzies’s proposals,
sees in them the suggestion
“that now the peril has been
recognised there will be no lack
of vigor in the Government’s
efforts to find a cure. Certainly
by comparison with the U.K.
Government’s feeble disinflation
proposals outlined by Mr. Gait-
skell the other day, the Aus-
tralian programme looks ex-
tremely impressive. And, unlike
its U.K. counterpart, it appears
to have the great virtue of being
free from political prejudice. If
these proposals are energetically
applied it should be possible to
make some headway against in-
flation in Australia provided a
means can be found of bringing
about a wages-prices truce while
they begin to take effect.”
Chinese Blackmail.
Reporting the “sickening but
not surprising fact” that Chinese
Communists are blackmailing
overseas Chinese by threatening
the lives and well-being of rela-
tives still in China, N. Y.
“Times” discerns two important
factors behind the campaign.
The most obvious point, of
course, is that the Communist
regime in China needs money,
and will go to any lengths to
§ e f tt. The Korean adventure”
(the “Times” comments) “has
been a further drain on Chinese
economy, and that economy,
despite Communist boasts, was
not restored to anything like
viability after the Communist
conquest. Domestic sources of
revenue have already been
tapped beyond the point of
diminishing returns, and confis-
cation has not sufficed to sup-
plant production.”
The other motive behind this
blackmail is the aim of Chinese
Communists to get some sort of
economic and political hold over
Chinese living abroad. “For the
most part,” the paper adds,
these overseas Chinese have not
been sympathetic toward the
Communists. As investors and
merchants they represent an eco-
nomic structure that would
naturally oppose Communism.
“While it is true that the Com-
munists have been able to
organise some overseas Chinese
into terrorist units, as in Malaya,
the bulk of the overseas Chinese
want no part of this sort of
operation. They want to live in
peace and relative prosperity and
to be law-abiding members of
the communities in which they
reside.”
Dividends Ado.
When British Chancellor Gait-
skell let out his proposed statu-
tory limitation on dividends he
brought as fine a storm about
his ears as any rainmaker might
wish for in his wildest dreams.
In giving the reasons for the
proposal he said “It is no exag-
geration to say that practically
every morning there is news of
a company increasing its divi-
dend in a pretty substantial way,
and on a scale far greater than
the general increase in money in-
comes which has recently been
taking place. This kind of thing
inevitably acts as a continual
irritant on the great majority of
the population who* are not
equity shareholders.... .The
psychological consequences of
sharp increases in dividends are
far greater than their direct
monetary effect,...! have now
come to the conclusion that
these further steps are necessary
if we are not to be continually
frustrated in our efforts to check
inflation and the increase in the
cost of living.”
On which the “Financial
Times” remarked; “The Chan-
cellor did not even pretend that
increases in dividends have any
actual effect on inflationary
pressure—their total compared
to that of wages and salaries is
far too small. On the argument
that their psychological effect is
to stimulate wage claims he is
running all the risks which are
involved in this kind of legisla-
tion —and without any insurance
of success. How many wage
claims will be withdrawn, how
many that are planned will not
be taken forward because of the
legislation that the Chancellor
proposes?
“Broadly, companies will be
confined for the next three years
to the average of the sum of the
last two total distributions, de-
clared before today. It is
scarcely worth while pointing
out the injustices of such legisla-
tion. Companies which kept


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS *
o'suixrvAN
1 A. PIYUD. ,
BW’
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept 28J). 248 Elisabeth St. Sydney
Cut Irrigation costs —and work —by one third
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
WITH
ALUMINIUM
SPRAY SECTIONS
SlfS
So light a child can carry a 24ft. section with ease.
gf
POWERFUL SPRAY HEADS
Throw a fine spray
over an area 48 ft.
square, or a heavy
spray up io 72 ft.
square.
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordi-
nary outlet, but does
the work of hydrant as
well! Simple to operate,
this practical unit gives
trouble-free operation,
reduces obstruction in
outlet and main.
1
Only half the weight of
ordinary piping. Rainbow's
Aluminium sections save
your precious time and
labour. Rustless, seamless,
the 24ft. sections may be
used for all water pur-
poses and are supplied
with flexible couplings and
non-flexible underground
joins.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS GIVE
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25*
3
Worked in a ball
and socket principle,
■the Rainbow coup-
ling is easy to con-
nect and disconnect,
.provides a positive,
watertight joint in
any direction better
than 25°.
STURDY ANGLE IRON
STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24-ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tall stands
eliminates interference to
growing vegetation.
A
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone BD 3135.
Branch Offices: C. -Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont, Miidura; C. Beaumont, 64 King
Street, Melbourne; 230 Sheridan Street, Gundagal, N.S.W.; Mr. N. Peacock, Bridge
Street, Muswellbrook, N.B.W.
Distributors: Waugh and Josephson Pty. Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street, South
Brisbane; Ralph Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; P. C. Korwitl, 68 Hobbs Avenue,
Nedlands, Perth.
New Zealand Agent: Freshftelds Limited, 118 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
60/83.11
their dividends down —just those
surely which the Chancellor
ought to reward will be
penalised. Those which have
made large distributions will be
rewarded.
“Such limitation will freeze
the capital structure of a large
sector of the economy in a quite
arbitrary and haphazard pattern.
This is no unimportant matter.
Industry is running seriously
short of capital. Many large and
important companies in the next
three years are bound to want
to come to the capital market
for the money which they re-
quire for development. Without
such development there is little
hope that this country will be
able to bear the burden of re-
armament. Yet when they come,
if they wish to raise ordinary
capital, the return they can offer
to potential subscribers will not
be related to the money they
hope to earn on the new capi-
tal ; it will not even be related
to the money they have earned
in the past.”
Further extensive Press com-
ment of the Chancellor’s pro-
posal ranged from coldly critical
to fiercely hostile, and when it
might have been politic to let the
first wave of protest subside, Dr.
Dalton more-or-less added insult
to injury with; “My friend Gait-
skell’s speech, whatever else it
has done, has thrown the Stock
Exchange into complete dis-
order, and that is good fun, any-
way.”
If Dr. Dalton intended to
divert some of the coals from
his colleague’s head he certainly
succeeded. The chairman of the
Stock Exchange replied to him:
“Is it ‘fun,’ then, that all this
should be thrown into ‘complete
disorder’ by a scheme for the
limitation and reduction of divi-
dends, which, by the manner and
timing of its announcement, and
the anomalies and obscurities
that cannot be at once resolved,
must keep this great market in
suspense for several, and per-
haps for many, months? Is it,
indeed, ‘fun’ that scores of mil-
lions of pounds should be struck
off the value of the national
assets, to the great detriment of
the collection of estate duty? Or
that the slender incomes and
capital of countless small fami-
lies and persons should be re-
duced? And is it ‘fun,’ or sense,
or anything else, that the possi-
bility of raising new equity capi-
tal for new industry should be
killed stone-dead?”
Which heated objection was
rounded off by the “Yorkshire
Post”; “Presumably Mr. Dalton
chooses to regard the Stock Ex-
change as the haunt of bloated
plutocrats making undeserved
profits by buying and selling bits
of paper. The truth is that the
Stock Exchange is a market for
£30,000-millions-worth of securi-
ties.
“The money represented by
these securities would never have
been subscribed if the sub-
scribers —the vast majority of
them people of moderate means
—had not had the assurance
that they could freely sell their
securities if they wanted to ; and
this cannot be done except
through a Stock Exchange.
“All saving, and all the vast
wealth built on saving, becomes
virtually impossible without a
Stock Exchange. To think that
complete disorder there is good
fun is like laughing because
there is an electricity cut or like
shaking with honest mirth be-
cause there is not coal enough
to keep industry working. If
Mr. Dalton’s loutish sense of
fun finds imitators it is likely to
cost the country dear.”
Dollar-land Drugs.
In the United States last year
(a New York correspondent of
London “Economist” has re-
ported) the drug business sold
some $1,500,000,000-worth of
pills and potions—about four
times the 1937 sales.
Part of the increase is
accounted for by inflation, but
“most of it is due to the higher
real cost of producing the
vitamins, sulphanamides and
antibiotics which have revolu-
tionised the drug trade in the
last two decades.”
Some 60 per cent, of today’s
sales are reckoned to be of drugs
and the like not more than 10
years known, while 90 per cent,
of prescriptions doctors now
write could not have been filled
in 15 years ago.
Among other quoted examples
of drug use, there is now a
penicillin chewing - gum for
mouth infections. The penicillin
discovery, too, “has stimulated a
search for earth-mould drugs
which has brought fortunes to
the winners and made it possible
to combat a wide range of
stubborn diseases. So magical
are these antibiotics in their
effect that enthusiasts believe
them capable of treating half the
ailments which enter doctors’
surgeries.”
The correspondent gives these
instances of successes: “Strep-
tomycin, the first American
wide-spectrum antibiotic, sprang
to fame as the first drug to have
any success in the treatment of
tuberculous meningitis, which
until then had been invariably
fatal. Chloromycetin, whose
first success was in the treatment
of typhoid fever, followed in
1947; made from a mould
picked up in Venezuela, it is
now being refined in Britain.
Aureomycin, sprung from a
clod of Missouri earth, was in-
troduced in 1948. Since it has
been found effective in a wide
range of virus diseases, especially
virus pneumonia, it is not sur-
prising that by 1949 its sales
almost equalled those of all the
other products of its lucky
maker.”
The production of another of
them terramycin involved
two and a half years of work,
55 scientists, $4,000,000 and
100,000 soil samples. It is now
“in use or in test all over the
world, including some 85 British
clinics.”
To these quality products the
corresnondent adds a couple
from the “lunatic fringe”* one
w.th a„ alcoholic content of 18
ner cent “which perhaps
explains its tonJe
Sit bodily odors so success-
fully that one may go un-
reproved from an onion sand-
wich and a stiff game of tennis
to the most polite of tea-tables
without stopping for a bath ”
Various Voices.
The late Sir Arnold Wilson,
back in 1909 as a young politi-
cal officer, when he was helping
to negotiate agreements for the
Anglo-Iranian Company with
Persia: “I have spent a fort-
night upon oil-company business
mediating between Englishmen
who cannot always say what
they mean and Persians who do
not always mean what they say.
The English idea of an agree-
ment is a document in English
which will stand attack by
lawyers The Persian idea is
a declaration of general inten-
tions on both sides, with a sub-
stantial sum in cash, or both.”
Philip C. Jessup, U.S. Ambas-
sador - at - Large : “We must
recognise the skill which the
Communists possess in the field
of propaganda. There is per-
haps less danger of Soviet ac-
quisition of more territory than
of their capturing in the minds
of people, even outside the Com-
munist orbit, such concepts as
the promotion of peace.”
Edward W. Barrett, U.S.
Assistant Secretary of State for
Public Affairs : “The Soviets are
even playing two conflicting
propaganda lines to audiences
abroad. Line One is that the
Soviet Union, the great cham-
pion of peace, took the initia-
tive in seeking a truce in Korea.
Line Two, in sharp contrast, is
that the Americans were licked
and came to the Communists on
bended knee to seek peace,
Neither line is proving particu-
larly successful m most ot the
world—partly because the two
tend to cancel each other out,”
Dean Acheson. U.S. Secretary
of State ; “Whether or not there
is peace in Korea, whether our
adversaries are cooing like doves
or growling like bears, our job
remains the same, and the threat
remains the same The tactics
of the Kremlin are flexible, and
may change from season to sea-
son. But so long as its power is
of threatening proportions, and
so long as it does not show a
willingness to work for a stable
and peaceful world, the danger
to us remains.”
Socialist M.A. in Commons
debate on the School Certificate
Examination : “The grammar
school is not the only school
which has to deal with this prob-
lem of the bright child. It is
universal throughout our educa-
tional system.”
Former Belgian Premier Paul
Henri Spaak: “In the United
States there is one border, one
economy, one market and one
currency—in Europe we have 15.
Give us the same basic economic
conditions, let us start with the
same elements of competition
and we can do in West Europe
what the United States are
doing.”
President Truman : “We hope
and believe that we will not have
to use the armed strength we
are building up. Our aim is to
put an end to war. But we know
that, unless we have armed
strength, we cannot put out the
fires of aggression that threaten
the peace of the world at this
time.”
President Truman : “The mill-
tary build-up of the Soviet
Union which has been continu-
ing since 1945 has no other pur-
pose than to blackmail the free
world into submission to Com-
mumst domination. Or if the
free world lacks strength or
determination to prevent it, the
“X
tral threat to our country and
to every free country in the
world. We cannot have peace
unless this threat is overcome,
Ambassador Charles M. Spof-
ford, assessing N.A.T.O.’s
achievements: “We are now
actively in the period of build-
ing up our forces. In effect, we
are paying up the back premiums
on an insurance policy for de-
fence. These premiums are in
the form of investment in pro-
duction capacities, in tanks,
P laneB and f u " s > and ln the
man-hours of the young men
going into training camps. Once
this policy is paid up we will be
m a position to receive the divi-
dends of security from attack.
Then and only then will we be
m a position to devote national
“ to purposes other than
those forced u P on „ us th f,
Soviet menace to the free world,
U.S. Defence Secretary Mar-
shall: “By the end of June, 1951,
more than 1,600,000 measure-
ment tons (the equivalent of
1600 shiploads of equipment.
exclusive of aircraft and naval
vessels delivered under their
own power) had been shipped to
friendly nations. The total value
°f the equipment shipped, in-
eluding the aircraft and naval
vessels, is in excess of 1000 mil-
lion dollars. The bulk of this
equipment, 975,000 tons, has
been shipped to the countries of
Western Europe. To the Middle
East has gone 415,000 tons,
and the balance of 210,000 tons
to the Far East. The major
items of equipment already
transferred include more than
4500 tanks and combat vehicles,
2900 major artillery pieces,
19,000 general-purpose vehicles,
900 aircraft and more than 190
naval vessels and small craft.


ALL. OYER THE WORLD
m
m
vWs
m
iiilpisi
|
m
Good mornings begin with Gillette
The Basques who reside
in the High Pyrenees
Now shave off their beards
with the greatest of ease;
Vou also should share the
improvement they’ve made
By using the wonderful
Blue Gillette Blade
Gillette Razors and Blades
are made for each other.
Sharpest ever made. Blue
Gillette Blades are also the most
economical because they last
so long. Naturally they are
chosen by the smartest men of
every country in the world.
Blue Gillette Blades
1/8 for five . . . 3/4 for ten . . . 6/8 for twenty
(plastic dispenser)
7/161
1101M'5...
c*' to possess !
Here is your chance
—and on easy terms, too
if you wish it
m
I
• i
m
-
t DECAMERON
OF
BOCCACCIO
Pulsing with the excitement and mystery of
fourteenth century intrigue, Boccaccio's vivid
portrayal of the private and public life of his
day grips the imagination as few things can.
In two volumes, well bound and beautifully
illustrated, this Is the only unexpurgated
library edition of one of the most famous
classics of all time.
THE BOOK YOU HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO OWN
Post this Coupon immediately for
Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
89 Costlereogh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please supply me with THE DECAMERON OF BOCCACCIO,
two volumes.
Su
Date...
Cross out
lines
not
required.
(a) I enclose the full cash price of £3/3/-.
(b) Charge to my account.
(c) I enclose 17/6 deposit and saree to make
monthly payments of 10/- until I complete
the subscription price of £3/7/6.
Postage, 1/6 exira.
NAME
fi ? an E a ccou nFisn'ota Irea d y opened the following information is required.)"
OCCUPATION
CREDIT REFERENCES I
2 —rr.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Fifty years ago almost any man
with a shovel, a bottle of brandy and
a passion to be rich could go digging
for diamonds in South Africa and
hope to make a fortune.” — “Time.”
Nowadays he just knocks off
work to carry bricks.
4* 4* 4*
“A Philadelphia hosiery company
has produced nylons with five toe-
holes for women who wear sandals
and toe-peeper shoes.”
Their success is sticking out
a foot.
“A blue-eyed Transvaal baby has
all the 26 letters of the alphabet
‘stamped’ into the iris of his left
eye.”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
In due course he should land
a job with the A.B.C.
4* 4* 4*
“I admire very much the man who
has the courage to become an archi-
tect.”—Sydney “Sunday Sun.’’’
It’s so hard to make one’s life
go according to plan.
4* 4* 4*
“It is better not to be too hasty in
letting a casual date know how much
you think of him.”
—“True Romance.”
Don’t try to altar him too
quickly.
4* 4* 4*
“The capacity of the public to
forget a star is practically unlimited.”
—Film comedian Harold Lloyd.
Especially one that is waning.
Beefing It Out.
“The best audience to hear you
trying out lines are cows.”
—Actor Sir Laurence Olivier.
When Thespians, once in a way,
Must learn the lines of some
new play
The question facing them is how
To get sufficient repetition
And yet not land in the position
Of causing an infernal row.
For guests in any boarding-
house
Or pub would be inclined to
grouse
If forced to hear the whole day
long
The din of principals rehearsing.
Backed by the torrid fluent
cursing
Of all concerned when things go
wrong.
So why not to the dairy go
To practise for a coming show ?
For there there’s never any din.
Politely they suppress their
mooing
And silent always their cud-
chewing.
They’d never think of horning-
in.
D.H.E.
On and On.
The 95th meeting of the
negotiators who were endeavor-
ing to effect a settlement of the
Persian oil dispute had finally
agreed to seek a sub-basis which
could be expanded into a full
basis for a future foundation on
which it might be found possible
to build a compromise structure
which would eventually allow
top-level talks on compensation,
marketing and allied subjects to
proceed.
After this formula had been
talked into the ground the
special representative of the
British Socialist Government,
Sir Lazarus Mcßlumenthal, arose
to say that his Government
accepted “in principle” the sug-
gestion put forward yesterday
by the Persian Minister for Mob
Demonstrations, Hukkabuk
Sukka, that the British should
be kicked out of Persia by
somebody.
It was one of the most
cherished tenets of the British
Socialist party, Sir Lazarus went
on, that it would never with-
hold sympathy from any
country which was weak enough
to order the British to get out of
anywhere, especially when
evacuation of that particular
place jeopardised the British
Commonwealth’s strategic
safety.
His Government, he added,
had made it plain that it had no
sympathy with the old forms of
Imperialism—in fact, since it
came to power it had striven to
undo the evils of the past bv
“Not fish AGAIN!”
giving most of the Empire away,
and it would certainly lose no
opportunity of giving the rest
away as soon as it was con-
venient. He could say that
nothing made the Socialist Gov-
ernment more ashamed than to
think that England had become
great by being strong and pro-
tecting her interests everywhere.
Had a British Socialist Gov-
ernment been in power at the
time it would most certainly
never have allowed Admiral
Lord Nelson to annoy the French
at Trafalgar. It would have de-
pended on the more-enlightened
method of sending a mildly-
worded Note to Napoleon, and
would have invited him to send
a delegation to form a joint
steering committee to try to
find a formula for arriving at
separate spheres of influence
based on weakness.
The fact that the British
Socialist Government had
recently allowed the Egyptian
fleet, the whole two of it, to
bully and rob English merchant-
men without resorting to any
retaliation proved the earnest
desire of that Government to
dissociate itself in every way
from any suggestion that it may
have been harboring any aggres-
sive, or even defensive, inten-
tions.
He felt that if his delegation
demonstrated clearly that the
British Socialist Government,
which had every sympathy with
the socialistic aspirations of the
Persian Government hadn’t
they both nationalised industries,
ensuring that the people would
thus enjoy the losses they would
now make instead of letting
greedy capitalists get the profits?
—would under no circumstances
show any sign of strength or
determination in these talks that
goodwill must prevail, and that
out of this must surely emerge a
settlement which would result in
the Persians graciously allowing
Britain to buy at least part of
the oil which British ingenuity
and resource had made possible.
The leader of the Persian Oil
Committee, Hussein Panzi,
fortified himself against the
effects of this conciliatory speech
by taking a deep sniff of his
favorite perfume. Evening in
Moscow, before rising to put the
Persian case.
Within five seconds he was
shrieking in a fighting soprano
his accusations that the British
plutocrats had exploited Persia’s
great natural wealth, and that
instead of a beautiful unspoiled
desert they had converted
Abadan into an unsightly mass
of hospitals, schools, univer-
sities, tree-lined concrete roads,
dams, public buildings and re-
fineries, all symbols of decadent
Western barbarism, and all Built
by Anglo-Iranian Oil for the
enslavement of the Persian
masses.
Before the British came, M.
Panzi went on in F in alt, the
Persians had been a people
happy in pursuing lice, the
country’s chief industry. Now
what was the depressing posi-
tion? The bloodsucking British
oil interests had brought in their
decontamination squads and
then D.D.T., with the result
that the unfortunate Persian
workers now found themselves
utterly deprived of the lousiness
they once enjoyed, except in the
moral sense. That, however, the
British could never take from
them (cheers).
Hussein Panzi was just work-
ing himself into a lather with a
threat of allowing Soviet tech-
nicians to come in and mess the
refinery up when he injudiciously
thumped his chest for emphasis,
causing him to buckle at the
knees. He commenced laughing
violently then, and was wheeled
off to hospital with hysteria.
Premier Mussediq was imme-
diately summoned to the con-
ference by M. Sukka. As he
entered the conference-room a
member of the Tudeh party
poked his tongue out at him,
whereupon Persia’s strong man
burst into uncontrollable sob-
bing and had to be rushed to
bed.
Next day Geuter’s corres-
pondent told a thoroughly bored
world that “sources close to
both interests agree that con-
siderable progress was made at
yesterday’s talks, and that pros-
pects for a settlement agreeable
to both parties could be esti-
mated at something more than
could have seemed possible a
few short months ago.”
Bo.
Dandelion on a Refuse-tip.
C Anthropomorphic Existentialism, or
something.)
you are a goad to sting the
rubble’s rump;
your foot is pronged, your head
is spurred and rowelled,
where, on the altar of the
rubbish-dump,
the votive garbage-can is dis-
embowelled.
o dent-de-lion ( french ) o reek-
ing jaws!
o irrelevant ) o for a neat quota-
tion !
o merry skulls! p gruesome
metaphors !
o my magnificent imagination!
your petal-bayonets ooze yellow
blood.
your stalk writhes lovely as a
hangman’s rope,
your leaves reach out like hands,
your wincing bud,
tight-clenched, is like an eye
half-full of soap.
I’ll pick you up and take you
down a peg.
see how I pull your solitary leg!
NEIL MILLAR.


L
K
o
f/WKSB l/OWLt
'went to town
Upon a little pony,
He felt a little hoarse, of course.
And said so to a crony.
The crony said: "I’m certain sure
The remedy is plain;
You take some Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure,
And you’ll be right as rain!’’
Ml
/m
SS^fmS
OIST,,, ;«cv?;
SssL.
•»&
t it • *
pmm i d
r*
0$
WS
Q^rvlUO
mm
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE Vh
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Quct&y
<Pn<c/nnJt4tSt4t&e
Stcmds Sup\J2AM
"THERE IS ALWAYS A BEST 1 *
CONSULT YOUR OWN JEWELLER
Sole Aust. Representatives; Segal & Company, Sydney and Melbourne
UIU^
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Saturday’s Warwick Farm gather-
ing at Randwick was the first of the
spring meetings, and quite a galaxy
of the anticipated stars of the spring
racing emerged from winter quarters,
but, on the whole, their performances
tended to bedazzle rather than to
illuminate. As usual there was an
overwhelming surfeit of pointers to
spring prospects. By the end of the
day the bookies had five horses equal-
favorites for the Epsom, and about
twice that number of names were
spinning round in the minds of
students seeking elucidation of the
Derby situation.
However, notwithstanding the fairish
efforts of several other candidates,
many critics were quite satisfied that
they had sighted the Derby winner
when the Delville Wood colt Hydro-
gen turned-in a cracking performance
to win the 7-furlongs Hobartville
Stakes from a pretty hot field.
Hydrogen tailed-off behind the field
in the early stages, was still a bad
last approaching the three-furlongs
mark, and had passed only a couple
of stragglers when the field entered
the straight; then, commencing a
brilliant run at the Leger, he came
like a shot, wide out, to simply romp
in. It certainly had all the appear-
ance of a splendid Derby trial.
Both minor placegetters in the
Hobartville, at the same time, turned
in quite attractive performances.
New Zealand-bred Montana, whom
we’ve yet to see run a bad race, also
finished fast from well back to take
second money; and it might be added
in his favor that he did not seem
so forward in condition as Hydrogen.
Mentioned here last week as “a defi-
nite improver,” the grey Trizami ran
a nice, even race for third money,
and on breeding alone this fellow
would deserve consideration as a
Derby prospect. Trizami is by
Nizami, and, with two Melbourne
Cups, a Caulfield Cup and two Oaks
Stakes to his credit, Nizami’s merit
as a sire of quality stayers does not
require stressing. Trizami’s dam,
Triode, a daughter of another noted
sire of stayers in Marconigram, her-
self won the V.R.C. Oaks, and her
granddam, Mufti, won the Oaks and
ran third in the Melbourne Cup.
By the same token there is no
questioning Hydrogen’s pedigree—at
least on paper. Hydrogen’s sire,
Delville Wood, was himself indisput-
ably a stayer; he scored, in England,
four wins and seven minor placings
at distances ranging from one-and-a-
half to two-and-a-quarter miles. But,
since the present three-year-olds are
his first crop, it actually remains to
be seen if Delville Wood passes on
his own staying qualities. There is,
as yet, certainly no reason to doubt
that he will. Hydrogen’s dam, Sweet
Sound, is a Magpie mare, which is
sufficient recommendation.
Paying big prices for youngsters
from the first crop of a new sire
can be a pretty risky business, but
Sydney owner E. R. Williams can
scarcely regret his expensive success
in the keen competition there was
at the 1950 yearling sales for the
handsome Delville Wood youngsters.
Williams paid 3200 guineas for
Hydrogen, and that colt’s record now
reads three wins and two thirds from
five starts. Only a few minutes
before he acquired Hydrogen, Wil-
liams had successfully bid 2100
guineas for another colt by Delville
Wood from Best Wishes. On Satur-
day the Best Wishes colt, racing now
as Forest Beau, won the mile three-
year-old Handicap even more easily
than Hydrogen had taken the Hobart-
ville. Unlike Hydrogen, Forest Beau
was prominent all the way, and he
took charge as soon as they straight-
ened up for the run home. While
overshadowed by his colleague’s
more glamorous Hobartville victory,
Forest Beau’s performances was no
mean Derby trial in its own right.
While most owners would think
themselves more than fortunate to
have a pair like Hydrogen and Forest
Beau to represent them in the Derby,
Williams has yet a third string to his
bow in the New Zealand-bred Nitro-
gen, and some shrewd judges have
been inclined to regard this fellow
as the best of the trio. For his spring
debut Nitrogen gave the company of
his fellow three-year-olds a miss, and
appeared, instead, in the w.-f.-a.
Warwick Stakes (7f.). In common
with several other runners in the
Stakes, Nitrogen looked much in
need of a run or two. San Domenico
started a solid favorite for the Stakes,
and very easily won the event for the
second year in succession. Oversight
finished well for second money,
thereby enhancing his Epsom pros-
pects, but Davey Jones, in finishing
a moderate third, fell somewhat below
the expectation of his Epsom admirers.
A squad of Metrop. candidates em-
ployed the Stakes as a pipe-opener,
and of these Delta, Aristocrat and
Blue Ocean performed pleasingly.
Another batch of Epsom form was
brought to light by the Campbell-
town Handicap (6f.), which saw True
Leader start a warm favorite and
register a game win; he led through-
out, and, strongly ridden out at the
finish by K. Barratt, just managed
to hold off the strong challenges of
Carriole, Humming Top and French
Cavalier. Humming Top, who was
finishing possibly the best of the
bunch, and French Cavalier, who
surprised with such a stout showing
at his first start since last year’s
Derby, were promptly advanced to
join Oversight, Davey Jones and
Achilles on the top line of Epsom
charts. However, a run which par-
ticularly took present observer’s eye
in the Campbelltown was that of
Drastic, and if asked to toy with
the notion of a slightly roughish
double from among the more lightly
weighted brigade in the Epsom and
Metrop., Drastic-Blue Ocean is a
combination which could suggest
itself.
It would surprise if the Metrop.
winner were to come from among
those who contested Saturday’s prin-
cipal staying test, the 12-furlongs
Warwick Spring Handicap. The race
was won by the five-year-old Star
King, whose previous reputation was
that of a moderate and rather un-
reliable sprinter. Now it is declared
he is to have a shot at the Metrop.
The Handicap field did include
last year’s Metrop. winner, Conductor,
but he doesn’t seem to be up to
scratch this year.
Star King was ridden by apprentice
P. Burkhardt, and it is difficult to
recall, off-hand, any youngster who
has made quite such an auspicious
entry into the game as this lad. He
has been riding only a matter of six
weeks, and in that time has finished
somewhere in the money very much
more often than he has missed out.
For the current season he shares
second place on the premiership list
with last season’s winner, Ward. In
addition to Star King, on Saturday
Burkhardt rode Bray Law, who
finished third behind Blank Music
(K. Barratt) and Jan in the Welter,
and Rome, who was third to Noah’s
Ark (J. Deely) and Beau Manna in
the Trial Handicap; his only two
other mounts finished fourth (in a
photo.) and fifth.
* * * *
About the only consolation open
to punters at the end of Saturday’s
Moonee Valley proceedings was that,
after all, all seven favorites could have
been beaten. As it was, only six
went down the drain.
Actually it was a pretty close
matter that all seven weren’t beaten.
The sole successful favorite was El
Sovino, who scraped home by a head
from Quite Talk in the mile Morang
Handicap for three-year-old colts and
geldings. He got there through a
combination of clever riding tactics
on the part of S. Ralph and consider-
able luck in missing most of the strife
in a very rough-run race. However,
that is not to detract from El
Sovino’s win. The El Golea colt has
now won at five of his last six starts.
Easily the most severe of many
disappointments at the Valley was the
inexplicably poor performance of the
crack filly Beta in the 6-furlongs
Ailsa Handicap for three-year-old
fillies. And there was nothing flukish
about the success of the winner, the
Detector filly Just Wyn. After mow-
ing down the field as they rounded
the turn, Just Wyn (W. Martell) went
on to score by a matter of six lengths
from Hairan, with Beta a poor third.
The Ailsa Handicap was run in two
divisions; the first produced a more
generally pleasing result in the success
of the well-backed second-favorite
Super Set (W. Williamson). Favorite
Lady Havers finished third, behind
Sunbask.
Veteran contender Hoyle encour-
aged connections to set him for
another lash at the Melbourne Cup
when, under topweight of 9st., he
failed by only a neck to overhaul the
25-to-l chance Coolport (W. A.
Smith), carrying a featherish 7.5, in
the 13-furlongs Ngarveno Handicap.
Coolport’s win was a considerable
improvement on other recent efforts,
but it appeared to be not unantici-
pated by connections.
A particularly good winning effort
—possibly the best of the day—was
that of Rickshaw (L. Lott) over
favorite Kendee in the mile Tulla-
marine Handicap. There were 13
starters; at the 6-furlongs mark the
favorite was conspicuous at the head
of the field and Rickshaw was
equally conspicuously last. With a
splendidly-sustained run Rickshaw
made his ground to win a perfectly-
judged finish by a neck. Four-year-
old Rickshaw has done only a little
racing, but he has registered two
wins, a second and two thirds from
the five starts he has had.
It is remarkable, and one of the
real oddities of the racing game, that
a horse can race as long as some do
before unearthing whatever it is that
it takes to win one; and no less
remarkable that some owners can
persevere as long as they do in the
face of repeated failure. Henwood
(K. Wilson), a nine-year-old son of
Manolive, had had 45 starts without
success before he bobbed-up to win
Saturday’s Broadmeadows Steeple.
Yet when he did break his duck he
did so most easily, riinning-oii
strongly to score by half-a-dozen
lengths from Nelangie. Completing
the card, the Macedon Highweight
went to the Nizami gelding Fordham,
who started at 14 to 1, but evidently
represented a good result for some
punters, since he was backed in from
twenties.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Ashbury Mixed: Triclinium, 1;
Video, 2; Militant, 3. Campsie
Mixed: Rion’s Pick, 1; Hazard, 2;
Traveller, 3. Three-year-old: Sol
Rex, 1; Chief Host, 2; Kerry Song,
3. Canterbury Park Handicap:
Karangi, 1; Chitral, 2; Blue Vest, 3.
Canterbury Stakes: San Domenico,
1; Rim Boy, 2; Niaranga, 3. Canter-
bury Guineas: Montana, 1; Fengari,
2; Belshazzar, 3. Welter: Carib-
bean, 1; Jan, 2; Gallant Leader, 3.
* * * *
Evidently this page’s repeated ex-
postulations over the past couple of
years have not been entirely in vain.
In nominating Sedgman, McGregor
and Rose, with Harry Hopman
captain-manager, as the preliminary
squad for the Davis Cup challenge
round, the L.T.A.A. has laid down
as one of the conditions governing
the squad “No mixed-doubles play
before the challenge round.” And
about time, too.
“Pass-it”: Last Saturday’s matches
marked the close of the second round
of the Rugby Union competition in
Sydney. In the semi-finals now Easts
will play University, while Manly
play Norths. The loser of the
Manly-Norths match will be elimi-
nated and the winner will play the
loser of the Easts-Unjversity match
in the final for the right to play in
the grand final against the winner of
that match.
Following their convincing 20-6 win
against Easts last week Manly have
now become strong favorites to win
the competition. Manly appear to
have the edge on the other semi-
finalists in that, with Dawson hook-
ing and Mossop in the lineouts, they
seem assured of a feast of the ball.
There is a doubt, however, that their
backs can stand up under the close
defence that their opponents will,
doubtless, adopt. On recent form
Norths would have to improve con-
siderably to have a chance against
the other three. However, against
University on Saturday they did
rather better than the score —27-8 in
University’s favor —would suggest.
Lapses in handling at vital stages let
University in for easy tries. In other
matches on Saturday Gordon beat St.
George, 19-14; Eastwood beat Parra-
matta, 17-8; Randwick overwhelmed
Drummoyne, 48-17; and Wests had
the bye.
* * * *
Geelong played itself back into
leadership of the V.F.L. “four” on
Saturday, what time Essendon
knocked Fitzroy out and Footscray
kicked itself into fourth place with a
win over Hawthorn. Real thrill of
the day was at South Melbourne,
where “Sowths” shocked Collingwood
deeply by holding a 4-goal lead at
the last change and were only over-
hauled by a desperate Magpie rally
for ’Wood to win by a point—l2.lo
to 12.9. Essendon fairly galloped
all over Fitzroy for 11.13 to 7.11,
and Geelong made hacks of North
Melbourne for 13.15 to 3.6. Rich-
mond belted St. Kilda, 18-17-10.12;
Carlton outpaced Melbourne, 15.16-
8.13; and Footscray’s 11.14 to 9.10
against Hawthorn got them a per-
centage advantage over Fitzroy. It’s
Footscray v. South Melbourne and
Fitzroy v. North Melbourne next
Saturday to decide which F makes
fourth place.
* * * *
Sunday football, once the preroga-
tive of Sydney and a great many
N.S.W. country Rugby centres, is
spreading so fast in Melbourne that
sports-writers are leading a cry
for some control of it. The V.F.L.
is dead against it, and bars all
registered players and umpires from
Sunday football. Exercise on Sun-
day is one thing; organised games
with roaring and hooting crowds is
quite another.
* * * *
Maybe they just do things differ-
ently over yonder, but present writer
would be inclined to think more than
twice before forking out a thumping
sum for a ringside seat at a world
championship tight in which the title-
holder had agreed to accept 25 per
cent, of the gate while the challenger,
in addition to having the fight held
in his own country, bagged 30 per
cent, of the dibs. Those are the
agreed conditions of the Turpin-
Robinson return bout in New York
next month.
* * * *
Scarcely noticed among the swag
of legislation shoved through at the
N.S.W. State Government’s most-
recent session was one measure which
The Bulletin has been advocating
for many years—application of the
Workers’ Compensation Act to boxers
and wrestlers. The long-overdue
measure became effective from June
26.
* * * *
“Long Iron”: Was passing Sydney’s
Avoca golf-course recently, think-
ing what a lousy day it was for golf,
when a one-legged chap on crutches
made for the first tee. On each crutch
was a scabbard, in which he carried
his clubs, and he was a picture of en-
thusiasm. Humbled, I went on to
my game.


NIMVW
STEEL
is
our
Strenqth!
m
Steel is undoubtedly our notional strength.
To foster progress of this key industry is a duty.
Australian steel has won world repute, so it
is with pride that we use it in our products. The
special steels we use are laboratory tested and
heat-treated in furnaces under strict pyrometric
control to fit them for our exacting needs.
By so using our fine Australian steels, we are
able to build Petrol, Kerosene and Diesel Engines
ond other machines equal in every respect to the
world's highest standards of quality.
RONALDSOH BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BAI/LAKAX, Victoria. Mel-
bourne Office: 628 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors: Ronald son Bros. & Tippett Etd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge St.. SYDNEY. Q’iand
Distributors: Ronaidson Tippett (Q’landFFty.
Etd., Scottish Union House, 137 Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
No. 8
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
K'kG
CORUNDITE
G.
C
n& s
tor
HO 220
REQUEST A COPY OP
THE K.L.G. RECOMMEND*
ATI ON BOOKLET FROM
YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
m
'I'!'':
m
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/10/-.
+ Bi% s.r.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses •
gf
||y*isys
42 MTTMTVW STSEFT, SYD!^
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shorthorns in the North.
“Oxo”: According to B. Col-
lins, of Collins Bros., owners of
Rosella and Spring Creek
stations in the Einasleigh (N.Q.)
district, northern Shorthorn
breeders are being forced to
consider the introduction of
zebu blood, or a change to some
other breed, in an effort to re-
store the constitution lost by the
persistence of southern breeders
in breeding show-ring types to
the detriment of commercial
qualities.
Collins says he has a definite
preference for the square Scot-
tish Shorthorn type. They are
“better walkers and hardier,” but
"I’m only workin' in town till th' shearin' starts ."
some southern breeders had lost
that constitution without which
cattle were of little use in the
north.
While admitting that southern
Shorthorns were beautiful cattle
on good country, Collins said
they were not worth their freight
to the north if they were going
to die in a waterhole in the first
dry spell if turned out on the
run. Constitution was more im-
portant than ever, since the ad-
vent of the buffalo-fly and cattle-
tick, and if they were to keep
their Shorthorn herds intact
they would have to go on their
own and breed cattle that suited
the country,
“ TT“.
Sowing Maize,
“Agronomist”: Sowing maize
“on the square” (B. 25/7/’5l)
has been general practice for
years in those regions where
large areas are sown. Chief
benefit is that it allows cross-
cultivation of the growing crop
to keep down weeds,
Modern double - row drills,
fitted with a notched wire-chain
mechanism for regular spacing
of the seed, make square sowing
easy, though the machine is not
suitable for use on smaller areas
or on land of uneven contour.
In such areas the weeds are
effectively smothered with a disk-
hiller.
Sowing on the square has
nothing to do with the produc-
tion of straight, regular rows of
grain as indicated by “Hortus.”
Irregularity of rows of grain on
the ear, frequently seen in open-
pollinated varieties, is an in-
herent character which has
largely been bred out in the pro-
duction of maize hybrids,
although it is only an aesthetic
character which has nothing to
do with yielding ability.
With the increased yields ob-
tainable from hybrids, heavier
seeding than that formerly
adopted can be practised. It is
unnecessary to endeavor by
light seeding to produce large
cobs for economical harvesting
where mechanical harvesters are
in operation. In any case, such
an endeavor may defeat its ob-
jective by the production of
smaller second ears on large
stalks in a thin stand, with a
lower total yield per acre.
Potato-degeneration.
“Rooster”; You invite it by
using your own seed year after
year. Fifty years ago it was
discovered that degeneration
resulting from this practice was
caused by certain viruses carried
by aphides or greenflies. As a
rule the most potent insect-
bearer is the one which induces
leaf-roll (Myzus persicoe —an
aphis). This disease will account
for one-third of the crop when
three generations of seed have
been sown.
There are about a dozen virus
diseases which affect potatoes;
some varieties are themselves
carriers, transmitting the disease
from one plant to another of a
different variety, without being
affected themselves.
An interesting fact is that
potato - virus diseases don’t
flourish in cool climates. It’s
considered good policy here in
Gippsland (Vic.) to buy seed
from late crops further north.
In Ballarat, where crops are dug
two or three months later than
in Gippsland, the growing season
is considerably cooler, and con-
sequently leaf-roll is very rarely
seen. In this way a four-to-five-
ton-per-acre increase of healthy
crops can be obtained.
Potatoes, like any other crop,
soon sicken from impoverished
soil. Remedy—rotational crop-
ping. Three years of the same
paddock is the maximum. And
one season for your own seed.
Pullet-care.
“A-Jay”: Pullets should be
in their quarters before laying
begins. Make sure that all roosts
and shed-timbers are free of
vermin by thoroughly spraying c
the shed and timbers and paint-
ing the roosts with sump-oil and
kerosene, or fuel-oil.
See that the floor is in good
condition, and that nests, feeders
and waterers are ample in size
and number.
Provision of adequate perch-
ing space of at least Sin. per bird
is important and at least 16in.
should be allowed between
roosts.
Rescuing Ploughshares.
“Cobalide”: Gove r n m e n t
authorities estimate the present
shortage of plough-disks in Aus-
tralia at 400,000 —in N.S.W.
alone something like 100,000.
Delivery to farmers of new
equipment is held up because of
the shortage.
Thousands of acres lie untilled
or partly tilled as a result. Many
cultivators cannot be operated.
Underproduction of primary
produce will be accentuated even
more when the rearmament pro-
gramme gains impetus and steel
supplies for disks, ploughshares,
cultivator-points and tynes be-
come scarcer.
Some time ago Hawkesbury
Agricultural College announced
test results indicating that
ploughshares, hard-faced with
the industrial alloy cobalide 1,
lasted eight times longer than
similar shares not treated. As
the cost of treatment was only
about half the cost of a new
share, this resulted in consider-
able saving.
A Hunter Valley agricultural-
implement firm reported that for
two years they have made a
regular practice of treating disks
for farmers in the district, and
that results over this period
show that they give an average
life four times longer. The cos?
of hard-facing is about half that
of a new disk.
General application of the
process is being extended to
areas where welding equipment
and supplies of oxygen and
acetylene are available. New or
slightly worn disks are prepared
for hard-facing by lightly grind-
ing an area about lin. wide
around the convex (outside) face.
The disk is then mounted on a
jig so that it can easily be re-
volved. Using an excess acety-
lene flame, an even layer of the
alloy lin. wide and l/16in. thick
is deposited by standard hard-
facing welding technique on to
this area. A slight bevel is then
given to the disk by grinding the
underface.
The alloy used, which is avail-
able from suppliers of welding
gases, is particularly abrasion-
resistant and has a useful service
life many times that of steel.
Myxomatosis.
“C.S.”: All mainland State
Agriculture Departments are re-
solved to release the virus
throughout the country so as to
assist in getting the widest pos-
sible spread of myxomatosis.
Standard methods for the pro-
duction of large quantities of
virus and for its general distri-
bution in the spring and early
summer were agreed upon at a
general conference with the
C.5.1.R.0.
There is no guarantee that the
virus will play any greater part
in the control of the rabbit than
it did over the past year. It is
not expected that the disease will
eradicate the rabbit or even
effect a useful degree of control
over wide areas of rabbit-
infested country. The majority
of landholders must still depend
n orthodox methods for con-
frol of rabbits on their proper-
ties.
There is no risk of the disease
being transmitted to man or any
native or domesticated animal or
bird. This has been proved by
extensive experiments in this
country and overseas.
Learner-shearers.
“V.K.R.”: The best way to
encourage learners is to give
them a fair deal. Sheep-owners,
despite enormous wool cheques,
are inclined to begrudge the
shearer every penny he earns —
and I mean earns, because
shearing is hard work.
We have not had a big strike
in the industry for many years,
and the industry has never been
seriously threatened at any time.
In the shearing of over 100 mil-
lion sheep the shearing teams
have a vast job which they per-
form well. Of course we have
had minor disputes. These must
be expected in any place where
large gangs of men congregate
together, but if all industrial
workers worked their 40-hour
week as well as do the shearing
employees Australia would be a
better place for all today.
Fire Risks.
“Bill C.”: Weather bureaus
sometimes issue warnings to the
effect that bush- and grass-fire
risks exist in certain localities.
North-east to north-west winds
are usually blowing when such
forecasts are made.
Such warm winds with rising
temperatures do encourage fires
to spread, but it is a mistake to
believe that fires are not favored
by south to south-west winds. A
cool wind can have little detri-
mental effect on a fire unless it
is a damp wind. In tropical and
near-tropical areas a south wind
is usually drier than a northerly.
What influences a fire more
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The sun has two small southern sunspot groups which
may break out strongly at any time. However, as they
are not specially active they will probably just accelerate
the southern seasonally rainy conditions as they have already
done in the case of their predecessors.
The great northern group, with its southern members,
did this, hence the recent high seas. The northern section
produced the hurricane in Jamaica, showing their immediate
weather action, which I have always claimed to exist
The break when it comes will lead to a good spring in
all but far western areas, where the late months of spring
may be rather dry.


-Z ~
ze
than,
R FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTW.HRTH
inc~}ydnei
r* 7
Thone BW’ 1361 (10 lines)
D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Jj
0
a
6«
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
NU-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Qheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
..8. 29/8/’5l
BRISTOL. TRADING COMPANY.
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. UA 7250
"Phenovis” Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
g
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
PENN MAMMOTH
BLOW LAMP
dfg
Its 2000 deg. FH. Flame
economically disposes of
weeds and vermin . . .
roads, drains, etc.
quickly and
all noxious
clears land,
Double Burner
£33/10/-
Single Burner
£l9/10/-
3
FLAME THROWER
Emits a 14-16 foot jet of flame. £5/10/- f.o.b. Fits
any Knapsack Spray or complete with “Penn” Pressure
vessel shown above. £l9/10/-.
PENN PRODUCTS
229 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE
r *
UMm.
/
W
m
-r'
1
>
TIMBER AWAY! 6 ACRES PER DAY
CLEARED THE OLIVER-BRITSTAND WAY
• For the Queensland Housing Com-
mission, Swift Brothers, big Brisbane
contractors, are clearing 600 acres of
heavily-timbered land at Serviceton,
near the City. Two mighty Oliver
FDE tractors, equipped with Britstand
cable trailbuilders, are used. Under-
brush and smaller trees are ’dozed
into windrows (lower left), and the
largest trees are pulled out, roots and
all. by wire rope drawn by the two
Olivers (above and right).
For land-clearing, tank-sinking,
for all earth-moving jobs, an
Oliver-Britstand combination is
the answer. Tractors from 23 to
110 drawbar h.p.—and a full
range of agricultural and indus-
trial equipment. Check to-day
with your Oliver-Britstand dis-
tributor.
OLIVER-BRITSTAND
DISTRIBUTORS.
q. : u.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-
379 Wickham St.. Brisbane. N.S.W.;
Britstand Distributors Ltd., 66-61
Gardeners Rd., Mascot, Sydney. VIC.
& TAS. : Queen’s Bridge Motor &
Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 31-43
Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne, 5.C.4.
S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-35
Currie Street, Adelaide. W.A.:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900
Hay St., Perth. N.Z.: Frederic W.
Smith Ltd., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey
St., Wellington, C.l.
k
-
than anything else is the
amount of dry fuel it has to
burn. I have seen grass-fires
burn fiercely through the night
along mountain ridges while
freezing temperatures gripped
the flats between the hills. The
grass was tinder-dry, so the low
temperatures didn’t stop the
fires, which, when day came
again, burned down and swept
the flats.
Some may think it is all right
to light grass except at times
when the bureau says “No!”
But it is always a mistake to
light dry grass anywhere when
there’s a wind and no prospects
of rain.
Skin Troubles in Stock.
“M.”: Photosensitisation, a
form of skin irritation some-
times affecting sheep on green
pasture, is due to certain sub-
stances sensitising living cells to
light. Among these substances
is phylloerythrin, which is
sometimes produced in the in-
testines of animals by bacteria
acting on chlorophyll, the green
coloring matter of plants.
Victorian Department of
Agriculture vets, state that if
enough of this phylloerythrin
accumulates in the animal’s
body the skin cells become sensi-
tive to the sun’s rays and are
scalded. Plants most commonly
associated with the condition are
trefoil, St. John’s wort and pani-
cum.
Affected parts mostly are the
unwoolled parts of the head.
First symptoms are reddening
and swelling of the parts, which
become itchy, making the animal
rub vigorously. Remove suf-
ferers from the pasture on which
they are grazing and put out
some hay. Unaffected sheep can
be protected by smearing a
greasy dressing mixed with
lampblack over the face and
ears. Black sheep and black-
faced breeds are immune.
Phalaris Tuberosa.
“Mr.”: It does well on Vic-
torian pasture land either too
wet or too dry for perennial rye-
grass. It’s well-liked by stock if
prevented from making strong,
coarse growth ; therefore keep it
well grazed or it will be neglected
in favor of more palatable
species.
Sow at lib. to 21b. an acre on
a well-worked fallow, alone, or
with a little sub.-clover, but not
with perennial rye-grass. In the
early stages phalaris is unable to
compete successfully with rye-
grass seedlings, but these can
be introduced later when the
phalaris is well established.
Phalaris will then stand up to
any amount of competition.
Hybrid Maize.
“C.S.”: Maize from hybrid
seed bred at Grafton (N.S.W.)
Experiment Farm won first,
second and third prizes in
N.S.W. R.A.S. maize contests on
the N.S.W. South Coast. A, J.
Woolley, of Brundee, near
Nowra, had a crop of Ensign
hybrid which may go 150
bushels and won the champion-
ship, Emblem (R. J. Lavis,
Bodalla) and Dawn (J. B.
D’Arcy, Bega) hybrids were
second and third respectively.
Everywhere on the N.S.W. coast
this year hybrids have scooped
the pool, and average yield of the
winning crops was 120 bushes
an acre. Inland the average
was three bushels higher.
This, however, doesn’t mean
that maize-growers should rush
to buy hybrid seed indis-
criminately. It must be got from
reliable sources or loss and
disappointment will follow.
Consult the Agricultural Depart-
ment about it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: To rid paths of
weeds mix two parts of white
arsenic with one part of caustic
soda. Add water to the dry
mixture and heat rapidly until
it boils. Then add lOgal. of
water for each pound of white
arsenic in the mixture. Spray
thinly but evenly so that each
gallon covers 20 square yards.
“Sundowner”: To prevent
stored honey from fermenting,
heat it in the original container
to a temperature of 160 deg. F.
in a hot-water bath for 30
minutes. This will destroy all
yeasts which cause fermentation
and affect flavor and general
condition.
“Malvern”: Remember when
using liquid manure that it is
wasted unless the soil is well
supplied with humus, which ab-
sorbs liquid like a sponge and
keeps it handy where the roots
most need it.
“Sarina”: Here in N.Q. we
find that a plot which has grown
a crop of sweet-potatoes is not
suitable for other vegetable pro-
duction for some time. The soil
there will usually be alive with
cutworms. Though they may
not have had any noticeable
ill effect on the spuds, the
cutworms will make short
work of any vegetable seedlings
that are planted there.
“W. Court”: “Coastal stag-
gers” amongst N.Q. horses has
been caused by them feeding on
ghomprena weed, which looks
like a tiny white “bachelor-but-
ton,” and is a pest of closely-
grazed pastures throughout
Queensland. Since the horse
sickness is often fatal, it pays to
keep horses away from it.
“Springvale”: Herding pigs in
large numbers is bad manage-
ment. The weak, small pigs get
bumped around in the crowding
at the troughs at meal-time.
Ravenous feeding often results
in digestive troubles, loss of con-
dition and unthriftiness. Better
to get the best out of fewer than
to run a large herd at a loss.
“Big Billy”: Before eggs are
packed check them for cleanli-
ness. Laying them out on a
wire-netting table will facilitate
picking them over. Carefully
wipe eggs with a towel just
damp enough to avoid making
wet spots on the eggs.
“Bill C.”: Re the poisonous
properties of D.D.T. (B.
11/4/’5l), a neighbor found his
fowls sickened and died after
eating insects killed by the in-
secticide. However, the same
risk exists when the old phos-
phorus preparations are used to
destroy cockroaches or mice.
The best way of avoiding trouble
is to collect and burn all dead
vermin and to keep the fowls
away from it.
“A-Jay”; Fowls require at
least one kerosene-bucket of
chaffed greenfeed per 200 birds
daily. Where there is no green-
feed a substitute must be pro-
vided. A suitable one is vita-
minised oil, a pint weekly for
every 500 birds. This may be
added to the wet mash twice
weekly in the mixing water or
given in the drinking water.
“M.”: Steps recommended by
Vic. Department of Agriculture
to deal with an abnormally large
number of red-legged earth-mites
abroad in Victorian vegetable-
growing areas this year are to
clear headlands of weeds and
pour a thin strip of creosote from
a can with a nailhole in the
bottom on the soil around the
crop, using about 2gaL of creo-
sote to the acre. For mites
already on the crop a 2 p.c.
D.D.T. dust or combination
D.D.T.-gammexane dust is
advised.


THE “ENGLISH ELECTRIC” “CANBERRA” BOMBER
*
HISTORY WAS MADE WHEN THE FIRST R.A.A.F. CANBERRA JET COMPLETED
ITS RECORD-BREAKING 24-HOUR FLIGHT FROM ENGLAND TO AUSTRALIA
Making history has been among the achievements of The English Electric Company Ltd.
for many years, for as well as designing and manufacturing the outstanding Canberra and
other famous aircraft the Company supplies to Australia thousands of tons of intricate
heavy and light electrical equipment. This equipment has added to the standard of living
of every Australian and embodies the best of modern design and workmanship. The wide
diversity of plant being supplied by the Company to Australia includes:
dfg
• Over half a million horsepower of hydro-
electric and Diesel generating plant,
including the first hydro-electric unit for the
Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority.
• Nearly a quarter of a million horsepower
of rolling mill motors, some of more than
20,000 horsepower, larger than any others
in Australia. • Over two million kilo-
voltamperes of large transformers, including
the largest single units for this country to
operate at 230,000 volts. • Over 20,000
horsepower of electric and Diesel-electric
rail traction equipment involving more than
125 locomotives.
• The first steam turbo-alternator to operate
here at a pressure of over 1,000 pounds
per square inch. ® Over 100,000 kilowatts
of mercury arc rectifier equipment for
electrolytic, traction, and industrial duties.
• Switchgear of all types. • Electric
winders for mines. • Diesel-electric marine
propulsion equipment. • Electric motors,
high rupturing capacity fusegear and
domestic appliances.
The English Electric Co. Ltd. is especially
experienced in the handling of comprehen-
sive contracts for complete power stations
and railway and industrial electrification
projects.
At Rocklea, Brisbane, the Company operates a large works, with another
works at Auburn, Sydney. Also included in the English Electric group of
companies are Marconi’s Wireless Telegraph Company and D. Napier & Son.
i
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
(INCORPORATED
f
IN ENGLAND)
Sydney Mel bou me
Ad elai de Brisbane
FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, PERTH, H. M.
BAM FORD, HOBART
GUARD
stMtlvCXs
PROTECTA
st*nJL- dtyu
TILL -
pleasing Id appearance. sena
and llter»to« «
JACKSON & O’SULLIV AN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents— Ltd.
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty- Ljo
ADELAIDE ..
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. ( /
to jeer. They were surprised to
see among the watchers Terry
Davies, looking more puzzled
than annoyed, and when he
came over they were cold,
“Listen, fellers,” Davies said
hesitantly, “We’ve had words,
and I still think you acted badly
towards me, but it doesn’t
matter now, because I’ve got
three more good men on the
way up from the reef to take
over.”
“You won’t keep ’em long,”
said Fennell darkly. “They’ll
be pegging out claims alongside
ours when they see what’s going
on.”
“I hope not,” Terry told him
crisply. “Anyway, come what
may and whatever you’ve done
in the past, I can’t bear to see
you toiling like horses for
nothing.”
“What do you mean, for
nothing?” Rawson asked.
“I’m sure you’re off the
mark,” Terry said. “You’ll miss
your leader by feet here. I’ll tell
you what, I’ll check it for you
with the theodolite, if you like.”
As men with a faith in instru ‘
ments and in the ethics of
engineering they warmed to-
wards him. Splinter offered him
a small share in the show if he’d
do just that, and advise them
later on whatever other engineer-
ing problems they might have,
but he waved the offer aside.
He got his theodolite, and after
observations and calculations
triumphantly planted a peg
yards from where they had
started to sink. “There, men,”
he said sharply. “Go down
there and you’ll hit it right on
the nose.”
The miners, like the tunnelers,
worked three shifts, and their
shaft went down rapidly. At
about forty feet Fennell was
troubled by queer, subterranean
noises which he feared might
mean water, and hoped in his
wilder dreams might be a gusher
of oil. He called Splinter down
for consultation. “Listen,” he
ordered. “I never heard nothing
like that in me life before, did
you?”
“Sounds like drills at work,”
ventured Splinter. “P’r’aps
there’s some sort of fault in the
ground, an’ we can hear ’em
working in the tunnel.”
Splinter walloped the bottom
of the shaft experimentally with
a pick, and the shaft and both
men sank another six feet in a
twinkling of an eye. The men
picked their bruised bodies up
off a pile of rubble with bellows
of laughter ringing in their ears.
They were not far back from
the face, in the Rainy River
scheme tunnel, and a jubilant
Terry Davies was there to
welcome them.
“Well, that’s a queer way to
arrive on the job,” Terry
chuckled. “Don’t want both of
you on the one shift, either, but
you can start whenever you feel
like it, and bring Rawson back,
too,”
With a howl of fury Splinter
went after him with a lump of
rock, but Davies sidestepped
smartly. “You stinker!” Splinter
roared. “We thought you was
dinkum, and this is what you
done to us, markin’ the place for
our shaft.”
“Hold your horses!” cried
Terry, in alarm, seeing Fennell
circling up on the other side of
him armed with one of the huge
spanners used for setting-up
rock-drills. “I’ve got to have a
ventilating-shaft here to go on
with the job. You’ll be paid
for it all, contract-rates.”
“We don’t want filthy
contract-rates,” Splinter bawled,
“We want to get our gold—the
gold you’re cheating us out of.”
\ A DYING backwards with the
IVI agility of the young, Davies
talked swiftly. “Listen,” he told
them. “If there’s gold there
neither you nor anybody else
will get it. I saved you from
working for nothing, just the
way I said I would.”
“What do you mean?”
Fennell asked, moving across the
tunnel and laying a restraining
hand on Splinter,
“Water,” said Terry. “I’ve
had a geologist up here, and
there’s a big fault goes right
through this country, from here
to kingdom come.”
“Garn! The dirt’s as dry as
me throat,” Splinter snarled,
“It is now, maybe,” Davies
warned. “But in six months we
fill this tunnel, and twenty-four
hours later your shaft would be
filled within fifteen feet of the
surface.”
“We could pump it out,”
Splinter snapped. “We can buy
machinery. I can sell me farm.”
You II need a big farm to
buy a big enough pump,” Davies
drawled, with a grin. “You’ll
have to pump out the Rainy
River. That’s where the water’d
be coming from, you know ”
Oh!” said Splinter, in a
small, tired voice, suddenly get-
ting the point.
There was a short, thoughtful
silence, and then a smile broke
over Fennell’s rugged face as he
scratched his grey thatch.
“Well, you certainly put it over
us, didn’t you, young feller?”
he said to Terry.
“Only for your own good,”
the engineer hastened to assure
them. “You wouldn’t listen to
reason at the time, and, anyway,
it was only my opinion about
the water until I got a geologist
to confirm it. Now, what about
letting bygones be bygones?
Will you be on the job
tomorrow?”
“Yes, and Rawson, too,” said
Fennell.
“To hell with your lousy
tunnel,” snorted Splinter. “I’m
a miner, not a flamin’ rabbit.”
'"P ERRY DAVIES recovered
1 only two of his delinquent
shift-bosses, and Splinter went
home and raved for week about
how he was going a sell the
farm and use the money to sue
the Government, and have it
prevented from flooding one of
the nation’s richest gold deposits
with water.
“There you are, McGinty,”
said Mother Mac, with a snort.
“You didn’t care when it was
beautiful farms that were to be
submerged, but as soon as it’s
a dirty old goldmine you’re as
mad as a rattlesnake.”
“Destruction of enormous
riches just to please the damned
farmers, woman!” Splinter
raged. “What sort of fools are
they running a country that was
built up on the gold from
Ballarat and Bendigo and Kal-
goorlie? What would their fool
irrigation schemes count beside
finding another Golden Mile or
another Yellow Reef?”
But that was an argument that
Mother Mac won without even
worrying to answer such
rhetorical questions. Splinter
didn’t sell the farm or sue the
Government, and after a while
the romantic, anecdotal qualities
of his baffling, frustrated posi-
tion began to appeal to him.
He had a much better story than
those of most old miners, who
have just been driven in by
water shortage from the Border
Find in the summer of 1911
when they were within a pick-
head’s length of a fortune, or
something like that. He could
ride until he died over rich
stone callously waterlogged by
a Government consisting of
farmers and fools, and the story
could grow with the years until
the whole mountain was gold,
right through to the other side
of the world, and nobody would
ever prove him wrong.
He got to enjoy the tale so
much that it was probably better
than the gold would have been,
and his big sons, farmers though
they were, were well infected
with his ideas, and shared his
indignation. Nowadays, when
he is an old but still fierce and
superior man, his life is wilder,
more exciting and more interest-
ing than ever, for his boys, even
if they are only farmers, have
the right stuff in them and take
part eagerly in. the arguments
and fights that are provoked all
the time by his views, which
could hardly be popular m a
rural community.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and, business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6k YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months £1 16 0
6 „ 18 6
3„ 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
flfieel
BBM
f.
m
K
i
7
::: : i-
increase tyre mileage
Tyre tread wear varies according to type of vehicle and
operating conditions. On most trucks and buses for instance,
the wear would be on tyres carrying the load. i.e. the rear
tyres. On cars with modern suspension and braking systems
the wear is on front tyres. Also there is a difference In
wear between near-side tyres and off-side tyres. Tfiat fs
why wheels should be changed around every 2,000 to
3,000 miles, so that wear can be evenly spread over each
tyre —including the spare wheel. This will cut down
unequal tread wear increase over-all tyre mileage.
a»
re
a n<* f° r
r eco" 0
mV
tv re
"Follow/ this
chart, do not re-
move tgre from
w/heei. change
at regular in-,
tervals of 2-3
thousand miles"
DUNLOP
GAR & TRUCK TYRES
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED flat, ta
SUPER
ehi
‘TODAY YOU’LL USE A DUNLOP PRODUCT’
gd
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To get in touch with persons in
England and Australia interested in
the collection of old coins.—5177.
To buy copy of Songs of a Sour-
dough.—5176.
To buy the illustrated book on
Munich distributed to prisoners-of-
war in Germany, and anything else
of interest about Bavaria and Sudeten-
land. —5178.
Information Sought.
What is nardoo, and how do the
abos prepare it for food?
Nardoo is the abo. name for the
spore-cases of a small plant, Marsilea
drummondi, a mud-loving or aquatic
fern. In summer thie swamps in
which it abounds dry up, and the
plants wither away, leaving the fruit-
cases on the ground; these are col-
lected by the aborigines, ground
between two stones and made into a
paste for use as a food. It contains
little nutritive matter, and is generally
liberally mixed with finely-ground
stone.
* * * *
What is choke damp ?
The miner’s term for carbon
dioxide. In ordinary circumstances
it may be found in recesses or badly-
ventilated places in the mine, but is
formed in huge quantity when an
explosion of coal-gas mixed with air
occurs, owing to the combination of
the carbon of the gas and the oxygen
of the air. When formed in this way
it is known as after-damp. When
the atmosphere is charged with a large
amount of carbon dioxide symptoms
of suffocation occur through deficient
oxidation of the blood.
* * * ♦
Do mahogany-trees grow in Aus-
tralia ?
Not the mahogany of the Old
World. Australian mahogany-trees
are all eucalypts, and get the name
from early settlers, who saw in the
wood some resemblance to the
mahogany of the old countries. The
likeness is only in color, the Aus-
tralian timber being much heavier,
closer-grained, harder and more
durable. Jarrah and karri, red,
swamp and white mahogany are the
species. All are splendid hardwoods,
and are used for general purposes—
bridges, railway-trucks, platforms and
other structures requiring hard, strong
and durable timber.
* * ♦ *
To what genus does the catbird
belong? How many species are there
in Australia, and what is their color-
ing ?
The genus Ailurczdus contains the
catbirds, so called because their notes
resemble the mewing of cats. They
frequent tropical scrub-country, feed
on jungle fruits and build bulky nests
in bushes, not far from the ground.
Their two or three eggs are cream-
colored, without markings. They are
not known to build any sort of
bower. The two Australian species
are the green catbird (A. crassirostris)
of eastern N.S.W. and the spotted
catbird (A. melanotus ) of north-
eastern Queensland; a third species is
found in New Guinea. They are
bright green above and yellowish-
green below, spotted all over with
white; they have very stout bills.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning, and
principal works of, English novelist
D. H. Lawrence ?
Born at Eastwood, Notts, in 1885,
he was the son of a miner, but, after
finishing his education at the Univer-
sity College, Nottingham, he became
a teacher. After publication of his
first novel, The White Peacock, he
concentrated solely on writing. He
preferred living away from England,
mainly around Italy and in New
Mexico, but spent three months in
the early ’twenties in Australia, at
Thirroul (N.S.W.). He is regarded
as a writer of great force and origi-
nality. Most of his novels are con-
cerned with the question of sex, and
some of them have had hostile recep-
tions. One, The Rainbow (1915), was
the subject of police prosecution, and
Lady Chatterley’s Lover has only
recently been taken off the Australian
banned list. His other works include
Women in Love, The Plumed Ser-
pent, The Lost Girl, St. Mawr, three
plays and historical and literary suf-
veys. He died from consumption in
1930. A biography of Lawrence, The
Savage Pilgrimage, by Catherine Cars-
well, first published in 1932, has been
reprinted this year.
* * ♦ ♦
Should adjectives formed from
words ending in “e,” such as “bone,”
be spelt “bony” or “boney” ?
Fowler’s Modern English Usage
urges that, with certain exceptions, the
“e” should be dropped—“bony,”
“breezy,” “gory,” “smoky,” etc.
Exceptions are nouns ending in “ue”
(the adjective is “gluey”) and the
word “hole,” which makes “holey”
to distinguish it from “holy.” Words
which end in “y,” such as “clay”
and “sky,” also make adjectives in
“ey”—“clayey,” “skyey.” A related
grammatical problem, one which
puzzles many, is whether certain
words retain or omit an internal
mute “e.” For instance, is it judg-
ment” or “judgement”? Fowler’s
ruling is: “If the suffix begins with a
consonant, the mute e is retained; if
the suffix begins with a vowel, the
mute e is dropped.” However, he
points out that there are exceptions
to this rule. “Judgment” is now the
accepted spelling—a defiance of the
quoted rule. Some other exceptions
to the rule are “noticeable,” “size-
able,” “duly,” “acknowledgment,”
* * * *
How to dress, salt and smoke
Murray cod?
Behead and gut the fish, but leave
the scales on. Split it open as close
to the backbone as possible, lay out
on a wooden bench and rub dry salt
into it. Turn and rub every day for
a week, drawing-off any liquid which
forms so that the fish remains as dry
as possible. Smoke for several hours
over a clean wood-fire, either on a
light wire frame or hung on clean
poles. The fire should be damped
down so that there is more smoke
than flame.
Brief Answers.
W.P.: Write secretary, Australian
Advisory Committee, the Nuffield
Foundation, care Australian National
University, Canberra P.W.G.: L.
T. Sardone, 105 New South Head-
road, Vaucluse, markets an anti-
dimming preparation M.D.C.C.:
Write D. Raymond, numismatist
and philatelist, 128 Bathurst-street,
Sydney W.G.: The poem, entitled
“The Soldier,” was written by Rupert
Brooke, and will be found in his
Collected Poems... .R.M.A.: No, the
court may, on the application of the
one-time husband, modify or dis-
charge the order for alimony
V.K.E.: Babinda (Q.) was so named
from the creek on which it stands,
which was named in 1881 by W. H.
Pottett, who owned land in the
vicinity, after a station he took up
near Nymagee (N.S.W.) in the ’seven-
ties S.P.: Spray the tapestry twice
or thrice a year with a solution of
thymol in methylated spirits. When
these materials are kept in cases the
best repellent is paradichlorobenzene,
but if the tapestries are hung the spray
should be sufficient T.A.: If he
leaves a wife and children the wife
takes one-third of the estate, the
remainder being divisible among the
children, share and share alike. If
there are no children she takes the
whole. All debts are paid out of the
estate H.P.: Yes, the correct legal
procedure is to make the change by
deed poll. Any solicitor will draft
the deed for a small fee. The deed
should then be registered with the
Registrar of Births and the fact of
the change advertised in one or more
widely-circulated newspapers.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
T.S.: It began well, with the dis-
covery of the corpse, murdered and
put to bed while the family slept;
but then you accepted the first
explanation that came into your head
—we feel that, if all were known,
you would be charged with abetting
a miscarriage of justice D.S.:
When Government officials play
Cupid, arranging a marriage between
two young persons in order to defeat
the law, we are apt to turn, fbr a
revival of sanity, to the economic
theories of Mr. James McGirr
J.S.A.: We defy “The Black Gin’s
Curse” J.L.C.: What is this “nice
figure” that so many girls in stories
seem to have? We imagine a young
husband saying to himself, philo-
sophically, “Well, at any rate, she
has a nice figure” V.D.: It needs
to be more astonishing than that to
astonish readers about Canberra
F.H.F.: Afraid you’re wasting your
time P.T.: No matter how well-
intentioned, we can’t encourage garrot-
ters in this paper M.L.: Can’t
bear to see a woman author crying.
, ...C.G.C.: Re the bloke found
with his head in the oven and an
editor’s rejection-slip beside him —
now, don’t do anything rash
J.McV.: It rambles, all right, but
will probably find its way home....
J.M.S.: You might economise by
feeding “The Grey Kitten” to “The
Sea Serpent” C.A.W.: Well, it
was nicely typed N.D.: Not quite
solid enough E.S.: For the most
part we do our own mathematics.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Darwin
When the Federal Government passed
the Darwin Acquisition Act in March,
1946, the whole of Darwin came under
complete Federal control, no one else
having a voice in any matter affecting the
well-being of the town. The Government
announced loudly and often that it was
going to show the world exactly how a
city should be run, and declared that
Darwin was to be the Garden City of
Australia.
Today, five and a half years
later, the semi-official census con-
ducted by the N.T. Administration
announces that Darwin has a population
of 7032 persons, including 323
aborigines or part-aborigines living in
native settlements. The rest are
crowded into residences described as
“houses” (530), most of them occupied
by Government officials and their
wives and families; “huts” (337),
most of which are occupied by
two or more families; and “shacks or
other sub-standard residences” (83).
Many of these co-called “shacks” house
two families.
Put shortly, all that the Federal Gov-
ernment has succeeded in doing, after
five years of absolute control of Darwin,
has been to allow the place to sink to
such a low degree that at least 40 per
cent, of the population of the town is
compelled to live in huts, shacks or sub-
standard buildings, for which the
Federal Government collects rent. The
places would never pass any health
authority in any State of the Common-
wealth.
Nine hundred and ninety-six people
live in Government hostels, which means
they are in Government employment;
313 live in hostels conducted by private
companies, while servicemen and their
wives and families (937 altogether) live
in service quarters.
Darwin has twice as many men as
women —3537 to 1687. Not that all these
surplus men are bachelors —the majority
are married but unable to find accommo-
dation for their wives and families in
Darwin.
The Garden City of Australia! A
town of sub-standard shacks and huts, of
roads and streets that are almost impas-
sable for traffic because of potholes and
unmade gutters, of people herded to-
gether under insanitary surroundings, of
an overstaffed Government service and
of money wasted like water on non-
essentials. — North Australian (N.T.).
Sydney or the Bush?
The country has something of an edge
on the city these days. Apart from
twice-weekly racing, handy beaches and
a few cultural and higher educational
institutions, Sydney has little on the
bigger country towns except actual size.
The much greater range of boom-
created jobs in the city is offset by the
hopeless lack of accommodation. On the
other hand, in that most of their citizens
are still able to maintain some degree
of ease and well-being in their lives, the
country towns have it over the jangle-
nerved, short-commoned, racket-ridden,
frustrated metropolis.
In the matter of essential services, for
instance, a smallish place like Glen
Innes, population 7000, has, as well as
sewerage and town-water, a better
electricity and gas supply than Sydney
has had for years. Stores in bigger places
like Goulburn and Wagga often have a
range of stocks that make Sydneysiders
blink, though city prices have a slight
edge in some lines. The main streets are
well made and kept in good repair. They
are usually wide enough to allow easy
parking at most times, though there are
one or two exceptions to this wide-street
rule one of them, surprisingly enough,
bei ' Armidale. Apart from a few
festive occasions and cockies’ shopping
it is possible to walk around most
country towns without recourse to Rugby
League tactics.
If some of the smaller country towns
are still unsewered, so are some of Syd-
ney’s suburbs. Country dailies have
quite as good a general news coverage as
Sydney’s, though not so strong on fea-
ture articles, “columns” or comic-strips.
Anyway, Sydney’s morning papers are on
sale at nearly all the bigger country
towns On their day of issue.
Generally, in most rural districts, the
common citizen isn’t quite so much at
the mercy of strikes, shortages and
rackets as his city brother, and there’s
still a certain amount of that decent, easy
Australian friendliness about.
Sydney’s main—and, to an increasing
extent, only—value to the country is as
a market for farm-produce. Even at
that, the same population, if more dis-
persed, would probably provide a more
varied and competitive market, possibly
less under the control of agents and other
“middlemen.” All the higher educational,
technical, manufacturing and even Gov-
ernmental agencies at present practically
monopolised by Sydney could be pro-
vided by smaller, handier towns. Syd-
ney’s cultural leadership, represented
mainly by a big overcrowded university,
a funds-starved Art Gallery and a small
Conservatorium of Music housed in
former viceregal stables, seems these
days more concerned with the technicali-
ties of culture than its spirit.
But where the overblown capital bears
heaviest on its hinterland is in its near-
monopoly of the State’s overseas wharf-
age and in its capture of the State rail-
ways, Geography would probably have
made Sydney N.S.W.’s chief port, but it
is hardly a good thing that it is almost
the only one. Since the railways are
centred on the one great port (Newcastle,
the only serious competitor, isn’t in the
race), country districts, especially the
remoter ones, must pay dearly in freight
and handling charges. Smaller, handier
ports, especially along the North Coast,
are so badly needed that one will prob-
ably succeed in being built at Iluka, in
spite of Sydney rather than because of it.
—Kas (N.S.W.).
Why 10,000?
There appears to be something unsatis-
factorily arbitrary in the Federal Govern-
ment’s selection of 10,000 as the number
of people who must be sacked from the
public service as one of the first steps
in its campaign against inflation.
Why 10,000? Why not 100,000 or 500
or 14,999? The public will assume that
such a ruthless upheaval of the lives of
10,000 working people is a critically con-
sidered step, taken only after the most
intensive investigation of alternative
methods of offsetting Government
expenditure. Surely it behoves those
responsible for this drastic decision to
give the public a full statement with
statistical evidence of the surpluses exist-
ing in Federal departments, the reasons
for the original employment of those now
considered expendable, the change in
“But I get so terribly homesick, doctor."
factors which has made their service
superfluous, the basis on which the final
number of people to be dismissed was
fixed and what will be the counter-
inflationary benefits accruing from the
step.
Until some adequate official justifica-
tion of the move comes forward, fair-
minded citizens have every right to do a
little speculating for themselves. Gener-
ously estimating the average annual
income of each of the 10,000 at £7OO the
direct annual saving in salary expenditure
would be £7,000,000 —less than one per
cent, of the astronomical figures involved
in the 1950-51 national Budget.
It has been argued that the real
advantage of the sacking will be the
welcome diversion of labor to more
essential spheres. Presumably, then, the
Government has a detailed plan for the
transference of 10,000 former white-
collar men to the steelworks and mines
and munition-works. Again, in the
absence of any exposition of such a plan,
the public cannot help but trust that these
10,000 will not simply be ditched to find
their own jobs in “essential industry.”
The political partisanship of the Aus-
tralian Press has been responsible for a
terrific glare of publicity on the workings
and shortcomings of the public service.
A genera] impression has been created in
the public mind of superfluous thousands
of parasitic creatures sipping tea almost
constantly and for ever pushing corres-
pondence into dust-coated pigeonholes.
This exaggerated state of affairs is then
proclaimed to be national disgrace at a
time when ever sinew should be strained
to the utmost. These “passengers” on the
community should be put to work hew-
ing coal, or forging steel or doing some-
thing else equally worth while. The pub-
licity spotlight, however, swings in a
fixed arc—its glare does not illumine the
serried ranks of personnel officers, pub-
licity agents and advertising men in
private enterprise, whose sole contribu-
tion to essential production may add up
to a newer and catchier slogan for hair-
oil or a record-breaking sales-campaign
for electric-shavers.
The daily headlines prefer to toss up
that terrible ratio —one Australian in four
a public servant. While that statistical
ratio is beyond dispute its degree of
wrongness has never been explained.
Without hearing the premises of any
argument on either side, the conclusion
is thrown at the public that this is all
wrong. How is the average men to know
whether 1:3 is an index of excess? He
has no more idea of whether that means
too many public servants any more than
he would have of gauging whether there
were too many butchers in the com-
munity if he was told that two in every
1500 people are butchers.
At the end of 1949 Professor Douglas
Copland estimated that 26 per cent, of the
national labor force was engaged in Gov-
ernment work (including State and local
government). That compared with 23
per cent, before the war and 25 per cent,
in the three years immediately after the
war.
Over that eventful decade, then, an
additional three per cent, of the national
population was added to the administra-
tion of the land.
If there had been no change in Gov-
ernment functions or responsibilities for
that vital 10 years then the increase in
the public service would have been stag-
geringly unnecessary. Obviously, how-
ever, the added functions and responsi-
bilities of Australian Governments did
increase to a tremendous extent during
the war years. The nature of the cold-
war has been such that much of the extra
defence administration has had to be
retained, and in the light of the events of
the past 12 months may have to be built
up to full war-time strength again.
The spate of international planning
which followed the 1945 cease-fire has
meant the creation and building-up of
an almost new Governmental function—
External Affairs. The industrial conflict
that has raged over the post-war period,
the terrific expansion of industry, the
huge immigration programme, the grow-
ing trend of increased Government
welfare services (carried on fully by the
Menzies Government) are other factors
that may help to explain the three per
cent, increase.
In general, these random traces of
many causes demanding more Govern-
ment work add up to the picture of a
young and growing land that has sud-
denly found itself thrown into the world
in the lusty prime of adult nationhood.
The Australia of 1939 is now as remote
as the Australia of gold-rush days. In
most cases comparison with 1939 factors
is meaningless—and that is particularly
true of public-service statistics.—Libra
(Q).
Onions
Although onions grow prolifically
around Perth and Fremantle, Egyptian
onions, imported via Singapore, are
currently selling in Perth at Is. 2d. a
pound. Earlier in the year W.A. had
plenty of onions, but it also has an Onion
Board which collared the lot —there were
ample supplies to have carried the State
through till the next season.
In the past the storing of onions was
left in the hands of the growers, mostly
Southern Europeans to whom skill in
onion-growing and -storing is practically
hereditary. This time, however, a few
weeks after the board had optimistically
announced that the onion position for
W.A. was secure, it had to admit that the
stored onions were sprouting.
To get rid of them before the rubbish-
tip claimed the lot the board announced
that anyone could carry away a whole
wheat-sackful for 55., the advice being
to plant the sprouting onions and then
harvest the resultant green tops.
Now onions from the Nile valley are
being brought to one of the best onion
soils in the world, with Sydney offering
W.A. importers another couple of pounds
a ton on their bargain. Onion-growers
contend that the loss of the stored onions
might have been avoided had the bulbs
been stored on netted racks so that air
might have circulated through them,
instead of being piled in heaps where
they sweated and sprouted. But what
else could be expected from a board!—
W. C. C. (W.A.).
Grumblers
There are grumblers and grumblers
(B. 22/8/’5l), but most are of the kind
described by “W.P.T.” —they’re not as
badly off as they say.
Four or five years ago I met, at a
friend’s flat, a young woman about to
marry into a well-known pastoral family.
She persisted in telling me —for most of
the evening—that this family was flat-
broke. Yet within a few months I read
in the Press that these “penniless” folk
had just added to their other possessions
a £6OOO limousine.
There is far too much unnecessary
grumbling. Many grouches on the subject
of how poor they are —grouches both by
individuals and by the spokesmen of
companies—leave me unmoved. Produc-
tion may be low, but company profits
certainly are not, 40-hour week notwith-
standing.—K. R. (N.S.W.).
Revaluation
If devaluation of the £ in 1931 was the
seed sown “for the actual in-
flation in Australia, as “D.R.” says
(B. 15/8/’5l), then what has caused even
worse inflation in the United Kingdom
and the United States?
In the last pre-war year (1938-39/
wool averaged only 10|d. and wheat
about 3s. 6d,, both below cost of produc-
tion, so where was the inflation? Manu-
factured commodities were of good
quality and cheap because British,
American, German and Japanese goods
were in keen competition with local pro-
ducts, By next year German and
Japanese goods will probably be back m
large quantities and Australian workers
will probably have to end their go-
slowism or look for other jobs. Once
these cheaply produced goods start to roi
in local manufacturers will need the i
p.c. protection which the 1931 devalua-
tion of the £A provides.
Mr. Menzies said disinterested' econo-
mists had advised against revaluation, an
“D.R.” attempts to counter that by say-
ing that the economic advisers ot o )
newspapers support revaluation. N ■
print is about 12 times its 1939 pnce, s
bringing the £A back to parity
sterling would considerably help n l ®
—its economists would hardly be
interested. On the other hand revaluation
would cripple our sugar, butter,
and other industries now only just
ing ends meet. —K. Me. (N.S.WJ.


Aviation —the Cost
The Government’s decision to sell its
shares in Amalgamated Wireless (A’asia),
Ltd., has been freely interpreted as an
indication that it will withdraw from
other commercial undertakings, including
airlines. Irrespective of the question of
airline ownership and operation, how-
ever, any survey of the Australian
economy would be farcical if it did not
include examination of the whole field
of civil air transport and of the nation’s
ability to maintain services on the pre-
sent scale.
It is no secret that, except in rare and
favored circumstances, air services are not
self-supporting. In Australia, the Com-
monwealth investment in aerodromes,
plant and installations is several times
greater than the total investment of the
airlines themselves, while the revenue de-
rived from charges levied on the airlines
is infinitesimal in relation to the cost of
services and facilities provided for them.
For all practical purposes, the greater
part of total expenditure through the
Department of Civil Aviation is a vast
subsidy to promote aviation services
which, otherwise, could not exist.
Statistics issued by the department
indicate that the average daily effort of
all Australian internal and international
airlines moves rather less than 4500
passengers and 145 tons of goods and
mails a distance of 455 miles. The labor
force employed in achieving this result
may be conservatively estimated at about
20,000, of whom some 5000 are public
servants —a labor force almost as great as
the total employed in coalmining. Labor
employed represents about six persons
for every passenger seat in all of the air-
craft operating on regular scheduled
services, or about four persons for every
passenger carried on an average day. The
Department of Civil Aviation alone
employs nearly twice as many persons as
could be accommodated in all of the
regular airline aircraft at one time, and
about one person for every passenger
carried on an average day.
Detailed statistics of employment in the
department are not obtainable until they
are outdated. The last annual report, for
1948-49, showed the total staff at June 30,
1949, as 3604 (it is now around 5000).
The head office in Melbourne then
accounted for 701. There were 726 in
N. S. Wales, including 500 at Mascot
alone. Queensland’s 753 included 353 at
Eagle Farm and 125 at Archerfield.
Even Lord Howe Island with one
service a week had a staff of 11, while
Norfolk Island, with one service a fort-
night, required a staff of 20 —full-
time employment for 0 public ser-
vants to cater for a fortnightly service
which carried an average of less than 10
passengers and half a hundredweight of
freight and mails on each journey. These
20 persons were employed in providing
aerodrome facilities, communications,
meteorology and navigational aids. They
did not include any airline staff required
to operate or maintain aircraft or to pro-
vide any of the services which a trans-
port organisation renders to the travelling
public.
Following a fatal accident to a freight
plane came the staggering revelation that,
in the last few weeks, T.A.A. alone had
transported more than 40 tons of zinc
from Tasmania to the mainland. Freight
from Hobart to Melbourne is 54d. a
pound and that means a little over £5l
per ton. So, while Communists in ships
and on wharves disrupt the normal move-
ment of basic materials, public ex-
penditure fosters the fantastically un-
economic alternative of air transport. If
zinc, why not cement, or timber, or even
coal? — Tom Mei (Vic.).
“Too Old at 65”
“Macklin’s” tilt at “Laetitia” on the
subject of men working after 65 (B.
8/8/’5l) misses the point. No one wants
to force them to work, but neither
should they be forced to retire. If the
choice is left to the individual, then he
is not robbed of the “few years of free-
dom before he dies” that “M.” claims
for him.
“M.” asserts that a man of 65, or even
55, cannot be as able as he was in his
youth. Surely that depends on the kind
of work? Consider Goethe and Shaw,
Pete HARRIGAN.
“ Nighty-night, dear. Sleep tight.”
Turner, Cezanne and Picasso, Walter de
la Mare, Haydn and Wagner. Certainly
few men of 70 could swing a pick with
a man of 30, though even in physical
tasks we find exceptions—an Afghan of
90 was wharf-lumping in Melbourne, and
a one-time Victorian League footballer
stripped to play two games in succession
in the Speck recently at 58.
The problem of promotion for younger
men is easily solved. At 65 the top-job
holders could work under the new chiefs,
or, if any found that objectionable, they
could be transferred. The design-engineer
of a plant where I worked gave way to
a younger man, but continued to work
for the firm as a private consulting
engineer. A man who is so interested in
his work that he wishes to keep at it
after 65 won’t down tools just because he
is no longer top-dog. And why refuse his
services when there is such an outcry for
more production?
Some men have absorbing hobbies to
which, during their working life, they
have not been able to devote the time
they wished. They will be glad to retire.
But some men —I know a number of
them —make their job their life interest,
and to cut them off abruptly at 65 would
do them more harm than good.— Aestur
(Tas.).
Commonwealth Bonds
The Bulletin (15/8/’5l) set out very
clearly the position of Commonwealth
bondholders, but it did not stress the
position of those bondholders who, under
the Premiers’ Plan during the depression,
came to the help of this country and
agreed to accept four-per-cent, bonds
maturing over different periods of years —
the last as late as 1961 —in lieu of those
held by them earning interest as high as
six per cent.
The Government, however, reserved the
right, agreed to by the bondholders, to
redeem these four per cent, bonds at any
time after 1950. It gave notice in 1950
it would exercise this right in respect of
the whole* of such four-per-cent, issues
remaining unredeemed in 1950. So far
so good, but what followed was not so
good. The Government begged holders
of four per cents., for patriotic reasons,
not to take their money, but to accept
instead 34 per cent, bonds not maturing
until 1964 subject to the Government
right of redemption earlier.
Many smallholding innocents complied
with the Government’s request. A few
days after the date appointed for close of
applications to convert, however, the
Government issued another 3| per cent.
Security Loan at £1 per cent, discount
(£99). That was a blow —the bonds went
down. Another blow followed with the
13s. wages-rise which sent bonds further
down. Worse was to follow with the
reports of the* rise of interest-rates on
future loans to 34 per cent.
So those original bondholders will
either have to hold on 3| per cent, until
1964 or sell before at a price—which
today is £92.— Unwary Willie (S.A.).
Road Transport
So N. S. Wales Transport Minister
Sheahan is still beefing about our heavy
transports and what he reckons they do
to his roads. If only he’d ask a housewife
what happens to little sock holes if they
aren’t darned he’d get a lead on what
happens to little potholes if they aren’t
filled in. And, if he still thinks we’re
ruining his roads, he should hitch a ride
down to Victoria or South Australia and
see that the roads down there aren’t
wrecked, although the same “road-
wreckers” breeze along there on the same
wagons with the same loads right after
they cross the river at Albury and leave
the N. S. Wales dog-tracks behind.
As for overloading, the way Mr.
Sheahan’s got it you can’t help getting
into trouble. Take Plugger Smith. He
runs an Inter, five, a single-axle semi.
The coves at the Main Roads give him a
ticket to lift 214 tons all up, but the narks
at Road Transport say he can only take
13 tons all up. *
Hungry Hall’s got an English Austin,
two speed, with the same trailer, same
horsepower and same tyres as Plugger.
He gets 214 tons at Main Roads and 154
tons at Road Transport.
Then there’s Shadow lohnson.
Shadow’s in the dough and he’s got one
of those fancy Gold Comet jobs—more
horses but the same axles as the others.
He gets 2li tons at Main Roads and 19
tons at Road Transport.
Anyway, what’s Mr. Sheahan screaming
about weights for? We’ve got to put up
four or five quid a ton to his department
on the truck’s weight and load weight
before we roll. In Victoria and South
Australia it’s only 10-bob a ton. Mr.
Sheahan must be holding out on Mr.
McGirr going by the way the latter’s
putting the hooks into the Prime Minister.
Mr. Sheahan’s boys must’ve got millions
out of us for road tax —but it’s
all gone to meet the railways deficit
instead of going into road repairs.—
Butter Harrison (N.S.W.).
Federal Civil Servants
Any official estimate of the Common-
wealth public service will omit a large
number of Government employees be-
cause, nominally, they are in private
employment. In effect they work for the
Commonwealth Government.
Every employer must make tax-
deductions for his employees, and at the
end of the financial year furnish certi-
ficates of the total tax-payments to the
credit of each worker. In any fair-sized
concern, such work will be the equivalent
of one clerk’s full time. In the big shops
and manufacturing firms, the job will cost
the salaries of several clerks, paid by the
firm for doing the Government’s work.
And on those salaries the boss will pay
pay-roll tax!
Whenever there is alteration of the
basic wage, the accounts* branch will be
working overtime—at higher rates—doing
Government work and being paid by the
employer who is taxed for doing it. —
Rhogam (N.S.W.).
Heavy Transport
The suggestion has been made in W.A.
that wheat trucks and similar heavy trans-
port covering long distances be put oft
the road for seven hours at night to enable
the drivers to get some sleep. The
resultant howl, from drivers and interested
organisations must have been heard in
Sydney.
A suggestion that provokes such
opposition is worth considering, and this
one certainly is. It was prompted in the
first place by the number of road
accidents in which wheat trucks were in-
volved. These are out of all proportion
to the number of such vehicles on the
roads, and are not due to their size or
lack of manoeuvrability. There are two
main causes—excessive speed and lack of
judgment.
Speed can be controlled, given sufficient
police, often before it causes an accident.
Lack of judgment becomes evident only
after the event. Since nothing impairs
judgment like Jack of sleep—except drink,
which isn’t under discussion—and since
no man is immune to its effects, it is
obvious that any regulation which ensures
that drivers shall be reasonably awake on
the job will have some effect in reducing
accidents. The only way to ensure this
is to immobilise these vehicles during set
hours. That regulation should be easy
to police.
Any attempt to make railway engine-
drivers remain at the controls for as long
hours as are worked by wheat-truck
drivers would bring a protest from unions
and public. I wouldn’t feel safe travelling
in a train driven by a man who had had
perhaps three or four hours’ sleep in three
days. Yet men who have fared no better
are permitted to control 15 tons of truck
and load along a busy highway.
Insurance companies won’t cover wheat
trucks which are not owner-driven. If
they’re too great a risk for insurance,
then they’re obviously a danger to traffic
and pedestrians. That danger will be
lessened if the drivers are kept awake. —
Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 136
Across.
I—Snobbishly reserved batting part-
nership by Herring and Perch. (11)
6—Bobby gets the firm piano. (3)
8— Pronoun. (3)
9 participate in a Chopin dance,
just in case. (6)
10 —A way of tying speed across the
waves. (4)
12— Food available as Chaney’s self-
description in infancy. (5)
13— A cooker to a flower. (7)
14— Color sometimes raised with a
cry behind a fugitive. (3)
15— Ran across the aerodrome on the
ground when Edward swallowed
a cricket team. (.6)
17—Practitioner of a philosophy of
fortitude. (5)
20— Diced badly with regard to the
Icelandic sagas. (5)
21— Bones back it with prejudice. (6)
22 Part of a circle. (3)
23 Oil-race conceals a thermal unit.
(7)
25 King useful for describing straight
lines. (5)
26 Money ingredient of the music
celebrity. (4)
27 — A century and Baba keep com-
pany for cloth. (6)
28— Are backing for a long time. (3)
29 — Taken in hand by the Volga boat-
man. (3)
30— Piano lake’s sprinter that furrows
cultivator stock. (11)
Down.
1— Craft’s contours are tidy. (9)
2 The fool has you and me to take
for granted. (6)
3 Nick gets a month and some
caution, but is still happy-go-
lucky. (5-3-4)
4 Puncher surrounds a former
N.S.W. Labor leader for a mem-
ber of a Spanish party. (9)
5 I sent alterations in an internal
position. (5)
6 Firm country has the power ot
striving. (8)
7 Pop Walter. (5)
11—Strikes telephone Idriess’s varlets.
(12)
16—Proscribe his Majesty when
going ashore. (9) , ,
18—Spouse selected from the family
of Mr. Black and Miss White. (9)
19_Xhe fan I perform subsequently.
(8)
22—Artist upset over Bartok where
Alexander routed Darios. (6)
23 Tin in the direction of part of
a poem. (5)
24 Age to produce the Muse of lyric
poetry. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 135.


M ■
m
&
S3
0
USED IN wm INDUSTRY
IN AUSTRALIA
USED IN WffiM COUNTRIES
OVERSEAS
(
sr
%
m
z
yy
:
A
5
6
MRmnngnm
f- r- : -
I*lll
7
•V:
im
MARS
MACHINE
TOOLS
Built under Guarantee—All revolving part* are Dynamically
Balanced-—Main Surfaces are Machine Ground, All Gear teeth
are Generated—Every Machine is supplied with Schlesinger
Test chart showing tolerance.
(1) “Mars” No. 4 Universal Miller: Rapid Power Traverse, all
movements—s 8 Speeds and 16 Feeds —Built-in electrics.
Complete— (Very Early Delivery).
(2) “Mars” No. 2 Plain Miller: Integral Motorised Drive. High
and Low Speed Range. Table Traverse Power Driven.
(3) “Mars” Radial Drills Power and Hand Feed. Quick Change
and Ease of Operation — Portable Work Table—Design for
Engineering Workshop Conditions. (Early Delivery.)
(4) “Mars” 16|in. Shaper; Ideal General Purpose Machine.
Wide Operational Range. Designed to cut key ways in
long shafts.
(5) “Mars” Planer; Suitable for any workshop. Accurately
built, sturdily designed. Simple to operate. Maximum
production with minimum outlay.
MARS
Dies ELS
Built to last and guaranteed- — High Powered Efficient Output-
Water cooled— Remarkably simple and Easy to start —Widely
used throughout India, the South Pacific Islands and all States
of Australia. No. (6) shows 5 H.P. Model. Also made in 3 H.P.,
8 H.P. and 10 H.P. Stationary and Marine. The ideal Diesel
for the Primary Producer—(Early Delivery). Brochure with
Specifications gladly sent on request.
MARS
WOODWORKING
MACHINERY
(7) Illustrates a “Mara Triple-Drum Sander”; A high-speed
production machine of solid construction and modern design.
Dial load indicators fitted to each drum to ensure maximum
efficiency. Provision has been made for non-oscillation of No. I
Drum. Continuous feed belt ideally suited for Sanding small
parts. (Early Delivery.) Also available: Combined Over and
Under Planer and Thicknesses, Spindle Moulders, Crosscut
Saws, Bank Saws, Chain and Hollow Mortices, Planing and
Rebating Saw Benches,
MEEHANITE (Regd. Trade Mk.) CASTINGS
All Castings are produced in the Mars Foundry under the
supervision of highly trained metallurgical and laboratory Staffs.
We manufacture 21 grades of MEEHANITE IRONS.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS—
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co.. IS*
Waymouth St., Adelaide, V 10.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd.. 567-9 Little
Bourke St., Melbourne. QLD.: Mars Machine Too! Mfg. Co. Ltd.
(Bombay Province): R. S. Mehta & 00.. Ali Chambers, Fort, Bombay.
PHILIPPINES: The Eamshawg Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manua.
■. w
ips*
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MFC. CO. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY,
BRISBANE
J. * O'S. 14ft
