

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3710
Wednesday, March 21, 1951
Price 9d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Rievaulx Abbey,
Veritable Poem in Stone
'JpHE magnificent ruins of Rievaulx
Abbey have for centuries inspired the
poets and painters of Britain, and in the
beauty of its setting it ranks with Tintern
Abbey on the Wye. The name of this
great Abbey is pronounced “Rivers,”
and it was founded in 1131 by Walter
Espec, Lord of Helmsley. it stands in
the wooded valley of the Rye, near
Helmsley, and was one of the earliest
Cistercian monasteries to be built in the
British Isles.
Rievaulx, established as a mission
centre, flourished from its earliest be-
ginnings, and was soon in a position to
send out colonies to other parts of the
country, notably to Melrose in 1136 and
to Dundrennan in 1142. The prosperity
of the Abbey was shown by the fact that
its church, the first large Cistercian build-
ing in England, was begun not long after
its foundation, and that by the last
quarter of the twelfth century practically
the whole of the monastic buildings were
built in a permanent form. Between the
years 1147-1166 it is recorded that there
were 140 monks and 600 lay brothers at
Rievaulx. In later years, however, at the
time of the Suppression of the Monas-
teries in 1539, during the reign of Henry
VIII, there were only twenty-two monks,
and the annual income of the house had
been reduced to three hundred and fifty-
one pounds.
The Abbey ruins, mainly in the Early
English style, include the Choir, shown
in the accompanying illustration, the
Chapter-house and the Norman founda-
tions of the Cloisters and Refectory. For
over eight hundred years Rievaulx Abbey
has stood in its lonely valley, and from
its terrace may be seen the beauty of a
rolling Yorkshire moor with its purple
heather melting into the horizon
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


iiD.kJ
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND mail
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary .
Prospectus, free and without obligation. J
My Name
Address .
(5.8.151)
Age
I
j
The Red Page
A FINE FRENCH NOVEL.
To discover that of three European
novels recently translated into English
the Russian specimen is pretty feeble, the
Italian not bad but hysterical and the
French—Herve Bazin’s Grasping the
Viper (Seeker and Warburg)—sparkling
with wit and vitality tempts the reader
to draw conclusions which would seem
too much like propaganda for the
Atlantic Pact. But of course you can’t
judge national literatures on a single
example; and the only political signi-
ficance that may safely be drawn from
these three novels is that French litera-
ture —with Chevallier and Jean Malaquais
already commanding a world-wide audi-
ence —is in so healthy and vigorous a
state that it might well point to a coming
national resurgence.
The present commentator approached
Gaito Gazdanov’s The Spectre of
Alexander Wolf (Cape) with intense
curiosity, hoping that it would solve the
great mystery of what has happened to
Russian literature behind the Iron
Curtain; for it is a strange fact that,
though Russia has never lacked propa-
gandists to translate and publish its post-
revolutionary literature, no major novelist
—unless Sholokhov should be counted —
has so far been revealed to the world
since the great days of Dostoevsky and
Turgenev. But Gaito Gazdanov,
whether his novel were good or bad,
would hardly provide an answer; for,
since The Spectre of Alexander Wolf is
set in Paris, with a brief flashback to
Russia in the days of the Revolution, one
presumes that the author is a refugee
from his native country.
The story, told in the first-person, is
that the narrator, during the Revolution,
has shot down a horseman of the oppos-
ing atmy who was about to kill him.
Years afterwards in Paris he reads a
short-story by one Alexander Wolf
exactly describing the shooting incident;
he realises that Wolf must be the man
he thought he had killed. Then, at a
time when he is having a very fruity love-
affair with a lady who has previously
had an affair with this same Alexander
Wolf, Alexander turns up in Paris,
annoys the lady, and the narrator shoots
him again ; this time with finality.
Kept to the length of a short-story this
might be qpite a good thing in the
“magazine” style where strangeness of
incident is more important than the de-
velopment of character. But Gaito
Gazdanov, remembering the tradition of
Dostoevsky, doesn’t want to write a
“magazine” story but a profound and
terrible analysis of the soul; and to do
this he pretends that the narrator has
suffered feelings of guilt for 20 years for
having shot Alexander; and this, seeing
that he shot him in a war, and at a
moment when Alexander was charging at
him with deadly intent, is so-incredible
that all the soul-searchings are meaning-
less. The author seems to be floundering
in psychological profundities he doesn’t
understand and desperately trying to con-
vince himself that he believes in the
nonsense he is writing.
And then, besides not wanting to write
a “magazine” short-story, he doesn’t want
to write a short-story at all, but a novel;
and so the slim central theme is padded
out with a second, completely extraneous
love-affair and with an equally irrelevant
scene describing the capture of a Parisian
criminal.
The Italian novel, Alberto Moravia’s
Disobedience (Seeker and Warburg), is
much more compact, much more sure in
movement and convincing in psychology
than this. It is the story of an adolescent
youth who, in that state of mental out-
lawry not at all uncommon at his age—
when you feel that nobody loves you,
nobody understands you, life is meaning-
less and everything is too difficult —
decides to “disobey” all the rules of
existence to the point of starving himself
to death.
He gives his stamps and his sports-
equipment away ; buries his money in the
public gardens ; refuses food ; and exists
in the splendor of miserable outlawry
until he breaks down with some kind of
brain - fever ; whereupon Alberto
Moravia, knowing well that there is only
one cure for suffering adolescents, pro-
vides him with an amorous nurse —
obliging if not beautiful—and young
Agostino lives happily ever after.
Within its confines it is a flawless little
novel, and perhaps it is profitable to
extract what pleasing prose and pleasing
scenes of anguish can be drawn from
the troubles of hairy hobbledehoys of six-
teen. But the present commentator, for
one, can never get a great deal of enjoy-
ment out of these sensitive and suffering
novels. Even James Joyce’s Portrait of
the Artist as a Young Man is a little pain-
ful when the young hero at school,
tenderly, as a rare prize, offers his “sick
heart” for inspection. Agostino, when
all is said, is a wretched youth, and in
the hands of more robust novelists would
make only a figure for comedy; and
rightly so, for the woes of adolescents,
if they rise from the very depths of their
beings, still rise from very shallow waters.
You cannot make a Hamlet out of a
sulky schoolboy.
Which is exactly what Herve Bazin
refuses to do. Grasping the Viper is
another .story written in the first-person,
another novel about adolescence; it
relates far more genuine causes for
suffering and rebellion than young
Agostino ever faced, for “Folcoche,”
mother of the Rezeau boys, is a monster.
But the rebellion of Bazin’s narrator,
“Firebrand” as he is nicknamed, is not
sickly like Agostino’s but virile and
ferocious —to the point of trying to
poison and then to drown his mother —
and “Firebrand’s” vigorous and lyrical
discovery of love, with a peasant girl in
the fields, is very different from
Agostino’s sighing descent into the arms
of his nurse. And the French novel is
not only better fun —infinitely better —
for the gaiety and spirit with which it is
written, but it is far more natural and
convincing.
Here the woes of childhood are seen
in their right perspective ; tragic enough
at the time, comic afterwards, and chiefly
important as the ordeal in which
character is formed. “Firebrand” pur-
ports to write in undying hatred of his
mother, to expose the “viper” who used
to stab at the backs of the family’s hands
with the prongs of a fork at the dinner-
table, who whipped them to reduce them
to a proper state of misery when their
henpecked father had taken them on a
happy shooting excursion, who kept
them in rags to humiliate them, who
afflicted them with heavy-handed tutors,
who tried to “plant” her money in
“Firebrand’s” secret hiding-place so that
she could accuse him of theft and have
him sent to a reformatory . . . and yet
finally, as Bazin states with absolute
clarity, he writes with respect, even with
a kind of love, for an antagonist worthy
of a boy’s most vehement retaliation:
The expected, inevitable blow resounded.
What! I was still only twelve years old
and no longer deigned to make a show of
being frightened. All I did was to step
back a pace, without shielding my head,
like Weed, who specialised in evasive
action. My attitude didn’t seem altogether
displeasing to Folcoche, who would have
made an excellent commando officer. A
mixture of anxiety and respect could be
read on her face.
“You’re not as strong as me yet, my
lad,” she said deliberately, “but I must
admit you don’t lack a sort of courage.
You loathe me, I know. However, I’ll
tell you something: of all my sons you’re
the most like me. Run along. Clear out.”
Make no mistake about it. An arrow had
just pierced her in the region of the heart.
I even wonder whether, with a bit of
diplomacy, I might not have ... but no!
We were sitting on our grievances like
fakirs on their beds of nails.
But Grasping the Viper is really too
good a novel to compare with Disobedi-
ence; and The Spectre of Alexander
Wolf becomes so spectral in its company
as to vanish altogether.
It has the French rural setting that has
served Balzac, Maupassant and Cheval-
lier so well; it is full of odd bits of
special knowledge about medicine and
insects; and its characters are as con-
vincing as they are delightful: the two
bad boys of the family and the sneaking
youngest brother; the helpless, well-
meaning father, escaping from Folcoche
into his hobby of entomology and writ-
ing to the museum when he means to
settle accounts with his wife ; the fanati-
cal entomologists who come to visit him
and spend their time classifying the fleas
on hedgehogs; the peasants, the tutors,
the rich political uncle ; and, above all,
the formidable Folcoche, becoming
heroic in her own forbidding way when
she refuses to submit to cancer, and at
last brought memorably low when, the
boys having grown beyond her powers
of correction, she raises her fork to stab
one of them at the table and then thinks
better of it.
Original, gay, alive with energy and
delight, this unpretentious little novel —
a rarity among the common books of
the day—has the qualities of permanent
literature.
In Darkest New Guinea.
It must be said that Mr. Charles Miller
gives the reader of travel books a lot
for his money in Cannibal Caravan
(Museum Press). Not only is he right up
to the minute in news-value, for he goes
hunting headhunters in Dutch New
Guinea—a territory which is always
smouldering in the news these days and
which is likely at any time to flare into
the headlines—but in his robust and
astounding narrative anything which
could possibly happen to an explorer in
Dutch New Guinea happens continually
and exuberantly:
So close to me was the fighting I could
hear the crush of skulls as the stone clubs
rose and fell. The next moment I was on
my feet, both guns blazing. My guns were
bucking in my hands when the first wave
rolled over me. i never relaxed my grip.
I started slugging, the gun in each hand
lending crushing force to my b10w5....A
stone club striking a crushing blow on my
left shoulder dropped me in a tangle of
vines, but I was so beside myself with rage
I fought my way back to my feet uncon-
scious of the pain.
The quotation records part of a little
excursion Mr. Miller says he made, under
compulsion, with members of the Marind-
Anim tribe, on the Digoei river, to hunt
heads ; a successful foray, in which, be-
sides thus beating off the enemy and
collecting all this colorful copy, the
author doughtily foiled the efforts of his
ally and captain, the Marind-Anim
chieftain, to knock him on the head as an
interfering and edible paleface. After the
raid there was an orgy of cannibalism
and lust in which, again under compul-
sion, Mr. Miller adds to his store of
experience many strange and naughty
sights and the taste of human flesh.
It is pleasing to learn from the intro-
duction that this most intrepid and
abundant of travellers once visited
Sydney. Mr, Miller was born in Sama-
rang, Java. His father, then a captain
in the Dutch East Indian Army, was
ordered to Dutch New Guinea “to stamp
out cannibalism” and “founded the town
of Merauke.” So Mr. Miller began ex-
ploring in his infancy; grew up to be-
come an aviator in the First World War ;
became a barnstorming flyer in South
Africa, the Indies and Australia; and,
broke in Sydney, worked in a pie-factory.
But fortunately for the readers of travel-
books Mr. Miller didn’t persist in his
career as a flying pieman ; and his father
didn’t stamp out cannibalism in Dutch
New Guinea; and, having got himself
to America, Mr. Miller came back to
New Guinea to show the cannibals to a
wealthy society girl, Miss Leona Jay.
He married Leona in Java and she is
with him in all his amazing adventures
as with his crew of Javanese murderers
and local headhunters he goes by launch
and canoe up the Merauke river, marches
to the Sterren mountains and comes back
by canoe down the Digoel: meeting
snakes, cannibals, orchids, mosquitoes,
birds of Paradise, strange “lost” tribes,
butterflies, pygmies, crocodiles, giant
turtles, witch-doctors and 10,000 different
kinds of stenches ; and, every now and
again, orgies on a scale that Mr. Miller
could never have hoped to encounter if
he had stayed in Sydney, even if he had
lived at King’s Cross.
The highlight of the gallant pair’s
adventures, since orgies, cannibals and
the deaths of their carriers from snake-
bite become a commonplace, is a meet-
ing with a dinosaur. Even in Dutch New
Guinea, it appears, dinosaurs are com-
paratively rare:
Leona gave a soft sigh and collapsed on
the ground. I thought she had fainted,
and managed to turn my head to 100 k....
As if in qbfedience to my wishes the colossal
remnant of the age of dinosaurs stalked
across the swamp. Once its tail lashed out
of the grass so far behind its head I
thought it must be another beast. . .
Mr. Miller and Leona, not unnaturally,
were “paralysed” at the sight of this
almost fabulous monster. The present
reviewer is also paralysed. But the solu-
tion to the political problem of Dutch
New Guinea is obviously to hand it over
to the Indonesian militants and let the
dinosaurs devour them.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Only Way: Alexander Loveday
(Hodge). The author sees war and
unemployment as the great dangers to
democracy ; and fear of war and fear
of unemployment as the prime factors
tempting the common man towards the
dictatorships of Fascism and Com-
munism. He argues that a controlled
democracy can cope with unemployment,
a Federation of democracies can prevent
war. A sober, thoughtful book by a
writer who was formerly director of the
Economic and Financial Department of
the League of Nations and is now warden
of N uffield College,
* * * *
Brass, Woodwind and Strings:
Desmond MacMahon (Nelson). A
large-paper catalogue of the instruments
of the symphony orchestra, the military
band, the light orchestra, the dance
band and the brass band, with
large neat, drawings of the instru-
ments, and rotogravure close-ups of
them being played. The letterpress details
the qualities of each instrument, and gives
memorable passages by each instrument
in familiar works. There is a chapter on
ancient instruments ; there are remarks
on conducting, the constitution of orch-
estras, the scientific basis of music, and
lists of orchestral recordings with prices
(sterling). If the information tends to
break oil just when it is getting interest-
ing, this handbook for children or people
beginning to listen to orchestras is obvi-
ously doing its job,
# * * *
Copy For Crime: Carol Carnac
(Macdonald), Two nice English girls
leave the Army and nasty men to live
neatly together as interior-decorators in
a miracle studio, at a fabulously low
rental, which used to belong to an artist
who disappeared. How come the low
rent? Where went the charwoman who
put them on to the mysterious old pixie
who let them have the studio? Was the
body dug out from under the studio
window that of the vanished artist; and
who’s got the Van Eyck he copied and
stole? Not a mystery of the first rank,
but, the main theme, worked in fugal
style almost worthy of Bach, should keep
as a pleasant surprise for most readers.
* * * *
Verity of Sydney Town: Ruth C.
Williams (Angus and Robertson). Little
Verity’s father has been reported missing
with his ship, and, at the insistence of his
wife, her guardian farms Verity out to
a farmer, where she makes friends with
the farmer’s son and with Britter, the
assigned hand, a transported pickpocket.
A raid by escaped convicts when the
farmer and his wife are away visiting
leaves Britter and the two children to
defend the farmhouse; and after some
stirring hand-to-hand fighting they escape
into the bush, until they are relieved by a
platoon of soldiers and Verity’s uncle,
who has surprising news for Verity. The
story is well in its setting, and has some-
thing of what we imagine to have been
the charm and grace of those days; the
book itself is a pleasant bit of setting-up
in Baskerville, into which the drawings,
taken from old pictures by husband Rhys
Williams, blend flatteringly.
♦ * * *
The Victorians: An anthology chosen
by Geoffrey Grigson (Routledge and
Kegan Paul). Mr. Grigson has the admir-
able opinion that an age is expressed most
compactly, most eloquently and most
amusingly in its poetry, to which prose
serves as a kind of “batman? ; and so,
ranging high and low, from Tennyson to
the street-balladists, with suitable extracts
from such prose-writers as Dickens, |
Thomas Huxley, Whistler and Wilde, he
crystallises the Victorians for us a>
delightfully as he has previously picklec
the Romantics. The book is full of out
of-the-way things and full of good things
light and serious. Half the Victoria? 1
spirit is caught in the quotation from tfc
painter Millais, “October 23rd, 18>
Went to bed rather late and read W
Memoriam, which produced a refill®*
melancholy” ; and the other, more m
half, lies in the ballad of the Ratcatchers
Daughter whose heartbroken
ing that she was drowned, cried “Blow
me if I’ll live long arter!” and cut his
throat with a piece of glass “And stabbed
his donkey arter,”
MENURA.
ò
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON


EftfH
ó
ô
I a I
/ ft I >•->
, •' '.A ,
:•?"'> J' »s, /) A// '.'/
. *••
It: ' .
#
/'
r
M
ftMfXvy,';'i
L
: J r ■:
a
>*
■■ :
m
m
• m m
y •
& » <SL
DESIGNED TO BRIGHTEN YOUR VERANDAH OR PORCH AND ENJOY INDOOR COMFORT OUTDOORS
/
Illustrated are a few suggestions—all of which are to be seen in our Outdoor Furniture Department. Above: Split cane chair in best quality
cane priced at £3/19/6; Mottled split cane high back chairs with orange and green lacings priced at £4/19/6.
Mottled or plain verandah table with orange or green lacquered tops with shelf underneath priced at £3/7/9 each.
Mottled Cane Day Bed with tapestry Overlay, priced complete £l9/12/9. Below: Wrought iron sherry table with *in. glass top. 1 6£in. high
and 26im. diameter priced at £lO/8/3. Below: Five-piece wrought iron dining setting comprising 42in. x 28£in. dining
table with ?in. glass top and four chairs with plasticised duck cushions, priced complete at £45/5/9 set.
V.
U, /•;
m
%
■
fe'V
Ipgll ■
S‘ *• •
|g& ,
> t ; %
r* i.
'
“d^U
■>^2
f'■' vd
. ' NT"- 3
. r . >h,. •
7-° <*
&> >*
*&T.
Below: Wrought Iron Adjustable back lounge
chaise on wheels with foot rest. Back
can be let down to three positions. Priced
at, complete with three cushions, £23/0/9.
r I '
>l/7/ 3
' 1 b
1 i/ Ls __
M//
-
K ■
V- 1
. i.v.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—FOURTH
FLOOR—PHONE M24OI—BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY


The DROVER'S TICKET
by LIONEL KENNEDY
<«| I ELL, I dunno, sonny.”
lAI Th e stationmaster
y y pursed his lips consider-
ingly, then, pushing his
cap askew, leaned back and eyed
me from beneath sternly specula-
tive brows.
I shifted my feet awkwardly
under my chair, moistened my
lips and wished I hadn’t sat
down. Would it have been easier,
I reflected, to take this blow
standing up? Tim’s breezy letter
from Sydney had made it all
sound so simple—“just barge in
and ask the S.M. for a drover’s
ticket only cost you a quid
deposit, and you’ll get that back
at this end he won’t hesitate
costs him nothing.”
The stationmaster leaned
farther back in his chair, till he
was looking at the ceiling. Had
I caught a glint of amusement in
his eye? I coughed nervously,
hoping for the best, and wishing
some of Tim’s brash self-
assurance might give me confi-
dence to plead my case. This in-
effectual dumbness would lose
all.
What would Tim have said
now? Wheedled? “Aw, come on,
Mister” No, no. My halting
accents would make the plea
seem craven. Brazened it?
“After all, sir, what difference
will it make to you?” Coming
from my gawkily hesitant lips,
an appeal assuredly shriftless.
The stationmaster, one eye
cap-obscured, and all official-
dom’s eternity to play Jove to
my Tantalus, absently recounted
my history to a ceiling-corner
spider.
“Says he’s seventeen; don’t
look it; more like fifteen, I’d
say.” A sudden switching of the
eye to me: “Are you fifteen,
son?” A nod to the spider;
“Yes, fifteen. Not running away
from home, he says. At least,
not really.” (Surely that slow
grin was friendly). “Stepfather
doesn’t care where he goes.
Mate has a job for him in
Sydney. Not enough money for
fares. Sold his bike for twenty-
five bob.”
A long pause. The spider, ap-
parently having cast some silent-
code counsel, dashed out of
character to seize a late-revelling
fly, and my inquisitor became
brisk again.
He drew pen and paper to-
wards him.
“Hand over, son, and we’ll fix
you up.”
He took my pound-note, con-
signing me at once to beggary
and Elysium.
“Six trucks of cattle on the
4.10 tomorrow afternoon.
They’re all yours for three
hundred miles, Wagga to
Remington saleyards. Keep
from under ’em, and”—he
scribbled a concluding flourish,
and handed me the ticket—
“goodnight, son, and good luck.”
uWES, I’m the 4.10’s guard.
I That’s her van up at the
far end. Bits and pieces of her all
over the yard. She’s still
marshalling. Time now, son?
3.30. Aw, she’ll be a while yet
—never in a hurry, this old girl.
Climb aboard and take it easy.”
Soot on the iron-hard seat;
fairy dust for an adventurer’s
bed. Grime on the smoke-
blackened walls: romantic spoor
of a State-wide Odyssey. My
little palace was redolent of his-
tory, and stank delightfully of
countless long-slaughtered sheep.
A long unbroken silence began
to persuade me that I had been
misled, wilfully and cruelly
hoaxed. I was on a train
destined never to be completed,
fated to lie here for ever, a half-
dozen trucks of bleating, for-
gotten sheep, and a derelict van,
brake-seized wheels on rusted
rails.
A gleaming passenger-train
steamed luxuriously into the
station, paused condescendingly,
and rolled resplendent toward
my dusk-distant goal. An hour
before, I would have surveyed it,
lord-like and conspicuous, from
my window. Now, crouched in
my timeless tomb, I peeped
shrinkingly aslant, envying the
Master Race who lolled non-
chalantly at its fleeting case-
ments.
With its passing, however, life
flamed into being in the somno-
lent shunting-yard. In a flood of
near-incredulous hope, I leaned
out to scan the revitalised scene.
A little “25”-class engine,
which had shamelessly drowsed
the afternoon away under a
wispy spume of steam, set up a
volcano of smoke and began to
harass the trucks in its
neighborhood. It bore fiercely
down on a column of them,
sending them crashing and jang-
ling to the end of the track,
where they came to rest, after
much panic-stricken clashing
and questioning together, in a
state of terrified expectancy.
Their fuming assailant sped to a
parallel track and took a swift
turn up and down, eyeing them
loweringly as it went. Thence
it struck furiously again, and,
now utterly berserk, in a series
of wild forays scattered them to
every quarter of the compass.
Thus, having broken their ranks
and devastated their morale, it
charged upon them in their
trembling isolation, dragging
them far forth to hurl them
viciously back, pile upon pile,
against the Gibraltar of my van.
Imperturbably the latter received
each new shattering assault, re-
coiling only slightly, and seem-
ing to receive these recurring
shocks as the inevitable long-
wonted prelude to pilgrimage.
The agonised baaings of
astonished sheep filled the nearer
air, and from half-way along the
wildly mounting entourage I
heard the occasional bellowing
of the more stoical cattle, some
of them, I guessed, my own un-
witting charges.
There followed a lull in the
tumultuous onslaught, and the
little engine, having denuded its
immediate environs of victims,
snorted contemptuously and re-
tired to its afternoon’s haven.
FROM some unseen point a
larger! and more leisurely
engine, evidently having viewed
the completion of these menial
chores, emerged and backed
himself resignedly against the
leading truck. The guard
climbed into his section of the
van, and engaged in some long-
range dumb-show with the
engine crew.
Began then an appalling suc-
cession of crashes, the last and
nearest of which jerked the van
into sudden mobility, and the
whole train, after an uneven fire-
cracker trial of motion, settled
into a steady procession over the
river. I gazed rapturously back
at the disappearing township
winking its farewell from a
growing maze of lights.
The train clanked on, toiling
manfully up hills, but apparently
much exhausted by the repeated
efforts, for it paused at frequent
and prolonged intervals in most
illogical places, fo* no conceiv-
able reason other than that of
recuperation.
At some of these tedious
stopping-places, guard, driver
and fireman fraternised in long
desultory conversations at a
point half-way along the track,
gossiping lazily until, the engine
apparently refreshed, they
clambered to their respective
stations and the reluctant
traction resumed. On other
occasions the halt was marked
only by such a deathly silence
and lack of activity that I was
more than once uneasily con-
vinced that all members of the
crew were sunk in a forgetting
stupor.
At Junee, I must admit, much
business was done. The engine,
obviously shamed by the in-
dustry of a dozen or more other
engines fussing determinedly
about the yard, took our whole
train to pieces, spread it to
various points, and reassembled
it to its greater satisfaction,
though with what profit I could
not tell. Enlisting the services of
a fellow-engine, it at last set
itself to the mighty task of
hauling us over the Bethungra
hills, the which arduously
conquered we steamed with
triumph into Cootamundra. Here
both detached themselves, and
deserting us entirely, apparently
on some six-hour principle of
thd Engines’ Union, took refuge
in a shed. After protracted de-
bate a new engine sluggishly
emerged and attached itself
sulkily to the abandoned trucks,
shaking them spitefully to mani-
fest its contempt for their com-
pany. Sheep, cattle, and a small
colony of pigs, garnered some-
where on our chequered way, set
up a complaining chorus at this
indication of renewed journey-
ing.
A IX this while my conscience
* \ had been plaguily torment-
ing me that I should look to* the
welfare of my still unseen
proteges, the hapless cattle,
whose restless stampings and be-
wildered lowings I could hear in
the long intervals of silenced
train-noises. My failure to carry
out this duty was due partly to
my complete ignorance of what
I might have been expected to do
for them, and partly to my un-
willingness to leave the safe
precincts of the van, lest this un-
predictable train rush off into the
night without me.
While I was engaged in one
of these mental turmoils, and
while the Cootamundra engine
impasse was being resolved, an
unexpected ally came from the
now-chilly outer dark.
Slow, clumping footsteps ap-
proached crunchily along the
cinders, and halted below the
door of the van. Stertorous
puffings, as of a beast about to
essay a cumbrous leap through
the window, were followed by
the resolute pantings of a
creature in the stress of great
endeavor. Hands strove grop-
ingly at the door-handle, feet
scraped effortfully for support
and purchase. I stared in a con-
fusion of fearful expectations,
and saw the door flung violently
open to the accompaniment of a
gusty wheeze of triumphant re-
lief. A rolling giant of a man,
enveloped in a safety-pinned,
crease-wrinkled overcoat, lifted
himself, on boots crusted with a
sheep-droppings, through the
doorway, and sank breathless on
to the opposite seat. He let a
long stick fall to the floor, and
deposited a tin tuckerbox on the
seat beside him.
We gazed at each other in
silence, myself humbled in the
presence of a real train-drover in
full regalia, my companion draw-
ing deep breaths and alternately
bulging and closing his eyes at
me, evidently in an attempt to
reassure me until the returning
faculty of speech made more
coherent communication
possible.
Seemingly in despair of this
last consummation, or em-
barrassed by my continuing
wordless stare, he turned to his
tuckerbox, withdrawing a full
bottle of rum, and a glass on
which rioted a veritable gallery
of greasy fingerprints, marks of a
continent of carousals. Re-
moving the stopper with the
dexterity long use lends even to
the clumsiest fingers, he flooded
the glass generously and emptied
it at a gulp, this operation being
considerably expedited by a
sharp jerk of the van, as the
train made its customary im-
petuous plunge into motion.
The liquor, against all the laws
of expectation, restored
normality to his lungs, and
seared his vocal chords free.
“Have a nip, son?” he offered,
extending bottle and glass.
I shook my head, stammering
that I wasn’t used to it, trying at
the same time to convey my ap-
preciation of his hospitality. He
looked fondly at the bottle, and
restored it to the tuckerbox with
an air of regret, whether for my
spurning of its camaraderie, or
from an unwillingness to lock it
away, I could not be sure.
“Watcher lookin’ after, young
feller —not them cattle, I hope?”
He added this last with an
intensity of interrogation which
portended that the most
disastrous of dooms was signified
by an affirmative answer.
Alarmed, I replied that I was,
and waited apprehensively for
details of my fate.
He shook his head slowly, and
looked silently from the window.
My fearful fancy imagined him
as reviewing a long vista of
“young fellers” who had
attempted the dangerous feat of
train-droving cattle, perishing
awfully beneath stamping feet
and thrusting horns.
When he spoke again, how-
ever, his hoarse voice was quite
tranquil.
“Don’t you worry about ’em,
son—l’ll keep an eye on ’em.”
With this magnanimous and
most welcome offer, he stretched
himself at full length, and fell
into instant snoring sleep.
OUR present engine, either in
disgust at the sloth of its
predecessors, or from anxiety to
hasten the end of its detested
task, carried us along at a great
rate, hurling itself headlong at
hills, and careering recklessly
along the flat. This long-looked-
for speed, along with the great
relief from responsibility given
by my fellow-traveller’s pledge,
should have made me happy.
But I had neither the latter’s
overcoat for outer protection,
nor his spirituous lacing for
inner warmth, and every mile
seemed to draw new waves of
bitter, penetrating cold upon me.
I shivered and shook to the
rhythm of the van’s ceaseless
frenzied bouncing, and tried in
vain, by doubling in a ball and
squeezing into a corner, to shut
out the bone-chilling cold.
Brief benisons of sleep, hardly
won, were followed by inter-
minable periods of frozen wake-
fulness, mocked by my
companion’s snores as they re-
verberated strongly above the
roar of the wheels and the rattle
of the rails.
It was a relief when the train
ground to a stop, the engine
panting in a fury as it waited
indignantly for an express to
rush by in a trail of bright sparks
and warm lights.
My friend woke with a start,
sat immediately upright, and
seized his stick from the floor.
“I’ll have a look at them
cattle for you, when I’ve seen to
the sheep,” he puffed cheerfully,
as he lumbered to the ground
and started off along the track.
I watched him as he paused at
one truck after another, some-
times prodding with his
stick from the ground,
sometimes pulling himself
laboriously up to the
upper deck, to pry and
gouge at recalcitrant sheep
which lay stubbornly on
the floor. Despite the
great handicap of his bulk,
he was a conscientious
fellow, for at one truck,
after repeated thrustings
and proddings with his stick,
he finally discarded it and
prepared to make actual
bodily entry into the woolly
midst. Forcing a door open
carefully, lest in providing
passage sufficient for his huge-
ness he give escape to a torrent
of milling sheep, he crawled toil-
fully through. There ensued a
melee so wild that it was with
great relief and not a little sur-
prise I saw him exit unscathed.
Reaching the ground, he
scrutinised my cattle, clambering
precariously about their vans to
do so, and finally returning
ponderously to our fastness.
This time I held the door open
for him, a gesture which he
acknowledged in pantomime, for
his labors had again rendered
him speechless. He brought into
the van with him an overpower-
ing odor of uninhibited sheep,
but took so copious a draught
from his bottle, and exhaled so
lustily thereafter, that the status
quo of effluvia was quickly ad-
justed.
MINDFUL of my long wake-
fulness and present cold, I
eyed the rum a little wistfully, in-
clined to doubt the worth of
abstinence. Perhaps he noted my
expression. At any rate, he
poured another bounteous
measure, and held it out insist-
ently.
“Damn it, young feller, y’re
shiverin’. Come on —have a
charge. Make y’ sleep.”
He watched with approval as
I took the glass, and nooded en-
couragingly, exhorting me to
“take it steady, son,” as I
gingerly coaxed the raw, fiery
liquid down.
The world glowed instantly
with blessed warmth. My head
sang with joy in this sudden
transformation from polar waste
to tropic heaven. I smiled in
beaming gratitude.
“Lord save us, y’ been
perishin’ all night, poor little
beggar—’ere.” He got to his
feet on the floor, now swaying
again in the crazy movement of
the train. Stripping off his over-
coat, he forced me down on to
the seat and wrapped me tightly
in its odoriferous folds. I lay
there, blinking drowsily at him
as he displayed, doubtless to
allay any scruples that I might
be denuding him, three ragged,
multicolored pullovers, beneath
two vests and a coat. As I
drifted into delicious sleep, my
slightly fuddled wits assured me
that this accounted for some, at
least, of his girth.
Glorious sunlight flooded
everywhere when I woke.
The train was stopped outside
some small station in scenery
which suggested a near end to its
journey. Many such stops must
have been made during my sleep.
As I went to the door, my
friend was returning from an-
other inspection of the trucks.
Apparently great exertions had
not been required on this
occasion, or it may have been
that he throve in the morning
air, for he greeted me robustly
immediately on taking his seat.
“Ah, that fixed you!” he cried
with gleeful triumph. “Now,” he
added, opening the tuckerbox, in
which, I noted, the bottle was no
longer to be seen, “let’s eat, eh?”
With jovial largesse he handed
out fat sandwiches. “Your cattle
are doin’ fine ” he said between
mouthfuls.
I expressed my thanks for
help; he waved them largely
aside.
Th§ engine, rejoicing with us
at labor’s ending, trumpeted re-
soundingly, and with a joyous
clatter the wheels settled to their
final turnings.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3710
Wednesday, March 21, 1951
%SCT\oil.
THE MOLONGLO MONSTER REAPPEARS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE JOB AHEAD.
If the Parliamentary “Labor” party, led
by Mr. Chifley and dancing to the tune
of the A.L.P. trade-union dictatorship,
goes to political annihilation on April
28 it will be no more than it thoroughly
deserves.
For 15 months the “Labor” Opposition
in the Senate has deliberately and snake-
headedly frustrated not only the will of
the "Liberal-C.P. Government but also
the clearly-expressed desires of the
electors. The vested interests of “Labor”
have set themselves above the people of
Australia, and often above the law, be-
sides being subject at times to the influ-
ence of a foreign Power.
It was a soured party under a soured
leader which went down to defeat at the
1949 elections. “Labor” declared that
it had been prevented from governing
and decided to prevent its successors
from governing, either. Smashed by in-
surgence on the coalfields, it has watched
with glee renewed coal stoppages aimed
at helping its own legislative obstruction
in the Senate to smash the Menzies Gov-
ernment in turn. That coal-starvation is
also smashing Australian industry seems
to be merely incidental.
When the late war ended, the times
and circumstances required a strong and
resolute Ministry at Canberra to aim
above sectional politics and enable Aus-
tralia to seize a magnificent opportunity
to enhance her influence in the world.
There was no war damage to be repaired
here, few reasons for shortages at home,
and every opening for winning new ex-
port markets abroad. We could make
the cheapest steel in the world and had
tooled up factories during the war to
build ships, planes and heavy motor-
vehicles. Overseas markets were starved
for manufactures and foodstuffs, and
Australia was situated as never before
to provide them. All that was required
was the right political leadership and a
mighty effort by the whole nation.
The “Labor” Government dismally
failed, though it had full Parliamentary
power to go ahead. It got bogged down
in a Socialist morass, and evaded every
crucial economic issue. The cumulative
effect of these evasions has been almost
ruinous. So far the only point on which
the rival parties have agreed is
the immigration policy for increasing
with all speed the numbers of our people
and oversea capital investment.
On every other proposed course of
action the two main parties have fought
each other tooth and nail. “Labor”
insisted that economic prosperity could
be assured only through the socialisation
of industry and by methods of compul-
sion to shape the whole nation into the
new mould ; only for the fighting services
would it retain “voluntaryism,” even
though the voluntary system there was
revealed a complete failure. The Liberals
have been for compulsory training for
the Army—that is, for the reserves on
which a war-time army could be quickly
raised—and for free enterprise in the
development of the national economy,
saving public control of essential services.
The electors seemed to settle this argu-
ment in December, 1949. They must
now confirm that verdict.
This political rift has been widened
and deepened by “Labor’s” committal to
the socialistic “revolution” and its tolera-
tion to this end of Communist control
of key trade-unions and widespread Com-
munist infiltration into the political
“Labor” ranks as well. Mr. Chifley is
fully aware of the damage that has been
done and the means by which it is done.
He knows that every word Mr. Menzies
is saying now about the threat of another
great war is well warranted by experience
in the history of the past 50 years.
Mr. Chifley knows, and said repeatedly
while Prime Minister, that this country
is doomed to economic disaster unless it
can get the necessary coal dug and the
ships served in decent time in our ports.
He went abroad to learn, and to Berlin
to see for himself, some elements of the
great struggle for world power between
the United States, as head of the Western
democracies, and Soviet Russia, as the
head of international Communism with
its sabotage agents in every land.
He came back from that visit and
said he was ashamed to find blockaded
Berlin better off for electric power than
free Sydney. He told the northern miners
how the livelihood of every other worker
depended on the miners doing their job,
and he ended with an exhortation which
might be the text for this whole theme.
“Vote for whom you like,” he said, “but
for God’s sake do your best for Aus-
tralia.”
And if Mr. Chifley by any chance won
back to office he would be saying that
again.
But today, facing with all other leaders
of Australian public opinion an inter-
national menace of the utmost gravity,
Mr. Chifley behaves like the narrowest-
minded member of his own caucus. Not
by one word or gesture will he co-
operate with the Government to resist the
onset of inflation or to make Australia
ready for self-defence. Nothing was
more marked in the debate in Canberra
last week which preceded the double-
dissolution than Mr, Chifley’s complete
ignoring of the warnings from Washing-
ton and London of the threats of war by
Russia, and his affectation that the Gov-
ernment’s inability through restricted
defence powers to prepare, under notice,
for the emergency was tit-for-tat for Mr.
Menzies’s resistance to the “Labor”
referendum on price-controls.
The call for a combined national effort,
involving a spell of hard work —Mr.
Chifley called for that, too, a couple of
years ago—increases in urgency although
the whole footing of these party antagon-
isms is changing rapidly. There is prob-
ably not one member in the Common-
wealth Parliament who is not convinced
that the Constitution, over whose 50 years
of existence we are going through
motions of jubilee-celebration, is out-
moded and must be refashioned to meet
the nation’s needs.
We are again in danger of being in-
volved in a world war. And the argu-
ments of three years ago against some
central controls need revision if Mr.
Menzies’s three-year defence plan is to be
implemented. These, of course, would
be temporary controls, not permanent,
and for definite defence purposes.
In Britain, too, this same debate is pro-
ceeding'. This is the argument on Mr.
Menzies’s facts as presented by an advo-
cate for the rallying of the nation a few
weeks ago in the London “Spectator”:
I do not say that war will come, either
sooner or later. But I do say that it the
chances of its coming: soon are at all sig-
nificant [and the Government says they
are], then it is imprudent not to make ade-
quate insurance. Given even (say) one
chance in five, then the only grounds for
not urging a supreme effort are either that
we believe that in the event we are beaten
anyway, or that we believe that both
statesmen and people are so deaf to reason
and so blind to facts that no amount of
persuasion will induce them to put them-
selves in a position to survive.
The economy and the public morale of
this country have for long enough gone
haywire under. Communist freedom to
wreck both. This treason must be
arrested. In the conditions of the hour
the people must give their verdict on that
issue first in the general election
on April 28. The shackles of Parlia-
mentary obstruction binding the Govern-
ment must be struck off. That done,
there should be a chance of passage for
a referendum which both parties should,
on their past record, be willing to support.
The Real Issues.
It became inevitable as soon as the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Bill was over-
thrown by the High Court that the
Menzies Government must somehow
secure more power to handle and crush
sedition and Russia’s traitorous agency
in this country. The only course open to
it was to go straight to the source of
power—the electors. It certainly could
not get power from Parliament while
the Senate was controlled by “Labor,”
which, in opposition to the deliberate
mandate of the people, is prepared to use
every device and trick to carry out its
(and the Communist party’s) slogan that
only “Labor” must be allowed to govern
An election is as much needed to place
the position of “Labor” vis-a-vis Com-
munism before the people as to clean up
“Labor’s” obstruction. Headed by a
Federal president, Mr. J. A. Ferguson,
who is employed by a union whose two
main Federal executive heads are
prominent and well-known Communists,
“Labor” stands revealed for what it has
become in present world circumstances.
Mr. Chifley, last week in the Reps., said
with strong feeling that the Government
could only blame itself for not having
power to deal with the Communists,
since nothing had been shabbier in
Federal history than the action of
Liberal-C.P. supporters of the time in
denying Parliament the extended powers
which the “Labor” party had advocated
it should have in 1944.
Those powers were, of course, con-
tained in Dr. Evatt’s Fourteen Points
Referendum proposal which was so satis-
factory to the Communists that they sent
three leading officials —Tom Wright, H.
B. Chandler and Norman Jeffrey —to
join the committee which was to work
with Dr. Evatt for a “Yes” vote in the
N. S. Wales trade-unions. “Labor” and
Communists campaigned on the same
platforms for the proposals which Mr.
Chifley says were shabbily rejected
through the machinations of Liberalism.
How “shabby” the decision was to
reject the proposals of Dr. Evatt, launched
under these doubtful auspices, is easily
shown by another reference in Mr.
Chifley’s speech on March 13. Twitted
by the Prime Minister with having
dropped his opposition to the Communist-
party Dissolution Bill at the orders of the
Federal A.L.P. Executive, he said;
It Is not true I have changed my mind. I
have never contended other than that the
Federal Conference should be the body
to lay down the policy of the Australian
Fabor party. I fought for that and lost
my seat in Parliament for it. I was out of
Parliament for nine years because of It.
He is reported to have said at the noisy
caucus meeting which took place on
March 15 that in relation to the Arbitra-
tion Bill amendments the decisions of
the outside A.L.P. Triennial Conference
“left Parliamentary Labor no option but
to oppose the legislation.”
That being Mr, Chifley’s viewpoint and
the official viewpoint (though not by any
means that of all the members) of the
Federal Parliamentary “Labor” party, it
means that increased powers for
Parliament which he demands would
have been handed out really not
to Parliament itself, not to the
Government of the day, but to an outside
junta chosen by State A.L.Ps., which are
communised down to their very hearts in
policy and personnel. It means that Mr.
Chifley advocates that Parliament when
“Labor” is in power shall hand over its
conscience and its policy-making authority
to Mr. Ferguson and other paid officials
of the unions, some of which are Com-
munist-controlled unions.
The “Labor” objective is nakedly open
in its intentions. Its objective is socialisa-
tion to be achieved by “inter alia (a)
the clothing of .the Commonwealth Par-
liament with sovereign powers and with
authority to create States or provinces
possessing delegated constitutional powers
(e) abolition of the Senate.” The
latter objective was reaffirmed both at
the 1948 and 1951 Triennial Conferences.
On Mr. Chifley’s grim assurance, and
on the evidence of the last conference
which instructed Federal members how
and when they could speak or vote on
certain issues, the “sovereign” Parliament,
when “Labor” takes office, is to be subject
implicitly to the orders of the outside
politbureau which will use it purely as a
registering-machine similar to the Supreme
Soviet for its decisions, taken behind
closed doors, for the purpose of introduc-
ing complete socialisation which is to
involve the destruction of Parliamentary
government.
It is to be hoped that the Government
parties will be able to bring home to the
electors this fact, which hitherto has not
been so obvious as it is at present.
The more moderate section of the
Parliamentary “Labor” party already
realises the implications of what is going
on, and no opponent of “Labor” could
have summarised the position more
strongly than Mr. Keon, M.H.R., when
he told the party meeting on March 15
that “since caucus was not even allowed
to discuss the legislation, but had simply
to obey the orders of the A.L.P. con-
ference, it was obvious that the party was
being led to min by a dictatorship.”
What applies to the Federal party also
applies to the State regimes of Mr.
McGirr and Mr. Hanlon ; but it is obvious
from what has happened at Canberra that
“Labor” has been tom to pieces by the
struggle which is going on within it
between its present Communistic-minded
controllers and a salutary bloc of
frightened moderates and that it has no
chance of going to the polls united.
The coming election is not merely a
fight to end a deadlock. It is a fight for
the continuance of the right of the people
to govern through Parliament.
A vote for “Labor” on this occasion
will be a vote for a free hand for the
Communists, since the A.L.P. is largely
made up of Communist-led unions and
so dominated by them that after the war
the soldier-rehabilitation policy of the
N.S.W. A.L.P. was framed for it by the
Waterside Workers’ Federation and
seconded in conference by a man who
had the previous year proposed the affilia-
tion of the “Labor” and Communist
parties, “Labor” cannot deal with Com-
munism even if it wants to. It would be
like a man cutting out his own stomach.
On the very day on which Mrj Menzies
decided to go to the Governor-General,
Dr. Evatt said that not only must attempts
be made to prevent a third world war,
but to prevent a line-up of Powers for
another world war.
The Communist Powers are already
lined up. Dr. Evatt obviously cannot
mean anything save that the Western
Powers must not line up to defend them-
selves.
He has said this at a juncture when the
Western Powers are hastily arming under
a Commander-in-Chief already appointed
and when peace depends entirely on
whether we can create in time an inter-
national force which will make it hope-
less for the poised and already-organised
Russian armies of aggression to strike.
Wings Over Riverna.
In the course of a heedless youth I passed
frequently over the face of Riverina in
various guises, doing various things and
using various means of ground and water
transport. I’ve toiled on it, slept on it,
'Wept on it and sometimes got drunk on
it, I’d sampled that country thoroughly
—the salt on its dry winds, Murray cod,
Mildura sultanas, Hillston beer; been
smothered in its dust, burnt in its fires and
drowned in its floods; stung by Euston
sandflies, roared at by Berrigan bosses
and bitten by Balranald beer-sparrers.
I know what the dawn is like on the
Waugoola hills in October when all the
land’s astir with waking beauty, and what
the sunset is like on Magenta in January,
when the parching sun glares through a
chocolate pall of dust and the wethers go
shambling like wraiths to the drying tank.
I’ve been out of Echuca by night in June,
with the great stars blazing from the frost-
keen sky and the broken bugling of
wild swans dropping from the far silence ;
and out of Finley by day in December,
with headers throbbing through seas of
wheat and the great, gauzy grasshoppers
clicking in the golden heat-haze. I’ve
heard children singing in the moonlight
on a Murray picnic-boat, and seen the
lights of Ungarie far across the black
and lonely night plain on the road from
Condobolin.
All this and more, much more, came
back the other week when I went up
where the wedgetail soars and looked at
Riverina from there. My wings were
those of an A.N.A. Skymaster flying from
Sydney to Adelaide. All the land was
brown with summer except where the
irrigation settlements set their tiny green
squares in the sun and the rivers and
lakes coiled and glittered far below. The
remarkable geometrical patterns of the
cultivated country gave way to the sheep
plains, with their great areas of claypan
and the whorls of color —brown, purple,
red, yellow—like mixed paint spilled by
a child, and presently the second crossing
of the Murray was past and the ridged
Adelaide hills were below, with here and
there a bordered forest or the squares of
orchard country in the shallow valleys.
The habitations of man and his handi-
work could be seen from 8000 ft., but not
man himself; and the land looked as
though lifeless. But I knew of the vast
quantities of grain and fruit, of wool and
meat this land grew; of the commerce
of its towns and cities, of the energy and
purpose of its people though their com-
munities be separated by great distances ;
of the vast contribution in wealth and
production the Riverina makes to the
nation. And with the borrowed eyes of
the eagle I could see land-space —much
land-space, waiting for hundreds of thou-
sands more people —with the water wait-
ing to be used and, far back in the
mountains whence these lazy-winding
rivers come, the power waiting to be
developed.
This Riverina is but a strip of Aus-
tralia, perhaps one twenty-fifth of the
continent’s whole area, maybe a tenth of
its good land —good in the sense of
being fit for settlement. Maybe
there was a boy down there in
one of those distant little schools who
caught the drone of the plane and looked
up with a momentary dream in his eyes;
there are certainly men out there with
their dreams of progress and development
—you’d have to be a clod indeed to live
in Riverina and not feel it touch your
heart sometimes.
The other night I sat listening to the
dull and deadly wrangling, personal
abuse and dreary platitudes of the Can-
berra Senate, and the memory of ntf
flight over Riverina rushed back. And 1
wished I could have taken the Senators
up and shown them their country and
driven into them the need for vision and
courage and enterprise—and then dropped
the whole boiling overboard so that the
country could get on with its busing
under new and virile leaders with the
vision of eagles, and the day of the petty,
scheming and mean party politician be
ended for ever.
OLD-TIMER.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Double-dissolution.
The inevitable came about after a week
of drama when, on Saturday (St.
Patrick’s Day), Mr. McKell granted a
double-dissolution of Parliament on the
ground that the Senate had twice failed
to pass the Banking Bill. The bill had
been brought to the head of the Parlia-
mentary business-list at the beginning of
the week contemporaneously with Mr.
Menzies’s challenge to “Labor” to create
an opportunity to go to the country. Be-
cause of Senate limitations, the term o:
the new Parliament cannot extend beyonc
two years and four months.
Before Christmas leaders of “Labor’
were confident that their star wa
rising and that in six months’ time
the atmosphere would be ripe for
a poll on the question of price
and putting value back into the pound
But coal strikes and shipping hold-ups
told against “Labor.” Also, the A.L.P
Executive’s order to Federal Parlia
mentary “Labor” to somersault on the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill and Dr
Evatt’s appearance for Communist in-
terests in the High Court and Arbitration
Court began to cause dissension and dis-
trust of its leadership within the “Labor’
party itself.
Open rebellion eventually broke out
among caucus members who had not
been long enough under discipline to be-
come old hacks, and who refused to
assent to the startling propositions
accepted by Messrs. Chifley, Evatt anc
Rosevear that an outside junta should
control not only general party policy but
the detailed actions of “Labor” members
in the Houses to such an extent that any
motion in caucus which ran contrary to
A. irfstructions, even when it involved
a barefaced reversal of principle, was out
of order.
Thus “Labor” came from its last
caucus meeting, which broke up in dis-
order, split into bits —the Chifley-Evatt-
Rosevear section, the Keon-Burke dissi-
dents and the regiment known as Cal-
well’s Own, which consists of a lone rider
whose slogan is “Calwell for leadership.”
In some States the “Labor” party is
motherless broke —at the last election,
when Australia was supposedly “surging
behind Labor,” the Westralians had to
fork out a large proportion of their
expenses In N. S. Wales Mr. McGirr is
scarcely anxious to deplete funds which
may be needed for a State election all too
soon, and Dr. Evatt’s eagerness in the
cause of freedom of the individual may
not be unconnected with the fact that the
only substantial sources of fighting funds
within the A.L.P. are the big Communist-
led unions—Ironworkers, Watersiders,
B. “Labor” goes on trial with a
sick leader, a deputy-leader who himself
is under censure by two State branches
and indicted by them to the next A.L.P.
Federal Executive meeting. It is split to
pieces on Communism. It has flouted
every mandate given by the people in an
overwhelming vote at the 1949 elections.
In the expiring House of Reps there
were 55 Liberals, 19 Country-party and
47 “Labor” men ; in the Senate “Labor”
held 34, Liberal 20 and C.P. six seats.
The latest opinion polls show a general
recent drift against “Labor,” This drift
appears to be in the cities, and should be
accentuated as a result of the splitting of
the party. At present poll indications
are that at leas! the Government will get
51 per cent, of the votes, which will send
it back as strong as at present in the
Lower House. If it plays its cards
properly there is no reason why it should
not turn the 51 per cent, into a sufficient
percentage to give it a Senate majority
as well, despite all Dr. Evatt’s machina-
tions.
A.L.P. Dogfight.
As soon as the election depression
arrived over “Labor’s” weather-map, per-
sonalities of the party which “hates Com-
munism” but persists in nourishing its
Communists, nails the socialisation objec-
tive to its masthead but spends its time
disowning the thing whenever it attracts
public attention, began turning on each
other like a lot of snapping turtles.
The fact is that the socialisation cat
won’t jump; in truth, the animal is such
a dead and smelly corpse that when Mr.
Dedman dragged it into the light of day
recently in his unsuccessful libel case
the entire Victorian “Labor” party ran
for the open air holding its nose. When
Dedman admitted that socialisation and
home - ownership were contradictory
policies, and two embryo “little capi-
talists” went into the witness-box and
said that as natural “Labor” voters they
had refused to vote for such a candi-
date, the “movement” (in Victoria at any
rate) split wide-open under everybody’s
eyes.
The top-sawyers of the “Labor” party,
who have affected to hold that this doc-
trinal incompatibility does not matter,
have been too smooth-spoken for too
long. On the same line of “cover-up for
solidarity” they have tolerated Com-
munist influence in the party, and even
in the counsels of the party, to such an
extent that the association smells to hig i
heaven. And that is where, at the mos
awkward moment, the limelight-struck Dr
Evatt raised the most vocal section o ’
the “Labor” revolt to full-throatec
uproar.
With one lot of wire-pullers, the Reds
assuming that nothing matters excep ;
everlasting strikes, and with politica
executives risking everything on protect
ing those same Reds from being out
la wed by the Menzies Government’s
legislation, the views of a great mass o;:
unionists have gradually become crystal
lised. What good comes from these
strikes, anyway? And if Mr. Chifley
really “hates Communists,” why does Dr
Evatt defend them?
The A.C.T.U., like the Sydney anc
Melbourne Trades Halls, has long been
trying to grow two heads in order to
show its face unwaveringly on each side
of the fence. It has now been rudely
kicked in the pants by the miners at one
extreme, by the A.W.U. at the other, and
now by the political party in between
When the Federal “Labor” Advisory
Committee first functioned as consultant
to the Curtin Government it was pre-
dominantly of the A.C.T.U. Then the
A.L.P. executive insisted on a share of
the membership ; but when, lately, the
A.W.U. was also admitted to the select
company the A.C.T.U. went into a huff
and has now withdrawn. The two
bodies have hardly been on speaking
terms since the A.C.T.U. declined the
invitation of the American Federation of
Labor to visit the United States last year
because the A.W.U. had also been invited
to send a delegate.
If the A.W.U. now takes over from the
Trades Halls the privilege of supplying
political “Labor’s” industrial advice. Dr.
Evatt will either have to step down or
learn some new tricks, and the anti-Red
groups in the A.L.P. may get their long-
awaited blood-transfusion. The whole
mob looks as though it is destined for
a spell in the cold until it has made up
its mind about the party’s Red objective.
Privilege and Pelf.
The last debate of the Parliament- —a
very rowdy one —was on a resolution by
Mr. W. Kent Hughes, who produced
what purported to be a copy of the
minutes of the A.L.P. Triennial Con-
ference and certain newspaper reports
indicating the extent to which the
“Labor” Parliamentary party is run in
detail by outside juntas which direct it
how to vote, when to vote and when
members must not vote in Parliament.
He moved:
Any attempt by any person of authority
to direct or instruct a Member of Parlia-
ment on what he shall or shall not say or
how he shall or shall not vote in Parlia-
ment is an attempt to induce the member
to violate his oath of allegiance, contempt
of Parliament and a breach of privilege.
The House is, therefore, of the opinion
that every member elected is and should be
absolutely free to speak and give his vote
according to his judgment on the facts
presented to him in debate and according
to his conscience, and that this matter be
referred to the Committee of Privileges for
investigation and report.
This was carried by 57 votes to 27, a
number of “Labor” members refraining
from voting. On the previous day
caucus had been a riot as the result of
protests by members against the Chifley
conviction that the duty of Parliamentary
“Labor” members is to obey its polit-
bureau even if it means the complete
destruction of Parliament —at which that
junta aims.
Early in the war Mr. Mulcahy,
“Labor” member for Lang, author of
the notorious libel on A. M. Blain, M.P.
for the Northern Territory, whom he
accused of having shown his gold pass
to the Japanese while a p.-0.-w., was one
of the purchasers of Station 2HD, New-
castle. The A.L.P. has since purchased
■shares equal to Mr. Mulcahy’s for £BOOO,
the toilers who owned them having
originally paid £2OOO for them.
The A.L.P. at the weekend had given
Mr. Mulcahy notice that he must also sell
his share to them, but for the original
£2OOO, and as he is a member of Parlia-
ment they have, it is said, threatened that
if he does not do so they will refuse him
re-endorsement
Mr. Mulcahy, as a true democrat
steeped in penury like all publicans,
holds that he should receive a capital
increment on his original payment to
compensate him for “the depreciation in
value of the Australian £.” So as this
was written the A.L.P, was about to
constitute its own committee of privilege
to decide what it proposes to do.
Whatever the result, if Mr. Mulcahy
has the threat in writing, as some say h
has, a few members of the A.L.P. mu
have reason to shake in their shoes. Pa
ticularly since it is doubtful whether the
have £BOOO to throw about.
A Show in Sydney.
Sydney Royal Show, now performing
the Moore Park address, is claimed to b
bigger and better than ever, which coul
easily be, since it is a time of high price
for rural products and good seasons i
the areas whence come the livestock an
agricultural exhibits. In the areas from
which the main portion of the daily anc
nightly audiences come high prices ar
also prominent, in a different way, anc
for the thoughtful there appears to b
some anomaly in an exhibition of top-
quality land products to thousands Oj
people who can’t buy them.
However, the purpose of the R.A.S. i
not to suggest anomalies, which lie rathe
in the less-inspiring fields of economic
and politics, but to display to as man
Australians and overseas visitors as pos
sible the fruits of this “wilful, lavis
land.” That it succeeds is demonstratec
by the continuing popularity of the Show
If anybody seeks a political lesson in
the Show let him reflect that many
members of trade-unions who have
adopted a wilful slow-down of production
policy, together with many members o
that so-called “Labor” party which en
courages them in this attitude, will go to
the Show and marvel at the production
they see there. Whether it will occur to
them that if bricks, tiles, steel, coal
machinery, household equipment anc
other manufactured goods were producec
with the same enthusiasm as the farmer
produces, their wages would have rea
value and the pound be worth a pound,
is another matter. Even if it does occur
to them it is doubtful if they will mention
it in those union and party circles where
policies are made.
It might also occur to some of them
that the farm products they see are pro-
ducts of that very incentive policy which
trade-union leaders and “Labor” poli-
ticians condemn. Apart from his natura
love of the land, the farmer has the in-
centive of knowing that the more he pro-
duces the more he earns; so does the
sharefarmer, and so do many rural em-
ployees working on a profit-sharing system
on farms.
An agricultural show, whether a huge
display in Sydney or a small affair out
at Stockinbingal, seldom fails to impress
those who see it; no matter how often
they see it. To New Australians it must
be a striking testimony of the grand
country they’ve chosen, and to old Aus-
tralians it ought to be a reminder that
politics, wars, booms and depressions
come and go, but the land goes on
for ever.
For Spastic Country Children
Only people who don’t read newspapers
or listen to the radio haven’t heard of
the Mosman Spastic Centre in Sydney,
which in five years has grown from an
idea to a well-equipped medical and edu-
cational centre for the treatment of
children suffering from spastic paralysis.
The centre gets no financial assistance
from the Government and makes no
charge for the small, patients. It was
begun by a small group of parents who
saw that only by their own efforts could
they get the treatment their children
needed. They raked up £32 between
them, obtained an old home at a pepper-
corn rental and got to work. By volun-
tary work and donations it has grown
until it is treating 220 children, who are
carried to and fro daily in 14 modern
buses. There is now a commodious,
modernly-equipped medical centre staffed
by voluntary medical men. It was built
by voluntary labor.
Hitherto treatment has been confined
to children within daily bus journey of
the Centre. Now a hostel has been estab-
lished for treating country children —to
teach them to talk, to walk and to give
them active and useful lives which, with-
out treatment, they cannot have. Along
with the children, their parents are given
new hope.
But the country has got to help. There’s
a lot of money in the country now, what
with wool and wheat prices, good seasons,
shearing cheques, good wages for country-
town workers and so forth. The Spastic
Centre wants some of it, for it has bought
land and intends to build a bigger hostel
for country children.
This appeal ought to be taken up by
branches of the Graziers’ Association,
the F. and S.A., the C.W.A., the P.P.U.—
by every country organisation and by
individuals. From Tenterfield to the
Murray and west to Broken Hill there
are spastic children who have no hope
of treatment other than this, and they are
surrounded by people with sympathetic
hearts and cash to spare. The sooner
the cash reaches the Spastic Centre,
6 Queen-street, Mosman, the sooner will
the children get treatment.
Another Brisbane Line.
There is rarely cause to laugh at any-
thing in a Communist rag. But a column
on page six of the March 1 issue of the
“Tribune,” the party’s central official
organ, is headed by a picture of Mr.
Menzies —a horrible piece of portraiture.
Then come the words; “Brisbane Line
Planner is No Patriot,” followed by the
words in big, bold, black letters:
Menwes’s desire to “defend” Australia by
rearming: the Japs and conscripting: youth
for overseas service today is as “patriotic”
as his Brisbane Dine strategy of 1943-43.
It appears that these vital words were
uttered to the “Tribune’s” young man
by a dairyfarmer who “gave some startling
facts of events in North Queensland” at
that time:
"So complete were the Government’s
plans for handing over a huge tract of
Australia to the enemy that it prepared
details for handling refugees and evacuat-
ing cattle from the North,” said the
farmer. “I was among the people in my
district who were asked to assist Govern-
ment plans in that regard... .About the
end of 1942 I attended meetings in the
Dawson and Calllde valleys at which we
were asked to take refugees from Rock-
hampton .... In addition, dairymen's organi-
sations were asked to form droving com-
mittees to shift stock. Detailed plans for
this were also made known at meetings....
At one meeting the captain of the Volun-
teer Defence Corps who chaired the meet-
ing assured us that any stock left behind
would be shot by our armies to prevent it
‘falling into the hands of the invader.*
There was no doubt then among us that
the Government was planning to hand over
part of the country to the enemy. We
are more than a bit suspicious that the
present burst of patriotism by Mr. Menzies
expressed in his policy of rearming Japan
might be a continuation of the Brisbane
Dine strategy.”
The Menzies Government (or, rather, the
Fadden Government which succeeded it
went out of office on October 6, 1941, at
which time we were not at war with
Japan. Indeed, the Communist party
(backed strenuously by Dr. Evatt) then
was shouting raucously that there was no
danger from Japan and that the right
strategy was to send as many Australian
troops as possible to Europe to save the
U.S.S.R.
The Government in office at the time
mentioned by the farmer was the Curtin
Government, which contained Mr. Eddie
Ward, so scornful of Brisbane Line tactics
and so dear to the heart of the Com-
munists, who had recently been delighted
to see him appoint I. S. Garden as his
liaison-officer with the trade-unions.
The Minister for the Army was Mr.
Forde, and Rockhampton, from which
the farmer says refugees were to be
received, was the capital of his electorate.
The time was that at which the Japanese
had sent a few companies of infantry to
struggle across the Owen Stanley Range.
It would be interesting, and perhaps
patriotic, if the Menzies Government laid
on the table the plans of the Govern-
ment at that time. It might make
humorous reading for victims of Mr.
Ward’s untruthful libels.
Ships That Pass—Perhaps.
The troubles ships can run into once
they penetrate the Communist-controlled
waters around our coasts is nobody’s
business —at least until the coming elec-
tion is over.
Back in January an immigrant ship,
Liguria, broke down in the Indian
Ocean. A Fremantle tug was got ready
to answer her master’s urgent calls for
help. Then a Communist union official
turned up and tried to blackmail the tug’s
owners into paying unheard-of wages to
the crew, and the upshot was that the tug
left the Liguria to her own devices, with
about 1000 people aboard.
The British freighter Chandpara then
raced to the Liguria’s aid, got her in tow
and brought her safely into Fremantle,
where she’s been ever since, awaiting
repair.
Liguria crewmen, with time on their
hands, got jobs ashore, where labor is
scarce. About 30 of them, Germans and
Italians, were thus employed until the
other day, when Immigration officials
told them they couldn’t work ashore. The
crew is awaiting repatriation to Italy, as
there is little hope of the Liguria being
fit for sea this side of Christmas.
The Chandpara meantime came on to
Sydney, discharged about 8000 tons of
{Continued on next page.)


r*
riMf'
->*
7741E/R
fteep
to
CRAVEVA
&
/
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
ø
cargo from the U.K., and had loaded all
but 1200 tons of cargo for Malaya when
go-slow was alleged against the wharfies,
and they were sacked. Other wharfies
promptly refused work in protest against
“wrongful dismissal” of their mates. lh®
Stevedoring Industry Board (yes, its stilt
going) representative called a conference
of union reps, and employers. He decided
that only six of the wharfies had been on
“go-slow,” and then ordered that labor
be withheld from the Chandpara tor
another day as “disciplinary action
against the employers.
The ship put to sea without her cargo
—probably her captain feared that it he
stayed any longer he’d be charged as a
prohibited immigrant.
POLITICAL POINTS
This election should go down in
“Labor” history as the double-disillusion
election.
Timetable of D.-D. week: Tuesday,
March 13; Prime Minister Menzies chal-
lenged Senate to “bring this farce to an
end” by carrying out its threat to reject
the Bank Bill a second time. Mr. Chifley
ignored the challenge. Senate resumed
Bank Bill debate, adjourned November 8.
“Labor” Senators defeated Government
attempt to close the debate. Wednesday,
March 14: “Labor” Senate majority re-
ferred Bank Bill to a Select Committee
to report back in four weeks. Thursday,
March 15: Prime Minister verbally in-
formed the Governor-General of his
intention to apply for a double-dissolution
on grounds of “failure to pass.” Friday,
March 16: Prime Minister presented
formal written request. Reps sitting
lapsed for want of a quorum. Saturday,
March 17: Governor-General granted
double-dissolution.
When Menzies made his first call at
Yarralumla last week and anyone’s
opinion was as good as the next man s,
Doc. Evatt was quoted as saying that the
legal requirements of a double-dissolution
had not yet been met. Obviously this
was the official “Labor” view or the party
would have used different tactics over
the Bank Bill. Had the Senate rejected
the bill “Labor” could have claimed—
and undoubtedly would have —that it had
forced the Government to go to the
people. As it is, Chifley and Co. can
scarcely deny that they have been
dragged to the country by the scruff of
their necks.
Irrespective of what Evatt and the rest
thought. Cocky Calwell showed clearly
that he believed the party could continue
its career of frustration for another six
months at least—that the dissolution
would com© “when we’re ready,” and
that “after two more basic-wage in-
creases” the Government mightn’t be
so eager for a dissolution. This barefaced
admission that “Labor” was staking its
chances on further rises in the cost of
living matched his earlier irresponsible
advice to spend rather than save, and his
assertion that the trade-unions would
never help to put value back into the
pound.
There’ll be an epidemic of headaches
and heartburns when the “Labor” Senate
teams for the various States are an-
nounced. At present N. S. Wales,
Victoria, Tasmania and Westralia are
each represented by six “Labor” and four
Liberal-Country-party Senators. For
South Australia the figures are seven
“Labor” three Liberal-C.P. and for
Queensland the other way Under
proportional - representation “Labor
cannot hope to win more than five seats
in each State, so that one “Labor” Senator
from each of the four first-named States
and two from South Australia can kiss
Canberra goodbye. It’s a great oppor-
tunity for half a dozen Sydney Cartons.
Queensland will have a curtain-
raiser to the Federal election in the shape
of Assembly by-elections in Bulimba and
Kedron, which are set down for April
14. Bulimba is the electorate in which
the Election Tribunal, after investigating
allegations of malpractice in the count-
ing of votes, declared the 1950 election
void. Kedron was held by Bruce Pie,
one-time leader of the Queensland
Peoples’ party, who has retired from
politics.
When counting ended for the weekend
in the by-election for the Bendigo seat
in the Victorian Legislative Council the
L.C.P. candidate, Grigg, held a lead of
more than a thousand over “Labor’s”
Brosnan, with C.P. man Brownhill trail-
ing the field. It was generally conceded
that distribution of preferences would
give Grigg a comfortable win. This would
give the Hollway party in the Council a
majority of one over the McDonald-
Cains, with the probability of a general
election whenever the Libs decided to
spring the trap.
Assassination of the Persian Prime
Minister was the direct result of his
opposition to proposals to nationalise the
Anglo-Persian Oil Company, Britain’s
largest single investment in the Middle
East, The Attlee Government warned
the Persian Government that “It could
not remain disinterested if nationalisation
was proposed.” In the light of their own
ventures in nationalisation, what ground
had the Attlees for supposing they would
get respect anywhere for such a protest?
Almost immediately the Persian Parlia-
ment unanimously agreed to grab the oil.
One reason for the rising costs, pithily
stated by the Commonwealth Statistician,
though he wasn’t giving reasons for any-
thing: “Production of beer, tobacco and
cigarettes is at record levels, but that of
most basic commodities is declining.” It’s
about the first time anybody has dared
publicly to define beer as not being a
basic commodity.
Queensland Transport Minister
Duggan, replying to Opposition protests
against road taxes, said that oil com-
panies were “quite satisfied” to pay 3d. a
ton-mile on oil-tankers. The oil com-
panies don’t pay it; like all other goods
on which the States place these penal
road taxes—in order to bolster up failing
railway revenue —the tax is paid by the
consumer.
An item in the Irish Embassy’s Can-
berra “Newsletter,” under the heading
“Turf Industry Offers New Careers,
aroused some interest among the sport-
ing bhoys of N. S. Wales “Labor, but
their hopes were soon dashed. It was
merely an unofficial way of announcing
an extension of the peat-cutting industry
in Eire, aimed at increasing production of
that fuel to 500,000 tons this year and
ultimately to 1,000,000 tons,
During the Senate ® proceedings last
week Senator McKenna put on a great
songandance about “Labor s concern tor
the prestige and dignity of the Senate and
Parliament. Of the refusal of the Service
chiefs to give evidence before his select
committee on National Service, he said
that it was time public servants realised
that Parliament was the supreme body,
not the Cabinet. That is a statement
which would sound quite impressive—if
it came from a man who really meant it.
For several years McKenna was member
of a Cabinet which regarded Parliament
as a rubber-stamp for the de-
cisions of caucus and, like every “Labor”
member, he is pledged to regard the
A.L.P. conference and executive as being
above Parliament.
In the course of his reply to Menzies’s
speech on the High Court judgment on
the Anti-Red Bill Chifley said that he
himself always felt that if the court de-
cided a piece of legislation was outside
the powers of the Government, the only
thing to do was to ask the people for an
extension of power, grange that he
didn’t do that when the High Court
threw out his Bank Grab Act.
The report of the Senate Select Com-
mittee on National Service describes as
valuable the evidence given by Lieutenant-
Generals Herring and Gordon Bennett,
and lists others who gave evidence : tne
Rev. R. H. Green, president of the
Federal Pacifists Council; Major C. E,
Armitage (retired); Miss Nell Simpson,
secretary of the N. S. Wales Peace
Council; W. J. Katona, of the No-
Conscription Council. In the final stages
of the debate on the bill Senator Arnold,
a member of the committee, urged that
instead of calling up 13,000 men for the
Army and 3000 for the Air Force, the
figures should be reversed. Now the
generals would hardly have given him that
advice. Who did?
The A.C.T.U. has “broken off rela-
tions” with the Federal Labor Advisory
Committee, the reason given being that
the latter body permits the AW. U. to
send delegates to it, and the A.W.U. isn t
affiliated with the A.C.T.U. One big
reason why the A.W.U. won’t affiliate
with the A.C.T.U. is because the latter
grants affiliation to Communist-run
unions, which the A.W.U. wouldn’t touch
with a stick.
Coal report: Losses through strikes for
week ended March 10, 72,475 tons,
aggregate losses for eight weeks of
current year, 568,620 tons. To corres-
ponding date last year, 310,777 tons.
In the Adelaide sheepmarket last week
126 wethers averaged
£24 17s. 6d. a head. The skins were
valued at about £l6 each, which gives a
meat value of over £8 a head. Most of
South Australia has been short of rain for
months and fat sheep are scarce. Even
if these were the best wethers ever sold,
the price is absurd from any point of
view; it partly explains why Prices
Ministers, Arbitration Courts and other
authorities aren’t in the race in trying to
adjust the crazy economical situation.
A professor of Law at London Uni-
versity has issued a warning that Britain
is living on the edge of dictatorship be-
cause of “the completeness of the power
possessed by the Government and the
absence of any real check, such as a
written Constitution or an effective second
Chamber.” Australians can count them-
selves fortunate that their country’s Con-
stitution saved them not so long ago
from full Socialism, the prelude to dic-
tatorship. The fact that a rigged Senate
has been able temporarily to hamstring
the elected Government must not be
allowed to obscure the undoubted value
of an upper House.
N. S. Wales and South Australia have
announced details of plans for import-
ing several thousand prefabricated houses
from Britain. The houses will be erected
by British workmen, so their importation
will not place any strain on the local
building-labor force. Of the N. S. Wales
batch, 1000 will go up in Sydney, 1500
at Port Kembla and 2500 at Newcastle
and other country towns. Residents of
“other country towns” would probably
appreciate a dissection of the last figure.
The dairyfarmers must have thought
they had a strange champion when Eden-
Monaro Fraser got up in the House to
bleat about the “serious crisis” facing
dairymen, talking about their leaving
farms for better-paid work in the city
or putting in sheep where Alderneys ran
before and demanding that the House
adjourn to discuss means of saving them.
Fraser , belongs to a party which believes
you can work a farm on a 40-hour-week
basis, pay the prices demanded for
machinery made by 40-hour-week
workers on extra-high wages and still
retain your sanity by subsidy payments
from taxation.
“Four-eights”: Three thousand unionists
marched beneath their banners before an
audience of 20,000 on Labor Day in Mel-
bourne, but there was a spiritless
atmosphere about the proceedings. Some
unions with thousands of members were
represented by a handful; the A.E.U.,
whose centenary is being celebrated,
mustered only 100. There are 150,000
unionists eligible. The only sensation was
the escape of two balloons from a
decorated car. The days are past when
thousands of “Labor” stalwarts sang as
they marched, free samples were showered
on the heads of expectant children, and
the crafts were proudly illustrated on
elaborate floats drawn by teams of
majestic horses. The old relic of Eight
Hours’ Day is on its way out.
According to the Commonwealth
Auditor-General the Australian Shipping
Board accounts are not complete, but
they show accumulated losses of
£6,953,000 from July 1, 1946, to June 30,
1949. In a democratic system this sort
of thing can’t be hidden ; under Socialism
or Communism the people would never
hear about it, and an auditor-general
would not be the guardian of the public
interest.
A Queensland bill to amend eight Land
Acts is going through the Brisbane Par-
liament. It means important changes in
leasehold conditions, rental assessment
and resumption appeals, and will be re-
garded with joy by the Hanlon Govern-
ment and suspicion by the Opposition.
Meantime, anybody with stock on his
own or rented land in Queensland can
have the stock “compulsorily acquired”
by the Government if some official or
other decides that not enough meat is
coming on to the Brisbane market.
Lamb-producers have had an example
of how this government-to-govemment
business can do them out of cash. Britain
has agreed to an increase of id. sterling
a pound in the price of all lamb sent to
the U.K. this year, which means another
£lOO,OOO collected by Canberra since
July 1, 1950. But Minister for Commerce
McEwen says it would be impossible to
pay individual producers the back
money, so it will be “used to further the
interests of livestock producers.”
A member of the House of Repre-
sentatives who will disappear at the April
poll and who will be most regretted is
Dame Enid Lyons, who is seriously ill,
and does not intend to contest her seat in
Darwin, which she has held since 1943.
She had the reputation of being the
model Parliamentarian of the Reps--a
fine speaker, always courteous in de-
meanor and meticulous in her observance
of the forms and traditions of procedure.


It 1*
>(«E
) NOW i
tVR«
ō
\Tm mm£
m-
>6ky &&■&&&
!!«■
-*vßVj*
, 9 ftiz-k
■pP.'
•2£
%R 12 .5
cvßST-
\<Kae.
4tk,
I*.#
ŏ
4§»
$0
TRiziTA
[ Bull ‘
2/t
JOINT I
COAL
board
exhibit
* i
ftz. Evan, You say ? I
Stay right hbre,
AMP l'uu BRING THE
Bull out ro see
you." *
SIDESHOWS.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
ő
“Clooter”: Wives are extremely sensi-
tive to the slightest change in the routine
of the home, and few men seem to realise
that they themselves set a pattern of be-
havior which has become so familiar to
the missus that she can instantly detect any
flaw in it and must find out its cause. If
a man usually comes home slightly
inebriated, or gloomily sober, or cheerily
sober and smiling, or is regular as to time,
“If Vyshinsky doesn't spot the wireless in his
wig we're right."
let him be careful of a sudden change.
It will have to be explained, and it’ll be
better for him to tell a whacking lie than
to answer “Nothing.” She knows, bless
her, that something is responsible for
the change and she means to have it out
and deal with it. Denied that, she’ll
brood, and presently her imagination will
be ranging all the way from petty pilfer-
ing to another woman, and she’ll fall
into profound abstraction. Then, of
course, he’ll observe her mood and ask,
“What’s wrong, dear?” get the abrupt
reply, “Nothing,” and immediately go
into a flat spin himself.
* Jfe * *
“Vaucy”: One of those Sydney
columnists wrote the other day about the
trouble some suburban friend of his had
driving round the Saturday-afternoon
picture-shows trying to find a programme
suitable for children. The columnist re-
marked of one show, “The Chiltern
Hundreds,” that it was “too subtle for
children and some adults.” My youngster
and his mates, picture-addicts, gloomily
announced that as the local show had
“The Children Hunters” on and it was
sure to be “horrible” they wouldn’t be
going. This was discovered to be “The
Chiltern Hundreds,” so they went, and
have been laughing about it ever since
and want to know why they can’t see
more such pictures.
* * * *
“Rann”: The most enthusiastic
soldiers I ever met were the Polish
artillery in Tobruk. Their idea of war-
fare was “We’re here, the enemy’s there.
Why aren’t we firing at him?” Artillery
ammo was strictly rationed, but the Poles
couldn’t, or wouldn’t, understand the
meaning of “rationed.” As soon as they
received their issue, it was a case of into
the guns and
off with it.
Then they’d
be back at
the ammo
point asking
for more,
with harassed
liaison
officers try-
ing to explain
why they
couldn’t get it. With food rations they
were the same. The practice was to make
a double issue on Saturday, leaving Sun-
day clear for a depot clean-up. The first
Saturday the Poles drew their double
issue they ate the lot and were back on
Sunday for more. From then on the
depot had to remain open on Sundays to
feed the Poles.
* * * *
“Bethune”: I don’t know much about
the Scottish Home Rule movement, but
if a revival of Gaelic speech is among
its objects it has a valuable ally in the
8.8. C., which broadcasts a lesson in that
language once a week. It seems popular,
too; a pamphlet on Gaelic —sold, not
given awa’ —is now in its third 5000
printing. The lessons take the form of
a dialogue between an old Highlander,
played by John Bannerman, and George,
a boy from Glasgow. The lad’s part is
taken by Archie Henry, who had never
a word of Gaelic when the lessons began,
but who now speaks the lingo fairly well.
Bannerman has other accomplishments
besides his grasp of
Gaelic; he’s a Rugby
international who played
for Scotland more than 30
times.
* * *
“Melb’n”: A bus which
has been running lately to
and from the Melbourne
Town Hall displays a
notice, “This bus stops at
all railway crossings.” It
carries the Black Watch
Band to and from their
concerts, and it has been
assumed that because of
its precious cargo it has
been given special condi-
tions. Actually the notice
was there long before the
Scotties arrived and long
before the frightful
Horsham smash, when a
whole busload became
casualties. It is a rule of
the company owning the
bus; drivers failing to
observe it are promptly
fired.
* * *
“C. 8.”: Bung can
sometimes be a very sen-
sitive fellow. A Warr-
nambool example broke
the sad news of a beer shortage
with the tactful notice: “Burke and Wills
may get one bottle each here.”
« * ♦ *
“G. Elburg”: Inspired by the Sturt “ex-
pedition,” the official jubileers of the
West essayed a re-enactment of Captain
Stirling’s exploratory boat trip up the
Swan. The costumes of the rowers and
passengers were reasonably authentic,
but there the resemblance ended.
Stirling’s diary tells of camping at
night on the river bank, of roast-
ing a swan for the evening meal,
of attack by myriads of mosquitoes. The
1951 expedition didn’t camp out of
nights; they shot no swan, nor even
fished up a crab or ran down a bungarra
in the bush for roasting on the coals for
the evening meal. These unintrepid
voyagers went home at night to their
beds and other mod. cons., probably
“They must be waiting for the tide to come in."
sprinkling their pillows with mosquito-
repellant
* * * *
“Looby”: The barrow-sign said
“Tomatoes 2s. 6d. a pound.” The women
looked, glared and passed by. The
barrowman didn’t look concerned. Some-
one in the know passed me the tip. “He’s
got the good tomatoes. His mate down
the road has the ‘specks’; they’re one-
and-three a pound. After passing the
half-crown barrow the women think
they’re getting a wonderful bargain at
the next stand. He’ll sell out in an hour.
Then this chap’ll bring his down to one-
and-six, their real price.”
* * * *
“Uco”: An American authority on
rockets claims that scientists already know
how to send an unmanned rocket to the
moon, and that within five to eight years
“they will build a rocket which will take
men to the moon —and bring them back
again.” That’s all very well, but the
way things are going down here, who is
to say that in five to eight years’ time
anyone lucky enough to reach the moon
will want to come back again?
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: People who are better off
without boots (B. 28/2 / ’51)? In the
Sudan campaign of the ’eighties some
bluejackets were sent up the Nile.
Put ashore to help the Army
they caused brass-bound colonels to
throw blue fits when they pulled off
their boots, tied them to their packs and
went barefooted across the desert sands.
By all the rules, the bluejackets should
have gone down in scores with sore feet.
Instead they had a smaller percent-
age go sick than any other units and in
action held their own with the crack
regiments. In World War I two ex-
fishermen in the 27th battalion used to
go barefooted on route marches, and, as
envious cobbers remarked, they could
“walk the legs off an emu.” The secret
is, of course, that such people have gone
without boots on every possible occasion
since childhood ; R.N. seamen until quite
recently went barefooted even on decks
which were almost redhot in the tropics
and ice-cold in high latitudes.
♦ * * *
“Pateppi”: Those who fear that the
will to work is being bred out of the
nation can take solace from an incident
which occurred recently at Lowood (Q.),
where a farmer has been seriously ill for
some time, A couple of weeks ago his
three sons loaded and carted to the rail-
way-station 167 bales of hay. At the
station they loaded the hay into railway
trucks. As each bale weighs from 2cwt.
to 3cwt. it was a pretty fair effort for
three boys, whose ages are 14, 12 and 10
years.
* * ♦ *
“Brick E.”: One disadvantage of our
ancient, maligned trade is the monotony
of the question “How many should a
brickie lay a day?” Before you’ve asked
“What kind of work is he on?” you
know the answer will be “Aw, just
straight work.” You should then ask
whether the “straight work” is built with
texture, face or common bricks? What
is the width of the walls? Are the joints
struck, raked, ironed or left for render-
ing? Is the mortar lime, compo or
cement? But to save embarrassing him
you strike a rough average—and if the
brickie before you was a fast man or a
bigger liar you are branded for ever as a
poler. Recently, though, I struck one
understanding soul. A well - known
surgeon, he asked me the usual question.
I began to explain: “One day you
mightn’t lay two hundred; another day
—-on a wide, rough wall —you’ll wear the
laborers out.” He nodded, “Surgery can
be like that —some jobs are simple, some
turn out amazingly complex.” En-
couraged, I went on: “Wiping Commos
and similar loafers, there are fast men
and conscientious slow ones.” “That
applies to surgeons, too,” the medico said.
“Some get through an op. in half the
time another would need.” “The pity of
it is that a slow but conscientious brickie
often tries to keep up with a speed-
merchant —and loses quality without
achieving quantity,” I deplored. The
doctor smiled
tried to get through an operation as
quickly as some surgeons can my patients
would be dead,” he confided.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Telepathy? In my
platoon in the First World War was a
young soldier who suddenly lost his usual
cheerfulness under a conviction that
something had happened to his wife in
Australia. When we took over from the
Tommies in a section of line at Meteren
we found him staring into the night mist;
he said he had distinctly seen his wife’s
spirit standing before him. There cer-
tainly seemed a vague whiteness, which
gleamed eerily when a Very-light went
up, about the spot to which he pointed.
He was an eager volunteer for a fighting
patrol which shortly went out. It had a
rough time, for Fritz was in a nervy mood
and kept sweeping no-man’s-land with
machine-gun fire. A couple of the patrol,
however, had found a prosaic explana-
tion for young Jim’s vision—a sheet that
had been left hanging on a shrub when
the German push converted Meteren
from a back-of-the-line village into a
fighting area. The revelation was of no
interest to poor Jim ; he was carried back
dead. A couple of weeks later we got
news that Jim’s wife had died round
about the time he claimed to have seen
her. Coincidence? Well, that’s the
easiest way of explaining it.
♦ * * *
“Brolga”: Was sitting in my truck
waiting my turn at the petrol-station
when an elderly New Australian,
brandishing a sheet of paper and a pencil,
came trotting across the street. After the
usual “Excuse pliz” courtesies had been
exchanged I managed to grasp what was
wanted. For the benefit of a much
younger N.A. who watched shyly with
her schoolbag on her shoulder I was to
mark the paper with the correct version
of a longhand capital I; the N.A.’s native
version was a symbol much like our
capital TANARUS, It should have been easy
enough, but my pothook days are a fair
way back, and since that letter is one of
my initials, and often used to be taken
for a J, I have for many years used a
straight stroke for a capital I. It took
rile five minutes of trial and error before
I could produce a symbol which might
serve as a model worthy of the further
“Excuse plizes” and “Thank yous” which
it earned.
A SIMPLE REQUEST.
National Resources Board put it up to Coal
Board:
“Could we have a little extra bit of coal? ’
they said.
Coal Board asked Tribunal; Tribunal said “Cer-
tainly ;
I’ll go and tell the cows now, before they go
to bed.”
Tribunal, he curtsied, and went and told Union-
ists :
“Resourceful Ones want little bit of extra coal,”
he said.
Unionists, in sleepy tones, remarked, “You tell
Resourceful Ones
To go and take a running jump into a lake
instead.”
Tribunal said, “Fancy!” and went off to Coal
Board.
He curtsied to Coal Board, and turned a little
red:
“Excuse me, O Coaly One; I hope you won’t
feel put upon,
But swimming is delightful, and they say it
cools the head.”
Coaly One said “Oh!” and went to Resourceful
Ones;
“Talking of the little extra bit of coal,” he
said,
“Many people think that swimming is delightful;
Won’t you try a little jump into a lake
instead?”
Resourceful Ones said “Bother!” and then they
said “Oh, dearie me!”
Resourceful Ones sobbed “Dearie pie!” and
went back to bed.
“Nobody,” they whimpered, “could say we are
fussy men;
We only want a little extra bit of coal,” they
said.
Coaly One said “There, there!” and went to
Tribunal.
Tribunal said, “There, there!” his voice full of
dread.
Unionists said “Don’t wail —this ain’t no dairy-
fairy-tale ;
We’re miners, boss, not Milne-ers: you can go
and bag your head.”
Coaly One took bags, and gave them to
Resourceful Ones;
Resourceful Ones said “Bags, eh?” and bounced
out of bed.
“Nobody,” they said, as they donned the bags
tenderly,
“Nobody,” they said, “could say we are fussy
men —
We’ll tell Mr. Menzies we’ve got coals in the
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
(With apologies to A. A. Milne.)


Enjoy SSJutp happy
holiday motoring
U
J
'3>
Si
%
I
7i
GOODYEAR
TYRES
There's more built-in safety
as well as more built-in miles
in Goodyear De Luxe Tyres.
Fit De Luxe and get the
peace of mind that comes
from knowing your tyres are
safe . . . you'll appreciate
the economy of their
extra mileage, too!
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
■ ■ I
mmmm
i
“ r a~ i
SLB-I6
Wormald Brothers
Industries Limited
Monufacturers of
"WATERLOO" STEEL ROLLER
SHUTTERS
ROLLING GRILLES
and TIN CLAD DOORS
"BANGOR" SLIDING DOOR TRACK
WORMALD BROTHERS
"OVERHEAD" DOOR
"METALBILT"
FIRE RESISTING DOORS
"ESAVIAN" DOOR
and WINDOW FITTINGS
ǒ
"BANGOR"
SLIDING DOOR
TRACKS
AND FITTINGS
A type for every kind of sliding door.
Available from leading hardware stores.
na
as
ann
□□
one?
a
□ac
a a
□oc
3l
99P_
DD
ML
WORMALD
BROTHERS
"OVERHEAD"
DOOR
Latest type of Sliding Door. Suspendec
on springs, these wooden doors slide uj
* and back along the ceiling.
ǿ
"WATERLOO"
STEEL ROLLER
SHUTTERS
For cart docks, garages or any open-
ings. Space saving, thief resistant,
easy to operate, strong and durable.
œ
ROLLING GRILLES
To close an opening
without sacrificing passage
of air or obstructing vision.
bin J~i H H H h H f-f H r\
"WATERLOO" TIN
CLAD FIRE DOORS
For fire cut-off purposes
between buildings. Built
and installed to Fire Under-
writers’ specifications.
o
"METALBILT"
FIRE RESISTING
DOORS
Approved by Authorities for
use on stair enclosures and
lift wells.
p
"ESAYIAN"
DOOR
AND WINDOW
FITTINGS
Concertina closing action. Strong and
weatherproof.
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LIMITED, Sydney, Newcastle, Orange, Wagga. Brisbane, Townsville.
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LIMITED, Melbourne. Geelong, Perth. Ballarat, Hobart.
WORMALD BROTHERS (S.A.) LIMITED, Adelaide
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LIMITED, Wellington, Auckland. Christchurch, Dunedin.
Steeibilt Limited—Klrsch Company (Aust.) United.
ơ
in my office and he shortly afterwards
used the term in that sense in a letter
to head office. I hadn’t the courage to
sign the letter till he had substituted the
word “experience.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Woody”: At a pre-christening
conference to select the names for the
new-born the catalogue of flowers,
gems, saints, scholars and soldiers was
exhausted, and a few battlefields con-
sidered, without finding a name that did
justice to the heir. Such an effort on the
part of parents is probably the first of
many that will go unappreciated by the
boy, who will do his best to acquire a
“What—still here?”
more satisfying name for himself during
schooldays. As a youngster myself, after
an uncomfortable morning in class, I
edged into a group in the playground,
trying hard to impress. A formal intro-
duction was sniffed at by the mob
busy picking sides for a game. At
the end of the week I was still answer-
ing to the name of “you.” Basher
was the leader of the mob; his
approval was the prerequisite of carefree
schooldays. On Sunday, on parade with
the family, I sighted Basher and his week-
end gang by the waterhole, and braced
myself for the ordeal of Basher’s con-
tempt as he stood, bare legs apart and
hands on hip, surveying the line-up of
overdressed respectability. Taking the
bull by the horns I moved to the circum-
ference of the family circle and yelled
“How yer, Basher?” He shouted his
recognition and acceptance in terms that
thrilled. “Woody, yer mug!” Stout
Cortes never felt stouter than I.
* * * *
“Sebak”: As an ex-p.-0.-w. friend tells
it: “The Nips brought a great big
Alsatian dog and chained him to a run-
wire right in front of us. Savage! He’d
have eaten you alive. All that day he
tore up and down, straining at the chain
and nearly breaking the wire in his deter-
mination to have a bit of us. That night
he was right in front of me when he
seemed to hear a sound on the left.
Away he bounded with his great ugly
mouth wide-open, I lost sight of him
in the darkness. Suddenly there came a
sharp yip—once. Then silence. In the
morning the slanty-eyes found an empty
collar —that’s all they did find.” My
friend doesn’t agree with “Tom” (B.
7/3/’5l) that dog’s flesh has a nauseating
taste.
“Billy S.”: Noticed a nice little gesture
at lunch-time the other day. I was seated
in a Sydney hashhouse meekly waiting
to be served. It was a long narrow
room with tables
set on each side
of the main aisle.
Two waitresses
moved slowly
along in Indian
file carrying a
long, wooden tray
piled high with
pies. Two young
fellows on their
way out paused,
and moved aside
to give the right-of-way to the
waitresses. As the plethora of pies moved
past, the two young coves slapped their
heels together, stood stiffly to attention
and reverently lowered their eyes and
raised their hats.
* * * *
“Sackfair”; There seem to be two
irreconcilable camps on the subject of
television. One avers that it will be the
greatest benefaction ever conferred on
mankind; the other that it will ruin
everything pleasurable in life. Much the
same sort of arguments were thrashed
out when radio began to creep into our
lives. I remember one strongpost of
the “fors”: “It will teach the public to
appreciate the world’s best musicians and
artists.” And the opposition’s counter:
“Familiarity breeds contempt. How can
a woman enjoy a beautiful piece of music
when it is flung at her as she is scrub-
bing her old man’s working-pants?” I
still can’t decide which side was right.
Certainly the radio gave me a greater
interest in music. On the other hand, I
recently attended a flesh-and-blood per-
formance of Noel Coward’s “Bitter
Sweet.” The orchestra was first-rate. As
an overture it played selections from the
play, beginning with “I’ll See You Again”
and finishing on the same melody. It
would have been delightful—if four-fiftns
of the audience hadn’t talked all through.
When the music stopped there was a
burst of clapping from those of us who
had been listening. The rest suddenly sat
up and looked around to see what was
happening. Apparently the constant
battle against loud radios has trained
many people to talk “against” music
without realising when it is being played.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Billy T.”; Our cow Janie is having
willie-wagtail trouble. In the winter,
when there were no flies and the grass
was short, Janie was mostly on the move
for tucker, and w.w. used to ride right on
the butt of her tail. That suited every-
body, but as the weather warmed and
the tail swung into action against the flies
the little fellow had to watch out or he’d
be clouted off his favorite perch—on
bad days he’d be just about skipping
“pepper” from hip to hip. He gave
it best after a while and shifted to
the shoulder, but for some reason he’s
not keen on what should be a good
possie. Then he discovered that little
shaggy hump on the top of Janie’s polled
head ; and there he is content. Of course
he must still be alert —not difficult for
willie wagtails—and if his hostess sud-
denly decides to treat herself to a little
intimate tongue-massage he just hops
aside until she unravels herself and
resumes her normal shape, then again
takes up his position as an animated hat.
Her tongue can’t reach him; if she
waggles her ears they only fan him ; he
is beyond the range of her tail. Only
thing I’m worried about is that Janie is
in danger of going cross-eyed trying to
watch him and won’t be able to walk
straight into the bail.
» * * *
“Chuck”; Sydney Show with its 49
meetings (B. 28/2/’5l) has nothing on
our small township. It’s been wanting
something done to its hall for years,
and with the official meetings in that
building, those at the pub, the store, the
post-office, the garage and the pepper-
tree by the school we’ve got the Sydney
“Are your ears burning , Chief ?"
tally beaten to a frazzle. There’s the
dancing fry who want the floor renewed,
the section wanting enlargement, the
pianist wanting more lights ; and there’s
Ted, who declares the lot should be
scrapped, seeing the council never will
do anything to the hall approach. Then
somebody recalls that once before
money was available and Coxie “prac-
tically wasted it” on stage curtains ; after
which every real or imagined wrong for
the past 50 years is given an airing. By
then it’s milking-time, and the particular
meeting is adjourned. And that cynic
who always goes to Sydney Show has
nothing on Ted. Ted has washed his
hands of the hall business countless times,
has stood up stoutly declaring he will
have no further voice in the matter, will
not contribute and in future will stay at
home. Jf only he would!
ò
“How often do you change its muffler ?”
“8.A.K.”: A pair of silver-grey
possums dwelt amongst the roof-timbers
of our community hall and became fairly
tame. They’d accept a bit of cake or fruit,
but wouldn’t stand petting. One night
Mario saw them, scrambled up on the
stage, placed a box on die piano and,
armed with a small cake, climbed to the
eminence. There, swaying, he enticed the
nearer possum. “Silver” approached
warily, nostrils
twitching, forelegs
raised. When the
sharp little nose was
sniffing the delicacy
Mario’s other hand
darted out, grabbed
the possum and
dragged it to his
bosom. Whereupon
screams of Latin
anguish rang
through the rafters. A dozen voices
instantly shouted “Let him go! Let go
of him!” Mario, tottering on his
eminence, screamed back “I not gotta
heem. He gotta me! ” He flung his arms
up and Rome fell. Silver rode him to
within a foot of the floor before releas-
ing claws and teeth. Then, in one
lightning movement, he was up the stage-
curtain, on to a beam and telling his wife
about foreigners who try to put it over
the native-born.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; Harley Lacy,
manager and part-owner of Wollal station
on the Eighty-Mile Beach between Port
Hedland and Broome (W.A.), swears by
Binghi as a motor-mechanic, Sabu and
two dusky offsiders there will locate any
fault in a car engine in quick time,
although they have never had tuition off
the place. Moreover, they pull down all
the engines On the run and reassemble
them, Lacy reports, better than any white
man in those parts could, and they attend
to all the mills oa the lonely run— soo,ooo
acres of low, treeless spinifex plains. And
there’s plenty of mill work to do. Wollal
rarely gets any rain—the average is 11 in.
—unless it follows in the wake of a willy-
willy, which invariably blows down most
of the 50 mills.
* * * *
“Rumberg”: The Sturt party’s row
down the Murray had a counterpart in
Mackay (N.Q.) recently when “Captain
John Mackay” and party rowed up the
Pioneer River to Mackay, squelched up
the bank, “repelled blacks” and generally
caused considerable hilarity. Unfortun-
ately, despite their zeal and enterprise,
they had overlooked one historic detail.
The 1951 party rowed, but pioneer John
Mackay rode —down from the ranges
behind Mackay, to discover and even-
tually open up the rich sugar areas of
the district.
* ♦ * •
“W.H.S.J.”: Shags (B. 14/2/’5l) are
capable of high acceleration and short
take>-off even when wet. I was cruising
on Adelaide’s Port River when a shag
surfaced about 60ft. ahead, then decided
to seek waters afar and promptly put a
shag’s version of a crash-dive in reverse
into action. Obviously using every effort,
he got clear of the water about 10ft.
ahead, held his own momentarily and
then drew away at about 45 m.p.h.
♦ * * *
“Shadow-chaser”; A hive of bees has
settled in the wall of a front room just
inside the door. Being a nature-lover the
lady of the house never disputed
possession, and the bees show no hostility
to her or her guests. Each spring they
hold their annual corroboree, or purge,
and one army, whether the old or the
young I know not, gets a licking and
departs in search of a new home. The
hive has never been robbed, and the
inner wall is bulging ominously under the
strain imposed on it by the gathered store
of years. What is to be done about it?
“Scot”: If Biff (B. 28/2/’5l) had his
heart in the right place and had used his
head he would have found that by plac-
ing his crowbar standing in the far side
of his post-hole and then balancing his
strainer on a Sin, rail in the right position
to slip into the hole, leaving slightly more
of the weight at Bill’s end, he would have
found it easy to raise the strainer and
allow it to slip to the bottom of the hole.
Any bushman knows how it’s done,
♦ * * 4c
“W.P.T.”: This myxomatosis seems
similar to a disease which decimated
native cats, possums and koalas on the
Monaro 50 years ago. Koalas and
possums came down from the trees and
sat with their backs against the trunks,
too sick to move out of your way. After
several days like this, with sore eyes and
swollen heads, they would be dead. The
disease took heavy toll and did more than
anything else almost to wipe out
koalas and native cats, though possums
seemed to recover to some extent.
* ♦ * ♦
“E.”: When Bill sold his store and
bought land, district opinion was divided.
“You can’t tell me a bloke that’s had no
more experience than Bill can make a
go of farming,” declared Ted Morgan.
“Well, it depends,” drawled Charlie.
“Bill’s ol’ man was a good farmer, an’
so was his ol’ man’s ol’ man. But bein’
a storekeeper might ha’ turned Bill into
a money farmer.” Bill bought five hun-
dred sheep, getting in just before the big
rise, shore them, and collected a good
wool cheque. Still sheep continued to
rise in price. They were £8 a head when
Ted and Charlie rode in to the stock
sale and found Bill slumped dejectedly
on a pen rail. “Dear, ain’t they?” re-
marked Ted, “Too flamin’ dear,”
growled Bill. “How’d they expect a man
to buy sheep at these prices?” “Well,
you’re lucky you stocked up early, when
they were cheap.” “Lucky! Gripes, I
only bought five hundred,” howled Bill.
“And that place of mine’ll carry five-
fifty easy, I tell you a man’s losing
money wholesale being understocked. I
should’ve bought more.” Ted nodded to
Charlie. “I see what you mean, Chari,”
he conceded. “Bill’s a money farmer
all right.” '
* * * *
“Rumberg”: A Borneo blowpipe about
7ft. long, used chiefly by the Dyaks,
has spearhead attached, bayonet-fashion,
for close work. The darts are of
bamboo,- sin. or 6in. long, about
the diameter of a steel knitting-needle,
with a conical ball of pith at the rear
which fits the hole in the blowpipe.
Demonstrating, the owner rested the
front end on a branch and an apparently
light puff sent a dart into a bird of pee-
wee size about 30ft. away. That blow-
pipe was examined closely. It was not
made from a hollow reed but of some
dark, heavy, close-grained wood strong
enough to use, with the fitted “bayonet,”
as an effective spear. Now how the
dickens do primitive natives drill a true
bore of about fin, straight down the
centre of a 7ft. length of hardwood? En-
gineers at two sugarmills here have told
me they couldn’t do it with the well-fitted
machine-shops of a sugarmill at their
disposal. So come on, all —-how?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow took a
job with a crank running a broken-
down farm in a miserable locality where
meanness was the watchword of the
entire community. Mat stood it for
a while, being badly in need of a few
quid, then came the inevitable eruption,
and he was promptly sacked. As he was
packing his gear the boss appeared, and
in the sanctimonious whine of his kind
said “I hope you’ve learned a lesson,
young man, and as you wander through
the land without a roof to your head you
will reflect on the just punishment of
your transgressions.” Mat gaped at him,
then slowly understood. “My punish-
ment!” he snorted. “Why, y’ silly old
galoot, it’s you that’s coppin’ it.” The
boss, now astonished himself, managed a
“How do you make that out?” Mat
looked slowly round the debt-ridden
farm. “Well,” he drawled, “it’s you that’s
got t’ stay in the flamin’ place, ain’t it?”
• ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Jumbo, former star
in one of Perth’s League football teams,
forgot that it was 20 years and about
10 stone since he’d played, and agreed to
umpire the Bumpercrop-Mukanoppin
match. Ten seconds after play started he
realised the utter futility of trying to
keep up with the game, and after Muka.
had scored a runaway goal he resorted
to strategy. By a series of well-timed
whistle-blasts he kept the game within
reach, a free kick awarded at the right
moment bringing the ball back to the
centre. But even this limited exertion
told, and soon Muka was off again, with
Jumbo tailing the field and praying for a
foul. It came, and the whistle went to
his lips. No sound came, and Bumpercrop
howled its disapproval. “Haven’t you
got a whistle?” their captain demanded.
Jumbo held the shining instrument aloft.
“Yes,” he puffed. “But—I —ain’t got
enough blanky breath —ter blow —it!”
* * * ♦
“The Bunyip”: Old Petheridge, the
schoolie, has retired, but he won’t be for-
gotten. When he first came here and
the usual nasty notes began to come in
he pasted them all on cardboard, with
threads to hang them by, and stored
them for future use. As he got to know
the district
and dis-
covered
family
sk el etons,
so u r ces of
false nunors
and other
things, h e
acted. Thus,
when people
called on
Peth. or his
wife they
found an
interesting and embarrassing exhibition of
things they wished had been destroyed.
Not all the notes were thus exhibited,
however. When Mrs. Bloggs wrote, “sir,
please shift my Nellie away from the ryan
kids they lowsy,” Peth. simply endorsed
the note, “Dear Mrs. Ryan, For your
information and action” and sent it home
by Ryan, Jnr. His recommendation was
accepted in the fullest sense, for shortly
Mum Ryan was making good time across
the paddocks towards Bloggs’s; only
person for miles around who apparently
remained unaware of the resultant riot
being Peth. himself, calmly tying up his
dahlias.
THE LOOM.
Life is the leafage of a tree
Which time has named eternity.
Leaf talks to leaf, and then—refrains.
Only eternity remains.
Lovely the growing wheat,
Lovely its golden yield!
This is the bread we eat,
Whereby we till the field.
Then in the dust we lie;
Above, the wheat is high.
Clouds, that serve earth, from earth must
rise.
In conquest over death, life dies.
Then, as again the rain is cloud,
The dust makes grass its Kving shroud.
Life is a cycle which life breeds,
Where, ever on itself, it feeds.
When I from you depart,
Still hold me in your heart—
Not quite forget! Only
The unremembered know
How dark where we must go.
But if, within your heart.
You keep me one small room.
The friendliness of flesh
Will weave me in its loom.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


MROD THREE" from
1.
"Nimrod" Ready-to-Rolll
Cigarette Tobacco
Made from
extra high-
grade leaf.
St?
Exclusive to
Andrew McGee.
Zoz. pack 3/3}.
26/4 per lb.
Please add post-
age, 1/10 per lb.
N.S.W., 2/9 per
lh . other States .
Pipe Repairs
NIMROD" DRYSMOKER ENGLISH BRIAR PIPI
Featuring the famous hygienic filter which ensures a
milder, cleaner, cooler smoke. (See cutaway
illustration.)
28 shapes to
choose from.
_
■■■■■■■
70 PITT STREET or 1
PRICE
27/6"".
PLUS POSTAGE
Write far general price list.
Andrew M C GEE
CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
"NIMROD"
■ WINDPROOF LIGHTER
The lighter
with a 12
months’
guarantee.
Chrome-
plated,
44/-
Gold-
plated,
J ...... .
Plus postage
84/-
IMRQO
Lighter Repairs
ó
road. Five holes had been drilled in the
rock wall, five charges put in, and with
scouts posted to hold all traffic, the fuses
were lit and all hands took cover. The
first shot was a fizzer; the lighted fuse
fell into the grass on top of the bank,
and away went the grass. “ ’Struth! A
fire!” gasped someone. “Keep back.
Let her go! ” roared the boss, and
while the fire spread the gang waited
anxiously for the other four shots. One
after another they came, but even then
the gang dared not approach for fear of
the fire exploding the first charge. So,
while they watched helplessly, the forest
caught, and acres of good timber were
burnt before local bush brigades could
stop it.
♦ * * ♦
“Chuck”: The township’s police-
station was opposite the pub, and the
John had just settled down for a night-
cap before retiring when Bung hurried
over. “Hey, Hop, come over and collect
old Buff, will you?” he called. “The
cow’s been shot for hours and making a
nuisance of himself.” The dispenser of
law and order rose readily, took a de-
cided step forward, then suddenly
“Haven't I seen you before somewhere?"
paused. “Oh—er—better not be too hard
on him,” he replied. “Give him a bed
in your washhouse or somewhere.”
Bung went off, and half an hour later
reappeared. “Look here, you’ll just have
to shove Buff into the peter,” he
announced. “He’s raging up and down,
swearing like mad, and no one can sleep.”
“Yes? Well, perhaps if I caution him
he’ll be right,” said the officer, in a good-
natured voice. “Must give a man a fair
chance, you know. I’ll slip over and
threaten him pretty solid.” Followed a
period of peace, then Bung was back
once more. “It’s no use,” he complained.
“You’ve got to come and take him.”
The Law fidgeted. “Oh, hang it, why
don’t you chuck him out?” he suggested.
“I did, and he broke a window and got
back.” “Well —er —what about shutting
him in your shed?” “Yes, and he’d break
the door down,” argued Bung. “No;
you come and take him.” “But it’s rain-
ing,” growled the constable. “And
probably it will get heavier.” He strode
to the window and looked out, then
turned back worriedly. “Aw, darn Buff,”
he exploded angrily. “The goat would
come making a fuss just when I’ve got
the lock-up full of chaff.”
* * ♦ *
“Billy T.”; A year ago we had k few
sedate black hens which laid regularly,
behaved themselves as became ladies of
pedigree, and, except for a modest cackle
or two, lived a life of decorum and calm.
Then Stevo started skiting about his
crossbreds ; they matured earlier, laid
younger, ate better, grew up hardier—
they could just about read and write at
five months. It wasn’t all skite, so I
bought a white rooster. This bird was
slightly aristocratic, and until then had
associated only with whites. When he
landed amongst my Australorps he
glared, sniffed “Boongs!” and, turning
his back, ignored them. But as the days
passed those females began to look
whiter and whiter to him (where have
you heard that before?) until at
last there were
chickens. Now a
goodly bunch of
vigorous crossbreds
is coming along, and
their sire has de-
veloped such an in-
flated opinion of
himself that some-
times I let him out
just to allow my
nipper’s sparrow-
weight bantam cock chase him around
and deflate him a bit. With an egg supply
assured, I turned to table-birds, removed
the Leghorn and installed an Australian
Game—a great, gaunt, half-naked bar-
barian with a cauliflower-ear, broken
nose, general resemblance to Joe Louis
and feet to kick opponents to death
should other methods fail. Snowy
resented his presence, though they were
out of sight of each other, so I tossed
the recently-deposed sheik in with his
successor, waited till halfway through the
first round, then gathered him up and
dumped him with some cockerels. The
incident would have been forgotten but
for the bantam. He parades between
the other two, tells them what he thinks of
them and offers them stoush, either or
both, and generally keeps on stirring up
mud that everyone else wants to see
settled. There are people like that.
# ♦ sis *
“E.”: Was short-cutting through
Robbie’s when I came on that bloke, and
rode along with him. He nodded towards
my whippet cross. “Some blokes likes
them sort o’ dogs,” he remarked, “but I
always say if y’ got t’ keep a rabbiter, y’
might’s well keep a good’un. Something
real fast. Watch that’un o’ mine, now,”
he added, as his greyhound took off after
a rabbit, “See? Caught it in no time.
Don’t cost no more to feed a good hound,
I say, than a mong; and with one like
mine, y’ get every rabbit y’ put up.”
Leaving Robbie, I was pondering his
ideas when I struck, Bert in the next
paddock. Bert was hauling a bunny from
a hollow root, and smashing in the hide-
out. I mentioned Robbie’s greyhound.
“No,” he answered me, “I wouldn’t have
a dog like Chat on me place. Too fast.
These old sheep-dogs are the best for
rabbits. Can’t catch them, but they can
run ’em to where they live, and that’s
what you want. You’ll never clean a
paddock while there’s cover,” he went on.
“And you’ve got no hope of finding all
the places to destroy ’em, if the dogs
catch the rabbits before they get there.”
♦ * ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”: “Shadow-chaser’s”
belief that termites raised a building 6in.
(B. 14/2/’5l) is quite understandable, but
I submit a more practical explanation.
The infested corner-stump was a sawn-
off box-tree, the rest of the building being
supported on ironbark stumps which had
been placed to serve as piers. In
those circumstances the same thing would
have happened had there been no ter-
mites at all. Because of its root system,
a sawn-off tree could not be pressed
further into the ground by the weight of
a building; short piles have no “foot-
ing” or “spread” to stop them from being
gradually pushed down into the earth.
When the whole job is sitting on piles
the sinking is not generally noticed, but
when one corner can’t go down with the
rest, that corner appears to have lifted,
as in the building “S.-c.” saw. And this
is the voice of experience! Crawling
under a low weatherboard cottage with
a jack and instructions to “pack the
plates up where the ironbark blocks have
sunk, but pull the rotted tea-tree ones
out and build brick piers” has the effect
of making you remember.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Zake”: Such pigeons as I have
observed bringing up families seem to
share the law of the bush-birds and
refuse all parental duties once they have
weaned the family. The only difference
is that the pigeon leaves the young in the
nest, whereas the young peewits, wag-
tails, martins, crows, etc., are uncere-
moniously bundled out. But I shouldn’t,
perhaps, include all bush-birds. Parental
affection seems to be strongest in the
brolga; only the following mating
season sees the family split up.
“Derwent”: When a
spaniel tumbled down a
12ft.-deep well at Beulah
(Tas,), rescuers lowered a
rope into the water and
attempted to lasso the
dog. The first attempt
was unsuccessful; but at
the second go the animal
sensed the idea. Seizing
the rope in his mouth, he
clung on to it tenaciously
until he was hoisted up
high and dry.
NIGHT ON THE CLIFFS.
Here where the writhing tea-tree scrawls its
vague
And mutilated murals endlessly
All earth seems listening to the restless fugue
Of rock and storm and sea—
The gathering crescendos and the crash
Of frustrate sound and fury overthrown,
The tumbling triumph of the long backwash,
Dragging the music down.
Here I did hope some natural peace to find,
Some tranquilness the hour might impart.
And find the sea is of the self-same mind,
Unquiet as my heart.
Evening, with apprehension overcast,
Has stilled the airs and bid the winds let be;
But the source of this dark tumult is some vast
Sorrow far out at sea.
A round magnificent moon full-rising pours
Forth sudden silver, but brooding heaven soon
Closes dark clouds like inhospitable doors
Against the visiting moon.
O, night, why keep those sullen vapors shut
Against the candle here at your command?
We are all of us stumbling in the darkness, but
You have the light at hand.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


CORK TIPPED
INVESTMENT IN SATISFACTION
Cool, mild and satisfying Army Club cigarettes are, indeed,
your soundest smoking investment Proudly made in
Australia from the worlds best leaf, ripened by sun,
mellowed by time, they are rolled in pure, filigrained
paper, free from printers’ ink.
õ
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 218,774 44p.c.= 218,700 74 1.850
1941.. 202,100 4',, „ 194,400 7,700 9.550
1942.. 195,970 4 „ „ 194,400 1,570 11,120
1943.. 224,323 4j „ .. 218,700 5,623 16,743
1944.. 297,537 5i „ „ 230,850 66,687 83,430
1945.. 338,872 6 „ „ 291,600 47,272 130,702
1946.. 323,302 6 „ „ 291,600 31,702 188,104
From tax provision, etc., £38,903.. 177,007
1947.. 250,999 6 p.c. = 291,600 136,406
1948.. 144,174 5 „ „ 243,000 37,580
Loss.
1949.. 2,493 Nil 35.087
Profit.
1950.. 297,657 6 p.c. = 291,600 6.057 41,144
The 1949 accounts of this 113-year-old,
efficiently-handled public-utility under-
taking are an outstanding example of
shabby treatment of shareholders, and of
the undermining of the market-value of
a trustee security by the “Welfare”
State, such as it is, in N. S. Wales,
The State Gas and Electricity Act of
1935-46 fixes the standard rate of dividend
at 6 p.c. on ord. capital—same as the 1932
Act; previously the rate had been 8 p.c.
It also provides for fixing the selling-
price of gas at a level that will enable
the 6 p.c. to be paid, after meeting all
legitimate exes., including interest on loan
funds, and charging an amount equal to
3 p.c. on average net book-value of build-
ings and plant for depreciation, and \ p.c.
on loan and share capital combined (in-
cluding share premiums) for special pur-
poses. This last-mentioned account is not
available for payment of dividends, but
is intended to absorb special costs.
During the war and at the behest of
the Federal Government the div, was
lowered to 4 p.c,; it rose to 6 p.c. again
for the three years to end 1947, followed
in 1948 by 5 p.c., to pay which reserves
were tapped for £98,826. The collapse
of net earnings and absence of a div. in
1949 were due primarily to Government
procrastination—and that for political,
not economic, reasons—in adjusting the
selling-price of gas to meet the advance
in costs. The position was corrected last
term, and the 6 p.c. div. restored.
Increased gas sales (1861 million units,
up 8.1 p.c.) combined with lifts in selling-
prices sent revenue up by £1,001,811:
—1949 N , 1950 N
Per 1000 Per 1000
Units. Units.
£ s. d. £ e. d.
Gas .. ..3,342,958 38 10 4,254,290 45 84
Residuals .. 406,913 4 9 493,093 5 3J
Meter rents,
etc. .. 33,880 5 38,179 5
Total £3,783.751 44 0 £4,785,562 61 5
Manufac. and
dis. exes.. .3,130,888 36 4J 3,707,512 39 10
Other
charges .. 238,322 2 9 333,050 3 64
Interest . . 161,952 111 184,813 1 ll|
Depreciation,
etc. .. 255,082 3 0 262,530 2 9|
Total
outgo £3.786,244 44 0§ £4,487,905 48 2
Including the statutory but now in-
adequate allowances for depreciation
(£262,530) and special purposes (£49,046),
the growth in outgoings was £701,661,
due mainly to the rise in wage-rates and
the price of coal. The £297,657 of profit,
best since 1946, exceeded the 6 p.c. div.
by only £6057.
To meet the steep rise in costs since the
close of accounts —the basic wage alone
has shot up by 275. a week, and is ex-
pected to go higher—the Government last
week authorised the co, to raise its selling-
price of gas from .605 d. to ,74.3 d. per unit.
On the basis of last year’s sales, this will
add approximately £1,000,000 p.a. to the
co.’s revenue. To the gas consumer it
means, on the average, an increase of
about 10s. a quarter in the bill. Pros-
pects of the standard 6 p.c. div. being
maintained for the current term have been
thus brightened. And that is as it should
be, because shareholders provide the risk
capital, which is the first social service on
which the rest depends.
The price of the old f.-p. £6 shares
tumbled from £6 1 Is. to £5 Bs. in the
market during 1949, and fluctuated be-
tween £5 and £6 during 1950. The scrip
was recently split into £1 units, which
sold at 18s. 9d. last week. Since shares
cannot be issued at a discount, and since
expansion of the undertaking is essential
in the public interest, the co. has been
forced to finance expansion mainly on
debenture money, which, of course, ranks
in front of share capital.
At end Dec. last the debenture debt
totalled £4,650,000, costing - on the
average 3.87 p.c., and the share capital
stood at £4,860,000, which had brought
with it £299,340 of share premiums.
Average cost per £ of share capital
auctioned since 1932 is 235. lid. Last
term £1,650,000 of 4 p.c. debentures were
issued, and used partly to redeem
£750,000 of maturing 5 p.c. debentures
and partly to finance growth of the under-
taking—43 miles of new mains and 32
miles of new services were laid during
the year. Arrangements have been made
for a further issue of debentures (amount
not stated) next month.
When the books closed current
liabilities totalled £983,057, and book
debts, cash, etc., £1,301,704. Stocks
figure at £595,446 (up £105,594), and
freeholds, plant, etc., at £9,234,269 (up
£461,689).
Thompsons (Castlemaine), Ltd. (Vic.)
(and Subsidiary.)
f Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.t
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1947*. 12,143 3X26 5 p.c. = 6,625 2,392 9,669
1948.. 37,265 6250 6 ~15,900 15,115 24,784
To staff fund, £5OOO 19,784
1949.. 39.327 6250 6 p.c. = 17,633 15,444 35.228
To staff fund, £5OOO 30,228
Added intangibles, £3652 .. .. 26,576
1950.-47,222 7917 7 p.c. = 25,706 13,599 40.175
To staff fund, £5OOO 85,175
* Six months only. t After deducting intangibles
( £43,352).
The public became interested in this
heavy-engineering business when the
present co. took over the then 75-year-old
and widely-known Thompson Engineering
and Pipe Co. in 1946 for approximately
£lOO,OOO, of which about two-thirds was
paid in scrip and the balance cash. To
finance the deal, lighten the debt and
provide more working funds, £321,495
of fresh capital was gathered, making the
total £390,000 in 125,(XM) 5 p.c. prefs.
and 265,000 ords.
The co.’s works at Castlemaine turn
out condensing and feed-heating equip-
ment for electric-power stations, large
pumping plants, evaporators, de-aerators
and heavy forgings for the Government
railways. The steel foundry at Wilhams-
town makes up to three-ton castings, as
well as petrol-storage and rail tanks and
trucks, autoclaves, digesters and vul-
canisers, etc.
Early in the piece a strike in the Vic-
torian engineering trades retarded output,
but there has been no stoppage since, and
demand has lengthened its lead over ex-
panding production. Bottlenecks have
been, and still are, shortages of pig-iron,
steel, coke, transport and skilled labor,
while delay in delivery of outside com-
ponents, especially electric motors, the
40-hour week and the upsurge of costs
have added to the management’s troubles.
There was a marked increase in output
and sales from both the co.’s works last
term. After allowing for depreciation
(£18,874, up £1685) and taxation (£27,500,
up £1250), the net result increased by
£7895, reaching £47,222. That covered
the pref. requirements and 10.7 p.c. on
average ord, capital as against 11.2 p.c.
and 11.7 p.c. for the two preceding years.
The div, was lifted from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c.,
which can be taken as a hint that the
board is satisfied with the outlook. After
sending £5OOO to the staff fund, £8599 of
the year’s profit was ploughed back,
which lifted reserves £35,175 in excess of
intangibles (£43,352). The co. hasn’t yet
had time to accumulate much fat.
To help finance the bigger business
and buy a building and some machine-
tools from the Federal Government,
£150,000 of fresh capital (50,000 prefs,
and 100,000 ords.) was gathered about
half-way through the term:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £390,000 £422,000 £572.000
Overdraft .. .. 243,365 318,435 298.400
Creditors, etc 68,176 103,837 136.892
Tax provision .. ~ 12,400 26,480 28,325
Final dividend .. .. 12,400 12,035 19,759
Freehold .. 60,158 60,880 101,415
Leasehold . . .. 9,265 9,726 9,668
Plant 151,363 158,606 190.714
Stocks 136,566 159,082 n 59,083
Work in progress .. 275,517 396,150 466,022
Book debts .. .. 129,230 138,393 162,636
Cash, etc 537 178 7,013
Intangibles .. .. 47,786 47,786 43,352
The year’s net addition to freehold was
£40,535 and to plant £32,108. Work in
progress increased by £69,872 and book
debts by £24,243. The improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£318,806)
was £85,790.
The outlook is one of growing
pressure on the demand side, assisted
by defence requirements, with iron,
steel and labor still in short supply.
There was over £4,000,000-worth of
orders on hand when the books
closed, and their completion will spread
over several years. To alleviate the labor
problem the co. has embarked on its own
housing scheme, and factory premises and
plant are to be further extended. So, in
November last, 70,000 new prefs. and
100,000 new ords. were issued at par.
That will hoist paid capital to £742,000
in 245,000 prefs. and 497,000 ords., on
which the pref. div. and 7 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £47,040. To what extent the
co. will be drawn into the orbit of the
defence programme is not clear at the
moment. What is clear is that all needs
cannot be satisfied from available supplies
of materials, especially iron and steel,
underproduction of which is primarily
due to behavior of miners on the coal-
fields.
At 30s. 9d. (265. 6d. a year ago) the
ords. return 4.4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 225. yield 4.5 p.c. Includ-
ing the last new issue of capital, net
tangible cover is £3 3s. sd. prefs. and
21s. sd. ords.
Vesta Battery Co., Ltd.
f Divs.
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* 9 p.c. Ord. serves, scrves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 22.553 418 12 p.c. = 16,440 5,694 29,767
Assets revaluation, £14,638 .. .. 44,405
1949.. 41,407 418 17i p.c. = 23,977 17,012 61,417
Loss exchange adjustment, £770 .. 60,647
1950.. 41,779 418 15 p.c. = 25,689 15,672 76.319
* Includes additions to insurance reserve, etc.
t After deducting intangibles, £14,500.
This co. began making acid-batteries at
Sydney 22 years ago, when it took
over the manufacturing and distributing
rights of the Vesta Battery Corp.,
Chicago (U.S.), for Australia and New
Zealand. The business is now well-
established in both countries, about one-
fifth of the profits being earned in the
Dominion. Since the public became
interested in June, 1948, the expansion
has been both rapid and profitable, thanks
to live management and quick growth
of the number of cars, trucks, tractors,
etc., in use, and to development of a
new electrical-equipment division, which
has been passed to a subsidiary, Vesta
Products Pty, (capital £50,000), since the
close of accounts.
Those on the ord. register have shared
in the prosperity. Over the last three
years they have had divs. averaging
14.8 p.c. from profits averaging 23.4 p.c.
on capital employed. And the divs. were
sweetened with a two-for-one bonus-scrip
issue (£44,594), followed by three cash
issues at par (totalling £251,266), which
have been in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders because of the premium the
shares fetched in the market. The last
issue (205,510 10s. ords. in Dec., 1950)
will raise paid capital to £312,916, of
which £4650 carries a fixed cumulative
9 p.c. The pref. divs. and 15 p.c. to the
ords. on that lot will call for £46,657.
The new money is wanted to finance all-
round expansion, especially of the sub-
sidiary, which turns out battery-chargers,
fast-chargers, safety-jacks and a range of
battery- and electrical-testing equipment
used in the automotive industry.
Expanding turnover and new labor-
saving devices absorbed the impact of
rising costs last term. There was little
change in the profit figure (£41,779, up
£372), which was written after allowing
for depreciation (£4372, down £2275) and
taxation (£lB,OOO, down £4900). After
paying the small pref. div. (£418), there
was enough to show 24.2 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 29.9 p.c. and 16.1
p.c. for the two preceding terms. The
div, was lowered from \l\ p.c. to 15 p.c.,
money being wanted in the business.
The £15,672 thus ploughed back into the
undertaking lifted reserves to £76,319 in
excess of intangibles.
About three months before the books
were ruled off £68,504 of fresh capital
was got in. Together with an extra
£38,279 from the bank and £20,152 from
sundry creditors, it went mainly into
stocks (up £93,558), book debts (up
£28,535) and plant (up £19,019):
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £67,157 £141,657 £210.161
Overdraft .. .. 116,545 33,483 71.762
Creditors .. .. 51,978 63,824 83,976
Tax provision .. .. 25,042 32,691 35.027
Final dividend .. .. 9,800 13,910 15,623
Land and building’s .. 83,594 88,865 88,594
Plant and machinery .. 28,143 33,543 52,662
Furniture, fittings, etc. 11,270 12,702 17,680
Stock 95,212 118,862 212.420
Book debts .. .. 73,573 92,589 121.124
Cash 8,497 421 488
Intangibles .. .. 14,500 14,500 14,500
There was an improvement of £59,680 in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£127,644).
The call for batteries continues to run
well ahead of output, which is restricted
by shortage of lead. Supplies of virgin
lead, obtainable only on a quota basis,
are supplemented by scrap, little of which
is available at the fixed price, now £65 a
ton as against £35 last term. Collectors
of scrap are hoarding the stuff in antici-
pation of a further lift in the local price,
which is £lO6-odd a ton below the Jan,,
1951, London average for virgin lead
(£SI37 10s. a ton). The selling-price of
batteries was increased by 17| p.c. fol-
lowing the lift in the local price of virgin
lead already referred to.
At 275. 4d. the f.-p. 10s. ords. return
5 5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 12s. sd. per share
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942 .. 13,892 8 p.c.= 6344 7548 30,709
1943 . . 10,513 8 „ „ 6344 4169 34,878
1944 . . 12,280 11 „ „ 8723 8557 38.435
1945 . . 8,453 10 „ „ 7930 523 88,908
Contingency res. disclosed, £6OOO .. 44,958
Assets realisation reserve, £20,999 .. 59,957
1946 .. 17,631 17ip.c.f= 13,878 3753 63,710
Share premiums, £4140 .. .. 67,850
1947 .. 11,589 12jp.c. = 12,500 66,939
1948 . . 19,478 15 „ „ 15,000 4478 71,417
1949 . . 25,715 15 „ „ 16,875 8840 80,257
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 65,257
Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c.
1950 . . 25,312 5 15 20,000 5312 60,569
f Includes 5 p.c. bonus payment.
Two years ago the market priced this
co.’s f.-p. pound ords. at 465. 3d.; last
week they fetched 61s. 6d. Meanwhile


Petition* Vacant.
North Kalgurli (1912) Limited.
CHIEF ENGINEER.
Applications are invited for above position.
Qualifications required: Sound technical
training and experience in both electrical
and mechanical engineering. Duties: To
take charge of Maintenance, Design and
Construction in connection with the opera-
tion and expansion of the Company’s mine
at Kalgoorlie. Western Australia. Present
output is 20,000 tons per month, and
programme of equipment for increase is
in progress. Salary range £l2OO-£l5OO
per annum. House (unfurnished) pro-
vided rent free. Full particulars of
qualifications and experience to—
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
P.O. Box 88, FIMISTON, W.A.
OPPORTUNITY FOR GOOD
TIN-MINERS.
WANTED experienced tin-miners to work
on tribute substantial yardages alluvial
at Stanthorpe, Queensland, average past
values one pound cubic yard. Two com-
plete plants and water available. Good
opportunity practical men. For further
particulars appIy—SUOARLOAP TIN
N.L., 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I" —Mil 1.1 ■ Y W | J I 11l
DUPLICATOR
Ha* all the Hint features
ei high-priced imported
machine* at only a trac-
tion ei their cost. The
"National" Rotary DupU
catOT will reproduce
Typlnq. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
BmiU «A tiniy IA 4u»trmUm bf
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Jl»sribu*tnf 4gmnt*~~
STmiBT W. C. Penfold A Co. Ptf. Ltd.
MBLBOU&NI • Mormon Broi. Ply Lid.
ADBLAIOS • Vordon A Son* Ltd.
PCBTH Docket Book Co. (Ausi.j
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
iiAVIES & COLLISOiN, Patent Attor-
ney*, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Oversea* Patent* and
Trade Mirks.— AnrT.
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE TX.
TMqueriy Gordon and Co. Lid.
Qua/i/y
&*ctnnJ*€tfa€*&e
vOt
G»5
Gordon’s
Stands Suptema
any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
;
a
Lysaght’s
is a
front line
industry
now!
"I worked with 'Lysaghts’ during the
war years and saw the vital part the
Company played in rolling steel sheet
for national defence. But today the
Company is playing an even more
important role . . . with its newly
modernized and greatly expanded plant
turning out greater quantities of
Galvanized Iron and Zincanneal than
ever before ... as well as an ever-
widening range of special quality steel
sheets designed to meet the expanding
needs of Australia’s growing secondary
industries. And further plant expans-
ion recently authorized guarantees that
this policy of keeping in step with
Australia’s sheet steel requirements
will continue!”
LYSAGHTS
"Crowing with Australia
John lysagWt (Australia) Pty. Rid.
ö
L 228-1419
£25,000 of bonus-scrip, one for
four, has been handed out, and
50,000 new £l5 p,c. cum, prefs.
were issued for cash to help
finance expansion of the busi-
ness. At 61s. 6d. the ords. return
4,8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis,
and the prefs. at 225, yield 4.5
p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £4 14s. 2d. prefs. and
295. Bd. ords.
Obviously the market sees no
immediate obstacle to mainten-
ance of the 15 p.c. div. In this
it is encouraged by the belief
that the economy will be kept
fully employed in supplying both
defence and civilian needs, and
that world as well as home de-
mand is still on the up-grade.
The co. is an old-established
tannery concern which has won
a wide reputation as a producer
of leather beltings and industrial
leathers and as power-transmis-
sion engineers. Merchandising
lines handled in conjunction with
ordinary business have contri-
buted substantially to profits.
Turnover increased last term,
thanks partly to a lift in con-
trolled selling-prices, which are
expected to be further increased.
The rise in overhead and produc-
tion costs gobbled the year’s
gains and more besides. Over-
head included the cost of estab-
lishing a new branch office and
warehouse at Adelaide during
the last quarter of the term, and
the new pref, money was at
work only during the last
half of the year. The £25,312
(down £403) of profit covered
pref. requirements and 19,2 p.c.
on ord. capital as it now stands,
compared with 25.7, 19.4, 11.5
and 22 p.c, back to 1946. Over
the last seven years divs. have
averaged 13.7 p.c., as against 7.2
p.c. for the preceding decade.
The year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£99,253) was £47,109:
1948. 1949. 1960.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £175.000
Liabilities.. 94,553 144,033 153,702
Final div... 8,750 9,375 9.660
Freeholds .. 81,868 104.723 110,298
Plant, etc... 22,634 23,305 26,019
Mortgage .. 2,752 1.941
Stocks ~ 86,876 113,667 144.642
Book debts.. 68,296 89,185 93.280
Cash, etc. .. 16,462 948 23,702
The new pref. money, together
with an extra £9669 from out-
siders, etc., was used mainly to
carry more stocks (up £30,975)
and to increase shareholdings
(£19,425) by £lB,92s—additional
ord. capital was taken up in A.
Flavell Pty., die-casters and
sheet-metal workers, etc., Mel-
bourne. A mutually profitable
relationship has existed between
the two cos. for the last 10 years,
the chairman says.
Satupulo, N.L.
This Melbourne - controlled
co.’s 130,000-c.y.-a-month dredge
at Takuapa, Siam, unworked
during the Jap occupation, set in
again in January, 1949. It ha
since produced the followin
results:
Dredged, Average Becov’y,
March, c.y. Value, T<wwt.o. Profit
1949. .169.600 .391 b. 29* £2284
1950. .974,300 ,4131 b. 180 8815
Last term’s tin-ore assayed 7*
p.c. and brought in £53,772
equal to £403 14s. per ton metal-
lic tin. Operating costs (£44,713
were equal to £335 14s. per ton
metallic. The profit was 5.5 p.c
on the £159,300 of capital, which
includes £10,500 of 10 p.c
cumulative participating prefs.
For the nine months to end
1950, 1,034,500 c.y. were handled
for 223| tons t.o. and an
approximate profit of £849,400
And those on the register are
back on the dividend-list, 4s. a
share being payable to the prefs
and 2s. a share to the ords. on
March 22.
There is about 17,345,000 c.y
of payable ground ahead of the
dredge (over 14 years’ work al:
normal rate of digging), and
bore values suggest that yields
should be maintained. The two
big imponderables are what the
future holds in respect of
banditry in Malaya and the
price of the metal.
During the first half of 1950
tin in Singapore averaged £B5Bl
a ton, and for the second half
£BB7O. In February, 1951, the
figure touched £Bl4BO. Future
prices depend very largely upon
U.S. buying policy. Following
the announcement that Washing-
ton had called a halt, for the
time being, in tin-buying for
stockpile, the London spot price
dropped from £81462 10s. at end-
February to £81260 on March
13. Until the International Tin
Conference, now meeting in
Washington, completes its de-
liberation the future of the
industry remains uncertain.
The co.’s pound ords. recently
sold at 18s. Id. on Sydney
’Change.
“Sumting Nutting”: Sterling
Gold Mines, N.L., Marble Bar
(W.A.), finds it necessary to re-
construct to provide funds to
carry on. Ore in sight shows a
regrettable reduction in both
quantity and quality. In Sept.,
1949, co. stated that “at present
there are 15,000 tons actual
ore exposed, recovery value
14dwt., and that costs will be
£3 10s. per ton, showing a gross
surplus of £98,000, without esti-
mating the additional ore which
will be exposed during develop
ment.” This was before sinking
the shaft and opening up the
50ft. level. In a report, datec
Dec. 8, 1950, a consulting
engineer said “the positive
and probable ore taken to
the 56ft. horizon will approxi-
mate 4153 tons, with a recover-
able value of 12dwt. per ton
Basing costs of mining, etc., at
£4 per ton, the actual operating
profit for 12 months will
approximate £20,768.” This
little co. has been a battler
for years, and it is to be hoped
that it will strike a win. But in
that country values have got to
be good; or, rather, the good
values so often met with at the
surface have got to carry down.
* * * *
“Towersite”: In their efforts
to secure an increase in the price
of gold Australian producers
will find encouraging support in
the 1949 annual reports of four
British cos. operating on the
Kolar Field, Mysore State,
India, where the gold output
averaged £S22 17s. 6d. per oz.
fine gold (£A2B 11s. KHd.)
against £AIS 9s. lOd. locally.
These cos., with a total issued
capital of £81,521,971, mined
449,122 tons ore for a yield of
160,9020 z. (fine) valued at
£83,684,262. To avoid British
income tax and profits tax
they transferred their head
offices to Mysore, and for seven
months in 1949 they transferred
to general reserve £889,109 from
previous provision for taxation.
The reports record “a welcom-
ing awakening among the more
mature and discerning leaders to
the stern realities of the eco-
nomic situation in the country
(India).”


BMC. takes good core of you
TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
Book from
Sydney to
INDONESIA
MALAYA
HONG KONG
JAPAN
CEYLON
INDIA
PAKISTAN
AFRICA
ø
ITALY
GREAT
BRITAIN
AND VIA
U.K. TO
U.S.A.
CANADA
CENTRALAND
>, ' a; ' ' '■ ; 1
SOUTH AMERICA
BERMUDA
Information & Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General
Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns,
Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo’* for your overseas shipments 1
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Al9/AU
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
ō
0i
How much will your
family receive from
your Estate?
Have you worked it out?
Many a man, who has consulted a specialist in Estate
Administration in regard to his Will, has been surprised to
find that his family will receive considerably less than ne
anticipated.
There is a simple pro-
cedure to ensure that your
Estate will yield its maxi-
mum for your dependents;—
Firstly: Discuss your af-
fairs, in confidence, with a
Senior Officer of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited.
The Company’s 64 years
experience is available,
through him, to guide you
in the wise planning of your
Will.
Secondly: Have this plan
embodied in your Will by a
Solicitor and keep your Will
up-to-date.
Thirdly: Assure the ef-
ficient and economical
management of your Estate,
when your guiding hand is
withdrawn. You can do
this by appointing Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited
as your Executor and Trus-
tee alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend. In so
doing you will follow the
lead given by many of our
wisest and most successful
citizens.
Public acceptance of the
high standard of service
rendered by Perpetual Trus-
tee Company Limited and
the appreciation of depen-
dents, who have found in it
a valued guide and friend,
are responsible for the Com-
pany’s position to-day as the
largest Trustee Company in
the Southern Hemisphere —
with Trust and Agency
Funds under administration
exceeding £70,000,000.
If you would have par-
ticulars of the services
offered by the Company,
ring B 0377 and make an
appointment. A Senior
Officer will be pleased to
give the information you
desire.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
'
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R, KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS: Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V, DOUGLASS. Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
PROFITS, REPLACEMENT AND REVALUATION.
The problem of replacing
plant at present-day prices out
of depreciation reserves estab-
lished in past years has been
emphasised in The Bulletin
often enough since the end of
World War 11. More recently
the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
went into the matter ex-
haustively and produced a book-
let on the subject entitled Capital
Erosion, presenting, in effect, a
case to be put before the Aus-
tralian taxation authorities for
the granting of tax-free deprecia-
tion allowances in accordance
with present-day cost of replace-
ment.
The problem has been con-
cerning British authorities, too.
On January 27 this year the
“Economist,” in an article
headed “Profits and Replace-
ment,” said in part:
With each month that passes it
becomes more and more desirable that
accountants and economists should
find an agreed definition of what profits
are... .“Profits,” as they appear in
company reports—with the assurance
of an auditor’s certificate that they
present “a true and fair view” of the
results —are rising fast. But a grow-
ing number of practising accountants
are now beginning to question the
economic meaning of such figures.
To some extent they have a “real”
content, corresponding to increased
output and to the more efficient use
of plant and equipment last year. To
some extent, also, they have an illu-
sory content, corresponding to the
rise in prices, with its consequent
increase in so-called inventory profits.
And, further, there is an illusory
element of another kind, which corres-
ponds to the inadequacy of the pro-
visions for replacing used-up capital
—the old argument of provision based
on replacement cost versus provision
based on original cost.
This is well-worn ground. There
are fewer accountants nowadays who
would reject—as many were rejecting
only two years ago —arguments for
the need to make provision for
replacement on the, basis of current
costs It is, perhaps, this growing
realisation that all profits, adventitious
or not, genuine or fictitious, are taxed
away to the extent of more than half
that has challenged the accounting
profession fo review its ideas about
“profits.” For their professional
assumptions of what is “a true and
fair view” rest on the foundation of
reasonably stable money and prices.
In a year such as last, when money
lost between a tenth and a fifth of
its value, this foundation is rudely
shaken, and even accountants who
can pray in aid these assumptions in
support of their certificate that the
profit and loss account shows a "true
and fair view” have been heard to
doubt whether, in real terms, a
genuine profit has been made-yon the
ground that insufficient provision has
been made at current prices to replace
stocks and used-up capital.
The dressing-up of capital to look
like revenue has become a thoroughly
vicious habit of our time. No one
can say by how muqh the reported
total income [of U.K. public com-
panies in 1950] was inflated by “inven-
tory gains” that ought to be put
straight back into the business to
maintain the level of its physical
working capital but are taxed instead
to the extent of more than half. No
one can say by how much last year’s
depreciation provisions fell below
what will be needed to replace
industry’s plant and equipment when
the time comes.
The 646 last-quarter companies set
aside £2B million for depreciation,
compared with fixed assets with a
book-value (after deducting depre-
ciation) of £586 million. This
was less than 5 per cent. —wholly
insufficient to meet even the
increase in the money cost of replace-
ment last year. But this is all that
the income-tax inspector allows; the
difference —if provision is made for it
at all —must come out of taxed
profits. On this showing it is
seriously to be doubted whether any
appreciable part of last year’s ordinary
dividends —they amounted to £133.9
million, compared with £129.1 million
in the previous year—were truly
earned in any economic sense.
It is here that considered profes-
sional support of the case for pro-
tecting the substance of industry
could be of immense benefit to the
economic health of the counfry.
Unless there is a change of attitude
on the basic problem of capital
replacement, the damage of a few
more years of debilitating inflation
may be too great to overtake.
Already it is, in effect, hypothecating
the savings of future years to main-
tain capital assets that are being
depleted here and now; and it is not
clear whether, if present trends con-
tinue, this unequal struggle will suc-
ceed. It is becoming more and more
certain that there will be little enough
to spare for the expansion (as dis-
tinct from the maintenance) of the
country’s productive assets.
Coupled with this problem of
providing for asset-replacement
“Stop doodling , Reg—your trunk call's through."
out of profits is the question of
asset - revaluation,, at present
popular in Australia, especially
in the case of private com-
panies converting into public
cos, for taxation reasons.
The Bulletin has queried
this current fashion of revalu-
ing assets and issuing bonus
shares out of the reserves so
created, and has pointed out
that, whatever the merits of the
move, it would not make profit-
earning any easier.
The matter has been gone into
fairly thoroughly in a profes-
sional way by V. L. Gole,
F.F.1.A., in a booklet. Revalua-
tion of Assets and the Issue of
Bonus Shares, prepared for
members of the Federal Insti-
tute of Accountants.
At the end of his thesis Mr.
Gole sums up as follows:-
(1) It is impossible to judge the
effects of revaluation of assets and
the issue of bonus shares in the
short-term view.
(2) There are many implications
which need to be studied carefully
and given proper weight before enter-
ing into the procedure.
(3) The stability of the company
and its earning-rate are important.
Ko fresh money is brought into the
working-capital pool by this process,
but additional dividend responsibili-
ties are incurred.
(4) A fall in the dividend rate on
the larger number of shares after
bonus issue may, and probably will,
depress the market-value of the shares
and defeat to some extent the capital
accretion aspect from the shareholders’
Standpoint.
(5) If all goes well with the com-
pany, and increased earnings result,
there is a real gain in income to the
shareholder and the capital gain is
sustained. The value of the capital
gain is enhanced by the non-taxable
aspect in the hands of the shareholder.
The impact of taxation on higher-
dividend incomes may be very de-
pressing,
(6) The revaluation of assets with
or without the issue of bonus shares
has no bearing on the allowable
deduction for depreciation for taxa-
tion purposes, but it has a significant
influence on the accounting for
depreciation in the future years,
(7) The possibility of facing
devaluation of assets on a declining
price level should not be overlooked.
The significance of this will vary
according to the degree of revaluation
and the nature of the assets revalued.
(8) In the event of an excess-profits
tax being imposed again, there is
little likelihood that the revaluation
margin will have any bearing on the
capital “deemed to be employed.”
(9) At the same time, a tighter
operation of capital-issues control is
not likely to provide a barrier to the
issue of bonus shares, because no
actual money is involved. It is
largely a matter of bookkeeping.
(10) Among the many and varied
purposes of revaluation the most
important ones are probably;
i. A wider spread of shares and a
more active sharemarket;
ii. Benefits to shareholders to sustain
strong shareholder interests;
iii. To compensate existing share-
holders on a change in status,
(11) The popularity of the proce-
dure should not obscure the need to
consider very carefully the effects of
revaluation in a long-term view. The
implications will vary between com-
panies, and future protit-earning
prospects are difficult to foretell. The
forecast of business executives in
America as recorded in “Fortune,”
January, 1950, showed 36 per cent,
believe profits likely to fall, 34 per
cent, no change and 28 per cent,
moderately higher.
(12) If revaluation is to be indulged
in, an element of conservatism should
be retained, Real estate and freehold
properties are good assets to revalue,
but some caution should be exercised
in respect of plant, machinery, equip-
ment, vehicles and sundry other assets.
These are times of great
change in our economic struc-
ture. As said here last week,
any company-director who ever
received his pay in golden
sovereigns needs to be re-
educated in the fundamentals of
an economy based on paper
money.
The paper-money factor is at
the bottom of both our asset-
replacement and asset-revalua-
tion problems. We have left
1939 standards of value away
behind us.
Revaluation of plant can be
used to help correct the effect
of inflation on replacement
costs. If plant valuation in the
books is doubled, then the
allowance for depreciation
should be doubled. This would
actually tend to reduce profits
following revaluation (with or
without a subsequent issue of
bonus shares). But, as Mr. Gole
points out in paragraph six of
his thesis, revaluation has no
bearing on what the Taxation
Department will allow in the
way of depreciation provision.
In other words, the extra pro-
vision for depreciation would
have to be made out of tax-paid
profits. And in some cases that
would mean the swallowing of all
distributable profits for the year.
Before the Taxation Com-
missioner comes into the picture
there are, of course, the price-
control people to be considered.
Their attitude towards deprecia-
tion allowance is not yet so
clearly defined.
The £1 shares in R. B, Davies
Industries have moved up
steadily from 28s. 6d. to 38s. 6d.
over the past two months. The
co., which has its headquarters
in suburban Sydney, is the
largest manufacturer of builders’
hardware in the Commonwealth,
is well managed and has had a
lengthy experience in its busi-
ness. Last annual div. was 7 p.c.
out of profits equal to 12 p.c.
on average capital (the share-
register total is now £437,210).
There are market expectations at
present of an interim div. Net
tangibles at last balance-day
were equal to 20s. 4d. a share
on book-values. '


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Ettablished 1808 in Reign of.
George HI.
STABILITY
The "Atlas? has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPUING STREET, SYDNEY,
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
ŏ
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for Im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and U Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Flace, Sydney.
■
ő
ơ
s*v
/h
N
EXPLORERS
or
JAMES COOK
Captain James Cook, discoverer of the east coast of
Australia, was one of England’s ablest navigators and
an astronomer of note.
He set out in the "Endeavour” in 1768, bound
for Tahiti to make observations of the planet Venus.
His orders, however, also provided for charting the
coasts of New Zealand and searching for "the Great
South Land.”
Leaving New Zealand in March, 1770, Cook
sighted the south east coast of Australia a few weeks
later. He discovered and named Botany Bay, care
fully explored and mapped the coast northward,
and finally, on Possession Island in Torres Strait,
took possession of the whole eastern coast, naming
it New South Wales,
On a later voyage, he proved that there was no
large continent between New Zealand and South
America, thus removing an old misconception.
On the occasion of the Jubilee of the Common-
wealth of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales —
Australia’s pioneer Bank—honours the explorers who
opened the way for the development of this great
country.
(IXOOBPOBATHD IN HHW BOOTH VILM WITH LUUTH) UAMU**)
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
m
vs.
0 o
v.
o
J
'y
L 'Svil433l|tA4lW
u
jit
U •'!»—
\\\m
o„ .
«»•’'^wjjno
V
V _ o
jrr
/*
a
*u
3?Si
-x~f r
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER —Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835
Ke.rr n
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Topics of the day have an
insistent monotony, with the
cost-of-living well to the fore.
The current trend is not ex-
pressed in coppers, but in
pounds. Carpets, clothes and
holidays are the latest to be
marked for bumper increases.
The prices of men’s suits have
provoked the Yorkshire “Post”
into forecasting that, just as a
man buys his house through a
Building Society, he will soon
need a Textile Society to assist
him to buy his clothes.
Englishmen who a couple of
weeks ago had experienced a
glow of newfound pride when
they were enabled to participate
in the last stage of a Test vic-
tory were less prepared for
another shock: that, for the
first time in its history, the Royal
Navy was to be subordinated to,
and commanded by, a foreign
Power,
Even after allowing for two
vital conclusions: that the
solidarity of Anglo-American
relationship will remain un-
shaken and that all can still end
well, national pride has suffered
a staggering jolt. The root and
strength of this pride is not
based on false premises, and its
source needs no elaborating
here.
Those of her subjects who still
deem Britain a world Power
have no thought other than that
her qualifications in naval affairs
are unsurpassed. Either she is,
by right of prestige, self-
selective for high command, or
else the reason for her being
passed over must be explained.
Academic arguments, such as
have appeared in the Press, as
to whether or not a Supremo is
needed, are beside the point.
Britons feel they have been
slighted and now see more
clearly by whom.
A delayed shock has taken the
place of the affront to pride, and
has caused Mr. Attlee more
humiliation than any other
action during his term of office.
This arises from his statement,
when questioned by Mr.
Churchill in the House of Com-
mons, that be would “look into
the matter,” given with the same
impersonality as if it were a de-
mand to know how many char-
women were employed at 10
Downing-street.
Events clearly show that the
Prime Minister, the late Foreign
Secretary and the Minister of
Defence have neglected to weigh
the main psychological issues.
They have incensed public feel-
ing by demurely acceding to the
subordination of the Royal
Navy, and they have completely
ignored the danger, so persist-
ently exploited by our enemies,
of a general idea getting about
that America is “bossing the
show.”
Political Patches
An ingenious suggestion, not
without credibility, is put
forward by the Manchester
“Guardian.” That journal’s
Parliamentary correspondent
affirms that a majority of half a
dozen is actually an asset to
Attlee and Co. Had the majority
been much larger, the Govern-
ment might easily have fallen.
The reason? Because the strong
pacifist element might have voted
against the Government in a
defence division and swung the
balance against them.
If that were to happen in the
present strict discipline the dis-
sentients would certainly lose
their nominations. They might
even be expelled from the party.
Quoting the “Manchester
Guardian”: “All the dissidents
and not only the pacifists, no
doubt, laid the flattering unction
to their souls that they were
doing a little violence to their
consciences in order to achieve
a great good—saving the coun-
try from a Tory Government,”
“Time and Tide” makes pub-
lic an assertion which has long
been whispered about: that the
Labor Government didn’t expel
all its fellow-travellers after the
affair of the Nenni telegram.
Some are held still to be taking
their seats on the Labor benches.
If their number exceeds six an
astonishing paradox presents it-
self: that Britain’s Labor Gov-
ernment is being kept in power
by a group of crypto-Com-
munists!
Ivor Strikes Back
The dearth of good British
musical comedies is not entirely
due to a lack of talent on one
side of the Atlantic and an ex-
cess on the other. Not many
American shows can compare
even palely with “Oklahoma!”
“Annie Get Your Gun” and the
new one “Kiss Me, Kate!” In
our expensive age musical
comedies are costly ventures to
launch ; and what more natural
than that managers who have
established a “winner” on Broad-
way should seek further mar-
kets, with a minimised risk of
failure?
Our own writer-composers are
keen enough to be noticed, but
must needs start from scratch
with the laudable, but not easily
attainable, object of creating a
show that is better than the best
of the Americans. The latest
essay has something in com-
mon with Melbourne, We have
won a Test, but are still not
within sight of regaining the
Ashes. Again veterans have
played the major part. “Gay’s
the Word” (Saville Theatre) is
the work of a team that has
been long at the game. Jack
Hulbert (professionally a late-
comer at 22) had an idea for
his wife. Cicely Courtneidge
(who learned her art at her
father’s knee), and mentioned it
to Ivor Novell© (likewise, at his
mother’s knee). He wrote the
“book,” set the music to lyrics
by the young but well-estab-
lished Alan Melville, and went
back to Jack Hulbert to produce
the show.
One result is that Cambridge
Circus looks like being thickly
congested at theatre-time for a
full score of months. The show
starts brightly with a scene of
Novellian Ruritania that romps
along with subtle and unsparing
parody. Theatrical celebrities,
unlike many others, enjoy guy-
ing themselves. Here is a de-
licious example. Otherwise, the
“book” is undistinguished and
is overconcerned with back-
stagery, both amateur and pro-
fessional; sometimes, when tak-
ing off the hams the pros invite
obvious comment.
The music is better at its
liveliest than when seeking senti-
ment, and, although the ear is
hardly captured by possessive
hit-tunes, the songs are as closely
related to past glories as are the
dresses. Cicely Courtneidge,
although her abundant, broad
and vital self, seems to lack
male support for her comedy.
As Gay Daventry, a “has-been”
of the lighter stage, her acting
—at times immensely touching
—surpasses her clowning. Alan
Melville’s lyrics are outstanding
for their incisive wit, ingenious
multiple rhyming and stylish
texture. Happily, he has, at
long last, realised that theatrical
small-talk is mercifully above the ,
heads of his audiences.
Lizbeth Webb’s plaintive in-
sistence and wobbly vibrato tend
to obtrude, but Thorley Walters
—hitherto no better known to
Londoners than to Australians
—enjoys a double success. He
has soared to high commenda-
tion in the very theatre in which
he failed to outlast a second re-
hearsal when, 14 years ago, he
first turned to musical comedy.
But —oh my, oh mike! —is
voice-production a forgotten
art? Robert Courtneidge’s
daughter, who was never taught
to croon, is too much heard,
while most of the others, with
intermittent rasps and crackles,
are far too little.
(These lines were written only
a few hours before the 8.8. C.
shocked the air with an
announcement as sudden and un-
expected as that of the death of
Tommy Handley. Ivor Novello
also gave pleasure to millions in
a talented variety of ways, for
more than 30 years. Tributes
have been made in print, and
will surely long continue iH the
performance of his plays He
was such a hard and active
worker that he rarely saw one
of his own shows from the front
of the house. “Gay’s the Word"
was an exception, for an attack
of ’flu kept him out of Kings
Rhapsody ”, He would have
asked nothing more than what
he received—to be spared for a
few days so that he could rejoin
his colleagues and to keep on
playing to the end.)


IXL
This World Famous Brand !s
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/f
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:-~*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
For Sale.
FOR SALE—BOEHM CONCERT FLUTE,
good order, cheap.—HOGAN, Crown St.,
Epping, N.S.W.
‘WORLD BOOKS’ Editions
■
*
m 1
5
CANBE myu4a^
AT THE AMAVHCLY lOW PRICE
OF ONLY
mmim
| UK-
WBI
JOIN “WORLD BOOKS”
AND ENJOY THE WORLD’S BEST READING
These handsome editions, beautifully bound in buckram, are
uniform in size and appearance so as to make up a superb library.
Members receive a new title each month which always remains
the member’s own property.
The amazing part about the “World Books” Club is that these
volumes, which are strictly available to members only, cost a mere
6/3. They are superior in most cases to the ordinary editions,
which are invariably priced between 17/6 and 33/-.
MEMBERSHIP RATES
12-BOOK SUBSCRIPTION, only £3/15/- (or posted, WV-)
6-BOOK SUBSCRIPTION, only £l/17/6 (or posted, ti/V-t
NO EXTRAS I
1951 PROGRAMME
Mar.: “THE WOODEN HORSE” By Dodie Smith
Apr.: “THE WIEEOW CABIN” By Pamela Erankau
May: “SHAKESPEARE” , I 7° r
June: “DINNER AT ANTOINE’S” .. By Prances Parkinson Keys
July: “THE HEAT OF THE DAY” .... By Elizabeth Bowen
Aug.; “MR. MID-SHIPMAN HORNBLOWER” .. By C. S. f^®st€£
Sept.: “EASTERN APPROACHES” By Bitzroy
Oct.: “WHISKY GALORE" By Compton Mackenzie
Nov.; “BRICKS AND FLOWERS” By Katherine Everett
Dec.: “THE YOUNG EIONS” By Irwin hnaw
(Members may reject any titles and make up unwanted books
from a vast array of previous titles.) Previous titles are a s
available at 6/3 each.
NOTE the rates above and write the amount applicable to your
requirements in the space provided in this coupon.
MAIL THE
COUPON
TODAYI
Kindly add ex-
change to coun.
try and inter-
state cheque*..
MORGAN'S BOOK SHOP
9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 8W8607
Please enrol me as a member of “World
Books.” I enclose tbe amount of
to cover subscription.
NAME • ••••
ADDRESS
8.21/8/’#l
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Half-house, s.c., wanted buy
widow. Urgent.”— Suburban paper.
With vacant possession?
4* ■4* '4*
“New 20in. mower. Being sold on
account of ill-health.”
—Suburban paper.
Probably sick of being pushed
around.
4* 4* 4*
“Models for television and brassiere
advertisements are putting the bur-
lesque girls out of business.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
Either that, or they’ve taught
them to suspend their opera-
tions.
4* 4* 4*
“The ears are usually neglected in
beauty treatments.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
They must be left free to hear
the conversation in the next
cubicle.
4* 4* 4* ,
“National Health payments make
dentists Britain’s highest-paid profes-
sional group, earning nearly double
the income of doctors.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Yet they’re still looking down
in the mouth.
“He was about to pock up his
drink when a voice beside him said
....” —Short story.
“Here's O in your I!”
4* 4* 4* ,
“Don’t wear loose cardigans in the
street.”— Women’s paper.
Tight sweaters pay better divi-
dends.
4* 4 1 v
“Blackouts today will be on a
lighter scale, an Electricity Commis-
sion spokesman said.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
A lighter will be a change
from matches and candles.
4* 4* 4*
“Tony grunted again, this time in
pain, and wiped the blood from his
noise.” — “World’s News:”
With a quiet handkerchief.
“Some women in public positions
are apt to be too officious.”
— Women’s paper.
Bureaucats.
4* 4* 4*
“West End mercers and tailors are
showing, ‘bird of Paradise’ waistcoats
for men at prices ranging from £8
to £so.”— Melbourne paper.
For wastegoats?
Exceptional.
She is unique. Her eyes are blue
And sparkle like the morning
dew
Upon a rose. Her lips, her hair
And bust for loveliness compare
With any beauty you have seen
On hoarding or in magazine.
Of course. I’ll grant you, should
you seek
Among the salons in the city
You’d find a thousand just as
pretty.
But (let this wonder tax
your noddle)
I still protest that she’s unique —
She’s lovely BUT SHE
DOESN’T MODEL !
P.O.M.C.
Nose, Softly Blooming.
I sometimes think that never
blew so blue
The Nose, as when some
ancient Sneezer snoze,
When x Lavender gave half its
lovely hue
To robe in glory some heroic
Nose.
Where is the Nose of yester-
year? Ah, where?
Where is the music of departed
Noses ?
What trumpet-echoes shook,
with quaking air.
The rheumy tents of Welling-
ton and Moses?
Lo! In the hothouse of Pro-
boscis grows
A bumper blossom-crop of
bulbous graces;
For what’s a face but calix to
a Nose ?
And what are men but stems
to carry faces ?
Breathes there a man with
Nose so fine and pale
That it would not look better
in a veil ?
NEIL MILLAR.
Down With Science.
“Getting rather thin on top,”
said my barber as he tucked the
sheet under ray chin.
There scarcely seemed any
need either to deny or confirm
his remark, so I kept silent.
Pursuing some secret thought of
“ Don't Worry; Mother always does that .”
his own, he addressed himself to
the rest of the audience: “Too
much science is ruining the
country.”
“Too right,” agreed the bloke
whose turn was next but two in
the corner chair. “Take beer.”
“What?” said my barber.
“Take beer. I remember the
time when all they needed to
make beer was some hops and
some malt and a coupla tubs.
And it was beer, too. Not like
today’s stuff, all chemicals.
Went into a brewery last week.
Blokes in white coats every-
where. Science ! Try the beer
in any pub you like. Flat!”
“I was thinking of this mixa-
morphosis,” said my barber.
“Mixa what?” said Next-but-
two.
“Mixa this stuff they’re
giving the rabbits.”
“Oh, mixatiasis. What’s wrong
with it, anyway? Killing the
bunnies, isn’t it?”
“So they say. But these
scientists’ll tell you anything.
Look what they put over about
the flying-saucers.”
“But the saucers were a fake,”
put in Next-but-three. “I just
been reading about it in this
digest. It says”
“Fake or not, I don’t believe
in ’em,” said my barber. “And
I don’t believe in scientists.”
“Can’t trust those digests,”
said My-turn-next. “Those
Yanks’d come at anything. Look
what they did to Phar Lap.”
“And Les Darcy,” said Next-
but-two.
“There was a boxer for you,”
said Corner-seat. “Born fighter.
Could take it as well as dish it
out, and he had science, too.”
“ Sciencel" scoffed my barber.
“Rabbits were dying in millions
before mixafeelia was ever heard
of. Back in the nineteen-four-
teen drought they was dying like
flies. No talk of mixafeelia
then.”
“What’s biting you?” asked
Next-but-three. “They got to
kill the rabbits, don’t they?”
“There’s no need for the
scientists to shove their noses
in,” said my barber. “Why can’t
they leave it to the rabbiters?
It’s a fair living. What’s wrong
with trapping, and shooting, and
poison-carts?”
“I always reckon Phar Lap
was poisoned,” said My-turn-
next.
“Darcy, too,” said Next-but-
two.
“How d’you reckon Dave
Sands’ll go against this Turpin
bloke?” asked Corner-seat.
“The climate’ll get him,” said
the bloke sitting by the steriliser-
cabinet. “Those London fogs.”
“What’s that got to do with
beating Turpin?” asked Corner-
seat.
Steriliser-cabinet shook his
head gloomily. “They’ll get
him,” he said. “Seen it time
and time again. Bloke gets a
chill. Next thing pneumonia sets
in and out he goes like your
lights in a blackout. No hope.”
“Rot,” said My-turn-next.
“Nowadays pneumonia don’t
amount to nothing. Not with
these sulpha drugs. Marvellous
stuff. An uncle of mine”
“Some people’ll believe any-
thing,” sneered my barber.
“Sulpha drugs! More scientific
fakes. Let me tell you, my old
father had pneumonia three times
—double pneumonia, mind you,
and he tossed it just like that.”
He snapped his fingers. “No
sulpha drugs in his day. Doc-
tors said he hadn’t a chance,
but the old man just got out of
bed, pulled a coat on over his
pyjamas and went for a ten-mile
walk in the pouring rain.”
“Any umbrella?” asked Next-
but-two.
“Only the first time,” said my
barber. “He was a tough old
bloke.”
“I still can’t see what you’ve
got against this mixatiasis,” said
Next-but-three.
“I got nothing against it,” said
my barber. “I just don’t be-
lieve in it.”
All this time my barber’s re-
marks had been addressed to
the saloon in general, but his
hands had been solely devoted
to my service. Now, for some
reason, with the job almost com-
pleted and with a “next-please”
look in the corner of his eye,
he apparently decided to devote
his voice to me also. In low
tones he murmured “I suppose
you wonder why I’m rp crooked
on scientists?”
It didn’t matter whether I’d
been wondering or not. He was
determined to tell me.
“They’re a lot of frauds,” said
my barber. “I’ll give you an
example from my own trade.
Can’t do anything fairer than
that, can I?”
“No, I suppose not.”
“Well, look, Here’s some-
thing. Scientists always tell you
there’s no cure for baldness,
don’t they? Well, that’s hooey.
This stuff I’ve got’ll cure it just
like that. My father used it be-
fore me and his father before
him. Not so cheap as it used to
be, of course, but after all, what
is, these days? Ten-and-six a
bottle, and you’ll never regret
it. Science! Pah! Thank you,
sir. Next, please.”
It wasn’t until I got the stuff
home that I realised he hadn’t
told me whether to rub it on my
skull or drink it.
JASBY.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
No. 3990 of 1949.
TO LESLIE EDWIN PARLEY late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that a Decree
for Restitution has been made against you
requiring you to take back or to return
home and render conjugal rights to your
wife MAY HELEN PARLEY within 21
days of the 27th March 1951 and to file
in the Divorce Registry King Street
Sydney a certificate of your compliance
with the said decree within 25 days of the
27th March 1951 You may communicate
with your wife at “Strathmore” Eastern
Road Wahroonga AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that a copy of the Decree for
Restitution and Notices have been posted
to your father at Griffith and that such
documents are available from him or from
WM. LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, of 5G Hunter Street,
Sydney. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that if you fail to comply with the said
decree your wife may petition for judicial
separation or divorce. —J. DOUQHAN,
Registrar,
IVcglOW al •
ftT~THE SUP RE M E COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO RICHARD KEITH EVANS late of
Westmead. —TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHEA EVELYN EVANS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3696 of 1950
on the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 23rd May 1951 and obtain
~ codv of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
164 Phillip Street, Sjdney.-J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Position Wanted.
PRODUCTION MANAGER, British, ex-
perienced, age 85, at present working in
British Film Industry, desires employ-
ment in any position in any industry in
Australia requiring organisational and
administration experience. Accustomed to
taking responsibility and making decisions.
Full term of War Service, demobbed as
Major. Matriculation and Higher School
Certificates. Fluent French. Australian
wife, two children. Can arrange own pas-
sages and accommodation on arrival.
Present salary £1560 p.a. First-class
references available. Reasonable starting
salary with every prospect of advancement
essential, to make change of position
worth while. Replies will be forwarded to
London by airmail from No. 333, Advt.
Dept., Bulletin, Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
r:,*C
iJlf
w*
li:
KPSTIii
I
A TOLLEY IIMITEOyg
•I'M ■-
£F
AUSTRALIA
S*Z&SSEESiSS;
sEZs*
The Brandy
you’ll be
proud to
offer ..
T °U£y> s
Sp tc {4l
%
ms m AI
ò
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
TBT.lg.lt
//
oveu
V
/-.amp!
//
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream
Metal Parts
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS (300 CANDLE POWER)
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L 106 “THE QUEEN” 2\V High
T.L 136 “THE PRINCESS” 16# High
TILLEY..,, LAMPS
BURS ORDINARY KEROSENE
ike JLa.rn.v26 mtk
ike -Hay2i2u MantLel
/
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer’s Representatives: — T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1 r 123-125 WILLIAM STREET.
MELBOURNE. Cl.
- 3 5"
• • • ••
* $' *
S 5
jjfs
to s “ e '
TILLEY!
SUNDRY SHOWS
Blake Prize.
You have only to think of the
“Ecce Homo” of Epstein or the
“stained-glass” paintings of
Rouault, or to ponder the fact
that Salvador Dali recently be-
came a Catholic, to realise that
there has always been a strange
alliance between the ©xtremer
forms of modern art and
Christianity.
The simple explanation of this
apparent anomaly is that much
of what is called “modernism,”
particularly surrealism, is an
expression of the bewilderment,
horror, muddle and despair of
sensitive minds in an age of vast
world wars, and such a state of
mind turns naturally to religious
feelings and religious symbols.
Often enough, as in the
familiar savage or militant
Crucifixions of popular Com-
munist art, Christianity is dis-
torted in the process; often
enough, as in one or two of the
satires that have crept into the
exhibition of religious paintings
for the Blake Prize at Mark
Foy’s, Sydney, the expression
is superficially blasphemous;
often, as in tine writhing tor-
ments of the surrealists, it is
decadent. Yet essentially a
religious feeling underlies it all.
Consequently, in this appar-
ently secular day and age, a large
and successful exhibition of
religious paintings in Sydney is
not so surprising as it may seem.
The present commentator has
always thought that the best
course for the churches, if they
wish to broaden the alliance be-
tween art and religion, is simply
to claim all fine works of art as
essentially religious: for there
may be much more genuine
religious feeling—in the sense of
awe and delight before the
mysteries of creation —in a
Gruner landscape than in a
specifically Biblical subject
painted to compete for a £2OO
prize. But the sponsors of this
competition were concerned
with reviving religious art as
such, and they certainly found a
ready response among the
artists.
All kinds of painters com-
peted: traditional realists, sur-
realists, militants of the Left,
cubists, even one lonely painter
of an abstraction which repre-
sents the creation of the world.
And if there is a general impres-
sion of torment, murky and
tacky paint, and too much facile
symbolism—with very little de-
, light, little tenderness, not
enough of the dramatic figure-
painting which Biblical history
offers so plentifully, and no pic-
ture which one could really say
displayed a visionary fervor —
there are enough good paintings
to make the show a very promis-
ing beginning.
Take it all round, Justin
O’Brien’s “The Virgin En-
throned,” which won the prize,
probably deserved to: there is
a certain ecclesiastical sump-
tuousness about its color and its
spaciousness. But O’Brien’s
stylised figures have no meaning
either aesthetically or religiously ;
and for vigorous painting and
depth of emotion Ivor Hele’s
dramatic “Descent from the
Cross”—obviously influenced by
his experiences as a soldier and
war artist—is infinitely to be
preferred. Ivor Hele, who could
have won this prize and could
have won this year’s Archibald
Prize, may become a big force
in Australian art.
Other paintings of quality
were by A. J. Murch, Arthur
Boyd (if his drawing were better
and his paint not so ugly),
George Duncan, Elaine Haxton,
Donald Friend, John Cameron,
Kath Gilbert, M. Troy and
Reni Zusters.
William Rowell.
A memorial exhibition of the
work of the late William Rowell
at the Athenaeum, Melbourne,
covers pretty well the whole
career of an artist who painted
faithfully in the tradition which
has been given the name of
“Australian impressionism,” It
was not impressionism at all.
There is no such thing as “Aus-
tralian” impressionism any more
than there is “Australian”
mathematics. Rowell was one
of the most competent of the
National Gallery pupils of his
day when Bernard Hall domi-
nated the, school while Arthur
Streeton dominated the art
world outside. Meldrum, who
was an impressionist, was com-
ing into notice.
There are traces of all these
influences in Rowell’s painting.
In the larger landscapes, like
“Wye River,” Streeton is most
apparent. In some of the small
sketches, which are the most
pleasing of the exhibits —
“Cherry Plum Blossom,” for
instance, with its variety of tone
and color —there are evidences
of Meldrum.
Towards the end of his life
Rowell took his technical equip-
ment to the Centre and painted
a series of big pictures. “Central
Australia,” with its warm light,
and “Parched Land, Central
Australia,” which makes the
observer feel a tickling in the
throat, are among the strongest.
The “modern idiom” is con-
spicuous by its absence.
"Carmen."
People who long for a practi-
cal Carmen, slim, graceful and
young, got a delightful one last
Wednesday in Sydney Tivoli’s
National Opera season; but
though one might go for Miss
Norma Lever in a big way, it
would hardly be because her
voice turned the soul to hot lava
and blew up mother, childhood
sweetheart and king and country.
Indeed, Don Jose (Ronald
Dowd) seemed less stirred by
Miss Lever’s musical seductions
than by the challenge of Alan
Coad singing the Toreador’s
song in the middle of Act II,
for the first time in the evening,
an operatic Columbus, venturing
a voice boldly beyond the
proscenium arch: from here
Mr. Dowd hardened his heart
and the back of his throat and
told Carmen, for all to hear, that
he loved her ; maybe not as well
as some of Mr. Dease’s Sun-
day-night tenors, but well.
Throughout the rest of the opera
Mr. Dowd sweated with the in-
tensity and vehemence of frus-
trated passion and the hot, still
night; and if he overdid it a
little he had the deficiencies of
the rest of the cast to make up
for: they did everything com-
petently but not forcefully.
The tavern quintet in Act II,
in which Miss Lever was joined
by Betty Prentice, Iris Moxley,
Connell Byrne and Geoffrey
Chard, a piece of even and
varied concerted singing, was the
performance’s nearest approach
to polished and easy artistry. The
singing of the opera in English
added a further handicap to the
thankless part of Micaela (Mar-
garet Moore), substituting for
noble foreign mysteries a tedious
rigmarole of kiss-me-Charlie,
dear-old-mother and childhood’s-
happy-days.
Although the choruses, crowds
and dancers and the urchins’
street parade were well dressed
by Alistair Roberts (Carmen’s
dresses were more startling than
those of the women in the audi-
ence, and they were got up re-
gardless), and well moved about
William Constable’s excellent and
solid sets by John Dudley, the
performance as a whole was like
the orchestra; it rarely rose
above a competent playing of
the right notes. Still, competence
is a good start; the company
should concentrate upon the de-
velopment of principals with big
voices.


For Sale.
LARGE BUNGALOW, CHURCH POINT, SYDNEY.
NEW, brick, commanding glorious view Pittwater,
acre of land, water frontage, spacious lounge with
large view-window, 3 bedrooms, all joinery polished
maple, built-in wardrobes and china cabinet, wall-to-
wall carpets throughout, tastefully furnished. Also,
separate cypress-pine cottage, large living- or ball-
room, bathroom, toilet. Owner going overseas in
June. Worth £lB,OOO, accept £15,000 for immed.
sale. —E. A. GREENWOOD, 117 York St., Sydney.
BX 0074,
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
For the premiere of “Brigadoon,”
His Majesty’s, the chief male contributio
to glamor came in the form of a tarta
dinner-jacket, though there were severa
tartan ties worn with the traditional blac
But the Caledonian setting of the pla
wasn’t reflected in the feminine sartoria
scene in stalls or circle. Mrs. Frank Tail
wore moss-green velvet, the bodice stra
less, the skirt wide and draped. Blac
Chantilly lace and frothy pink chiffo
combined to make the lovely gown wor
by Lady Snow. Emerald-green sequin
highlighted Mrs. Norman Shepherc
pastel-pink chiffons. Silver and go
beads were massed on the strapless bodic
of Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s white fail
gown. Over a grey georgette gown Mr
Stan Garnsworthy wore a theatre-coa
of Parma-violet taffeta. Gold beads en
crusted the gold taffeta gown worn b
Mrs. W. H. Horsfall. Mrs. Georg
Mendes was in black laces. Long blac
lace gloves were worn by Mrs. Norma
Lynch with her black lace gown, whic
featured an overskirt. Mrs. Norma
Myer’s gown, of white faille had masse
of silver and gold beads on the straples
bodice; her stole was of white ermine
Mrs. A. G. Silk’s gown combined blac
velvet and faille and was contrasted wit
a white ermine cape. Her daughte
Judith chose ice-blue faille.
A gay little luncheon-party wa
hostessed by Madame M, Vigano, a
Mario’s, the guests-of-honor being fern
inine leads in “Mary Had a Little,” th
American farce now at the Tivoli
Madame Vigano was cool and attractiv
in a black satin frock, and her hat, a wide
brimmed pink-silk-lined affair, wa
trimmed with frothy black tulle. Mary
Brian was pretty as a picture in her royal
blue jacket suit; her tiny cloche in match
ing tones was covered with black bead
and fine veiling. Bemardine Hayes chos
a bottle-green jacket suit with a larg
splashy bow of white ermine at one side
of the jacket, and white ermine fashioner
the large patch pockets ; her tiny bere
was of white hatter’s plush. Auburn
haired Lori Irving chose a natural-tonec
wool jersey frock highlighted with a large
pocket embroidered in gold beads and
sequins; her beret was in buttercup
yellow wool. Other guests included Mrs
Frank Tait, whose London-tan crepe
frock was worn with a white straw ha
laden with satin ribbons, and Mrs. Don
O’Donnell in an attractive caramel-tonec
frock finished with a tiny white silk collar
and a wide-brimmed platter hat in deeper
tonings, trimmed with a creamy water-
lily ; she also sponsored the new chignon
hair-do. Mrs. Margaret Saker’s frock
and jacket were in gay florals, and pastel-
toned silk and a large white hat were
the choice of Peggy Tellick.
The prolonged hot spell has enticed
many who usually go night-clubbing in
town to the new luxurious Hotel Man-
yung, whose gardens look out over a
glorious stretch of Port Phillip at Morn-
ington. A recent dinner-dance there found
Robert Monahan, K.C., and his wife
among the pleasure-seekers, Mrs.
Monahan wearing a black chiffon. Mrs.
Norman Bennett danced in a ballerina
frock of fine black lace. Others observed
were Mrs. Peter Cook, in pastel-pink
embroidered satin, Mrs, Shipton, whose
gown was of gleaming shot-gold taffeta,
Mrs. Schoning, of Oslo, in black
draperies, Mrs. Rod Strang, in a floral
frock with heart-shaped neckline, Betty
Robertson, in white, and Joan Allerton,
in a gown of pastel-pink brocade.
Dance-time is the time to be feminine
—in a drift of tulle, in lacy cotton over
taffeta, in a sheath of satin with a drift-
away panel. Shoulders are bared, waists
slim, skirts ruffled and puffed, fan-pleated,
side-draped. Jewel colors are spots of
brilliance in the ballroom, and opaline
colors, especially mauve, violet and blue,
top the list. You will trip the light
fantastic in jewel-colored velvet shoes and
with rhinestones or pearls trimmed round
your arms and in your hair. Over a
violet taffeta gown you may wear an
emerald-green velvet coat, or a gold
taffeta theatre coat over white organdie.
Thirteen lucky girls, all in their early
twenties, who leave shortly for a con-
ducted tour of England and the Con-
tinent, were guests at a cocktail-party
given at the Australia by the director of
the tour, Stewart Moffat, his wife, and
Betty Wallace Mitchell, The girls and
their chaperon, Mrs. Gwen Ricketson,
leave in the Italian ship Ugolino Vivaldi
and they will meet up with a courier
when they reach London. This is the
first of the finishing-tours arranged by
Stewart Moffat, and already the next one
is booked up. The girls come mostly
from Victorian country districts, with one
from W.A. and another from N.S.W.
Hotels, sightseeing tours, visits to the
theatre and opera have been arranged.
This pretty bride is Mrs. Allan Russell,
until her marriage last week Toni Kirk-
patrick, only daughter of Mrs. J. B. Kirk-
patrick, of Malvern. Toni was formerly
a well-known mannequin. The marriage
was solemnised at Melbourne Grammar
School Chapel. Toni, who was un-
attended, chose a bridal gown of white-
and-gold brocade, simply cut and with
the skirt extending into a long train. Her
filmy tulle veil was held in place with a
jewelled coronet. The bridegroom, son
of Mr, and Mrs. A. C. Russell, of South
Yarra, had Frank Burgess, of West Aus-
tralia, for best man. Toni and her
husband will make Port Moresby their
home for the next 12 months, and as
Allan is a geologist Toni expects to see
a great deal of Australia in the future.
Patric Whittam, who has been ski-ing
in the Pyrenees, looked in at Christian
Dior’s latest fashion-show in Paris. She
writes that the trend is towards the
Chinese and Victorian influence —one of
Dior’s most attractive mannequins was a
Chinese girl. All the mannequins had the
smallest waists Patric had ever seen, and
she doubts if any other woman could
wear the frocks displayed by them. Also,
all wore chignons, for short hair is oui;
overseas. Skirts were tight; sometime
full from the knees and ending in the
trumpet, either flared or finely pleated
Color combinations were saxe-blue with
black, navy and black, bottle-green and
navy, navy and tobacco, peacock-blue
and black. Shoulders were wide and well-
padded and rounded. Waistcoats were
popular. An Arctic-fox stole was dyed
navy to match a navy frock. The jacket
of a navy faille suit was lined with navy
and green wool tartan. Floating panels
as drapes or apron effects were carried
right round to the back of many skirts.
Hats were mostly worn forward, and,
Patric thinks, were not very becoming,
even to the lovely mannequins. For even-
ing wear and cocktails, little halos of
gathered material were placed on top of
the head to allow the chignon to peep
through at the back. Dior showed mostly
white for evening wear, and the fishtail
skirt is being introduced again. Marty
gowns featured long trains on the skirt.
After touring England by autobike Patric
will leave for home in August in the
Strathnaver,
The woman racegoer at Moonee Valley
who stuck arbitrarily to the season as
prescribed by the calendar and wore a
suit wasn’t as comfortable as she who
recognised that a Melbourne summer can
—as has this year’s, the hottest for half
a century —die hard. Mrs. Ned Holland
was smart in a junior-navy suit and a
tiny white felt hat which was ruched with
navy crochet straw and finished with a
birdcage veil. Mrs. Harold Holt pinned
a diamond ornament in the white pillbox
hat she wore with a sleeveless frock of
grey-and-white-spotted tie-silk. Mrs. John
Whitehead, who was with Mrs. Leith
Gillespie, of Sydney, was in a lightweight
wool suit of duck-egg blue and a small
matching boater which had a mount of
buttercup-yellow flowers.
From Sydney
Funniest thing at the Show so far was
the New Australian who had viewed the
Hall of Industries, the Electrical Display
and the sideshows, asking in a puzzled
way “What is the meaning of this word
you have, ‘agricultural’?”
Still, he had only to go into the Hall
of Agriculture to get a quite overwhelm-
ing idea of the meaning of the word.
City folk looked longingly at the rosy
onions, the smooth symmetrical potatoes
and the preserves, which really looked
too beautiful ever to be opened. The
all-Australia display had a pumpkin so
large it made people think they were
seeing things, also an enormous tropical
fruit called the jackfruit that everyone
wanted to taste. The granadilla, which
is very big, pale green and comes from
Queensland, had a central position. This
is one of the most delicious fruits in
the world —like a passionfruit but big as
a melon. Western District won the prize
with a truly beautiful display.
In the Handcrafts section, men as well
as women showed keen interest in the
wool rugs, which were well represented.
In the knitting division no one disputed
Mrs, Holland’s right to the prizes. The
garments she knitted were done on size
20 and 22 needles, which seems almost
incredible to those who have labored
through a jumper on 14 needles. Her
designs, too, were pleasant and colors
well chosen. This was not true of the
hand-embroidered dresses, where some of
the finest work went into rather clumsy
and out-of-date designs. The cakes were
nothing to write home about (cooks
blamed the blackouts), but the fancy
iced cakes got a good deal of admiration,
especially the prizewinning cake repre-
senting a basket of flowers. Other in-
teresting designs, though not so well
executed, were a barrow of vegetables,
a table-setting with cups, saucers and
plates in sugar-icing, and a huge royal
crown.
The entries in the Blake Prize for
religious art are attracting quite large
numbers of people to Mark Foys’ Gallery
every day. It was interesting to note how
many young people there are among
them, too. A few to whom we spoke
said they were disappointed to find so
little to exalt the mind, to edify and
inspire. Certainly the artists seem to
have concentrated on the more terrifying
aspects of religion (except for a few paint-
ings which are merely insipid). Elaine
Haxton’s triptych is charming, but its
fashionplate angels and playing-card
kings could have come out of Vague.
Still, as the public obviously wants good
religious art, it is to be hoped that this
prize will be offered annually. Eventu-
ally some great inspiring picture may
emerge from it.
Here we have Lady Stratheden and
Campbell, Chief Commissioner for the
Girl Guides for the British Common-
wealth and Empire, at present visiting
Sydney. Although serious in this picture,
Lady Stratheden’s chief characteristic is
her happy Scottish smile. During her
work with the Guides she has been both
a Guider and a Commissioner in Scotland,
and when Lord Stratheden held a post-
war military appointment in Germany
she became Commissioner for British
Guides there. She was appointed Chief
Commissioner at I.H.Q. early in 1950
on the retirement of Finola, Lady Somers.
At the civic reception given by the
Lord Mayor for Lady Stratheden, the
High Commissioner for U.K. spoke words
of welcome, stressing also the importance
of Guiding in character-formation. Lady
Stratheden said she was delighted to be
in Australia; her mother was an Aus-
tralian and she had heard much about
it from her childhood. She said that
she loved the hot weather and also the
sound of so many Scottish names. She
told the story of the American who, when
visiting the Clyde, asked “Where does
this little ditch go to?” The reply came
in slow Scotch from the shipbuilder
accompanying him, “A’ roond the
wurrlld.”
The opening night of “Carmen”
brought another display of brilliant dress-
ing. Noticed Lady Moxham’s grey
chiffon dress sewn with opalescent pearls
on the bodice and a perfect foil for those
fabulous orchids she wears, Mrs. Norman
Jenkyn’s chiffon stole sprinkled with
rhinestones, Mrs. Arthur Davis’s exquisite
diamond pendant worn with a white sat
dress, Mrs. B. Werner’s slender jewellec
sandals and her Swiss organdie ballerin
delicately embroidered in black, anc
Marjorie Conley’s buttercup organz
banded round the neck with marguerite
The production of “Carmen” was rath
severely handled by the critics, but to tl
less knowledgeable it seemed a whol
delightful and enjoyable show. Speakin
personally this Letter hasn’t seen an oper
since she was put off in her ’teens by
mountainous and swarthy Aida, wh
seemed unimaginably old (anything ove
30 was elderly then). Doubtless that Aic
c ° u ld sing louder than any member o
the N.S.W. National Opera, but th
tarnished tinsel of the clothes and th
generally unattractive aspect of the singer
needed more compensation than tha
it is salutary for critics to be severe, fo
they are the guardians of our standard
but those who found nothing to prais
m this quite worthy production of “Car
men are like the man who discovered
goldmine in his backyard and complained
because it didn’t produce the bigges
nugget in the world.
Beril Jents’s autumn show coincidec
with the opening of her glamorous new
salon in St. James’s Building, where ther
is also to be a boutique for jewellery
scarves, fans and other aids to allure
Many of the clothes gave an effect o:
Renaissance splendor through the pear
and opalescent embroideries for whicl
Beril Jents is so well known. Many
three-way dresses were shown, as in the
black satin suit which is a short dance
frock without the coat and a ball gown
with the addition of a brocade skirt
Colors were mostly subtle, but an evening-
gown with a brilliant red velvet skirt
and a white pique top appliqued ir
guipure lace took the eye for its origin-
ality and drama. There were one or two
1920 suits and coats with a long oblique
line to the hips, but most of the suits
were emphatically waisted and curved in
the cut to dramatise the straight, narrow
skirts. Fur as a trimming was used quite
a bit. One majestic cream brocade ball-
gown, all panniered and pleated, was
banded round the top with mink.
Balking of mink, furrier Bernard
Hammerman says that a full-length mink
coat now costs from £2OOO to £2500. He
sells four or five of them a year. Of
course, a mink coat can last 30 years,
which works out at a mere £BO per year.
How moderate!
A farewell-party for Mrs. Charles
Taylor, who leaves for the Continent
shortly, was given at the Pickwick by
Mrs. Graham Swan. There were about
60 guests, mainly members of the Eng-
lish-Speaking Union, of which Mrs.
1 aylor is one of the most popular
hostesses. Her daughter Margaret (Mrs.
Greenwood) was present, wearing a beige
dress and roses tumbling down the side
of her hat. Mrs. R. Ryrie looked dis-
tinguished in grey. Mrs. Swan’s elegant
slimly-cut dress of dark-olive was worn
with a black velvet hat, Mrs. H. J. Brady
read several letters from members send-
ing good wishes to Mrs. Taylor, to whom
also a presentation was made by the
hostess.
One of the freshers doing physiotherapy
at the University this year is Barbara
McQueen, of Dowan Hill, Wiangaree,
near Kyogle. She won the girls’ section
of the Rural Bank’s Junior Farmer
Scholarship Competition in 1949. Bar-
bara has been at Ballina High School
since she won the award, and there
obtained her L.C. last year. She was
offered two other scholarships to the
University, but chose physiotherapy, a
career on which she has set her heart.
The women’s convention which was to
have been held in Canberra during April
has been postponed till October in order
to coincide with the visit of Dr. Eder and
Lady Reading, two distinguished women
who have been invited to Australia for
the Jubilee celebrations by the Common-
wealth Government.
The Savage Club’s scholarship, which
is awarded annually to assist young Aus-
tralians in various branches of art and
music, has been won this year by pianist
Joy Cross, with Donald Hazelwood, 20-
year-old violinist, second, and Leonard
Burtenshaw, organist, third. Special men-
tions (and prizes of £10) went to Ella
Henshaw, Patricia Hancock and Denise
Thompson. There were 15 applicants,
and the adjudicators considered the
standard generally was very high.


fcr
V'
m
*3
0P4.25
STILL KEEPS COIIW
when the rest have slopped !
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries
it has been Exide—since 1888.
£*tde
BATTERIES
ó
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
A Perth man is to be Eisenhower’s
Deputy-Chief of Staff (Plans). Edmund
Hudleston left Guildford Grammar in
Westralia to join the R.A.F. in 1927,
served on the North-West Frontier, was
advising the Turkish Government when
Hitler broke loose, and met his country-
men again (Hitler’s as well) in the Middle
East. Going up from Sicily through
Italy, with things quiet there, Hudleston
shifted to Europe, leader of the 2nd
Tactical Air Force, hounding the retreat-
ing Hun. Now, a hatchet-faced 42, he’s
air-vice-marshal, R.A.F.
Retiring from Queensland’s National
Bank, Ralph Dobson has been its chief
of coffers since 1945, and, for five years
before that, was in a similar capacity in
S. Australia. Farmer before he was a
banker, he left the land for a crack at
the Kaiser in an A.I.F. artillery unit.
He’ll still fish and preside over the Bris-
bane Chamber of Commerce. E. J.
Martin, Dobson’s former deputy, now
has the keys.
When Swan Hill (Vic.) residents say
they have the best garden on the Murray
they possibly may be referring to Alan
F, Garden, here caught in jovial mood
by Mcfieath. Although he has actually
donned the mayoral robes of the
town only twice, he has been mayor four
out of the 12 years it has been a borough.
GARDEN, OF THE MURRAY.
As a lad young Garden showed great
promise in the sport realm; then
he broke off his Melbourne University
law course to serve overseas with the
First A.1.F., and on return five years
later took his uniform off to get back to
the academic cloisters. School over, he
headed for Swan Hill, where he built up
a successful practice, but after 12 years
chucked the law for grazing, still
keeping up his interest in the Murray
metropolis. His wife takes the local girls’
tennis team annually to compete in Mel-
bourne, where a daughter is singing her
way through Albert-street Conserva-
torium.
“C.C,”; In Perth recently, a tall,
heavily-built man with a modest dispo-
sition did a locum’s job for a suburban
medico for three weeks, as well as
honorary work at the Royal Perth
Hospital, under the name of Dr. Bankoff.
It was only when he cancelled his incog-
nito by giving a talk to local writers that
Perth was able to identify him as Dr.
George Sava, author and surgeon. A
cosmopolitan who writes his books in
English, he is the son of a colonel of the
Tsar’s army and a Russian Countess, and
was entered as a cadet in the Russian
Imperial Naval Academy at the age of
10. With his parents he escaped to
Bulgaria after the revolution, and did his
medical courses in Italy and France. A
jovial 47, he is probably in the U.S. by
now, having left Perth by air just in time
to escape a horde of lion-hunters.
Really hit the jackpot in London, Peter
Finch was congratulated last week back-
stage of the Duke of York’s theatre by
Queen Mary for what he did with the
role of Orpheus in the play “Point of
Departure.” There is little luck behind
the young Australian’s climb'—only a
tremendous amount of solid work, applied
by a determined methodical formula.
By a Sydneysider who met him four
years ago:
Oakey, that pleasant little town on the
Queensland Downs, has a new parish priest —•
a diminutive dynamo who knows as much
about books as any man in Australia, owns
a grand collection of them, is an expert
geologist, and is, withal, as humble as a
comma in the Bible. Father Leo Hayes, a
merry nugget, with eyes twinkling points in the
white bush of his brows, is the man who came
into The Bulletin about four years back and
stopped the office’s work while he showed an
envious gathering a packet of priceless manu-
scripts. At that time he already owned
about 60,000 items of Australiana, ranging from
roll-books from the old convict ships and A. G.
Stephens’s collection of literary manuscripts to
a selection of Australian ballads (with a cover of
tooled leather set with opals and agates), sketches,
drawings, prints, newspaper cuttings and the
first copies of The Bulletin. So many of
them that the Crow’s Nest presbytery was
crowded throughout—shelves, cupboards, tables,
even under his bed. Father Hayes has looked
after the Crow’s Nest flock for the past 21
years. I’ll bet I know why he’s left ’em—
Oakey’s presbytery has more space to stow his
books.
A good man goes to Moresby to lead
the Papuan and New Guinea Volunteer
Rifles—Lt.-Col. N. P. Maddern, a 31-
year-old Adelaidean who has another
valiant unit on his list. Early in the war
a member of the Darwin Mobile Force,
he later became adjutant of the incredibly
tough Sparrowforce, that handful of
heroes who fought the Jap for months
on Timor, with little else but rifles and
plain guts. The Japs finally netted him
in 1942, and took him to Singapore,
where he won M.B.E. for his efforts to
ease the travail of fellow-prisoners. With
his bones refleshed after the surrender,
he had three years in Washington, member
of the Australian Military Mission.
“Macnell”; My impression of Com-
mander John Plunkett-Cole, who last
week commissioned Australia’s newest
destroyer Anzac, is of a whipcord length
with a bent nose under a peaked cap,
set at that angle only pukka Naval
officers seem able to achieve, standing be-
hind the binnacle of destroyer Nepal in
the war-time Indian Ocean. We had been
ordered alongside the French battler
Richelieu, which was keeping station
abreast carrier Victorious. Plunkett-Cole
brought his 32-knot powerplant from
ahead, down between the two big ships
(he had at least 100 yards to play with),
swung her, bathed Victorious’s quarter-
deck with his wash, straightened her, and
slid his razored stem neatly alongside the
Frenchman’s quarter-deck—and under
the open and apprehensive mouths of her
crew. But then Plunkett-Cole has been
a destroyerman for most of his time —
starting with the original tin-can Anzac,
graduating up through destroyers Napier,
Vendetta and Nepal to his present 3300-
ton Battle-class command. A nifty light-
weight in his day,, a first-class Rugbyite
(in 1933 he captained the Flinders Rugby
team which won the Victorian Premier-
ship), he has yet to be seen, even aboard
a washing-down destroyer, with his shoes
other than gleaming like enamel.
9
After 25 years in the managing-editor’s
chair of the “West Australian,” Charles
Patrick Smith has handed his ticket to
39-year-old Jim Macartney, who leaves a
similar seat on the Perth “Daily News.”
C.P. came over from Melbourne
“Argus” when the “West Australian” was
bought from the Hackett estate in
1926. Macartney, a youngster on
that paper, was appointed “Daily
News” editor when it was languishing. He
is responsible for its tabloid form and
largely so for the present imposing circu-
lation of the “News.”
The N.Z. brass-band contest test-piece,
“Rhapsody in Brass,” which will be
brassed out in Wellington this year, is
the composition of Maorilander J, D.
Goffin, of the Salvation Army, who com-
posed it while with the N.Z.E.F. in
Syria and Egypt in the late war. It was
also the test-piece for the Belle Vue band
contest in Manchester a couple of years
ago, on the recommendation of Sir
Malcolm Sargent—the first time for 60
years a composer other than an English-
man had written the test-piece. Coffin’s
father. Brigadier H- C. Goffin, was
national secretary of the Salvation Army
bands.
“Cauboy”; Scots take notice —it takes
a Londoner to tell your famous Black
Watch Band whether they’re playin’ richt
or not! L. H, Hicks, L.R.A.M.,
A.R.C.M., was born in London 39
years ago, and has been con-
ducting the Black Watch Band now
touring Australia. When it came to
deciding which regiment he would join
he chose the Cameronians (Scottish Rifles),
with which he stayed 11 years before
going over to the Black Watch. That
battle-scarred regiment is normally
stationed in Perth, Scotland, but it sees
the world- a lot. One tour it did of the
Nor’-west Frontier of India covered
40,000 miles. Since 1944 the whole
regiment has been in Germany on
occupational duties, for the past year
in Berlin. Even Scots admit that
the show the band has been putting
on at Melbourne Town Hall is
a good one and some say that its rendi-
tion of the National Anthem alone is
worth the money. Add to which —High-
land dancing of a sort rarely seen in this
country, a tenor with a magnificent stage
presence and a fine voice, who sings
“Annie Laurie” with the true Scotch
burr, light and shade from a band
which gives orchestral effects on many
occasions and the whole entertainment
reeking of heather and haggis.
Richard Jones, Australian manager of
Leyiand Motors, is entitled to the Prior
grin worn here —in the two and a half
years he’s been head of the big vehicle
firm, which produces six-ton midgets to
50-ton monsters, he’s seen the Australian
turnover increased tenfold. Other items
in his record —apprentice in 1921, Shef-
field (Eng.) manager in 1928, and shortly
after regional manager for England’s big
north-east industrial area. About three
years ago dailies here carried a story
of how Leyiand had beaten the world in
gaining a big contract to supply the
JONES, OF LEYLAND’S.
Egyptian Government with buses —Jones
was the man who took the order home.
There are about 1800 Leyiand buses in
London and 370 in Sydney, and a recent
order to Cuba covered 620 Royal Tiger
single-deckers, a nice 10 million dollars’
worth. A genial Staffordshireman, he
was in the Royal Army Service Corps in
Hitler’s war, and he knows just as much
about producing Comet, Churchill and
Centaur tanks as he does about buses —
a handy man to have around.
Here is Arthur Campbell (“Lum”)
Rymill, Adelaide’s Lord Mayor—accord-
ing to the records, the city’s youngest;
according to Coventry, its best-dressed.
He was elected to the Adelaide City
Council at 26 (youngest member), the
year after he- had kept up the Rymill
reputation for eminence in sport by re-
taining the Griffith Cup and the Aus-
tralian speedboat championship for his
clan, which had held it for some years.
A cousin of Jack Rymill (well-known
RYMILL, OF ADELAIDE.
inter-State bat in his day) and of Bill
(one of Australia’s top amateur golfers),
A.C. represented his State at polo before
enlisting in the War II A.1.F,, private
with the 2/7th Field Regiment, later
commissioned. He’s a lawyer by trade.
The Earl of Hopetoun, grandson of
Australia’s first Governor-General, lobbed
in Melbourne the other day by air on
a six weeks’ business visit; the first thing
he asked was the whereabouts of Aus-
tralian ex-p.-0.-w. who happened to be
his companions during his sojourn in a
German stalag. Next inquiry was for
Government House, the birthplace of his
father. Eton- and Oxford-educated, he
won the M.C. in War 11, took to broking,
and is now, at 38, a director of the Eagle
Star Insurance Company and a partner
in the English firm of Sebag and Co.
Horse-racing’s his passion.
Into the Silence:
At Moss Vale, Mrs. Emily Hore, daughter
of Dyson Lacy, one of Queensland’s pioneers.
Born at St. Helen’s Station, near Mackay
(Q.), Emily Lacy, as one of the few survivors
of the Quetta, wrecked on an uncharted rock
off Cape York in February, 1890, established
what was then, and probably still is, a record
of 36 hours in the water before being picked up.
At 71, in Sydney, Rev. David Flett Brandt,
one of the Presbyterian Church’s leading lights
in N.S.W. For 32 years minister of the
Chalmers-street (Sydney) church, he had prac-
tised Christianity in Victoria and S. Australia,
chaired the council of Sydney’s Scots College,
and had been Moderator of his Church in
N.S.W.
In Brisbane, at 69, Charles William Stumm,
son of John Stumm, first M.H.R. for Lilley (Q.).
One of the Slate’s biggest station-owners, C.W.
took up Merthyr Station, on the Dawson River,
.in 1911, and, later, five others, mainly round
*Cloncurry and Cunnamulla. A son, Wing-
Commander Harley Stumm, D.F.C., Rhodes
Scholar for 1935, died in India in 1944 on
active service.
In Adelaide, a month after her husband.
Lady Cudmore, who worked particularly hard
for Diggers of both wars passing through
Adelaide. Remember the Cheer-up Hut?
In Sydney, at 63, James Whiteacre, who, as
superintendent of Sydney’s Botanic Gardens,
was responsible for the lawny stretches and
colorful beds which compensated shipboard
visitors for the commercialism of Darling
Harbor. He had been 35 years in the gardens.
At Derby (W.A.), at 54, David Pullen, Old
Digger of the 3rd Division and district-officer
of the Westralian Native Affairs Department
at the end. In between he worked as patrol-
officer with Jack Hides in Papua and New
Guinea, had a shot at trading and coffee-
planting, and when the Japs threatened Moresby
was put in charge of evacuating the Royal
Papuan Constabulary barracks there. He later
did valuable security work.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
[Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heifer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
That Perplexing Probleml
how will my Estate he administered ?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of your Will, you
obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 71 years’ specialised experience m t e
Administration of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be sa £•
guarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Charges arc fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.'
ô
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPAN’S PREMIER’S VIEWS.
The American publication
“Foreign Affairs” has published
some outstandingly important
articles in recent years, includ-
ing one signed “X” which
created a sensation in diplomatic
(and newspaper) quarters a few
years back, and which actually
heralded the Russia-containment
policy that America shortly
afterwards adopted.
From an Australian view-
point, even that contribution
(the gist of which was featured
here at the time) may be dwarfed
by one in the latest issue to
hand —written by Japan’s Prime
Minister Shigeru Yoshida. The
issue of the publication was
current during the recent visit to
Tokyo and hereabouts of Mr.
Dulles; in any case, Prime
Minister Yoshida did not write
it merely to see his name in
print. Nor is its purpose con-
fined to explaining “Japan and
the Crisis in Asia,” as it is
headed. Prime Minister Yoshida
had more in mind than that, as
the extracts here given, of
special Australian and New Zea-
land import, will show:
“After more than five years
since the termination of hostili-
ties,” writes Yoshida, “Japan is
still technically at war with 49
countries of Asia, Europe and
the Western Hemisphere. That
she stands ready and qualified
for a settlement is admitted on
all hands .
“Japan has come a long way
on the road to recovery and re-
construction. Economically we
have reached a point where
further progress toward achiev-
ing self-support depends on our
participation in world com-
merce as a free and independent
nation. Politically, it seems high
time that we were permitted to
run the Government on our own
initiative and responsibility. A
protracted occupation, no
matter how efficient, wise and
benevolent, tends to destroy the
people’s self-respect and their
spirit of self-reliance; it mili-
tates against the growth of true
democracy in the country. Japan
awaits a peace treaty, which is
long overdue.....
“The impasse on [peace-treaty]
procedure is merely an indica-
tion of the irreconcilable differ-
ences between democracy and
totalitarian Communism in the
concepts of society and State
and in the ideals of human pro-
gress and civilisation. It is no
wonder that the two sides can-
not agree on a Japanese peace
treaty which is to determine the
destiny of a nation of 80,000,000,
and which as such will exert a
large influence on the course of
world history,.....
“In face of the treaty of mili-
tary alliance which the Soviet
Union concluded with the Peking
Communist regime in February,
1950, designating their hypo-
thetical enemy specifically as
‘Japan or any other State which
would unite with it,’ and with
the cold war turned hot in
Korea, it is difficult to see how
the two worlds could get to-
gether. Any attempt at appease-
ment or compromise on the part
of the free nations is unthink-
able. Nor can a change of heart
on the part of the Soviet Union
be expected. The eventual peace
treaty is likely to be a separate
peace, omitting the Communist
Powers. It would mean peace
for Japan with a majority of the
nations of the world—perhaps
44 out of the 49 referred to
I speak for myself, for my
Government and for a pre-
ponderant majority of the
Japanese people in stating that
Japan prefers a peace treaty with
as many nations as possible to
no peace at all.
“We can ill afford to sit on
the fence, vaguely waiting for
something that would not hap-
pen in a predictable future.
Moreover, we are definitely and
irrevocably on the side of the
free world. If that does not suit
the other side, we can’t help it.
“One of the most important
problems involved in the com-
ing peace treaty is the question
of security—the security of the
Allies and the security of Japan.
“I may say that the problem
of Allied security has been prac-
tically solved through the
thorough demilitarisation of
Japan, mental as well as physi-
cal. In the first place, the
Japanese Navy was annihilated
and most of Japan’s war plants
were destroyed during the war,
while what had remained of her
military-establishments has been
completely dismantled or re-
moved since the war’s end,
Japan has a new Constitution,
renouncing war and forswearing
all forms of armament. Never-
theless, apprehensions that Japan
might again become a menace to
world peace seem to linger
among some peoples who have
suffered so disastrously from
Japanese aggression and who
have a vivid memory of the re-
surgence of Germany as a satanic
military Power under Hitler.
“Let me point out that there
exists no analogy between Ger-
many after World War I and
Japan after World War 11.
Whereas the armistice of 1918
found Germany unscathed,
Japan in August, 1945, was a
bombed and battered country of
smouldering ruins. Germany
possessed vast iron, coal and
other natural resources, but
Japan has scarcely any, and she
would have to import all raw
materials needed for the manu-
facture of munitions. Since
battleships and ordnance cannot
be built in secret, nor modern
armies trained and maintained
under cover, the Powers can
easily detect any war prepara-
tions by Japan and stop them
at will by simply cutting off the
supply of essential commodities
such as iron and steel, coal and
petroleum. It is inconceivable
that we could ever become, even
if we wanted to, a military
Power capable of attacking our
neighbors, to say nothing of
carrying war far down beyond
the equator. There is no menace
from Japan.
“But there is a menace to
Japan that has worried us
Japanese right along in the face
of the ugly manifestations of the
cold war in Europe and Asia,
especially the recent rapid ad-
vance of Communist forces in
the Far East.... :
“American statesmen and
military leaders have declared
again and again the determina-
tion of the United States to hold
on to its defence perimeter in
the Pacific, a chain of islands
running from the Aleutians to
the Philippines, of which
Japanese islands form the cen-
tral and vital link But what
would happen to unarmed
Japan, should the U.S. troops
be withdrawn? Would it be
possible or desirable for Japan
to look to America for protec-
tion indefinitely .
“We know now [since U.N.O.
action in Korea] that defenceless
Japan will not be left unde-
fended in her hour of need. It is
with an abiding faith in the soli-
s>
London "News Chronicle.”
ANOTHER PARALLEL TO CROSS.
darity of free nations that we
shall look to the United Nations
for protection of our liberty
and independence. I hope the
eventual peace treaty will pro-
vide for Allied support of Japan’s
entry into the United Nations, so
that we may participate in its
efforts to establish conditions of
security in the Far East.
“Communist aggression, which
has resorted to war in Korea,
more often follows the familiar
pattern of infiltration—of foment-
ing discontent, creating confu-
sion and disorder, overthrowing
the legitimate Government by
force and setting up a puppet
regime. Herein lies our prob-
lem of internal security, for we
have our own share of Com-
munists and a crop of hotheads
who will rebel against any estab-
fished 0rder,....,
“But here again we are safe
so long as the occupation troops
remain with us... .Thanks to
the firm attitude of the Allied
headquarters. Communism in
Japan has been effectively con-
tained. Moreover, the Japanese
Communist party is steadily
losing ground owing to the
cruelty and crudity of Com-
munist methods, which have
been exposed here and abroad,
and which have alienated its
would-be f0110wer5......
“Of course the Japanese Com-
munist party is not dead. Some
of its top leaders on the purge
list have gone underground to
direct party activities from their
hiding - place... . The Govern-
ment is proceeding with its plans
to dismiss reprehensible Com-
munists from its service, while
coalmines and industrial plants
have already begun to fire Red
agitators and ringleaders in their
employ. That these measures
can now be taken with safety is
an eloquent proof of the retreat
of Communism. On the other
hand, in order to be prepared
against any threat to the coun-
try’s internal security, the
G.H.Q. authorised early in July
the creation of a National Police
Reserve of 75,000 men, who
have already been recruited and
are being equipped and trained.
“As far as the Japanese skies
are concerned, the Red star is
receding.
“As a result of the Pacific
War,” Yoshida further writes,
“Japan was stripped of 44 per
cent of her territory; she lost
36 per cent, of her national
wealth, including all of her huge
overseas assets, some 80 per cent,
of her merchant marine and
large portions of her industrial
equipment for civilian produc-
tion. That she did not succumb
to this appalling disaster of de-
feat but has achieved a surpris-
ing measure of recovery is en-
tirely due to the benevolent
occupation policy and the
generous American aid.....
“In order that we may cease
to be a burden to American tax-
payers we must double our
foreign trade. In a long-range
programme for achieving a
stable and self - supporting
national economy we shall have
to triple or even quadruple our
export trade, which is, and will
be for some time to come, our
only means of earning foreign
exchange to balance our inter-
national payments. That means
we have to expand our export
industries. That will mean, in
turn, that we must build fac-
tories, overhaul and replace our
outmoded and worn-out tools of
production, introduce foreign
capital and the advanced tech-
nology of the West and develop
ohr hydroelectric resources,
“Such are our needs. I hope
they will be taken into sympa-
thetic consideration by those
nations which are to write the
coming Japanese peace treaty. I
hope Japan will be permitted to
proceed with her economic re-
construction from the point
which she has now reached
under Allied occupation. I cer-
tainly hope the treaty will con-
tain no stipulation that may undo
what has been accomplished, or
cancel out the past or future aid
from the United States.
“In some quarters a fear is
entertained that a separate peace
might permanently sever Japan’s
trade with Red China. Red or
white, China remains our next-
door neighbor. Geography and
economic laws will, I believe,
prevail in the long run over any
ideological differences and arti-
ficial trade barriers.
“However, the importance of
our China trade should not be
exaggerated ....That country
itself has lost much of its pro-
duction and transportation
capacities during these long
years of warfare. It would be
a mistake to expect too much
from China trade. On the other
hand, the prospect is bright in
the other areas of East Asia.
Our trade with India, Ceylon,
Indonesia and the Philippines
accounted for 20 per cent, of our
foreign trade even in the pre-
war days. Since the war’s end
the volume of our trade with
these countries as well as Paki-
stan, Burma and Thailand under
bilateral agreements has ex-
panded rapidly, adding up in
1949 to $230,000,000 in exports
and $150,000,000 in imports, or
46 per cent, and 17 per cent,
respectively of our total exports
and imports.....
“But in order that Japan may
become a real workshop of East
Asia and contribute abundantly
to its progress and prosperity
she must have a peace treaty. It
is essential that we be guaran-
teed an equitable and equal treat-
ment in international com-
merce, the rights of travel and
residence, and full freedom of
trade and shipping in this and
other quarters of the globe. Such
conditions of commerce and
navigation can be realised only
after the conclusion of peace
and Japan’s restoration as a free
and independent member to the
society of nations......
“Japan awaits a peace treaty.
We do not know what will be
the conditions of peace. This is
a treaty Japan will conclude as a
defeated nation for the first time
in her history, and it is likely to
prove a bitter pill for us to swal-
low. But we are prepared to
take our punishment. We are
resolved to redeem our mistaken
past by fulfilling the peace terms
whatever they may be with all
the sincerity and good faith
which we have shown in the dis-
charge of our obligations under
the Instrument of Surrender
during the past five years.
“Meanwhile, I earnestly hope
that the coming peace treaty will
be such as will give hope for the
future and inspire a fresh zeal
for national reconstruction; and
such as will bring forth a peace-
ful, hard-working and prosperous
Japan —a nation, chastened and
free, fit to serve as a bastion ot
democracy in the Far East. And
I repeat my hope that as a result
of the treaty Japan may enter
the United Nations. We are
ready and anxious to join, do our
full share aqd make sacrifices, it
necessary, in any arrangement
for international co-operation
under United Nations auspices
to ensure the security of the
Pacific as well as of Japan.


Try this
CMRR
RUIZ
and Nina
lasting nwi
The reward is the finest career of all a career
in the Navy, Army or Air Force.
The answers will show you clearly how
favourably life in the Navy, Army or Air Force,
compares with most civilian occupations, once
you get down to the facts. As you check the
questions off, remember that the answer for the
Services is YES in every case.
YES NO
1 Do you get generous holidays (three weeks) with
* pay, per year plus travelling time and fares to
your home and back? - - D D
2 Do you enjoy organised on-the-job training to
increase your skill and pay? - - - - □ O
9 C§n you retire on a pension while you’re young
* enough to enjoy it?_ _ _ - - - Q D
A Are all your medical, dental and hospital expenses
* provided FREE and do you get full pay while
you’re ill? - --□O
C Does diligence and proficiency ensure steady
* promotion and pay as long as you serve? _ - Q O
Are organised recreational facilities and sports
U * programmes provided for you FREE? - - □ Q
n Do you get an initial free issue of all articles of
* clothing plus a daily allowance for maintenance
and replacements? _ _ _ . □ D
Q Are you assured continuity of employment and a
regular income at all times? - _ - _ Q Q
Q Does your present job provide you with chances
■'* for interesting travel; to make new friends, enjoy
new experiences? _____ - □ □
A Is your pay subject to periodical cost of living and
basic wage adjustments? _ - - - - D D
THIS FREE BOOK
will give you full informa-
tion, without obligation,
about life and opportunities
in the Navy, Army and Air
Force today. Inquire at the:
HUt " tc
Australia ■
strung jh
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or
Information Bureaux
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane; Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide: Richards Building,
99 Currie Street; In Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart: Franklin
Square; In Launceston; Town Hall, St. John Street.
IF UNABLE TO CALL, WRITE TO: The Deputy Director of
Recruiting, G.P.O. Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Ueued by the
Government of tie Commonwealth
Australia.
D 820.143.21
Missing Friends.
WOULD BERYL MAY McDONALD,
formerly of Footscray and Pascoe Vale,
but lately of parts unknown, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, please com?
municate with MESSRS. W. H. JONES
& KENNEDY, Solicitors, Footscray?
WHITE. —WILL any person who is able
to give any information concerning the
descendants of JAMES WHITE, formerly
of Derby in Tasmania, Jeweller, but who
left Tasmania to reside on the mainland
between 30 and 40 years ago, please com-
municate with RITCHIE & PARKER,
ALFRED GREEN & CO., Solicitors, 81
St. John Street, Launceston.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT NEVILLE WILSON late of
Kandos.—TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
MADGE WILSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3717 of 1950 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Syd-
ney by the 29th day of May 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. GARRY F. SPRING
& BISLEY, Solicitors, of Mudgee, or
MESSRS. MARSHALL, MARKS & JONES.
Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—-J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Its the worlds
most wonderful
Lamp
far
w
m
BRIGHT, STEADY WHITE LIGHT
75; candle power without pumping,
sr*oko or odour! The Aladdin non-
pressure kerosene mantle lamp
gives you good lighting for every
room in the home. Complete
rrnge of lamps available now
from your Aladdin dealer.
QUICK COOKING—
for home or holiday —Use it at
home as a compact, quick-cooking
table stove—or outdoors for easy
camp cooking. Pressure-kerosene
operation gives strong flame—
adjustable to any heat. Self-prick-
ing burners for trouble-free use.
Metal carrying case (optional)
serves as windshield outdoors.
m
STORMPROOF
LANTERN
Turns Night
Into Day!
Built like a battleship tor years
and years of rugged service.
Floods area with brilliant 300
candle power white light. Self-
pricking, rustless, easy to light,
withstands rain, wind and storm
conditions.
THERE ARE AUTHORISED ALADDIN
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL CITIES.
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY TOWNS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMON-
WEALTH.
KEROSENFAPPIt (IHCIS
AlADtliN inons-nms Ptq. ltd
RP'.tlK» ST. HMITf HI.OO K S. Vi.
tiTUVIS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of “The Wild Colonial
80y.”—4987.
To buy Fettered for Life by Frank
Barrett.—499l.
To buy Vol. I, No. 1, “The Lone
Hand,” May, 1907.-4992.
To buy copies of A Curate in
Bohemia, The Cousin from Fiji,
Redheap Saturdee, Halfway to Any-
wherp Age of Consent, The Magic
Pudding and Dust or Polish— all by
Norman Lindsay. 4988.
To buy copy of While Rivers Run
by John D. Valentine.—4993 .
Words of verses “A Newchum’s
Farewell to Queensland” and “The
Lost Child.”-4990.
Irish girl (20) would like to corres-
pond with young Bulletin readers. —
4994.
To get in touch with collectors of
cigarette-cards.—49B9.
To buy copy of Captain Starlight
by Frank Chine. —4995.
Information Sought.
Was Merv Williams ever a leading
boxer, and did he win an Australian
championship? Who were the star
boxers he fought, where and when
was he born, and is he still living ?
Merv Williams was one of Aus-
tralia’s leading middleweights from
1923 to 1927, inclusive. He never
won an Australian title, but defeated
such topnotchers as Charlie Ring,
Max Gornik, Billy Shade, Blackie
Miller, George Thompson, Ernest
Tynke and Phil Krug. Williams was
born at Aramac, Queensland, on
March 12, 1902, and is now boxing
editor of Melbourne “Sporting
Globe.”
♦ ♦ * *
Particulars of daylight-saving in
Australia during the years of the
1939-45 war?
Daylight-Saving during summer-
time was introduced throughout Aus-
tralia by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment under the National Security
Regulations. Summer-time was fixed
at one hour in advance of standard
time in all States from 2 a.m. on
January 1, 1942, to 2 a.m. on March
29, 1942, and from 2 a.m. on Septem-
be 27, 1942, to 2 a.m. on March
28, 1943, and in all States, except
Western Australia, from 2 a.m. on
October 3, 1943, to 2 a.m. on March
26, 1944. At the Premiers’ Con-
ference held at Canberra in August,
1944, it was decided that ordinary
time should be observed during the
1944-45 summer. No adjustment was
made during 1945-46.
♦ * * ♦
Number of employed and unem-
ployed in United States of America
during 1950 ?
Civilian employment in the United
States reached a record level in 1950,
the U.S. Department of Commerce
reports. The average of 60,000,000
persons employed during the year
compares with the previous record of
59.400.000 in 1948 and 58,700,000 in
1949. The employment level ranged
from 57,000,000 at the beginning of
1950 to an all-time record of
62.400.000 in August. Employment in
non-agricultural industries during
1950 was at an average of 52,500,000.
This was about 1,800,000 more than
the 1949 level, and 1,000,000 greater
than the 1948 average. Agricultural
employment in 1950 averaged
7,500,000, about 500,000 less than in
1948 and 1949. Unemployment during
1950 averaged 3,100,000, about
300.000 lower than the 1949 figure.
During the last months of 1950, how-
ever, the unemployment total dropped
to between 2,000,000 and 2,500,000.
*♦( ♦ ♦
Details about Raffaello Morghen,
the Italian engraver?
He was born at Naples in 1758,
and died in 1833. In 1781 he en-
graved Raphael’s symbolical represen-
tations of poetry and theology in the
Vatican. He also engraved the chief
works of Titian, Correggio, Poussin,
Guido, da Vinci and Murillo. His
engraving combines exquisite delicacy
and remarkable clearness. In 1794
he founded a school of engraving at
Florence, at the invitation of Fer-
dinand 111, grand-duke of Tuscany.
Napoleon invited him to Paris and
made him a member of the Institute
of France. His finest works are “The
Last Supper” from da Vinci, the
“Transfiguration” from Raphael, the
“Magdalen” from Murillo and the
“Car of Aurora” from Guido.
Brief Answers.
J.M.: An Historical Outline of the
Ancient Theatre by John Kardoss, It
was originally a lecture delivered at
the invitation of Sydney University
Dramatic Society at Sydney Univer-
sity on September 20, 1950 S.G.:
Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agri-
culture, Sydney, for pamphlet “Rear-
ing and Feeding the Muscovy Duck.”
R.M.: The absence of a suitable
type of shell-grit which birds will
readily eat is the main cause of soft-
shell eggs in ducks-/-„ Occasionally,
through fright or being chased
around, or young ducks coming on
to lay for the first time, a soft shell
might occur, but trouble should right
itself. The number of soft-shell eggs
generally increases at about this time
of the year in the case of old birds.
FJ.O’G.: Entry forms are avail-
able from art galleries, art societies
and from branches of Dunlop Rubber
(Australia), Ltd G.H.: You do
not state the nature of the salts
present in the water, but it may be
taken as certain that treatment would
not be practicable and that the dilu-
tion suggested would not be sufficient.
....F.P.: Your coin is a half-crown
of William IV of England, the name
Gulielmus being the Latin for Wil-
liam. The collector’s value, price at
which these coins can be purchased
in very fine condition, is 7s. 6d
R. : From F. W. Cheshire Pty.,
Ltd., 338 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne T.M.; Gaston C. Renard,
Box 529588, G.P.0., Melbourne....
S. (1) Fellowship of Australian
Writers, Box 3448, G.P.0., Sydney.
(2) Book Collectors’ Society of Aus-
tralia, Box 905, G.P.0., Sydney
J.E.L. : Carlotta Patti was a sister of
Adelina Patti, and was born in
Florence in 1840 and died in Paris
in 1889. She visited Australia in
1880... .J.M.D.: A copy of the
publication Radioactive Mineral
Deposits may be obtained on applica-
tion to the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources, Chancery House, 485 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. This pamphlet
contains a description of the radio-
active minerals, their properties and
mode of occurrence, and notes on
prospecting procedure.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor,
E.V.C.; The idea was there, but
instead of making a funny story of
it you murdered it N.K.: Well,
instead of a short story, you have
made it a news-report of dragging for
a drowned body R.H.: “As She
Is Spoke” might have been interest-
ing if you had put in more facts and
less padding... .J.J.A.: He was going
to shoot a magpie, then he didn’t.
HJ.W.: “Records” story a bit
forced....?.: We sort of liked your
dingo, so we let him go, too
F.H.F.: You say “Plain truth lasts,
while stories when read disappear as
in a dream.” Send us in a true one
next time.... J.S.: Gradually we see
that what is to us a fault is with
your school of writers an axiom:
without at least one incredible
coincidence in a story, you feel you
are not keeping faith with the public.
... .Bellerive: What a fight!:—
No, no, dear sir; violent
of intention, exaggerated of charac-
terisation; we bet you never had a
convict brother returning to take his
rightful place as owner of your
deceased father’s farm R.M.:
Tiddlypop We knew from
the second sentence that the mur-
deree was going to turn into a dog
on the last page—about the lowest
score for a trick story to date
J.R.L.: Doubt whether the evidence
you adduce in “Blood Won’t Tell”
would aid Lysenko in his effort to
disprove democratic theories of
inheritance M.H.: Not bad, hut
not ours R.W.: Both girl and
donkey much too cute H.W.:
Poor old clergyman, after you’ve
done with him J.F.: Well, we
doubt whether you know much at
first hand about country newspapers,
or, if you do, you’ve a lot to learn
about short stories... .W.W.: N,ot
bad, about the ganger and his wife;
but not quite A. 8.: “The Ginger
Dog” just missed... .R. A.: The
scene-setting was excellent, but
nothing happened except that a girl
felt happier....J.J.A.: “The Bunyip”
much too 10ng... .A.8.C.: Nice little
story, “Tongue-tried,” but there are
times when we do not stick our necks
out K.A.C.: You tell a story very
well, but the story doesn’t quite
justify it W.A.P.: Miracles need
a lighter touch... .AJ.C.: You intro-
duce a superb drunk; then you
whisk him away D.M.H.: “New
Shoes” not quite our size; might go
elsewhere A.V.P.: Farces must be
very neat 8.G.; “Uncle Tom’s
Opinions” N.B.G N.A.D.: Farm-
yard romance a bit forced; all that
remained was for the rooster to lay
an egg R.H.: The ball-by-ball
country concert is a bit hard to do
convincingly N.D.D.: Liked espe-
cially the ending of the “Red Kelpie”
story; but there’s too many sorrowful
authors going about shooting their
devoted but vicious dogs M.C.:
Much too tiny... .L.H.: Bewildering.
KITCHEN V. SALAR.
õ


m
3SS
mi
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH I
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK. /
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY, /j
Jw.tz7B.ia ■
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes
SOLD
H.A.Row&.Co.Pty.Ltd.KiogSt.Bw>n»y
!'* . !,, ‘" ,r *''•>'"■ * li
•f - i - • <-m -
f *yjU4". i *
*s*
ii
mi
is:.:,
m
7s
....<
'a
RENKUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If it isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump ? Or a Hand Pump ?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily Its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
ö
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
ø
KISMK'I
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
Made br William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia;
Mr. V. 0. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, 0.1, Victoria.
G.P.O. Box 71.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing far To_.
“Murrawong”: With wool
prices soaring, there is a grow-
ing tendency toward laxity in
classing. Once the small flock-
owner pleaded that he couldn’t
afford a classer, and he had good
grounds for it. Not now. Though
classing rates have increased,
many small sheds could profit-
a y e mp]° y a classer now,
enough evenly-classed sheep to
give good bulky lines of well-
pia-cpj wnnl J
High prices affect the market
in a number of ways. There is
the owner who wants to top the
market and who instructs his
“It’s dead easy once y' git th' hang of it .”
classer to build a small specialty
line, drawn perhaps from the
entire clip. He may attain his
fancy price, but his average
suffers. Then there is the man
who wants to realise on every-
thing the sheep can grow and
to blazes with classing. The
market is hungry, so everything
that can be belted off the sheep,
raked out of the pens and sal-
mto the P ress any old how -
Whether the market is high of
low there is still only one way
to prepare a clip. The buyer
wants big bulky lines if he can
ge t them, but he prefers average-
sized lots of evenly-classed wool
to b u iky lots containing a
y gh percentage of “out sorts,”
w bi c h are 0 f no use to his prin-
cipals and which will have to be
( . . resold This nro-
t a out ana a. ii s p
cess costs a lot, and the grower
should realise that he is paying
for d-the buyer has allowed
for the costs in his valuation.
Shoddy work is apparent
mostly in skirtings. This means
inefficient shedhands and poor
control of his woolroom staff by
the classer.
At today’s inflated rates shed-
hand wages and keep cost about
lid. for every lb. of wool shorn.
Although it is largely unskilled
labor, it perforce handles much
of the wool, All the same, unless
it can be trusted to do a reason-
ably good job it should not be
used.
There are alternatives. Piece-
picking demands most experi-
ence and skill from shedhands.
If competent men are not avail-
able don’t attempt to pick the
pieces. Concentrate the best of
the men on wool-rolling. Skirt
necks into one lot of baskets and
the britch-ends into another. Re-
move dags and stains from the
later and press former as
“necks” and balance as “Pcs.”
Send them through your broker
or direct to a reliable wool-
classing firm for skilled prepara-
tion.
If rouseabouts are unable to
make a job of the skirting use
only sufficient to pick up and
sweep the board. The classer
can then attend to the removal
of stainS or dags and roll the
pieces carefully. He can then
class them into the minimum of
lines, and the entire clip can
then be forwarded for classing
and skirting, followed by class-
ing of skirtings.
In this set-up the classer might
appear superfluous, as the fleeces
still have to be classed by the
repacker after skirting, but if no
classer is present there must be
someone capable of supervising
the picking -up and correct
rolling of the fleeces.
It would be a bad thing for
our wool industry if the present
system of preparing the clip in
the shed was interfered with,
but we must realise that any
system of handling wool can
only be justified if it is reason-
ably efficient. Unfortunately,
sky-high wages have not been
followed by improved efficiency
—rather the reverse—-and it’s
time we took a stand with an
eye to the future.
Danger in High Prices.
“J.R.D.”: The continued rise
of wool prices may prove
disastrous to the sheep and wool
industry. Apart from its infla-
tionary effect, it has completely
wrecked all discipline in the
shearing industry. The award is
now £5 9s, 9d. per 100, and
rouseabouts’ rates are
£l2 3s. lOd. per week (found).
There may be some sheds
working at award rates, but they
take a lot of finding. The Com-
munist element is still active, and
in one of the early-shearing dis-
tricts it recently decided that the
minimum rate for the district
would be £7 10s. per 100, with
£l7 10s. a week and found for
rouseabouts. Local graziers
meekly submitted to these out-
rageous claims, and the few odd
sheds that were shearing at
award rates were told that if
they did not pay up every team
in the district would be pulled
out. One shed is even paying
£lO per 100—the inevitable
result of submitting to black-
mail.
Woolgrowers are stunned by
the prices they are getting, and
any moral fibre they may have
possessed is completely para-
lysed. Money doesn’t mean a
thing. Australia has gone off
the gold standard and every
other standard to lean on the
wool standard. Everything is
adjusted to that, but instead of
improving the marketing of
wool it is having an adverse
effect in many cases. The results
may not be apparent for some
time, but they will--and how.
Two Lambings.
“Shadow - chaser”: I’m not
moved by American scientists
injecting hormones, with un-
spellable names, under the fore-
arms of ewes to induce them to
rear two crops of lambs yearly.
When I first contacted sheep
nearly 70 years ago in North
Victoria, we had to take extreme
measures in good seasons to
prevent ewes from breeding twice
yearly. If rams were allowed to
run with ewes after the May-
June lambing, 90 p.c. of these
ewes would drop a second crop
of lambs the following November
or December. We found this
unprofitable owing to grass-
seeds troubling the young lambs,
and the burden of rearing two
crops of lambs, plus growing a
fleece of wool, proving too great
a strain on the ewe’s consti-
tution.
Irrigated lucerne fields, plus
topdressed pastures, have worked
wonders over the years, but a
long lifetime’s experience of ewes
and lambs makes me pessimistic
of the ultimate wisdom of two
lambings yearly.
Feeding of Dairy Cows.
“Agric”: H. W. Cheers,
manager of Kingaroy butter
factory (Q.), opines that under
a system of feeding dairy cows
all the year round, combined
with adequate pastures, the
Queensland dairy industry would
reach the position where 25 cows
would produce as much as 50
are producing today.
Disclosures from Government
demonstration farms and leading
suppliers to the Kingaroy factory
provided overwhelming evidence
that almost twice as much would
be obtained from cows by feed-
ing them as by running them on
open-range country.
The returns from Ewan Scott’s
farm, not two miles from
Kingaroy, were an incentive to
other farmers in the district.
While other cows in the district
averaged, in January, from £2
to £2 10s., Scott’s cows were,
averaging £6 per head. Another
farmer, Jim Champney, Craw-
ford, Kingaroy line, with a
small herd of about 30 cows.
was putting up even better
figures than Scott, but his cows
had access to Kikuyu-grass
pastures which were providing
a high-quality bulk feed.
Cheers said that it paid to
feed all the year round, no
matter whether the aim was
butter or milk. Tests over a few
months had been satisfactory,
but it took up to two years
before real results from the extra
feeding could be noticed and
comparisons made.
It was believed, he said, that
better production was brought
about in the cases mentioned by
the gradual improvement in the
stamina and constitution of the
cows. It was useless to feed a
concentrate feed if stock could
not get enough green pasture.
On coastal areas, where most of
the country was black alluvial
or red volcanic soil, cattle re-
sponded well to a mixture con-
taining 35 p.o. to 40 p.c. of
crushed or ground grain. On
inland, harder country a better
response was obtained by using
less grain and more proteins.
Sweet Potatoes.
“Bill C.”: They’re a useful
crop on the central Queensland
coast. In frost-free areas a
constant crop may be kept in
the ground, but replanting the
same ground with them after
harvest should be avoided.
Where heavy frosts occur
plantings should be done in
spring and summer. Use runner
ends only for best results, taken
from vines that have cropped
heavily. Make them about 12in.
long and thrust well into a
mound formed by throwing two
furrows together on previously-
ploughed and -harrowed land.
The lighter soils are most
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The first March cyclical rains have given the results
shown by the cycle, slightly reduced by weak sunspot
action. The season should now return to showery Con-
ditions, with a fine Easter, followed almost at once by general
rains over the whole continent, except the inland Northern
Territory, Central Australia and the head of the Bight, where
the rains will be only light. There are no records for West
Australia north of Geraldton. The rains should be heavy
along the eastern coastline, especially from Brisbane south,
and, under the longer cycle, very heavy, but this cycle is as
yet not well documented. There is some indication of heavy
rains shortly in the Cape York area and CCoktown, though
here, too, the records as yet are not really sufficient. There
could be heavy rains in south-west Queensland and on the
Upper Darling; these areas are in the same category as those
of Cooktown—not sufficient cyclical check.


c
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
OFFER A FREE ADVISORY SERVICE
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. B 0538
_ And all other States -
8L5.50.4
"PhenoW*” Worm Remedy
if
9T.*o\iiso time'
/'//
W/A
/.
m./.
f
7 /// //fy.
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
o
ò
FROM
STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-819)
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—r-recommended for shearing-shed work.
, ; r
»'V
mm
M
A TINE (AUST
40z., Boz., IGrtz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
mmm.
■
m
i*
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
• Fully corrected achro-.
made lens system.
O Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
O Very long eye relief.
$ Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2\\ —Eye relief 3|in.
to s£in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson, ’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
ó
AND SON?
PTY. ! T L\
mmm
Vie 01111 Airline
•to North America
providing a
FREE ftEEFER
fi> every passenger
B CPA
if Information and bookings
from your local travel agent
or any airline booking office.
General Agents: Trans-Australia
Airlines. BCPA Head Office:
53 Martin Place, Sydney. Phone:
BW 2741.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO
WITH IMMEDIATE CONNECTIONS TO U.K. VIA U.S.A, OR CANADA.
BCA.aa.it
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”—Price 1/-
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
failSftb?
m
GIUVRiINTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
LYS
paoor
100% Australian-made
rom Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highpst standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
; M.
' * '"-i " ' ' f , 4
r „ rrS*” "*■
r ■ * *4
•>
i:
i
i
'ii ••'.
Hi
i
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. &Co.Pty., Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Ft. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"3X3 * 9 N I X 1 a N
HIM
SiXHOVSAIu Ad
suitable, for rotting of the roots
may occur in heavy, sticky soils.
A good dressing of potash ferti-
liser or any amount of unleached
wood-ashes spread along the
mounds will be beneficial.
Various insect pests, including
grasshoppers and the sweet-
potato weevil, may denude the
growing vines unless they are
occasionally sprayed with
arsenate of lead.
The sweet-potato weevil also
attacks sweet-potato tubers as
the potato-moth attacks English
potatoes. If harvested tubers
are left lying exposed in the field
for long they will surely be in-
fested with weevils and be lost.
With ordinary good luck 10
tons of sweet potatoes can be
taken from an acre.
Transplanting Veges.
“Myrr”: Use well-developed
seedlings only, and plant them
in the cool of the evening, keep-
ing as much soil on the roots as
possible. Arrange the seedlings
in a bundle so that the bases of
their stems are level, then, with
one cut of a sharp knife, trim
the roots to a uniform length.
Correct depth of planting is
important; too deep or too
shallow is equally undesirable,
and most seedlings should be
planted with the stem of the
lowest leaf at ground-level.
Firm the soil round the plants
and water them with a solution
of \oz. of sulphate of ammonia
or nitrate of soda and loz. of
super, to the gallon of water, or
with weak liquid manure. In
hot weather shelter the trans-
plants with small flower-pots or
pieces of brushwood.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Herding pigs in
large numbers is no good. The
young’uns get knocked about,
and there is overcrowding at the
feed-troughs. Ravenous feeding
brings on digestive troubles.
Keep pigs graded. Remove un-
thrifty animals. Sick pigs
should be isolated. Groups of
12 to 15 growing animals are
large enough; as weight in-
creases the groups should be re-
duced, Plenty of room means
plenty of health.
“Billjim”: To ensure that a
soft piece of cheese remains
firmly affixed to a mouse-trap
toast it on to the trap with a
match. This will resist the best
attempts of the mouse to pull it
off before the trap has done its
work.
“Big Billy”: To cure calf-
skins dissolve 12oz. of alum, 4oz.
of salt, 4oz. of oatmeal, 2oz. of
saltpetre in a quart of water,
rub mixture thoroughly over
flesh, fold skin flesh to flesh,
leave for three weeks, turning
once a week. Expose to sun and
air until half-dry, scrape off
any remaining flesh and dry
thoroughly,
“Graz”: A simple cure for
dog-mange is to powder a lump
of bluestone, measure an equal
quantity of sulphur and mix
them into an ointment, using lard
or vaseline as a base. Use a
rubber fingerstall to apply.
“Tax Agent”; Blank cheque-
butts create difficulties in book-
keeping. Avoid them by filling
the butts first. This practice
also gives you a chance to dis-
cover any error of date or
amount before you spoil the
cheque leaf.


ilV'
3
ft***-'
x.
sr
«,fe
' % #
"/
V \/ > *
Not every day, but now and
then, comes an occasion which
rises far above the ordinary
and demands a fitting tribute
of nothing but the best.
Benson & Hedges cigarettes are
made with precise care,
appropriate for just such times as
these—when the merely good must
be left for other people—when
for you, only the best will do.
o
In
tine of 20
3/3
' ' '
A
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson'Z/Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
•»«
MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HVGEIA DISSOLVENATO
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
"
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
ò
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS: ""
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W,), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Bdment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P, Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
"CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Racks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
23/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oa.
Packs, Priced S/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that Is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institution* throughout Australia
JACKSON
osnixivAtt. /
sbi*s
trade:
MAH*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXVh” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Just on 44 years ago racegoers at
Randwick saw a field of two go out
to contest the St. Leger. The absence
of other runners on that occasion
was largely due to the presence of
Poseidon, who, with the two Derbys,
the two Cups and the V.R.C. St.
Leger already under his belt, was
naturally deemed to have a mortgage
on the A.J.C. classic. So it proved;
Poseidon started at 25 to 1 on and
donkey-licked his solitary opponent,
Oakton. That was in 1907; on Satur-
day, for the first time since, Rand-
wick racegoers witnessed another two-
horse race. Of course there are
punters who, ip a vein either of
cynicism or optimism, profess to per-
ceive one-horse and two-horse events
every Saturday.
When acceptance time last week
saw only two left in the weight-for-
age Chipping Norton Stakes some
critics rushed in to condemn the
event as a farce, and then, by natural
progression, to attack weight-for-age
events in general; there was even one
suggestion that the “paying public”
would prefer to see weight-for-age
events replaced by “glorified Mixed
Stakes.” Actually the critics, who
doubtless repented at leisure, couldn’t
have chosen a worse peg on which to
hang this bright suggestion for lower-
ing the standard of racing. A match
race between the winners of the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups double
was something unique. The addition
of a soupgon of inter-State rivalry
involved in a meeting of the Mel-
bourne turf idol and Sydney’s best
of the moment, plus an interest in
seeing whether Comic Court had
acquired any greater liking for Sydney
conditions than he had exhibited in
the past, and all the ingredients were
on hand for a race of far greater
general interest than has been stirred
up by any half-dozen Mixed Stakes
yet run. The “paying public,” at any
rate, evinced their interest in the
matter by turning up nearly 40,000
strong; there were 33,000 at the cor-
responding meeting last year.
As it happened, the two-horse race
was pretty much a one-horse race,
and, contrary to expectations, tactics
did not enter matters to any great
extent. With J. Thompson in the
saddle, Comic Court hopped into
the lead right from the jump, and
two-lengths behind was about as close
as Grey Boots got at any stage there-
after. Thompson stole a break of
several lengths near the half-mile;
Grey Boots had to scramble some-
what to make up the leeway, and,
from when they entered upon the
run home, it was clear that Comic
Court had the race well won.
Comic Court looked magnificent;
he galloped in beautiful and effortless
fashion, and, skimming the rails all
the way, he showed no inclination to
run wide on the turns. On the
surface he would appear to have
overcome his dislike for Sydney con-
ditions, and his run seemed an excel-
lent Sydney Cup trial. However,
both these impressions would have
been much more positive and less
open to vague doubts had his win
been scored against a sizeable field.
Then again, in assessing his perform-
ance, the question of weights must be
considered. When Grey Boots won
the Caulfield Cup last year he was
in receipt of 211 b. from Comic Court,
who ran unplaced. In the Chipping
Norton Stakes Grey Boots met Comic
Court on 181 b. worse terms. If the
pair meet again in the Sydney Cup
they will do so on terms just midway
between those extremes; Grey Boots
will meet Comic Court 91b. worse
than he did in the Caulfield Cup,
but also 91b. better than he did on
Saturday. Reconcile those figures
with the margin of 2\ lengths which
separated them at the finish on Satur-
day (and which, incidentally, separated
them with scarcely any variation
throughout the race), and mayhap
you have the answer to the Sydney
Cup riddle.
Of course the real riddle of the
autumn meeting is—or was at time
of writing—on which leg of the big
double is Grey Boots to concentrate?
That is, if either, for such prizes as
the Brisbane Cup and the Doomben
Ten Thousand loom on a not-distant
horizon. Present writer’s guess, ven-
tured upon several weeks ago, was a
Sydney Cup start, and, in the circum-
stances, he can but stick to it, though
with the contingency that the horse
will be very hard to beat in either leg.
After the grey and Comic Court the
best Cup prospects appear to be Bank-
stream and Hurry Up. Hurry Up
was selected here for last year’s Cup,
in which he was very narrowly beaten
by Sir Falcon. With 8.2 he has only
31b. more this year, and he showed
the necessary form by brilliantly win-
ning the 12-furlongs Warwick Farm
Autumn Handicap on Saturday. It
was a typical effort of his—a dashing
burst from last to first practically
within the final furlong.
Alister became a doubtful for the
Cup, and no less disappointed his
St. Leger admirers, with a poor show-
ing in the 10-furlongs Cobbitty Handi-
cap. In a field of six, Alister finished
only third, Putoko leading all the
way to win well from Aristocrat.
Those who backed Alister at 6 to 4
couldn’t have bothered having a look
at the colt before the race. In
addition to looking very light-on,
with his ribs showing plainly, he was
sweating freely, and seemed generally
off-color on the day.
If the Doncaster winner was among
those contesting the 7-furlongs Liver-
pool Handicap it would seem most
likely to have been either Oversight,
who finished powerfully to win run-
ning away, or Great World, who
came absolutely out of the blue to
beat the others. And since, in the
Doncaster, Oversight will be meeting
Achilles on 17lb. worse terms than
he did when Achilles heat him in the
Epsom, the logical deduction seems
inescapable.
The Doncdster does really seem to
be principally between Achilles and
Drastic, but possibly Great World
should not be too lightly dismissed.
A lightweight who should start at
fancy odds in the rich mile, Great
World has been given a curious
preparation. He has only in his
last two starts been switched back
to sprint distances after contesting
middle-distance events at his previous
half-dozen starts, in the course of
which he won at 12-furlongs and was
twice runner-up over similar journeys.
He certainly shouldn’t be found want-
ing in stamina, and, weighing that
fact in with the brilliant finishing
effort which saw him run second at
seven furlongs on Saturday, he must
be considered quite a possibility in
the Doncaster with 7.7.
By their respective admirers, both
Achilles and Drastic are considered
handicapping certainties for the big
mile. But whereas Drastic is lately
considered well handicapped in the
light of his subsequent performances,
Achilles stood out as leniently treated
on the score of his past efforts when
weights were first issued, and our
preference is for him.
* * * «
Saturday’s Moonee Valley meeting
was principally notable for the extra-
ordinarily good trot enjoyed by
punters. Indeed, the books have
been faring so poorly for some weeks
now that retribution must surely be
very dose at hand. Saturday’s win-
ners included four outright favorites,
an equal favorite, a second favorite
and, as the “roughie” of the day, a
4-to-l pop.
With Comic Court off the scene
Chicquita (J. Purtell) had an extremely
easy win in the rich Alister Clark
Stakes (10f.). Chicquita started
favorite, but at the surprisingly good
odds of 5 to 4 against. Three-year-
old True Course, strong support for
whom was responsible for Cnicquita’s
being such a good price, finished
second, beaten four lengths. The
Sydney colt Bankstream, who was
confidently flown down especially for
the race, collected third money,
which, at £5OO, would at least cover
expenses. Connections of Chicquita
have wisely decided to continue play-
ing at home while the cat, in the
shape of Comic Court, is abroad.
The mare is to remain in Melbourne
for the £6OOO Sandown Cup instead
of following Comic Court north to
try conclusions yet again in the
Sydney Cup.
The run of winning favorites at the
Valley kicked off with the first race,
the Hollymount Handicap for two-
year-olds, which went to Horonda
(A. Burton) at 10 to 9. The mile
Sherwood Handicap, limited to
apprentice riders, produced four equal
favorites at 9 to 2. Three of these,
in Zezette (R. Lindsay), Thurten and
Grand Monarch, filled the places, in
that order; the other, Fabius, by way
of variety, finished stone-last. Prince
o’ Fairies (W. Williamson) and Eclair
(P. Mulvenna) were odds-on favorites;
the Prince bagged the 13-furlongs
Moonee Ponds Handicap and Eclair
took the first Woodlands Highweight.
For the second division of the High-
weight the Sydney galloper Aqua
Regis (V. Lawrence) was backed in
from tens to start second favorite at
threes, and he very easily landed the
plunge. The mile Sydenham Handi-
cap for three-year-olds went to the
Dhoti colt Daksha (J. Purtell).
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Vauduse Handicap: Salamanca, 1;
Prince Felix, 2; Vermeil, 3. Sires’
Produce Stakes: Hydrogen, 1; Ocean
Bound, 2; Sir Gene, 3. Autumn.
Stakes: Comic Court, 1; Hurry Up,
2; Benvolo, 3. Doncaster Handicap:
Achilles, 1; Great World, 2; Drastic,
3; Field Boy, 4. A.J.C. St. Leger:
Midway, 1; Alister, 2; Rumyle, 3.
Princess Handicap: True Course, 1;
Titian, 2; Putoko, 3. Tocal Handi-
cap: My Request, 1; Yeoval, 2;
Captain Theo, 3.
For the Sydney Cup: Grey Boots,
1; Comic Court, 2; Hurry Up, 3;
Bankstream, 4.
* « * *
New Zealand seems to have a pretty
classy three-year-old on hand at the
moment. He is Mainbrace, an aptly-
named son of the Precipitation horse
Admiral’s Luck. In winning the New
Zealand St. Leger on Saturday Main-
brace scored by 10 lengths (third
horse was 12 lengths further back);
he ran race- and course-record time
of 2.56| (equal to the record here for
the V.R.C. St. Leger and a half-
second better than the A.J.C. St.
Leger record); he registered his 12th
successive win; and he brought his
winnings for the season to £17,983
stg.—easily a New Zealand record for
one season, the previous best being
£15,881 notched up by Beaumaris.
* * ♦ «
“Pass-it” emerges from summer
quarters:-
In common with other codes,
Rugby Union has a heavy programme
lined up for the 1951 season. Rugby
League followers are to be visited by
a French team and Soccer fans will
entertain an English team; Rugby
Union is providing for visits from
the New Zealand All Blacks and also
a New Zealand Universities team.
The All Blacks will come determined
to regain the Bledisloe Cup, which
they lost when the Australian touring
team won both Tests played in New
Zealand in 1949.
Much of the merit of those wins
has been pared down by arguments
that, while the Australians were tour-
ing New Zealand, 30 of New Zealand’s
best footballers were on tour in South
Africa, so that in the Tests played
that year the Australians beat what
was theoretically New Zealand’s third
XV. Against this contention, how-
ever, it can be pointed out that some
six or seven of those who played
•against the Australians would have
been first choices for the South
African tour had they been available
for selection. Further, the failure of
the All Blacks in South Africa leaves
the ability of the players on that tour
open to question.
Irrespective of such arguments, in
assessing the possible outcome of this
year’s Tests, followers will no doubt
place a good deal of weight on the
comparative form shown by each
country against the British Isles
tourists last season. With this form
as a guide, odds must go very
strongly in favor of the All Blacks,
for, whereas the New Zealanders
mastered the Britishers, our lads were
hopelessly at sea against them. But,
as has been demonstrated so often
before, such comparisons do not
always work out; differences in style,
the weather, the bounce of the ball,
injuries—all play a big part in Test
matches, and it is not beyond the
Australians’ capacity to resist the
New Zealanders’ challenge and retain
the Bledisloe Cup.
* * * *
The meeting of Taffy Hancock (8.1)
and Johnny Gleeson (8.2) at Leich-
hardt Stadium last week can be suc-
cinctly summed-up in the statement
that Hancock hit too hard and too
often. The ref. gave the toffee to Tatty
on points, a decision with which the I
crowd, for once* concurred. I


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Lightweight Army Gear
A battlefield research report just
released by the U.S. Army should make
Australian Army leaders do some hard
thinking. It says “The Army has be-
come so engrossed with machines of war
that it has neglected the weary, over-
burdened infantryman.” It goes on
state that in World War II countless men
were unnecessarily killed because they
were loaded down with too-heavy packs
“The absolute limit should be 40 pounds’
instead of the 65 to 80 pounds which mos
infantrymen are forced to carry into
action.
A true bill. Anything over 60 pound
means that a soldier has to carry more
in proportion to his own weight than an
Army mule is allowed to carry on four
legs. Young men in the pink of physica
condition can hump this heavy gea
across firm, level ground, but wars aren’
fought on sports arenas. The factor of
geography often means that this load has
to be carried over soft sand, across
rugged mountains and through swamps
and thick scrub.
Many men have had to leap from
landing-barges into water which was over
their heads; heaven only knows how
many were drowned when their gear
pulled them under. Paratroopers and
Commandos have also been forced to
carry gear which was far too heavy
an exhausted soldier can do only one
thing with it —he drops it. Packhorse
loads mean that men fail to reach their
objectives in rough country, their strength
is sapped by useless labor and they run
short of food and ammunition because
they simply had to drop part of the load
on the march.
Time and time again it has been pointed
out to our Army leaders that bushwalkers,
mountain-climbers and skiers long ago
evolved gear which combines lightness
with utility; nylon fabrics do away with
the need to use heavy webbing, the down-
filled sleeping-bag weighs less than one
blanket but is warmer than three of
them, aircraft alloy could replace the
absurdly heavy brass buckles, water-
bottles of corrugated aluminium weigh
less than half of the present type made
from enamelled sheet steel, while the
modern hard-hitting, lightweight sporting
rifle, with its equally light ammunition,
should be used as a model for a new
military weapon.
If we really intend to build up our
fighting forces, we should scrap every
single item of the old equipment and
design new lightweight ones. If expert
advice is needed, Paddy Pallin, the Sydney
manufacturer of lightweight camping-
gear, should be consulted, as he was nine
years ago when he helped to design the
gear for equipping our ski troops in
Syria. L. G. Harrison, of Sydney Bush
Walkers, is probably the world’s leading
exponent of travelling light; his know-
ledge should also be used.
I also know a bit about these things and
would be willing to help, but I’m tired
of writing letters on the subject to Army
leaders who either don’t reply or who
send me a lot of verbal tripe which states
that everything in our equipment garden
is just lovely. It isn’t, and it is high time
that our leaders realised what the Ameri-
cans have now made the basis of a com-
prehensive report—the ultimate cost of
the present preposterously heavy Army
gear is paid in human lives. —Ex-R.S.M.
(S.A.).
“Shoddy”
What’s all this shoddy talking and
shoddier thinking (B. 28/2/’51)? Of
course the youth of today are not what
their fathers were, or their mothers, either.
Nothing ever is as good as it was. Of
course there is now, and always was, a
shoddy tail that needs drafting off the
mob, and securely segregating in some
back paddock, and forgotten.
But the great majority of our youth
is sound at heart. There is nothing
shoddy about our Service girls, nurses,
munition - workers, airmen, sailors,
soldiers, athletes, boxers, footballers,
tennis-players, cricketers, etc. Nothing
shoddy about our wool, beef, wheat or
mutton, or the men who produce them.
“Marvellous how those things
stay up.”
Nothing shoddy about our factory pro-
duction of machinery, motor-cars, harvest-
ing and road-making machinery. And
nothing shoddy about our orchard or
vineyard products, nor our butter, barley,
bread or beer. And even our politicians
are, at least, the equal of any other of
the tribe. — Shadow-chaser (Vic.).
Sugar-loading
Reports from overseas of developments
in the bulk-loading of sugar should be
of interest in this country.
The sugar trade between Puerto Rico
and the U.S.A. has now reached the stage
where almost all the sugar is loaded in
bulk by mechanical means. The kind
of vessel found to be most suitable for
this class of cargo is the collier type;
with their large hatchways they are ideal
for bulk-loading and later for discharge
by grabs.
The sugar is delivered on board from
storage by means of endless belts operat-
ing through shutes to the ship’s hold.
Fitted at the end of each shute is a con-
traption not unlike a garden-hose spray—
it throws the sugar evenly around the
hold and high into the wings, thus
obviating the necessity for trimmers.
Discharge is done by means of grabs.
The sugar is found to be reasonably free
and to require only a minimum of trim-
ming when the holds are almost empty,
in order that the grabs may be kept full.
The sugar carries well (though strict
attention must be paid to ventilation) and
it leaves the ship’s side quite freely.
The foregoing appears to be one solu-
tion to the problems facing the sugar
industry in this country at the moment.
Certainly it would solve the problem of
the reluctance of wharfies to do even a
very reasonable job of work.
Apart from the obvious saving of labor
in time of loading and discharge
(approximately two days as against two
weeks at present) there are less obvious
savings—in bags, dunnage, tallying, etc.
No doubt the unions concerned would
raise their collective squeals of protest,
but surely they have had more than a
fair chance. —X. M. N. (Tas.).
Australia and the U.S.
In citing—as an example worthy of
emulation by the British Dominions —
the absorption of over 30 million immi-
grants by the U.S.A. in
little more than half a
century following the Civil
War (B. 28/2/’5l), Sir
Norman Angell ignored
some considerable differ-
ences.
When the Civil War ended much of the
U.S.A. territory west of the Mississipp
was unsettled and the rest but thinly so.
In that huge region there were great
tracts well suited to agriculture. The
virgin land yielded good crops for many
years without the need for real farming
skill or heavy capital expenditure, and
the Federal Government’s free-land
policy attracted a great stream of settlers,
native and immigrant, into that part of
the U.S.A. Important mineral discoveries
were made there, too.
There being none of the currency re-
strictions that now plague the world, a
continuous flow of capital poured into
the United States. Europe, where, save in
France, birthrates were high, could take
all the country’s surplus agricultural
produce. So many of the farming and
artisan classes in the east were smitten
by the lure of the west that a steady
influx of newcomers was needed in the
older-settled regions to provide adequate
manpower for the growing secondary in-
dustries that the protectionist policy was
developing there. A vast wealth of timber
facilitated cheap and easy building.
In none of the British Dominions are
there similar circumstances today. Where
in any of them is there land suitable for
close-settlement that can be given away
to thousands, let alone millions, of
settlers? To place a modest quota of
ex-servicemen on the land in Australia,
compulsory resumption has had to be
resorted to, and though the prices paid
are well below those ruling in the open
market, the cost of establishing an in-
dividual settler is considerable. Political
as well as financial considerations pre-
clude extensive settlement of immigrants
on the same lines. Yet a flow corres-
ponding with that to the U.S.A. between
1870-1914 would in large part have to
be absorbed on the land.
Already there is talk of the far modester
current immigration policy being likely
to end Australia’s butter and meat sur-
pluses within a decade unless production
is substantially increased. For this to be
achieved more people will have to be
attracted to those industries. Yet com-
paratively few Australians, with capital
or without, choose the land as a career.
Immigrants with capital also show pre-
ference for the urban business. Those
without it, generally seek employment in
the cities. With urban industry offering
high wages, a 40-hour week and other
amenities, not many people are prepared
to face the hard grind that is the life of
the small farmer in these days of high
labor costs.
Nor should it be forgotten that the
striking development of the U.S.A. be-
tween the end of the Civil War and the
beginning of the 1914-18 war had its
reverse side. As that practical farmer
Louis Bromfield pointed out in his
Pleasant Valley, in that time the
U.S.A.’s prosperity was based, to
a large degree, on the ruthless
squandering of the country’s natura
resources. The serious soil-erosion anc
shrinkage of forest assets that the U.S.A
has suffered in the last 25 years hac
their origin in practices widely followed
in the preceding 50 years.
Farming in the future will have to be
conservationist in character. This means
that the time has gone by when masses
of penniless and often agriculturally in-
experienced people can be dumped on
undeveloped lands. The farmer will have
to have agricultural training and a reason-
able amount of capital, behind him.—
Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
\.
Mt. Isa
The voice of the A.B.C. dealt
enthusiastically with the new 6000 ft. all-
weather airstrip for the Mt. Isa (Q.) air-
port, and it made me as mad as a wet
hen. Unreasonable, perhaps, but I know
Mt Isa, and I know its transport
problems.
The town, in which American efficiency
and civilisation lie cheek by jowl with
the barbarity of the original shanty-town
standards, has the only worth-while
secondary industry in a thousand miles
of almost uninhabited Queensland, It
produces large quantities of lead, zinc,
copper and silver which it ships out of
Townsville 600 miles to the east and
from which all its stores must come. Its
fuel, thousands of tons of coal and coke,
comes from Collinsville and Bowen, a
matter of 750 miles. To the north-west
runs the war-time-built road through
Camooweal and the Barkly Tableland
to meet the north-south highway to
Darwin. Over that road must pass the
stores for a vast area and, it is hoped,
large numbers of cattle to add to those
which at present pass out through
Kajabbi and Dajarra to the north and
south respectively.
You’d think that the railway which
must handle all that vital traffic would
be regarded as important. It would be
in darkest Africa, but not in enlightened
Australia. You’d have to search the
world to find anything as horrible as that
pathetic little narrow - gauge line.
Throughout its length it remains much
as it was when it reached Duchess in
1912, betterment works being entirely
unknown. It climbs from the coast over
two pimply ranges of hills, but it does so
with grades and curves which would suit
the Himalayas. Its bridges are flimsy,
and for hundreds of miles it drops down
to spindly 421 b. rails. Its locomotives
were the last word in 1916 and would
hardly pull your hat off in a gale.
Money spent on that shocking rail-
way could halve the cost of haulage, and
that would benefit every person and every
industry in the whole area, but while
there’s £10,000,000 to be spent on air-
ports this year there’s not a penny-piece
for the vital railways like that one,—
Transporticus (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 113
Across.
I—Very noisy, Chauvinistic speech-
making is glaring. (8)
4—More reckless complement to
fried eggs. (6)
7—Tune cared for people who think
highly of the capacities and
potentialities of aviation. (9)
10—Dash hidden by 24 across. (4)
12— Girl has 150 on a grain. (7)
13— European suggests how you
might tell if the Scottish Johnny
has been doped. (7.)
14— Sank the teeth into everything,
but I get a Melbourne Cup win-
ner of a generation ago. (7)
16 —Nothing less inconsiderable than
me about a lake. (4)
18 — Waggish structure with a
thoroughfare through it. (4)
19— Ravines. (7)
21 — Duck the park-official who is
colored much more like the
Valencias. (7)
22 A smile’s disturbing to this girl. (7)
24 Thin list. (4)
25 — Dickensian hypocrite is a sign of
Gregory’s contempt. (9)
26 — Hungry lions and tigers in an
aicroplane? (6)
27 —Flower mother to equip the
venerable. (8)
Down.
1 — Essayist coin is the substance of
4 across. (7, 5)
2 A crumb and a blood-vessel. (5)
3 Prod as a way of attracting
attentions. (5)
5 Name ten and a rising wood-
cutter. (6)
6 The fellow has a creeper steamer
in the weight. (9)
8— Whose delight was dramatised by
Robert Sherwood? (6)
9 Refine Diana’s cashbox. (7)
ll—Turf ends fade (anagram). (12)
14— A villain concealed by any Nam-
bucca ne’er-do-well. (9)
15— Support a light cart in a bowling
stratagem. (3-4)
17 —Refrigerates a hundred acclivities.
(6)
20 —Moslem general to swallow the
end of the programme for a
meeting. (6)
22 Objective of many pilgrims gives
me *v.o hundred and one. (5)
23 — Log is hidden by an Irish city. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 112.


LOOK YOUR BEST!
The secret of the smart appearance of Stamina
Trousers even after years of dry cleaning is -
1, The beautiful dyes used, that never fade.
2, The wonderful "wrinkle-resistant" Crusader
worsteds that never shrink.
3, The special "cut" of the Trousers
obtainable only in Stamina Brand.
»
m
\
■
<■ *
mm ■
■ Mm
im::
s ■
y:m
mm
. .
k MM
:■■ r :
■ *
■■
! / ' K ' ‘
ill
•S' ■
*
¥
;/ ¥¥•.
■
i
: :
: ■: v.
: : :
ss
£ £s;s
S|if . . a
: :: .
SS
* ' ► I
mx:-.:
B 8&:
■x-?
• »
:
• £
sSSS
mi
mm
mm
11
mm
vmtf
mm
m
m
m
*>B3Bb2«< :
KEEP FIT:
You will find health in every pair of Stamina.
Each wool fibre in Stamina Trousers acts like a
thermostat. It allows the skin to breathe and
protects you from heat and cold, acting as a
natural regulator of body temperature.
It cuts down the danger of chills..
%
I
BUY
STRENGTH?
Why is it an
economy to buy
Stamina Trousers?
The special pure
wool fibres
in Crusader cloth,
diameter for
diameter, are
STRONGER THAN
STEEL. You are
wise to buy
t mnsfirs that DO
ipavy wear.
mm
CLOTHES
Secure your Staminas before
it is too late.
Only limited quantities are
now available.
The present auction price of wool will
probably mean that soon, the few
Stamina Trousers that are available
will be about £5.10.0.
THE PRES
ENT PRICE IS
o
ASK FOR
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED
FROM
(Hats a to
(Hlntb
