

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3718
Wednesday, May 16, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
WALES EVER REMEMBERS THE HEROIC MEN OF HARLECH
IN no part of the British Isles has the march of time and history left so
much in evidence as in Wales, the land of castles, where over a hundred still
remain today—each marking the centre of armed struggle and the centres of
administration until Wales was joined to England with its own representatives
at Parliament in London. Throughout its long history Wales has known
many invaders, which included Roman, Anglo-Saxon, Scandinavian and
Norman, but the Welsh, with heroic determination, never failed to hold some
remote mountain fastness which they could still call their own.
During the reign of Edward I (1272-1307) a chain of six fortresses was
built as military bases for the subjugation of Wales. One of the most imposing
of these is Harlech Castle in Merionethshire. The castle was built in 1285
upon a summit of rock commanding the marshy expanse of Morfa Harlech,
two hundred feet below. Few castles in the homeland are so nobly situated,
and the view from its battlements is recognised as one of the finest in Wales.
Clearly visible are the Caernarvonshire mountains, chief among which is the
peak of Snowdon and the bulky Manods at the head of the Vale of Ffestiniog.
Harlech Castle, one of the best examples of the Edwardian system of
concentric fortification, was captured by the famous Welsh hero, Owen
Glendower. In 1460, after the Battle of Northampton, during which Henry VI
was captured by the Yorkists, his wife, Queen Margaret of Anjou, was given
refuge in the castle. The fortress was besieged by the Yorkists in 1468, and
its stubborn defence under Dafydd ap Einion inspired the famous Welsh
national song “The March of the Men of Harlech.”
The last event in the castle’s stormy history took place in 1647, when it
was again attacked, and its defenders, holding out for King Charles I, finally
surrendered to the Parliamentarians after a siege which lasted one year.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne. Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address .
(5.8.151)
Age,
The Red Page
CRY OF A LONE WOLF .
Wyndham Lewis, who called one of
his magazines “The Enemy” and the
other by the formidable title of “Blast,”
has always taken the pose of the lone
wolf in contemporary letters, and it is in
the same role that his ululation is heard
again in Rude Assignment (Hutchinson) ;
a kind of cerebral autobiography in which
Mr. Lewis runs through his previous
books, tells how he came to write them,
and bites .back at the critics and the
public.
The theme developed in the book—
not new, but stated with force- —is that
the artist in contemporary society is
driven into the outlawry of the lone
wolf. There are two publics, the high-
brow and the lowbrow; and, lacking his
traditional audience of middlebrows
which has been corrupted by cheap films,
cheap novels and cheap newspapers, the
serious artist is obliged to write for the
limited audience of highbrows:
The Public influences everything: Joyce’s
Finnegans Wake was conditioned by it, or
the pictures of Paul Klee. The first-named
is a specialist’s book, the second are a
specialist’s pictures. Neither has any organs
for the outer atmosphere of the market-
place. Both inhabit the thickening twilight
of the arts, both are creatures adapted to
that twilight.
Mr. Lewis is himself, of course, at
least in The Childermass (which left with
the present reviewer the impression of a
sackful of fog, and which Mr. Lewis now
threatens to complete if the State will
subsidise him to do so) a creature of the
twilight. And even when as in Tarr, The
Wild Body or Snooty Baronet he has
spoken in a clear and powerful voice, he
has suffered that general neglect of the
middlebrows of which he complains: he
has never sold a tenth as well as A. J.
Cronin or Daphne du Maurier. As an
inhabitant of the twilight, as the inventor
of anew style of physiological descrip-
tion in the brutal, limited and strangely
compelling satire of The Apes of God,
he is not going to attack the highbrows;
Enjoying as I do this kind of work (being
a specialist) I am as alive as any pundit
to the fact that this exclusive “highbrow”
workshop, catering for a very small Public,
has something remarkable to show for
itself. Out of its very limitations and frus-
trations, it has created something. Its little
dark and stony desert has flowered. Like
a prison-art, or the introspection of the
recluse, or the strange genius of the
demented, it will survive in some form as
an integral part of our cultural expression.
Some people would treat it as a permanent
institution, and why not?
But to accept such works as Finnegans
Wake or Gertrude Stein’s “dark stam-
mering voice of a social dissolution”—
to accept them for what value may be
in them and because, anyhow, they exist
—is not the same thing as to approve of
them in principle. Mr. Lewis is anxious
to see the arts move out of the desert
into society again. He criticises Picasso,
though with the note of respect one
would expect from a fellow-traveller in
abstract art:
A great vogue exists for what is in fact
the grotesque: the reverse of the beauty
and order upon which we have turned our
backs. Mr. Robert Barr, formerly director
of the Modern Museum in New York,
possesses a great talent for classification.
To the intense disgust of those commercially
or otherwise interested in the matter, he
classified much of Picasso’s work as
“comic.” It is, I believe, the correct
pigeonhole. Much of his output consists of
highbrow jokes. “Comic” is in no sense
a derogatory term: but it, might interfere
with cultural uplift, or militate against a
meaty sale, to an uplifted “sucker.”
And he sums up:
This decay of all form and elegance is
the expression of our defeatism, of our
pessimism. We no longer feel able to cope
with our world, much less to give it a
beautiful order. We eschew “beauty”
therefore. But it is not merely that the
effort to create it is too great. We no
longer desire it In my criticism of
“L’ecole dc Paris” I have never gone so
far as to get out of sympathy. But as a
philosophy it has seemed to me uncreative.
It makes the best of a bad job, perhaps:
and we all do that, after all. It is only
when people insist too much that it is a
good job—that it is not a pis-aller with
foundations that are unreal and highly
unsatisfactory—that I grow restless. Wildly
to acclaim disaster is the worst type of
defeatism. There is nothing so bad as
lyrical enthusiasm about defeat... .Art of
the first order must be lost in this cul-de-
sac. A whole society, not an unrepresenta-
tive fragment, is demanded by great gifts
of speech.
Since the public increasingly with-
draws from the artist, and the artist from
the public, “very soon,” Mr. Lewis
believes, “except for a small sensitive
spot (the area of which diminishes daily)
the entire human consciousness will be
unresponsive to all stimuli except the
coarsest and stupidest.” He has no
general remedy for bringing society and
the artist together again ; but, disliking
private patronage because it tends to con-
firm the artist in his eccentricity, sug-
ŵ
Lite of Gandhi
ẃ
of British administrators, was simply that
Indians should stand up straight and
demand full rights as citizens. They
might hold meetings, march, refuse work
and disobey officials, but they must not
raise a hand to defend themselves. For
this they would be beaten, shot or jailed.
Then the force of circumstances would
go to work. Britain, busily explaining
to the world that British rule was neces-
sary to keep the peace in India, would
be asked why so many unarmed and un-
offending people were being beaten, shot,
or jailed—why, in short, the peace was
not being kept. There would be an
official inquiry, a conference, and Gandhi
would gain another point.
Comparatively early in the piece, at
Amritsar in 1919, the British went as far
as arms could go against Gandhi’s tech-
nique : a handful of Indian troops under
the direction of a British general fired
1650 bullets into a meeting, killing 379
and wounding more than a thousand.
There was an inquiry. The general, who
admitted that he might have dispersed
the crowd without firing, but wanted “to
make a wide impression,” was asked to
resign. A wide impression certainly re-
mained: that it was bad form to fight
Gandhi with bullets.
There were still two powerful British
weapons: the British jail, and the British
charm. But with Gandhi, “going to
prison was essential to arousing the
nation for liberation.” Mr. Justice Broom-
field, who sentenced him to six years' jail
in 1919, heard what Gandhi had to say,
bowed to him, and said: —-
The determination of a just sentence is
perhaps as difficult a proposition as a judge
in this country could have to face. The
law is no respecter of persons. Neverthe-
less it will be impossible to ignore the fact
that you are in a different category from
any person I have ever tried or am likely
to try. It would be impossible to ignore
the fact that, in the eyes of millions of
your countrymen, you are a great patriot
and a great leader. Even those who differ
from you in politics look upon you as a
great man of high ideals and of noble and
even saintly life.
“The British,” Mr. Fischer adds,
“obliged and sent him to prison often.
But this was the last time they tried
him.”
Gandhi was in jail again in 1931, after
Indian demonstrations on behalf of the
right to gather their own salt (much as if
Australians were to stand up for their
right to make home-brew), when Ramsay
MacDonald turned on the British charm ;
Gandhi was let out and asked to England.
Mr. Churchill, who a little while previ-
ously had spoken of “the nauseating and
humiliating spectacle of this one-time
Inner-Temple lawyer, now seditious
fakir, striding half-naked up the steps of
the Viceroy’s palace, there to negotiate
and to parley on equal terms with the
representative of the King-Emperor,’
veiled his eyes from the worse apparition
of this same fakir, wearing only loin-
clbth, sandals, shawl and dangling watch,
going to tea at Buckingham Palace with
the King-Emperor himself:
Later, someone asked Gandhi whether he
had had enough on. “The King,” he
replied, “had enough on for both of us.”
At Oxford, a group of dons made much
of him. One later compared him with
Socrates:
Like Socrates, he has a “daemon.” And
when the “daemon” has spoken he is as
unmoved by argument as by danger
1 can still hear Lindsay’s [Master of Balliol]
desperate tones as he cited Cromwell’s
appeal to the Presbyterian ministers—“ln
the bowels of Christ, I beseech you to
think that you may be mistaken”—and
added, “Mr. Gandhi! Think it possible
that you may be mistaken I” Mr. Gandhi
did not think it possible.
The force of circumstances at its most
irresistible, in the persuasions of Roose-
velt, met at last an immovable object, in
the person of Mr. Churchill, during the
recent war. Perhaps, if Mr. Churchill
had remained in power long enough to
outlive Gandhi, India might still have
been British, though towards the end of
the Churchill Ministry, says Mr. Fischer,
opinion seemed to be wavering; and he
shows the new Viceroy, Lord Wavell, in
London, as working for Indian indepen-
dence. Besides, Gandhi had arranged
with the force of circumstances that he
should live 125 years.
But the force of circumstances was of
value to Gandhi only so long as the
British opposed Indian independence. As
their opposition waned, it began to work
against him, producing the Moslem Mr.
Jinnah, and Pakistan, dividing the India
he wanted to keep whole, and producing
Nathuram Godse, who killed Gandhi in
the name of Gandhi's own caste, the
Hindus, because Gandhi was trying to
protect Moslems in Hindu districts. As
he lived, so he died: by the force of
circumstances.
To inspire more than 300 million
people, most of them slipshod and
illiterate, to stand together for their
common benefit, may have been com-
paratively easy; but to ensure that,
having got them on the march, in practical
ẅ
The Age of Elizabeth.
ŵ
(Continued on page 35.)


w
ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns
Attractive—Chrome Plated
Cigarette Cases
Attractively finished with chrome plating these strongly
made cigarette cases are of British make and of the
strongest material. The outside cover of the case is engraved
in a neat but fancy design, with an inlet to have initials
engraved upon it. These cigarette cases are reasonably
priced at only 31 j- each.
Ladies’ solid 9ct. Gold “Temprex" 17 jewel Swixa Lever
Wrist Watch on solid 9ct. Gold link band, in lovely
presentation case. Price £2 1.
Make sure those keys are always safe and on hand
with a Sterling Silver Key Chain with strong chrome
fittings. Price 35/-.
mm
Srf.;.
7
■■
■■l
%'ii
HH
.•
g»;
; SQ I
m
WBm
91 ■
'
m
I ' g
: . I
. v:'”: .
K
Wi
■
/-
V-
,
-
-
*"*
* -
a '
k
'y
■
- '•&* t
m
>■
m
■
'
<- *
1
'
Hill
ill
lv;
m
:
i '
;mw
SSSS
hr
1
Hi
ii
CP
to
7, ' ‘ "-V , ,
■ ,-3>’
h f -/M
» \y^-
UM
..sti'v
JrT
0^
s ■■
Ct
M
m
m
m
■>g-
■
mmm
m
m
v :.
ili '
9
m
is
Mmmmm
mKM
«•
m
■
i
c r
■' « T 1
.
ft
v> .. " v •■••
7\~ g
■;« >
P;
m
■■’n
s: ;
U
mu
unpi
■
- ,
g'f
S.
®il i
:
ii
p»
HX
aßsflfl
|V
ms
* ■ ftW**' t v * * > 7V# -
m
mmm
wm
A beautiful Triple string set of lovely
gleaming white Pearls to add that finishing
touch to your street or evening wear. In
lovely presentation case. Price £B/5/-.
To match Pearls on left,
lure Pearl Earrings
sterling silver with
A very attractive present
1
gleaming RicK-
strongly set in
strong earclasps.
21/- pair.
“Fenchurch" Gents I 5 Jewel Swiss Lever Pocket Watch.
Strongly made and having an easily readable face this
Gents nickel chromed watch is priced at £B/7/6,
Don’t suffer sagging sleeve discomfort. "May-
fair” Gold filled Armbands, reasonably priced
at 25/- pair.
Long lasting, attractive silver lined sleeve links.
Price 25/- pair. Chrome Plated Piccadilly Arm-
bands priced at only 8/ 1 1 pair.
WATCH REPAIRS EXPERTLY EXECUTED
If your watch is not working as well as it should
you would be doing a good turn to your watch
and yourself by sending it to our Watch Repair
Department, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ JEWELLERY DEPT.. GROUND FLOOR. PITT ST.
M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. POSTAGE EXTRA.


HE PATTERN OF PROGRESS
mm
.
mm
mm
ii iiil
M JSt
a
m
tm
Wmm
m
m
m
m
m
■ m
it*
mm
11
•4
ii
M
i
m
■ ■ •. ■- -:
ill
«**<?
h
MM
■
:
W^ssmaws^
m
k mm
■ ; aw
«.•••
ilii
;*■
mm
mm
wm
> y-i **V ** ?
■v ; „< <f "W‘
H H
Ii
■HH iili ■■
Mi
■H
iswn
j ;..';■.
Hun
■
"• vii
Wmm
' :<4>i
■'l
*;-;V
mm
y
: '• , ■
Throughout Australia today vast
plans for the development of our
natural resources are taking
shape.
Mighty machines, crawler trac-
tors, scrapers, excavators, rock
crushing plant and all the para-
phernalia of modern construction
allied to International Power and
ranged against the forces of
nature to keep faith with the
steady development begun by
our forebears 150 years ago.
We of ISAS are justly proud of
our association with this massive
array of equipment which, during
this year of Jubilee, is contribut-
ing to this pattern of progress.
uaMOd iviaxsnam
IVNOUVNUaiNI
'/////
Wfms
W.
m i ■
M
■•>........
■'•■'a ~ ,
SOLD AND SERVICED BY
dwfThtjf/
international
harvester
AO7O
n
mn
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBRNE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HOBART ROELRIOE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
VoL 72—No. 3718
Wednesday, May 16, 19S1
SAINT SAM AND THE DRAGON.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0, ), Wellington.
PACTS AND FACTS.
One of the first matters with which the
new Federal Cabinet will have to deal will
be the arrangements for a Pacific pact
with the United States. Mr. Menzies has
already said that no matter what agree-
ments for a Pacific pact were entered
into with the United States, Australia’s
first loyalty would continue to be to the
peoples of British nationality. That
should go without saying, but it does not
seem to square with other statements
made by Australian representatives
abroad.
On the face of it the arrangements
proposed by President Truman look
simple, and so they would be if there
were not so much that is contentious in
Pacific policy as between some nations
of the British Commonwealth and the
United States. American public opinion,
formed by its Press and radio, and the
American Government to a lesser but still
great extent, approaches all relationships
with Britain and its associated British
countries in a spirit of superiority, which
is becoming rather galling. The United
States attitude appears to be based on the
assumption that the United Kingdom is
a spent force and that American domin-
ance both in policy and in command
must be taken for granted.
The United States is at variance with
Britain and some other countries on the
question of the Japanese peace treaty and
on the recognition of the Chinese Com-
munist Government. The question is not
of who is right and who is wrong in the
matter but of whether it is wise for the
nations of the British Commonwealth to
split their forces through some com-
ponents openly aligning themselves
with the United States in matters fruitful
of international contention.
The British are apparently prepared to
go as far as they can in leaving Pacific
and Oriental policy to Australia and
other British nations on this side of the
world. They have established their
guided-missile base in Australia. They
have left the overall command of their
troops in Japan and Korea to an Aus-
tralian, though a British general, who
was Chief British Military Liaison-
officer in Melbourne, takes over the fight-
ing command of the new British Com-
monwealth Division, of which the largest
ingredients will be British and Canadian.
Yet at the same time they were obvi-
ously startled by the independent
approach to the Dominions of President
Truman.
In the House of Commons, Mr. Morri-
son, the United Kingdom , Foreign Secre-
tary, said that “of course we are a Pacific
Power, and it would not have been un-
welcome to us if we had been included
in the proposed pact,” but that the Gov-
ernment was nevertheless “entirely satis-
fied that Australia and New Zealand
should represent the interests of the
United Kingdom and the Commonwealth
as a whole.” Whether he was equally
satisfied with the explanation given by
the “Washington Post,” which often
echoes U.S. official opinion, that the
United Kingdom was left out because its
“colonialism” was unpalatable to Asian
peoples, is another matter.
At any rate the effects of the omission
are already evident, apparently both in
our own and in American policy. Im-
mediately following the President’s
announcement of the offer of the pact,
his Ambassador-at-large, Mr. Dulles, be-
gan discussions of the Japanese peace
treaty with Mr. Yoshida, the Japanese
Prime Minister, and General Ridgway;
they are being described in Tokyo as “the
three architects of the peace treaty,”
irrespective of the fact that the British
Commonwealth, Russia and other coun-
tries, including China, have some moral
right to consultation.
“The Times” reported on the day on
which these discussions were taking place
that “Australian officials in Tokyo to-
day criticised the United Kingdom draft
of the treaty,” that they said “the
Australian Government was no longer
interested in imposing any restriction
upon Japan, because the United States
has guaranteed the security of Australia
and New Zealand,” and that the “latest
American offer was a definite commit-
ment to defend Australia against any
kind of aggression.”
This is a superficially comfortable, if
miserably humiliating, outlook, and a very
startling one in view of the fact that the
United Kingdom draft is based on the
decision of the Colombo Conference on
the peace treaty to which Australia be-
came wholly a party. It is almost as
unreal as the statement also made that
the United Kingdom “was too far re-
moved from the Pacific to appreciate
what was happening here and lacked a
sense of urgency.”
It is no wonder that the expression of
these views by Australian officials
has been “widely publicised” in
the Japanese Press, which is “anxious
to hear from Mr. Dulles about
the delicate relations between Britain’s
foreign policy and the United States atti-
tude towards Japan.” It will be a won-
der if the Communists do not make the
most of these clumsy Australian asser-
tions uttered at a time when Russia and
Communist China gleefully welcome any-
thing which will help to split the Allies,
make a reasonable peace impossible and
throw Japan into the arms of the Com-
munist world, which envisages a much
softer peace to Nippon than that pro-
posed by the other Allies. Moscow’s pro-
posals include the handing-back to Japan
of her island territories and a protective
alliance.
It is mischievous rubbish to talk about
the remoteness of the United Kingdom
from the Pacific. The British have shown
themselves mpre realistic than any other
country in their recent dealings with Asia,
and after Mr. Morrison’s gesture to Aus-
tralia and his frank concession of British
representation on this side of the world
to us, our representatives seem to show
a poor spirit, more particularly since, in
terms of actual strength, Britain and
Canada are contributing about eight
times the force to Pacific and other Asian
defence as are ourselves and New
Zealand.
The British have the whole of the de-
fence of our trade-routes to Europe on
their hands, from Gibraltar to Hong
Kong. They have land and air forces
scattered over the whole of that route.
They have almost the entire burden of
dealing with Communist infiltration in
Malaya, though we are just as much in-
terested in the defence of that country as
a source of rubber and tin.
It is to be hoped that if the Govern-
ment at Canberra is determined to give
no more than lip-service to the British
Commonwealth ideal it will see the im-
plications of its action clearly. It means
that we may be in danger of war with
countries with which the rest of the
Commonwealth is at peace, and ranged
at times behind American policy, which
is not always in the best interests of our-
selves and the rest of the Common-
wealth.
Canada has seen the danger, and its
Prime Minister, Mr. St. Laurent, and its
External Affairs Minister, Mr. Pearson,
have both within recent months defined
their position. Speaking at the Canadian
Club in London last January, Mr. St.
Laurent said that “the Commonwealth
would survive only if we do not seek to
force too great an integration upon it,”
but he characterised the dictum of the
United Kingdom Minister for Common-
wealth Relations that the Common-
wealth contains within itself “the only
real bridge between Asia and the West”
as “almost literally true.”
He expressed the view that in “the
achievement of freedom and inde-
pendence for the nations of Asia, the
British Commonwealth has shown the
way”—a view which is sharply contrary
to that of the United States, which has
come to regard itself as the arbiter of
world freedom and almost as general-
manager of the globe at large.
Though Canada acknowledges U.S.
world leadership, its Foreign Minister,
Mr. L. B. Pearson, has made it sharply
clear that Canada does not intend to have
its policy made for it by the United
States. Its attitude is dictated for it
by its own spirit of independence and
conception of its national needs, backed
by a determination not to lean comfort-
ably on the arm of its great American
sister-nation across the border, but “in
fact to really pull our weight in the inter-
national team and prove it by action
rather than merely by word,” at the same
time neither being “pulled along nor
loitering behind.”
This is a policy based on self-respect
which Australia might well copy. In its
Jubilee year this country has certainly
fallen low if the point of view of its
Government was accurately expressed in
Tokyo by its spokesmen.
Parliamentary Standards.
The Federal Government has been re-
turned with a sound majority in numbers
in the House of Representatives, and
with a bare majority in the Senate,
which leaves no margin for sickness or
difference among its members. It faces
redoubled obstruction by a “Labor”
party which can only maintain its co-
hesion by all-out war on its opponents
as the alternative to civil war in its own
ranks, now bitterly divided on the Com-
munist issue, and with some of its sections
looking eagerly for a scapegoat.
Unfortunately, numbers do not mean
everything to a Government in office, and
it seems clear that Mr. Menzies has not
a surplus of abijity behind him, as any-
body in a reflective Jubilee frame of mind
could soon convince himself.
In 1901 the country had half its present
population, higher education was a
luxury, standards of living, by the con-
cepts of comfort in 1951, were very low.
Opportunity for advancement in politics
had to be sought in fierce competition,
and there were few spectacular rises to
eminence. Yet the standards have un-
doubtedly fallen in proportion to the
increase of wealth, power and comfort.
Australia, which has grown up into a
nation with a recognised place in the
world, rich, prosperous to the point of
danger, is less adequately served by
leadership than it was in the heady days
of its beginnings.
Possibly the cause is to be sought in
the regimentation of politics which have
given outside organisations an iron grip
on party-membership.
There were, of course, parties before
and at Federation, but their leadership
was really seated in the Parliamentary
heads. Sometimes the election organisa-
tions outside did attempt to exercise
control over members, or to dictate, but,
as some of them learnt by experience, this
was a poor game when played with, say,
Deakin.
Today money has become a much
more powerful influence in electioneering
than it was. The days are long over
when W. C. Wentworth could fight a
seat in a long-remembered battle —as he
did almost exactly a century ago—for
something like £BO, in which the biggest
item was a sum under £3O for advertising
in the “Sydney Morning Herald.” Even
in 1901 the position still existed in which
an independent, able man with a few
personal friends had a good chance of
making a showing at the polls if his ideas
appealed to the majority of electors.
Those days are forgotten. On the
“Labor” side selection is made by
a secret junta. The candidate sells
his soul on a written pledge to
obey like a soldier. He receives
his orders at intervals. He has no duty
except to vote and speak as he is told.
And woe betide him if he shows inde-
pendence of spirit! “Labor’s” subser-
vience to its outside politbureau which
represents nobody but a close union-
financed corporation of delegates, some
of them enemies of the Constitution and
their head an advocate of peace-time gov-
ernment by regulation, has become so
abject that its so-called leader, Mr.
Chifley, frequently, even in election cam-
paigns, admits it. He is not master of his
party. He is merely its ganger, put there
to see that it carries out the orders of
Mr. Ferguson and his. fellow political
commissars, who form the real Cabinet
of “Labor.”
In the Liberal party, unfortunately, a
tendency to imitation is not lacking. In
its search for “democracy” that party in
some States has achieved a method of
selection of candidates which almost
guarantees mediocrity from a Parlia-
mentary point of view.
In any case the selectors are an elec-
tion-winning body. They are seeking a
candidate who will make a spectacular
appeal to the electorate rather than one
who can be depended on to serve it ably
in the House. Any show of independence
of spirit, any deviation from principles
which are believed to be popular, is
likely to condemn an aspirant. He must
toe the party line to the inch. And if
he doesn’t, unless he is a millionaire, he
has little chance of fighting on his own
account.
There was a time when the Federal
Parliament rarely saw men without pre-
vious Parliamentary experience in the
State Parliaments. Candidates were con-
sidered better for having served that
apprenticeship. Now party organisations
appear to frown on such transfers. For
a State member to resign his seat to
contest a Federal seat means that the
party is put to the trouble and expense
of a State by-election.
But in any case Federal Parliament
appears to have lost its glamor to some
extent. With its descent towards medio-
crity and with the tightening upon it of
outside control, the prestige and privilege
attaching to the two Houses as arbiters
of the destiny of the country is being
sapped away.
The rank-and-file of their Ministries are
being selected very strictly on a State
basis, it having become an axiom that no
matter how poor a vintage a particular
State sends along it is entitled to repre-
sentation in the Cabinet, with the conse-
quence that almost every Cabinet contains
a sprinkling of Ministers who could
scarcely earn a living as office-boys.
The very fact that the Presidency of
the Senate has come to be regarded as
one which can be decided in Cabinet
shows how much Parliament is becoming
a mere piece of party machinery. But
last week’s incident is only in line with
the news which leaked out some time
ago that the organiser of the Jubilee cele-
brations would fix the date of the next
sitting of Parliament, a matter which is
very much the prerogative of Parliament
itself.
It seems time that Parliament began
to look to its dignities and privileges.
These do not reside in Ministers, because
when they do Parliament ceases to matter.
They belong to the body of members, and
equally to each House, The Houses
might begin this session by dealing with
those of its members who insist on taking
their orders openly from outside juntas.
And they might deal with those juntas
if they can get the evidence against them
that they are intimidating or dictating
how members shall vote in Parliament—
this irrespective of party.
The core of both Communist and
Socialist policy, though it is not always
publicly admitted for obvious reasons, is
the destruction of Parliament and its
replacement by soviets or trade-union
boards. The present trends, both in selec-
tion of candidates and in the conception
of Ministries of what Parliament is, tend
to help this policy along. Canberra needs
a little more of the spirit of the House
of Commons, in which the Committee of
Privileges is a powerful body and
members are jealous of their rights, which,
on a non-party basis, they see are
maintained even against Ministers. It
is necessary that they should do this if
Parliamentary government is to survive.
And it is also necessary that the standard
of Parliament should be raised.
Golf-balls and Brassieres.
lx is, perhaps, heartening to observe that
although the production of butter has
fallen so heavily in the first quarter of
1951 as to cause a cessation of exports,
the production of brassieres and golf-
balls has increased by 5000 dozen and
6000 dozen respectively.
Thus at least two sections of the com-
munity are being kept happy, and this
should offset the non-supply of butter to
the British, and may help to even up, if
not to the economist’s satisfaction at
least to the psychologist’s, the consequent
loss in export revenue.
The Australian Dairy Produce Board
doesn’t know how long the export butter
ban will continue, though it says it will
not issue any more export-permits until
production improves. This is necessary
so that we don’t go short of butter our-
selves, and “off-season production has
declined so rapidly that the Australian
demand is believed to be already 50,000
boxes above the available supply.”
The puts the decline down to a
dry season in most of the dairy districts;
but there is more than that. For a long
time now the effects of the 40-hour-week
economy have been pressing heavily on
the dairying industry. Efficient labor is
almost impossible to get, even at wages
which would have startled our fathers.
Meat prices have made the dairy cow
much more valuable as a meat proposi-
tion, and hundreds of dairyfarmers have
decided that £l2 to £l5 a week of 40-
hours in a city job is a sight better than
£lO a week and any hours on the farm.
Everybody interested knows all about
this, but nobody seems to know what to
do about it. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is already paying a butter sub-
sidy so that Australians can have their
butter for about 25 p.c. less than they’d
have to pay otherwise, and six different
Prices Ministers have six different ideas
about what the price should be, and-—for
political as well as other reasons—they
leave it alone.
Still, such is the Australian economy
and such the Australian attitude to life
in general that it can be reasonably
assumed that nothing much will go
wrong so long as the output of golf-balls
(now ss. each and likely to rise) and
brassieres (now averaging 15s. and likely
to rise) is maintained. After all, one only
eats butter.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The New Cabinet.
Cabinet continues its growth, like the
civil service, which now appears to have
no limits despite assurances of the Gov-
ernment leaders when they were in Oppo-
sition.
Legislation is to be introduced to in-
crease Cabinet numbers from 19 to 20.
Yet some of its members, as soon as they
enter office, will sign a delegation of
powers to permanent officials by which
they reduce themselves to the status of
rubber - stamps. Some conservative
hater of pure Socialism in the Liberal
party should ask to have laid on the
table of the House the delegations
signed by some of these Ministers.
Three new members have been added
to fill the places left vacant by the
resignations of Dame Enid Lyons, Mr.
Spender (who has gone to Washington
as Ambassador) and Mr. White (to the
High Commissionership in London).
The basic guiding principle in the con-
struction of the Cabinet is the State factor,
which not merely makes it necessary to
bring representatives of all parts of the
country into office on a basis which will
satisfy the States but which also calls
for a careful balance of precedence.
Mr. Kent Hughes will be a welcome
addition. He has had considerable
Ministerial experience, and was Deputy
Premier of Victoria. And as he is to fill
the office of Minister for the Interior and
Housing his independent views on
foreign affairs and the Japanese peace
treaty may not inconvenience his leaders.
Victoria had to have a fresh representa-
tive to replace Mr. White, and Kent
Hughes is of such a calibre that it would
have been hard to pass hirji over.
Apart from the other two members
who received the call (Mr. Paul Hasluck
and Mr. A. G. Townley), at least half-a-
dozen, including Messrs. F. M. Osborne,
Cramer, McMahon (N.S.W.) and
Davidson (Q.), merited consideration,
but they are only in the waiting line
because Dame Enid Lyons was a Tas-
manian, and Western Australia, having
proved itself by its Senate vote a Liberal
State, must have priority of representa-
tion. Mr. Hasluck becomes Minister for
Territories, Mr. Townley gets Social Ser-
vices, Senator Spooner having moved up
to National Development.
And, whatever happens, Mr. Francis,
from Queensland, being the doyen of the
Queensland Liberals and the division
of Ministries as between the Liberals and
Country party having to be arranged
according to a nice party balance, must
be Minister for the Army, while Mr.
Davidson, a live and capable C.P. man,
takes a back seat as Deputy-Whip. The
administration of the Army was a blank
failure during the past term of the
Government.
There are other curiosities in the
Cabinet’s reconstruction, particularly in
the matter of precedence.
However, the proof of the pudding is
in the eating. Mr. Menzies now has
a chance to prove his real mettle with
majorities in both Houses, with at last
three States willing to delegate him their
powers to deal with Communism, and
with a mandate to make defence efficient
and to put the Commonwealth Bank on
a business basis and see what can be
done about production, inflation and
prices.
Canada, Cuba and Sugar.
Cries of outrage from the sugar-belt
over the Canadian-Cuban sugar agreement
signed last week arose from those who
overlook the fact that the Canadians
have some rights in the matter and their
hands have apparently been forced by
British Food Ministry trading.
By the agreement Canada will buy
75,000 tons of Cuban raw sugar a year
for three years. Hitherto she had got
most of her sugar (600,000 tons a year)
from Empire countries, mainly Australia,
Jamaica and Trinidad. Local sugar in-
terests promptly pointed out that this is
going to lose us about 2,000,000 dollars,
though not till after the British-Australian
sugar agreement expires at the end of
1952.
Under that agreement the British Food
Ministry undertook to buy all surplus
Empire sugar, and Queensland Premier
Hanlon came back from a sugar con-
ference in London a few weeks ago
jubilantly announcing that Australia’s
share of it would be 600,000 tons a year.
The Food Ministry then sells to Canada
from this Empire pool, and rakes in
good dollar profits on it. It was doing
somewhat the same sort of thing not so
long ago when it bought our wheat at
International Wheat Agreement prices
and then resold to other countries for a
profit of anything up to 2s. a bushel. At
present, if anybody loses dollars over the
Canadian-Cuban agreement it is the Food
Ministry—which thought nothing of
losing well over £4O million on peanuts
and eggs in Africa.
Under Empire preference Australia and
other British countries got their sugar
into Canada at 28 Canadian cents duty
per 1001 b. The tariff to others is about
128 cents. Canadians expected this to
result in Empire sugar prices being cut
by around 80 cents per 1001 b., but all they
got was a cut of about 15 cents, just
enough to undersell non-Empire com-
petitors. This, of course, would be a
British Food Ministry operation. Any-
how, Canada got a bit sick of it, and
though Cuba will still pay the old tariff,
Canadian refiners will be allowed a rebate
to bring the price they pay for Cuban
sugar to what they’d have paid for
Empire sugar. This may force the Food
Ministry to reduce its price and cost it
dollars. On the face of it, that was to
be expected, since Canadian authorities
are presumably as interested in keeping
food prices down as anyone else.
Doubtless the Australian sugar interests
now raising the roof will claim they’re
looking to the future, though others may
think they’re squealing before they’re
hurt, since any kick they’re likely to
feel won’t arrive until well into 1953.
And if the future is to be considered —
it seems to have been neglected in this
country for too long—not only sugar-
men but all producers of exportable food-
stuffs ought to be asking themselves what
sort of a future their products have if
sold in bulk to, and marketed by, a
Socialist outfit like the British Food
Ministry, What’s more, they ought to
ask themselves whether or not Canada,
which knows all about the Australian
shipping ports, isn’t a trifle worried as to
whether Australian sugar can get out
of Australia.. Right now it can’t even
get from one part of Australia to another
in sufficient quantity, though we produce
four times as much as we can eat.
A Nice Cup of Tea.
Here’s a chap blows in from Ceylon,
where he’s a tea-planter, and tells us the
kind of tea we make is awful. After his
first cup on board ship (it’s to be hoped
the galley doesn’t get the spike and call
the seamen out) he “turned to coffee,”
and he “tried to drink tea at Fremantle.
It was awful, and at Melbourne it was
worse,” and our tea, generally, “tastes as
if it were blended with sawdust.”
We’ve got pretty used to overseas
people condemning us because we prefer
roast mutton to goulash, beer to bur-
gundy, tea to coffee, felt hats to tweed
caps—in short, because we do things
they don’t do and like things which are
foreign to them. Some of us have
thought sometimes of going to France
and condemning the French for not drink-
ing beer, or Germany and pointing out
that Irish stew is ahead of sauerkraut, or
of writing to London “Times” drawing
attention to the dreadful accent of the
English; but that would probably be as
big a waste of time as when overseas
critics condemn us.
However, we can’t let this tea-man get
away with it. His criticism is made on
too short experience. Has he, for
instance, sampled railway-refreshment
tea, or the post-and-rail tea of the out-
back, the brew of the shearing-sheds, the
Sydney cafe variety, picnic tea, office tea,
suburban tea, farm tea, racecourse tea,
hospital tea or any of our thousand other
varieties?
No man is competent to declare for
or against us as tea-makers until he has
sampled at least half of these ; and it was
completely unnecessary for the Com-
monwealth Tea Controller to reply to the
Ceylon man saying that our tea blend
was the best in the world and that, in
his opinion, “what the gentleman was
drinking was not tea —it must have been
something else.” That’s obvious, for
there are cafes in Fremantle and Mel-
bourne in which, should you inad-
vertently wander into one of them after
6 p.m., you’d get a beverage in teacups
which certainly wouldn’t be tea.
As it is, the Ceylon man’s strictures
are unlikely to change our tea tastes and
tea-making methods, just as the stric-
tures of others have failed to stop us
eating mutton, drinking beer, buying
simple rather than abstract pictures and
generally acting like Australians instead
of adopting foreign tastes and habits. If
we like our tea to taste as though it’s
mixed with sawdust, why should he
worry? We still buy the stuff from
Ceylon at mighty high prices.
-
California—Here It Comes.
.
Figures released last week showed that
Australia’s population increased during
1950 by 264,917, the total at December
31 being 8,315,799. Natural increase
accounted for 112,412; migration for
152,505. This gives an expansion-rate of
a million in less than four years, which
in pre-war days would have seemed
rather fantastic and which even some
critics of the present year of grace con-
sider beyond the capacity of the country
to absorb. Such doubters should take
a look at the population statistics for
California and other Pacific States of the
U.S.A., as disclosed in the 1950 census.
In the decade 1940-1950 the popula-
tion of the United States increased by
the huge figure of 19,028,086, to a total
of 150,697,361. A census has been held
every 10 years since 1790, and this in-
crease is the greatest ever recorded. All
but a few States, in the midwest, showed
an increase, but far and away the biggest
leaps in population occurred on the
Pacific coast. The State of Washington
boasted 36 per cent, more people in 1950
than in 1940; Oregon was up 38 per
cent.; California 51 per cent. The first
two States are thinly populated by Ameri-
can standards —though Washington has
more people than Victoria and Oregon
more than Queensland —but California
has stepped up into the position of second
most populous State in the Union. In
1940 there were 6,907,387 Californians;
last year there were 10,472,348.
Ten years ago the population of Cali-
fornia was slightly less than that of Aus-
tralia ; today it can give us 2,000,000
and a beating. It has 35 cities bigger
than Broken Hill, Ipswich or Kalgoorlie,
the biggest of them Los Angeles, fourth
city in the Union, with 1,954,036.
The westward trend of population-
growth in the United States is shown by
the relative position of California at cen-
suses since 1900. At the beginning of the
century it was the 21st State in size of
population. By 1910 it was 12th ; 1920,
Bth ; 1930, 6th ; 1940, sth. At last year’s
census it jumped to 2nd, with only New
York ahead of it. Gold gave California
its start; agriculture, with irrigation, set
it on its feet. The film industry, migrat-
ing from the east coast in search of sun-
shine, brought it glamor and wealth;
aircraft and other industries which sprang
up during the war gave an added impetus
to population-growth.
Australians, while drawing inspiration
from the growth of California, should
thoroughly approve the westward move-
ment of America’s centre of population.
It was the opening-up of the western
States that turned America’s attention
towards the Pacific. Without the more
personal interest of the representatives of
California, Oregon and Washington to
move them, the politicians from Maine,
Florida and Connecticut could not have
been expected to concern themselves
overmuch with what went on across the
Pacific —in China, Korea, or for that
matter Australia. May California con-
tinue to flourish!
Defeating the Shack Evil.
Latest quarterly report of the South
Australian Housing Commission notes
that 500 more “emergency dwellings” are
to be built, bringing the total to 2000 in
the Adelaide area, of which 927 are
occupied. Thirty-three contractors are
making erection of the dwellings a top
priority job.
This emergency housing scheme is one
which could well be copied in larger
cities. It aims at getting families out of
the “happy valleys” of tin and hessian
shacks, caravans and other crowded and
disgraceful humpies which disfigure
certain areas.
A Bulletin man who inspected the
S.A. emergency houses found them to be
comparatively roomy, comfortable,
weatherproof and far ahead of the
humpies from which the occupants came.
The occupants themselves, particularly
the women, seemed to think they’d been
transported to palaces. They’re built in
groups on unused ground such as old
military camps, and it was significant
that most of those living in them had
begun gardens and were careful about
interior and exterior tidiness.
Timber-built, with asbestos-cement
outer walls and lined inside, they are
serviced with water, electricity, gas and
sanitary-disposal. Rents range from £1
for a house with one bedroom to £1 7s.
6d. for four bedrooms.
It isn’t claimed that these dwellings are
up to the standard of permanent houses,
but they do overcome that crowding
which occurs in makeshift quarters and
leads to dirt, sickness and worse evils.
Allocation is based on a system of those
with the greatest need being assisted first.
S.A. Housing Trust intends that they
shall be temporary, all of them to come
down as the need_ for them recedes.
Meantime, they provide a practical
method of curing some of the worst
aspects of the housing situation.
New Zealand's Outlook.
From Auckland: Prosperity in New Zea-
land, chained and manacled by the strike
on the waterfront, in the coalmines and
in cement-works, and spiked by trouble
in other industries, will have months of
convalescence ahead before it recovers
its lost buoyancy. The severe rash of
internal troubles has had a lot of external
reactions, which will be costly for Maori-
landers in disorganised shipping, import
trade thrown into confusion, diversion of
goods to other markets and loss of good-
will.
Many complacent folk, who had over-
developed faith in the self-sufficiency of
their isolated little world, have felt sharp
shocks and will be humbler after this
experience. Under the Socialists they
were encouraged to lean on controls in
every direction —imports, prices, values
for houses and land, rents, exchange,
licensing of industries, marketing, and
whatnot —but they’ve been learning since
that controls are weak props and poor
substitutes for free enterprise.
Today, however, when the world is
trying to get the upper hand on prices,
Maoriland is out in the cold, and has cut
itself off for a time from possible benefits
if runaway inflation is reined in. It lives
meanwhile in rather chilly remoteness
from general trends in the wider world.
Jubilee Exhibition.
“Historicus” sees a display:
Generally speaking, the Jubilee celebrations
have been disappointing. The speeches and
the histrionic yawp of the radio-stations have
sounded like the product of one of tnose
great brains which devote their lives and genius
to the creation of indigestion pills—the same
great brains, incidentally, appear to have been
at work on the presentation of the recruiting
campaign. ......
There are, however, one or two might but
little-advertised spots, and one of these is the
exhibition of documents, paintings, drawings and
maps at the Mitchell Library’s Dixson Galleries
in Sydney, the library having recently been
enriched by fresh gifts from Sir William Dixson,
who, as a donor of priceless historical material,
now ranks with David Scott Mitchell himself.
The exhibition put together by the Mitchell
trustees covers the growth from the genesis of
every great avenue of Commonwealth power—
from the foundations of the first settlements,
the expansion of authority through exploration,
colonisation, communicaticm and production to
the modelling of the national entity of which
the Commonwealth is now the centralised
embodiment. .... ~ .
In any other country this exhibition would be
featured far and wide, and probably efforts
would be made to show it in other States.
Schools would be given holidays to visit it.
Newspapers would draw on its resources for
historical reviews, and historical societies would
hold sessions round its selection of historical
material —the finest ever shown to Australians.
Here are letters from Australia’s first
Governor and founder of the colony, Arthur
Phillip, along with parts of his actual diary
notes on the First Fleet’s voyage to Australia.
Here is the first charter of justice, the founda-
tion of our laws. Here is the first roll of
barristers of the New South Wales Supreme
Court, headed by Saxe Bannister, first Attorney-
General ; John Stephen, first Solicitor-General;
and Dr. Wardell and W. C. Wentworth, first
free-practising members of the Bar.
Here are the commissions of early Governors,
showing the gradual changes in their powers,
the first acts of the first legislature, comprehen-
sive documents relating to the colonisation of
the North, beginning with the occupation of
Bathurst and Melville Islands by Captain
Bremer, R.N., in 1824, and ranging through a
whole documentation of the exploration of the
outback. This includes, among an extensive
but intense concentration of material, such
papers as the field-book of Tyers, working at
Port Essington in 1838, the narrative of some
of Eyre’s journeys, Augustus Charles Gregory’s
journal of the exploratory journey across the
Territory in 1854, and McDouall Stuart’s
journal, 1859-60, with the field-books and other
documents of Sir William MacGregor compiled
during the formative years of the early New
Guinea Government.
The genesis and rise of the great departments
of Commonwealth Administration are shown,
with special attention to the post office, which
has prepared its own handsome and extensive
exhibit, beginning with the foundation of the
first post office, under control of Isaac Nichols
—father of one of Australia’s first State Cabinet
Ministers—in 1809 and producing a sampling
connected with the beginnings of postage-stamps,
the telegraph, the telephone and wireless —in the
background in the same room sits the magnifi-
cent H. L. White collection of Australian
postage-stamps, which is one of the most valued
possessions of the Library.
Not the least interesting sections are devoted
to the foundation of the Commonwealth itself,
to the descriptions of its inauguration and to
the development of defence, all shown against
a wall-setting of priceless paintings and maps.
One item of interest to military historians is
W. C. Wentworth’s pamphlet on defence in
N. S. Wales, issued in 1852; but there is one
which has an even more general appeal—a
page from the dispatch of General Sir lan
Hamilton describing the landing on Gallipoli,
the sub-editing in a firm handwriting over
and beside the original typewriting, making
it clear that “Anzac was intended to
play second fiddle to the attack at Cape Helles,”
but that this role proved to be “out of
harmony with the spirit animating these
warriors from the south, and so it has come
about that, as your Lordship will see, the
defensive of the Australians and New Zealanders
has always tended to take on the character of
an attack.”
The exhibition is a reminder that while this
great accumulation of original documents and
pictures exists, and forms an invaluable set of
archives, the bulk is centred in one capital,
though it deals with the history of every corner
(Continued on next page.)


For election comment in this issue David
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
rcxiAVEir
V ’A*
Wi*!
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
. , ...
CRAVENA
"rr- /
-~J
'hlMii
so**?
? ■
4
4189
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPOTATION FOR QUALITY
of the Commonwealth. The time seems ripe for
the creation of a national fund to survey the
whole field of historical documents and material,
wherever lodged, and to secure multiplication of
copies of all basic documents, maps and paint-
ings so that they may be available at libraries
in all States and to universities and schools
where needed. It is a big task, but one of
which the foundations should be laid nationally
as early as possible by a Commonwealth fund.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Is there a doctor in the House?”
“Yes, but only just!”
Shutting their eyes to the fact that
resolute action by the Holland Government
looks like putting an end to Red control
of the New Zealand waterfront, the
Communist bosses of the Sydney wharves
seem determined to lead their dupes to
similar disaster. Following a strike last
week over the dismissal of the Roach
appeal a “mass” meeting attended by
about 600 of the several thousand Sydney
watersiders recopimended monthly stop-
pages on the Roach issue and weekly one-
day stoppages if any of their officials are
prosecuted. Work resumed on Monday,
but union boss Healy issued an edict that
ships from New Zealand would not be
worked. This surely spells suspensions,
protest strikes, more suspensions and a
complete tie-up.
Final tally for House of Representa-
tives : “Labor” won Ballarat and Wannon
(Vic.) and Kingston (S.A.) from the
Liberals ; Hume (N.S.W.) and Leichhardt
(Q.) from the Country party. In Maranoa
(Q.) Independent C.P. member Russell
was defeated by the official C.P. man
Brimblecombe. There was no change in
party strengths in Westralia or Tasmania ;
Burke (“Labor”) managed to scramble
home in Perth and Luck (Lib.), successor
to Dame Enid Lyons, held Darwin for
the Government against two “Labor”
candidates. In aggregate votes and per-
centages both the Government parties and
“Labor” were slightly up on the 1949
figures; Independent figures were down.
Party strengths in the Parliament, which
will meet on June 13, will be: Liberal,
52; Country party, 17; “Labor,” 52.
Government majority, 17.
When it was reported last week that
the Prime Minister had invited Senator
McLeay to accept the presidency of the
Senate Nick McKenna spoke out in self-
righteous wrath, accusing Menzies of
adopting the role of a dictator and of
showing “supreme contempt” for the
Senate. Coming from McKenna, the
protest is rather rich. Menzies is, after
all. Prime Minister and leader of the
parties which now have a majority in the
Senate. For 16 months McKenna was
party to an arrangement whereby a band
of men outside Parliament dictated to
the Senate the course of action it should
follow.
Ever the optimist, Calwell has pro-
phesied a “sweeping victory” for Federal
“Labor” in two years’ time. He made
a similar forecast in 1949 and four of
Chifley’s Ministers were among the
sweepings.
To listen to the indignation of U.S.
legislators and Australian papers at the
wickedness of the British in permitting
the export of strategic material to Com-
munist China one would imagine that
British sources were equipping and arm-
ing the whole of Mao’s armies. The cold
fact is that restrictions were imposed in
December, resulting in a drop of overall
exports to China of over 50 per cent. In
April, exports of “war materials” were
cement, 800 tons; iron and steel, 3500
tons, including manufactured articles;
unrefined copper and scrap, \ ton ; copper
and alloys, 4 tons ; caustic soda, 13 tons;
rubber tyres, 57 tons. That won’t go far
among an army of 10,500,000.
The A.L.P. will have to do something
about this Cosgrove nark in Tasmania.
Not content with announcing that his
Government would back up the duly-
elected Commonwealth Government, he’s
now on record as supporting the incen-
tive system in industry. He’s gone even
further; “Industry has won the 40-hour
week, but has it really started to pay for
it in the national interest?” That, mind
you, from a “Labor” Premier. Of course
we’ve started to pay nationally for the
40-hour week, but that isn’t quite what
Cosgrove meant.
In December, 1949, Queensland electors
chose as their representatives in Canberra
15 Liberal and Country-party members
and three “Labor,” On April 28, 1951,
they varied this slightly—l 4 Libs and C.P.
men ; four “Labor.” About half-way
between the two dates the same electors
sent to. the State Assembly 31 Liberal and
C.P. members and 42 “Labor.” Funny
people, those Queensland voters —though
State Liberal leader Hiley reckons it isn’t
the people who are queer but the State
rolls. Quoth he last week; “If we could
get one election on an honest roll and a
neutral umpire, the Government wouldn’t
see our heels for dust.” Hanlon isn’t
likely to take up the challenge to switch
over to the Federal rolls.
Sydney “Tribune” asserts that the
majority of members of the new wharf
union working in Auckland are “drink
addicts, convicted thieves and degenerates
seeking an ‘easy quid’.” The “Tribune”
may be slightly biased in this matter, but
if it is right a complete recasting of
ideas on the difficulty of the wharfie’s
job seems to be called for. These “drink
addicts, convicted thieves and degenerates”
loaded the coastal vessel Katui in four
days compared with the customary 10
of the regular watersiders.
“Time is fighting with ‘Labor’ now,”
says Calwell. With which faction?
Victorian Football League is being told
by players and sensible spectators alike
that it ought to do something to protect
umpires from the larrikin element in
crowds. This element is not limited to
football crowds. There is a section which
holds that umpires of any kind ought to
be kicked to death unless they give
verdicts favorable to the larrikin’s side.
One of the type named Roach saw fit to
attack Arbitration Court Judge Kirby,
an umpire in an industrial dispute. Roach
got 12 months for contempt, and when
his appeal was dismissed members of his
wharfies’ union in Sydney surlily went
on strike. These fellows would be in-
sulted if anybody called them bad sports
—but that’s what they are.
Public-opinion polls in Britain con-
tinue to show a swing against the Gov-
ernment. Attlee and Co. don’t openly
confess to any faith in these forecasts,
but they’re in no hurry to face an
election. Probably their own methods of
checking the public pulse have told them
the same thing.
R. A. Cameron, a son of Senator
Donal’ Cameron, who was Chifley’s
P.M.G., gave a Jubilee Day message to
workers in which he predicted that by
the time the next jubilee arrived almost
every essential industry and service would
be nationalised and controlled, by boards
on which trade-unions would be repre-
sented. Judging by his talk the lad’s a
chip off the old blockhead.
At the declaration of the Macquarie
poll Chifley remarked that “hysteria
rather than logic and cold facts” must
have swayed a percentage of voters. If
that is true it must be the longest case
of hysteria on record ; its effects were
first noticed on December 10, 1949, and
they haven’t worn off yet.
The report of Seamas Proinnsias Mac-
Antsaoi:
The President of the Irish Republic, Sea’n
T. O’Caallaigh—Sean T. O’Kelly to you—
dissolved the Irish Parliament on May 4, and
a rare old campaign is promised for the elec-
tions on May 30, since there are enough parties
in the Bail to run the Tower of Babel —Fianna
Fail, 67; Fine Gael, 30; Labor, 19; Clann na
Poplachta (dyed-in-the-wool republicans), 6;
Farmers, 5; and Independents, 17 —not to men-
tion Dr. Brennan, who has resigned from the
Republican party, which is headed by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs, and has not
decided yet what he is. The Costello Govern-
ment, which has been in office since February
18, 1948, has been turned out by eight Indepen-
dents, who “irresponsibly seek to em-
barrass the Government by exploiting petty
sectional grievances,” most concerned with farm
prices. There will be 350 candidates taking
part in the great explosion, and the new Parlia-
ment is expected to meet on June 13 —the
same day as ours. Mr, Costello hopes to
have a Fianna Fail united majority. He ought
to get a Nobel Prize for optimism.
Six leading Communists were sentenced
to death in Manila (Philippines), and no
doubt the Australian Communist party
and the wharfies’ union will seethe with
indignation at this persecution of “political
philosophers” who merely (a) killed the
widow of President Quezon, her daughter
and other harmless civilians from an
ambush, and ( b ) slaughtered doctors,
nurses and patients in an Army hospital.
For the special race-meeting at Rand-
wick last week the AJ.C. gave a trophy,
the Jubilee Cup. The horse that won it
is owned by a Chinese, and the cup will
find a resting-place in Singapore. Unless
we wake up a lot of other, and more
precious, Australian trophies will end up
in Asia.
“Spasebo”: Soviet literary dictators
having told Soviet clowns that they need
special political training to improve their
performances, a professorial faculty of
clowning is projected in which circus
comedians will be trained in political,
social and aesthetic disciplines from which
bourgeois vulgarities will be excluded. No
doubt Soviet kids will split their sides
laughing while Soviet clowns throw slabs
of Marxist dialectic at each other instead
of custard-pies.
Premier McGrrrrr presenting his
policy speech in 1947: -
Parliamentary procedure is controlled by
Standing Orders, which, at present, permit
the use of the “gag.” Our party has
governed for six years without once employ-
ing the gag. The removal of this objection-
able restriction therefore seems warranted.
I promise an immediate review of Parlia-
mentary Standing Orders to ensure complete
freedom of discussion in Parliament.
Four years have passed since those brave
words. The “gag” still remains in Stand-
ing Orders; McGrrrrr used it less than
a fortnight ago. Still, it would have been
inconsistent of him to have kept that par-
ticular election promise, seeing that he
hasn’t kept any of the many he made in
that same policy speech.
A. E. Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.,
hearing sundry union voices advocating
a 35-hour week, promptly announced that
the A.C.T.U. wasn’t thinking of it and
that better living facilities and improved
educational opportunities should come
before a reduction of working hours.
Seems that Mr. Monk has learned a few
things lately.
Wool prices recovered by 10 p.c. when
American buyers reappeared at Austra-
lian auctions last week, this time at
Geelong (Vic.). The American Office of
Price Administration lifted the ceiling on
wool from $3.35 to $4.13, and more wool
is likely to flow into U.S.A. Wool is still
our best bet in world trade, though it
should be remembered that wool
production, like that of wheat, meat,
butter and eggs, is not increasing.
The Institute of Public Affairs has
examined all relevarlt factors and states
that limiting dividends to 5 p.c. for all
public companies manufacturing goods
would not reduce the price of the goods
by 2d. in the £. The institute points out
that selling-prices are increased by
steep rises in raw-material, costs and
upward movements of wages and
salaries; and that of the 500,000 share-
holders in public companies 73 p.c. are
folk whose total annual income is
between £l5O and £5OOO a year, most of
them earning less than £lOOO.
Every time somebody is heard loudly
complaining about the price of food it is
worth reflecting that nothing like the
same noise is made about the price of
beer, lottery tickets or admission to
“pickchers.”
Russia is reported to have applied for
admission to the Olympic Games. If
the request is granted it will complicate
matters for those interested in records.
There will need to be one set of records
issued for general publication and an-
other for use behind the Iron Curtain,
All Communist candidates lost their
deposits at the Federal election, but they
seem likely to earn the gratitude of
“Labor” the “only party which
genuinely hates Communism,” according
to A.L.P. orators —for having restored
Mr. Burke, of Perth, to the caucus-room
and perhaps for adding another “Labor”
“anti” from Leichhardt (Q.). At the last
N, S. Wales State election they rated a
vote of thanks from Mr. McGirr for
giving him back (through their prefer-
ences) his refugee Minister, Mr. Finnan,
who fled from his own bailiwick to
contest a seat fair studded with Stalin’s
admirers.
The cure for high cost of living is—
more coal.
Wheat-sowing is down at least a
quarter in N.S.W. because of a dry seed-
bed in the wheat-belt, the north-west and
central west, already almost a month
behind, waiting for rain. In Queensland
sheep losses from floods, worms and flies
are estimated at 20 p.c. In other parts
dairying is in the doldrums, and growers
of essentials like potatoes and onions have
had State prices-control and commodity-
board management and are turning the
game up. The picture on the land this
autumn is not bright, and it is on the land
that our future wellbeing rests.
Makin, who has been looking after the
Washington Embassy since 1946 without,
as far as the record shows, breaking his
blue-ribbon pledge, wasn’t one of the
spoils-to-the-losers appointments of the
Chifleys. He was chosen for the post
while still M.H.R. for Hindmarsh (S.A.),
then about the safest “Labor” seat in the
Reps. His recall has raised questions
about Frank Forde, who was one of the
losers. Forde went to Canada in 1947
as High Commissioner, and, as far as
can be ascertained, is still there, though
all the news that has come through about
him in four years could be written in
longhand on the first page of one of the
reports he used to call for. The silence is
still unbroken, though sporting men are
prepared to bet he won’t need his snow-
shoes next Christmas.


JEWELLER 1 /
THE SPORT OF KINGS.
“Some Australian jockeys, at home and abroad, are reputed to be earning princely incomes."


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Blue P.”: No less an authority than
Lady Binney, wife of the just-retired
Governor of Tasmania, has declared that
Government House, Hobart, is haunted.
At odd hours she and three members of
the staff heard an unidentified voice call
out “It’s a quarter-past eleven.” Which
suggests that in the other world they have
adopted man’s invention. Time, and are
just as much slaves to it as we are. That
being so, I intend to hang on here as
long as possible.
* * * *
“Vingter”: On the last day of our
leave in Brisbane whilst waiting to board
the north-bound trooper we were joined
in the pub by Darky, who had been
adrift for months. When told we had
reason to believe the unit was marked for
another spot of action, Darky said “I’ll
be in that.” He got aboard the trooper
that night, just as a squad of provosts
swooped down looking for unauthorised
passengers. Darky left us at all speed,
heading for a car-
riage reserved for
Waaafs. The rest
we heard from him
later. “I crashed
into the compart-
ment and told ’em
the provosts were
on my hammer.
Then a big sheila
said, ‘Bury your
head in this and
stay there till you
get the word! ’ and
blindfolded me in
a Waaaf tunic. ‘You can come out now,’
she said a bit later, and I saw that she
was in pyjamas and greatcoat. She hands
me a Waaaf shirt and skirt and a big
floppy hat and says ‘Slip into ’em, quick.
We’ll shut our eyes.’ I felt pretty dicky
about shedding my duds, but I managed
it just before the jacks arrived. What
that big sheila said to the provost cor-
poral for snooping around a ladies’ com-
partment made him backpedal as soon as
he shoved his head into the doorway. As
soon as the jacks left the train the same
eye-shutting and quick-change business
was on again and they emptied me out
on my ear. When I saw the big sheila
in a railway refreshment room a few
hundred miles further on she looked me
through as if she’d never seen me in her
life.”
♦ * * ♦
“Doric”: Don’t know about wearing
singlets in bed, but, judging by the films,
American men don’t wear them at any
time. When the star has occasion to
take his shirt off —and any actor with a
good torso always seems to manage to
arrange that opportunity—he usually has
nothing underneath. Which reminds me
that at a recent film my wife remarked,
anent the hero, “Isn’t it ridiculous the
way American men pad their suits? Any-
one can see his shoulders are not as broad
as that.” Later in a rough-and-tumble
the hero’s shirt was torn off and his mag-
nificent physique was revealed in all its
glory. Still, I suppose only a woman can
imagine anyone trying to improve on
nature in that way.
* ♦ ♦ *
“H.C.8.”: It takes a New Australian
to make an Old Australian learn his own
language. In my case the N.A. is a lass
working in an office which deals in en-
gineering gear; her problem, the origin
of “bogey,” as applied to wheels of an
undercarriage. 1 checked with several
dictionaries before assur-
ing her that nobody
knew. She was happy at
that; after all, she couldn’t
be expected to know it if
nobody else knew. But it
opened up a line of
thought; “Bogey - man—
that word; it comes
from?” I didn’t know —
until I’d tracked it down.
“Bogle; bugbear: a
nursery ghost.” She was
appreciative, but she’d read
about bogey and men who
played golf. The Public
Library helped me out:
“From Colonel Bogey, a
fictitious golfer of skill,
upon whose imaginary
scores each hole is
assessed.” Putting that into
easily - digested language
took some skill also, but I
managed it, and this story
would have closed on a
happy note —if the lass
had never heard the word
“bodgie.”
* * *
“Melb’n”; Worst piece
of civic news in Melbourne
for a long time is that the
State Government is four-
square behind the City
Fathers’ plan for roofing
the Yarra between Queen-
street and Spencer-street
bridges to provide space for
car-parking and to relieve
traffic. The cost, of course,
would run into millions,
and the chances of the
work being done in any-
body’s lifetime is as re-
mote as Councillor Dis-
ney’s brighter Sundays.
Still, it is a pointer to-
wards the further destruc-
tion of the city’s greatest asset. Ships
used to berth in that section, and
it was once a lovely stream and a
picturesque part of the city, but the Board
of Works and other bodies, with their
beautification schemes, have turned it
into what looks like a town drain. It
could still be turned into an attractive
spot, but if it is made into a sewer it is
lost for ever, except to the rats. More
space is certainly needed, but why not
roof the unsightly Jolimont railway-
yards?
* ♦ * *
“P.0.M.C.”: It’s a pity parachutists
have exploded the old-fashioned myth
that pain and other horrible sensations
accompany a fall from a high place 18.
2/5/’51); this form of suicide ranks
amongst the most popular nowadays.
When, during the war, a flying-instructor
fell from a plane 3000 ft. above a Sydney
suburb at least two people in the area
suffered both mental and physical pain
for some time afterwards. The instruc-
tor’s death was an accident, but the feel-
“Won't be a minute, dear —I've only two more chapters to go.”
ings and health of potential witnesses of
suicides from tall buildings and like
heights seem to be ignored by the central
figures in such dramas.
* * •
“Hamer”: “Mullum” (B. 2/5/’5l) may
be right in saying that the actual descent
in a drop through the air is painless;
but I have my doubts. A slip precipitated
me over the edge of a quarry when I
was a youngster; fortunately I landed
on to a ramp of soft sand that had leaked
down from above, slipped down it and
was unhurt except for the fright. The
fall could not have been much more
than 40ft., yet on the way I thought quite
an amazingly lot about the sharp rocks
I was likely to hit, also about the reaction
on my relations when my mangled re-
mains were taken home. The brief trip
through the air, which could have taken
a few seconds only, was anything but
comfortable. “Mullum” can try out his
painless theory if he likes; but I wouldn’t
advise it.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Roscoe”: From “Uncabled Addi-
tions” (B. 9/5/’51): “[MacArthur] was
asked to work completely in the dark as
to what he was to achieve. No other
soldier in history has been placed in
such a position.” MacArthur’s situation
possibly was without parallel, but it is
not the first time a home Government
has curbed or curtailed the power of
generals in the field; sometimes it has
been flagrant interference, and the results
have not always been successful. The
failure of Hitler’s war on Russia is said
to have been due to a great extent to
his countermanding his generals’ orders.
France’s war effort in 1870 was all but
crippled by Government interference and
misdirection, resulting in indecision and
hesitation by the field commanders,
Bazaine and MacMahon. “Strategy be-
came the creature of politics,” says
Major-General J. F. C. Fuller, in Decisive
Battles. “The total incapacity of a weakly
led democratic assembly to conduct a
war” was clearly proved, he goes on to
say. Each morning there was held a
Council of Ministers, presided over by
the Empress, at which there was inter-
minable discussion, but from which no
decisive action came. After Napoleon
Ill’s fall the Government passed to
Gambetta, who also interfered unneces-
sarily with the generals at the front, and
this contributed to the capitulation of
France. “One side, the Prussian,” says
Fuller, “left everything to the initiative
of its Army commanders, whilst the other
muddled into a confused stagnation, to
sink into the bog of its inherent ineffi-
ciency.” Perhaps there is some lesson in
all this for us today.
* * * *
“Friar Tuck”: Must disagree with your
Service Page definition of Nonconformist
(B. 18/4/’5l). Certainly in England one
who does not conform to the established
church, the Church of England, is a Non-
conformist. However, in Scotland the
Church of Scotland is the established
church, and in that country an Anglican
is a Nonconformist. When the Wee
Frees walked out of the Church of Scot-
land they became Nonconformists. Now
that they are reconciled with their old
church they have presumably ceased to
be so styled.
* * * *
“F.S.”; Australian critics, who damn
a young pianist, a conductor or a com-
poser on no better criterion than their
own feelings no doubt do a lot of
damage, but they only have the prestige
of their papers behind them. In Russia
critics have the whole weight of the pro-
letariat or the State to support them.
Recent Russian operatic productions,
notably the Stalin Prize opera “From All
Our Hearts,” have been heavily jumped
on by the Moscow critics. The first per-
formance of the Stalin item was attended
by Molotov and Stalin in person, and both
put on nasty faces; next day “Pravda”
came out with half a page of vilification,
denouncing the production as “unhealthy
and inartistic.” “Unhealthy,” of course,
means bourgeois and contrary to prole-
tarian ethics. Solodovnikov, head of the
Bolshoi Theatre, and Lebedev, chairman
of the Arts Committee, were subsequently
“released” from their positions for “in-
efficiency and bad leadership.” That, of
course, will be the finish of them unless
they can escape across the border, be-
cause, if they can’t shelter under the
wing of Stalin, there is no other wing to
protect them. In a democracy at least
they can find another employer, as did
Leonardo da Vinci, who, if one patron
didn’t like him, could get the protection
of another.
♦ * * *
“W.P.T.”: War-surplus goods have
certainly been put to strange uses, but
none stranger than heliograph-mirrors
bought cheaply at a disposals sale. They
are used by a “cockatoo” stationed in a
tree near a two-up school. He flashes
warnings when police are approaching
the area.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The departure from
Tilbury en route for Australia of Mother
Paul Russell, lately Abbess of the strictly-
enclosed convent of the Poor Clares, in
Galway, recalls the manner in which her
order was founded by “La Belle Jennings,”
Restoration court beauty and sister of the
first Duchess of Marlborough. Scorning
the attentions of James, Duke of York,
and the more dashing Merry Monarch,
Frances Jennings became engaged in turn
to the rakehelly Irishman Dick Talbot
and the exquisite Henry Jermyn before
marrying the comparatively impecunious
George Hamilton in 1665. When Hamil-
ton’s death in action in Flanders left her
a widow with no money and two
daughters she went as attendant to Lady
Berkley, whose husband was Ambassa-
dor in Paris. Here Frances embraced
the Catholic faith and married Talbot,
flat broke and banished from England,
although she had turned him down when
he was spending £40,000 a year at the
Stuart Court. Through her offices Talbot
was restored to the Royal favor, and
under James II was made Earl ot
Tyrconnel and C.I.C. in Ireland. After
James’s defeat at the Boyne, La Belle
Jennings fled with him to St. Germains,
her regal deportment lending the sole
touch of dignity to the sorry cavalcade.
Tyrconnel remained in Ireland to rally
the Stuart supporters, and died of an
apoplectic seizure at a banquet at
Limerick, held within sound of William s
besieging guns. His lady crossed to Eng-
land, but shortly afterwards returned to
Ireland with what funds she had wen
able to salvage from her personal tor-
tunes. With these funds she founded
the Order of the Poor Clares, of which
she died as Mother Superior on February
15, 1722.
A DEAL IN BUTTERFLIES.
ẁ
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


SCOTSMm
D • WAV's
neves varies
For over one kundred years
b . . tke same distinctive
diameter, mellow flavour,
and rick, keart-warming
qualities • « «
DEWAR'S
'White Label*
Shnmu, SCOTCH %
50 Cola
and
Priit Me i ate
SO GotJ
a)
Priz* Mcbol*
ss
a*
Wwmm
. "White Label v
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
QF RARE AGE. j
John Dewar & Sons h
DISTILLER S >
Hook, HajjmorW. S.WL p TOnM®
kET cotframftPWT. eft. ozs. .
wHeui msnua.iunisu m bunded
Hi (keuy* * * it's
UK®*® 5
v i f
tlastop^'
Housewives especially will welcome the
new Waterproof Elastoplast First Aid Dressings. The thin
plastic skin is proof against water, dirt and grease, keeping
cuts and wounds clean and dry. The dressings stretch with
skin movement, adhere firmly, and always wash clean. Ask
at your Chemist.
I*
;* ■ :
• Elastic—-adhesive.
• Does not ruck up,
catch or fray.
• Medicated pad
assists healing.
FABRIC ELASTOPLAST remain*
available, and i* still the recog-
nised stand-by if you do not specfic-
ally require protection against water.
NOW .
. . 2 KINDS OF ELASTOPLAST . . .
Fabric and Waterproof u/ui
Products ot'l. J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., Hull, Enqiond
“Macquarie”: Unless Hollywood is
deceiving me a “person unknown” is,
in the States, called “John Doe.” Here,
although the unknown may have been
“Mr. X” in officialese, he was always,
in my youth, “Billy Hicks.” Billy was
the fellow who broke things, left gates
open and committed all the unsolved
minor crimes. His address was invariably
“From the boneyard.” He seems to have
disappeared; in his place has arisen an-
other scapegoat—“ Joe Blow.” Joe does
just as much damage as Billy used to.
Recently I heard an irate train-traveller
having a verbal fight with a porter. “I
want your name,” snapped the traveller.
The young railwayman gave it —with a
smirk: “Joe Blow from the Overflow.”
It didn’t pour oil on the troubled waters,
but at least one bystander was amazed to
hear that Joe had acquired an address.
Strangely, I have a mate whose surname
is Blow; he was christened after his
Uncle Joseph. I hate to think what will
happen if ever a policeman demands his
name.
* * * *
“Clooter”; Pardon my obtuseness,
but I have come across what is to me a
baffling term and put it forward in the
hope that someone will elucidate it. It
“ Here's a letter from your missus, Joe. It says: 'Come home. All
is forgiven .'”
appeared in a Melbourne “Argus” leader
on the Barton result, the writer remark-
ing that Dr. Evatt had been the victim
of a “barrage of propaganda and in-
nuendo” and that “an undemocratic and
unsocialist group within the Labor party
joined in the attack.” Does this mean
(a) that if one is a democrat one must,
ipso facto, be a Socialist, (b) that if one is
opposed to Socialism one is necessarily
anti-democratic, or (c) that there is a
group in the Labor party made up of
two distinct types —the undemocratic and
the unsociaiist? The latter term is new
to me ; it seems to suggest a nice distinc-
tion, a sort of half-way mark between
the Socialist and the anti-Socialist.
Whatever the truth of the matter two
things at least seem to be clear. One
is that these leader-writers are now be-
coming confused by their own confusion
of terms, the other is that one political
poseur has at least one friend,
♦ * * *
“Bo”: Virtue, as W. S. Gilbert re-
marked somewhere, is triumphant only
in theatrical performances, and with
this I have cause heartily to agree.
Years ago I transformed the wilder-
ness of paspalum outside the front
fence of my outer-suburban Sydney
menage into a passably good lawn, and,
to prevent stormwater becoming stagnant
in the unmade gutter, cleared away the
choking weeds ; and this maintenance of
council property I have performed gratis
ever since. Let none think, however, that
the council has been ungrateful. My
rates have been put up in the past few
years only 136 p.c. Also, on one occa-
sion, when an alderman developed a float-
ing liver after driving his car down our
street —he was forced to traverse it, a
detour being made necessary by work
being done on his usual routes —the council
spent on the road in front of my place
approx. 2s, 9d. on metal-screenings and
£1 3s. 6d. on labor in filling in a few pot-
holes, Lately they went mad and put
a grader over the road-edges and cleaned
out those gutters which had never
troubled the lazy ratepayers. Mine, which
I hadn’t done for a few weeks, they left.
Undoubtedly annoying. However, my
letter of apology to the council for having
neglected my work for them for those
few weeks will, I hope, mollify them to
the extent that they might refrain from
demanding to know why I’ve been spend-
ing so much of my time on my side of
the fence.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: My brother-in-law tells this
one of his period as a p.-0.-w. A foot
condition, something like trench-feet, was
common among the Digger prisoners and
was known as “happy foot,” from the
feet seeming to be chronically “asleep.”
Among the Nip guards was one Bozo,
quite a human type, who picked up quite
a lot of English. One day Bozo broke
into song as he maintained indolent super -
vision over his squad. The song provoked
the remark “Nippon soldier very happy! ”
A second later Bozo went berserk, felling
with his rifle-butt the bewildered utterer
of the remark. Only at the inquiry which
followed from an Australian officer
prisoner’s protest was the mystery cleared
up. The Nip commandant ruled that
Bozo had erred only insofar as he had
merely bludgeoned the Australian who
had the temerity to tell a Japanese that
he was a “bad soldier.” The slang attri-
bute “happy feet” had been understood
as “bad feet,” and hence “happy” taken
to mean bad.
* * * *
“Willpar”: Moralists who accuse the
Press and radio of placing too much
emphasis on sex will feel great satisfac-
tion in noting the admission of a radio-
announcer who publicised the degenerate
morals of Press and radio men when re-
porting an event of national importance.
The report was coming from the central
tally-room early on election night. No
figures had come in and the announcer
was filling in time. “Besides the numerous
Pressmen and radio reporters here tonight
there are also many women Press repre-
sentatives and they help make the other-
wise drab and sombre scene more attrac-
tive, because everyone here is, after all,
only interested in figures.”
* * « *
“Villefair”: I’ve grown blase to
psychologists’ attempts to explain that
louts who slash the leather upholstery of
train seats are merely expressing a griev-
ance against society or endeavoring to
get square on a ticket-snatcher who
pinched ’em. It may be so, but I’m not
convinced. Nor do I admit that the
hooligan who breaks windows in tele-
phone-booths and feeds the pieces into
penny-slots is merely giving way to an
impulse latent in us
all —the urge to de-
stroy. And I sup-
pose it’s like my
hide to doubt that
basher gangs merely
kick people to death
as a subconscious
protest against their
sordid environment.
But I defy any
psycho to give me
the answer to this
one: Why did some unknown person
buy 22 ha’penny stamps from the
machine at our local post-office and then
stick ’em in neat rows on the glass door
of the phone-box? When they’ve finished
I’ll have my say. Obviously the man had
so often suffered the fate common to all
of us in this locality, that when he put
coins in and found that stamps really did
come out —well, his mind just wasn’t able
to grasp the phenomenon and he became
completely deranged.
SPARE THE CHILD.
ẃ
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Chuck”; The almond crop, not quite
ready to harvest, was disappearing fast.
I blamed rats until I caught a mob of
parrots in the act. Thirteen I counted.
Twelve green lories and one big bright
red fellow. Quiet old birds they were,
and it savored of murder, but almonds
are almonds, and I went for the rifle.
By-passing the red one, I dropped five
of the green before the rest of the mob
took themselves off. That should have
scared them away. Next morning, how-
ever, the remaining eight were there again.
I picked off three more green ones, and
followed the next day with a further
three. Yesterday, one green and one red
were still dropping shells on the heap
below, and again I collected a green, but
failed to pot the red. With a crop full
of almonds the survivor streaked for the
gums on the river, leaving the last of his
family to be thrown to the dog. Today,
visible through the windows as I write,
is a lone red parrot on the top of the
almond-tree, feeding his face recklessly.
Well, I warned him. Still, I’d like to
know how people get the idea you can
teach a parrot anything.
* * * ♦
“Bydand”: “Slim McGin used to be on
the old Levuka,” said Coondoo Jim. “He
was a skinny feller with hips like a green
snake’s an’ a thirst like the Great Stony
Desert. He had been celebratin’ on a
famous brewery’s products before we
cast off, and, cornin’ aboard with no
sense of navigation, he takes a wrong
turnin’ an’ goes to sleep in the store-room.
Someone locked the door an’ the
Levuka sailed with a man missin’.
Officially, that is. When Slim came to.
" ’Urry up, Kevin —the whistle's gone.”
bein’ a feller who appreciated rest an’
good food, he managed to survive on
stores an’ sundry liquid refreshment until
the ship hove-to three miles off Sydney
Heads waitin’ for the pilot-ship. It was
then that his conscience, or somethin’,
began troublin’ him, so when he heard
the Captain Cook near by he up an’
squeezes through a porthole, drops into
the water and begins threshin’ about an’
bawlin’ ‘Wait till I ketch up!’ They
hauled him aboard, puffin’ an’ blowin’
an’ abusin’ the whole ship’s company for
lettin’ him near drown. An’ when the
mate says ‘Where the hellja come from?’
he ups, between gasps an’ gulps, an’
roars T been follerin’ y’ all the way from
Hobart!’”
* ♦ * ♦
“Galah”: When the axle broke on the
guard’s-van of the slow mixed on the
C.Q. run all luggage was transferred to
the travelling post-office, next to the
engine. Among it was a caged galah. In
spite of all the guard’s endeavors to chum
up With him the bird remained stonily
silent. Then, to scare some sheep off
the line, the driver gave a long blast on
“Run away, Cracker, and bring your big brother."
the whistle. Cocky awoke with a start.
Up went his comb, and his head was
cocked sideways as he listened. Then it
appeared to dawn on him, for he
screeched with all his might “Throw it
over the fence, postie!”
* * * *
“A.G.T.”: “Kali” (B. 11/4/’5l) won-
ders what the local Chinese gardener
did with the cadavers of the freshly-
killed crows. It is of course quite true
that the bile from the gall-bladder is
used, just as is ox-bile, in medicinal pre-
parations, but the liver itself has other
uses. About the period when “Kali” was
making a few bob supplying the crows,
a travelling Chinese herbalist came to
our home in the central-west of N.S.W.
He interested an aunt who for years had
been treated for antemia. She had the
usual greasy lemon-yellow type of skin,
dyspepsia and lethargy. He prescribed in-
fusions of various grasses and seeds, but,
in addition, suggested that the livers of
three or four crows be eaten daily in the
form of sandwiches. A few years later
medical research authorities made the
notable discovery that liver-therapy was
a specific cure for pernicious anaemia.
My aunt in the meantime had made a
slow but complete recovery on this diet
of Kelly’s liver. It seems that there is a
“PA. factor” in the liver substance,
which restores the balance between
digestive juices and the proteins, fats, etc.,
in a normal diet. But what I wonder is:
Was the herbalist aware of the above
facts, or just taking a shot in the dark?
« ♦ * •
“Nailil”: Whilst I’ve never been called
upon to repel boarders like “Gravel-
snatcher’s” albatross (B. 18/4/’5l), 1 do
know that terns, under stress of fatigue
after several days’ forced flight in a
Torres Strait gale, will forcibly invade
all quarters of the nearest craft. I’ve
known wind-blown landbirds of various
types to land, oblivious of human pres-
ence, on the deck of an m.o.p. lugger,
and, on being pushed overboard, to rise
weakly from the water and flutter re-
peatedly back, showing that sheer fatigue
can overcome the emotion of fear. As
the toxins of fatigue are diluted in the
avian bloodstream the instinct reasserts
itself. A bird which makes no attempt
to avoid handling when it first alights
will take off when approached after it
has spent an hour recuperating on the
deck.
« * * *
“Kelms”: If Mat and his mate had
knocked around Mandurah (W.A.) about
20-30 years ago and had known as much
as I knew, they’d probably have taken to
looking in tree-hollows, too(B. 18/4/’5l).
An old bloke who used to run in brumbies
on the coastal plains amazed me with
his ability to spend long periods in the
bush —until I joined him one week. We
didn’t run out of tucker, although what
we’d brought with us gave out after a
couple of days. Thereafter, at meal-
times, Joe hunted up a tree he knew and
fished out some tinned dog left there on
a previous excursion when he’d got his
mob together earlier than he’d expected
and had some tucker over. He could
have lived for a month on what he had
cached, and as long again, or perhaps
for life, off the bush. He was the toughest
horseman I’ve met. A dozen of us once
gave him a hand to round up a mob of
brumbies which he’d arranged to send
down to a Perth saleyard. We got them
into Pinjarrah, and finally, after almost
giving it best half a dozen times, into the
railway-truck. Then we adjourned to the
pub. A couple of hours later we got an
urgent call. The horse-truck had been
shunted off at a siding just down the line,
and some well-meaning railway official
had unloaded the brums into the cattle-
yard for a drink. They were now kicking
the yard to bits. Would we come down
and reload them? We wouldn’t, not even
for old Joe, who, cursing us for a mob of
traitors, went alone. Singlehanded he put
those horses back on the truck, where
they stayed until a couple of stockmen
from the saleyards let them out. Then
they galloped through half a dozen
suburbs, frightening kids and disorganis-
ing traffic, until a few were finally yarded.
The majority were back at Mandurah—
some 60 miles —within a week.
i * * * «
“Shamuseen”: Whilst I have never
heard the “G-r-r-r” of yabbies as at-
tributed to them by Tom Collins (B.
4/4/’5l), I’ve heard a similar sound
issuing from the holes inhabited by small
rock-crabs at low tide on S.Q. beaches.
As youngsters we believed that the sound
was caused by the grating of the teeth
on the pincers of the crab, the noise
being nearly identical with that of the
grinding of hqman teeth. Years after-
wards I saw Binghi women, while stalk-
ing giant mudcrabs in the mangrove
swamps of the Torres Straits islands,
locate their quarry by listening for a
magnified version of the sound and then
making for the roots of the ifiangrove
shrub from which it came. Since the
old-man yabby has dental equipment
large enough to produce the sound, I’d
say that Tom Collins correctly as-
signed the authorship of the sound that
he heard.
“Solitude”: It was comfortable travel-
ling on the lower slopes, but as we
climbed steadily higher we ran into the
March-flies. The pests bayoneted me
front, rear and through the eyelet-holes
of my boots, and by midday neck and
arms were swollen and showing blood in
many places. Seventyfiver interrupted
my tirade. “What’samatter? March-
flies.” He looked round vaguely. “Yair,
I s ’p ose
there’s a
few around
this time o’
the year.”
All after-
noon I
cursed and
banged at
the blighters,
while the
o 1 d bloke
rode stolidly
alongside, saying nothing. Slowly the
sun disappeared behind a range, shadows
crowded in, and the March-flies retired,
leaving my tortured anatomy in peace.
Then the mosquitoes took over. I filled
the billy in the morass, and, swiping
right and left, shoved it on the campfire
and took refuge in the smoke. For the
next hour I stayed there, coughing a way
through my tucker and rubbing my sting-
ing eyes, while on the other side of the
fire Seventyfiver pulled placidly at his
pipe and muttered something about
blokes being soft. Then, rolling up in a
blanket, I retired, I was scarcely asleep
when movement woke me to Seventy-
fiver’s cursing. He got up, pulled off
his shirt, shook it noisily and turned his
blanket. I raised a sleepy protest. “Aw,
it’s awright fr you,” came his disgusted
snort. “But how the blazes can a man
sleep when there’s a blasted flea in ’is
shirt!”
♦ ♦ * *
“Nika”: Northern N.S.W. apiarists
are the latest to curse the imported giant
toad {Bufo marinus). The ugly brutes
have spread from Queensland down into
the coastal districts of the senior State,
and may, if unchecked, wipe out whole
apiaries in that region. Beekeepers say
they’ve seen nothing like these pests in
action, licking up bee after bee from an
unsuspecting colony. Hiding under the
bottom-boards by day, and coming out
at night, they become especially active
on warm, sultry evenings when bees tend
to “hang out,” Sometimes as many as
five bufos at once will squat round a
landing-board and swallow bees as fast
as they can lick them up. Their tongues,
like those of all toads, are situated in the
front of the mouth, and, being over two
inches long, covered with a sticky sub-
stance and moving like lightning, are a
“catcher” from which escape is im-
possible. The only way to outwit them
is to place the boxes on 2ft. stands or
fence them in with lin. netting; which
is going to make it hard for the
migratory man in infested areas.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Saturday morning in
late autumn, and I’m gardening in good
company. A hen red-capped robin is the
tamest as I hoe among the young
cabbages, but a Jacky Winter is close
enough to her to flick down and snap
one worm when I turn up two. Beyona
them a scissors-grinder is all agitation ; he
knows darned well the othdr two are fad-
ing sumptuously, but he hasn’t quite the
nerve to attend me as closely as they
do, so he hovers about, “zizzing” furi-
ously, and dropping to one end of the
row as we reach the other. On the
telephone-wire above the fence a quartet
of dusky woodswallows rest between
hawking excursions; they weren’t here
last week, so are probably on the way
north, but taking it in easy stages, in
the grey-gum at the bottom of the yard
a pair of cuckoo-shrikes are feeding
quietly and rolling soft remarks to each
other, but if they stay there long it won t
be the fault of the greenies that swing
from the outer twigs and reckon the tree
is theirs to the exclusion of everybody
else. Underneath, Billy the Wag reckons
he can do better by staying with the cow
than bothering about the garden—-and ne
ought to know; but a pair of equally
insectivorous fowl, yellow thombills, a
not too proud to leave their customary
grass and try the cultivation. Appropri-
ately enough, the only introduced bir
within sight are eating introduced tucker,
three goldfinches are feasting on tw
ripening seeds of the cosmos and their
gay colors are nicely set off by_the few
remaining flowers. Pity my feathered
cobbers can’t dig—they clean up all tne
squirming pests when I turn the E r °u
over and between times account for more
weed-seeds than I could gather m a hte-
time ; but if they could just scratch deep
enough to find the take-alls and at the
same time cultivate to the right depth
around the vegies, a bloke wouldn t have
to be here wearing himself to a—hail a
mo ; the wife’s just made a cup of tea*
MAIDEN’S PUB.
In Maiden’s Pub there chanced to dwell
A bloke called Maiden —who can tell
What earnest zeal had urged him on
To bring respite from heat that spun
Around Menindie’s outpost ways
With cooling draughts of better days?—
For never drought was so severe
To still the song in Maiden’s beer.
The sandhills flowing east and west
Had tamed the overlanders’ best,
And on the Darling’s muddy stream
The pioneers fell down to dream;
But now, through sandy scrubs, that bar
Drew them surer than a star —
A hundred miles was not too dear
A price to pay for Maiden’s beer.
The bullocks swelled into the yoke;
Bullfrogs gave resentful croak
As low lagoons and billabongs
Echoed aloud to campfire songs;
For tracks that shimmered through the scrub
Held miraged shapes of Maiden’s pub,
And Burke and Wills pushed on to cheer
Their hopes with sips of Maiden’s beer.
The squatter came and spread his flocks,
Cursed the drought and took its knocks
To that lone bar, and gathered trust
In man and beer against the dust;
The drover, swayed beyond his sheep,
A strict appointment had to keep,
And patient swagmen came to clear
Their wandering wits in Maiden’s beer.
The sky-hung hawks still vigil keep
Where pioneers and sandhills sleep,
No change has touched their spirit, yet
Their sun of battle long has set.
To road and rail their tracks are cleared,
Despair with swags has disappeared—
But ever there and ever dear
In dust and thirst is Maiden’s beer.
N.S.W.
W. H. ROBINSON.


-3
r
M
VL
55
*
CD
8/11 50’s 17/10 100’s
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
Please add postage, lid. for 50’s, 1j 1 for 100’s.
*
BRITAIN'S FINEST CIGARETTE
—Pullman
THE SUPERLATIVE VIRGINIA
OBTAINABLE NOW FROM
ANDREW M C GEE
(Established 1887)
X\VAx>
’•* %o.'' '
' r/ m
V
70 PITT STREET or
1 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
“Dahaka Las”: On my recent return
to Papua from leave in Australia I found
that village dogs and two-legged mongs
had depleted my egg-production plant
very considerably. Locally, poultry were
scarce, but on the other side of the
mountains tobacco was short but poultry
plentiful. I entered into a contract with
one of the local warriors whereby in re-
turn for rations for a couple of days and
a present of tobacco he was to cross the
ranges with a supply of tobacco to pur-
chase fowls —M ar y s (hens) being
stipulated. Heavy rain delayed the re-
turn of my purchasing agent. When he
eventually arrived back, he exhibited
four fowls —two roosters, alive on top of
two hens, very dead, packed in a basket
of woven coconut-fronds. The roosters
went into the pot for our own consump-
tion ; the hens, much to his surprise,
were written off as a dead loss. Nothing
daunted, the native duly plucked, cooked
“Who do you Want to speak to — the woman next-door?"
and ate the three-day-defunct hens; then
he slept very contentedly, awaking after
some hours and displaying no apparent
ill effects.
“Vingter”: One of *those Kilkivan
blacks who helped build the Queen Vic-
toria Jubilee bonfire (B. 4/4/’5l) was
Campbell, who murdered a brace of gins
and attacked several white women before
finally doing a dance on air at old Boggo
Road jail in Brisbane. The manhunt
for Campbell took three years, because
of the mysterious manner in which his
tracks used to vanish. Travelling
~, . t ®
always with a scouting vanguard to
warn of police ambush, Campbell,
on receipt of the alarm-signal, would
i um P resourcefully on to the shoul-
ders of one of his camp-followers
and be carried to the nearest two-rail
fence, on which he would do a Blondin
ac t for several miles, thus completing the
illusion of the vanishing tracks. He was
eventually taken by the manoeuvre in
which the police-tracker, Billy Williams,
fr ® u the Maroochy River district, spent
a 48-hour vigil in a tree from which he
dropped on to the for-once-unsuspecting
Campbell.
r ,* * «
“Veve”: There was also the time when
Carr Boyd (B. 2/5/’5l) came to the Island,
Lake Austin, on the Murchison gold-
fields. Some of the fellows were on pretty
f ood Sold and prevailed on Carr to rest
his camels and accept their hospitality
for a day or so before starting across
country to Coolgardie (the news of
Bailey and Ford’s find having just filtered
through to the Murchison). Carr was
glad to do so. Presently, ready to resume
the journey, his camels loaded up, the
usua [ kerosene-tin tocsin brought all hands
up to the shanty to see him off. Bung
filled ’em up at Carr’s invitation and
“God-speed” was drunk, with musical
honors. The intrepid explorer presented
]fi s cheque for the damage, then set off,
am id cheers. He duly arrived in Cool-
gardie—a very good bit of bush-work
indeed in those days. Transport from the
island to the Perth bank was by slow-
moving vehicle to Mullewa, thence
Geraldton and a long rail journey. It was
therefore some time before the shanty-
keeper’s worst fears were realised. For
y ears afterwards that picturesque cheque
was to be seen, pasted on the wall of the
tavern, an historic memento of one of
the Murchison’s biggest shouts,
* * * •
“The Bunyip”: Watched a plasterer-
cnw-bricklayer the other day; a real
expert, but as his skill and speed was a
bit above what you usually see in that
line, he did his job in a secluded spot
and even then slipped away as soon as it
was finished. He was working amongst
trees, so had taken the precaution to dress
entirely in green—in fact, from side on
you’d take him for a large, shapely leaf ;
and it was only when you tossed him in
the air that you saw the “leaf” was a
wing. He was most particular about his
feet; whenever disturbed he licked each
foot in turn, going round the entire six
several times. We thought this was just
“I thought THEY ate snakes .”
cleanliness, but after seeing him ease
himself down the side of a bottle without
slithering to the ground it seemed that
maybe he’s been coating his trilbies with
some shit of gooligum to ensure safe
foothold in awkward places—anyone
know? Next the precocious insect swung
his —pardon, her —abdomen under her
chin and set about laying eggs—it was
here that she gave the lesson in laying
a double row in rapid time, for soon the
edge of one side of a large gumleaf
carried two adjoining lines of eggs,
standing on end but with a slight lean at
a uniform angle. This done, she rushed
straight back and began to lick the struc-
ture all over —seemed to be putting a
plastic shell on it. Do leaf-insects always
do that, and does that tie up with the
foot-licking? I’m all ears.
* * * *
“Bo”: The missus had been complain-
ing on and off for months about the
branch of the huge ironbark near the
house that scraped against the living-
room window in a wind. Pushed into a
comer at last over the matter, the boss
told the hand to lop the branch off. An
hour or so after the hand had started on
the job the boss came up from the bottom
paddock and saw his employee on the
other side of the tree, sawing away at a
branch on the side opposite to that he
had been ordered to cut. “What the hell
are y’ muckin’ round with that branch
for?” demanded the boss. The hand
looked down, then pointed to the branch
that he had already lopped lying on the
ground. “Well,” he said, “I gotta get this
one off to trim her up. The tree would
ha’ bin lopsided if I’d just taken the
branch that side, an’ it might’ve come
down in a wind.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: We didn't know it at the
time, but the effect of a novel set in old-
time Spain went deep into Little Curl
and the rash broke out when he went
down south for a holiday. He came back
with a banjo-mandolin with a “self-
teacher,” and thereafter sat on the hut
veranda every night plucking away at the
thing until he could draw from it a few
of those plinking melodies that go
for music. There was
a new telegraphist in the
local post-office and
Little Curl had visions
of courting her in the
old Spanish way. One
evening he got enough
beer in to make him
game, took his guitar,
stood beneath the back
window of the post-
office where the girl
worked nightshift,
stood as he supposed
a troubadour would
stand, and began to
serenade her. Little
Curl’s voice could sub-
due sheep-dogs and
fighting rams, but it
didn’t subdue that girl.
She emptied the dregs
of her teapot on L.C.
and warned him to go
before she called on her
boy-friend, the local
trooper, to attend to
him. Curl withdrew,
cursing feelingly in
language alien to
Castile, and returned to
the station. He put the
guitar away and was
heard to mutter some-
thing about what it had
cost him. But it wasn’t
a dead loss. Pocket-
knife used most of the*
strings to bind a split
axe-handle, the vellum
made a patch for
Curl’s waterbag, and
the long neck of the thing eventually
found a place in the cook’s galley, where,
with a tin pannikin tacked on the end,
it became a soup-ladle.
* » * •
“Emjai”: Homey McGurk reckoned
figurin’ and the like was all right for
blokes in offices. He just used his head,
and in his stockdealing he knew as
quickly as any penciller could tell him
just how much he was up for on his every
bid. Squatted on the top of the fence
after each sale, in a few minutes he had,
to the last copper, the balance of his
“pay and receive,” with the agent’s com-
mission, cattle-stamps, etc., allowed for.
For months he had been buying on a
rising market, and, for the first time.
financing through
the bank instead of
the agents, pending
the handsome clean-
up. Then he brought
along the cheque for
£9204 for lodgment
and inquired
“What’s me debt?
I’ll square that
now.” The banker
told him the figure—
Dr. £4902 —then put
through the credit for £9204 and passed
him a slip marked Or. £4302, remark-
ing “That’s how you stand now.” In the
meantime Homey was engrossed in
laboriously writing out his cheque for
£4902, which he pushed across, murmur-
ing “Thank heaven that’s paid.” Then
he gave a dazed look at the slip show-
ing his balance, grabbed a pencil and
did some frenzied figuring. “Holy
Moses!” he said. “I’m still six hundred
to the bad! Where’s all me ruddy
money gone? That’s what comes of this
blasted figurin’. A bloke’d go broke with
it.” More ponderous figuring, then he
scratched his head and said “Ar-r! A
bloke can’t think inside this joint,” and
streaked for his perch on the rail at the
stockyards to nut it out.
RETIRED.
Old paddock resting,
Briars here and there,
Two magpies questing
About for their fare,
Odd tussocks growing,
Moss on fence showing,
The grey stump,
The stray stump,
Dry patches bare.
Old faded furrows —
Wrinkle and frown,
Mound by the burrows —
Earth grey and brown,
Shadow on grasses
When the cloud passes,
The dry grass,
The high grass
And thistledown.
Field that is sleeping
Through the soft day,
All the past keeping
Dreams in the clay;
Crop days all over,
Wild weeds and clover,
The dead gum,
The red gum,
Blue hills far away.
Paddock “retired,”
Scrub coming now
Where the wheat once fired
Gold on its brow;
Time now the reaper,
Old fence the keeper:
The old place.
The sold place,
Long gone the plough.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


ẁ
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw»,
C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager* W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Lesha
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager! C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Safeguard your Estate
by appointing Th« Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of your Will.
l Advantages: Security Continuity Expert Management Impartiality
Accessibility Secrecy Continuous Audit Moderate Charges Fidelity to Trust.
Writ e or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
ẃ
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, €968,009
The WILD CAT COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Increase
ten Total
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Assets.
£ £ £ £ £
1945.. 1,786,135 783,182 273,715 39,931]
To general reserve, £50,000 .. \
To tax reserve, £15,000 ..
840,273
Profit, sale property, £36,248 .. ]
Interest from previous years, £71,571 V
1946.. 1,964,122 796,221 297,730 40,783 J
931,607
Profit, sale property, £226,278 .. 1
1947.. 2,118,921 772,338 376,574 54,763 J
1,182,782
Profit, sale property, £41,780 ..]
Interest from previous years, £38,662 f
1948.. 2-,253,523 828,257 367,438 120,950 [
To contingency reserve, £lO,OOO .. J
1,104,654
From tax reserve, £28,000 .. ..1
Profit, sale property, £8252 .. i
1949.. 2,482,342 880,922 380,055 20,604 J
1,152,497
Profit, sale property, £23,185 ..1
1950.. 2,718,280 920,790 419,803 33,790 1
To contingency reserve, £ 26,000 .. J
1,447,334
Latest accounts of the 72-year-old C.M.,
which is one of Australia’s five big
mutual life offices, present a pleasing
picture. The features are (1) a record
amount of new business, (2) growth of
surplus for division among policyholders
—there are no shareholders, (3) mainten-
ance of satisfactory bonus rates, (4)
strengthening of reserves, (5) arrest of the
long drift —a common experience—in net
interest earnings, (6) tight hold upon con-
trollable outgoings, and (7) changes in
the investment portfolio which augur well
for the future of bonus rates. Thus the
co. continues to build on strong founda-
tions, which means much in a world that
has lost its old balance and has not yet
found a new one.
The increase in new business
(£8,255,834) was £1,199,894, the average
amount per policy being £BOl as against
£7OO for the previous year; and they
were all ordinary contracts written within
the Commonwealth. Behind the buoyancy
of the figures lies the inflationary boom,
a rapidly expanding population, and quick
growth of industrial superannuation
schemes and home-purchases associated
with life cover.
The year’s income, which increased by
£250,877, was a record, too. The next
table shows where it came from, the
amount absorbed in outgoings and
charges and the resultant surplus avail-
able for distribution among policy-
holders :
Income — 1949. 1950.
Premiums, etc. .. .. £1,846,150 £2,043,543
Interest, divs., etc... .. 686,192 674,743
Surplus sale assets .. .. 8,252 23,185
Total £2,490,594 £2,741,471
Outgo and Charges—
Paid to policyholders .. 880,922 920,790
Expenses* .. .. .. 404,503 453,093
Increased actuarial liability 855,373 967,888
Total £2,140,798 £2,341,771
Surplus 349*796 899,700
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
The mortality experience was well
below actuarial expectation. Exclud-
ing taxes (£42,934), depreciation
(£33,790) and contribution to the staff
fund (£10,848), exes, took 13.3 p.c. of
total income, or 0.8 p.c. more than in
1949 ; a moderate increase considering
the amount of new business and the rise
in wages, which are the major factor in
exes.
More encouraging was the improve-
ment of Is. 9d. p.c. in the net
effective rate of interest earned (£3 11s.
5d p.c.) on the mean assurance fund
(£18,611,581, up £1,335,296). Actuarial
liabilities under policy contracts are calcu-
lated on a stringent 2\ p.c. net premium
basis. The margin between this assumed
rate and that actually earned is more
than is usually considered sufficient to
maintain current bonus rates. And the
fund has the support and assistance of
£779,732 of other visible reserves.
The surplus available for distribution
was dealt with in this way:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Surplus earned .. £440,958 £349.796 £399,700
Brought forward .. 24,857 34,293 35,127
Total surplus .. £465,315 £384,089 £484,827
Bonuses to policyholders 307,022 384,806' 370,095
To staff fund .. .. 14,000 2,156
To reserves .. .. 12,000
To write down assets.. 100,000
To contingency reserve 10,000 25,000
To carry forward .. 34,293 35,127 39,732
The £370,095 (up £35,289) allotted to
policyholders provided reversionary
bonuses on the same satisfactory scale as
for the three preceding years, the rates
ranging from 245. p.c. to 525. p.c. on
whole-life contracts according to age.
Since bonuses are the result of wise
investment of funds as well as efficient
management, more attention is now being
given to mortgages and industrial and
other securities, which show a better net
return than is to be had from Govern-
ment bonds;
1949. p.c. 1950. p.c.
Com-wlth stock £12,889,891 69.5 £10,638,401 53.2
Local-govt, stock 252,989 1.4 246,332 1.2
Shares and debs. 1,215,823 6.5 3,906,072 19.5
Mortgages .. 2,018,916 11.0 3,053,107 15.3
Loans on policies 726,605 3.9 754,830 3.8
Book debts, etc. 262,983 1.4 287,264 1.4
Cash, etc. .. 212,860 1.1 195,589 1.0
Properties ~ 968,393 5.2 913,199 4.6
Total ..£18,547,460 £19,994,794
The year’s growth in shareholdings, etc.,
was £2,690,749 and in mortgages
£1,034,191. Government securities (down
£2,251,490) account for 53.2 p.c. of
total assets as against 70 p.c. two years
ago.
Union Trustee Co.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944 .. 9,832 6 p.c. = 8,250 1,582 78,191
1945 .. 15,441 7J„ „ 10,312 5,129 83,320
1946 .. 11,756 6 „ „ 8,250 3,506 86,826
1947 .. 9,317 6 „ „ 8,250 1,067 87,893
1948 .. 7,310 6 „ „ 8,250 86,953
1949 . . 9,932 6 „ „ 8,250 1,682 88.636
1950 . . 13,228 7i „ „ 10,312 2,916 91,552
1951 .. 11,951 7i„ ~ 10,313 1,638 93,190
Inflation is everybody’s headache today.
It is of especial concern to the trustee
co., which is rendering an essential
service at low cost, and whose duties are
not easy from any point of view. While
obeying the directions of the trust instru-
ment, the trustee must, at the same time,
strive to preserve the capital and provide
a reasonable income for the beneficiary.
Yet, with economic conditions and the
law as they are, achievement of these
triple functions is virtually impossible
unless the testator included a clause in
his will giving the trustee power to invest
over a wider field than is provided by
the list of authorised trustee securities.
These consist mainly of low-interest-
bearing Government and certain public-
body securities and first mortgages.
Still, this does not help the older trusts
in being, or those cases where a testator
has failed to appreciate the limitations
imposed on his trustee by legislation in
the various States. What is needed is an
overhaul of this legislation giving trustees
wider powers with the fullest safeguards
under the “prudent man” rule.
As for the earnings of the trustee cos.,
the tussle is, and has been for over a
decade, one between rapidly-rising costs
and steadily expanding returns from a
growing volume of business at fixed
corpus and other charges. The 66-year-
old Union, second-largest of its kind in
Australia, operates in the three Eastern
States, where it has strong connections in
pastoral circles. Profits averaged £13,098
(9.5 p.c. on capital) for the six years to
1940, £10,449 (7.6 p.c. on capital) for the
six years to 1946 and £10,346 (7.5 p.c. on
capital) for the five years to the close of
last accounts.
Last term commissions, etc., turned in
£204,430 (up £17,856), which suggests a
very satisfactory growth in the volume of
business on the books (amount not dis-
closed), and £16,647 (up £6653) was
gathered in rents, etc.:
Commissions, Exes. p.e.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1940 .. .. £107,743 £92,031 85.4
1947 . .. 151,648 142,331 93.8
1948 .. 159,205 151,895 95.4
1949 !. .. 176,651 166,719 94.4
1950 .. .. 196,568 183,340 93.2
1951 .. . . 221,077 209,126 94.6
* Excluding reserves for taxes until 1945.
Operating exes. (£174,708), which in-
creased by £19,916, due mainly to wage-
lifts, took 79 p.c. of gross income as
against 78.7 p.c. for the previous year.
Rates and taxes (£21,015) were £1457
heavier, the contribution to the provident
fund (£7428) was increased by £4OO and
the allowance for depreciation (£5975) by
£4013. This extra allowance for deprecia-
tion, however, came from money which
had accrued to the co. several years ago,
the chairman says. The net result was a
slip of £1277 in the profit figure (£11,951),
which was equal to 8.7 p.c. on the
£137,500 of capital as against 9.6, 7.2,
5.3, 6.7, 8.5 and 11.2 p.c. back to 1945.
The div, was kept at p.c., of which H
p.c. is labelled bonus.
When the books closed assets comprised
freeholds, etc., £154,125, Government
securities £69,090 and cash and book
debts £35,712, Only liabilities were
£6237 for final and unclaimed divs. and
a tax reserve of £2*2,000, which appears
to be about double actual requirements.
At 395. (355. a year ago) the 50s, shares
paid to 275. 7d. each return 5.3 p.c. on a
7| p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
465. Id. Of the uncalled 225. 6d. per
share £1 can be asked for only if needed
in the event of liquidation.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dfec.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1945.. 43,749 7 p.c. = 34,475 9,274 313,719
Added replacement reserve, £5809 .. 319,528
1946.. 2,192 5 p.e. = 24,625 297,095
Added replacement reserve, £4072.. 301,167
Written off war damage, £lO,OOO .. 291,167
1947.. 54,705 8 p.c. = 39,400 15,305 306,472
Reserves disappear, £913 .. .. 305,559
Share premiums, £2268 ~ .. 307,827
Added replacement reserve, £29,219.. 337,044
1948.. 78,824 12 p.c. = 59,562 19,262 856,306
Written off war-damage, £lO,OOO .. 346.306
From revaluation assets, £285,475 .. 631,*81
Added replacement reserve, £30,279 662,060
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 664,560
1949.. 108,511 12 p.c. = 69,892 48,619 713,179
Added replacement reserve, £14,832 728,011
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 730,611
1960.. 103,083 12 p.c. = 60,000 43,088 773,594
* Includes replacement reserve, £865,359 at
31/12/’5O.
After intermittent ups and downs in
earnings and divs. since 1941, due to
floods, drought and frosts, aggravated by
rising costs and shortages of manpower
and materials, the last two years have
been the best since the co. took over the
sugar interests of the Young family in
the Bundaberg district (Q.), 38 years ago.
And, thanks to the sugar agreement with
the U.K., the outlook for the industry
over the next five years is a bright one,
subject, of course, to seasonal conditions
and costs, and to whatever effect the
sugar deal just completed between Canada
and Cuba may have upon Australian pro-
ducers.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its milling
figures, but here is what has happened
in the industry as a whole since 1946:
Australian Australian Exportable
Production. Consumption. Surplus.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1946 .. 552,158 463,732 88,426
1947 .. 605,054 498,551 100,503
1948 .. 942,893 499,821 443,072
1949 .. 936,937 497,302 439,635
1950 . . 932,000 f * *
tEstimate. * Not yet available.
Last year’s slightly lower production of
raws was due to an excessively wet
season, which affected the sugar content
per ton of cane. The important feature
is the growth in the export surplus, which
is expected to average about £A33 a
ton for 1950 as against £A29 7s. 6d. for
1949 and £AIS for 1944. The home con-
sumption price was steady at £24 6s. per
ton. The overall average for the season
should approximate £2B (up 255.) a ton.
It has been the increase in volume and
price of exports that has largely taken
care of the steep growth in costs since
war ended. For the same reason Aus-
tralia is able to retail fines at sd. a
pound, which is less than the retail selling-
price in any other country today.
After allowing £31,503 (up £281) for
depreciation and something for taxation,
net earnings were £5428 short of the
previous year’s at £103,083, equal to
20.6 p.c. on capital as against 21.7, 15.9,
11.1 and 0.4 p.c. back to 1946. The div.
was kept at p.c. That leaves out of
the reckoning unexplained additions of
£17,332 to the insurance and replacement
reserves, interlined in the introductory
table.
The co. is also interested in a copra
plantation in the Solomon Islands and in
a recently-established Hereford stud
farm in N. S. Wales. The latter is re-
ported “an immediate success,” and
island-trading is being extended and
shortages and setbacks there overcome.
To what extent, if any, last year’s earn-
ings benefited from either source isn’t
ascertainable from the published figures.
In the Solomons the British Govern-
ment pays only £S4B a ton for copra, sub-
ject to 15 p.c. export duty, as against an
in-store figure of £SS3 15s. in Fiji.
Last term the co. went to its bankers
and others for an extra £282,633;
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £492,500 £494,500 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities* .. 523.642 389,605 275,539 568,172
Final div. .. 19,700 29,892 30,000 30,000
Estates .. 323,288 327,875 330,762 345.533
Factories, etc. 7 rAO f 515,264 837,264 905,374
Livestock t 519,002 £ 42 ,414 05,145 83,188
Stocks, etc... 72,862 89,343 133,384 186,972
Book debts .. 208,591 260,834 142,942 328,199
Cash, etc. .. 6,576 7,752 9,221 12,500
Island-rehabili-
tation .. 41,196 26,821
* Including provision for taxation.
Fixed assets increased by £82,881, live-
stock by £18,043, stocks by £53,588 and
book debts by £185,257. The more-or-
less liquid surplus (£22,687) was £22,466
lighter.
The current year’s sugar production is
expected to approximate last year’s
figure. Chief fear at the moment is that
the Canada-Cuba deal, involving about
75,000 tons raws, will reduce sales
of Australian sugar on the Canadian
market. Hopes are that Britain, which
has also bought Cuban sugar to supple-
ment the British ration, might be able to
fill the gap.
The sharemarket sees no cloud in the
co.’s sky and prices the pound shares
at 645. as against 475. 6d. a year ago.
The return at 645. is 3.7 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 50s. lid.
Capel Court Investment Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Bec. 31, Profit. serves, serves.
£ p.c. . £ £ £
1942 . . 3,038 2i 3,000 38 2,136
Net loss on sales, £6B .. •• 2,073
1943 . . 3,728 2J 3,300 428 2.501
Net loss on sales, £ll7 .. .. 2,384
1944 . . 4,294 3 3,600 694 3,078
1945 ~ 4,300 Si 3,900 400 3,478
Net loss on sales, £174 .. .. 3,304
1946 .. 5,682 3f 4,719 913 4,217
Net profit on sales, £l2l .. .. 4,838
1947 . . 8,922 4* 6,038 2.884 7,222
Net profit on sales, £312 .. 7,534
1948 . . 12,707 6 9,000 3,707 11.241
Net profit on sales, £741 .. .. 11,982
1949 . . 17,011 5 12,250 4,761 16,743
Net profit on sales, £6l ~ .. 16,804
1950 .. 25,764 6J 16,275 9,489 26.293
As a long-term investment, with
security and gradual appreciation of
income and capital as the targets, there
is much to be said for scrip in a well-
managed investment co., especially for
the small investor. He is provided with
expert service, a judicious spread of risks
and freedom from the anxiety of manag-
ing a small portfolio to the best advan-
tage. Divs. are moderate until substantial
reserves are built up to support and assist
the share capital. These reserves accrue
partly from the undistributed portion of
each year’s earnings and partly from
capital profits on change of investments.
Shareholders have to rely upon the judg-
ment of the management; everything,
therefore, depends upon whether those in
control are good “pickers,” and upon the
cost of conducting the business.
This 14-year-old member of the Capel
Court group, sponsored by J. B. Were
and Son, hasn’t had an opportunity to


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IRIS MURIEL STEVENS late of No. 4
Hereward Street Maroubra Bay.—TAKE
NOTICE that SYDNEY STEVENS has
filed a Petition for Divorce (No. 3831
of 1950) on the ground of your adultery
with LESLIE LAWRENCE JERVIS
PAYNE If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
27th day of July 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER & COMPANY,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 350 George
Street, Sydney ~J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THB AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
w
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Boad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
From Scotland
—every
precious
drop
■ %
BUCHANAN’S
BLACK 4 WHITE'
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
fo H.M. King George VI
ŵ
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.. GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
Yet another reason why
FORDSON FARMS AUSTRALIA
✓
ADDS THESE 7 INCREASES
IN TRACTOR EFFICIENCY
ẁ
Now standard equipment on
FordSOn Majors Specially designed by
Ford engineers and rigorously tested under farm
conditions, this new Vaporiser is now fitted to
all kerosene powered Fordson Majors. It is so
designed that the flow of exhaust gases round the
inlet manifold is regulated by a special shutter
which has four positions; heat can now be controll-
ed to suit varying temperature conditions. There
is little carbon deposit, so the Vaporiser seldom
requires removal for cleaning.
Only Fordson provides all these
features Adding to the well-known effi-
ciency of the kerosene powered model, this new
Vaporiser will be an additional reason why Ford-
sons outsell any other make of tractor in Australia.
Fordson is the sales leader because only Fordson
provides all these features: Lowest cost per h.p.
. . . choice of gear ratios . . . range of wheel and
tyre sizes .. . wheeled or half-track units ~. choice
of Diesel or Kerosene powered models . . . special-
ised service facilities throughout Australia.
ẃ
5. Improved Idling.
2* Improved Vaporisation.
3* Even easier Starting.
4* Quick changeover from
petrol to kerosene.
S* Decreased Sump Dilution.
6. No flat spots on taking
up load.
7. Less frequent cleaning
required.
CONVERSION
KITS
are on the way for
fitting the new Vap-
oriser to Fordsons
and Fordson' Majors
already in use. Place
your order now.
Enquire from your nearest
Fordson Dealer
nicMv
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
Sut on much fat; progress,
owever, has become more
marked during the post-war
inflation-and-expansion boom,
Divs., an annual event from the
start, averaged 2.8 p.c. for the
eight years to 1944, and 4.4 p.c.
for the six years to the close of
last accounts. During the last-
mentioned period the rate
s^ fr T 3i c - to 5 ) p - c "
£240,000 of new capital was
gathered, making the total on
the register £360,000, and
£22,815 was added to reserves.
lifting them to £26,293.
Last term’s £25,764 (up £8753)
of profit was 8.3 p.c. on average
capital as against 6.9, 6.9 and
6.6 p.c. for the three preceding
years. In addition there was a
small profit of £6l on sale of
investments. There was a good
deal of buying and switching of
securities, the amount paid in
brokerage being £3269 (up
£1317).
The emphasis in investment
policy was upon industrial
equities:—
1948- 1949- 1950 ‘
« s ”
creditors, etc. e,926 4,482 18,730
Tax provision 1.812 J.sis 4.943
investments— ’
Government
Debentures 43,287 48,679 685
e ete ?.*’ 20.205 ie,208 30,059
£O. shares 241,584 324,157 464,407
casiTete.' 6.120 2,075 143
The year’s £60 ,000 of fresh
ita f together with an extra
£14,404 from the bank and
f 47 ’ OQ4 . f f r
*47,994 net from sale Ot GOV-
eminent Securities, and more be-
sides, went main , into co
shares, up. £140,250. .The 328
COSt
£495,151, of which 87.4 p.c. was
represented by ordinary and 12.2
P-C. by preference shares and
0.4 p.c. by bonds and debentures,
The market value of the lot was
£670,249, or £175,098 more than
COST. .
Prospects of a better showing
at next balance are encourag-
mg. Still, although the overall
outlook is expansive, the sut-
face of the scene is changing,
and such P roblems as export
prices (especially for wool and
metals), costs, and the effects of
defence upon taxation, man-
power and materials will affect
various sections of trade and in-
dustry in differing degrees.
At 7s. 2d. (6s. 2d. a year ago)
Ihe f.-p. ss. shares return 3.6
P-c. on a 5i p.c. div. basis,
Taking securities at market price
December 31, 1950, net tangible
cover was 7s. 9d.
“Cowhide Kibble”: Consoli-
dated Gold Mining Areas,
which is working the old White
Hope Mine, Hampton Plains
(W.A.), has asked those on the
register for another l£d. a share,
payable this month. A similar
call was made last December,
. f hlstQry repeats j tself>
further calls can be expected,
The White Hope first blazed
into prominence about 34 years
ago, during the Celebration
boom, when a sensational rise in
the price of its shares was soon
followed by an equally sensa-
tional fall. Since then the corn-
panics and reconstructed corn-
panics controlling the property
have r vided «>““**?*
avenue for payment of calls. It
was mooted some time ago that
shareholders might ask the
board to sell the mine to a Kal-
§oorlie or other co - strong
enough, technically and finan-
dally, to take it over, with a
cash distribution to C.G.A.
™ ember , s °t “V. sixpence per
share, plus a fully-paid share m-
terest which would maintain an
equity in the show without
f fnrfhpr calk Thf
iy 11 J UJ y~ l . cdl b ‘ 1 Ile
snag was, and still is, to find a
sm ably-eqnipped co. prepared
, .
* * * *
Mountain View Gold which
had won some spectacular re-
suits from the northern end of
the Great Fingal quartz vein at
Cue (W.A.), netted only £4184
-k.t_. 7 no iqco
f®T the year to NOV. 30, 1950,
as against £37,322 for the pre-
vious term. Two crushings
averaged only 25dwt. per ton,
whereas 2oz. to 3oz. had been
expected. The trouble is that
gold in the main shoot occurs
i n streaks, which makes guess-
work of any estimate of average
values. Down to 520 ft. the
main shoot had yielded over
£500,000-worth of gold; it
pinched out at 640 ft., but was
picked up 50ft. lower down,
and hopes are that rich specimen
ore will be met with again as
sinking proceeds. A drive is to
be put through to No. 8 level
on the old Great Fingal, which
is to be dewatered so that
broken ore in the dilapidated
stopes can be valued. Co. has
enough in hand to see its pro-
gramme through. Cash, etc.,
totalled £52,248 and outside
liabilities only £954 at Nov. 30
last. The f.-p. ss. shares, which
rose to 6s. 7d. in 1950, were
recently offered at 2s . 3d.


\
ll
a
handy
with
the
Get split-second
blade changing
Gillette
DISPENSER
LESS TROUBLE —No unwrap-
ping. Blades always ready
for instant use—just flick on
to the razor with the thumb.
CONVENIENT - No need to
remember to buy blades every
few weeks. Each Dispenser
contains 20 Blue Gillette
Blades, sufficient for months
of shaving.
FACTORY-SHARP —Each blade
is protected with a film of
special invisible rust-resisting
oil, and held so that nothing
can touch the edges until
they are used.
NO EXTRA COST-you pay the
regular price for the Blue
Gillette Blades there is Ho
extra charge for the Dispenser.
Dispenser containing 20 Blue Gillette Blades—6/8
Blue Gillette Blades in packets ... 10 lor 3/4 ... S tor i/l
'Good mornings' begin with Gilleffe
A RARE GOLD COIN
USED IN ADELAIDE
m
m
6
m
m
::
m
ss
•m
ii
'0&
>Ss's\
m
is
mmm
IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA in the year 1852, a
crisis was considered to be imminent because of
the lack of an adequate supply of gold coins.
Under local legislative authority, gold tokens
known as “Adelaide Sovereigns” having a value of
one pound were issued during December 1852;
but the issue was discontinued in February 1853.
The making of these coins, which are now
collectors pieces, virtually constituted the operation
of a Mint without the authority of the Home
Government; but it was considered that the action
taken at the time was justified in order to avert
serious financial difficulties in the young colony.
In 1839, fourteen years prior to the occurrence
of these interesting events, the Bank
of Australasia had opened a Branch
in Adelaide. Today, throughout
Australia and New Zealand, the Bank
has nearly 400 Branches and Agencies
providing a comprehensive banking
service for all members of the community.
ŵ
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
branches throughout Australia, New Zealand and in London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
GBAIS-16
Business. Rollery. etc.
The Investment Market
The past week saw a slacken-
ing in some share prices, mostly
in Sydney, B.H.P. receded to
585., among the “heavy” in-
dustries, and Thirlwell and Mc-
Kenzie “old” shares dropped a
shilling, to 315., the rights chang-
ing hands at 10s. 3d. By con-
trast, Bradford, Kendall at 21s.
notched a record, and A.C.I.
was firm at 84s. Generally, how-
ever, prices have tended lower.
In Melbourne, which has seen
less speculation than Sydney, the
market was firmer. McPher-
sons, Moulded Products and
Repco maintained most of re-
cent rises. Bearing Service, after
touching 18s., came back to
17s. Id. Both Australasian Paper
and Associated Pulp were in
stronger demand. Stocks with an
inter-State market tended to fol-
low Sydney, but purely Vic-
torian issues were not so sub-
ject to market reaction.
In Sydney, Thirlwell and Mc-
Kenzie rights at 10s. 3d. had
attractions for the investor pre-
pared to wait for his benefits.
Frederick Ash ords,, slightly
weaker at 475. 9d., offered a
yield of 4.2 p.c. This return is
above-average among builders’-
hardware stores, and the co. is
strongly established.
Already considerable inquiry
is being made for the unlisted
shares in another Newcastle con-
cern, Newcastle Wool Proces-
sing Co., the ss. shares in which
are changing hands at about
7s, 6d, each. The co. was floated
earlier this year, and it has yet
to prove itself. But prospects
seem encouraging.
Speculators last week were
eagerly fishing among shoals of
other recently-floated ss. issues,
scarcely waiting for scrip to be
printed.
Announcement of a bonus
issue continues to be a signal for
speculative joy, especially in
Sydney. Yet, where the bonus
comes wholly or partly from
the writing-up of plant it not only
enlarges the amount of capital
over which profits have to be
spread at dividend-time, but it
also makes profit-earning harder
because extra depreciation
should be allowed on written-up
plant values.
This point has been stressed
in The Bulletin several times
already. It was given special
weight last week in the memor-
andum of share-sale put out by
F. J. Walker, Ltd., of Sydney.
There was a writing-up of assets
as well as bonus-share issue
prior to the conversion into a
public company in this co.’s
case, and Flack and Flack, in-
vestigating accountants, said in
the memorandum:
It must also be pointed out that
future profits of the group will have
to bear additional annual charges for
depreciation on the written-up values
of plant and machinery We com-
pute the additional annual charge for
depreciation to be in the vicinity of
£7000....
In this case the board of F. J.
Walker, Ltd., are conversant
with the problem involved, and
estimates have been adjusted
accordingly. But it may come
as a shock to shareholders in
many other cos. who have re-
garded bonus issues as undi-
luted benefits.
The whole question of de-
preciation and plant-replace-
ment becomes more disturbing
as inflation progresses. Even the
maintenance of stock volume is
an increasing problem, especially
in the woollen-textile industries.
The Commonwealth Treasury
appears to have taken account of
the weakening bond market in
its latest loan offering. The 3|
p.c. issue, which previously was
put out at par, is this time being
offered at £99, making the effec-
tive immediate return £3 3s, Id.
per cent., and the yield, includ-
ing redemption, £3 4s. 3d. per
cent.
Westralian Oil
“Petro”; The announcement
by the Deputy Premier of Wes-
tern Australia that Ampol and
the California Texas Corpora-
tion had reached preliminary
agreement about the drilling of
a test-well for oil in the Ex-
mouth Gulf area of that State
is good news. Operations are
hoped to commence in the near
future, and are estimated to in-
volve an initial expenditure of
up to £1,500,000.
Details as to the exact terms
of the agreement are not avail-
able, but it is stated by Ampol
that C.T.C. will provide the
money and personnel necessary,
together with equipment weigh-
ing between 6000 and 7000 tons.
This suggests that provision is
being made to carry down the
test to around 10,000 ft., if oil is
not struck at shallower depths.
The agreement is provisional
on the amendment of the Wes-
tern Australian petroleum law
to meet modern requirements
and conditions, but it is expected
that this will readily be granted.
That an organisation of the
financial resources and technical
experience of C.T.C. should
consider investing what, even to
it, is a considerable sum, and —
what is even more important—
the time and services of its
technical experts in the Wes-
tralian search for oil indicates
a favorable opinion as to pros-
pects.
This fact, however, shouldn’t
lead to undue optimism, and it
should be recognised (as C.T.C.
will already have done) that no
evidence has been produced, as
yet, that oil exists below the sur-
face at Exmouth Gulf or that
the conditions essential to the
formation of petroleum in
quantity have occurred at any
time during the geological his-
tory of that. area. The structure
of the area to be tested is favor-
able to the segregation and
preservation of oil in com-
mercial amounts, and the sedi-
mentary beds are of adequate
thickness for its storage, but
these are two only of the many
factors which go up to make an
oilfield.
The knowledge that the Ex-
mouth Gulf area is now to be
thoroughly tested should be a
source of comfort and congratu-
lation to all concerned, particu-
larly to the Australian Common-
wealth, which has so much to
gain by the discovery of flow-
oil within its territories. C.T.C.
is certain not to issue any opti-
mistic reports until it has defi-
nite evidence to justify them.
The Thin End
“Abdul Assiz”: How far
Government control of the min-
ing industry has progressed in
recent years is indicated in the
announcement by the Minister
for National Development that
20 parties from the Bureau of
Mineral Resources are leaving
Melbourne and Canberra on
what is described as a giant
search throughout Australia for
minerals, coal, oil and water.
The bureau was a child con-
ceived and born when the last
“Labor” Government was in
power, and it has, even under
its Liberal foster-parents, not
only continued the policy of its
originators, but has vastly
expanded it.
The present series of excur-
sions is a peculiarly mixed bag
for a single organisation, par-
ticularly as its staff consists
largely of recently-recruited
young graduates who could not
possibly be specialists in a tithe
of the branches of geology
covered.
The search for uranium and
the testing of Snowy River dam
sites are possibly justified by
their Federal significance, but the
survey of the Tasmanian tunnel-
line, the subterranean water-
supplies in Western Australia
and the search for new opencut
coalfields in N.S.W. could be
done better and more economi-
cally by the States Departments
of Mines with their already-
acquired local knowledge—pro-
vided that they were allotted the
funds and staff so freely made
available to the bureau.
The value of known tin and
mica deposits has already been
almost destroyed by the fos-
sicker, who has picked the eyes
out of the richer and more
easily-mined deposits and has
rendered most of the rest un-
workable by covering the out-
crops with discarded muck.
This process is likely to be re-
peated in any new deposits
which the bureau’s survey may
bring to light.
Copper and silver-lead should
be left to the private mining
interests which have specialised
in the winning of such ores and
to whom the Australian mining
industry owes so much.
As to oil, other writers have
pointed out that the search for
petroleum is no game for those
without very ample finances and
long experience. Moreover, the
hardships and risks which are a
commonplace in oil-exploration
and the avoidance of which
jeopardises the chances of suc-
cess are not readily undertaken
except where a very strong per-
sonal incentive exists; this
makes the average security-
minded civil servant unsuitable
for such work.
The desire or the necessity for
the bureau to dabble in
petroleum is, therefore, difficult
to understand; specialist major
organisations have proved their
readiness and ability to put
millions of pounds, at no cost
to the State, into the search for
oil in areas in which their vast
experience indicates any hopes
of success.
The recent deep well, sunk at
Morelia, in Queensland, is a case
in point. Over a million pounds
of private capital was spent in
the drilling of, and in work an-
cillary to, that abortive test, and
the firm which undertook this
heavy commitment has freely
presented to the State the valu-
able data which its experts
collected.
Associated Rural Industries
ss. ords. (B. 4/4/’5l) opened on
Sydney ’Change at Bs. 9d. and
closed at 9s. last week. The
issue had previously been heavily
oversubscribed, and allotment
was made largely to rice-growers
and trading connections.
* * * *
N.Z. Forest Products shares
have become harder to buy since
big woodpulp and newsprint
doings were forecast in Maori-
land. Buyers last week were
offering 13s. 6d, —the highest
price so far recorded —for the
£1 shares, with sellers asking
rather more. Originally this pro-
ject was floated as N.Z. Per-
petual Forests, with which Smith,
Wylie and Co. had a good deal
to do at the beginning. “Bonds”
representing acre-lots planted
with Pinus insignis were sold at
£25 and upwards. Eventually
24 ord. shares and six 5 p.c.
prefs. were exchanged for each
1935-planting bond ; each earlier
year of planting got one extra
ord. share, until the 1925 issue
got 35 ords. and six prefs. in
place of a £25 bond. Some of
these bonds had been sold at
prices up to £4O, depending
upon whether they were paid
for immediately or by instal-
ments, and upon how long the
trees had been planted. Selling-
commission took a lot of the
proceeds. Many strange charac-
ters, including Woolcott-Forbes,
hawked these bonds in the early
days. Holders of the 1925 plant-
ing who paid £3O a bond can
now just about see their money
back at last week’s quotes.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
1
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
ci hiqh-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost. The
"National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typinq. Writlnq. Plans.
Music, etc.
ẁ
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months . . .. .. £1 16 0
6 18 6
3„ 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
:
m
'■C\ :
S ■' w&f
Achievements of an Industry, No. 2
“PALUDRINE” “Paludrine” was the outcome of
a programme of research for a more efficient drug than
quinine or its synthetic substitutes, mepacrine and pama-
quin. This was urgently begun by 1.C.1. in 1942, when
Japan’s conquest of the quinine-producing East Indies
jeopardised the health of Allied armies in the Tropics.
The biologist of the team, Dr. D. G. Davey, laid the
foundations of success by evolving a swift, positive method
of testing compounds for antimalarial activity. Then a
group of chemists, headed by Dr. F. L. Rose and the late
Dr. F. H. S. Curd, began the chemical investigation, strik-
ing out along lines hitherto unexplored in malaria research.
Many new compounds were evolved, and rejected, but
before the end of 1944 one of altogether exceptional
power had been developed and an Australian Army
Research Centre during the war carried out large scale
practical tests of the new drug at Cairns in Queensland.
It is now sold under the trade mark “Paludrine,”
1.C.1.’s achievement in respect of “Paludrine” is threefold.
It was accomplished in response to a particular need, it
was completed against time, and the result is the safest
and most effective drug ever produced for the prophylaxis,
suppression and treatment of the disease.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
IC!
L 20.14,
NOW OPEN
for Public Subscription
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT
CO. LTD. (BRISBANE)
New issue of £600,000
First Mortgage Inscribed Stock and
Registered Debentures with interest at
17
2 fo
per annum
for 14 years
FREE OF EXCHANGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Principal will be repayable at par on the 31st January, 1965,
subject to the Company’s right of earlier repayment.
0 This loan is a Trustee Security in Queensland.
lnterest payable 31st January and 31st July each
year.
£ Debentures will be issued in sums of £5O or
multiples thereof thus affording both large and
small investors an opportunity to participate in
this loan.
0 Purchases may be made by (a) Full amount on
application; (b) Deposit of 10% on application,
balance in full on or before 15th August, 1951.
APPLY NOW! Prospectus is available from, and
applications may be lodged direct with any office of the
English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd., and the
National Bank of Australasia Ltd. (Bankers for the
issue) throughout Queensland and at Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston, Newcastle and
the Northern Rivers Districts of New South Wales.
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
LOAN CLOSES ON OR BEFORE 9th JUNE
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The long and insistent build-
up for the Festival of Britain has
come to a sudden end. We now
have the Festival. It would be
untrue to express a bubbling
enthusiasm on the part of Lon-
doners, though no doubt they
will unbend sufficiently to walk
the South Bank Exhibition and,
in good time, to catch the mardi-
gras kind of infection that
usually accompanies such occa-
sions. After all, the Festival is
primarily for visitors, who, like
tourists in a quaint-looking fish-
ing village, have a rosier out-
look than the natives.
The “regulars” of this show-
place may be excused a certain
impatience. The city holds only
a fraction of the multitude that
encroaches every morning upon
London. Not only have Govern-
ment and other offices extended
into unlikely quarters, but the
streets of the Adelphi, St.
James’s, Belgravia, Mayfair,
Soho and lower Marylebone are
not what they were.
Few people live nowadays in,
or near, the West End. Former
town-houses and Georgian man-
sions are blatantly given over to
purposes that might have amused
Sydney Smith and mortified Dr.
Johnson. All these, and other,
workers have to get to business,
and, at some time during the
middle of the day, to snatch a
morsel of lunch. With restaurant
accommodation still below
needs, they are daily frustrated
by clusters of holiday-makers.
Moreover, the hour at which
most shops and offices close is
inconveniently rigid (it is esti-
mated that gome 25,000 people
assault the underground station
at Oxford Circus during the 10
minutes after 5.35). The out-
ward surge will not be made
easier by traffic blocks in the
approaches to Waterloo and
Victoria stations.
All in all, it seems that
the mixing of business with
pleasure, both on a large scale,
cannot occur without inconveni-
ence and disruption.
Bevantics
It will suit Mr. Bevan that so
much publicity has followed his
melodramatic, snarling - dog
resignation, for the manner of
his going seems to indicate the
line of action he may be ex-
pected to follow. At odds with
the entire structure of the pro-
fession he has followed for 35
years, he lashed out with malice.
With not a word of regret, nor
any expression of respect, for
his old colleagues, he poured
vitriolic contempt upon Mr.
Gaitskell, assailed the United
States and then, as if to show
that he was leaving nothing un-
done, turned upon his tradi-
tional foes, the Tories. The
House of Commons, which has
heard many personal statements
from resigning Ministers, was
shocked into silence.
What seems likely is that
Bevan, although formally
addressing the Speaker, really
had in mind the “Hansard”
shorthand-writers and the journa-
lists in the galleries above. He
may have disgusted the House
and upset the unity of the Labor
party. But what of the immedi-
ate future? Does it hold out
any prospect for an active and
ambitious Left-winger?
Mr. Bevan evidently thinks it
doesn’t. The greatest malcon-
tent of all may well be planning
to lead a rump of lesser mal-
contents.' He can probably rely
upon constituency support much
wider than is generally ac-
credited. Many convinced
Socialists are disgruntled at the
failure of their faith to catch on
with the masses, and are envious
of the political success, over
their very heads, of upstarts
from the well - educated
bourgeoisie.
Politics is not a percipient or
truth-seeking science. When
plans go awry the glib dema-
gogue invariably chooses the
easy way, avoiding unpleasant
facts by dragging in a conveni-
ent scapegoat. Mr. Sevan’s
plans are well-conceived. If, as
is likely, a Conservative Govern-
ment takes over, the nation’s
problems will not solve them-
selves. Supposing there are
worse times ahead, with a still-
rising cost-of-living, a continu-
ance of short-time in some in-
dustries and even local unem-
ployment? Mr. Bevan can, if
he so chooses, provide all the
answers. What did he say in ’5l
when he resigned, as a good
Socialist, from a Tory-minded
Government because they were
robbing the workers of their
health benefits and filching their
National Insurance funds?
Didn’t he give a warning about
unemployment, too —due en-
tirely to the Tory policy of the
Attlee crowd and to subsequent
Tory mismanagement? He can
also point to “Hansard” and re-
mind his audience of how, for
their benefit, he double-crossed
his colleagues by manoeuvring to
avoid any responsibility for the
Is. charge on prescriptions and
the cutting of the housing pro-
gramme by 25,000.
It has often been said that
every nation gets the leader it
deserves. The British people in
particular have learned the truth
of the maxim. They certainly
deserve something better than
this,
Moroccan Blues
With their repertory cycle
nearly complete (only
val “Merry Wives” has yet to be
seen) the Old Vic. Company
have withdrawn behind the pros-
cenium arch for their fifth pro-
duction Shaw’s 52-year-old
fantasy on nymph-errantry in
rondo form, “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion.” The cun-
ning, all-purposeful fore-stage
has become an orchestral pit.
Harold Ingram conducts his own
overture, apparently Moorish
and percussive in character, but
barely heard amid the chatter of
human voices.
Happily, the rise of the cur-
tain betokens a more respectful
attitude towards the players,
whose teamwork soon has the
audience agog and excited.
Whether the interpretation is as
the composer intended is open to
doubt. Ursula Jeans’s playing
of Lady Cicely Waynflete (a
part, one understands, that was
written for the mature Ellen
Terry) seems to lack finesse.
This character’s country-house
style and well-concealed intelli-
gence give the rondo a motif
that calls for a subtlety of exe-
cution not apparent here. The
result is charming but superficial,
like Schubert in the Palm Court.
Roger Livesey makes a fierce,
brooding and lachrymose Brass-
bound, but fails to bring out
the brigand’s other personality,
twinkling attractiveness. Re-
markably good performances
are given by Mark Dignam,
tone-perfect as the hanging
judge ; by William Devlin as the
Glaswegian Free Church mis-
sionary ; and by Douglas Wil-
mer as an aristocratic scape-
grace.
Hugh Hunt’s direction has
punch, polish and never a dull
moment. Pantomimicry—exag-
gerated no doubt by the Vic.’s
new and immensely powerful
lighting system—is too abundant.
The Arabs and Krooboys are so
demoniac in make - up and
manner that they tend to be
grotesque.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Eight thousand people, guests of the
State Government, shivered at the Exhibi-
tion building through the entire presenta-
tion of 50 years of life under Federa-
tion. The six States were represented by
lovely girls. Australia was queenly in a
dress of gold—watched over by officials
of the Mint, to whom it was returned as
soon as the performance was over. Mrs.
McKell accompanied her husband, the
Governor-General, in a gown of black
heavily encrusted in silver. The yoke of
Lady Brooks’s black velvet gown was of
pastel-pink chiffon. Betty McKell
covered her beech-brown laces with a
red-fox cape. Jeanette Brooks’s bouffant
gown was of ice-blue brocade. Mrs. R.
G. Casey wore black crepe romaine and
a jacket of black Persian-lamb. Mrs. T.
W. White, daughter of the late Alfred
Deakin, was present with her husband
and youngest daughter Judith. Mrs.
Trevor Oldham wore leaf-green velvet
with a cape of dyed-ermine. Lady Lowe
wore a pretty hat of black tulle sparkling
with sequins with her gown of floral
satin. Wife of Victoria’s Premier, Mrs.
J. McDonald, wore pervenche-blue moss-
crepe.
With an invitation to luncheon in her
Toorak home. Lady McConnan sent a
plea for help. Almost submerged in
work for the Women’s Hospital 1951
Appeal, she is organising a jumble-sale
which will be held in Lower Malvern
Town Hall on May 25. Lady McConnan
needs many articles to sell, and if there
are any “white elephants” around the
house, any clothes which have outgrown
their use or anything at all that would
be suitable on a stall, please send them
to Lady McConnan, care National Bank,
Collins-street, Melbourne. They will be
most gratefully accepted.
Just engaged is Margaret May, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R, S. Donald-
son, of Heidelberg,- and Peter Sidney,
eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold S.
Wright, of Williams-road, Toorak, and
formerly of Sydney. Wedding in July
has been made possible because there is
no housing problem. The Harold
Wrights have acquired a large old home
in Williams-road, which they are con-
verting into a group of flats, and son
Peter has first choice.
Farewell parties for Bill and Nance
McGowan, who are on their way to
England and the Continent for a holiday,
have been numerous. Just before they
jailed in the Stratheden, Dick and
Fhelma Newton gave them a buffet-
iinner-party in their home in Hopetoun-
oad, Toorak. Heaps of flowers lent
jaiety and beauty to the reception- and
Jining-rooms, where huge log-fires made
popular contribution to comfort.
Thelma’s slim-fitting gown of black
velvet was strapless. The guest-of-honor
;hose a green-and-black-striped ankle-
length strapless gown. Mrs. Colin Nor-
man’s Chantilly laces were black, Mrs.
Ada Colman’s ballerina-length frock of
heavy black lace was encrusted with jet
beads, Mrs. George Mendes’s frock was
of black-and-silver brocade. Mrs. Tom
Carlyon’s pale-caramel crepe gown had a
petal-topped bodice which glittered with
crystal embroideries. Of honey-beige
satin was the gown worn by Mrs. Leo
Curtis; opalescent beads and massed
sequins were clustered on bodice and
hipline. Black beads trimmed the pale-
blue crepe gown worn by Mrs. Tim Jones.
Mrs. Alan Tate wore midnight-blue
velvet. Mrs. A. G. Silk’s gown combined
green-blue taffeta and black lace ; from
the draped hipline from one side fell
a wide floating panel of stiffened black
lace. A bolero of black crepe was worn
by Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss with her strap-
less ankle-length black crepe frock.
Mrs. James Turner chose a short black
Ghantilly-lace frock. Mrs, Gerry Cook’s
long-sleeved black velvet dinner-gown had
wide bands of white guipure lace set
into the sleeves.
Cyril Ritchard and Madge Elliott were
in the audience of the Comedy Theatre
for the premiere of “September Tide,”
in which English actress Evelyn Laye and
her husband, Frank Lawton, were
starred. Cyril and Madge received a
great ovation when they entered, she in
ice-blue Roman silk with a matching
stole edged with black. Gladys Mon-
crieff’s gown of white crepe romaine was
liberally splashed with beads and sequins.
Mrs. Frank Tail’s bouffant gown of
deep brown tulle had copper-toned
sequins, perfect for her Titian coloring.
Of geranium-red velvet was Mrs. John
Knox’s gown. Jill Daveron’s fuchsia
shot-moire taffeta gown was strapless.
Smart and unusual was the ensemble
chosen by Mrs. George Schnabl. Of
deep gold faille, the strapless top was
outlined with starched white lace rosettes,
the centres starred with gold sequins ; this
lace motif was repeated on the elbow-
length sleeves of the matching swingback
coat.
Dove-grey was a popular choice. Mrs.
Ada Colman wore this soft shade under
white Arctic fox. Mrs. Fred Stansen’s
chiffons were grey. Deep-rust satin and
silver-fox furs were the choice of Lady
Brookes. Mrs. E. L. G. Cresswell wore
seaspray-green chiffons. Mrs. Crosbie
Hucks’s strapless gown was of pale ice-
blue moire-taffeta. Mrs. A. Fowler’s
scarlet crepes fitted slimly. Mrs. Graham
Nathan wore dove-grey faille under a
coat of blue fox-fur. Mrs. Maurice
Nathan’s white gown was embellished
with silver trimmings. Mrs. Harry Scott
was with her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Alan
Scott, and Mrs. Tom Mitchell. Mrs.
Ned Holland’s gown of black Chantilly
lace was strapless and featured a wide,
billowy skirt. Evelyn Laye, who wears a
succession of charming frocks in the play,
wore at the foyer party after curtain-fall
a slim-fitting gown of turquoise-blue
crepe cut on tailored lines, with button
fastenings on the bodice matching the
royal-blue rhinestones and sequins at the
waist.
When the great German producer Max
Reinhardt staged the Offenbach operetta
“Helen” at London Adelphi Theatre
for the late C. B. Cochran, he had to
look for a singer of classical beauty for
the title role of the Greek goddess. He
chose Evelyn Laye, pictured here. It
was in musical-comedy that Evelyn be-
came the darling of London theatregoers.
She appeared in “The Merry Widow,”
“Bitter Sweet” and many others. But
of recent years Evelyn Laye has taken to
straight roles, of which “Sweet Aloes,”
in New York, was the first. In “Sep-
tember Tide,” now at the Comedy
Theatre, Evelyn plays the part of a
mother with great charm. Photo by
Anthony Buckley (London).
Heather Menzies, showing no signs of
wear and tear after her weeks of hectic
electioneering with her father, appeared
in a new role when, as president of the
Women’s Hospital Junior Appeal Com-
mittee, she received the Governor’s
daughter, Jeanette Brooks, at the Gros-
venor Theatre preview of “The Re-
luctant Widow,” held to raise funds for
the appeal. Heather chose a pretty del-
blue crepe gown which had a Chantilly
lace bodice in the same tonings. Jeanette,
who wore a deep-wine-toned taffeta
gown, was accompanied by one of her
father’s aides, Lt. Robin Byrne. Mrs.
R. G. Menzies wore a midnight-blue lace
gown, Mrs. Ken Menzies, her daughter-
in-law, was in a black green-spotted tie-
silk ankle-length gown, Mrs. Isobel
Green, Heather’s aunt, had gold and blue
beads embroidered on the collar of her
amethyst faille gown. Mrs. Ron Mc-
Gregor, of Broken Hill, wore black
taffeta. Members of the J.A.C. working
hard for the success of the function in-
cluded Mrs. H. M. Stevenson, in
geranium-red chiffon ; Gillian Pain, her
junior-blue taffeta having white organdie
trimmings; Nan Dixon, whose choice
was coral-pink crinkle chiffon; Merle
Foster wearing a beige taffeta checked in
plaid; Julia Mary Rouse, who teamed a
bodice of heavy white linen lace with
a graceful black skirt; and Ann Wilton,
her white taffeta gown striped in lime-
green. Members of the audience in-
cluded Mrs. E. Poolman, who was
accompanied by her daughter, Mrs. lan
Mann, Mrs. A. E. Cornfoot, president of
the Women’s Hospital committee, Mrs.
J. Bowen Pain, Mrs. Bryan Foster and,
Mrs. Karl Kumm.
From Sydney
The University students’ commem.
procession gave a bit of a lift to city life
during the week, and the sweet girl under-
graduates collected quite a lot of money
for the Spastic Centre. People proved
especially willing to contribute when
there was a photographer present to im-
mortalise their generosity. The only catch
was that the photographer was also an
undergraduate and there was no film in
the camera. Still, everyone took the
joke in good part except the regular
street-photographers, who were more
than somewhat irate about the whole
thing.
Madge and Cyril Ritchard hit the town
for a short, while this week when they
came to visit Madge’s mother. When
they gave a party for Press people at the
Australia Madge pooked very pretty and
feminine in mist-grey, silver-fox and the
most elegant shoes. Cyril seemed larger
than life, both in stature and charm. For
undiminished glamor, these two certainly
bear away the palm. It was surprising
how many faded-looking persons were
heard to say “My dear, they were danc-
ing when I was a mere child,” which (if
true) only proves that the Ritchards are
doing much better than the faded-looking
persons.
Sydney took its Jubilee holiday very
sedately. At Randwick there was quite a
large crowd to see the floral arch, the
decorated programmes and the beflagged
stands, but the multitudes and the rough-
and-tumble that usually characterise a
really “successful” day at the races were
missing. The weather-man provided a
cloudless sky and a biting wind, which
was ideal for the display of fox, ermine,
musquash and mink, possessions which
have hitherto been left at home or
brought along on sufferance and almost
apologised for.
This is Elaine Aiken, formerly Elaine
Chaffer, who was married on May 4 to
Ross Aiken at St. Andrew’s, Roseville.
Her veil was tulle and Brussels lace,
which swept down to a train over a white
satin dress. Attendants were her sisters
Greta and Vivienne, who wore faille
dresses with matching jackets of mush-
room-pink and hydrangea-blue respec-
tively. Elaine is the daughter of the
Norman Chaffers, of Roseville. Ross,
who was attended by John Ingram, is the
son of the Carl Aikens, well known In
the Cowra and western districts of
N.S.W. Photo by John Hoarder.
Among the manuscripts, books and his-
torical pictures at present on exhibition
at the Mitchell and Dixson Galleries is a
poster inviting Irish girls to come to Aus-
tralia, with a sticker at the end asking
“Do you want to be married?” This was
printed about 1840. Today the adver-
tisers would have put this sticker at the
top. The poster also says that the ship
will sail on May 26, “beyond which date
it shall on no account be detained.”
Could any shipping company make such
a rash statement these days?
The opening of this exhibition was
better attended than any seen for many
a long day. The rooms were crowded
with scholarly-looking people, pioneer-
family types, stamp-collectors, art-addicts,
a smattering of the fashionable, civil ser-
vants and politicians. Noticed were the
newly-appointed Deputy-Director of
Education, Dr. H. D. Wyndham, Miles
Franklin (she seems to live at the Mitchell,
anyway), librarian Miss Mander Jones,
Miss Marie Byles, Mrs. Lucy Cassidy,
the Douglas Dundas couple and the Erik
Langkers. Those who miss this exhibi-
tion will be sorry. It’s full of vital his-
torical interest.
At the Lady Mayoress’s Jubilee
children’s party the Town Hall seemed
to be filled to overflowing, due mainly
to the audience’s capacity for being in
several places at once. Rapt attention,
however, was given to the youngsters’
mannequin parade—one is never too
young to be fashion-wise. Little Alison
Drummond Hay, who was three that day,
led the parade of national costumes,
representing the U.K. and waving to the
compere with great friendliness. Lynn
Rainbow modelled a couple of costumes
with much seriousness and concentration.
The Coyne sisters had learned a capti-
vating pirouette to show off their dresses.
Other young models were the Lady
Mayoress’s three young granddaughters
and Janie Bracken, Jeanette Smallwood,
Carol Tilbury, Janet Hobson and Mar-
garet Dibbs.
Delegates from all over N.S.W. came
to Sydney for the conference of the Far
West Children’s Health Scheme, which
was opened by the Deputy-Premier.
Speakers were the Minister for Health,
Mr. J. J, O’Sullivan, Dr. F. A. Maguire
and Mr. E. D. Darby, M.L.A. Mr.
O’Sullivan spoke of the care necessary
for children suffering from polio, making
the interesting comment that among a
group of little patients at Prince Henry
Hospital recently there were none from
the industrial areas, though crowds and
congestion are worse there than anywhere
else. The Far West scheme is undertak-
ing wider expansion to provide for the
further accommodation of country
children and to give them the additional
care and treatment which may mean com-
plete recovery.
The Far West Concert Party has
started one of its strenuous tours again,
which gives country people a means of
helping the good work and enjoying
themselves at the same time. Tonight
they will be at Narromine, and on suc-
cessive nights (except Sunday) concerts
will be given at Coonamble, Trangie,
Collie, Gulargambone, Gilgandra, Toora-
weenah, Coonabarabran, Warren and
Nashdale.
Dominican ex-students from all over
the State (and from other States, too, if
they happen to be in Sydney) will meet
at their ball, which is to be held at the
Trocadero on Monday, May 28. The
president of the committee is Mrs. R.
Lyons, secretary is Joan Brown. The
debutantes will be presented to Air Vice-
Marshal J. P. J. McCauley and Mrs.
McCauley.
If you want an illustration of how
calmly men take things compared with
women, just contrast the frenzied
atmosphere of a women’s footwear de-
partment with the leisured, almost limbo-
like tranquillity of the men’s. To buy a
pair of shoes for a man is practically a
rest-cure. Men’s departments even retain
old-fashioned names like “mercery,”
which in America is known as “men’s
furnishings.” Certainly we still have
“haberdashery” (“notions” to the Ameri-
can), but its atmosphere is hardly restful.
A new and insidious note in men’s shops,
however, is the “drape tailor,” whose
sign is becoming quite common round
town.
Nancy Weir was a “child prodigy”
when she left Australia at the age of 13,
and now that she has returned 23 years
later her performance is still more pro-
digious. She is a really thrilling pianist
and a woman of charm and grace.
Twenty-three years is a long time. Let’s
hope that Australian audiences give her
such a warm welcome that she will come
back again within a tenth of that time.
Members of the British Common-
wealth Theatre Company, who were en-
tertained by the Mayoral couple last
Monday, are a gay and lively lot. They
say they could, if necessary, set up a little
United Nations group, as they represent
India, Australia, England, South Africa
and New Zealand. Their present show
(at the Palace) is Shaw’s “Devil’s Dis-
ciple.” Next production will be “Twelfth
Night,” which is being impatiently
awaited by all those who ever studied it
for the Intermediate, no matter how many
years ago.
There is a very strong school of thought
which maintains that the intensive teach-
ing of Shakspearean plays to children
makes them bored and impatient with
them forever after, but the faithful love
that “Twelfth Night” commands seems
to refute this school altogether. The
same thing is true of “Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” It seems to this Letter that the
conning and scanning of Shakspeare that
goes on in schools prepares one for the
greater enjoyment of the plays in later
life, and that those who become bored
with the study would be bored with Shak-
speare anyway.
Everyone is gadget-conscious these
days. One woman was overheard saying
the other day: “I’ve got all the house-
hold gadgets now, vacuum-cleaner,
washing-machine, ironing-m achi n e,
polisher, garbage-disposer, etc,” It seems
a rather offhand way of speaking about
appliances that must have cost several
hundred pounds.


I
QP.1.25
*****
cot**
stlU ‘ Z «•' kove ‘ taW *
*!»«*» w«
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1 888.
ẃ
■
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
No. 77 Squadron gets its third Korean-
war leader in Gordon Steege, a lean, sun-
browned War II flying veteran with a
hawk nose which sweeps down in a nut-
cracker arc to meet a chin which speaks
for itself. Now 33, an R.A.A.F. cadet
in 1937, Steege got to the Middle East
early, to command a flight of No. 3
Squadron in the desert. A D.F.C. came
his way in March, 1941, by which time
he had depleted the Luftwaffe by seven
machines, adding a further brace before
transferring his attention to the Nips.
Good work airborne over Moresby and
Kiriwina brought his D. 5.0., before,
group-captain, he took command of
R.A.A.F. forces on Manus. What he
took in of the lush sweeps of blue-edged
green prompted his resignation as
Director of Operations in 1946, to return
north in the Papuan patrol service. He
was assistant district-officer at Manus
when, shortly after the current recruiting
campaign sounded its bugle, he rejoined
the R.A.A.F. He goes north (to relieve
Squadron-Leader Cresswell) from com-
mand of the station at Schofields (N.S.W.).
New “Honorables” in the Menzies
Ministry—lnterior, Works and Housing,
W. S. Kent-Hughes, two-war Digger,
M.C., four “mentions,” Light Horse
major in War I, colonel, p.-0.-w. for three
and a half years in War 11, Olympic
Games athlete and Victorian Parliamen-
tarian in the years between wars; Social
Services, Athol Townley, head of a large
Tasmanian chemist business and RAN.
lieut.-commander in War II; Territories,
Paul Hasluck, a sub. on the Perth “West
Australian” who became lecturer in
History at Westralia’s University before
appointment to the Department of
External Affairs in Canberra. A good
dramatic critic, he has done useful work
for the W.A. Historical Society and is an
authority on native problems.
Cast-off from Garden Island’s bollards
last week, Lieut.-Commander Allen
Dollard’s frigate Murchison, bound
Korea. Dollard takes Murchison s
quickfiring four-inchers and competent
anti-submarine devices up through
familiar waters. After serving in cruiser
Sydney when she sank her long-range
teeth into Bartolomeo Colleoni in the
Mediterranean, he shifted to the Aus-
tralia, had almost three years in her in
the Pacific, then, in destroyer Warra-
munga (also a Korean veteran), was in
at the Leyte and Lingayen Gulf shows,
clewing-up recovering p.-0.-w. from
Japan. Hailing from Prospect (S.A.), he’s
had just under 20 of his 33 years in
uniform.
“Cauboy”: Current programmes of J.C.W.
theatres bear a couple of pages of proud boast-
ing of what this ancient firm of entrepreneurs
have done for Australian entertainment. The list
includes October 12, 1918, when Her Majesty’s,-
Melbourne, gave a gala night for General Pau
and his French mission, not long after the
general had lost an arm in action—Maude Fane
in “Oh Boy” was the comestible provided.
Then there was the gala night of February 25,
1920, when Captain Ross Smith, Lieutenant
Keith Smith, Shires and Bennett rested in their
box at the same theatre after their epic flight
from England and were regaled with a panto,
“The Sleeping Beauty”; the elaborate occasion
on June 5, 1920, when Gus Bluett diverted the
Prince of Wales, later the Duke of Windsor,
with “The Bing Boys of Broadway”; the odd
event of January 15, 1924, when Ada Reeve
gladdened the hearts of Vice-Admiral Schichi-
goro Saito, C. 8., and officers of the Japanese
training squadron with “Aladdin”; a later one
on April 29, 1935, when Rear-Admiral K.
Nakamura, Prince Kuni and others of the
Samurai of Nippon were entertained by Oskar
Denes and Sylvia Welling in “Viktoria and Her
Hussar”; and the greatest event of all when
the present King and Queen were offered
“Pinafore” at Her Majesty’s in Sydney. Going
further back they could have included their first
really big entrepreneuring job—the opening of
the first Federal Parliament by George V (then
Duke of York) in the Exhibition Building,
Melbourne, which had its anniversary last week.
John, Charles and Neyin Tail (still looking after
the Firm’s affairs in London) had the organising
of the 5000 guests who attended the historic
function; Frank Tait, now managing-director,
was a 14-year-old usher.
Dennis Wright, the young Englishman
who organised the pageant commem-
orating the 50th birthday of Federal
politics at the Exhibition Building, Mel-
bourne, did a good job, considering he is
new to Australia and dropped in on Vic-
toria on a world tour. Starting out with
three friends from England in a jeep, he
piled his vehicle up on Indian currency
conditions and had to return home to re-
finance. He’s had organising experience
before, having had the direction of
Britain’s leprosy-relief appeal.
Melbourne’s “Whistling Rufus,” L. R.
Boyd, the constable who for 17 years
directed traffic and was never known to
stop whistling in that time, retired
through ill-health some years ago to
start a business as unique in its way as
his constabulary performance—a Scotch
tartan-weaving industry with 12 looms.
He got the idea from his service in War I
with the Victorian Scottish (sth
Battalion). Now he is retiring again, and
if Scots don’t roll up to his auction it
will be surprising. He has patterns of
260 of the historic tartans, some of which
have got back to Scotland,
Victorian ex-p.o.w. interested in the
theatre have got together in a co-opera-
tive effort to stage Australian drama in
the country; they fired their first gun at
Ballarat the other evening with a per-
formance of “When Grief Hath Mates,”
by Austin' McCallum, who won a prize
with the play last year. A companion-
piece, “Thought for Tomorrow,” con-
cerns the methods p.o.w. used to stave
off the executioner’s sword after the
Allied landing. Both are intensely
realistic. Off-stage, McCallum is a dental
technician.
R. R. McKellar, who has been pro-
moted to chief-inspectorship in the Bank
of New South Wales, can certainly claim
a close association with the bank and
its history, since he is a descendant of
one of its founders. Born in Cunna-
mulla (s.-w. Q.), son of one of the best-
known pioneer stock and station agents in
Australia, he had the air of the pastoral
industry breathed into him at birth and
is himself, by his experience, which is
COFFERS.
widespread and thorough, one of the most
trusted authorities on pastoral values and
trends in N.S.W. His work for the bank
has taken him all over western N.S.W., to
Tasmania and London, with a spell,
somewhat adventurous, on the Wiluna
goldfields in W.A., and also with an
earlier one (not connected with banking)
in Palestine with the 6th Light Horse of
proud memory. In recent years he has
been Western Inspector of the Bank in
N.S.W. Many of his spare hours have
been devoted to the interests of Rugby
Union, for which his zest has grown
since his son lan has achieved inter-State
form.
The rugged dial here carved by Gordon
belongs to James Blakeney, who for over
20 years, as managing-director of Finney
Isles, has helped fill the shopping-bags of
the goodly portion of Brisbane house-
wives who use the big store. Born in
Tumut (N.S.W.), Blakeney has been in
the shop game most of his working life,
earlier in New Zealand, then in Brisbane
with T. C. Beirne, ending up there g.-m.
Hobbies range from horses to pigs,
COUNTERS.
racing the former in Brisbane and breed-
ing the latter on his Darling Downs
property.
Taking off for the Australian High
Commissionership in London, the Hon,
Thomas Walter White, D.F.C.,
A.M.1.A.E., F.R.G.S., ex-Minister for Air
and Civil Aviation, Federal member for
Balaclava for the past 22 years and
Tommy to everyone who knows him.
Getting to the Kaiser’s War early with
the first overseas flying unit, White made
a landing outside Baghdad to cut
a telegraph-line, was captured and in-
terned in various Turkish prison-camps
till, just before the Armistice, he escaped
through Russia. Out of his experiences
came Guests of the Unspeakable, one of
the best escape-books of that war. It
took White eight years to find a pub-
lisher ; the . book immediately went
through three editions. In 1933-38
Minister for Trade and Customs, founder
of the Australian Aero Club and, in his
time, president of a long fist of public-
benefiting bodies. White married a
daughter of Alfred Deakin —no statesman
has had a son-in-law more devoted to his
memory,
“J.”: In the latest Navy shift, Captain
F. Bryce Morris goes from Captain of
the Dockyard, Garden Island, to naval-
officer-in-charge, Fremantle. Squadron
navigator when Hitler’s break-out caught
cruiser Canberra heading for Darwin,
Morris brought her down through the
Reef at a speed which probably has not
been equalled in those unpleasant waters
before or since. Thickset, wind-reddened,
Morris, in 1942, captained destroyer
Nepal while Noel Coward’s sea-sequences
of “In Which We Serve” were filmed
aboard, when guns’ crews, clad in Medi-
terranean tropical rig, drilled their guns
for the picture in an English winter.
That speed has not been equalled before
or since! Morris, known to the troops
as “Dad,” is one of those typical
destroyer-drivers who rule by the force
of their own personality, not that of their
uniform-sleeves. My favorite memory of
him is in the war-time Indian Ocean, all
watches mustered in the waist for the
early-morning detailing of duties. In-
variably at that time Dad marched aft
to the bathroom from his sea-cabin
forrard under the bridge, clad, like a
Roman senator, in nothing else but
sandals, a huge white bath-towel and a
cake of soap. All hands snapped to
attention, officers saluted, and—no one
smiled. Which, in that rig, takes power of
command. Morris relieves Captain Harry
Howden, retiring after 35 years in the
Service, three of them in War II com-
mand of cruiser Hobart,
During the Canterbury Festival in
August, which will be part of the Festi-
val of Britain, the Archbishop will have
a job unique in the history of the 12th-
century cathedra], whose vault contains
the head of Sir Thomas More and a font
in which Augustine is said to have bap-
tised Ethelbert. Dr. Fisher will conse-
crate a new altar carved in Australian
stone in the Melbourne suburb of Haw-
thorn by a Hungarian sculptor. After a
world-wide search for a sculptor, Andros
Meszaros, 12 years in Australia, was
given the commission. The sculpture
shows the Crucifixion, with St. John, the
Centurion, Mary and the Magdalen at the
foot of the cross with the dice-playing
soldiers. Meszaros has just completed
a war memorial for the State Electricity
Commission.
There is a story behind the Palmer and
Dawson Memorial educational bursary,
awarded each year alternately to a Vic-
torian child and a N.S.W. child.
In 1945, when Denmark was in German
hands, the Gestapo had lodged records of
Danish people in large buildings in
Copenhagen, Odense and Aarhuis. For
very good reasons the Danish Resist-
ance movement wanted them destroyed ;
Flying-Officer Palmer, a Victorian, and
F.-O. Dawson, of N.S.W., were detailed
to lead the foray. The planes set off from
an advanced base with instructions to
fly low so that they could destroy the
Gestapo cache without damaging sur-
rounding buildings. Nothing has since
been heard of Palmer and Dawson or the
six aircrew with them, or of the Gestapo
records, either. The Danish people were
so grateful for this service that they
donated a sum in special memory of the
eight lost airmen. The Australian Services
Canteen Fund disposes of the money.
This year’s bursary goes to Harry
Hewish, of Geelong, whose father, Ser-
geant A. L. Hewish, was killed in action
while returning from an air-raid on Ger-
many.
“Skip”: Met up north recently on his
way to assist in the opening of a Cairns
branch of the Queensland Institute of
Medical Research, of which he’s deputy-
director, Dr. Edward H. Derrick. The
combination is happy enough the
Q.I.M.R. specialises in the study of in-
fectious diseases and certain Queens-
land fevers, and such pleasantries are
Derrick’s abiding interest in life. On the
way north he heard of a small outbreak
of scrub-typhus outside Mackay, and he
immediately shot off to investigate. Evi-
dently a believer in first-hand knowledge
of his subject, the doc. not only collects
the mites suspected of causing the trouble
he’s hunting, but encourages them to
bite him. He then makes notes on the
effects. A quiet, modest cove, wrapped
in his work, Derrick was sent by the
Queensland Government to England and
the U.S. last year to catch up with the
latest overseas know-how.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 84, A. E. W. Tobin, one-
time Victorian Surveyor-General who had
pegged, over a 20-year-period, most of the
Western and Malice districts. In 1930, a mem-
ber of the Electoral Redistribution Commission
for Victoria, he had presided over his State’s
Institute of Surveyors, and was a high-marker
on the rifle-range.
At Darwin, Mrs. Lena Ray, a Territorian for
over 40 years, and the first white woman on
Mainoru Station, in the Gulf country. For
many years, from Qantas’s early beginnings,
she had been hostess and good friend at the
company's Darwin hostel.
In Adelaide, at 80, distinguished S. Australian
medico Frank Sandland Hone, who, with pre-
ventive medicine his particular field, labored
undcviatingly to fight cancer. Possibly the oldest
graduate from Adelaide Medical School (year,
1894), he had been State B.M.A. president,
councillor of the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians, and prominent in many other
spheres, from presidency of the Baptist Union
to chairmanship of the S.A. Amateur Football
League. Two of his sons are medicoes; another,
Brian, is head of Melbourne Grammar.
In Perth (W.A.), at 62, L. L. Leake. Son of
former Premier G. Leake, he was Clerk of Parlia-
ments in Westralia, having first been Usher of
the Black Rod from 1932 to 1936, and Clerk
of the Legislative Council. His first job was
associate to Mr. Justice Burnside, which he
gave away to go overseas with the A.I.F. in
1915. On his return he spent some time in
the Repatriation Department and in the prac-
tice of law.


INTO MY PARLOR
by E.O. SCHLUNKE
THE estate-agent is not in
business for fun ; so when
the old lady comes into his
office with her vaguely dis-
tressed look of indecision he
gives her a calculating look as
he quickly estimates the time it
will take him to make up her
mind for her. He notes that her
sober clothing is of the best
material and that she thinks he
ought to remember her.
He makes a pretence of rising
from his chair, but carries out
only the first movement; many
pounds of energy are required to
raise his corpulent torso even a
few inches, and he has much
better uses for that energy. He
welcomes her with the
meretricious cordiality of the
businessman, pretending that he
remembers her very well.
The old lady smiles on him in
her maternal way and says: “I
came to you because Father
always said you were the most
honest agent he had ever dealt
with.”
The agent gives a little start.
It is not his conscience pricking
him, but a sudden misgiving that
all his life he might have been
a bit more honest than was
necessary.
The old lady is eager to talk.
His hard brain picks out the few
relevant facts that emerge from
her patter of family affairs. Just
as if you turned the handle of an
adding-machine, his mind turns
up a neatly printed card:
Widow; left life interest in
deceased estate; interest from
bonds; hit by rising prices.
He gives a little wriggle that
is more than a hint that his time
is precious. The old lady sees
his impatience and stops dead, on
the brink of being offended.
The agent quickly exudes a
little oil to keep things running
smoothly; that air of quiet
dignity and the good clothes
might mean something worth
while yet.
She comes more quickly to
her point. She has a house she
might sell because it is much
too large now that all but one
of her family have gone ; she
and her daughter would be twice
as comfortable in one half the
size.
The agent sets the oil gushing
freely ; a house to sell, and a
house to buy. Nice work.
Perhaps honesty does pay after
all. Just to think of something
he’d said or done God knows
how many years ago bearing
fruit like this! Something there
for his talk at the Rotary club
next Tuesday on “Vocational
Service.”
HE looks at the old lady
again, and the plan she has
so laboriously worked out for
herself is revealed to him in all
its innocent simplicity. She’d
love to have a wad to play round
with for once, and thinks that
she can sell her large house, buy
a smaller one for half the price,
and have a nice little sum left
over. Well, well, she isn’t the
first old lady who’s thought she
could do that.
“Now tell me about the place
you have to sell,” he says,
smooth as silk.
A hurt look, that conveys the
first hint of mistrust, tells him
that she’d expected him to re-
member it, since he sold it to
them. The agent easily gets out
of this.
“Oh, yes, of course! I know it,
of course I do. Now let me see,
it is in—now what’s the name of
that street again? It always
tricks me, such an unusual
name, at least it’s unusual for a
street-name.”
He looks so comically dis-
tressed about his erratic memory
that the old lady supplies the
name, and the number, too,
since she likes to run on and
on. That gives him all the clues
he wants. He has to pop out to
see his secretary—to refer to his
files, actually, and when he re-
turns he knows so much that
he is practically a close relation.
“Why, yes, Mrs. Cruikshank,
that big, brick place with the
portico and the lovely garden.
And what a splendid place it is
too! I remember how keen your
husband was about it—wouldn’t
look at another after he saw it.”
A look of sentimental soften-
ing on the old lady’s face tells
him that he has made a tactical
error. He plunges on to rectify
himself.
“Just the place he wanted for
that big family of daughters you
had then; and while he was
there to look after the garden.
But of course the whole thing is
impossible now.”
“Oh, yes, I’ve thought it all
out,” the client says, her voice
blurring with emotion. “I don’t
think Father would really mind
if I sold it now.”
She believes he’s up in heaven
looking down at what she’s
doing through a manhole in the
floor, the agent thinks,
astounded. He feels more than
a little out of his depth, so he
hums-and-hahs a bit.
CTOON she gives him a brave
little smile and is prepared
to be the capable business-
woman again. The agent rattles
on, preparing the ground.
“Quite a long time since I
sold you that place; and it
wasn’t brand-new then.”
Her frightened eyes show him
that she sees what he’s at; so he
smiles to reassure her.
“But the wonderful thing is
that it’s still worth as much as
you paid for it. Two thousand
five hundred, wasn’t it?”
Yet an aggrieved and dis-
tressed look comes over the old
lady’s face.
“I have reason to believe that
it’s worth quite a lot more,” she
says, her tones telling him that
she has caught him out, trying
to rob her like any thieving
estate-agent.
He wags his head at her, so
smoothly that you’d think his
fat neck ran on a collar of well-
greased ball-bearings.
“I was just going to add,
before I was interrupted, that if
you’d kept it in good repair, and
its walls are not too badly
cracked, and it has all the
modern conveniences, it would
be worth quite a lot more, just
as you say. I just have to be
very careful, you know. What
would you think of me if I told
you I could get you four
thousand for it, and in the end
it turned out that I could get
you only three? Think of how
it would upset your plans! But
on the other hand, if I’m
cautious, and set the most con-
servative value on it, how
pleased you’ll be when I bring
along a buyer prepared to give
you hundreds more!”
The old lady is placated;
could anything be more honest,
or more considerate? She sug-
gests that they go to have a
look at the house. The agent
half-rises, then gets another idea
and hesitates. He pulls a few
faces, looks at the old lady very
critically, then reaches for the
phone as if he’s decided that she
wouldn’t see a haystack until
she’d walked into it.
“I’ve got a man,” he tells her
in a very ingenuous voice,
“who’s looking for a house just
like yours. I don’t suppose
you’d mind if I took him along
now? It would save me going up
twice.”
The old lady smiles and nods.
Then she shivers and makes a
motion of getting a grip on her-
self. She’s in for it now! All
the months Of talking and plan-
ning with her daughter that
started mainly because they were
bored and there seemed to be
no end of just living eventlessly
in the same house are over
now; and things are starting to
happen. But she’s not going to
be rushed into anything, and
she’s not going to be tricked.
Five thousand for her house,
and no delivery until she has
vacant possession of a nice, new,
smaller house for two thousand
five hundred.
The agent is on the phone
now, talking in a very matter-of-
fact voice:
“Yes, that old brick place,”
he says, in a way that makes
the widow see its walls start to
crumble and totter. The rest
of the barrage hits her too.
“Yes, a bad part of the town ;
no view ; off the bus route ; a
bit low, too. Just a moment,
I’ll ask her.”
He turns to his client with a
look of the greatest moment:
“Is there a shower recess?”
he asks, as if worlds depended
on it.
The widow tries to pull her-
self together. She is impressed
with how vital it is, but she
doesn’t understand.
“There is a shower,” she says.
“It’s over the bath.”
The agent’s face falls.
“No shower recess,” he moans
into the telephone, as if he
knows the other man will hang
up immediately.
He mutters a little more in a
valedictory way into the phone
while the widow’s spirits sink.
She was so sure she had all the
mod. cons, that mattered. Yet
it transpires that the man is
coming to have a look, after all.
While they wait for him the
agent mutters many times.
“Pity there’s no shower recess.
You can’t sell a house without a
shower recess these days.”
A LL this doesn’t fit in with the
*'• old lady’s conception of
people so desperate for houses
that they’ll pay anything; but
the agent seems so sure of it
that she can see her five
thousand beginning to be
whittled down. After all, a few
pounds wouldn’t make so much
difference to their plans; they
could take a slightly shorter
trip. She asks the agent how
much it would cost to have a
shower recess built in, but he
only makes a desperate gesture
with his hands.
“You just can’t get builders to
do a job like that. They’re all
too busy on new homes; they’re
going up everywhere.”
That was another shot and it
got the old lady square. New
houses everywhere, and here she
was trying to sell an old one
with no shower recess. She gets
a sudden sick longing to let the
whole thing slide; but before
she can make up her mind how
to do it without looking too
foolish, the buyer arrives. He
has an air of fixed determina-
tion on his face. There can be
no backing-out now; though as
soon as she sees him she is
smitten to the heart to think
that she is going to let a man
like that live in Father’s lovely
home.
Not that she could exactly say
what is wrong with Mr.
Skewers; it is just that her
instincts reject him. He has a
lean, hungry look, and she’s
been thinking of a nice agree-
able retired grazier like Father,
who wouldn’t try to beat down
her price, or care very much
about little details.
But she can see that no detail
will escape Mr. Skewers. He
has a darting, sniffing manner,
and his eyes are so sharp and
merciless that the old lady re-
coils every time he turns them
on her. Otherwise he looks re-
spectable enough ; he has a good
suit of serviceable, long-wearing
material, an old-fashioned shirt
like Father used to wear, and a
sombre tie that shows that his
mind is fixed on things more
important than dress. He sums
her up in about two seconds.
“No shower recess, hey?” he
says accusingly.
There is nothing of the Home-
less Hector willing to give any-
thing to have a roof over his
head about Mr. Skewers. The
old lady is on the defensive
already. Mr. Whybank gets out
from behind his desk with an
effort, and propels himself along
comically on his half-atrophied,
inadequate legs. Even the widow
can see that his respect for Mr.
Skewers is immense, and that it
isn’t the attitude that one would
expect an agent to adopt to-
wards a house-hungry buyer.
She is not in a position to know
what Mr. Whybank can never
forget; that is, that the net
assets of Mr. Skewers are at
least ten times as great as his
own. He knows a good deal
more about Mr. Skewers, too,
because he’s had a lot to do with
him,
WHYBANK squeezes himself
behind the steering-wheel
of his car and the others get in
beside him. Mr. Skewers main-
tains a self-sufficient silence;
Whybank is puffing over the
exertions of driving the car and
Mrs. Cruikshank has a choked
and frozen feeling all over. As
they skim over the familiar
streets she feels that she doesn’t
belong to them any more; a
half-understood phrase from a
film she saw not so long ago
comes back to her, and she sud-
((Continued on page 22J
LEGEND.
ẁ
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


GENERAL MOTORS’
IN AUSTRALIA
TwENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO General Motors commenced operations in Australia
and at that time made the following announcement
“Our aims are to aid in the development of motor transportation in Australia ;
to come in closer contact with the market so as better to satisfy its requirements ; and
to co-operate with and lend such assistance as lies in our power to the sellers of our
products in order to enable them to render still more efficient service to the motoring
public ; and thereby further increase their value to the community and ensure their
success .”
“Jzi purchasing land and erecting buildings ... in Brisbane , Sydney \ Melbourne ,
Adelaide and Perth and by the large investment necessary for equipping these premises
with the required tools and appliances , we indicate and emphasise the confidence that
General Motors has in the brilliant future of this country.
“We have confidence in our products in our workmen and in our staff in our
distributors and confidence in Australia and Australians.
We believe General Motors has fulfilled its promises.
During its twenty-five years in Australia, General Motors has produced in its
five assembly plants in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Pe rth nearly
500,000 vehicles, including more than 100,000 British Yauxhall Cars and Bedford
Trucks, Utilities and Buses.
Its long-established automotive body plant at Woodville, South Australia, has
manufactured 594,645 Passenger and Commercial bodies, and is the largest ol its
kind in the Commonwealth.
Its group of Non-Vehicle Divisions includes the National Automotive Service
Company (NASCO), the largest spare parts organisation in Australia, responsible
for the supply of genuine spare parts for all General Motors Vehicles ; The Trigi
aire Division producing at Pagewood, New South Wales, the world-famous Frigidaire
refrigerators ; and the Industrial and Domestic Equipment Company [lUtJu)
marketing the well-known 2-cycle General Motors’ Diesel engine and other valuable
industrial products.
As a culmination to its important contributions to Australian industrial and
technical development General Motors has engineered and brought to volume
production the Holden Car and the Holden Utility.
In commemorating its twenty - fifth anniversary. General Motors-Holden’s
gratefully acknowledges the support and confidence of the Australian public ; the
valuable contributions of its Distributors and Dealers throughout the Commonwealth
the help and co-operation of other manufacturers and suppliers ; and the loyalty
and skill of its own employees.
The Company reaffirms its policy to supply its share of Australia’s expanding
needs, to contribute to Australia’s technological advancement and to play its
part in Australia’s development.
GENERAL MOTORS ■ HOLDEN’S LTD
BRISBANE SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
Passenger Vehicles
Holden • Chevrolet • Pontiac • Oldsmobile • Buick • Cadillac • Yauxhall
Commercial Vehicles
Holden Coupe Utility • Chevrolet Trucks Utilities and Buses • Maple Leaf Trucks and Buses • G.M.C.
Trucks,. Utilities and Buses • Bedford Trucks, Utilities and Buses.
Non-Vehicle Products
Frigidaire domestic and commercial refrigeration units • Industrial equipment, including Diesel engines and Hyatt
and New Departure bearings (Industrial and Domestic Equipment Company). Automotive parts and accessories
(National Automotive Servicfe Company).


/V\
■
u
GOODYEAR
TYRES
HAVE CHANGED
TOO!
1915
ẃ
In the development of motor trans-
portation, tyres have played an
important part and none more
1951
than Goodyear Tyres. Out of Goodyear’s unparalleled
experience in building tyres have come many historic
improvements resulting in greater tyre safety, longer
mileage and comfort Goodyear Tyres today are dramatic
evidence of Goodyear’s ability to give you the finest tyres
it is possible to build.
Again in 1951 ... as in every year for the last 36
years, mere people, the world ever, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any ether make.
GOODYEAR
/
Mi
fk
Sift
A.
A One-man Post Hole Digger to Speed up your Fencing
ẅ
For low cost post hole digging you could not
better the Mobilco. With this machine you
don't need one man driving a vehicle and
another feeding the auger, as one man does
the whole job. On the Mobilco the whole
weight of the engine and gearbox is placed
directly over the auger and that is why a
Mobilco digs faster and calls for practically
no manual effort. Holes of up to 2' 8" are
dug with Mobilco. The specially designed
Mobilco auger digs to 2' 8" depth and leaves
a clean, clear hole. The light weight and
perfect balance of the Mobile© ensures easy
movement and allows you to put a hole exactly
where you want it (and Mobilco will dig a
perpendicular hole on a slope).
II
Dig the holes and bore the posts with the same machine
An Electric Boring outfit consisting of a 32 volt, 500 watt
electric generator, 20 ft. of rubber flex and a sturdy,
reliable Mobilco-Sher drill, fits firmly to the frame of the
Mobilco Post Hole Digger ( 5 /a" or V»" wood bits are
available for this attachment). Thus with a Mobilco you
dig the holes and bore the stand-
ing posts with one machine.
im
w
One Machine does many jobs
As fencing is not usually an all-year-
round job the Mobilco Post Hole Digger
is adaptable for shearing, pumping, light-
ing and a number of seasonal tasks.
A one-stand mechanical or 32 volt elec-
ŵ
trie shearing plant can be run from your Mobilco Post Hole
Digger and the same machine will serve ideally as a paddock
crutching outfit. The Mobilco will fit on to any utility truck
and there is also a special bracket on the front of the machine
for road speed towing between properties.
A 3" centrifugal pump can also be attached to the Mobilco Post
Hole Digger. 300 gallons per minute can be pumped at a 50
ft. head. Furthermore, owners of Mobilco Saws can purchase a
Digger without engine and less 2 wheels, as Mobilco machines
are all powered by the staunch 7 b.h.p. B.S.A. engine and
have standard size pneumatic wheels.
Write today for full information on the Mobilco Post Hole Digger.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
252 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
ẁ
EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.
CEN. 4799; AFTER HOURS WF3IIB
N.S.W. Representative: R. H. SIVERTSEN, 47 South Parade, Campsio
Phone: LF4209; After Hours: FW1754
denly understands the frightened
+if o m n„
i ok on the face of the man
they were going to take for a
ride.”
As soon as they arrive at the
house Mr Skewers looks at it
, . r * oKewers looKs ai u
with his eyes so piercing that
Mrs. Cruikshank thinks they
will prise the tiles off the roof
“She’s old, all right. One of
Fathers houses; and he s been
dead for over twenty-five years,
t 9 b ’, * be Wl d°w sa ys,
shocked, ‘it can t be that o'd.
Mr. Whybank told us it was
S& «£• JS ars old when he
\r ll US ' • rtt | ~
Mr. Skewers gives a little: flick
of his fingers for what Why-
tank said seven years ago and
Whybank seems to have other
things on his mind than saving
his reputation. Mr. Skewers
starts to walk round the house,
cautiously as if it might fall on
him, and the others follow.
The face of a middle-aged
woman wearing a hearing-aid
appears at a window as they
pass. She makes frantic, self-
conscious attempts to convey
some secret, significant warning
to her mother. But Mr.
Skewers stares at her so hard
that she is utterly confused and
jerks the blind down in his face,
They walk through the house
as if it is a shop ; quite un-
impressed with the hot-water
service, the tiled bathroom, the
stainless-steel sink, the panelled
hall or the hollow beams in the
lounge-room ceiling. They are
as cursory about it as if it’s just
like a hundred other homes, and
are finished with their inspection
in a few minutes. They don’t
want to know any of the things
she could tell them.
The daughter has made
several attempts to waylay her
mother, but is so bashful about
saying what she has to say in
front of the men that she can
only mouth soundless words and
jerk her arms in a manner that
matpc thprv. «rrmrw ch* icn’t
i va. V l6
a bit weak in the head. Her
mote gets quite cross with her
and won’t look at her.
P)UT on the front veranda
again the agent turns to
Mrs. Cruikshank and demands
hat she name herpnce.Byttns
tuners beginning to feel that
she isn t gettmg the considers-
Bon she expected from an old
acquaintance of Father. She
knows that they will say that
doesdt llke to be ridiculed. She
catches a glimpse of her
daughter through a cautiously-
opening door in the background,
pulling atrocious faces. At last
she realises that she is being
warned about something.
“Five thousand pounds,” she
says desperately.
It would be better if they
laughed out loud. They are so
impassive that she wonders if
they are thinking that not only
the daughter is weak-minded.
“Five thousand pounds,” Mr.
Skewers says with soft incredu-
lous voice, as if he is thinking
of a heap of that many shining
sovereigns. Then he looks
straight at Mrs. Cruikshank
with a “now-no-more-nonsense,
let’s-get-down-to-business” air.
“What’s your bedrock?”
The daughter flutters an
agitated hand through the door-
jamb.
“Come on,” Mr. Skewers
says curtly. “Will you take
three thousand?”
Mrs. Cruikshank gives a little
outraged cry and turns to Why-
bank, who seems to be moved
to pity at last.
“You put your own price on
it,” he says, as if that’s a great
concession.
“Three thousand five
hundred,” Mr. Skewers shoots at
her with an air of finality.
The daughter is so agitated
that she nearly comes onto the
veranda. At last the mother
‘ h “ s she knows what she
wants -
“I can’t sell the house until
r t „ n _ th _ r » cVlp MV([
!^ v f "t. ±*, e
to live ”* h somewhere
t° live.
Mr. Skewers looks as if he
~ , nppp „„ itv He acts
1 a * an SLnbJm
b„Led Tnd whXight do somT-
, h| f dreadftll J he isn’t
lac | ted
11 .. Don ,, worry about that> ..
Mr Whybank asserts. “I can
easily fix you up with a house;
r y , d ' R
But Mrs. Cruikshank is
gett | ng a t j red obstinate look.
| h something about
Father wamin her not B to burn
her boat 8 d she won . t be
j ’
« Wp l, at
tluw thonlnfi imnHnvl fnr
and t do
business?’ Mr. Skewers urges
tlip dpmrhtpr rwllv mmec nn
thp vpnLa this tiL
“Mother I want tn <snpak to
„ ’
y Rnt ic
h hpr awav '
» T w _ n , t nnvthina ahmit
sel |- th if have a
g ~
« T j a ot, P H f nr thp offer
w hen vmCre rendv to sell ” Mr
~ y • y j j t {he
h , hp - „ treated
‘ R n Mrs Onikshank is
Exhausted that the onlv
p think nf is the
S rid of the men
• fe o hp „ inl .„ ; n tn a
veranda chair as her daughter
rushes nut to her 8
» nh ~ • tn
the “i’ll let vou know when
F J to And
Y S
y ‘
A OTHER! Mother!” the
‘ t daughter says, shaking
her by the shoulder. “Did you
do anything? What did you
promise them?”
“Nothing, nothing, child. Only
get me a cup of tea.”
The daughter’s face breaks
int° an enormous snule This
1S one of the great moments or
her life.
uc “
“D.d yon see me trying to
warn ? „ was because Mr.
Dean, the dentist from Fitch-
ctrppt u pr p «aiH he’d
st . reet > waß her ®* He , s , d hed
give us five for the
l^news’Sets’'around”
most of
none
h "“ m ' S lf' le Mr Skewers
t and t „ jve me on ] v t h ree
five hundred I’U
Whvbank and te
S “ p h IS of him for
man i ike that”
bn .!’|‘ n | a . h ”“ *f. al the
And that isn t aI , the
°\ b “ bbl, “f an “
simmering nice a Keuie. i was
tabc ing to Mrs. McNamara at
the corner - She told me that
her daughter’s husband (the
been promoted to anotner
branch and that they want to
their house. I was so excited
I got a taxi and went right over
to have a k - It 8 a
little place; just what we ve
talked about, and in the very
best part of the town; a doctor
on one side and the mayor s
brotber on the other. And they
want only two - tboasaad bve
hundred for it. Isn t that
wonderful? Just the price we
talked about, too. And its very
PP to da te. It’s got everything;
ands even got a sort ltt e
cubicle in the bathroom here
Y°u can have a shower without
mess * ng U P tbe wb °l e room. ’
Now they are both so excited
they don’t know what to do
first „ **
“We’ll have to ring Mr.
Dean ” .
“No, first ring Mrs. Me-
Namara’s daughter, so we’re
sure of a place to move to.”
“But we can’t buy their place
until we sell this. They might
want their money right away.”
“The first thing is to ring Mr.
Dean.”
“But what if the other place
is gone by then?”
They are so inexperienced
they don’t know what to do. It
is quite late in the evening when
they decide to ring Mr. Dean,
but he is not at home and they
get into a panic. Perhaps he is
looking at another house. They
don’t dare get in touch with
Mrs. McNamara’s daughter.
They sleep most uneasily. At
intervals during the night they
wake each other with new
reasons for contacting either Mr.
Dean or Mrs. McNamara’s
daughter first. They must re-
member to ring Mr. Whybank,
too, so that Mr. Skewers won’t
go on expecting that they might
be silly enough to sell him the
house.
I N the morning it is Mr. Why-
-1 bank they ring first, because
Mrs. Cruikshank has re-
membered another of Father’s
proverbs: “Off with the old
before you’re on with the new.”
They have planned to tell him
very coldly that they will have
nothing more to do with him or
Mr. Skewers. But Mr. Why-
bank is so injured about some-
thing or other that Mrs. Cruik-
shank tells him in self-justifica-
tion how much more they can
get for the house from Mr.
Dean. Then when he tells her
in a still more plaintive manner
how hard he’s been working to
find anew house for her, she
has to tell him about their
chance of getting Mrs. Mc-
Namara’s daughter’s place;
though with sharpened caution
she doesn’t tell him exactly
where or who’s it is.
For a moment there is an
ominous silence at Mr. Why-
bank’s end. Then very sternly
he says; “I’ll have to tell Mr.
Skewers about this. I’m afraid
he’ll take a very serious view of
it.”
At first it does not sink in.
(<Continued on page 25.)


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROMA MARGARET OHAPPELOW
late of 58 Palmer Street Rose Bay.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANCIS NOEL
CHAPPELOW has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 1552 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 23rd day of
July 1961 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOSEPH H.
McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of 4
Castlereagh St., Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN,
Registrar. _____
IN THE SUPREME' COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLYDE JOHN ROBERT STEDMAN
late of 83’ Brown Street Newtown. —
TAKE NOTICE that BETTY MAVIS
STEDMAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4631 of 1960 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 18th
day of July 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. TEAKLE ORMSBY &
FRANCIS, Solicitors, 8 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, in the said State. —J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY MONKTON late of Smart
Street Fairfield.—TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET DOROTHY MONKTON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 894 of 1961
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three year* and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 18th day of July
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
■without charge from MESSRS. TEAKLE
ORMSBY & FRANCIS. Solicitors, 8
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in the said
State.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LINDSAY GORDON MeKENZIE.—
TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN MAR-
GARET MeKENZIE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 990 of 1951 under Part
111 of the Federal Matrimonial Causes
Act 1945 for desertion for three years
in accordance with South Australian law
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
27th July 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. CURTISS. DEZARNAULDS &
BUTTFIELD, Solicitors, of 67 Oastle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
TO JOHN WILLIAM MITCHELL for-
merly of 122 Spa Road Bermondsey S.E.
16 London England but now of an address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that a Cita-
tion (No. 625/1949) bearing date the
Ist day of December One thousand nine
hundred and forty-nine has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Western
Australia citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of EVELYN FLORENCE
MITCHELL of Railway Promenade
Queen’s Park in the said State married
woman praying for a Dissolution of
Marriage IN DEFAULT of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear Petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence thereon AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that you are within
forty (40) days after the date of publica-
tion of this Notice to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Central
Office of the Supreme Court of Western
Australia at Perth and there to enter an
Appearance in a Book provided for that
purpose. Dated this 4th day of May,
1961.— 0, J. BOYLSON, Registrar/
LAVAN & WALSH, of Manufacturers’
Buildings, 29 Barrack Street, Perth, in
the State of Western Australia, Solicitors
for the abovenamed Petitioner,
CRONULLA
"Westella"
Guest House,
Kingsway, Cromilla, N.S.W.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW
MANAGEMENT
Our aim is a first class Service
for Visitors. Accommodation for
80. It’s warmer by the sea.
Resident Proprietor, G. E. Lloyd.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. >. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
00. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Above The Snow Line.
W
mm
ip:
Mountain climbing in the Australian Alps,
near Mount Kosciusko is strenuous and ex-
hausting. Climbers often take boiled lollies
or lumps of sugar to eat along the way.
I
m
mmmm
When you buy C.S.R. sugar you can be sure
that it is a pure energy food, plus.
A balanced diet of good food, rest, exercise,
fresh air and pleasant surroundings make
healthy, happy children.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LIMITED.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Young Hamlet.
As grounds for presenting a
very youthful Hamlet, played by
John Unicomb, the Metropolitan
Theatre suggests: “Would a
more mature intellect have en-
dured so long the agonies of
vacillation and self-pity to which
the Prince subjects himself?” To
which one can only reply with
another obvious question:
“Would a less mature intellect
have been capable of the superb
and self-searching soliloquies
and introspection?” And, no
doubt, one could go on asking
and answering such questions
until the ghost walks.
Taking the Metropolitan pro-
duction as it goes on the stage,
however, the accent on youth is
both its strength and weakness.
It gives a young Hamlet of
sudden rages, petulance and
hysteria, all of which fit very
well together as far as they go—
with the possible exception that
some of the hysteria is slightly
unintelligible. On the other hand,
coming from a slight, moody,
quick-tempered youngster who
shows little of maturity or weary
melancholy, most of the solilo-
quies seem oddly incongruous or
meaningless when they should be
most full of meaning.
The overall result is that a
good deal of the essential dignity
of tragedy falls away, leaving
something more like a vigorous
highly-colored melodrama than
a magnificent tragedy. Within
those limits, however, one could
find little to cavil at.
Unicomb rarely faltered from
the self-appointed key on which
the role of Hamlet was set.
Richard Trent made a fine old
bore, of Polonius ; James Work-
man’s Claudius seemed to have
touches of Shylock about him,
but was none the worse for that;
Brenda Senders gave the queen
all the sex she needed, and in a
clever, plaintive way, Audrey
Peek did the same for Ophelia.
Richard Meikle, Ken Hannam,
John Meillon, Joseph Scully and
Rolf Bartik generally touched in
the right colors in the right
places in all the vast sweeping
hurly-burly.
"The Devil's Disciple."
If some people and incidents,
which are more Shavian theories
than people and incidents, seem
a long way from home when
they are set in Westbridge, New
Hampshire, America, towards
the finish of the American War
of Independence, they are, at
least, Shavian theories, and most
Shavian theories, along with their
agile mental acrobatics, are, on
the stage, anyway, delightful.
So, apart from a certain rough-
ness in the production—which
may have been due to a con-
scientious attempt to capture
something of the time and place,
or simply to opening-night
troubles—Ngaio Marsh’s produc-
tion of “The Devil’s Disciple”
at Sydney Palace was pleasantly
entertaining. The Shavian
theories have to do mainly with
young Dick Dudgeon, ne’er-do-
well and man of action, who
turns out to be best-fitted for the
role of a preacher; with a
preacher who turns out to be
best fitted for the life of a man
of action; and with the British
Army, the War Office and red-
tape.
There is less solid character
and more theory in the main
roles in this piece than in most
of Shaw’s plays, which leaves
the players with a great dis-
advantage in trying to bring the
roles to life, and with a great
advantage in the matter of witty
Shavian dialogue.
Those with the most character
in their parts made the most of
them—Basil Henson, as Dick
Dudgeon, and Henry Gilbert, as
Preacher Antony Anderson —
and those with the least had a
hard time of it, notably Wendy
Gibb, as Judith Anderson, a very
thin theory about women. Those
with the most generous dispen-
sation of Shavian wit had, and
gave, a pleasant evening, particu-
larly Peter Howell, who, in the
person of General Burgoyne, had
the opportunity to deliver a
string of brilliant Shavianisms
about the Army, the War Office
and whatnot,
"Deadlock."
“Deadlock,” put on for some
reason as part of the Festival
business by the National Drama
company at Melbourne Princess,
concerns George, a bank clerk
who varies the monotony of his
existence by burgling the bank
he works in, but during the pro-
ceedings his partner in crime
murders a policeman. George
then seeks sanctuary in the house
of the wife of his partner, who,
however, has got there before
him and been murdered by the
wife because she didn’t like him.
George assumes the dead
man’s clothing and his role of
husband, and, with the assistance
of the widow, dumps the body
into a tarn in the backyard. The
tarn is deep and dank, and there
is a steep road leading to it and,
George having pushed the role
of husband a bit too far for the
self-made widow’s liking, she
decides it would be convenient
if he joined her husband. She
attempts this by the simple
device of getting him to drive
off in a motor-vehicle with no
brakes, but it takes more than
a tarn to sink George and he
returns to resume the role of
husband, which he is beginning
to find to his liking.
In a desperate endeavor to
preserve her virtue, the author of
one successful and one attempted
murder rings up the police-
inspector, who comes along,
arrests George and takes the lady
off for interrogation with a bottle
of poison in her handbag.
Mr, Leslie Sands not only
wrote the play but had the
thankless task, as producer and
leading actor, of trying to make
it live. The job was beyond him.
Melbourne Tiv.
“Ladies’ Night in a Turkish
Bath” or “Turkish Knight in a
Lady’s Bath,” or something of
the sort, is at present on offer at
the Tivoli, Melbourne. It is by
Cyrus Wood, Avery Hopwood
and Charleton Andrews, and
their collective intelligence has
confected a piece in which a bevy
of wives and husbands get into
situations where the undraped
female figure seems to be of
main importance.
In grandma’s day an ankle
symbolised the undraped female
figure. In these free modern
days a knee or something a bit
further up symbolises the same
thing; but the thing symbolised
never makes its appearance, how-
ever far up or down they go.
In “Ladies’ Night” the u.f.f.
doesn’t make its appearance,
either, but is always just over
the horizon or in a bath, a pantry
or a cupboard, so a state of
such suspense is aroused that
the simple apparition of Jim
Gerald walking on in a suit of
striped pyjamas is sufficient to
reduce an audience to choking
laughter.
The show should last the Tiv.
a long time.
"Before the Party."
Brisbane Repertory Theatre’s
production of Rodney Ackland’s
expansion of the Somerset
Maugham original retained
something of the original bitter-
ness, but because the play
attempts to say at length what
the original merely (suggested,
the drama is weakened. Before
they set out to a party a young
widow announces to her parents
and sister that her late, model
husband was a drunkard and
w'as slain by her. As Laura,
the self-appointed widow, Betty
Ross had the heaviest role of
the piece, yet seemed detached
from the true dramatic scope of
the character. Doreen Rodwell
caricatured the unpleasant sister,
but, as the mother, Gloria Bird-
wood-Smith gave a sustained
and convincing portrait of
feminine refusal to face facts.
Art.
Abstract canvases are so very
nearly blank that it is difficult
to have any but the blankest
thoughts about them; and the
present commentator walked
around the compositions of
Ralph Balson, Frank Hinder,
Grace Crowley and others at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries
doing his best to think what
ought to be thought about
vaguely pleasing designs and
juxtapositions of color, but
really found himself stumped.
You need a special blank
language to talk about them.
Two oddments by Ronald
Steuart, especially “Landscape,”
which looks like a Paul Nash,
seemed fresh and alive; but
they are really more surrealist
than abstract.
*
The Australian Art Society’s
exhibition at Sydney Education
Department Galleries is, as
usual, a sort of disembodied
ghost of the Royal Art Society.
Jean Derrin’s watercolors, under
the influence of G. K. Town-
shend, have something to say
for themselves, also R. H. Mop-
pett’s small oil “Rain in a
Country Town”; and the ob-
server with the courage to walk
past many inferior efforts will
find something mildly agreeable
in the paintings of Molly John-
son and Albert Rydge (two
Meldrumites), H. Edgecombe,
Elaine Coghlan, Garrett Kings-
ley, Will Cathcart, H. E. Dale,
May Neill and L. Lowe.
Music.
Those many who stayed away
from Nancy Weir’s opening
Sydney recital because they
refuse to concede that genius
can reside in any name that
doesn’t end in “ski,” “ov” or
“itch” missed the best exposition
of pianism heard here since
Simon Barere. By any stand-
ards, including those of Artur
Schnabel himself, Miss Weir can
more than hold her own. The
first piece, the “Passacaglia in
C Minor,” was Bach pure and
simple, as Bach should be, with
the polyphonic weaving crystal-
clear, her bass always strong and
firm. The adagio of Schubert’s
lovely “Wanderer” Fantasie was
wistfulness in excelsis, and
superbly phrased. A first-class
musical intelligence obviously in-
formed the playing of Liszt’s
“Benediction de Dieu,” a too-
seldom-heard work which, in less
inspired hands, can easily fall
into bathos and worse. Haydn’s
Sonata in F was geniality per-
sonified, accurately reflecting the
composer’s nature. Some Faure
and Chopin, given in Miss Weir’s
most polished and facile style,
completed a programme of most
attractive proportions.
•J* •b
Beryl Kimber, soloist with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Bernard Heinze, plays her
violin with much the same eager-
ness and full-blooded vitality as
marked the bowing of the late
Ginette Neveu. She invested
Max Bruch’s splendid concerto
with much youthful ebullience
and the very essence of the
romanticism which pervades it,
especially in the beautiful
adagio, \#here she employed a
warm, rich, caressing tone.
Bruckner’s 7th Symphony, his
magnum opus, was given a first-
rate reading, Heinze evoking
considerable majesty in the
Funeral March of the adagio,
and fine rhythmic strength in
the scherzo. Britten’s “Varia-
tions on a Theme of Frank
Bridge” was rather like the
curate’s egg, but with more
doubtful patches than good ones.
.4* 4*
Miss Kimber’s first solo re-
cital at Sydney Con. confirmed
her first good impression. Easy
and natural bowing and a full
rich tone made the Kreutzer
Sonata acceptable, with Olga
Krasnik, here as elsewhere, lend-
ing solid support at the piano.
There was a first performance
of Lennox Berkeley’s “Elegy
and Toccata,” which, with profit,
could also be its last. Debussy’s
G Minor Sonata was given deli-
cate treatment, as befits so brittle
a work. Some of the night’s
most ebullient and delightful
playing went into the final
Spanish group of Sarasate and
De Falla.


Are You a Fertile
Male?
Despite popular belief, the
man is at fault in 2 out of 3
childless couples . . . and 1 out
of 5 men will probably never
become fathers. It is an erro-
neous idea that the most fertile
men are the most masculine-
looking.
Yet few men are completely
sterile. Learn why many men
may inadvertently lessen their
fertility during the time that
wives can conceive. May Reader’s
Digest tells of new ways science
has found to help many more
men achieve fatherhood —why
artificial insemination deserves
greater public understanding.
Get your Reader's Digest
today. 32 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Robbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 84/- per lb. or loose Priced
88/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oa.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 82/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Weft
Matured Pipe Mixture that Is now-
even better than ever. Priced 80/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s «ood.
Write: HAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 11, Valley P. 0.. Brisbane.
tijtl
9b
3m
.'M
ẃ
ran round the little school,
A cough, and then three more;
The "Master climbed down off his
stool.
And in a glass did pour
Some wondrous drops of magic
balm
To make each child secure
From cough and cold that wintry
day.
With Woods* Groat
Peppermint Cure.
“Phenovh" Worm Remedy
fichinv time »
time .
KEEP IT
HANDY—
THE N
IMPROVED
A
mi
// '/''/t
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
ẅ
w
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND '
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
Telephone:
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
THE BUGGY HORSE
by WILL LAWSON
I’ LL never forget that morn-
ing in our old home in
Brisbane long years ago
when my eldest brother
Tom came in from feeding the
horses and said in an excited
tone, “Somebody’s had Laddie
out last night—drove him in
harness, too. You can see the
collar- and saddle-stains.”
We were having breakfast,
and my father sat back and said
“Laddie? In harness? Are you
mad?”
“No, I’m not.” Tom was very
positive. “If you don’t believe
me, go and take a look at him.”
My father rose to go, but my
mother said “Not till after
breakfast. I won’t have my
table disturbed by such
nonsense.”
That made Tom angry.
“It’s not nonsense. Some-
body must have got the gate
open and borrowed Laddie and
drove him in harness.”
We all hurried to finish the
meal, then went to the stable
in the horse-paddock behind the
garden, where two horses.
Hector, the buggy horse, and
Laddie, our saddle pony, lived
in loose-boxes. Both were chest-
nuts, Hector a lanky rawboned
horse and Laddie a trim, well-
nourished pony of over
fourteen hands.
There was no doubt about
Laddie having been in harness.
We could see the sweat-stains.
“When was he out last?” my
father asked.
“Yesterday afternoon,” I
answered. “I went for a ride.”
“But who got the idea that he
would go in harness?” my father
said.
Nobody could answer that
one, and my father went on,
“Well, if he runs in harness,
we’ll use him in harness. Give
him a try-out, anyway.”
“How? The dog-cart is too
high for him,” Tom said. My
father had an idea.
“I’ll see Grimley next door —
he wants to sell his old buggy.
I’ll get it on trial. He has
harness, too. I don’t suppose
he borrowed Laddie last night.”
We laughed. Grimley was a
precise man, the essence of
propriety and honesty;
SO that was arranged, and
we went to school full of
ideas about Laddie being a
buggy horse. The others had,
that is. I knew he was, and a
very good buggy horse at that.
I had found out on the previous
afternoon when I rode out on
Laddie and ran across Lennie
Preston, who was my special
schoolmate. The sore point be-
tween us was that Lennie had no
pony, and when I went riding I
had to leave Lennie at home.
And he didn’t like it. Being
an ingenious lad, he thought out
a plan whereby we could share
Laddie.
“Look, Bill,” he said, “I
reckon Laddie would go well in
harness.”
“I’m certain he would,” I
agreed. “But how are we to
find out?”
“We have a buggy and
harness,” he said. “Let’s put
him in and go for a drive.”
I whistled and shook my head.
“Supposing he won’t go in
harness. He might kick your
buggy to bits, and look what a
row I’d get into with my old
man—you would, too.”
“No fear, The buggy and
harness are so old they wouldn’t
matter. The old man wouldn’t
mind. Come on, let’s give it a
try.”
It was queer, fitting the old
harness on Laddie, it was too
big for him; but the pony
seemed to like the fun. And
when at last we had got him in
the shafts, and I sat up on the
seat with the reins, while Lennie
opened the gate. Laddie was
liking it. There was nobody at
home, as the housekeeper was
’ out and Lennie had no mother.
As soon as the gate was open
I shook the reins, and Laddie
sprang into the collar, eager to
go. I had a job to stop him to
pick up Lennie. We went a
long way, I hanging on to the
horse’s head like grim death;
Laddie tearing along, throwing
his feet wide and in great style.
I reckon he had been a trotter.
We had decided we’d better
get home so as to rub him down
and remove traces of the drive
when he saw two girls we knew,
Nina Guest and Annie Jobst.
We reined in and Lennie said
“Hop into the back seat and
we’ll give you a run.”
They hopped in, and away we
went again along Montague-
road out to West End. By the
time we got back it was late.
So we unharnessed Laddie,
slipped my saddle on and I
hurried home just in time to get
him into his loose-box. Tom had
just put the feed in the boxes.
“Bit late, aren’t you?” he
grunted.
“My word,” I said. “I went
right out to Logan-road.”
There was no time to rub
Laddie down, and so he just
went ungroomed till Tom saw
him next morning. Then the
fun began.
J N due course the buggy and
* harness were borrowed on
trial, and we went for a drive
with my father at the reins. He
got a shock. It was so different
from whacking old Hector
along. We seemed to fly. He
bought the buggy and harness,
and driving out behind Laddie
became one of the treats of our
time.
But still, as far as the family
was concerned, the problem of
who had borrowed Laddie re-
mained unsolved. It seemed to
me likely to remain unsolved.
But murder will out. One
afternoon when I got home from
school I was told to harness
Laddie and take him into town,
where I was to meet my father.
I was used to Laddie by this,
and we went along in style, and
after I met my father we drove
to a place in Queen-street, where
he got down and told me to hold
the reins. It was the busy hour,
with horse-buses making a long
line on each side of the street,
their drivers chanting the names
of the suburbs to which they
ran . . .
“Montague - road, West
End . . . Milton, Toowong
Cemetery-road . . . Woolloon-
gabba Ropeworks . . . Logan-
road • . . Boggo-road ...”
It was great to be there among
them while horse-trams rolled
by, and buggies and dog-carts
dashed here and there.
All of a sudden I was startled
by hearing a girl’s voice saying,
“And how’s the buggy horse
today?”
I looked round from watching
the traffic, and saw Nina and
Annie standing at my buggy
door. Just behind them, hearing
every word they said, stood my
father, tall, bearded, smiling,
much interested and obviously
listening.
“Oh, he’s all right,” I said.
“How are you?”
I tried to wink at them to
make them look behind them,
but they were intent on Laddie.
Annie patted his rump and he
snorted in a friendly way.
“When are you taking us out
again?” Nina asked, while I
went red under my father’s
quizzical, smiling scrutiny,
“Any time you like,” I said
rashly. “I can’t do it now, I’m
waiting for my father —here he
is ... ”
They swung round; alarmed
looks came into their eyes, and
they would have run off; but
my father said “No, no. Don’t
run away. You’re going to have
a drive now, ladies. We’ll all
sit in the front seat. Move over,
Willie. You take the reins.
Now, girls, in you get.”
MY father squeezed in after
them and I started Laddie,
who in his usual way rushed at
his job. We spun up Queen-
street, cutting in between trams
and buses, racing other turnouts
while they talked. I watched
the road.
“Now tell me about this drive
you had with Willie here. It
must have been good fun.”
“It was. My word, he can
drive. We had Lennie Preston
in the buggy, too.”
“But whose buggy was it?”
“Lennie’s —and the harness,
too. Such funny harness. It
flapped about and Laddie sailed
along. It all looked quite mad,
but we had a nice drive. Every-
body stared, I tell you.”
I caught Nina’s eye as she
chattered and winked. She shut
up, but Annie did not catch the
wink, and she went chattering
on. When we came to our street
they said “We’ll get down now.
You turn off here.”
“No fear. We’ll drive you
home. Friends of Willie’s are
my friends, too. You must have
had a thrilling drive, girls.” He
told me to stop at each of their
homes. Annie’s father was the
bootmaker, and he stared over
his old glasses at the buggy and
my father handing his daughter
out royally.
Nina went out in just as much
style, and my father said to her
“You see. I’m grateful to you
ladies for discovering that
Laddie is a buggy horse.”
“But we didn’t discover it.
Willie here did.” Her eyes
flashed as she added “Willie is
a very clever boy.”
“My dear, you can’t tell me a
thing about Willie. I always
know when anything happens
that he did it. But this time I
just couldn’t get on to a clue.
Goodbye, Nina.”
Then I turned Laddie’s head
for home —and the storm. But
he didn’t say a word beyond
these: “You always argued that
Laddie was a buggy horse, boy.
How did you know?”
“I didn’t. Lennie and I just
tried it out.”
“I see. All right. We’ll say
no more. Mum’s the word.”
But somehow or other it got
out. Those girls, I expect. You
can’t trust girls, Lennie said.
CROSS MY HEART.
The Fear of Death came in at the door
And the door shut to and the lamp went out.
Down he sat in the empty place;
One by one they turned away.
Those who sat at the hoard with me
Spilt the wine and trampled the glass
And left the two of us face to face.
All night long we sat and stared
While the stars looked in at the frosted pane
And the Fear of Death in his scarecrow coat
Crooked a finger long and lean,
Took my breath and—cross my heart,
Spit my death and swear on the Book
There I lay till the Light of Day
Warmed my hands and rubbed my eyes
And poured the morning down my throat.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
KINDRED.
The rock swallows the snake,
Chilly and black as it vanishes;
In rain and moss the year
Moves in the sandstone crevices
Where like the snake itself
Earth’s darkest impulses brood.
Long stems, sharp leaves awake—
O look where the wet moss flourishes
Tall crimson orchids appear.
Snake-headed, with darting tongue,
Now this way striking, now that.
As if indeed they had sprung
From the black snake’s rotting side
Under the sandstone shelf
To spill on the green air
Their dewdrops of dark thought
Like venom and like blood.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
ARACHNE.
Out of your body you have spun this web
That folds me in a silence. Strand of smile,
Of lip and thigh and casual embrace
Cast from your origin of flesh you ply
Till I am shrouded in your body’s art.
Stung by its sharp delight, then laid aside
In a forgotten corner, where to sleep
Within your tangled darkness of neglect
Seems greater joy than light or motion knew;
For there one thought spills sunlight in my blood,
That you must come again to feast on me.
QUEENSLAND.
VAL VALLIS.


ŵ
A
friend
for
life...
Each Swan
pen is a beau-
tifully balanced
writing instru-
ment precision-
made as things
used to be—to last.
And, however you
write, there is a Swan
nib to suit your hand
exactly. So, when you
buy a Swan, you get
more than a mere pen—
you get a friend for
life. You’ll find Swan
side-lever and lever-
less pens in a variety
of colours at all
better jewellers,
stationers and
stores. Prices
are as low
as 43/-.
ẁ
WRITE
FOR LIFE
WITH A
f/fl
HfSfffl
MABIE, TODD & CO.
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
r
3/121A
RE I LAX
et ec tr i c
spray paint unit
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAINTS—for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
ft:
1 1 ji
Al*o available
as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting set*.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Topp & Fanner,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
TV. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
I. W. EARNSHAW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney —’Phone X 83950
CTJ-'**
AtlS'*,
H gUM
If!
TicA
SCI*
wei>
BftO 0
111 111!
tU*”
Civ*
. Iff*
|A*“
NO :
BEI
80l’ lE
tfff
0
TRADE MARK
AMERICAN DISCOVERY
Approved by Doctors for Rapid Relief from
RHEUMATISM -SGIATICA-NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS • LUMBAGO ■ GOUT
Doldn has brought relief to countless sufferers
from rheumatic disorders in America and Eng-
land. Now it is made available for you. Dolcin
Tablets give prompt relief from the painful
symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood and oxygen to
the affected tissues.
Dolcin gives prompt relief and is also non-toxic.
It will not harm the heart and can safely be
taken for long periods to relieve the rheumatic
activity in severe cases.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from the
misery of Rheumatism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work —thanks to the relief
from pain Dolcin Tablets have brought them.
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no
harmful effects on the heart or any
other organ.
DOLCIN relieves painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis and Gout.
DOLCIN has been proved in clinical
tests and is prescribed by the Medical
profession.
DOLCIN gives rapid and prolonged
relief.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLGIH
ẃ
Helpful and informative literature on Doldn will be lent on
request to Doldn (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
“I don’t want to have any
more to do with Mr. Skewers.
The price he offered is
ridiculous.”
“I don’t agree that it is
ridiculous,” very coldly from
Mr. Whybank. “But that is not
the point. You gave him the
first offer to be exercised after
you’d secured a place to live in,
and I’m sure that now you’re
ready to sell he’ll insist on
exercising his right. Now don’t
do anything you’ll have cause to
regret. Mr. Skewers is a man
who insists on straight dealing.
I’ll bring him up right away.”
Mrs. Cruikshank is too faint
to replace the handpiece. Her
daughter does it for her, greatly
alarmed.
“What’s the matter, Mother?
Aren’t you well?”
Mrs. Cruikshank’s mind is in
a shocking turmoil. She re-
members something about “first
offer.” She remembers Mr.
Skewers being tiresomely in-
sistent about something that she
thought didn’t matter very
much. She’s too ashamed to tell
her daughter that she might have
got them into trouble, but she
does tell her that Whybank and
Skewers are coming up to try to
make her sell the house to them.
'"P HE daughter is just as
A agitated; but while the
mother’s bowels are lacerated by
the fear of legal actions, lawyer’s
costs and ordeals in police
courts, her daughter is thinking
up a slick manoeuvre. She
rushes to the phone to get Mr.
Dean on the scene.
“The law says that an article
must go to the highest bidder,”
she tells her mother, vaguely re-
membering the preamble to
auction sales. She has a surge
of triumph within, as she feels
that she is rising to an occasion
w
ŵ


Australia's finest
Brandy for nearly
a century...
fit’
&
AS*/
S 5
zo
S 7
SJS
ff.
N.3.W.
DISTRIBUTORS:
TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
TET. 1(3.12
TOLLEY’S
TV»3dS
ŵ
HOSPITAL
ẁ
“Production One
%
m
>
K
\
n
n
X
w\ \
...it lasts years longer
if the cabinet is
a
a
STEEL SHEET
G.B.M. DIVISION OF LYSADBT’S WORKS PIT. LIMITED
* a
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED-GENERAL
SALES AGENTS. SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Piece. MELBOURNE:
70-84 Clarendon Street, South Malbourna. ADELAIDE; 13
Grenfall Straat. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Straat. FREMANTLE:
Corner of Short and Pakenham Street*. WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
John Lysaght's Bristol Work* Limited.
CRI-5I
UN CABLED
ADDITIONS
JAP RECOVERY.
Japan, reports a London
“Daily Mail” correspondent, is
“back in business in a big way
.... back to stay whether we like
it or not... .one of the big facts
in international commerce to-
day.”
Describing it as “enjoying a
measure of prosperity that is not
only startling but almost un-
believable,” he quotes latest
figures for industrial production
showing that it is back to pre-
war levels—which still leaves
some leeway to be made up, as
the population has increased by
20 per cent.
“Nevertheless, the economists
reckon that Japan is now exist-
ing on between 70 and 80 per
cent, of her pre-war standard of
living. One wonders if the same
can be said for Britain, which has
received far more help from the
U.S. in the form of the Ameri-
can Loan and Marshall Aid than
Japan has through budgetary
appropriations.”
The Jap boom “was given a
tremendous fillip by the Korean
war. Since the first crossing of
the 38 th Parallel the Japs have
been selling huge quantities of
non-military war equipment to
the Americans. They are being
paid in good U.S. dollars.
“But most important to Britain
is Japan’s recently regained posi-
tion as a serious challenger in
the world’s export markets. She
has just climbed back to top
place among exporters of finished
cotton goods.”
On this the correspondent
quotes a British businessman as
stating that to meet the challenge
Britain’s textile exporters must
concentrate more than ever on
quality and the traditional
markets associated with that aim.
“One of our best hopes lies in
what some Manchester men are
already thinking of —a division
of sales territories by agreement
—which will not be possible until
after the peace treaty.”
“We must face it,” the cor-
respondent adds. “Japan will
continue to exploit her outstand-
ing advantage, which is cheap
labor.”
The Hydrogen Bomb.
Reviewing The Hell Bomb, by
William L. Laurence (a new
book published by Knopf in
America), J. Bronowski, in
London “Observer,” draws on
the book for some of his night-
mare details of what the ex-
perimenting scientists are striv-
ing to achieve and the frightful
things that could follow.
In the less technical informa-
tion, it is mentioned that,
hydrogen being built into helium
in the sun and the stars at about
20,000,000 degrees centigrade,
there was no hope of starting
this reaction on earth until this
temperature could be reached,
which was “unthinkable fifteen
years ago.” The atomic bomb
solved that problem; at detona-
tion it reaches 50,000,000 de-
grees. Hence a hydrogen bomb
contains an atomic bomb simply
to act as detonator and set the
hydrogen off.
That, however, is only one
problem solved. “The atomic
bomb holds its 50,000,000 de-
grees only for a millionth of a
second, and this will not start
and sustain the fusion of
ordinary hydrogen. Even
hydrogen extracted from heavy
water will not fire in this short
flash. If a hydrogen bomb is to
work at all, it must contain at
least some extra-heavy hydrogen
(tritium) made in an atomic pile.
We think, although we are by
no means certain, that either this
extra-heavy hydrogen alone, or
a mixture of it with hydrogen
from heavy water, can be
detonated by an atomic bomb.”
If the bomb, as expected, is
made to work, perhaps this
year, there would on technical
grounds be no limit as to size,
“nothing against setting off a
ton of hydrogen”:
“A bomb of this size, if fully
effective, would be a thousand
times as powerful as the
Nagasaki bomb. This means
that, exploded at a height of
10,000 to 20,000 feet, it would
cause irreparable damage over a
circle on the ground which
measures 20 miles across. It
would kill roughly half of all
those living within this circle,
whose area is nearly 250,000
acres....
“The largest city in the world,
the wen of Greater London,
measures 30 miles across. In
that circle of 500,000 acres it
contains nearly 9,000,000 people
and a quarter of Britain’s in-
dustry. The hydrogen bomb
would damage irreparably the
inner half of this area, from
Hounslow to Woolwich, and
from Barnet to Croydon, and
burns and fires from it would
reach through the outer half.
The death-roll is unimaginable:
in London as it is today, without
evacuation, an effective
o lto
w
— St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) “Post-Dispatch.”
OPPORTUNITY IN KOREA.
hydrogen bomb of one ton
would kill far more than
1,000,000 people. A flash
measured in millionths of a
second would surpass Britain’s
military death-roll from 1914 to
1918.
“The hydrogen bomb could
also induce radioactivity on a
massive scale. Indeed, if the
bomb were deliberately encased
in a metal such as cobalt, which
becomes strongly radioactive,
the dust would drift fatally over
Europe for years.
“Five years ago,” says the
“Observer” writer, “I closed a
report on the atomic bombs in
Japan with the word sombre.
Now, by comparison, we are
almost inclined to find the
atomic bomb cosy, with its
modest circle of destruction two
miles across and its 50,000 dead.
For the hydrogen bomb is more
than a weapon; it is the curfew
of the civilisation built on
cities.”
Starved India.
Declaring that “India is head-
ing for serious trouble,” London
“Economist” reports that this
year’s famine there looks like
exceeding the Bengal disaster of
1943, if not approaching the
horrors of 1397-99:
“The statistics of stocks show
how tragic an emergency is likely
to arise in the next few months,
and there seems little, if any,
possibility of the American gift
of 2,000,000 tons of grain arriv-
ing in time to save the situation
.. . Assuming shiploads of 8000
tons, it will take no less than 250
vessels to transport the grain;
and that is a very tall order in
the time available between now
and midsummer, which is the
peak of the annual shortage in
India.”
Sixty years ago, it is also
pointed out, India produced in a
normal year all the grain it
needed. Today the population
has nearly doubled, while food
production has gone up by per-
haps no more than 25 per cent.
At present the average Indian
consumes only about 1500
calories a day, which is appreci-
ably less than the Chinese, who
are estimated to get a little over
2000 calories. The immensity of
the problem is shown by the fact
that America’s two million tons
of grain would, in any case,
raise average daily consumption
only to about 1800 calories.
Italy’s Elections.
More than Italians will be
watching the results of the
municipal elections in Italy, the
first round of them due on May
27 and June 10 and the next a
month or two later. Unlike
most municipal elections here,
they are, of course, politically
significant.
Local affairs, says the London
“Times” Rome correspondent,
will play only a minor role:
“As was the case three years
ago, this is to be a struggle,
along cold-war lines, between
the Communists and those who,
under different names and dif-
ferent ways, oppose them. The
battle will be hardest-fought in
the great cities of the north —
Turin, Genoa, Bologna, Flor-
ence, Venice and Milan —which
since the last administrative elec-
tions, five years ago, have had
Communist mayors, or councils
on which there has been a Com-
munist majority.”
Gambia Googs.
London “Spectator” epitaph
on yet another of the British
Government’s Socialist farming
flops:—
“Success for the Gambia
poultry scheme would have been
a miracle, yet the mere sound
of the possible prize
20,000,000 eggs and 1,000,0001 b.
of dressed poultry a year—
seems to have been as irresistible
to the Government as the sound
of the possible prize for a big
win in the football pools.
“So they plunged, with a stake
of £825,000, and won 38,000
eggs at £2O each.
“A public punch-drunk with
statistics of Government expendi-
ture —the groundnuts scheme
lost 40 times more money —
might find it just possible to
forgive this wicked waste if
there were any sign of repent-
ance in Government circles.”
On the contrary, the “Spec-
tator” quotes evidence indicating
that the boys are as brash and
eager as ever.
Egypt’s Case.
A roving “Manchester
Guardian” correspondent, who
in a series of articles has been
dealing in very frank terms
with current Middle East
problems, contends that the
Egyptians’ grievances against
Britain, “far from being petty
or even stimulated [presumably
by foreign interests], are very
real.” To demonstrate the
Egyptians’ position he draws an
analogy with India:
“Suppose that in exchange
for its final emancipation India
had had to sign a treaty where-
by it not only accepted in-
definite maintenance of British
forces on a part of its territory
but also, and more important,
undertook to make available to
its former ruler, any time he
asked for it, for any of his wars
anywhere, all the nation’s
military facilities, such as ports,
aerodromes and means of com-
munication, as well as to take
all the administrative and legis-
lative measures, including the
establishment of martial law
and censorship, necessary to
render these facilities effective.
And suppose, moreover, that
India had been asked to under-
take such vastly extensive
obligations not for a limited


Fly OoMoJliMl ffifcO&X
To CANADA, U.S.A., U.K.
MORE SPACE PER PASSENGER
There’s room to s-t-r-e-t-c-h out at ease in your
reclining “Lounge-aire” chair aboard a Canadian
Pacific “Empress of the Air”. Fully pressurized
cabins are specially designed for more space per
passenger . . . more travel comfort. Enjoy famous
Canadian Pacific service, hospitality and fine
food on the “Comfort Cruise” route to Vancouver.
Spend 14 hours at Fiji, then 32 glorious hours In
Honolulu. Hotel and meals at no extra cost. From
Vancouver, convenient connections speed you across
Canada to U.S.A. or the U.K.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents), 247 George
Street, Sydney, and 59 William Street, Melbourne, or any
authorised Tourist Agency.
JURUNES
"THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM"
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canada
Tk*!*
TRACTORS
PULL B
ON-
Il
m
gn
m
mini
MVV
mm
s«s
TRADE
MARK
FACTORIES- FELT HAM ENG.;
TOLEDO. U.S.A.; WINDSOR. CAN.
jmmvj
s,mm
w
ŵ
SSOMMUVdS
%
vs^
*S' :
Y*
y<p
ft*.
5^
ICI
Rabbits in their countless millions con-
stitute one of Australia’s most destructive
pests. Good grazing land can be rapidly
turned into barren acreage if these pests
are uncontrolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting more
than worthwhile by helping to reduce the
numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are hard-
hitting and 100% reliable.
ẁ
TMI
ELET-KYNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
period of years but in per-
petuity ; for that is what Article
Sixteen of the Anglo-Egyptian
Treaty, which stipulates that
any revision of the treaty will
provide for the continuation of
the alliance along its present
lines, actually means. Fortun-
ately for the good relations
between Britain and her former
wards this treatment has re-
mained reserved for Egypt and
Irak orily. And hence it is these
two who are making the fuss.”
As the Egyptians see it, their
strategic position is such that in
its own interest Britain would
have to defend them anyhow,
treaty or no treaty ; hence, all
that they really got out of the
1936 bargain seems to them to
be a guarantee that they will
automatically be involved-in all
Britain’s wars.
“Meanwhile Britain has
already recognised the justifica-
tion of the Egyptian grievance
in this respect when it con-
sented to the very different
arrangement embodied in the
draft treaty of 1946. For it was
then agreed that Egypt was to
have no obligations to Britain
of any sort except in the event
of the latter becoming involved
in war ‘as the result of aggres-
sion against countries adjacent
to Egypt,’ that is to say, when
Egypt should become directly
threatened and would, there-
fore, be only too pleased to
have British assistance in any
case. And even in that event
the obligation went no farther
than to ‘consult’ and, as a result
of such consultation, ‘to take
such action as may be recog-
nised as necessary.’ ”
That arrangement, says the
“Manchester Guardian” man,
“seems as generous as the older
arrangement was grasping. Had
this draft gone through not
even the most fervent Egyptian
nationalist could have main-
tained that his country’s de-
mand for the substance as well
as the shadow of sovereign in-
dependence had not been fully
met. As things are that day is
yet to come.”
Various Voices.
Sir Gladwyn Jebb, chief
British delegate to U.N.0.:
“There are fewer poitots of con-
flict between British and Ameri-
can foreign policy than many
people think, but I would not
want to think about what would
happen to Anglo-American re-
lations and the United Nations
if General MacArthur’s foreign-
policy ideas prevailed in the
United States.”
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“Never before—certainly not
since 1918 —had German poli-
ticians been received by the
French Government and the
French people in so friendly a
way and on a basis of such
equality [as in the Schuman
Plan discussions]. There had
been a communal feeling, and
all decisions to do with the
Schuman plan had been unani-
mous.”
U.S. Assistant-Secretary of
State for U.N.0., John D.
Hickerson: “The Communists
must realise that no informed
person believes them when they
claim to be the champions of
social justice. Thus the area in
which the Soviet Union can per-
suade people without the use of
force has been steadily decreas-
ing. Theirs is a bankrupt
philosophy, and more and more
people have come to realise this.
As political dogma it is as dated
as the slang of another decade.”
British Foreign Minister Her-
bert Morrison (replying to the
Bevan charge that the U.S. is
hogging materials): “We know
that the United States has com-
mitted itself to a global strategy
in the economic and military
sphere which is founded upon
the North Atlantic partnership,
and we think far too well of its
foresight and clarity of view to
suppose that it would allow that
whole policy to be defeated and
disrupted by economic recession
among its allies.”
General Eisenhower: “There
has to be.... .an understanding
that will contemplate an
eventual and an earned equality
on the part of [Germany] be-
fore we should start to talk
about including units of#Ger-
mans in any kind of army. Cer-
tainly I, for one commander,
want no unwilling contingents,
no soldier serving in the pattern
of the Hessians in any army of
my command. It would be only
a source of weakness.”
Former U.S. Ambassador to
Britain, Lewis Douglas (speak-
ing in New York): “We, un-
doubtedly, would somehow,
somewhere, win a war with the
Communists, but the military
victory would not mean the ex-
termination of Communist ideas.
The very desolation which it will
leave in its trail will make the
social soil in the Orient, in
Europe, indeed everywhere, in-
cluding here at home, more fer-
tile and better watered for the
seeds of Communism and revo-
lution to take root in.”
John Foster Dulles (in
Tokyo): “The treaty which the
United States contemplates [for
Japan] is based upon a concept
largely inspired by General
MacArthur, who described it as
‘bringing a new spiritual idea to
mankind and evoking a new
standard of morality in inter-
national relations.’”
Dragnet Digest.
The Tory McGirrs. —Jean Mann,
M.P. (Lab.; House of Commons),
bewailing in London “Tribune” the
state of Australia “under the Tories,”
quotes the “Sydney Morning Herald”:
“Yesterday each of the 150 districts
in Sydney was blacked-out, 30 of them
twice. The blackouts extended from
7 a.m. to 9.30 p.m.” On which she
herself comments: “Note that this
blackout is taking place when this
same newspaper is recording a heat-
wave of 90deg.! How do the Tories
manage it?” Mr. McGirr should
feel most insulted —or flattered.
* * * *
Diggers to Defend Japs. —Referring
to “diplomatists in Tokyo” who had
been carefully examining the Dulles
Jap peace-treaty proposals, the
London “Times” correspondent there
reports of them: “They say that
Australia and New Zealand would
undoubtedly be called on to defend
the United States forces in Japan if
these were attacked. As that would,
in effect, mean defending Japan,
diplomatic circles fear that the Aus-
trafian people might balk at taking
up arms on behalf of their former
enemy.”
* * * *
British-U.S. Breach.— “ Many people
I have met here, great friends ot
Britain,” Sir Alfred Zimmern reports
from America in London “Spectator,”
“are getting worried about the present
uneasiness in British-American rela-
tions, and are longing for some defi-
nite change for the better. But the
more diligently they search for some
means of improvement the more
decidedly they come to feel that there
is very little to be done from this
side; it is for England to make the
next move.”
* * * *
Anzac-U.S. Alliance. —“Washington
Post,” holding that it is to the credit
of Australia, New Zealand and the
U.S. that they all recognise the neces-
sity of keeping the proposed Anzac-
U.S. alliance “free from any taint of
colonialism,” further comments: “The
free nations must stand together in
the Pacific as they have already
learned to do in the Atlantic, and
the only cement that can hold them
together is the power of the United
States, the principles of the United
Nations and a basic sympathy with
the new aspirations of the Asian
peoples.”
* * * *
Israel’s "Left.” In the latest
Israeli elections 60 per cent, of the
seats went to what London “Times’s”
Tel Aviv correspondent quaintly,
though adequately, describes as
“Israel’s Left-wing party, Mapam,
of the extremist faction, which main-
tains that there is no ideological
difference between Communism and
the party except the Communists’
opposition to Zionism.” Their pro-
gramme is to “seek for relations with
the Soviet Union and the people’s
democracies in times of peace as well
as in war.”
* * * #
North Ireland. —Official North Ire-
land Government statement siding
with the West: “Northern Ireland
will be in the fight, if it comes, at
the side of Great Britain, because it
is part of the United Kingdom.”
* * * *
U.S. Hogging Materials. —Support
came from an unexpected quarter for
one part of Sevan’s abdication speech,
important sections of the American
Press as good as endorsing his charge
that the U.S. was hogging essential
materials to the detriment of Britain
and others. Thus, the “Washington
Post” said that it had itself called
attention several times to “the way
that we [U.S.A.] have been hogging
the world’s raw materials for our
own defence industry.” “It has
always seemed to us,” it added, “that
a true alliance, as well as the
American self-interest, required more
sharing of raw materials for a com-
mon rearmament.”
* * * *
Mac Arthur Supported. —ln New
York “Herald Tribune” David
Lawrence reports: “High officers of
our [U.S.] Navy, it can be stated
positively, say that, while MacArthur
has not always selected the most
tactful way to express himself, funda-
mentally he is 100 per cent, right
when he declares America must be
sure of winning the war now in Asia
or else Europe will be lost, too.
Gen. MacArthur,” adds Lawrence,
“was right in 1942, and he is right
again in arguing for due attention to
the Pacific and most of all against
any abject surrender or compromise
in Asia that means the same thing
militarily.”
* * * *
Ominous Conference. Including
the one recently held, there have been
four conferences of what they call
in America the 21 Western Hemi-
sphere Republics. First of the four
was in 1939, with everything ominous
that that connotes; the next in 1940,
on the fall of France; the next after
Pearl Harbor. As a U.S. paper de-
scribes the latest: “The occasion for
closing the ranks once more is the
crisis that has followed Korea.”
* * *
Europe, “House of Cards."
Summing-up in “New York Times”
by leading American commentator
Arthur Krock, after an on-the-spot
examination of Western Europe:
“While the task assigned to General
Eisenhower can for some time in the
future be compared to transforming a
house of cards into a fortress, and it
is true that during the transforma-
tion the house of cards may tumble
down, or be blown down by Soviet
Russia, the General now has a fair
chance of success.”


\
ni
■ffiViSfe.. , C--
nr-
■¥■:;■■
We’ve
rolled
sleel
through
peace
and war!
"I was with Lysaghis right through
the war years ... and like everyone
else I soon learned how to roll
armour plate and heavy gauge steel
for air raid shelters instead of
roofing iron and tankmaking sheets.
But even those wartime tonnages
look like small change compared
with the amount of Galvanized Iron
rolled today. And in addition we
are rolling a much wider range of
qualities than ever before. Current
orders, for example, include Zin-
canneal, Sunstar Black, Ternes and
special carbon and electrical steels
to meet the ever-growing needs
of Australia’s rapidly expanding
industries!’'
LYSAGHT’S
"Growing with Australia
L 224-1522
John Lysoght (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
Vvr'NtV, MELBOURNE- BRISBANE,
AOFIA'Of, EREMANTLF
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“One day he refused, and walked
out of the house, saying, ‘lf I can’t
be comfortable I’ll say away till they
go.’ ” — Story in “New Idea;”
Hoping to talk them out of it
evidently.
+ 4* 4*
“I am making some rather trans-
parent silk into a nightgown for my
trousseau.”
- —Correspondent in women's paper.
Her honeymoon should be
something out of the box.
•b •h
“He claims to be able to make a
tasty dish from suburban front
lawns.”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
A mixture of onion- and nut-
grass?
4* -Jr
“There is no other civilised country
that makes slaves of its women like
Australia.” — Brisbane “Courier-Mail
Unfortunately, this is part and
parcel of our way of life.
■s* + 4
“Radio people say they must give
the people what they want.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
Do they think the public
needs soft-soaping?
♦l* 4*
“Every normal person catches on
an average three colds a year. Things
out of bottles won’t stop them.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
It’s rum if they won’t.
fcY io»s
"Wish I hadn't taught 'em to ride bicycles."
“Sunday amusements, in my
opinion, are all moves Com-
munism.” —Melbourne “Argus.”
They bear all the Marx of it.
4* 4* ■s*
Our blonde is not easily dis-
mayed. Last Friday night she
found a strange young man in
her flat. She gave him one look
and declared: “If you’re not out
of this by Monday morning
there’ll be trouble!”
What Boots It?
ẃ
BERT.
Glossary of Golfing Terms.
Addressing the Ball: The
player pinpoints his ball, which
he has driven into a large area
of 18in.-high kikuyu. Follow-
ing the usual practice, he removes
his shoes and stumps around in
his socks in the remote hope that
he’ll tread on it. It is after his
mates, having already called
three lots of players “through,”
tell him he’d better give up
the search, that the golfer
“addresses” his ball, in absentia,
as it were, and also in terms
which any associates within
earshot wouldn’t understand —
that is, if they are ladies.
Stance: The peculiar method
of placing the feet prior to
swinging the club whereby the
owner is enabled to (a)
propel the ball over the star-
board boundary-fence ; (i b)
propel the ball over the port
boundary-fence; (c) miss the
ball; ( d) just miss his partner,
who was injudiciously standing
immediately to the right and on
a level with him.
Swing: What a golfer rightly
and fervently swears he’d like to
see his opponent do after he
(opponent) has with the maxi-
mum of “tin” mishit an
approach-shot so that instead of
screwing off into the rough it
rebounds off a tree to finish up
Sin. from the pin.
Handicap : This can take three
forms. (1) A golfer’s wife when
he is playing in the mixed four-
some with her, and the other
giggler-and-hitter happens to be
a nifty and very vivacious red-
head ; (2) a golfer’s wife ; (3) his
clubs.
Mixed Foursome: A form of
play in which men occasionally
indulge between games of golf.
Nineteenth Hole: See post-
mortem.
Fairway: A tenuous strip of
short-cropped grass set between
two enormous tracts of thick
scrub, and which the beginner
sometimes uses by accident.
Tiger Country: Rough in
which you gain compensation for
the brand-new five-bob ball it
has irreparably swallowed up by
picking up one obviously lost
several years ago and from
which the cover is peeling.
Post-mortem : See Nineteenth
Hole.
“ Screamer ” : An 80yd. drive
which is promoted to this emi-
nence after several successive
recountings of the feat to other
liars.
Explosion Shot: A shot made
with a No. 7 or No. 8 iron “on
the beach” in such a way that
the strokemaker is enabled, after
groping his way to the edge of
the bunker so that his partner
may, with the aid of a handker-
chief-corner, get his eyes work-
ing again, to observe that he has
succeeded in pushing the ball
another 4in. under the steep
bank.
Controlled Slice: A shot that
you start cursing after you see
it going towards the left and
which, to your amazement,
“comes back,” to finish up dead
in the centre of the fairway. It
is axiomatic that such a shot can
never be repeated —except verb-
ally.
Lining Up: When his ball is
on the green and still a fair way
from the cup the golfer gets
down on his haunches, the ball
between him and the cup, and
goes into a long reverie, out of
which he comes with a mental
picture of the distance, speed
required, etc., and the particular
blade of grass over which he’ll
have to run his ball to sink it.
Then he gets up and does some-
thing entirely different.
“Pendulum” Shot: When the
golfer has got to within several
yards of the edge of the green
he “chips up” with his No. 7.
Then he proceeds to chip back
in the opposite direction. This
he continues to do until finally
the law of averages or the law
of gravity, or both, prevail and
the strokes get progressively
shorter until eventually his ball
stays on the green.
Duffed Drive: Something your
goat of a partner is always do-
ing.
Practice Green: A place
where 12ft. putts can be sunk
with ease before and after 2ft.
putts are missed on the playing-
greens.
Follow-through: The action
whereby the momentum of the
stroke is carried through to the
logical conclusion of belting the
strokemaker in the stem and
propelling him towards the ball
he has just hit, or attempted to
hit. All other kinds of follow-
throughs are only imitations.
Tee: A small, piece of pointed
colored wood which should be
looked for approximately sft.
beyond where the ball you drove
off it will finish.
“The Fillet” : A real butcher’s
slice.
Stymie: A piece of beautiful
judgment on the green which,
when executed by your oppo-
nent, becomes an outrageous
fluke.
Handicapping Committee: A
lot of purblind, biased narks
who never give a man a go.
“The Burglar ”; Any long-
marker who comes good.
“Birdies,” “Eagles”: Fowl
language used only by middle-
and short-markers.
“Albatrosses”: Refer to cele-
brated poem by Samuel Taylor
Coleridge.
Hazard: See Handicapping
Committee,
Unplayable Ball: Any ball,
no matter where lying, you deem
will cost you less by declaring
it unplayable than by keeping on
bashing at it.
Hole-in-one: The eternal
dream.
BO.
Paradox.
Today the worker draws more
dough —
But how long does it last ?
The consequence of going slow
Is wages going fast.
B.B.
Photogenic.
“It has been found that horses do
not notice the light-ray as they gallop
to the post.”—“s. M. Herald.’ 1 '
As an expert of many years’
standing (near the judge’s-box),
I heartily endorse this view—
I’m sure they’re too absorbed
shutting their eyes to their
responsibility of running into
the money for fear of having to
hump a bit of extra weight next
up.
There are exceptions, of
course. I remember plunging
10s. place-tote on one which,
leading by four lengths with 50
yards to go, suddenly thought he
was in Pitt-street, paused, smiled
at the cameraman and finished
fifteenth.
However, in spite of the inno-
vation of the ray, the photo-
finish paraphernalia undoubtedly
lacks an essential. In two- and
three-year-old events a techni-
color side-elevation picture of
our milkman’s prad should be
flashed on the winning-post after
the place-getters have crossed
the line. This would make the
also-rans think they were look-
ing at a likeness of themselves
and terrify them into giving the
game away. In races for older
horses a knacker’s-yard in full
swing might be shown, thus giv-
ing runners a timely glimpse
into the future of most bf them.
As for myself, I’d like to see
photo-verdicts strictly forbidden
by law. After all, under the old
system you always had the
rough chance of backing the
winner if the judge made a mis-
take.
PERCIVAL.
At Face-value.
“Politicians wouldn’t be so cocky
if they only realised that today’s
President is tomorrow’s three-cent
stamp.” —Columnist Earl Wilson.
Fame is fleeting.
Life is short.
Kings, we’re told, return to
clay ;
There’s no cheating
Death’s grim sport
When he comes along our
way.
Proud and humble,
Dull and bright,
Please observe how false is
fame !
Take a tumble,
Comes the night;
Men forget your very name.
Who fare better?
Presidents’
Reputations never flop;
Scan a letter.
Evidence
Stamped there shows them
still on top.
D. H. E.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIHft
OSUUJVAJV
mm
9RAOE
MAFfR
Printers and Publishers
of Fine Editions
Creators of Distinctive
Advertising Matter
Commercial Artists
Printers by Photo Lithography
of Fine Labels for Foodstuffs
Designers and Printers of
Outstanding Cartons
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
JACKSON AND
O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUt”, BRISBANE
w
-
5*
ŵ
ẁ
■■m
Q
a
$
o
a
Since this is to be an
evening of distinction 9 let it
begin with a cigarette really
worthy of the occasion
Benson & Hedges Super
Virginia , made for just
such times as these —-
when only the best will do.
111
tins of 20
3/3
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO '
KB MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonmU Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
TBW
waU
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Jubilee holiday last week, Wit!
special race meetings convenec
throughout the Commonwealth, gave
race-club officials an opportunity to
exercise their ingenuity in conjuring
up appropriate commemorative race
names—an exercise in which, for the
most part, they all too seldom
indulge.
By their response to the richly
endowed Jubilee meeting at Randwick
Sydney owners and trainers forfeitec
all right ever again to voice their
constant plaint of the urgent neec
for reintroduction of regular midweek
racing. The A.J.C. really spread
itself on the meeting. Minimum
added money was £lOOO, allotted to
both the Encourage and the Corin-
thian. Three other events carried
£l5OO apiece, and the two principal
events, the 7-furlongs Hopetoun
Handicap and the 12-furlongs Jubilee
Cup, carried £2OOO and £5OOO respec-
tively. As well, to mark the special
occasion, the Club provided trophies
for all events; in most cases these
were valued at £5O, and for the
Corinthian the winning owner received
a £lOO trophy and the winning rider
a £5O memento. And the response?
A field of eight for the £2OOO Hope-
toun Handicap. A field of six for
the £l5OO three-year-old Handicap. A
muster of an even dozen runners
which made the £5OOO Cup field the
biggest of the day. And if the fields
were disappointing in quantity they
were even more so as regards quality
—particularly the two principal events,
which had offered the better-quality
performers the inducement repre-
sented by the provision of reasonable
maximum and minimum handicap
weights.
First leg of the Jubilee double, the
Hopetoun Handicap, saw a field of
local sprinters once again soundly
thrashed by one of the string of
imported horses with which trainer
Maurice McCarten has had such a
splendid run of late. Starting an
even-money favorite, Stanley Wootton’s
imported gelding The Pilot trailed
the field all the way to the turn, but
once fairly into the straight he came
with a rattling burst on the outside
to win from Oversight and Salamanca,
who were the only others accorded
any real support. Without detracting
from the merit of The Pilot’s wn
Oversight’s secoftd was a good effor
Finishing well, to be beaten on
half -a - length, the three-year-o
carried 8.13, against the 8.2 of t
winner, who is a four-year-old.
With the hotpot The Pilot home
the first leg, doubles bookies beg
to reach for their handkerchiefs wh
the almost-equally-hot favorite Persis
hit the front as the Jubilee Cup fie
straightened up for the run hom
However, their worst fears were soo
put at rest. Persist quickly com
pacted, and Great World (A. Mulled
coming from a fair way back, pressec
to the front at the Leger and wo
running away. Elusive came fro
the clouds to also beat Persist hom
The books contented themselves wi
a few crocodile tears in recognitio
of the fact that the winner was on
of three equal-second-favorites
sevens; Persist had started at 7 to
Presumably on the principle th
they’re cheaper by the dozen, t
Commonwealth Government evident
ordered a bulk lot of trophies to
standard pattern for distribute
among the sporting fraternity
mark the Jubilee year. Unfortunate!
while it might have filled its bill
various other surroundings, the affa
presented at Randwick (and who
facsimile was presented also to win
ners at Brisbane and Melbourne) ju
didn’t look the part of a suitab
racing trophy. To put it politely,
trifle over-ornate. Fashioned from
an imposing mass of silver and
little gold, the Jubilee sporting troph
prototype stands some two feet i
height. It comprises a thick anc
hefty silver column on which
balanced a silver pill of roughl
cricket-ball dimensions, and atop th
pill arises, inch-high, the legen
1901-1951. Standing around the bas
of the column are the unmistakabl
representations in gold of four younj
ladies standing with arms upstretche
as though in supplication, or, pos
sibly, in imminent expectation of th
ball toppling from its perch.
Mr. Runme Shaw, the Orienta
gentleman who owns Great World, i
reported to have spent £lOO,OOO on
horses in the endeavor without havin
previously won a trophy. This mus
represent about the ultimate in anti
climax.
* # ♦ ♦
Form exhibited round this time o
year is notoriously unreliable, usuall;
leading one to err on the side o
over-estimation. However, the excep
tional circumstances represented by
the various Jubilee meetings may have
induced form a spot more reliable
than usual. At all events the result
of the King’s Cup at Flemington
the Adelaide Cup and the Q.T.C
Jubilee Cup seemed each to be o
considerable academic interest to
long-range students of Melbourne
Cup form. The respective winners
in the order mentioned, were
Durham, Peerless Fox and Bash:
Felika. Add to those Bankstream and
Grey Boots, and one would be hold
ing a very nice hand in the next
Melbourne Cup.
Fairly revelling in the heavy goin;
which was very much the state ol
affairs at Flemington, Durham won
the King’s Cup in the game fashion
of a genuine stayer. He was well
placed all the way, took charge as
they turned for home, and responded
splendidly under pressure when chal-
lenged by Milford, whom he defeated
by a half-length; Step Aside ran
third. Durham is another of the
grey Nizami breed, which explains
his being quite at hqme in heavy
going. He is the first grey to win
the King’s Cup, and might well
become the third of the hue to bag
a Melbourne Cup. Unfortunately
there is an “if” about Durham —he
is not altogether sound in one leg.
The result of the King’s Cup—the
first run at Flemington since 1939 —
provided a bitter pill for owner W. R.
Kemball. About six months ago
Kemball got rid of Durham for a
paltry 850 guineas. On Saturday the
discarded Durham downed two horses
carrying the Kemball colors; the
runner-up Milford and the heavily-
backed second-favorite Clutha.
Peerless Fox won his second suc-
cessive Adelaide Cup at Morphett-
ville in really extraordinary fashion.
It was a very muddling-run affair,
but eventually produced for the
record crowd of 50,000 as thrilling
a finish as the race has ever seen.
The early pace was dreadfully slow;
it took them 1.47 for the first mile,
and in such conditions Peerless Fox
was all at sea. Fighting for his head,
Peerless Fox dashed up to be third
early before his rider (E. Preston)
was able to restrain him; then, when
the pace was clapped on he declined
to have any part of it, and in a trice
was pretty well last. When at last
Peerless Pox really settled down to
the job it seemed that he was too
late. However, as the winning post
loomed larger and larger in front
Peerless Fox loomed closer and closer
from the rear, and the luck of the
last stride saw him win by the faintest
nostril from Cambridge, while Star
Monarch was only a deep breath
further away third. Over the Mel-
bourne Cup journey Peerless Fox has
one of the best records of any horse
at present racing here, but he’s rising
six, and some of the excellent younger
brigade may have an edge on him
this year.
Watching Basha Felika win the
Jubilee Cup at Eagle Farm one felt
inclined to regret that the three-year-
old had not been given a crack at
the recent Brisbane Cup; connections
may have been similarly inclined. The
description given above of the
Adelaide Cup would serve pretty well
as a description of the Brisbane race,
though the distance in Brisbane was
only 12 furlongs. The pace was
muddling, and the eventual winner
very unhappy about matters in the
early stages; however, he came good
at the right time, and the finish, as
in the Adelaide race, was a thriller.
Basha Felika scored by a half-head
from the Moreton Handicap winner
Shanalen, with Daasrae a head fur-
ther back third. A son of The
Buzzard, Basha Felika is an extremely
promising young stayer.
“This one doesn't fit, either. It hurts me little finger."
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Encourage: Militant,
1; Divulge, 2; Eagle Prince, 3. Tar-
wyn Park Handicap: Pagan Rebel, 1;
Trizami, 2; Blue’s Sister, 3. Bruce
Lowe Handicap: Pyramid, 1; The
Duchess, 2; Belle Amber, 3. Three-
year-old Encourage: Ananzi, 1; True
Leader, 2; Benbecula, 3. Belmore
Handicap: Crag Son, 1; Blue Ensign,
2; Khedive, 3. Warwick May Handi-
cap : Saville Row, 1 ; Great World, 2;
Elusive, 3. May Novice Handicap:
Grand Union, 1; Coronation Gift, 2;
Miss Moya, 3.
* * * *
Just when everyone but the Dons’
barrackers had given Essendon away
and had picked Collingwood as
favorites for the V.F.L. 1951 pennant,
’Wood went to Essendon —along with
35,000 fans—and were outsmarted,
outpaced, out-booted and generally
outed by 12.11 to 5.14. ’Twas a
clash, not of giants, but of little men,
and the “littlies” of Essendon put it
all over the ’Wood midgets—which
proves that the day of the small man
isn’t over. Fitzroy went to the top
of the poll by downing Footscray,
10.10-6.16, after trailing to half-time;
the comparatively ancient Eddie Hart
booting six goals for the winners. At
Geelong the locals were too good for
Carlton by 14.7 to 9.13, and at North
Melbourne poor kicking by South
cost them the match, 12.6-9.19. Haw-
thorn jumped away from Richmond,
but only for a quarter; after that the
Tigers bolted to a 17.18-7.14 win.
Match of the Day was staged between
Melbourne and St. Kilda, Saints win-
ning a ding-dong go by 15.8 to 14.7.
All the umpires returned home safely.
“Pass-it”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union team followed up last Wednes-
day’s win over Queensland with a
most convincing 30-9 victory on the
Saturday. There was no doubt about
the superiority of the winners, as
N-S.W. played with two men short
for most of the second half.
In both matches it appeared that
the Queenslanders were convinced
that they would be beaten before they
left the dressing-room, and their sole
aim on the field was to keep the
score down as much as possible. This
negative approach to inter-State
matches has been a most noticeable
feature of Queensland’s football in
recent years: unless they learn to for-
get about defence until the other side
wins the ball, and, when in possession
themselves —and their forwards have
always been good enough to win a
reasonable share of the ball—run and
’ manoeuvre with confidence to beat the
t opposition, they can hope for little
> improvement in the standard of their
: play. It is appreciated that the
actual scores do directly influence the
bargaining-power of the Queensland
representative on the Australian selec-
tion committee and that if N.S.W.
wins by 40 points there is little hope
of any of the Queenslanders gaining
a place in the Australian team. But
it is suggested that if the Queens-
landers were to take the longer view,
and, even at the expense of being
beaten badly for one or two seasons,
develop a spirit of attack into their
football, they would be well rewarded
in the future: and it is doubtful if
they would suffer particularly bad
defeats during the transition stage;
determination in attack would do
more to upset the N.S.W. attack
than any defensive measures. Further,
it would provide an opportunity of
showing up any defensive weaknesses
in the N.S.W. side, thereby furnishing
the Queensland representative with
more than negative arguments when
he goes into an Australian selection
committee.
Most pleasing feature of last
Saturday’s match was the evidence of
constructive play developing among
the N.S.W. inside-backs. A continua-
tion on this line will soon see Rugby
Union being played as the fast, attrac-
tive spectacle it can be.
* * * *
Lobbed into Sydney over the week-
end the first couple of instalments of
what is to be a wholesale invasion of
Australia by divers football tourists
this winter. Weekend arrivals were
an English Soccer team and a New
Zealand Universities Rugby Union
team. Yet to put in their appearance,
a French Rugby League team and
New Zealand’s famous All Blacks.
For the nonce local Union enthusiasms
are practising a corroboree with whi<h
to retaliate to the Haka; Rugby
League officials are wandering round
muttering “Charles est petit; Robert
est grand”; and Soccer followers are
trying to condition their digestive
systems to the reception of Yorkshire
pudding.
* * * *
Norm Praine (9.2£) v. Novocastrian
Fred Kay (9.2) at Leichhardt last
week resulted in a willing scrap and
a decision with which the crowd, it
seemed, begged to differ. As a matter
of fact, so did present onlooker. A
whirlwind finish staged by Praine
over the last couple of rounds evi-
dently took the referee’s fancy no
end, and Praine was given the deci-
sion. But Kay, attacking all the time,
and landing, overall, far the greater
number of punches, had been steadily
piling up points, and seemed entitled
at least to a draw.


LYSASHTS
PROOF
*OO% Australian-made
rom Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting .
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■
.
mm
V ■• .
if'4 ; ' ' 'V&A
i
M
m
s
*?-4
,
r itl
i 8
v*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. &Co. Piy.,Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE HETTI NG . ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Blowfly Immunity?
“Outback”: Development of
a strain of Merinos immune to
fly is the ambition of Mrs.
Jessie M. Anhaeusser, Mayfield,
Cunnamulla (Q.), who has been
working and managing her
property for 30 years. On its
21,000 acres, she runs 5000 to
6000 sheep, and rams are the
only stock purchased.
Mrs. Anhaeusser believes it is
possible to breed sheep immune
to the fly, and contends that her
experience has proved this be-
yond reasonable doubt. Her
theory is based on the belief
that fly attraction is due to the
odor from sweat-gland secre-
tions, and she breeds only from
rams which apparently have this
immunity, though she does not
disregard type and wool.
During the recent wet season,
with its terrific blowfly wave,
the Mayfield flock —five months
to full-woolled —was almost free
of strike, while other properties
in the district suffered severe
losses. No fly dressing is used
on Mayfield at lamb-marking
time.
This apparent fly-immunity
was first noticed 25 years ago,
when Mayfield bought a draft of
Egelabra rams. One ram,
although injured around the head
from fighting, was not struck,
although the wound was ideally
suited for fly-strike. He was
mated with ewes selected for
“cleanness” —the owner’s term
for freedom from fly. Progeny
of this mating were found tp be
remarkably free from fly-strike,
but any which did show sus-
ceptibility were culled, and it
was from such a foundation that
the station flock was developed.
Blowfly-resistance, however,
was not obtained at the cost of
quality and type, for the sheep
have done well at shows. And
in recent years the Hayfield clip
has always been amongst the
top-priced wools at auction.
Weevils in Grain.
“Rooster”: Best antidote is
crude commercial carbon bisul-
phide, used as a fumigant.
About 51b. suffices for every
1000 cubic feet of the grain
store. The fumes are not as
effective below 70 deg. Fahr.
Pour the liquid into open ves-
sels or on to cotton-waste
placed on top of the grain. In
extreme cases it would do no
harm if actually contacting the
grain, since it quickly evaporates,
and the fumes, being heavier
than air, sink and spread
through the grain, destroying
even the little grubs within
grains. Leave exposed to fumes
for 24 hours.
This treatment doesn’t affect
the grain either for milling pur-
poses or for seed or feed pur-
poses ; but grain for seed should
not be exposed for too long.
The bin or shed under treatment
should be kept clear of loose
grain accumulations, or treated
grain may be reinfested. Don’t
breathe in too much of the
fumes —they’re dangerous.
The vapor is highly inflam-
mable, and all fires in the
vicinity should be extinguished ;
and, of course, no smoke-ohs
on the job.
As weevil-eggs are not de-
stroyed in the initial treatment,
repeat it. A 400-gallon tank
(iron) with tight-fitting lid
answers the purpose well, and,
as its capacity is approximately
64 cubic feet, one can estimate
the quantity of fumigant re-
quired.
The Young Calf.
“Mr.”: While she’s springing
keep the expectant cow in a
clean, well-sheltered paddock
handy to the farmstead, where
an eye can be kept on her.
Growth and development of
her calf are largely dependent on
the feeding and management it
gets during the first week or 10
days of life. After its first feed
put the calf in a clean, dry shed
for 24 hours without a feed, as
hunger simplifies the job of
teaching it to drink.
Give the calf its mother’s
milk for the first four or five
days. This differs from ordinary
milk in that it contains a greater
quantity of more easily-digested
protein (about 17 per cent.),
more minerals and immunising
substances. It acts also as a
laxative, which starts the whole
digestive system working.
By the fifth day, when its
mother’s milk is practically nor-
mal, whole milk from any cow
can be fed until the calf is two
weeks old. Then gradually sub-
stitute skim-milk or a gruel for
the fresh milk until, by the end
of the fifth week, it is com-
pletely off whole-milk.
Fish in Dams.
“Dot”; Sam Clayton, head of
N.S.W. Soil Conservation Ser-
vice, believes fish-farming would
go v/ell on inland farms. In the
journal of the S.C.S. he says that
edible fish could be grown in
dams or ponds.
Without fertilisers, it is pos-
sible for a dam with a surface
“Both together now , Dave-heave!”
area of 3000 sq. yds. to produce
751 b. to 1001 b. of fish a year ;
with fertilisers up to 2001 b. Add
to this the joy of catching them.
In America they put two
breeds of fish in a pond so as
to prevent overpopulation. It
is doubtful if any tasty Aus-
tralian native fish would live in
still water, but European pond-
fish could be tried. Our fresh-
water perch, bream, cod, etc.,
should do well in dammed
creeks, though floods and
droughts w 7 ould probably knock
them about; so would the shags
and water-rats.
As Clayton laments, there is
no available information applic-
able to Australian conditions as
to dam management, our species
of fish, fertilisers, where to get
baby fish and so forth.
Repairing a Chip-heater.
“Metax”: A chip bath-heater
of the water-jacketed type
should not be discarded for the
first leak. The leak usually be-
gins between the water space
and the outside wall, where it
is easily accessible and the gal-
vanising under the paint quite
clean for soldering.
The heater must be drained by
disconnecting it from supply and
flue and taking it down. It
should be handled gently, as all
walls will be thinned by internal
rusting, and new leaks could be
started.
Before replacing examine the
paint for small bubbles. These
indicate leaks about to start,
and should be cleaned off and
soldered over. If a leak breaks
into a large hole when cleaning
off paint for soldering clear back
until the wall is solid and solder
on to it a patch of galvanised-
iron.
Leaks inside the firebox can
be mended if accessible through
the door. The galvanised plate
under the deposit of easily-
removable soot will be found
quite clean for soldering.
Usually the inside leaks do
not occur first, and there are
many months of life left after
carefully repairing the first
outside leaks. Resin is satisfac-
tory and preferable as a solder-
ing flux.
Gulf Country Development.
“Oxo”: S. C. Anning, owner
of Clark Hill (Hughenden) and
Cornelia (Pentland), says no man
can successfully manage more
than 4000 cattle. He considers
the first step in developing the
Gulf country must be to sub-
divide the big holdings held by
absentee owners and hand the
country over to men who live
on and manage their own
properties.
The Anning family has owned
and worked their own stock for
four generations, covering a
period of 90 years, and Anning
says the only thing worse than
having too much land is having
too little.
He thinks the Gulf country
should be divided into properties
of approximately 200 sq. miles,
capable of running 4000 cattle.
The great need of that area was
more water and more fences,
which the owner-manager was
better able to provide.
As labor became scarcer and
less skilled it became more and
more necessary to make the
working of properties easier,
with more fences, yards, brand-
ing machines and better watering
facilities. Ticks and buffalo-fly
were a constant worry, which
could be overcome only by pro-
vision of dips and sprays. Big
herds and few dips were com-
mon on the large holdings.
If men were to be encouraged
to go to the Gulf and stay there
they must be given the oppor-
tunity to acquire land of their
own, but under the present
system of land ballots almost
anyone could compete.
Anning says it has been his
experience that no one breed of
cattle would stand on its own
feet in the Gulf, but he has had
no experience with the Zebu or
Aberdeen Angus. His prefer-
ence is for Herefords, which
would give a better natural in-
crease ; this, in turn, allowed a
bigger spaying and consequently
a better herd. If Herefords
showed indications of losing size
it was advisable to put in Short-
horn blood. If the herd was
Shorthorn and it showed indica-
tions of becoming too soft it
was time to introduce Devons.
But whatever the breed a dash
of Shorthorn blood appeared
essential.
Wood Ashes.
"Mount White”: As they con-
tain potash, phosphates and
lime, they are a valuable asset.
Some have made the fatal mis-
take of thinking that the addi-
tion of a nitrogenous fertiliser
would make a complete manure.
The presence of lime in the
wood-ashes is liable to decom-
pose the nitrogen in the mix-
ture.
A very quick method of
raising seeds such as carrots,
parsnips, Swede turnips and the
like is by making shallow drills.
Run water carefully along these
to give the seed a wet start. Put
the seed in and then, with the
hand, give a light dressing of
super., plus wood-ash. Cover
up the whole with a rake.
Tomatoes and potatoes that
contain a fair amount of potash
also respond to a dressing of
wood-ash every now and again.
In the orchard or vineyard
there is nothing so beneficial as
ploughing-in the burnt prunings.
Lime, of course, is not a plant-
food, but it cures the acidity in
the soil and gradually eliminates
such sour growth as sorrel,
which is a great nuisance
amongst growing crops. It also
sets free other plant-food in the
soil.
Those using fuel stoves and
coppers can obtain quite a fair
amount of wood-ash daily.
Don’t throw it out in the open,
as the rain leaches out the potash
and phosphates, which are par-
ticularly soluble. Leached ashes
contain practically little but
lime and carbonate of lime.
Remember even the despised
bracken-fern is valuable, for it is
one of the highest potash-con-
tainers in the world. Keep cut-
ting it down and burn the heaps,
for the fern, on the average, con-
tains 16.71 per cent, of valu-
able potash.
Buddha for Posts.
“Scot”: Half a century ago
buddha (or sandalbox) was un-
thought of as a fence-post timber
in the Maranoa, but its dura-
bility in the soil was found when
a stake-fence was pulled down
and it was seen that after being
in the soil for 20 years the butts
of the buddha stakes were quite
sound while all stakes of other
timber species were rotten.
As in the case of other timbers
buddha is most durable when
found a good distance in from
the edge of the timberline and
where the trees are more mature
and show less sap.
Because of its soil dura-
bility and the necessity for
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The long series of southern sunspots is now coming to
an end and is now at its final and active position where the
weather effects usually occur. As the cycle shows some
useful rains (heavy in these should now be recorded,/
especially in the southern States, though from the cyclical
records the eastern States seem likely to get their share.
Following this last sunspot of the series, there are no
further spots visible, so that a quiet period is likely. This
means cold, clear weather with a good deal of frost, espe-
cially in the higher country. There is not much rain from
now except along the southern regions. A coastal gale on
the central coast of Queensland may appear in July, but
there are not sufficient records to check its cyclical position.


I STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
Mark (5,> loc.iHan
of VOtlR RUPTURE
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for Im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and U Days' Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
ADULTS ONLY.
MEMORISE
Pass exams., Speak without
Notes, Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Write for free book, postage Sd.
REV. W. ROWLANDS
12a Younger Ave., S. Caulfield, Vic.
Reduce limb losses
by marking with
EUSTRATOR
AftHfam Method
Eusnum
REGD. TRADE MARK
w
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St., Melbourne.
ELIS
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—(—recommended for shearing-shed work.
p.
It)
'LJL,
tJ
ŵ
ẁ
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
Bsdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
ẃ
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/18/6.
Price includes tax.
ẅ
w
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
TktJLonLj
Jlamp!
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream
Metal Parts
ŵ
(ji 'i 0$
i« *
. its
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS (300 CANDLE POWER)
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L. 106 “THE QUEEN” 2\V High
T.L. 136 “THE PRINCESS” l6|^High
HLtEY..„LAMP
BURN ORBUVABY KEROSENE
~Tle jH&mp6 mil
the i-lappy MdntU
/
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer’s Representatives :—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
fencing timber for closer-settle-
ment, buddha has been pro-
tected for many years under
Queensland Lands Department
ringbarking permits, Buddha
flourishes when other timbers
are ringbarked out, the reduced
competition allows of quicker
growth of the buddha, with the
result that although bigger posts
may be obtained the heart-wood
(or durable part) is not of the
quality of the heartwood of
timber grown under natural con-
ditions where the going is tough.
Buddha is liable to caterpillar
infestation at intervals of a few
years, and the pest destroys much
valuable timber, especially if in-
festation periods closely follow
each other.
Japanese Millet.
“Hortus”: There’s still time
to plant this quick-growing
summer catch-crop on the
N.S.W. central coast. It is one
of the easiest crops to grow,
does best on land from which
another crop has just been taken,
is very hardy and will stand dry
weather as well as rye. What’s
more, it is not particular about
type of soil.
As the crop depends mainly
on the surface soil, turn in any
stubble or green-weed rubbish
to a fairly shallow depth,
Harrow in super. Icwt. to the
acre just before sowing. This
will give the plants the requisite
nourishment to allow a quick
growth. Amount of seed is 81b.
to 121 b. per acre.
There may be a rather wet
period followed by a warm, dry
one, and if the soil gets hard
and caked you can easily do
some Infer-row cultivation. With
broadcasting this, of course,
would be impossible.
Where Japanese millet comes
in so handy on the farm is when
other spring-sown crops have'
failed. The millet grows so
quickly that it is possible for
the crop to be planted, fed off
and taken off early enough to
admit of the ground being pre-
pared for the autumn-sown
crops.
It is extremely nutritious and
excellent for grazing for both
sheep and cattle. It has no
poisonous elements and can be
fed off at an early stage. How-
ever, it is considered unwise to
start doing this until the crop
has reached a height of about
6in. Japanese millet has the big
advantage over other catch-
crops that, after stock have
been removed, another growth
is developed in mushroom-like
fashion.
Hints for the Farm.
“My”: Young pigs on con-
crete, brick or wooden floors
tend to become anaemic if they
don’t have an occasional run in
a clean paddock to obtain their
iron requirements. If this is im-
practicable throw a shovelful of
clean soil into the pens daily.
“Sundowner”: Salt is an im-
portant item in poultry diet. It
improves growth, aids egg-yield
and prevents feather-picking and
cannibalism. Add to a mash at
half per cent, for a mash-grain
diet. Where fishmeal is fed in
quantity addition of salt is
unnecessary.
“C.A.A.”; After pasture-hay
has been threshed for seed re-
move all straw from the pad-
dock. The large amount of
straw left from bulky crops has
a smothering effect on the
covered clover as well as pro-
viding cover for grass grubs.
“Malvern”; In Gippsland
(Vic.), where bracken-fern is a
pest, many farmers use a loose-
jointed three-section flanged iron
roller. This bruises the stems
every few inches, and the plant
gradually dies. Chain-harrow-
ing is effective, but needs several
crossings. When bracken is full-
grown and dense, spraying with
5 p.c. to 10 p.c. of sulphuric-
acid solution is beneficial.
“Sarina”: Turkey eggs are
best hatched under an ordinary
chook, since a chook won’t take
the poults wandering, as does a
turkey hen. A turkey hen will
take the poults into wet grass in
the early morning and they’ll
get cramp. Unless the area is
netted-in turkeys are unlikely to
last long in fox- or dingo-infested
country, because they will
wander. They shouldn’t be
kept unless they’re well-fed.
“Spooks”: With eggs at 4s.
6d. a dozen the backyard
poultry run becomes a lucrative
hobby for the farm wife. The
hens earn good pin-money. A
layer’s ration is as follows:
take 301 b. of bran, 601 b. of
pollard, 51b. of meatmeal, b.
of dried buttermilk, 2ilb. of
bonemeal and of salt.
Mix well and store. Each
fowl should have 20oz. each of
mash and grain, and lOoz. of
greenfeed. Overfeeding and fat-
ness are mistakes.
“Myrrhee”; Look for these
points in a breeding cock: Deep
wedge-shaped breast, straight
breastbone, adequate abdomi-
nal capacity, broad back, hard
feather, large prominent eye
and a straight well-formed
comb. In addition, he needs to
be robust and in the full vigor
of maturity, neither too young
nor old. Don’t overmate; this
can be as harmful as under-
mating, resulting in fighting and
general restlessness in the breed-
ing flock, and is one of the
main causes of infertile eggs.
“M.”: Generally, Sudan-grass
may be regarded as dangerous
to stock when fed in the short,
dark-green stage either as hay
or in the stand. This stage
usually follows a period of
drought. As a general rule
keep stock off it until it’s 2ft. or
more in height and a pale-green
or yellow color; then the
cyanide content is low.


I
I
i
K
*****
wm
a
1
■MW*
; fi7m
f
SsS&£* 10k*mJL *&
Bias cut for extra
‘ ■ ~ “»--S
Illustrating how rubberized fabric is cut so
that all cords run diagonally. Alternate
plies are reversed for two way strength.
Olympic
4l<"
83UAJ.
0T50.18.5t
w
ŵ
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW"
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER HURST late of Grenfell.—
TAKE NOTICE that EVELYN LOUIE
HURST has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 400 of 1951 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking for
the exercise of the Court's discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th day of July 1951
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. PRIMROSE,
YOUNG & PRIMROSE, Solicitors, 12
Castlereagh Street, Sydne y. J«
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ẁ
A*
i
m
Ufa
mm
m
m
n
■ . ■'
/
</■
'^C 7 vk*h
rtS* Ij!
N
7
@so®
ẃ
ẅ
THt BRAND WITH A PEDIGREi
Xnoxto T
NO ELASTIC TO PUCKER OR PERISH
their brains. The daughter can
stand it no longer. She rings
Mr. Dean again and catches
him just as he is off for a taxi,
after sending home unattended
two schoolgirls who were kept
awake all night with toothache.
“It’s right that the first one
with the highest bid gets it, isn’t
it, Mr. Dean?”
Mr. Dean is shocked to the
core of his businesslike soul. He
can’t possibly answer either yes
or no because he doesn’t know
what on earth it would let him
in for. He thinks he is being
inveigled into some absurd kind
of steeplechase auction, and all
his instincts tell him to beware.
He tries to state his position
clearly and firmly so that there’ll
be no misunderstanding, but he
doesn’t know that the daughter
hasn’t mastered the technique of
using her hearing-aid in con-
junction with the telephone, and
that her telephone conversations
are one-way only.
“They’re not here yet, though
it’s nearly an hour since they
started,” she goes on, disregard-
ing him. “You can still win if
you hurry.”
Mr. Dean hangs up the phone
with a despairing gesture. He
wasn’t going to let any shark of
an agent horn in on his house-
buying, but it’s impossible to do
business direct with that kind of
people. He puts his white coat
on again.
WHEN the daughter leaves
the phone Whybank and
Mr. Skewers are standing on the
“welcome” mat. Both of them
carry ominous brief-cases. They
demand to see Mrs. Cruikshank,
despite the message that she isn’t
feeling well enough to talk
business. All such subterfuges
are familiar to them, and futile.
They see Mrs. Cruikshank.
They only want to know one
thing. Did she or did she not
give Mr. Skewers the first offer
of her house? While the
daughter stares so open-mouthed
that she loses control of her top
plate, the mother is pushed to-
wards an admission that she
may have agreed to something
like that, but without realising
that it meant anything. Now
Mr. Skewers puts on a great
show; you would never have
thought that he could be an ill-
used person with all that
arrogance of his, yet it seems
that he is shaken and dis-
illusioned.
“I’m used to all sorts of
tricks,” he says, “but I trusted
your word! I’ve been rushing
here and there, laying out my
money and selling securities to
be ready to take up my offer.
And then Mr. Whybank rings
me to tell me you want to back
out. You want to repudiate
your obligations like Jack Lang
when he smashed the Savings
Bank.”
Terrible words that make the
widow shrink and tremble.
“I’m an honest woman,” she
protests. “I go to church. I
never tried to do anyone out of
a penny.”
“Not a penny” Mr. Skewers
. repeats, with dreadful emphasis,
because he caught her trying to
do him out of several thousand
pounds.
In the end, to save her reputa-
tion, she admits that she might
have given him the first offer.
“But you’ll have to give me
five thousand pounds, because
Mr. Dean is ready to give that.”
Immediately there is hurried
fumbling with the fastenings of
brief-cases.
“Three thousand five hundred
was the figure,” Mr. Skewers
proclaims, as if now he could
send her to the gallows.
And Mr. Whybank looks up
from his dreadful documents
with the same answer It’s
really incredible, how an
annarentlv resnectable old lady
has tried^to cheat them They
i ook at each other and seem to
deS p a j r 0 f ever finding honesty
and decency again. It is no use
explaining that she didn’t mean
* t thafs the oldest trick the y
k and the one for whic h
they have the least patience. In
end> just when it looks as
s fi e m i g ht lose her temper and
de fy them, they offer her a con-
cess i o u • they will give her three
thousand five hundred and fifty,
and sa y nothing about her con-
d uct.
xhe daughter is on the phone
again with Mr. Dean, more
m ysterious than ever because the
odiers can hear w hat she’s say-
j n g Mr. £) ean j s saying noth-
thanking his stars that
ke fi ad the luck not to become
i nvo i ved in whatever infamy it
j s that’s going on there now.
q* qON everything is signed,
yj sea i ed and delivered. The
men g Q awa y with their brief-
cases and immediately the
daug h te r rushes to the phone to
contact Mrs. McNamara’s
daug hter so that they can have
a roo f over their heads.
gut Mrs. McNamara’s
daughter’s husband has already
so i d the house. There is
deS pair for a day and
a half as they search
frantically and vainly. Then
Mr. Whybank, suddenly wear-
ing angel’s feathers again, tells
them he’s heard they’re having
.trouble and has just the house
for them. He describes it, and
it could be the twin of Mrs.
McNamara’s daughter’s place.
They get him to rush them
round and everybody is
astonished to find that it is
Mrs. McNamara’s daughter’s
place.
Joy bubbles up again as they
chatter over the misunderstand-
ing. But it develops that there
was no misunderstanding. The
house was sold, but the buyer
was transferred to another town,
too. It’s almost the same with
the little difference of a
thousand pounds in the price.
At first Mrs. Cruikshank won’t
have it at all, it’s outrageous,
only fifty pounds less than she
got for her lovely big house.
“But it’s got a shower recess,”
Mr. Whybank reminds her.
“That’s a wonderful asset when
you want to sell again.”
“I’ll never want to sell again,”
the old lady says fervently.
They hold off for two days,
rushing here and there, looking
at houses that are either too
dear, or too much of a social
come-down. In the end they
capitulate to Mr. Whybank.
“After all, you’ve got your
shower recess and your fifty
pounds,” he says to console
them.
But the fifty pounds goes in
removal costs, and that isn’t the
worst thing about it. When Mrs.
Cruikshank is signing the papers
for the purchase of the new
house, she happens, despite her
confusion and nervousness, to
notice the name of the vendor.
The first thought that hits her
is that she will never be able to
tell her daughter about this.
Until the day she dies she will
have to conceal the terrible truth
that Mr. Why bank and Mr.
Skewers played with her as a
cat plays with a mouse.
[ N the new house Mrs. Cruik-
* shank and her daughter put
the best face on things. There
is a plausible explanation for
moving into a smaller house
when it is more convenient and
newer; particularly when it has
a shower recess, though neither
of them ever uses it. However,
they never say a word about
that trip abroad they were going
to take.
The big house is now occupied
by Mr. Dean. He did reasonably
well out of the affair, because
he gave only five hundred more
than he offered the Cruikshanks.


Missing Friend.
BURNS or DICKSON. —Relatives of
SAMUEL BURNS (M. SUSAN MEGAW),
of Co. Armagh, N. Ireland. Write to
MURIEL FERRIS, 85 Pump Lane, Rain-
ham, Kent, England.
AUSTRALIA
NEEDS
YOUR MONEY
The Twelfth Security Loan, opening May 22, must
be filled. The money sought is needed to help pay
for the great national tasks now confronting
Australia. Play your part.
Twelfth Security Loan Bonds are safe repayment
of your money in full, when your securities mature,
is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
Interest is paid regularly every six months.
There is no better place for savings no place
where they will do more good for YOU and for
AUSTRALIA. Invest all you can —at once!
Make an Advance Subscription to the
Twelfth Security Loan
Opening May 22
LOAN FACTS: (1) The main purpose of the Loan is to pay for Public Works and Services
of the Commonwealth and the States. (2) Advance Subscriptions may be made now through
any Bank or Stockbroker. (3) 11-14 Year Securities (issued at £99 per cent.) will bear interest at
3i% per annum. 3-Year Securities (issued at par) will bear interest at 2% per annum.
(4) Interest will be paid each six months. ( 5 ) Repayment in full at maturity of the face
value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
P125L2.114.51
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Bulletin staff man wants to rent
small furnished fiat or cottage, North
Shore suburb, Sydney.—so 42.
Wanted to purchase a copy of Go
Spy the Land by Hill. —5044.
To buy copy of Douglas’s The
Big Fisherman. —5045.
To buy copy of Greenwood’s
Future of Australian Federalism. —
5046.
To buy copy of Galsworthy’s The
Forsyte Saga— so 47.
To buy copy of Neander’s Church
History. —so4B.
To buy copy of Masefield’s
Gallipoli. —so49.
To buy copy of The Sayings of
Mrs. Solomon. —soso.
To buy copy of Scott’s Tom
Cringle’s L0g. —5051.
To buy copy of Maurois’s Disraeli.
—5058.
To buy copy of De Tocqueville’s
Democracy in America. —5052.
To buy copy of Hardy’s Return of
the Native. —5053.
To buy copy of Conrad’s Nostromo.
—5054.
To buy copy of Drummond’s
Natural Law in the Spiritual World.
—5055.
To buy copy of Thressall’s The
Ragged Trousered Philanthropists. —
5056.
To buy copy of The Overlander by
Will H. Ogilvie, or copy of his poem
“The Bushfire” in that book. —5057.
To buy copy of The Australian by
Will H. Ogilvie.—so43.
Information Sought.
(1) How to kill a camphor-laurel
tree? (2) Would the limbs, if used
for posts for a pergola, be resistant
to insect attack?
(1) The camphor-laurel could be
poisoned by boring fin. or larger
auger-holes every 4in.-6in. round the
base of the trunk, about 2in. deep
and at an angle of 45deg., which are
filled with any commercial arsenical
weed-killer. The best time to apply
this is early spring. (2) Camphor-
laurels are very resistant to attack by
any insect on account of the camphor
content of the leaves and sap, and
camphor-wood timber is equally
resistant to borers, etc. If the tree is
killed by arsenic this also repels
insects, so the limbs should be quite
suitable for posts.
* * * *
Where and when was boxer Frank
Slavin born ? Whom did Slavin meet in
his first contest, and when ? Also, who
was Slavin's last opponent ? Is Slavin
still living?
Frank Slavin was born in Maitland
(N.S.W.) on January 5, 1862. First
fight Slavin had was with Martin
Power, under London Prize Ring
rules, in 1885, when Slavin won in
13 minutes. Nick Burley was Slavin’s
last opponent, at Victoria, British
Columbia, on December 7, 1907.
Burley stopped Slavin in two rounds.
After-effects of wounds received
during World War I while fighting
in France as a member of the
Canadian Army resulted in Slavin’s
death ,at Vancouver on October 4,
1929.
* * * «
Some details concerning Lord Howe
Island ?
Lord Howe Island is a dependency
of New South Wales, and, for the
purpose of representation in the State
Parliament, is included in King, a
metropolitan electorate. It is situated
about 300 miles east of Port Mac-
quarie and 436 miles north-east of
Sydney. The island was discovered
in 1788. It is of volcanic origin, and
Mount Gower, the highest point,
reaches an altitude of 2840 ft. The
climate and soil are favorable for
the growth of subtropical products,
but because of the rocky forma-
tion of the greater part of the surface
of 3220 acres only about 300 acres
are arable. The land has not been
alienated, and is occupied rent-free on
sufferance, being utilised mainly for
the production of Kentia-palm seed. A
Board of Control at Sydney manages
the affairs of the island and super-
vises the palm-seed industry. At the
census of June 30, 1947, the popula-
tion numbered 179 persons.
♦ * * *
(1) Suitable mix for concrete flaming
and troughing ? (2) Any special in-
gredients required in the concrete?
(1) A suitable mix for this work
would be 1 part cement, 2\ parts
sand, 4 parts of graded gravel or
crushed stone of maximum size fin.
If reinforcement is not necessary to
take care of stresses set up by the
application of external forces, suffi-
cient reinforcement must be used in
flumes to take care of stresses set up
by temperature changes. (2) The
answer, generally, is no, but water-
proofing admixtures are available, and
may be used to some advantage to
give additional impermeability to the
concrete. However, if the mix men-
tioned above is adopted, and care is
taken in mixing and placing of the
concrete, a good job may be obtained
without the addition of special water-
proofing compounds.
* * * *
Recipe for a concrete waterproofing
compound ?
Concrete waterproofing compounds
are available in almost any hardware
store or from a building-material
supplier, and each must be used
according to the directions of the
manufacturer. Some compounds are |
for addition to the concrete-mix,
others for surface treatment applied
after the concrete has set. A home-
made solution of sodium silicate
(waterglass) may be used as a surface
sealer for concrete. A 40 p.c. by
weight solution of sodium silicate is
diluted with four parts by volume of
water and applied to the concrete
surface to cover about 20 sq. yds.
per gallon of solution. A further
two coats may be applied if required,
but each coat must be allowed to dry
for 24 hours, then washed down with
water and allowed to dry again before
application of the next coat. No
waterproofing admixture or surface
sealer can rectify completely the
troubles caused by use of a badly
made and placed concrete, but when
used with a good concrete they can
add to its impermeability.
* Brief Answers.
J.G.A.: The lines were written by
Henry Glassford Bell (born 1803, died
1874), Scottish mercantile lawyer and
man of letters, who founded the
“Edinburgh Literary Journal” in 1828.
He was the author of a vindication
of Mary Queen of Scots in 1830 and
Summer and Winter Hours (1831),
and figures as “Tallboys” in John
Wilson’s Nodes Ambrosiance ....
F.M.: Breaking of the Saddle Horse
by Training by J. D. Wilton, obtain-
able from the author, 74 Pacific-
highway, Waitara (N.S.W.), price Bs.,
posted... .P.J.W.: Write Colonial
Secretary, Crown Colony of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China... .L.A.:
“Old Grog” was the nickname of
Admiral Edward Vernon (1684-1757),
because, in dirty weather at sea, he
wore a coat of grogram (French gros
grain, coarse material). In 1740 he
achieved an unenviable reputation
among naval men by being the first
to order the Navy’s rum to be diluted
with water, a drink known as “grog.”
From “grog” comes “groggy,” un-
steady upon one’s legs, hence i 11....
S.L.C.: An “immelmann” is a flying
manoeuvre so named from a German
airman, Max Immelmann, who in
World War I hit upon it. It is
designed to enable evasive action to
be so taken that the aircraft quickly
reverts to an offensive (or a defensive)
position R.J.: Colin Bell and Max
Gornik never fought for an Aus-
tralian, or any other, championship,
but they clashed in an ordinary con-
test at Brisbane Stadium on Novem-
ber 26, 1921, when Bell k.o.’d Gornik
in round 10. Their respective weights
then were: Bell, 13st. 71b.; Gornik,
12st. 41b.... .R.A.L.: Having beaten
Tommy Burns at Sydney Stadium on
December 26, 1908, Johnson was
generally regarded as world heavy-
weight champion when he fought
Jeffries, although Jeffries was un-
beaten for this title when he retired in
1905. The Jeffries-Johnson champion-
ship was decided at Reno, Nevada,
on July 4, 1910, and Johnson won
by a knockout in round 15....
A.F.: An assignment of copyright
must be in writing signed by the
owner of the right in respect of
which the assignment is made or by
his duly authorised agent. Such an
assignment does not require to be
expressed in any particular form of
words, and it may be contained in
letters. If no such assignment has
been made the copyright remains in
the author, and he may republish the
work in any way in which he sees fit.
E.J.B.: (1) Pacific Forests, Ltd.,
Smith’s Building, Albert-street, Auck-
land (N.Z.). (2) See The Bulletin,
October 18, 1950 P.G.: Australian
newspapers up to two months old
may be seen at the City of Sydney
Public Library, Queen Victoria Build-
ing, Market-street, Sydney.., .N.L.:
Square-rig is the rig of a ship whose
principal sails are extended on yards
suspended horizontally at the middle,
and can be set on either side at a
greater or less angle with the keel, but
not on one side, as a fore-and-aft sail.
R.N.C.: (1) The venue of each
Olympic meeting is fixed some time
ahead by the International Olympic
Committee, who have awarded the
1952 Games to Helsinki and 1956 to
Melbourne. (2) Write Offioer-in-
charge, Pensions Branch, Dept, of
Social Services, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor,
R.D.8.: Hardly a “Song Without
Words,” Qn the contrary J.L.:
We seem to share old dogs with the
R. T.V.: No, sir; the
only draw the Australian shearer is
quick on is his wages A.McK. :
You’ve got something there, some-
where, .. .G.T.: Don’t malign beauty-
shops; they are responsible for all
women’s beauty and half of their
scandal ; the one makes it possible to
look at them, the other makes it
worth while L.S.N.: Don’t speak
of love; give the sorry facts....
S. Just one stirring stanza:
Hail to General MacArthur!
From the far-east he is home.
Went too far, and then went farther—
Back to where he started from....
... .J.J.M.: “Yes, she was young but
wayward, and so that she might not
do to other men what she had done
to me, I killed her with an icepick.”
Chicken in icepick, like... .R. 0.: You
have done it again, and we have
returned it again P.A.E.: That
poor old frustrated farmer —he’s died
once more F.A.L.: They could
hardly be more morose if they were
real... .8.G.: N.B.G S.W.F.: It
wasn’t a murder, it was only a voice
on the radio E.N.: If your lead-
ing character could talk, a point you
have not made clear, she would
probably accuse you of contriving a
shotgun marriage for her L.0.P.:
Much too grim T.L.: “Love In
King’s Cross” is not so much a story
as a price-list.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4jjd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Native Homes
In a sparsely-populated section of a
Perth suburb I met two half-caste
children, a boy and a girl. About nine
years of age, they were bright, intelligent,
well-clothed and -fed. They spoke will-
ingly and sensibly, without any “cheek,”
and we got along famously until I asked
where they lived. Then they closed up,
became vague and reticent.
Those children were ashamed to admit
that they lived at the “abo. camp.” Even
at that age they realised the stigma
attached, to them. That at least one of
the parents who fed and clothed them
was struggling against that same
crippling handicap and striving to lift the
children above it indicates a nobility, an
intelligence and a self-reliance not
generally credited to men and women of
native stock.
The ground on which these natives are
camped is owned by some of them. They
have saved, and bought it. But they
can’t afford to build a house which will
conform to the requirements of the local
authorities. Consequently they live in
huts which are little better than mia-
mias, and under insanitary conditions
made so, not by the owners of the pro-
perty, but by the nomad natives whom
they hesitate to offend and who are, in
fact, their equals in the eyes of our law.
These nomads foist themselves on the
property-owning natives and drag them
down to their own level; and our laws
give the decent natives little protection
against the dregs of their own race.
Advocating the building of 1000 homes,
at a cost of £lOOO each, for the 1000
native families in the south-west of the
State, W.A.’s Commissioner of Native
Affairs said recently that 90 p.c. of these
natives are literate. They are given the
benefit of a State-school education .and,
while they are at school, they are treated
as the equals of their white schoolmates.
When they leave school they are thrown
back on the scrapheap.
The only solution to this problem is
such a housing scheme, and the present
time seems opportune to commence it.
Many natives are earning good money
now, and could afford to pay rent for
the houses. Some may even be able to
buy them on long-range terms.
The value of a home as a morale-
builder has been demonstrated to thou-
sands of houseless whites. It applies with
equal force to the natives. It’s their only
chance to raise themselves to the status
of citizenship— Gravelsnatcher (W.A.),
Tasmanian Roads
So Premier Cosgrove wants somebody
to build him roads capable of carrying
50-ton loads at 50 m.p.h. (B. 14/3/’5l).
He doesn’t say why ; I’d defy anybody to
provide an answer.
Such roads, if they could be built,
would cost not less than £200,000 a mile
to construct and would carry no more
no faster but at an infinitely vaster cost
than an ordinary £lO,OOO-a-mile railway.
He admits that no State could afford such
highways. Who then would he expect to
foot the bill, and why? An enormous
rise in taxation and transport costs would
be inevitable, but what benefit would
there be in return?
Premier Cosgrove runs a small State
with a horrible little railway for which
the citizens of Tasmania have shown a
marked inability to pay, principally be-
cause their productivity is too low to
provide the necessary volume of traffic.
Yet we’re asked to believe that the answer
lies in increasing the capital cost of the
transport system 30 to 40 times, its operat-
ing cost 10 times, its labor force about
the same. ,
The annoying part about all this is that
Australia has no serious transport
problem which would not be solved by
a certain measure of discipline and a
modicum of commonsense. Harebrained
schemes like this merely cloud the issue,
—Transporticus (Singapore).
Latent Coal
Thirty diamond-drills put down over
a period of two years from October, 1948,
to May, 1950, indicate open-cut coal
reserves to the extent of 23,000,000 tons
in the Lake Elphinstone area of the Nebo
region, 100 miles west of Mackay (Q.)-
Portion of the field was surveyed by the
Power and Traction Finance Co. and the
Electric Supply Corporation (Overseas),
I Ltd. —operating under Premier Hanlon’s
much-publicised franchise—and the rest
mapped out by the Queensland Mines
Department.
The joint estimate of 23,000,000 tons is
therefore the conservative opinion of
experts and not merely the wishful think-
ing of progressive locals. This great
seam extends in two sections for about
miles and represents only that portion
of the field proved by bores. Sampling
from a test-shaft revealed coal of high
calorific value, comparable with the
average from the Callide. The giant
deposit, furthermore, is plump right in
the heart of first-class Nebo cattle coun-
try.
Neither the coal nor the cattle industry
will ever be developed until a vital 100-
mile railway link goes west from Mackay.
In 1949, during the coal strike, the Mackay
City Council, with characteristic resource-
fulness, sent up a few • truckloads of
I council workers to blaze a trail through
the scrub and scrape a little coal from
the top of this rich belt They mined
exposed coal in a creek-bank without any
mining advice, but in even these unfavor-
able circumstances long-weathered Nebo
coal kept Mackay powerhouse going at
full swing throughout the strike.
Since then nothing has been done apart
from constant bombardment of the
Premier by a small group of men who
realise what is at stake. So far the only
result has been the promise of a survey
to see if a rail route is practicable.
When Mr. Casey came to Brisbane last
year with an open order for State projects
“ Boy-oh-boy — inner-spring mattress!”
needing Federal aid, Nebo coal was not
even mentioned. Strenuous last-minute
attempts to have the facts placed before
him while in conference with the Premier
failed. Meanwhile the mulga grows thick
about the great coal seam, the southern
cities lie half-paralysed in power-blackouts
and Australia canvasses the world market
for a few shiploads of coal. — Libra (Q-).
A.B.C. News Service
If “Waddlin’ Willie” (B. 2/5/’5l) had
waddled into N. S. Wales during the
recent newspaper distribution hold-up he
would not, I am sure, have so emphatic-
ally described my criticism of the A.B.C.
as “quite unwarranted” nor labelled the
hold-up as a “tinpot circulation interrup-
tion.”
“W.W.” says the A.B.C. never repeats
an item unless it is important; it dealt
with the dispute between the newspapers
and newsagents at least seven times a day
for two or three days ; so on that basis
it must have been super-important. It
couldn’t be both important and tinpot!
Ironically, as I learned after my article
had been posted, the A.B.C. had decided
to extend its news service ; but in the
ponderous way in which its machinery
works, the decision could not be put into
effect until the day on which normal
circulation of the daily papers was
resumed. The A.B.C.’s 7.45 bulletin that
morning ran exactly 90 seconds longer
than usual!
Although “W.W.” appears to have some
“inside” knowledge of A.B.C. news policy
and practice, I am afraid he is not suffi-
ciently “in the know” to make his praise
of the commission of any real value.
The men who built the service had never
been content with the inflexible period
allotted —a maximum of 15 minutes when
there was often sufficient important
material in hand to fill at least another
10 minutes. The possibilities of the
service are enormous ; but no real attempt
is being made to exploit them. Country
residents, as distinct from those who live
in country towns, often do not, get their
daily paper until it is two or three days
old. A few years ago these people would
have “raised the roof” if for any reason
they were deprived of at least three bulle-
tins a day—7.4s a.m., 12.30 p.m. and
7 p.m. The “blackout” authorities would
also have taken care not to blot out the
7 p.m. news in any circumstances. Today
the 7.45 a.m. and 7 p.m. bulletins are
often “wiped” in both city and country
and no one appears to worry!
It is no real achievement nowadays for
the A.B.C. to break news several hours
ahead of the papers. I can recall a
number of times during the war when
we broadcast important news 48 hours
before it appeared in the Press. The
dailies knew nothing about the sinking
of the Prince of Wales and Repulse for
some hours after the A.B.C. had broad-
cast it; they were also completely in the
dark about General Bennett’s escape from
Singapore for some conisderable time
after it had gone over the A.B.C.
It is one thing for a daily paper to
have news and not be able to break it
because edition-time is several hours
away, and quite another for it not to
know that an important story has broken.
In the cases mentioned the dailies not
only hadn’t heard the news but frankly
disbelieved it when they heard it over
the A.B.C.—M. F. Dixon (N.S.W.).
Egg Boards
D. Spencer (B. 28/3/’5l) does
not make out a very good case
for egg boards. If they “absorb
the terrific spring surplus by chilling
eggs in shell for release on the
local market to offset the winter seasonal
shortage.” why are eggs 4s. Id. a dozen
in S.A. at the moment? “Speculators
who used to buy on depressed markets,
chill the eggs and then sell at a nice level
of personal profit” never achieved a
price like that. So where does the
“benefit to the consumer” come in?
As for the legitimate marketing ex-
penses, these are listed (I quote from
memory) somewhat as follows —com-
mission, Id. per dozen; pool charge Id.
per dozen; case hire, 4d. per case;
grading, cleaning, testing, Id. per dozen;
bill of lading, 2d. I forget the rest, but
it worked out at 4d. per dozen, plus
freight. From our country area it
amounted to 6d. per dozen, and that was
when we packed our own clean eggs into
supplied cases with proper containers.
The cases were delivered to an agent and
forwarded in one consignment.
Before the establishment of the egg
board we delivered in the same way to
the same agent for a co-operative society,
and the only charge was for freight.
When we got our returns the total charge
on a 30-dozen case was 3s. 2d.; under
the egg board it was 15s.
There was a time when farm eggs were
marketed by some farmers in a stale and
dirty condition. When the grading system
came in and eggs were paid for accord-
ing to quality, that was largely remedied.
The co-op. societies, or produce firms,
paid their employees, maintained their
factories and plant, etc., on 4d. per dozen,
the average difference between the whole-
sale and retail price of eggs. The board
charges the producer 4d. per dozen, and
collects another whack from the dis-
tributors.
Under free enterprise, we used to get
cheap eggs in the spring, when we could
pickle some against the lean season. Now
they are dear all the year round, and
when they are dearest the board spends
some of its surplus “for the benefit of
the producer” by expensive advertisements
in the newspapers and on the radio, urging
the housewife to buy more eggs!
F.H.W. (S.A.).
U.N.O.
For a four-weeks’ meeting of the
U.N.O. Economic and Social Council at
Santiago, 330 members of, various com-
mittees had to be transported by plane to
Chile with tons of documents and office
equipment, rooms were reserved at eight
hotels for the secretaries and typists, one
having to be rebuilt, and the cost to the
“free world,” including Australia, was
reckoned at a quarter of a million, which
was a lot of money.
That is not an isolated instance of
U.N.O. costs. The organisation has over
700 projects going in various parts of the
world, from agricultural researches into
the habits of the Siamese peasant to the
possibilities of mushroom-cultivation in
the Arctic Circle. The salaries of U.N.O.
officials are often fantastic. A young
man doing a technical job on a newspaper
in an Australian city for which he
received a weekly tenner was recently
offered £2OOO p.a. for precisely the same
job in New York, while a university
graduate of strictly academic qualifica-
tions has just flown to a job in Switzer-
land at £4OOO tax-free.
All that came out of the League of
Nations, as far as I know, were a
few extra wars and a rat poison which is
still used and is reasonably efficient. If
anything more comes out of U.N.O. I
shall be astonished. The League grew
fastest just before its downfall—U.N.O.
now has 53 headquarters, branch and
regional offices and a staff of 10,000. —
Spasebo (Vic.).
Prices—and Progress
I question “S.H.G.’s” contention (B.
25/4/’5l) that “the cost of living is due
for a considerable drop in the next five
years.” Much depends, of course, on his
precise meaning of “considerable,” but
doubt that prices will ever fall to the
level of, say, 15 years ago.
The colored races of Asia particularly,
producers of so many of the world’s
essential commodities, will never again
permit, without desperate resistance, their
standards of living to remain at, or recede
to, the low level common to their respec-
tive countries before the outbreak of war
in 1939.
Indonesia, Korea, China, Burma,
Arabia and India (to name the principal
centres of “disobedience”) obviously do
not intend to acquiesce meekly to the
“bad old days” as they did after the
(914-18 upheaval. Elementary education,
broader contact with Occidentals and
radical political theories have wrought the
significant change.
Consequently, commodities which easily
come to mind such as tin, silks, rubber,
oil, copra, spices, tea, coffee, cocoa,
tobacco, etc., aren’t likely ever again to
be available in Western markets at the
“dirt-cheap” prices conveniently prevail-
ing during the period “S.H.G.” quotes.
When, or if, this battered sphere settles
down to an extended period of peace, and
world production reaches its potential,
prices undoubtedly will flatten out to a
parity giving the “little man” a more
elastic margin between money earned
and money spent than exists under the
universally inflated economy today. But
indications are that the essentials of life
especially will tend to stand at higher
price-levels and in shorter (i.e., controlled)
supply than at any other period of nor-
mality during the past 200 years. Wages,
of course, must decline from their present
exalted heights, but to nothing like the
depressed mark of 1932-33.
Thus, with the stabilisation or recovery
of the mean between costs of living and
income, the average economy of the
white races should adjust itself to a state
of reasonable, prosperity to the individual
irrespective of the higher basic pnee-
level. Meanwhile, the colored peoples in
the mass will have gradually achieved
living standards probably still inferior to
ours but infinitely superior to their con-
ditions at any previous point in recorded
history.
In purer expressions than mine
Bertrand Russell has already portgndec
this enforced social uplifting of the
oppressed races. In passing it is worm
mentioning that the increasing fear o
the working masses of the Western world
during the past 60 or so years that the
machine represented a threat to their
dearly-won standards of living has so tar
proved to be a myth. In plain fact, with
the machine has come a relative lessening
of working hours, thereby preserving the
balance. , „ ~ .
Some day man may actually achieve
that state epitomised in the term
“Utopia,” but, even so, the history of his
struggle towards that ideal definitely mi-
cates that the price and pnees of Ut P
may be definitely high.— P. O. Mac-
Cabe (N.S.W.).


GOLF--THE PICKWORTH WAY
By OSSIE PICKWORTH
Australian Open Champion, 1946-47-48
Golf secrets revealed that will enable you to become a successful player,
together with preliminary advice, essential features of stroke-making, general
hints, how to practise, etc., with 37 photographs as illustrations for right- and
left-hand players
5/-, Plus 4d. Postage.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-Jl3 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
BRING THE BOOKSHOP
INTO YOUR HOME!
By receiving Dymock’s catalogue of new and recent
books every month. Includes books for the whole family.
• An Excellent Guide to the Latest and Best Books
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List.
Mail Orders promptly attended to.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE 8L3611.
Available at all booksellers
OPENING NIGHT
NGAIO MARSH
(21st Birthday Choice of the Crime Club)
Miss Ngaio Marsh, one of our most distinguished thriller writers,
was recently described by the well-known critic Ivor Brown as
“the empress of the who-dunnit.”
COLLINS
TWO EXCELLENT NOVELS
THE GREEN YEARS,
By A. J. Cronin.
The richly-human story of a sensi-
tive boy’s struggle against crushing
difficulties.
12/6 (post 6d.)
THE SEA EAGLES,
By John Jennings.
A rousing historical romance of two
heroes and the American Navy
during the Revolution.
15/9 (post 6d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A BOOK YOU CANNOT BUY
The Folio Society edition of “INCOGNITA,” Congreve’s sparkling novel of
Florentine intrigue. Gaily bound in cloth and leather with engravings in
full color by Van Rossem. This beautiful book is not for sale but is given
free to members of the Folio Society.
FREE TO MEMBERS
By joining the Polio Society, not only do
you receive a copy of this beautiful book
free of all charge, but you also build up, at
low cost, a library of the world’s best books
in finely bound editions. Send for more
details to-
THE FOEIO SOCIETY
ROOM 90, THIRD FLOOR,
COEEINB HOUSE, 360 COEEINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Please send me FREE the Folio Society
Prospectus for 1951.
Name
Address
Just published.
The Life and Times of Sir Richard Dry
Eminent Tasmanian Statesman, 1815-1869
By A. D. BAKER
13 full-page illustrations. Price 10/6 (postage 5d.).
Sir Richard Dry was the first native-born Premier and Speaker of the House
of Assembly in the Parliament of Tasmania, also the first native-born Australian
to receive the honour of knighthood.
A. D. Baker's study is also a record of the Colony during his lifetime.
It demonstrates most forcibly the brilliance and capability of those earlier political
leaders to whom later generations owe so much.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or from the Publishers,
Oldham, Beddome & Meredith Pty. Ltd., Hobart
interest of that short 60 years as the
cradle-age of modern civilisation, the
period in which the revived culture of
Europe and the new culture of the age
of printing were synthesised, concentrated,
put through the refinery of British
commonsense and infused with the innate
virility of the British race. It has for
civilisation in general something of the
same sudden and definitive importance
which the explosion of the first atom-
bomb had for modern war.
The latest major essay is A. L. Rowse’s
The England of Elizabeth —the Structure
of Society (Macmillan), a portly volume
of 533 royal octavo pages, plus index,
which surveys the whole subject and all
its features. He does it with that restraint
and lack of surprise which is apt to
mark the work of modern Fellows of All
Souls, Oxford, whose style and outlook
suggest that they are never for a moment
forgetful that their High Table has a
hand in the control of the “Times.”
Mr. Rowse approaches his subject in a
“relative” spirit. He regards the Eliza-
bethan age, as do most of the present
generation, quite rightly, as “not some-
thing dead and apart from us” ; but as
something “still alive and all round us
and within us.” But he declares that he
writes for readers of an English people
who have just “been through a crisis of
their fate to which the nearest parallel
is that they passed through in the Eliza-
bethan age.” Whether the denizens of
the ages of the French Revolution, so
like the Russian in Its first stages, and
of Napoleon would agree to this is doubt-
ful.
The Elizabethans were not faced with
such phenomena as “democracy” and the
upsurge of new mechanical and chemical
invention which beset the early years both
of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
On the other hand the present age has not
been called to react to the unparalleled
impact on civilisation, on communica-
tion, on thought and on the standards of
world living involved in the sudden
revelation in Elizabeth’s reign of the
existence of the entirely new and virtually
virgin world of the Americas which burst
almost without warning on the view of
England, a revelation producing in its
leaders universally a careless air of un-
bounded confidence in their fate sug-
gestive of some young spark who has
just learned that an uncle from Fiji has
left him a fortune.
The age of the Virgin Queen differed
from the present in that, though it did
have an Armada to cope with, this over-
rated historical threat was not accom-
panied by the necessity of going through
two bankrupting world wars engaging the
attention of virtually every person in the
nation for the total of a decade. And
when the Armada was dealt with the
reward was not doled out by a world
public opinion intent on divesting England
and the Elizabethans of everything: from
their colonies to their navies. The defeat
of Spain, in fact, placed the oceans and
the new world at the mercy of the English
and their seamen and enabled them to
dictate global policy, or to isolate them-
selves temporarily or to take the initiative
at will.
They were quite free from Socialist
Governments, the Russian menace,
Communist trade-unionism, income tax,
the payment of the half-cost of
dentures and spectacles (conveniences
which they largely did without). Their
national preoccupations were inclined to
place emph a s is on the spiritual
aspects of life rather than on those con-
cerned with economic reconstruction.
What changes took place in the standards
and mode of living of the bulk of the
people were chiefly due to the evolve-
ment of secular power and redistribution
following the fall of the monasteries and
to the accession of easily gained plunder
and trade from the Indies. It was not
produced through consciously organised
economic expansion and on the
recognition of the right of the whole
population to a fair living standard.
The lack of distraction from the real
business of living, and of enjoying the
process, as distinct from the process of
being schooled by pundits and Unescos
in how to live, was probably the factor
which most distinguished the Elizabethan
age from any other. The outcry about the
Armada notwithstanding, the country
was scarcely in real danger from that
muddled and inadequate expedition, in-
capable of riding out a storm, much less
a major naval war, any more than Aus-
tralia was in real imminent danger when
a few Japanese crossed the Owen Stanley
Range. Its main characteristic was its
new freedom to think its own thoughts
and sing its own songs.
An Australian of the mid-decades of
our history between the discovery of gold
and the First World War was probably
better qualified to understand the age of
Elizabeth against the background of his
own new-found wealth of gold and wool,
his world expanding by exploration and
his freshly-born literary and artistic con-
sciousness, than anybody of our own
harassed times.
Mr. Rowse apparently does not
altogether disagree with some part of this
viewpoint, but his vision, obtained from
the windows of All Souls, does not range
quite the whole way and he seems to
place too great an emphasis on the
dangers to which Elizabethan England
was subject from within and without and
too little on the prudence which magni-
fied those perils to the Throne and nation.
'This naturally has its effect on the
picture which he sets out to produce,
overall, of the whole society and primarily
of “the leading elements, the governing
class, the dynamic forces, the original
creative spirits,” which act and think and
portray and “give character to an age.”
It matters little, however. His book
is a book for the specialist and instructor
rather than for the elementary student
and general cursory reader. Its docu-
mentation is limited and its notes and
references the briefest, but it packs into
its pages a huge epitome of every phase
of business and life and evolution con-
nected with the land, economics, town
and country, law, the interrelations of
the classes, the broad principles and
niinutice of government, religion and
education. The book hallmarks itself as
the product of a very wide and thorough
scholarship which, however, does not
always run with an equally developed
knowledge of the basic mainsprings of
human nature or with the healthy mis-
trust of motives which the cynical are
apt to acquire through long association
with politicians and their publicity men
and with generals and their aides-de-
camp.
On the other hand there is a refresh-
ing lack of the tendency which is now
almost universal in modern social
historians to color the view unobtrusively
to suit some political theory of the day.
It is good, solid background history,
exhaustive where it needs to be, exten-
sively biographical as written history
should be, since humanity is its fountain-
head.
Even to those who disagree sometimes
with the kind of frame put on the picture
or who feel that the perspective is not
quite right, it is an invaluable reference
work and a magnificent stimulant to ex-
pansive research into the phases of
Elizabethan existence with which it deals.
EL VERDUGO,
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 121
Across.
I—Weapon1—Weapon to deride me, although
telephoned at last. (9)
s—Cuckoo Miss Lamour. (5)
8— -Anybody who does not write
incomplete jays to the Spanish
plover. (8)
9 Don’t stop sweeping and cleaning
for a ferryman. (6)
11 — Wayward rat swallowed by
Ambler. (7)
12 — What vertebrates have wood in
the steamer. (6)
14— Exists to ring the drinking-saloon
for some meteorological data. (6)
15— Character in “Treasure Island”
may be sat upon on Sundays. (3)
16— City in the exact centre of
Czechoslovakia. (4)
17— Tin is able. (3)
19—Mr. Fadden exhibiting virtu. (4)
21 — Heavyweight is not coming back,
(3)
22 Shakspearian character cannot be
borne without a licence. (6)
26 — A portion in South Australia and
a mast thanks an ancient city. (6)
27 — One who falls ill on a plane
device. (7)
29 —Be the agent of retribution. (6)
30 — Rash disorder shows that I am
the favorite and that I leave. (8)
31 — Like dough? Pop by the enclo-
sure. (5)
32 — Desiccating humorist arrives
before he is to telephone. (9)
Down.
1— A Don noted for his service and
a Baltic city are a pet Mrd. (10)
2 Part of North America returning
no thanks to a Spanish water-
course. (7)
3 Happening upon you and Albert
as a final consequence. (8)
4 Fine ace about the French sea. (6)
5 Flower had upset 51 on the
indefinite article. (6)
6 Nautical fellow secures bullscyes.
(7) V
7 A sudden tug from North
America. (4)
10—Tree like a writer. (5)
13—Great Australian cartoonist backs
up an outfielder and the key of
Beethoven’s 4th piano concerto
in an Australian city. (10)
15—Drastically criticise the utensil
performer on a reed. (3)
17 — Firm dye in Victoria's western
district. (5)
18 — Sudanese coin brings Millicent
and me together for 1000th in
France. (8)
20 —Strike the favorite’s levers that transmit a
machine’s motion to another part of it. (7)
23 — Sailor metal and I provide the composer of
the Devil’s Trill sonata. (7)
24 — Unsteady and off color. (6)
25 — Just the creature to spoil and epigram. (6)
28—Siren to improvise an accompaniment for
the upper of a shoe. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 120.


This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT ftopiwed monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTIJE UMIYED
(fI.V. AGRICULTURAL REIDS
May
A monthly feature for all those Interested in Agriculture.
1951
// you're looking for an engine . . .
THINK BEFORE
YOU BUY!
Every day in the week people
contact Moffat - Virtue’s Agents
and Distributors throughout the
Commonwealth about power-unit
problems.
They are usually people who
have a pump, or some other piece
of equipment, and do not know just
what type of engine they need to
drive it.
Such factors as horsepower, and
fuel used have to be considered,
and only an expert can really de-
cide how to buy on an economical
basis.
Take for instance the man re-
quiring an engine to drive a shear-
ing plant. Many are carried away
with the idea of installing a diesel
because the fuel is cheaper. But,
if they figured out the number of
hours running time each year they
would realise that it would take a
lifetime to make up the difference
in original cost of the engine out
of fuel saving.
Thi§ conclusion can only be
reached by a man who knows both
shearing machines and engines.
That is why people bring their
power problems to Moffat-Virtue’s
Australia-wide organisation.
They know that the men who
answer their requests have a sound
practical background, which fits
them to select the right power unit
for the machine they want to drive.
Many
Hundreds
Of Engines
Leave M.V.
Factory Every
Month . . •
w
FLYING FIRE-FIGHTERS
BEAT THE U.S. BUSHFIRES
— - |
In their latest fire-fighting technique the Americans have really excelled
themselves. They’re using wartime blitzkrieg tactics; paratroopers, and low-
level strafing attacks; to beat the summer bushfire menace.
Whenever a fire is notified the para-
troopers, fully equipped with high-
speed pumping units, are flown to the
scene.
They are parachuted down to van-
tage points around the fire, and im-
mediately set to work.
Meanwhile, aircraft fitted with ex-
tinguishers are directed over the most
important points of the fire by radio.
They fly in, and back up the ground
offensive with well-placed bursts from
their extinguishers.
Things have advanced quite a long
way since the days when our grand-
fathers fought bushfires with bucket-
chains and leather beaters.
To-day, although we in Australia do
not use many aeroplanes, we have effi-
cient, well-trained fire-fighting teams,
ŵ
• Above: “Know-how” and concentration
help the man in this picture grind crank-
shafts to fit M.V. Engines with smooth
perfection.
» Left: Painstaking check-overs ensure that
every M.V. Engine leaves the factory in
perfect condition.
M.V. Engines range in size from the 2\ h.p.
Petrol to the 55 h.p. Diesel. They find their
places on all kinds of industrial and agri-
cultural equipment throughout Australia.
equipped with knapsack sprays, extin-
guishers, and high - speed pumping
units.
The big thing these fire-fighters look
for in their equipment is reliability.
That is why the U.S. Army, when it
was looking for Fire-fighting Plants to
use in the Pacific Area, during the War,
picked Moffat - Virtue Fire - fighters,
equipped with Moffat-Virtue Engines.
These engines proved themselves to
the U.S. Army during the war, and
they are proving themselves to the
people of Australia to-day.
Wherever you turn you can see a
Moffat-Virtue Engine on the job.
They’re used in concrete mixers, on
fair-ground ferris wheels, in ocean-gor-
ing ships and on thousands of Aus-
tralian farms.
FROM 2\ TO 55 HORSEPOWER
Hundreds of people, with all sorts of
jobs to do, have found the answer to
their power problems in Moffat-Virtue
Engines.
A comprehensive range of sizes
ensures that Moffat-Virtue can supply
the right type of engine for the job to
be done.
Petrol and petrol-kerosene types
range in size, from 2J to 6 h.p.; Diesels
are available from to 55 h.p.
M.V. Engines can only give a reliable
and economical performance because
they’ve been made to the highest stan-
dards of design and production.
• They are totally enclosed. All work-
ing parts are completely protected
against dust and grit.
• Careful design and fine machining
give M.V. Engines fuel consumption
rates that mean extra low running
costs.
• Perfectly machined and balanced
moving parts reduce vibration, dis-
pensing with the need for heavy
foundations.
• Large capacity oil-sumps, and well-
designed cooling systems mean that
M.V. Engines can run unattended for
hours.
Full particulars of all M.V. Engines
can be obtained from any one of the
Distributors listed at the bottom of this
page.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manufacturers,
Merchants, Epsom Road. Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Toowoomba, and Lismbre, N.S.W.
Machinery
, Brisbane,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-Operative Limited, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co. Limited.
Adelaide; Stockowners Co-operative Shearing Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co. Limited,
p er th
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited, Hobart
and Launceston. .
