

ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
The Bulletin
*The Bulletin,” Vol. 72-No. 3742
Wednesday, October 31, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE COTTAGE WHERE SHAKESPEARE WOOED ANNE HATHAWAY
ENGLAND is famous for its picturesque thatched-roof cottages, but none
is more widely known than that which belonged to Anne Hathaway, the
wife of William Shakespeare. It stands in a beautiful garden in the village
of Shottery, a mile and a quarter from Stratford-upon-Avon.
Although the actual date and place of the marriage between Shakespeare
and Anne Hathaway is unknown, a marriage licence was issued in 1582, when
Shakespeare was eighteen years old. The licence describes Anne Hathaway
as. the eldest daughter of a yeoman farmer in the hamlet of Shottery. Long
before the middle of the sixteenth century the Hathaways were substantial
farmers in their district, and there were also branches of the family living in
Stratford. Anne was born in 1556, and at that time her grandfather, who
owned the cottage, was a prominent member of the parish, holding a number
of civic offices and serving as a beadle and constable. The cottage remained
the home of the Hathaway family until 1892, when tire property was acquired
by the Trustees and Guardians of Shakespeare’s Birthplace for preservation
as a national memorial.
During Elizabethan days, when the cottage was built, a master-carpenter
and a thatcher were paid fourpence a day each. A pound of beef, however,
cost only twopence at that time, a barrel of small beer four shillings, or a
hogshead of claret fifty shillings.
The walls of the cottage, with the exception of the east end, were built of
timber framing, a type of construction which was common jn Elizabethan and
Stuart times because of its simplicity and cheapness, and today this picturesque
old building remains a fine example of an Elizabethan farmhouse. The centre
chimney-stack was built in 1697, and inside it may be seen the hooks from
which the flitches of bacon used to hang while being smoked and cured.
Inside the cottages are preserved the original furniture and many relics
which belonged to the Hathaway family, including the oak settle on which,
tradition asserts, the youthful William -Shakespeare and Anne Hathaway used
to sit during their courting days.


Learn
rsraru
at HOME
Wme now lor bioti s tkl,l me*ary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses cn
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name »i
Address
(5.8.151) Age
The Red Page
IN THE WORLD'S CLASSICS.
There is only one story which should
unquestionably have been excluded from
the anthology of Australian Short Stories
selected by Walter Murdoch and Henri-
etta Drake-Brockman for the Oxford
World’s Classics, and that is something
called “The Bleeding of Irish O’Banion,”
which the present reviewer did not like
when it strayed into Coast to Coast a
year or two ago, does not like now and
never will like. It is an exceedingly weak
piece of humor or Irish charm about a
boxer who objects to being punched on
the nose, but not, as he should, to appear-
ing in an exercise in the style of Damon
Runyon.
An anthology with only one serious
lapse of taste of this kind, amongst a
total of 52 stories, is obviously a credit-
able effort; and whatever criticisms are
made of the selection it must be
admitted that Professor Murdoch and
Henrietta Drake-Brockman have put to-
gether a book which will cause no lover
of Australian literature, when he thinks
of it going to overseas readers and to
such immortality as the World Classics
can confer, to hide his diminished face
in a hollow log. And that, knowing what
can be done with national anthologies,
is much to say.
But for all that there are a great many
stories included which, if they do not
belong unquestionably to the outer dark-
ness, deserve their places in this anthology
only doubtfully, uneasily; perhaps not
at all. The present reviewer, though
with the greatest reluctance, has
always found “Kodak’s” “The Lobster
and the Lioness” shoddy and second-
rate, about the level of W. W.
Jacobs ; funny enough, but too crude in
both style and portraiture for serious
consideration. Compare, to illustrate this
painful point, the outline of “Kodak’s”
landlady;
The landlady’s door flung open, and she
appeared on the threshold done up like a
sort of original"mixture of Lady Macbeth
and the Worst Woman in Sydney after a
gas explosion. “How dare you?” she cried
tragically. “How dare you make such a
noise at this hour? What do you mean by
asking for shaving water at this hour?”- —
with the infinitely more mature portrait
of another of the species in James
Edmond’s “A Row in Our Boarding-
house” :
One windy evening in March, the land-
lady had agitated the bell on the stairs, as
was her custom. Her weapon was a sort
of cowbell, and when she wrestled with it
on the murky staircase she looked like a
witch dancing on a heath. Her arms, her
hair, her feet, her green dress, her down-
trodden shoes flew in eight different direc-
tions, and her one eye and the bell flew
in two more. Strangers coming down in
the dark, and meeting this apparition
suddenly, generally took her for a heap of
boa-constrictor, or an immense octopus
leaping on the top step. Poor old agitated
female —she is dead now. She broke her
neck in the passage one day, rushing down
to look at a funeral.
Well, though Edmond was by far the
more polished humorist and should cer-
tainly not have been excluded from the
anthology, one does not protest too seri-
ously at the inclusion of a figure so dear
to the heart of the nation as “Kodak’s”
drunk. Perhaps he has rolled about long
enough in the lower but still vital levels
of our literature to have become a kind
of~ national myth; a very very minor
“classic.”
But there are other stories equally
doubtful. On the one hand there are
several amiable trifles, such as the open-
ing aboriginal legend transcribed by K.
Langloh Parker or the little suburban
sketch by Hermon Gill, which could be
either in or out without materially affect-
ing the quality of the book ; and on the
other hand there are a surprising number
of able and important writers represented
by stories which do not do full justice to
their talent.
The Furphy story, for instance, “The
Jeweller’s Shop,” is a very trifling piece
of work, and, indeed, collapsing at the
end into an unbearable piece of German-
Australian veesh you will
progue you neg mit. Bot der Gott schall
I pe ver goot. You pelong notteen mo you
svag mit; unt minezeiluf I pelong dot
glaim mit der yeweller’s yop”—will be
1 incomprehensible to most readers.,.
, except, perhaps, New Australians.
Furphy was never really at home in the
[ short-story. He needed room to expand
, —inordinately. But he did write one or
, two stories worth including, and “The
' Haunted Tunnel” would have been a
i much more effective choice than “The
, Jeweller’s Shop.”
I Vance Palmer, who is, of course,
, thoroughly at home in the short-story,
would have been better represented by,
say, “Trochus Island”—one of his
Barrier Reef action stories—than by the
example chosen, “The Stump,” which is
a comparatively conventional sketch of
old age. Henry Lawson’s “Send Round
the Hat” is unexceptionable in itself —an
admirable demonstration of his skill in
skating over the thin ice of sentimentality
without quite falling through—but one
would have like “The Loaded Dog” or
, (this reviewer’s favorite among the
comedies) “Bill, the Ventriloquial
Rooster” as a companion-piece.
Brian James, similarly, has a fine and
delicate piece of work in “The Pisd
House,” which has the lyrical quality of
Maupassant’s “Moonlight,” but it does
not show his full powers: one would
choose “Gant and His Horses” for
drama and “The Triumph of Mrs. Bol-
ton,” or “Thistle,” or perhaps “Hawkins’
Pigs” for comedy. Katharine Prichard
has done stronger, more deeply-moving
stories than “The Grey Horse,” a sturdy
enough piece of work which goes on
rather too long. Something more interest-
ing than the sensitive picture of a dismal
young lady in “And Women Must Weep”
(like a Katherine Mansfield, but without
the fine fire) might have been found in
Henry Handel Richardson’s writings.
Myra Morris’s “The Parson”—or, better,
since the book has two other parsons,
“Rub with a Circular Motion” —would
have been a better choice for narrative
movement than the graceful sketch. of
“Going Home.”
Dal Stivens had much better work in
The Tramp than in the two selected,
“You Go, Florence Nightingale”—a
documentary of teenagers in wartime —
and “The Man Who Bowled Victor
Trumper,” a mechanical excursion into
the style of Lance Skuthorpe’s “The
Champion Bullock Driver.” Ken Levis’s
“The Kid” is marred by its use of a
“tough,” Hemingway idiom, not natural
to the writer, who is a lecturer at a
teachers’ training college ; “Frogsmoke,”
where he wrote poetically in his own per-
son, would be preferable. There is much
more body in Don Edwards’s “The
Woman at the Bend” and “Tinbilla Was
Proud of the Mostyns” than in the
selected “He Walks Home with His Wife.”
The two writers most conspicuously
misrepresented, or malrepresented, in
this way are Edward Dyson and Gavin
Casey. Both have quite good stories in
the anthology. But where is “A Golden
Shanty” and where is “Short Shift Satur-
day”?
No doubt Professor Murdoch and
Henrietta. Drake-Brockman were con-
fronted by problems of space; but room
could have been found for these long
stories by dispensing with some of the
inconsequential bits and pieces. In any
case, a reviewer must not look too sym-
pathetically at the problems of editors:
the point to be made here is how much
more satisfactorily this anthology would
have represented the art of the short-
story in Australia, how much more im-
pressively it would have read overseas,
if “A Golden Shanty” and “Short Shift
Saturday” had been included.
It is time, after so much questioning,
to say something good for the anthology ;
for much can indeed be said. One is
glad, then, to see that the editors have
not forgotten Les Robinson, who, at his
best, is a humorist of some note with a
rare feeling for the lowly things of the
earth —slugs, lizards, rats and, here,
tumbledown shacks. E. O. Schlunke’s
Italian prisoner-of-war stories are (ex-
cept for “The Man in the Silo”) the best
things he has done, and one of them is
in this book. James Hackston, like
Schlunke, has never published a book of
his stories; should have long ago ; and
at least is not forgotten here. Cecil
Mann’s “The Pelican” (though one of
his war stories would have been better
than Harley Matthews’s lightweight “The
Dinkum Australian”) is the best of his
Australian comedies. Marjorie Barnard’s
“Dry Spell”—the drought story to end
all drought stories —remains as alarm-
ingly beautiful as when it was first
seen in Coast to Coast. Alan
Marshall is well represented; Henry
G. Laraond’s “Choice,” designed to
show what s dingo bitches really
are, is as good as any other example of
his powerful and knowledgeable wild-
life stories. Russell J. Oakes’s wartime
story about a Japanese prisoner in a
R.A.A.F. transport is terse, strong and
dramatic. There are some gay bits of
McCrae fantasy. Ernestine Hill slays a
clown in the desert with gusto and
imagination.
Two surprisingly effective stories are
Barbara Baynton s “Scrammy ’And,” in
which a bush shepherd dies memorably
in his hut while his dog mounts guard
against a prowling enemy ; and Randolph
Bedford’s evergreen "Fourteen Fathoms
by Quetta Rock,” where the diver goes
down to the wrecked ship and finds his
own wife clasping hex lover. Both these
stories have something melodramatic in
them ; the end of Bedford’s is hopelessly
mechanical; yet you could never forget
the horror of the drowned bodies bump-
ing against the diver’s face, and Barbara
Baynton’s melodrama has something of
the rich, dark, vivid super-reality you get
in Marcus Clarke or Emily Bronte.
Though, of course, it must be allied with
fidelity, there is much to be said for the
pure narrative interest of the “magazine
story” and the quality of excess which
goes with melodrama and which lifts art
beyond the commonplace.
That Barbara Baynton’s and Randolph
Bedford’s stories should speak up for
themselves so clearly in a company con-
taining many fab more distinguished
Writers is, up to a point, a criticism of
Australian short-story writing as a whole.
It is probably true, as a generalisation,
that the Australian story runs too much
towards the sketch, the direct transcript
from life, the exact depiction of common-
place reality. In a Conrad story, Falk
eats the entire crew of his ship in the
Antarctic wastes ; in a Maupassant story
a hapless prostitute has to submit to a
German officer to save the lives of her
worthless companions: in Peter Cowan’s
“Drift” in Australian Short Stories the
reader is merely informed that young
men are leaving the land for the Army
and the city. The narrative force, the
dramatisation of character in action —.in
an interesting action—-is weak.
But these are extreme examples; and
a generalisation is never wholly true;
and to the extent that this generalisation
is true it could and should be corrected
in an anthology of this kind. The aim
should be, surely, not merely to present
the “typical” Australian stories but the
best This, on the whole, however much
one may like a story here and there, and
however admirably free from bad taste
the anthology may be, Professor Mur-
doch and Henrietta Drake-Brockman
have not done. They have set out, one
feels, not so much to select the best Aus-
tralian short-stories as to present a broad
picture of Australia, by reputable writers,
for overseas readers.
A documentary rather than a strictly
literary purpose is evident from the
start in the selection of an abori-
ginal legend to open the volume.
Then you have Ernest Fayenc’s rather
crude and obvious yarn of the parson
ahd the “blackboy” who was really a
black gin; Price Warung’s convict-day
story of a man punished for having in
his possession a “bar of steel” which was
really a sewing-needle to be Used in
making sails for a toy yacht for the
infant son of the wicked Civil Com-
mandant (if this story deserves a place,
then J, H. M. Abbott could not con-
sistently have been omitted); William
Hughston’s sentimental study of Cornish
settlers, not to be compared with some
of Dyson’s portraits of the same peculiar
tribe | Dowell O’Reilly again making
facile use of a parson to demonstrate the
ferocity of the outback; M. L. Skinner
on an outback nurse who finds a man
under her bed and thereby solves some
psychological problem never made very
clear; H. E. Riemann with a yarn of
rogues and rubies in the outback;
Harley Matthews lightly bringing in the
Great War ; A. C. Headley on the slums
and s.p. betting; Margaret Trist writ-
ing about the falling birthrate instead
of her delightful “Aunt Bridie”; Dal
Stivens with his wartime teenagers;
John Morrison with an elementary
Leftist essay on the idle rich of
Toorak and the good wharfie who
perishes at night—as if people don’t
die in Toorak also ; Peter Cowan on the
drift from the land ; Jon Cleary on the
problems of a returned soldier of World
War II —there is no conspicuously bad
writing in these stories ; some of them,
such as Riemann’s, Hughston’s and
Dowell O’Reilly’s (to which could be
added Henrietta Drake-Brockman’s own
“Fear” —about the lonely white woman
and the attacking aborigines —Lamond’s
dingo story, Xavier Herbert’s “Kaijek the
Songman” and Bernard Cronin’s tale of
a Tasmanian timber-getter with a “hoo-
doo” on him) are solid pieces of story-
writing as well as documentaries; the
two Steele Rudd pieces and “The
Champion Bullock Driver” are, of course,
wholly to be approved; but the total
effect is strongly of a map of Australia
rather than a selection of the best Aus-
tralian short-stones. It gives a very odd
impression of Australians all madly
working . . . chopping down the trees,
digging up the gold, loading the ships,
busiiy taking bets on the horses, plough-
ing, milking, energetically perishing in
the desert . . .
Another criticism must be a doubt as
to whether the editors have looked
around in the old books and The
Bulletin and “The Lone Hand” files as
carefully as the occasion demanded.
Anthologists tend to rely too much on
other anthologists, and so “The
Champion Bullock Driver”—a delightful
little thing, but hardly more than an
expanded “Aboriginalities” paragraph-
gets into every collection; but other
good things of the period, like Robert
Brothers’s “Wharflaborers,” which was
unearthed for the recent Bulletin Jubi-
lee number, too often lie neglected. Did
the editors not remember that Norman
Lindsay’s Saturdee, now generally
accepted as a classic, was first printed as
a series of short stories?
Because anthologists do so often use
the same basic material, because of the
complexity of the finished structure and
because of difference of purpose, nothing
is harder to assess than the quality of one
anthology against another. A. G.
Stephens’s Bulletin Story Book contains
a few immortal little items from Dyson,
Edmond, Steele Rudd and Lawson, but
the bulk of it now reads mostly like
inferior Steele Rudd and Lawson. Thus
Henry Fletcher’s “On the Land,” open-
ing with the monosyllable “Hot!” is
Steele Rudd watered with melodrama;
C.. H. Souter’s “A Martyr of No
Account” is the Lawson theme of out-
back suffering and heroism which has
tumbled into sentimentality ; and if there
is a delightfully wicked small girl in J. J.
O’Meara’s “Esther” who stamps on huge
black spiders and pretends she is killing
old Mother MacSmith, and a dog with
d.ts. in “Omega’s” “A Bridal Party and
a Dog” which might be respectfully
regarded as an ancestor of “Kodak’s”
drunk, most of these tiny sketches have
much more of the charm of period-pieces
than of intrinsic and enduring quality.
Nettie Palmer’s Australian Story Book,
which excludes such notables as Dyson
and Steele Rudd, does not pretend to be
a national anthology but simply a collec-
tion of 23 stories “characteristic of the
best Australian work.” It contains
Katharine Prichard’s “The Cooboo,” a
much deeper story than “The Grey
Horse”; a few sketches mostly of docu-
mentary interest, such as Lilian Goode
on the horrors of “Red Sand” and Nina
Lowe on outback neighborliness; a
dramatic Riemann yarn of a Malay in
the Northern Territory; another good
yarn of natives and officialdom in New
Guinea by G. M. Turnbull —altogether a
very pleasant and capable little book
which, as Nettie Palmer said at the time
(1928), “is only one collection out of
several that would be possible.”
The only really serious rival to the
World’s Classics collection as a national
anthology is, therefore, Dr. George
Mackaness’s Australian Short Stories
published by Dent in 1928 ; and, revised
and brought up to date, this might well
prove the livelier of the two. It contains
much of the same material as the Oxford
book —“Fourteen Fathoms by Quetta
Rock,” “The Parson’s Blackboy,” “The
Lobster and the Lioness,” “The Grey
Horse,” and instead of “Scrammy ’And
Barbara Baynton’s equally-effective “The
Tramp.” It prints, in addition, amongst
a total of 30 stories, “A Golden Shanty,”
“The Cooboo” and (with “The Drover’s
Wife”) “The Loaded Dog.” But it gets
its special character of narrative interest
from such stories of action and adventure
as Louis Becke’s “The Fate of the Alida,”
Albert Dorrington’s “Castro’s Last Sacra-
ment” and Beatrice Grimshaw’s “The
Treasure Hole.” None of these yarns j
from New Guinea and the South Seas, j
though Beatrice Grimshaw’s is very well j
handled, are exactly literary master-
pieces ; but they do give the Mackaness
anthology a total effect of drama a
largeness, a breath of fresh sea air
which is missing in the present collec-
tion ; ’ excluded, perhaps, because the
editors felt, consciously or unconsciously, ] j
that they must document the continent |
within the confines of its shoreline.
In more recent writing Frank Dalby
Davison is apparently absent by his own
wish, but the sea-stories of R. S.
Porteous (“Standby”) should surely have
earned recognition. The edition is date?
1951 and the editors’ preface 1950, bu r
the book really stops at about 1945: some
brilliant recent writing by Ethel Andersen,
Helen Meggs, John Fountain, Judaa
Waten, Geoff Bingham and David Camp-
bell has not found a place.
D.S.


All Imported .
\
V
/■ --
v
Hn
- ;
•• i
i ■'■:
~
...
f . .
mm. ...
H
*•- *
m
: ,
m
. V
':
• : *
,
■L-i
: <-
S i I
.
m %
> & m> ;<4
jc3 *#F .Jr ;
, i I
P
H
’’ ': ' '
1 : J
V
L -
WSB
m
m
Top Left. Ladies’ and Gents’ Polaroid Sunshields in Red, Green,
Blue, White and Amber. Complete with case. Price. 27/6.
Top Right. Smart American style Sunglasses with metal frames
and sweat bar. Complete with case. Price, 43/-.
Continental Mirror Sunglasses with flesh coloured frames and Blue
bridge. These attractive ’glasses are 63/-, case, 2/- extra.
Ladies’ Sunglasses with Laminated frames in smart colours of Pink,
Blue and Silver frames. Priced at 37/6 with case. 2/- extra.
Ladies’ and Gents’ Sunglasses in Amber and Flesh frames. Complete
with case. Priced at only 26/-.
Ladies’ and Gents’ Clip-over Sunglasses in metal frames. With
ease, 17/6. Polaroid Gold filled frames. Price, 45/6.
m
Hand Reading Glass. 2£in. Metal frame with wooden handle. Priced at only 12/6.
Imported Plastic Household Thermometer. Clear readings. Priced at 9/3.
Rototherm Refrigerator Thermometer. Very strong glass face. Priced at 16/6.
••Silva” Compass. Finger-tip control. Reads exact bearing for Boy Scouts and Bush walkers
Made with strong plastic base and metal readings. Priced at 11/6.
mi
&
ilu.?
yKS 1
*55!
TKUTH IM ADVERTISING
roiIBiWIHMUM
JEWELLERY DEPARTMENT^—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. ’PHONE; M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.Oy SYDNEY, FREIGHT EX'


PRODUCTS OF T»
RooteS
ISi
1901
w
cw»
S'"?. —
f/-i *’
St
<s*
9M
r
r
£
t 7
/,
%
1951
ŵ
'iiocyieM ItepoiC
The FIRST FIVE YEARS of the Rootes Group’s operation in Australia are behind us. Five years of
progress and achievement during which a continuous stream of cars and trucks has emerged from our
Australian plant.
Our products—famous since the earliest days of motoring—have maintained and enhanced their enviable reputations.
We are justly proud of the record of our vehicles. The future will provide still greater honours for them,
still greater satisfaction for their owners.
Our faith in Australia has been justified and we thank Australia for its faith in the goods we produce.
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT, COMMER, KARRIER, TiLLING-STEVENS, VULCAN
Products of the
Australia’s Friendliest Factory


The Bulletin
VoJ. 72—No. 3742
Wednesday, October 31, 1951
w
ŵ
/*%
o y
tM 2
(AUJLSw
ẁ
“OH WHERE, OH WHERE....”
"It was during World War II that Mr. Churchill said ‘I have not become the King’s First Minister to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire.’”
"Tell me, where have the rest of them got to while I’ve been away?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.O.), Wellington.
CALLING IN THE DOCTOR.
The Conservative party under Mr.
Churchill’s leadership has won the British
elections in a straightout fight with
Labor in which the latter party had a
net loss of around 20' seats.
The Liberal party, oldest of the great
parties of the British political scene, virtu-
ally disappeared after 119 years of
existence during which it held office inde-
pendently of other parties no fewer than 14
times, apart from having a share in three
coalitions. It held office for more than
half the era between the Reform Bill of
1832 and the coalition of 1918. In the
House of 1951-56 it appears to have been
reduced to a membership of six.
Its disappearance as a major force in
British politics, partly the result of the
usurping of its principles by other parties,
has resulted in a virtual return to the tradi-
tional British method of two-party
government and to a clearer-cut vote
under the first-past-the-post system.
Whereas; at the previous election 187
seats were won on minority votes for the
winner, there were only 37 in that position
at the current poll.
The Conservative party has been re-
turned by a majority so small that
its workability is reckoned doubtful under
current conditions. This,, however, is
normal to the party’s place in British
history. It has always been a great party
and a vital party, but never a popular
party, for the British are allergic to what
Peel, himself a Conservative leader,
called “the un-English word ‘conserva-
tive’.” Its modern policies have had their
core in the platform of Disraeli —rigid
adherence to the Throne as the basic
“security of every man’s rights,” support
of religion and “the maintenance of tradi-
tions as part of the nation’s existence” ;
social reform based on the belief that
“the first consideration of a Minister
should be the health and well-being of
the people,” and nationalism based on
the conception of Britain’s power as “an
Imperial country” within which self-
government by integral parts should run
with an Imperial policy in defence, tariffs
and international affairs.
It is a somewhat bleak programme
compared with the sunny optimisms of
Socialism and Liberalism, and Britain has
invoked its aid only when a small but
decisive commonsense swinging vote has
adjudged its ministrations necessary to
preserve the country in crisis. Thus it
turned to the Conservatives exclusively
only five times in 109 years —during the
“Hungry Forties,” again in the eighteen-
fifties, again in the depression of 1874, in
1922 and 1924. From 1929 to 1939 in
the confused three-party period of govern-
ment the country returned the party on
such a basis that it could control any
Government which happened to be in
office. Each of its periods has produced
something which has become history.
It was in office in the years which gave
the Australian colonies responsible self-
government. And it is ironic that though
the Conservative party is most execrated
and reviled by the Labor party, it was
Disraeli’s Conservative Administration of
1874 which laid the foundation of the
whole of the modern industrial revolu-
tion during a period of hunger and
bankruptcy such as the British Empire
had rarely known. To the Conservatives
belong the Labor Acts which put master
and servant on an equal basis for the
first time in matters of breach of con-
tract, which wiped out the old conspiracy
laws against strikes, gave trade-unions
their rights to act in any manner which
would not be criminal in an individual,
and made peaceful picketing legal.
These and many other innovations
are held up by all as among
the glories of the British people,
yet they are rarely attributed to their
authors. The Conservatives are, with
their opponents, traditionally the grinders
of the faces of the poor, the guardians
of aristocratic prerogative and war-
mongering empire-builders, though Dis-
raeli’s “peace-with-honor” dictum gave
Europe 36 years of unexampled tran-
quillity, and the tendencies of party
policy have always been towards peace
based on strength and security.
However, since great results are usually
the outcome of drastic and unpopular
action, the British nation normally re-
gards the return of a Conservative Gov-
ernment as a visit from the doctor. It
never has kept one in office for more
than five years in over a century. It has
never elected one, except that of 1924
after the discovery of the Zinoviev letter
and the disastrous failure of the Ramsay
MacDonald minority Government, by an
overwhelming majority. But its very elec-
tion of one during the past 11 decades
has always amounted to an admission
that the danger-signals are up and that
rescue or curative work needs to be done.
Even though the Conservative majority
at last week’s election is small and
obtained largely because a great body
of Liberals which still exists had not the
chance to vote for candidates of its own,
and gave a two-to-one preference to the
Conservatives, the chances are that the
United Kingdom will be prepared to
submit itself to treatment and guidance
by the Conservative doctors until such
time as it feels well enough to enjoy
once more the hypnotism of demagogues
and sorcerers of the Attlee-Morrison-
Bevan or similar breeds.
Meantime, no doubt, like the Evatt-
Calwell “Labor” party in Australia, the
Attlees will be perfectly happy to sit on
the sidelines in the role of critics, evad-
ing the wages of their own sins, promot-
ing the class-war, making it as difficult as
possible for the Churchill Government
to carry on and gloating over its failures
in handling the almost insuperable
problems and difficulties which are
inherent in the mess created by six years
of Socialist rule.
Mr. Churchill put it mildly when he
said “there lie before us hard times.”
The times will not only be hard but
decisive of the fate of the British Com-
monwealth, and the more difficult from
the new Government’s point of view,
since it is dealing with a nation which
has had the very roots of its faith and
national pride torn up by the gang of
simpering internationalists who have
made their reign in Downing-street one
long, lavish Christmas-party for every-
body they have had to deal with except
the British people.
October 25, 1951, can be marked down
as the date on which the British Govern-
ment “ceased to preside over the liquida-
tion of the British Empire” ; the day on
which permission was withdrawn for any
Wog nation to cart off whatever portion
of British territory or commerce or com-
munications it liked for its own benefit.
Mr. Churchill during the campaign
made no bones about his view of the
situation as it exists:
Britain was the only country in Europe
nnconquered after the war, yet she has
been the only one which has given away
most of her possessions. Shrinkage,
shrinkage, diminution, everywhere bowing
and scraping whenever we are told to get
out, everywhere withdrawing. What is
the result? At this moment we are con-
sidered to be the greatest tyrant and bully
and the most-hated country. That is the
lesson to us that weakness and wrong-
thinking and clumsy, stupid botchings of
negotiations covered over with vague
propaganda of peace at any price are not
the way to hold what you have gained,
or to gain the self-respect and goodwill
from those to whom yon surrendered all.
The days of that “trio of misfortune,
Abadan, Sudan and Bevan” are over
until it is safe for the democracy
to sell itself again to the good-time-boys
who hold the patent rights of the
Socialist millennium.
Nobody should benefit more in security
from the change than the people of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, whose Govern-
ments are now in general unity on matters
of principal in British Commonwealth
affairs.
Five Years of McGirr.
Powerful trade-unions once the backbone
of the “Labor” party are now led by
Communists. This has paved the way for
political opportunists and careerists to rise
to prominence in “Labor.” In certain
States.... a combination of individuals
burlesquing under the title of “Labor” to
achieve their own ambitions and their own
narrow ends.
These sentences were spoken not by
anybody from the ranks of “Labor’s”
political opponents but by president
Ferguson of the A.L.P. in an address to
the local Fabian Society reviewing the
state of the party which he rules as a sort
of rajah in New South Wales. The
“certain States” of his reference could
hardly have been the smaller three ; and
there is an echo of his last year’s steam-
rollering of Premier McGirr of N.S.W. in
his further remarks that
“Eabor,” facing tremendous problems, is
at present vacillating Instead of making
up its mind and going ahead—
especially as he followed this up with an
expectation of better results from the
party’s new Federal leader as a man who
placed right principles before popularity.
This homily was delivered in a
desperate week, in which the McGirr
Government hammered a few more nails
into its coffin. It was the week in which
Premier McGirr told a deputation of
dairyfarmers that if they did not produce
butter in requisite quantity (despite the
unreproductive price fixed by his Govern-
ment) he would “resume” their farms and
put people on them who would do what
he wanted. This “dusty answer” became
known only later in the week. Mean-
while Mr. McGirr’s Cabinet —himself
and the inevitable Brother Clive dissent-
ing, as the Press reported —suddenly
threw overboard first the general “price-
freeze” which had lasted for three
months, and then, on the day after pub-
lication of the Bolshevik-like threat to
the dairymen, the unreproductive
McGirr butter-price. It was also the week
of the McGirr Budget, entailing fantastic
new high railway freights on all country
produce.
The climax came with the announce-
ment of the quarterly basic-wage adjust-
ment —the heaviest ever for New South
Wales, and one which stupefied the
“Labor” price-controllers. TTie “price-
freeze” imposed by the McGirr outfit in
July, and especially the refusal to permit
in N.S.W. a retail price for butter (as
agreed by all the rest of Australia except
Queensland) which would return the
dairyman bare costs of production,
originated in the dual-purpose of show-
ing the Commonwealth Government how
price-control could keep prices from rising
and of arresting the impact of the quarterly
basic-wage rise of 13s. in August last. In
effect it drove fair-price goods out of
the shops, created an enormous black-
market, and sent costs up higher than
ever.
The air-lifts to Sydney from outside
the butterless State reached such propor-
tions that some airlines reported their
depots fouled by melting butter. Can-
berra territory became a centre for vast
and illegal distribution of the stuff that
every working man wanted for his mid-
day sandwiches. Failure of the Finnan
corps of inspectors to cope with price-
offences was manifested when the
Minister himself expressed fears that a
test-case would reveal his orders as
illegal. And then, when the whole silly
business was finally thrown overboard,
the basic wage for the new quarter was
announced, placing Sydney second only
to Broken Hill as the costliest area of
living in all Australia.
Taking Mr. McGirr’s administration as
the expression of “Labor’s” economic
policy for the Commonwealth, and the
chief instrument of “Labor’s” opposition
to the Menzies Government in Canberra,
conditions in the Ferguson-McGirr State
are highly instructive. The McGirr Gov-
ernment is finishing its fifth year of
office, during half of that time in double-
harness with a “Labor” Government for
the Commonwealth. The 40-hour week
which it initiated by legislation four
years ago has aided a “Labor”-boosted
price-structure in producing what Mr.
McGirr’s glamor-boy Chief Secretary
calls “a national economic calamity.” So
serious is this condition that “Labor”
Ministers have been howling execration
at the basic-wage increase after doing
their utmost to counter it in advance—a
political phenomenon, surely, if ever there
was one.
Four years ago, at the 40-hours initia-
tion, Mr. McGirr proclaimed to all the
world that any retarding effect on pro-
duction would be only temporary, and
that his Government could take in its
stride any transitory price-rise resulting.
Today the entire State transport system
has broken down mechanically and
financially under the strain of insufficient
hands and exorbitant costs for the
shorter working week—thereby sending
all costs soaring because of failing dis-
tribution services—and the State Trea-
sury is by any commercial criterion hope-
lessly bankrupt. Having imposed his new
wheat freights, Mr. McGirr is obliged
to promise a subsidy on wheat carried by
rail in order to keep bread from rising to
about a shilling a loaf.
Under “Labor” the richest and most
influential State of the Commonwealth,
half as big again as Germany, is regarded
as becoming unable to produce enough
wheat, butter or potatoes to feed its
3,000,000 people; and coal output is
being maintained only because of the
Commonwealth Government’s outlay on
opencut development. State coastal
shipping has become extinct —a further
burden on railways and roads. There
isn’t enough cement produced to keep
Main Roads Board works going. Black-
marketing and gambling have created “a
wave of serious crime and shootings”
[police report] in the city’s underworld.
There is no sign whatever that the Mc-
; Girr Government can stop the general
rot, or even desires to do so.
All this is a poor enough advertise-
ment of “Labor” policy in operation,
But in a community demoralised by
loafing and reckless spending, by
pressure-group operations in politics and
lightning-strikes with similar objectives in
industry, the worst advertisement to date
of what “Labor” will do when
entrenched in power is the retort of Mr.
McGirr to the dairymen. The bigger
rural producers, the graziers, his
Ministers have already antagonised by
resumptions of land at 1942 values and
by objections to subdivision (for closer-
settlement) among members of one
family. The threats to dairyfarmers give
this attitude a new meaning. “This,” said
Mr. Bruxner, speaking for the N.S.W.
countryside, “is what they did on the
Volga.”
The president of the Casino branch of
the Primary Producers’ Union reported
Mr. McGirr’s words to a public meeting
a t Bonalbo:
He our deputation (asking for a fair
butter price) that if owners did not get
their farms back into production they
would be resumed and given to returned
soldiers or others who would produce
butter. The farms would be resumed at
the v.g.’s valuation, i told him of the
number of deserted farms. He said—“ That
does not bother me . The ftii nist er tor
Lands has a remedy for that.” He said
C wßh X
farmers; that it was the Government's
duty to see the people are fed; and that
farms which have produced butter in the
past must be put back into production.
Mr. McGirr, approving this report as
correct, told the Press that
The Government might have to “permit”
people to farm land as its situation and
*^3?^
basis of the V.G.’s valuations if the owners
w , ould not do the job. We have the names
of many ex-servicemen who are willing
and anxious to carry on dairying...
ea *^ mei i> s hav f. S ? W I*, - onl ? thre f “j 1-
lion acres for wheat this harvest, the
smallest for seven years.
That is just how the Communists
treated farmers in Russia. They began
with compulsory regulations and quotas
for market at prices regardless of
farmers’ costs, and ended with collective
State farming and “liquidation” of
farmer-owners as “traitors.”
"No Interest in Korea."
The remark of Mr. J. B. Howse, M.P.,
in Parliament that the Australian people
seem to have lost interest in the war in
Korea is all too true. The Press in
general shows little concern about what
is happening to our men. There are no
public welcomes to homing fighters.
H.M.S. Glory, an historic ship on
which the surrender at Rabaul of the
Japanese in the south-west Pacific was
consummated, and which was sent here
by Mr. Churchill at the direst period of
World War 11, when every ton of naval
shipping was sorely needed in the
Atlantic, arrived from Korean waters
last week. She received little more atten-
tion when she steamed into Sydney
Harbor than an old tramp.
All this is in keeping with the present
distracted outlook of Australians, who,
after nine years of Socialist tutelage,
seem to have passed their Augustan age
and to be headed for the ages of Nero
and of Caligula, who made his horse a
consul in the decadent days of Rome.
A Martian reading many Australian
papers during the past week would never
have deduced that this country, like so
much of the world, is under the shadow
of a peril so threatening that even the
flatulent Socialist Government of Britain
invested £5,000,000,000 of an almost
bankrupt kingdom’s money in defence
preparations. He might have felt that
the greatest danger to this country was
the rise in the basic wage, which is pour-
ing as much as £7O a week into
some working-class homes, and the
Budget, which Mr. Dan Curtin declares
to be paralleling the soaring employment
and wage-scale with a policy of depres-
sion and despair.
He also might have deduced that
Messrs. Menzies and Fadden are the per-
sons to be execrated and feared by
their fellow-citizens more than Stalin
and Mao, and that the most horrible out-
rage which has been committed on the
nation during the week has been not the
slaughter of dozens of young Australians
whose names (in small type) have
appeared in recent casualty-lists, by a
wanton, murderous and malignant foreign
enemy but one by the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, who, in a
much-needed clean-up of Parliament
House, ordered a picture of Phar Lap
to be removed from the barber’s-shop
where it had been hung without permis-
sion from the House Committee.
Both Phar Lap and numerous other
racehorses, boxers and jockeys and
“sports” and the Speaker appeared
pictorially in a number of papers.
But none of the soldiers who died in
Korea for our security nor any of those
who killed them had their photographs
published.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Winston Is Back."
It is officially recorded that as the lights
of Europe went out again in September,
1939, the Admiralty’s laconic message
carrying a thrill throughout the Royal
Navy in every sea ran —“Winston is
back.”
At that dramatic moment he was rising
66. Despite his years he carried on his
own shoulders the political, and much
of the military, leadership of the British
Commonwealth, and inspired its overrun
European allies throughout the most
critical year of the war and remained
throughout the struggle the personifica-
tion of his people’s courage and endur-
ance. He saw it through to the end
without visible diminution of physical
and mental energy, sharing as far as he
was permitted in bombed London, in air-
journeys over a widespread war-theatre
or across the war-long battle-zone of the
Atlantic the risks that his fellow-country-
men faced through five and a half years
of total war. He emerged at the age of
71, with his famous manual V-sign the
symbol of his country’s triumph, full of
zest for the job—no less onerous than
the war itself —of recasting the world’s
peace.
That this was denied him is also a
matter of history. How differently the
past six post-war years might have been
if he had carried the 1945 elections is
conjectural; but the verdict of a de-
cisive majority of British electors, given
at the most critical polls for more than
a generation, is that the gravity of the
times demands Mr. Churchill as leader
again, even at the age of 77. There could
be no more eloquent tribute in his old age
to the greatest English figure of this
century.
Apart from the demonstration by this
vote of national reliance on Mr.
Churchill personally, the election verdict
also proclaims the nation’s awareness of
the perils amid which they have turned
again to him. The Attlee Government’s
decision to go to the country last month
was itself a sign of the crisis which all
parties recognised. Not only the British
people but the whole Western world
hung with intense interest on the out-
come. The return of Mr. Churchill
expresses the British nation’s resolution
in a fashion not to be misunderstood any-
where. For the British people themselves
the events of the weekend showed that
there is still some magic in the words —
“Winston is back.”
The B.H.P. Stoppage.
Because a handful of men attending
coke-ovens to “push” the coke (with an
electrically-driven machine for handling
the oven-doors) object to continuing their
customary duty of clearing, or helping
to clear, resultant coke-spillings from the
track of their machine, the entire New-
castle steelworks of B.H.P. closed down
at the weekend to the enormous loss of
industry throughout Australia,
The B.H.P. management had offered
extra assistance to these hands, and the
delegates from two unions concerned had
accepted the company’s proposals. The
unions are the F.E.D.F.A. and the Iron-
workers’ Association. The individuals
concerned, and later apparently the
unions, refused to agree to the dele-
gates’ arrangement. The men said they
would not pick up any more coke they
spilt whether the number of ovens
“pushed” during a shift is smaller or
greater.
Unless the strike is called off by today
the Commonwealth Government will be
expected to act promptly to counter this
industrial bushranging. Australia is en-
gaged in one war in Korea, is committed
to participation in the Anglo-American
Middle East Command for assurance of
security in the Suez Canal area, and is
preparing rapid rearmament against a
general threat of war. The Common-
wealth Government has a Defence Pre-
parations Act; steel is essential for any
defence preparation. It has the Crimes
Act, under section 30J of which the
Governor-General can proclaim a strike
threatening inter-State trade and com-
merce to be a “serious industrial disturb-
ance” and summons any employee or his
union for continuing a stoppage produced
by that disturbance. Steel is essential for
shipbuilding, ship repairs and railways,
which are essential in inter-State trade.
The Commonwealth Government is
due to test these powers sooner or later
•—since the High Court has refused it sole
discretion in deciding the existence of a
war emergency short of war being de-
clared —and continuation of this strike
should provide a test of whether the
Government means business.
Crime Is Cheaper.
“Jake B.”: While the cost of other
luxuries has doubled or trebled under the
impacts of inflation and sales tax, one
can still damage a policeman’s uniform
or indulge in a spot of arson at the old
pre-war rate. With most crimes it is the
pre-Boer War rate, as fixed by the Crimes
Act, 1900, when money had about four
times its present value. On the pecuniary
side, punishment today is about one-
fourth as severe.
The statutes usually express penalties
in terms of maxima. Thus —“whosoever,
without the consent of the owner....
takes and uses any vehicle shall
on conviction be liable to imprisonment
for 12 months, or to pay a fine of 100
pounds.” But the judge or the magistrate
is given a discretion to inflict something
less than the maximum. This still leaves
him some scope for relating punishment
by fine to present values, but there is
little evidence that it is being exercised.
To a young lout who could earn about
£l5 a week paying the fine for taking
and wrecking a valuable car is usually a
pushover.
The section partly quoted above reflects
the official attitude towards the propor-
tion which a jail sentence should bear to
a pecuniary fine. The payment of £lOO is
“TAKE AWAY THAT BAUBLE!”
considered to be the equivalent of suffer-
ing a year in jail. A discussion of the
relative adequacy of those figures could
easily attain metaphysical proportions.
But whether they are the result of some
profound penological philosophy, or
whether some inhabitant of Bumbledom
simply thought of two numbers, the time
has come for revision. With an amend-
ment of the Crimes Act now going
through the N.S.W, Parliament, the occa-
sion seems singularly appropriate.
The Great Brown Country.
This “opal-hearted country,” this “wilful,
lavish land,” with “her beauty and her
terror,” once more has struck the hearts
of those who love her with fire and flood
from the Northern Territory to Lake
Alexandria. Great fires across the
boundless pastures of the north, fire in
Queensland, fire in the mountains and
forests of the N.S.W. North Coast, freez-
ing westerlies from Sydney to Canberra,
and high floods in the South Australian
Murray.
Almost half the entire population of
this vast Australia lives in four congested
areas —Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide. To them, absorbed in the busi-
ness of getting a living in the midst of
inflation and party politics, trying to pick
the Cup winner, battling for butter or
potatoes or meat, racking their brains
with the problem of making ends meet
in a time of high wages and full employ-
ment, news of fire and flood in the outer
lands comes as a sort of minor distrac-
tion.
Yet it is out there that their destiny
lies. Not in the legislative halls of Can-
berra, the party-rooms of Sydney and
Melbourne, the inner sanctums of Trades
Halls, or on the Flemington racecourse.
A thousand square miles of burnt pasture,
a million feet of forest timber brought
to ashes, a thousand acres of river-flats
drowned under flood: these mean more
in the final count than the decisions of
politicians or the price of tram-rides.
Too many Australians have become
divorced from the land. While it is true
enough that modern British stock seems
to have become an urban people, there
is a limit to the crowding of cities and
the emptying of rural areas. The land
itself seems to have its own way of recal-
ling us to our neglect of it—for fires
would not rage unchecked nor floods
swell without hindrance if proper watch
and ward were kept.
All this is small comfort to those who
have suffered from fire and flood, though
they know from past experience that “for
flood and fire and famine, she pays us
back threefold.” Still, for whatever it
is worth, the fires of the north and the
floods of the south dramatically lifted the
people’s eyes from the pavements to the
far horizons. And he is a poor soul
who is not refreshed by the mere effort
of lifting his eyes.
Historic Sites.
The site on which Captain Cook landed
on the Kurnell peninsula south of Botany
Bay is in the hands of a trust not very
well financed, and, though it is within
little more than half an hour’s drive of
Sydney, it has been almost entirely in-
accessible save by a ferry which runs
from La Perouse tram terminus across the
neck of the bay when weather will permit.
Within the past few days transport
has been added to by an historically-
minded tourist-route bus-owner, Mr.
Spencer Lowe, who has put a modern
vehicle on the run from Sydney—one
tyred to traverse marsh and heavy sand,
since the road is not paved all the way,
and part of the distance is represented
by drifting sandhills which threaten
shortly to overwhelm the neck of the
peninsula and close traffic altogether.
The lovely site of the Cook landing is
further threatened as a place of pilgrim-
age and tourist resort by a proposal to
establish a large oil-refinery in the
vicinity, and its value as a historical
monument is menaced by the ambition
of the president of the Sutherland Shire,
Mr. Munro, M.L.A., who told visitors
there last week that he looked forward to
the day when there would be a large
museum on the spot full of relics and
properly served by aboriginals in uniforms
with brass-buttons to act as guides.
The site, like many other historic spots,
should be subject to a national policy of
perpetual preservation as far as possible
in its natural state so that strangers
may see it as nearly as possible
as Cook saw it and as it was when
Banks collected there some of the speci-
mens unique to its little peninsula.
Already it is littered with stray pieces of
stonework, mostly of doubtful artistic
value, and beginning to be laid out in
lawns.
There is no Ancient Monuments Act
in Australia or any of its States, as there
is in Britain, to forbid destruction or
mutilation of the historic, no properly
authorised National Trust. Historic sense
has not yet properly developed. At the
moment it is even necessary to raise by
private subscription the few hundred
pounds required to preserve in Scotland
the sepulchre of Lachlan Macquarie, the
virtual founder of the Australian nation,
which has been presented to private Aus-
tralian trustees together with the land
surrounding it.
Belts In Or Out?
Once every three months there issues
fr°m the office of the Commonwealth
Statistician a nebulous figure known as
the Retail Price Index Number. He is
one of a large family of index-numbers
which have their origin at the same
address, and, like the rest of the breed,
he used to attract little general interest.
The public read the announcement of his
arrival and noted that in consequence of
it the basic wage would go up Is. or
down Is. 6d.
That is how it used to be ; but in the
last year or so, because of circumstances
over which no one will admit to having
control, the Retail Price Index Number
has become the most talked-about
member of his clan. His waistline, which
once showed very little change from
quarter to quarter, has this year expanded
to such a degree that it has caused the
basic wage to make four successive jumps
of Bs., 75., 13s. and 14s. respectively. As
a result of this, interest in his waistline
is no longer confined to statisticians ; it
is everybody’s business.
The R.P.I.N. is intended to be a yard-
stick for measuring changes in price-
levels. To produce the figure the Com-
monwealth Statistician ascertains from
time to time the actual prices of items on
a preselected list, “weights” each item
according to a predetermined estimated
consumption, and thereby obtains an
aggregate price for the whole list, which
can be compared with similar figures for
other years.
The list of goods, known as the
“regimen,” includes groceries, dairy
produce, meat, rent, clothing, household-
linen and -utensils, fuel and light and a
batch of miscellaneous items.
“Representative and reputable re-
tailers” in the six capital cities and 27 of
the more important towns supply price-
lists of items in the regimen (monthly in
the case of food; quarterly for other
items). The regulations provide that
about 10 retailers should be co-opted in
each capital and about five in each town ;
field officers from the Bureau of Census
are required to collect the returns, verify
them and, in cases where variation of
quality may be considerable, they are
supposed to be supplied with samples so
that they can compare the goods reported
upon and the prices listed.
The regimen is not intended to be a
complete schedule of all items comprised
in a household budget. In the stately
language of the statistician:
It is deemed better to limit the regimen
of the index to items for which price-
variations can be ascertained with reason-
able accuracy than to distend the regimen
by including items for which price-com-
parisons are necessarily inaccurate.
For this reason fruit and vegetables
and fish, for example, are not included.
Against each item in the regimen is
shown the “weight” or mass unit, which
represents the annual consumption of
that item per head or per household.
Thus the “weight” of bread is 100 21b.
loaves per head; of towels, three per
household ; of rent, 52 weeks per house-
hold. The calculation Price x Mass-unit
gives what the statistician calls P.MU.
At this stage let him speak for himself:
The sum of the P.MU. results for each
Section or Group is then multiplied by its
appropriate population or household
“weight” to produce the respective annual
aggregate expenditures.
By this he means that you multiply the
sum by the population of the city in
question as revealed at the 1933 census,
or, where necessary, by the number of
households at the 1933 census.
By this time the Index Number is
almost ready to emerge from his
chrysalis. The statistician adds all his
aggregates together, looks at the result
just long enough to call it the “total
annual aggregate expenditure” and then
hastens to compare it with older members
of the family. He does this by “applying
to 1000 the ratio which the current aggre-
gate bears to the aggregate for the base
period”—i.e., the average for the years
1923-27. This gives him the new Retail
Price Index Number.
Criticism of the index-number, particu-
larly during the swollen-waistline period,
has been directed against the composition
of the regimen, the method of determining
the prices of the items, the “weights”
given to the various items and the con-
tinued use of the 1933 census figures.
In the main the official reply to most
of this is
The regimen is not a basic-wage regimen,
nor yet is it a full list of the component
items in a standard of living. It does not
imply that any particular goods or any
selected grades or quantities of these goods
should enter into determination of a basic
or living wage. In fact, the regimen is
simply a selected list of items combined in
certain proportions for the purpose of
(Continued on next page.)


w
4203
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATIOR fOR QUALITY
m
measuring price-variations. The items are
representative of the fields covered, and the
proportions approximate to those in average
consumption so far as can be ascertained.
The index is designed to measure changes
in price-levels only. It indicates varia-
tions in the cost of a constant standard
of living, but does not measure absolute
cost, or changes in the standard. As to
population “weights,” a conference of
Commonwealth and State statisticians in
November, 1949, decided that as the
weights derived from the 1947 census did
not differ materially from those based on
1933, any adjustment could be deferred
until the regimen was revised.
It might be more fruitful if critics, in-
stead of looking for weaknesses in the
regimen or in the method of applying the
results obtained, concerned themselves
with whether the index any longer serves
a valid purpose as a determinant of basic-
wage variations. The early conception of
the basic-wage as an amount necessary
to meet the needs of a man and his
family has given way to a principle that
it should be the maximum wage industry
can support, and it is difficult to see how
automatic increases dependent on rising
price-levels fit into that concept. In other
words it is time Mr. Retail-Price-Index-
Number was called upon to show just why
an increase in his own waistline should
automatically mean that some sections of
the community should loosen their belts
in sympathy with him while other sections
have to tighten theirs.
POLITICAL POINTS
Britain’s new Parliament meets today
—with Winston Churchill once again
Prime Minister. The muse of history
knows no politics, but it is not difficult
to imagine her nodding approvingly at
this result of the election. Historically
it seems so right and fitting that the old
warhorse, rejected by the electorate six
years ago almost at the moment of
victory, should be granted a triumphant
return before stepping down finally from
the public stage.
As on the occasion of his first acces-
sion to leadership, Churchill’s first message
to the people of Britain was a sobering
one;
There lie before us hard times. I have
no hesitation in saying that I have seep
worse and had to face worse. But I don’t
doubt that we shall come through.
The new Government’s most important
task is to shake the British out of the
apathy which war-weariness and six years
of Socialism have engendered;, and to
give them new faith in themselves, their
country and their future. Churchill’s
contribution will be the inspiration which
he, better than any other living English-
man, can supply.
With a majority of only 26 over Labor
and an overall majority of 17 the Con-
servatives, like Labor in the last Parlia-
ment, will have to keep all their members
up to the mark if they wish to avoid
defeat on snap divisions. Still, their
margin is a much less chancy one than
was Labor’s (at times only six), and the
last 18 months should have conditioned
members to a more rigid discipline than
was necessary in former Parliaments
where the difference in numbers was not
so small.
The Conservative majority is smaller
than most forecasts expected it to be,
and, naturally, smaller than Conservative
headquarters hoped. Two factors were
not given enough weight by the prophets.
Firstly, the redistribution of 1948, by
reducing the number of county seats and
increasing those of the boroughs, reacted
in Labor’s favor—as did the abolition of
the 12 University seats. The other point
is that the Tories had already gained a
swag of seats from Labor at the 1950
election.
In 1945 there were 396 Labor members
in the Commons. The general election
of 1950 reduced this to 315 and last
week’s poll brought the party down to a
probable 295, In the same period the
Conservative strength has grown from
189 to 321.
One seat still remains to be contested
—Barnsley in Yorkshire, a mining town
and a Labor stronghold, where, owing to
the death of one of the candidates, the
election will not take place till next
month. Conceding this seat to the Attlee
man, the composition of the new Parlia-
ment will be:
Conservatives .. .. • • • •
Liberal
Labor
Irish Labor *
Irish Nationalists “
625
The inexcusable strike which has closed
the Newcastle steelworks and threatens to
throw out of work thousands of men in
industries depending on steel may be
merely the result of individual idiocy on
the part of a few men, supported by the
mass lunacy at the Newcastle Trades Hall,
but it bears all the marks of a Com-
munist stunt. It fits in perfectly with
Cominform instructions for the sabotaging
of rearmament programmes in the demo-
cracies, and it is synchronised with an
announcement that the B.H.P, is about
to embark on a big development policy.
The two unions primarily involved —the
F.E.D.F.A. and the Ironworkers’ Associa-
tion —are notorious for their Red affilia-
tions.
America’s view of the war in Korea is
different from that of Australia. Three
Diggers from Korea went to America for
the U.N. Day celebrations. To use their
own picturesque language, the Americans
“gave them the works” —civic functions,
lunches, dinners, tours, private baths with
rooms in posh hotels, a meeting with
President Truman and all the rest of it.
Servicemen from Korea —Australian or
Allied —who come to Australia on leave
might be mere tourists for all the notice
they get.
Twitted by Edmonds (Lab., Q.) about
Communism, Harrison (Lib., N.S.W.)
retorted that the Government would
shortly seek the co-operation of the
“Labor” Opposition “in regard to
handling the Communist menace.” He
said that he hoped “Labor” would not
run away “as it had done on previous
occasions.” If this means putting it
straight up to Evatt’s party, then the
sooner the better.
Cain, the “Labor” leader who gives the
Victorian Country-party Government its
orders, arose the other day to declare
that half a rich man’s estate should be
grabbed by the State in probate duties
“to stop the rich from passing their
fortunes on to posterity” (“Labor’
cheers). Which goes to show that pos-
terity will get even less than it expected
if “Labor” has its way.
Inflation, aroint ye! The wishfully
named seat of Haltemprice (B. 24/10/ 51)
is represented in the new British Parlia-
ment by that old reliable, redoubtable
and traditional, Law.
Although it is a dictum of the A.L.P.
that Communism can best be fought by
“Labor,” and inside the unions, there
has never been much help or encourage-
ment forthcoming from the executive for
the industrial groups formed for the
purpose of fighting the Reds inside the
unions. At the annual convention of the
S.A. branch of the A.L.P., held in
Adelaide last week, an A.W.U. motion
was carried approving the withdrawing
of the charters of all industrial groups
in S.A. Clyde Cameron, M.H.R. for
Hindmarsh, was the mover.
Keynote of events in Egypt during the
week was “mark-time” while fresh British
troops were on the way, the Royal Navy
ran the Canal and the Egyptians, whose
annexation of the Sudan has been about
as effective as an annexation by the
Philippines of the planet Venus, prepared
a new Note to the United Kingdom.
Perhaps the worst blow suffered by the
British troops so far has been the disloca-
tion of the Army beer supply because
Lieut.-General Erskine refuses to pay the
Egyptians duty.
Some American writers are inclined to
adopt a holier-than-thou attitude towards
Britain over the Canal-zone dispute.
James Reston, of the New York “Times,”
for example, says that “the United States
does not want to perpetuate in that part
of the world relationships which are
morally dubious.” Morally dubious?
The Anglo-Egyptian treaty of 1936 was
signed by Nahas Pasha, the very man
who has now repudiated it. In the case
of the world’s other great artificial water-
way, the Panama Canal, Reston probably
has no such doubts. The agreement for
the digging of that ditch was signed by
the representatives of the new-born
republic of Panama the very day it
seceded from Colombia, and America
gave Panama diplomatic recognition
simultaneously. President Theodore
Roosevelt subsequently boasted “I took
Panama” —a statement which helped win
Colombia millions of dollars compensa-
tion from U.S.A. Presumably that pay-
ment wiped out any moral doubts about
the transaction.
No sane person today would suggest
handing back control of the Panama
Canal zone to Colombia, or even to
Panama. It is equally ludicrous to sug-
gest that Egypt is fit to be trusted with
sole control of the Suez Canal just be-
cause by an accident of geography it
happens to run through one of that
country’s deserts.
“Manchester Guardian,” virtually the
voice of Liberalism when Liberalism was
in flower, came out on the eve of polling-
day with a comment which probably
swayed quite a lot of doubtful Liberal
supporters in districts where the party was
not running a candidate. It remarked
that it had no love for the Tories, but
that at least they might “lift the country
out of its complacent paralysis,” and
that a Conservative Government would
be the lesser of two evils for the next
few years. On the basis of the 1950
figures it seems that of those Liberals
who had to make the choice of evils two
out of three gave their votes to Churchill
candidates.
Offered a Cabinet job by Churchill,
Liberal-leader Clement Davies declined,
but said his party would support the
Government on all measures it (the party)
considered to be in the national interest
Davies could scarcely accept the P.M.’s
offer without his party going out of
existence. The only justification for
keeping the Liberal rump in being is that
it polices the excesses of both the main
parties. At the polls it threw its weight
against Socialism, so it is reasonable to
assume it will give general support to the
Churchill Government while retaining the
right to vote against it on particular
questions.
Wheatgrowers do their cause no good
by public statements that the wheat-
acreage is down because the price of
wheat is too low. It is down because
high wool prices have made it more
profitable to run a thousand ewes than
grow 300 or 400 acres of wheat. From
the point of view of price wheatgrowing
has been a good thing for the past 10
years.
Commenting on the addition of
U.N.K.R.A. and U.N.C.A.C.K. (their
functions have something to do with war
damage) to the long list which includes
E.C.A.F.E., U.N.E.5.C.0., N.A.T.O. and
G.A.T.T., London “Observer” suggests
it is high time U.N.O. set someone to
work compiling a COMPOCDIC of the
new international phraseology.
All the “Labor” talk about the worker
not being able to live on current wages
seems to be denied by Victorian Savings
Bank figures. Most savings-bank de-
positors are wage-earners, and at June 30
last the bank had a record total deposits
—£213,687,023, an increase of £l5
million over the previous year. The
average deposit was also up £145. as
against £139 in 1949-50.
J. E. Hamilton, defeated Liberal can-
didate for the Bulimba seat at the 1950
Queensland elections, is to be reimbursed
by the Government for “reasonable costs”
incurred in connection with his appeal to
the Election Tribunal over the result of
the poll. Early in the year Mr. Justice
Mansfield, the tribunal, found that fraud
had occurred, and he declared the elec-
tion void. In the subsequent by-election
the “Labor” candidate, R. J- Gardner,
again won the seat. A sequel to the dis-
puted poll was a charge against the Chief
Electoral Officer of forging a ballot-
paper. After three juries had failed to
reach a verdict the Crown decided not
to proceed further with the charge.
A really cheerful fellow among Aus-
tralian Treasurers in their Budget
speeches is Tom Playford of South Aus-
tralia. This is the note on which he
concludes:
So far as the South Australian economy
itself is concerned, both the present situation
and the prospects remain very good, the
produced income of the State has so risen
over recent years that the State is clearly
no longer one of the weaker Australian
States, but one of the stronger. On the
basis of average income per head
we are probably somewhat above the
average, falling a little short of the richly-
endowed State of Victoria, but comparing
favorably for second place with N. S.
Wales... .Both primary and secondary
industries have made their valuable con-
tributions to this remarkable achievement.
A gang of hooded men broke into a
pen factory at Dover (Eng.) and got away
with gold pen-nibs worth £A25,000. So
far, there is nothing to connect the civil
service with the theft.
For 27 years January 22, the anni-
versary of Lenin’s death, has been a
holiday in Russia, but a Kremlin order
issued a short time ago announced that
from now on the day will be an ordinary
working day. The change has been made
because “the majority of the workers’
feel that a holiday is not in keepiing with
such a day. Move over, Nicolai. Make
room for Uncle Joe.
Churchill, Prime Minister again at 77,
may feel that he is doing pretty well for
one of his age. So he is, but —Gladstone,
at 76, took office in 1886 for the third
time, was defeated over Home Rule six
months later, spent six years in Opposi-
tion and came back to lead his fourth
Government at 83.


£ppie
"/945 J
- Hops springs eternai
v ' It's no use, m
She can Swell its
You EVEN through
THAT SceN'T.
' SheLu LOVB N\B ~. . ,
shb Ll uove me hot, ~ . /7
r.iv
budget
[SHAT you REALLY NEEP /
is a Disinfectant /
3?
tame.
/\O, Mo, I LOVE MYSELF
ALTOGETHER. TOO MUCH
'i AuREAPy. ''
w
“L’AMOUR, L’AMOUR, L’AMOUR....”
"After 'Professor' Clement’s lawyer produced letters from satisfied customers all over the world (including Australia), a French court ruled that the 'Professor's'
magnetised love perfume was not a fraud.”


BUY
INSURANCE
AT KEENEST RATES
THROUGH
EDWARD LUMLEY
IN ASSOCIATION WITH
of l.©tiOO»
MARINE, FIRE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
ALL FORMS OF INDUSTRIAL &
COMMERCIAL INSURANCE
Edward Lumley & Sons, as insurance
brokers, operate not in the interests of
any specific insurance organisation
but through the world’s strongest
underwriting companies, including
Lloyd’s of London. Obviously this
independence of choice enables the
best and soundest insurances and the
lowest premiums to be obtained.
It will pay you to consult Lumleys—
Australia’s largest insurance brokers.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. 'Phone B 0538
287 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
'Phones: Cen. 6191, Cen. 1415
And all other States
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in Matri-
monial Causes.
TO JOSE GERRIDO FERNANDES late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE EUNICE FER-
DANDES has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 3094 of 1949 on the ground of de-
sertion for three years You may enter
appearance at the Court by 10th March
1902 and obtain free copy petition from
E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS, Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce, Supreme Court,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Safeguarding your
family’s future
A way to avoid much
future core and worry
By the appointment
of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as
your Executor and
Trustee, you will ensure
the maximum protec-
tion for your
dependents.
The Company has a
wide knowledge of in-
dustrial, investment
and pastoral problems.
By efficient manage-
ment and courteous,
friendly service, it has grown to be the
largest Trustee Company in the Southern
Hemisphere.
An ever-increasing number of profes-
sional and business men, realizing the need
to provide the maximum protection for their
dependents, are following the example of
men with larger Estates who have appointed
the Company as their Executor.
If you would have further information
as to the services rendered by the Com-
pany ring B 0377 or write and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will gladly
give the information you desire.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
M WEE
administrator, etc.
H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director
A. O. AKMYTAGE, Manager
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £72,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGCA IF ACC A. TAM WORTH AND ORANGE
3
rrrruL
3 >3 Of IM
3mm
Ml
ilrfltk
wsviraa
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Sharemarket Economics
The sharemarket has taken
the latest increase in the basic
wage rather soberly. And so it
should. It is becoming increas-
ingly difficult, especially in the
State of New South Wales, for
industry to get equitable con-
sideration from the price-control
authorities when increases in
costs occur. Some concerns
have to meet heavy railway-
freight costs as well as wages,
and in N. S. Wales freight-rates
have been soaring with the rises
in the basic wage.
Industry that has its affairs
open to Government investiga-
tion has a lot to put up with
these days. Especially if it is
dealing with essential com-
modities* such as building
materials, manufactured foods,
clothing, etc. It doesn’t matter,
as in the case of Masonite, how
much a concern, through its
enterprise or efficiency, cheapens
an article in the hands of the
purchaser; N. S. Wales Price
Control, anyway, lays a heavy,
cold hand on its earning-power
in the race against costs
inflation.
The idea of price-control in
the first case was that it was a
necessary emergency measure.
But in Australia we have had
just over 12 years of it, and the
bad effects of it are becoming
very serious. Not only has it
encouraged irresponsible ideas
that prices can be pegged while
wages remain free. It has had
a weakening effect on industry
generally, and has been to blame
for much of the falling-off in
production visible in almost
every type of activity.
In 1939 the average rate of
earning on shareholders’ funds
was 7.6 p.c. among representa-
tive industrial companies. For
1950 the rate was 9.4 p.c. This
represents an increase of under
24 p.c., and for 1951 figures so
far presented suggest that there
may be a reduction on that
ratio. But whilst rates of profit
have risen by less than a quarter
compared with 1939, the basic
wage has risen by one-and-a-
half times. Most of the money
invested in the industries con-
cerned in these comparisons is
represented by pre-war pounds.
And the average dividend rate
is now lower than before the
war, largely because of the
necessity for making greater
provision for plant depreciation
out of profits that have already
borne tax.
It is little wonder that every
increase in the basic wage is
regarded as one step nearer to
the point where industry will be
in grave economic danger as a
whole. It was bad enough when
rises in the basic wage were
three or four shillings a quarter.
Recently they have been oyer
10s. a quarter, and the total rise
over the past year has been £3
a week. Any lag in granting
industry appropriate compensa-
tion could be very serious,
especially in view of the restric-
tions being placed on overdrafts
and the Federal Government’s
plan to collect 10 p.c. of each
year’s taxation in advance.
There is an indication that, in
some industries, the price-control
authorities are making an
attempt to arrive at a formula
whereby industry can be reim-
bursed for rocketing costs
within a month or so. But it is
a known fact that some import-
ant Australian industries have
suffered badly over the past year,
they not having received per-
mission to raise prices since the
beginning of 1951.
Not only are some trades
concerned about the difficulty of
recouping the higher basic wage
through the net of price-control.
They are also up against the
problem of buyer resistance.
This applies to builders, cloth-
ing-manufacturers, importers of
luxury goods, newspaper pub-
lishers, restaurant-keepers and
some retailers. But, on the
whole, the economics of scarcity
-SiP
“Be sensible, Walter, and come back to your job in
the bank.”
still apply, especially so far as
essentials are concerned. There
has been a slump in building
activity where it has been
financed by building societies,
but this position may alter if
life - assurance societies are
allowed to charge higher interest
rates on building loans.
The real-estate market has
been specially hit by financial
restrictions. It has depended
upon easy finance to a large
extent.
A section of industry listed on
’Change that has shown market
weakness lately has been wool-
len textiles. Even Yarra Falls
has shown a slide. Patons and
Baldwins ords., which went to
above 40s. soon after listing, are
now below 355., and many
smaller concerns show a high
yield at present prices and divi-
dends.
The particular problem of the
woollen-textile trade at-present
is the fluctuating price of wool
and the difficulty of financing
stocks. Though wool prices are
down from their highest 1951
price (some companies may
have been caught with high-
priced stocks) they are still
high, and often a great deal of
borrowed money is needed to
finance raw-wool stocks. This
will tend to restrict dividends,
whatever textile-co. earnings
may happen to be.
Beneath all the superficial
worries of the present situation,
the underlying causes remain
shortages. These are in respect
of manpower, materials and
transport. And the most
influential one of the three is
manpower. Not only are we
short of workers; those em-
ployed are not doing enough.
And this in particular applies to
the coal industry, which, though
it looks like turning out a
record quantity of coal this year,
is still producing at far below
its capacity and far below the
needs of industry. Also, at the
present moment there is total
stoppage of work at the New-
castle steelworks, affecting nearly
all heavy industry. Because of
a world scarcity of copper, Aus-
tralia has had its import quota
cut by the International
Materials Conference, which
means that the use of copper in
Australia will be cut by about
20 p.c. Industries using brass
and bronze will be affected as
well as heavy copper-users, such
as the electrical trade.
Two recently-floated concerns
the scrip in which is obtainable
at or near the issue price:
Worsted Industries, Ltd., and
Sebels (Aust.), Ltd. Both issues
were quickly oversubscribed at
flotation. Worsted Industries, put
on the market at 7s. 6d. per ss.
share, owns the Liverpool
(N.S.W.) woollen mills, and spins
the yarn from which it makes its
worsteds. It has a good history
and a promising future, and the
shares (at 7s. 4d. last week) look
attractive. The Sebels concern
has a paid capital of £200,000 in
ss. shares, and proposes to make
steel furniture, toys, etc., in Aus-
tralia similar to those made suc-
cessfully in England by the
founder co. for some years past.
Consideration for patents, etc.,
paid to the English co. was
£25,000 (equal to 7fd. per ss.
share) in fully-paid shares.
Manufacture is expected to start
within 12 months, and the plant
can be readily turned over to
munitions if need be. The ss.
shares have had unlisted dealings
in Sydney at ss. Bd.
* * * *
Electronic Industries, Mel-
bourne, has issued interesting
accounts. Its tax provision for
the year is £298,935 (compared
with £112,459 in the preceding
term). Consolidated net profit,
against this, is £161,987 (up
£61,664). Disclosed provision
for depreciation is £70,972.
Ordinarily taxation provision
should not be more than half of
the profits as they stood before
taxation; but the co. explains
that, in its case, the high tax
provision is the result of allow-
ance for depreciation and doubt-
ful debts on a scale in excess of
that permitted by the Taxation
Commissioner. It is becoming
necessary to allow apparently
excessive depreciation because of
the high cost of plant replace-
ment, a problem in which the
Taxation Department so far is
not at all co-operative. In Mel-
bourne Electronic 10s. ords. are
at 31s. The div. has been at the
unchanged rate of 12£ p.c. for
three years.
* * * *
F. I. Walker, Ltd., which, with
its nine subsidiaries, earned net
profits equal to 17 p.c. (allow-
ing for increased taxation) on
capital during the year to June 30
last and declared a 9 p.c. div.
(4 p.c. out of tax-free reserves),
has announced that in future its
interim divs. will be paid out of
tax-free reserves until those
funds are exhausted. Final dis-
tributions will be from taxable
profits only. Tax-free profits of
the group at June 30 last totalled
£190,566 ; these will be reduced
to £150,566 by the current dis-
tribution, and will then represent
15 p.c. on capital. The 10s.
shares at 17s. 6d., ex div., yield
5.1 p.c. at last year’s div.-rate.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funis Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
SM> PERTH
CINZANO
ẁ
Sweet!
or
Dr/
ẃ
Missing Friend.
IF O’MEARA, Lily Mary, the wife of
EDWARD PATRICK O’MEARA, deceased,
who formerly lived at 69 Nimmo Street,
Middle Park, should communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 95
Queen Street, Melbourne, she will hear
Something to her advantage.
Essential Service —
Essential to trade development is a Banking
Service, both efficient and prepared to meet each
new opportunity.
Built on the resources and experience of two
Banks, each of which has contributed to Aus-
tralia’s growth for more than a century, A.N.Z.
Bank services are expressly designed to assist in
the promotion of trade.
Today, A.N.Z. Bank is preparing to meet the
needs of tomorrow.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Established 1835.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Est. 1837.
Over 700 branches and agencies throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world.
Telephones: B 9573, B 6282,
B 6180
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
fcv APPOINTMENT
TOBACCO CO. L'
STQTE £XPI\|SS
(CIGARETTE MANUFACTURE
VO N.M. KINO GIOROS J
mui
Swt
m
W
?5S
9f
ẅ
State Express 555’s are made especially for smokers wKo demand
that extra toucK of quality.
Made slowly, and with particular care, from their own
blend of finest Virginia tobaccos. State Express 555
Cigarettes maintain their fine reputation established
for over 50 years.
SweQprps 555
HADE FAMOUS BY THE HOUSE OF STATE EXPRESS,
894C-10-5I
210 PICCADILLY LONDON W.l
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Writing a few days before the
poll, it can be recorded that
there never was a quieter cam-
paign from the point of view of
the electorate. For the greater
part the public has refused to be
drawn into the fight, but has
stood apart, watching every
thrust and parry between the
two great party machines. There
has been little excitement, and
election conversation has been
brief. Public meetings were
poorly attended, and then
monotonously confined to the
candidate’s regular supporters
and a few self - expressive
hecklers. As a heavy poll was
expected, this aloofness can
hardly be due to apathy; rather
does it seem that most minds
have long been made up and
that the real interest lay in one
aspect only—the final result.
For the first time since the
war unemployment appeared as
an established fact and not as a
scarifying threat to be used by
Socialist speakers as a bogy-
man. There is considerable short-
time —or, in modern jargon,
“under-employment” in the
textile industries, due partly to
the reluctance, in present uncer-
tain times, of manufacturers to
hold large stocks of wool and
other commodities, and partly
to the inability of the mass of
the nation to buy the finished
product. Mr. Dalton’s confident
assertion that prices were cer-
tain to fall has only added to
the discomfort of the trade and
its workers. So that improvisa-
tion of the well-loved theme of
Tory-provoked unemployment is
no longer an effective red
herring.
Again, elections are usually
fought on issues very close to
the voters’ own lives. The
evacuation from Abadan was a
blow that stunned the nation.
The quick follow-through from
Egypt sent it temporarily reeling.
When the conduct of foreign
affairs is in public focus neither
Mr. Attlee nor Mr. Morrison
can command the respect
accorded to Mr. Churchill and
Mr. Eden.
Before the Poll
“The Socialists have some
queer allies these days. Amongst
those praying nightly for their
success at the general election
are King Farouk of Egypt,
Franco with his eye on Gibral-
tar, President Perdn in the hope
of another meat racket, the
Chinese Communists in the
Malayan jungle, and everyone
all over the world who hopes to
grab something from us. The
most ardent Socialist supporter
is Stalin, who knows that with
the triumph of Mr, Bevan’s anti-
rearmament policy he has the
chance of the biggest grab of
all —the complete domination of
Europe, including ourselves.
Stalin has already shown his
gratitude to Mr. Bevan by with-
drawing all but 10 of the Com-
munist candidates so as to do
nothing to hinder a Socialist
victory.”— Mr. David Gammans,
Conservative candidate for
Hornsey.
Earlier, Mr. Gammans had
said: “After what has happened
at Abadan, is the Isle of Wight
safe? Supposing King Farouk
fancies the place for another
honeymoon or Senor Perdn de-
mands it as his price for a few
more scrag-ends of meat. I hope
the Government’s evacuation
plans are well in order.”
“One promise, at least, the
Socialists have faithfully kept.
A while ago Mr. Attlee said:
‘We shall have to give up some
of our toys. One is Britannia
rules the waves.’ We have so
eagerly given up so many of
these ‘toys’ that rough little boys
now think they can take any-
thing else away from us they
want... .It has come to a pretty
pass when the Egyptians can
claim the victory of Alamein,
the only battle still left to us by
Errol Flynn.”— Lord Mancroft.
“Shot-gun Wedding: In
order to lull the apprehensions
of the middle-of-the-road voter
and the more timid Socialists,
Mr. Attlee and Mr. Bevan have
gone through a shot-gun wed-
ding. Until October 25 they
must officially love one another.
Meanwhile, the guns are stacked
and loaded and the triggers well
oiled.” — “Financial Times.”
“Rumor Dispelled: There is
no truth, I understand, in the
report that Mr. Morrison in-
tends to add to his unofficial
title of Lord Festival the words:
“of Abadan.” —“ Peterborough"
in the “Daily Telegraph."
Success Story
This lifelong theatre-lover
quite vividly remembers one
Sunday evening during the mid-
’thirties when a one-act play
competition was held privately
at a small West End theatre.
Out of some scores of manu-
scripts three were chosen for
performance: a Grand Guignol
piece in Somersetshire dialect;
a historical trifle concerning
Queen Elizabeth as a girl (or,
more strictly, as a boy, for that
was the theme of the play); and
a treatment, in blank verse, of
the classical story “The Widow
of Ephesus.” The judges (a
distinguished actress who is now
a dame, a literary man and a
leading dramatic critic) couldn’t
agree, but after the critic had
withdrawn (on the ground that
none of the plays was good
enough) the other two pro-
nounced “The Widow” as the
winner. Its author (a shy young
man in full evening-dress who
was said to be a prep-school
master) took his bow and disap-
peared, and the audience went
home, soon to forget him.
His name, then of no great
moment either to drama or to
poetry, was Christopher Fry;
and “The Widow of Ephesus”
later emerged as “A Phoenix Too
Frequent” at the private Arts
Theatre, where it enjoyed a long
run.
To have shared such an early,
if limited, success gives a pro-
prietary feeling, like having
bowled to the 10-year-old Hut-
ton or having encouraged the
disconsolate Olivier after he
turned down “Journey’s End”
for the disastrous “Beau Geste.”
All the more interest, therefore,
in going back to “A Phoenix
Too Frequent” (Lyric Theatre,
Hammersmith) after sampling,
and relishing, the Fry of “The
Lady’s Not For Burning.”
To be true to form this story
should end with an account of
how this early Fry masterpiece
was sent to manager after
manager and agent after agent
until, finally, its worth was
recognised and its creator’s
reputation made. But that didn’t
happen here. The revised work
is so unlike its original that
only the plot remains in com-
mon. And that has been
altered.
The story concerns a widow
who is committed to remain in
her husband’s tomb until she,
too, dies ; but a Roman soldier
happens to drop in, with
astonishing consequences.
If there’s any moral it is that
Mr. Fry, like Sheridan, has not
minded making drastic altera-
tions to suit contemporary de-
mands and professional advice.
For he has rubbed out most of
the verse, added a comic charac-
ter and substituted situations and
topicalities commoner to revue
than to verse drama, thus sacri-
ficing poetic expression and a
classical theme to pure enter-
tainment.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Bo”: A mob-riot fancier, I have been
a keen student of this peculiar overseas
sport for 30 years, and never once during
that time have I known a riot to be other
than “quelled.” The eruption into
violence of those whose feebleness of
mind is exceeded only by the superheated
quality of their gore, whether they be
Latin-American spiggoties who are seized
by an uncontrollable urge to dismember
a dictator between siestas, or a herd of
"I'll have to wear a shirt on deck in future; I wouldn't like to get
her sunburnt .”
flea-bitten, fly-blown Gyppos who wreak
vengeance on the hated Britisher by over-
turning and burning their own trams and
taxis, has never yet been quashed,
crushed, smashed, scotched, subdued or
otherwise been brought to termination,
On the other hand, I have never known
a daily paper apply the term “quelled” to
a non-human conflagration—a fire is
invariably “extinguished” or “brought
under control.” The only thing I fear is
that some day a lexicographer, bringing
out a new edition of a dictionary, will
overlook the verb “to quell.” Then per-
haps the mob, lacking that vital piece of
journalese to stop it, will just go on
rioting.
♦ * * ♦
“Eurimburra”: It will be a long time
before S’Artie’s tax on male beauty-aids
catches up with me. For years I’ve been
using a stiff-bristled nail-brush to apply
my shaving-soap. The soap itself is part
of a batch of home-made “yeller” manu-
factured, stored and forgotten by an old
aunt in 1917. So tough has the skin
become through this treatment that I can
use razor-blades that would give the
average bloke lockjaw. I use anybody’s
discards and never throw ’em away until,
through their weekly stropping on the
sandstone kitchen-step, they’re no longer
wide enough to work. As for my bristles,
they gave up the unequal battle years ago
and submit quietly.
* * * »
More tolerance for “up,”
please, “H.C.8.” (B. 3/10/’5l). Unlike
Greek, English has few prepositions
which can precede simple verbs to make
a subtle variation of meaning, so we
must use the adverbs, “up,” “in” and
out,” etc. Sometimes they offend the
purists, often they look untidy, but with-
out them we would be unable to convey
so many different shades of meaning. For
instance, how different is “wash” from
“wash up”! Imagine a housewife wash-
ing dishes and washing up baby.
* * * *
“Icinit”: If you’ve seen how peas get
from the paddock into the can, you know
how it is that a lib. can of shelled peas
costs less than half the price of an
equivalent quantity of fresh peas in the
pod. The crux of the matter is that
canned peas are neither harvested nor
shelled by hand. The whole pea-vine is
cut at ground-level by a tractor-mower,
a side-delivery rake lays the cut vines in
winrows and a green-crop loader hoists
them on to a lorry. At the cannery they
are fed into “viners” —a specialised type
of thresher consisting of a large per-
forated drum with independent revolving
arms inside. Both drum and arms rotate
comparatively slowly, and it is pressure
rather than beating that pops the peas out
of the pods. They escape through the
perforations of the drum, while the
threshed vines pass out at its far end.
From that point the shelled peas undergo
a number of mechanical cleaning pro-
cesses to remove dirt and rubbish, pass
along a slowly-moving inspection-belt so
that a team of girls can remove any
remaining foreign matter (the only hand
operation), and are automatically filled
into the cans. The filled cans travel to
the closing machine, which clamps on the
lids at the rate of 130 a minute. Pressure-
cooking completes the process. '
* * * *
“Harbel”: I’ve grown blasd to signs
which inform me that the shopkeeper
within is a “fruit specialist” or a “lamb
specialist,” but I confess to a slight
stagger when a 1951-model panel-van
flaunted in ornate lettering “Frankfurt
and Roll Specialist.” It brought a nag-
ging thought: In what way would the
specialist differ from an ordinary hot-dog
vendor? Would he insist that the baker
brown his rolls to a certain shade of per-
fection? Or would his specialising show
itself in the graceful curve of his selected
frankfurts? Unfortunately, the only real
“It's the only Way we can entice him off his rocking-horse."
authority on the subject I ever knew died
in an old men’s home and cannot
supply the answers. His means of con-
veyance was a billycart on which the
home-made box of tricks perched. But
there was a specialist. To see him pin
down a hot-dog, dissect it with one swift,
flashing stroke of his scalpel, apply the
tomato-sauce dressing in a deft, gentle
movement, and clamp the still-quivering
subject between a hinged roll, was to
contract a mocking contempt for the
amateur antics of Hollywood’s vaunted
expert, Dr, Kildare.
* * * * *
“Shadow-chaser”: Three A.B.C. news-
announcers pronounced Port Said in
three different ways, irritating at least one
Old Australian and doubtless puzzling
the New. The first said “side,” Number
Two sayed “sed” and the third sed
“sayed.” In view of the Egyptian situa-
tion it is extremely unlikely that the
last word has been said, sed, sighed or
sayed on this turbulent port, so I trust
someone at A.B.C. headquarters will give
a ruling.
* * * *
“Uco”: If Tasmanians can always tell
a mainlander by the way he mispro-
nounces Launceston, I wonder whether
the inhabitants of the Speck pronounce
the name of another of their towns,
Wynyard, in a style that would pass
muster in New South Wales. Visitors to
Sydney almost invariably speak of meet-
ing at the top of Wyn yard station; to
Sydneysiders, of course, it’s always
Wyny’d. *
* * ♦ *
“Patricia”: At the door was the
young man who had come to deliver the
rotary clothes-line. “Where shall 1 put
it?” he asked. I told him—-in the back-
yard. He peered uneasily down the
drive-way where the sprinkler had
showered a few pools. “It’s too wet for
me to take it down there,” he complained.
“I mean I’m only wearing sandals and
the socks are good ones. Is there any
other way round?” I pointed out the
narrow pathway down the other side of
the house. Remarking that it was rather
overgrown, wasn’t it? he went grudg-
ingly—to bring in the clothes-line. Round
the back he asked where he would put
it. I told him I should like it erected
in the middle of the yard. Erected! He
couldn’t possibly erect it for me. He
didn’t know the first thing about
assembling it. And he never did manual
labor, anyway. I said I couldn’t possibly
do it myself. “No, of course not,” he
agreed sympathetically. “What you really
need is a man to put it up for you.”
« w *
“Zake”: Three sports only seem to
have been singled out for some public
man to make an exhibition of himself
when new grounds or courses are opened
or an important series of sporting events
begin. Let the All Blacks or the Chooms
come in winter, and some celebrity is
faced with the ordeal—and the farce or
kicking-off. What happens? He boots
the ball 10 yards ; it’s brought back and
the real kick-off takes place. In cricket
he bowls the first ball, thereby taking
the risk of belting his toe with
it or bowling it so wide he makes every-
one uncomfortable. Golf, perhaps, is
the worst ordeal. Usually he shapes for
a tremendous drive that will soar horizon-
wards; instead he “tops” it and it trickles
a few inches for an awful anticlimax.
But why shouldn’t the practice embrace
other sports? It would be a sight for the
gods to see the chairman of the racing
club opening a new course to gallop a
steed for a few furlongs, and after he
alighted leave a distinct bow in the prad’s
spinal column, or a stout tennis official
bash the first ball in the Davis Cup
Challenge Round, and then hop over the
net to belt it back again. Or some poli-
tician who’d got in on the nod in a
title fight to have a slug at the champs
jaw. That’s enough for now,
* * * •
“Macnell”: Nelson and still-serving
shipmates regardless, I must agree with
“8.A.K.” (B. 24/ IQ/’5l) that it’s hard
to see how a ship can “wear” a flag.
Actually, I think the retention by sea-
writers of most of these strange nautical
expressions is dictated by the belief that
their use makes it seem that the writer
knows his subject. Often, in conversa-
tion, I’ve unthinkingly mentioned that so-
and-so is “on” a ship (surely the natural
place to put him), even though I must
have taught hundreds of ordinary-seamen
that, correctly, they are “in” their vessel.
Don’t ask me why.
* * * •
“Hist”: Privately we always speak of
the regal lady three doors down as the
“Queen,” but I didn’t know her kids had
picked up the tag until I stopped to read
the “bulletin” hung on their front-gate.
It read “Her Majesty has had
night and the baby is doing fine, and
carried five “signatures”—purporting to
be those of the town’s three doctors,
with the chemist’s and the vet.’s added
to make up the number. I trust that their
father, due home by the next tram to
mine, had a sense of humor adequate to
the occasion.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: In a show-window of
Sydney G.P.0., amongst a display of
modem tele-equipment and appeals to
young people which read more hke lures
to holidaymakers than invitations to work,
lies a sample of the red cloth out of
which the postmen’s coats used to oe
made. Most people, even those old
enough to remem,ber, have forgotten the
time when a blob of red with a splash
of white over it, in the far distance, in-
dicated that the “postie” was in the street.
The white was the helmet that went with
the red coat. Post-office red was the
official color, remembered now only in
the street letter-boxes—and not on all
of these. There was reason in the use
of the color both in the post-office and
the Army —from which it has completely
disappeared, though a soldier used to be
“a redcoat.” Red cloth was esteemed
as an insulator of heat; it was credited
with keeping the hot rays of the sun out
in summer and the warmth of the body m
in the winter.
MIDNIGHT MUSINGS.
Although one’s attitude to Life may be
In general inclined to humoristic.
With little of combustibility
In temper —quite, in fact, philosophistic,
Yet, ’spite of such a potent armory,
Thoughts will intrude at times rather sadistic,
Rendering one quite pleasantly obsessed
With fates that could befall the human pest.
His name is legion, and of course he comes
To do his stuff in multifarious guises.
There’s he who all your thought-processes
numbs
In greeting, as your back he pulverises.
With what delight you’d see, between his gums
(His teeth new-drawn), and given as exercises,
A walnut that he’d be compelled to crack,
And that but one of quite a hefty stack.
For that pestiferous fellow who repeats
The last few words of every sentence after
You, and before he tells a story, bleats
In uncontrollable and asinine laughter
(The yarn, of course, he never quite completes),
And, than his ilk, there’s really nothing
dafter —
His fate I’d join quite ruthlessly with one
Whose curious ways have got him in the gun:
I mean, of course, the man who, as he yaps,
Covers you with a fine spray of saliva,
The while for extra emphasis he raps
Your chest with ironbark knuckles. For
these I’ve a
Harsh fate —to be sung at, till they collapse,
By some obese and long-retired diva
Whose F in alt is one that’s guaranteed
To buckle the legs of any centipede.
The cove who almost leans upon you when
With him along the footpath you are walking;
The idiot who has a maddening yen
To drivel on and keep you from the talking;
We might show some compassion for such men.
Refraining from a vengeful tomahawking,
And shoot them up beyond the stratosphere
To float in astral space from year to year.
The next-door child who before breakfast
“plays”
With dreadful eagerness upon a fiddle,
Scraping the same old tortured tune for days,
Hitting notes everywhere but in the middle —
She and her little sister, who essays
To accompany her with “tum-ta-tum-ta-
tiddle,”
Of mercy and of music both devoid,
Should, I aver, be painlessly destroyed.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Hist”: There was a time when the
annual arrival of commercial calendars
left me unmoved. One firm favored me
with Olde Englishe scenes half-
timbered houses, thatched cottages with
roses around their doors, mill-ponds with
wallowing cows and so forth. I deduce
that during 1948 fresh young blood
was introduced into their executive: at
all events 1949’s calendar broke new
ground with a demure wench, shyly
smiling, in a becoming but modest even-
ing gown. Alas, she took to the primrose
path: in 1950 her smile held invitation,
there was naughty twinkle in her eye,
and her gown, to put it mildly, was “off
the shoulder.” This year the brazen
hussy appeared full-length in the scantiest
of Bikini swimsuits. lam now awaiting
1952’s revelation with the keenest
impatience.
* * * *
“Hamer” has a close call:
In an age when there are numbers of people
prepared to hold umbrellas over ducks in a
thunderstorm, it is remarkable that nothing has
been done to ameliorate the hard conditions of
ants. My interest started when I found that the
paper in my hand (should it be “mandible”?)
was the “Antheap Herald,” and it was full of
such headings as “20,000 Mysteriously Dis-
appear in Murphy’s Larder,” “1000 Missing in
Bickford’s Cupboard” and “Another 500 Die
in Hamer’s Sink.” Having noted that the
Antheap Government had agreed to appoint a
royal commission on the big disappearances,
thus dodging an adverse resolution of the
Opposition, I was just absorbing the horrible
details of the last item when the paper was
jerked away and I found myself detailed to
join a foraging expedition—to Hamer’s sink.
Knowing what happened there daily, it seemed
plain murder, but I knew that the rule of the
Heap was that any ant who dodged his imposed
duty as a working ant was de-legged and hung
up in the community larder for future reference.
My effort to commit suicide by falling from
the wall we were shortly climbing only showed
me that falls like that do not kill ants, and as
the sergeant-major ant came rushing at me,
looking mighty unpleasant, I resumed the climb,
full of misgiving. I knew precisely what was
going to happen; as we foraged amongst the
dishes piled in the sink from dinner and supper
the human Hamer would pour a kettle of boiling
water upon us. Queer ideas worried me; if
this Hamer chap killed me in my ant form,
would he kill himself? I pictured my lifeless
human body being found stretched on the floor
near the sink with the empty kettle near it.
My whispered efforts to stir a mutiny fell on
deaf ears; apparently none of the other ants
had read the “Antheap Herald.” As we reached
the sink I heard sounds that I identified as a
kettle beginning to boil on the stove, and the
footsteps of the human Hamer moving about.
I heard the whistle which indicated that the
ketfle had come to the boil and the purposeful
"I've been dying to try one flat-out for ages."
steps which told me (the ant) that I (the human)
had the kettle in hand and was ready to pour,
probably killing both of us. I have never heard
an ant shriek, but I gave a yell that woke me
up. Half-asleep until then, I was standing over
the sink with an empty kettle in my hand
wondering whether my ant-self was amongst
the corpses that were going down the drain
with the hot, gurgling water. I am doing my
bit to stop such tragedies in the future by
cleaning my dishes at once, before the ants
(which may include a still-alive Hamer emmet)
have settled in them.
$ $ $ sjc
“Higgins”: Tell “Second Proof’ (B.
10/10/’sl) that Armadale is part of the
Federal electorate of Higgins, which,
although it marches with Mr. Menzies’s
electorate, Kooyong, is separated from it
by Gardiner’s Creek. Two historical
events are commemorated in these names.
In 1836 John Gardiner overlanded the
first mob of cattle from N.S.W. to the
infant settlement at Port Phillip, and in
the same year built his house, the first in
Hawthorn, on or about the spot where
Scotch College now stands, giving his
name to the creek which joins the Yarra
there. Henry Bourne Higgins’s house no
longer stands at the corner of Glenferrie-
road and Stonnington-place, but his name
will endure as long as industrial legal
wrangling. It was he, seconded from the
High Court to be first judge in arbitra-
tion, who defined the basic wage.
* * * *
“A.L.”: While we were breaking camp
after a picnic race-meeting on the basalt
tableland of North Queensland, where
over 500 people enjoyed themselves for
a week camped under canvas along the
bank of the Copperfield River, the
remark of a native headstockman made
me think. “Why,” asked the abo., “do
white men try to change the black man’s
way of living, when every time the
white people themselves want to be
happy they go out into the bush and
camp just like black men did years ago?”
Perhaps someone can tell me why we
do disrupt so entirely the natural living
conditions of the native. Are aboriginal
shelters, provided they’re weatherproof,
any less desirable for the sub-tropics than
our own tin-roofed habitation? I have
good reason to think not. The coolest
place one can resort to up there is a
bough- and bark-covered outer veranda.
And, in wintry weather, what’s warmer
than a small gunyah yawning in the
warmth of a good open fire?
* * * *
“Casca”: When the Chinese New First
Army moved from Burma to Canton at
the end of the war they took with them
an elephant From Canton they moved to
North China by sea. On a crowded
troopship there is no room for an
elephant, so the Army presented jumbo
to the city of Canton. The municipal
authorities had perforce to accept with
profuse thanks —refusal would have been
a deadly insult to the Army. Jumbo was
installed in the central gardens, but the
problem of providing feed for him was a
poser until the American-aid programme
brought rice-rationing to China, when the
resourceful mayor registered jumbo as a
citizen of Canton. Thereafter rations for
jumbo were exchanged for suitable
fodder, and he became an institution.
How he fares under Communism I know
not.
» ♦ * ♦
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The dear old ham-
fat whose superciliousness used to delight
me in my younger days still exists. In
the long-ago there was a leading man of
whom an old actor of the time said: “If
he could jettison his conceit sufficiently to
w
old-age pension. Meeting the other day,
we talked of many old theatrical themes,
ipcluding towns that became known as
“actors’ graves” because of their chilly
response to visiting shows. My sugges-
tion that there were still towns which bore
the same sort of reputation brought a
contemptuous curl to his lips. “My
boy,” he said, “how can there be any
act-ors’ graves? There are in these
“ I've come for the rent."
de-ca-dent days no act-ors to be
in-terred.”
* * • ♦
“W.P.T.”: Banks must notice that
there is a big increase in the number of
cheques drawn for small amounts. Many
firms used to pay amounts of less than
10s. by postal-note, but since the increase
in the poundage on postal-notes it is
cheaper to send small amounts by cheque.
A 10s. postal-note costs 6d. poundage,
whereas a cheque can be drawn for 10s.
merely for the cost of the 2d. duty-stamp.
* * • ♦
“Flickers”: Movie pests are a bane to
the cinema patron who wishes to relax
in a well-upholstered seat for three hours
of escapism. The snorers, the talkers,
the restless coves with St. Vitus dance, the
wooers, the chocolate-crunchers, the seat-
kickers —they make life’s leisure moments
a burden. However, one blighted type has
lately vanished from our cinema audi-
ences. He is the pasty-muncher, who
used to breathe savory aromas over
all. His return depends on whether the
potato will ever again be easy to come
by.
♦ ♦ * #
“Ceg”: Umbrellas in action? A friend
of mine, a timber-buyer, was working on
the China coast some time around 1936,
looking for oak and pine logs. Board-
ing a train at a Chinese coastal city, he
headed for the interior. A hundred or
so miles along the route the train was
invaded by Japanese and Chinese troops
—the Japs had been fighting the
Chinese for some time. The Chinese, all
carrying rifles and umbrellas, went in the
front of the train and their enemies, the
Japs, in the rear. Civilians occupied the
neutral centre. So off they went to the
front or railhead wherever it was—my
friend didn’t go the full distance, so he
never found out.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Banksia B.”; Numbers on the gate
(B. 17/10/’51)? An ancient Celestial
used to tot up our weekly vegetable
account on the back-gate. As often as
not one of the mischievous kids would
scrub it out, but Hong Li charged a
weekly two-bob regardless—the sum
covered all the vegetables we could use
in a week. I once asked old Hong Li
when to plant pumpkin-seed. “You never
mind, you plant ’im,” said the sagacious
Oriental, “ ’im know when to come up.”
Sure enough, ’im knew when to come
up, and we had to get out of the place
to make room for the pumpkin-vine.
* * * *
“Dentonio”: Mao’s Government is by
no means the first that has sought to
impose Socialism on China. Centuries
ago two politicians, both of the name of
Wang, persuaded the emperor of the
day to sanction Socialist schemes. One
flourished under the Tang Dynasty; the
other, Wang-an-shi, was a contemporary
of William the Conqueror. This Wang
was appointed Chief Minister and won
the emperor’s consent to a thoroughgoing
Socialist experiment. He nationalised
secondary industry, commerce and agri-
culture. Himself noted for high integrity
of character, he found —as others of his
kidney have done—that it was impossible
to get a sufficiency of likeminded sub-
ordinates. As a result his system func-
tioned badly, the people became restive
under heavily increased taxes, and the
peasants grew only enough food to sup-
port themselves. Heavy floods and other
natural disasters complicated the situation
and made the superstitious Chinese believe
that he had lost celestial favor. Those
most affected by his policy took full
advantage of these factors, his own
brother being one of the leaders of the
opposition. Eventually their pressure
caused the emperor to dismiss him. I
wonder if Mao has studied Wang’s story.
* * ♦ *
“Irving”: When the indentured-labor
system came to an end on the canefields
many of the kanakas declined repatria-
tion to their home islands, possibly
through fear of occupying a stellar yet
passive role at tribal banquets. At least
that would have been a quick finish;
decay and degeneration in the “kanaka
towns” was a more painful and protracted
process. An exception among kanakas
was Tommy Rinkle, who chose to go
bush in the jungle back of Ingham. He
did not touch civilisation again till 1936
when, naked except for a bone sliver
through his nose-cartilage, and too old
to move swiftly, he was caught in the
act of thieving from railway fettlers’
camps.
* * * $
“Rooster”: During the peak-hour rush
I saw a desperate male with vicious twin-
elbow jabs force his way to a vacant
train-seat and place his felt hat on the
seat, while he hoisted his case aloft to
the rack. But in that split-second, a
perspiring female, generously propor-
tioned and laden with parcels, plumped
down fair and square on the hat. The
cheated bloke went livid. “Woman,” he
spluttered, “you’ve ruined my hat!’
Slowly she looked him up and down
“Don’t exaggerate,” she admonished him
“Anyway, y’ can wear it with a non
chalant air. You’ll get by!”
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Teepee”; Advancing in extremely
open order against the Ities near
Giovanni Bierta in Cyrenaica during
1941 our company commander shoutec
the verbal warning “Watch out for anti-
tank and anti-personnel mines!” A
resourceful soldier, motivated by the
desire to relieve the drab routine of desert
warfare, mutilated the message so that it
reached those on the outer flanks as
“Watch out for Organdi and Unsold’s
wines.” A conscientious sergeant halted
the obviously-mangled message and sent
back a “Not understood!” and a request
for a repeat. On its second outward
journey the message was again mutilated
by the bored one so that it reached the
sarge in identical terms. This time he
passed it on after doing his best; it
reached the outer flank as “I don’t know
what the hell the blank means, but if you
come across any Dago plonk don’t drink
it It’s probably been jalloped.”
* * * *
“Swelpme”: There was something
wrong about the action of the signwriter
painting the sign on the shop awning: he
looked clumsy and awkward. Yet his
work, what I could see of it, was very
good! Suddenly I realised what gave the
illusion of poor handskill —he was hold-
ing the brush in his left hand. On my
return I saw that the job was finished —
a fine piece of work, too. Buying a paper
in the shop I noticed the craftsman col-
lecting his pay for the job—and sign-
ing for it with his right hand. I felt
impelled to remark on the incongruity
of a lefthanded signwriter using his right
hand for signing receipts. “I was flogged
into it at school,” he explained with a
grin. “The old coot that taught me used
to snarl: ‘Your writing’ll never be worth
a fig unless I thrash you into using your
right hand.’ ”
SILK SHIRT.
Is this the same ethereal material
Which filled the treasure-chests and robed the
hips
Of queenly ladies —elegant—imperial?
Is this the cloth which launched a thousand
slips?
Is this the substance of a maiden’s prayer?
Is this the rag the hard ascetic loathes?
Is this the stuff which, fashion scribes declare.
Lets women feel unclad, though wearing clothes?
Is this caressing shift the second skin
Which tempted ruffling cavaliers to lord it?
Is it for this the meagre silkworms spin?
Is it for me? It’s not. I can’t afford it.
“As worn by rich Celestial or Latin”—
But not by me. Get thee behind me, satin!
W.A.
NEIL MILLAR.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bass”: I’m having white-ant trouble ;
and I’m learning to respect the enemy.
I’ve known for years that the little
blighters have a knowledge of chemistry
that surpasses mine, and that their
digestive system is something for which
Rockefeller would have swapped his
fortune. Now they’re teaching me a
thing or two about structural engineering
on my own property. The old neglected
feed-shed, which some previous owner
had foolishly built with karri instead of
jarrah, came under notice some weeks
ago, but from the way the little devils
were working it was obvious that the
repair job, once started, would take more
time than I could spare then. When 1
finally got around to it, all the supports
bar two were completely eaten out.
They crumbled at a touch. Those two
uprights, in some manner that I haven’t
yet figured out, took the whole weight of
the building, and they were eaten to a
point beyond which it would have been
impossible to go without bringing down
the shed. But there wasn’t a sign of an
ant. Although I pulled down the shed
and searched thoroughly, the termites
which had been so active a few weeks
earlier had vanished. Thinking back, I
recalled that I’d never seen a white-ant
in timber that collapsed solely through
being eaten. Some instinct or intelligence
tells them when they’ve gone far enough
for their own safety, and they get out
from under before their meal collapses.
To leave that last bit on the plate be-
speaks remarkable discipline; but to
know and to bo able to impart to the
other eaters the knowledge, when a post
or a building is on the point of collapse,
“Hurry up and get t ' bed, Myra, or you'll miss the newsreel."
is sheer genius. I’d take off my hat to
them only they’d eat it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Sausage, the half-grown
greyhound, would have been a retriever
only for something his mother did, and
the result was that in addition to his great
paws, slobbering grin and impregnable
good nature, he had a passionate reluct-
ance to leave anything behind. So that
when he decided to leave the trappers
camped on the Tammit boundary and
adopt Little Curl as a friend and pro-
vider, it was a sight to see the socks,
boots, dead rabbits, setters, skins, hats,
traps, paper-back novels and other
moveable things which Sausage carted to
the hut from the camp. In the end, so
mad were the trappers at losing things,
and so mad Little Curl’s crowd at having
to cart them back, a court was convened
and Sausage was condemned to death.
But when die choice of executioner arose
nobody would accept, for Sausage’s
apparent good nature and joyful inno-
cence made it impossible to hate him or
to coldly do him to death. For the next
three months efforts were made to lose
him in town, maroon him over the river,
sell him, give him away, pay someone to
take him away—all in vain. Then Buhl
Rham, itinerant hawker, appeared and
the unpredictable Sausage adopted him
with as much fervor as he had earlier
bestowed on L. Curl. We were glad to
see Sausage go, although Curl’s best silk
tie, Fleming’s Panama hat and my
“genuine snakeskin” slippers were never
seen again. Doubtless B. Rham got a
good price for them.
* * * *
“Ceg”: A fair surf was running in the
Lonsdale Bight near Queenscliff (Vic.),
just inside the heads. Several orthodox-
type surf-fishermen were in operation and
getting well doused in the process. I
noticed
one angler,
however,
c o m f o rt-
abiy seated
on a dry
tussock o f
grass amidst
the dunes.
The large
kite he was flying was well out to sea;
from its cord a fishing-fine descended
into the surf. He had a well-filled bag
and apparently a complicated time when
he got a “hit.”
* * * *
“Rus”: When Oscar Wilde, in writing
of the process of pollination, referred to
the “pander wind” he probably did not
realise how expertly he tagged the nor’-
west monsoon in N.Q. latitudes, for dur-
ing its phase all living things of pro-
creative age reach their zenith of their
mating urge, many departing revolu-
tionarily from their normal behavior
patterns. When the nor’-west gives way
to the cooling and parching south-east
trades nature resumes its celibate routine.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A party of schoolboys will
next year be taken on a conducted tour
of caves on the Nullarbor Plains, and
from the envious remarks that have been
passed here you’d think W.A. was full of
would-be troglodytes. Any Westralian
who wants to explore caves can do so at
will, with the possibility of discovering
underground caverns which may surpass
anything that has yet been opened to the
public. Thirty or 40 years ago parties
use d to go out to Wanneroo on a corn-
bined ’roo-hunt, fishing expedition and
cave-exploration. We could live off what
the ocean and bush offered, and although
bomb-shelters weren’t thought of then,
we had hideouts where we’d have been
safe from almost anything short of an
atom-bomb. Further north, near the
Moore River, there are even bigger and
better caves. If the treasure brought
ashore from the wrecked Dutch ship Gilt
Dragon is ever found, it will probably
be in one of those caves; and there may
be any amount of pirate-treasure hidden
along there. There’s weekend adventure
in plenty for any Perthite who cares to
look for it—yet they crowd dance-halls
and theatres and envy the cave-seekers
on the Nullarbor!
* * ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: The cuckoos
arrived in force at the beginning of
“There, SEE what happens to little boys who Won't eat their worms!”
winter, and the scale-like note of the
bronzewing has sounded daily for several
months. I’ve watched the songster, and
whenever he’s singing he’s alone —and
always conspicuously placed on top of a
high tree or a telephone-pole. I take it
that he’s trying to create the impression
among the nest-builders that he’s too busy
to be depositing eggs in their homes —
what time his spouse is looking for an
unguarded nest. She must have found
one, for the other day, investigating a
commotion in a scrub-wren’s nest, I saw
an outsize fledgling muscling its smaller
mates aside and clamoring for food.
The two little foster-parents weren’t in
the race to supply its needs, and they
ranged far from the nest in search of
food. As I watched, when the wrens
were away, the two cuckoos slipped in
with a mouthful each, and the clamor
ceased for a minute. They’re still feed-
ing their hopeful on the sly, and, while 1
don’t suppose they give any to the young
wrens, they’ve gone up in my estimation.
A bloke isn’t completely lost if he’ll feed
his kids.
* * * *
“Wippegong”; Don’t know if the green
coats had anything to do with it, but
there was a rare Donnybrook in the back
paddock this afternoon. Thought at first
that there were chicks about to leave a
nest somewhere —the clamor suggested
appetites that could no longer be satisfied
by harassed parents —but 1 couldn’t recog-
nise the noise; no wrens, tomtits, honey-
eaters, finches or even cuckoos kicked
up that sort of shindy. Came on the
disturbance right up a big white-gum;
a pair of pardalotes had settled in a nice
snug hollow, and a pair of little lorikeets
wanted it. Usually the most reserved of
the small fowl, feeding among the leaves
and taking no notice whatever of other
people’s affairs, the pardalotes knew their
own minds plainly enough when some-
body else crossed their path, and not for
all the parrots that ever screeched an in-
sult were they going to quit a home on
which they’d paid a deposit and already
put in a tidy bit of work. And were
they vocal! The mild “Whitchew” which
comprises most of their normal conver-
sation bore no resemblance to the shrill
abuse they flung at the gaudy intruders,
and although the enemy was twice their
weight, each diamond-bird put the full
force of its ounce-and-a-bit into each
attack. There’s been a lot of evictions
among the hollow-spout tenants this
season, but I’ll be sorry if these flash in-
truders are able to enforce v.p. from the
steady little citizens who were there first.
They’re a bit like the present-day _ house-
wife —everybody else can pass their kicks
on, but she cops the lot.
* * * *
“Vet”; Buff had almost finished clean-
ing the cow-yard when I noticed the thin
bandage on one of his fingers. It was
darker than the rest of his hand. Clean-
ing out the chock-house deepened the
color still further, and the couple of bags
of seed-spuds he sorted after that were
particularly dirty. The bandage got
soaked as he washed the pig-trough, but
dried again when he rubbed down his
nag with his hands. After that there was
a dead sheep to skin, and dogs to feed,
then Buff rinsed his maulers under the tap,
rubbed them on a chaff-bag he picked
up in the corner, and came in to dig up
some tucker. “What about your band-
age. Buff?” I suggested, eyeing its tattered
remains dubiously. “Couldn’t you take
it off?” He looked up in surprise. “Aw,
cripes, no,” he replied. “Scratched me
finger on a bit o’ barb yest’d’y, an’ I got
t’ keep ’er clean till she heals up.”
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: “Got meself some diff’rent
sort o’ boots,” announced Seventyfiver,
unwrapping a pair of high rubbers. “Last
longer, they tell me, an’ y’ c’n walk in
water.” After some trouble he wriggled
his feet into his purchase, and gleefully
splashed through every puddle on the
way to work. “Awful hot, these things,”
he mentioned at midday. “Makes y’r
feet sweaty an’ sore.” He squatted on
a box and tried to pull the boots off. Ten
minutes later he was still trying, and
bawling irritably for help. I grabbed a
boot, tugged, got both hands to it, and
had dragged the old coot across the hut,
out the door, and as far as the hitching-
stump before he decided to keep ’em on
a bit longer. Several times during the
afternoon he wriggled vainly at his boots,
and at dusk I found him on the hut step,
still pulling. I lit the fire, put on the
billy and mustered some grub, and still
the old bloke sat mournfully on the step
tugging at his boots. There was a hope-
ess expression on his mug when finally
he hobbled in, “Y’ know, Sol, the bloke
in the shop warned me,” he remarked
sadly, eyeing his rubber-encased hoofs,
“only I wasn’t a wake-up, when he says
that after I’d wore these ’ere boots once
I wouldn’t never again wear no other
sort.”
* * * *
“Billy T.”t Although I never saw one
of her breed in that land, every time my
Irish terrier shakes her head she takes
me back to India. It’s the speed that
does it; the soft ears slapping her skull
beat just the same time as the little drums
carried by the nomads who make a crust
by showing performing monkeys in the
street. All such wandering entertainers
announce their approach with a distinctive
noise; the snake-charmers play a gourd
“pipe,” and the advance-agent for pre-
cocious monkeys twirls a little drum.
Shaped like an hourglass, with skin taut
across the ends, it is beaten by little balls
like quandong-nuts threaded on strings
just long enough for the nut to whack
the skin when the little double-drum is
shaken by its waist. I could never get
the right speed (so didn’t ever open
negotiations for the hire of monkeys),
but pup has the proper timing; she could
be exploited to advantage in that land
of contradictions. Don’t think 111 send
her; couldn’t bear to picture Chundra
Bose suspending a brass gong below her
neck, hanging nuts from her ears, then
infesting her with irritants the better to
herald his approach.
NIGHT SONG.
Down by the wind-washed marshes
The plover cries her pain,
High on the lonely ridges
The fox howls in vain.
A pale moon rides the water
And mirrors her cold frown,
In their foolish misery
May fox and plover drown.
Will never the morning waken
To hear of the magpie’s delight?
O, the magpie is dressed in mourning
For her song that died in the night.
O, morning will never dawn carefree
Or moon withdraw her disdain,
Till fox and plover and magpie
Lie with their loves again.
N.S.W.
OLGA SCHLUNKE.


J-
-5\ • v " ' -r-
-mwt
it
tin
COR
/m.
HU
, .&
■■■'
mmsm
t
3**
AS*
*
•:-:S : : ;:
■m
m
m
AJWS
ill
<& • ;>><.'•
SIGNS TO REMEMBER
Published in the Interests of the Motoring Public by
tie commonweiito oil refineries ltd.
f NO'
Nnwis
w
Buy where you see
this sign . . .
INDEPENDENT
for Product Quality
and Super Service
C95/19
▼ T ¥ V
“Eureka”: “It’s no use counting sheep
as a cure for insomnia any more,” Wool-
bales remarked. “I tried it the other
night, but after I’d counted for ten
minutes I started thinking about the price
of wool, and that set me calculating how
much I was worth, and then I got round
to thinking about the tax I’d be up foi
year, and then damned if I could
get off to sleep for worrying about it!”
♦ * * *
“Shamuseen”; The recent deaths, pre-
sumably from pneumonia, of a number
of Westralian abos after they had
swabbed themselves with cold water at
the peak of influenza-temperatures, pro-
vide another instance of how Binghi, by
his own “bush medicine,” helps to ease
himself off this mortal coil. During a
malarial epidemic in the Torres Straits
Islands I’ve seen a 10 p.c. mortality-
rate because, at the behest of the local
bush-medicine” practitioner, the patients
literally bled to death after slicing them-
selves wildly in their attempts “to let the
bad blood out.” The medicine-man’s
prescription was followed despite their
possession of ample quinine and atebrin
and painstaking instruction on how to
use the drugs. In the absence of strong-
man supervision Binghi will jettison the
tvhite man’s medicine for his own
Spartan prescriptions. The higher
malarial mortality-rate among native than ;
European victims is another proof of the
uselessness of Binghi’s “bush medicine,”
despite the fictitious virtues assigned ’it
by Pitt-street explorers.
* #
Sackfair”; Old Mick suffered from
the belief that he was a funny-man; the
rest of us suffered from his atrocious
puns. Generally we managed to keep
him hammered down, but young Ted, the
new fellow, was interested in native birds
—and they offered too much scope.
“Anyone hear the owl last night?” asked
“This should be just about enough for a Wall-to-wall rug."
the young bloke conversationally. “Yair,”
came in Old Mick; “I ’card a ’owl.
Wonder what was bloomy well ’owlin’?”
It wasn’t even original; still Teddy grinned
politely. Later he happened to mention
that he’d seen a brown-bittern in the
swamp several days before, but the bird
had taken fright and never returned.-
“Only natural,” commented the punster.
“Once bittern, twice shy.” The young
chap’s grin was a valiant effort. At tea-
time he happened to remark that Aus-
tralian graziers were luckier than New
Zealanders in one respect—on a station
he’d worked at in the Shivery Isles
batches of gulls had come in from the
sea and had pecked lambs’ eyes out,
crow-fashion. “There was a lot of
gulls where I worked once,” chipped in
the old bloke. “There were boys, too.
but I was more interested in the gulls.”
Teddy took that one without a groan.
The end came during a discourse on
herons. Old Mick contributed: “They’re
pretty good eatin’ —as long as there’s
plenty o’ tomater-sauce with ’em and you
don’t get potmain-poisonin’ off the tin.”
The young cove breathed through his
nose, then asked quietly; “Do you know
whether the boss’s niece is interested in
birds?” Six pairs of eyebrows asked
“Why?” “I was just thinking she might
like to know that a bald-coot was snoop-
ing about in the rushes while she was
having a swim this morning,” he
explained innocently. Old Mick suddenly
jammed his hat on.
* * ♦ *
“E.”: Dad bought a closed cylinder,
battled, wheedled and heavily financed
himself into possession of a few lengths
of piping and tackled the job of putting
in a hot-water service. The work took
every hour he could spare, and some he
couldn’t, plus an epidemic of spousely
prompting for several months, but
eventually he connected up the final
joint and instructed Mum to stoke the
fire. And the thing worked! Prouc
the old bloke turned the tap over t
wash-bench and felt the hot water, A
morning the fire was kept blazing, anc
by midday the water had reached boilin
point. “Come and see, Dave,” Mu;
called delightedly, “Hot water.” On h
way in Dave suddenly let out a yell anc
jumped for the door. “Hell, yes, ho
water all right,” he agreed. “But cripe
I don’t go much on these newfanglec
ideas meself.” Dad’s voice had joinec
Mum’s in howling down Dave’s ok
fashioned outlook, when an infuriatec
bawl came from outside, and, followin
the rushing cat, Joe appeared in the door
way cursing solidly. “Hot-water system!
howled Joe. “Whose flamin’ idea?”
“Mine.” Dad’s jaw set ominously
“Mine. So what?” “Nothing, only..
that safety outlet,” parried Joe, th
color receding on one side of his face
“Gripes, couldn’t y* fix it someway so th
boilin’ overflow don’t land right outside
the kitchen-door?”
* * ♦ ♦
“Chuck”; The engine chugged to life
once more, but, as I’d worked through
smoke-oh, I paused a minute and ran an
eye over my small three-stand shearing-
shed. Needed a few more renovations
when material supplies improved, but
even with what she had, she was better
equipped than when I built her. Mus
have been inconvenient in those days, bui
we hadn’t noticed. Seemed a long time
ago. Bob, Sandy, and old Jim always
shore for me then. Came back year after
year, and looked forward to coming.
Grand blokes, they were. The sweat
trickled down Bob’s torso as he and Sandy
worked to beat each other for the catch,
while old Jim bawled encouragement
from a 10-sheep lead, and tallied his 180
without seeming effort. And the nights
we had! Especially after cut-out. Ah,
yair! Regretfully I sighed the years back
into place, and glanced at the board.
Shearers were scarce, and I was lucky to
fill the three stands this year. Now, four
minutes after the bell, the far bloke was
still eyeing the weather through the light-
vent and finishing his smoke. The second
was slowly dragging the best-looking ewe
from the pen and swearing at nothing in
particular, and the third, swinging his
victim in the hope I wouldn’t notice his
machine had just collected both teats, was
bawling a reminder to record his tally
for the last run. It was 19.
MISS SPARROW.
She was a pretty sparrow
And very young at that,
And with spring round the corner
Young Sparrow raised his hat.
She didn’t like his manner
And shyly flew away;
But he, being young and cheeky,
Still had a lot to say.
Again she now repulsed him,
He wouldn’t take defeat
And tried and tried to kiss her;
But every time was beat.
And then he came the rough stuff
Like actors on the screen,
Pulled at her wings and feathers—
A most disgraceful scene!
With sadden speed she darted
Deep down a bushy track,
The impudent young fellow
Flying dosely at her back.
Ah! but midst a maze of branches
She burrowed like a cricket,
Wedged where he couldn’t reach her—
Miss Sparrow’s usual thicket.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST FEVER.
The happenings in Egypt are
seen by London “Economist” —
and indeed the British Press
generally—as a result of, and
typical of, the violent nationalist
fever that has spread over the
Middle East.
Instances quoted include men
earning good wages in the Canal
Zone from the British Army
joining the demonstrations to
demand the immediate evacua-
tion of all British forces from
Egypt, well knowing that if the
British did leave they would be
left unemployed.
Also, “The tradesman who
sells vegetables to the canteens
or curios to individual soldiers
knows he would be ruined if the
army were evacuated; but he,
too, is swayed by the majority;
he believes the oft-repeated
statements of politicians and
journalists that the wealth of the
country has been ‘stolen’ by
British Imperialists and that
when they leave Egypt everyone
will be comfortable. Nor does
the average Egyptian newspaper
reader realise that many rich
Pashas have used the ‘imperialist’
bogy to divert the attention of
the fellah from the prosperity of
the Egyptian, upper classes.”
The Persian example, of
course, has had its effects:
“Away from the hysterical
crowds of demonstrators,
thoughtful Egyptians have been
amazed at Persia’s success in its
quarrel with Britain. They, too,
believe the Government of Nahas
Pasha was wise to abrogate the
1936 Treaty. This view is to
some extent due to a fear in the
minds of many intelligent
Egyptians that as long as White-
hall administers the Sudan the
Nile water may at some time be
diverted there, with appalling
effects on the economy of the
lower Nile valley, which depends
on irrigation.”
And then there is another
cause —Israel —the most serious
of all bitterness in Egypt to-
wards Britain arising from
Whitehall’s refusal to supply the
Egyptians with arms and ammu-
nition at a time when they be-
lieve that they were engaged in
a life-and-death struggle with
the Jews: “The Egyptian feels
that Britain, if still a great
Power, should in some way have
prevented the establishment of
the State of Israel, whose eco-
nomic and territorial expansion
is feared.”
As for the Egyptian claims on
the Sudan, these “rest primarily
on the conquest of the Sudan in
1821 by Mohammed Ali, the
Ottoman viceroy of Egypt. The
60 years of subjection which
followed brought the Sudan
nothing but brutal oppression
and a highly organised slave
trade run by Egyptian merchants
and officials. The Mahdist
revolt of 1882 was basically an
outburst of resentment against
this exploitation, and it was not
until 1898 that the Sudan was
reconquered by Lord Kitchener’s
British and Egyptian army. The
Anglo-Egyptian Convention of
1899, which created the con-
dominium, made no reference
to Ottoman or Egyptian
sovereignty, confining itself to
administrative arrangements and
to the provision that both the
British and the Egyptian flags
should be flown in the territory.
The Treaty of 1936 merely con-
firmed these arrangements.
“Egypt’s claim that the Sudan
has always been Egyptian terri-
tory thus rests on the flimsy
foundations of conquest by the
Ottoman empire, 60 years of ex-
ploitation from Cairo at a time
when Egypt itself was a Turkish
dependency, reconquest b y
Anglo-Egyptian forces on British
initiative, and the fact that the
1899 Convention did not speci-
fically terminate Ottoman
sovereignty. On historical
grounds of this kind Portugal
could make out a better claim to
Brazil, India to Burma, or
Turkey to Egypt itself.”
Strategic Retreat?
Paris “Le Monde” sets forth a
French view of the Middle East
happenings:
“Since the end of the war the
whole strategy of Britain and the
Commonwealth has been based
on the conclusions of a report by
Field - Marshal Montgomery.
After minutely examining the
defence possibilities of the Em-
pire the Field-Marshal con-
cluded that a general withdrawal
was necessary in the Far and
Middle East, where strongpoints
easily defended or evacuated
should alone be maintained. The
larger part of the British forces
was to be regrouped on Africa,
which would be protected by a
chain of islands and aerodromes
extending from Gibraltar to the
Persian Gulf
“One may in these circum-
stances wonder if the Persian
withdrawal, even when the enor-
mous investments that seem to
be abandoned have been taken
into consideration, does not con-
stitute a strategic withdrawal
which would permit the British
Commonwealth to rebuild else-
where its oil power on which its
economic and commercial de-
velopment is based.”
U.S. in the Oil Row.
When such a British paper as
London “Economist” which
has on many occasions extended
its general fairness to generous
praise of American policy and
acts —turns harshly on U.S.
failure to co-operate in Middle
East oil and other troubles the
feeling in Britain on this issue is
very plainly indicated.
In the U.S. itself the authori-
tative “New York Times” has
admitted that “It was the refusal
of the United States from the
beginning to take sides and the
clear warning that we would not
back the use of force by the
British to protect their property
which in one sense determined
the outcome.”
This U.S. policy, it added,
“meant that if the Iranians re-
fused to compromise in any way
the British would be forced out
of the Iranian oilfields and the
Abadan refinery.”
A correspondent of the same
New York paper, in apologist
comment on the issue, put the
blame on Britain: “At first the
British were extremely cool to
any hint of American mediation.
In London and Tehran they took
the attitude that th»y knew Iran
and Iranian tactics better than
we did and were quite capable of
dealing with the situation them-
selves.”
Stating that the American
policy thereabouts has been “to
prevent by all possible means
any explosion of force,” the
American apologist added that
“In present circumstances it is
felt in Washington that any
spark might light the forest fire
we are building defences to pre-
vent. In our position as the
nerve-centre and the core of
power, moreover, any conflagra-
tion certainly would involve us.
This is why Britain cannot take
even a small risk without assur-
ance of American support.”
Further on the American
side, “Manchester Guardian’s”
New York correspondent de-
clared that “The only British
policy which would have turned
the present American gloom into
horror was the implied Con-
servative policy of holding Aba-
dan by force. This was one
alternative which was castigated
equally by Mr. Truman, the
State Department, the great
majority of the United Nations
and the American Chiefs of
Staff.”
In editorial comment “New
York Times” added doubtingly
that time alone could show
whether or not the U.S. policy
had been wise—on which the
British reply would be that it
has been wisdom’s direct oppo-
site. And this view has been
supported in at least one Ameri-
can quarter, a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
commenting:
“Total unmitigated disaster is
not too strong language to
describe the consequences of a
failure to find or to force a rea-
sonable solution of the Persian
problem. But the [U.S.] State
Department Middle Eastern divi-
sion, which appears to care far
more about international popu-
larity. contests than American
vital interests, does not seem to
be aware of any of these
things.”
The same American corres-
pondent added that “This
disaster, which most Americans
comfortably dismiss as another
hard knock for the British, is,
in fact, just as much a disaster
for the United States.”
What has disappointed
Britain, in Edinburgh “Scots-
man’s” finding, has been the
American tendency (“tendency”
“De Volkskrant," Amsterdam.
"EVERYBODY READY?”
seems hardly the word) “to put
both parties to the dispute on
the same level”; “The British
may well feel that the Ameri-
cans might have openly recog-
nised the justice of Britain’s
case, since it is in the interests
of all countries that international
agreements should not be uni-
laterally repudiated."
The “Economist,” accepting
that “What the British Govern-
ment could or could not do in
Persia was, in the last analysis,
dictated by Washington,”
bluntly commented:
“On the major issue the
Americans still do not seem to
realise what they have done.
The Middle East is an area of
the most vital importance to the
whole alliance of the free world,
and it has been held for the free
world hitherto by British prestige
and power. The withdrawal
from Abadan —a policy imposed
on Britain by America, since it
was America that vetoed the
alternative —has caused great
damage to British prestige and
may have incalculable conse-
quences for British power. The
Americans do not seem to dis-
pute that the Anglo-Iranian Oil
Company has a sound claim, in
law and in equity, to its conces-
sion. To admit the British to be
in the right but to acquiesce in
their having no remedy—indeed,
to hold them back from match-
ing arbitrary acts by arbitrary
acts —is to do what Neville
Chamberlain did to the Czechs.
The occasion is less dramatic;
but the parallel is a close one.
“This policy of appeasement
has created a vacuum of power
in the Middle East. Are the
Americans ready to fill it?
Otherwise, if their policy is
appeasement and nothing more,
it will have the usual conse-
quence—the Middle East will
pass to those who have more
logic and more courage... .The
Americans have now deliberately
acquired the rights to Neville
Chamberlain’s umbrella. The
only way in which they can sal-
vage anything from the wreck —
the wreck in the Middle East
and the very heavy strain on
their relations with their princi-
pal ally—is to open up the
umbrella and spread the protec-
tion of their direct responsibility
over the whole Middle East. If
they will do that the British will
try not to obstruct them with
more suspicion, jealousy and
backbiting than they themselves
have had to put up with in the
days of their own responsi-
bility.”
Danger Time.
The next 12 months, during
which the balance of power
should swing steadily in favor
of the West, will, in London
“Observer’s” view, be a time of
very great danger in Europe.
For Europe during this
danger period, it adds, “it is
even more necessary than in
Korea to ensure that increasing
strength is matched by policies
of moderation. But it is essential
that the West should not flinch
in its resolve to reach a position
of superior strength from which
it can negotiate with Russia with
some prospect of success. There
will be plenty of timid voices
boldly demanding an end to
rearmament as we narrow the
gap between our strength and
that of Russia.”
One might add, not only
“timid” voices. That very de-
mand has been a major propa-
ganda point of the Communist
fifth-column.
Various Voices.
Winston Churchill: “I believe
that if the British Empire and
Commonwealth joined in
fraternal association with the
United States and with the grow-
ing power of Western Europe —
including a reconciled France
and Germany—if they all worked
steadfastly together, then the
time will come, and may come
sooner than is now expected,
when a settlement may be
reached which will give us peace
for a long time. That is our
hearts’ desire.”
I Anthony Eden (asked “What
do you think are the chances of
avoiding a third world war, and
what are the prospects of
peace?”): “I am absolutely con-
vinced that world peace can be
preserved on the basis of true
Anglo-American understanding.
This does not mean that either
country has to give way to the
view of the other, but it means
an intelligent and informed
partnership in every sphere.”
Attlee: “I do not believe that
Russia is planning for war, but
you must have adequate forces,
because wars are not always
brought about by scoundrels
like Hitler. They are sometimes
brought about by blazing fools
like the Kaiser. There is always
the danger of someone chancing
his arm too far,”
German Chancellor Adenauer
(on fears that German rearma-
ment would provoke Russia):
“I can answer these fears with
an emphatic no. For the Soviet
Union it would be mere suicide
if she committed aggression
against America and Europe
joined in a common defence
block. European defence unity
has an absolutely defensive
character. Russia will not wage
a hot war because of this, since
it cannot feel threatened by such
a defensive block.”
British Liberal-party Chair-
man Frank Byers: “It is about
time the trades-union movement
was told to its face that it would
do better to drop politics and
get on with the job of increasing
production in the national
interest.”
Britain’s Chief of Naval
Operations, Admiral William
Fechteler: “Air attack alone will
not stop the advance of the
Russian Army against Western
Europe... .if Russia is success-
ful in establishing herself across
Europe to the Atlantic seaboard
her objective will have been
attained, and the burden of
meeting her next advance will
fall upon our children.”
Italian Prime Minister de
Gasperi: “It is now clear that
we cannot avoid war unless we
achieve a balance of forces. I
would say that rearmament, a
reasonable rearmament, is not in
contrast with, but is in Europe
a condition for reconstruction in
the same way as economic re-
covery, as laid down by the
Marshall Plan, aims at ensuring
the defence of freedom and
democracy.”
Former British Labor M.P.,
Raymond Blackburn: “Winston
Churchill, with Anthony Eden,
has proved consistently right in
relation to both the Nazi
and Communist attempts to
dominate the world.”
American Governor Dewey :
“Specifically, I believe that it is
vital to the defence of the
United States and the continued
existence of the free world that
we start immediately to build a
well-rounded and complete
Pacific Mutual Defence Alli-
ance” (meaning, of course, a
considerable extension of the
present Pacific Pact).
German Social Democratic
leader. Dr. Kurt Schumacher:
“The three Western Powers have
reached an agreement among
themselves on a German policy
based on the French line. It is
not an agreement between the
Western Foreign Ministers and
the German people. In other
words the decision has not yet
been made. Now the German
people have the final word, now
the contest begins.”
Lady Violet Bonham-Carter
(speaking at Uppermill, Eng.):
“I often feel as though the whole
nation had got the cramp. Do
you know the text in the Bible-
‘Thou shaft not muzzle the ox
that treadeth out the com’? To-
day we are a nation of muzzled
oxen and that’s why we are short
of corn. First we are all tied
up with rules and regulations like
so many trussed hens, and then
we are exhorted to show the
Dunkirk spirit. It’s no good ex-
pecting the Dunkirk spirit from
a muzzled ox or a trussed hen.”
John Cowles, publisher of the
Minneapolis ( U.S.A .) ‘Tribune
(after a world tour): “Many
highly intelligent Europeans and
Asians, individuals who loathe
Russian totalitarianism and
believe completely in the demo-
cratic ideal, fear that through
ineptness the United States is
going to blunder into war with
Russia or that we [Americans]
will become so provoked at
Russia’s exasperating conduct
that we will ourselves precipitate
war. It is difficult for Americans
who have not recently talked
with political and intellectual
leaders in Europe and Asia to
realise how widespread this view
is. Much of the world thinks
that the United States has only
one idea, that of confining
Russian Communism by military'
might.”


5 SftU
a
co
7^
o
u
A'
SectMa«^e&vt«a
You are invited to see a
demonstration of the world’s
most economical Cooker —the
British-built AGA! No matter
how long you cook—nor how
much you cook you can’t
increase you fuel-bills by a
penny, for the AGA is guar-
anteed not to burn more than
a specified, and very small,
quantity of coke per year.
It also makes you free for
life of power restrictions.
And never were dishes more
delicious, nor cooking quite
so clean and effortless! You’ll
find the AGA simple to
manage, and cool to work
with, for its superb insula-
tion keeps both cook and kit-
chen cooL it is handsome, too,
with its streamlined design
and sparkling chrome and
vitreous enamel finish. Let
us show you what a pleasure it
is to own a wonderful AGA!
COOKER
IM |HP
•jnmv.W4WM
mi
m
Him.
-*RS
StJA *ANTEf
*
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS OR SEE A DEMONSTRATION
OF THE "AGA" AT
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET ADELAIDE- CNR
MARGARET & ALBERT STREETS. BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS- AS
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; WA. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS LTD. PERTH
A3/ISO
Divorce Notice. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM LESLIE PURCELL late of
Petersham. —T AKE NOTICE that
THERESA JANE PURCELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 8069 of 1951 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
January 3rd 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from A. R.
SHAW, Solicitor, 84 Martin Place, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUOHAN, Registrar.
KUT> mom SAFE)
-afiiU
SANDERS
Correspondent;*. Invoices,
•totements. etc., filed In the
"Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
(be end of each month —or
any other period
ẁ
Prl««v ftatf (M>
»tr tmtrnnmmUmm
appll«»tla»
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. .. Docket Book Co. (Auflt.)
iS
name
the
S
C
the uihiskij is:
ẃ
.CO
v Ml
i s:
'6
|minuiiiiiiiiii-i!( f
J? I
s <1 1
“The pursuit
of perfection
is the
pursuit of
sweetness and
liglit”
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“But you’re not the type a man
would dessert.”
—Short story in women's magazine.
Unless he got sweet on some-
one else, of course.
* *
“Experiment with perfume until
you find the one which best expresses
your personality.” —Beauty hint.
Once you get on to the scent,
follow it
• 4*
“The bride and groom were on
time, but the clergyman was 45
minutes late.”
Yet, for the time being, every-
thing went without a hitch.
“Horsewhipping, says 86-year-old
composer Otta Hofmann, is a great
emotional experience.”
Ah! There’s nothing like it
for the common weal.
“In the cabin of a rocket-ship the
space traveller of the future will be
suspended, floating effortlessly and
without direction.”
—Sydney "Sunday Sun."
Many civil servants have been
doing that for years,
“Thieves have ripped outside
plumping pipes from dozens of
suburban homes.” —Sydney "Sun."
And no doubt they’ll fatten on
their ill-gotten gains,
•P *£• •i*
“Designing your public face is a
complicated business.”
—Womens paper.
Especially when you have
much to make up for.
Decision: A Draw.
ŵ
BERT.
Proof Positive.
“Moscow Radio has announced
that the first bicycle in the world was
made in Moscow in 1801 by a worker
from Penza Province named Arta-
monov.”
The authenticity of the claim
was established only after many
years of careful investigation by
the Department For Proving
Russian Inventions, which is
now second only to the Depart-
ment of Purges as the premier
bureaucratic organisation in the
U.S.S.R.
Illustrations on bas-reliefs in
ancient Egypt and Babylon
showing two-wheeled vehicles
being propelled by muscular
effort have, according to Pro-
fessor Gesmoestov, who is in
charge of the department,
wrongly led the world to be-
lieve for so long that some
crude form of bicycle was used
by man several thousand years
ago. This is not so. The pro-
fessor himself, the famous in-
ventor of the telephone, has, by
scientific thought, proved,
according to Moscow Radio,
that what the ancient Egyptian
and Babylonian artists intended
to draw was a fish-trap or a
loofah, but so primitive had
been their draftsmanship they
made them look like early
bicycles.
The hundreds of illustrations
of man-propelled two-wheel
vehicles extant in libraries and
museums up and down the
world merely afford added proof
of the wretched artistic standard
of all other nations except
Russia, which produced three of
the greatest painters of all time;
Michael Angelov, Rembrandto-
vich and Raphaelski.
Moscow Radio has given the
following details of how the dis-
covery was made which led to
"No charge , Sergeant —I do this just for the love of it.”
the bicycle’s inventor being
established beyond even the
shadow of a doubt.
In 1943 the guards at the great
slave-labor camp near Nijni
Novgorod were supervising the
usual daily work of the politica
prisoners, which consisted o::
raking up the bodies of other
prisoners who had died o:
starvation, or disease, or hac
been shot on suspicion of har-
boring anti-Stalinist thoughts
and digging a pit in which the
bodies would be quicklimed
While digging one of the
prisoners unearthed a skull.
It was at first thought it might
have been that of Ivan Yorickov
the famous Russian jester, to
whom the lying English Shak-
speare gave a Danish name and
had him at Elsinore Castle,
whereas, in fact, as every
Russian knows, he was jester to
Ivan the Terrible; his typical
Russian humor based on de-
formed idiots and suicides did
much to lighten the gloom of
that monarch’s court. A
peculiarity in the lower jaw,
however, caused it to be sent to
D.P.R.I.
There the professor found that
the chin-bone had had a trans-
verse fracture, and by a series of
brilliant ratiocinatory deductions
he was able to reconstruct a
tragedy which had robbed Russia
of one of its most celebrated
inventors.
Professor Gesmoestov de-
duced that such a fracture could
have been caused in only three
ways: by a 7ft. man sitting in
a baby car and suddenly sneez-
ing, thereby cracking his down-
ward-thrust chin on his knees ;
being kicked in the lower face
by a draughthorse; or falling
from a bicycle in a special way.
The first two possibilities were
eliminated with magnificent
logic. By intricate skull mea-
surements Professor Gesmoestov
established that the skull-owner
could not have been more than
6ft. IHin., that he had walked
with a rolling gait, had forward-
jutting ears and warts on his
back, ginger hair on his chest
and had always carried a bone-
handled penknife. This, taken
in conjunction with the fact that
in 1801 there were no baby
cars, these having not been
invented in Moscow until later
that century, clearly disposed of
the first cause.
As the skull-owner’s height
had been 6ft. it would
not have been possible, the pro-
fessor reasoned, for him to have
been kicked on the chin by a
draughthorse, which cannot
kick higher than 6ft. 2in., which
would miss the chin of a
6ft. man by fully 3in.,
unless the draughthorse was
standing in a slightly-elevated
position. As it was not the prac-
tice in Russia in 1801 to stand
draughthorses in slightly-elevated
positions, this ruled out the
second cause, for even if the
man had been in a kneeling posi-
tion the draughthorse’s kick
would have gone over his head.
The obvious thing, then, was
that the skull-owner had fallen
off a bike, and as there were no
known bicycles anywhere prior
to 1801 it followed, ipso facto,
that the skull-owner must have
invented one. This is confirmed
by the fact that he walked with
a rolling gait, strongly suggest-
ing he was, or had been, a sailor,
or knew something about the
sea. This is given added force
when it is realised that sailors
have a passion for riding
bicycles.
The archives in Moscow re-
vealed that several thousand
Artamonovs had lived there
around 1801. Diligent search
revealed that one of them, Buz-
off Artamonov, had left by pub-
lic transport for Murmansk. It
was therefore quite feasible, the
Russian transport system being
what it was and is, for him to
finish up in Nijni Novgorod,
From that point Professor
Gesmoestov swiftly and cleverly
reconstructed the tragedy. The
jaw fracture was consistent with
a fall off a bike made by a man
pedalling into the teeth of a
strong westerly with his head
down while riding down a very
steep hill, his long beard getting
caught either in the wheel-spokes
or the pedals. The fact that the
hills around Nijni Novgorod are
steep and only slope downwards
sealed off the last doubt as to
the skull-owner’s identity.
It has been by brilliant rea-
soning such as this, Moscow
Radio says, that the invention
of the wickless candle, the non-
reflecting mirror, the grooveless
gramophone-records and other
brilliant achievements have
recently been traced to long-
dead Russians.
Bo.
Modern Poem.
(The cook who wrote it
Was cleverer than he knew.
He wrote a modern poem
While making out the meenew.)
“Roast suckling pig
Riz salami. Roast leg of lamb
Roast breast of turkey
Baked Cumberland ham
Avocado pear salad. French
dressing
Banana charlotte
Tapioca cream
Assorted biscuits and cheese
Blue Mountain coffee”
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


m
r
i m
m
m
hbhb
y‘:
\
i
V. ; >.
X y : 'yy\
“ 2c* asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes. Madam
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
contented mood
w
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
H M. KINO OEOROE VI
w
ŵ
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON
Divorce Notices^
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NEVILLE JOHN HALSE late of Pad-
*y rr.tr p NOTICE that OLGA
eoIiZIA ANN HALSE has filed a Peti-
Hnrf for Divorce No. 2780 of 1951 on the
bounds of desertion for three years and
grounus . t e or excuse It
v^ a Sh fo defeud you may enter an
jou WIBI * . Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Third day of fr“om
VSSS TT^SON.
rrri; for the Petitioner, 84 Pitt
g?!l C i t0 Svdnev.-J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
y>
!oNES CURTIES has filed a Petition for
mvofce No 744 of 1949 on the grounds
U . ? lrtfnn without just cause or excuse
oo vears and upwards and is ask-
■° r nr the Serdse of the Court’s dis-
( S(. )I ?«J
Mat h l to°Tef l end a you may enter an appear-
v ' lsh the Divorce Office Supreme Cour
King Sydney by the 20th day o*
Son 61 USSt“Ue “om MADDOCg
Hegistxar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Australian Theatre
by D. P. McGuire. —5227.
To buy engraving handpress with
bed not less than 12in., preferably
16in. —5226.
Information Sought.
How to play the “draw” game of
dominoes?
This is a variation of the block
game, the only difference being that
after the first down any player may,
whether he is blocked or not, draw
as many dominoes from the stock as
he likes, provided two are left on the
table undrawn. If a player is blocked
he is obliged to draw until he obtains
a bone that can be played or until
he has drawn all but the fast two.
When playing four-handed, six
dominoes are drawn. Drawing gives
additional interest to the game and
makes it harder.
* * * *
Is there such a word as “alright” ?
Strictly speaking, no. “All right,”
spelt as two distinct words, is the
form which should always be used.
Fowler’s Modern English Usage says
there are no such forms as “all-right,”
“allright” or “alright,” though the
last-named is common; Fowler attri-
butes it to confusion with “already”
and “altogether.” Webster gives
“alright” as meaning “all right,” but
adds that it is “not recognised by
authorities'as in good use.”
* * *
Where and when was Georges
Carpentier born? When did he begin
boxing, and what championships were
won by him ?'
Georges Carpentier was born in
Lens, France, on January 12, 1894,
and won his first four-rounds contest
in 1907, when only 13 years old. He
gained the unprecedented record of
winning the championship of France
in every division —from flyweight to
heavyweight. Beat Young Joseph for
the European welterweight champion-
ship in 1911; Jim Sullivan for the
middleweight title in 1912 and Bom-
bardier Wells for the heavyweight
championship in 1913. Carpentier
also won the world’s light-heavyweight
championship from Battling Levinsky
in Jersey City on October 12, 1920,
and lost that title to Battling Siki in
Paris on September 23, 1922.
* * *
Details about (1) the water-tree and
(2) the weeping- or raining-tree ?
(1) The large needlewood (Hakes
leucoptera), a dry-country shrub, is
known by this name because by cut-
ting through its roots drinkable sap
is obtained. (2) This is the Glachidion
ferdinandi, called in different localities
on the Queensland coastal belt red
madang, pencil cedar or cheese-tree.
Only those trees which harbor frog-
hopper or spittle-insect larvae “weep”
or “rain.” These larvae suck the tree-
sap, some of which passes through
them and froths on conflict with the
air. These bubbles bursting, clear
liquid falls like raindrops.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning sawfly
wasps ? .
This is a family of medium-sized
wasps, the females of which have a
saw on the underside of the body
with which to slit a leaf so that the
eggs can be poked into the scar. They
are thickset insects, metallic-tinted
and marked with yellow on the
shoulders and back. The larvae have
legs, and feed upon the foliage ot
young gum-trees. They pupate in
the ground or in dead wood, and
remain as pupae through the winter.
The steel-blue sawfly wasp emits a
yellow sticky fluid to frighten insects
away.
* * * *
Origin and history of the “Molly
Maguires” in U.S.A. ?
They were a secret society, formed
originally in County Monaghan, Ire-
land, to “intimidate landlords,” the
name arising from the fact that mem-
bers were disguised as women for the
outrages they committed by night.
Transplanted about 1867, the society
terrorised coal regions in Pennsyl-
vania ; there the object was ostensibly
to secure for members exclusive
political power. The reign of terror
ended in 1877, when some ringleaders
were executed.
* * * *
Some information on the sinking of
the Trevessa in the Indian Ocean ?
The s.s. Trevessa, of 5000 tons
gross, was built in 1909 at Flensburg,
Germany, for the Hansa Line (Ger-
man). Taken over by the Allies after
War I, she was sold in 1920 to the
Hain Steamship Co., of England. On
May 15, 1923, she left Port Pine
(South Aus.) for Antwerp via Fre-
mantle with a cargo of zinc concen-
trates ; her skipper was Capt. Cecil
Foster. She met with some very bad
weather, with high seas running. On
June 3 it was found that the ship
was taking in water forward and had
begun to labor heavily. Next morn-
ing at 2.15 a.m. the ship was aban-
doned and at 2.45 she foundered,
1640 miles from Fremantle. The
crew, 44 in all, got off safely in two
lifeboats. It was decided to head for
Mauritius, 1700 miles away, but the
boats soon became separated. One,
with the captain in charge, reached
Rodriguez Is., 340 miles east of
Mauritius, on June 26, while the other
reached Mauritius on the 28th. The
usual hardships of a long voyage in a
lifeboat (shortage of food, water, etc.)
were experienced, and there were
several deaths. The Board of Inquiry
found that the ship “foundered
through springing a leak Owing to
the nature of the cargo and the
severe weather she experienced the
ship was subjected to continuous
excessive straining, which caused a
seam or seams to open in the shell
plating.”
* * * *
(1) Who was David Graham
Phillips, author of the novel “Susan
Lenox” ? (2) How did he meet his
death ? (3) Is it true that he was shot
because he depicted a friend's sister
in “Susan Lenox” ?
(1) He was an American journalist
who served on Cincinnati and New
York newspapers and wrote exten-
sively for the “Saturday Evening
Post.’’ At the time of his death ne
had published 17 novels, a play ■
a non-fictional book. He left
manuscript six novels. (2) 4 n . ;T
latter months of 1910 he received
series of threatening letters charg g
that he had maligned certain peisons
in The Fashionable Adventures oj
Joshua Craig and other books.
January 23, 1911, a young man sud-
denly rushed up, fired six shots
him and then took bis own 1U -
Phillips died the next day.
assassin was a mentally-darang
musician whose papers showed tn
he had been planning the murder roc
several months. His sole motiv
seems to have been the fancied grie -
ance that the novelist had insulted
his family. (2) No. S u san Lenox
was not published until after Phillips
death.
* * * *
What is biochemistry?
It is concerned with all the chemical
processes occurring in living organ-
isms, with their constitution and their
reaction to chemical elements ana
compounds. Its scope includes con-
sideration of the nature of the proto-
plasm, the physico-chemical basis oi
all plant and animal cells; foods,
their digestion, elaboration and de-
composition; production of eneigy
by chemical changes within the organ-
ism ; effect of hormones on cells,
chemotoxis, chemotherapy and even
the nature of life itself.
Brief Answers.
H.J.W.: Write Undersecretary,
Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane...-
RJ.C.: Phil May was born at
Wortley, near Leeds, England, on
April 22, 1864, and died in London
on August 5, 1903 S.A.: Metro-
politan Theatre, 505 Pitt-street, Syd-
ney W.M.H.: Write Australian
Broadcasting Commission, 264 Pht-
street, Sydney R.S.G.: The tree
commonly known as lilhpilli is a
myrtle, Eugenia smithii. The leaves
are smooth and more or less shiny,
with an aromatic odor when crushed,
and if held up to the fight will be
seen thickly studded with transparent
oil-dots... .S.G.K.W.: Whoever made
the arrangements with the undertaker
is primarily responsible. The ques-
tion as to who is eventually respon-
sible depends on terms of deceased s
will or rules relating to intestacies.
Don’t understand meaning of “owner
absolute,” unless private effects were
left in that way by will F.J.:
Primula obconica carries a certain
danger when handled by people
susceptible to skin ailments the
leaves contain poison which causes an
eruption similar to eczema. Alter
handling, it is advisable to wash hands
and arms with medicinal soap... .
T.R.; A moderately fight, properly-
drained, friable, well-dug loamy sou
suits bouvardias. If ground is heavy
it should be lightened by adding hme,
well-decayed manure and sand, it is
essential that the ground should he
porous... .8.M.: Trinity House, Lon-
don, is a seamen’s association incor-
porated in 1514 and responsible tor
pilotage round the British coasts an
at Gibraltar, involving also the upkeep
of lighthouses and ships, the buoying
of channels and complementary
activities H.L.D.: The trouble
mildew, and it should be treated at
once by spraying with fime-and
sulphur or dusting with flowers of
sulphur. Treat in the early morning,
when dew will help the application to
stick on the leaves Three treatments
at weekly intervals usually check
mildew S.S.M.: The *
wealth Solar Observatory at Canberra
was established for the study of solar
phenomena, allied stellar and spe -
scopic research and investigation ot
associated terrestrial phenomena. It is
so situated to complete a chain “
astrophysical observatories round the
globe, separated by 90. degrees of
longitude....H.F.: A simple recipe
for a cheap flyspray IS , 011
eucalyptus 1 drachm, benzine •,
turpentine 20z., sufficient kerosene to
make the whole up to 160z n M f
thoroughly together. Equa; P ar u
benzine and turpentine, with a small
Quantity of oil of wintergreen will
good resiuts. All aremton;
mable with naked lamps..
Wantabadgery is an N. S. Wag*
aborigine place-name meaning ngm
ing-place.”


ALLSTATES TRAVEL AND
ACCOMMODATION SERVICE
Specialise in Correspondence Enquiries
and Bookings for —
AIR TRAVEL throughout Australia.
(Agents for A.N.A. and T.A.A.)
COACH TOURS and Single Journeys.
(Agents for recognised operators.)
accommodation in Capital Cities
and Holiday Resorts (Hotels—
Guest Houses and Holiday Flats).
honeymoon itineraries
Anywhere or on Special Inclusive
Air Tour to Stradbroke Island—
£32/10/- (inclusive).
FROM ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE
Write to—
aeestates tourist centre,
Kings Chambers. 112 a King Street,
Sydney. BW 9761—8 W 3823.
DENMARK’S FAMOUS
PILSENER
BEER
I
STOCKS
AVAILABLE
Trade and Private enquiries
invited.
N.S.W. Distributors;
Robt. McCullough
& Co. Pty. Ltd.
5 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone BU 5021
Missing Friend.
ESTATE of GEORGE EDWARD BAL-
LINGER, otherwise known as GEORGE
EDWARD BOND, deceased—WOULD
DORIS BALLINGER, widow of the above-
named, or any person knowing her where-
abouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE of SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA, Box 1434 J, G.P.0., Adelaide.
Public Notice.
I, EMMOLIENA EVERDHARDE SEQERS.
of Dutch nationality, born at Amsterdam,
Holland, resident two years in Australia,
now residing at 31 Great Buckingham
Street, Redfern, intend to apply for
nationalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO STELLA VICTORIA SUTCLIFFE late
of 53 Glenview Street Paddington. —
TAKE NOTICE that REGINALD SUT-
CLIFFE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3858 of 1951 against you on the
ground of desertion without just, cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Third day of January 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
BRUCE R. MILES, Solicitor, 3 Spring
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RICHARD TREVOR BUXTON late
of Wallsend N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
RUBY CATHERINE BUXfON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3201 of 1956
on the grounds of repeated assault and
cruel beatings during one year previous
to the 18th of August 1950 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
by the 80th day of November 1961 at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney and a copy of the Petition
may be had without charge from S. S.
MITCHELL, Solicitor, of Bank Comer,
Wickham, Newcastle, or his Sydney Agent,
MR. J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN HENRY DIXON late of Kurri
Kurri.—TAKE NOTICE that ESTHER
DIXON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 86 of 1951 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Bth January 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. J. ENRIGHT & BAN-
FIELD, Solicitors, 11 Vincent Street,
Cessnock; or their Agents, TAYLOR
KEARNEY & RE-ED, City Mutual Build-
ing, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TICA
SCIA
H gui» r^*
bao®
lUl"
w
ŵ
mu uu
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able
to work —thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet
firm.
DOLCIN i' Votainable from your
C jmist.
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR 12/S
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Doldn
will be sent on request to Doldn
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The House of
Bernarda Alba."
We arrived, unusually, a little
early to inspect Sydney Metro-
politan Theatre’s performance
of Lorca’s “The House of
Bernarda Alba,” and stood for a
while outside taking in the city’s
evening air. The theatre is
housed in that last wedge of
buildings where Pitt- and
George-streets converge in the
tumult of Railway - square.
Across the road the railway
clock towers into the darkness
like a Cyclops, or a warning
finger to late travellers. Closer
to the pavement, and tucked
into the mellow stonework of
Central itself are places like
The Hole in the Wall Cafe,
which dispenses “Late Meals,”
and The Railway Bird Shop,
which, apparently, also does
business in “Puppies.”
Trams, green with paint and
yellow with light, lumber past;
taxis, red, yellow, green or
orange, slice through the traffic ;
the neon spectrum hides the
stars and the trees that grow
defiantly through the concrete
footpaths stand pale, green and
silent in the diluted light of the
street-lamps.
We were speculating on the
history of a new, black suede
glove resting not ungracefully
on the kerb when the railway
clock gave warning. And so up
the stairs, past the uncom-
promising “No Intoxicating
Liquor” sign and past a smaller
hurried notice which promised
“Back on Monday. Gone to
the wake,” to “The House of
Bernarda Alba” and the dark
and ugly lives of its inhabitants
—Bernarda, cruel, rigid, tyran-
nical, and her five daughters,
frustrated to madness or near to
it, all of them locked in the
house as though in a tomb for
seven years’ mourning.
As the tragedy works itself
out —as Angustius, the oldest
and wealthiest daughter, becomes
engaged to a young man little
more than half her age; as
Adela, the youngest daughter,
steals the young man’s affec-
tions and meets him every night
after he has left her sister; as
Bernarda discovers it and sends
the young man on his way
slightly ahead of a scatter of
gunshot, while Adela hangs her-
self in despair in her bedroom ;
and as all the creeping, ugly
frustrations and madness of the
other three sisters manifest
themselves —we found ourselves
a little overwhelmed by it all,
“drowned in a sea of mourn-
ing,” as Bernarda remarks at the
end, although that immersion is
pretty constant from the begin-
ning.
Robin Lovejoy’s production,
all in black and white, had
several effects. On the one hand
it gave a grace and style that
compensated in some small part
for what is inevitably and irre-
trievably lost in translations ; on
the other hand the complete lack
of color seemed somehow to
give a coolness that was at vari-
ance with the author’s intended
atmosphere of sultry, brooding
oppressive heat —so that the
remote, etched quality of the
setting seemed in complete con-
tradiction to the dialogue and
the mood.
The cast? Who is to say
what women, mad or half-mad,
are like. The five daughters—
Marjorie Lane, Lesley Robson,
Audrey Peek, Gloria Pay ten
and Patricia Crocker —were all
intense and a little horrifying in
their hates and spites, their
hunger and misery.
Patti Asange, as Bernarda,
was quite magnificent in her
rages and cruelty and despotism.
Her roaring at times made its
impression more by sheer mas-
culine force, when a little acid
in her characterisation might
have made a sharper, deeper
and even crueler impression—
though when she stood at the
door, with her daughters moan-
ing around her, and screamed to
the mob to kill some unfor-
tunate wretch who had just had
an illegitimate child, she brought
the whole theatre to one of those
rare, motionless, unbreathing
moments.
She nearly did it again—not
quite, because a highly-stylised
curtain scene was taking obtru-
sive shape—when she ordered
them to cut her daughter down
at the finish. But it was close
enough to make it quite a relief
to go down the stairs again to
Pitt-street, to see lights, taxis,
trams and lost gloves, and to be
reminded that the world—and its
drama and tragedy—is not all
black-and-white exploration of
dark alleys, no matter how
stylish or how poetic.
Spring Art Shows.
In the spring everything starts
growing—love, tomatoes, germs
and, in Melbourne particularly,
art shows. The present spring
outpouring, if not the best, is
probably the largest in the city’s
history, and certainly the most
varied.
Seventy-four-year-old Hans
Heysen, the lifelong protagonist
in Australia of the Barbazon
school of painting as it de-
veloped into the distinctively
Australian impressionism, is
hanging some of his sparkling
watercolors at the Sedon Gal-
leries, including the fruits of
some recent excursions into the
Never-Never.
At Tye’s Max Meldrum is
showing landscapes, still-life and
portraits painted over a period
of at least four decades. For
£750 the Felton Bequest bought
the lovely “Picherite’s Farm,”
painted in France in 1910. It
was a wise choice. That was
the period when Meldrum
painted some of his finest land-
scapes. There is a sensitive por-
trait of his wife and an equally
sensitive self-portrait. They are
outside any fashion.
In her latest show at Prince’s
Gallery, Melbourne, Elizabeth
Durack continues to exploit the
nor’-west abo, his lubra and his
piccaninny. When she was
sketching around Broome her
technique was slight, and she
frequently got some humanity
into her pictures. In this show
she has become more facile,
but her piccaninnies all look like
the same child and the humanity
has waned.
Two who paint according to
the current fashion are Carl
Plate, at the Stanley Coe, and
Erica McGilchrist, at the Book
Club. Neither shows much of
the influence of nature, but both
of them show a lot of the influ-
ence of Cezanne. “Forward
Movement of Fish” is the most
arresting of Mr. Plate’s com-
positions, and “Passage of
Ants,” depicting a long line of
termites passing across a desert,
the most naive.
Miss McGilchrist is nothing if
not meticulous in her titles.
There is a “Three-figure Com-
position,” a “Landscape with
Two Girls,” a “Street with Three
Dogs,” a “Landscape with
House,” a “Boy with Red Hair”
and a “Wild Men and a Palm-
tree.” A similar naivete as to
color makes up in some sort for
the absence of tone, atmosphere
and perspective.
In their 42nd exhibition the
Melbourne Women Painters tend
to cling for safety to the con-
ventions that have stood them
in good stead in the past, though
Rollo Thomson shows some
development in a wet-looking
portrait of a girl and in “Broken
Blossoms.” In “Morning Street
Scene” and “Anxiety” Mary
McLeish has lost her early vigor
and become sketchy to the point
of incoherence, but Ludmilla
Meilerts gets some substance
in “Oranges” and “Spring
Flowers.”
At Georges Gallery, Jolande
Calkoen and Alfred Calkoen, a
newly-arrived Dutch couple, ex-
ploit a superfluous technique of
breaking up their tones into
large blobs of color, a self-
conscious method behind which,
however, is a foundation of
reasonably sound observation. It
is most effective in their still-
life.
Michael Kmit.
Michael Kmit’s exhibition of
21 paintings at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, seems to
consist mainly of tentative
excursions in several different
directions rather than a show of
any strong, certain purpose and
approach—an impression which
is strengthened by a vague, un-
certain self-portrait in which the
artist appears to see himself as
a vague, uncertain sort of
character.
His experiments with fantasy
lead him to a meeting with Dis-
ney in the highly-colored imagin-
ings of “Castle,” “Night” and
“Elizabethan Inn”; his flirting
with deliberate childishness in
such paintings as “Woman,”
“Actress” and “Children” may
have an element of humor in it,
but it leads nonetheless directly
to deliberate childishness ; while
in “Capri” and “Merioola” the
attempt to combine fragile im-
pressions with brilliant color
seems to have taken him peri-
lously close to the postcard
business.
“Luna Park” —of tents and
people and pools of light—has
some warmth in it and catches
the forlorn mood of human
beings looking for something to
look at; and a portrait, “Mardi
Gras,” provides what appears to
be a likely signpost for Mr.
Kmit to follow. It is a full and
rounded portrait of a woman in
party-dress; the face is plump,
with cold calculating eyes and a
small, sharp, wet red mouth. It
is a good piece of characterisa-
tion, and, in its contrasts, not
without humor.
Elsie Findlay.
In a recital at Sydney Con.
which covered a wide gamut in
chronology, style and mood,
Elsie Findlay, lyric soprano,
sang clearly, with an especially
well-controlled legato on the
half-voice in some 17th- and 18th-
century Italian airs. Of these
the most successful was Scar-
latti’s fine “O Cessarti,” in which
the smooth phrasing was punctu-
ated with restrained emotion.
Through the air of lighthearted-
ness which pervades Legrenzi’s
“Che Fiero Costume” Miss
Findlay’s voice moved with
rather less of the abandon than
the song called for.
Her lieder left little to be
desired. From the tempestuous
to the serene, Schubert’s “The
Young Nun” was authoritatively
sung ; “In Springtime” was given
the full measure of joyousness
which is its mainspring. In
these songs Leo Demant more
than held up his end at the
piano. The elaborate filigree-
work with which Chausson em-
bellished his “Chanson Perpetu-
elle,” and in which the soprano
had the support of a string
quartet, suited the flexibility of
her voice.
Some songs by the contempo-
rary Norwegian composer Nor-
denvard were limned in vocal
pastel-shades to suit their some-
what insipid character,
“Twelfth Night,” which Mase-
field called the happiest of
Shakspeare’s plays, got a happy
enough presentation from the
Melbourne University D.C. at
the Union Theatre. If it were
not the best production present
commentator can remember, it
was near it, and not many
actors have Malvolioed better
than Peter Batey. As Sir
Andrew Aguecheek, Norman
Woollard was a perfect echo to
the Toby Belch of Norman
Smith, and Brian Moyle pro-
vided an excellent piece of fooL
ing as Feste as well as giving
the clown a light tenor voice
which was extremely pleasant in
the unaccompanied singing.
That disposes of the comic ele-
ment in the Bard’s opus, always
the most difficult section to put
over. The comedy of mistaken
identity and of sentiment and
passion was equally well done
by Carmel Dunn as Viola, John
Pitt as Orsino, Duke of Milan,
and Jan Mudge as Olivia.


. . . Proudly made in Australia to exacting
standards, Army Club bring you the world’s best leaf,
ripened by sun, mellowed by time. Mild yet
satisfying, they are rolled in filigraincd paper
scientifically pure and free from printer s ink.
ŵ
ẁ
CORK TIPPED
mi
h \
am
m:
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
South British Insurance Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Aug., Surplus. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 559,661 20 p.c.=206,328 353,333 4,532,903
Unexplained additions, £5463 .. 4,538,366
1945.. 523,496 35 p.c.=361,074 162,422 4,700,788
Donation to “Heritage,” £lO,OOO . . 4,690,788
Unexplained reduction, £5189 .. .. 4,685,599
1946.. 572,890 20 p.c.=206,328 366,562 5,052,161
Unexplained add. invest, res, £54,040.. 5,106,201
1947.. 875,413 25 p.c.=257,910 617,503 5,723,704
Reduction exchange res., £1,036,892 .. 4,686,812
1945.. 805,156 25 p.e.=257,910 547,246 5,234,058
Reduction reserves, £666 .. .. 5,233,392
1949.. 715,173 25 p.c.=257,910 457,263 5,690,655
Added exchange res., £280,873 .. .. 5,971,528
1950. 1,065,670 274 p.c.=283,701 781,969 6,753,497
Added exchange res., £2466 .. .. 6,755,963
1951, 1,134,463 27J p.c.=283,701 850,763 7,606,725
The patient anticipations of the market
have been rewarded at last. Paid capital
was doubled by a one-for-one issue of
bonus shares to those on the register at
Oct. 24. The £1,031,640 involved came
from the contingencies reserve (£2,200,000
at Aug. 31), and will lift the share-
register total to £2,063,280. It was the
first gift since a run of similar capitali-
sations totalling £907,910 during the 15
boom years to 1927, making total bonus-
scrip issued to date £1,939,550.
The price of the f.-p. 10s. shares
(Sydney ’Change) has moved from
strength to strength, advancing, with
minor fluctuations, from 765. 9d. at end
1946 (when official price-pegging of
securities ceased) to 1475. 6d. shortly
before announcement of the gift. After
exercising the rights and allowing for
brokerage, the net price at 1475. 6d. is
745. 2d. The vital question now is; What
rate of dividend is likely to be paid on
the increased capital? The board answers
in this way:
The directors wish to point out to share-
holders that it is the policy of most British
insurance cos, to confine the amount distri-
buted annually as dividend to shareholders
within the amount received as interest, divi-
dends and rents. The proposed doubling
of the co.’s issued capital is therefore in
no way an indication that the total amount
distributed as dividend in future years will
exceed the distribution of recent years.
As the “Wild Cat” has often pointed out,
such a policy of profits-allocation ensures
strong reserves, with a consequent high
earning-power in relation to capital, and,
at intervals, increases in the amount
distributed as dividends and the issue of
bonus scrip. And during the post-war
inflationary period the whole process has
been accelerated by rapidly-expanding
premium income, favorable loss rate, and
growth in the surplus.
Last term the co. netted £252,507 (up
£13,058) from interest, dividends and
rents. The amount paid in dividends
was £283,701, equal to 13.7 p.c. on capital
as it now stands. The difference
(£31,194) came from the large net under-
writing surplus of £588,379 (up £12,158).
That was after allowing for unexpired
risks on the usually-accepted basis of
40 p.c, of net premium income. Assum-
ing that the net return from investments
increases by the same amount as it did
last term, and that the underwriting
surplus is again dipped into for, say, a
moderate £24,294, the probable rate of
dividend for the current term would be
14 p.c., equal to 17.4 p.c. in Australian
currency at the present rate of exchange.
On that basis the immediate return at
745. 2d. would be 2.3 p.c.
Auckland-controlled, the co. does
four-fifths or more of its business out-
side the Dominion in Australia, Canada,
U.S., U.K., Africa, Middle East, India,
Pakistan and East Asia. The mainspring
behind the quick post-war growth in net
premiums (up £733,943 last term) has
been the world-wide inflation of com-
modity prices and other insurable values,
combined with a growing volume of
trade:
Net Loss Exp.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
£> £ £f p < Q j p.c»
1945.. 2,389,127 1,229,044 821,984 51.4 34.4
1946.. 2,498.400 1,435,721 699,195 57.5 32.9
1947.. 3,005,415 1,568,993 814,560 52.4 27.1
1948.. 3,146,635 1,694,677 848.045 53.9 26.9
1949.. 3,309.215 1,894,378 921,947 57.2 27.8
1950. . 3.934,215 2,017.714 1,090,280 51.3 27.7
1951.. 4,668,158 2,448,209 1,337,993 52.4 28.7
The increase of 225. p.c. in last term's
loss rate was due mainly to a less favor-
able experience in the marine section and
to unsatisfactory motor-vehicle and third-
party risks. Inflated wage and other
operating costs sent the expense rate up
by 20s. p.c. The gross underwriting
surplus was £881,956 (up £55,735). Add
the return from investments, and the
total is £1,134,463 as shown in the intro-
ductory table. Allowing for unexpired
risks on the basis already referred to, the
net result from all sources was £840,886
(up £25,216), or 40.7 p.c. on £2,063,280
of capital. What effect present disturbed
conditions throughout the Middle East
and elsewhere will have upon underwrit-
ing results can only be guessed at at the
moment.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are strongly protected;
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,031,640 £1,031,640 £1,031.640
Liabilities* . . 2,146,040 2,285,481 3,108,968
Final divs. .. 154,746 154,746 154,746
Govt, securities .. 3,862,188 4,429,530 5,073,664
M’cipal debentures 632,602 840,915 899,799
Stocks, debentures,
etc 1,113,410 1,177,392 1,255,703
Mortgages . . 691,927 687,150 673.044
Deposits, cash, etc. 2,018,922 2,369,008 3,243,558
Book debts . . 183,826 188,884 212,200
Premises . . . . 520,206 532,485 544,112
* Includes reserves for outstanding losses and
taxation.
When the books closed, cash, etc., alone
exceeded total claims for the preceding
12 months by £795,000-odd.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £8450 ..
1945.. 38,317 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 j
12,111 121,972
To staff fund, £3734 .. \
1946- 41,989 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 5
20,499 142,471
Share premiums, £49,937 .. ]
To staff fund, £3729 . . [
1947.. 34,862 4000 10 p.c. = 16,292 J
60,778 203,249
Share premiums, £59,906 ..]
Assets revaluation, £40,814 .. I
From tax provision, £1829 .. j-
To staff fund, £3709 .. |
1948.. 49,124 4000 10 p.c. = 21,469 J
122,495 325,744
Add assets revaluat’n, £16,875 ]
To staff fund, £4565 . . |-
1949.. 43,729 4000 10 p.c. = 26,479 J
25,560 351,304
Repayments from U.K. co., £10,653 .. 361,957
To staff fund, £6571 355,386
To stock reserve, £2197 . . . . 353,189
1950.. 59,784 4000 10 p.c. = 26,625 29,159 382,348
Surplus tax, £2328 . . . . . . 384,676
To staff fund, £0667 378,009
Share premiums, £12,500 .. .. 390,509
1951.. 58,859 4000 10 p.c. = 28,750 26,109 416,618
The market has always had a high
opinion of the scrip in this soundly-
established manufacturer of women’s
foundation garments. The price of the
ords. shot up from 595. 6d. a year ago
to 745. 3d. in January last, when the
board announced its intention of offer-
ing 160,000 new £1 ords. at par, three for
five. Action in the matter was delayed
for reasons which the chairman sums up
as follows:
At the time the announcement was made
Capital Issues consent was being granted
automatically, but a few days later the
restrictive practice of the Government was
implemented. After protracted negotiations
consent was granted on the best terms that
we were able to obtain; but the conditions
attached are imposing serious difficulties in
rearranging the financial commitments of
the co. The directors were compelled to
defer the issue until towards the end of
1951 to give sufficient time for making the
necessary financial arrangements.
The issue is to be made next month on
the basis already stated.
Last week the ords, stood at 70s. in
the market. The net price, after exer-
cising the rights and allowing for
brokerage, would be 51s. 6d., thus giving
the rights a theoretical value of 31s. 6d.
The return at 51s. 6d. would be 3.9 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div., which has been an
annual event for the last 16 years, and
there is nothing at the moment to sug-
gest that it is likely to be interfered with.
The issue will raise paid capital to
£500,000 in 50,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
450,000 ords.; and the pref. div. and 10 p.c.
to the ords. would then call for £9859
less profit than was shown last term.
The parent and its sturdy New Zea-
land associate, Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd., have
a firm hold on the growing market in
both countries. And the three sub-
sidiaries —Berlei (U.K.), Ltd., London ;
Berlei Pty., Ltd., Melbourne ; Warner’s
“Le Gant” Pty., Ltd., Sydney —are all
giving a good account of themselves,
financially and otherwise.
Last term the parent’s turnover
increased by 36 p.c., passing the
£1,500,000-mark. Higher selling-prices
accounted for only 5 p.c. of the increase,
and the bigger volume of output was
achieved with only 11 p.c. more produc-
tion staff. But the steep rise in costs,
particularly materials and labor, gobbled
the gains from both bigger sales and
increased operating efficiency, leaving the
net result at £58,859 (down £925). That
was after deducting staff profit-sharing
divs. (£2618, down £341) and allowing
for depreciation and taxation at the
increased rate. The £58,859 covered
pref. requirements (£4000) and 19.1 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 20.9,
15, 21, 18.9 and 27.6 p.c. back to 1946.
During the year 23,750 new £1 ords.
were issued, and brought with them
£12,500 of share premiums—lB,7so
shares to the staff provident fund and
5000 shares in connection with the pur-
chase of a modern factory building at
Chatswood, near Sydney:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £309,319 £316.250 £316,250 £340,000
Mortgage 70.000 100.000
Overdraft .. 120,000 161,241 5,102 190,285
Creditors, etc. 88,825 153,975 164,591 387,6*6
Tax provision 28,000 22,140 37,730 48,000
Provident fund 15,000 15,000 15,000
Final divs. .. 12,836 15,262 15,313 16,500
Freeholds .. 106,542 108,748 12*,289 134,812
Plant . . 43,265 59,238 63,436 69,274
Investments'!. • 67,451 84,948 103,583 112,70*
Stocks .. 505,315 649,024 561,487 987,750
Book debts .. 173,734 113,837 145, *l9 190,320
Cash, etc. .. 3,945 19,377 4,821 4,216
t Shares in subsidiary cos.
The net addition to fixed assets was
£13,361. To finance a net growth of
£470,864 in stocks (up £426,263) and
book debts (up £44,601) the co. went out-
side for an extra £438,268, of which
£30,000 was raised on mortgage, £185,183
on overdraft and £223,085 from trade
creditors. There was an improvement of
£35,534 in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£439,825). The new share-issue will
strengthen the position, and the long-
term outlook for the business is one of
steady expansion.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves-!
£ £ £
1944 .. 287,244 30 p.c. = 240,000 2,452,546
1945 . . 384,861 35 „ „ 280,000 2,557,407
Investments written off, £25,125 .. 2,532,282
1946 .. 356,304 35 p.c. = 280,000 2,608,586
1947 . . 1,102,981* 105 „ 840,000 2,871,567
1948 . . 949,289 110 ~ „ 880,000 2,940,856
1949 ..1,456,297 130 „ ~ 1,040,000 3,357,153
1950 ..1,182,459 120 „ „ 960,000 3,579,612
1951 . . 1,792,812 160 „ „ 1,280,000 4,092,424
* Includes £419,000 originally provided for War-
time (Co.) Tax. ! Excludes reserves for shaftsink-
ing (now £216,030) and workmen’s compensation
(now £156,971).
The board wrote the year’s net profit
£616,740 stronger at £1,757,925, of which
about 85 p.c. came from mining and
the balance from investments:
Declared profit— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Mining ..£1,163,945 £895,221 £1,493.707
Investments .. 211,253 245,964 264,218
Total .. £1,375,198 £1.141.185 £1,757.925
The declared figure is reconciled with the
profit shown in the introductory table
in this way:
Profit claimed .. .. £1,757,925
Capital profit .. • • • • 1,633
Unexplained addition reserves .. 37,554
Allowance depreciation .. .. 33,000
Total £1,830,112
Less —spent on plant .. .. 37,300
Profit per table .. .. £1,792,812
The £1,757,925 was equal to 10s. 11.7 d.
(219 p.c.) per ss. share, and the £1,792,812
was 11s. 2.4 d. (224 p.c.) per share. The
div. was lifted from 120 p.c. to 160 p.c.
It was the rise in the price of lead and
zinc that did the trick —fewer high-grade
crudes were milled for less lead and zinc,
and there was a steep rise in operating
and all other costs, including the lead
bonus. Here are average London (ster-
ling) prices for the two metals:
Year. Lead. Zinc.
June 30, 1950 .. £S9S 16 4 £SB6 12 4
June 30, 1951 .. 135 18 0 148 13 11
July, 1951 . . 173 6 4 177 16 6
August, 1951 . . 181 10 0 190 0 0
And the Australian fixed price per ton
for lead and zinc was lifted from £35
and £4O respectively to £65 each on
September 18, 1950.
The market for the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares
has, for the most part, followed the
market for the metals. Since the be-
ginning of 1951 the price of the scrip
has risen from 635. 6d. to 80s. At the
higher figure the immediate return is
10 p.c. on the basis of last term’s distri-
bution. At June 30 combined balance-
sheet figures of parent and subsidiaries
showed investments (mainly shares in
other cos. in associated and allied indus-
tries) at a conservative £2,909,480 and
current assets at £6,033,528. Current
liabilities and provisions totalled
£4,601,901, thus leaving a more-or-less
liquid surplus of £4,341,107. Allowing
for this, but disregarding plant
(£2,681,984) and the mine, etc. (£307,818),
the investor at 80s. who looks for his
money back plus 7 p.c, p.a. over a period
of, say, 15 years, counts on divs. averag-
ing 147 p.c.
Measured ore reserves at June 30
were “conservatively” put at an unchanged
1,950,000 tons —the figure excludes pay-
ore disclosed by drilling and limited
development. The hunt for new deposits
continues. Most promising of these is
the Oceana mine at Zeehan (Tas.), which
is being developed jointly with North
Broken Hill. Here the main shaft is
down 344 ft., and driving and develop-
ment have disclosed “satisfactory” con-
tinuity of the lodes for 300 ft. along the
strike and to a depth of 500 ft. The
northern extension of these ore-bodies,
yet to be tested, is believed to run for
600 ft. Some copper deposits are also be-
ing investigated in the Cloncurry and
Chillagoe districts (Q.).
The co.’s recent mining and milling per-
formances compare as follows:
Crudes f Assay *
Treated.f Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Tons. p.c. Oz. p-C.
1947 .. .. 278,320 12.8 6.9 11.7
1948 . . . . 236,950 13.0 7.8 12.8
1949 . . . . 264,870 12.9 7.4 12.2
1950 .. .. 286,670 12.7 7.5 12.2
1951 .. .. 277,710 12.0 7.8 12.1
t Sulphides.
The drop in last term’s millfeed was
8960 tons, due mainly to shortage of
skilled labor, and the grade was a trifle
lower. The metal contents of the lead
and zinc concentrates and final residues
were less, of course:
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1949 .. .. 34,190 1,953,852 32.389
1950 . . . . 36,276 2,164,017 34,978
1951 . . . . 33,458 2,168,759 33,709
Recoveries were 96.3 p.c. of the lead and
90.7 p.c. of the silver in the lead con-
centrates, and 88,1 p.c. of the zinc in the
zinc concentrates. The lead concentrates
are smelted at Port Pirie, and more than
one-fifth of the metal is sold locally at
officially fixed price and the balance over-
seas, mainly to Britain. The zinc con-
centrates are sold to Electrolytic Zinc on a
sliding scale, based on local and overseas
prices and the proportion of metal taken
by the home market.
The two big imponderables are metal
prices and costs. The short-run outlook
is one of rising costs, including taxation,
and strong metal prices. For the base-
metal group as a whole, demand is broadly
based on the rate of activity in all key
sectors of industry and Government stock-
piling. In the present disturbed inter-
national situation he would be a bold
man who would venture to say what will
happen, and when.


£
utua
N 0.XQ54049,
UNCt'
faitNu
SURt
s taoU sh£B
Mi
.
msmm
V :•: ■
v’.\
1
iliil
H
%
■;• J;
1 m
m
B
ms
„ austrW-ia • 31
b» s u of 6h
, p r enou' n sp eclfied
** Sedule U-*-*"
e r; T ituH v
cc utr\»4 bef “ ie t teie!t »t*«
,1* M*
.1 . .aid ScM l *
vx £ r o»
xis Policy
You're not just a number . •.
a member of
Australia's largest family
Large organizations often lose the human touch. People
become docketed in files and change their personality for a
number. That never happens at the A.M.P. The A.M.P.
may be the largest mutual Life Assurance Office in the
British Commonwealth, but despite its size it remains
human, despite all the forms which must be observed for
the protection of all, the A.M.P. remains a friendly, family
institution. The A.M.P. is run by policyholders for policy-
holders. There are no shareholders.
For over a century the letters A.M.P. have been synonymous
with life assurance in Australia. Ask the first man or
woman you meet in the street to mention a life assurance
office, and the odds are in favour of his or her saying
“The A.M.P.”
four A.M.P. Agent will advise you with skill
on your family finance *o os to obtain the maximum
value in protection for you and your family. His
background and training makes him the ideal person
to assist you. The A.M.P. Agent is a “Sure Friend
In Uncertain Times".
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
Branches throughout
Australia, New Zealand,
and in London.
The A.U.P. Is the
largest mutual
Life Assurance Office
la the Empire.
General Manager: M. C. Buttfield . HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
A3/«OI
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Aovt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
XHB AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Bead,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
A
CHANGE
FOR THE
BETTER <
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
save
WHILE YOU
serve
IN THE DEFENCE FORCES!
You can begin a new career—right now! One
that gives you the satisfaction of doing a really
worthwhile job for Australia—serving in the
Defence Forces.
You will be doing a job that Australia wants its
men to do and will be wearing a uniform with
proud traditions,
A career in the Services will bring you big pay
advantages that enable you to save while you
serve. An 18-year-old serviceman who has com-
pleted his basic recruit training (normally 3 to 6
months) is paid £B/15/- a week, but, in addition,
he gets many valuable extras.
You can figure out in two minutes just what a
serviceman’s pay and benefits would be worth to
you. Just use this list—
Cash Pay (per week)
Food and accommodation
provided
Free Medical, Dental and Hos-
pital attention
Clothing and necessaries
supplied _ __ __
At least 3 weeks’ holiday a year
plus fares and travelling time to
home and return _
ẁ
TOTAL £
(0
&
H*Z
SB*
Enquire at any of the following without obligation:—
• Defence Forces Information Bureau
Cnr. Phillip St. and Martin Place, Sydney. BW 2671
Hours : Mondays to Fridays—9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays—9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.; Sundays and Holidays—2 p.m. to 5 p.m. OR AT the
COMBINED SERVICES RECRUITING DEPOT, Beach Rd. ( Edgecllff,
Mondays to Fridays—9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays—9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
(closed Sundays).
• YOUR DISTRICT RECRUITING COMMITTEE
• If unable to call, write to Box XYZ, G.P.0.. Sydney
DR52.112.71
Finney, Isles & Co. (Bris.)
Re-
July, Profit. , —Dividends —, serves.
£ £ £
1944.. 65,945 10 p.c. = 39,253 221,149
1945.. 78,453 10 „ „ 39,883 259,719
Maintenance res. down £2568.. 257,151
1946.. 82,290 10 p.c. = 40,206 299,235
Maintenance res. down £1782.. 297,453
1947.. 74,002 10 p.c. = 40,206 331,249
Maintenance res. down £1925.. 329,324
1948.. 83,377 10 p.c. = 40,206 372,495
To staff fund, £5000.. .. 367,495
Maintenance res. down £9605.. 857,890
1949.. 82,319 10 p.c. = 40,206 400,003
Maintenance res. down £2988. . 397,015
To staff fund, £5000.. .. 892,016
1950.. 91,000 124 p.c. = 50,259 432,816
Maintenance res. down £1132.. 431,684
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . 426,684
1951. .113,021 12J p.c. = 51,353 488,352
It was the abnormal increase in
turnover, especially during the
last half of the term, that sent
the latest profit figure up by
£21,961 to a record £113,021,
thus obscuring both an ugly rise
in costs and narrowing gross
margins. Mainspring of the
spending spree was the excess
of purchasing-power over pro-
duction, arising chiefly out of a
swollen export income and infla-
tionary wage-lifts, together with
anticipations in connection with
defence, taxation and other
developments. A keen merchan-
dising policy, good display and
improved shopping facilities and
services at both the co.’s stores,
which are in the busiest part of
the city, helped the figures
along, too.
The £113,021 of profit was
written after allowing for de-
preciation (£14,959, up £2400)
and taxation at the increased
rate (£79,510, up £26,800). It
was equal to 27.5 p.c. on average
capital as against 22.6, 20.4, 20.7,
18.4 and 19.4 p.c. back to 1946.
So maintenance of the 12j p.c.
distribution, of which 24 p.c. is
labelled bonus, remained a com-
fortable matter, leaving more
than half the profit to plough
back into the business, thus lift-
ing reserves £36,228 higher than
paid capital. In these days of
credit restriction and rising costs
and prices additional working
capital has to be provided
largely out of undistributed
profits.
The financial structure is
sound, shareholders’ funds
amounting to over 67 p.c. of
total assets, and the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£310,534) in-
creased by £16,385, despite the
addition of £89,208 to fixed
assets:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital . . £402,067 £402,067 £452,124
Overdraft .. 67,088
Creditors, etc. 94,460 191,291 260,313
Taj: reserve 67,395 66,835 86,570
Final div. .. 20,104 30,155 31,250
Property,
plant,’ etc. 529,174 645,733 634.941
Stock . . 346,537 434.067 667,527
Book debts.. 50,061 65,998 84,88«
Investments,
cash, etc. 59,255 82,365 8,340
The purchase of Keating’s
Bakery at Stone’s corner and
equipment of a new food-hall
at the co.’s second store in the
old Courier Building were
responsible for most of the
growth in fixed assets. The
bigger trading and rising prices
show up in heavier stocks (up
£233,460) and book debts (up
£18,090). To meet net addi-
tions to assets totalling £341,558
the co, went to its bankers for
£67,088 and increased the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors by £69,022. Cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £79,025, and
shareholders put up £50,057 of
fresh capital—the remaining 15s.
on 66,743 contribs.
Since the close of accounts
the outlook in the retail trade
has become increasingly compli-
cated. Despite wage-lifts, the
impact of higher income tax and
sales tax and of the rising cost
of imports, food, transport and
other essentials upon family
budgets has already produced a
trek to cheaper commodities. At
the moment buyers are becom-
ing more discriminating about
price than quality. To what ex-
tent a combination of rising costs
and a cautious public will react
upon trade remains to be seen.
For the shopkeeper it poses the
problem of restocking with more
or less safe lines. The State
price-fixing authority has again
reduced retailers’ gross margins,
a policy which can be success-
fully applied only while turn-
over continues to increase fast
enough to offset the rise in
operating and other costs. Re-
tail price indices are still on the
up-grade, and might rise further
before they flatten out or fall.
The market notes the co.’s
strength and sums up the posi-
tion by pricing the pound ords.
at 475. 3d. (495. lOd. a few
months ago) to return 5.3 p.c. on
a 12j p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 41s. 7d.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dlvs.—, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 32.951 15 15,000 17,951 48,451
Share premiums. £23,750.. 72,201
1949.. 18.190 6 5,417 12,773 84,974
1950.. 7,770 5 6,313 1,457 80,431
Written off research, £4500.. 81,931
1951.. 23.965 15 19.125 4,840 86,771
* After deducting patent rights, £2OOO.
The revival of U.S., British
and Continental demand for the
zircon-rutile concentrates which
this Melbourne-controlled co.
(paid capital £127,500) is produc-
ing from beach sands at Byron
Bay (N.S.W.), and the progres-
sive strengthening of selling-
prices, have brightened the out-
look for shareholders. Demand
and price both began to
strengthen about the beginning of
1950, and Australian producers
are now in the happy position of
having to turn buyers away in-
stead of having to hunt for them.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its
production, recovery and cost
figures; but the outturn of con-
centrates more than doubled last
term. After allowing £19,090
(up £3837) for depreciation and
£BOOO (nil previous term) for
taxation, the profit shot up from
£7770 to £23,965, which was 18.8
p.c. on capital. The div., which
fell from 15 p.c. in 1948 to 5 p.c.
for the two following years, was
lifted to 15 p.c. again.
Zircon and rutile are used in
the production of ceramics,
enamels, glazes, insulators, etc.,
and in welding electrodes and
making heat-resisting alloys.
The board says the co.’s forward
contracts are substantial, and
that the price of concentrates has
risen further since the close of
accounts. So, despite the up-
swing of costs, prospects of a
better showing at next balance
are encouraging. The directors’
report is silent about negotiations
commenced some 18 months ago
with National Titanium Pig-
ments, Ltd. (London), concern-
ing the possibility of jointly
making “chemical products” in
Australia.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £118,489 and
current liabilities £45,121. The
price of the f.-p. 10s. shares,
which had dropped to 14s. 3d. at
end 1950, rose to 235. 9d. six
months later and to 265. 6d. last
week. The return at 265, 6d. is
5.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
“The House of Bernarda Alba,” at
present at the Metropolitan Theatre,
although nowhere to go for a laugh, is a
fine dramatic offering with force and
intensity. There are no men in the play,
but all that the women seem to think
about is men ; clothes, cookery, the price
of meat, baby-sitters, school reports, the
basic-wage and the best type of washing-
machine find no part in the general con-
versation (although the weather gets a
mention quite often). Life is different in
Spain apparently—much, much more
intense. The party after the opening per-
formance had been catered for by the
girls of the committee of the Metropoli-
tan Players, who had carried out Robin
Lovejoy’s black-and-white decor even to
the edibles, where black prunes filled with
white fondant were central pieces, a
charming idea, more lightheartedly con-
ceived than the theme of the play.
At the Health Exhibition during the
week one of the most popular “turns”
was the recorder at the A.B.C. stand,
where one was invited to record one’s
voice and hear it played back. The
children mostly went in for this, and were
asked what games they played. One
little girl told a vivid story about the
wonderful time she and her friends had
in the double-decker bus her father
brought home during the weekend.
Mother’s face became more and more
worried as the account went on —she
could see Father losing his job over it,
and went to great trouble to explain that
the child was only playing “make-
believe,” and she dragged her off
hurriedly before she could make any
more damaging disclosures, whether true
or false.
At the dinner given by Mr. and Mrs.
Allan Williams in the drawing-room of
the Royal Empire Society during the
week there was a good representation of
members of the Consular Corps to say
goodbye to General W. Bridgeford and
his wife, who leave on November 6 by
air for Japan, where General Bridgeford
will take up his new post as Commander-
in-Chief of 8.C.0.F.
Dr. Jean Woodhill, who recently
returned from America, where she gained
her Doctorate of Science in nutrition,
spoke some serious words when she
addressed the meeting of the National
Council of Women during the week. She
condemned as dangerous the eating
habits formed by young girls nowadays ;
skipping breakfast, skimping luncheon,
hastily swallowing dinner before going
out was, she said, endangering the health
of future babies. The teas where young
brides vied with one another in producing
varieties of cakes and savories were also
a menace, as it was impossible to eat a
“proper” meal after these teas. All
children should, Dr. Woodhill said, be
educated not to overeat, as this would
save them many problems, both physical
and psychological, later on.
Those people who go to exhibitions of
modern painting and say ‘ Well, it doesn t
make sense to me” are being catered for
by the Contemporary Art Society, whose
show opens at the Education Department
Gallery next Saturday. A question-box is
provided where all doubts and dismays
may be cast. A panel of experts will
attempt to answer the questions on
Monday, November 8. Of course, what
any picture or work of art means can
only be found in the work of art itself.
All a brains trust can do is to explain
“The Letters of Rachel Henning”
will be resumed in next week’s
issue.
the method of approach and hope for the
best.
The Garden Club has arranged for a
tour of gardens at Kurrajong, Mount
Wilson and Leura on Saturday, November
3. Those who haven’t cars can go by
tourist coach, for which the fare is £2.
Mrs. M. McSperrin, of Station 2CH, is in
charge of this part of the arrangements
and would like those who are going by
coach to get in touch with her today.
Her number is 8X3322.
The annual reunion dinner of the
Sancta Sophia Association, held at the
Pickwick, was once more a happy and
informal affair. President Mrs. Roy
Hurley received the guests with Mrs. J.
Boulton, Dr. Grace Eastmuir and Miss
Freda Kieghery. It was noted how many
friends of ex-students were present, the
fame of last year’s enjoyable parly having,
no doubt, spread abroad. Among those
who exchanged reminiscences and news
were the Kevin Fagens, the Edmund
Collingridges, Dr. Evelyn Doyle, Dr.
sheila Drescher and John Keenan, Dr.
Gwen Gerrard-Kennedy and Dr. Marcus
Kennedy, Miss Marie Bultow and the
Arnold Carters. The present students
were represented by Barbara Feneley and
Mary Horsley,
.. . „
The " ew , s * at , a woman has been
a PP oi n Kd “ th <; Legislative Council of
New Guinea will please but not surprise
pH N.G. hands, as the woman concerned
is Doris Booth, of Cliffside, Wau. Mrs.
Booth was awarded the 0.8. E. for the
150 lives she saved in her improvised
bush hospital on the way to the Bulolo
goldfields in 1926, when white men and
natives were stricken with dysentery and
tbe re were no other white people in
health> Doris Booth is known t 0 Queens-
land mothers for her WO rk with the
Queensland Mothercraft Association. The
president of the association, Lady Cilento,
a i so has New Guinea associations. Mrs.
Booth ’ s occupation is given as “miner,”
and her mother who manages her mine
did t service in N G during
the war, as is recorded in the booklet
’ u.S.A. forces in memory
nf^h e ir exneriences there
* I ' . . T ,
When Terry Tiernan married J
Rainbow last week she wore an unusua y
dainty dress of tulip lace and tulle wi
a ballerina skirt. Her matrons-of-honor
were Mrs. J. Hall and Mrs. L. Hunt, who
both wore white nylon ballerinas with
small boleros. Their little white hats
carried white water-lilies tied with apple-
green ribbon. There were crowds of
country guests at the reception at Amory,
including the Grants, of Canowindra, and
the Bayley Payten clan. Terry is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Tiernan,
of Randwick. John is the son of Mr,
and Mrs. E. Rainbow, of Manly.
After the lecture-recital given during
the week to the junior group of the Queen
Victoria Club by the Norwegian singers
Mr. and Madame Sinding-Larsen, it was
announced that Baroness Schroder would
offer two scholarships of £5O each to two
young Sydney singers who intended going
to England to study with the Sinding-
Larsens, The scholarships would be
extended, it was stated, if the students
showed promise. The applicants for these
scholarships were asked to send their
names and addresses to the secretary of
the Queen Victoria Club, Mrs. C.
Bridger, 8 Cowles-road, Mosman, by
November 10, after which dates audi-
tions would be held to choose the two
winners.
Another pretty wedding was that of
Yvonne Halsall, of Point Piper, and James
Hudson, of Singapore. Yvonne wore
white marquisette with a pleated bodice
and a skirt flaring fully from the hipline.
Her veil was three-tiered and worn with a
silver - and - diamond coronet. Her
attendants, Mrs. Bruce Trenerry, Mrs.
Ellis Glover, Patricia Roach and Joan
Lennartz, wore pale-blue marquisette with
little caps embroidered with silver thread.
Mr. and Mrs. Hudson will probably
remain in Singapore for about two years.
As the price of spirits has apparently
grown beyond the purse of most hosts,
the question “What would you like to
drink?” is fast becoming obsolete. Con-
coctions such as sherry and lemonade
with a sprig of mint are being offered
without alternative. Some ingenuity in
making new drinks that won’t cost much
will undoubtedly result, and if they’re
good, so much to the good. If they’re
bad enough people might give up drink-
ing, which would please the temperance
types, at any rate.
Coloratura-soprano Bianca Mascolo
will give a recital at the Conservatorium
next Saturday night at 8.15, when the
assisting artist will be Daniel Koletz.
This will be her last concert in Australia
before she leaves for Europe and
America.
From Melbourne
Sir John Latham, president of the
Australian-American Association, Lady
Latham, Sir Keith Murdoch, vice-presi-
dent of the association, and Lady
Murdoch received guests at the late-
afternoon party at Menzies’ in honor of
the newly-appointed U.S. Consul-General,
Henry E. 'Stebbins, and Mrs. Stebbins.
Lady Latham’s leaf-brown frock was
worn under a caramel-toned wool coat;
her brown hat was finished with ospreys
and veiling. A hip-length jacket of black
Persian-lamb went with Lady Murdoch’s
tailored grey wool frock and her small
hat of black velour. Mrs. Stebbins’s
tailored suit was of black cloth, her small
off-the-face hat of flat white feathers.
Mrs. Dennis Flynn wore a silver mink
jacket over her black frock; her wide-
brimmed hat was of white straw. A
junior-blue jacket-suit, sable scarf and
black velvet pillbox-beret comprised Mrs.
A. E. Hotchkiss’s outfit. Mrs. Angus
Jones wore a mulberry nylon taffeta
cocktail frock and a helmet-cap of pale-
mauve feathers finished with ospreys.
Mrs. Peter Kiernan’s coral wool duster-
coat was worn with a black velvet pill-
box. Mrs. T. T. Hollway covered her
black frock with a dyed-ermine coat. With
her black jacket-suit Lady McConnan
wore a black hat trimmed with ospreys.
Mrs. Frank Gillespie’s navy faille
cocktail-suit had opalescent beads on the
pockets ; her hat was pale-amber gros-
grain. Mrs. R. Hamilton topped her
aqua-blue suit with a petunia straw
cloche. Mrs. Rupert Downes wore a
wide-brimmed white felt hat and black
suit. Judith Silk’s off-one-shoulder frock
of grey-and-white-printed silk was worn
with a black coat and black pillbox hat.
Converted from a former U.S. aircraft-
carrier, the latest of the Flotta Lauro’s
luxury liners, the T.V. Sydney, was the
setting for a cocktail-party given by the
master, Captain Guiseppe Caggiano, and
C. W. Lucas, of James Patrick and Co.,
when it made port. Of most interest to
women guests was the Rue de la Paix, a
corridor leading to a lounge- and cocktail-
bar, and which is lined on both sides with
shop windows stocked with a wide variety
of goods. Among the guests were Mrs.
C. W. Lucas and her daughter Cecily,
Mrs. Herbert Paccini, who was with her
daughter-in-law Mrs. John Paccini, the
Hon. Simon Warrender and Mrs. War-
render and Mrs. Gladys Myer.
Mrs. Arthur Laver, of Kooyong, is
president of the Toorak auxiliary of the
Aged Blind, a member of the Jessie
Henderson auxiliary of the Melbourne
District Nursing Society and After Care
Hospital, and a life governor and execu-
tive member of its Council of Auxiliaries.
What leisure these activities leave her she
uses in relaxation at golf or the races—
she is rated among Melbourne’s best-
dressed—and in pursuing her love of
collecting old china.
In the delightful flat she occupies as
lady superintendent of the Children s
Hospital, Lucy Sechiari hostessed a
cocktail-party at which she “plugged” to
good effect the Royal Victorian College
of Nursing Ball, which is to be held at
St. Kilda Town Hall on November 26,
and at which the Governor and Lady
Brooks will be present. Lucy is president
of the ball-committee. Ticket-secretaries
are Renee Anderson (WY 2912), A. G.
Mathieson (FA 8501), Gillian Pam
(Windsor 392) and Nancy Woodrow
(JA 6380).
There were many guests at the party
given by Walter Ebstein and his wife to
celebrate the sixth birthday of Claridge’s.
Mrs. Ebstein wore a full-skirted gown of
white-and-gold brocade. Among those
who brought small parties were the A. G.
Silks, Mrs. Silk in a black organza gown
which had a deep band of white guipure
lace outlining the swirling hemline of the
skirt, the lace motif being repeated on
the bodice. Mrs. Colin Norman wore
oyster-grey satin, Mrs. Alec Finlay the
same material in parchment tonings.
Mrs. John Osboldstone’s pale-mauve
satins had clusters of opalescent beads
massed on the strapless bodice. A merry
party included Colonel Frank Gillespie,
U.S. Army Air Force Attache, and his
wife, whose ankle-length sheath of black
taffeta had an overskirt of black tulle,
Colonel W. Taylor, U.S. Assistant Army
Attache, and Mrs. Taylor, the latter’s
gown of flame-red crepe with gold
accessories, and Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Rose. Nan Dickson chose a white gown.
Ann Wilton, also wearing white and
squired by Louis Mendes, won the prize
for the most charming hostess.
At the Church of St. Mary’s of the
Angels, Geelong, Dorothea, younger
daughter of Mrs. E. M. Jones, of
Geelong, and the late Mr. Percy Jones,
was married to Patrick Neville, younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. Percy Sweetapple, of
Napier, New Zealand, the ceremony
being performed and the nuptial mass
celebrated by the bride’s brother. Rev.
Dr. Percy Jones. Her gown of parchment
satin was cut on Edwardian lines, the
bodice featuring a high neckline and long
tight-fitting sleeves, the skirt having an
apron front, while from a bustle it fell
into a fishtail train. The fine deep-cream
tulle veil was attached to a coronet of
lily-of-the-valley and the period posy
was of lily-of-the-valley and gardenias.
Matron-of-honor was the bride’s sister,
Mrs. Sidney Hughes, who wore pale-grey
chiffon over apricot-toned satin. There
were floating side-panels on the skirt, and
the short-sleeved bodice with its deep,
square neckline had its draping outlined
with a trail of gardenias. The bride’s
brother Dr. Adrian Jones was best man,
and she was given away by another
brother, Basil. Reception was at the
Carlton Hotel, Geelong, where Mrs.
Jones, in amethyst crepe-romaine and
small black hat trimmed with pink
flowers, received the guests, assisted by
Mr. and Mrs. Sweetapple. Emblems of
both Dominions decorated the wedding-
cake. The couple will make their home
in Napier.
Supper in the garden followed the
Sunday-evening performance of “Night
Was Our Friend,” when many of the
guests were theatrical folk. There were
Jon Pert wee, whose brother Michael is
the author of the play; Diana Barry-
more and her husband Robert Wilcox
were with the Garnet Carrolls; Professor
Paton and Mrs. Paton were with
Associate-Professor Keith Macartney
all three are keenly interested in the
University Tin Alley Players—Mrs. Olive
Thring, authoress Jean Campbell, who
appears at rare intervals in Little Theatre
productions, Brigadier and Mrs. Tovell,
the John Cains, Irene Mitchell, Betty
Everard, Captain Curwen-Taylor and
Adrian Wall.
Launching a new and diverting range
of cotton fabrics, the directors of Myers
and representatives of Nathan Clark
(U.S.A.) and Murray Jackson (England)
were co-hosts at a cocktail-party
in the lounge of the Myer Mural
Hall. A process known as Ever-
glaze is used to imprint a wide
variety of textures on plain woven cotton
cloth ; as an example, a lightweight cotton
is embossed with a pique surface.
Cottons and rayons take kindly to this
new process and retain their crispness
and new-as-ever glaze after repeated
washings. Furnishing materials have also
been treated with Everglaze, and along
with dress materials and shrink- and
stretch-proof and crease-resisting. Some
of the colors were vivid, but there were
many pleasing pastels. Great success has
been achieved by giving to cotton cloth
the Everglaze treatment to make it look
like satin, moire, broche or faille. Man-
nequins paraded in street frocks and
evening gowns of the new cloth. Much
admired was a vivid green Everglaze
satin, which could be worn as a duster-
coat or a cocktail-frock.
Among first-nighters for the latest
offerings of the Borovansky ballet, which
includes “The Outlaw,” based on the
exploits of Ned Kelly, were Mrs. Rupert
Downes, who was accompanied by her
daughter Mrs. Jim Campbell, Mrs. Tom
Carlyon, Mrs. John Mollard, Commodore
H J Buchanan and his wife—she in
silver-green brocaded faille—Mrs. Phil
Finkelstein, in midnight-blue faille,
Jennie and Eileen Brennan, both in black,
Cecil Tait who covered her black frock
with a Chinese jacket of red-and-silver
brocade, and her sister Mrs. Donald
Forbes,


When it's an
Exide—you start!
iixibt
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX 2.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
Perturbed by the shipping lag round
New Guinea and parts adjacent, Queens-
land Senator Roy Kendall aims to do
more than talk about it. He’ll spend his
Christmas leave from Canberra on the
bridge of a 350-tonner (arriving from
England next month with an English
migrant crew) trading round the islands,
clearing long-standing copra cargoes,
setting up route-schedules and training an
officer to take over. The Senator needs
no training himself, having learnt his pot-
hooks in H.M.S. Worcester (one of the
British Navy’s training-ships for
Merchant Navy cadets), and serving in
both Merchant and Royal Navies in the
Kaiser’s dust-up. In the years before
Hitler made his bid Kendall was sailing
round China and New Guinea waters,
achieving his master’s ticket, and, in the
War II years, his captaincy in the R.N.
Seagoing Reserve. Now a still-bouncy
52, born in London, he got his Canberra
berth in the 1949 changeover.
Yo, ho, ho and a cacheful of treasure!
Or so the song goes in George Lane!s
heart these war-worried days—he’s pre-
paring to hop off to Cocos Island (west
of Panama, not cruiser Sydney’s island)
after the pirate treasure Malcolm Camp-
bell failed to find in the mid-’thirties. A
wiry 61-year-old working in the Bris-
bane post-office, George has been a
Merchant Service seaman and served in
two navies. His information on where
the Spanish Mainers cached their loot
from Inca cities and Spanish galleons
comes from a War I German spy, whose
life, George claims, he saved in a brawl
in Panama while serving in the
Colombian Navy. After that, George
deserves to lift the loot.
“W.”; Judge John M. Brennan (B.
24/10/’5l) has a distinguished legal
family background. Father was for years
chief law-reporter on Melbourne
“Argus” ; uncles Frank Brennan and P. C.
Brennan, both K.Cs., were both attorney-
generals, under Scullin and Lyons respec-
tively ; brother is Australian consul in
New York; and wife is the daughter
of K. V. Maxwell (well-known for his
legal and colonial service in Kenya) and
is a great-granddaughter of Sir Benson
Maxwell, author of the standard text-
book on interpretation of statutes. A
ranker in the War II A.1.F., the new
judge was a prime mover in establishing
a community school for parents and
children at Avalon (N.S.W.), favorably
noticed in The Bulletin and claimed to
be unique in Australia.
Quietly-spoken, undramatical, but,
withal, definitely individual, the Most
Rev. Cyril Forster Garbett, Archbishop
of York and Primate of England, was
once described by a colleague as “very
much an ecclesiastical cat who invariably
walks by himself.” If that be taken to
include the Dean of Canterbury, then the
visiting prelate is certainly on his own —
he’s made no bones while in Australia
about putting the blame for present world
tension exactly where it belongs.
Second-top man in the Anglican church,
Dr. Garbett has had a lot of the
common touch. After 19 years at the
parish church of Portsea, famous as the
training-ground of bishops, he became,
at the end of War I, Bishop of South-
wark, a South London diocese where he
came daily in contact with the tragedies
of foul sanitation and substandard living.
And he became, as he has remained, the
fervent champion of housing reform.
Shifting, after 13 years, to Winchester
(which, with London and Durham, ranks
as one of the three most distinguished
English dioceses). Dr. Garbett became
Archbishop of York when, in 1942,
William Temple was elevated from York
to Canterbury. Now over 70, of a finely-
tempered kindess, the visitor directs his
dill-ample energy to domestic problems,
while advising, now and then, the keep-
ing of a strong right arm to supplement
the strength of faith against Russian
Communism.
After headmastering Newington Col-
lege, Sydney, for the past two years, 38-
year-old Mervyn Austin moves on to the
Chair of Classics and Ancient History in
Westralia’s University. Victoria’s Rhodes
Scholar for 1935, Austin returned from
Oxford to become, the year Hitler let go,
senior classics-master at Melbourne
Grammar, where he’d been a pupil. Two
years of teaching classics, then Austin
donned Air Force blue to help (in an
England-based Mosquito night-fighter
squadron) give Hitler a classic hiding.
As conversant with Greek as with his
mother tongue, Austin after the war, feel-
ing perhaps a proprietary interest in the
Island he’d helped to save, stayed over
there, lecturing in Greek at St. Andrew’s
University Cricket’s his recreation —he
captained Melbourne Grammar and
played for University in Victorian district
pennant cricket before crossing to Oxford.
His younger brother was a master at the
Sorbonne.
Andy Ross, second secretary and in-
formation officer in the Canadian High
Commissioner’s office, wends his way
home shortly, after four years here. Alert-
faced, with more than a dash of Scotch
about him, and one of the most widely-
liked of the H.C.’s staff, Andy has packed
a deal of newspaper know-how into his
36 years. On the editorial side of the
Canadian Press Newsagency in Toronto
and Halifax when Canada declared
against Hitler, he joined the Army, trans-
ferred to Intelligence in Ottawa, and later
shifted to S.H.A.E.F. in Britain and
France. For a brief term after the war
he took on Parliamentary reporting, gave
that away to join the Canadian Informa-
tion Service, and landed in Australia at
the end of 1947. Arriving this month
from Canada, third secretary, G. W. J.
Charpentier is also a journalist, who has
fitted service in the Army and Air Force
into his 27 years, and time also at the
Universities of Montreal, Paris and
London.
Passed his 69th milestone in Adelaide,
Sir John Mellis Napier (he prefers the
second name), here seen as Coventry sees
him. Since 1942 South Australia’s Chief
Justice and Lieut.-Governor, S’John has
BENCH.
been engaged in legal warfare for close
on half a century. Born in Dunbar,
Scotland, son of an eminent medico, and
schooled in London and Adelaide, the
C.J. was practising as a barrister at 21,
and reached the Supreme Court Bench
in 1924. When the Commonwealth
Government appointed a commission on
banking just before War II it sent for
him, and the report he signed as chairman
still finds readers. He had two sons in
the war-time R.A.A.F., one of them lost
over Italy.
Hereunder a Gordon impression of
John Fletcher, than whom there’s no one
knows more about Queensland’s meat-
industry. He has managed the big
Gladstone Meat Works, was appointed
by the Commonwealth Government to
sit on two royal commissions probing
the development of meat-production in
Queensland, is general-manager of
Pastoral Properties, and directorially
helps with the State’s Primary Producers’
Co-op. Association. An inter-State
cricketer in his day, he had a bowl at
State politics back in 1920, getting in as
BEEF.
member for Port Curtis for a three-year
term. He was recently appointed a
director of the Commonwealth Bank.
Recommended by the Federal Gov-
ernment for the Joint Coal Board, David
Watkin Phillips has two considerable
qualifications for the job. First, he hails
from Wales, which has mined a coal or
two; second, he holds the Chair of
Mining Engineering at the N.S.W. Uni-
versity of Technology, Add to that 12
years’ practical mining experience, a long
list of degrees from Cardiff and Cam-
bridge Universities, two years as chief
safety-engineer of Britain’s National Coal
Board after War 11, and a sizeable raft
of writings on mining published in
scientific journals in Britain, Belgium and
the U.S. He’s 52.
The record of a Melbourne family
distinguished in medicine is maintained
with Bill Littlejohn’s receiving his
Bachelorship of Medicine from Mel-
bourne University the other day. Grand-
son of the Dr. Littlejohn who head-
mastered Scotch College for 25 years,
young Littlejohn has for uncle a Rhodes
Scholar who was an A.A.M.C. captain in
the Kaiser’s scrap ; for aunt one of Mel-
bourne’s leading ear, nose and throat
surgeons, senior-surgeon in the Victorian
Ear and Throat Hospital; and for father
an Old Digger who privateered in
the A.I.F. before becoming a medical
captain. Littlejohn’s degree would have
arrived earlier only f at one Hitler re-
quired treatment. Captain of Scotch
before going on to the ’Varsity, Bill
put his medical course on ice, joined the
Reserve Navy, and shortly found himself
in a corvette in the North Sea. From that
he qualified for submarines, became
possibly the first Australian to command
one in Hitler’s war, and, “for bravery
and skill in a successful patrol in one of
H.M. submarines,” was awarded the
D.S.C. Now 31.
Pupil and professor have got together
in the big job ahead of the Speck’s Hydro-
electric Commission —pupil being the
commissioner, Allan Knight, professor
being associate-commissioner Alan Burn,
holder of the Chair of Engineering at
Hobart University. Knight, formerly
chief-engineer of the State’s Public Works
Department, designed the pontoon-bridge
across the Derwent’s rips at Hobart.
Burn, born in Hobart and educated at
Hobart and Sydney Universities, was
demonstrator in electrical-engineering at
the last-named institution before War I,
and, when awarded the Walter and Eliza
Hall Travelling Fellowship in engineering,
went to Zurich to study water-turbine
and centrifugal-pump design and con-
struction. From 1919 he has held high
tutorial posts in Hobart University,
succeeding to the Chair of Engineering
at 31, and holding the vice-chancellorship
for four years after War 11. Now a
member of most of his State’s high
scientific associations, president of the
Australian Institute of Engineers last
year, Burn has a reputation for his
concise exposition in lecturing.
Stepping out of the ring after 37 years’
service, Lieut.-Colonel L. H. Stranks, for
the past two years divisional-commander
of the Salvation Army in Westralia, and
for 25 years a missionary in North China.
Born in Tasmania, trained at the Mel-
bourne college for Salvo officers, he was,
like so many of his kind, well to the fore
with the troops of both World Wars, and
was in Peking when the Japs invaded in
1937. When Japan took on the U.S., the
colonel was head of a college training
Chinese Salvo officers. Captured, he and
his wife had almost four years in what
the Nips were pleased to call a “Civilian
Assembly Centre.” Now he and his wife
are off to British Columbia to visit a
medico son there.
The H. C. Richards Memorial Prize of
£lOO (founded in memory of Professor
Richards, who was a chairman of trustees
of the Queensland National Gallery) goes
this year to John Rowell, for his land-
scape “A Northern Road.” A painter of
fresh and distinctive landscapes full of
sunlight, Rowell, a Yarrasider, started
his prize-collecting early—winning, while
still at the National Gallery School in
Melbourne, seven first and two second
prizes in annual competitions. In close
on 40 years of serious painting he’s got
himself into most of the Australian
capital-city galleries, exhibited in London
and Paris, and served on committees of
most of the important art societies in
Australia, being a foundation-member of
the Australian Academy of Art. Now
57, he’s interrupted his painting with two
breaks of teaching, having been art-
master at both Melbourne Tech, and
Melbourne Grammar.
Back from command of the R.A.A.F.
in Japan and Korea, with an expert and
favorable word to say on the competence
of 77 Squadron’s Meteors, Group-Captain
Arthur Charlton goes to Operations at
Melbourne headquarters with promotion
to air-commodore. One of the service’s
most experienced administrators, Charlton
before War II carried out a photographic
aerial survey of Central and Northern
Australia, became Director of Intelligence
in 1943, and went on to command the
R.A.A.F.’s Northern Area, and later its
big station at East Sale, in Victoria. A
Melbourne University graduate, he’s 36,
with half his lifetime in Air Force blue.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 64, Dr. Joseph Patrick Kenny,
who graduated from Sydney University Medical
School in the days of T. P. Anderson Stuart.
A nippy lightweight in his younger days, he
refereed school, police and State amateur-boxing
championship competitions in Perth for over 25
years; other less strenuous pastimes being
yachting, golf, water-color painting and writing
verse. Overseas with the 28th Battalion and
11th Field Ambulance of the First A.1.F.,
he was in uniform again as an M.O. in the
late disturbance.
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 68, George Craig
Cruickshank, who served the C. of E. long
and well in the Auckland and Dunedin dioceses.
Consecrated Bishop of Waiapu at Napier in
1945, he retired through ill-health 15 months
later. A chaplain with the N.Z.E.F., he was
wounded at the Somme in 1916.
In Ballarat, at 78, John Naylor, veteran axe-
man, one of a wood-cutting partnership notable
in Ballarat during the last half-century. Back
in 1908 he and his brother Tom won a wood-
cutting competition at Bolwarrah by cutting and
splitting 25 tons of sft. wood in hours.
Tom, who died 12 months ago, once cut eight
tons of 2ft. wood between 1 p.m. and dark.
In the recent air-crash near Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
at 30, C. M. (“Robin”) Hood, a widely-liked
Westralian pilot who joined Airlines (W.A.) in
1946, a few weeks after his arrival in Australia.
Before that he had done most of his flying with
the R.A.F. against the Luftwaffe, ending his
war service a squadron-leader. On the ground
he was a keen Rugby and squash-racquets
player.


MAKING AUSTRALIA STRONG !
COAL
is Kina!
Coal—and Its by-product, coke—dominate all
phases of our community life. Ample production Is
essential to cope with Australia's expanding
economy, for coal is the starting-point of so many
of our secondary products.
To us a regular supply of coke is essential, for we
use large quantities of it in our new foundry, where
high-quality castings are produced for our Petrol,
Kerosene and Diesel Engines and other machines.
To all those who engage in the Industry—both
management and labour there is a patriotic
obligation to dedicate the future to unhampered
production so that this young Nation of ours may
advance to the great destiny envisaged by its
pioneers.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria. Mel-
bourne Office: 628 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
Frazer House, 43 Bridge St., SYDNEY. Q'land
Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty.
Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Ho. 10
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
Oj
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
Ofc-1 &£•<&
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
-4-121% Sales Tax
ẅ
w
AND SON?
PTY, LTD
42 mjNit-H srnri^sv^^^
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep on the Coast.
“Jumbuck”: Of course almost
any conditions may be used to
make money out of sheep at the
present time, even a tropical
climate with a 70in. rainfall at
Mackay, on the central Queens-
land coast, as indicated by
“W.C.Q.” (B. 17/10/’5l).
Experience on the sub-
tropical N.S.W. coast has been
that suitable pasture is available,
or can be produced, under
certain conditions, especially in
combination with cattle to eat
the coarse growth, for the fatten-
ing of sheep. It is difficult, how-
ever, to effect and maintain, over
the years, a good development
and constitution in breeding
stock under these conditions.
Feed which is largely of
carbohydrate composition is not
very suitable for building bone
and muscle framework on which
to place the fat. Protein and
minerals are largely required for
such development, and these are
largely deficient under heavy
rainfall coastal conditions.
Farmers in the warm, humid,
heavy-rainfall climate of the
south-eastern States of U.S.A.
are also going in for sheep these
times, but the industry there is
being rather soundly built upon
improved sown mixed pastures,
fertilised with lime and phos-
phates. Containing clovers, these
pastures provide both the pro-
teins and the minerals essential
for good body-building, while
the abundant sources of carbo-
hydrate feed furnish the fattening
requirements.
Silage-making.
“Billjim”: Advent of the rear
buck-rake has revolutionised, the
process. The rake is a type of
sweep mounted at the back of a
tractor fitted with hydraulic
lifting gear. The gear enables
the sweep to be readily raised or
lowered from the seat while
tipping of the sweep also is con-
trolled by the driver.
Vic. Department of Agricul-
ture recommends a trench silo
when making silage with the rear
buck-rake, but stresses that a
well-drained site is necessary.
Bulldoze a trench 12ft. wide
and 6ft. deep and slope the sides
slightly inwards to assist con-
solidation. Give the floor a fall
to a drain down the centre. After
cutting, the buck-rake allows
grass to be carted straight out
of the swathe without any prior
side raking. Better still, fit the
mower with two swathe-boards,
one at each end of the knife-bar.
An average load on the rake is
four to five cuts and two men
can put in three acres of silage
in a day.
If land is not sufficiently well
drained for the use of a trench
the buck-rake can be employed
successfully in making stack
silage. In this case build a
wooden ramp alongside the stack
and reverse the tractor up to the
stack.
Another means of using the
tractor for silage-making is with
the forward loader attachment.
A heavy tractor and two men,
it is estimated, can stack up to
four acres in a day. The
hydraulic equipment can handle
a stack lift, in height. A ramp
can again be used if additional
height is required. Cost of the
equipment is about £2OO and
would be excessive if it were to
be used only for silage-making.
However, the numerous other
attachments available, including
the dirt bucket for digging and
loading earth (which can also be
used for covering the silage),
make it a more economic pro-
position.
Christmas Ducks.
“Myrrhee”: For the duckyard
select a well-drained site on a
sandy or light soil. Divide the
area into four yards, each large
enough to hold the flock, and
use them in rotation, one week in
each. By the time the birds are
ready to be transferred from
Yard Four into Yard One, the
soil of the latter will have re-
covered some of its sweetness.
The duckhouse, having access
to each of the yards in turn,
should be open-fronted and face
north, with a ventilation space
of Ift. along the entire length of
the back wall. Allow 3 sq. ft.
of floor space for each duck and
keep the floor covered with clean
straw, sand or sawdust
Feed ducklings for the first
five weeks on a good chick
mixture kneaded to a crumbly
mash, after which time they can
be put on to a mature ration of
ground wheat 351 b., ground oats
351 b., bran 201 b., meatmeal 10lb.,
with 25 per cent, of chopped
tender greenfecd. Give plenty
of water in deep vessels, and
shade in hot weather.
Grow Pyrethmm.
“C.S.”: The plant is a sort of
chrysanthemum, with daisy-like
flowers from which is made an
insecticide which forms part of
all insect sprays.
Manufacture in Australia got
a fillip during the war, when
vast quantities of pyrethmm
were needed for malaria control,
“Quick! Catch the queen, Tony!”
ẃ
intervals inside the boundary-
fence should be followed. If
farm and outbuildings are in a
compact unit, an area of about
five chains should be fenced
round them and fed off com-
pletely during the last month of
spring—which coincides with
shearing in most of South Aus-
tralia and the southern States.
Yard sheep every night in
this particular area—especially
the newly-shorn ones —and feed
them roughage in order to keep
them warm against an unex-
pected cold snap. The area will
soon be bare as a board and no
longer a fire hazard.
In the 25in. rainfall districts
this area could be sown with
strawberry-clover, which will
form a flat, green sward in
summer ; in the 1 Sin. to 20in.
area it can be sown with lucerne,
but lucerne should be kept well-
nipped, because although it is a
green summer grower it is by
no means fire-resistant, and will
burn readily enough after it has
been in the path of a hot wind
for an hour or so.
A. Comparison.
“The Missus”: Found some
old papers recording details of
17 bales of wool consigned from
Warrnambool (Vic.) to London
by Messrs. Thos. Redford and
Cos., leading agents of the dis-
trict in those days, by the ship
Elizabeth, the wool to be sold
on behalf of my grandfather
(the late Francis Tozer, of
Wangoom Park). Time was
1901.
Account-sales, a flimsy, fragile
sheet of fine paper very unlike
the huge colored sheets of to-
day, bears hand-written details
of types, weights and prices. Top
price for a bale of 3521 b. of fine
comeback was s|d., followed by
a big drop to 4d. for three bales,
totalling 12211 b. of cbk., then
falling by farthings to the lowest
price of 3d,, for four bales
(16051 b.) of bellies and pieces.
The entire consignment of
69231 b. grossed £ll6 Os. 10d.,
and, when all charges were
deducted, netted £B7 Is. sd.
An interesting little entry was
“samples, 171 b., 3s. Bd.” Evi-
dently the then practice was to
extract a pound of wool from
each bale rather than open the
entire bale to show the buyer.
Nearly every bale weighed well
over 4001 b., pretty good for
hand-pressing in the old box-
press. The last of the three
sheets was a report on the state
of some Lincoln wool, described
as “of very coarse quality in a
shabby, skirty condition.” It
averaged 4}d.
Boot-repairing.
“Kelms”: Greatest damage a
boot receives is when the first
worn-out sole is taken off and
replaced. However carefully the
job be done the stretching halves
its future life. The longer that
operation can be postponed the
better for the boot.
Stick rubber soles on to the
boots before they become worn.
Roughen the leather soles
thoroughly and apply a liberal
coating of solution. Allow this
about half an hour to dry, then
repeat the application. Let that
dry for a few hours—overnight
if possible —then remove the
linen covering from the prepared
soles and place them on. Make
sure they are right first time —
you can’t have two shots. Press
them on firmly all over, trim
with a sharp knife and allow to
rest for a few hours.
A Geneticist Talks.
C.5.1.R.0. has now
published extracts from Dr. A.
L. Hagedoorn’s lectures during
the famous Dutch geneticist’s
tour of Australia. His answers
to questions asked by practical
stockmen are included. The title:
“A Geneticist Talks with Aus-
tralian Animal Breeders.”
He asks Australians to heed
three main principles: Animals
bred for economic purposes


Should Persons of
Different Faiths
Marry?
Why is intermarriage between
Catholics, Protestants, Jews
opposed by leaders of all these
religions? In November
Reader’s Digest Dr. David R.
Mace, Professor of Human
Relations, discusses the hazards
of mixed marriage.
Dr. Mace points out where
friction may arise—when chil-
dren arrive, in day to day
points of view. Advice is given
as to how parents can help
children avoid the pitfalls of
mixed marriage; how a couple
involved in one can best deal
with problems they must face.
This is just one of 30 stimu-
lating articles in November
Reader’s Digest. One shilling
and sixpence. All newsagents
and bookstalls.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
fjtu
THE
hygeia DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
w
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple Instruction card supplied
makes it possible tor any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 32 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
'DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
IQ’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
Diligence:
. . . constant and earnest effort
to accomplish what is undertaken.
The bank’s officers are trained
in an atmosphere of diligence; in
the knowledge and example that
a customer who goes about his
business with diligence and good
judgment is a customer to be
assisted in all possible ways,
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
CRONULLA'S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
Xiß 5933
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for (a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per
annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or (b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £BO per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or
of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later
than the 7th January, 1952, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later than the 4th February,
1952, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and
further particulars may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SURFERS PARADISE
Auction Sale!
Under instructions from Dr. Cedric and Mrs. T. M. Barnes,
we will offer their valuable property
UNCLE TOM’S CABINS
(corner Pacific Highway and Trickett St.)
at
Harding Smith, Armstrong & Spencer’s
Rooms, Nerang St., Southport
Sat., Nov. lOth, at 11 a.m.
Area 2 roods 5-1 perches (freehold). Frontage 148 feet
to Pacific Highway and 81 feet to Trickett St. one
remove from the well-known Surfers Paradise Hotel, and
right in the centre of the Surfers Paradise business section.
Property comprises picturesque and well built cabins,
set in luxurious tropical gardens, forming fully furnished
suites and rooms (the majority having toilets, showers
and telephones) and conducted as serviced rooms with
first-class accommodation for 42 guests.
In addition to the cabins, the property includes sub-
stantial furnished dwelling with 3 bedrooms, 2 dressing
rooms, 3 living rooms, large modern kitchen with all con-
veniences. Two offices. Four professional rooms also avail-
able for letting if desired. Business is easily managed,
is served by an efficient staff, and shows excellent and steady
returns with almost unlimited scope for expansion.
Contingent to the sale of the Cabin property we will
also offer at the same time
Two Valuable Allotments
abutting the Cabin’s land and having 66 feet frontage to
Trickett St., area 32 perches, freehold.
Inspection by appointment and illustrated brochure from:
HARDING SMITH, ARMSTRONG & SPENCER
Nerang St., Southport, Q. Phone 302 and 327, or
R. S. BILLINGTON
Pacific Highway, Surfers Paradise. Phone 235
Auctioneers in Conjunction
until Summer is nearly over
and swelter day and night...
INSULATE
your home NOW with
ŵ
SLAGWOOL
No house, no home, no office
or building is modem and
entirely healthy unless it is
insulated preferably with
8.1. SLAGWOOL.
FILL IN AND SEND FOR FDLL PARTICULARS
BRADFORD INSULATION (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
66-72 Reservoir Street. Sydney
Please send me full information and leaflets
regarding Bradford Home Insulation.
NAME
ADDRESS.
must be judged solely by eco-
nomic standards. The excellent
appearance of a show animal is
not in itself a guide to its value
for breeding. The object of
breeding domestic animals is not
only to produce a few good ones,
but to produce large groups of
animals all of which are good.
Distribution is by the Tait
Book Cos., 349 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
T omato-planting.
“Spring Vale”: In most parts
.of Victoria (far north excepted),
now is the best time to plant
tomato seedlings. About 18 to
24 well-tended plants does for
average family needs, and they
should be raised in triple suc-
cession—early, medium and late.
It’s an advantage to raise your
own seedlings from reliable
seeds, but, if you must buy them,
select sturdy, dark-leaved plants
that are not “leggy” and drawn.
A good plan is to buy about
twice as many as required, cull-
ing out the weakest or any with
the least abnormality.
Plant a little deeper than the
original soil-mark, and water in
the plants with a nutrient solu-
tion made from £oz. of sulphate
of ammonia or nitrate of soda
and loz. of superphosphate to
2gal. of water. This is best made
up 48 hours before use.
Don’t force them with too-
abundant watering and manur-
ing—other than the base manure
applied before planting—until
they’re at the flowering stage.
If the soil is well-soaked the day
before planting, they rarely need
more watering before the lapse
of about a fortnight. Keep the
soil moist —not soaked.
Insert stakes before planting,
and when seedlings attain Sin. or
lOin. height, make the first tie.
This should be fairly loose to
ailow for expansion. When
plants are well-established,
apply the first insecticidal spray-
ing or dusting, continuing this at
fortnightly intervals until the end
of January. H.E.T.P. gives
good results, but D.D.T. is satis-
factory if applied at proper
strengths. Fungicidal sprays or
dusts are useful, but best control
for all tomato diseases is the
prompt removal of affected
plants, and the control of insect
disease-carriers.
Cooling Milk.
“Myr”: Cold water is still
the quickest and best method of
cooling milk, which, run over a
cooler with the water at 58deg.
F., will drop to 60deg. F. in a
few minutes. Freshly-drawn
milk around 95deg. F. left to
cool in an atmospheric tempera-
ture of 40deg. F, takes from
two to three hours to reach
60deg. F.
R. T. McKenzie, Senior Dairy
Inspector, of Victoria, considers
that the cooler should have a
surface large enough to enable
the milk to flow slowly in a thin
even film over the surface, per-
mitting the maximum transfer-
ence of heat to take place. At
least three gallons of water
should pass through the cooler
for each gallon of milk to be
cooled.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: For nitrogen deficiency
in fruit-trees apply 41b. or 51b.
of sulphate of ammonia per
fully-grown tree. Using blood-
and-bone the equivalent would
be 151 b. to 201 b., using poultry
manure 501 b,, using stable
manure 2cwt. per tree. The
organic manures do more
than supply nitrogen ; they build
up the organic content of the
soil.
“C.A.A.”; A complete ferti-
liser put on the home garden in
spring helps summer growth of
vegetables. A recommended
mixture is blood-and-bone 211 b.,
super. 14Ib„ sulphate of
ammonia 71b., sulphate or
muriate of potash 61b. Mix
thoroughly and apply at 2oz. to
the square yard. Dig the soil
and rake or fork in the mixture.
“Dral”: Tyres wear twice as
fast at 60 m.p.h. as at 30 m.p.h.,
due to heat build-up, which
causes rubber to become softer.
This means more tread wear and
a weakening of the casing insu-
lations, and there is always a
risk of a heat blow-out at pro-
longed high speeds.
“Don D.”: One of my 10-
weeks-old R.I.R. cockerels got
his crop so badly ripped by an
old hen that everything he
swallowed came out through the
rip. I stitched it carefully with
ordinary white cotton dipped in
iodine and at time of writing
the bird is doing well.
“Narrunyeri”; Calves fed in
a small set of bails from a very
early age will never forget, and
after six or eight months of it
will give no trouble as heifers
when bailed up for their first
milking.
“Spring Vale”: To destroy
cockroaches dust sodium fluoride
liberally in their haunts —dark
corners of cupboards, under
sinks and around hot-water
pipes. The pests run over this
poisonous material and take it
into their stomachs when clean-
ing themselves. Light infesta-
tions can be controlled by free
use of liquid pyrethrum fly-
sprays. Keep sodium fluoride
away from food and beyond
reach of children.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
November weather should be much the same as was
October, though there is a tendency for some heavier rains
in the N.S.W. central and southern coast districts, with
a rather drier time away from the coast, in the Riverina and
northern Victoria, South Australia and most of West
Australia. There may be some erratic storms near Perth.
In the Tropics, however, the rain tendency should
improve, with relief for the areas round Clermont and some
good falls in south-east Queensland and the Darling Downs.
A heatwave may interrupt this sequence about the middle
of the month.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOTV a
osmxrvAN
ftc on
skbe
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI,” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
VICTORIA
RACING CLUB,
Flemington
DERBY DAY - 3rd November
CTJP DAY - - 6th November
OAKS DAY - - Bth November
C. B. FISHER
PLATE - - - 10th November
Victorian Govern-
ment Centenary
Commemoration
Meeting - - - 13th November
K. A. MORRIBOh, Secretary.
w
“I think I'd like
a White Horse
better than anything”
m
WHITE HORSE SCOTCH WHISKY
WHX7A
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Surely it was purely an oversight
that neither Phar Lap nor Comic
Court ever contested the N.J.C.
Cameron Handicap.
* * * *
Nearly always good last-minute
guides to Melbourne Cup prospects
are the Victoria Derby (offering a
final summing-up of the three-year-
old prospects) and the L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes and Hotham Handi-
cap, in both of which Cup candidates
can be given a fully-extended test
without fear of penalty. However,
obliged to take the plunge without
benefit of those oft-reliable guides,
this page will stick to its early Cup
selection, Grey Boots.
Grey Boots admittedly disappointed
somewhat at Moonee Valley on
Saturday when he started an even-
money favorite for the mile Phoenix
Handicap and finished a poorish
sixth in a field of 18. However,
there were so many valid excuses tor
his showing that the run could be
completely ignored; like the said
Phoenix, Grey Boots may yet rise
triumphant from the ashes.
Grey Boots was drawn on the
extreme outside of the sizeable field,
which is a tremendous disadvantage
on the tight Moonee Valley circuit,
and Purtell had to ride him very hard
for several furlongs before he could
work over to an even moderately
good position; even so, he was never
better than a couple of horses wide.
Then during the running Grey Boots
cast one plate and twisted another,
which pretty thoroughly wiped his
remaining chances. Merry Scout won
the race very easily. In front at the
turn, Merry Scout (W. Williamson)
skipped blithely away from them in
the straight to score by four lengths
from Lohengrin, who just shaded
Broadside.
West Australian trainer Angus
Annanasco, with his small team of
Wcstralian-owned horses, has been
making the Melbourne fraternity sit
up and take quite a bit of notice in
recent weeks. He won a string of
good races, and, some thought, had
the Caulfield Cup at his mercy with
Jovial Lad. That horse, unfortunately,
went amiss before the Caulfield Cup,
but'Armanasco derived a measure of
compensation on Saturday when he
saddled-up Erriton for a comfortable
win in the £5OOO Gold Cup. Aft® r
being a long way back at the halt-
mile Erriton launched a sustained run
which saw him second into the
straight and a convincing winner in
the run home. Erriton, who started at
twelves and was ridden by F. Treen,
is a five-year-old son of the Pantheon
horse Panto. Durham finished second,
two and a half lengths behind the
winner; Toastmaster was third, and
Glenvue collected £lOO fourth money
—an institution which should be more
widely adopted.
• • • • •
In some ways the Nizami five-year-
old Durham disappointed in the Cup,
for which he had seemed very favor-
ably handicapped. Nevertheless his
performance did have a fair deal ot
merit. He was conceding Erriton 81b.,
and the Melbourne Cup handicapper
acknowledged the error of that assess-
ment by soaking Erriton with an 81b.
penalty. And Durham, after striking
interference so severe that the lad
responsible was given two months,
came home very solidly; not quite so
brilliantly as the winner, but, never-
theless, giving the impression more
than most of the others that an extra
few furlongs would be right into his
barrow.
The third member of the Nizami
breed to enter Cup calculations on
Saturday was the New Zealandei
Akbar, who, making his first appear-
ance in Australia, impressed with a
fast-finishing fourth in the Cox
Plate. Three-year-olds had won the
Cox Plate four years in a row, and,
sending the Sydney colt out at 5 to 4,
punters seemed almost unanimous
that Hydrogen would raise the tally
to five. The principle was right, but
they picked the wrong three-year-old ;
the winner was the Helios colt
Bronton, at 25 to 1. Purtell stole
the race when he slipped Bronton
away to a lead of several lengths
entering the straight, and Hydrogen,
though he came home in his usual
brilliant style, failed by a neck to
bridge the gap. Iron Duke finished
a close third, and he was followed by
Akbar.
. Akbar is a splendid-looking type—
not one of the more customary grey
Nizamis, but a chestnut. Most of the
best of them, of course, have been
greys, but Melbourne Cup winner
Foxzami will be remembered as a
bay. In New Zealand Akbar has
most frequently been seen at his best
over middle distances —particularly 10
and 11 furlongs—but his stamina has
improved with age. Last season he
won the 2-miles Autumn Handicap
in 3.22 i, which is good enough to
win a Melbourne Cup.
Reverting to Hydrogen, this colt
has a most brilliant finishing burst,
but his performances suggest that it
is a run of definitely limited duration,
and the longer the journey the more
carefully it requires to be timed. He
gets so very far out of his ground.
If his run is initiated too soon he dies
on it, as he did in the A.J.C. Derby,
when he fairly ate up the field
between the three and the furlong
mark but made no impression over
the final furlong. On the other hand,
if the run is left much later he is
faced with making up an impossible
amount of ground, and he will always
fail to do so when there are true
stayers of the Trizami type among
those far ahead of him. Unless
Hydrogen can be persuaded to run a
very different type of race in the
Victoria Derby, it is difficult to see
why he should reign as hot favorite
for that event while all three place-
getters in the A.J.C. Derby were, at
time of writing, well out in the
market. They may not finish in the
same order —Montana's splendid con-
sistency deserves reward, and one can-
not forget the manner in which
Trizami came again at the finish of
the A.J.C. classic—but it will surprise
if the same three are not handy at
the finish of the Victoria Derby.
Apart from the aforementioned
Nizamis, horses which seem to com-
mand most attention for the Mel-
bourne Cup are the reigning favorite
Morse Code, the Queenslanders Blue
Vest and Basha Felika, Free Kick
and, possibly, the topweight, Delta.
Of the three-year-olds, naturally,
whatever wins the Derby will deserve
consideration according to the man-
ner in which he does win the classic,
but writing in anticipation of that
event, Montana and Channel Rise
would impress as the best prospects.
The Caulfield Cup performances of
Basha Felika and Blue Vest entitle
both to respect, but, in present
observer’s weighing-up, Blue Vest
earns most points. The 71b. penalty
inflicted upon Basha Felika seemed to
be a pretty severe assessment of the
half-neck which separated that horse
and Blue Vest at the finish of the
Caulfield Cup. In addition, Blue
Vest has won at two miles (always a
factor to be strongly considered), and
his preparation has been particularly
well-timed; there is ample reason to
suppose he will be even better on
Melbourne Cup day than he was in
the Caulfield Cup. Free Kick is a
consistent and genuine stayer. He
has to his credit several good per-
formances at 12 and 13 furlongs. As
well, as a three-year-old he finished
second (to Carbon Copy) in the Car-
bine Stakes (2i miles) and fourth in
the Sydney Cup; last season, as a
four-year-old, he won the Carbine
Stakes and the 2-pules Inkerman
Handicap, and finished fifth in the
Brisbane Cup.
Summing them up, then, with again
a reminder that Hotham Handicap
form deserves great respect, for the
Melbourne Cup:
Grey Boots, I; Blue Vest, 2; Free
Kick, 3; Morse Code, 4; Akbar, 5;
Durham, 6.
The most instructive of other results
at Moonee Valley was that of the
mile Grcenvale Handicap for three-
year-olds, in which the Sydney filly
Blue's Sister confirmed the impression
that she will be very hard to beat in
the Oaks by finishing fast to fail by
only a half-neck to beat Regalis (B.
Smith), a colt, and in receipt of 61b.
The Adelaide colt Cellar Master (J.
Purtell) made his record four wins
from four starts when he took the
first St. Albans Handicap for two-
year-olds, and his appropriately-named
stablemate, Winemaker, failed by
only a neck to notch up a similar
score when he was just pipped by
Sopra in the second St. Albans.
There’d surely have been a wild night
at the W.C.T.U. if both the South
Australians had been beaten.
* * * *
At the S.T.C.’s Rosehill meeting
on Saturday the most noticeable
feature was, as it had been at Canter-
bury the previous week, the excep-
tionally fast state of the track. If
any of the better-class horses had
been in action over the past couple
of weeks Australian records may have
gone by the board. As a matter of
fact it is interesting to note that the
existing Randwick records (several of
them Commonwealth records) for 4|,
5,6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 fur-
longs have all been set in the month
of October.
While Hydrogen was in process of
disappointing him in Melbourne,
owner E. R. Williams notched up a
good double at Rosehill with his
two other promising three-year-olds
Forest Beau and Nitrogen, both ridden
by G. Moore. Forest Beau beat
Boatman and Neat Andrew in the
principal event, the 10-furlongs
October Handicap ; Nitrogen took the
Welter (7if.)- It is proposed to send
Forest Beau south as a second string
for the Victoria Derby and Nitrogen
north for the Queensland Derby-
altogether quite a nice hand to be
holding.
Back from a successful visit to
Brisbane, the Hellespont five-year-old
Zetland (K. Barratt) made very short
work of the opposition in Saturday’s
Flying (7f.). Zetland scored by three
lengths from Midwise, with a similar
margin to Royal Andrew, who was
followed by the previous week’s
brilliant winner Humming Top. Two-
year-old winners over a journey of
44 furlongs and 29yds. were First
Occasion (G. Podmore), who downed
tbe fillies, and Daily Paper (J.
Thompson) beating fellow-colts.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) i ——
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies).
Brunadene, 1; Admiral’s Lady,-*
Portly Belle, 3. Two-year-old Maiden
(colts): Tamahere, 1; Spider King,
2; Blond Val, 3. Ashbury Mixed:
Citadel, 1; Corinthian, 2; Reel, i-
Burwood Mixed; Eagle Prince, 1;
Keeland, 2; March Vale, 3. Flying:
Dynamite, I; Heliofly, 2; Carriole, 3.
November Handicap; Golden Brew,
1; Neat Andrew, 2; Peace Treaty, 3.
Welter: Sir Raven, 1; Goldak, 2;
Audacious, 3.
* * * *
The Australian selectors last week
announced their team for the first
Test v. West Indies. Hassett, of
course, is skipper, and under him
arc fellow-Victorians N. Harvey, I.
Johnson, W. Johnston and D. Ring;
J. Burke, R. Lindwall, K. Miller and
A. R. Morris of N.S.W.; G. Hole
and G. Langley of S.A.; and Ken
Archer as the solitary, but very
worthy, Queensland representative.
Barnes has put in a reappearance this
season, and many experts professed
amazement that the former Test player
was not an automatic selection. How-
ever, in the circumstances the selec-
tors seem to have done the right
thing, and Barnes himself made very
sporting acknowledgment of the fact,
congratulating the younger players
chosen and declaring that he will
endeavor to ploy himself into the
team.
* * * *
The West Indians officially opened
their tour with a two-day match
against N.S.W. Country at Newcastle
last week, and, after feeling their way
pretty cautiously in the first innings
against such well-known Newcastle
secret weapons as “caught De Courcy,
bowled Pickles,” the visitors even-
tually won by eight wickets. N.S.W.
Country, 139 and nine (declared) for
201; West Indies, 166 and two for
176.
* * * *
Its traditional Thursday night being
continually pirated by dog-racing and
trotting interests working off a back-
log of postponed meetings, Leichhardt
Stadium just about gave up the ghost
for a period of some months.
However, operations were resumed
recently, and last week Wagga welter-
weight Keith French (10.5 k) and New
Zealander Jimmy Mclvor (10.5)
turned-in a really lively scrap, with
Mclvor the winner on points. Least-
wise that was the official decision,
greeted with due derision by the
crowd. Present observer’s private
verdict was that French won the last
four rounds by a mile and the bout
as a whole pretty comfortably.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Pub and the Public
Why should hotels have a monopoly of
the retail trade in liquor? Why should
not a householder be able to buy a
single bottle of beer at the nearest grocer’s
shop to take home to share with the
missus at the evening meal? As things
are he is compelled to go to the pub, and
too often the beer he carries home is
inside him.
As to hotel trading generally, hotel
bars open before there is a genuine
need for them and close before the justi-
fiable public demand is satisfied ; and the
result is a disgusting competitive guzzle
in the last hour. Where trading hours
are arranged with commonsense regard
for the public’s legitimate needs, as in
England and Tasmania, there is little
excessive drinking; but the unholy
alliance of wowsers, hotelkeepers and
their staffs stands in the way of sensibl
practice in most of the cities and town
in Australia.— G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
That Budget
The interesting thing will be to see
whether the electors can stand the
medicine which they authorised the Gov
ernment to dispense. A good majority
put Menzies back for two main reason
—to halt inflation and strengthen Aus
tralia against Corns, local and foreign—
but now, as Government plans take
shape, Australians are beginning to
realise that they will be personally
affected, and not many are taking the
medicine without a squeal.
The Budget brought forth howls from
all sections of the community, yet already
its steadying effect can be seen. Specu-
lators in “new” used cars are as good
as out of business here in Victoria, fan-
tastic prices for homes are finished, so
spec, building is decreasing, to the
advantage of the genuine homebuilder
Big emporiums conduct special sales
almost weekly to make up business lost
through lack of t.-p. buyers, and to clear
extravagant stocks accumulated in expec-
tation of the continued inflationary
boom. Small-time importer-speckers
hawk their goods or import-papers at
cost around Melbourne, because of diver-
sion of money for investment to firmer
channels. In short, the “milk-bar”
economy is being corrected, but unfor-
tunately this is obscured by those who
can’t see the end for the means.— Long
Tom (Vic.).
War on Pests
The former head of Rothamsted
(Eng.) experimental station. Sir John
Hammond, told an international con-
ference on crop-production problems
that the quantity of food now
destroyed in field and store by con-
trollable pests would make up the world’s
present food deficits.
Discussing direct action against pests.
Sir John said that fascinating prospects
had, however, recently been opened up
by using substances such as penicillin
and streptomycin as control agents.
Various antibiotics had been isolated, and
it had been shown that one of them taken
up from the soil by the plant acted as a
natural insecticide, protecting lettuce leaf
from grey mould and tomato foliage
from early blight. He emphasised that
much would be done by greater use of
virus-free seed and clean stocks. Often
when scientists developed plant varieties
resistant to known diseases, new types
of fungus appeared. For instance,
potatoes resistant to blight had been pro-
duced and new types of the disease had
then appealed. Strains were then pro-
duced which resisted these new disease
types, and now (in Tanganyika and
Kenya) still later forms of the fungus
had appeared.
Present-day conditions required high
food production, and in attaining it
nature’s balance was being perpetually
“I TOLD y' it wasn't strong enough to push a bulldozer!"
disturbed. An irrigation scheme might
be a triumph of modern engineering, but
it might speedily be followed by water-
logging, salting and other soil troubles.
A highly-scientific insect physiology unit
was now studying the problem of main-
taining the insect population in a condi-
tion where mutual interactions prevented
any one species from increasing to pest
proportions. It was reliably estimated
that use of selective weed-killers was to-
day adding 500,000 tons of grain yearly to
the harvest of Great Britain alone. —
AgriC (Q.).
For the Defence
“G. Elburg” (B. 10/10/’5l) slates the
Australian worker for his lack of service
and sense of obligation to his country,
for grabbing while the going’s good, and
for extorting benefits from the Govern-
ment. Assuming the correctness of his
accusations (the cap certainly doesn’t fit
many men I know) let me try to answer
his question of why these things should
be.
I left school in 1931, and after chasing
any and every job for some five months
I was lucky to land one as an office boy
in an industrial plant at 15s. a week.
Only five months, but long enough to
taste what others had for their daily fare
for years, through no fault of their own.
Never forget that: it wasn’t only the lazy,
the inefficient and the troublemakers who
were sacked.
Where I started, the drawing-office staff
had been reduced from about 30 to four,
and some who went were capable men
who, today, are in big jobs.
Now things are different: men are
eagerly sought, and naturally they take
advantage of it. Some work at less than
full capacity because they fear over-
production and consequent unemploy-
ment ; some demand higher pay under
the threat of changing jobs; some loaf.
There are always loafers (note “CS.’s”
quotation from Elbert Hubbard on the
same page—he is writing of men 50 years
ago—“ Slipshod assistance, foolish inatten-
tion, dowdy indifference and half-hearted
work seem the rule.the man who
gets all he can is merely reversing the
roles of the ’thirties; and he who fears
unemployment can be fairly judged only
by those who shared his fate in the de-
pression years.
As for extortion of benefits from the
Government, I would point out that as
we pay social-service, tax they are our
right.— Taswegian (Tas.).
Trans Diesels
The building of diesel locomotives (B.
3/10/’5l) is undertaken by Clyde En-
gineering Co. at their Granville (N.S.W.)
works. This company pioneered the
building of locomotives in N.S.W. and
has produced recently some 20 loco-
motives of the C3B passenger-express
type. The diesel locomotive is built under
licence from Electro-Motive Division of
General Motors (U.S.A.), and but for the
engine and gearing is to all intents and
purposes Australian-made.
There has been considerable progress
in steam locomotion since the days of
George Stephenson. The diesel is a big
jump ahead, its advantages being 50 p.c.
saving in operation costs, 80 p.c. man-
power saving in service and maintenance,
is faster, is lighter on, and has a more
even distribution of weight over, the rails,
carries its own fuel and water over a
long journey, and, taking the long view,
has all prospects of being an economic
success.
There is Little doubt that time will be
saved on the trans-continental run, and
if, as “Transporticus” asserts, the time-
table of the Overland and Westland Ex-
presses are affected, then it would be up
to them to fill the gap.
In addition to 11 diesel locomotives
contracted for by the Commonwealth
Government, 26 have been ordered by the
N.S.W. Government with which it is pro-
posed to de-electrify some of the suburban
lines near Sydney and to wipe the former
intention of electrifying some of the main
lines within 100 miles radius, thereby
saving coal and overhead material, and
bringing about the economies mentioned.
—Dieselian (N.S.W.).
Road Safety
Much could be done towards roac
safety by making it easier for owners of
older-model cars to obtain new spare
parts. Many older cars are on the roads
in an unsafe condition for want of suci
parts, and many people buy new cars b
cause they are unable to keep the o
ones in good order owing to the sam
want—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
State Lotteries ,
While I agree that State lotteries (]J.
26/9/’5l) might end street appeals fo
charities, they should not be foisted upo
the public under the guise of self-
righteousness.
Several attempts have been made
introduce a lottery in South Australia, tfa
main argument being that it would hel>
to finance Adelaide Children’s Hospita .
If it were done it would allow the Gov
ernment to shirk its responsibility, for no
Government can ignore the necessity of
fully supporting children’s hospitals from
social-service revenue.
I do object to this lottery cant abou
supporting hospitals. If most advocates
of lotteries were honest they would admit
they want a legalised gambling machine
merely for the sake of gambling.—
W. M. H. (S.A.).
Better Farming Needed
A world food-shortage in the near
future is not unthinkable. If it happens
it will not, however, be due to population
having outgrown sources of food supply.
The earth, supplemented by the resources
of the ocean, as an American visitor to
Australia, Dr. Zobell, has reminded us,
is capable of nourishing a far larger
number of people than it now supports.
Bad farming practices have caused
yields in many countries to decline or
remain relatively stationary within the
past half-century. They have also ruined
or damaged huge areas of once-profitable
farming land through soil-erosion. Also,
too many have left food-production to
engage in less-essential industries—an im-
portant reason why Australia may have to
import basic foods within a few years.
Australia’s agricultural potentialities
have been neglected in the interest of
development of the urban industries.
There should be many thousands more
farmers and a wider range of agricultural
production. Australia is but one of many
countries whose agricultural output could
be largely extended. Even so thickly-
peopled a land as England could grow a
good deal more food were her farming
conducted on highly-intensive principles.
Indeed, practical farmers —Lord North-
bourne, Mr. Friend Sykes and Mr.
Phillip D’Oyler are cases in point—have
expressed the opinion that with some
changes in dietary local production could
feed adequately millions more people
than now live in England.— Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 145
Across.
I—Verifying study by a tree with a
parent rightist. (12)
8— Figure of speech upsets Rene
between Dvorak and the Con-
tinent. (11)
9 One approaches the fifties with
everything. (3)
10— Mistake. (5)
11— Tidy ethyl in a quarter. (9)
13 Waggish feature of the Sydney
bridge. (4)
14—Strips taken from the middle of
fresh red saps. (6)
16— Red resin for dyeing 100,000 in
India. (3)
17— -Mercery scores are equal. (3)
18— Most saucy century accompanies
you to international cricket. (6)
19— A seafaring surgeon required to
sing “Asleep in the Deep”
deeply. (4)
21— Rising shows a quadruped press-
ing. (9)
22 A slur spoils the range. (5)
24 — A matter of course on a health
resort. (3)
25 — One to smoke the Thin Man’*
dog in a Chilean port. (11)
27—Windpipe epitaph to ring a port-
able dwelling with a large cor-
poration. (12)
Down.
1— Game preserve a case for types
to engrave a pursuit. (5)
2 Noddle fireworKS recalled in
Tschaikovsky’s stiite. (It)
3 Italian women are beheaded — in
fact, cut dead. (6)
4 Kept by the secretive and the
filial. (3)
5 Do I submit the cape to an
examination for irritability? (9)
6 They crop about imitators. (7)
7 Place from which you might lose
your bearings despite the dance
t before matters of course. (4-5)
12— Elevated one has to observe
Florida’s capital. (11)
13— The product of a painter learns
secretly that love means nothing
whatever to this American. (3, 6)
15—It is torrid to number a baby
African. (9)
18—A legal matter involving auto-
mobiles and a corpse. (7)
20~Bankrupt Kingsley’s comment on
Westward salutation when drink-
ing. (4-2)
23 —Stem confiner of a carthorse is
of mine. (5)
26 —Our expeditionary force is dis-
turbed by a river in Palestine. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 144.


Hp
m
iff
;..;vv
■
: .•■
m-
I&M
Wmmk
i'
wm
s ■:-i
{s■:
«
M
■.
BI
f f ' ERE ’ S a reason why
Mow their fath,
, " C -^- P - organisation. Th
Know that in a vital
I
I ; b ' t ; T o PP ort iitiilies aliea
. tljeres security moi
'"-Pomntly. these boys know th.
, , mdustry will help ,h em tak
: | lfir of tilose opportunities
hhe steel industry needs skills,
‘ ; “"I 6 ”’ metallur-
gists, chemists and commercial
me„ s Under B.H.P.’s Staff Train.
g Sc ) emp ’ yon can qualify f or
ioZ °B *&**■*"> career
nJlat" ; Ip, ' ng y ° U obtain
necessary academic qualifies
‘tons, B.H.P. hacks L
indies with a Dr ' y ° Ur
run a programme of
tteresting practical experien
as well as refunding tuition f e
to proficient students.
Contact the Manager of yo .
nearest works or office today fl
wtU he glad tohelp you plan yy. u
eareer in the steel industry
Meet the Reeves
A SON FOLLOWS IN HIS FATHER’S FOOTSTEPS
T ONG service and a high propor-
lion of father and sons are out-
standing features of employment in
the steel industry. One family which
combines both are the Reeves of the
B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
ALFRED REEVES (right) has
been with the Company for 2 / years,
a period during which he has worked
in many departments of a steadily
growing steel plant. Today, he is a
loco shunter at the Works.
Occasionally he gets the chance to
check up on son NEVILLE’S pro-
gress during working hours. His son
is in the fourth year of his apprentice-
ship, and is training to be an engineer
under B.H.P.’s Staff Training
Scheme. This gives him the oppor-
tunity to qualify for his diploma in
mechanical engineering at the New-
castle Technical College.
A keen yachtsman, Neville won
the 1950 Coal Board Cup with the
Lake Macquarie V.S. Sailing Club.
He’s also interested in boat building.
The steel industry is proud of the
Reeves . . . proud also that the choice
of the younger generation has once
again vindicated their fathers’ faith
in the industry, its future, its security
and the opportunities it presents.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD,
MELBOURNE: 422 Little Collins St. —MV 8001. SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell St.
Franklin St. -LA 1504. PERTH: 168 St. George’s Terr. - 89357. BRISBANE: 108 Creek St. -FA 1041.
STEEL WORKS: P.O. Box 196, Newcastle —M1231. SHIPYARD: P.O. Box 21, Whynlla, W hy. 211.
One of a Series.
