

f
\
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
d
ESTABLISHED 1851
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: 80x'352E, G.P.O.' FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST.* BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3744
Wednesday, November 14, 1951
Price 9dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
FLAXLEY ABBEY, HOME OF SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY'S “WIDOW BOVEY”
FLAXLEY ABBEY, situated near the village of Newnham, on the eastern
boundary of the Royal Forest of Dean, in Gloucestershire, has a history
dating from the twelfth century. It can be seen in the above picture behind
the eighteenth-century Flaxley Church, which was designed by Sir Gilbert Scott.
The Abbey incorporates parts of the original Cistercian Abbey rounded
in 1146 by Roger, second son of the Earl of Hereford, in memory ot his
father, who was killed on this very spot on a Christmas Eve. He could hardly
have chosen a more delectable spot for the Abbey, as the monks_ described
the vale as “fertile, good for fruit, suitable for grain, buried m woods,
abounding in springs, a horn of plenty, a place apart from the haunts of men.
The woods surrounding the Abbey was a favourite hunting ground of
Norman and Plantagenet kings, who frequently stayed at Flaxley Abbey, It
was particularly favoured by Henry I (1100-1135) and by Henry H (1154-1189),
who bestowed certain privileges on the Abbey, such as itinerant forges, tithes
for chestnuts, venison, grazing for cattle and tracts of woodland. AT first
the Royal concern was mainly for the preservation of game cover, but in
course of time the timber acquired new importance for shipbuilding and
iron-smelting and, as the coalmining industry developed, for pit props. The
monks of Flaxley Abbey were very busy iron-smelters, which was a profitable
business in those days.
The remains of the original Abbey include a grand hall, severely plain,
according to Cistercian needs; vaulted rooms, one great archway, a smaller
doorway and various walls either in the house or in the private grounds.
The Abbey also treasures two portraits of Catharine Bovey, a charming
young lady to whom a long inscription may be seen in the church and who
also earned by her generosity a monument in Westminster Abbey. Married
at 15 and widowed at 22, the rich young widow lived in her manor at Flaxley
for another thirty-five years, and died here in 1726. The poor children of the
Parish were educated at her expense, and, remembering that charity begins at
home, she left money for rebuilding Flaxley Church and the endowment for
the living. She was well known to Richard Steele, whom she entertained at
Flaxley Abbey, and his recollections of her hospitality appear in his “Coverley
Papers.”


Ttory Writimj
Write now for Stott’s FREE literally
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— CUT HERE AND MAIL wmm ~ m
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.261) -Age
The Red Page
SUDAN WITHOUT
SENTIMENT.
Although the control and possession of
that part of eastern Africa lying between
the 20th north parallel and the Equator
was a bone of contention throughout the
latter half of the 19th century and had
upon it the covetous eyes of every Euro-
pean Power from 1880 to Fashoda, in
1899, surprising little is known to the
general public of the true Sudan, in
spite of the many panegyrical records
describing the many “little wars in Africa,
cheap in glory and casualties.”
That quotation gives a clue to the
approach by A. B. Theobald in The
Mahdiya (Longmans) to the problem of
the Sudan ; the result is an impartial and
authoritative history of the region between
1881 and 1899, with implications extend-
ing far outside those years.
In parts the prose is labored, and it
is obvious that the writer is often think-
ing in Arabic, particularly when dealing
with that obscure interval from the death
of Gordon to the destruction of the
Khalifa.
The author supports his case with
liberal extracts from other works. A
typical example is from Power’s Letters
from Khartoum, whose criticism of the
Egyptians is as true today as it was in
1883:
The rebels are in the right, and as long
as I live to see you once more, I hope
they will hunt every Egyptian neck and
crop out of the Sudan. Better a thousand
times the barbarities of slavery than the
detestable barbarities and crimes of the
Egyptian rulers.
The vacillating policies and politicians
of Britain are roundly and factually con-
demned, Gladstone coming in for an
especial drubbing. Even Gordon is (to
use an expression not employed in the
book) debunked on occasion, and
Kitchener suffers a similar fate. In fact,
virtually the only notable personality
who survives unscathed the author’s
searching analysis is Sir Evelyn Baring
(later Earl Cromer). This devaluation
from Victorian popular esteem is accom-
plished, however, with a complete absence
of rancor. Of Gordon is written: —.
It is altogether fitting that in the statue
of him at Khartoum... .he is shown dressed
in a plain uniform, lightly poised on the
back of a camel, looking as if he is about
to twitch his little stick and set out devour-
ing immense distances in a rhythmic, un-
changing trot Gordon started his mis-
sion with two fundamental misconceptions
... .To him the Mahdi appeared as a local
leader who was exploiting the people’s dis-
content with the oppressive government of
the Egyptians... .But he had not seen, and
could not imagine, the intense religious
feeling inspired by the Mahdi, the pas-
sionate loyalty and belief 7 focused on him,
and the new spirit of unity now spanning
the wide deserts and hitherto divided tribes
of the northern Sudan,
romer’s Modern Egypt is quoted: “In
e of General Gordon’s high qualities,
zever, I do not think that a man of
peculiar character was a proper person
send on such an extremely difficult
ssion as that of arranging the evacua-
m of the Sudan.”
Vs to politics, it is obvious that 65
rs have not changed the leopard’s
ts, as the following reference to the
abandonment of the Sudan in 1885 will
prove:
The 1 British] Government had always
opposed the embroilment of Britain in the
Sudan and the responsibility for its govern-
ment. The Sudanese had thrown off the
burden of a corrupt and oppressive
administration Was Britain, the cham-
pion of small nations, to oppose them? To
these arguments were added that if
Britain was engaged in a difficult war else-
where, the Russians might be tempted to
swoop through the Khyber Pass on to the
broad plains of India,
Two years after the withdrawal from
the Sudan, Sir Henry Drummond Wolff,
in May, 1887, working with the Turkish
High Commissioner, succeeded in drawing
up a convention, soon to be sabotaged
by the other Powers, which stated, inter
alia, that if order and security in the
interior were disturbed or the Khedivate
of Egypt refused to execute its duties to-
wards the sovereign court, or its inter-
national obligations, then Britain and
Turkey would have the right jointly to re-
occupy the country.
With a few editorial amendments, a
revival of this British-Turkish convention
might well be adapted to solve current
problems in the Middle East.
Turkey, time and again, has proved to
be the only master nation with a real
appreciation of the tortuous Egyptian and
Arabic mentality. There can be no doubt
that if Egypt, without tutelage and re-
straint, is allowed to reoccupy the Sudan,
the Sudanese peasantry will soon be re-
duced to a worse state than the Egyptian
fellahin. Half a century of “progress”
has left that fact unchanged.
The closing chapter of The Mahdiya
belies the title of this review, but I cannot
refrain from quoting the account of the
death of the Khalifa: —
....he had seated himself quietly on his
sheepskin with Ali wad Hilu on his right
hand and Ahmad Fadil on his left, his
other Emirs around them, his bodyguard
some twenty paces in front, and the horses
behind. Thus they had peacefully sat as in
prayer or contemplation, and thus death
had struck them and stretched them out in
orderly ranks.
From such stock a worthy nation can
surely arise when they are properly pre-
pared for complete freedom. In the
meantime, they certainly deserve a better
fate than bondage to the House of Farouk.
L. O.
The Uncertain Trout .
The important thing about trout-fishing,
as every angler knows, is not the mere
catching of fish. In theory, at any rate,
you can go out and catch nothing at all
and still come home full of the tranquil
delight that comes from the contempla-
tion of rivers: the dragonfly imago crawl-
ing out to crack his back and flash his
wings on the sunny stone, the platypus
watching you with his beady black eye,
the wood-duck thudding overhead, the
stream itself singing in the rapids or
thinking deep thoughts about its reflected
sheoaks or white-sallies . . . So it is pro-
foundly satisfying to find R. H. Wigram’s
The Uncertain Trout (Georgian House)
full of the most beautiful photographs of
Tasmanian rivers and to learn that Mr.
Wigram, too, is a naturalist or a nature-
lover first, and a fisherman second: —
All the happenings of the riverside are
of interest to the real angler. The height
and flow of the water, the flight of birds
and movements of insects. The growth of
plant-life; the color, the sound, the wind
and the weather.. . .No other sport can
lead a man into such pleasant places or
till his mind with such excitement and pure
enjoyment as the sport of trout-fishing.
Then, too, no angler is an envious man ;
and if you have caught nothing yourself
but have spent the whole day from dawn
to dark merely contemplating nature,
there is still the keenest pleasure in hear-
ing, mellowed by whisky and firelight, the
other man’s adventures: the oldest true-
story in the world about the big one that
got away, and the story and even the
sight of those that didn’t. Here again
Mr. Wigram is immensely satisfying: the
one that got away—-dry-fly and 4X cast
in the Shannon—he estimated at no less
than 14 pounds; and when somebody
else a week later actually landed what
appeared to be the same fish it did weigh
no less than pounds. And once Mr.
Wigram and a companion took five
fish in less than an hour from a small
backwater during a flood: weighing
five pounds, four pounds, three and a
half, three and a half, two and three-
quarters.
But it must be admitted that the river
and its birds and insects, beautiful as they
are in themselves, become in some
mysterious way ten times more beautiful
when you have at least one trout in the
bag. There is that strange discovery,
after you have landed the first fish, that
the sun is shining; that the trees, invisible
before, have covered themselves with
green leaves and that the mountain-thrush,
previously inaudible, is also rejoicing at
the fishing. And, again, it must be
admitted that Mr. Wigram’s story about
losing a 14-pounder would sound a whole
lot more exciting if you had lost a 14-
pounder yourself; or, better, caught one.
Finally, therefore, and with an apology
for human frailty, one is very glad to find
that The Uncertain Trout, along with its
photographs and its rambling yarns of
Tasmanian fishing, is full of expert tips
on how to catch them: the virtues of
nymph-fishing ; the value of the Coch-y-
bondhu when the tea-tree is in flower;
the importance of the backwaters in flood-
time ; how you might catch seven trout
in an hour or so by using the Cocky-
spinner when that maddening insect the
long-horned caddis is dapping about on
the Water; what may be done with the
Badger Quill when the trout are feeding
on spent spinner; how you can make a
nymph to represent the caddis which is
the trout’s staple diet ...
Most N. S. Wales anglers should be
grateful to Mr. Wigram for his advice
on how to get a trout out of the weeds
—Mr. Wigram “hand-lines” them out,
which really seems much more sensible
than (a) trying to poke them with the
rod-tip, which agitates the trout anil
usually busts the tip ; or ( b ) sitting down
with the line loose for half an hour, wait-
ing for the trout to swim out of his own
accord, and then, when he doesn’t, sud-
denly leaping up and breaking the cast
in a fury. But the present commentator
is particularly grateful for that story of
the lost 14-pounder. There was a trout
up Cooma way which used to cruise along
fhe edge of a weed-bed, and one day he
took the indispensable Tup’s Indispensable
and . . . well, he was about six pounds
when he first got away, eight pounds by
the fire that night; lately he has been
hovering around nine that
fish might well have been 14 pounds; or
even, not to underestimate him, say 14L
Reviewed Briefly.
It’s Only the Sister : Angela du Maurier
(Peter Davies). Autobiography of the
eldest daughter of Gerald du Maurier.
In her early twenties when as actor-
manager of Wyndham’s Theatre he was
right at the top of the theatrical tree,
Angela met everyone who was anyone
on the London stage in the years follow-
ing the First War, and her chapters deal-
ing with that period are bespattered with
the names of famous actors and actresses.
For the most part they remain names,
which is rather a pity, because the author
must surely be able to tell many stories
equal to her recollection of the evening
Frederick Lonsdale, already a successful
playwright, came to the Du Maurier
i louse to read Gerald his latest play. After
supper Lonsdale began to read and
Du Maurier began to sleep—very
soundly, “Fred was not only hurt, but
dreadfully insulted. He chucked the
Second Act over to me and told me to
read it.” The play? “The Last of Mrs.
Cheney,”
* * * * *
The Houses in Between: Howard
Spring (Collins). It might be expected
that the backward glances of an old lady
who was born in 1848, the year when
Revolution stalked across Europe, and
just failed to realise her ambition of
living to a hundred would be tedious and
disjointed. Most nonagenarian remini-
scences would be, but then most nona-
genarians don’t have the advantage of
having a Howard Spring to do their
remembering for them. Although five
minor and major wars leave their mark
on her family Sarah Undridge is not so
much concerned with the march of great
events as with the loves, triumphs and
peccadilloes of her kinsfolk and friends.
With enough characters for a Dickens
novel and enough plots for a volume of
short stories the result is not a piece of
Victorian tapestry, but a patchwork quilt
so skilfully stitched that the joins scarcely
show.
* * * *
Eve with Her Basket: Carl Fallas
(Heinemann). Mr. Lott, man-of-the-world
and dealer in precious stones, leaves his
wife at home • in Amsterdam with the
consoling promise that he would be faith-
ful for a month, and heads for Ceylon
and rubies. As Mr. Lott possesses a
whimsical charm and is very attractive
to women his way to Ceylon is akin to
that of a tight-rope-walker with only his
conscience as a balancing-pole. Written
in a racy and refreshing style, and with
keen humor and observation, it's a good
way to see Ceylon.
* * * *
They Laugh That Win . Denzil
Batchelor (Hale). This story of a young
boxer and his girl, who became a street-
walker so she could afford to follow his
fights about the country, and of the
manager who double-crossed him in the
ring because the manager’s wife, who tried
to seduce him, had accused him of seduc-
ing her, and of the fight he won in
America by hitting too hard, is so full
of color and argot as to be sometimes
overloaded; but well worth while in its
kind because it seems based on genuine
and contemporary observation.
* * * *
The Lovers: Robert Payne (Heine-
mann). Although a novel in itself, this
is the resumption of a previous story or
the lives of the three children of a highly-
placed Chinese official of the Emperors
court in Peking in 1912, just before the
revolution. One son, a scientist, has
numerous unscientific love-affairs with
the female slaves of the household and
even looks speculatively at his sister; the
other son confines his amours to a slant-
eyed Chinese maiden and a Japanese
princess, in the process of which nothing
is left to the imagination. The daughter
affairs are disappointingly vague, tnoUt,
she shows promise of following t c
family tradition. It all winds up sticki
in a revolution of Sun Yat-sens, an ,
finishing as it does in mid-air, threatens
be continued in the next.
"Cockatoo-Crested
Morning."
If ever there was a first book of poems
brimming with promise and energy' it is
Ray Mathew’s With Cypress Pine,
printed by Edwards and Shaw, Ltd.,
Sydney, for the Lyrebird Writers. The
whole book has the warmth and spon-
taneity and unexpectedness of the poem
he calls “ ’Morning Morning”:
Soft crying of the dawn while cockatoos
Kark their delight with beating wings, white
And threshing in the kurrajong. In the blue,
The changing glass, a hawk delights
The hanging sun with soaring dances;
And the brown horse treads the morning
dew,
Shakes his red mane, and in the shaking
prances.
I don’t often see you morning;
No use a lie-abed fellow pretending:
I hold warm the bed. No light comes
crawling
Through the dark curtains, no early ending
To my long night. I don’t hear the calling
And dancing of cockatoo-crested morning.
It is a thoroughly Australian poetry ;
and not from any forced theory of
nationalism but because Mathew always
writes naturally, exactly as he thinks and
feels, and it is natural for an Australian
poet to think of morning with a cocka-
too's yellow crest standing up on top
of its head.
It is a poetry as much at home in the
city as in the country: in the small town
where the dream of wider and more stirr-
ing life “gnaws the young heart like a
quiet rat,” in
“Jerridong.” A name.
A town in the west,
with red roads lame
in the heat and the dust—
or in a Sydney tram:
A woman travelling daily my direction
Used to read a Penguin Special; meant
Well doubtless, but I watched with great
discernment:
I am suspicious of intellectual perfection.
It is a completely honest poetry, nothing
fake about it in emotion or technique,
with an Elizabethan gusto and frankness
in the love-lyrics. It is a poetry very
much at ease in the twentieth century,
able to deal with motor-bikes and even
“a thirty-six model Chev.” without either
imitating Auden or making these awkward
machines sound incongruous, like an
anachronism, as they do in verse written
in the Victorian convention.
It is a poetry of life as well as of
nature ; and a poetry of objective creation,
not dwelling on personal problems and
troubles as young writers so often do but
detaching itself from the author to sketch
the characters and tell something of the
stories of “Mrs. Parnaby,” “Maudie
Hall” and “My Sad-faced Uncle.” It
is, finally, a poetry written in the most
admirable spirit, abounding in the joy of
life, therefore deeply sensitive when it
approaches the opposing element of
death, as in the “Elegy for Bill” who got
drowned:
Almost I can see Bill riding, his pushbike
skidding
in a shower of sand, his bony wrists red
and stretched towards the handlebars, his
head
(always too big and dropping) pressed down
and hiding
from the wind he tried to leave behind
him—Bill!
The sea swelling and parting a cold
green ...
In an age when Yeats could put
D. H. Lawrence’s “Snake” into The Oxford
Book of Modern Verse, perhaps one
shouldn’t worry about the obvious loose-
ness of texture of much of Mathew’s
writing; yet the present reviewer has
never quite been able to accept Lawrence
as a poet, nor old Walt Whitman before
him; Whitman wrote mostly oratory,
Lawrence a kind of vivid sketch in prose.
It is not the same kind of thing as the
art of Yeats, every word firmly and un-
alterably in its place like a stone in a
wall, the whole thing cemented together
with clean and durable rhyme. And
Mathew’s verse is certainly loose;
“Elegy for Bill,” vivid and moving as it
is, could never be compared with Slessor’s
Five Bells; and if Mathew would have
to sacrifice too much of his special
quality of fresh observation to write in
Slessor’s deep music, he will still need
to tighten his verse within his own terri-
tory to make a permanent achievement.
Possibly he is developing towards a
technique at once fresh and firm like
that of the American Edwin Arlington
Robinson,
The Lyrebird Books —titles previously
published are Language of the Sand, by
Roland E. Robinson, The Darkened
Window, by Nancy Cato, and Imminent
Summer, by Nancy Keesing—can be
bought from Roland E. Robinson at 18
Manion-avenue, Rose Bay, Sydney.


' -. ...
*:;■ .
;
in
; - •
I iii
/ ■ ;:
3E5
:
le?.
>1
Wm*. - - j
>3
mm
■■ ■
Ik/
Jigs,
:
/;■/
m
<:.
m
i
-V ■
a
H
■' •
x : //
law
%K
■^//
■
'
//
mmm
■:
v .-r
fd
Ton can’t catch Trent without the gear...
You might not need to be as amazingly outfitted as that exceedingly ”compleat angler 1 ” in
the picture above! . . . but every true sportsman will want sufficient A grade gear for an easy and
agile day’s Trout fishing. No more fish that “got away,” now you’ll “bag” the lot!
We carry a complete range of Trout and Perch Flies
Coachman, Royal Coachman, Zulu, Blue Dun, March Brown, Black Ant,
Wickams Fancy, Red Tag, Black Hackle, Olive Quill, Pale Evening Dun,
Hardy’s Favourite, Water Cricket, Brown Beetle, etc. Dry Flies
priced at 12/- dozen. Wet Flies priced at 9/- dozen.
m
m
VJ.
:»/iw
'iij m
Wi/h i
a
UUHWim
c
inn
'Jinwin
annul
mu
i!S
v/Zs/tn
All your fishing accessories . . .
Aluminium Fly Boxes, 24in. x 5l clips, 13/6. 6in. x 3|in.,
110 clips, priced at 25/6.
Aluminium Fly Boxes with 6 compartments, 2£in. x 34in., 27/6.
Fly Box, priced at 15/-.
Collapsible Trout Landing Net. Saves much needed space. 80/-.
Arjon Split Cane Trout Rods. Length 9ft. Cork grip locking reel
fitting a well balanced, powerful rod. £7/4/6. With 2 tops, £9/8/-.
Arjon Split Cane Trout Spinning* Rod. Two-piece. With special
aluminium thumb detachable butt. Priced at £6/1/9.
wn
win ii ife
Baits . . . Nets . . . Creels
Plastic Minnow Baits for trout spinning,
Priced at 3/9.
Platil Landing Net. Net only priced at 19/6 ea.
Cane Fishing Creels. Leather bound. 12in.,
price, 45/-; 16in., price, 65/-.
1 1-IAI .ja aj iIAxJJ ;gn.-j-.'.-jij
"THUTH.rN ADVERTISING''
,v»
FISHING DEPT—LWR. GND, FL., PITT ST. M 2401. BOX 2712 C. FREIGHT EXTRA


M
h r.
iSw
ONVISI
NVMAVH
OflwJi
«J). V} WOtf
When it’s shivery In Southern States, there’s swimming,
cruising, fishing and sunbathing at Hayman Island, and
from now on the climate touches perfection.
Tariff £3-3-0 per day. Nowhere else is the
holiday-maker given better value for money than at
Hayman. Comfortable sleeping lodges, superb meals, an
excellent bar, and an atmosphere of carefree informality.
Barrier Reef Airways’ giant 4-engined flying boats take
you direct to Hayman Island.
m
m
mm
d
f
Bookings at
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE
Melbourne: MU 6921; Sydney: 8W2921; Adelaide: LA2075;
Brisbane: 82291; Hobart: 7470; Launceston: 1760; Cairns: 2570;
Canberra: F 390; Townsville: 1150; Wagga; 2036; Queensland
Govt. Tourist Bureaux, and ail recognised Travel Agencies.
THERE IS ALWAYS
A BEST"
b I
Ks-r
m
L
IW ♦ 2
Longines Watches are made In their
entirety by craftsmen whose fathers,
grandfathers, and even great-
grandfathers, have been skilled
watchmakers in the Longines Fac-
tory at Salnt-Imler, Switzerland,
since its foundation In 1837.
JZe'MMi
' c=^E^ =r
Sols Wholesale Distributors:
Seoul & Co. (Est. 1890), Sydney and Melbourne
A HOME FOR THE
HOMELESS
IN her sleep, even, Tesma
Dilley could hear the foot-
steps trampling her weather-
board cottage, and she rather
enjoyed following them about.
Lying in a warm drowse she
opened her eyes, lifted herself
and strained back against her
pillows, listening, knowing per-
fectly the sounds of her own
house.
She could see it stretching
around her like a battlefield with
herself in full command. She
protected her tenants from the
hard cold world, and herself
from the tenants. You could
never trust them at all.
The only two things in life she
could trust were her two
castrated cats. Their move-
ments towards her were always
exact: a revelation that they
loved and depended on her —
and, she reminded herself sud-
denly, she ought to be out there
now, feeding and making them
comfortable. She could hear the
usurper moving about in the
kitchen. She thought she owned
the place. Mrs. Maple. Her
husband. Their child. And
another one coming. All for
three pounds ten a week. It was
a wonder she had the nerve to
dare to put her face near the
kitchen after the mistake she had
made the day before.
Quivering murmurs of wrath
accompanied Mrs. Dilley’s
thoughts as she recalled the way
Mrs. Maple had stood and
accused her of leaving the door
of the refrigerator open on
purpose, so that the blowflies
could get in.
All she had done was to look
inside to see if there was any-
thing of theirs she could help
herself to while they were out
taking the baby for a walk. Two
small chops, cheese, tomatoes
and a pile of dry lettuce-leaves
curling up next to a jar of honey
—why should anyone bother to
close a door on that?
Something gleamed just then
with the sparkle of a diamond
in Mrs. Dilley’s memory,
dragging her out of bed. Her
large cotton nightgown belched
out over the uneven folds of her
flesh like a sail entangled with
small gusts of wind, impeding
her progress as she struggled for
a foothold on the floor. She
made up for the slight delay by
going without slippers across the
room to her wardrobe to get a
block of chocolate out of a
drawer. She stood regarding its
bright - colored wrapper with
rhythmical indignation as she
patted and turned it, over and
over in her hand.
With a spurt of resolution
Mrs. Dilley put the chocolate
back out of sight. It was some-
thing to look forward to eating
in the weekend.
THE air in the kitchen,
warmed by the iron heating
above the wooden ceiling, was
like a stupor, too much even for
the flies. Frances Maple stood
still, resisting an impulse to
leave the washing-up and clear
out into their bedroom. Living
with someone and hating them
as she had begun to hate Mrs.
Dilley frightened her. It was to
have the desperate ferocity of
something buried alive; it
couldn’t do any of them any
good.
Outside the house, the leaves
were gleaming in a wash of sun-
light and a hum of insects filled
the air.
“Isn’t it a lovely day?” she
said aloud.
Mrs. Dilley started and glared
at her; then suddenly charged
across the room. Pushing hard,
she forced Frances’s body up
against the sink as she passed to
open the refrigerator, calling
loudly to her cats.
“Here —pussy, pussy, pussy!”
Mrs. Dilley paused to swing the
door carefully so that it was left
open by a crack as she marched
back across the lino, to pour
milk into the two saucers on the
floor. Frances edged in closer,
stretching herself breathlessly
against the sink, straining away
from another push. But Mrs.
Dilley, with one of the swift
changes of mood they had
learned they couldn’t trust,
stopped over by the table, bent
in an easy slouch smelling her
own house and taking notice of
everyone in it, like a cat.
“Did you have bacon for
breakfast?” she asked.
“Yes,” Frances said.
“Hmm,” Mrs. Dilley answered.
She laughed and screwed her
small ill-tempered eyes up as
they rested on the girl’s form.
“You must have a lot of money,
otherwise you wouldn’t be able
to afford it now. Babies cost a
lot, they say.”
She went on staring after she
stopped talking; smiling, making
Frances feel ashamed. In the
bright flash of sunlight coming
in the doorway Mrs. Dilley’s old
black dress was shining like
beetle-wings, its secreted glitter
reflected in her eyes. Still flush-
ing, Frances forced herself to
hold her head up; to believe
that there was nothing wrong
about her having another baby.
“Don’t talk if you don’t want
to,” Mrs. Dilley said before she
could answer, regretting the
chance she had offered. “You
said enough yesterday to do you
for a lifetime. And it was all
lies, too.”
Cringing, Frances rewiped the
sink. The flow of abuse that
Mrs. Dilley was working up to
would have to come. But against
tjje voice her mind began to
follow the warm aggravating
buzz of the blowflies that were
coming in through the open
door, trying to remember if she
had left a net over Jeremy’s cot.
She would have to get him up
soon and give him his bath so
that she could have her own.
“I’ll have to hurry. Can I
bring you anything from town
when I go to the hospital?”
Frances said.
“No. You’ve brought me
enough as it is. Trouble,” Mrs.
Dilley said.
MRS. DILLEY was getting
her breakfast, heating milk
in a small saucepan over a spirit-
stove when Mrs. Maple took
Jeremy into the kitchen after
his bath. Holding him, Frances
watched as Mrs, Dilley piled
spoonful after spoonful of sugar
over a mound of broken-up dry
bread, then doused it all over
with the milk.
“Is it off?” Frances asked,
meaning the electric-power.
That would save Mrs. Dilley’s
light bill as well as take her
twice as long to get the baby’s
breakfast. And it would leave
her short of time to have her
own. It seemed strange that
Mrs. Dilley had not guessed that
she had not much enthusiasm
left for eating now. She kept
her back to the soup-plate and
sat the baby, half-dressed in a
clean singlet and a napkin, out
of reach of the dirt. If the
silly old thing knew what it was
like to be on a diet —to have to
starve for all kinds of sweets as
well as eggs and meat, she
wouldn’t go on blaming her for
losing her temper.
“Oh, well,” she murmured,
smiling as she felt a daring
uprise of hope. Now that it
was time to have her bath and
go out she was sure that the
doctor would be pleased with her
condition and increase her diet.
“What did you say?” Mrs,
Dilley said, going on with dogged
kind of abstraction shovelling at
her food.
“I didn’t say anything—there
isn’t time,” Frances raised her
head, still smiling. “But the
baby can sit here and talk to
you while you have your meal.
Only don’t pick him up. It’ll
make him cry to get down on
the floor. Otherwise he won’t
think,” she said.
Mrs. Dilley, head bent, went
on eating, as though she had
something on her mind. But
she managed to make the coax-
ing little signs that always drew
the baby’s round, eager eyes,
and to bask secretly in the sun-
shine of his happy murmuring
approval of her while she
watched Frances making him
secure in the tall chair. The
strap she was taking so much
trouble with was going to keep
him prisoner while he quivered
at her in conscious appeal. She
is tying him in, Mrs. Dilley
thought, so that I can’t lift him
up and cuddle him and talk to
him ; she knows he loves me.
But she remained quiet while
Frances was with them in the
room, waiting until she heard
her walk through the hall and
close the door of the bathroom
before she got up to wag a
playful hand of fingers across
the baby’s face. She let him
grasp it while she kissed him and
ruffled his hair. Then with a
bitter sense of retaliation she
crossed the room to the sink.
Still in line with the baby’s
vision, she picked up a little
saucepan thickly encrusted on
the bottom with burnt spirit, and
waved it at him. She placed it
on the tray of his chair. Her
mood changed again as she sat
down in front of him to
finish her breakfast; with
luxurious satisfaction she
watched him as he streaked him-
self with black.
She stayed where she was in
front of him and her empty
dishes, smiling and encouraging
him until she heard the foot-
steps coming down the hall.
When Frances came in she was
standing at the sink with her
back to the room, calmly rinsing
her dishes.
“You shouldn’t hit him —he’s
too small. You should never
hit a baby,” she said later, turn-
ing to face Frances with the
same display of calm.
“No, I know,” Frances
answered. Bewildered by the
way she had put herself in the
wrong again, she stood looking
at Mrs. Dilley like a fool. She
knew she shouldn’t have hit
o Continued on page 24.)
THE ENCOUNTER.
Long daya, lone sand reaches—
Alone, till 1 saw your lonely steps
Tracking across the white wind-waved sea,
Startling a bland sand breast with plunging leaps,
A plunge, a prisoning, a breaking free.
You climbed where white heads rise up clean against the sky.
Cutting off short what the heavens had to say,
Seeing, untroubled, how coastlines far away,
Tapered-off and distance-faded to the eye,
Had dwindled to a hazed horizon-smudge.
You stood straight, light and alone on the sandhill’s crest,
And bent attentively your unknown head
To hear the ocean’s seons of unrest.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. WEBSTER.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3744
Wednesday, November 14, 1951
WAITING AT THE CHURCH.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia For the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
DOG CHASING ITS TAIL.
If the steady inflation of prices, under
increased market competition for an in-
sufficiency of goods with money always
declining in value, is an evil (which seems
to be generally agreed), does it just keep
going till industry stops or our money
won’t buy anything at all? If not, who
applies the brakes, what brakes, and
how?
Manifestly the job can be nothing but
unpleasant. No Government, Federal or
State, can think of any solution which
is not bound to be unpopular, or, if pain-
less, anything but eyewash. State Gov-
ernments can no more be brought to
act in unison than can the rival political
parties, and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment lacks the constitutional powers. To
the contention of State “Labor” Govern-
ments that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment should seek the necessary powers,
Canberra replies that the parties dividing
Parliament cannot agree on the powers to
be sought, and that a referendum cover-
ing the whole ground (industrial powers)
would be opposed by probably half the
electors and by some, or all, of the
States.
Herein the political parties and the
Parliaments represent faithfully the
antagonisms and industrial feuds rife
through the community. When at a time
demanding pruning of expenditure the
only unanimity in Parliamentary politics
is that which responds to a move to vote
members constant increases in their
salaries, the mirror is held up to a
citizenry which, though wailing and de-
nouncing a soaring inflation of the
currency, exhibits not the least sign of
organised effort to combat it. Above all,
harder work to increase production is
apparently anathema. The representative
of striking ironworkers told a Concilia-
tion Commissioner last week that “this
is a favorable period for the working-
class” and that his union, like all others,
meant to exploit it to the full, by direct
action if that was the only way. Asked
what might be the limit to wage demands
—delivered always with the threat to call
men out at the drop of a hat —the union
official replied: “I haven’t the answer.
It is a case of a dog chasing his tail. But
in this case when he catches the tail he
will roll over and die from exhaustion.”
A dog preoccupied in chasing its tail
is not a bad description of post-war
White Australia.
We are told that a calamitous war
threatens to convulse the world again
unless the democracies rearm themselves
to deter the totalitarian aggressors who
have already asserted their ideological
sway—the Hitler technique—over half
Europe and most of Asia. Yet our
national defences are practically non-
existent, and anybody who demands their
restoration is called a warmonger. An
Australia which aspired a few years ago
to make itself both a granary and an
arsenal for democracy is now dependent
upon imports for coal, steel, cement and
house-frames to maintain even rationed
consumption of these necessaries, and
faces without shame a prospect of being
unable even to feed itself. In a condi-
tion where only hard work can save us
from a retrogression in living standards as
production declines, hard work is re-
garded as either a crime or a certifiable
disease.
So far no voice has been raised in any
of the seven Governments or their 13
legislative Houses of Parliament to sug-
gest that Australia has got to get back
to the 44-hour, if not the 48-hour, week,
and that wages cannot possibly be made
worth more than the face-value of the
work done for them. No Govern-
ments can directly do anything about
altering working hours —that is the pro-
vince of a non-elective legislative body,
namely the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, which rules the roost in both
respects. This was made very clear by
the court’s judgment in the 40-hour case,
four years ago:
The evolution of this court, from an in-
dustrial tribunal limited to the particular
task [settling: disputes] in each case to an
institution having: in effect wide legislative
powers, is an interesting one which some-
one will one day explore. This legislative
power is so great indeed as to occupy a
field from which the Federal Parliament
is excluded; so paramount as to override
in appropriate cases the State legislation;
and so vital as to make the law for Aus-
tralians in that realm which touches them
most closely and intimately, namely, their
industrial relations....
These present claims are an invitation
to a legislative tribunal to declare a prin-
ciple and if in the national interest to make
it law. This is a duty which “raises
vast national issues affecting the whole
economic future of the continent, the in-
terests and mutual relations of every class
of citizen, the standard of living of every
man, woman and child in Australia, and
possibly national security itself” The
wonder is that so much is entrusted to so
few in a democracy where representative
government exists.
This bold self-appreciation faltered a
little three years later (October, 1950) in
the majority basic-wage judgment. True,
the Chief Judge (in minority) held that
inaction elsewhere in combating inflation
does not absolve this court from doing
what it understands to be its duty—to give
a lead to the other instruments of adjust-
ment by taking a firm stand to stabilise,
as well as lies In its power, the level of
wages, for it is undoubtedly owing to the
rapidly increasing level of wages, both
nominal and real, that costs and prices are
tending to become out of control.
But Mr. Justice Foster (of the majority),
chief architect of the earlier 40-hour
judgment, said that
inflation and its control are matters for the
Government, and, it may be argued, a little
remote from the court’s immediate task
Mow far the court should be constrained to
avoid adding anything to the inflationary
forces prevailing in the economy is a very
moot point.
At the same time he admitted that
the existing inflation ■which is causing
such concern Is due in part to the action
ot this court by its principle of automatic
w»S e adjustment and by its awards in-
creasing marginal and other rates AND
MY ITS STANDARD-HOURS DECISION.
These passages extracted from two
momentous judgments show why it is to
the Arbitration Court as a legislative
body that the general public must look
-or a lead in tackling the causes of infla-
tion. Although the court, in a long ex-
position of its reasons for reducing the
working week four years ago, laid weight
on “the economic value of industrial con
tentment to follow, and was confident
that loss of output would be only trifling
and temporary, statistics produced 3}
years later (National Bank of Australasia,
April, 1951) showed that
In proportion to working population
Australia s loss of working days through
disputes over the last three years has
been more than half as much again as
Canada’s and about eight times as much
as Britain’s.
Clearly there was less “value of
economic contentment” than ever. The
court did not exclude the possibility that
it might be making a mistake. It described
its 40-hour judgment as “in the broadest
and truest sense experimental.” It was, if
not a shot in the dark, a shot in imperfect
light. “One comfort remains if ex-
perience shows that we have erred, and
contrary to our best judgment the
economy does suffer, or unanticipated
results threaten us, then the court can
take such necessary steps as will best
protect and preserve the community
against any such untoward possibilities.
The future will be watched with con-
cern and interest.”
The court also said;
It is, of course, very obvious that the
N.S.W. Government did during the hearing
of the case present this court with a “fait
accompli,” and did affect the freedom
with which the court might otherwise
have acted.
And it is now equally obvious that the
40-hour week has submerged the N.S.W.
Government railways and tramways in
insolvency, that those railways have never
recovered the 10 per cent, of staff thus
virtually wiped out, and that in the chief
industrial States the whole community
is now paying through the nose for a
man-made catastrophe which will be
particularly the monument of Mr. McGirr
in New South Wales.
Nothing but a return to a longer
working-week will save the States’ trans-
port services, reduce the States’ drain on
the Federal income-tax pool, cut the in-
tolerable railway freight-charges which
are now piling up all living costs, and
give new life to rural enterprise in re-
ducing shortages.
United Empire Again.
Mr. Churchill is in office, his new
Parliament has been opened and the
King’s speech has revealed some of the
truth about the results of what Mr. Attlee
described as Britain’s “great revolution”
and as “a great adventure.”
The world for six years has been
following Mr. Attlee and his colleagues
about picking up the bits of the Empire
which he has dropped. Nothing could
have seemed more depressing than the
Labor leader’s own account of Britain’s
affairs as delivered on October 22.
It seemed farcical to hear the
Prime Minister of a Government which
had been forced out of Persia, and which
seemed a few days before to be on the
verge of diving into the Suez Canal,
muttering that “in the dangerous and
difficult days Britain has a vital role to
play,” and that she was “well placed
under a Socialist Government to increase
mutual understanding between the
peoples of Asia and Africa” (from which
she was being kicked out) “and those who
share the heritage of European civilisa-
tion.”
The King’s speech, Mr. Churchill’s
explanation and that of Mr. C. A. Butler
(Chancellor of the Exchequer) make
clear the nature of the tasks which
the new Government has had left
on its doorstep. The new Prime
Minister said that the country was facing
a financial crisis “worse than in 1949 and
worse in many ways than in 1947” ; that
a period of emergency had been entered
and that “we are running into an
external deficit of £7OO million sterling
per year, compared with a surplus rate
of £350 million last year.” And it was
made clear how artificial and temporary
had been the uplift due to support through
loans from the United States and the
Dominions, “without which the facts of
our situation would have been brought
home to all classes—and maybe are
coming home now.” Mr. Butler fore-
shadowed drastic measures —reduction of
imports under licence to save £130,000,000
a year; reduction by a quarter of all
private imports, including many canned
foods and sugar confections; the raising
of the Bank of England interest rate
from 2 p.c. to 2\ p.c.; an excess-profits
tax during rearmament; the cutting of
annual tourist allowances for next year
to £5O; a comb-out of the civil service
to provide defence industry with labor;
and other measures.
These are only palliatives. Real relief,
as Mr. Butler pointed out, can come
only from expansion of output. Britain
must close her trading gap or find herself
unable to buy raw materials to keep the
wheels of industry turning and rations
adequate.
The difference between the Churchillian
attitude and that of the Attlees is
marked. The latter considered their
six years of “great adventure” as a period
in which to apply Socialist theories, to in-
dulge in wild gambling experiments in
nationalisation which endangered the
whole economic structure of the country
and made them aliens in relationship to
most of the great Dominions, soon cured
of their own Socialist illnesses, and the
United States, to which country the Attlees
deeded their world leadership without a
murmur.
Mr. Churchill showed with almost his
first words that the British group of
nations is still a Commonwealth and that
British policy will return to full con-
sultation and co-operation with them and
to an Empire outlook. One of his
earliest measures will be to invite the
Commonwealth nations to confer on
joint action to remedy the gap in Britain’s
overseas trading accounts —and presum-
ably also the gap which is developing in
Australia’s overseas trading, due to her
internal economic conditions and the
obsession wished on her during eight
years of Socialist rule as deplorable as
that of the Attlees: that prosperity and
wealth may be attained without onerous
effort.
That is a great move forward, and the
closer the unity of policy and front be-
tween the white Dominions and the U.K.
the safer and stronger all are likely to
find themselves. There are enough un-
developed resources within the great
Dominions to restore the British Com-
monwealth to the position of being the
world’s dominating Empire, and it is wise
both for us and for civilisation if world
leadership and guidance become once
more the aim of British policy.
The parallel of American and Russian
propaganda efforts during the past decade
have persuaded the world, including
millions of receptive British, that there
is something wicked in their being strong,
though nothing whatever wrong about the
United States and/or Russia being strong
in place of them.
The point of view of those two nations,
the only two which have gained increased
territorial control as the result of World
War 11, declares abhorrence of the
“imperialism” or greed of territory and
colonies which is supposedly a monopoly
of the naughty British, who can only
purge their tainted souls by giving up
what they have held and taking a back
seat in world politics.
There is to be an end to U.K. accept-
ance of this outlook as there is to be of
nationalisation in concerns which are not
in the natural field of public utilities —
the steel industry is to be denationalised
after Christmas.
Mr. Attlee, in his last speech as Prime
Minister on Persian affairs, said that his
Government “had had every reason to
believe that it had arrived at a lasting
settlement with Mr. Razmara, the
Persian Premier,” but when Mr. Razmara
was murdered and his successor refused
to negotiate “our good American friends
suggested that they should use their good
offices What would have been said of
us if we had rejected this friendly offer?”
Mr. Churchill, however, shows a spirit of
independence strongly in contrast to Mr.
Attlee’s readiness to lean on others. He
proposes “resolutely and patiently to
repair the situation.”
He has a gigantic task ahead of him.
The financial problem even in a world of
peace would provide a task for Atlas;
but he faces as well a situation so
ominous that he intends to resort to
measures never made use of by Britain
before except in time of war —a secret
session of Parliament and the reinstitu-
tion of the Home Guard and Civil
Defence. This virtually means placing
the country on a war footing.
The defence position is as grave as
can be, It involves an expenditure
already authorised of £5OOO million with-
out reaching the stage necessary to gear
the country for actual hostilities. And
inflation promises to send the costs of
present plans soaring to the sky. More-
over, the problem does not lie only in
money but in the need for labor transfers
on a huge scale. The aircraft defence in-
dustries alone call for another 170,000
hands before April, 1952, without allow-
ing for any expansion of plans.
All this the Russians know full well,
and it is likely to accelerate their war
plans. While the Attlees were in power
Moscow knew that it could take its
time, but there has been a marked
quickening of tempo and haste to get
into a posture for attack behind the Iron
Curtain within the past few weeks. This
has been manifest in the bullying of
Turkey and other Middle Eastern coun-
tries, and in Moscow Radio’s virulent
denunciation of the “warmongering”
West. It is again obvious in Mr. Vishin-
sky’s setting of a limit of next June for
the acceptance of Russia’s threadbare and
impracticable peace scheme, while refus-
ing overtures for a full census and real
world control of armaments.
A Bun for the Playwrights.
No nation can call itself civilised until
it has its own plays running in its own
theatres ; and Australia, which has artists,
poets, novelists and short-story writers
all doing first-class work and all able—
if sometimes with difficulty— to sell it or
have it published, has hardly any play-
wrights and no theatre at all except for
the sporadic Australian ventures of the
amateur groups.
Kylie Tennant’s win in the Jubilee play
competition is a clear indication of what’s
wrong and how simply the trouble could
be remedied. Miss Tennant, as Bulletin
readers well know, is not primarily a
playwright but a novelist. But for once,
with a £5OO prize and a promise of pro-
duction, the nation made it worth while
for her to write a play; as, in England,
it is always worth while for novelists such
as Galsworthy or Priestley to turn to the
theatre.
The nation’s literary energy, in short,
has gone where it can find a market; into
the novel and the short-story.
No doubt a born playwright would go
on writing plays whether or not there is a
market. George Farwell, who took the
second Jubilee prize, has kept himself
going with the A.B.C.’s encouragement
(which is of more spiritual than pecuniary
interest); Betty Roland, “favorably
mentioned,” has written for the little
theatres; Ray Mathew, the young
Bulletin poet also favorably mentioned
(his “Sing for St. Ned” is a fantasia on
Ned Kelly), has written several plays in
verse and will doubtless go on with
them. But the theatre will always need
to attract the novelists to build up a stock
of plays, and even the born playwright
needs bread.
Unless the professional theatre will let
in Australian companies to do Australian
plays, as it has taken Borovansky to do
ballet and John Alden to do Shaicspeare,
there is only one answer—a national
theatre, and as soon as possible.
Distinguished English visitors, such as
Tyrone Guthrie and Martin Browne,
have advised caution: one on the
ground that we need to train actors, the
other on the ground that we need to
train audiences. But there are plenty of
first-class actors now lost in radio; it
shouldn’t take longer to train others than
it took Borovansky to put his ballet into
shape ; and as for audiences—the crowds
that go to the ballet, to the symphony
concerts, to John Alden’s plays and to
visiting actors such as Olivier and Quayle
would just as readily go to Australian
plays: if they were good, and if some-
one would put them on the stage and
keep putting them on.
S.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"The Coll.”
Any appeal which carries the authority
of the leaders of the Christian chuich
in Australia and of the Chief Justices
of the six States of the Commonwealth
must command respect, and the “Call to
the People of Australia,” issued on
Armistice Day over the names of 11
eminent Australian citizens, deserves the
earnest consideration of all Australians.
“There are times in the histories of
peoples when those charged with high
responsibilities should plainly speak their
minds” runs the preamble to the appeal,
and few will dispute that this is such a
time.
The call the churchmen and justices
make is not a call to arms or an appeal
for cash donations; it is a call addressed
to the hearts and minds and consciences
of Australians. They see this country
in danger not only from abroad, but
also from moral and intellectual apathy
at home, and they warn that “unless
these are withstood, we shall lack moral
strength and moral unity sufficient to
save our country and our liberties.”
Believing in the duty of the individual
to defend the community against evil
designs and to deal fairly with his
fellows, the signatories call for a new
effort to advance moral standards, for
an “adequate understanding of the nature
of law and of its necessity as the prin-
ciple of order in a free society.” They
ask all Australians to take an active con-
cern in public affairs and “to think of
the future into which our children go,
that we may shape it well and wisely for
them” ; they ask for remembrance of the
pioneers who made this country and of
those who died in battle to defend it.
In the present state of party politics
in Australia, no Prime Minister, no matter
what color his coat, could make such a
call without being suspected by nearly
half the community of playing politics.
That is one of the evils at which the call
tilts. The sponsors of the appeal should
therefore be encouraged by the prompt-
ness with which both Prime Minister
Menzies and Opposition-leader Evatt en-
dorsed its principles. “Those charged
with high responsibilities” runs the pre-
amble. This surely includes the leaders
of the contending sides in Parliament, and
now that the two have, in effect, added
their signatures to the document, it might
be expected that the people of Aus-
tralia to whom it is addressed should
have no hesitation in treating it as a
non-party, or better, an all- party, matter.
Unfortunately, the first response from
the spokesmen for Dr. Evatt’s party out-
side Parliament is in tune with neither
the sponsors of the appeal nor with their
own Parliamentary leader. The Federal
secretary of the A.L.P., while conceding
that the churches and the Chief Justices
“no doubt mean well,” seems to issue a
complete denial of the whole basis of the
message when he says that “if the
country’s leaders attended to the people’s
material wants, the moral fibres would
look after themselves.” There is nothing
in “The Call” to suggest that it is
addressed only to those on, or near, the
breadline. It is addressed to all people
and all classes.
There can be no gainsaying that apathy
is one of our national vices; dressed up
in the guise of easygoing casualness, it
is often passed off as a virtue. From it
springs the dangerous doctrine that the
welfare of the country can be left en-
tirely to the Government without any
responsibility on the individual. And
from that it is an easy transition —already
made by too many in this country —to
the stage where the sole criterion on any
point of national policy is “What’s in it
for me?”
The purpose of the churchmen and
justices signing “The Call” is to arouse
Australians out of their apathy and to
awaken them to the duty of man to man
and of men to the community. They
must be commended for attempting the
task.
Mr. Vishinsky Laughed
and Laughed.
On November 7 Moscow celebrated the
anniversary of the Bolshevik revolution
in the usual manner —by a huge military
demonstration in Red Square. The usual
speeches were made, advertising Russia
as the only country really anxious for
peace. On the same day Britain, the
United States and France combined to
request Russia to join in formulating a
plan for world peace.
They proposed that on the basis of an
arms census a workable programme
should be developed to limit the size of
all armed forces, industrial production
applicable to war and every other factor
which would make world war possible.
President Truman, in issuing the scheme,
“urged the Kremlin to accept this pro-
posal and to make it known to the Soviet
people.”
Mr. Vishinsky, sneering determinedly,
put forward in the usual Kremlin manner
his own scheme as the only acceptable
one. One point of this was that U.N.O.
should declare participation in the Atlantic
Pact, which began to take shape only
when it was realised that Russia was
mobilising lor world war, and the estab-
lishment of U.S. defensive bases in Europe
as incompatible with United Nations
membership. Another was the withdrawal
of all foreign troops from Korea (after
preliminary moves along the 38th
Parallel). A third was that all United
Nations members and others outside
membership—principally, of course, Com-
munist China and satellites of the
U.S.S.R. —should hold a conference to
discuss “total disarmament” before June
1, 1952 ; that the Soviet Union, United
States, Britain, France and China should
conclude a peace pact to combine
their efforts and that all other States
should adhere to it.
The Great Powers (including Russia)
already have a peace pact seven years
old. Russia has flagrantly broken every
clause in it from the beginning.
Mr. Vishinsky’s speech was couched
in the cynical language normal to Soviet
diplomacy. He characterised the peace
plan of the anxious nations as “a mere
babble,” “trifling,” “spurious,” and said
that he “could hardly sleep all night be-
cause he could not keep from laughing.”
Even “on this rostrum,” he said, “I cannot
hold back my laughter.”
But he did not make it precisely clear
what he was laughing at. Different minds
find different material for humor, and
it is difficult for a simple Western in-
tellect to determine what may actuate
the risibilities of a cold-blooded ruffian
who, in his capacity as Soviet prosecutor,
has conducted purge after purge in which
friend after friend has been unscrupu-
lously murdered without causing him to
feel a qualm or turn a hair.
The Press and Privilege.
From the Molonglo banks:
The clash between the Speaker and the Press
gallery at Canberra Is reaching its culmination,
the president of the Senate also having aroused
Press displeasure with his ukase to a journalists’
deputation: “You are not here to run Parlia-
ment House.”
The viewpoint of the Press gallery, which has
grown from a platoon to an army corps in
strength in the past few years, was expressed
by its president, Mr. Ray Maley, of the Mel-
bourne “Argus”:
It is a tradition that the Press has the
complete right to report the activity of the
Administration as well as the Parliament.
In plain fact, the Press has no legal rights,
complete or otherwise, in Parliament or in the
administration within Parliament House, any
more than it has the complete right to report
what takes place in the domestic fastnesses
behind the Bench in the High Court. Neither
is it in the public interest that it should have
such rights.
The Speaker accurately stated the position
when he said from the Chair that “the
privileges and freedom of the Press in
this building are matters under the control of
the president of the Senate and the Speaker
until Parliament otherwise determines 1
believe that the purpose of the Press here is to
report Parliamentary proceedings fairly and
accurately to enable the public to judge the
facts.” These purposes are not served by a
large section of the Press, whose quarry in
Parliament House appears to be sensation and
scandal rather than atfairs of government.
The matter began to come to a head when
the presiding officers of the two Chambers,
apprised that a large deputation of trade-
unionists, organised on Communist pressure
lines, proposed to interview members in the
precincts of Parliament House —at the very
doors of the legislative Chamber while it was
sitting—decided to prevent the proceedings
developing into contempt of Parliament through
being turned into a public meeting by tnc
presence of reporters. So the Press were
“requested” on the day of the invasion to
keep out of the hall and lobbies —the ante-
rooms of the Chambers.
Members of the gallery demanded reasons for
their exclusion, which the presiding officers
refused to give.
Parliament’s Standing Orders do not recognise
the existence of journalists, save in the guise
of “strangers,” who, under Order 310, may be
turned out of the precincts by the Speaker or
president or by an undebated vote of either
House, at a moment’s notice.
As the result of last week’s incidents, how-
ever, a discussion is to take place between the
presidents and the party leaders, and perhaps
others, in committee on the questions of Press
privilege and some other matters.
To perform their functions as reporters of
Parliament, to see Ministers and members within
reason at suitable times, the Press should be
given ample facilities, in line with rational
conceptions of the principle of freedom of
expression and reporting; but this does not
mean that it is proper that any and every
demand by the Press should, immediately it is
made, have the force of law, that the taxpayers
should provide space and partly-free meals and
below-cost bottled beer for as many scribes as
the papers care to send to the capital. Neither
does it mean that the Press should have the
right to go where it likes, when it likes, within
the House, especially when its presence is likely
to result in its being used as a medium of
affront or threat to members engaged in Parlia-
mentary duties.
No other Parliament in the world has con-
ceded so many informal privileges and so much
licence to so many reporters as the one at
Canberra, where members have almost ceased
to enjoy the right of privacy.
McKell's Knighthood.
St. Michael and St. George, under
whose banner Governor-General McKell
has been knighted, were both famous
fighters—St. Michael, indeed, was the
paramount prince of the angels and the
commander-in-chief of the Celestial
Armies, “by thousands and by millions
ranged to fight,” according to Milton.
And the “Labor” party has, of course,
fought strongly against the conferring
of knighthoods, even on renowned A.I.F.
fighters, as well as against conscription
for overseas military service, St. George,
however, was associated also with
dragons, and it is perhaps as a reluctant
dragon that Mr. McKell has been
honored.
A Mr. F. J. Walsh, M.P., of the A.L.P.
Executive, has pointed out publicly
(according to Sydney “Herald”) that Mr.
McKell is still an A.L.P. member. And
he has deliberately broken clause eight of
the basic planks of the Federal platform
of the Australian Labor party by accept-
ing a knighthood.
Dr. Evatt has refused to comment on
the position—perhaps he finds it awkward
to comment, having flatly refused to
allow Australian diplomatists to accept
foreign decorations while he himself
modestly accepted the Grand Cordon
of the Legion of Honor. His own Gov-
ernment would not allow the United
States to confer the Order of Merit on
General Northcott, now acting Governor-
General, for his work in 8.C.0.F.
If McKell is still a member of the Aus-
tralian Labor party he is as much liable
to be dealt with by Mr. J. A. Ferguson’s
junta as any laborer. What sort of
a position of indignity would the Gov-
ernor-Generalship, highest office under
the Constitution and the Crown’s deputy,
be in if the Governor-General were
expelled from the Redfern branch of the
A.L.P.?
The Annual Burning-out.
Somebody in authority ought to institute
inquiries into these bushfires, and especi-
ally into the heavy destruction of State
forests. Now and again the Press pub-
lishes a statement by some police-officer
conveying suspicions about the origin of
fires in certain areas, or declaring that
90 per cent, of fires are started by human
agency ; but that is the end of it, and
no firebug or irresponsible is ever found.
A couple of summers ago a bad fire
in the Sutton Forest district was started
when a woman travelling in a car found
she had set a rug smouldering with a
cigarette, stopped and pulled the rug out
on to the side of the road and set the
grass alight. The relation between the
vast increase in fires today as compared
with earlier years and the prevalence of
cigarette-smoking is too obvious to be
dismissed.
What has the prohibited wax-match
got as a fire-starter that a burning
cigarette-butt hasn’t? Are sparks from
railway locomotives more dangerous (or
more numerous) than cigarette-butts
tossed from railway-carriage windows or
from travelling motor-vehicles?
Just before the worst fires in N.S.W.
last week the N.S.W. Chief Secretary
published a “blanket” prohibition against
the lighting of fires in the open “any-
where in any circumstances,” for a certain
short period. There were instant pro-
tests against the foolishness of this order
as preventing the burning of breaks in
protection of homesteads in some regions.
Does anybody in the Chief Secretary’s
department know whether the order was
obeyed or not —whether it served any
useful purpose at all?
Year after year experienced people in
fire-danger areas —the Blue Mountains,
for instance —try to attract official atten-
tion to the merits of burning off danger-
ous bush in winter to help avert the
worst calamities of early summer which
follow the excursions of all manner of
foolish people—and some malicious ones,
too, it is said —carrying matches into the
countryside. But the suggestions fall on
deaf ears, and annually the fires recur,
bringing enormous losses and distress.
Clearly the organisation of regional
security-committees will have to be ex-
tended far and wide through eastern
Australia. There must be not merely fire-
fighting, but fire-prevention, units. And
penalties for arson should be made
exemplary.
That Will Be the Day.
Taking advantage of the general social
glow generated by the Melbourne Cup
festival, the Russian Soviet Embassy in
Canberra threw a party “on the lawn of
their house in Mugga Way” to celebrate
Russia’s National Day. It was a regular
little U.N.O. affair ; all the Excellencies
and everybody else who was anybody in
the Commonwealth capital attended, in-
cluding the head of the Commonwealth
Government. Everybody seemed happy.
Very satisfactory; and there is no
question about the hospitality of Russian
envoys on these occasions. But do Soviet
officials still boycott, from fear of being
marked as suspects, social gatherings
attempted by British, Australian, or other
embassies in Moscow in celebration of
their national days? Could the envoy
of any leading Western democracy give
an open-air garden-party in Moscow,
admitting any notable Russian citizens
he might wish to invite, in honor of St.
George’s Day, July 4, July 14, and so
forth, free from police supervision or
the vetting of attendance by the Soviet
authorities?
The day to celebrate will be the day
when anything like this is possible in
Russia, or when a foreign ambassador
there or any of his staff can get into a
car and drive unhindered on any tour
of the Moscow hinterland he wishes —as
his Russian opposite-number is free to
do in this or any other democracy to
whose Government he is accredited.
But, of course, the Russians do not
mean the same thing as we do in talking
of democracy or peace and counsels of
peace.
London Pride.
From Herbert Holman: When the Aus-
tralian Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
of London, at a private reception they
gave to the Commonwealth correspon-
dents, asked me what paper I represented,
I answered: “The Bulletin.” “Ah!
The Bully ! ” was Sir Leslie Boyce’s quick
response. “I was brought up on that!”
When presenting Sir Leslie to the Lord
Chancellor, at the House of Lords, to
receive the Royal Assent to his appoint-
ment, the Recorder of London said:
If courage and enterprise are the pass-
ports to fame, then Sir Leslie Boyce
possesses both in their fullest measure.
From a remote corner of New South Wales,
which, whether it be named Empire or
Commonwealth, is still twelve thousand
miles from Guildhall, he set a course, with
steadfast determination, to discover Whit-
tington’s London for himself, and though
the winds of fortune have been oft-times
contrary, he has now arrived at the haven
of his desire.
Dick Whittington may have had a
romantic rise to fame, but it would do
Sir Leslie a good deal less than justice
to carry the comparison too far. The
Taree solicitor’s son has his own formula
for success: “Hard work and a following
wind.” To know his story is only to
feel that many others would have
foundered before the following wind at
last reached and filled their sails.
A young A.I.F. officer, he was invalided
to England from Gallipoli. After re-
covery he was so seriously wounded on
the Western Front that he was actually
put with the corpses awaiting burial untU
a gravedigger noticed him to be strug-
gling for breath. Completely paralysed
for nearly six months, he was ultimately
invalided to South Australia for dis-
charge, Although medically unfit for
further soldiering, he bargained with the
then Minister of Defence, Senator Pearce,
to allow him to raise a unit for active
service. In less than two months he had
recruited the men, had them equipped
and set sail for Europe under his own
command.
The war over, he went to Balliol as a
Huth Scholar, graduated, read for the
Bar and entered upon the combined
careers of law, politics and industry. He
became an M.P. at 34 and a K.B.E. at
49. 111-health prevented him, in 1949
and again last year, from standing at
the Lord Mayoral elections. Now 56, he
is restored to health and strength and
working, as he says, “harder than any
man I know.”
Wages and Margins.
In a majority decision the judges of the
N. S. Wales Industrial Commission have
delivered an important pronouncement on
the subject of skill-margins in awards.
The occasion was an appeal by the Hair-
dressers’ Employees’ Union against a
marginal increase of 2s. 6d. a week
granted by Justice Cantor last year, the
union pleading that a higher rate should
have been granted because of the in-
creases in the basic wage.
Dismissing the appeal with the remark
that claims for adjustment of marginal
rates to accord with changes in the
purchasing-power of money had con-
stantly been resisted by both State and
Federal industrial tribunals, Justices
Webb and De Baun said that, although
{Continued on next page.)


IB
s?m>
m
sm
CRAVEN "A'
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specialty ib Ji
bieverit soiettmats
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
f
the decreased purchasing-power of
money had lowered the value of margins,
it seems to us that the time has come for
wage-fixing tribunals to consider
whether it will be possible even to main-
tain existing margins over the basic wage,
let alone increase them.
Mr. Justice Richards dissented, saying
that he thought some increase beyond
2s. 6d. should have been allowed.
The court’s decision was no doubt
motivated by considerations of the capa-
city of industry to pay the increases, and
there can be no denying its contention
that “caution and restraint should be the
watchwords” of wage-fixing authorities at
the present time. There is, however, an-
other point of view, and it was perhaps
best expressed by Mr. E. D. Darby,
Liberal M.L.A. for Manly, when he
moved a private member’s motion in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, a month ago, sug-
gesting that award rates should be ex-
pressed as a percentage above the basic
wage and that this percentage should be
maintained in changes following varia-
tions in the basic wage.
Darby’s main point was that a margin
should be of such a nature
to attract to industry the proper number
of workers and to encourage them to attain
the necessary skills to entitle them to receive
it, but obviously consideration should be
given to skill, training, experience, respon-
sibility, hazards, irregularity of hours, work-
ing conditions generally and so forth.
He pointed out that recent large in-
creases in the basic wage had reduced the
relative value of margins in skilled trades,
with the result that those trades became
less attractive and the industries con-
cerned found it difficult to hold their
present staffs and to induce lads leaving
school to take the trouble to learn a
trade. He admitted that the immediate
effect of introducing this principle would
be an increased wage-bill, but claimed
that this “would not necessarily add to
the present inflationary conditions,” as
by removing a cause of unrest among
skilled workers and by providing more
stable conditions in industry it would
make for increased production.
There is merit in the Darby plan,
though its author made no attempt to
assess the cost of grafting it on to the
present wage system —the initial result
would obviously be a record jump in the
next quarterly adjustment of the basic
wage, with a corresponding jump in
margins. It seems that neither the court’s
implication that margins may have to be
reduced nor Mr. Darby’s scheme to in-
crease them in order to maintain a per-
centage lead really gets to the root of
the matter. The time has surely come
for an overhaul of the whole wage-fixing
machinery. If the basic wage is to be
fixed on the basis of what industry can
pay, it is surely a fallacy to assume that
its capacity to pay increases regularly
every quarter.
POLITICAL POINTS
A rise, Sir William?
The mysterious explosion heard in
parts of Victoria last week has now been
explained—it was Mr. Vishinsky laugh-
ing at the Western proposals for disarma-
ment. The Soviet Foreign Minister told
the United Nations Assembly: “I could
hardly sleep all night because I could not
keep from laughing. Even from this
rostrum I cannot hold back my laughter.”
However, it was not long before he
managed to get his risible faculties
sufficiently under control to shout abuse
at Eden and Acheson and denounce them
as warmongers.
Bearing in mind the record of Soviet
diplomats in the last few years, it is hard
to believe that the leaders of Britain,
France and America expected any real
success for their proposals, A genuine
acceptance by Russia would entail such
a change of heart in the Kremlin as could
come only from a change of occupants.
It seems, therefore, that in making the
approach the Western Powers were
serving notice on Stalin that if he insists
on an armaments race they are deter-
mined to do their best to win it.
Vishinsky’s own contribution was an
ultimatum, date-line June, 1952 —that’s
about six months —for a disarmament
agreement to restore European peace. In
Korea they have been arguing for six
months about the first step towards the
armistice which Malik, on Vishinsky’s
behalf, suggested could be arranged.
Without waiting for publication of “The
Call,” issued by Church leaders and the
Chief Justices of the six States, Senator
Ashley tied a New-Guard tag to it, Lang’s
“Century” feared it “might well prove
a rallying-call of the Right” and the Com-
munist “Tribune” saw it as an attempt
by “Big Business” to “divert the people
away from the struggle for peace into the
acceptance of capitalism and all its rotten-
ness.” The Red comment is, of course,
the strict party line and can be applied
with equal validity to anything from a
test-match to an issue of free beer; the
approach of Ashley and Lang is typical of
the suspicion with which “Labor” re-
ceives any suggestion, no matter how
well-intentioned, that does not originate
at the Trades Hall,
Churchill warned the people of
Britain that, as on the previous occasion
of his assuming office, he could offer
them only a rough road. This has already
been emphasised by a cut in the meat
ration and a statement by Food Minister
Lloyd George that the country’s stocks
of wheat, flour, margarine, cooking fats,
sugar and butter are well below the
dangerous level. At the same time Mr.
Butler, Chancellor of the Exchequer, has
announced an alarming dollar deficit
which has led the Government to cut
imports from non-sterling sources by
£350 million. If these steps are not taken,
the Chancellor says, “Britain will be
bankrupt, idle and hungry.” This is
Britain six years after victory—and after
six years of Socialism.
Anyone who makes a hobby of
collecting statistics had better take a trip
to Canberra, where, for the next week or
so, the streets and public places will be
simply littered with them. There’s a
statisticians’ conference in progress, with
top figure-men from Britain and most of
the Dominions having a whale of a time
with graphs, means, modes and per-
centages. Any A.C.T. resident finding a
stray statistic is requested to return it to
Dr. Roland Wilson.
Mr. Tully, “Labor” M.L.A. for
Goulburn in the N. S. Wales Assembly
and the second of his line to hold the
seat, had a few words to say last week
on the McGrrrrr Government’s duty in
respect of Communism. He said that the
N. S. Wales Government should co-
operate with Canberra against the Reds ;
the Menzies Government had been given
a mandate at the last elections to smash
Communism and “I hope they do it.” If
Tully has any hope of persuading his
leader to co-operate with Menzies against
the Communists, then more power to his
elbow. Up to the present the McGrrm
and the executive from which he takes
his instructions have shown more willing-
ness to co-operate with anyone, including
the Communists, against Menzies.
Caution is the keynote of reports issued
by the Tasmanian Treasury. In other
States the Treasurer tables in Parliament
papers showing his estimated expenditure
for the ensuing year, but in Tassie the
corresponding documents are described
as an “Estimate of the Probable Expen-
diture.”
According to Eden-Monaro’s Fraser,
the Budget-protest deputation which he
and E. J. Ward met in the King’s
Hall at Parliament House was composed
of “peaceful citizens.” Maybe he’s right,
but two Newcastle unionists who with-
drew from the deputation before it
reached Canberra probably have different
views. They are N. Nolan, president
of the Newcastle branch of the Iron-
workers, and A. Cameron, secretary
of Lysaght’s sub-branch. They told New-
castle reporters that when they arrived in
Sydney they found accommodation
arrangements in the hands of the leading
Communist in the Hunter Valley district;
they were sent to “a low dive in
Paddington” where they were greeted
with “Welcome, Comrades” by a man who
told them he had been a Communist-
party member since 1934, had had his
premises raided by security police when
the Anti-Red bill was before Parliament,
but “had since built up his stock of
pamphlets.” The room was filthy, it was
hung with pictures of Stalin and Lenin,
and packed with pamphlets. Next morn-
ing the two unionists resigned from the
deputation. Their final comment: “It was
a calculated insult to us and the union.
We came home unclean, and con-
taminated, both physically and other-
wise.”
Wyong, although popular as a holiday
resort for Sydney people, is little known
outside New South Wales, but its fame
should now spread throughout the Com-
monwealth. Last week its shire council
announced a reduction in its municipal
rate.
As was expected, the postponed elec-
tion for the Barnsley seat in the British
Parliament resulted in a comfortable win
for Labor, S. Schofield having over
28,000 votes to spare in a three-cornered
fight. At last year’s election Labor won
by 31,000, the member being Frank
Collindridge, whose death after nomina-
tion-day was the reason for the postponed
poll. Collindridge visited Australia in
1944 with a British Parliamentary delega-
tion and did some straight talking on the
coalfields on the subject of production
lags. The miners liked him —as did
people of all parties who met him in Aus-
tralia —and they presented him with a
gold watch, of which he said to Bulletin
caricaturist Frith, “Ay, lad, it’s the best
thing Ah’ve got, next to missus.”
It used to be said that the safest way to
make money in Melbourne was to hang a
bag round your neck, roar yourself hoarse
on a racecourse and the public would
come and pour cash into it; but that’s
all changed. The safest way to make
cash now is to enter Parliament —no
bag needed, though a certain amount of
roaring is helpful. All members of the
Victorian Parliament are to receive £lOO
in back pay as a result of the Govern-
ment’s decision to grant them the same
c.-of-l. allowances as civil servants.
Common or garden city members will
get £1344 p.a. and country members
£1444. Ministers climb into the £2OOO
and £3OOO class and over. New rates are
retrospective to last December.
A committee of five appointed by the
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council is
investigating the chances of success of
a proposed boycott on beer as a protest
against the latest price-rise. The sugges-
tion is that trade-unionists should go on
the water-wagon for a week. Up to the
present there have been no signs of panic
among the publicans; they’ve heard the
story so often before. The blue-ribbon
week won’t eventuate, of course, but if
it did —well, production figures in indus-
try should smash all records.
Dutch scientists are predicting that
within a few years Holland will be grow-
ing all her food requirements indoors.
It’ll never happen in Australia; we
haven’t enough houses.
Getting rather close to a popular
song-hit of the moment, Hughes,
Country-party member for Armidale in
the N. S. Wales Assembly, complains that
as a nation we are “bogged down and
bewildered” —the cause of both condi-
tions being too many boards and con-
trols. He urges a conference of Com-
monwealth and State politicians to cut
out overlapping departments and get rid
of unnecessary boards and controls. A
little more than that is needed. The
time has surely come for a full-dress
constitutional convention to review and
restate the functions of the Common-
wealth and the States,
Opposition members in Canberra have
recently been vociferous on the Freedom
of the Press, yet they still manage to
raise a howl whenever there is a sug-
gestion of dollars being allocated for the
purchase of newsprint. Apparently their
idea is that the Press should have freedom
to collect news, but not to publish it.
Right-wingers in the Ironworkers’
Association won another round in their
struggle against the Red bosses of the
union when the Arbitration Court issued
an order restraining officials of the Sydney
branch from interfering in the union
election of officers, to be held under the
supervision of the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Office. Evidence was produced to
show that plans existed for union officials
to examine the votes before they were
sent to the Electoral Office. This has
now been expressly forbidden by the
court, Foster, J., dissenting.
N.S.W. Transport boss Winsor told
reporters the.other day that the McGrrrrr
Government hoped to open the Eastern
Suburbs railway from Chalmers-street to
Bondi Junction early in 1955. Let’s see.
What was it they were saying back in
1890?
Haricot Hansard:
Touch of Candor (Queensland Hansard, p.
929):
Mr. Dewar (Lib.).: Am I boring hon.
members opposite?
Govt, members: Yes.
Mr. Dewar; Then I will carry on.
Sense of Proportion (Fed. Hansard, p. 888): —
MR. E. Jambs Harrison (Labor, Blax-
land): The Government’s action in “walk-
ing out” on Glen Davis at this period of
the world’s history is more traitorous to
the Western democracies than is King
Farouk’s action in the Middle East. ( Word
“traitorous” subsequently withdrawn).
Nature Note (Fed. Hansard, p. 932):
Mr. McMahon (Lib., Lowe); 1 do not
know whether honorable members opposite
will escape from this cobweb of their own
weaving,..,
On the Nose (Fed. Hansard, p. 929): —
Mr. Edmonds (Labor, Herbert); The
honorable member for Swan spoke about
stink, stench and smell. One would have
thought he was moving a motion. (Remark
withdrawn on protest of Mr. Grayden that
what he had said was “stench of treason.”)
Pets (S.A. Hansard, p. 968): —
Mr. Macgillivray (Ind.): The breeding
of fowls, birds and dogs keeps the city
dweller in touch with Nature. These birds
and animals can be judged on the spot,
but greyhounds cannot. Other tests are
necessary, because although a greyhound
may have a fine appearance it may not be
exceptionally speedy.


IOMj
The Be&innino .
6asic u/a&s.
6aS(C-WA&E (NCREASe .
40 - hour, week. .
'fkosp&ury / uoapino .
Inflatiom .
ALADDIN AND HIS TOO-WONDERFUL LAMP.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“C. 8.”: Naive statements? A re-
cently-arrived British migrant employed
on a station property at Derrinallum
(Vic.) drew Akbar in the Cup and won
£lO,OOO. “More than ever Fm con-
vinced,” he said, “that there’s no finer
country than Australia.”
♦ * ♦ *
“Zake”: Discussing with a visiting
Englishman the recent disappearance,
presumably behind the Iron Curtain, of
the two Foreign Office officials, I
wondered idly what had first given rise
to suspicions that things had gone wrong.
He raised an eyebrow. “I understand,”
ho said, “that anxiety was first expressed
“Tinny, isn't it ?”
at Whitehall when a nightwatchman re-
ported that their offices had apparently
not been slept in the previous day.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Having seen (and pro-
digiously admired) Norman Lindsay’s
“Bandits at Soup” at the N.S.W. Royal
Art Society show, perhaps I can ease the
minds of those bewildered gentlemen in
the hospital ward who wondered what on
earth the watercolor, with its rather odd
title, could be about (B. 7/11//51). It
was about bandits having soup.
“Uramao”: I wonder how members of
the posh London clubs of the ’eighties
would comport themselves if the dog-
eared, soiled, inflated paper money, which
in New Zealand has been dubbed
“Nash’s confetti,” were handed over in
discharge of a gambling debt. The 80-
year-old Lord Knightly once won a
rubber of whist at his club. His oppo-
nent handed him over eight half-crowns.
His Lordship looked at the silver with
undissembled aversion, called the waiter
and ordered him in peremptory terms;
“Please bring me gold for that.” That a
gentleman should pay a debt to another
gentleman in anything but gold was open-
ing the floodgates on social usage.
♦ • ♦ ♦
“E. & 0.E.”: Recruiting appeals (B.
17/10/’51)? Strangest reason for enlist-
ment I ever met was just after the Galli-
poli campaign. A neighbor, who had
been on the Peninsula, returned lame
and badly injured as a result of a frag-
ment of a jam-tin bomb passing right
through a fleshy part of his leg. He
eventually recovered, but long before that
his younger brother, still in his ’teens, was
pestering his parents for their permission
to join up. The Anzac explained it to
me: “Once he saw the hole in my leg
he just had to go, too.”
* * * &
“Eureka”: In Sydney’s Hyde Park on
the seats in the shade of the trees, solu-
tions to most of the world’s problems are
freely offered. The other day, while
watching a game of chess there, a group
of regulars were discussing the high wool
prices. “It can’t last,” one old chap re-
marked. “What’ll happen when this
synthetic wool starts coming in from
America? The squatters’ll find it pretty
hard to sell their wool at all.” “They’ve
got nothing to worry about,” another old
boy replied. “It’s just a matter of im-
porting some of the synthetic sheep and
getting them acclimatised. Then our
graziers will change over to the new
sheep, and I wouldn’t be surprised if the
local synthetic sheep turned out to be
better than the imported. Look what
we did with the Merinos.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
Clem Lack: Australian treasure-
seekers have no need to go as far as
Cocos or the West Indies. There should
be good fossicking around the Gulf of
Carpentaria and Barrier Reef. Spanish
galleons from Panama were frequently
blown out of their course by storms
en route to the Philippines, and the South
Seas were studded with their wrecks.
Early Spanish coins have been discovered
on the shores of Carpentaria, and ancient
ship’s timbers, thought to be of Spanish
origin, have been found at various places
along the eastern coast. In 1890 Frank
lardine, of Somerset, came upon a heap of
Spanish silver dollars embedded in a
solid, encrusted mass on a shoal in the
Great Barrier Reef, some miles east of
the Murray Island group. The find
weighed over 151 b. Smaller finds were
made in adjacent coral formations, as
well as some loose coins dating from the
17th and 18th centuries. Jardine sent
most of the dollars to London, had them
melted down and made into a silver
dinner service which graced the massive
table at Somerset homestead when
notables were being entertained.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A lifelong sufferer from
mal de mer, I still can’t feel a speck of
interest in the reported discovery of two
English scientists that hyoscine hydro-
bromide prevents seasickness. The
remedy, I am told, was tried out on a
batch of soldiers who offered themselves
for rough treatment at the (hands of
Neptune by staying for long periods on
a raft. How much their immunity was the
result of a drug and how much of psycho-
logical causes is a moot question. I was
travelling once between Sydney and Mel-
bourne on a liner which was doing its
best to stand on its head off Gabo. I
had in my cabin a bottle of stuff which
up to that point seemed to have achieved
all the results attributed to it on the
“It's just the thing to bring on the tomatoes."
label. Seeing a middle-aged man lying
on a deckchair with one foot in a bucket
of water and a look on his face that I
recognised only too well, I asked him if
he would like a swig of the concoction.
He nodded weakly and I hastened below
and brought up my panacea. “No
thanks, don’t want it,” he groaned when
he saw the label. “Why not?” I asked.
“I make it,” he said. For the rest of the
trip I was as bad as he was.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Sydney papers reported the
case of a man who, on being taken to
the police-station on a charge of driving
while under the influence of liquor,
dropped a pin on the floor of the station,
then stooped down and picked it up with
his teeth. The magistrate was not con-
vinced ; he imposed a £2O fine and a
forfeiture of driving licence. Personally
I am much impressed at the report, con-
sidering the feat no mean performance,
drunk or sober. But it is the dropping
of the pin rather than its recovery that
stirs a chord in my memory, recalling to
mind a phrase from The Mirrors of
Downing Street, in which “The Gentle-
man with a Duster,” writing of Asquith,
says that when he resigned the Prime
Ministership “it was as though a pin had
dropped.”
* * * *
“Vingter”; Professor Clement, whom
a Toulouse court acquitted on a charge
of fraud in claiming that his “Magnetised
Love Perfume” brought romance to the
lovelorn, was a plagiarist and piker,
judged by the dimensions of the “Temple
of Beauty,” maintained by “Madam
Rachel” in the poshest end of Bond-street,
London, nearly two centuries ago. Main
selling-point of the temple was the
“Elixir of Beauty, distilled from a magic
rock in the heart of the Sahara and
brought by my own fleet of camels to
lend loveliness to the cream of the British
aristocracy,” which blurb shows that
Madam, were she alive today, would
have been no slouch as a radio-copy-
writer. Sprigs of the nobility and
parvenus of both sexes flocked to the
Temple, in no way scared off by the flat
rate of £750 per shot of the elixir, which
was claimed to render them irresistible.
Madam Rachel struck trouble when she
produced testimonials, in the form of
letters allegedly written by the dashing
young Lord Ranelagh, proclaiming a
fierce, but secret, passion for the
somewhat passde wife of a retired Army
officer—the lady having expressed some
dissatisfaction at the slow working of
the elixir. The letters coming to the
knowledge of the lady’s husband, he
invoked the aid of the Law, which sent
Madam Rachel to choky when the
letters were proved forgeries. During her
enforced retirement Madam’s goodwill,
like the water of the Magic Rock, evapo-
rated irretrievably.
• * ♦ •
“Collector”: One of Winston
Churchill’s minor records is that of being
the only British Prime Minister to grace
a postage-stamp. In 1946, when the
South American republic of Colombia
commemorated the Allied victory with a
stamp, it used Churchill’s likeness and
also those of Roosevelt and Stalin. Eleven
stamps printed by Nicaragua in 1946 were
dedicated to Roosevelt. One design
showed Churchill with the President at
the Atlantic Conference; other designs
related to the Casablanca and Tehran
conferences. In 1948, to mark the third
anniversary of the death of F.D.R.,
Salvador issued a stamp showing him in
conversation with Churchill and Canada’s
Mackenzie King. Among British
countries the nearest approach to a
Churchillian stamp is a New Zealand
“Peace” issue, showing a picture of St.
Paul’s Cathedral, Winston’s familiar “V”-
sign and the words from one of his war-
time speeches: “This was their finest
hour.”
• * ♦ ♦
“Bo”: The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra has for its summer concerts
adopted raiment befitting the season.
Instead of the formal soup-and-fish in
which they sweated heretofore while
bashing the tympani, sawing at various
members of the large viol family or
exercising their lungs on wind instru-
ments, the men players perform in com-
fort clad in soft white shirt and soft
collars with black bow ties —with the
usual rammies, of course. The ladies are
in white blouses and black skirts. All
very sensible, and they look just as well
as the formal clobber. But I ask one
question: has Eugene Goossens thought
of the risk of pneumonia run by, say, the
violists or the oboists who may be sitting
directly in front of the trombonists or
the trumpeters, with a consequent cold
blast between their shoulder-blades? I
implore the conductor, before many of
the orchestra are rushed to hospital, to
either put the brasses in the front, where
the draughts they create will be rendered
harmless, or alternatively issue the
draughtees with heavy black (or white)
pullovers.
* * ♦ *
“Geehem”: I admire the simple faith
of “Bass” (B. 24/10/’5l) in the basic
honesty of the masses, as well as his
ingenuous exclusion of the cross-section
which becomes temporarily exposed to
the baneful influence of the racecourse.
The latter, however, had a sharp reminder
of the “best policy” some years ago
when a race day in Tassy coincided with
the commencement of “daylight saving”
in that State and the clocks were put
back an hour. The tote at a local race-
course opened round about noon, for bets
on the first Melbourne race timed to
start at 1 p.m., Victorian time. Punters
quickly awoke to the fact that the
authorities had overlooked the newly-
created difference between the times of
the two States and, learning that Isle of
Astur had won the race at 15 to 1, they
rushed the tote to back the cert of a life-
time. The tiding spread rapidly, but,
out of Mass Greed by Eagerness, had
been bred a Nemesis in the form of the
statutory percentage deduction from the
tote pool, so that the resultant win divi-
dend of 4s, 6d. represented a loss of
6d, on each five-bob ticket.
PIGS’ HAVEN.
“Queensland bacon prices were increased to arrest
the drift of pigs to N. S. Wales.”
Like thousands of sensible Queensland pigs
I felt I ought to shift
Out of my northern pigsty digs
And join in the southward drift.
The news had come on the Brisbane mails:
“It’s better for pigs in N. S. Wales!”
Now, when I went in a Sydney pub
I thought it would cause a fuss,
But a voice came over the loud hub-bub,
“Come, brother, and drink with us! ”
And whether you drink from glasses or pails
It’s better for pigs in N. S. Wales.
Now, when I was drunk, I stole a car
And drove it round the town
Where the thickest throngs of pedestrians are,
And knocked the silliest down:
Such hunting up hills, or hunting down dales,
Is better for pigs in N. S. Wales.
But then I ran into a telegraph-post
And caught a Coogee tram.
And soon I was crushed, though at very high
cost,
To a slab of prime pressed ham;
For here ham-factories run on rails —
Ifs better for pigs in N. S. Wales.
So then I arranged with a man I know
In the entertainment line
To get me a job on the radio.
And soon I was doing fine.
You can have your Oliviers, Cowards and
Quayles —
It’s better for hams in N. S. Wales.
My broadcasts endowed me with votaries
Who put me on display
Embalmed in glass, and marked at a price
That only the rich could pay:
If you want to get in with the silvertails
It’s better for pigs in N. S. Wales.
M.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


df
d
Give'Devil Dandruff'
thebrush-off
with
k%-
IjlCmC
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’*
favourite Hair Dressing”
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
“plastered down" look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
f
d
f
d
fd
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
j lt's handier in « take
A Key Deemit
PrrpemSsea
IZI/ZHI
Sold erf all
,CbemitU & Sioraz
m
'mmmmm, m
&
&
55
iS”
fIJJSI
racket Grou^
Sydney C n/2
Q)V7oUv2
5W
'V
~V , =—
r:
-ts.
_ S'
VkHO<i^
TOOTH'S K.B. LASER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
KB.B9.tt
“Altera Merces”; The family of De
Mestre, which Rachel Henning mentioned
in her Shoalhaven letter, is that which
owned the horse that won the first and
second Melbourne Cups in 1861 and
1862. When X was a boy I
heard my grandfather and father,
who were pioneers of the Shoalhaven,
tell about Eddy De Mestre’s horse
Archer winning the Cup twice, and all
Shoalhaven was on it. I have looked it
up in my Australian Encyclopcedia, and
here is the record:
Year. Winner. Age. Weight. Rider. Time.
1861 .. Archer 5 9st. 71b. J. Cutts 3.52
1862 .. Archer 6 lOst. 21b. J. Cutts 3.47
* ♦ * *
“Irving”: Can’t accept “Wingella’s”
theory (B. 17/10/’5l) that, because
Darwin medicos have just met their first
a bo. appendicitis patient, Binghi has only
recently become subject to the disease. It
is more likely that, over the centuries,
appendicitis has killed thousands of abos
who died quite efficiently without medical
assistance, and in the absence of this
academic aid the malady which finished
them went untabbed. In this seemingly
recent vulnerability to the disease Binghi
is, after all, only a rough half-century
behind his white brothers. It was not till
Edward VH’s coronation was postponed
while Sir Frederick Treves removed the
royal appendix that appendicitis became
a fashionable malady. Nowadays the
useless organ is whipped out as a throw-
in gesture of goodwill during the course
of major operations for which the patient
is already opened up. At one time a six-
weeks convalescence was reckoned im-
perative ; during the last war appendicitis
patients were treated almost as walking
wounded after their ops. Indeed, one
p.-0.-w, in Malaya successfully operated
on himself, naturally without anaesthesia,
though neither he nor the medical profes-
sion would recommend such action as
general procedure.
* * * *
“Pat”: In Melbourne on a business
trip Blinks returned to his hotel at 7.30
one night and found the dining-room
closed. He called room-service for beer
and sandwiches. Plenty of beer, but no
food! All restaurants were closed, so he
tried a night-club. “Sorry, no gentleman
is allowed in alone. Must be accom-
panied by a lady,” advised the commis-
“Well, spare me days! Haven't seen you since We went to school!”
sionaire. He tried another. Same regu-
lation. Ravenously hungry, he wheedled
and whined until he talked his way into
a quick meal at a dim table on the
promise that he would vanish as soon
as he had swallowed the last mouthful.
On his way to the table he passed a
friend on his way out. “Hullo, Bill!
I’ve just fought my way in here for a
feed.” “Feed all you want?” “Sure,
I’m starving.” “Then if you take my
advice you’ll fight your way out again,”
said Bill grimly.
* * * •
“Bamekaw”; Life-assurance statistics
gwe me a reasonable hope of being able
to say to some youngster yet unborn,
“You think your cricketers and race-
horses today are pretty good, but you
never saw Bradman bat or Bernborough
race. Why, I can remember the time when
it was possible to buy a fair sort of house
for £3OOO, and a suit for twenty-five
quid! You could get an apple—slightly
bruised, perhaps—for as little as sixpence,
a coin you don’t hear much about now,
except when the price of bread goes up,
or drapers advertise a staggering reduc-
tion from £5O to £49 19s. 6d,”
* * ♦ *
“Macnell”: “Nobby H’s” broadside
(B. 7/11/’5l) is ’way off target. I did
not query the correctness of “wearing”
a flag or serving “in” a ship, but merely
commented on the strangeness of those
terms. I don’t know how many times
I’ve heard a captain ask his signal-yeoman
on the bridge, in reference to a merchant-
man ahead; “What flag’s she flying, yeo-
man?” Nor how often (with no civvies
present) a seasoned seaman casually
remark: “Oh, yes, I remember old Nobby
Clark —he was on the Canberra.” So
that for “Nobby ll’s” War I spy to be
discovered through using “on a ship”
seems to me to have been extremely stiff
luck for the spy. The story savors a bit
of the yam of the German officer-spy on
Gallipoli who allegedly made his way
into our lines in Australian uniform and
ordered a section to advance, in the face
of murderous fire, to certain death. “Fair
dinkum?” asked an astonished Aussie on
hearing the order. “Yes, Fair Dinkum,
that’s my name,” retorted the spy—to
die on the alert Digger’s bayonet. Just
the same (as one who likes to foster the
impression he knows something of his
subject) I shall be careful, on paper, to
fight my next battle with plenty of
“wears” and “ins.”
“Gam”: Stationed in England during
the war a R.A.A.F. man owned a gadget
that brought him many a free drink.
He had the replica of a fly fastened inside
the tip of a tea-
spoon, and when
he had finished a
glass he would pro-
duce the spoon and
o s t e n t atiously
scoop the “fly”
from the dregs.
When the beer-
puller had observed
it, the spoon would
be given a flick
apparently to dis-
lodge the fly on to
the floor, and then calmly dropped into
the owner’s pocket. He often worked the
trick at the other end of the bar as well.
As far as I am aware, no bartender ever
questioned the presence of the spoon.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A large poster at Melbourne
Town Hall announced that chest X-rays
were free for all down in the basement,
and no mention was made of t.b. One
old gentleman attended twice daily from
the onset. His face or chest seemed
familiar to one of the girl assistants, and
she asked hadn’t he been there before.
“Yes,” he said. “And I haven’t coughed
once since I started on the treatment.”
♦ * * ♦
“Becks”: From time to time the sug-
gestion is made in the Press that known
Communists in Australia should be re-
fused passports, so that they won’t be
able to endanger the defence of the
country by reporting top secrets to their
masters behind the Iron Curtain, The
men at the Kremlin must laugh loudly
at this sort of talk. My own
theory is that they know full well,
as do their agents in this part of
the world, that that is not the route by
which our secrets are conveyed to Russia.
The couriers employed by the Reds don’t
need passports and they don’t need to
book passage by plane or ship; they’re
as free as the air and they come and go
as they please. Years ago the Soviet
realised the value to their intelligence
service of the huge flocks of migratory
birds that come to Australia every year
to dodge the rigors of the Siberian winter,
returning to Soviet territory for the
breeding season some months later.
Every flock of swifts and sandpipers that
leaves Australia includes hundreds of
birds to which Russian agents have en-
trusted the carriage of our defence
secrets, coded and on microfilm. Trained
bird-watchers in Siberia unerringly pick
out the courier-birds and the messages
are rushed to the Kremlin. In similar
manner Uncle Joe’s orders to his hench-
men in this country are dispatched when
the birds fly south again. Communists
travelling with passports handle only
routine stuff. Security officers need waste
little time on them ; the swifts and sand-
pipers are our real menace.
AN EASY WINNER.
“Tom, come home. Bottle on fridge waiting for
you. Amy.” —Agony ad.
No doubt she had hoped
That, when sadly he’d moped,
He’d be thankful to come home a-crawhng.
Well, he didn’t; and she
Found his obstinacy
As unflattering as it was galling.
Though at first it seemed grand,
Soon she just couldn’t stand
The peace since he took to his scrapers,
So she pocketed pride,
And thereupon tried
A potent appeal through the papers.
Now what caused the “blue”
Just before he shot through:
Was it something to do with his habits?
Did he buy fillet steak
For his greyhound, and make
The rest do with scraps or with rabbits?
When she threw, without skill,
Did he stand very still,
And immunity thus be enjoying,
’Stead of dodging about
To stop one on the snout?
Such behavior is very annoying.
She might, as the price
Of return, to be nice
In the future have given a promise,
And solemnly vowed
That her voice never loud
Would she raise when addressing her Thomas;
That she’d pay all the debts,
Never question his bets,
Or at any untidiness grumble,
And that she’d be a wife
For the rest of her life,
Obedient and loving and humble.
Such inducements would not,
She well knew, count a lot
With her lord. She’d be not overlooking
As well the appeal
Of a good, hearty meal,
Of the pies and the pastries she’s cooking.
In love, all is fair.
She’d a “lay-down misere,”
And she used it, aware that their trouble
They’d easily bridge
With some beer in the fridge—
That’d bring him back home at the double!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Columba”: Our amiable, useless
cattle-dog took his exercise chasing hares
in the cool of the evening. One hunt
occurred on the lowest part of the flat,
which was dotted with clumps of tall
rushes amongst the long grass, with much
figure-of-eight work by the two par-
ticipants until the hare doubled, as hares
will, round one tussock, and collided
vigorously with Spot. Whereupon after a
brief pause for wind, both animals fled
in opposite directions.
* * * *
‘'C.A.L.”: “What’s the idea of the
foundation-garments on the trees?”
Swamp-oak Jack inquired of Harry, indi-
cating the girdled boles near the hut.
“You frightened the trunks are getting
too fat?” “Them’s not corsets,” Harry
replied. “They’re fox-skins nailed to the
trees for dryin’.” “Well, why don’t you
peg them on the ground,” Swamp-oak
asked. “I did; in front of the hut,”
Harry answered. “But the other day
when I came in from mendin’ a fence I
found the boss had three of me fox-
skins draped around the tyres of his car.
He’d driven up to the hut in a bit of a
hurry right on to the skins I’d pegged
to the ground with wire spikes. He got
twenty-six punctures in one front tyre an’
twenty-three in the other. And I had to
repair the lot!”
* * * *
“Arno”: “This dry weather’ll be the
death of me.” You hear ’em say it often
enough in Queensland these days. It
darn near was the death of young Boyd.
There was no water in the cow-paddock,
for the first time in living memory the
little creek had run dry, so young Boyd
had a permanent job carting water from
the council’s borehole. The rough road
from our place was deep-rutted, and he
had a couple of 44gal. drums riding fore
and aft on the near-side, while he stood
directly over the axle on the off-side to
balance the cart whether it pitched or
rolled. He had Ruby trotting in the near-
“Me gun's got stuck on the spike, sir!”
side rut while his right wheel runs in
the horse-track in the centre of the road.
He was leaning over a bit so as to watch
his right wheel and keep it out of the
rut and Ruby was taking it all philo-
sophically, the way Ruby always does,
when suddenly his left wheel hit a snag.
Up went the axle at a 30deg. angle, over
went the full drums, and out went Boyd,
head-first. But the falling drums pinned
his foot to the side of the cart, and for
a second he dangled upside-down, with
the boss of the wheel in the small of his
back and the wheel going round against
his shoulders, with water cascading out
of the drums over him. Then the cart
climbed over the snag and righted itself,
the drums fell back into position, and
Boyd dropped out on to the track. Ruby
tumbled to it there was something wrong
and stopped to wait till the driver had
finished monkeying about. He had just
enough strength to climb into the back
of the cart and say: “Giddup!” And
Ruby trotted back home under her own
steam —in the horse-track, with the wheels
in the ruts, as she knew she should have
been doing right along until the smart
young cove back there thought he knew
better.
* * * *
“Connosser”; “Bor o-B ell e” (B.
10/10/’5l) omits reference to the
Christianising of the kanakas. Knew one
planter who preached to his boys, him-
self, and he had no compunction in
altering accepted theology for propaganda
purposes. He urged the “boys” to work
hard “longa master” and not to loaf in
tall sugar-cane, as “big feller Master
longa sky” could see them in the tall
stuff as easily as the short cane. And he
always wound up his exhortations with a
warning that the consequences of dis-
obedience would be that when boy “die
finish” he would go to “too-much cold-
place” as punishment. That was a much
more terrifying prospect for the cold-
hating natives than a hot hell, which
seemed to them like heaven.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Because it has a gaudy
coat that is pleasant to look at, is easily
fed in captivity, and learns to imitate
some of the sifiy sounds it hears, many
a parrot spends most of its life behind
bars and is looked upon as a bird that is
almost tame by nature. It isn’t. I’ve
spent a few pleasant hours lately perched
up beside the nests of sitellas—those fussy
little fellows that scoot down the upper
branches of the gums, defying convention
and gravity, and doing a great job in
cleaning out the various pests that shelter
in the cracks of the bark. They are my
idea of naturally tame birds; settled in
a comfortable fork within 2ft. of the
nest I could see the whole of the feeding
and scavenging programme, and they
took no more notice of me than of my
pup dozing at the foot of the tree. If I
had a complaint it was that after feeding
the new-born chicks, Mum S. would slip
on to the nest too quickly for me to
appreciate the fine-barred markings of
her undercarriage; so I placed a finger
at the lip of the nest to make her pause,
but she hesitated only a second, then
slid on and shouldered my finger out of
the way. The nest is a masterpiece of
decorative camouflage, fitted snugly into
a dry fork and covered with flakes of
bark that blend perfectly with the
foundations;
altogether a charm-
ing and fascinating
fowl, but his food is
not stocked in shops,
so he is not caged.
Within 100 yards
were four rosellas’
nests, but all birds
would slip away at
our approach, and
only by long wait-
ing, well hidden,
could we get the
glasses on the birds
re-entering the nests.
Incidentally, “Ville-
fair” (B. 24/10/’5l),
all these rosellas’
nests were “weather-
proof with the
entrance at the side.”
Nobody has yet pro-
vided stumps with
holes at the top for
them here.
♦ *
“B. A. Ker”:
Without discounting
“Grav elsnatcher’s”
theories on the effect
of pituitary glands
on avian reproduc-
tion organs (B.
24/10/’5l), I don’t think the sight
of those lovebirds was the cause of
the zebra-finches restraining their home-
building instincts. I once kept a mixed
family of zebras, nuns, double-bars,
chestnut-finches and canaries in a big
aviary. Each variety nested and hatched
eggs. Then I introduced two pairs of
lovebirds. The avian stork ceased to
call from that date. But the reason was
simply because the lovies pulled all the
nests to pieces. There was nothing
aggressive or bad-tempered about the
destruction —merely a sort of “She loves
me, she loves me not” technique. Nor
was the vandalism a prelude to a claim-
jumping act; the nests were built in
funnels of small-mesh wire, jam-tins
turned on their sides, small, shallow tins
nailed to the wall cup-wise, and on ledges
between the rafters. Lovebirds do not
“Look! No privacy even on our honeymoon !"
nest in such places; they call nothing a
home unless it is a hollow log or small
box with a hole in the side. A wire
partition across the cage solved the
problem, and the smaller birds returned
to their former domestic arrangements in
complete disregard of the proximity of
the erstwhile narks.
* * * *
“W.M.H.”: An old chap in me grip
of the “horrors” was picked up by the
police and taken to hospital. What with
his swearing and screaming at imaginary
snakes and devils the rest of us in the
ward, suffering from different complaints,
didn’t get
much sleep
that night.
We got our
reward next
morning,
though.
When the
hospital
barber arrived, wearing a white coat and
carrying a bag, the old deadbeat called
him over. “Quick, Doc., I’m dyin’; can’t
y’ save me?” he pleaded. The barber,
a hard case, gave us a wink, solemnly
took a pair of earphones off the wall,
put them on and with a perfect “dead
pan” sounded his patient’s chest with the
electric plug. His prognosis was, “Give
up the plonk, sport, and you’ll live a
ruddy long time yet.”
* * * *
Olive Willey; Abo. legends from
Pingelly to Katanning (W.A.) tell of
Mulka, the terrible native giant who had
lived in a cave now lost. In dry seasons
he had left it for better-watered districts
where he devoured native babies, till all
the tribes banded together and killed him
at Dumbleyung. According to their
belief, he had left the outline of his huge
hand on the roof of his cave. In 1893
Michael Cronin, while blazing a track
from Katanning to Southern Cross,
claimed he had found a cave with a
giant handprint near Karlgarin, in the
eastern wheatbelt, and he left a record
of it in his diary. But the site of it then
seems to have been lost, though one
American anthropologist years ago un-
successfully searched for it. Of recent
years a cave with ordinary-sized hand-
outlines on the roof has been discovered
in the huge granite outcrop known as
The Humps in the Hyden district joining
Karlgarin on the east, while a hollowed-
out boulder at Hyden Rock also has an
ordinary-sized native hand outline on it.
But Mulka’s cave still awaits discovery.
• * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were dozing in the
shade at South Forbes (N.S.W.) when
some cricketers appeared, put down a
mat and got set to play. They were a
couple of men short, so persuaded Mat and
me to join in—our decision being influ-
enced by having seen them set up a keg
under a tree and cover it with wet bags.
Well, our side lost the toss and we went
to field; Mat at square-leg and 1 at
mid-off. Twas a blazing day, and when
a couple of batsmen got their eye in we
spent a torrid couple of hours chasing
the ball round the flat. At every change
of bowling Mat would say to the skipper,
“Hey, what about that keg?” “We’U
bust her at four o’clock,” was the repeated
answer. At last the hour came and,
parched and weary, Mat and I flopped
in the shade while a couple of players
bashed in the bung and inserted a spigot.
Then came the glorious moment when
each of us was handed a foaming tankard.
Mat innocently took a big swig, splut-
tered, went black in the face and
croaked, “What’s this?” “Hop beer;
home-made, too! ” came the reply. “Hop
beer!” Mat roared. “Hop beer! Mean
t’ say we bin racin’ round out there in
the flamin’ heat half the ruddy day for
that! Strike me fat, if the blokes who
made that ball knew that they’d have y’
up for false pretences!” And in terrific
indignation he jumped on the nearest bike
and pedalled furiously for the nearest
pub.
* # ♦ ♦
“Edx” winds up a symposium:
In his The Kon-Tiki Expedition Thor Heyer-
dahl sets out clearly and plausibly his reasons
for supposing that Polynesia was not inhabited
(at any rate by the forebears of the present
populations) before about a.d. 500, and that at
about that date migrating people from Peru
began to populate the islands. These people,
says Heyerdahl, were not the so-called Incas,
whose descendants Pizarro was to ravage and
ruin, but another race altogether, taller and
light-skinned, who suddenly appeared on the
Peruvian scene., mastered and taught the natives
all they knew, and vanished as suddenly and
tracelessly as they had come. That they could
have sailed away across the Pacific on balsa-
wood rafts and begun to populate the islands
is what the Kon-Tiki expedition triumphantly
proved. The point is that if this did happen
these people brought with them the astronomical
knowledge with which we now know the Inca
civilisation, though inferior in this respect to
the Mexican and others, was well enough
equipped for simple navigation. Anyone can
carry out a feat of latitude-finding as difficult
as those practised by the old navigators on
any clear night in his own backyard. Let him
take his carpenter’s level, rest it level at about
eye-height, pointing due south, and then take a
straight stick and lay it along the top of the
level. Then let him raise the south end of the
stick, pivoting it about the north end of the
level until, sighting along the stick, he is looking
at the south celestial pole. If someone will
then take a school protractor, light a match
and read the angle of inclination of the stick
he will immediately know his latitude without
any further reference to tables of declination
worked out years ahead. He can use any one
of half-a-dozen simple well-known methods of
finding due south on a starry night. The
“sacred calabash” (or half a coconut-shell)
was merely the carpenter’s level, and with a
couple of holes drilled opposite each other,
below the brim, one lower down than the
other, the vessel would have a tilt if it were
to retain the maximum amount of water. The
amount of tilt is thus determined by the position
of the holes relative to the brim, and is also
equivalent to any desired latitude. The other
two holes were presumably used for cross-
levelling. The navigator of a bygone Polynesian
expedition returning from the south to, say,
Hawaii has some such instrument drilled or
rigged for the latitude of Hawaii, and as soon
as he can recognise the Pole Star above the
northern horizon he takes periodic shots at it,
sighting across the brim until the two edges
and the star are in line (or along the stick)
with water lapping all four holes. Then he is
in the correct latitude, and so turns due east
or west until he hits Hawaii, because no amount
of holy gourds and secret formulae could tell
him his longitude. Only a clock showing Hawaii
time could tell him that. Which way he turned
depended on his knowledge of the wind, waves,
currents, color of the sea, the birds, the fish
and other marine life, and powers of observa-
tion of those things which must have rivalled
our Binghi’s of his own surroundings on land.
The exercise of these powers, combined with
the unusual physical endurance, courage and
drive necessary to carry out repeatedly these
arduous voyages over thousands of miles in
cramped canoes, back and forth, both with and
against the elements, excite the imagination and
constitute the real wonder of the Polynesian
migrations, not just a bit of fooling about with
marked coconuts and elementary astronomy.
SUNDAY AT COOGEE.
In the small tram I rattle down
The steep hill along the gleaming rails once
more . , .
Sunday morning in the heat; with the sound
Of lost cries muffled in the roar
Of cold, green water as it clashed on the shore
In white beauty. We jumped on to the black
Hot road, sandals clapping. Again the raw
Fresh breeze and morning wind brought it all
back:
Those days in childhood we had wandered
through the heat,
Dazed by the strange, weird summer. The giddy
Hill dived to meet a vast, wide wall
Of water, hanging from the sky beneath our
feet
Blistering on the melting tar. Immensity
Of a shining, sun-warm sea, daring us to fall.
TASMANIA.
ANTHONY WREN.


33 HOURS I
Wi
m
mm
: % >
mmm
wm
a Mi
m
m
... \
M.
» -
'°« s of t/,,
‘o* W of/d , ,
lip
When you fly Canadian Pacific
To NORTH AMERICA and U.K.
★ Pressurized Canadair aircraft
★ “Loungaire” reclining chairs
★ Stop-overs at Fiji (11 hours) and Honolulu
(33 hours)
★ First class hotel room and meals at both
points free for passengers travelling via
Canada to North America and the U.K.
★ Enjoy unexcelled service and comfort
★ Superb food aloft champagne and cock-
tails
★ No dollars required.
TRAVEL RELAXED ARRIVE REFRESHED
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union Steam Ship Co,
(General Agents ) at 247 Oeorge St., Sydney, and 59 William St.,
Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency, will be glad to
offer you full information.
df
df
d
f
d
fd
f
d
f
'nilllillP
liiiillliliih
jiiiiiniiiiiiiiii I
iiiiiiiiiiuiiiiii
d
time is important to you buy
a Swiss ROLEX
It’s accurately yours for always.
f
t
10 ct. Solid Gold or Stainless Steel 15 Jewelled
Shock-resisting ROLEX, Ultra-thin model —De Luxe dial .
CVJ.^,
k
t
10 ct. Solid Gold er Stainlott Stool 15 Jouollod
Shock-rotioting ROLSX, Uodorn dotign Do Luxo dial.
Although Rolex is the highest quality watch you can
buy, it is also the most economical because it lasts
a lifetime.
The Rolex models you see pictured above are gifts he
will treasure for always.
Rolex watches can never be mass produced. Each X
model is the result of high level craftsmanship known
only to the heart of the watch-making industry in
Switzerland. Because it is tested and re-tested, the
very Rolex watch you buy has a guaranteed quality
which makes Rolex one of the most respected names
in watch-making.
Tudor watches are another branch of the Rolex family.
Ask to see the Rolex and Tudor watches at leading jewellers.
df
“The Missus”: The two yard dogs,
Bambi, an aged fox-terrier, and Gem, a
young Border-collie bitch, took advantage
of the bright moonlight to go for an
expedition round the paddocks. 1 was
at the bedroom-window when they came
trotting home to the
side gate in the
garden fence. Gem
always comes through
the gate, a steel-mesh
type held shut by a
spring, and she began
to do so then, but
JBambi took his usual
way, over the 3ft.
wire-netting fence. He clambered labori-
ously up the mesh to the top and hung
by his fore-paws while the stiffened
muscles of his back-legs tried to give
the final boost to take him over. Gem
paused, watched for a while with head
on one side; then, without a sound from
either of them, she ran over beneath
the old dog, sprang up a couple of times
and with her forepaws literally shoved
him over before returning to come in
through the gate.
* * * *
“Manissa”; Engaged to marry a
wealthy cow-cocky, a widower with a
large grown-up family. Aunt Prue,
fortyish and a spinster, was giving a
pre-wedding party at her old home.
Anxious to show off her role as a good
cook, Prue let her head go. There was
roast chicken that melted in your mouth ;
brawn with jewels of spicy jelly studding
its ruddy meatiness; cold roast beef that
cut into delicate rings enclosing parsley-
studded stuffing; ham as pink as rose-
“Any vacancy for a bricklayer's laborer ?”
petals. There were a dozen varieties of
cakes —all luscious. But pride of place
was held by the trifle —a sherry-soaked,
fruit-studded glory on which the whipped-
cream rose in alpine peaks. A heavenly
trifle that should have made any man
overlook a small dowry and middle-age.
All were seated to this magnificence. The
cocky looked from one delight to another.
Then he reached for a slice of plain
bread, soaked up a cup of tea, stood up,
announced bluntly that the engagement
was broken off, and walked out of the
house. We heard later it was the trifle
that was responsible. “Four kinds o’
meat are bad enough, to say nothin’ of
all the cakes,” he confided. “But a
woman who’d waste cream on a puddin’
like that, instead o’ churnin’ it into butter,
would have a man on the dole inside a
year!” But were the other guests down-
hearted at such a spirit? Not an appetite
suffered. And afterwards the eldest son
stepped into his father’s chair, proposed
to True then and there, and was accepted
on the spot. After all, what is a few
years difference in ages when it meant
letting a cook like Prue slip out of their
lives for ever?
“Mikyo”: “Like all major national
and local problems,” said my mate
Fergus, “I’ve had this man-hour produc-
tion one sewn up for years. When I
knock off at night I’ve made it a habit
to say to myself ‘Well, I’ve earned my
few bob today.’ You’d be surprised,
Mike, how often it isn’t true. And you’d
be more surprised to know that for every
once me failure is due to a hangover or
something I’m responsible for there’s ten
times its due to some damfool mistake,
error of judgment or pure pigheadedness
of the boss or one of the pannikin bosses.
And that, mate, is why we’re taking this
fencing contract —we can make our own
mistakes our own way.”
* * * *
“Northerner”: Don’t know about
blacks breaking-in horses (B. 17/10/’5l),
but remember reading in an American
magazine a tale of a Westerner who had
a horse which no one but himself could
ever harness or mount. More than one
bad-man attempted to steal this mount,
but all met with disaster. Finally he
Jet a friend into the secret; his horse
had been bred and broken-in by Red
Indians, who always mount their horses
the opposite way to white men —from
the off instead of the near side. A man
from Arizona assured me of the correct-
ness of the tale ; a horse broken-in by
Indians was useless to a white, unless he
followed Indian procedure and mounted
from the off-side. So, maybe, Holly-
wood was right, for once.
• * * *
New Australians, I know,
have taken a leaf out of the book of
early Italian settlers and have put the
kookaburra, the emu and even the evil-
smelling shag on their menu. I was
wondering if they were, like many of
the fowl they fancy, seeking aid to diges-
tion by the use of grit when I saw a
couple of them chewing the contents of
a fire-bucket. When I hastened to ex-
plain that the sand was to be used only
as a fire-precaution they assured me there
was no mistake, and that they were not
actually eating the sand, only chewing
it and spitting it out. As one of them
explained, “Clean teeth very good—here,
you try,”
* * * *
“Bo”: “The tiredest an’ most casual
bloke I ever come across,” said Dan, “was
when I was workin’ f’r old Burton.
There’s a hell of a storm one day that
brings a big old holler-trunked mess-
mate down an’ smashes a few panels o’
the fence. Next day, when the rain had
stopped, the boss an’ me got to work on
the tree with the crosscut. We’d worked
down from the top of it an’ was gettin’
near the butt when we hears a bloke’s
grumblin’ voice cornin’ from inside the
trunk. The boss gives a jelp, thinkin’
he’s bearin’ things, but I get him to give
a hand with the crowbar an’ we turn it
over. There’s a bloke in the holler part
which must ’a’ just barely give him
enough air to breathe. We hears later
he’d hopped inside the holler when the
storm broke an’ he’d bin trapped when
the tree blew over an’ rolled. An’ all
he said was: ‘Can’t you coots make a
bit less noise when a man’s tryin’ to git
a snooze?’ ”
LILLEE BOURKE.
Chinese slippers
Pit-a-patter.
Here where the pushes used to prowl,
And fight, and eat their duck-and-lo ,vl,
The lamplights blinked on small, squat shops,
Where doorway-spies kept nit for cops.
Oh a Chinaman lived with a woman white
And stuck a knife in her side one night,
Naked she lay and the red blood ran
On the cobblestones by the Chinaman;
And that’s how a white woman one night died
There in the lane with its past to hide,
Where it swings today in the business tide.
We’ll mark no tickets to match the bank,
The hours have changed since there we drank;
And the old stage-door of the Royal has gone
Where the showgirls came to be gazed upon
And the stage-door Johnnie rehearsed his vows,
While Oscar Asche dined at the Chows;
And the lovely Brayton came into view.
And Harcourt Beatty, and Starlight, too,
And all the rest of the theatre crew.
Busy footfalls,
Cars and clatter.
Calm and peaceful stalks the copper.
Lillee Bourke now welly ploper.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Rttv
CHAMPION
vV*
W
•1v355V5
BMii
v.»
•A I
iii*
ifatvutormiiet
td tke yai&m
WITH
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
fdf
World's favorite spark plug for
more than a quarter of a century
d
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C,
Assets Exceed £78,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£12,000,000.
M. C. ALDER, Gen. Manager.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Prioe
f
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Yarra Falls axd Subsidiaries.*
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.l
£ £ £ £
1945.. 111,450 94 p.c. = 95,000 16,450 486,387
Plant-replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 476,387
To outside interests, £lB .. .. 476,869
1946.. 97,524 9 p.c. = 90,000 7,524 483,893
To staff fund, £4OOO 479,893
1947.. 206,373 124 p.c. = 125,000 81,873 561,266
To plant-replacement res., £30,000 .. 531,266
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 521,266
From tax reserve, £104,185 .. .. 625,451
1948.. 295,362 174 p.c. = 175,000 120,362 745,813
To plant-replacement res., £48,582.. 702,281
To staff fund, £16,700 .. .. 685,581
1949.. 258,449 124 p.c. = 125,000 133,449 819,030
To plant-replacement res., £46,000 .. 773,030
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 748,030
1950.. 299,002 124 p.c. = 125,000 174,002 922,032
To staff fund, £26,000 .. .. 896,032
Deferred tax, £1332 .. ~ 894,700
1951.. 313,281 124 p.c. = 200,000 113,281 1,007,981
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 987,981
* After eliminating outside interests,
t Excluding replacement reserve, now £456,430.
Any assessment of the future trends
of Australian trade and industry must
be based on one of two major assump-
tions, namely, that the present state of
international tension will, or will not,
develop into a major war. If a major
war does develop, conduct of the
country’s productive and distributive
organisations will become authoritarian,
ind business conditions will be more-or-
less whatever the Government, which
would become the chief buyer in all
major markets, decides to make them. In
the alternative event, the dominating
factors at the moment are a rapidly-
expanding economy, accompanied by
large-scale immigration and public works,
a big and expensive defence programme,
and internal inflation, which the Govern-
ment has taken steps to contain through
taxation and credit and capital controls.
In either event, this enterprising and
efficient giant in the Australian woollen
worsted yarn-spinning and textile manu-
facturing industry is well equipped to get
its full share of whatever business offers.
The parent’s main mill is at Abbots-
ford (Vic.), and that of its chief sub-
sidiary, Globe Worsted Mills Pty., a
concern of comparable size, is at Marrick-
ville (N.S.W.). Another offshoot, Byfas
Pty., turns out dress-goods at Abbotsford.
Since the war substantial additions have
been made to plant, which is efficient
and up-to-date, and, to help overcome
the labor problem, a branch factory was
set up at Dandenong (Vic.), which is
now giving a good account of itself, and
so are all other sections of the business.
Furthermore, the co. has built up an
export trade of unstated, but compara-
tively small, volume. Last term it sent
more cloth to Canada and South Africa
and less to New Zealand, the total yardage
sold overseas being about the same as
for the previous year. It is in the fast-
growing home market, where only
recently has there been any check to
demand, that the bulk of the profits are
won.
To help finance all-round expansion,
especially of stocks and book debts —
their financial weight has been greatly
increased by the stiff rise of prices for
raw wool and everything else —issued
capital was doubled last term, raising it
to £2,000,000, by a one-for-one new
share-issue at par—allotment of 18,622
of the new shares awaited completion of
probate documents when the books
closed. Turnover of the group reached
a record £4,893,000, the increase being
over 23 p.c., due mostly to higher prices
and only partly to bigger output, which
is still below plant capacity because of
an insufficiency of skilled labor.
Higher selling-prices (they are con-
trolled, except in the export market)
helped offset the big increase in cost of
raw wool, etc,, but most of the gain from
the expanded turnover was gobbled up by
wage inflation (payroll total was £689,698,
up £128,367) and extra Government
bleeding (£278,310, up £64,310, was set
aside for the taxgatherer). The allowance
for depreciation of fixed assets was
£40,752 (up £5283). But that was on the
official basis of original cost, which
bears no relation to current conditions.
If private enterprise accepted this
thoroughly unsound official view, not only
would profits be overstated but new
capital would have to be partly used for
replacement of old equipment instead of
being employed in making new products
or expanding output of existing lines. So
Yarra’s directors, being prudent men,
earmarked a further £33,842 for plant
replacement, raising the total reserve for
this purpose to £456,430. They also
valued stocks, largest and most vulnerable
of the assets, at or under cost.
The £313,281 (up £14,279) of profit
claimed was equal to 19.6 p.c, on average
capital as against 29.9, 25.8, 29.5, 20.6
and 9.7 p.c. back to 1946. A 24- p.c.
bonus was again sent out with the 10 p.c.
div., making 12i p.c. for the year, and the
average for the last five years 13.5 p.c.
After sending £20,000 to the staff fund,
the £93,281 that remained lifted reserves,
excluding plant replacement, to £987,981.
The £981,378 of fresh capital gathered,
together with surplus earnings and pro-
visions and £280,810 added to sundry
creditors, etc., and £5631 to the overdraft,
went mainly into stocks (up £1,124,473),
book debts (up £258,242) and plant (up
£127,861):
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,981,378
Outside interests* 643 716 1,818
Overdraft .. 247,463 774,142 779.778
Sundry creditorst 534,531 457,924 738,734
Staff funds .. 54,000 80,000 97,174
Final div. .. 75.000 75,000 150,000
Freeholds .. 470,931 481,537 496,401
Plant, etc. .. 393,329 439,803 567,164
Stocks .. .. 1,705,389 2,180,725 8,305,198
Debtors . . .. 338.027 438,811 697,053
Shares .. .. 35,246 45,260 60,122
Cash, etc 89,035 85,874 85,336
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£2,382,028) was
£1,018,424.
In the market, which is still readjust-
ing itself to new stresses and strains, the
pound shares were priced at 545. 6d. last
week as against 645. in April. The return
at 545. 6d. is 4.5 p.c. on a \l\ p.c. distri-
bution. Net tangible cover is visibly
295. lid., excluding the plant reserve,
David Jones, Ltd'. (Sydney)
, Dividends v
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref. Re-
July, Profit. B p.c. 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1943. .159,020 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 81,000 1,045,803
1944. .159,814 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,0001,096,867
1945. .163,929 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,0001,152,046
1946. .207,630 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 81,0001,250,925
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 1,150,925
1947. .233,315 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 91,000 1,265,490
1948. .276,960 9000 18,750 124 „ ~113,750 1,400,950
1949. .221,039 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 95,000 1,499,239
1950. .291,169 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 95,000 1,667,658
1951. .338,145 9000 18,750 10 „ ~106,375 1,871,678
* Excludes workers’-compensation reserve, £53,562,
1951.
It was an abnormal increase of about
60 p.c. in turnover (which exceeded
£16,500,000, including subsidiaries),
especially during the last half of the
term, that sent the latest profit figure of
this big and fashionable department store
up by £46,976 to a record £338,145, thus
obscuring an ugly growth in operating
costs and reduction in gross margins. The
spending spree was the outcome of many
factors, including a swollen export in-
come and inflationary wage-lifts, with
consequent growth of purchasing-power
over production, and, as the year drew to
a close, anticipations in connection with
taxation, direct and indirect.
Last term’s profit cannot therefore be
accepted as a reliable guide to the level
of net earnings in a very uncertain future.
For these and other reasons, including
tighter capital and credit controls, the
hardening of interest rates, lower wool
prices, spiralling wage and other costs
and further reduction of controlled gross
margins, the sharemarket has revised its
estimate of the value of retail-store and
other scrip as a hedge against inflation.
The price of D.J.’s f.-p. pound ords.,
fairly steady around 555. for the first
quarter of 1951, has since come down by
halting steps to 425. last week. The return
at 425. is a satisfactory 4.8 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, and there is nothing at the
moment to suggest that the 10 p.c. is
likely to be interfered with. The 6 p.c.
first and 7\ p.c. second prefs. also return
4.8 p.c. at 245. 9d. and 31s. 3d. respec-
tively. Including uncalled and unpaid
capital, net tangible cover is visibly
£24 17s. sd. firsts, £l4 6s. sd. seconds
and 465. lOd. ords.
The co. has three well-placed and
attractive stores in the heart of the city,
as well as a number of decentralised
workrooms and factories, and owns three
subsidiaries, chief of which is Selby
Shoes (Aus.), Ltd., claimed to be the
largest manufacturer of high-g rade
women’s footwear in the Commonwealth.
Of the year’s £338,145 of profit, £109,774
came from subsidiary and manufacturing
interests. That was after allowing for
depreciation (£82,664, down £1422) and
taxation (£597,342, up £253,695) at the
increased rate. The relationship of tax
provision to declared profit suggests that
the provision has been liberal and the
profit conservatively stated. The £338,145
was enough to pay the pref. divs. and
show 29.1 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 27.7, 19.1, 27, 22.5, 22.2 and 16.8
p.c. back to 1945. The div. was kept at
10 p.c, (which is the average rate of dis-
tribution over the past 18 years), leaving
£204,020 (60.3 p.c.) of the year’s profit in
the business, thus lifting visible reserves
£66,678 higher than issued capital.
To help finance the bigger turnover at
rising prices 455,000 new £1 ords, were
issued at par, one for two, half way
through the term, and there was £45,930
of the money to come in when the books
closed:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,350,000 £1.350.000 £1,759,070
Mortgages, etc. .. 503,333 503,333 503.333
Sundry creditors.. 1,839,831 1,601,279 3,120,863
Tax reserve . . 249,805 343,647 597,346
Final divs. .. 61,875 61,876 72,750
Freeholds .. . . 1,671,762 1,669,963 1,778,681
Plant, etc 292,184 273,964 290,802
Shares subside. . . 42,003 42,003 42,003
Advances subsids. 34,450 96,834 145,151
Stocks . . . . 2,218,514 2,332.949 3,829,154
Book debts . . 846,339 1,054,917 1,446,594
Cash. etc. . . 243,170 104,223 446,213
Still, to carry an extra £1,496,205 of
stocks and £391,677 of debtors’ balances,
as well as add £125,556 to the book-value
of fixed assets, the amount coming to
sundry creditors was increased by
£1,519,584. The big increases in the stock
and creditors items “represent to a great
extent new season’s merchandise which
arrived early.” Stocks have been “care-
fully and conservatively valued,” and in
physical volume are “not much in excess
of the previous year.”
Profit for the current term promises to
be less than for the year just ended, be-
cause of the rising pressure of costs,
narrower gross margins and emergence of
buyer resistance. Customers are already
becoming more discriminating and price-
conscious, the trend being toward
cheaper-priced goods, even though they
may prove dearer in the long-run. An
increase of 14s. a week in the basic wage
means an addition of over £200,000 p.a.
to the co.’s overhead, and for the first
time in the last dozen years or more the
percentage increase in the retailer’s wage
bill is now greater than the percentage
increase in turnover. The official policy
of paring gross margins can be success-
fully applied only while turnover con-
tinues to increase fast enough to absorb
rises in operating and other costs. For
the shopkeeper it means, among other
things, a closer study of family budgets,
and partial restocking with more-or-
less safe lines. From the investor’s point
of view, a comforting feature is the wide
margin between the co.’s net earnings and
distributions.
Samuel Allen & Sons (Townsville)
(-> Dividends ■,
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. C p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ jg £ £
1944.. 88,850 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,350 34,358
To staff fund, £5OOO 29,358
Prom bad-debts provision, £10,000., 89,358
To reserves re leases, £0359 .. 45,717
1945.. 88,882 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,382 62,099
To staff fund, £llBO 60,919
From reserves re leases, £2282 .. 58,637
1946.. 35,693 8,571 6 p.c. = 18,929 13,193 71,830
From reserves re leases, £4077 .. 67,753
64 p.c.
1947.. 45,039 9,285 64 p.c. = 15,090 20,664 88,417
To tax provision, £5500 .. .. 82,917
Share premiums, £24,500 .. .. 107,417
1948.. 43,673 9,285 6J p.c. = 18,408 15,880 123,297
1949.. 47,170 9,285 6J „ ~ 23,052 14,833 138,130
8 p.c.
1950.. 57,813 11,428 8 ~ ~28,372 18,013 156.143
Revaluation assets, £133,985 .. .. 290,128
Share premiums, £96,625 .. ..886,763
1951.. 78,368 11,428 8 p.c. = 39,882 27,058 418,811
It was an eventful year for this old-
established North Queensland business,
which continues to expand its activities
and widen the spread of its interests.
Turnover increased by 17 p.c. to a record
but unstated amount, net earnings
responded, freeholds were revalued and
written up in the books by £133,985 for
mortgage purposes, and 329,429 new £1
ord. shares were issued —128,375 at par
to shareholders (118,375) and the staff
(10,000), and 201,054, which brought
with them £96,625 of share premiums, for
acquisition of new interests and extension
of old ones That lifted issued capital to
£826,929 in 71,428 first and a like
number of second 6 p.c. prefs., and
684,073 ords.
In Dec., 1950, an engineering-supply
and hardware business in Cairns, now
trading as Wypers (Cairns) Pty., was
bought at an unstated figure, and trading
results since have “more than fulfilled
expectations.” And, just before the close
of accounts, the 25-year-old farm- and
irrigation-machinery business of A. E.
Clayton at Ayr was also bought on a
“very profitable basis.” Here the manage-
ment has its eye on the projected develop-
ment of the new tobacco area at Clare
and of the whole Burdekin area. These
subsidiaries were acquired by the issue
of shares at a “substantial premium,”
and the co.’s hotel freeholds, mainly in
the thirsty area between Cairns and
Bowen, were “further consolidated in
the same manner.” A new offshoot.
Magnetic Motors Pty., was formed to
take over one of the co.’s freeholds and
its Ford franchise, which has been “a
most valuable” contributor to profits.
Also a new cordial factory was built
on another of the co.’s freeholds at South
Townsville for Tropix Cordials Pty.,
another subsidiary; and a refrigeration-
cabinet factory is nearing completion on
yet another Townsville freehold. With
a view to further expansion, eight acres
adjoining the railway at South Townsville
were bought “at a reasonable price.”
The co.’s general merchandising
activities, strengthened a few years back by
purchase of a controlling interest in Holli-
mans (Townsville retailers), continue to
expand, and so does its list of agencies,
to which the N.Q. franchise for Moffat-
Virtue products has just been added.
After allowing £14,165 (down £1456) for
depreciation and £65,710 for taxation, the
year’s net earnings were £20,555 stronger
at £78,368. That was 12.2 p.c. on average
capital (pref. and ord. combined) as
against 11.6, 9.5, 10.2,12 and 9.5 p.c. back
to 1946. The div. was kept at an all-round
8 p.c.—the prefs. participate with the
ords. in any distribution beyond 6 p.c.—


DAVIES & COLMSON, Patent Attor-
ney*, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
For Sale.
Amorphous Graphite Mine, situated
10 miles from Collinsville Railhead,
North Queensland. This is the only
graphite deposit in Australia supply-
ing this strategic mineral. For further
information contact Manager, P.O.
Box 52, Collinsville, North Queensland.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
OJksti
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
* akd PERTH
M
Ircular Charti far all types
af Recording Instrument*
*•< lAf CI«M •« HIcMMTf
•* Equipment
HfTER CHARTS • IfMCia*?
JAC imws O’SIIILI VAN % lu
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Misting Friend.
WILL THOMAS JOHN SAUL, formerly
of Boyce Boad, Maroubra, or anyone with
information as to his whereabouts, com-
municate with STEPHEN JAQUES &
STEPHEN, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney?
Public Notice.
I, DAVID SLADE, of Dutch nationality,
born at Amsterdam, Holland, resident 14
vears in Australia, now residing at 10
Castlefleld Street, Bondi, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1945.
BEWARE !
„, tK CURVE'
wear the
LIMA
BELT
Take heed of fhe "Dan-
ger Curve" of your
abdominal wail caused by long
hour* spent SITTING —at the
wheel or in your office. Although
seat* in modern cars are very
comfortable, the position of the
body is unhealthy, as there is a
downward pressure in the lower
part of the abdomen. This fre-
quently leads to stomach dis-
orders, backache, and may result
in serious illness. The support-
ing action of the Linia Belt,
made from a patented woven
Tricot, is therefore a great bene-
fit to motorists. The Linia
Method is world wide and
recommended by the highest
medical authorities.
Write to-day tor the "Danger Curve" booklet and price list.
LINIA BELTS are sold in Australia ONLY by
d
OF PARIS PTY. LTD.
«4 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l 'Phone: FA 8357
Open Saturday Mornings
Branches throughout the British Isles, and the Continent.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
m
mmm
vti:
m
m
>
A
im
Sm£% i
Ssa>_<
SB*
SS
m
s s
BY APPOINTMENT
AROATM TOBACCO CCX LT*
STQTE OiPR|SS
CIGARETTE MANUFACTURER*
TO M.M. KINO GEORGE *l»
'o^l
m
State Express 555 Cigarettes
appeal especially to smokers who
know and appreciate that extra
touch of quality.
Made slowly and with particu-
lar care, ‘Three Five’s” always
maintain their fine reputation
gained throughout the world
over more than 50 years.
(three fives)
StqteQprpsssss
...
making the average 6.9 p.c. for
the last eight years.
The acquisition of new sub-
sidiaries, etc., shows up the
growth of £266,125 in share-
holdings :
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital £497,500 £497,500 £756,478
Mortgage .. 21.023 35.003 279.641
Overdraft .. 174,416 304.860 36,005
Creditors and „„
tax .. 284,351 298,183 444,645
Final div. .. 16,169 23,631 28,698
Properties
and plant 442,860 449,190 684,374
Shares .. 19,939 19,939 286,064
Stocks .. 291,710 408,455 471,294
Book debts 368,526 428,637 508,954
Cash, etc. .. 8,554 9,104 9,092
Properties and plant increased
by £235,184, of which £133,985
was on account of the revalua-
tion already mentioned, stocks
were up £62,839 and book debts
£80,317. Money was raised on
mortgage (up £244,638) to lighten
the overdraft (down £268,355),
and £146,457 was added to the
amount coming to trade
creditors, etc. Excluding share-
holdings, the more-or-less liquid
surplus was £15,337 stronger at
£199,851.
The prefs. at 325. 6d. and the
ords. at 31s. 9d. yield 4.9 p.c. and
5 p.c. respectively on the basis
of last term’s distribution. In-
cluding unpaid capital, net
tangible cover is 30s. per share.
All scrip ranks equally for
surplus assets.
For the year to June 30 last,
Golden Plateau’s 6500-ton-a-
-month plant, operating at
Cracow (Q.), treated 22,894
tons (down 1461 tons) ore for
43290 z. (down 11420 z.) fine
gold and 44550 z. (down 82700 z.)
silver. The net result was a loss
of £6OOB, due partly to the lower
throughput and recoveries and
partly to a rise in costs, which
totalled 645. Bd. (up Bs. 3d.) a
ton. No div. was paid. For the
previous year the profit was
£13,184 and the 6d. per 3s. 4d.
share was paid, same as for the
three preceding terms. Owing to
the rise in costs, ore reserves
have been recalculated, and are
now put at 31,600 tons, averag-
ing 6.5dwt., positive, and 65,600
tons, averaging 5.62dwt., prob-
able. During the year 1021 ft.
of drilling failed to disclose any
quantity of pay-ore worth men-
tioning. However, good widths
of pay-ore have been disclosed
by development work between
No. 4 and No. 2 levels, and
should make “a valuable addi-
tion to reserves,” the chairman
says. And the co. has been
operating at a profit since the
close of accounts, and the
board is presently “to recon-
sider the co.’s dividend policy.”
At June 30 current assets
totalled £53,146, of which
£25,056 was stores. Creditors
figured for only £4335.
There is £113,750 of capital
to feed in 3s. 4d. shares,
which now fetch 7s. lOd. in the
market as against 3s. 3d. early in
1951.
* * * * ♦
North Kalgurli (1912), Ltd.,
operating on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), will present
its accounts for the year to Jan.
2, 1951, in London on Dec. 12.
In a preliminary statement, net
mining profit is put at £88,005
(up £1818), or 79.8 p.c. on
capital. That was after deduct-
ing taxation (£113,200, up
£1150). The div. dropped from
a nominal p.c. to 100 p.c.
—interim Is. and final Is. per
share, subject to English tax of
9s. and 9s. 6d. in the £ respec-
tively. The net rate to share-
holders is thus 53.7 p.c. (stg.) as
against 61.9 p.c. for the previous
year. According to monthly
production figures, 244,066 tons
(up 11,673 tons) ore were milled
for 59,0630 z, fine gold, an
average of 4.Bdwt. as against
s.3dwt. in the previous year.
Considering the rise in wage and
other costs, appearances are that
the management kept a
tight hold upon exes. At the
beginning of 1950 ore reserves
were put at positive 1,533,438
tons, averaging 5.87dwt., and
806,060 tons, averaging 5.15dwt.,
probable. The mine is develop-
ing nicely, and recent drilling
results suggest that the reserve
tonnage should be soon
increased. Chairman C. T. Ley
thinks a life expectation for the
mine of a further 20 years is not
unduly optimistic. Paid capital
is £llO,OOO in f.-p. 2s. shares,
recently priced at 18s. 9d.
(stg.) London and 245. 6d. (Aus.)
Perth.
* * * *
Paringa Mining and Explora-
tion, operating on the Kalgoorlie
field (W.A.), is on the hunt for
new mining properties, either gold
or base-metals, says manager
D. K. T. Truscott, who has just
returned after discussions with
the board in London. The co.’s
95,000-ton-p.a. mill came to a
standstill in January last, owing
to rising costs and a drop in
the grade of ore. For the four
and a half months to Jan. 16,
1951, 36,178 tons of 4.ldwt.
stuff was milled for a net loss of
£18,014. The value of the ore
had fallen to 435. sd. a ton and
costs had risen to 535. sd. a ton,
compared with 455. 9d. and
445. 4d. respectively for the pre-
ceding 12 months. There is
some 91,800 tons, averaging
5.08dwt., measured up in the
mine, but it mostly is in high-
grade pillars that cannot be
extracted at present. Testing
and development of the Mt.
Charlotte property, Kalgoorlie,
in which the co. was jointly
interested with Wiluna, ceased
about a year ago, after a trial
crushing of 18,000 tons averaged
only 2.sldwt.
♦ * * ♦
Triton Gold Mines, N.L., in
voluntary liquidation, which
made a first distribution of 9d.
a share in July, 1949, will make
a second and final payment of
5.4 d. a share to those on the
register at Nov. 20. Formed in
Melbourne in 1933 to work a
property about 35 miles n.-e. of
Cue (W.A.), the co. paid divs.
totalling £264,000 (ss. 6d, a
share) to 1941. During the war
the cost of maintenance was met
mainly from a Commonwealth
grant for the purpose. Finally
high costs (61s. 2d. a ton), a
major breakdown of one of the
diesel engines and doubts con-
cerning development of further
ore rich enough to warrant cost
of exploration and development
brought the venture to a close.
Paid capital was £264,000 in
10s. shares.
* * * *
Development of the wolfram
and scheelite lodes of Western
Wolfram, N.L., on the faraway
Pilbara field (W.A.), is proceed-
ing as anticipated, says the co.’s
consulting engineer, E. Mac-
donald, who has just returned
from an inspection of the co.’s
property. Character, width and
assay value of the lodes aren’t
mentioned, but the co. has
already shipped eight tons of
concentrates, valued at over
£l5OO, from Port Hedland.
The average London price of
wolfram for October was
£S26 10s. per unit, equal to
£A33 2s, 6d. World output of
tungsten for the last quarter of
1951 is estimated by the Interna-
tional Materials Board at 3245
tons as against 2800 tons for the
preceding three months.
Demand, however, is still run-
ning ahead of production.


BUY
INSURANCE
AT KEENEST RATES
THROUGH
EDWARD LUMLEY
IN ASSOCIATION WITH
Of tOHOOH
MARINE, FIRE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS 1 COMPENSATION &
ALL FORMS OF INDUSTRIAL &
COMMERCIAL INSURANCE
Edward Lumley & Sons, as insurance
brokers, operate not in the interests of
any specific insurance organisation
but through the world’s strongest
underwriting companies, including
Lloyd’s of London. Obviously this
independence of choice enables the
best and soundest insurances and the
lowest premiums to be obtained.
It will pay you to consult Lumleys—
Australia’s largest insurance brokers.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. 'Phone B 0538
287 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
'Phones: Cen. 6191, Cen. 1415
And all other States
4'
Foresight in regard
to your Estate
What will happen to the Estate
that you have built up over a lifetime,
when your guiding hand is with-
drawn?
Consider the advantages assured
for his dependents by a man who
appoints Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as his Executor and Trustee.
The Company is specially consti-
tuted to carry out its duties. It has a
record of sixty-three years' service to
the community, whose confidence in
its business-like methods and its
courteous, sympathetic service has
made it the largest Trustee Company
in the Southern Hemisphere.
If you would have particulars of
the services offered by the Company,
ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will be
pleased to give the information you
desire.
[ TRUST FUNDS TO LEND |
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director
A. Q. ARMYTAQE, Managar
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT JTAGGA WAGGA, TAMWOKTH AND ORANGE
Business. Rollery. etc.
Britain’s Difficulty
The statement by the new
Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Mr. Butler, that Britain would
be idle, bankrupt and hungry
unless immediate measures were
taken was not unexpected by in-
formed sections of the British
community. Mr. Butler added
that the central gold and dollar
reserves of the sterling area were
being drained away very fast.
An ugly situation arose in the
September quarter of this year,
when the dollar deficit was $638
million. In the month of
October it was $320 million.
There was also a trading deficit
with the European Payments
Union of £B9 million in
October; the gap for the
September quarter was £lB3
million.
According to the Information
Division of the British Treasury,
the two aspects of Britain’s
economy now causing most
concern are the deteriorating
balance of payments and the
rising cost of living. Both
problems derive mainly from
the same source; the upward
movement in import (and parti-
cularly raw - material) prices.
But both have been aggravated
by other factors; the first by
current difficulties in increasing
exports, the second by rising
internal costs of production.
(Australia may shortly be
facing the same problems.)
Prices of almost all imported
raw materials have been increas-
ing for nearly two years. Part
of the trouble is long-term:
overexploitation and under-
investment in raw-material pro-
duction during the war have
increased the difficulty of
expanding output in response to
any sudden increase in demand.
Between July, 1949, and June,
1950, a 23 p.c. increase in U.S.
manufacturing output increased
the demand for raw materials
and consequently the level of
prices. Devaluation meantime
had automatically raised the
sterling price of dollar raw
materials, such as aluminium
and zinc, and the strong
American demand for sterling
raw materials, such as Australian
wool, kept up their dollar price
and so raised them in terms of
sterling. Short-term factors, too,
like the small U.S. cotton crop
in 1950, meant that, by the
middle of that year, world prices
were moving steadily upwards.
But had it not been for Korea,
this movement would largely
have spent itself in 1950.
The outbreak of war in
Korea, in June, 1950, led to a
rush by private traders and
manufacturers, as well as the
United States Government and
some European Governments, to
buy up the industrial materials
that might become scarce in the
event of a large-scale war: the
result was a much more violent
and prolonged increase in world
prices—of textiles as well as the
metals and chemicals more
directly involved in rearmament.
For the United Kingdom the
net result was that import prices
rose nearly 20 p.c. in the nine
months after devaluation and by
a further 45 p.c. between June,
1950, and May, 1951. (The
figures for raw materials alone
were 25 p.c. and 87 p.c.) Be-
tween May and June this year
they rose only one point, to
43 p.c. above the 1950 average.
Though the average domestic
price of materials used in manu-
facturing industry (other than
food) fell by over 12 p.c. between
March and June this year, in
June it was still one-and-a-half
times as high as a year earlier.
The rise in food prices has been
smaller, but has not yet ended.
In particular, wool prices fell
nearly 50 p.c. between March
and June, but were then still
RJCfterv
WSMIV
SWJOIOE
“All my property, real and personal, I bequeath to my old
friend Rover."
nearly 40 p.c. above the level of
a year ago. The prices of
rubber, tin and hides have also
fallen rapidly in the last
few months; but, compared
with June, 1950, the price of
rubber in June this year was
higher by 80 p.c., tin was still up
by over 60 p.c., hides by over
50 p.c. Cotton prices only began
to fall in May, and in June they
were still over 70 p.c. higher than
a year ago. The rise in prices
of lead and zinc also appears to
be coming to an end, but copper
and nickel prices both rose
between May and June.
British Treasury experts are
of the opinion that the price
of imported raw materials is
likely to remain very much
higher during the rearmament
period than in 1950.
It was sterling-area com-
modities which rose most
after Korea, and the U.S. was
buying more of them. As a
result, the gold and dollar
surplus of the area was swollen,
reaching a peak of nearly $4OO
million in the last quarter of
1950, (Only 12 months earlier
there had been a small deficit.)
The improvement was nearly
maintained in the first quarter
of 1951, but soon the situation
was changing again.
Although world prices gener-
ally began to ease, the fall was
sharpest for “sterling com-
modities” (particularly wool,
rubber and tin), while many
“dollar commodities” (such as
non-ferrous metals other than
tin) were steady or still rising.
Sagging Sharemarket
Uncertainty is the main cause
of prevailing pronounced weak-
ness in the sharemarket.
Dividend-rates have, on the
whole, shown improvement in
the latest company accounts,
and those who have bought
shares as a holding proposition
have, in the majority of cases,
at last shown some increase in
their income.
This does not apply to con-
cerns still in the process of
extensive expansion, such as
8.H.P., Masonite and Bradford
Cotton; but Email, Austra-
lasian Paper, Bitumen and Oil,
Edwards Dunlop, Goldsbrough
Mort, Repco, Steamships Trad-
ing, Waugh and Josephson,
William Adams, Yellow Express
and York Motors represent a
cross-section of the industries
which have been able to pay
higher divs. to shareholders this
year.
Finance is a growing problem
to a number of people previ-
ously supporting the share-
market; and it is a fact that
where there was previous over-
speculation the more sellers there
are the more there are likely to
be until the shaking-out of the
impressionable and financially
weak is over.
It is hard to assess the
immediate future of the market,
but second-line stocks on the
whole are now offering good
yields in many cases, and there
are examples of marked
anomalies in the prices of stocks
of equal merit. That is an indi-
cation of a market that is by no
means rational in its outlook at
present.
Patons and Baldwins shares
sold at the bargain price of
31s. 6d. in Melbourne last week.
Recently the co. announced that
it had had a satisfactory half-
year. The industry is likely to be
susceptible to fluctuations in the
price of wool, but the co. knows
its business very well, and is ex-
ceptionally strong financially. It
was pointed out in the pros-
pectus, after mentioning that the
prefs. had net tangible backing
of £2 18s. Bd. each on book-
values and the ords. 19s. 4d.:
Having regard to the fact that fixed
assets have been acquired at their
book-values, £230,314 (they are cur-
rently insured for £2,307,730), and
taking into account goodwill and the
use of trade-marks, it is evident that
the real asset cover for preference
and ordinary shares is in excess of
these figures.
In the year to April 28, 1951,
the co. earned 16.07 p.c. on ord.
capital, but the prospectus
emphasised that, having regard
to the desirability of building up
reserves, a conservative policy
would be followed as regards
div.-distributions. The co.’s
principal product is hand-
knitting wools, marketed in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Though
the co. was carrying £3,879,016
of stocks at April 28 last, it then
owed outsiders only £741,412.
As part-consideration for its
Australian business, the English
Patons and Baldwins concern
took a £1,679,016 interest-free
loan with a currency of 25 years
(subject to the Australian co.’s
option of prior redemption). It
is not at present proposed to pay
interim divs. on the ord. shares,
and no ord.-div. announcement
is likely until May or June next
year.
• * • *
Some seemingly crazy
anomalies exist among retail
prices in Australia at present,
especially in connection with
woollen goods, and more parti-
cularly goods imported from
overseas, where a time-lag is
more obvious. A particular
brand of English summer suits
on the shelves since last autumn
are available in odd sizes and
colors at one Sydney shop for
£3O. Identical suits now being
delivered from Britain are selling
at from £4O to £45. One Sydney
store, apparently handling a
shipment ordered early and de-
livered late, is selling a wide
range of such suits at from £27
to £3l. Its chief opponent is
offering the same line at
£4O-odd. The delayed action of
the early-1951 leap in wool
prices is now being revealed in
imported woollens and worsteds.


Telephones; B 9573, B 6232,
B 6180
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Missing Friend.
ROSIE, JAMES MOWAT.—WouId the fore-
going, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with his brother,
A. M. ROSIE, 48 Willoughby Street,
Hamilton, New Zealand, re legacy.
Essential Service
Essential to trade development is a Banking
Service, both efficient and prepared to meet each
new opportunity.
Built on the resources and experience of two
Banks, each of which has contributed to Aus-
tralia s growth for more than a century, A.N.Z.
Bank services are expressly designed to assist in
the promotion of trade.
Today, A.N.Z. Bank is preparing to meet the
needs of tomorrow.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Established 1835.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Esl. 1837.
Over 700 branches and agencies throughout Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world.
THE ROYAL
AUSTRALIAN
NAVAL COLLEGE
APPLICATIONS INVITED FROM
BOYS 15 to 16
TO TRAIN AS
OFFICERS
dfdf
ENTRY AS CADET MIDSHIPMEN (INTERMEDIATE ENTRY)
A career as an officer in the Royal
Australian Navy cannot fail to
satisfy even the most ambitious and
adventurous boy to-day.
Not only does it provide a life of
adventure and distinction, but it
carries a professional status second
to none.
The Navy invites applications for
entry to the Royal Australian Naval
College as Cadet Midshipmen
(Intermediate Entry). Boys eligible
for the 1952 entry are those born
on or between Ist October, 1935,
and 31st December, 1936.
Selected applicants will serve for
two years at the College where,
under excellent conditions, they will
receive an advanced education in
civil and Naval subjects at the
Navy’s expense. Parents or guar-
dians are not required to bear any
of the cost. After "passing out,”
they will undergo further special-
ised training for their future career
as Officers of the Royal Australian
Navy in the Executive, Engineering,
Electrical or Supply and Secretariat
Branches.
They must be the sons of British
subjects by birth or naturalisation
and substantially of European
descent. Selection will be made
from boys who have passed or in-
tend sitting for, in 1951, one of the
following examinations: —
Intermediate Certificate.
Junior Public Certificate.
3rd Year Tasmanian High School
Standard.
Equivalent Technical School
Examinations.
Passes in English, a Mathematics
subject and a Science subject are
essential. Applicants will be required
to pass a medical fitness examination
prescribed by the Navy.
Entry to the College will be in
March, 1952. Applications close on
30th November, 1951.
For full information and application form* writa to:—
THE SECRETARY. DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY. NAVY OFFICE. MELBOURNE. S.C.I.
NOTE: To ensure receipt of correct forms and information, please state date of
of prospective candidate.
. VIC.
birth
NC3.93.fl
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The Labor party has been
defeated, but so narrowly as to
be unshaken in morale, and has
actually polled slightly more
votes than the Conservative
party. The Conservatives are
plainly disappointed at their
majority of a round score of
seats—more than twice that
number is needed to free them
from ever-constant attention to
the division lobbies. And
thoughtful Britons who put
nation before party are seriously
disturbed at the inconclusive
result.
The main issue before the
electorate was simple enough:
it was to provide, after 20
months of precarious shilly-
shally, a strong and united Gov-
ernment able to strengthen and
revive Britain’s prestige abroad
and to tackle the grave economic
crisis at home. In its collective
decision, the nation has failed
to show that this harsh and vital
issue was foremost in its mind
on polling-day.
The outcome is no triumph for
universal suffrage as an ideal in
itself; nor can it be said to
enhance the reputation of the
British electorate for being
shrewd and farsighted.
Effective Propaganda
Five weeks before polling-day,
the public-opinion poll showed
the Conservatives’ lead to be
10 p.c., which gradually reduced
to 2\ p.c. on the eve of the elec-
tion and finally almost disap-
peared. So that, on the quite
valid assumption that these
figures are reliable, no change in
political influence between the
date of announcement of the
election and its taking place
would have meant a very pro-
nounced swing to the Right.
The Conservatives had a further
advantage in that, because of
some 30/40 “safe” Labor seats
with huge majorities, they could
actually win—as they have done
—more seats with fewer votes.
For a still greater majority they
had, therefore, only to win over
the displaced Liberals and the
“Don’t knows”—the majority of
whom were already inclined in
their direction. Simple enough,
in theory.
What went wrong? The
answer would seem to lie in the
unscrupulous and highly-dis-
creditable tactics of the Labor
organisers and speakers, Cabinet
Ministers included. Presum-
ably because the position, for
Labor, was more desperate than
20 months ago, the range and
intensity of the allegations in-
creased sharply, not so much in
public statements as in the
malignant whispering campaign.
The old bogeys of the “bad old
days,” unemployment and
possible cuts in the social
services were less insistent, per-
haps because their efficacy was
noticed to be wearing off.
The warmongering scare
which, following Mr. Morrison’s
lead, practically every candidate
incorporated in his election
address undoubtedly had
tremendous effect in playing
upon the doubts of hard-tried
citizens. It was but one of
many: old people were told that
their pensions would be cut,
conscripts that their term of
service would be lengthened and
regulars that their pay would be
reduced, workers that Tories
would clash with the trade-
unions and legislate against
them and so on.
A remarkable and disconcert-
ing fact about these whispers
was that they had a uniform
tendency to break out simul-
taneously over the whole
country, thus suggesting a
central inspiration.
While no election campaign
is entirely free from below-the-
belt tactics on all sides, the
Socialists at least have shown
that here is one aspect of politics
in which they have nothing to
learn.
The New Parliament
The Liberal vote appears to
have slightly favored the Con-
servatives. As was expected,
Liberal candidates fared badly,
two-thirds of the 100-odd
losing their deposits. Neither of
the two well-known daughters
of famous fathers succeeded.
Lady Megan Lloyd - George,
after 22 years’ unbroken repre-
sentation, failed to regain
Anglesey; and Lady Violet
Bonham Carter, daughter of
the late H. H. Asquith, was
narrowly defeated in a former
Liberal stronghold in the West
Riding. Mr. E. L. Granville, ex-
Anzac soldier, and Mr. Emrys
Roberts were others to fail after
more than 20 years in the House.
Paradoxically, the six Liberals
elected should be a more effec-
tive force than the nine of the
last Parliament, since three of
those to fail were closely aligned
to the Labor party. Although
the Liberal leader, Mr. Clement
Davies, has refused Mr.
Churchill’s invitation to join
hands, he has promised to come
to his side on issues of national
interest. A united Liberal party
is something new to West-
minster ; and, as things are, its
modest size is of immense rela-
tive importance.
It can fairly be said that the
only group to come out on top
smiling and reassured is that
composed of Mr. Bevan and his
henchmen. Mr. Bevan’s mani-
festly safe constituency made
him unassailable. His supporters
were not. Yet all regained their
seats, although mostly with
reduced majorities. They must
all be itching to follow their
leader and make their presence
known.
The King’s Government
The Conservatives, if hardly
overconfident, are determined to
stay the course, although Mr.
Eden has hinted that the going
may yet prove too hard. Their
task would have been stern and
unenviable enough with a full,
working majority of 60 seats or
more. With a mere score it is
fraught with peril. They realise
that a long-term plan is called
for, and that any success they
achieve can be assessed only over
a long period. To grasp the
nettle firmly now might mean
unpopular measures, a contrary
movement of the electorate
pendulum, and another stale-
mate in, say, two years’ time.
Much will depend upon the
way the Opposition behaves,
whether constructively or frac-
tiously. With Mr. Attlee as
Leader of the Opposition and
a party loyally behind him, a
constructive approach would not
be unexpected. But the loyalty
which Mr. Attlee has publicly
stated to exist is no more than
a fa9ade. The restive minority
of Bevanites is bound, later or
sooner, to make political capital
for its own advancement; and
there is a fairly considerable
back - bench assortment of
pacifists, anti - American intel-
lectuals and neo-Communists
just waiting to be encouraged.
The Labor party might, of
course, split in two. That would
add to Mr. Attlee’s worries and
reduce Mr. Churchill’s. But Mr.
Bevan is hardly likely to go as
far as that.
Mr. Churchill, who, for the
first time in more than 50 years
of public life, has been elected
by the people as their Prime
Minister, takes over at a time
not much less perilous than 11
years ago. It is a task that will
call for all his great resources of
political vision and states-
manship.
Reluctant Priesthood
If only for the reason that
dramatists fight shy of contro-
versial plays on religious
subjects, Kieran Tunney and
John, Synge are to be congratu-
lated on the sincerity with which
they have approached a com-
pelling knuckle of problems in
“A Priest in the Family” (West-
minster Theatre). While in
Cork one of them overheard an
expression to the effect that
“Every Irish mother wants a
son in the priesthood,” and
thought the theme a fitting one
for a play. Should a boy who
doesn’t “feel the call” proceed
to ordination solely to avoid up-
setting his doting mother, even
though he lacks conviction in
himself? This question, although
sometimes heightened and some-
times obscured by side-issues, is
the core of the play.
A small company* mainly
from the Abbey Theatre, Dublin,
act together with that sincerity
and integrity which is common
to good “Little” theatres if not
always to the London stage.
This play (one of its authors is
a Roman Catholic and the other
a Protestant) has aroused much
interest among the Irish com-
munity in London.


The Letters of Rachel Henning
[These letters begin In 1863, when Biddulph, Rachel Henning’s only
brother (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (33)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta (“Etta" of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851) and Amy were thus separated, for
the time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
In August, 1854, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
Tregenna Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six days
later Rachel and Amy went to Appin, in N.8.W., where their brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
1866, and while Biddulph was establishing a new place on Bulli Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1836.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on February 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulph and
Annie, went to live on Exmoor station in North Queensland, which was
just being developed. She stayed there until 1865.
This is the fourteenth Instalment of the letters.]
Exmoor,
Christmas Day, 1864,
My Dearest Etta,
A happy Christmas and New
Year to you and yours. It
is a time of year which
makes one think of the
home country and friends there,
and when my thoughts do travel
that way there is not much ques-
tion as to where they go first.
I should like to be with you
today to go to church with you
(of course “you” includes Mr.
Boyce) in the morning and sit
by the Christmas fire with you
and the children in the evening.
What a different Christmas
yours is from oursl I fancy
snow on the ground and a hard
frost, yet withal a bright sun
as there ought to be on Christmas
Day. The children wrapped up
very warm going to church with
you and having their attention
sorely distracted by the holly
berries and evergreens with
which it is dressed, and saying
Christmas hymns and being
regaled with figs by the fire when
it is getting dusk.
On this side the world it is
rather a hot day, though there
is not much sun. Thunderstorms
are rolling about the hills, and
very beautiful the mountains
look appearing and disappearing
among the misty clouds. The
paddock round the house is
emerald-green; the young grass
has grown within this week since
the rains set in. The gum-trees
are in flower, and the passion-
vine over the veranda is in fruit
and the seeds are trying to come
up in the garden but are nipped
off by the fowls as soon as they
show above the ground, so I
have no hope of a flower-garden
this year.
The doors and all the windows
are open, and I wish a little
more wind would come through
them, Biddulph is reading on
the veranda and Annie ditto;
and we three have the house to
ourselves. We rather expected
two or three of our neighbors
to be here for Christmas, but
the Bowen and Broken Rivers
are up and that has probably
prevented their coming.
All our own people—i.e., those
belonging to the house —are
either at Lara or on the road
there. The Flinders River
station is a sort of Moloch and
has swallowed up sheep, horses
and men from Exmoor. Five
thousand sheep are already there
and three thousand more are on
their way. About twenty horses
are gone and Mr. Gilliat is out
there taking charge of the
station. Mr. Taylor set out about
six weeks ago with the additional
sheep, and Mr. Hedgeland started
a week ago with a string of
pack-horses for the new settle-
ment with a supply of flour, tea
and sugar to last them till the
drays arrive. Beckford is on the
road with the wool-drays, and
at present Biddulph is managing
Exmoor single-handed.
I think he rather likes to have
plenty to do, on the whole. This
is not a very busy time on the
station now that shearing is over,
but he has to visit the out-
stations every week, count the
sheep and send rations to the
“... .Emma rushing out of the kitchen discharging some missile...."
shepherds. We still talk of go-
ing to Sydney some day, but I
think, and rather hope, it will
not be till after the rainy season,
for, of course, Biddulph cannot
leave home till either Mr. Taylor
or Mr. Hedgeland returns to
take charge of the station, and
it is hard to say when that will
be.
There has been some difficulty
about finding a superintendent
for Lara. Biddulph is dissatis-
fied with Mr. Gilliat and has
written to recall him. He then
offered the post to Mr. Taylor
before he went out with the
sheep, but he declined it and
said he would rather return to
Exmoor if Biddulph could find
someone else. But it is not easy
to find a fit person, and finally
Mr. Hedgeland started last week
with the understanding that he,
Mr. Hedgeland, was to stay till
someone could be sent out. I
do not think he liked the pros-
pect of it much, but he will not
have to stay, probably, for Bid-
dulph has heard of a Mr.
Kennedy whom he thinks will
do, and if so he will soon follow
Mr. Hedgeland.
I have little doubt that Bid-
dulph will ultimately go out there
himself, as I told you before,
but Exmoor will have to be sold
first and a great many arrange-
ments to be made before we
can journey out to the far West.
This is the second time I have
written to you without any letters
to answer. We quite expected
an English mail, and I believe it
was actually in the Port when
the postman left, but the letters
were not sorted. I was much
disappointed at not hearing and
at having to wait another fort-
night, but for some months the
post is sure to be irregular now,
for when once the rainy season
has begun there is no saying
when the rivers may be up.
Sometimes the Broken River,
which is between us and Port
Denison, is impassable for
weeks. The postman was nearly
drowned on his last trip up.
Biddulph met him just at the
creek below here, and wondered
what dismal object it was riding
up, hatless and bootless and
trouserless and arrayed only in
a Crimean shirt. Biddulph sent
some garments down to him, and
then he told his sorrowful tale;
how in fording the Bowen it was
not high enough for swimming,
his horse had fallen over in a
deep hole and he (the postman)
contrived to scramble up in a
tree while the horse and the
mail-bags scrambled out, and
how, not being able to swim, he
stayed half an hour in the tree
before he could make up his
mind to cross the piece of water
that was between him and the
shore.
He did cross it at last, and
luckily caught his horse, leaving
his garments in the tree while his
hat floated down the Bowen. He
must have been very stupid and
lost his nerve altogether to get
into such a scrape, because the
river is not at all deep yet.
The “desert lilies” are over and
gone. They lasted a short time
this year on account of the
drought. None of the wild
flowers have been very numerous
for the same reason. Also the
vegetable-seeds have hitherto
strongly objected to coming up
in the garden. We had quantities
of cucumbers and lettuces this
time last year and now we have
none. But we have a wild plant
which makes a capital salad and
which we very seldom dine with-
out. It rejoices in the name of
pig-weed, and is a small plant
with thick green leaves like the
ice-plant and tastes slightly acid
and slightly hot, something like
watercress.
We have watercress growing
in the creek, but it is not large
enough to pick yet. There is an-
other wild plant called fat-hen,
which is as good as spinach when
boiled, so we get along with wild
vegetables till the tame ones
see fit to flourish.
There will be no lack of
moisture for the next three
months; the rains began about
a week ago, and you can almost
see the grass grow. There are
thunderstorms nearly every day,
and it is setting in for a wet
evening at this moment. Christ-
mas Day is almost always wet
in Queensland ; it comes just at
the beginning of the rains. The
great floods generally come about
the end of January,
With love to you and Mr.
Boyce and the children,
Your affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
January 23, 1865.
My Dearest Etta,
We have no servants just at
present, as Tom and his wife are
to leave by the first opportunity,
and we have not yet replaced
them. It seldom answers to have
servants back when you have
once parted with them. Emma
was a good servant when she
was here before, but since her
return her principal occupation
has been quarrelling with Tom.
We have just been edified by
the sounds of a war of words,
and what appears to be missiles
flying in the kitchen ; then I saw
through the back window of the
parlor Emma rushing out of the
kitchen discharging some missile
—I think a saucepan lid—at
Tom as she went, and rushing
up to the men’s huts at the top
of the paddock with a tomahawk
in her hand. Then we heard
Tom bewailing himself in the
kitchen, and saying “If his poor
old father could have known,”
etc.
Next Biddy, the black girl,
made her appearance in the
parlor grinning very much, and
tomahawk in hand. She said
“that fellow [meaning Emma]
been running away with toma-
hawk, and mine been running
after and took away tomahawk,
that fellow no good.” A senti-
ment in which we heartily con-
curred. These quarrels are a
source of great delight to the
blacks, who stand in front of
their camp and hold up their
hands and roll about with
laughter. But they are very dis-
agreeable, and I shall be glad
when the happy couple take
their departure.
I am very much obliged to
you for sending my watch. If
it goes as well, or nearly as well,
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and came back to Australia
In 1861. She went to Exmoor (Q.)
in 1862.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1821, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England,
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph,
and went with him to Queensland
in 1862.
AMY HENNING, born 1838, camo to
Australia with Rachel In October,
1864, and in September, 1865,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia In 1853. Visited
bis married cousin Lindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appln. Later he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 255. an
acre, and built a house there In
1853. He sold this in 1867 to Henry
Osborne. In conjunction with the
Tuckers he bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, bis sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him. In
1864 he took up an additional hold-
ing (Lara), which stretched from
Alick’s Creek to the junction of
the Cloncurry River, a tributary
of the Flinders, and comprised
eight blocks of 85 square mUes.
Although the country was good
it did not pay because of trans-
port difficulties.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborongh
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married In 1826.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married In England in 1837 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. They were
interested, with Biddulph Henning,
in Queensland station properties.
WILLIAM TUCKER was founder
of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES
TUCKER was his brother.


fd
f
Hard or Soft?
Thick or Fine?
Upright or Oblique?
The nib that suits one man will drive
another to distraction, so we make Swan
nibs in such variety that everyone can
find one that will “answer” to his hand
exactly. That’s one of the reasons why
it is so satisfying to own a Swan — the
precision writing instrument that i*
made for a lifetime of faithful service.
Swan side-lever and leverless pens are
available at all better jewellers, stationers
and stores.
Write for life
with a ...
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY, LTD., SYDNEY
■3.62.1
Australia’s finest
Brandy for nearly
a century...
0
wf
&
S
i'd
'r.
S'*
•if!
»■?
N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTORS!
TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
TBT.IS.I*
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
dfd
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
as yours, I shall be quite
satisfied, and shall think it a
valuable time - piece. I asked
Emily to take care of it on its
arrival in Sydney, and not to
send it up here to be knocked
about in our very doubtful post.
I suppose we shall go to
Sydney when some of the people
come in from the Flinders, and
that will be probably at the end
of March or be-
ginning of April.
I am in no hurry
about it. Our
return is so doubtful that I am
in no haste to go away.
I have had some nice rides
lately. There is a flock of sheep
now at the Eight Mile, and we
go out there with Biddulph when
he takes the rations, and counts
the sheep. It is a beautiful ride
there. The road is pretty the
whole way, and then you turn
off and cross the Bowen, and go
through a little patch of thick
wood till you come out on the
plain where the station is. Such
a pretty place. The little hut
stands out against the dark
forest, and in front are beautiful
green downs, where the sheep
feed.
It is rather hot going there,
as we have to start pretty early,
and walk our horses the whole
eight miles, or nearly so, as
otherwise ttie pack-horse would
make a pudding of the flour, tea
and sugar, and break the bottles
of vinegar and lime-juice. We
generally leave the station about
sundown, and the canter home
in the cool twilight and starlight
is delightful.
The last time we went out
there we saw a man sitting down
in a very lonely part of the road
on the bank of the creek, and a
grey horse in hobbles feeding
beside him. He did not speak or
look round as we passed, and
next day a man came riding up
post-haste to Exmoor station
asking if we had seen anything
of a man with a grey horse, as
horse, saddle and bridle tiad
been stolen from him (man
Number Two). Biddulph
directed him the road, and in
three or four days he returned
bringing the recovered horse
with him.
He said he had overtaken the
thief near Fort Cooper, and got
back his property, but, being
alone, he could not arrest the
man, but was obliged to let him
go. There is an immense deal
of horse-stealing in this district,
and the thieves reckon on
impunity; the horse may be
taken from them, but it is seldom
people can or will take the
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
trouble of going hundreds of
miles to prosecute them.
I liked to hear about the
children’s garments very much.
It must have been a great under-
taking to turn a whole suit of
tailors’ clothes for Leighton, and
you were very clever to succeed
in it. I know nothing about
tailoring. Annie’s face would be
a sight at any interference with
Biddulph’s clothes,
but I have
learned a good
deal of dress-
making since I came out here,
and no doubt the tailoring could
be also acquired when necessary.
I wonder if you wear those
very small hats, which they
depict in the London news, and
which Emily sent up to us as
eligible articles for the bush.
We wanted some new hats very
much, and were rather grieved
when we unpacked things that
look like a good-sized saucer on
the top of your head. I mended
up my old one, and left the new
one undisturbed in the box ever
since. Annie wears hers on
Sundays, but as her face is still
longer than mine, I cannot be
complimentary as to her appear-
ance in it. For the rest, we are
well off for clothes this summer
and could even hold on through
another winter if necessary, but
I suppose we shall go to Sydney
in ttie autumn.
Ever your affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
February 18, 1865.
My Dearest Etta,
It is four years ago now since
I left England. I wonder where
four more years will see us. 1
hope I shall have seen you again
before they are over, but it is
impossible to say. The future is
always uncertain, and just now
it is remarkably so. Whether
we shall return to Exmoor,
whether go on to Lara, or what
may happen in the next six
months, I have not the least idea.
I do not think Annie will be
married during this visit to
Sydney. Biddulph’s two stations,
ttiougti very valuable, are very
expensive. I believe the time for
our going to Sydney is fixed at
last, and I am sorry to say it is
much earlier than we expected.
Annie and I will go as far as
Rockhampton with Biddulph,
then leave him there and go on
to Sydney alone. There is little
chance of Mr, Hedgeland being
in from Lara by that time, and
none of Mr. Taylor, so Bid-
dulph will have to get one of
"....hatless and bootless and trouserless, and attired only in
a Crimean shirt."
the Mr. Lacks to take charge
of the station during his absence.
I hate the thought of going
so soon as far as I am concerned.
Dust, and streets, and stuffy
houses, and dull tea-parties make
up the sum of my anticipations,
but it cannot be tielped. I shall
like to see Amy and the
children, that is the only thing.
We have the buggy up at last,
and it will be very convenient for
travelling to the Port in. It is a
very pretty one—double-seated,
runs on four very high, light
wheels. The whole thing looks
too light to be of any use, but
it is the strongest of all carriages
for a bush road, as it hops over
gullies and holes where a
heavier machine would break to
pieces. Mr. Kennedy, who is
going out to take charge of Lara
station, brought it up with him,
but the pair of horses that Bid-
dulph bought with it are most
inveterate “planters,” for Mr,
Kennedy lost them again on his
way here, and drove up a pair
of his own. The horses have
been found once more, however,
and are coming up by the post-
man. The old dogcart in which
we came here is quite worn out,
and has been made into a water-
cart.
We have changed servants
again. Now we have a
German lad in the kitchen,
Carl by name. He does
pretty well considering that he
speaks but little English, but that
is Annie’s affair, as I never
interfere in the housekeeping.
Biddy the black girl washes at
present. I cannot say that the
things are the color of driven
snow, but, of course, it is only
a temporary arrangement till we
go to Sydney, and can look out
for some servants. If you write
to an agent you are almost sure
to get bad ones sent up.
We are getting through the
wet season very easily so far.
We have had no floods, only a
few heavy thunderstorms, but
the Ides of March are not past
yet, and I suppose we must have
a flood or two before we have
done with it. The country is
beautifully green here, and we
do not want more rain, but they
want it on the western road.
Mr. Taylor, who is taking out
three thousand additional sheep
to Lara, has been for more than
a montti camped on the lake at
the borders of the desert waiting
for rain to fill the waterholes
and enable him to cross it. Now
there is fifty miles to go without
water, and he will not risk it.
One man lost his whole flock,
five thousand, in trying to push
through. They are all pitying
the owner for tiis loss, but 1 pity
the sheep far more.
We have seen a comet lately,
or rather the tail of one, for the
nucleus was below the horizon,
and a very long tail it was,
though not very bright. I
wonder if it is gone to make its
appearance in England.
Biddulph is rather busy, as
usual, now that everybody is
away from the station. He
seems to turn his hand to any
sort of bush work. He has sent
both the bullock-drivers to the
Port with the wool-teams, and
there was not a man on the
station who could drive when
some posts were wanted for the
paddock-fence, but he made
nothing of yoking-up a team and
going out for two or three morn-
ings till he had got in all the
timber that was needed. He
has been making wool-bales and
mending saddlery, and dressing
sheep with the footrot, and, the
last few days, breaking-in a
young horse. Nothing seems to
come amiss to him.
I shall be very glad to see
Amy again, supposing we are
not captured by the bushrangers
on the Bathurst road. They are
getting fiercer and fiercer. At
the last accounts the town of
Goulburn was in a state of
panic, daily expecting an attack
and an assault on the banks.
One of the leaders lately,
Murray, I think, confided to a
traveller whom he was easing of
his goods that he was on the
lookout for the Bishop of
Sydney, who was coming up the
road, and he meant to capture
him and keep him tUI he—the
bushranger—obtained a free
pardon from the Government.
Luckily the bishop took another
road, so the plan did not
succeed.
With very much love to you
all, believe me, dearest Etta,
Ever your affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
April 18, 1865.
My Dearest Etta,
You will see that I have been
troubling Mr. Boyce with a com-
mission again, and Annie ditto
to you. Perhaps you will some
day both take a trip to London
to execute them for us. If you
do accompany Mr. Boyce, as I
hope you will, do not “hold his
hand.” We want almost the best
plain watch that tie can get, and
are prepared to pay accordingly.
As you know the watch is a
present to Biddulph from Annie
and me.
Biddulph left us yesterday for
Port Denison, whither he has
gone to load tiis drays, and start
them for the Flinders River
station. They are to take
supplies for a year for the
colony out there. Ido not think
we shall ever go out there to
live. I hope Biddulph will sell
it and keep Exmoor. He talks
of doing so, and I should be so
sorry to leave this place.
He set off quite in style yester-
day, driving the buggy and pair,
and with his big hairy dog
“Tiger” running after him, and
Jimmy, one of the blackboys,
riding on horseback behind, the
said Jimmy being gorgeous in
new white trousers slightly too
large for him, a scarlet Crimean
shirt and scarlet cap. Biddulph
bought scarlet for both the
blackboys when he was last in
Sydney. They are so fond of
bright colors, and look best in
them.
Nearly all the squatters take a
blackboy with them when they
are going a journey as a sort of
groom. They are very useful to
(Continued on next page.)


Youngest
member of
Australia *s
largest family
m
m
On the average ...
one family in three
relies on the A.3M.P,
The A.M.P. family is a special family. Not
bound by blood . . . they are bound by common
ties and common interests. They pool their
savings in the interests of each and all. They
mutually share in the benefits of their thrift, for
the A.M.P. has no shareholders, all surplus being
returned to policyholders.
No wonder that in little more than a century the
A.M.P. has become the largest mutual life assur-
ance office in the British Commonwealth, and far
and away the largest life assurance office of any
kind in its home country of Australia.
• • •
►
Your AJM.P. Agent will advise you with
skill on your family finance so at to obtain
the maximum value of protection for you
and your family. His background and
training make him the ideal person to
assist you. The A.M.P. Agent is a. "Sure
Friend in Uncertain Timet".
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
Branches throughout
Australia, New Zealand
and Great Britain.
The A.M.P. it the
largest mutual
Life Assurance
in the Empire.
General Manager: IL C. Buttfieltf • lead Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
tow /TV
* In a previous instalment the name
appeared as “Jack.”
Public Notice.
kIS&N# PERSON. PRATI, Ethel,
daughter of MARY LOUISA PRATT, who
came from Christchurch, New Zealand,
many years ago. The abovenamed Ethel
Pratt, who may now be married, or any-
one knowing her, is requested to com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand.
THREE
GREAT SERVICES
fi
re
ONE
GLORIOUS
TRADITION
•
The Navy, the Army and the Air Force have
inherited and carry on a splendid Service
tradition created by the achievements of Aus-
tralians in action in many theatres of war.
It includes a spirit of comradeship that is
still a cherished feature of Service life today.
Service life offers substantial advantages to
a man who wants a permanent career, with
a wide choice of occupation, and oppor-
tunities for specialist training and steady
advancement.
A Sailor, Soldier or Airman is well paid. He
also receives food, accommodation, clothing,
medical and dental care, all of excellent
standard, and can look forward to a pension
or gratuity on retirement. (Married men
draw special extra allowances.) At least three
weeks’ leave a year with fares and travelling
time to your home and back. Initial en-
gagement may be for a limited period, with
option of re-engagement for further service.
Get full details now, and add up all the
benefits that Service life provides.
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addressee:
la Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degravea Streets; in Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane; Scottish Union
House. 127 Eagle Street; in Adelaide: Richards Building. 99 Currie
Street; In Perth: 84 King Street; In Hobart: Franklin Square;
la Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities .
PF2.112.101
Ittmtd by tht Dinctor-Gentral »j Rtcruiting,
get up the horses of a morning,
etc.
Biddulph has a great many
things to bring up from the Port,
and this is the reason he drove
down instead of riding. Among
other things we have bothered
him with commissions to get us
boots and winter petticoats, as
we are sure to be here through
the winter, I think Biddulph
will be away about ten days. I
hope he will not be more.
Old Mrs. Lack is staying with
us now. She is the mother of
Mr. Lack,* who owns Blenheim,
the next station to this. She
was here for two or three days
last year ; now she has been here
about a fortnight, and will stay
a week longer. She is rather a
nice old lady, very gentle and
lady - like, though slightly
meandering, but when you have
lived a long time in the bush
you get lazy, and do not like
the trouble of entertaining any-
body. Gentlemen visitors are
different, as they entertain them-
selves or you.
Mrs. Lack rode on horseback
the first five miles of the way,
and we drove over with Bid-
dulph in the buggy and met her
about eight miles from here, and
I rode the horse home, as we
thought she would be tired. She
goes home next Friday, I
believe. Mr. Lack is coming
over on Thursday evening to
slay beef for us, and takes his
mother back next day.
We are having a new fireplace
built against when the cold
weather comes, though at present
there seems no chance of any
cold. The hot weather has lasted
longer than usual this year, and
it is still hotter than any English
summer in the middle of the
day, but the mornings and even-
ings are cool and pleasant.
I have been telling Aunt that
the first grave has been made at
Exmoor, an event in the history
of the station. A family travel-
ling with two drays and horse-
teams passed the house and
camped over the creek one
evening a few weeks ago, and a
man came up after dark to ask
for some medicine, etc., for his
little girl who had been ill a
fortnight of diphtheria, I should
think from his description. We
gave him some milk and
promised to come and see the
child next day, but at daylight
next morning he came over and
told Biddulph the child had died
in the night, and asked for some
old cases to make a coffin.
Biddulph offered to have one
made and send it over, but he
preferred doing it himself. We
asked if his wife would like us
to come and see her, but he said
she would rather not, which I
■did not wonder at. Biddulph
also offered to come over and
read the service when they buried
the child, but he said he did not
care about it, so we could do
nothing for them.
He had three children ; this
was the eldest, a little girl of five.
There were several men with the
drays, and they buried her in the
morning, and then harnessed
their horses and went on their
way.
I went across the creek in the
evening to where they had
camped. It was very sorrowful to
stand by the little lonely name-
less grave among the gum-trees,
and think what it must have been
to the poor mother to drive
away that morning and leave her
little child among strangers. We
did not even know their names.
The grave is in a beautiful spot
on a high bank shaded by trees,
and the creek flowing beneath.
It is fenced in most securely
with whole trunks of trees so
that it can never be disturbed.
That is the first grave. I thought
who can tell whose the next will
be?
The mailman is just come in,
so I must not write any more
now.
Your ever affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
May 15, 1865
My Dearest Etta,
Our last letters home were full
of Mrs. Taunton’s legacy to us.
It must be an old story to you
now, but it will not be so to us
till we have received and perhaps
spent the money. I hope that
you and Mr. Boyce did not con-
sider our commission a very
troublesome one, and that you
will not spare a little expense
(to us) in fulfilling it. If you
get the watch I hope it will come
out while we are in Sydney.
Biddulph will probably join us
there in December, as Annie
will most likely be married
then, and then we shall have the
pleasure of presenting the gold
watch to him.
Since I wrote to you last a
bad accident has happened at
one of the sheep-stations. One
of the shepherds at the Nine
Mile carrying his carbine in the
careless way shepherds usually
do shot himself very badly in
the leg with it. He was driving
a sheep on with the stock, and
the whole charge of shot entered
his leg just above the knee and
came out just below the hip.
Mr. Taylor went out to see
him when the news came in, and
thought it was only a flesh
wound and the bone not
touched. However, the man
wished to be sent to Port
Denison, so an awning was
rigged up for him over the
spring - cart and grass and
blankets laid in it, and Peter,
one of the bushmen, sent to drive
him down as fast as he could
bear it. We have not yet heard
of his arrival. Biddulph raised a
subscription for him on the
station. All the men gave 10s.
each and he got £9 altogether.
Biddulph also wrote to his
agents to send him on to the
hospital at Rockhampton if he
wished to go.
The Flinders party arrived
from the Lara station on
Sunday, April 30. Mr. Gilliat
did not come on here, but Mr.
Taylor and Mr. Hedgeland
arrived in the afternoon with
seventeen horses and a good
deal of dust. The former had
been away nearly six months,
the latter not quite so long.
They brought in a good account
of the station, which is now
left in charge of Mr. Kennedy.
It is a frightfully dry season
everywhere, but the sheep are
doing well and looking fat out
there, and the horses came in
in very good condition.
Last Tuesday we made
another excursion to the Broken
River, like the one I told you
of in a former letter, only we
were rather a larger party this
time, Biddulph drove Annie and
myself in the buggy, and Mr.
Hedgeland and Mr. Taylor and
the blacksmith rode on horse-
back. The blacksmith is very
fond of fishing, and Biddulph
always promised to take him
next time he went to the river,
We went a little further down
the river than we did last time,
and I think to a still-prettier
place where there were some
enormous tea-trees growing in
the dry sand close to the water
and giving a lovely shade, made
on purpose for picnics. When
the horses were hobbled and
turned out to feed, Biddulph
and Mr. Taylor set off to catch
fish for dinner, the blacksmith
likewise. Annie and Mr. Hedge-
land set about making a fire and
unpacking the provisions, and I
sat down to try and sketch one
of the beautiful reaches of the
river.
In due time the fish were
caught, the fire was made and
Mr. Taylor scientifically broiled
them on hot stones. The quart-
pot tea was boiled, the beef-
steak pie cut and highly
approved of, the entire second
half of it being neatly polished
off by the blacksmith, to whom
it was handed when we had
done. Then a smoke—Mr.
Hedgeland and Mr. Taylor are
inveterate smokers, Biddulph a
more moderate one—and a
second departure was made for
fishing while Mr. Hedgeland set
forth with his gun to look for
wild duck, which, however, he
did not find,
I finished my sketch and made
another, and wished Mr. Boyce
had been there to do justice to
the beautiful Broken River with
its clear deep pools and grey
rocks and wooded banks and the
blue Australian sky. One ought
to be able to color to make
anything of this of this scenery,
We returned at dusk, as it is
not pleasant to drive a buggy in
the bush after dark—there are
such very bad places to get over
sometimes. We got home with-
out losing ourselves this time
after a very pleasant day.
Mr. Taylor has since left
Exmoor for good. Biddulph has
sent nearly all the sheep out to
the Flinders. There are only


c
DESIGN
Mr, 943
Planned for
COMFORT
A delightful “Durabestos"
Home of 1,150 sq. ft., that
embraces all of those fea-
tures desirable for comfort-
able living and permits
sunshine in every room.
Economical to erect, too.
Write to Wunderlich Limited,
Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
booklet.
1
JURABESTOS
SLS BUILDING SHEETS
Note: Refer to local Hardware Merchants re availability
of "DURABESTOS".
WJm
mm
SBfega
I S
fcMsg
..
-■.*■
. •■■ IMM
Achievements of an Industry, No. 7.
BLEACHED
The chemical industry’s achievement in respect of chlorine is one of
production. The consumption of chlorine has increased steadily
since its discovery in 1774, and in recent years great efforts have
been necessary to meet the evergrowing demands for this important
chemical. Chlorine is one of the most reactive of the elements, and,
for this reason, it is never found free in Nature. In 1779 Charles
Tennant, of St. Rollox Works, Glasgow, combined it with lime to
produce bleaching powder, and from that day forward chlorine and
its derivatives became intimately associated with the progress of
industry. Now, in liquid or gaseous form, this versatile chemical is
required in enormous quantities for the bleaching of paper and
textiles, for sterilising water supplies and for the manufacture of
acids, disinfectants, drugs, plastics, refrigerants, solvents and count-
less other important chemicals, including the powerful “Gammexane”
insecticides.
Today most chlorine is produced by passing an electric current
through brine, and this is the method used at the ICIANZ factories
at Yarraville in Victoria and Botany in N.S.W. This process yields
caustic soda and hydrogen as well as chlorine, and the three products
are also used in other processes to give many more chemicals of
the utmost value to modern industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
L7.C.14
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
w.
S 3
'
fd
“Dear Sir,
in Queensland^ have ** "** *>« <* «*
and just bush tracts I have h mud * watcr > stony roads
I have used jSoSt e et a „dT W “ Wack soil “ d - d -
-that the Holdea^qu^Lf/lT™^^/^ 001 ” 7 ’ 1
ago. On a good road Jan * d ' 1 teSted k a week
m.p.h. it registered 34 m.p g OaTro^h°{ fl ° m 4 ° 45
and which necessitated dropping downt ?7“ fair
in two places, dropping into Second „„ S P eedfor S nds and
bad short guUies. I docked 28 mp f “ d “"“S h « across
test was 52 m.p.h. . . >» to P s P in this
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) A. Barnett, Charleville, Queensland.
r* -—*
“ ta •••>"■ " "TZ&TZZZSS* £
f
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
4811
There are two Air-Chief Radios specially
designed for Holden ... a long range 5-
valve set and an exceptionally powerful
6-valve model.
Convenient Hire Purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. General
Motors' own finance company
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers thrqujJtout_Australii
between seven or eight thousand
left on Exmoor, and for that
number he means to be his own
overseer
I think Biddulph had just
started for the Port when I last
wrote to you He was away
eight days and came back on
April 26 He brought us up
some boots and some scarlet-
and-black stuff for winter petti-
coats, though if it continues as
hot as it is now we shall hardly
want them.
A Mr. Morisset, who is think-
ing of buying a half-share in the
Flinders station, came up with
him, and in that case he will go
out there and take the manage-
ment of it. The arrangments are
not quite completed, but I shall
be very glad, if he does, as it
will take an immense deal of
trouble off Biddulph’s hands,
and then he will never himself
go out there to live, and I should
not like to exchange beautiful
Exmoor for those desolate
prairies, however good they may
be for sheep.
Mr. Morisset is to give £5OOO
for his share if he buys it. He
is gone back to the Port now to
make Mr. Hedge-
land has been ill with fever and
ague these two days, but he is
better now. Last year a great
many people had it, but there
has been very little of it this
year. The season has been too
dry-
The fireplace is progressing,
but not finished yet. The new
servants arrived while Biddulph
was away and seem likely to do.
Mrs. Reeve is rather a nice
young woman and manages the
washing very well; her husband
has been a conjuror, of all
thmgsm the world, and practised
m Port Denison He has
not done much work yet as he
fell from his horse coming up
and broke two or three ribs, but
he seems quiet and civil, and has
just cut down one of my favorite
trees for firewood.
Kindest love to Mr. Boyce and
yourself and the darlings. It is
no use to “wish I could see
you.”
Your most affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
m ay 29 1865
’ *
My Dearest Etta.
This is not my usual fortnight
f or writing home but I will not
another mail pass without
gi vi ng you a piece of mforma-
llPn W^ Wld >} ea seri ously
disarrange your hair if you have
not a very tight elastic your
net > and cause Mr. Boyces hat
Jo be lifted several inches above
head, if it is not a tolerably
heavy ope.
It is neither more nor less than
that 1 have been engaged for the
last six months to Mr. Taylor,
Biddulph’s sheep-overseer. Mr.
Taylor was just starting for a
six-months’ trip to the Flinders
. in charge of Biddulph’s sheep ;
that is a bourne from whence
it is highly uncertain whether
any traveller ever returns, so I
resolved to say nothing about it
to anyone but Biddulph. Of
course I thought it right to tell
him.
Biddulph gave Mr. Taylor a
very nice horse and saddle as a
sort of return for his exertions in
getting the sheep out to Lara,
and about a fortnight ago he
went down to Mr. Paterson’s,
our next neighbor below, to
“spell” his horses before starting
on a long journey southward.
He has been up here once since
to bring us our letters, and will
be here again in about ten days
or a fortnight, on his way to
Rockhampton.
He has friends in the south,
and hopes to get an overseership
or managership somewhere
down there. He may succeed,
but so many are looking for
situations now that it is extremely
doubtful. Of course, everything
depends on his getting one ; and
it was this very great uncertainty
that made me wish to keep the
whole thing to myself, except,
as I said before, that I thought
it right to tell Biddulph.
I must fairly confess that I
would rather have said nothing
till there was something decided
to say, or, if there never was, to
let it all die out in silence.
However, silence seems a
privilege not allowed. I have
not written to Aunt, and shall
not do so at present, and I shall
be very glad if you and Mr.
Boyce will say nothing to any-
one till you hear something
more. Of course it is
immeasureably foolish for any-
one of my age to enter into an
engagement like this, but I don’t
want to be told so on all sides at
once. X would rather take it by
instalments.
Of course you would like to
know something about Mr.
Taylor ; but what can I tell you?
I cannot praise up anyone so
near to me, and no one else is
likely to do it. Biddulph does
not like his being an overseer,
though everybody cannot have
stations; also, he does not like
his age. He is, unfortunately, a
boy of little over 30, and I—
well, the less said the better. It
is bad jgnough, though not quite
so bad as some.
I have known him ever since
I came here, two and a half
years now—we have known each
other I should say—and pretty
intimately, living in the same
house nearly all that time. The
only thing I will say of him is
that I never met with anyone
so thoroughly unselfish. The
difficulty will be for him to get
a situation, and it may turn out
impossible. It cannot be helped,
but you see, do you not, why 1
wish as little said as possible.
I have written to you so lately
that I have no news to tell you.
Besides, I am at the end of my
paper, and I am afraid the above
sheets will take you some little
time to digest.
Kindest love to Mr. Boyce and
yourself and the dear children.
Ever your affectionate sister,
RACHEL HENNING.
(To be continued next week.)
MONTH OF MURDERS.
N.S.W.
Shall we take the lid off the village?
Lift red iron roofs to discover
Harrison bashing his wife
And Sarah Jones poisoning her lover?
The Smith-Smythes snoot in an opulent villa
Complacently unaware
That their parlormaid’s baby’s mummified body
Moulders beneath the stair.
Mad Miss Hopperskin drifts down the highway.
We all avoid her eyes.
That is as well, for their filmy vacancy
Shutters such horrible lies.
If we do this we disclose to view
Our own peculiar fashion
Of life: then fritter our small reserves
In futility of compassion.
Better to leave cells undisturbed
And never inquire of the hive.
Better some honey than risk the sting:
—We might save our souls alive.
NANCY KEESING.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Sydney’s social life had its annual
holiday this week while its prime movers
took themselves to Melbourne to join in
the junketings there. No doubt there’ll be
another quiet spell this week while the
said prime movers recover from their
trip south of the border.
Some things happened in Sydney, how-
ever (there were well over a million
people left here, after all). Three fetes
were held on Saturday, one for the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital, when
Highland dancing was a drawcard. The
skirl of pipes always seems to hold a
fascination for people, Scottish or other-
wise. Those who find them queer seem
awed into puzzled attention by their very
success. At Weemala Home for Incur-
ables at Ryde more than 2000 visitors
came to see the Lieut.-Governor open the
fete and lay the foundation-stones for the
extensions to the hospital building. This
is a time-honored annual fete, going back
far in the memories of all. Lady
Anderson remarked the other day that a
regular part of her school-days was to go
up the river every year to help with this
fete. “We were probably more trouble
than anything,” she added rather
reminiscently. The third fete was held in
the grounds of the Drummond Far West
Home, which also included a Scottish
Pipe Band. The Far West Health Scheme
will benefit from this fete, which was
organised by its Ma n 1 y-Warringah
Auxiliary, of which the president is Mrs.
W. C. Wentworth.
There were some pretty weddings dur-
ing the week, too, including Sheila
Drescher’s marriage to John Keenan at
St. Joseph’s Church, Neutral Bay, Sheila,
who is a graduate in medicine, is the
daughter of Mrs. E. A. Drescher. John
is the only son of the late Mr. J. Keenan
and of Mrs. F. Keenan of Neutral Bay.
The bride wore a lovely dress of white
lace and nylon with a double-tiered skirt.
She was attended by her sister Joan and
by Cecilia Doolan.
It was a very bright idea of the Society
of Sculptors and Associates to hold their
exhibition in the Botanic Gardens, where
Sydneysiders, strolling innocently in the
sunny weekend, might find modern art
brought to their notice for better or
worse. There is no doubt that the
exhibits provide mental stimulation, for
the comments offered by the strollers
were readily forthcoming. “Do you
think,” said one thoughtful spectator,
“That these modern sculptors can all
suffer from defective eyesight?” “Why,
it’s worse than the prehistoric animal!”
said one little girl about an abstract com-
position. It was interesting to see, how-
ever, how the public taste is gradually
being converted to the modern line.
G. F. Lewer’s rhythmical pelican bird-
bath seemed to be liked by all, whether
“in the know” or not. Tom Bass’s magni-
ficent “Tea Drinkers” got admiration
only (so far as this Letter’s eavesdropping
could gauge). Otto Steen’s ‘Little Fawn”
was very popular. So long as the public
can get an idea of what the piece is
supposed to represent, it will try to
accustom itself to new lines and
approaches, provided, too, that the piece
is not too stark. Leonard Shillam’s
“Girl,” for instance, has such an odd
expression that the remark “Looks like as
if she’d seen a ghost and got turned into
stone with fright” seems to illustrate the
public reaction to it.
Verdi’s opera “Othello” is to be pre-
sented by the Conservatorium Opera
School for a season of six performances
beginning on Saturday, November 17,
with further performances on November
20, 22, 24, 27, 29. Specially designed
costumes and stage-settings have been
made for the opera, which will be pre-
sented with a full orchestra.
When Alfred Hill announced the
winners of the David Jones Jubilee Artist
Quest he said he felt something of a
fraud, because he’d never won a prize
himself in his life, and offered this as
some solace to those contestants who
didn’t win. First in the piano section was
Margaret Barton, in the vocal section
Marjorie Conley was the winner, whilst
Ronald Woodcock was, according to the
judges, outstanding in the violin section.
This Quest was open only to artists under
21, but many of the entrants are already
veterans of stage and radio. Lady Lloyd
Jones, wearing grey lace and silver mink,
presented the prizes (£5O to each winner),
and the consolation prizes to the other
finalists. The three winners will also each
make a gramophone record to be released
by Columbia, as their performance was
judged to have reached the required
standard.
Provisionally formed during the week
was the Australian Association of Women
Lawyers, with Joan O’Hara as president,
Marie Kinsella and Meg Degotardi as
office bearers. The chairman at the in-
augural meeting was Mrs. Tom Bateman,
who said that the purpose of the associa-
tion was to provide a body which could
affiliate with other women’s organisations,
attend conferences and give to other
branches of women’s activities the benefit
of its legal training. There is already an
association of women lawyers in Sydney,
which, Mrs. Bateman says, has a purely
social function and has never had a
formal organisation such as would be
necessary should Australian women wish
to affiliate with the World Federation of
Women Lawyers. Mrs. Roberto Regala,
wife of the Minister for the Philippines,
who is a member of this World Federa-
tion, says that at its last conference nearly
every large country in the world was
represented except Australia.
This is pretty Pamela Brooks, who re-
cently announced her engagement to
Neville Harris, son of the H. V. Harrises
of Belfield and formerly of Gundagai.
There were about 45 guests at the cock-
tail party given to celebrate the engage-
ment by Pamela’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
A. G. Brooks, of Strathfield, when
Pamela wore a dress of cherry-colored
crepe and her new sapphire-and-diamond
engagement-ring. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
There isn’t any doubt that the appeal
made by leaders of the judiciary and
the churches to “each Australian to
examine his conscience and his motives
in all his associations with his fellows” is
earnest and necessary. The trouble with
many Australians today, however, is that
they don’t know how to examine their
conscience. The old have lost the habit,
and many of the young don’t know that
the things they do are wrong. Sharp
business practices “within the law” but
unfair to others and obviously unjust are
taken for granted by youngsters who have
never heard them questioned. Most
young Australians get a sound moral
training from home, school or church,
but it seldom touches on business ethics.
Now that the season is well advanced
it becomes evident that, for those who
are tall enough and brave enough to wear
them, the “hat that is a hat” is coming
back. Enormous in the straight brim
and laden with heavy handmade flowers,
they recall the calm magnificence of the
pre-first-world-war period. From leading
milliners these hats cost £25 each, but
they certainly look a crowning glory.
Alternative to these is the small toque or
pillbox with the flowers at the back.
Those who still have a hat of this kind
with ornaments at the front (like a
miner’s cap, as somebody said) must
detach them at once and put them round
the back. The vogue for concealment
under drooping brims is going very
slowly, mostly being adopted by those
who are so soignee and fashionable that
they can wear anything and get away
with it. On most people the enveloping
hat simply looks droopy and dowdy.
Edward Rayne, the Queen’s shoe-
maker, who has just returned to England
after visiting Australia, said that Aus-
tralians were the most shoe-conscious
people in the world and that when they
come to England they are noted for their
interest in shoe styles and in the number
of pairs of shoes that they purchase.
(Mr. Rayne, by the way, says that every
woman should have six to eight pairs of
shoes in good order.) A glance around
Sydney beaches, however, doesn’t provide
any evidence that we, as a race, have
beautiful feet. Footwear manufacturers
say that even the most beautiful of our
models have bony, malformed feet, and
corns and bunions are the rule.
According to research done into the
fitting of shoes by the British Boot and
Shoe Association, many children never
know whether the shoes that are being
bought for them fit or not and it is never
safe to rely on their opinion when buying
for them. They are either so impatient
to be out of the shop or so excited at
getting new shoes that they usually pay
very little attention to whether or not
the shoes fit. Moreover, without feeling
pain the child can easily have his feet
moulded into the wrong shape because
the bones of the foot are not fully formed
until the age of 18 or later. In child-
hood the bones are partly composed of
cartilage, so that children rarely com-
plain of discomfort when their shoes are
outgrown, even though harm is being
done to their feet.
From Melbourne
The Navy Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall,
climax to a week crowded with racing
and parties, was attended by Sir Dallas
Brooks, his wife and daughter, and the
visiting Governors of S.A. and Tasmania,
accompanied by their wives. Decora-
tions reflected the nautical atmosphere.
Models of the cruiser Australia and the
frigate Culgoa guarded the entrance to
the ballroom, which was marked with
port and starboard lights. Around the
balconies illuminated silhouettes of battle-
ships were set, and on the stage a sailing-
boat headed towards the harbor in the
background. Murals painted at Flinders
Naval Depot of sea-battles formed a
background for the official party, while
on the table were two large dolphins of
red geraniums and green leaves. The
organiser of the ball, Commodore H. J.
Buchanan, and his wife, who was presi-
dent of the ball-committee, greeted the
vice-regal party. White tulle was the
choice of Lady Brooks. It was full-
skirted and the shoulder-straps were sewn
with seed-pearls, and a matching tulle
stole was worn. Jeanette Brooks wore a
white marquisette gown with the deep
frills, which finished the bouffant skirt,
embroidered with red rosebuds. Of grey-
and-silver brocade was the bouffant gown
Lady Norrie wore with a stole of silver-
blue mink. Lady Cross’s gown of deep-
gold satin was patterned in jewel tonings.
Her daughter Diana wore Parma-violet
duchesse-satin. Mrs. Buchanan’s gown
was of magnolia brocade, the bodice was
strapless, the sheath skirt flared from
below the hips. Lady Collins’s taffetas
had a bustle-bow at the back of the skirt.
Mrs. Edward Campbell, who was ticket-
secretary, wore cerulean-blue satin. Pro-
ceeds go to the funds for the memorial
chapel at Flinders Depot.
Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins, wife of the
new U.S. Consul-General, is a native of
Dorset, England. She was married in
Philadelphia 12 months ago and then
went to Washington, where her husband
was attending a special college for diplo-
mats. A gracious hostess, she takes a
keen interest in literature, the theatre.
ballet and opera.
“Light Up the Sky,” which stars Diana
Barrymore and her husband, Robert
Wilcox, had a brilliant premiere at the
Princess. Mrs. John Howse had a red
carnation on the black velvet neckband
she wore with her short white floral-
patterned ballerina frock. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll combined a black crepe romaine
skirt and a white lace top. Mrs. Norman
Lynch’s gown was of brown-and-black
brocade. Mrs. Philip Dare covered her
pewter-grey satins with a mutation-mink
stole, Mrs. H. Cavanaugh’s beech-brown
gown was splashed with brown and
opalescent beads. In the play Diana
Barrymore wears three striking ensembles,
The first is of emerald lacquered satin,
contrasted with a bright lipstick-red
feather-beanie. The next is a strapless,
full-skirted frock of scarlet tulle worn
with matching satin shoes. Her final
appearance is in skin-tight black trousers
and a knee-length, full-skirted coat of
multi-striped linen.
For the luncheon-party she gave at
the Ritz, Mrs. Ray Joseph wore a frock
of London-tan patterned in black and a
black velvet picture-hat. Among Sydney
guests was Mrs. I. Silk, of Point Piper,
who wore a grey suit and a jade-green
felt toque. Adelaide visitor Mrs. L. W.
Leahy wore with her junior navy frock,
which had pink beading on the apron
front of the skirt, an orchid-pink felt hat.
Mrs. Des Leahy, also from Adelaide,
chose a black lace-patterned, deep-rose
taffeta frock and large black lace
picture-hat. The red cuffs on the gloves
worn by Vera Pritchard with her black
frock matched the underbrim of her tiny
black hat.
The dinner-dance at the Delphic on
Cup Eve was attended by the daughters
of three Governors. Elizabeth Northcott,
in scarlet organza and matching stole;
Jeanette Brooks, her frock of mist-blue,
white-etched organza; and Diana Cross,
daughter of Tasmania’s new Governor,
Sir Ronald Cross, whose midnight-blue
chiffons had diamente embroidery.
Gillian Pain’s peach-pink satin-brocade
gown had circlets of forget-me-nots at the
neckline. Jennifer Russell wore pastel-
blue moire taffeta; Amanda Grimwade,
beaded white chiffon; Helen Simpson’s
satins were mist-blue. Nancy Woodrow
teamed a white broderie-Anglaise bodice
and white tulle skirt. Anne Yuncken’s
pale-grey satin gown was patterned in a
pastel flower design.
On Melbourne Cup night the Ronald
Notts entertained 100 guests at cocktails
and buffet-dinner in their Toorak home.
Mrs. Nott’s Jean Desses frock of white
organza had a wide bell skirt appliqued
with organza flowers and was worn over
black organza. Her sister, Betty Smith,
wore lime-green faille. Rebe Bergman’s
silk frock was black-patterned apple-
green. Mrs. Harold Holt topped her
black frock with a white satin pillbox
hat. Mrs. Lionel Newton’s cinnamon-
brown tulle had bead embroideries on the
strapless bodice. Mrs. Keith Morrison
wore a ballerina frock of black tulle.
Mrs. Andrew Manifold had white roses
and tiny pink apples on the swathed white
chiffon hat she wore with her black frock.
Mrs. Norman Poulton’s black faille
frock was patterned in a self-coin-spot;
her hat was of corn-gold straw. Mrs.
Arthur Joyce’s frock was of grey faille,
her black hat trimmed with pink feathers.
Colonel T. P. Cook, C.B.E. (known
as Cook of Tobruk), and Mrs. Cook, of
Fern Springs, the Patch, Victoria, gave
a pleasant party at their home for about
30 or 40 young folk to say au revoir to
their son Geoffrey, who sails on the
Otranto next Saturday. Geoffrey, who
is 23, gained his Bachelorship of Civil
Engineering with honors and is going
abroad to further his studies.
The sacrosanct enclosure at Fleming-
ton, reserved for men members of the
V.R.C., was invaded on Ladies Day by
the two owners of the Oaks winner.
They were Mesdames A. G. Silk and
Lionel Newton, and both wore slim, black
frocks. Mrs. Silk contrasted hers with a
large peony-red coolie hat, whilst Mrs.
Newton chose an outsize in platter berets
in off-white felt and banded with white
grosgrain ribbon. Chiffon frocks ot
ballerina length, finely pleated and with
swathed short-sleeved bodices, cartwheel
hats and duster-coats, were popular. Out-
standing was the tiny white grosgrain cap
with its deep-violet veil matching the
Parma violets worn by Mrs. Ronald Nott
at the waist of her pervenche-blue gros-
grain frock. Adelaide visitor Mrs. L. W.
Leahy wore a lovely dress made from
many yards of narrow white Guipure
lace; it was worn with a large white
picture-hat. Unusual was Mrs. Norman
Paul’s small white topee, worn with a
spider-web veil and with a spider sitting
on the narrow brim. It went with a
black jacket-suit.
For her wedding at Wesley Church to
Geoffrey Vaughan, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Brooke, of St, Kilda,
Muriel Fairlie, only daughter of the
William Mountfords, of Caulfield, wore
a ballerina frock of parchment satin, its
strapless bodice embroidered with pearls
and opalescent sequins. A Juliet cap
held her fingertip tulle veil, which was
cream embroidered. She carried pale-
pink orchids. Her attendants, Mrs. Jeff
Bullen and Kathleen Robinson, wore
frocks of lilac and mauve-pink tulle over
taffeta, pleated frills of tulle edging the
tucked bodices. They also wore Juliet
caps and carried pink roses and mauve
delphiniums. Best man was the brides
brother Ken. Reception was held at the
New Alexandra.


INI
«
Sure Starts
jumvs
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX1.26
PERSONAL HEMS
Appointed to a research professorship
in botany at Sydney University, Hollander
Lourens Baas-Becking has been for the
past year directing his considerable know-
how to encouraging weed-killers. Pre-
viously professor at Stanford (U.S.) and
Leyden (Holland) Universities, before
War II broke out he was in charge of
that famed acreage of colorful profuse-
ness known to the botanical world as
Buitenzorg Botanic Gardens, in Java.
With Hitler invading his country, the
prof, repaired there, to lead a section
of the Underground before the Nazis
nipped him, too, in the bud and planted
him in a concentration camp. He sur-
vived that, to blossom again among
tropical profusion on Noumea, o.c. of
the scientific research section of the S.
Pacific Commission. Fifty-six, Baas-
Becking recreates at hiking, and has
written three books, none of which (by
their formidable titles) would be of much
use to possibly-interested backyard
optimists.
Kylie Tennant, who twice collected
the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize (with
Tiburon and The Battlers), has now
carried off the Commonwealth Jubilee
£5OO play-competition with “Tether a
Dragon,” a life of Deakin, Gollancz
published her Ride On, Stranger in
London in 1943, at about the same time
as MacMillan were bringing out her
Time Enough Later. In her time a
chicken-farmer, typewriter saleswoman,
copywriter and psychology and economics
student at Sydney University, she reveals
her character (as much as by anything)
in allowing the date of her birth to be
printed in the Australian Who’s Who.
George Farwell, known for his radio- and
travel-writings, took the second prize of
£2OO with his play on the Bligh-
Macarthur feud.
Designed as a special distinction for
men eminent in any department whatever,
the Order of Merit has been conferred
on Clement Attlee. Though it confers no
precedence, and carries no special title,
the honor is the highest a civilian can
attain short of knighthood, is limited to
24 members, and authorises its holder to
place its initials directly after those denot-
ing membership of the Order of the Bath
—a high distinction. With Churchill,
Attlee now becomes one of the very few
to be both O.M. and a Companion of
Honor.
Macnell”; Rightly or wrongly, sailors
are apt to wonder why their Ministerial
heads are civvies who wouldn’t know a
corvette from a cruiser; R.N. matloes
will have no such qualms about the new
Parliamentary and Financial Secretary to
the Admiralty. Commander Allan Noble
may be remembered here as the tall,
black-haired, impeccably-dressed shadow
of Anthony Eden when he visited Aus-
tralia early in 1949. No officer-sailor,
Noble donned service blue in 1926, was
Lord Linlithgow’s A.D.C. in India while
the storm was brewing, and after it broke
commanded four destroyers in succession.
One of them, Quentin, was class-mate of
our Quiberon; the relationship was
cemented when the Australian boat pulled
Quentin’s crew out after an aerial-torpedo
had removed her from under them off
Tunis. And—further connection—Noble
captained Dainty (the ship which got
three Itie subs, in one day’s work) in the
flotilla led by Hec Waller of the Stuart
and Matapan. Coming out with D.S.O.
and D.S.C. in 1945, Noble in 1946
witnessed the Bikini blast for his Gov-
ernment. Blue water’s in the blood—his
father. Admiral Sir Percy Noble, com-
manded battleship Barham in War I, and
in the next held the critically important
command of Western Approaches, his
targets the U-boat packs then well on
their way to gnawing through Britain’s
lifeline. Noble junior has been Conser-
vative member for Chelsea since 1945.
T. S. Lingford, who has been elevated
by the McDonald-Cains from Secretary
of Transport to be a sort of Traffic Tsar
with the title of Co-ordinator, is 58, was
secretary of the Railways Construction
branch of the Board of Works and is
chairman of the Victorian Standing Com-
mittee on Coal. Under the new Transport
Ministry recently created he will have
the say-so over private metropolitan buses,
trams, taxis, hire-cars and all forms of
road, rail and air transport —in fact,
over everything on wheels or with wings
except prams and blowflies. He’ll hear,
as well, all applications in open court
and will fix routes and fares. Earlier
experience of a hectic nature took in the
secretaryship of the Emergency Trans-
port Committee in War 11.
It would seem that most of the War II
flying-men now holding high adminis-
trative posts in the R.A.A.F. served, at
some time or other, in the well-blooded
10 Squadron of Australian Sunderlands
with Coastal Command. Latest is
Squadron-Leader J. Jewell, a D.F.C. of
10 Squadron, who steps up to Senior
Officer, Administration, of the R.A.A.F.
station at Mallala (S.A.). Born in
Adelaide, he took, after the war, what
he’d learnt of finding his way over the
Atlantic and Bay of Biscay into the
School of Air Navigation at East Sale
(Vic.), of which he was o.c.
The £11,500 Nobel Peace Prize for 1951
goes to 72-year-old Leon Jouhaux, for
many years the leading light in the French
trade-union movement, and one of his
country’s delegates to the League of
Nations disarmament conference in 1925.
High-ranking member, also, of the
1.L.0., he was arrested early in Hitler’s
war and spent four years of it in Buchen-
wald.
Coventried hereunder, Stevenson
Fountain, deputy-P.M.G. in S. Australia.
Five-feet-odd now, he was about two
kerosene-tins tall when he began his
career as a 13-year-old telegraph
messenger in Melbourne in 1906. Then
he had his work cut out jumping on and
off cable-trams—the agility he learnt
could have had something to do with
his ability to play A-grade lacrosse in
Melbourne till he was 40. Born at Bowen
(Q.), educated in Victoria, he was a
natural for the signallers when Wilhelm
signalled his intentions, and served with
distinction in the 3rd Division Signallers
in France —promoted lieutenant in the
POSTMASTER.
field, after winning D.C.M. for a sticky
bit of night cable-burying. Just before
Hitler’s war Fountain became assistant
Superintendent of Telegraphs in Brisbane,
during it was Superintendent in Hobart,
and after it held a like post in Sydney.
By 1949 he was Director of Posts and
Telegraphs. His librarian daughter, lately
of Sydney University library, is at the
moment in Chicago on the strength of
an international fellowship.
“M.”: In practically everything, from
purpose to power, the submarine and air-
craft-carrier are just about at the extremes
of naval differences. Of which Com-
mander Robert Alexander was no doubt
acutely aware when he first stepped into
carrier Glory’s vast innards as executive-
officer (2/i.c.), after having spent most of
his service life in submarines. Genial,
with the casual efficiency typical of his
training, he hails from Edinburgh, and in
Hitler’s disturbance pursued his destruc-
tive way from the Atlantic, through the
SUBMARINER.
Mediterranean and into the Malacca
Straits. While on patrol in the Atlantic
he got word from Intelligence to expect
a German U-boat in the area. Alexander
surfaced, placed maximum lookouts and
sat there, expecting. Expectations were
soon realised; a very smart piece of
manoeuvring and drill placed a torpedo
in the German’s bilges. The sub-
marine’s next torpedo-target was a large
Itie supply-ship in the Med., followed
by several of the Jap variety further east.
Back in England towards the end of the
war, Alexander stood-by the building, and
was the first captain, of the ill-fated
Truculent, the mother-submarine which
towed one of the .midget submarines
which laid explosive eggs under Tirpitz’s
unexpecting bilges in Alten Fjord, and
which, after the war, was sunk in collision
with a Norwegian tanker. Then on the
staff of Admiral (Submarines), Alexander
was in at the rescue of his old ship.
The wrong man:
Through a confusion of initials in transit
through the ether The Bulletin last week
credited John Granville Morrison, M.P. for a
Salisbury seat, with election to the Speakership
of the Commons instead of W. S. Morrison.
There are three Morrisons prominent in the
House—Herbert Morrison, Attlee’s late Foreign
Secretary, a Cockney born; J.G. and W.S.,
both Argyllshire men, both credited with a
passion for Scottish music, both representing
West of England constituencies and both
Military Cross holders. But in his election
W.S., a King’s Counsel, breaks more than the
record of being the first Scotsman to hold the
Speakership—the last great office of the Realm
never held by a Scot. He also breaks the
practice which had grown up that the Speaker
should not have held Ministerial office. He has
been Attorney-General, apart from holding other
portfolios.
“Uramao”: A trio of Maorilanders
have kicked their way into the front rank
of the Sadler’s Wells Ballet Co. Brian Ash-
bridge, who went to England from Auck-
land four years ago, is to take the leading
role as soloist in “The Sleeping Beauty.”
The two other Enzedders in the co.,
Alexander Grant, of Wellington, and
Rowena Jackson, of Dunedin, toured the
U.S. with Sadler’s Wells recently ; as a
result Ashbridge has furnished illustra-
tions for a book written by Peter White
titled Sadler’s Wells Goes Abroad. An-
other Maorilander, 25-year-old Arthur
Downes, has sung himself into big opera,
the leading role of Billy Budd in the
opera of that name having been
allotted to him. It will have its premiere
presentation at the Royal Opera House,
Covent Garden, next month, with librettos
by E. M. Forster and Eric Crozier and
musical setting by Benjamin Britten.
“Jemac”; It was typical of Oscar
Natzka that he should finish singing the
first act of “Der Meistersingers” in New
York even though the cerebral
hasmorrhage which killed him had
already started. A big man in every re-
spect (he reached 6ft. 3in.), Natzka had a
meteoric rise. A scant six years before
he reached Covent Garden he was singing
at his anvil in New Zealand, without a
thought of any vocation apart from mak-
ing iron sing, A friend picked him as a
promising tenor, but John Brownlee,
when he heard him, decided the young
blacksmith was a bom basso pro-
fundo. Vladimir Rosing, then
director of Covent Garden, agreed, and
shortly after Natzka had reached England
(on a public subscription), he was sing-
ing at Covent Garden in the Cornish
opera “Serf.” The burly basso toured the
U.K. and U.S.; then, Hitler having let
go, toured the Atlantic, in command of a
Canadian warship. Towards the end of
the war he was detailed to garner 150
talented servicemen, whom he conducted
on a troop-concert tour of Canada and
England. After the cease-fire he sang
through S. Africa; one of his favorite
stories concerned that tour. In one city
he included an aria from Boito’s
“Mefistofele,” which requires the singer
to emit piercing whistles through fingers
between his teeth —a performance which
came easily to Natzka, raised as he was
on a 12,000-acre property. Next morn-
ing one critic remarked that “Mr. Natzka,
who forgot some of the words of the
aria, had to fill in by whistling it.”
Cecil Purdy, winner of four of the past
seven Australian chess championships,
became the other day an International
Chess Master, by favor of the Inter-
national Chess Federation, at a recent
Vienna congress. He’s the first Australian
to be so honored. Lajos Steiner, now in
Australia, also holds the distinguished
title.
Inauguration of the first direct
Toowoomba-Sydney air-service with
DC3’s is a personal triumph for Ron
Adair, boss-founder of Queensland Air
Lines and ranker with Ginty MacGinniss
and Hudson Fysh in the hierarchy of
Queensland air-pioneers. Many years!
ago Adair started his own air-line in
the north, but with the bigger companies
pinching most of the pie he shifted to
Qantas, senior-pilot in flying-boats
(though still keeping his own colors air-
borne). Later he concentrated on reviv-
ing the line, and now Q.A.L. is
associated with Butler Air Transport and
runs services throughout southern and
western Queensland. A thickset, slow-
speaking airman in his mid-fifties, with
several ground tickets as well as his
pilot’s, Adair hails from Maryborough
(Q.); just under 30 years ago he flew
the first air-service out of Brisbane —to
Toowoomba.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 70, Thomas Glen Sounness, Old
Digger and member of a pioneering family of
the Mt. Barker (W.A.) district. Long associated
with the fruitgrowing industry, he had been
chairman of directors of Producers’ Markets,
Ltd., of Perth, executive member of Westralian
Fruitgrowers’ Association and senior vice-presi-
dent of the Mt. Barker Fruitgrowers’ Associa-
tion.
In Melbourne, at 74, Dr. Bertram Milne
Sutherland, 0.8. E., a leading Melbourne sur-
geon, overseas in War I, and honorary
surgeon of the Women’s Hospital for 37 years.
A schoolmate of his was John Flynn; 60 years
later Dr. Sutherland became chairman of the
Bush Nursing Association established by the
creator of the Flying Doctor Service.
In Brisbane, at 65, Garnet Agnew, cartoonist
on the old “Queenslander” in the ’twenties and
’thirties and for Brisbane “Telegraph” from
1942 to 1945. Known for his oil-studies of
North Queensland aborigines, he will be remem-
bered also by his memorial in the old West
Coast hotel at Cooktown —a series of murals
covering the walls depicting the story of the
Palmer gold-rush and introducing noted charac-
ters of Cooktown’s history.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Edith Beatrice Laver,
widow of one of Westralia’s best-known gold-
field pioneers, Dr. Charles Laver, after whom
Laverton, some 600 miles from Perth, was
named. One of Mrs. Laver’s sons is medical-
superintendent of the Melbourne Women’s Hos-
pital; another, the youngest, was lost in action
on air-operations over Sicily in 1943. Her
husband’s brothers also made their niche—
William Laver, one-time Ormond Professor of
Music at Melbourne Conservatorium, and
Frank, the international cricketer.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER i SONS LTD. SCOTCH I
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK, /
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY. / i
JW.IZ7B.IS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
r ■ ■
y
c
y
14Z
>
£
Sfid
I
1/
2
H
Mechanization Means More
TO provide for the needs of a rapidly
increasing population and to maintain
export levels vital to Australia’s economy,
we must produce more food for human
consumption, more feed for livestock and
more wool and other fibres than have been
produced even in our most favourable years.
Greater agricultural production is not only
a question of more acreage, but of wiser
land utilization and increased output from
existing acres.
The solution to this problem, in the midst
of an acute shortage of manpower, lies in
increased mechanization of Australia’s culti-
vated and grazing areas, in the storing
away of more feed reserves for livestock
as insurance against drought periods, and
in the general extension of conservation
farming practices.
Whether for the growing of food, feed or
fibre ... or for the mechanization of farms
measured in tens or in thousands of acres*
International Harvester builds an ever
increasing variety of essential tractors and
farm machines suited to Australia’s widely
diversified agricultural activities. Used in
conjunction with wise conservation farming
methods, these are the tools which turn
shortage into plenty.
International Harvester Company of
Australia Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
IIM
AM Vi
McCormick IntatnalUtMi
Tractors and Farm Equipment
Intarnational Trucks
Dafandor Refrigerators
Intarnational Indualrial Pgwsr
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 187*.
Head Office* Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Tire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Jeremy—she had known it be-
fore she had done it, and now
he was rubbing his wet eyes,
rubbing the black in. He might
do them some harm. Her head
and neck as well as her body
felt that they would burst, and
she knew if she didn’t calm her-
self she might die, or have the
baby too soon.
“I know I shouldn’t have hit
him. But look at him! It will
take hours to get him clean
again, and I’ll be late for the
hospital and have to wait. I
have to go today. Why did you
give it to him?” she said.
“You’ve got no method in
going about things, that’s why
you are always late,” Mrs. Dilley
laughed. “I can tell that from
the way you get around my
house,” she said.
“Yes,” Frances said in a bitter
voice, “but what did you give
him a thing like this for when
you know?”
“He whinged for it. Whinged
and cried and I couldn’t have my
breakfast in peace. I gave it to
him to keep him quiet. He’s
spoilt.” Mrs. Dilley spoke with
open cunning now.
She was determined to draw
her in, Frances knew; but she
couldn’t do anything. Hysteria
was rising up through her body
into her breasts and was gather-
ing in her throat, choking and
blinding her. She reached be-
hind her for the saucepan and
threw it crashing against the
door of the sink.
“Now you can have it,” she
gasped.
MRS. DILLEY, screwing her
face up and nursing the
silence which followed the
baby’s crying, traced his happy
glances, to look down with her
own elation to where the twisted
blackened little pot lay at her
feet, assuring her of the weak-
ness of her opponent’s attack. If
she knew her there would be
another bright new little sauce-
pan brought back from the shop-
ping centre of the thickly-popu-
lated suburbs on the way to the
hospital. But she forced the
lines of her face to sag down-
wards in an exaggerated col-
lapse.
“You are bad,” she said;
“bad and wicked to attack an
old woman and smash my things
up. X ought to get the police.”
“I haven’t done anything,”
Frances began.
“You’ve attacked me after I
trusted you and gave you a
home. But I should have ex-
pected that,” Mrs. Dilley said.
“And I should have known
better than to run the risk of
staying here alone with you after
the way you told me lies. You
knew I didn’t want any children
and you told me you only had
one. But you had two,” she
added, her voice no longer
aggrieved.
“We didn’t. It was after”
Frances, continuing, broke off.
Mrs. Dilley, standing with her
back bent, was looking upwards
now, regarding her with an
almost incredible expression of
awareness and disgust.
“That’s what you tell me, but
I can draw my conclusions and
think what I like,” Mrs. Dilley
told her. “And I can do what I
like. It’s my house and you can
get out of it. Take a week’s
notice,” she added loudly ; “and
then all of you get out.”
“Where will we take it?”
Frances bent to pick up Jeremy.
So far Mrs. Dilley hadn’t men-
tioned Bradfield Park or Herne
Bay, and she might as well be
done with it.
But Mrs. Dilley went on slyly.
“I heard you had the offer of a
place around here a couple of
weeks ago and that you wouldn’t
take it. You knew where you
were well off. But you can get
out and go there —now —as soon
as you like.”
Frances swung the baby
round so that she could support
him on one hip and face Mrs.
Dilley. But her face had begun
such an uncontrollable trembling
she had to keep her head down.
It was funny, but she was cry-
ing. Something tight and proud
had given way inside her and
the tears were beginning to
stream down her face.
PRANCES couldn’t bring her-
-1 self to tell James, when she
met him in town with the baby,
what the doctor had said: that
her state of health was no
better ; and that she would have
to take better care of herself
and do with less to eat. James
couldn’t seem to use his wits any
more to do anything but escape
Mrs. Dilley. She began to tell
him something when they were
back inside the house again,
after the journey together in the
train, but James had rushed
ahead of her in a haunted
fashion and was going through
the narro\v unaccommodating
{Continued on page 32.)
Three Poems ... EVE LANGLEY
THIS GOLDEN YEAR.
This year has been, half of it, kept in drought.
All golden—as golden men denied a dimpled glass
Of grey wine, like rain—this year has been
Like a man lying dead on a bed and laughing
Because he was dead and rivers still ran.
The times that I have been spring out, and dark doors roll
apart
And there within the eyes may see my deep, most secret
heart.
The golden year that men have spent
On richly-colored things, it cared not greatly where they
went.
For while the blackbird sings, his last soft chant magnificent
A great forgetting brings; a great forgetting brings.
POEMA.
I wish that all the city purple passion would run
Down to the edge of the green-black sea—the white-
circled;
I wish that the green trellises of all the young men’s love
Might, purple-blossomed, golden-blossomed, flowery,
Serpentine swiftly down to the love-starved sea.
On the bronze quay, where the jewelled rails glow,
Down among the copper and silver ships—the lamps
And the rich striped curtains —the moonlike curve
Of the black planet that is the funnel—
And the huge voice of the god of the sea
Vomiting forth foggy groans and howls of steam:
Lift up the cargo, marinari—the red bales—
The purple bales, the oily, slow and languid fleece,
The sonnet of the fleece; let the lamps glow over it.
Lift up the cargo, marinari; O sailors, cast
The sharp, the silver cruel hook into the bales.
Into the big breast of the bound bales and shoreward
Drag them; the city, she whom her father* formed of
splendid stone,
She opens up her dark and fiery mouth
And with the pure dry kiss of her wooden doors
Salutes the heavy cargo as it moves.
THE ORDERED CITY.
Parthenon —god and city, book and secret viol
Tell me of the grey Greek rose, the secret rose that
once
The proconsul bound about his blind white brow.
The thought of all the dead arose to his mind
That day with the shattering shadow of this century
Behind the pediments. But that’s not yet. Those clean
Columns always rising, and the great name;
The dreadful sentence in Latin, clear, cold and noble,
Declaring an age to be, and all the lonely ages.


The ALL-BRITISH
{OTtUKUJ^taUXUt
(Tend, i/ie
GreaieM
~~ha/ue
N?5B
57/6
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
25/
TO
70/
iff
sc-
"vs
N«7O
30/-
Jhe 'Pen
the MtaiveMovA Hihf
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
S - w - RAMSAY, MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
LB 5922
Under Entirely New Management.
Divorce Notice.
TO JAMES ALBERT STEWART formerly
of 110 Simmons Street Newtown New
South Wales now of parts unknown. —
NOTICE is hereby given that your wife
LUCY STEWART of Darwin has issued a
writ out of the Supreme Court of the
Northern Territory of Australia in an
action in which she claims an order for
divorce on the ground that you have de-
serted her for three years and upwards
She also claims custody of the children
of the marriage maintenance for herself
and the said children and costs If you
desire to be heard in opposition to any of
the claims you must file an appearance in
the Office of the Clerk of the said Supreme
Court at Darwin on or before the 20th
day of January 1952 otherwise you may be
found guilty of desertion and ordered to
pay costs and maintenance in your absence.
•—A. BROUGH NEWELL, Smith Street,
Darwin, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
.RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can be yours with
BSGiSDCS
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
c*—
si I*"
HHSU"
tCI* TI .
jsltis
MB*® 0
US» J
MB* 1
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLCIM
Helpful and Informative literature on Dolcia
will be sent on request to Doldn (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552, ©J».O„ Sydney.
.2/121,
SUNDRY SHOWS
Bunyip's Eggs.
Any wandering soul who
strayed into Sydney’s Botanic
Gardens at the moment would
probably be justified in claim-
ing that he had found, among
other things, a bunyip’s egg, a
dingbat’s skeleton, a fish-trap
and a trio of vaguely human
skeletons celebrating some kind
of abandoned dance.
Those, or something very like
them, and 28 other exhibits
make up the open-air exhibition
of the Society of Sculptors and
Associates, which is generously
scattered across the lawns and
under the trees, and arousing
varying degrees of interest oi
consternation in pigeons,
picnickers and passers-by. When
the present commentator called
in on a sunny afternoon this
week catalogues were available,
but the exhibits were not
numbered, a situation which,
with one or two exceptions,
made identification a rather
chancy business.
The catalogue lists at least a
couple of “Abstracts,” in
igneous stone or concrete;
four “Forms” in sandstone or
marble; three pieces entitled
“Mother and Child,” in painted
Oregon, marble or sandstone ; a
“Composition” in concrete, and
a “Construction” in what looks
like wire or pipe with trimmings.
Anyway, we started, con-
scientiously, at the Public
Library end of the business and
proceeded in the general direc-
tion of the Con., noting in our
perambulations a “Tea Drinker”
and then another “Tea Drinker,”
both recognisable, both by Tom
Bass, and both with a suggestion
of power in them ; further afield
there was something suspiciously
like an ailing pelican; while a
few points south under a tree
there was a piece of tangled
wood which might have been an
exhibit and might have been
an oddly-shaped tree-root left
by a forgetful gardener.
“Little Faun,” in sandstone,
by Otto Steen, commanded
some respect because it needs no
identification, and because it is
not without an element of
charm; but something a few
points east under a peppercorn-
tree bore a strong resemblance
to a piece of machinery slightly
distorted by heat. And so on,
past the dancing skeletons, past
figures apparently compressed
by a pile-driver or stretched by
a rack ; past the bunyip’s egg
and the dingbat’s skeleton ; past
the twisted, tangled and tortured
wire—or pipe—from which a
fish, once entangled, could prob-
ably never escape.
Over towards the Con. Tom
Bass’s “Lyrebird,” in copper—
again readily recognisable—
attracted some attention ; it is
“THE HOUSE OF BERNARDA ALBA.”
Gloria Payten, Audrey Peck, Patti Assange, Marjorie Laine,
Leslie Robson and Patricia Crocker, in Sydney Metropolitan’s
impressive production of Lorca’s drama.
decorative, but suggests bulk
and power rather than grace
and beauty.
No art, however, whatever
one’s amusement, should be
lightly dismissed as incompetent
or sensational, so one must ask
what this collection portends.
It can probably be conceded
labor, search and experiment,
which, in themselves, are worthy
things. But for what is the
search? For what “line,”
“power,” “curves, “rhythms,”
“harmonies,” “balances,” or
whatever you like to call them?
Looking around the gardens one
can see more grace and beauty
in the curve of the pigeon’s
neck or a pretty ankle ; or more
balance and power and harmony
in the trunk and branches of a
tree than there could be in 100
exhibits such as those on show.
But are these sculptors search-
ing to capture those things or
running away from them?
Their exhibition gives precious
little indication that they are
even interested. One sees little of
the complex beauties of natural
form in their few elementary
curves, and less in their figures
of human beings to indicate that
the sculptors “well those
passions read.” One gets,
instead, much the same impres-
sion given by the last exhibition
of the Contemporary Art Society
—the impression of them all
industriously looking to each
other instead of to nature, and
so leading themselves up the
blind alley that ends in mutual
imitation and admiration.
O. F.
At the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, Margaret Olley has an
exhibition of 17 drawings—
slight, graceful and feminine
impressions of buildings, bridges
and towns in France. They are
all pleasant, and, except for the
subject-matter, all rather alike,
though not with any suggestion
of formula. The resemblance
would seem to lie in their static
quality—the suggestion, not of
a captured momentary impres-
sion which the slight, quick
line might imply, but as though
life and light had stood stilj
while being carefully recorded.
“Place Dauphine, Paris,” “Pont
Michel” and “Cassis” have the
most depth in them.
Bell, Book and Beauties.
In a general reshuffle around
the Sydney theatres, John van
Druten’s “Bell, Book and
Candle” has replaced “Sep-
tember Tide” at the Royal,
“Ladies’ Night in a Turkish
Bath” has been transferred from
the Empire to the Palace, and
the latter theatre is now occupied
by “Chez Paree.” “Ice Follie”
is still at the Tiv. and looks like
staying there indefinitely.
“8., B. and C.” was reviewed
by The Bulletin’s Melbourne
commentator, and a Sydney
inspection provided every reason
to agree with him —an artificial
but agreeably-polished comedy
about the beautiful Gillian
Holroyd (Evelyn Laye), her
brother and aunt, all practi-
tioners of witchcraft, and own-
ing a smart New York apartment
wherein also lives Shepheard
Henderson, their tenant who, in
the course of complaining about
the witchy doings of Miss
Holroyd’s aunt, finds himself
hopelessly in love with Miss
Holroyd herself.
At the risk of being hexed by
Van Druten or Evelyn Laye, the
present commentator must
confess to preferring his witches
wild and wicked, like Diana
Perryman and Diana Davidson
in “Dark of the Moon,” or like
Bettina Welch in “Blithe Spirit,”
but Miss Laye is quite lovely to
look at and quite an interesting
witch to be added to the collec-
tion, even if her witchery some-
times seem to be more of the
feminine than supernatural
variety.
There are beauties, if we may
say so, in every show in town
at the moment, but nowhere in
such quantity as in “Chez
Paree,” the fopnotch vaudeville
programme at the Empire, and
nowhere better shown on that
bill than in the Can-Can and the
“Cats on the Prowl” ballets. The
show is more-or-less headed by
Jon Pertwee, an English
comedian who makes a lot out
of very little and works very
hard to do it. He didn’t earn
quite the laughs and applause
that he might have on the open-
ing night, but it was a swelterer
and a large part of the audience
seemed as interested in fanning
itself with its programme as in
laughing.
The bill is a particularly strong
one in the matter of acrobatics,
clowning and the like—the
remarkable Carsony Brothers,
one of whom balances on the
tip of one finger and then, with
one hand, on a walking-stick
with his brother across his
shoulders; Guus Brox, the
quaint musical clown; Tipsy
and Brow, who go through some
extraordinary stunting, and Evy
and Everto, who do dexterous
things on unicycles—contrap-
tions like a giraffe on one wheel.
Alan Clive does some excel-
lent impersonations and accom-
panies them with a bright line of
patter; Los Trianos provide
Spanish dancing, and Moskani
turns on one of those “two-
people-in-one” dance acts which
would be excellent entertainment
even if it were done by two
people.
Music.
Arnold Bax, eschewing pro-
fframmfltic intent has claimed
grammatic intent, nas ciaimea
that hIS 'Overture to a
Picaresque Comedy” is “simply
~ J . , , ■
a piece of music associated with
some SUCh character as
t-v, * . ~ . + i,„
D Artagnan or Casanova , the
listener may make his choice,
TTii'c l!ctf»nf>r accnniatpH fhf
inis listener associateu me
blarings rather with some fellow
who operates a jackhammer or a
riveting machine.
Fortunately this piece didn’t
set the standard for the rest of
the programme through which
John Farnsworth Hall steered
the Sydney Orchestra last week.
Ravel’s subtly scored “Le
Tombeau de Couperin,”
Hamilton Harty’s symphonic
poem “With the Wild Geese,” a
highly-imaginative piece with a
delicate Hibernian flavor, the
“Forest Murmurs” from
“Siegfried,” and Rimsky-
Korsakov’s brilliantly - colored
“Capriccio Espagnol”—in these
the conductor achieved excellent
effects in an unspectacular way.
For the night’s major work,
Mendelssohn’s Violin Concerto,
the soloist was the 23-year-old
Hungarian Bela Dekany, who
combines a facile command of
every phrase of his instrument
with an obviously keen sense of
musical values. If he has a
weakness it is on the low string
—his tone here needs greater
breadth and depth.
Sydney soprano, Patricia
Baird, should have little diffi-
culty in stepping straight into
operatic work when she goes
abroad shortly. She has an
attractive appearance and
concert manner to go with an
easily-produced voice of high
quality and considerable gamut;
her breathing and phrasing are
admirable. Her best effort in the
farewell recital she gave at
Sydney Con. was the “Willow
Song” from “Otello” finely
spun, it was given a soaring
lyricism, with a good fullness
of tone in the middle register.
Rossini’s “Una Voce” was
coloratura in all its glittering
brilliance, and flexibility was
here matched with first-rate
enunciation —indeed, this latter
phase was a notable feature of
her work. Her lieder was always
fully evocative of the mood.


A Solicitor to draw
your Will . . .
teußnilllESaiisjaffiKr
■ef
"Wm*
s&
a Trustee
to safeguard your Estate
Only an experienced person can hope to
contend with the complicated problems
and other aspects of a Will and the
administration of an Estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, your obligations
to your family or other beneficiaries can
be honoured only by your care now.
The Permanent Trustee Company offers
you the sage counsel of over sixty years
experience as Executors and Trustees,
offers you the stability and protection of
over £1,000,000 in uncalled capital and
assets
Avoid unnecessary risks; enjoy peace of
mind and ensure security of your
interests now and always. Appoint the
Permanent Trustee Company as your
Executor and Trustee.
For full details, call in and interview one
of our Executive Officers in confidence
and without obligation; or write for oiu*
free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8.E.,M.8.Ch.M.,F.R.A.C.5.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney p X2 9A.13
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NEW WAR TERRORS.
Under the apparently
unalarming heading “Role of
Civil Defence,” a London
“Times” special correspondent
has set forth a picture of war
possibilities on the home front
grim enough to steady the
wildest fire-eater. Here are a
few of his observations:
It is assumed, because of the
present high speeds of aircraft,
that not more than five minutes’
warning may be given of a
piloted attack —rocket and un-
controlled missiles may arrive
without warning.
Assuming the tactics of the
enemy to be unknown, it will be
necessary to wear respirators if
anything is being dropped in the
area, and, if not in a shelter, to
seek any available shielding
from exposure to the gamma
and heat flash of the atom-
bomb.
In a future war blackout
curtains will have to be fire-
proof, for heat flash will set fire
to a piece of wood at a distance
of one mile.
The only satisfactory protec-
tion against flash gamma radia-
tion is in shelter behind such a
shield as several feet of brick,
concrete or earth.
It is said to be three times
safer to be in a house than in
the open during an atomic
explosion, and five times safer
to be in a top-grade shelter than
in a house.
After an atom-bombing there
may be as many as 100,000
homeless who must be assembled
and transported to camps out-
side the target area, where the
provision of food and stores for
the emergency feeding and
sheltering of so great a number
will itself be a major organisa-
tional task.
An atom-bomb dropped with-
out warning on an area from
which there had been no evacua-
tion might cause casualties to
a total of about 80,000; and
these would require attention,
ranging perhaps from treatment
for minor injuries at first-aid
posts and mobile units to full
evacuation to hospital. Many
ambulances would be required to
carry out this work speedily.
It is not likely that an atom-
bomb would be accompanied
by either gas or germ warfare,
although this might be used in
the same area some time later
to interfere with restoration.
On the home front there may
be some risk of germ warfare
from saboteurs. For example,
the intake ducts of factory
ventilating systems, and even
paper money, offer possibilities
of disseminating infection. The
most likely method of dissemina-
tion is by aircraft.
The first defence against
biological warfare is scrupulous
hygiene and sanitation in con-
junction with individual aids
such as a close-fitting respirator,
protective clothing and vaccines.
Removal of contaminated cloth-
ing and personal cleansing must
be carried out in the same way
as for gas cleansing. In the
case of liquid-gas contamination,
particularly liquid nerve-gas, this
must be done at once, and under
the self-help scheme facilities
for this will be available in
houses which will be appro-
priately marked.
The possible scale of attack
on an important city might be
two atom-bombs. One atom-
bomb, it is said, is the equivalent
of 20,000 tons of high-explosive
detonated at one point.
Civil defence has been termed
the fourth arm of defence, but
if intense blows are rained on
Britain’s industry, railways,
ports and warehouses, with not
enough “defenders” to wrest
order out of havoc, it could be-
come the front-line of a siege.
Atom Attack Snags.
A Washington correspondent
of New York “Herald Tribune”
notes arguments against plunging
into atomic attack in war, the
idea of holding back being that
the enemy might thus be influ-
enced into doing likewise:
“Our own [U.S.] defences
are inadequate. What is almost
worse, the British air defences
are also grossly inadequate.
“If war comes, Britain will be
the indispensable overseas base
of the Western alliance. And if
the indispensable British base
can perhaps be protected from
destruction by making our
[U.S.] strategic air power a great
threat in reserve, the pros and
cons must certainly be weighed.
“Beyond doubt, indeed, the
British will insist on their being
weighed.”
Soviet Middle East Plan.
On the striking phenomenon
of Russia apparently holding
aloof from the Persian and
other Middle East disturbances
“New York Times” has com-
mented :
“Let us not fool ourselves that
she is turning her back on a
region that has lured her since
Peter the Great’s time and with
special insistence in the Bolshevik
era.”
The fact that the Russians had
done nothing outwardly to
encourage Moussadek, it holds,
simply means that they relied
upon the Persians, British and
Americans to acquire enough
rope to hang themselves with-
out Russian assistance. More-
over, they were clever enough to
know that any offer to help the
Persians would boomerang by
frightening the great landowners
and aristocrats who were lead-
ing Persia’s “nationalistic dance
of death.”
The Soviet Union has never
let up in its encouragement of
nationalism everywhere there-
abouts. “The primary objective
has been to help drive the
British out—and that objective
is being realised. The Russians
have always backed the Wafd
party of Egypt in its anti-
British policies, and it was
Nahas Pasha himself, the present
Premier, who originally invited
the Russians to open a legation
in Cairo after the war. They
have since maintained a staff
there all out of proportion to the
amount of diplomatic business
to be conducted....
“So we cannot be complacent
about the strange quiescence of
the Russians in recent months.
They 'figure to be the only
gainers by what is happening.
This is literally the truth and it
has to be faced, even though the
process is still in its first stages,”
J. Bull’s Irak Oil.
In an Edinburgh “Scotsman”
article Desmond Stewart, an
assistant-professor at University
College, Baghdad, points to pre-
cautions Britain should take to
JUST HIS DISH.
—"New York Times."
avert a repeat of the Persian
fiasco in neighboring Irak
(implicitly he indicates British
faults in the Persian trouble):
“What should Britain do to
forestall [in Irak] a fiasco similar
to that in Iran?
“We should discard our habit
of waiting for the crisis to hit
us. We should recognise that
what we need from Irak is oil,
and not money; that what they
need from us is capital equip-
ment, not patronage. We should
give now the best terms for oil
that are economically possible,
and should ourselves offer to
change our oil companies into
genuinely mutualised concerns,
with as many educated Irakis
employed as possible.
“Recruits from Britain should
be selected only from those
people willing to collaborate with
the Irakis on a basis of equality.
The largest possible share of
the profits should be ploughed
back into Irak, preferably with
guarantees that the sums con-
cerned should be spent on the
necessary developments, such as
a health service, the university,
education and the development
of agriculture. Britain would
lose temporarily, but gain ulti-
mately: Irak would be a pros-
perous market for Western
goods, and she would have a
huge surplus of food, which we
could buy.
“Most important of all is the
personal question, the attitude
which Britain adopts in her deal-
ings with Irak. If Britain can
convince the Arabs now that
her aim is not exploitation, but
partnership in the war against
poverty and ignorance, she will
have fervent allies where now
she has, at the best, disillusioned
friends; at the worst, impas-
sioned enemies.”
U.N.O. in Paris.
For its current session in Paris
U.N.O. has an agenda ranging
all over the globe: the atomic
arms race ; disarmament control
generally; Korea, Libya,
Eritrea, Palestine, China and
Morocco; technical and
financial assistance for Asia,
Latin America and Africa ; dis-
cussion of Kashmir and Persian
oil, the Suez Canal, the Sudan
and a free election in the whole
of Germany.
Secretary-General Lie has said
he hopes for progress in at least
three important directions:
(1) Towards building a United
Nations system of collective
security that will be a firm bul-
wark against armed aggression
by any nation “Until a
system of collective security is
established, I am afraid the
present burden of armaments is
unavoidable.”
(2) Towards a relaxation of
East-West tension and a resump-
tion of effort to find a solid
basis for co-existence.
(3) Towards a more equal and
understanding partnership in
political, security and economic
matters, between the indus-
trialised nations of Europe,
America and Australasia on the
one hand, and the nations of
Asia, Africa and parts of the
Americas on the other.
They will need to do better
than in the Persian issue (not to
go any farther back). London
“Economist” has acidly de-
scribed the Persian performance
as “one of the most farcical per-
formances that the United
Nations has staged under Mr.
Trygve Lie’s direction and with
incidental music from Moscow.”
In that U.N.O. farce the
Persian Prime Minister has been
allowed to “throw at the oil
company cooked figures and
filleted facts,” and plaintiff and
defendant had been treated “not
as equals, but with the fashion-
able bias against the great
Power.”
The Use of Force.
Reviewing the Persian scuttle,
a special correspondent notes in
a London “Times” article that
the great majority of British
Labor apologists have confined
their defence of policy in Persia
to one aspect only: that it would
have been wrong to use force.
This, commented the cor-
respondent, raises searching
questions on the means by which
a world Power can make its
foreign policy effective in a dis-
turbed and imperfect world once
the sanction of force is re-
nounced, and to this question
Labor statesmanship had found
no answer.
Instead, in the Persian dispute
it had demonstrated at some cost
that a Government resolved not
to use force ought not to pursue
policies that depend on forcible
backing. “When Labor spokes-
men accuse the Conservatives of
belligerence, or when Conser-
vative spokesmen accuse Labor
of being half-hearted in defence
of the interests of the Common-
wealth and the Western world,
the charges express a real
and far-reaching divergence of
attitudes; this divergence con-
cerns the place of power in inter-
national affairs. Its effect on
the conduct of diplomatic busi-
ness is capable of being
decisive.”
Not Over In Greece.
Basing its comment on a re-
port by the U.N.O. special com-
mittee observing in the Balkans,
New York “Herald Tribune”
notes Greece as illustrating that
there is no discharge in the “cold
war”: , . „
“With a relatively friendly
Yugoslavia now on Greece’s
border, with Albania cut off
from direct communication with
the rest of the Communist pack,
the possibility of a swift success-
ful Red thrust to the jEgean has
been greatly diminished. Never-
theless, as the U.N.O. committee
points out, the Cominform has
not given up hope of subjugat-
ing the Greeks. In Hungary,
Albania, Bulgaria, Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Rumania
organisations are maintained to
overthrow the Greek Govern-
ment by force; guerrilla agents
are trained in Eastern and Cen-
tral Europe and dispatched into
Greece for this purpose.”
U.N.O. Watchdogs.
London “Economist” has paid
the considerable compliment to
U.N.O. of declaring that half
the battle in Korea was won
when it was established within
the first week who had begun it.
If, it points out, United
Nations observers had not been
present to report what they had
seen all along the frontier of the
two Koreas between June 9 and


TO BE AUCTIONED,
SATURDAY, 241 h NOVEMBER—3 P.M.
“The ANCHORAGE,”
73 PARK STREET, WEST ST. KILDA, MELBOURNE.
THIS ARCHITECTURAL BRICK HOME
mm
3 minutes popular beach, 15 minutes Melbourne, Home consists of
5 Bedrooms, Lounge, Dining Room, Sunroom, etc., Tiled Bathroom
and Kitchen, Electric Hot Water, Gas Fire, Wall to Wall Carpets
and other Floor Coverings, Curtains and Light Fittings, Telephone,
Concrete Paths, Brick Garage. All Main Rooms are beautifully
textured.
IMMEDIATE VACANT POSSESSION
Inspection by Appointment:
CHAMBERS & GARFIELD,
390 Chapel Street, South Yarra—BJ 4354.
D. BLYTH, 215 Barkly Street, St. Kilda—LA 8808.
The Nation Wants
• • . better power supplies . • • better transport
services... better roads... better housing... more
fuel. • • more hospitals •. . more schools.
These are the advantages we all hope to enjoy in the greater
Australia now being developed. So rich are the natural resources
of our land that all these benefits can definitely be attained. But
to make them realities, great developmental works, now under
way, must be completed as quickly as possible. These projects
will give us the extra power, the improved transport systems,
the adequate supplies of raw materials needed to expand
C?-T
V
- J *t
»
• V
rHj?
S r=
«£L
J*
Australian industry as a whole. Money is needed
to speed this expansion and the 14th Security
Loan will help to provide that money.
What better place could there be for your
savings? Invested in the 14th Security Loan
they will play a part in building the greater
Australia. At the same time they will earn
interest for you payable every six months —
and they will be safe. Repayment in full at
maturity of face value of your Securities is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth. Invest
every pound you can spare in the 14th Security
Loan.
CONVERT YOUR MATURING SECURITIES.
31-% Commonwealth Bonds and Inscribed
Stock repayable on November 15, 1951,
mature on that date and will then cease earn-
ing interest. If you hold any of these Securities,
ensure continuity of the income they bring
you by arranging with your Bank to convert
your holdings into the 14th Security Loan
at once.
3 TASKS FOR EVERY AUSTRALIAN
SAVE MORE... buy only what you really need,
PRODUCE MORE . . . cfoo better job—for yourself
and Australia.
INVEST WISELY...//} the 14th Security Loan,
INVEST FOR SECURITY , . , INVEST IN THE
14* SECURITY
LOAN
LOAN FACTS: (1) The Loan will provide for conversion of 3f% Securities maturing
on November 15, 1951, and help to pay for public works and services of the Common-
wealth and the States. (2) Bonds or Inscribed Stock may be purchased for cash or by
instalments through any Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker. (3) 11-14
Year Securities will bear interest at per annum. 3-Year Securities will bear interest
at 2% per annum. (4) Minimum subscription for 11-14 Year Securities is £lO of Bonds
or £lOO of Inscribed Stock. Investors who already hold £lOO of Stock may subscribe
£lO or more. For 3-Year Securities the minimum subscription is £l,OOO of Bonds or
Inscribed Stock. (5) Interest will be paid every six months. (6) Repayment in full at
maturity of face value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
MSLI9.I4J
23, 1950, the Communist insist-
ence that Americans and South
Koreans had begun the fighting
would have been less effectively
answered after June 25.
What frustrated the aggressor
then, it suggests, might well
frustrate him again, and “a
world desperately in need of
peace would do well to examine
and adopt every technique
which offers hope of making
war less likely.”
The stationing of trained
observers, drawn from many
nations, along threatened
frontiers and in disputed
territories, it further states, has
been developed in the last three
years as a wholly new technique.
“Such observers are hardly
needed where the threat to peace
takes the form of a full-scale
attack by a major Power. A
chain of United Nations
observation posts along the Elbe
would neither deter the Polit-
buro from ordering the Red
Army to march, nor would it be
needed to show the world where
the blame for a conflict in this
area lay. But in the immediate
future a major war is more
likely to begin in a less direct
way. It might result from the
extension of a relatively small
conflict at a point of friction
between the Communist and the
free worlds, or from the use of
one of Russia’s satellites to stage
another aggression by proxy on
the model of Korea.
“In either of these cases there
is much to be gained from the
presence at the danger-point of
a group of men capable of
evaluating signs of military
preparation, experienced i n
making objective reports, and
drawn from so many different
nations that their joint verdict
could not be dismissed as a
partisan view—except of course
by the Communists and their
friends, who will dismiss any-
thing.
“It would be too much to
hope that the presence of
observers would actually pre-
vent an aggression that had been
deliberately decided upo n—
though on occasion it might do
so. The real purpose that
observers can serve is to prevent
any division of opinion, based
upon conflicting versions of the
facts, in the free countries and
therefore to encourage them to
present a united front against
the aggression. Thus they
would indirectly have a
deterrent effect.”
Various Voices.
Winston Churchill: “We [the
Conservatives] proclaim that the
State is the servant and not the
master of the people. We reject
altogether the Socialist concep-
tion of a division of society be-
tween officials and the common
mass. We repudiate their policy
of levelling down to a minimum
uniformity, above which only
politicians and their agents may
rise. We stand for the increas-
ingly higher expression of the
individual independence.”
Anthony Eden: “We must
reach a joint plan with our
American and French friends on
which to found a Middle East
policy. I have been urging this
for years past. Unless it is done
confusion and recrimination be-
tween friends, with all the
attendant risks, are all too
likely.”
General Eisenhower {on
Middle East policy): “Our own
self-interest demands we take
cognisance of the Moslem world,
its legitimate aspirations, and
try to help out from Dakar to
Mindanao. We are trying to
co-operate. We are not trying
to dominate anyone. I do not
see how else we can hold true
that our doctrine is not imperial-
ism. We want to co-operate,
not struggle against them.”
R.A .F. Marshal, Lord
Trenchard: “Because of the
devastating load that the modern
bomber can carry I do not think
we shall ever again see the 1000-
bomber raids of the last war.
One aircraft today can inflict as
much damage as 200 in the past.
We must rid ourselves of the
idea that numerical strength is a
determining factor. We in the
British Empire have always
fought against great numbers. If
we should ever come to believe
that numbers alone count we
should no longer be a great
nation. It is the spirit that
matters, a belief in your ideals
and in yourselves.”
President Truman: “I am
afraid that some people, here [in
the U.S.] and abroad, believe
that the creation of armed
forces must inevitably lead to
war. This is not the case. We
do not think that war is inevit-
able. We believe that the crea-
tion of defences will make war
less likely. So long, as one coun-
try has the power and the forces
to overwhelm others, and so
long as that country has aggres-
sive intentions, real peace is
unattainable. We saw the folly
of weakness in the days of
Hitler. Our strength will make
for peace.”
Greek Prime Minister
Sophocles Venizelos (on the in-
vitation to his country to join
the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganisation) : “It is for us a great
relief to know that we are to
participate in a defensive
organisation to which belong so
many countries animated by the
same ideals of peace, justice and
democracy and by the same de-
termination to safeguard their
independence. For we believe,
more than ever in these troubled
times, that no other policy than
collective security can preserve
humanity from the evils of
war.”
General Omar N. Bradley,
chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff ; “I do not hold
with those persons who contend
that out of the moral im-
poverishment of war mankind
derives no lasting good. From
these frontline soldiers in Korea
may finally come the real values
and guideposts for tomorrow’s
world. Soldiers, sailors and air-
men the world over, if asked
what part military preparedness
must play in the greater strength
of tomorrow’s world, would
promptly answer: Enough
strength to deter the aggression
of those who would violate
peace and enough collective
strength among free men to de-
fend the principles and the
nations we build, if those prin-
ciples and those homelands are
attacked.”
T u r k i s h statesman Fuat
Koprulu: “Neutralism is a
Utopian dream of another era.
In any future war the non-Com-
munist world will either sec total
victory or total defeat. Neu-
trality would merely mean ob-
taining the privilege of being
gobbled up last. Total solidarity
in the non-Communist world is
the only answer. Any breach in
the collective security wall is a
sign of weakness and invites
aggression.”


mm
m
am
h/UvuM/#^
f WHAT / WANT TO KNOW IS
what's behind this change
OF MIND
>OF
YOURS!
V
N
/2f
4
a
Si
YOU'D CHANGE YOUR Ml
’TOO IF SOMEONE YOU LOVEP <
HAP BAD BREATH.FRED.
why don't you see S
your dentist!)
fP-SP*ff-S K'S.C'ENTIST
[COLGATE D£NTAL CREAM CLEANS,
'YOUR BREATH WH/LE/T
NOUR TEETH AND THE COLGATE WAY)
\OE BRUSH/NC YOUR TEETH R/GHT\
AFTER EAT/H 6
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST,
d
fd
BRUSH/NG MY TEETH >
THE COL6A TE WAY HAS MAPE
ME A HAPPY MAN
v TODAY
V
(T
&
0
&
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST !
fAosi thoroughly proved and accepted home
method of oral hygiene known today.
Yes, and two years’ research
showed the Colgate way
stopped more decay for more |
people than ever before re-
ported in dentifrice history!
No other dentifrice offers
such proof the most con-
clusive proof ever reported
for a dentifrice of any type,
Buy the Big Family Economy Size.
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
V' WHILE YOU CLEAN VOURTEETH
and help stop tooth <
DECAY BEST
1
America's largest. Australia's largest, the World's largest selling dental cream
TQQCH *'
Sp.cialW
j
cutting and *
W ear. extra mileag •
klft of sUpeT Ra V o n cord
srU ' Se ' te u^r 9 thaV» *P ec ' a ' W
an<l V, tor stamina.
toughened to
job
f
HI-MILER BlB—Tor tout
fast hauls on Implored road
surfaces.
HI-MILER ALL-WEATHER—
Recommended whererer
greater traction Is needed.
HI-MILER
TRUCK and BUS TYRES
BY
good/year
Performance records of Hi-Milers Have proved to
thousands of truck and bus operators all oyer Aus-
tralia that these famous Goodyear Tyres give most
for the money in mileage and trouble-free service.
Let these tough Hi-Milers keep your vehicles moving,
reduce delays and cut your tyre costs to a minimum.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR YOUR JOBI
ioax-m
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
"Some factory-workers use up
working-time to go and have a drink
at the local pub.” —Sydney “D.T.”
Leaving their work go to pot.
+ 4* +
“Blackmarketeers are making up to
£2OOO a week in potatoes in Sydney.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
That’s really something out of
the bag!
4* 4* 4*
“Women’s morale demands sheer
stockings and blow the expense.”
■—Psychologist Miss Edith Bothwell.
Never mind; they often give
her a run for her money.
“Some ratings in R.N. carrier
H.M.S. Glory want to do some volun-
tary work on an Australian farm
during their leave here.”
Union bosses will wish them
to Glory.
How to Be a Wit.
The Muse of Wit should always
dress in thought:
The more she wears the loftier
her cause,
The less the more attractive, but
she ought
Never to pose unclad to earn
applause.
Now gently swing the scalpel,
brother-wits,
For where will cruel jesting
ever get us ?
Hard laughter cackles easily,
but it’s
The ease which doth so
sinfully beset us.
Before your razor-wit shaves off
the airs
Of vain, well-meaning folk at
clubs and dinners,
Strop, look and listen {to the
wits) for there’s
The set which doth so easily
be sinners.
A tender tip for wits to bear in
mind:
The proper study of mankind is
kind.
NEIL MILLAR.
Experiment.
It was only a small part I had
in our amateur play. As a brow-
beaten clerk I was to incur the
wrath of the fiery-tempered boss
of an importing house, who
would fire me and then, free of
the shackles, I would give him
some home-truths I had long
bottled up.
Now, I like to get things just
right. Never having been sacked
before, at least not by the fiery-
tempered boss of an importing
house, I was determined to get
the right atmosphere. So I took
one day off from my regular job
and got a position as salesman
(exp.) in the furnishing depart-
ment of a city store.
My first customer was a large
woman with a prognathous jaw
and a basilisk eye. She was
accompanied by a small
apologetic-looking man and a
revoltingly fat boy of about
eight who was eating an all-day
sucker. I thought I might as well
make this customer the cause of
the sudden and, I hoped, stormy
termination of my services.
“Well, Mum,” I began, “how’s
the body this morning? What
can we do you for?”
Apparently she was
immersed in the lounge-suites
over which she was sweeping a
critical eye, for she rapped
out: “Are these the best you’ve
got?”
I looked at her calmly. “Ah,
we’ve got Lady Muck here,” I
barked. “Nothing’s good enough
for her. I suppose if the truth’s
known you live in a dump. Let
me tell you that some of those
suites are built a damn’ sight
better than you are, though they
mayn’t be as big.”
“I beg your pardon”
“Don’t beg you’re beefy
enough to work.”
“I didn’t come here to be
insulted. I came here to see
some suites, and I demand to be
shown some!”
“Where do you get this
‘demand’ stuff?” I asked acidly.
“Who do you think you’re talk-
ing to —your husband? If I feel
like showing you a suite I will,
not otherwise.”
“Asleep again. Miss Quilty !”
I turned then at the sound of
springs being tortured. It was
the fat boy standing on one of
the suites and bouncing up and
down.
“Get off that, you blasted
quarter-wit,” X roared, “or I’ll
give you a good boot in the slats!
And don’t get dribbling that
sucker all over the place—look
at the mess you’re making!” 1
shoved him off the suite, grabbed
his all-day sucker from him and
tossed it out the window.
As he started bawling his
mother rushed across to him.
“Basil, my darling!” she shrieked.
“What did he do to my pet?”
She turned to me. “You brute!”
she cried. “Hitting a defenceless,
innocent boy”
“Can that tripe!” I cut in.
“Come into the store if you
must, but there’s no need to
curse everybody with the
presence of a brat who obviously
has the geniality of a black
snake and the manners of a
Hottentot,”
“Of all the impertinence”
“Well, if you don’t like it you
know what to do—it’s all one to
me.
“Henry”—she turned to her
husband —“are you going to
stand there and let me be insulted
like”
I laughed brutally. “Listen,
sister,” I said “He might have
once been constituted a hero
when he married, but life with a
battle-axe like you must have
reduced his intestinal fortitude
to the proportions of the
contents of a lady’s wrist-watch.
If he’d had any guts he’d have
walked out on you years ago.”
I looked around. I couldn’t
see the departmental-manager
about, so I raised my voice.
“Now, cut the cackle,” I
went on. “If you want a lounge-
suite, make up what you flatter
by calling your mind. That one
in the loud-colored moquette on
the right should suit your taste.
With your weight, though, you’d
probably go through it in a
month. That suite behind
you in the fawn fabric is fifty-
four quid, the cheapest we’ve
got. That one right in
front of you at a hundred
and ten quid is our most expen-
sive suite. It’s Elizabethan —the
same period as that dress you’re
wearing.”
I looked around, confidently
expecting the trump to come
raging up and give me a chance
of a good full-dress rehearsal of
my part.
Then a strange thing hap-
pened. My first —and what I
naturally assumed must be my
last —customer bent on me a
look that was as coy as a face
like hers could manage to
conjure, said “Henry, go over
and have a good look at that
Elizabethan suite,” and, sidling
over to me, said in a low voice:
“I’ve never been spoken to like
that before in my life. I think
I like it. What did you say your
name was?”
Just then the departmental-
manager came up and the
customer said “It’s all right,
Henry, I’ve decided on the
Elizabethan. I like the arms —
they'll be a perfect match for
the door-knobs. Thank you so
much.”
A few seconds after the three
had departed and I was be-
wilderingly waiting for the sound
of anger from the manager that
never came, Henry rushed back,
grabbed my hand and began
pumping it.
“Thank you, thank you, for
telling her off like that,” he said
—and there was admiration in
his shining eyes. “I’d never be
game enough to do it. It was
magnificent. It will remain a
wonderful memory with me all
my life!” Then: “Coming, my
love,” he sang out in answer to
a call he alone heard, and
bolted.
It was then that the manager,
saying he had seen it all, con-
gratulated me on what he called
a “New technique in aggressive
salesmanship, which could if
adopted more widely do much
to break down the present un-
fortunate trend to strong buyer-
resistance, especially among
difficult women.”
Bo.
Bacterial Warfare.
“It is a pretty pass when the Egyp-
tians can claim the victory of Alamein,
the only battle still left to us by
Errol Flynn.”— Lord Mancroft.
Forget your claims, you Gyppos
who
Yelped round the muzzled
lion’s tail,
Slink off, or you may live to rue
Encounter with the paws that
flail.
Now he is both aroused and
free.
What makes you think that
you are brave
And sprung from Pharaohs?
Could they see
Your type they’d turn within
the grave.
Fret not that we should ask you
now
To be more modest and resign
All boastful claims describing
how
You turned the day at
Alamein.
You’ll have your chance in
future years
If Mars, alas, Should loose the
dogs
Of war, and man sees what he
fears —
Grim conflicts fought and won
by wogs.
D. H. E.


established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Skipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
'JACKSOM*
o'suiwm*
mm
Bin'S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Vat son, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
CINZANO
Sweet
or
& Dry
&
'm
d
IB'6
30'-
S6'6
There’s a
GEM
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined
chrome set, complete with stropper,
or a less pretentious set, you are
assured of the same keen shave. The
super-keen Gem blades of surgical
steel and the automatic shaving angle
of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with
automatic stropper, as illustrated above,
complete with 8 Gem Double Life
Blades, in ivory plastic gift case 56/6.
• Gem chromium-plated streamline model
in handsome case of ivory plastic with
5 Gem Double Life Blades, 30/-.
• Gem nickel-plated Razor with two Gem
Double Life Blades in serviceable plastic
case, 2/-.
• Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated,
13/6 each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of
sturdy, surgical steel last longer, shave
keener, 2/4.
Obtainable at all Stores, Jewellers, Tobacco-
nists and Chemists.
2
2'4
GEM
f life
SLADES
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
Sydney, MeiDourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Viewed in retrospect it all seems so
perfectly simple. What possible more
obvious choice for the best race of
the Australian turf than quite the
best recently-performed horse in the
field, assessed by the handicapper as
the best horse in the field and ridden
by a jockey currently enjoying a
remarkable run of success? Yes,
Delta was the obvious pick—in retro-
spect.
However, viewing matters from the
other side of the first Tuesday in
November it took, as it always takes,
considerable faith, hope, and not a
little charity, to back the topweight in
a Melbourne Cup, for, in winning
with topweight of 9.5, Delta joins a
very exclusive company.
The first horse to win with top-
weight was Archer when he won the
second (and his second) Melbourne
Cup with 10.2 in 1862. Then there
was a break of nearly 30 years before
Carbine registered the greatest win of
them all when he scored with 10.5
against a record field in 1890.
Another 30 years passed before No. 1
again went up in the semaphore —
Poitrel, with 10st., in 1920. Ten
years more saw Phar Lap win with
9.12 in 1920. Since then No. 1 has
been in the frame on four occasions;
for Peter Pan (9.10) in 1934; Russia
(9st.) in 1946; Comic Court (9.5) last
year, and now Delta.
Without wishing to stir up the
never-ending arguments concerning
horses of today and those of yester-
year, surely there is some significance
in the relative facts that in the first
60 years of Melbourne Cup history
only three topweights were able to
win, while a like number have been
successful in the past six years.
In discussing prospects for the
spring handicaps present observer
shied off Delta because of a doubt
as to his ability to do his best under
handicap conditions. Actually Delta
had only twice tackled open handi-
caps, finishing fifth in the Melbourne
Cup as a three-year-old and failing
badly in the Metrop. as a four-year-
old. However, by tackling the two
same events this season, and winning
each handsomely under topweight.
Delta has most thoroughly dispelled
any such doubts. It should be added
that since the race was established in
1866 only three horses have won the
Metrop. carrying bigger weights than
Delta’s 9.5; they were The Barb with
9.10 in 1868, Abercorn (9.7) in 1889
and Rebus (9.10) in 1919.
The 1951 Melbourne Cup is, at all
events, now history, though sufficiently
recent history to keep keen “his-
torians” still busy chewing matters
over. The favorite, Morse Code,
admittedly might have won if he
hadn’t fallen just when making a very
promising run. And try falling just
when and where he did Morse Code
undoubtedly may have affected the
chances of some other runners. The
New Zealander Akbar, who finished
second, Double Blank (3rd) and this
page’s selection, Grey Boots (6th), all
may have finished even closer than
they did if they had not drawn so
very wide out in the big field that
faced the starter. However, the
bookies don’t pay out on “ifs”; the
result on which they did pay out, just
to put it on record, was; A. Sasser’s
five-year-old brown horse Delta,
ridden by N. Sellwood and trained by
M. McCarten, first; N. J. Hamilton’s
six-year-old chestnut gelding Akbar,
ridden by H. N. Wiggins, second;
N. Spencer and G. Lewis’s six-year-
old black gelding Double Blank (W.
Pyers), third.
As mentioned here at length last
week, Delta was bred at Kia-Ora Stud
(N.S.W.), and is yet another topnotch
winner produced by the tremendously
successful notion of mating Mid-
stream with Magpie mares. Gazza,
the dam of aptly-named Delta, is a
daughter of Magpie and Tressova, by
Tressady. According to figures pre-
pared by the Bloodhorse Breeders’
Association, sons and daughters of
Magpie mares, some 50 of them in
all, last season won £60,059 in stakes.
That figure should be exceeded this
season, with the splendid start con-
tributed already by Delta and Hydro-
gen alone. Cup runner-up Akbar is
a New Zealand-bred son of Nizami-
Pedile. Double Blank, by Blank from
Starr Faithful, is a full brother to
Chicqujta.
With the first seven horses past the
post (the others were Basha Felika,
Hydrogen and Toastmaster) all
visitors, and the first five of them
ridden by visiting jockeys, the Cup
rather painfully epitomised the meet-
ing as a whole—and for that matter
all the principal Melbourne spring
racing. The only important races
won by Melbourne horses were the
Oaks, W. S. Cox Plate and C. B.
Fisher Plate. Visitors won, among
other events, the Caulfield, Moonee
Valley and Melbourne Cups, the Caul-
field Guineas and the Derby, the
Toorak Handicap, Wakeful Stakes,
Maribyrnong Plate, L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes, Mimosa Stakes and
Batman Stakes. In 21 flat races
decided over four days of the V.R.C.
spring meeting, Sydney jockeys rode
14 winners, 10 seconds and five thirds.
With such leading locals as
Breasley, Williamson, Hutchinson and
Heather off the scene it was under-
standable that the strong contingent
of Sydney riders should have had the
pick of mounts available and a whale
of a good time altogether. However,
the complete eclipse of Melbourne
horses was a different matter, and
rather disconcerting. Races were won
by horses from New South Wales,
South Australia, West Australia and
Queensland, and among them they
trounced the Victorian horses soundly
in almost every department. It will
certainly surprise if the success of the
present contingent of visitors is not
strongly reflected in the treatment
accorded them by the handicapper
next time they loom on the horizon.
Success of Lady Havers in the
£3500 Oaks Stakes was the most
important win chalked up by local
talent during the V.R.C. meeting.
Even so Lady Havers was ridden by
Sydney jockey A. Ward. Lady
Havers, after being well back at the
turn, secured a lucky run along the
rails, and rattled home in great style
to just pip La Castana. Winner of
the Wakeful Stakes, La Castana tried
to lead all the way, and to fail by
only a half-head to win such a race
as the Oaks in that fashion was a
performance of merit.
An oddity of the Oaks was that
Lady Havers is a half-sister to
Carbon Copy, and Gay Comedy, who
finished third, is a full-sister to Comic
Court. At the same meeting three
years ago, reversing the positions,
Comic Court finished first and Carbon
Copy third in the Derby.
The Le Grand Due five-year-old
Iron Duke, after failing in the Mac-
kin non Stakes on Derby day and
being withdrawn from the Cup, kept
the local flag flying for a while on
Oaks day when he easily defeated
Oversight and Ellerslie in the mile
Linlithgow Stakes. However, any-
thing the books paid out over that
win they comfortably recouped when
Iron Duke, solidly backed at 11 to 4,
declined to take any part in Satur-
day’s 12-furlongs C. B. Fisher Plate.
In the absence of the Duke, Derby
runner-up Bronton scored a sound win
over Aristocrat and Hoyle.
Had it been possible to sec the
fields for the C. B. Fisher Plate and
the V.R.C. Handicap (14f.) parade
together, punters who fancy a bit of
size shouldn’t have found it difficult
to pick the winning double. Bronton
is an exceptionally tall colt, and the
Irish-bred importation Hampden
Park, a huge fellow, literally stood
head and shoulders above the opposi-
tion in the V.R.C. Handicap. Hamp-
den Park was even more conspicuous
at the finish of the race —four lengths
clear of Calchas and Toastmaster.
Bronton and Hampden Park repre-
sented a double for jockey J. Purtell,
who, until then, had had a pretty
lean time over the meeting.
* * * *
Attendance at Canterbury on Satur-
day was well up to standard at 21,000,
but tote turnover was considerably
below par as a result of several very
small fields. There were only four
runners in the Juvenile for fillies and
“ We've got a stowaway!"
five in a corresponding event for
colts; half-a-dozen runners turned out
for the Flying and eight for the
Canterbury Park Handicap. With
the host of good spring meetings just
done with, it is not surprising that
fields for main events should be a
little sparse just now, but recalling
the 750 youngsters catalogued at the
last Sydney yearling sales it is difficult
to comprehend why races worth £550-
odd to the winners, £l4O to the
seconds and £7O to the thirds should
attract such miserable fields as Satur-
day’s. It is a fair comment on the
alleged “crying need” for midweek
metropolitan racing of which we hear
so much.
As it happened, such Sydney
owners and trainers as did patronise
Saturday’s meeting didn’t have par-
ticular success. A tribe of Novo-
castrians descended upon Canterbury
and proceeded to clean-up four of
the eight events. Newcastle trainer
K. Tinson, who has brought off a
host of successful plunges on Sydney
courses, won the Flying with Warrah
King (J. Tinson) and the second
Ashbury Mixed with Ilkley Moor (M.
Maynard). Also hailing from the
coal city, owner-trainer A. B. Cald-
well took the Juvenile for fillies with
Cala Tasse (B. Smith) and the Welter
(7|f.) with Perfect Chatter, who has
been set for the Villiers.
The 13-furlongs Campsie Mixed
was marked by another of those
remarkable incidents commented on
here only a couple of weeks back,
wherein a horse suddenly simply pulls
up in the middle of a race and yet
is apparently suffering no physical
injury. The horse in this case was
the close second-favorite Moamac, a
winner at his previous start. Stewards
investigated, though didn’t, so far as
was revealed in their report, order a
veterinary examination or swabbing.
Explanations were accepted all round,
but it was advised that in future a
stronger rider should be engaged for
the horse —presumably to carry him
home if need be. Lady Pickwick
(R. Buckley) won the Campsie Mixed
comfortably from favorite Audacious.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Kindergarten Stakes: Unburden, 1;
Celebrated, 2; Miss Macrae, 3.
Novice: Le Frere, 1; Audacious, 2;
Hazard, 3. Junior Stakes: Tamahere,
1; Hamad, 2; Headstockman, 3.
Horsley Handicap: Zetland, 1; Bank-
b'rook, 2; Ragazza, 3. Narellan
Handicap: Belshazzar, 1; Mercury,
2; Lloric, 3. Milperra Handicap:
Jan, 1 ; Golden Bird, 2; Golden
Brew, 3. Leumeah Handicap; Mam-
rack, I; Silverjax, 2; Perform, 3.
* * * *
The tide of battle, the fortunes of
war and the luck of the game fluc-
tuated pretty rapidly during the open-
ing days of the first Test v. West
Indies at Brisbane. The visitors won
the toss and batted first on a pitch
which was as good as it was ever
going to be in the duration of the
match.
Opening for the tourists, Rae and
Stollmeyer had their first experience
of the really fast bowling which, pos-
sibly, more than any other factor,
has been responsible for Australian
domination of post-war cricket. They
inspected the secret weapon gingerly,
and quickly showed that they didn’t
care for it in the least; Rae for a
duck, Stollmeyer for eight. Nor did
any of those who followed the
openers dwell for long. Worrell and
Weekes, of the famed “three W’s,”
contributed 37 and 35 respectively,
but their third member, Walcott, fell
to Lindwall for a duck. Skipper God-
dard, as good skippers so frequently
do when their side is in trouble, top-
scored with 45, and the West Indians
were all out for 216, Lindwall took
4 for 62.
It looked an auspicious beginning
from the Australian viewpoint, but
going io then the locals took their
first look at the West Indians’ spin
attack, and, on a pitch sympathetic to
such bowling, found it quite as un-
palatable as the fast stuff had been
to the visitors. With Ramadhin plug-
ging away to keep one end thoroughly
bottled, Valentine had the Australian
bats in strife galore until Lindwall and
iMiller decided to put an end to the
nonsense. Attacking instead of treat-
ing the bowling with the sort of fear-
ful respect one would normally reserve
for a taipan, Miller knocked up 46
and Lindwall topscored for the side
with 61. Back in the pavilion a
group of reputed batsmen hung their
heads in proper shame.
Australia, then, was all out for 226,
a first-innings lead of only 10, and
with the Australians to have last use
of a wearing pitch the tide seemed
to have swung back to favor the
visitors. However, in the time left
for play on Saturday they lost the
valuable wickets of Rae, Stollmeyer,
Worrell and Goddard, and it was four
for a mere 88 at stumps.
* * * *
A N. Y. “Herald-Tribune” head-
line which caught the eye recently for
a moment rocked a British soul to
its very foundations:
“Englishman Predicts Baseball will
oust Cricket as No. 1 Sport.”
The Englishman in question, one
F. R. J. Clemas, was quoted as
declaring:
“Baseball will be Britain’s No. I
summer sport within a few years.
County cricket gets progressively
slower and duller every year. I know,
because I watch it. The crowds are
getting smaller every season.”
Then it transpired Mr. Clemas is
chairman of the Wokingham Mon-
archs baseball club.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
OU-M-Ol
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G P. 0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
r-
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
d
£3B/10/-
-f- 12£% sales tax
*
BW 8631.
Every Farmer needs a
J.G.A.
Knapsack
Spray
Well made from copper sheeting and gun-
metal castings the J.C.A. Knapsack Spray
is also an effective fire-fighting outfit.
Price (F.O.R. Brisbane) £l2/10/-
(Lead coated—22/- extra)
Fittings available include:
• Flame Throwing Attachment . . £5/10/-
• Trigger Release Valve 19/6
• Double Cyclone Nozzle 18/6
If not available locally write direct
Manufacturers and Distributors:
J.C.A. Products Pty. Ltd., Brisbane.
Queensland Distributors:
The Australian Estates Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
Goldsbrough Mort & Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
Distributors for Victoria and Riverina;
The Australian Estates Co. Ltd., Melbourne.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
No More Cheap Fences.
“Mananos”: Those who be-
lieve that myxomatosis will
solve the rabbit problem are as
gullible as those who won’t buy
netting because of some vain
belief that it will suddenly be-
come cheaper and easier to get.
Both will get a rude shock
when the rabbits really get
going.
The past four years have been
generally good seasons. Though
the rabbit population has
increased in many districts their
effects have not been noticed
because of the heavy growth of
grass. But once the country
dries off we will be faced with a
rabbit plague and be unable to
obtain necessary netting, wire,
etc., for protection.
In spite of increased prices for
netting, etc., we do not have to
grow nearly as much wool to
buy a mile of imported netting
as we used to grow in 1939 to
buy a mile of Australian netting,
when no one considered the
Australian product excessive in
cost. As an executive of
Rylands pointed out recently, we
have no hope of obtaining Aus-
tralian fencing materials for
four/five years in anything like
full requirements. He advised
all who could to obtain the
imported.
There is strong indication that
the price of wool reached its
peak last year, and henceforth
we must accept prices more in
accordance with wool’s true
value,, which means that the time
to obtain materials is while
prices for wool are fairly high.
In the main the cost of fencing
can be offset against taxation.
The damage that rabbits may
do while we foolishly wait for
cheaper fencing materials will
far overcome any supposed sav-
ing we may make, and in the
end people will be forced to
realise that they’ve fed rabbits
for several years and then had
to pay even more for fencing
material. What with the climb-
ing basic wage and general
upward trend of costs and down-
ward trend of supplies of
materials, even locally-made wire
may become in a short time as
dear as imported stuff is today.
Overseas freights jumped in
November, internal freights are
rising, which makes the follow-
ing facts important :
At present there is available
from woolbrokers and other
reputable importers stocks of all
fencing materials which were
imported recently. Owing to fall-
ing-off in demand many of the
firms who dealt in fencing
materials have decided not to
import on their own account
further supplies, so that when
the present stocks are exhausted
there will be very little available
foi early delivery.
Practically all orders from
Australia overseas for the goods
have ceased, and many of the
mills in Europe who supplied
Australia have closed their
books against further orders and
are going over to the production
of other wire products, particu-
larly for the defence departments
of Western Europe.
Overseas prices for steel pro-
ducts are not dropping; are
actually hardening. Increased
handling costs and increased
freights will make their effects
felt in no uncertain manner
shortly. There can be no relief
from taxation unless a miracle
occurs, also the increased
demand for local steel products
for defence will, make com-
modities for the countryman
scarcer than ever, so that the
present relatively high return
from wool should be utilised to
the very best advantage instead
of being allowed to be gobbled
up by taxation, or dissipated in
other ways.
Are Short Legs Good?
“Oxo”: Colonel H. F. White,
of Bald Blair, Guyra (N.S.W.),
holds that “low to the ground”
has become a fetish with some
British beef breeders, yet, unless
it could be shown that it was
linked genetically with some
other major desirable charac-
teristic, it had no usefulness in
itself.
White asks “Is shortness of
leg linked genetically with depth
and thickness of body? If not
why worry with that extra
characteristic, which just com-
plicates the breeding programme,
and in any case limits locomo-
tion.”
Surely it is depth of body
which is required. That in itself
creates a comparative shortness
of leg.
Scientists say that the embryo
develops from the head back,
and from the feet up ; breeders
talk of a beast “letting down,”
but in Nutrition and Physical
Degeneration, Dr. Weston Price
has shown that development of
the frame or skeleton depended
on nutrition; if the nutritional
level dropped, the true genetical
potential did not develop. Dr.
Price found that receding chin
(undershot jaw in animals) was
.EiE.F cl| |
\ pj
“Better put y'r coat on—it looks like a posh affair
caused by poor nutrition, and
many like happenings. Dr.
Hazedoorn has warned breeders
not to work on too many charac-
teristics —the fewer the better.
Colonel White recalled that
Merino sheep in Australia
passed through a phase where
most breeders linked “wrinkle”
with “fine wool,” and bred for
wrinkle, thinking that it would
conduce to wool fineness; they
produced a monstrosity. When
“quality” was the fashion in
Jersey cattle, the result was an
undersized animal unsuited to
environment. Commenting on
his many show successes with
Bald Blair steers Colonel White
said the fat steer was the ultimate
aim of the beef-cattle industry,
and he had always been a steer
brgeder; that ultimate aim had
always been his guide—not show
fads and fancies.
Fleece Characteristics.
“Archaps”: Speaking on work
done on fleece characteristics,
H. B. Carter, of the Wool
Biology Laboratory, Sydney,
said that in the past 10 years the
quantitative use of histological
sections of skin for studies of
the hair follicle and fibre popu-
lation had advanced consider-
ably, and today was regarded as
an accepted and valuable addi-
tion to available techniques for
research on the biology of hair-
growth in general, and of the
fleece of sheep in particular.
The hair follicle group in
sheep consisted typically, but not
exclusively, of a basic group of
three primary and a variable
number of secondary follicles.
The primary follicles were estab-
lished first during the develop-
ment of the lamb in the womb
of the ewe, and they tended to
be arranged in groups of three,
consisting of one early-formed
central primary and two later-
formed lateral primary follicles.
Although there might sometimes
be fewer, there were never more
than three primary follicles per
group, all distinguished by cer-
tain accessory structures. So
far as could be judged at pre-
sent, the pattern of events in the
hair follicle group during pre-
natal development was the same
in all sheep, regardless of breed
or species, but approximately
twice as many secondary fibres
had formed at birth in the
Merino as in most other
domestic sheep breeds.
Using the skin itself, the hair
follicle group could be used to
study and, in many cases, mea-
sure differences in the following
important characters: (a) fol-
licle and fibre population
density; ( b ) relative numbers of
primary and secondary follicles ;
(c) relative thickness of primary
and secondary fibres ; ( d) varia-
tions in thickness of fleece
staple ; (<?) average fibre thick-
ness ; if) incidence of medullated
or “hairy” fibres; (g) shedding
and regeneration of fibres ; (h)
incidence of pigmented fibres ;
(/) number and character of
skin glands associated with the
follicles. Many fleece changes
due to environmental factors
could be understood only if the
nature of the hair-follicle group
in the skin was fully appreciated.
Geneticists’ Holiday.
“D.D.”: Dr. M. C. Franklin,
principal research officer of the
C.5.1.R.0., said that F. B. Mor-
rison, a world authority on
nutrition and author of Feeds
and Feeding, had reported that
geneticists in the Argentine
could take a 50 years’ holiday
until the nutritional house there
had been put in order. The same
thing applied to Australia.
Dr. Franklin said that drought-
feeding of sheep was Australia’s
top problem, the handling of
which would determine who
would control Australia in 100
years’ time. He said that 44,720
million pounds of feed was re-
quired to support all Australia’s
livestock on a drought-level (or
survival) feeding basis for 12
months. The fodder conserved
today totalled only 4400 million
pounds. Taking out the poultry
and pig requirements of 1630
million pounds left but 2770
million pounds for sheep, cattle
and horses, sufficient for only 22
days of drought-feeding.
Australia, where droughts are a
normal occurrence, must develop
a national fodder-conservation
policy. Graziers should become
fodder-conscious, and in good
seasons should grow and con-
serve fodder so that in a dry
time they wouldn’t have to go
on the open market and compete
with everybody else for the feed
available. With the knowledge
of drought-feeding now avail-
able no grazier need pay high
prices for fodder.
Good Spraying.
“Big Billy”: The success of
orchard spraying depends on the
weather. A cool, calm day is
ideal, wet weather can impair
the efficacy of the spray, sprays
applied on windy days may be
partially ineffective. If rain falls
soon after an application the
interval to the next spray should
be shortened.
The outfit must maintain a
firm pressure and give a fine
mist of minute droplets. A
spray with a coarse nozzle is
likely to give incomplete pro-
tection. Vats should have
efficient agitators to keep the
mixture well stirred. Gear is
inefficient if unclean. Remove
all residues from the equipment
after use and if the kind of spray
is being changed pump parts and
measuring utensils should be
carefully washed.
Most important is timing.
Periods should be spaced to give
optimum protection. If a previ-
ous programme has failed it may
have been because applications
were not frequent enough to
maintain the required protec-
tion during the period the pest
was at its worst. Timing is also
governed by rate of crop-growth.
Where plants are coming on
rapidly intervals between appli-
cations must be short.
As spray materials have been
known to fail see that they are
handled with care, stored in dry
containers and applied immedi-
ately they have been mixed. If
chemicals are carried over from
one season to another check that


RENOVATIONS
EXTENSIONS ALTERATIONS
TAINTING AND DECORATION
MODERNISATION OF HOMES
ItfMEDIATE SERVICE
COUNTRY WORK A SPECIALTY
W. E. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
*B4 Whitehorse Road, Balwyn,
Victoria. WF 4561.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
K 9
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
fd
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instai it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman
to instai a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years .
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Digt. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land). 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P, Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm, Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
**Phenovis" Worm Remedy
s
x
m
...fHwait for
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
1C
PHE.7.X.18.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for (a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per
annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or (b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £BO per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or
of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forma of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later
than the 7th January, 1952, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later than the 4th February,
1952, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and
further particulars may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Here's the low-down on the
successful ALL-CROP Harvester
TOP NOTCH SHELLING
This big five-foot cylinder is the heart
of the ALL-CROP Harvester. The long
spiralled rubber-faced cylinder bars
reduce crackage and provide ample
shelling capacity for the heaviest of
crops.
Rubber-against-rubber shell-
ing contacts in the ALL-
CROP Harvester give a
natural shelling action, just as
you rub out a head of grain
in the palm of your hand.
The crop falls on a wide,
rubberised draper and rides
straight to the full-width,
spiral bar cylinder in a thin
stream just as it grew in the
field. Rubber-cushioned
cylinder bars rub out the
grain or seeds against rubber
concaves.
This same gentle handling of
over 100 grains, seeds and
beans makes the- All-Crop
what it is . . . truly an
ALL-CROP Harvester.
AC
ALLIS-CHALMERS
■lf
TRACTOR D I V I S I ON
N.S.W.; Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty, ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA: Mitchell & Co.
Pty. Ltd., Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John Shearer & Sons Pty. ltd., Kilkenny. W. AUST.: Westrallan
Farmers Co-operative Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA; A. S. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
5rCB/ll'
they are still effective before use.
As it is vital to have just the
right quantities in any mixture,
make sure all ingredients are
weighed or measured accurately
and mixed accordingly.
Why Fowls Don’t Lay.
“Bill C”: It is usually the
fault of the owners, but some-
times indifferent laying arises
from old age, the wrong type of
poultry, no greenfeed or dirty
quarters.
Fowls should always be given
as much as they can eat —twice
daily. It is all right to give a
mash in the morning and grain
in the evening. We used to feed
corn, but now use wheat, which
goes a lot further and is just as
good.
Breed or buy some new stock
each year. It is no use keeping
old hens. Hens lay all right up
to two years, but afterwards they
go off, laying intermittently and
not earning their keep. Kill or
sell the roosters with the new
stock as soon as they are recog-
nisable.
White Leghorns, Australorps,
Black Leghorns, Minorcas and
Brown Leghorns axe all good
laying fowls. My experience
with Minorcas is that they are
great layers and do not go
broody readily. But when set
on eggs they stay there and make
good mothers later.
Greenfeed for fowls may
take the form of green grass,
green chaff, silver-beet, lucerne
or the leaves of chili bushes.
The oftener they get it the
better.
Dirty quarters start diseases in
the flock. They also harbor
body-lice and the mites that
cause scaly-leg. If the fowl-
house already contains vermin.
spray it with kerosene emulsion
before attempting to clean out
the refuse. Then spray it again.
Worms in Pigs.
“Nubis”; Dose with pheno-
thiazine as follows: Pigs weigh-
ing 501 b., ioz.; 1001 b., |oz.;
2001 b., foz.; more than 2001 b.,
loz. —all mixed in the food.
Pigs under six weeks should
not be treated. Starve the pigs
overnight and divide them into
groups according to size. Then
treat them in batches. For ex-
ample, mix loz. of the drug with
sufficient food for six of the
smallest (251 b.) pigs; or loz. in
sufficient food for four of the
next size; and so on. Repeat
the treatment in 10 days’ time.
To prevent worms, sties should
be well drained, floors should be
of concrete, droppings should be
removed daily and troughs
should be in good condition to
prevent the animals feeding from
the floor.
Hybrid Maize.
“C.S.”: Maizegrowers ought
to store this away for future
reference, seeing that hybrid is
the coming crop. It comes from
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture :
Allocations of foundation seed
for production this season of
registered hybrid maize seed for
commercial sowings in 1952-53
have just been finalised by the
department.
If the season is favorable, the
area sown should produce
approximately seed enough for
growers to sow 60,000 acres of
commercial maize next year.
Fifty-three registered seed-
growers have been allotted
foundation seed to sow 180
acres of late-maturing Grafton
Experiment Farm hybrids.
Twenty-two growers have been
allotted foundation seed to sow
73 acres of the New England
Experiment Farm early-maturing
hybrids.
Hints for the Farm.
“A.V.G.”: Woolly-aphis (B.
15/8/’51)? A better and easier
method, which I have proved
effective, is to obtain a small
glass-tube containing Aphelinus
male, remove the cotton-wool
and tie the tube to an infected
tree. One tube is sufficient for a
dozen trees as it will move from
tree to tree eliminating every
woolly-aphis. The small insect
attracts the woolly-aphis, laying
its egg in the abdomen, eventu-
ally destroying the aphis. It is
highly specialised and will not
attack anything else. If not
obtainable locally write Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Hobart,
Tasmania, for a tube.
“Dot”: When home diagnosis
failed to locate the cause of a
“cough” in the wireless I called
in the radioman. He explained
that the trouble was in the earth-
ing of the household power-
supply, although the radio was
earthed separately. The seven-
strand copper wire clamped to
the earth pipe was covered with
verdigris and dirt. For safety,
this should be disconnected and
cleaned every six months. It
will help also if it is covered with
insulating-tape or the next best
thing, sticking-plaster, to keep
out the air,
“Sundowner”: For continued
egg-production in summer see
that fowls have plenty of shade,
water and green feed. If a hedge
or tree is in the run put water
and a hopper there, because,
although fowls may feel in need
of a drink, they often won’t
walk across to the shed to obtain
it. No matter what area is
available as a run, a separate
supply of greenfeed should be
grown. When the run is dug
over to aerate the soil do not
dig deeply. Frequent shallow
cultivation is more desirable.
“Malvern”: Potash is an im-
portant element for asparagus
when applied as liquid manure
in combination with sulphate of
ammonia during the cutting sea-
son. It should, however, be
used with discretion, and any
potash dressing should be light
—not exceeding lewt. per acre,
or about ioz. per square yard
under garden conditions, at any
one time. Limited amounts of
potash in the muriate form are
obtainable at any nursery.
“Metax”; A tin, about the
size used for condensed-milk,
with a piece of cheesecloth
material stretched over the open
end and held by a strongish
rubber-band slipped around it is
excellent for dusting pest-killer
on plants.
“Ho”: Best time to dust
pumpkin plants for pumpkin-
beetle is in the early morning,
when the dew is still on. If no
dew water before dusting.
“M.”: To control pear slug
spray the leaves with lead
arsenate (2oz. of powder in 4gal.
of water) or D.D.T. emulsion at
0.5 per cent.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The southern sunspot group already reported and now
near its active position should, according to the workings of
the present cycle, give rain very soon.
It is necessary, however, to report on the general cosmic
conditions of control which exist through the solar system
being a self-regulated electro-magnetic machine. The
controls are the magnetic fields of the planets, particularly
the Four greater planets, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and
Neptune, and especially when they pass through certain
parts of their orbits.
In 1948 there was a combination of Jupiter and Uranus,
both of which were at the specified points, but because of the
differences of their angular progress due to the diameter of
their orbits, Jupiter has passed away from this point while
Uranus is still near it. As a result, Uranus is exerting an
influence which so far has not been favorable to the dry
areas, and in October reduced their rainfalls a good deal.
There are rain points about the middle and towards the
end of November. While the present supporting sunspot
group is not as large or complex as it might be, the two
cycles agree in each case, and that gives hope that the rain
will he beneficial and widespread.


SCOVIJUNO
Dewar's
mew®!? varies
For over one hundred years
•. . the same distinctive
diameter, mellow flavour,
and ricK. heart-warming
qualities . • .
DEWAR'S
"White Label*
Siuntnvk SCOTCH
A WAR
ME
lOGol)
anil
Prlif Me&aU
SOCol»
Pflu Mefials
rasrs*
wm
. “White Label
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RARE ACE. .
<fobn Dewar & Sods 1>
DISTILLERS
**' H°««. Htjmarkrt. S.VtX p Scotland
... NET CONTESTS I PINT. 6EL OZS. _.*»
‘MMWHO WHOUr DISTILLED. MATURED *HD BIENOED
CIO «*.««• TO I lu»l*V<IION or COMMOHWiAVT* ■
40*
tel
m
X
m
x?'
6SS
ii
i
V*
*»
We’ve
rolled
steel
through
pence
and war!
"I was with Lysaghts fight through
the war years ... and like everyone
else I soon learned how to roll
armour plate and heavy gauge steel
for air raid shelters instead of
roofing iron and tankmaking sheets.
But even those wartime tonnages
look like small change compared
with the amount of Galvanized Iron
rolled today. And in addition we
are rolling a much wider range of
qualities than ever before. Current
orders, for example, include Zin-
canneal, Sunstar Black, Ternes and
special carbon and electrical steels
to meet the ever-growing needs
of Australia’s rapidly expanding
industries!”
IYSAGHT’S
'Growing with Australia''
1224-1522
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE. BRISBANE.
ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE
New Mirror Handcraft Book
TINY'S TROUSSEAU
is now on sale
Eighteen designs, Knitting and
Crochet for Baby and Toddler
Two Shillings, Post Free
Divorce Notices.
jjj THE supreme court of the
TERRITORY OF NEW GUINEA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
Papua, 1951, No. M.C.20.
BETWEEN JAMES BRIANT KEOGH
Plaintiff and JOAN ANN KEOGH De-
fendant. TO JOAN ANN KEOGH late of
Port Moresby in the Territory of Papua-
—TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
BRIANT KEOGH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court No. M.C.20 of
1951 and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Registry Supreme Court
House Port Moresby by the Fifteenth day
of February 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Plaintiff’s Statement of Claim free
of charge from NORMAN WHITE, Soli-
citor, Port Moresby.—J. T. GIBNEY,
Registrar.
TO MAXWELL FRANCIS KING address
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
BERYL ROSE KING has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of five year separation there being
no reasonable likelihood of cohabitation
being resumed IF you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within THIRTY clear days
from the date of this publication In de-
fault of your so doing the cause may pro-
ceed and -the Court will pronounce Judg-
ment and make orders against you in
vour absence. DATED this 26th day of
October, 1951.—G. J. BOYLSON. Regis-
trar. FRED CURRAN, ESQ., of 37-3*
Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
in the State of Western Australia, Soli-
citor for the Plaintiff.
hall towards the dining-room in
a hurry to get settled there
before Mrs. Dilley came in.
But Mrs. Dilley was in there
first, seated on the leather-
covered sofa which ran askew
across a corner that had a clear
view of the rest of the room,
hunched up like an old spider
stroking and testing its web.
And the far end of the big table
was spread out for her meal.
That meant she would be sitting
there all the time they had
dinner, looking at them, be-
grudging ; or smiling and luring
them into a skirmish with some
sly remark.
She was fidgeting in their
direction now, rearranging her
dress in the light which poured
down on the spread of bread
and jam and apple tart.
Trying not to look at the
food, Frances caught her
regarding them and assessing
their feeling as accurately as
if she were seeing them from
behind dropped blinds. Mrs.
Dilley’s house had never con-
tained any secrets, and Frances
could tell that she knew they
were upset.
“Did you have a nice day?”
Mrs. Dilley asked.
“Yes.” Wanting to go and
not going, Frances shook her
head. “It was all right. But I
must go and get Jeremy’s dinner.
He needs it and he’s tired.”
Still worrying, she lingered,
looking in the direction of
James. He had remained silent,
but he had got up as though he
were afraid he might weaken.
He put the baby down on the
floor and pushed the evening’s
papers across the table to Mrs.
Dilley so he could begin to read
a book. Frances gave herself
time to sigh tiredly before she
leaned across a chair to try to
pull him by a shoulder from
behind his barricade of print.
“Watch Jeremy, James,” she
told him. “And don’t let him
have anything to eat until I get
his dinner cooked. He needs it.
He hasn’t had a good meal all
day.”
“All right,” James answered
with his head down.
“Well, watch him,” Frances
insisted, bending towards him
again before she left the room.
“I will,” James said after her.
“I can do that and read too.”
But he wasn’t reading. Mrs.
Dilley knew that as she sat
watching him craftily, leaving
the evening papers still folded
on the table. There was noth-
ing to do in the night-time but
feel and listen to it passing. She
liked to have the papers to read
in bed. James had simply
entered into one of the self-
centred periods which had
characterised John Dilley in the
past and made him so hard to
live with. Mrs. Dilley was well
aware of the real meaning of
the picture of importance he was
trying to present. But that was
something his wife would never
have the sense to see,
Mrs. Dilley rose with a noise-
less flurry, and without any other
apparent movement she hurried
out of the room. She was old
and the blood no longer circu-
lated joyously through her
body, but her mind had lent it
a speed that was like lightning
as she recalled the bitter quarrel
Frances had had with her hus-
band when he had gone on read-
ing and let the baby fall off the
large bed.
SHE was back inside the room
before James knew she had
left them, and she stood estimat-
ing his attention to his book,
lost in a brief hesitancy, finger-
ing her block of chocolate, turn-
ing it and testing the strength of
its wrapper. She assured herself
that James would never yield
enough of his dignity to throw
anything across a room. And
if the baby began to get through
the paper to the chocolate be-
fore his father became aware
that he had it she could grab it
back herself —it was the scream-
ing of a child that drove its
mother mad.
She smiled as she bent down
and shoved the bright package
in front of the baby, staying
crouched near the floor on her
haunches, quietly flourishing it
until he had the sense to let go
the toy he was bashing the floor
with and take it in his hands.
She got up when he had shown
pleased interest and went and
sat opposite him on a stiff-
backed chair.
Then, shifting her gaze and
giving in to impatience, Mrs.
Dilley made her only mistake.
While she was looking at James
to see when he was going to
give her what she wanted,
Frances, tiptoeing uneasily
through the house from habit,
came into the room, snatched at
the chocolate and swung it up
through the air.
The baby’s first scream
brought James to his feet, look-
ing from Frances to Mrs. Dilley,
seated rigidly trying to make out
where the chocolate would be
when it landed. It was Frances’s
behavior that had him
bothered ; she kept a tight hold
on the chocolate and ignored the
baby’s cries.
The swift warm flush of anger
that had covered Frances’s face
had faded, leaving her breathless
and shaken inside. The rich
smell of the chocolate, which
had escaped its wrapping, was
sweetening the air around her,
making her sick with longing
and marking the difference be-
tween now and the days when
they had first been married,
when it seemed she had eaten
chocolates all the time. Clumsily
she began to back away from
J
“I’m not going to throw it,”
she said.
“Well, give it to me,” James
said quietly,
“No,” Frances said, her mind
backing away from him, then;
from all of them. She was tired,
sick of responsibility, and she
didn’t care if she did die. It
would be better than living as
they were. Only, like any other
condemned person, she was
going to have a feed of some-
thing worth while first.
She tore at the wrapper, broke
the chocolate into small squares
and began munching as she
picked up the baby and gave
him a bit. James watched,
uncertain which way to turn.
“My chocolate! My choco-
late!” Mrs. Dilley began to
wail. “But that’s my chocolate
you’re eating, and I was saving
it for Sunday.” .
“Oh!” said Frances furiously,
cramming the last of the stick in
her mouth. “Well, now you
won’t have it! And that,” she
added viciously but with a cer-
tain satisfaction, “that will do
you for today. Now we can all
have dinner.”


“ You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes , Madam ”
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by BENSONmdHEDGES
/•
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
N. M. KING GEORGE Vi
contented mood
t€M
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
mui
f
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Rhymes From the
Mines by Edward Dyson; also copies
of The Bulletin, “The Sydney Mail’’
and “Town and Country Journal ’
for years 1912 and 1913. —5237.
Words of sea chanty “Whisky
Johnny.”—s23B.
Words of “The Oozlum Bird” by
W. T. G00dge.—5239.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter', also How M'Dougal Topped
the Score by Thos. E. Spencer. —
5240.
Information Sought.
Particulars of Frans Hals, the
Flemish painter?
He is said to be second only to Van
Dyck as a portrait-painter. He was a
pioneer in the Dutch school of free,
broad brushwork, and was noted for
the use of flesh-tints and portrayal of
laughter and merriment, as in his
best-known painting, “The Laughing
Cavalier.” Hals did most of his paint-
ing in Haarlem and Delft. The Haar-
lem museum contains many of his
greatest works, but other big Euro-
pean galleries also have masterpieces.
A few of his portraits are in the
National Gallery, London. Among
his works are “Bohemienne,” “Dutch
Nobleman,” “Fish Girl” and “The
Painter and His Wife in a Garden.”
He was born about 1580 and died in
1666.
* * * *
Information on the treatment of
conscientious objectors in N.S.W. in
the 1939-45 war?
They were dealt with by the civil
authorities, not the military. In
Sydney they came before a special
magistrate in the Industrial Magis-
trate’s Court; in country areas they
came before a magistrate in the local
police-court. The objector was per-
mitted legal aid, and had full legal
rights. He was not charged with an
offence; he was regarded as an appli-
cant for exemption from war service.
If exemption was not granted, the
objector was drafted into the Civil
Construction Corps. There was no
appeal from the magistrate’s decision.
* * * *
What is terminal velocity?
If a body moves under the influence
of a continuous force in a resisting
medium, the resistance being some
function of the velocity of the body,
there is a limit to the velocity that it
can attain. This limit is known as
the terminal velocity, and is the
velocity to which that of a body
falling through the atmosphere con-
tinually tends. The terminal velocity
is small for snowflakes, greater for
drops of rain and greater still for
hailstones, and it depends partly on
the size and density of the falling
body.
* * * *
What is the doctrine of “recent
possession” in respect to, stolen
goods?
Possession of stolen goods recently
after their loss is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession stole
the goods or received them knowing
them to have been stolen; but it
many months have elapsed between
the loss and the discovery the
possessor cannot, in the absence of
any other circumstances implicating
him with theft, be called upon to
account for the manner in which he
came by the goods.
♦ * * *
Origin of the term wardroom as
applied to warships?
Originally, in the days of wooden
warships, it was the big cabin in the
after part underneath the captain’s
apartments. The term dates from
about 1750, the wardroom being used
as a lieutenants’ mess, where they also
slept. The name is supposed to be
derived from “wardrobe,” as the place
where officers kept their clothes before
they had a communal mess. In
modern times the wardroom became
the mess in men-of-war for officers
of all branches of and above the rank
of lieutenant, but in 1949 branch
(former warrant) officers were also
admitted to the wardroom.
* * * +
Some particulars about the Terry
family of English actors and actresses?
Benjamin Terry (1818-92) and his
wife were well-known provincial
actors, although in their later years
they also had engagements in London
with Macready and Charles Kean.
Their children were (1) Kate Terry
(1844-1924), the eldest of the family,
who made her first appearance on the
stage in 1850 and the next year came
to London and was engaged by
Charles Kean. She appeared as Cor-
delia, Ophelia, Ariel, Juliet, Viola,
all of which she played with remark-
able success, but she especially made
a great hit in 1862 by her part of
Mrs. Union in “Friends or Foes.”
(2) Dame Ellen Alicia Terry (1848-
1928), one of England’s greatest
actresses who, with Irving, helped to
raise the international reputation of
English acting; her influence, par-
ticularly in tragedy, has not decreased
since her death. (3) Marion Terry
(1856-1930) won a great reputation as
an actress, notably in “Lady Winder-
mere’s Fan,” in which she reappeared
in 1911 at St. James's Theatre. (4)
Florence Terry (died 1896) played in
“The Iron Chest” with Irving, and
was the original Little Nell of Halli-
day’s play. (5) Fred Terry (1865-
1933) first appeared on the stage in
1880 under the Bancrofts. Together
with his wife, Julia Neilson, he played
in “Sweet Nell of Old Drury,”
“Hypatia,” “As You Like It,” “The
Scarlet Pimpernel,” “Henry of
Navarre,” etc. His daughter Phyllis
Neilson-Terry (born 1892) became
well known as a Shakspearian actress.
Brief Answers.
A.D.: The Fellowship of Australian
Writers has a branch in Canberra.
Secretary is Mrs. L. F. H. Rees, 50
Booroondara-street, Reid, Canberra,
A.C.T 1.M.J.: Write Department
of Social Services, 52 Carrington-
street, Sydney 8.T.F.: Kunapipi
by Ronald M. Berndt, price 395,. 6d.,
is obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney R.8.J.: Write Shakespeare
Head Press Pty., Ltd., 168 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .F.T.F.: From
D. Raymond, numismatist and phila-
telist, 128 Bathurst-street, Sydney
C.S.: With Cypress Pine by Ray
Mathew, published by Lyre-Bird
Writers and obtainable from Roland
Robinson, 18 Manion-avenue, Rose
Bay (N.S.W.), price 6s 8.P.: Eric
Linklater was born in 1899....
L.T.P.: (1) Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
who reprinted the book, may be able
to tell you who now owns the copy-
right. (2) Mainguard (Australia), Ltd.,
126 Phillip-street, Sydney, can furnish
the information G.8.W,: “Pub-
licity and Printing,” 304 Queen-street,
Brisbane M.M.F.: “Reveille,” 271
Elizabeth-street, Sydney C.H.M.:
Sigmund Romberg, Hungarian com-
poser of light operas, was born in
1887. Among his compositions are
“Maytime” (1917), “Student Prince”
(1924), “Blossom Time” (1926),
“Desert Song” (1926) and “New
Moon” (1927)... .L.A.: Sir Samuel
James Way, one-time Chief Justice
of South Australia, died at North
Adelaide on January 8, 1916
L.C.E.: The story was “Arcadian
Express” by Brian James, and ap-
peared in The Bulletin of July 16,
1947 W.R.: Lengths of the longest
rivers in the world, as given in
Whitaker’s Almanack, are Missouri-
Mississippi, 4502 miles; Amazon,
4000; Nile, 3850; Yangtse, 3400;
Yenisei, 3300; Congo, 3000; Lena,
2800; Mekong, 2800; Obi, 2700 ; and
Niger, 2600 W.8.G.: That series
of boxing articles ran through The
Bulletin during 1937. Files can be
inspected at this office or, after busi-
ness hours, at the Public Library of
N. S- Wales, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
H.H.: Sending your hymn to Phar
Lap to the Victorian National
Museum... .K.N.: “These verses are
the result of an unusual experience.”
Still, they’re not a very unusual kind of
verse J.W.8.; But what’s in “What’s
in a Name”? R.P.: A dotty little
ditty E.P.N.: Don’t know what
you could do with your ballad about
the duck, unless you cook it for
Christmas K.McK.: Sorry, can’t
place them... .E.W.: Lightweights.
J.B.: Technique so slight it’s
practically invisible R.W.: Not
bad efforts; but thousands before
you, if in the city, have longed to
be in the bush, and if in the bush the
city... .8.D.: Your “March After-
noon,” faithfully sketched, explains
why so many other March afternoons
have never got into print F.W.0.:
Your pig story seems to have been
fattened for the market, but we don’t
buy by weight M. 8.; We abide
by a kind of literary Consorting Act
which prevents our associating with
habitual or common crime-stories....
M.D.: Might do in a woman’s paper.
E.V.C.: As usual, a cliche stab-
bing a typewriter in the situation with
a paper-knife K.J.K.: On dis-
covery of her abandoned pre-nuptial
son, mother jumps off the balcony
and husband dies of apoplexy at the
dinner-table —surely you could have
arranged for an earthquake to clear
the stage of the son and the butler;
they look so untidy, standing around
and wondering what it’s all about.
B.D.: Hardly our style, but the
most beautiful typing we’ve ever seen.
R.O’S.: Well, if you sent “Por-
trait of a Lady” to Auntie, she might
put you in her will R.R.: There’s
a few neat touches in it, but not a
story J.F.F.: Afraid we’ve only
recently printed a story about dogs
and ’roos; afraid it was better than
yours, t 00... .E. 0.8.: Setting-off an
unexpJoded German bomb with a
crowbar—what a pity it had to be
set in England ; a cruder scene would
have been more in keeping wtih your
story telling... .M.R.C.: Anecdote....
P.S.: Just memories N.S.: A
story about an oboist should have
novelty, but you have merely dis-
guised a standard character as an
oboist E.V.C.: You do tend to
leave a trail of corpses
The first one, when you just spilled
the facts without being artistic, was
the best R.A.0.: Just as we were
thinking that that story had become
extinct in Australia you send us a
specimen from New Zealand
F.H.F.: We did not say that you
were wasting our time; we humbly
suggested that you were wasting your
time L.H.: You’ve improved your
people, but rung in a Sympathetic
Dog R.A.M.: Six thousand words
about a dingo need to be pretty
magical words 0.E.M.: It doesn’t
rain cats-and-dogs in this paper—just
dogs E.L.S.: If you are going to
write scientific short stories you
should study science and short-story
writing T.F.: Don’t lose money
writing stories about a dog that steals
steaks from a restaurant and carries
them home to his master —put the
dog up to auction A.D.: We
nearly died of “Heat and Thirst”
M.J.L.: Excellent for sixteen; you
should keep on; but remember that
a story is not an anecdote J.F.:
Afraid it’s only the skeleton of a
story M.H.W.: Neither quite our
kind... .1.M.N.: Wail till you get a
real bunyip... .J.L.: Neither.


XL
This World Famous Brand f»
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:~~>
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING- -INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Poff'/mt-
until Summer is nearly over
and swelter day and night...
INSULATE
your home NOW with
awoH *
ra
SLAGWOOL
No house, no home, no office
or building is modern and
entirely healthy unless it 1»
insulated preferably with
8.1. SLAGWOOL.
iND SEND FOR FULL PARTICULARS
BRADFORD INSULATION (N.S.W.) PTY.
66-72 Reservoir Street, Sydney,
or Clyde Street, Hamilton, Newcastle.
Please send me full information and
regarding Bradford Home Insulation.
NAME
LTD.
leaflets
ADDRESS—
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial Conoiti
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Published by “The Bulletin.”
2/- per single copy—22/6 a year post tree.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Illustrating
The pen-line illustrations by
Norman Lindsay to “The Letters
of Rachel Henning” in The
Bulletin are an effective
counter to the “sophistication”
of the current illustration
manner. These drawings not
only delineate the characters of
the story perfectly and the
period to which they belong, but
in all of them there is that
satisfying quality of reality, light
and air.
The modern illustrative trend
consists of a kind of artistic
shorthand, created by David
Low, but without his genius—
a few free brush-strokes, a dab
or two of mechanical stipple, a
few stock expressions and a lot
of carefree confidence which
generally covers up a deal of bad
drawing. There is rarely any
attempt to suggest texture in
clothing or furnishings.
The Lindsay drawings, without
any laborious striving for photo-
graphic results, not only reveal
the variety in human character,
but in a few fine pen-strokes we
have silk, velvet and similar sur-
faces and textures with a slick
perfection that uncovers the
nakedness of the “sophisticated”
art.
It would not be a bad idea if
artists and editors paused in
their haste and at least made
some effort to recapture the
illustrative quality which is so
obviously present in the work of
Norman Lindsay. —F. J.
(N.S.W.).
Rents and Tenancy
Apparently the N. S. Wales
Government intends to do some-
thing about its iniquitous rental
and tenancy laws. Most of these
lapse at the end of this year and
immediate action is necessary if
the tenants are not to be exposed
to the wrath of the gods in the
form of landlords who, for
years, have been exploited,
thwarted, oppressed, suppressed
and humiliated.
It is recognised by all reason-
able peo p 1 e —including the
majority of landlords—that some
measure of control of rents and
tenancy is necessary in these
times of shortage. It is also
recognised by most reasonable
people —including very many
tenants—that the controls as
they have existed for the past
two-and-a-half years have not
been reasonable.
They arc among the most
harmful measures ever enacted
in N. S. Wales. For one thing,
they are directly responsible for
the refusal of investors to pro-
vide rental housing. In pre-war
days the bulk of houses to let
were built by private investors.
Today the total, apart from an
odd block of luxury flats, is built
by the State Housing Com-
mission—a whole 3500 of them
last year to meet a waiting list
admitted by the commission to
amount to more than 80,000.
Rent controls are inflationary.
By permitting tenants to occupy
property at a cost far below
what economists, sociologists
and others have always con-
tended was a fair proportion of
a tenant’s weekly earnings, they
leave the tenant with a surplus
to spend on non-essentials.
Because investors cannot obtain
an adequate return from
property they have turned to in-
vestments of a directly infla-
tionary nature and have forced
up the demand for industrial
shares to an extreme level.
Because the controls are un-
relenting and not subject to any-
one’s discretion they have im-
posed extreme hardship upon
d
“Keep an eye on my beer while I'm gone."
thousands of people who want
to occupy their own homes. At
the same time they have fostered
racketeering in key-money, sub-
tenancy, rentals, etc.
The Act is to be amended—so
we are told.
Among urgent reforms, the
following should rank high on
the list: Increase in the basic
rent to bring it to a par with the
present value of the £A, and to
provide for automatic adjust-
ment of all outgoings. Tenants
to have access to the Rent Con-
troller for checking accuracy of
increase.
Sub-letting, assigning or part-
ing with possession to be
absolutely prohibited without
the consent of the owner—-not-
withstanding Section 133 of the
Conveyancing Act.
Owners proving their need of
their premises for their own or
their dependants’ occupation to
be given possession within a
limited period after application
to the court. Onus of finding
accommodation to be on the
tenant. That is essential because
at present all the onus is on the
owner and the tenant has almost
complete right to refuse aay
alternative accommodation.
Penalties to be •provided for
tenants who misuse their
properties or perform acts in
contravention of the Landlord
and Tenant Act. At present only
owners and agents are subject
to penalties. While an owner
may be fined for parting with
possession of his property within
a year of gaining possession
through a court, or compelled
to refund overcharge of rent
even though he was unaware of
the basic rent and the overcharge
has continued for many years,
there is no penalty prescribed for
tenants who sublet or assign in
defiance of their landlord.
There are more than 350,000
dwellings in N. S. Wales
occupied by rent-paying tenants.
If that means a lot of tenants, it
also means a lot of owners.
And those owners are entitled to
much better treatment than has
been meted out to them under
Premier McG i r r.— Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Transport Costs
“Kelms’s” view? (B. 10/10/’5l)
about air-transport not adding
much to prices of vegetables is
a bit wide of the mark. Almost
daily the Perth papers mention,
following supplies to the markets
by air from Geraldton,
Carnarvon and Darwin, high
additional and ever-rising costs
of peas, beans, tomatoes and
bananas. Today peas are 2s. 6d.,
beans 3s. 6d., tomatoes 3s. 6d.
and bananas 2s. 2d. a pound.
The man on the basic wage of
£lO 9s’. 6d., plus, in most
instances, a margin of 10s. to
£3 10s., may get an occasional
4db. of peas or beans, but the
chap on fixed income or on
dwindling savings has to go
without.
All that in a State where
everybody with a bit of spare
soil around his home can grow
most of what vegetables and
fruit he wants. He can have
tomatoes on his table in 12 to
14 weeks if he plants them at
the end of August, and at a cost
of not more than 3d. a pound.
I’ve tried and proved it. —Bill
Ding (W.A.).
Pubs and Public
To “G. Elburg’s” “unholy
alliance of wowsers, hotel-
keepers and their staffs,” who
stand in the way of sensible
drinking in Australia, should be
added breweries (B. 31 /10/’5l).
A close examination of the
liquor set-up in N. S. Wales
reveals that the monopolistic
power of the breweries derives,
not from the brewing of beer,
but from the sale of it.
In 1919 the Liquor Act was
amended to establish a Licences
Reduction Board. This board
has reduced the number of hotel
licences since 1919 by 498. At
the moment, no new licences can
be granted. Tim means that,
with increase in population,
the number of persons per hotel
in N. S. Wales has gone up
from 803 to 1510 during the last
30 years.
The effect of that has been to
increase the value of existing
liquor licences enormously and
to provide the big breweries,
who control the majority of
licences, with a source of
monopoly profit which is pro-
tected by legislation.
Despite rising costs there has
been no significant increase in
the wholesale price of beer from
breweries in the past 30 years,
but retail prices have increased
considerably and turnover has
increased enormously.
Breweries have concentrated
on tying hotels to themselves,
and building up what amounts
to a gigantic real-estate venture.
The only way to break the
brewery monopoly, and at the
same time improve conditions
in hotels, is to increase the
number of licences. R- F.
(N.S.W.).


Land Grab
Since only a few individuals are
involved, no one seems to be very con-
cerned about landowners whose pro-
perties are being resumed by State Gov-
ernment at 1942 values.
The High Court has lately rejected
appeals by two graziers, one from Vic-
toria and one from N. S. Wales, who
decided to test the power of the State
Governments to wrest their assets from
them at only a percentage of value. The
appellants claimed that as the Common-
wealth was providing finance for the
States to acquire land for soldier-settle-
ment, the Commonwealth as well as the
States were involved, and that the resump-
tions at 1942 levels contravened the pro-
vision in the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion for acquisition of any form of pro-
perty on “just terms.” The court, how-
ever, ruled otherwise.
No matter what the legal position is,
the landowners are being singled out for
what is obviously unjust treatment. The
1942 value of anything is way out of
date today, and the owner of a hot-dog
stand would have every right to complain
if his business was taken from him on
the basis of a nine-year-old valuation. So
would home- and car-owners and the
proprietors of any business.
To make matters worse, N. S. Wales
Lands Minister Renshaw has shown
a peculiar attitude towards those who
have taken their cases to court —he has
granted a 15 per cent, increase in the
resumption price to all others, but has
withheld it from them. Apparently the
Minister thinks that those who seek
justice in the courts are exceeding their
rights and should be penalised.
It would be a mistake for people to
think that the only landowners whose
properties are being resumed in this unjust
manner are big graziers. In the House
recently the member for Macarthur in-
stanced the case of a man in his seventies
who had begun life as a contract post-
hole digger, had saved his money and
bought a property in the Central West.
Now he is to lose it at a price far below
what it would fetch on the open market.
A nice reward for a lifetime of hard
work and thrift.
Every major producers’ organisation in
the State, including the N. S. Wales
Wheatgrowers’ Union, of which the
Minister’s brother is president, has pro-
tested through the N. S. Wales Primary
Producers’ Council against the unfairness
of acquiring land on unjust terms.
At a time when all sections of the
community, including politicians, are
having their incomes adjusted to present-
day levels it is a culpable act for any
Government to take compulsorily the pro-
perty of men who have worked hard all
their lives and give them in exchange a
once that all recognise as hopelessly out
te and inadequate,—Dick Turpin
■ M.).
ary Competitions
one of the judges in the annual
etitions mentioned by “Sebak” (B.
-A'//’5l), I must deny the admission
attributed to them that such competi-
tions have achieved no success. The
verse section, with which I have been
concerned, has evoked some remarkable
poems—for instance, Rosemary Dobson’s
"Ship of Ice,” W. S. Fairbridge’s “Denial
and Riposte,” Raemonde Alain’s
Matrix,” Muir Holburn’s “A World of
Good” and T, Inglis Moore's
ookaburra.”
f this competition were continued
dually, I have no doubt that it would
oduce equal or even higher results.
ie poetic spirit is very much alive.—
G. Howarth (England).
Public-service Salaries
The revelation of high public-service
salaries (B. 10/10/’5l) must have shaken
many people. In private enterprise there
are very few top executives who scale
better than £l5OO a year, and when they
do get high salaries they have to produce
results if they want to keep them. That
clerks employed at Parliament House
should receive salaries approximating
those of senior bank executives, and that
their salaries should have doubled within
the last four years, is proof that the grip
of bureaucracy has strengthened mightily
during that period, with the active assist-
ance of both political parties.
It is also proof that, if Government
expenditure is to decrease, pruning of the
service must begin at the top rather than
at the bottom. Perhaps, if each depart-
ment were given a reduced target of
money rather than of staff the result
would be more satisfactory.
Few Australians visit Canberra. But
“George! Guess what I've done!”
those who do must be struck by the
weird atmosphere of the place. With its
planned shops and homes, and its
atmosphere of dreary equality, it
resembles on a larger scale the Jewish
community - settlerhents of Palestine.
Those who inhabit the place apparently
receive salaries far in excess of those paid
to people with similar or higher qualifica-
tions who take their chances in the hurly-
burly life of the cities.
The higher salaries, however, do not
complete the story. In Canberra the Gov-
ernment is a paternal landlord to its
servants, renting them houses at
uneconomic rents and running boarding
establishments at a loss.
And it is the highly-paid denizens of
this queer city who rule the Australian
and dictate to him the form his life shall
take. Here live the economists who have
advised every Federal Government since
the war ; here live the commerce officials
who blandly dispose of farmers’ pro-
ducts ; here live the men who relished
the powers they had during the war
to allocate goods and materials, take the
buttons from suits and send Santa Claus
packing, and who would like nothing
more than to have those powers back
again.
They live in a city remote from the
normal features of Australian life. They
meet one another in their community
shops and hotels —and for all the contact
they have with contemporary Australian
life and thought they might as well live on
the moon.
The Government promised to do some-
thing about the public service, but instead
has let it drift to alarming proportions,
and has raised salaries to a point far
above worth or desert.
There is gold in Canberra’s hills, all
right, but only because they have been
salted by successive Governments which
have fallen under the spell of the bureau-
crats and planners. The present Govern-
ment, in accord with its election promise,
should break the spell and chase as many
public servants out of the dream city as
possible, and give them a chance to
strive for themselves in the workaday
world where something more solid than
the ability to spend other people’s money
is required.— lnall (N.S.W.).
Postal Rates
The mistake of raising postal rates,
rather than attempting retrenchment and
more efficient management within, seems
likely to have results unforeseen by the
P.M.G. As well as the economies of
ordinary people, a businessman tells me
that his firm now saves £lO monthly by
delivering their accounts with goods in-
stead of by post, as was done formerly.
The Burnie (Tas.) Chamber of Com-
merce has pointed out that parcels can
be sent by service-car for Is. instead of
3s. Bd. by post. Even inter-State parcels
can be carried by air, to Tasmania, for
about half postal rates, and in both these
examples a quicker and better delivery
is achieved.
Also, a country municipality has
decided to send out rate demands once
yearly, instead of twice —an economy for
them but a big loss to the p.o. As a
Government monopoly the p.o. has never
had the advantage of competition to keep
it up to the mark, but the examples
quoted, though admittedly small and
local, do suggest that the same things
are likely to happen elsewhere, and pos-
sibly on a large scale, unless the depart-
ment wakes up from dreams of easy
money.—E. & O.E. (Tas.).
A World Role
There is one aspect of the alarming
decline in farm production which the
Governments, both Federal and State,
don’t seem to worry much about —Aus-
tralia’s role in the event of world war.
Reports early this year to the World
Food and Agriculture Organisation re-
vealed that total world agricultural pro-
duction has regained pre-war levels, but,
the population having increased by about
10 per cent., supplies available per person
are actually below pre-war. On present
progress, it is estimated that it will take
from six to eight years for the supply per
person to reach those levels again.
More detailed information issued by the
W.F.A.O. shows that present food-supplies
are nutritionally inferior to pre-war,
the lower output of protective foods not
being compensated for by higher produc-
tion of such things as grains, potatoes
and sugar. Most significant, it was stated,
was the tremendous increase in the load
carried by the United States and Canada
in international trade, their combined
share having risen in the past 10 years
from one-seventh to about two-fifths.
Since that report, a further change has
become apparent in world food-pro-
duction. About the middle of October
it was reported that the beet-sugar output
of Europe for 1951-52, excluding the
U.S.S.R., would be 800,000 raw tons short
of last season’s 9,091,000 tons. Produc-
tion in the next-largest beet-producing
area, America, is expected to drop from
1,795,000 tons last year to 1,350,000 tons
this year. There is also an anticipated
drop in the production of canegrowers
in the British Commonwealth.
Concern is being expressed in
America at the effect of that- country’s
huge defence programme on agricultural
output, American farmers are being
called upon to increase their defence
effort in the form of higher production,
but they are denied the materials essential
for doing so, The drain of manpower
because of compulsory training is regarded
as the main trouble, since it forces farmers
to make greater demands on machinery,
the producers of which are turning to
war materials. Chemicals and fertilisers
are also becoming extremely scarce.
In Australia, practically all farm pro-
duction has declined, the worst fall being
in wheat, from 220 million bushels
to 183 million bushels, with an estimated
170 million bushels this season—about
five million bushels short of requirements.
Apart from feeding its own people, Aus-
tralia is committed by contract to supply
overseas countries with such items as
wheat, eggs, beef and butter.
In the event of war, Australia’s contri-
bution in terms of arms would amount
to only a token force compared with
that of America or Great Britain. Our
job—and it would be expected of us —
would be to assist in the provisioning of
the world. If that necessity arose to-
morrow, we would be unable to meet it.
What good is the £ 180,000,000-odd
budgeted for defence if, within the next
few years, we are unable to feed our own
people?—W. P. H. G. (N.S.W.).
Parliamentary Salaries
Evidently the politicians are about to
bump up their salaries enormously, which
shows their true attitude to inflation.
As servants of the nation, and well-
paid servants at that, it would have be-
come them better to set the much-needed
example by showing themselves prepared
to draw the line somewhere in a sane
attempt to stave off complete collapse of
the country’s economy. For, unless a
determined stand is made soon, unless
both Parliament and the people take a
national, rather than selfish, view of their
responsibilities, most Australians are
destined ere long to face harder times
than they experienced during the “Hungry
Thirties ”
Anyway, the protestation that members’
present salaries are inadequate stretches
the truth. Politicians by their privileges
alone escape many of the crippling costs
to which ordinary, workaday people are
exposed. As it stands today, the average
Australian politician’s income indisputably
exceeds the average Australian’s income
by a couple of hundred a year, plus the
perks and plums which come his way.
—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.),
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 147
Across.
Drone pests who impose under
false pretences for lollies. (7)
I—Nothing shy on the route with
this Red Indian. (7)
I—Do I bend some ancient asso-
ciates of the Persians into a bow
scientist? (10)
10—Stain of a batting disgrace. (4)
H—Poetic homeland of Gandhi in
pence. (3)
12—The Reaper’s pain in the side has
been the salvation, proverbially,
of a baseball team. (5, 2,4)
15— Digit to the East. (3)
16— One way to keep a tan cook in
an oven. (4)
I?—Conspiracy framework of a work\
of fiction. (4)
1 9—What happens under the mistle-
toe on Hallowe’en. (4)
•-o—lmmediately reveal an exact half
of a cricket field. (4)
-I—Possess. (3)
-3—Palmistic hundred after which he
and I are characterised by moon-
light, whispering palms, music
and sweet nothings. (12)
4—Merry is this beggar’s opera. (3)
27 — Make some perusals about pub-
licity. (4)
28— Bivalve molluscs study the age of
a great Labor leader who died
this year. (10)
29 Sailor six-footer is jumping. (7)
30 — Bright young things, or six con-
secutive love games. (4, 3)
Down.
1— A case of collapse put the domi-
nant oarsman in an oven. (10)
2 American sailor dressed in bun-
kum or wet-weather ware. (10)
3 Stick from a tree. (3)
4 Frank and a range of knowledge
passed. (9)
5 Supernatural stick of pallid
coppers. (4)
6 University lockout often caused
by it. (4)
8— Measures islands as of chases. (6)
9 The Spanish ego of a high-priest
of Shiloh. (3)
10— Neddy in France. (3)
11 — Sprite. (3) r
13— Solar satellite upset a prophet
timber. (5, 5)
14— Official boat exercised by those
most skilled in political science.
(10)
16 —Animal and I stand between the
conductor’s responsibility (not too
long-haired) and a bald bird. (9)
18 —So remain among gipsies. (8)
22 Balk the diffident. (3)
23 Heel of 1851 years ago. (3)
24 Otherwise number Jonah’s sur-
roundings. (3)
25 Cultures of a blood constituent
upset superficial measures. (4)
26 Georgia takes the Spanish Scot. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 146.


This entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
ID.V. AGRICULTURAL HEIMS
November
A monthly feature for all those Interested In Agriculture
1951
LIVING STANDARDS THREATENED
BY SHORTAGE OF FOOD
Increase Production Or Starve
By 1960
We’ve got to do something pretty quickly to boost food production. If
we don’t , it’s a safe bet that quite a large percentage of our population will
be starving by 1960, This alarming state of affairs is shown up in figures
issued recently by the Commonwealth Minister for Agriculture , Mr, McEwan,
Increases ranging from 25% in sugar
production to 74% in pork production
have to be made within the next ten
years to feed the estimated 1960 popula-
tion of nearly 11,000,000.
MR. McEWAN’S FIGURES ...
These are some of the increases
we have to make by 1960 ... or
starve!
How Shall We Do It?
The first step towards increasing
primary production is to encourage the
farmer to produce more ... by giving
him the right price for his products . . .
and the labour to help grow them.
The next move is to mechanise farms
. . . put machines in to lower labour
requirements and speed up production.
At present, Australian farms lag be-
hind farms in many other countries in
the use of machines. Fifteen years ago
that was alright. Labour was cheap and
plentiful. To-day there isn’t much labour
. . . and it certainly isn’t cheap.
Properly planned mechanisation will
reduce labour requirements and allow
farmers to cultivate more land and carry
more stock.
Farmers will make more money, and
the food position will be greatly
improved.
Old Machines Are As Bad As No Machines
At All
It has never been hard to sell a man
a car when his old one starts to use a
bit of oil . . . but suggest to the same
man that his battered old stationary
engine needs replacing . . . and he’ll
condemn the suggestion as extravagant.
Yet old engines, just the same as old
cars, need constant attention, and cost
a lot more to run than new ones.
Farmers who keep their machines up
to the knocker... who follow new trends
. . . and instal new equipment when it
is needed, find the equipment pays for
itself in the maintenance costs it saves.
These farmers lower their own pro-
duction costs by moving with the times.
Those whose costs are made higher
by inefficient methods can’t hope to
compete.
Complete mechanisation is bound to
come. Eventually the “horse-and-buggy”
farmer will be forced out of business
by the progressive man who turns
his property into an up-to-date raw
materials factory.
o
o
0
/
"A'
HECH
IT'S MAGIC (almost!)
You’ll feel like a magician
when you see how your
farm’s output can be
increased with MODERN
MECHANICAL FARMING
EQUIPMENT .
f
A truck load of Type V 3 Petrol Engines
leave Mo ffat-Virtue’s Rosebery , N.S.W.
factory for interstate . They are carried
in special steel frames mounted on a
POWER-DRIVEN
IMPLEMENTS
NEED ENGINES
Australia Produces
Her Own
“Engines for everything” isn’t neces-
sarily" an advertising slogan ... it
describes the range of petrol, kerosene
and Diesel engines made right here in
Australia, and marketed throughout
Moffat-Virtue’s Australia-wide distri-
buting organisation.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., manufactures and
distributes engines ranging in size from
a 2i H.P. Petrol Engine to a 16 H.P
Full-Diesel.
Every possible improvement in pro-
duction technique is used in manufacture
, , cutting costs .. . and reducing the
final price ... without in any way lower-
ing the high standard of workmanship
that goes into the engines.
Output of one engine alone runs into
many thousands every year. This engine,
the 3 H.P. Type V 3, finds its way into
everything from concrete mixers to fair-
ground ferris-wheels ... as well as onto
many thousands of Australian farms.
You can get full particulars of ah
Moffat-Virtue Engines from any one o
the distributors listed at the bottom of
this page. They will be glad to help
you.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd,, Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & 0*
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
