

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72~N0. 3708
Wednesday, March 7, 1951
Price 9d,
Registered at the Genera] Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Only One Spire in England
Is Higher Than
Lofty Norwich
IyORWICH, the chief town and
cathedral city of Norfolk, is a place
of considerable antiquity, for within its
boundaries have been discovered relics of
the Neolithic and Bronze Ages; excava-
tions have also revealed evidence of
Roman occupation.
The town grew up around its castle,
and by a.d. 1300 it had its walls, portions
of which still exist. Of the sixty parish
churches originally established in Nor-
wich over thirty still remain, and it was
the seat of the Royal mint. It was,
therefore, a place of considerable im-
portance and was exceeded in wealth and
population only by London and York.
Dominating the city and surrounding
landscape is the beautiful Norman
Cathedral, with its magnificent tapering
spire, 313 feet high, which is excelled in
height only by that of Salisbury. The
foundation stone of the Cathedral was
laid by Bishop Herbert de Losinga in
1096, and, although there have been many
additions since the eleventh century, the
Cathedral follows the original plan, and
is mainly Norman in architectural style.
The edifice suffered considerably at the
hands of the Puritans, but the damage
was repaired after the Restoration.
The chief feature of the interior is the
nave and the graceful vaulting of the
roof. The carved bosses depict biblical
scenes, and in one of the bosses is a hole
through which in olden days an acolite,
dressed as an angel, was lowered at Whit-
suntide to portray the miracle of the
Pentecost. Within the Cathedral is the
tomb of Sir William Boleyn, grandfather
of the famous Anne Boleyn ; here also
lies Sir Thomas Erpingham, the redoubt-
able old knight who commanded the
rearguard before the Battle of Agincourt
in 1415, mentioned by Shakespeare in
Henry V.
Outside the Cathedral, on Lifes Green,
is the grave beneath a simple white cross
of the gallant Nurse Edith Cavell, shot
by the Germans in 1915 for aiding Allied
soldiers to escape from occupied Bel-
gium. Her short pronouncement before
her death, “Patriotism is not enough,”
Vill always be remembered.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4


I
LLU*
now lor Free Illustrated HAND-
PROSPECTUS explaining
tully Stott s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
~ CUT RERE AND M . AIL -, mmmmmmmmm
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.861) .'.'.".Age.'.’.'.'."
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/-.)
Book lists on Mansfieldiana, Caxton Press, early and
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Lawson
and others). Specialised fields for book huntiaf-
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOLS.
The Australian littry gent., preparec
to stand on his head to be novel anc
interesting, can only sigh gently when
confronted with the work of Dr. C. E. W
Bean, who has managed to edit, and write
a great deal of, the history of Australia
in World War I, and now Here, My Son
An Account of the Independent and
Other Corporate Boys’ Schools of Aus
tralia (A. and R.) without doing any such
thing, but in a prose best described by
the last sentence of his book, where he
summarises the aims of the corporate-
school education:
With its stress on the humanities, on
understanding and tolerance, on self-
knowledge and self-control, on service
(and, where capacity enjoins it, unselfish
leadership) as against the impulse of go-
getting
And to envy must be added admiration
of his calm progress through the maze of
early Australian schools, where the
passageways don’t even stand still after
you’ve gone along them; for “Sydney
Public Free Grammar School” is no
sooner given a block of land in 1825
than it closes down on its temporary
premises elsewhere ; it is next heard of
as a “Grammar Class” at the St. James’s
Church school, established in conjunction
with another at Parramatta, and it is not
until 1830 that Sydney Grammar is
firmly established with an Anniversary
Day procession to lay a foundation-stone
on the block opposite the old race-
course (Hyde Park).
At one time the King’s Schools were
to have sprung up all over Australia ;
two were opened in 1832; one, for
boarders, at Parramatta, one for day-
boys in a former subscription library
building in Pitt-street, Sydney. The Pitt-
street King’s School lasted until its young
headmaster died, eight months after the
opening, never having had more than
eight pupils, and was not heard of again
until 50 years later, in 1889, when it
opened on the North Shore as Sydney
Church of England Grammar School, on
£30,000 passed over by the Government
as compensation to the church for the
taking-over of St. James’s School for a
high school.
Geelong Church of England Grammar
School opened in 1854, and closed,
heavily in debt, a few years later ; almost
joined forces with the Presbyterians, who,
after disagreeing on terms of joint
administration, formed Geelong College.
Geelong Grammar then barely escaped
being offered to the Government as a
reformatory ; Sydney Scots College began
at Botany Bay and moved to Bellevue
Hill; Barker moved from Kurrajong
Heights to Hornsby—Dr. Bean follows
these tortuous meanderings of schools all
over Australia with incredible patience,
and even manages an occasional smile in
a footnote, as when a clergyman joined
in the denunciations which accompanied
the establishment of Jesuit schools in
Sydney, alleging that “the vaults of St.
Kilda House [Woolloomooloo] were
filled with racks, thumb-screws, scourges,
virginals and other instruments of
torture.” Dr. Bfean annotates:
A virginal could indeed have been an
instrument of torture in the hands of some
musicians.
It would be hard to give anything but
a confused summary of the immense
amount of orderly detail crowded into
the first 92 pages of this book: the plans
which followed the report of Commis-
sioner Bigge; Scott’s ideas for “central
schools,” or “King’s Schools” from
which “King’s Scholars” might be sent to
Oxford and Cambridge—the secondary
school, subsidised either wholly or in
part or at some time or other by the
State, as in Queensland, ot with early
N. S. Wales and Victorian schools, is one
of the drawbacks to naming all these
schools “independent,” while the English
term Public School means State School
to Australians ; thus “corporate school,”
meaning a school whose control is vested
in a body “in no case wholly Govern-
mental or wholly private,” covers the 45
Australian schools represented at the
headmasters’ conference which com-
missioned Dr. Bean’s book.
But, as he says, “Corporate School’’ is
not easily recognisable; and maybe he
would have done better not to have
quoted Newbolt’s “Clifton Chapel”:
This is the Chapel: here, my son,
Your father thought the thoughts of youth,
And heard the words that one by one
The touch of time has turned to truth;
but to have kept to his intention of call-
ing his book “The Arnold Tradition in
Australia” ; for,
the more one studies them, the more one
is impressed by the fact that the main
institutions and principles of these schools
in Australia —even in some degree of the
Roman Catholic ones—stem directly. from
the reforms of Dr. Arnold at Rugby
a contention which “turns to truth” again
and again in this history, and forms the
backbone of Dr. Bean’s discussion of the
methods and aims and institutions of the
schools.
Confronted with the high principles so
completely enunciated here by Dr. Bean,
one often wonders how a boy who has
been inoculated with them manages to
survive in the jungle of the business
world. The answer seems to be that the
inoculation does not “take” more deeply
than is humanly possible, and in the
school itself tends rather to produce a
satisfactory surface of grace and manners
behind which life goes on, and the more
effectively for being so effectively
screened . . . One of Weigall’s happiest
stories was about the court-room where
judge and counsel were all old Grammar
boys—also the prisoner in the dock. At
the same time, there are businesses which
employ, to some extent, the principles of
corporate schools —of one of which a
temporary intruder (a mere day-boy) was
heard to mutter, “It would cause no sur-
prise if the staff were called into the main
hall and informed that it had been decided
to appoint prefects”—and that was a most
successful and long-lived business. But
in the schools, the prefect is no joke;
In nearly all independent schools, the
prefects have the right to punish, often —
for example at Newington, Camberwell,
Carey, Brighton, Ivanhoe, Xavier, St.
Ignatius, St. Aloysius, Waverley and Laun-
ceston Grammar —by giving useful tasks
or by detentions or “lines” In a number
of schools they may cane, usually after the
case has been considered at a prefects’
meeting or reported to the headmaster, or
both. But everywhere prefects know well
that the main means of control is their
own example, and at most schools where
it exists caning by prefects is dying out.
Dr. Bean attributes the freedom of
Australian schools from the “fagging”
tradition of their English counterparts to
the independent spirit of the boys from
the bush, who, in the early days, “resented
control even by masters,” notably by
Rev. Robert Forrest, who was barred out
at the front door for not giving the boys
a holiday on St. Patrick’s Day, until his
wife threatened to call in the redcoats —
and he a powerful man, well-liked, of
whom, with his wife, a neighboring parson
had written:
Long Bob and Slender Jane,
One gives physic, the other cane.
Many masters become part of the
school traditions and achieve a similar
hoary antiquity: Scotch College, Mel-
bourne, had only two headmasters in 76
years; an assistant master, Frank Shew,
worked there 51 years; R. G. H. Walm-
sey was at “Shore” and R. H. Bode at
Sydney Grammar each for 44 years; Dr.
Prescott was 32 years at Newington;
Frederick Chappie 38 years at Prince
Alfred ; W. B. Nicholls was at Pulteney
Grammar, Adelaide, for 41 years.
Dr. Bean sketches the more notable of
these masters and their efforts to repro-
duce in Australia Dr. Arnold’s “Christian
gentlemen”—it is not unlikely that the
fine spirit of the best things Paterson
wrote might be traced back to Sydney
Grammar, where, for no reason he could
remember, they first called him “The
Banjo,” and to its master, Weigall, as he
is presented in this book.
And the fine spirit of the corporate
schools, which may seem unworldly to the
worldly, seems to pay handsome divi-
dends in the long run: the MacAnsh
bequest of £400,000 to the King’s School
in memory of a father and three brothers,
all old boys of the school, and scores of
lesser, but still handsome, endowments,
bespeak the gratitude of satisfied
customers —to say nothing of occasional
surprises, like the will of Benjamin Da
Costa, who returned to England in 1848,
a year after St, Peter’s, Adelaide, was
founded, which left that school
the equivalent of six acres of the original
Adelaide city and fifteen “country sections,”
as well as other property; the total was
valued at £21,000 in 1869, but at £91,661
30 years later....ln 1946 the school was
spending on each boy approximately 20
per cent, more than he was paying in fees,
and this educational liberality.... was due
to the munificence of Benjamin Da Costa.
Thus, since all corporate schools take
nothing out in dividends, parents may
well compete to send their boys to the
most heavily-endowed schools, where it
is conceivable that the value of the educa-
tion given might become double that of
the fee.
The most impressive of the 54 illustra-
tions in this book is that of the elaborate
stage-set for “lolanthe,” produced by the
preparatory boys of St. Aloysius, Sydney
—and the range of plays produced by
various schools, as quoted in the text, is
remarkable. But perhaps the most strik-
ing development in corporate schools of
recent years has been the dropping of
the idea that a Christian gentleman should
do nothing with his hands. Geelong
Grammar seems to have led in this field,
with a “House of Guilds” where they
print, weave, carpenter, engineer, sculpt,
bind books, make baskets, and work in
leather, metal or at French-polishing.
And there is the story of the headmaster
there who found that, in the absence of
the musicmaster, the lecture on Russian
music was being given by the captain of
the football team: for one who was an
accessory to attempts to push music down
the Australian throat 20 years ago, that
is an awe-inspiring thought.
NEW AUSTRALIAN
“There should be lawyers that end of your
journey,
in Sydney itself”; so Rowan wrote,
“and if they’ve heard of power-of-attorney
I’ll see to what’s left and what’s forgot.
You’ve dregs in the Savings Bank. The little
you’ll get in the pound is a haul for a mouse.
You’ve odd debts owed you. And though the
title
has flaws, there’s your Strand Street house.”
He wrote again: “De Courcy Denny,
your Strand Street tenant, won’t buy; that’s
clear.
The place is worth your price, if a penny,
and brings you in forty pounds a year.
Head-rent comes out of that, please note you,
and poor-rate also. Six hundred’s fair;
but —consider four-fifty down ... I quote you
Pat Donovan of The Square.”
In a fork on a blackbutt twig attention
was high as the wagtail’s disk of a nest.
Tread quietly there; speak low; cease mention
of cast-off places! Life was a quest;
and sight was intent on bird or creature
where birds and thoughts were all new. What
power
had the pull of the past against change and
nature,
that orchid, opening in flower?
Ireland and its long tale of troubles
were far away now: the Chancery suit,
famine, the black religious squabbles,
bankruptcy. But a tree might fruit
torn up and transplanted in such a giver
of growth as new soil. And the fishing was
good,
N.S.W.
and the games. And wild ground fell to the
river
below home, here, where it stood.
Wrote Rowan: “The times are ill in Kerry—
men dragged from bed and given short shrift,
murdered for paying their rents ... all very
encouraging for a kind of thrift!
There’s Parnell, M.P., is stumping the country
telling the farmers to pay what they choose —
which suits the farmers. As for the gentry,
they’ll never learn till they lose.
“There’s much, I’m thinking, that should be
Tightened;
I’ll not be saying Parnell is wrong.
But money has gone into hiding, frightened,
and property won’t be worth a song.
Your Strand Street house, like the rest, will
suffer
and needs a lick of paint and repair.
You could do worse than take the offer
of Donovan of The Square.”
Europe, England, the north: a clatter
of tongues and hatreds none understands*—
among them voices we have heard, and matter
touching us and the task in our hands.
But direct memory breaks. We sever
worn threads. It was more than a business
affair:
he bought my grandfather’s house for ever,
Pat Donovan of The Square.
The choice made and the new land entered,
not for a day but for days to be,
what next but to grasp this life that centred
in the south? The north had been sunk at sea.
—lreland, the last of it, passed from view
to another’s trust. I cede my share,
and hope he died as rich as a Jew —
Pat Donovan of The Square.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Old Australian Ballads.
Miss M. M. Flower (R.P. 17/1 /’5l)
has provided the answer to a problem
that has interested my family over a
life-span.
In the ’9o’s my father, an English
brewer by profession, took over the
Three Legs of Man Hotel at Coolabar, a
then thriving village on the main western
line between Nyngan and Byrock. My
father, presiding at the piano in the main
dining-room, would run impromptu
concerts attended by the villagers and any
travellers passing through. They sang
their songs, to which he would improvise
an accompaniment.
One Rundle of Mulga Station used to
sing “The Broken Down Squatter.”
There was no written music, and we
children learned the words from the
singer. They are much the same as now
printed from the original. Our family
have sung the song since— three genera-
tions of us —and as we heard none others
ever use it, more or less adopted it as a
family trophy,
A watercolor depicting the scene with
the words printed beneath hangs in my
billiard-room.
It was most interesting reading for us
to see Miss Flower’s paragraph and to
know of the origin of the song. We
would express our thanks to Miss Flower
for the pleasure her father’s song has
given us for 50-odd years.
W. H. MORILOCK (Port Kembla).
Reviewed Briefly .
The Alpine Annual* 1950: Edited bv
T, Graham Brown (Dent), An experiment
which should interest mountaineers, being
the first issue of an annual compiled
from the ‘Alpine Journal.” Mostly
accounts of notable climbs during 1949,
with general notes, book reviews and
some special articles such as F. Spencer
Chapman’s “Travels in Japanese-
occupied Malaya.” Among the notes is
an item on “The Use of Snow Caves n
the New Zealand Alps” which was
originally printed in the Christchurch
“Press,” The English poet Michael
Roberts, who wrote the beautiful “Elegy
for the Fallen Climbers” some years ago,
contributes a poem and an article on
“Two Days on Mount Pourri.”
* * *
Eskimo Summer: Douglas Leechman
(Museum Press). One has read some
strange facts about the Eskimos from
time to time, but seldom anything so
strange as this; —
It’s nearly always time for a mug-up
down North. If the tide happens to be
against us and we have to wait till it turns,
we’ll have a mug-up. If it starts to rain
heavily, and we have to lie in the lee of a
cliff or take shelter in a cave — mug-up.
If one of the dogs has run off on some
errand of his own and somebody has to
go after him, the others have a mug-up
while waiting. If we shoot a polar hear and
he is being flayed and dressed, a mug-up
is indicated.
However, on a closer reading, the
Eskimos do not turn our to be quite so
overwhelmingly affectionate ; Mr. Leech-
man is not speaking the Australian
language but his native Canadian, and a
mu 6 -up is simply a cup of tea, or cuppa.
The quotation, besides indicating the pit-
falls of language, should serve to show
that the author, a leading archaeologist,
knows the Eskimos at first-hand and gives
a lively and informal account of them,
with plenty of bears, snow and igloos.
And mug-ups.
w Jit * •
Why We Act As We Do : Philip Eisen-
berg, Ph.D. (World’s Work). The author
is a professional psychologist, and this
little book of generalisations from his
experience is a sane and sober treatise on
the mental difficulties of types and
classes: on envy and jealousy, on the
seeking of prestige, on social masks,
dream-worlds, the sex-urge of adolescents,
the actions of unwanted children, on over-
protective mothers, on man’s inability to
live alone, on race-prejudice and the
desire to be powerful. Each chapter is
backed by a list of further books to read.
* * * *
An English Almanac: Written and
illustrated by Miles Hadfield (Dent). The
sort of book the English always do well
because they have so much history and
so many good writers to do it with. In
each month of the year the writer lists
and describes the principal anniversaries,
whether it is Guy Fawkes’s day or the
day of Newton’s death ; then there are
appropriate quotations from the poets and
nature-writers and notes on sport and the
weather.


"■
r
I
p
«
1
Hi
mM
i i
1
m
m
m
m
■
■j;
mi
k NJ I
Si •
•'■ : ;» I • •• y
mmm
'
;.'■■■-:■■ :
:; : ;
:
m
m
. :
ten nsnssßiiTfr
If B'!' 8 '!' |
A
śdf
IN: ADVERTISING"
sd
A. —“Centre Court” enamelled finished Electric
Mower fitted with third h.p. 240 volt motor,
13in. cut. £34/13/0.
B. — “Folbate” English lightweight Lawn
Mower, has rubber tyres, brass
sleeve bearings, 12in. cut. Price £5/16/9.
C. —Wimbledon all steel ball bearing
Lawn Mower, 14in. x five blade,
£lO/5/-. Min. x seven blade, £lO/15/-.
Grass Box 29/6 extra.
D. —Breville Quiet Electric Mower fitted
with half h.p. motor, tubular steel handles,
with built on flex carrier. £35/10/-.
*
i
Hi
•• « '
B
/,
D
fS/* K
S J
... *
(5Sf«
-
m
c
HOW TO PLAN A BETTER GARDEN
In Anthony Horderns’ Gardening Department, fourth floor, the “Home Gardener” will find large stocks
of everything that they wish for at reasonable prices. As an added service, we have our Gardening Expert,
Mr. Evans, F.R.H.S., in attendance there to advise you on all your gardening problems.
• T'- ' ’
“ J
m
ii
m
HmSi,
s,Vf
m
■ ■■
m
11
m-
,■■■::•■
■ J
i
m
H
**
: : : ■'•;■
Ml
ii
m
C
Hi
ii
r*
1... 1* v J
iss^
m
-i. •
Iti
ms
■ m
Plastic Garde* Wore. light and clean to handle, in
two sizes. K.ea, oiae, yellow or green. Price, iin.
size, 10id. ft.; |in., 1/10 ft. Fittings 10/4 extra.
"Gay” Rotary Sprinkler for even distribution of
water. Works on high or low pressure. Gunmetal
bearing revolves on water cushion. Size 0,12 in.
arms, priced at 47/- ; size 1,36 in. arms, at 64/9.
Plastic Lawn Rakes, light end durable, at 8/6
with handle. Rotary Edge Cutters for cutting
lawn edges, at 12/10 each. Brades Grip-blade
Hedge Shears for easy cutting. Price, 26 J 6 each.
Freight extra on all goods.
English Grass Shears. Sheffield steel blades,
12/- pair. Rega Garden Duster, half-pint
capacity, with 12in. extension, one angle, one
straight spreader tip. Priced at 8/4 each.
Canberra Three-arm Sprinkler, works off either
low or high pressure. Priced at only 12/6 each.
Oblong Rose Sprays fitted with spray baffle,
conserves water and gives a soft spray. 5/11 each.
Hide Gauntlet Gardening Gloves, men’s
sizes only, 11/9 pair. Secateurs by Wilkin-
son Sword Co., pattern W 33, 9in., 34/-.
Rose Pruners by Wilkinson Sword Co.,
pattern No. 25, 19/6.
LISTEN TO MR. EVANS F.R.H.S. GARDENING TALKS EVERY SATURDAY MORNING 8.30 TO 8.45 P.M. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


LENA'S BOULDER-BOUNCER
by I. H. MELVILLE
JOHN TUFFERY once bounced a
boulder clear over Tweed’s roof.
“G-g-golly,” his son Wallace
would stammer, excitedly recalling
this feat later, “I thought a hell of a lot
of the old m-man after he sent the stone
down that night. Seeing him take a
last sighter on her—nearly as high as
himself and sending her sizzling down
the gully here. What a sight! The
ground’s frozen hard, and she hits that
ledge like a cannonball and flies out.
Then she’s hanging in mid-air. The
moonlight’s on her and making her shine
like another little moon over the cottage.
Mrs. Tweed and Lena are asleep inside.
And the old man’s laughing! Then she’s
dropping, and plomps down here among
the currants.”
His ham-fisted jabs to his listener’s ribs
would be driving home the drama of it,
and his neck would swell even more as,
at each telling, he exerted his clumsy
strength to guide the boulder clear.
Down there in the gully it had fallen,
about midway between the cottage and
the creek. A currant bush, flattened
under the impact, had somehow survived.
Straggling out again from underneath the
boulder to bear witness of authenticity,
it grew also as a memorial tribute to
John Tuffery; for while the remains that
had been buried elsewhere had been those
of a beaten man—as bony and miserable
as most of the sheep he had run on the
hillside—the man his son would recall
there among the currants was a bold cal-
culating devil who had bounced a
boulder over the cottage roof while Mrs.
Tweed and her daughter Lena slept
inside.
Nor could old John Tuffery have
wished for a better epitaph than his son’s
enthusiasm. “Twenty-five years ago it
was, and I can remember it as if it was
last night it happened. A thing like that
shows a man’s real spirit, don’t you
reckon? Inspiring, sort of.”
As he spoke he would be stroking the
fallen boulder so proudly that his father’s
skill with it might well have run to
mastery over some leaping volcanic
demon still abiding.
“You know what the old man says to
me that night in that quiet way of his?”
he would ask earnestly. “ ‘Wallace,’ he
says to me, ‘l’ve been tempted to roll that
stone down ever since I was a little chap
like you,’ he says to me. ‘But 1 waited
till 1 was sure how she’d run.’ ”
And, as would be indicated by a sweep
of his son’s arm, the measure of John
Tuffery’s forbearance was in the long
slope that fell steeply from the top road,
broken only by a ridge round which a
sheep-track curved. High up there, where
the boulder had started its run, another
stood recessed, bluish and roughly egg-
shaped. Tussocks and the tops of power-
poles formed the skyline. Tuffery s
homestead was out of sight, above the
road.
Now and then John would be whipping
off his glasses to blow on them like a
panting collie dog, and polish them on
his lapel before hooking them with
nervous haste round his outthrust ears.
“The old man wasn’t the mug some
thought him to be.” He would state
this emphatically. “He used his brains,
all right. He’d be rolling boulders down
all the time he was going round the
sheep. He studied boulders. He knew
which ones would split and how they’d
run when the ground was wet or dry.
He was a wizard with boulders, the old
man.”
SUCH enthusiasm could not but urge
emulation. What recognition there
would be if two boulders, both having
cleared the cottage roof, lay side by side!
But there would be a risk in sending
down the egg-shaped boulder that stood
so invitingly poised. “You never know
how a thing like that might run,” his
father had cautioned, refusing to touch
it himself.
As the champion of his father’s
wizardry, however, Wallace Tuffery
could only view the egg-shaped boulder
as a challenge. From habit, he seldom
passed it without sighting its likely course
down the gully. A mob of sheep would
be allowed to wander the road at will as
he aped his father’s stance and rocked it
gently in its bed.
“How do you think she’d run?” he’d
ask earnestly of anyone travelling the
top road.
From the pondered judgment of Arch
Thumwood, the fishmonger, to the
mockery of a doting aunt who kept house
for him, opinion was definite enough—
the boulder seemed a certainty to crash
through the cottage roof.
“You’re out on the hill too much on
your own,” his aunt would chide, though
not without some concern. “You’re get-
ting sheep’s brains in your head.”
Lena Tweed would hear his specula-
tion nervously. She was a shy girl, and
exuberance alarmed her.
“I’ll send her down over your roof one
of these nights, Lena,” he would boast.
“And you’ll never know till you see it
sitting beside the old man’s in the morn-
ing.”
And of those who sought to dissuade
him by predicting disaster, he would ask
ii the cottage did not belong to the
property, if it was not his to do as he
liked with.
Mrs. Tweed feared that some sale-
day would be the most likely to bring
disaster. Then, after a convivial evening
spent in the township, he would come
pushing his bicycle unsteadily up the hill
and roaring out songs that resounded in
the gully like thunder. On these nights
he seldom failed to descend the few steps
down to the boulder’s recess.
“Are you down there, Mrs. Tweed?”
he would yell.
Light would stream from the cottage,
and with the precision of a cuckoo from
a clock, a white-gowned figure would
come rocking out.
Unless there was a strong enough wind
to whisk it away, the question would then
rise fearfully, “Are you going to roll the
stone down on us tonight, Wallace?”
“No, not tonight, Mrs. Tweed. Go
back to bed.”
Thus assured, the old woman would
retire, and the light be switched off. The
dark gully would send his laughter—his
father’s exultant laughter echoing
back.
T HE boulder he had sent down having
1 been merely one of fancy, he could
relax ; it had gone flying over Tweed’s
roof only in his own imagination. But in
Mrs. Tweed’s mind it had come crashing
through the cottage, and if all else was
fantasy, her wrath was real enough:
“Don’t you start grizzling about me
shouting and waking you up,” she would
snap, posing in her daughter’s bedroom
as the outraged saviour of the house-
hold. “If it wasn’t for me, we’d have
had that stone down on top of us long
ago.”
The girl may not have been wakened
before, but she was now. Her mother
would see to that.
“Leave me alone,” Lena Tweed would
whimper, turning to the wall.
Though her night vigil vexed her, Mrs.
Tweed did not blame Wallace Tuffery.
The responsibility was her daughter’s.
“All he wants is a decent girl to quieten
him down,” would be the gist of the
woman’s assertions, charging everything
to her daughter’s backwardness. “Some
girl with a bit of go in her will get him,
you’ll see; yes, and she’ll be married and
living up there while we’re still waiting to
get the roof fixed.”
“Oh, leave me alone.”
Then Mrs. Tweed would harp
on the charms and romance of her
own improbable youth. She was a seg-
mented bumblebee of a woman, sucking
the nectar nowadays of an inevitable
blackball. Black staining leaked from
the corners of her mouth.
“And don’t you start any of your
grizzling about this old place,” she re-
buked one stormy day, as she waddled
round her bedroom setting pots and pans
to catch the drips. “You needn’t be here
at all. You could be up the hill.”
Lena was of sinewy build. Limp
fair hair that clung close to her head
seemed, together with her watery eyes, to
give her a drowned look; but she was
neat and graceful in her red jacket, and
the room was sweeter for her being there
“I’ll please myself about that,” she
Her mother went shuffling irritably
among the pots and pans. “It’s about
time you pleased somebody.”
can talk about something pise besides
rolling stones down .he a kid.
If I could shift that stone, I d roll it
would smashed so Z
woUldn’Thave to.h'en"
And you wouldn't need to go shouting at
night, either, and waking people up,
because there’d be no stone up there to
him to roll down.”
“i-Tuh ” a ....
thp J the woman sitting on
bed, taken rather aback. And smash
everything in the house?” Her daughter's
boldness had evidently impressed her.
“I’d put my own good things away
safe,” the girl replied, and added wryly
“That wouldn’t take long.”
Mrs. Tweed, breathing easier, got up to
rearrange her containers. “A fat chance
you’ve got of shifting it,” she said.
P) ESPJTE her daughter’s threat, Mrs.
I-' Tweed was on guard when next
Wallace Tuffery came singing up the hill.
“Are you down there, Mrs. Tweed?”
Twice she heard him shout. His words
were wilder, more impatient than usual.
“Are you going to roll the stone down
on us tonight, Wallace?”
His laughter was muffled by drizzling
rain. “No. Go back to bed. Go back
to bed, Mrs. Tweed.”
The old woman stood for a while at the
door of her cottage and then went inside.
But this time her angry steps did not
take her as far as her daughter’s room.
Instead she stopped at a grandfather
clock, grappled with it and then, clutch-
ing it to her like a waltzing partner, bore
it to an open cupboard and stowed it
away. A smoke-blackened violin, a
radio and a collection of household odds-
and-ends, all obviously listed beforehand,
followed in rapid order before the -cup-
board door was slammed shut.
“Are you awake, Lena?” she asked,
going into her daughter’s room then.
“How could X help being awake?” the
girl demanded, excited and dreading the
usual diatribe. “1 told you what I’d do.
1 told you.” Her cry was piercing and
unsteady. “And I’ll do it. You’ll see.”
“What’ll you do, Lena?”
“I’ll go up there and roll the stone
down.”
“Come with me, then, Lena,” her
mother urged, disconcertingly affable,
“and we’ll go up and do it now.”
“What! ”
“So surprised?” Mrs. Tweed chaffed.
“And it was your idea?”
“We might not be able to shift it,” the
girl said, hesitant still.
“We’ll just have to try, Lena,” her
mother countered. A tone of authority
was creeping back. “Hurry now and get
dressed.”
“But if we’re dressed and”
The girl began another objection, but
her mother had not waited to hear it.
Within five minutes they were climbing
the hill. The sheep-track was puddled
clay, and Mrs. Tweed pressed down each
footstep like an overworked draught-
horse. She led the way round the hill-
face, shining her torch beam ahead. The
girl, wrapped in a shining hooded cape,
dawdled impatiently behind.
T HEY had not wasted much time.
_ Less than half an hour had passed
since Wallace Tuffery had gone round
the top road.
He was still up there at his gate. He
sheltered in a cosy corner of the hawthorn
hedge, seated on the breadbox, where
heavy branches overhung. Hedgehogs
were rustling about behind him and
snuffling as if in protest at being dis-
turbed.
He was staring down intently and try-
ing to sort out the township lights. But
drizzling rain made it difficult. How to
tell how much of the fuzziness was due
to the night and how much was in his
own head was the problem. He could
have tried out some of his aunt’s tongue-
twisters as a further test of his fitness
to go up the driveway, but such nonsense
would have made him feel a fool in the
presence of even the hedgehogs.
Suddenly, from down the gully, there
came a crash that sent him springing to
his feet. He was along the road in a few
strides and standing goggling down the
bank.
Encircled by torchlight, Mrs. Tweed
and Lena stood in the recess where
the egg-shaped boulder had been.
“G-golly! ”
They started at his exclamation and
turned up awe-stricken faces. The girl
began to cry, somewhat hysterically.
“You t-t-tried to bounce it over the
r-roof?”
“Over the roof, Wallace,” Mrs. Tweed
affirmed eagerly.
She was scared now. “Like your
father did. But it went wrong.” She was
plastered with mud where she had fallen,
but she had her wits about her still.
“Oh, 1 shouldn’t have listened to Lena.
I shouldn’t have come with her.”
“Lena! ”
Wallace Tuffery stepped down from
the road to stare at the girl incredulously.
Whatever he would feel later, rage or
vexation, he was showing only wonder-
ment.
Sobbing, the girl turned on him accus-
ingly. “It was your fault, too. You were
always talking about it.”
He snatched off his glasses and polished
them and put them on again so that he
could study the girl more closely. He
was glancing from her, with her cape
gleaming, to the depression where the
boulder had been embedded. He said
nothing, obviously keeping silent under
restraint.
Then he headed down the gully. The
woman and the girl followed. Mrs.
Tweed, as she went bumbling downhill,
was panting whispered advice to her
daughter.
Within sight of their cottage they saw
that its chimney had been lopped to half
its height and that the remainder was
leaning precariously. The boulder was a
dim shape lying on the lean-to roof.
“Golly.”
They found the cottage door jammed
tight. Wallace Tuffery had to fling his
full weight against it before it yielded.
Then the three of them stood on the door-
step gazing inside. Mrs. Tweed played
her torch tragically round what had been
her scullery.
“Oh, Lena,” her mother exclaimed,
though her tone was more of mock com-
plicity than reproach.
Wallace Tuffery stood as the girl’s
champion. “She’d have bounced it clean
over the roof if the ground had been
hard,” he lied defiantly. “Just like the
old man did.”
The expression on Mrs. Tweed’s face
might well have been compounded of
those nuances of sacrifice and virtue that
mark an impending mother-in-law, for
Wallace Tuffery would never pay a higher
tribute than that.
IN SUMMER’S TREE.
In summer’s yellow tree
The bird sings low;
There my thoughts are leaves
But he sings from the shadow.
Under thought he sings
And he locks the hot summer
Like a spring’s reflections
In his words of amber.
One world is of time
And the other of vision.
And the magpie’s song
Brings peace and fusion.
For now the sharp leaves
On the tree are still
And the great blond paddocks
Come down from the hill.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72 —No. 3708
Wednesday, March 7, 1951
sr*' fH
IP
fs
df
ANOTHER “RED” INVENTION.
“It’s not this wheel I put on for you that makes her bump and creak; it's the round one on the other side that's the trouble."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR'S" DUST-RAISER.
Pre-sessional caucus meetings are
nowadays merely briefing-sessions about
decisions already taken. For “Labor”
these were taken on this occasion by a
Federal A.L.P. triennial conference, held
to guide the party through one of its
trickiest periods since the Red objective
was adopted.
As soon as the socialisation issue had
lost “Labor” the 1949 elections the
ravages caused by the Communist white-
ants in the party edifice were exposed to
all beholders. For the socialisation objec-
tive was the plank—indeed, the whole
floor —in which since 1921 the Com-
munist destroyers have harbored. Mr.
Dedman came a bad cropper on it again
the other day in the Geelong libel case;
the Red objective had already cost him
his Corio seat, and when he sought from
a jury in court £20,000 damages against
his electoral opponents for having repre-
sented him on his Socialist views as (he
said) “a liar and a hypocrite,” the jury
found against him. He went down with
the greater thud because in the witness-
box he related how he had tried for years
to understand what the “Blackburn inter-
pretation” of the Red objective really
meant, and his conclusions on the point
only drew from the court the comment
that he was completely contradicting him-
self in the box on the simple test ques-
tion whether on any interpretation of
Socialism a man would be allowed the
right to own his own home.
That was bad enough, but in the
course of his self-contradiction Mr.
Dedman said that in the future Socialist
Australia of “Labor’s” dreams the policy
of allowing a worker only permissive
tenancy of his home would enable a
Socialist Government to eject a striker
from his house and put in a non-striker.
But if Mr. Dedman is an awful warn-
ing to caucus, Dr. Evatt is a living
embodiment of discord. He has illus-
trated during the past year how “Labor,”
in Opposition, treats strikes against the
country’s interests, even political strikes
organised by the Communists of malice
prepense. Not only is the ex-Attorney-
General and the party’s deputy-leader the
Communists’ chosen legal advocate, but
he has even told the Arbitration Court,
in effect, that his own legislation when
lately in office so altered the court’s
powers as to leave it quite impotent to
combat such strikes. The leaders in the
new Communist strike-technique for
whom Dr. Evatt has been appearing are
reducing the working week to three days
and throwing tens of thousands of opera-
tives out of work for the other two days.
Here the “Labor” split is given some-
thing solid to bite on.
The Moscow programme, dictated
through the W.F.T.U. (outlawed by the
Australian Council of Trade Unions) and
the Cominform, from whose latest meet-
ings some of Dr. Evatt’s clients are now
drifting home, demands of the local Com-
munists the creation of confusion and
stagnation in the Australian forking
economy in order to combat any Gov-
ernment effort for the rearming of Aus-
tralia and the revival of Australian fight-
ing services. That is the dirty work now
proceeding, and “Labor” has been help-
ing the wreckers with both hands.
Dr. Evatt has in Parliament and in the
law courts defended Communists who
treat all Government authority with de-
rision, even proclaiming that they “never
have, and never will, accept arbitration
for settlement of industrial disputes” ; and
he was the author of the enlarged Senate
scheme which has obstructed all remedial
legislation so far during this Parliament.
The pre-sessional “Labor” meetings fore-
shadow continued obstruction by means
of Dr. Evatt’s Senate-barrier against the
Government’s bills, and the weekend’s
A.L.P. special conference endorsed this
decision against all legislation, including
the prospective amending Arbitration Bill
for pre-strike secret ballots and the Bank
Bill, but it directed the Parliamentary
party not to oppose any longer the com-
pulsory military training bill for home
defence. Only on this one point did the
“Labor” conference differ from the local
Communist party’s decisions.
The Victorian section of caucus has
for long been viewing with indignation
and alarm the triumph of Communist
influence in the party. The mere sight
of Dr. Evatt is now for most of them like
a red rag to a bull. The Melbourne
wnarfies have rejected his Communist
clients’ orders. A split in the party
cannot be much longer deferred, and the
occasion of it, if not the real cause, will
be probably of his making. He entered
caucus with the echoes still ringing of
the plaudits of Communist bosses in the
mines and on the wharves for his defence
of them against charges under his own
legislation, along with those other echoes
from the Communist crowd at the Sydney
Town Hall meeting last week shouting
We want Evatt! We want peace!” Is
the idea that “Labor” shall ride back to
office at the next elections on the same
band-wagon as the Friends of the Soviet,
the Moscow world “peace” council
(banned with bell, book and candle by
every “Labor” executive in the British
Commonwealth), and the Jewish ex-
servicemen’s league, all howling against
German immigration under the plan en-
dorsed by all parties?
The Sydney meeting’s organisation and
purposes deserve examination. It was
organised by the Communists and the
Zionists. The local Communist organ
prescribed the line the speeches should
take ; “organiser’s pamphlets”—without
any printer’s name attached, but one
“organiser” in the crowd told the police
he thought the illegality was waived be-
cause the pamphlets carried an article by
Dr, Evatt! —were distributed in company
with others in more expensive style pro-
duced by the Jewish ex-service league.
The chairman was Mr. Haylen,
formerly Mr, Calwell’s toady, one of
those who got a free holiday overseas to
inspect Mr. Calwell’s immigration plan in
operation, and now belatedly regards it
as “insane.” He described it as “the
Menzies Government’s planning,” though
Mr. Calwell had just congratulated the
present Immigration Minister on his good
work in following the pattern previously
set by himself.
Mr. Haylen and Dr. Evatt duly said
what the Communist paper had indicated
as expected of them, ignoring the
warning issued to all “Labor”-party
members beforehand by Federal
A.L.P.-president Ferguson that “the
Communist party is seeking to make
capital out of German immigration.”
Their fellow-propagandist on the platform
was Prof. Stone, the “new Australian”
who in 1943 had hardly settled at Sydney
University in a chair which everybody
except the N.S.W. “Labor” Government
and the Evatt brothers wanted kept for
a serving soldier when he opened an in-
solent public attack on Sir Isaac Isaacs,
ex-Governor-General, for having ex-
pressed the sentiments of Australian Jews
about the aggressive Zionist movement.
That was Mr. Stone’s first essay in
splitting the Australian community ; the
Jewish ex-servicemen’s league, the only
sectarian service body in existence, is
keeping up his work. Mr. Stone’s busi-
ness at the meeting was to speak of “the
spirit of racial murder,” and Dr. Evatt,
erstwhile the great battler for free citizen
rights under a universal charter, aided
and abetted him. The dress in which the
arguments were presented—that no indi-
vidual immigrant could really be screened
for opinion, and therefore Australia would
be flooded with Nazis —was an imposture.
Mr. Calwell’s comments should be highly
interesting.
“Labor” can be left to deal with Dr.
Evatt. But public opinion will have to
deal with Mr. Stone and his sect if the
Australian people get the impression that
a Zionist supporter is using for political
purposes a public post in which he cannot
be subjected to political correction, and
using it to incite Jewish immigrants to
raise hell here if certain other “new Aus-
tralians” are, under the all-party immigra-
tion plan, allowed into the country.
Four-Power Conference.
After three months of haggling, the
Kremlin has at last shown signs of agree-
ing to four-Power discussions on some
of the world’s problems. Exactly what is
going to be gained by the discussions,
except to provide the Russians with
another platform on which to shout abuse
at the West and demand world disarma-
ment outside the Soviet Union, it is diffi-
cult to understand.
Even if an agreement is come to on
major points it will be kept only by one
side, and will quickly go the way of the
agreements of Potsdam and Yalta.
It will provide the Russians with
another of the many situations of which
they have been able to take advantage in
the last six years, one in which they will
have a brief space of time during which
their co-partners in the new agreement
(if any) are off their guard.
The preliminaries leading up to the
present arrangement began with a Comin-
form meeting at Prague on October 21-
22 last year, at which it was proposed
that a single Government should be
established for Germany with a Legisla-
tive Assembly consisting of equal numbers
of representatives from East and West
Germany.
As Eastern Germany, which is under
Soviet control, holds 18,000,000 people
and Western Germany, which also has
virtually all the industrial resources and
therefore a greater proportion of real
proletarians such as the Soviet professes
to love best, has 50,000,000, the scheme
from behind the Iron Curtain scarcely
seemed to be practical politics. Pro-
posals for the four-Power conference on
the German question only were put
forward by Russia on November 3.
To this the Western Nations replied
uniformly that they believed that the
conference should cover the widest pos-
sible ambit of discussion of world
problems, the Cominform scheme and
the limitation of the agenda to Germany
being alike rejected. Russia’s reply to
this rejection— accompanied by a barrage
of abusive propaganda directed particu-
larly at Britain and the United States—
was a nebulous snarl at all those with
whom it proposed to confer, and a
demand that wherever the conference was
held it should be in Europe.
After another three weeks (on
January 23), the Western Powers asked
Vyshinsky to say specifically whether his
Government was prepared to debate all
causes of world tension. After pondering
for a fortnight, the Kremlin replied that
it had taken the initiative last November
to arrange the meeting specifically to
discuss “the demilitarisation of Germany”
because “the execution of the Potsdam
agreement was an important factor
in diminishing present international
tension,” and because the Western
world’s plans to restore the German
Army and its “enormous increases in
armaments” were provoking growing dis-
quiet among the peaceful peoples of
Europe who had suffered the miseries
of World War 11.
Those peaceful peoples, of course, were
those who in the last five years have been
swallowed by Russia and armed for the
purpose of aggression out of Russian
arsenals. The meetings at Frankfort at
which the three Western Powers had dis-
cussed the defence of the West against
the 175 Russian and numerous satellite
divisions deployed between Moscow and
the Elbe, apart from huge Communist
fifth-columns, and the appointment of
General Eisenhower were said to have
“a dangerous meaning all too obvious.”
And it was alleged that, sheltering behind
the Adenauer Government, the Nazis
were preparing to exploit the situation
for their own aggressive military ends.
However, the U.S.S.R. condescendingly
agreed to discuss German demilitarisation
under terms laid down in the Potsdam
agreement, and to consider at a pre-
liminary conference the agenda for the
principal meeting.
This was followed a little later (on the
eve of delivery of the Western replies)
by an abusive attack in unbridled terms
on Mr. Attlee and on British sincerity.
Despite this unpropitious preliminary and
an anguished cry from the Greek Gov-
ernment that Communist armies were
concentrating in the Balkans, the Western
Allies made the sixth move in the game
of getting the conference going by sug-
gesting that the deputies of the Foreign
Ministers of the United Kingdom, the
United States, France and Russia should
meet on March 5 to settle the details of
the agenda. The Russian answer was
accompanied by a blustering commentary
on the unanswerable charges levelled by
the British reply to the “Pravda” attack.
Even though it is also averred that in
Korea British and U.S. troops “for
several months have been destroying
Korean towns and villages, plundering
Koreans, violating Korean women, killing
Korean children and old people,” this
last Russian Note is regarded in Wash-
ington as “conciliatory” by Russian
standards and is welcomed, its politeness,
according to the correspondents of the
“S. M. Herald,” surprising the West and
being thought to “indicate a desire for
the four-Power talks as soon as possible.”
Actually, the heart of the Note appears
to be in a paragraph which accused the
United Kingdom of “encouraging in
Bulgaria, Hungary and Rumania hostile
activity of Fascist groupings to over-
throw the People’s Democratic Regimes,
and of joining with the United States
and other foreign agents in an attempted
coup d’etat to subordinate Czecho-
slovakia to the Anglo-American dictate,”
as, it alleged, Yugoslavia has been sub-
ordinated.
The present crux of Russian policy is
very evidently fear of defections in the
Balkans. Russia has been faced by resist-
anc© to war preparations on Hungarian
soil, the Hungarians being chronically
averse to a new war against Yugoslavia,
especially a war from which they can
expect nothing save a closer integration
with the Soviet Union.
In Czechoslovakia purges have been
m progress for months without much
respect of persons, those hanged includ-
in S several priests and a, woman member
°* Parliament.
E may be coincidence that the day
ab^er . delivery of the ‘conciliatory
Russian Note to the British Ambassador
“? at * he *°™ er p ore.gn Minister
, omrac !f Vladimir dementis, one of
h °!?, wh ° °nginally betrayed his country
t ?. t “ e Russians, was discovered in an
abject condition in a Czech prison, along
with two other leading members of the
Central Committee of the Czech Com-
munist t Comrade dementis con-
fessed. °f course, that he was a spy for
t jj e \y est
n r r~i' , *
Jf a few m ° nths , agO J
dUuncel
b L tbe a h s ead o£ - the sl r k c r munist
party as a rene B ade creature, a
doubl *- faced wkh °V t
Zml tnmhnde ■■ ° f unlma S lnable
T , ■ P ' .
“ 9. ude plaia that all *? not B° in B
w ell behind the Iron Curtain and that
the very people who treacherously handed
, heir nat *V e countries over to th y e tender
J ,y f ™«ie S of Stalin and Vyshinsky cannot
stomach Russian Communism when they
see ft in operation at first-hand. The
Sa ™ thing is bapp “ ing in Italy
here mu ch to rejoice about m
e^ e con^i tlo ns. Faced with the threat
f f, 1 new os . r ?f. e » Stalin and his
n J aaythin .f; If theythmk
a in attack Western .. Eu^P e
wil ! f JS' ei t r sa tf pltes , to “ mte tb< r y
Sin? L p The thl «8
** Tf“ s,^ uat > on at P resen f
p tbe contlnaed certainty that until
*2al a
“°™ al “fraational way, until Russians
can P as s freely into the outer world and
citizens of the outer world as freely
into Russia, until Russian armaments
cease to be the main consideration in
Russian life, and until the U.S.S.R. gives
up its habit of establishing and subsidis-
ing treasonable fifth-columns in the
dominions of other Powers, all talk is
wasted.
Until these conditions are brought
about the Russians are likely to under-
stand no argument save that which
appeals to every other kind of outcast
savage beast—a force as strong as, or
stronger than, itself.
British Commentary.
“It is no use telling housewives—making
do on Bd.-worth of tough meat —that on
Febniary 15 they became owners of
the iron and steel industry. Housewives
would rather have a joint to carve.”
—Conservative party’s “Weekly News Letter. v
“The Foreign Secretary may have as
many daggers in his back as an old bull
in a bullfight, the Prime Minister may be
insulted, half may not be talking to the
other half, but there they troop together
through the division lobby, docile and
united to save only their seats and their
skins. A conspiracy against the nation!
Government by influenza and loss motive,
limpets clinging to the ship of State!”
—Mr. Hugh Fraser, Conservative M.P. for
Stafford and Stone.
“N0w.... we have government by
excuse.”
—“Daily Mail” leader.
“The Welfare State has become the ‘lll-
fare’ State in which the sick cannot find
a hospital bed, the aged are neglected, the
homeless are growing in numbers, and
the whole nation is underfed.”
— Mr. Bernard Braine, Conservative M.P. for
Billericay.
“History repeats itself. Queen Marie
Antoinette offered her people cake when
it was bread they needed. The Labor
Government offers the miners Pickles
when it is meat they need The Queen
lost her head!” [Mr. Wilfred Pickles, the
radio artist, has been invited to
visit mining districts to encourage pro-
duction.]
— Mr. John Profumo, Conservative M.P. for
Stratford-on-Avon.
“With characteristic but humorous dis-
respect for ‘the War House’ and ‘chair-
borne Whitehall wallahs,’ the Army still
gives pointed nicknames to its chiefs. In
a sergeants’ mess yesterday 1 heard Mr.
Strachey (War Minister) referred to as
‘Colonel of the Nuts’ and Mr. Shinwell
(Minister of Defence) as ‘General
Winter.’ ”
“News Chronicle."


PLAIN ENGLISH
New Blood.
from the South Australian Transport Control
Board. Through this department’s contact with
the manufacturer, the portholes now awaiting
transport will go forward this week, and will
be in Sydney for forwarding to Newcastle seven
days after dispatch.
Except for a period in 1949, when the South
Australian railways service was brought prac-
tically to a standstill by a strike of coalminers
in New South Wales, there has been no time
when portholes would not have been accepted
by these railways had they been offered for
transport. Further, if advice had been given
these railways that they were urgently required
in Sydney accelerated movement would have
been given, as is our practice.
The manager of the manufacturing company
states that the occasions on which portholes
were flown to Sydney were approximately two
years ago, and at that time they were not
submitted for transport by rail. He further
states that at no time have portholes been
transported by road to New South Wales, nor
has such transport been sought by him.
If the manager of the porthole-
manufacturing concern has anything to
add, let him now speak.
McGirr's Fine Chance.
A great many thousands of municipal
electors in N. S, Wales are now being
pestered with “notifications to electors”
sternly “requiring” them to “(a) state in
the form at the foot of this notice the
true reason why you have failed to vote,
(b) complete and personally sign the form,
and have it witnessed by an elector or
persons qualified to be an elector under
the Local Government Act of 1919, and
(c) fold the form so that the address ‘The
With the prospective appointment of
what “S. M. Herald” calls “one of the
outstanding successes of the Cabinet” —
Mr. Percy Spender, to wit —as Australian
Ambassador to Washington, the retire-
ment because of ill-health of Dame Enid
Lyons (vice-president of the Executive
Council), and the return to Canberra of
Mr. Harrison from Resident Minister in
London, Mr. Menzies is clearly set to
make some important changes in his
Ministry.
The Canberra lobbies expect Air-
Minister Tommy White to go to London
as High Commissioner, and are
canvassing names of a successor to
Mr. Frank Forde, once of Capricornia,
who is due to be time-expired in the job
at Ottawa later this year. Nor do the
vacancies for Ministerial appointment end
with those mentioned.
Reconstruction of a Ministry is an
obligation never far off with an elderly
Cabinet, and Mr. Menzies has now an
opportunity, which it has been said he
would have welcomed earlier, to
strengthen his team from the ranks of
capable younger members of his party,
already exhibiting some restlessness as
back-benchers. The principle of select-
ing Cabinet Ministers from men of ex-
perience can be carried too far —or, at
least, persisted in for too long—when it
comes to perpetuating in the 1950’s the
atmosphere of the 1920’5. Safe seats and
preselection have preserved some of
these old-timers in Parliament, not always
with the general approval of their con-
stituents. That reward for loyal and hard
service has for too long been allowed to
establish claims ipso facto to Ministerial
office.
Younger men’s rights to be tested for
political leadership in their own genera-
tion can no longer be neglected.
The Shufflers.
“Labor’s” policy-making machine at the
weekend clearly recognised the threat of
war inherent in the world-wide cleavage
between the Western States and Com-
munist Russia, because the A.L.P. con-
ference ordered a reversal (for the second
time in six months) of the Parliamentary
party’s Senate obstruction to legislation
passed by the Government in the House
of Representatives.
Last October it was the Communist-
party Dissolution Bill. Now it is the
Compulsory Military Service Bill.
Mr. Chifley got from conference his
wish over the Government’s Bank Bill.
That is to be blocked to the extent of
provoking a double-dissolution. But Mr.
Chifley could have had a double-dissolu-
tion any time this past 12 months, and if
he is satisfied with the rest of the de-
cisions he must be easily pleased. He
demanded of the conference, before it
spoke, “a party programme vivid and
alive —not a middle-of-the-road sort of
policy that can be crushed from both
sides by the Tories and Communists.”
I don’t want any shuffling. I want to
know the fundamental principles for which
“Labor” stands —whether they lead to
defeat or victory.
If that is not an appeal for the full
strength of the 1921 “Red” platform —the
driving for socialisation at full speed
even if it should lead to disaster —then
Mr. Chifley’s words mean nothing. All
he got in response was a rephrasing of
the “Blackburn interpretation,” hitherto
never officially approved by a sufficient
majority—the same wishy-washy stuff
which he urged the triennial conference
to reject in 1948, and which was then
rejected.
It will be interesting to see what sort
of party course is plotted which will not
go down the middle of the road —though
that line hitherto was hailed as the ideal
—and yet must not take either one side
with “the Tories” or the other side with
the Communists. As long as “Labor”
continues phrasing its objective in
ambiguities—for the sake of covering up
the split in its own ranks —it offers itself
an easy victim to the Communists, and
cannot possibly produce any policy for
ridding the unions of their destructive
influence. Yet that is Mr. Chifley’s aim
—so he says.
"Flying Portholes."
From S. H. Watson, Deputy Railways
Commissioner for South Australia:
Your article on “flying portholes” (B. 14/2/’5l)
was read by me with very considerable concern,
and in consequence I made immediate contact
with the manufacturers mentioned by you and
their freighting agents.
The manager of the manufacturing company
advises that the portholes now on hand have
never been offered for transport by rail nor had
a permit to carry them by road been sought
AROUSED FROM THE SHADES.
“Congratulations on your victory, Mr. Brown. But is it a fact that Mr. Attlee is
going to allow an American baseball pitcher to captain England’s next Test team?”
Returning Officer, Town Hall, ——,’ shall
be visible and post or deliver it as
to reach me on or before March 14.”
It is, in fact, all in the best Moscow
tradition, and it is to be noted that even
the proper folding of the form is required,
the presumption being that to send it in
any other way is a crime against the
State. The lightest act of mere electors
is here deemed to be subject to the
orders of the local Bumble, just as in
the U.S.S.R.
It is left to the judicial mind of the
relative council to decide whether the
excuse is valid or not. There seems to
be no provision—at least none suggested
on the notice —for appeal by the elector
to a court, but anybody knowing the
magnetic attraction which exists between
Bumbles and “penalties of not less than
£2” can guess how difficult it is for an
elector to justify himself.
The provision for punishing any elector
(or his proxy!) who states a “false
reason” for having failed to vote is one
which would make even Moscow blush.
If it were applied to criminal and civil
law in general the whole business of the
courts would cease. No lawyer would
ever be game to risk a defence based on
what he had been told, and the world
would be full of convicted persons whose
defences had not been believed by juries,
being sentenced not only to hanging and
penal servitude, but to an additional ten-
bob or the option for putting up non-
valid defences.
If Mr. McGirr and his Cabinet are
sincere in believing in the principle that
in all statutory votes persons entitled to
vote should be compelled to exercise their
God-given privileges in order to ensure
democracy, there can be no possible
excuse for their failing to extend this
compulsion to every field to which it
ought to be applied—beginning, of course,
with Parliament, where it is vitally neces-
sary to Mr. McGirr at the moment in
view of the state of what he has the
audacity to call his majority.
However, a field which yearns even
more than Parliament for action is the
trade-unions, whose members frequently
are called on by Communist leaders to
paralyse the country —at a time when
the Federal Government believes war to
be “inevitable” —on the basis of votes
carried through in a go-as-you-please
fashion. A few days ago at the mass
meetings of coalminers held on the
northern N. S. Wales fields to decide
whether the one-day-a-week strikes should
be continued —strikes which are losing
coal at the rate of 2,000,000 tons a year.
The voting at individual meetings was:
Eligible Votes.
Voters. For. Against.
Cessnock .. .. 2700 387 3
Kurri .. .. 2700 159 17
Paxton .. . • 300 8 21
Branxton .. .. 300 70 11
West Wallsend .. 650 122 2
Adamstown .. 1000 136 6
Belmont .. •. 700 204 3
Swansea .. .. 600 83 17
Speer’s Point . . 800 102 2
Abermain .. .. 500 74
Teralba .. .. 500 72 0
Maitland .. . • 250 53 0
This certainly seems to be a case for
immediate and drastic action by Mr. Mc-
Girr —the application of universal voting
would, indeed, get rid of Communist
leadership. But you won’t catch him act-
ing. That would entail class-war on the
Communist party, which would immedi-
ately withdraw the Coalminers’, Iron-
workers’, Building Workers’, Waterside
Workers’ and other contributions to
Labor’s political fighting funds.
Professor Giblin.
An appreciation from “D.8.C.,” Can-
berra :
Professor L. F. Giblin, who died in Hobart
on March 1, at the age of 78, was one of the
greatest Australians of his generation. His was
a varied and adventurous life —scholar, all-
England Rugby player, goldminer, bushman,
seaman, cook, teamster, soldier, farmer,
Member of Parliament in Tasmania, statistician
and economist, wise counsellor to Governments,
universities and educational institutions, devotee
of music and art. In all these capacities he
worked with great distinction.
His intellectual integrity and selfless devotion
to any task entrusted to him were the dis-
tinguishing characteristics of his work in the
fields in which I knew him best. He returned
from a highly honorable military career in
World War I as Major Giblin, D. 5.0., to
become Government Statistician in Tasmania.
This brought him inevitably into the Common-
wealth field as a member of the statisticians’
committee surveying the collection and presenta-
tion of Australian statistics, and as adviser to
the Tasmanian Government in the days when
it was first seeking Commonwealth aid because
of alleged (later shown to be real) disabilities
of Federation. Subsequently, as a member of
the first Commonwealth Grants Commission, he
was, in association with Sir Frederic Eggleston,
to undertake pioneering work in the financial
and economic relations of Commonwealth and
States that attracted the attention of students
of federal problems all over the world. The
principal results are published in the Third
Report of the Commonwealth Grants Com-
mission, which has become a classic document
on the economic problems of Federation.
In 1929 Giblin was appointed the first Ritchie
Professor of Economics in the University of
Melbourne, and in his inaugural lecture he
stated for the first time the problem of the
multiplier in economic theory. It was to
influence economic theory greatly, and to
become a central theme in the final work of
his old friend J. M. Keynes in The General
Theory of Employment, which has exercised a
decisive influence on economic thought for a
decade and a half. Giblin played an important
role in the solution of Australia’s depression
problems, and was more progressive in his
thinking on post-depression policy than most of
his colleagues.
Later he served as Commonwealth Statistician
and adviser to the Commonwealth Treasury,
and had great influence on financial and
economic policy in World War 11, during which
he was chairman of a financial and economic
committee, of which little was heard in public.
At this time, also, he was a member of the
Commonwealth Bank Board, and his last work
in retirement was to write a history of the
Commonwealth Bank, which is now in course
of publication.
A man of great physical power and distinctive
bearing, with an odd taste in clothes, he sought
to avoid publicity, but attracted it wherever he
appeared. Yet he baffled journalists by refusing
to appear in the role they expected of him and
in disclaiming credit for his own achievements
whilst extolling the work of lesser people. He
was quite fearless in presenting his views when
he thought it important, but never aggressive
or unkindly to those whom he thought mis-
guided.
Many a boy and girl owe their introduction
to the delights of reading to this odd man,
who seemed to have time to revel with them
in the simple virtues of adventure well told.
Nothing was so complicated that it could not
be reduced to simple terms; yet he won a great
reputation as a mathematician at Cambridge,
where he went in the ’nineties as a Tasmanian
scholar. When he visited England for the last
time, in 1937, he was elected an Honorary
Fellow of King’s College, Cambridge —a rare
honor.
Giblin had a wide and astonishing circle of
friends, and on the occasion of this visit he
added the then Governor of the Bank of
England, Montagu Norman. He was then a
member of a central bank board, and therefore
within the fraternity, but his personality and
intellect attracted Mr. Norman as did that of
few of his many visitors. It is related that
among the many odd distinctions Giblin
attained was that of smoking his pipe at lunch
at the Bank. He shares it with a former Prime
Minister of England, Stanley Baldwin.
Stories of Giblin are legion. There is the
incident of his life at sea, when he signed on for
2s. 6d. for the voyage on a sailing vessel from
Vancouver to Melbourne and brought the ship
through Port Phillip Heads without a pilot and
against the skipper’s orders.
Giblin died bravely, as he had lived. His
intimate friends received letters of farewell as
he knew the end was near. They lose a wise
and generous counsellor, and Australia loses
one of its most distinguished sons at a time
when his courage and intellectual integrity were
never more needed.
Houses and Shops.
The South Australian Housing Trust,
which doesn’t actually build houses but
finds the land and designs and then calls
on private builders by tender, occasion-
ally puts out modest statements like this:
Where the trust is building a substantial
number of houses in a previously unde-
veloped locality with no shops within a
reasonable distance and no prospects of
shopping facilities being available for a
long time, the trust has found it necessary
to provide shops for its tenants.
A Bulletin man recently inspected
some of these shops, which deserve a
fuller description. What actually happens
is that a convenient site is chosen and
then one single building is erected. This
is divided into four, five or six shops
according to the size of the area to be
served.
The shopping-block is built well back
from the road so that delivery-vans, cars,
etc,, may stand in front of it without
hampering road traffic. At one end of
the long veranda are a telephone-booth
and an alcove with seating accommoda-
tion for about a dozen people. The
shops, with all modern appliances, are
then arbitrarily allotted to necessary
merchandise. Thus there will be a
butchery, a grocery, a smallgoods, a
greengrocery with milk-bar, and maybe
a mercery or newsagency—in short, every
normal everyday want of the shopping
housewife is on sale.
There is no trading in rents or “key
money.” The trust is the landlord, the
lents range from £2 ss. to £3 7s. 6d. a
week, and the shopkeeper is expected to
maintain a high standard of cleanliness
and service. On such rents there is a
considerable reduction in the retail prices
of the items sold. It is significant that the
trust collected £1,070,000 in rents from
1938 to 1950, and had to write off only
£2 6s. 6d. as unpaid and uncollectable.
Suburban Travel.
“Abdul Assiz” : Heavy rains and floods
having again temporarily rendered im-
passable to wheeled traffic the earth
tracks upon which a large proportion of
Sydney suburbanites are forced to depend
for access to main roads and railway-
stations, the question of road mainten-
ance and repair reappears as of prime
importance.
For a period preceding the latest
council elections there was unwonted
activity in this work, and new candidates
and old were profuse with promises of
{Continued on next page.)


rr
/'■ \
€
h
6661 E-R
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
nuuk sfredalltf
frtevent soie ’thto/ats
I CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
sdf
sd
bigger and better byways. All is now
forgotten, and the tipcart man travels his
leisured round with antediluvian —a most
apposite term —methods and equipment.
During a recent spell of fine weather
the more obvious potholes were filled
with loose or poorly-bound material in
the more-favored localities, but, even
here, the tipcart gentry have often pre-
ferred to leave the holes unattended while
they spend their time (and the ratepayer’s
cash) in the gentler labor of mowing the
grass verges.
The Sydney suburbanite is once again
dragging his weary footsteps along
paspalum-choked sidewalks which lead to
the nearest railway-station, there to
clutter-up the already overcrowded
carriages.
He rarely gets a seat. On the return
journey it is even worse. If he is for-
tunate enough to get aboard a train and
courteously makes way for an elderly
or parcel-laden woman to reach an un-
occupied seat, the claim is generally
jumped by the nearest larrikin or over-
decorated female teenager. In any case
he straphangs.
It is poor consolation to be informed
that the second city of his State is even
in worse plight—not for bad manners,
for Sydney is already on the ground floor,
but for facilities.
The Newcastle to East Maitland line
was built in 1858 and 1859, or nearly 28
years before the railroad connecting
Strathfield to Hornsby. A train travel-
ling (floods permitting) 20 miles, with 14
scheduled stops, on the Maitland section
takes approximately 68 minutes, while
the not-remarkably-fast section, of 14
miles, with 14 stops, from Strathfield to
Hornsby takes about 34 minutes, break-
downs permitting.
The Fassifern-Toronto line was opened
in 1911, and it, in common with the
Maitland section, has not yet been
electrified. Newcastle to Toronto is a
rail distance of miles. With 13
authorised stops, it takes 60' minutes.
It is surprising that the second city and
port of N.S.W. —which is also its steel
and coal metropolis—has suffered a slow,
inadequate and uncomfortable steam
service for so many years.
Now the voice of protest is. being
raised. The complete electrification of
Newcastle and suburban services is
demanded, with priority to the Newcastle-
Maitland and Newcastle-Toronto lines.
The schedule on which these lines are
now operating has been almost static for
40 years, and the slow trains still cause
an enormous and quite unnecessary loss
of man-hours so badly needed for Aus-
tralian industry.
POLITICAL POINTS
“ ‘Labor’ stands for Australian in-
terests,” Chifley told the A.L.P. confer-
ence. “It doesn’t want its doctrines
brought from Russia, England or any-
where else.” Even apart from the impli-
cation that the ex-Prime Minister regards
Russian and British doctrines as equally
obnoxious, the statement is rather
strange. Prior to 1921 the first objective
of the A.L.P. was “the cultivation of an
Australian sentiment; the maintenance
of a White Australia and the develop-
ment in Australia of an enlightened and
self-reliant community.” In 1921, at the
instance of men whose spiritual home
was Moscow, this and other objectives
were scrapped, and ever since the only
objective has been “The Socialisation of
Industry, Production, Distribution and
Exchange.”
On Saturday this objective was “re-
defined” in the following terms:
The Australian Labor party proposes
socialisation, or the social control of
industry and the means of production,
distribution and exchange to the extent
necessary to eliminate exploitation and such
other anti-social features of industry and
anti-social features of the processes of
production, distribution and exchange
The apparent reasons for this wordy
resolution are a desire to meet the wishes
of those members who favor the so-
calied Blackburn interpretation, and to
counteract the effects on the public of
Chifley’s attempts to usher in the
Socialist era. Actually the new objective
is no different from the old. True, it gives
a “moderate” Government an excuse for
soft-pedalling on socialisation, but once
the wild men of the party get control
they can put their own interpretation on
“exploitation” and “anti-social.”
As a result of a “Labor” conference
decision “Labor” Senators will not oppose
the National Service Bill any longer. That
phony body the “Labor” majority in the
Senate set up to inquire into the bill will
presumably go through the formality of
presenting its report. There’s no need
to doubt what it will recommend, nor is
there any doubt that it would have recom-
mended the opposite had the verdict of
conference been against the bill.
Before voting on the National Service
Bill the A.L.P. conference reversed the
party’s opposition to conscription and
approved compulsory training for home
defence “subject to a proper regard for
the national economy,” Chifley, who
had no vote at the conference, addressed
it on the opening day and spoke against
conscription. Having thus committed
himself he will now probably work flat-
out on the regard-for-the-nalional-
economy theme —which, of course, was
put in as a let-out for “Labor’s” deep
thinkers.
By all “Labor” rules, voting on com-
pulsory training should have been even.
N, S. Wales, Victoria and Westralia
instructed their delegates to vote for it;
Queensland, South Australia and Tas-
mania, against. This would have meant
a draw, and that would have meant that
the no-conscription plank remained un-
changed. When the vote was taken S.
Bryan, of Queensland, had the courage
to vote against his team’s instructions.
His switch pulled the motion through by
19 votes to 17.
Percy Spen ’er is off to Washington to
take over from Norman Makin as Aus-
tralian Ambassador. Carry on the good
work of improving Australian-U.S. rela-
tions, Percy, and forget those pipe-
dreams about the tropical blossoms of
South-east Asia.
Commenting on the appointment of
Mr. Spender as Ambassador in Washing-
on, “S. M. Herald” remarked:
His retirement will be particularly unfor-.
tunate in its bearing on the inter-State
balance of the Government, for, in actual
fact, if not in nominal Cabinet ranking,
Mr. Spender has been the leading Liberal
representative in New South Wales.
This question of consideration for “inter-
state balance” in Cabinetmaking is one
of the main reasons why the present
Federal Government —like so many of its
predecessors—is carrying so much dead
weight. The other is the very human
tendency to remember long and faithful
service. The necessity of striking a
balance between the two Government
parties is a big enough handicap without
the further hobbles of State rivalries. In
choosing successors to Mr. Spender and
Dame Enid Lyons, who is resigning
through ill-health, the Prime Minister
should have a free hand to pick the two
best men available, irrespective of State
or years of Parliamentary service.
Expert as they are at shilly-shallying,
the McGirrs have broken their own
records in their efforts to postpone a deci-
sion on power-rationing. When the coal-
fields trouble began a month ago Cabinet
imposed drastic cuts, then lifted them
almost immediately. Since then half the
team has been urging restriction and the
other half protesting that no cuts are
necessary. The business-as-usual faction
has been blackguarding the Coal Board
and accusing it of supplying faked figures
—Government audit officers were sent out
to take secret checks of coal stocks at
powerhouses. By the weekend it was
clear that if power wasn’t rationed there
would soon be none to ration.
P. J. Clarey, M.H.R., back from a
lecture tour of the Promised Land as
guest of the Israel Federation of Labor,
told the Press that his trip had convinced
him that most people believe a war can
be averted, “provided we all use common-
sense.” As long as the “we” is all-
inclusive there can be no quarrelling with
that belief, but its value as a preventive
of war is rather dubious. Clarey based
his opinion on conversations with
“people from all walks of life —particu-
larly in Singapore, Israel and Calcutta.”
Unfortunately the decision whether or
not to plunge the world into war doesn’t
lie with people in Singapore, Israel and
Calcutta ; it rests with a small band of
men in Moscow who aren’t very com-
municative with strangers.
When Roach, assistant-secretary of the
wharfies, was handed his 12 months for
contempt of court, Judge Foster explained
that the court was not giving him hard
labor because it “did not want him to
associate with criminals.” Old lags at
Long Bay are pondering over the judge’s
comment.
Commenting, as The Bulletin has so
often done, on the apathy of Sydney
people towards power breakdowns, Pro-
fessor Copland last week told a meeting
of the Australian Institute of Manage-
ment that, if Sydney had suffered two
blackouts a day in 1939, the Government
of the day would have been hounded out
of office, whereas today that sort of thing
was taken as part of a normal way of
life, McGirr seems to have rather an
uneasy feeling that the same thing could
happen today, after all.
The High Court judgment on the
validity of the Communist Party Disso-
lution Act will be delivered in Melbourne
at 2.30 p.m. on Friday,
Simultaneously with the announce-
ment that its railways wouldn’t cart a
variety of goods within a 250-miles
radius of Sydney, N.S.W. Government
announced suspension of the 3d.-a-ton-
mile road tax inside that area, and in-
ferentially invited road-hauliers to hop
in and carry the stuff the railways
couldn’t carry. Secretary of the Long
Distance Hauliers’ Association replied
that its members were unlikely to take
their trucks off their regular work to
help a Government which penalises them
at other times. Orange and Dubbo
Chambers of Commerce invited other
country towns to join in a cam-
paign for a lifting of the road
tax for two years instead of merely
temporarily, Grafton immediately con-
curred, and Molong suggested lifting it
for ever. It’s a question that could easily
become prominent in the country for
next N.S.W. election; this so-called road
tax is nothing more than a penal tax on
road-hauliers, and it assists in the Com-
munist attempt to sabotage all transport.
George Washington, in refusing a third
term as American President, began a tra-
dition which lasted down till 1940,
Several Presidents, including Teddy
Roosevelt, tried to defy the tradition, but
the electors wouldn’t let ’em —until
F.D.R. managed to spellbind his way to
the White House for not only a third, but
also a fourth time. It doesn’t look as if
anyone will ever do it again-—an amend-
ment to the American Constitution,
passed in 1945 and now ratified by the
requisite number of States to make it law,
limits future Presidents to two terms.
President Truman is specifically exempted
from the new rule, but his party-advisers
will probably be doing a lot of heavy
thinking between now and nomination-
time next year.
“Hell hath no fury like a woman
scorned” isn’t the way Congreve put it,
though that is the popular interpretation.
All the same, Congreve might have
changed it had he ever met an Australian
commodity-control board that had been
similarly treated. When the Queensland
Potato Board discovered a fish-and-chip
merchant who’d bought 50-odd bags of
spuds from a farmer, it dragged him to
court and got him fined £5O for selling
the spuds to “persons other than the
board.” The man had scorned the board
by selling at “seven pound for three bob”
from his roadside stall, at a time when
Queenslanders had almost forgotten what
a spud looked like.
Distribution of the preferences of
Independent candidate Leonard in the
Ivanhoe (Vic.) by-election gave the seat
to Liberal A. F. K. Block. Final figures:
Block, 15,835; Lucy (Lab.), 12,661. The
Liberal vote was down a thousand on the
general-election figures.
“Labor” is still spoiling for. a double-
dissolution, so it says, although it passed
over several opportunities last year of
having one. There was child endow-
ment, there was the anti-Red bill, there
was the National Service bill. On each
of these issues the party fought furiously
and then caved in. But now the oracles
have spoken, and a stand is to be made
on the question of the Government’s pro-
posal to restore the Commonwealth
Bank board. This the party has been
instructed to fight “even up to a double-
dissolution.”
When the New Zealand Government
called in the Army to handle cargo on
ships thrown idle by the watersiders’
strike they found that the inexperienced
troops easily exceeded the wharfies’ rate
of loading and discharging cargo. It’s
not surprising; during the war the same
thing happened on Australian wharves —
troops and “volunteers” made nonsense
of the legend that waterside work is a
skilled occupation requiring years of
experience.
J, Healy, Red boss of the watersiders:
“Threats of jailing, deportation or fining
of individuals have never yet settled, nor
will they now settle, any dispute.” Never?
Has he forgotten how only a year ago
the rolling strikes which were going to roll
from Brisbane all around the Australian
coast stopped rolling at the threat of
the Crimes Act? This time the threat was
followed by the calling of a meeting of
the watersiders’ Federal executive for
today, and Mr. Monk, of the A.C.T.U.,
who had had talks with Healy, asked the
Federal Government to delay action
under the Crimes Act until Thursday, as
he was confident the executive would lift
the ban.
If the ban is not lifted the Government
will have no course open but to carry out
its threat. It has the responsibility of
seeing that the ships are worked, if not
by the wharfies, then by someone else.


m &* r h i9*' A
Scottish Display.
Commonwealth Jubilee Celebrations.
Naval pageant.
Weight for a&e,
VICTOR) A
"A WHEAT-FI ELD"
IN WHICH 201fc CHILDREN TAKE PART
wood- chopping.
Australian Court.
Prime - Beep
HIGHLY COMMENDED
Bock - Jumping .
A garden of Flowers, by m-5o Children .
Trotting .


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“An English peer is reported as saying he would
have to find a job, as ‘he had no money.’ ”
“Clooter”: The “Miss Australia” con-
test, an annual affair largely conducted by
a Sydney newspaper, in which beauties
from the various States competed for
various prizes, the top one being a trip
abroad, seems to have blown up. Year
before last the winner, a “Miss N.5.W.,”
upset the show when she declined to
accept the chosen chaperon. The
rejected lady came from South Aus-
tralia, which probably explains why
interest in the contest among Croweaters
fizzled out. This year entrants came from
only Victoria and N.S.W., Queensland
having dropped out on the score that
there were too many “Miss Australias”
about the place already—it is literally
true that home-coming ones were passing
outgoing ones in transit. That left Vic.
and N.S.W., whose finalists were chosen.
Then a dark silence descended. It was
broken the other day by “Miss Victoria,”
who somewhat bitterly told the Mel-
bourne Press that N.S.W. had decided to
drop out, too, and send its candidate to
the world as “Miss N.S.W.” “Miss Vic.”
says she lost her job, her fiance and more
than £250 of her savings in the course of
being feted, paraded and readied up for
the final. Hard words have been passing
between the Vic. and N.S.W. “executives”
of the scheme, and both States are appar-
ently trying to get their beauties “spon-
sored” for the overseas trip. The nation
is unlikely to grieve over the end of the
stunt.
* * * *
“Billy S.”; I noticed old Bert yawning
his head off. “Late night?” I asked him.
“No,” he growled. “Early morning. One
morning last week I woke up early, and
I’m just settling down for that last hour
when the paper-bloke drives past.” He
paused, then continued. “I heard the
paper thud on
the veranda, then
I heard him
snarling at his
horse ‘C’mon,
giddup,’ and be-
fore I know what
I’m doing I’m on
my feet at the
side of the bed,
just like my
Army days over
again.” Bert took
a deep breath and
carried on with
his tale of woe.
“Every morning
since then the
same thing’s happened. Doesn’t matter
if I’m sound asleep or not; as soon as
that paper lobs on the veranda I’m ready
for that voice ordering me to giddup, and
I’m up like a flash.” “Thinking of going
along to the Repat.,” he added. “Ought
to be worth a pension.” That was three
mornings ago. Now Fm doing the same
thing. I think I’ll go along with Bert to
the Repat. We should be good for a set
of earplugs at least.
* * * *
“X.S.”: An interesting possibility is
inherent in a suggestion made by counsel
at the hearing of the libel charge against
Frank Hardy, author of Power Without
Glory, that the whole of the book be
read in court instead of extracts. If the
Hardy opus is read in court as evidence
it presumably becomes reportable, and
any newspaper or journal could then
print it in toto without infringing copy-
right laws. A cheap way of getting a
serial.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Muir Holburn’s “A
World of Good,” which has won the
latest “S. M. Herald” poetry competition,
is doubtless quite as good as the
“Herald” says it is ; the mere thought of
anyone getting £5O for a poem always
does me a world of good, anyhow. But
1 must say I am inclined to query the
line, quoted with special approval by the
“Herald’s” adjudicator—“ Grim as an
early Dobell.” The early Dobells are
perfectly straightforward and innocuous
paintings based on the pencil and oil
style of George Lambert, from whom, at
Julian Ashton’s school, Dobell learned
his trade. Grim as a middle Dobell
would be more to the point, but it
wouldn’t, I suppose, sound so well.
* * * *
“Melb’n”; Electricity restrictions in
Victoria have produced one item of pub-
lic entertainment —an example of official
jargon which occupies a full page in
every daily paper. One sentence of 233
words tells the people what to do with
their incubators, lighthouses, petrol-
pump motors and soft-drink gadgets.
Another of 158 words makes it all clear
to the housewife how she is to control
her home consumption:
At any premises at which electricity was
at or before the Ist day of January, 1950,
supplied by the Commission or any Under-
taker to whom the Commission supplies
electricity but not being industrial premises
so that a greater number of kilowatt-hours
of electricity is taken or used during the
respective period (herein called the “rele-
vant period”) between any two consecutive
readings by the Commission or the Under-
taker of the meter or meters measuring
electricity supply to those premises than
90 per centum of the number of kilowatt-
hours of electricity which is shown by the
Commission’s records or as the case may
be the records of the Undertakers
to have been registered by meter as having
been consumed at those premises during
the relevant period of the year 1950 between
two consecutive meter readings by the
Commission or (as the case may be) the
Undertakers of the meter or meters measur-
ing the supply of electricity supplied to
those premises which readings were taken
on the days of the year most nearly the
same as the respective readings at the
beginning and at the end of the relevant
period subject however to the exceptions
that the use of electricity for the lighting
of any lamp which is in a public place
as permitted under Item 2 above is not
prohibited or restricted under this Item nor
is the use of electricity in registered hos-
pitals.
My wife is an intelligent woman, but all
she got out of this was the reference to
undertakers. “I suppose,” she said, “the
“We want a divorce."
S.E.C. is supplying electricity to under-
takers to cope with the rush of deceased
housewives. But I always thought
suicides went to the morgue first.”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: My heart bleeds for the
Commo in an outer suburb. Sacrificing
his beauty-sleep in order to go about his
unlawful occasions at the time when
constables have retired to their cots and
milkmen have not yet left theirs, he
creeps through the gloom in search of
walls to disfigure. In the midst of his
artistic labors he is suddenly seized with
fear—the Black Maria is charging down
on him! What to do—pretend to be
sleepwalking or be taken like a hero?
Imagine his relief when he identifies the
vehicle as one which performs a humble
but very essential service to the com-
munity! At last, hollow-eyed from his
unwonted work, he flits from shadow to
shadow, avoiding the bourgeois eyes of
conveyors of milk until, the dangerous
mission over, he reaches his sanctuary
again. But in the morning’s light, what
ecstasy! What a thrill of achievement —
the exultation of a successful commando
mingled with the burning satisfaction of
an artist displaying his masterpiece.
From a dozen fences and walls huge,
wavering letters demand: “Ban the atom-
“Why didn't you blow your whistle?”
bomb.” And then, just when he is saying
“Full surely my greatness is aripening”
—or words to that effect —he picks up
the morning paper and reads of a hydro-
gen-bomb test. Hydrogen bombs are
approximately 80 times more powerful
than atomic ones. Love’s labor’s lost.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: There would be
nothing incongruous in asking a team
of Binghis (B. 17/1/’5l) to perform a
dance ritual for the entertainment of a
Jubilee crowd. Binghi puts more spirit
into most of his measures when assured
of a European audience, for he is essen-
tially a showman. Admittedly there are
certain ritual measures which he would
not perform for the uninitiated, but
these, which are but a fraction of his
repertoire, are performed before only a
very restricted audience of his own tribe.
Even some of the seemingly aimless
cavortings have a starkly sexual signi-
ficance which is cloaked by elaborate
symbolism penetrable by few Europeans.
It it were intelligible the censor would
come down like I ton of bricks Most
however, of Binghi's dances are diSc
in nature, and designed to inculcate some
lesson of hunting, woodcraft or citizen-
ship. By his counselling against the in-
elusion of a Binghi dance item on the
Jubilee bill, “Cauboy” does an injustice
to a seasoned trouper in the person of
Binghi himself, as I’ve known him on a
Thargomindah to Thursday Island
circuit.
.** * *
“Irrigana”: Dropped into Adelaide the
other week after about five years’ absence
and was immediately struck by the
prominence of New Australians in the
streets, particularly at night, when the
main portion of picture-show audiences
seemed to comprise younger N.A. fry. I
suppose there are just as many in Sydney,
but they’re swamped in the large native
population which, contrary to smaller
places, seems to have nothing else to do
but wander the streets in thousands, and
jam the pubs, trams, buses and picture-
shows. Bathurst (N.S.W.), which has a
large d.-p. camp in the neighborhood, is
another place where N.As. seem to be
laid on, and probably the same is true of
Albury, Cowra and sundry other spots
where camps exist In none of these
places, so far, have I noticed them
mingling with old Australians in their
leisure hours. Probably that was to be
expected ; there are great hopes for the
children, however, provided they can be
got away from the camps and sent to
school and play with the native-born.
***!(=
“Wavyen”: Melbourne “Age,” com-
menting on Marjorie Lawrence’s Aus-
tralian tour: —
Her programme enables her to visit
Perth, where she will sing for the first time
in her life.
Whatever classification Miss Lawrence’s
previous vocal efforts fall into they’ll do
me, but if Perth is going to be the first
city to hear her really sing, then Perth
is to be greatly envied.
* * * *
“Bo”: The two blokes were on a busy
city pavement, each holding an end of a
half-filled sugarbag, and their slow,
steady, rhythmic back-and-forth action
whisked me back over 30 years to the old
artillery horse-lines in France. A bitterly-
cold morning, and one sure way to kill,
as it were, two cats with the one brick-
keep warm and get the rust off the trace-
chains—was to put the latter in a chaff-
bag, with a driver on each end of the
bag, and push it and pull it in a low
horizontal action. Those chains came
out of the bag bright and shiny, and in
6in. of snow you quickly got a sweat up
But those city coves knew the lurk —they
were probably Old Diggers; anyway the
oranges they tipped on to their barrow
looked as if they’d just been varnished.
* * * *
“Findy”: I won’t try to pass judgment
on the modem miss, bobby-soxer, teen-
ager or whatever her current name is.
There’s no need to ; she judges herself —
and doesn’t claim a very high grading,
either. Among the lugubrious tunes at
present receiving encores and repeat per-
formances on the radio is one in which a
damsel informs the world in the tones of
one enunciating a profound truth that “As
a silver dahler goes from hand to hand,
a woman goes from man to man.” Not
a very lofty sentiment, and hardly one
which would be expected to earn the
general approval of the female of the
species. Yet a popularity poll conducted
by one radio network among the —er,
widgies, I think, is the correct term —
places it right at the top.
* * * ♦
“Brolga”: Ex-servicemen are getting
plenty of warnings about sharks who may
try to relieve them of their war gratuities,
and they are advised to get legal advice
before paying out any money. However,
I don’t think it’s worth spending any
dough on lawyer’s fees before parting up
with my 200-quid gratuity. The bloke
who has been waiting more or less
patiently for years happens to be the
Taxation Commissioner.
TWO OF A KIND.
From this far continent do I
Extend a grateful hand
To one who’s raised me up on high
And made me great and grand:
I, distant brother, penniless,
Who looked down on myself
As one of needy commonness
Because I had no pelf.
Having long trod such hard-up track.
Of course, I thereby thought
That, socially, I was just black,
Of standing, next to nought,
One dubbed (in rank) an also-ran,
Person of common class,
Far, far below the titled man,
And one whom lords would pass.
But now a happy soul I am,
Up the (financial) pole,
Aware at last that such can’t damn,
’Tis no inferior role.
Away inferiority!
I hang no more my head;
I am a proud and different me—
Hear you my lordly tread ?
Of station good, I am new-born
And socially I’m it,
From out the “outer” I’ve been torn,
My standing has been writ,
For now I rank with lordly blokes
Whose lineage spans the years,
Scion of the line of Stony Brokes,
I greet my brother peers.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


“Bankrupt said he attributed losses in his publi-
can’s business to a too-liberal granting of credit.”
“Rann”: Courtesy to strangers is not
one of Sydney’s most appealing traits,
and I was reminded of this in a
Pitt-street tram. A woman sitting near
me asked the conductress whether the
tram was going
to Central
Station. “Madam,
if you look at
the front, back
and both sides
you’ll see ‘Rail-
way,’ ” snapped
the conductress.
A man sitting
next to me turned
to the con-
ductress and said
in a quiet voice
“What is your
number? Why
haven’t you your
cap on?” “What’s it to you?” she
snapped. He produced some form of
card and showed it to her. “I’ll see you
at Central,” he remarked. I found it
hard to suppress a cheer.
* * * *
“Sebak”: I’m not going to get into this
argument as to whether “I” should be
spelt with a capital or not (B. 14/2 / ’5l),
but I’ll put the gloves on with anybody
over the outcast “ain’t.” Why is every-
man’s hand against the honest little
abbreviation? Because the careless some-
times slip the word in where “have not,”
“haven’t” or “am not” rightfully belong,
polite society has blackballed it com-
pletely—and recognised a usurper that
has no claim for recognition whatever?
Grandfather, if he ever made such an
admission, probably said: “Am I not a
fool?” Today, that statement, though
probably heartily endorsed, would be con-
sidered labored and stilted, so we think
we are abbreviating it by making it
“Aren’t I a fool?” But we would be
amused if we heard a New Australian
say “Are not I a fool?” One day some
brave orator is going to have the courage
to use “ain’t” in its right place. And
he’ll promptly be condemned for his
ignorance. Meanwhile, ain’t I justified in
saying “ain’t” or are 1 compelled to say
“aren’t”?
H= * * *
“Old Unionist”: One chap who arrived
at our place in a batch of New Aus-
tralians. was so definitely Irish in appear-
ance that he was promptly called
“Paddy” and has remained Paddy ever
since. But he couldn’t speak a word of
English or Erse; he comes from
Estonia. So convinced were onlookers
who saw the arrival that they classed the
recruits as “Eleven New Australians and
one other bloke.” Paddy has a name
like a sneeze, and no knowledge of the
Irish ancestor who must have been some-
where in his family history, and he goes
on being the slowest of his batch in
picking up English. Obviously not
the wandering Murphys left their names
behind to identify their remote de-
scendants.
* * * •
“Giro”: Like “Melb’n” (B. 7/2/’5l), I
have also seen the European’s indifference
to nudity. We were driving in the French
Riviera, and at about five in the after-
noon passed a group of workmen finish-
ing up for the day. They were washing
themselves at a stream, standing stark-
naked on the bank, in full view of the
heavy traffic along the Grande Corniche-
road. We Australians gasped, but the
other passengers in our bus—mostly
French people—-were as indifferent to the
sight as if the men had been merely wash-
ing their hands at a tap. Incidentally,
Australians now seem to be the most
overdressed swimmers in the world. I
went to buy some trunks at a London
shop and asked for a skirted pair. “Why,
they went out with straw hats,” the shop
assistant informed me. “Men simply re-
fused to wear them.” 1 ended up by
buying a pair so brief that I've not had
the courage to risk an inspector’s wrath
by wearing them on our beaches, and
yet they are quite normal attire in Britain.
Male costumes on all Continental beaches
are what we know as “vees.”
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: On the feeder-
bus at least 60 per cent, of the passengers
were women; there was about the same
percentage on the ferry, the city tram and
at the pictures. Afterwards as I cooled
my Heels on the street I counted 28 show-
windows'in a big city store, in its infancy
mainly a men’s store ; and only three of
the windows were given to displays of
men’s requirements. It’s only as an act
of grace that mere man is given as much
consideration as that, of course. Woman,
who always was the cause of the greatest
spending of money, has now grabbed
charge of the domestic purse, besides
being a considerable earner ofifcash her-
self ; it is naturally those who spend the
money who interest the shop-people. Yet
I still have to listen to dissertations on
the inequalities women have to put up
with under “man-made laws.”
* * * ♦
“Mork”: I used to urge nayself to
acquire a block of land with a large cave
on it to obviate the toil inseparable from
constructing a habitation of some kind.
Fortunately I refrained from implement-
ing the project, for it did not take me
long to find out that all the nuisances
with which the bush teems have exactly
the same idea and that to ensure repose
in w«t weather the best thing to do is to
add jam, treacle or condensed-milk to
the allurements of the cave and then
spend the night outside. -
* * * ♦
“Mullum”: Road accidents? I was a
passenger in a car driven by a city visitor
to our country town. As we approached
an intersection I noticed a taxi coming
up on our right. My driver continued
at his normal pace till, with a screech of
brakes, the two cars stopped, with only
inches separating them. The taxi then
restarted and went its way, while my
"I DO wish you'd go to court, John, and stop
playing the fool!”
driver sat dumbfounded. “That bloke
shouldn’t hold a taxi licence,” he said
when he regained his voice. “Why, he
never even abused me.” “But,” I said,
“why didn’t you give way to him in the
first place? He was on your right.” My
driver’s explanation was quite sample.
“When he didn’t speed up to race me to
the comer, I thought he must be going
to make a left-hand turn.” After a
“Yer lucky—on'y become vacant this mornin '."
similar near-accident a couple of days
later my friend said he was going back
to Sydney as soon as possible: “Before
I get killed by this so-and-so road
courtesy.”
* * * *
“Tom”; British people have been
proffered some queer supplements to, and
substitutes for, the traditional beef and
mutton. Whale-steaks, on sale during the
war, were unpopular, and now reindeer-
steaks are to be tried. Stranger meats
have been eaten in time of necessity.
During the siege of Paris in the Franco-
Prussian war, rats, mice, cats and dogs
were eaten. The anonymous author of
An Englishman in Paris sampled all
these items. He described mice, skilfully
handled, as delicious, with a taste very
like larks. Rats and cats he also found
palatable, but even the most cunning
French chef could not make dog-meat
appetising. Others who have been obliged
to eat dog’s flesh have expressed the same
opinion—one outback Australian who,
desperate from starvation, cooked a
dingo pup, said he could net eat the
meat —it was so nauseating.
* * * *
“Taswegian”; The chief draughtsman
pressed the buzzer for the blueprint boy.
No answer. Out in the print-room the
boy sat eating a pear. After a couple
of minutes the chief buzzed again; the
boy went on eating
his pear. The chief
looked at his watch,
fidgeted anxiously,
then decided to do the
job himself. As he
entered the print-room
the boy had just
finished the pear and
was wiping the juice
from his chin and
ears. For the next
few seconds we heard
an angry buzz of one-
si de d conversation,
then the chief came
out, unusually red in
the face. Later I was
passing through the
prirtt-room and the
boy waylaid me and
poured out his tale of
woe. His defence was
this: When the boss
buzzed for him, he
could have been out
in the strongroom
filing prints; up in
the library collecting
and returning
journals; out on the
plant on a message, or
in any of half a dozen
other places, and the
boss would have had
to wait. It was just
by chance that
he happened to be near at hand in the
print-room. In view of this, he had
decided to finish his pear. Now, at first
my sympathies were all with the chief;
but the boy spoke so convincingly that I
don’t know what to think.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Who started the yam that,
from a newspaper angle, nothing is news
unless it is different? More than 50 times
last year my evening paper printed, with
photograph, the same thing; “Miss
Sheilah Wotsername being kissed by her
workmates at the laundry after ‘The
Blurb’s’ reporter had told her she had
shared first prize in the lottery.” Or “Mrs.
Thingummy screams and drops a cup in
her excitement when told she won today’s
lottery.” And “Bill Dogsbody shouts
his mates after, etc.” Then there are
the annuals; “These. Boy Scouts were
amongst the thousands of city-dwellers
who boarded trains to spend Easter under
canvas.” And the inevitable “Miss
Shirley Skinnylegs and Miss Beryl Bulgy-
shorts were two of many holidaymakers
who planned to spend the long Eight-
hour Day weekend hiking.” Not for-
getting this one: “Mr. Fred Frizzleface
‘legs’ his fiancee, Miss Renee Rearview,
through the window of a country train
in the scramble for seats during the
Christmas-eve rush to leave the city.”
And if there is one thing we can be sure
of in a world of uncertainties it is that
next year and the year following and
the year after that, on the day schools
reopen, dailies will give us; “There were
many sad juvenile faces this morning.
Here is little Johnnie,..
* * * ♦
“Exdig”; There were quite a number
of “good sports” in the high commands
of the First A.I.F. (B. 10/ 1/’5l). Pompey
Elliott was another. Once when
his command was moving up to
take over a sector of the line after a
rest period, Pompey boiled with wrath
when he found that someone had arranged
for bivouacs for the officers but regarded
the open air and ground-sheets as good
enough for the rank-and-file. Elliott
announced that the bivouacs would not
be used ; he and his officers would share
the same hard conditions as the men. At
the fall-in before dawn next morning
there were big gaps in the ranks; they
were filled up gradually as bone-dry
“other ranks” arrived, some of them still
carrying wisps of straw from the com-
fortable bivouacs they had regarded
as a shame to allow to go to waste. Some
of the night-dampened officers were very
hostile about it; even the genial Pbmpey
took a little time before he fully appreci-
ated the joke.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”; It wasn’t only in Palestine
(B. 7/2/’5l) that civilians had an un-
canny prescience of troop-movements. In
1917, when our C.O. had given us the
final briefing for the Passchendaele show,
he added, “I don’t know when we’ll be
moving up, but any French villager will
be able to tell you at least two days be-
fore we get the official warning.” So it
was all through the piece. Probably
through the activity of billeting-officers,
the French could always tell us when
we’d be moving. It was through the
report of a cricket match in an English
paper that we knew (as did the Germans)
when our Third Division was leaving
Salisbury Plain for France. A paper
reported a “farewell cricket match” be-
tween an Australian unit and a team
from a neighboring town. There was no
reference to any move, but the “fare-
well” and the name of the town gave all
the information required.
OVER THE ODDS.
Who’d dedicate his life to help assuage
The thirsts that rage
Must guard against a practice that is crass,
And oh, so risky.
To the financial wolves will any Bung
Be straightway slung
Who hands out, on the nod, the foaming
glass,
The tot of whisky.
It recks not that they line his bar five deep,
Long vigil keep,
That, to a man, his customers have quite
Insatiate throttles;
Or that he sells, at practically thrice
Th’ official price.
Out the back-4oor at night,
Most of the bottles.
In fact, the bigger that his clientele,
The more appeal
To that soft heart to ladle out the juice
Strong and fermented,
And trust they may some day, in generous glow,
Cough up the dough.
And so, with one well-cooked financial goose
He’ll be presented.
Now, betting and booze seem two things quite
allied,
So strongly tied.
Twin gods that “Labor” makes obeisance to,
Deeply revering.
You’d think both sets of patrons, then, would
aim
To do the same
And “tick” things up; in fact, to try to do
A bit of shearing.
The five-bob punter put it on the slate?
Hey! Square up, mate!
Leviathans, though, as round the ring they
stray
May nod their “pony.”
That’s credit, too. Yet who can truly skite
He’s seen this sight:
A bookie’s bag hung in a pawnshop? Say,
Isn’t it phony?
It seems that those who “slate” it up in suds
Turn out the duds
At paying. Well, the lesson’s learned. No
crash,
No belly-landing
Is likely to befall the Boniface
Who plays his ace,
And of his warby customers “spot” cash
Will be demanding.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“8.A.K.”: Even more plentiful than
the bushman who slept all night with a
snake curled up in the straw of his
mattress is the bloke who can entice
snakes out from under the tankstand by
playing a mouth-organ. It may be pos-
sible, but when I see it myself I’ll record
it. Still, whether snakes are musical or
not, I can
confir m
that a door-
bell whirr-
ing brought
one wriggler
out of his
hiding-
place. I
once heard
a carpenter
declare that
if a snake is about when a saw is being
sharpened the wriggler will always head
towards the sound. Don’t know about
that, but there is a frog somewhere behind
my shed; I never hear from him until
I’m sharpening a saw; then, before I’ve
reached the third tooth, the recital is in
full swing. It seldom ceases till the filing
stops. Perhaps in some roundabout way
it proves Chips’s theory: The frog’s ear
for music is obviously so onkus that he
associates the sound made by the file
with the voice of some frogly croonette.
And if he can make such a mistake, Joe
could be forgiven for thinking the same
sound comes from a potential succulent
dinner.
“I'll come lower so you can get those underneath, Wal."
“Solitude”: We’d left our nags below
on the river flat and visited a less-
accessible peak or two on foot. Taking
longer than we reckoned, it was dark
when returning, we picked a precarious
trail round the top of a gorge. Sud-
denly a yell broke from Seventyfiver, a
few yards in the lead. “Y’all right?” I
called. There was no answer, and,
gingerly running forward a few paces, I
Stepped on air. After that I fell in places,
and at others skidded, clutching vainly
at rocks and grass on the rough side, till
I landed hard on a narrow shelf of rock
at the river’s edge. Knowing the water
was deep just there, I clawed madly at the
object I’d landed on. It swayed, held for
a moment, then gave bodily; and as I
took it with me backwards into the river,
I realised it was the old bloke. Followed
a lot of gurgles and spluttering, then I
clambered on to the bank, closely fol-
lowed by Seventyfiver. “Y* s-silly goat,”
he gasped with the first breath he got,
“c-couldn’t y’ pick out a place o’ y’r own
to fall down at?”
* * * *
“Clo”: Some of our lizards have
adapted themselves in an amazing manner
to the varying climatic conditions of this
continent. This is specially noted in the
north, where there are so clearly defined
wet and dry seasons. In the Territory
the lizards are endowed with the ability
to absorb moisture through their skins;
thus the tiny drops of dew that form in
the early mornings, even during the driest
months, suffice to keep them alive. Years
ago London Zoo found it impossible to
keep certain species of lizards alive in
captivity because of their refusal to drink
from tanks of clean water placed in their
cages. But one day a keeper noticed
one of these island-born reptiles rubbing
its body along a plate-glass window where
condensation had taken place. Careful
observation showed that die skin turned
a dark color as the moisture was
absorbed. From then on these lizards
were sprayed with water daily. After
even one hosing lizards which had previ-
ously been close to death staged a
remarkable recovery and then commenced
to eat. Species whose previous life-span
had been three months have been kept
alive for years by this method of
spraying.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Those magpies
which built among phone-wires in the
Cabbage Garden (B. 14/2/’5l) recall
that the Western magpie, the type that
inhabits sou’-Westralia, doesn’t parti-
cularly like the big timber. A bloke who
took a census reckons they range about
25 to the square mile in the Swan coastal
area, which is a sandy belt with a lot of
banksia and small scrub; nine in the
Wandoo-Jam country —drier, further
inland, and with some comparatively big
timber ; and five in the jarrah forests. Yet
they’ll flock to the jarrah country after
it’s cleared. Why? Does the thick under-
growth of the coastal plain give cover to
the small life on which the maggies live,
or do the big trees harbor enemies?
* ♦ * *
“Old-timer”: It’s been a theory of
mine for a long time that meat-eaters
need more water than grass-eaters. You
can see it in the drafting-yards at this
time of the year. The sun blazes down,
the dust from the: sheep’s hoofs rises
in suffocating clouds. Men shout and
wave their arms about, cram the pens,
drive the sheep along the race, work the
gates and, every half-hour or so, make
for the waterbag and swallow about a
pint of water. Every couple of hours
they swallow a pint of tea. The dogs
work 10 times as hard, racing round the
yards, pushing the jummies into corners,
leaping rails, barking when ordered to
do so, their tongues hanging and their
eyes rimmed with dust. Every little while
they snatch a minute to rush to the dam
or creek or trough or whatever water is
handy, fall into it, take a few frantic
gulps and race back to the yards. But
the sheep! Yarded from the night before,
chivvied from early morning all through
the long, hot, dry day, blinded with dust,
panting with heat, dogged, crushed,
pushed, hooted at, separated and re-
separated into lots and held in the yards
until almost sundown without a drink.
Some of them may even have to wait
until half-way through the next day be-
NtxT
•£vlnT
“Now, girls, last home gets the thin one.”
fore being released to water. Yes, it’s
evident that meat-eaters like dogs and
men need a lot of water, whereas sheep
—oh, well, they get a drink eventually,
if they live long enough.
* * * *
“Kelvin”: The parasitic wasp (B.
7/2/’5l) sometimes goes in for a bigger
host than the red-back spider. One
variety chooses as her egg-repository the
body of a fully-grown emerald-green
caterpillar, which is protectively armed
against her onslaughts by thin armor-
plates covering its satin-smooth hairless
hide. The caterpillar is, however, vulner-
able at the joints of the plates, and it is
on these areas that the wasp concentrates.
As an added protective device the grub
bears on his after-end two crimson
threadlike tails, which he erects and
waves in pure bluff when the presence of
the egg-laying menace is detected.
* * * *
“Bo”: Dawson looked up from hoeing
the potatoes at the sound of the crash
and the clatter ; then he dropped the hoe
and tore across to the roadside fence.
Before the driver of the truck, who had
been turning it in the narrow road, had
time to get going the agriculturist was
beside the cabin. “Hey!” he warned.
“No gettin’ away, or I’ll report you to the
police for hit-an’-run. Y’ got a licence?”
“What the devil does it matter?” snapped
the driver. “It’s on’y a lousy”—
“Show us y’r licence!” demanded Daw*
son. The driver produced it resignedly.
“Look,” he said, “it’s only a” Daw-
son struck a stern attitude. “Y’re insured,
ain’t you?” he said. “Well, I’ll get me
solicitor to take it up with y’r insurance
company.” He pointed to the ancient
white-ant-eaten post with the rusty kero.-
tin nailed to it which lay prone in the
dust. “It’s damage to property caused
be negligint drivin’. Before they grew up
me kids useter sit on that post. Y’re
lucky y’re not up f’r manslaughter! ”
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: There was a rather pro-
tracted dry season in the Territory in
1938, and, though Koolpinyah homestead
was plentifully supplied with water from
the well-known Blue Lagoon near by, the
surrounding countryside was very dry.
This was responsible for the big gather-
ing of abos at the station, whose owner
always helped the tribes out when seasons
were very bad. One morning heavy
clouds came up, accompanied by a “dry
storm,” but there must have been some
prospects of rain, otherwise the old rain-
maker of the tribe wouldn’t have taken
a risk with his prestige when he an-
nounced that he was going to try his
hand at a little rain-making. The rain-
stone was brought out, the women and
children disappeared as if by magic and
the young initiated bucks were bled
copiously and the liquid poured over the
stone. The old man of magic then began
to work himself into a frenzy, dancing
around the stone in ever-decreasing circles
and shouting invocations to the rain-god.
He then concluded a very fair imitation
of a Highland-fling by suddenly throwing
his arms outstretched heavenwards with
the stone clutched in his right hand.
Apparently the idea was that the enclosed
spirits would be released for the express
purpose of flying up to the clouds and
bringing down the rain. The rest of the
afternoon and evening was spent in rain-
dancing and singing, but, despite all invo-
cations, no rain fell. Next morning the old
man explained that the thunderstorms
were a distinct promise in response to his
magic, and that heavy rain would fall
within two days. It didn’t, but then the
wily old bird had another explanation.
He reckoned the blood had not penetrated
far enough into the stone; when it did
the rains would fall “plenty fella.”
Luckily for his standing with the
assembled tribes the “dry” broke 10
hours later with a deluge that filled up
so many creeks that it was many days
before the tribes could get back to their
own tribal grounds.
♦ * * *
“Dick Turpin”: In England recently
on a business trip, a north-west N.S.W.
man who exports dressed poultry
promised to send one of his hosts the
largest turkey in Australia. On his return
the hunt for an
emu began, the
big birds being
both scarce and
protected in the
district. Duly
slaughtered, the
emu was cleaned,
plucked, deep-
frozen and
wrapped in cellophane. There must have
been a gasp at the London end when the
practical joker’s present arrived. A note
followed advising the victim that if he
looked inside the emu he would find the
promised gobbler, a fair dinkum one.
* * * *
“Sack”: Walking down the road I
saw the sulky stop on the little bridge
over the creek and the driver jump out
quickly. He ran to the approach, slipped
under the white rail and disappeared.
“After a snake,” I thought. A few
seconds later he raced back so quickly
that the pony shied and partly turned.
The man appeared to calm it down, then
locked the wheel before turning his
attention to the region of the back-
saddle. Away he shot again, something
long trailing from his hand. About to
duck under the fail again, he saw me
approaching. Frantic beckonings urged
me to hurry as he vanished down the
steep bank of the creek. Something was
afoot, decidedly. I arrived breathless—
and too late. It was incredible that a
horse could drown in that narrow creek,
but the muddied water lapped over i a
pathetically still chestnut flank. The
sulky-driver explained: “I saw him
strugglin’ as I came oyer the bridge-
fell in tryin’ to get down to get a drink,
I s’pose. Coin’ mad, he was —see where
his hooves tore the bank? I tried to
head him down the crick, but panic had
got him properly—l don’t think he even
knew I was switchin’ at his head. His
eyes was rollin’ mad and he kept plungm
at the bank and failin’ back and gom
under again. Then I thought I might
lasso his head with a rein. I nearly got
a loop around his neck, but all of a
sudden he just seemed to peter out and
turn it up.” The chap was a tough-look-
ing 13-stonef, but he sounded really
upset as he added: “Crook to see a horse
drown and not be able to help him.
agreed. The worst part of it was that
could have clambered out if he’d swum
20 yards downstream.
OUR NEW HAND-STAMPER.
Our new hand-stamper in the shed
Began its even thump,
And our eight fowls each cocked a head,
Our rooster got the hump,
Our dog tried hard to break his chain,
And no more wagged his tail,
Our rooster never crowed again,
Our cat went off full sail.
Stripped to our waists like slaves we worked,
Our backs bent to the fray,
And not one bit of quartz we shirked
All through the red-hot day.
By two o’clock the old bark roof
Had twisted to the right;
By three, the shed gave ample proof
The roof would fall by night.
But when the stars came out to wink
We worked by slushy light,
The fowls on top, with nervous blink,
The possums full of fright;
And duck that chanced to fly our way
Heard, as they thought, men shoot,
And left the State, so scared were they,
While mopokes lost their hoot.
At last, we’d put the crushing through.
The stamper now was still;
We’d done the job we’d set to do,
Like slaves, but with a will.
The stamper was a real “success,”
And Mum, of course, was told;
And then she said, must pitiless,
“Well, where is all the gold?”
VICTOKIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


COLLECTORS OF FIREARMS
• Please communicate direct
with Mr. Peter Anderson,
pelamere Road, Trevallyn,
Tasmania. He would prefer
to sell the entire collection to
one collector, museum or
club, but will consider any
inquiry or offer for small lots
and separate pieces.
will be interested to know that Mr. Peter Anderson of Tasmania wishes
to dispose of his fine collection of over one hundred pieces. All are in
working order and in an excellent state of preservation.
The collection includes:
RIFLES, CARBINES, GUNS, PISTOLS (FLINTLOCK & PERCUSSION),
REVOLVERS (MUZZLE LOADERS & CARTRIDGE), AUTOMATIC
PISTOLS, AND MANY RARE PIECES.
“Bagot”: Re-treatment of slimes on
the Golden Mile (B. 7/2/’51)? I can
testify to those billions of gallons of
overflow water and the remorseless flow
of liquid mullock submerging parts of
the Westralian goldfields landscape, be-
cause they have just about obliterated the
town where I was bom. Fifty years ago
Trafalgar was a prosperous Kalgoorlie
suburb with hundreds of miners’ homes,
many shops, churches and pubs. When
I revisited it after nearly 40 years all its
buildings had vanished and its site was
gradually being engulfed by the advanc-
ing slime dumps. But I picked out our
old block, and the withered stump of a
pepper-tree planted by my mother in 1900
taught me the meaning of nostalgia as
no dictionary could have done.
* * * *
Chuck”: The youth from the city
was always blowing about his riding
ability and the beaut mounts they had
at the school, so when a day’s mustering
and a bit of cutting-out were called for,
the boss put the young bloke on old
Wheeler. “The old nag’s quiet,”
explained the old man, “and he knows
the job. Just give him his head, an’ leave
the work to him. Wheeler c’n turn on a
thrip’ny bit.” The youth eyed his mount
with a gleam of contempt, and broke into
fresh stories of high-stepping hacks and
their training. An hour of mustering;
then, running a handful of recalcitrant
steers down into the mob, we missed the
townie. The boss
rode over the
spur and found
him remounting.
“What did y' get
off for?” he
called. “Oh —
er—to pick up
my hat,” returned
the youth. “Go
on; I’ll soon
catch up.” A bit later, cutting off a
bunch of unwanteds, we glanced back to
find the young bloke again climbing his
nag. “Dunno why he don’t wear a
decent hat,” grinned the boss, “or
tie the thing on with string.” All
morning the townie had trouble.
Then at midday the boss brought
him another hack. “Er, thanks ; yes,
maybe it would be better if I swapped,”
agreed the youth. “With this loose hat,
and having to get off —well, I’m as quick
as I can be, but” “Yair; y’ cer-
tainly are,” nodded the boss. “Fact, y’
get orf after that hat so fast y’ve skinned
your face, cut one ear open, an’ damn’
near busted a leg.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: To calm “Mr. O’Roo's”
alarm (B. 28/2/’5l), let me say that the
dam in which Mat gathered the mussels
was filled from the overflow of irrigation
water from Billy Stokes’s lucerne pad-
docks at Kanyapella. To find the latter,
let “Mr. O.” take the Shepparton-road
out of Echuca, follow it for about a mile
past the racecourse, when he will hit a
crossroads. The south arm will take him,
within a mile, to the Kanyapella tele-
phone exchange, the north arm, within a
mile or three, certainly much less than
eight, to the Murray and the old Boileau
pub. All that little district is laced with
irrigation channels, which explains how
mussels get in the dams, fat lambs into
the trucks at Echuca, lucerne taste into
the wild honey, and the inhabitants into
trouble when they come home drunk and
try short-cuts through the waterways. A
mile or so along that same Shepparton-
road past Mat’s dam there is, or was,
another pub, but I’ve forgotten its name,
though I’ll never forget the Sunday after-
noon Mat shot it. We’d got there, dry as
a pair of wooden gods, only to find it
closed and deserted. “Only thing t’ do is
put it out of its misery,” Mat said,
hauled a .410 shotgun from under the
"By its teeth , I'd say a nineteen thirty-one model."
seat and gave it both barrels at about
150 yards. It expired without a sigh, and
an hour or so later we occurred in
Moama as bona-fide travellers all the
way from Deniliquin.
* * * ♦
“Bogaduck”: “F.G.W.’s” account of
the sleeping habits of the Charra abo-
rigines in S.A. is incomplete (B.
21/2/’5l). When building their wurlie
of interlocked human bodies, all facing
inwards, each man took with him two
pieces of dried sharkskin; under the
edifice was placed a deep mat of dried
grass to insulate from the cold of the
ground. If the stacked bodies became
cold in the night, each sleeper, as he
awakened, would rub the bits of sharkskin
together, and the heat created by the
friction would soon warm things up. It
had to be done carefully, however; on
frosty nights men were known to overdo
it, with the result that sparks from the
friction set the dried grass on fire, causing
the whole structure to dissolve in a hurry,
with howls of rage directed at the person
responsible. The old women also had a
part to play in keeping the yulkadoo
warm; they paced around the outside,
feeling the backs of the men, and if
they found one which was growing cold
they would lie down, lift up their legs
and rub the cold back with the soles of
their feet until it was glowing nicely.
As a compensation, these old girls were
allowed to get their own allowance of
sleeping in the daytime. “F.G.W.” is
wrong, however, in giving the name of
“Charra” to this tribe ; it means dung
in the local dialect and no tribe would
give itself a name like that, whatever its
enemies thought of it. The correct name
of this tribe is usually written as Legibulli,
but modern ethnologists state that a “p”
should be used in place of the “b.”
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: There is a saying in the
building trade: “The mug makes for
progress: he does it his way and occa-
sionally he’s right. The tradesman fol-
lows tradition.” A raw mug started with
us and was put on “scabbling” concrete
floors to make a “key” for the cement
topping. Although the head of the rock-
pick used is turned back to front, minute
pieces of hard concrete still fly up into
the workers’ face, making the job painful
as well as monotonous. The old hands
were cursing, as usual, with every burning
sting, but carrying on, also as usual. Mac,
the new bloke was obviously a man
with an inventive mind. He wrapped
the head of the pick in a cement-bag as
though he intended to take it home. At
the first stroke the point protruded—but
no more than the point. The brown paper
deflected the particles at the moment of
impact, none flew high. After a time one
of the old hands began to show interest.
A disciple was made. When the boss
came round every rock-pick in the gang
had its head bound up with brown paper
and string. The trump asked the in-
evitable question: “What’s the idea of
wrapping up the picks like that?” Old
Charlie’s sense of humor couldn’t resist
it: “We hate the sight of the flamin’
things,” he grinned.
* * * ♦
“Villefair”: In the manner of young
calves the red-and-white heifer came
hesitatingly out of the track. She took
three or four quick steps down the hill,
stopped, made a half-hearted move to
cross the road, changed her mind, turned
about, stopped again, then decided to
follow the road uphill. There was an
abundance of tempting grass by the
roadside, but the prettily-marked bovine
“bobby-soxer” was obviously not hungry.
Over the hill came a big, shiny-black
car, travelling fast, but not dangerously
so —if it had been a city road. The car
was on its right side, the heifer on the
other, but the driver was obviously
ignorant of the ways of calves. He took
it for granted that the little beast would
stay where it was. Calves don’t do things
like that. For
a second the
heifer stood
watching the
on rushing
vehicle ; then,
just when it
was certain
suicide to do
it, shambled
out to the
middle of the road, changed her mind,
tossed her head and swung her fore-
quarters with the apparent intention of
returning to “as you were.” The next
few seconds were a mad confusion of
shrieking brakes, tearing tyres, a skidding,
bucking car and a frisking calf. When
things became stable once more a
trembling driver climbed out of his car,
walked around it registering positive
amazement that, although the vehicle had
turned almost completely round, it had
suffered no damage; then he collapsed
weakly back in the seat. “I dunno how
I did it; I don’t know how I did it!” he
said to me as I came up. Suddenly
another emotion possessed him: “Why
the hell don’t these cockies teach their
calves a bit of road-sense?”
• • • •
“M.S.”: A neighbor of mine, selling
his small sheep-farm to go back to wages,
declares it is just as easy to go broke on
present prices as bad ones. He has
worked among sheep all his life, is a good
worker and a tight spender. Buying
high-priced sheep, he tended them well
enough, but, despite his care, with the
wet season they soon developed footrot.
Day and night he worked, and after his
missus broke down employed a hand at
high wages to help with hoof-paring and
footbaths. Losses were heavy. Neighbors
did what they could, their greatest handi-
cap being that bloke’s independence.
After months of varied effort, Bill found
a cure at £l5 a gallon, and took turns
from hoof-painting to dose and crutch.
In replacing at £7 a head he was unfor-
tunate in losing 20-odd the first night.
Then, with wool discoloration, a touch of
fleece-rot and a long-extended shearing
with its attendant expenses, Bill now
returns to someone else’s payroll, with
the lament that he struck a good season
and high prices.
• * * •
“Wonk”; Murph was new to the land.
He’d cleared his rough block of timber
and scrub, but, pondering the scarcity of
stock-grass and the abundance of fire-
weed, he realised the fire-weed musf go.
How to get rid of it was the problem.
Most likely there was some easy and
customary way of handling the pest; he’d
ask old Charlie Beecher, who had lived
there all his life. “Aw,” said the old
hand, “you’ll easy get rid of that,
me lad, but you’ll have to wipe out the
rabbits first. Them thousands o’ rabbits
eat all the clover and pasture-grasses
that’d help smother the fire-weed if they
got a chance. See?” Murph saw, and
tackled the rabbits. He had never dug
out before, he had no dogs, and though
he worked hard he got few rabbits. They
weren’t in the burrows. With the burrows
at length finished, loose rabbits were
everywhere, and, not caring to approach
Beecher again with further troubles,
Murph waited on the road for Dad
Hopkins to come along. That old farmer
listened readily, and prefaced his advice
with an inspection of the paddock.
“Yair,” he said weightily! “Well, y’r
best way to deal with them loose rabbits
is to destroy their cover. You’ll find you
have no trouble at all if y’ just get rid
o’ that fire-weed first.”
HOME COUNTRY.
There the farmer plugs his pipe with a rhyme
And the Chinaman bends on his hillside garden
like Time
Grown old with the reckoning of the world.
There
The summer sets to autumn in gossamer.
It is the country of bells and memories,
Of bells flowing over memories,
And memories like a thousand resurrections
Mirrored in water splintering from those seas
Into which everything flows. It is the country
Of pool and waterfall, of green reflections
Among wood petrified, near caves hidden,
Of the plover, pheasant, morning-wren, and
thrush,
Of warrened hills and wallaby mountains, of
sudden
Precipice and granite, of bracken, brush,
And sun-shaft, transfixed shadows, of bluebell,
rose;
A country masted with gums and kurrajongs,
Of colors fine as corals, cool as snows,
And Christmas-coned with bells of crinkling
songs . . .
The laurel twig in my hand breaks with a snap,
Life a forceful tick in time, and the relish of sap
Rises to tongue and nostril like a nostalgia.
Cores of days corroded, like plough-disks white
And keen, revolving fantasies, the bright,
Durable, unknowable, but felt
Unforgettable experiences,
Turn on the fallow ground of heart, and groove
Recurring furrows for a perfect love.
N.s.w.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


df
I Sfl
INVESTMENT IN SATISFACTION
Cool, mild and satisfying Army Club cigarettes are, indeed, *
your soundest smoking investment. Proudly made in
Australia from the world’s best leaf, ripened by sun,
mellowed by time, they are rolled in pure, filigrained
paper, free from printers’ ink.
coN
CORK TIPPED
0i y'v
SiZ£
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
r - Dividends ~ Nominal
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. 61 p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
£ £ £ £
1942.. 983,187 IXI,IBB 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,407,541
Unexplained addition, £16,112 ..1,423,653
1943.. 981,427 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,450,418
Unexplained addition, £9902 .. 1,460,320
1944.. 961,910 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1.467,568
Unexplained addition, £16,306 .. 1,483,873
1945.. 948,915 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,478,126
Unexplained addition, £13,090 ..1,491,216
1946.. 960,168 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,496,712
Unexplained reduction, £6083 ..1,490,629
1947. . 951,403 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,487,370
Unexplained addition, £736 .. 1,488,106
1948.. 956,324 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,489,768
Share premiums, £1,338,848 ..2,828,616
Unexplained reduction, £3OlB .. 2,825.598
1949.. 999,983 111,188 9 p.c. = 883,640 2,830,753
Unexplained addition, £6483 2,837,236
1950.. 818,247 111,188 6 Jp.C. = 696,201 2,843,094
* After deducting outsiders’ tnieieato.
f Subject to intangibles (now £3,969,238), and
excludes property and plant reserve, £3,100,077.
What has happened here? Well-handled
and highly-efficient, the group-parent
holding co. and five main operating sub-
sidiaries —is one of the largest industrial
undertakings in the Commonwealth, and
the scrip ranks among the leaders in the
market. Yet, at the height of an infla-
tionary boom, when the earnings of most
traders are expanding, shareholders are
presented with accounts showing a sharp
contraction of £186,736 (18.6 p.c.) in net
earnings and a cut in the div. from 9 p.c.
to p.c. It is a sad commentary on
the “Welfare” State that the wages of
capital should be slashed, and so severely,
while the wages of labor continue to
shoot up at an alarming rate.
The villain of the piece is Government
control of selling-prices. Despite sharp
rises in prices paid for American and
other tobacco leaf, and in wage and all
other production and distribution costs,
the co. was not permitted to lift the
selling-prices of its products during the
12 months covered by the latest accounts.
So, after allowing something for taxation
and £196,362 (up £46,908) for deprecia-
tion, aggregate net earnings were com-
passed to a level which was the lowest
in the last 14 years. The £813,247 of
profit was enough to pay the pref. div.
(£111,188) and leave a balance equal
to 6.55 p.c. on the £10,710,781 of ord.
capital, compared with 9,9, 8.9, 9 and
8.9 p.c. back to 1945.
The market for the f.-p. £1 ords., which
rose from 495. 9d. early in 1950 to 565. 3d.
about three months later, fell back to
48s. following the board’s announcement
that, for reasons already stated, no
interim div. was to be paid in June last.
The figure, which had strengthened to
50s. by end November, 1950, stood at
475. 6d. last v week. Meanwhile the board
had stated that, owing to the inadequacy
of the adjusted selling-prices recently
granted by the control authorities, and
pending the outcome of further repre-
sentations, payment of an interim 2 p.c.
for the first quarter of the current term
should not be taken to imply that divi-
dends could necessarily be maintained at
the 1949 rates. At 475. 6d. the immediate
return is 2\ p.c. on a p.c. div. basis,
or 3.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution. Obvi-
ously the market counts on restoration of
the old dividend rate, an annual event
for the nine years to 1949, and/or other
benefits.
In Sept., 1949, the group held, or had
bought, large quantities of American leaf
at pre-devaluation prices—a prudent
policy from which the public has bene-
fited. The Government’s policy in
fixing selling-prices appears to be based
on pre-devaluation cost of stocks,
until such stocks are exhausted, rather
than on the commonsense and commer-
cially-prudent principle of averaging. It
is here that the market sees the possi-
bility of selling-prices being ultimately
lifted to levels that will enable the co.
to return to a 9 p.c. distribution. Mean-
while, basic-wage adjustments, including
those recently granted by the Arbitration
Court, have added over £500,000 p.a. to
the payroll total. Moreover, the Govern-
ment’s policy means that existing stocks,
which are below current requirements,
have to be processed and sold below
replacement cost. And the provision of
the necessary funds had become a major
problem, the chairman declared.
The year’s growth of £2,352,847 in the
book-value of stocks (they represent over
half the total assets) was due almost
entirely to the higher cost of raw
materials:
Consolidated Figures.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £11,082,521 £12,421,869 £12,421,369
Outside shares* 90,245 91,174 91.174
Deprec. reserve 2,809,659 2,937,447 3,100,077
Creditors, ete.f 4,599,498 2,479,696 3,662.462
Freeholds .. 1,482,572 1,522,392 1,555,376
Plant, etc. .. 2,123,884 2,185,907 2,286.205
Stocks . . 11,138,437 11,154,779 13,507.626
Debtors .. 1,294,241 1,413,229 813,071
Shares other cos. 101 101 101
Cash, etc. . . 156,515 621,479 254,420
Goodwill, etc.. . 3,969,600 3,969,660 3,969,238
* Includes proportion of reserves. t Includes over-
draft and tax provision, etc.
To meet the outlay the group went to
its bankers for £1,092,484, increased the
a.mount coming to sundry creditors
(£2,596,978) by £90,282, reduced debtors’
balances by £600,158 and drew upon cash,
etc., for £367,059.
During the 1949 term shareholders
put up £2,667,696, one half capital
and the other half share premiums
—the latter make last term’s 6| p.c. div.
equal to only 3£ p.c. 'on the new capital.
The lot was used mainly to wipe out the
bank overdraft (£2,512,465 at the close
of accounts in 1948). The proper func-
tion of new capital in a sound and pro-
gressive economy is to expand the
physical (actual productive) capacity of
an undertaking. When it is used to carry
price-inflated stocks the tendency is to
establish inflationary pressures at their
existing level, and, without an adequate
increase in turnover and/or profit margins,
the net effect is to reduce the overall
earning - power of shareholders’ funds.
Real wealth cannot be created just by
taking a ticket marked £1 off a package
and substituting therefor another ticket
marked £2.
Chief problem on the production side
is shortage of American leaf, owing to
the dollar problem. Consumption of
manufactured tobacco in Australia is
running well ahead of local production,
the gap being filled by imports, most of
which contain leaf of A dollar origin and
retail at higher prices than the locally-
made product.
Coote and Jorgensen, Ltd.
Y — Dividends—
,^—Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.e. 5 p.c. Ords. serves.*
it £ £ £ £
1946.. 8,4X3 1400 10 p.c. = 4,000 16,043
From inner reserves, net £13,616 . . 29.659
Revaluation reserve, £70,147 ~ 99,806
Reserves capilalised, £40,000 . . 59,806
1947.. 9,225 1400 10 p.c. = 4,296 63,835
Share-issue exes., £8852 .. .. 54,483
1948.. 37.129 1400 2161 10 p.c. = 20,945 67,106
Share premiums, £22,750 .. .. 89,856
Share-issue exes., £1627 .. . . 88,229
1949.. 44.391 1400 3425 10 p.c. = 25,589 102,206
1950.. 48.214 1400 5000 10 p.c. = 80,000 114,020
* After deducting intangibles, now £27,885.
Enterprising and forward-looking, the
management has been quick to seize
the new opportunities that a hungry and
sheltered post-war market, expanding
economy and inflation have provided for
this class of business. Established in
1928 as a small private concern, the pro-
prietors built up a growing trade in pro-
duction of automotive power-transmission
parts and in general-engineering repair
and construction work. The public be-
came interested in 1937, when paid capital
was £60,000, of which £20,000 carried a
fixed cumulative 7 p.c. For the next
three years divs. averaged 6.6 p.c. Plant
was engaged almost entirely on defence
contracts during the war, and the ords:
have had an unbroken 10 p.c. since 1942.
In 1946 the Government annexe adjoin-
ing the co.’s factory at Alexandria, near
Sydney, was bought, together with a lot
of plant, on terms and a programme of
expansion began. The following year a
revaluation of fixed assets showed a
surplus 'of £139,061 over book-values,
which were written up by £70,147, and a
like amount was credited to reserves. At
the same time £13,616 net of other inner
reserves were disclosed, and £40,000 of
reserves were capitalised in a one-for-one
bonus-scrip issue to the ords. Produc-
tion didn’t get much benefit from the
additional space and plant until 1948,
when turnover and profit both went up
with a rush, and £200,000 of fresh cash-
paid capital (50,000 5 p.c. prefs. and
150,000 ords.) was gathered to help
finance the growth. But it was not
enough, and a further 50,000 £1 5 p.c.
prefs. and 70,000 £1 ords., which brought
with them £22,750 of share premiums,
were issued during the 1949 term, lifting
paid capital to £420,000 in 20,000 7 p.c.
and 100,000 5 p.c. prefs. and 300,000
ords.
Last term, turnover continued to climb.
After allowing for depreciation (£24,000,
up £1879) and taxation (£22,500, down
£500), the profit benefited by £3823,
reaching £48,214. That covered the
pref. x divs. and 13.9 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 15.4, 16 and 18.2 p.c.
for the three preceding years.
During the year the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £112,181, and the
money was used mainly to increase plant,
etc. (up £31,645), carry more book debts
(up £55,475) and reduce the liability on
the annexe (down £45,644):
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £300,000 £420,000 £420, UOO
Creditors, etc.* 99,422 82,358 111,589 114,545
Overdraft . . 152,798 119,159 89,102 201,283
Def. liability
annexe .. 230.750 238,233 203,957 158,313
Final div. .. 4,296 13,450 14,089 15,000
Land and build-
ings . . 70,966 70,966 75,349 75.349
Plant, etc. .. 375,721 417,656 416,686 448,331
Shares .. 1,000 1,675 1,675 1.675
Stocks . . 148,434 233,121 344,360 339.458
Debtors .. 54,479 96.888 102,873 158.348
Intangibles .. 17,500 26,352 27,979 27,885
* Includes provision for taxation.
The contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£10,340) was £19,831.
Now it has been decided to expand
existing production futher, to which full-
gearing equipment for cars, etc., is to be
added. Present premises are not big
enough to house the layout of additional
plant, so a new factory is being built at
Fairfield, to which the old plant is to be
transferred. To meet planned capital
outlay over the next 12 months, 450,000
new £1 ords. were issued at par on Jan. 8
last. Paid capital will thus beeome
£750,000, on which pref. divs. and 10 p.c.
to the ords. would call for £81,400. It
takes time for the new money to develop
full earning-power, and some dislocation
and expense will be involved in the
transfer from old to new premises.
Dividends, therefore, might not be main-
tained at the same rate as last term. The
co.’s full programme of development will
take some years to complete, and further
capital will be required. At the moment,
appearances are that rearmament, the
allocation of scarce materials and
priorities should enable the co. to become
well' established in its enlarged activities
before overseas competition becomes a
serious question.
At 345. the f.-p. ords. return 5.9 p.c.
so long as the 10 p.c. div. continues, or
4.7 pc. on an 8 p.c. distribution At
28s. 6d. and 20s. the 7 p.c. and 5 p.c.
prefs. each yield approximately 5 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £49 4s. for the sevens,
£9 12s. lOd. for the fives and 235. ords.
Pacific Chenille-Craft, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1948.. 64,929 20 p.c. = 41,333 23,596 128,290
Unexplained addition, £591 .. .. 128.809
Added intangibles, £54,210 .. .. 74,599
1949.. 73.014 20 p.c. = 56,000 17,014 91,613
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 .. I
1950.. 87,642 p.c. = 60,000 87,647 ]
9,255
* After deducting intangibles, £89,210 at 30/6/’5O,
and paying final div.
It has been a quick and very profitable
development, thanks partly to a hungry,
sheltered and expanding market and
partly to an alert and enterprising
management, which has made the most
of the opportunities which fortuitous
circumstance presented. Chenille was
originally an old-time American hand-
craft in which candlewick Was used as
tufted embroidery; later, machines were
designed to replace the laborious hand-
work involved, and the product became
popular in the American market.
It was as recently as 1940 that two
young Americans from Los Angeles came
to Sydney and set up a small factory at
Alexandria to manufacture chenille bed-
spreads, dressing-gowns and other
garments. In the early stages, what the
co. missed on the civilian swings it more
than picked up on the war-time round-
abouts, and rapid progress was made. On
reconversion in 1945-46 a former
munitions annexe at Goulburn was taken
over, and other factories have been
established at Yass and Newcastle, and
the business of Australian Towel Weav-
ing Mills (Sydney) was bought at an un-
stated figure after the close of accounts
in 1948.
The 1948 term was one of considerable
expansion, especially at Goulburn, where
a machine-shop and pattern-making and
dyeing departments were installed, and
preparations made for the erection of a
cotton-spinning and -weaving mill. Pro-
duction and sales bounded ahead, and to
help finance the expansion the public was
invited in and put up £BO,OOO of fresh
capital, which brought with it £120,000
of share premiums—the latter by
direction of the Capital Issues Board.
Last term the share-premium reserve was
capitalised, lifting the total on the share-
register to £400,000.
For the three years since the public
became interested the story has been one
of continued expansion. Last term was
the first to get the full benefit of the
cotton-spinning plant, to which a battery
of automatic weaving looms is now to
be added, thus enabling the co. to make
a wide range of cotton piece-goods, in-
cluding khaki drill. The towel mill was
expanded, and a new factory is being
erected at Newcastle, where output is to
be doubled. A record turnover lifted
profit to £87,642 (up £14,628). That was
after allowing for depreciation (£19,030,
up £2020) and taxation (£48,570, down
£3974). The £87,642 was 21.9 p.c. on
capital as it now stands, and the div. was
dropped from 20 p.c. to 12-i- p.c., which
is equal to 17.8 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the bonus issue.
The expansion shows up again in bal-
ance-sheet figures: —
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £280,000 £280,000 £400,000
Overdraft . . .. 100,027 77,339
Sundry creditors* .. 177,121 126,262 l|B,/72
Final divs 21,333 28,000 30.000
Freeholds, etc... .. 15,014 37,258
Leasehold .. .. “
Plant, etc 66,228 112,691 13^.469
Stock 259.375 392,492 3,2.462
Debtors .. .. .. 64,674 82,475 112, Lj
Cash 221,453 986 424
Intangibles .. •• 41,969 96,1,9 89,-
* Includes provision for taxation.
Stocks (down £20,030 last term) is the
item which catches the eye ; they appear
at the lower of cost or market price, and
the figure for raw cotton has risen steeply
since the close of accounts. The more-or-
less liquid surplus (£219,494) was £-170


SCOTCH COLLEGE
MITCHAM
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Applications are invited up to and
including Monday, 16th April, 1951,
for the position of Headmaster, Scotch
College, Mitcham, South Australia.
Applicants should be communicants of
a Protestant Church and be prepared
to assume duty at the beginning of
the First Term, 1952.
Full particulars are contained in the
Brochure which may be obtained from
the Secretary, Mr. Murray Hogben,
Savings Bank Building, King William
Street, Adelaide, South Australia, to
whom applications, together with
testimonials and all particulars, should
be addressed.
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live,
rpcr Call or send stamp for
* FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
fitter
«Baaaa
Cylinder
dsf
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10*12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
sd
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
9
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. .1. P. Pullen. Public Trustee.
n
\w
fsd
This confidence in
you to provide for him is a trust
you will not betray.
A definite and very practical
way to provide for your depend-
ants' security is for you to take
out a suitable life assurance
policy with " The Equitable ”
.... 'phone, call, or write to-day.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
PROBATE & GENERAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD,
//eo</ 0/f/ce 37/'373 Pueenft, Srisfafte
WINCELLO HOUSE,ANCEL PLACE, SYDNEY
IfiQ COLLINS STREET,MELBOURNE
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incirporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
Buy, Sell or Exchange.
WILL Buy, Sell or Exchange Prints,
Books, Maps or anything pertaining to
early Tasmania. Write MALCOM
MILLER. C/o C.T.A. Club, Hobart.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
O. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP,
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
rr»e
C
"Many things
impossible
to thought
Have been
by need
to full perfection
brought . .
& 3
I
9. ;
WWHIMMft
lie
i l^
the whisky is:
COMPLETE BANKING SERVICE
AT THE
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
WILL BE PROVIDED BY
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
18 35
An Agency of the Bank will be opened in the Show
Grounds with full banking facilities during the Show for
the convenience of customers and general public.
THE AGENCY WILL BE LOCATED IN
THE MANUFACTURERS’ HALL AND
OFFICERS OF THE BANK WILL BE IN
ATTENDANCE DAILY.
Country visitors may make arrangements with their local
manager to be issued with travellers’ cheques cashable
there or to have their own cheques cashed at this Agency.
These and the other usual banking facilities will be
available —and all enquiries will be welcomed by the
officers on duty.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND
Established 1835.
less than at the previous balance,
due to additions to fixed assets
(up £15,034).
The immediate outlook favors
maintenance of satisfactory earn-
ings. Cotton and cotton goods
are now scarce and dear, and
likely to remain so for an in-
definite period, with both selling-
prices and operating-costs on the
up-grade, and with the possibility
of extra Government bleeding
and allocation of scarce
materials before long. Also
shareholders might be asked to
assist at a later date.
At 12s. 6d. (11s. a month ago)
the f.-p. ss. shares, covered by
ss. Id. in net tangibles, return 5
p.c. on a 12 i p.c. div. basis.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd. (Syd.,)
, r — 1 —Dividends , Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1942.. 12.000 8 8 12,000 29,733
1943.. 12,000 8 8 12,000 29.733
1944.. 14.119 8 8 12,000 31.852
1945.. 14,909 8 8 12,000 34.761
1946.. 17,913 8 8 12,000 40.674
1947.. 21.320 10 10 15,000 46,994
1948.. 29.905 12* 121 21,042 55,857
1949.. 59,465 17* 17* 30,625 84,697
1950.. 67.265 17* 17* 33,437 118.495
Earnings of this 44-year-old
electrical-engineering and mer-
chandising business, which has
selling-branches at Newcastle
and Wollongong, and is in-
terested in two prosperous
associated cos. (one in Mel-
bourne and the other in Bris-
bane), have bounded along in
fine style in a sheltered and
hungry post-war market, which
has been stimulated by short-
ages, overfull employment and
inflation. And shareholders have
joined in the prosperity. After
a thin time in the early 1930’s
they received a steady 8 p.c. for
the nine years to 1946, followed
by 10, 12} and two lots of 17£
p.c. to the close of last accounts,
when as much of the year’s
profit was ploughed back into
the business as was distributed.
Production and supply rather
than demand have been the
management’s chief worries. The
manufacture of motors, genera-
tors, switch-gear, household-
meters and a wide range of other
electrical equipment has been
held in check by shortages of
raw materials and skilled labor,
and by the rationing of electric-
power as the result of
perennial industrial trouble on
the coalfields. And goods
handled on an agency basis —
they include Philips lamps,
fluorescent-lighting and radio-
players, and refrigeration units
(Frigidaire) turned out by
General Motors —have come
forward in limited but increasing
volume. As supplies on both
sides of the business increased,
so did sales and turnover, which,
assisted by rising prices, has out-
stripped the growth in costs.
Last term plant was extended,
output increased, and so did the
volume of agency goods, while
the Melbourne associate lifted
its div. from p.c. to 20 p.c.
and the other in Brisbane paid
a steady 10 p.c. After allowing
for depreciation (£11,544, up
£6679) and taxation (£45,000, up
£5000), profit reached a record
£67,235 (up £7770), equal to 35.1
p.c. on average capital (pref. and
ord. combined), compared with
34, 17.7, 14.2, 11.9 and 9.9 p.c.
back to 1945.
Expansion is the keynote of
balance-sheet figures:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £175,000 £175,000 £200,000
Overdraft .. 56,548 88,408 98,299
Creditors, etc. 127,102 100,067 140,137
Staff fund .. 2,000 3,000 4,000
Final divs... 18,125 19.687 22.600
Fixed assets 69,725 91,979 118,966
Shares subsids. 32,796 58,165 58,155
Stocks, etc. 187,478 179,294 218.952
Book debts.. 139,348 145,803 187,043
Cash, etc. .. 285 305 315
To carry more stocks (up
£39,658), book debts (up
£41,240) and fixed assets (up
£26,987 net—a freehold was also
bought in North Sydney) the co.
increased the overdraft (up
£13,891) and the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc. (up
£40,070). The improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£141,374) was £22,134.
To lighten the debt and pro-
vide more working capital, etc.,
50,000 new £1 ords. were issued
at par since the close of
accounts, thus lifting paid capital
to £250,000 —it includes 20,000
£1 prefs. which advance with the
ords. beyond 7 p.c. and share in
surplus assets. As for the out-
look, appearances are that the
economy will be fully employed
in supplying both defence and
civilian demands. Much will
depend upon what happens in
connection with the allocation
of materials, and upon the
course of prices and costs, in-
cluding taxation.
The market prices the prefs.
at 775. 9d. and the ords. at
725., the returns being 4.5 p.c.
and 4.8 p.c. respectively on a
\l\ p.c. div, basis. Net tangible
cover is 295. sd. a share.
Tongkah Harbor Tin netted
£574,742 (up £540,809) for year
to June 30 last, and paid 9d. per
ss. share, less 20 p.c. Malayan
tax, in November —last previous
distribution was 3d. a share in
1941. Dredging figures, etc., at
Bidor (Malaya), where digging
began again in August, 1948,
compare:
1949. 1950.
Treated, c.y. (’000) 1412 1819
Tin ore, tons .. 357.4 590.2
T.o. per c.y., lb. .. 0.57 0.73
Raw gold, oz. .. 352.8 1635.5
Av. price tin* .. £8550.35 £8572.55
All-in costs* .. £8430.45 £8381.04
* Per ton metallic tin.
The Harbor dredge (Thailand)
got into production a month be-
fore the close of accounts, and
41.8 tons t.o. was recovered from
0.621 b, ground. The Ronpibon
sector remains on a care-and-
maintenance basis. London spot
price of tin at end February was
£51397 10s. Co.’s f.-p. ss. shares,
which sold at 9s. 6d. at end
1950, fetched 16s. 9d. last week.


WANT TO GET GET
OF A GROOVE?
The Navy, Army or Air
Force is your
opportunity
Life in the Navy, Army or Air Force to-day offers a wide
choice of interesting careers for recruits of varying ability,
with excellent prospects of advancement as Australia builds up
her three vital Defence Forces. In addition to remuneration
under the new increased pay codes, the Serviceman benefits by
provision for uniforms, special allowances, food and accom-
modation, social amenities and facilities for sport, and a
system of pensions and gratuities that ensures his security.
His individual well-being is planned and provided for on
modern lines. He enjoys the comradeship of the finest type
of Australian, and shares in the traditions of a great and
honourable Service.
Enquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting
Depots or Information Bureaux
At the following addresses —
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney: Cnr. Martin
Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle
Street; In Adelaide: Richards Building, 9D Currie Street; In Perth: 34 King
Street; In Hobart: Franklin Square; In Launceston: Town Hall, St. John
Street.
IF UNABLE TO CALL SEND THIS COUPON
The Deputy Director of Recuiting, G.P.O.
Box XYZ in any of the following cities—
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston.
Please send me, without obligation full
details of enlistment and service with
(indicate which desired) —
□ NAVY □ ARMY □ AIR FORCE
O ALL 3 SERVICES
□ Full Time O Part Time
NAME.
ADDRESS.
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
DR16.83.21
f
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
2
Business.Rollery.Etc.
New Zealand Softwoods
The world’s newsprint short-
age is bullish for New Zealand
softwoods, and, as prospects for
supplies from Canada grow
dimmer, those who have sunk
millions in Maoriland pine
forests see a bright glow on
their hitherto murky horizon.
N.Z.’s main hope for the future
is now in its own newsprint and
woodpulp.
The two biggest owners of the
trees are the State Forest Ser-
vice, with its great 300,000-acre
plantation at Murupara, in the
heart of the North Island, and
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., with
180,000 acres of trees around
Tokoroa. The third is Matea
Forests, Ltd., ally of Whaka-
tane Board Mills., Ltd. In a
burst of enthusiastic fervor last
year the Forest Service said in
its report to Parliament that
some day Murupara would
mean as much to Maoriland as
Broken Hill Pty, to Australia.
If so it will rival the Dominion’s
great dairying industry.
It’s a quarter of a century
since the softwood forests had
their birth, with log- and pulp-
production as the goal. News-
print was only a remote dream.
It wasn’t until 1949 that Maori-
landers began to think seriously
about newsprint, after tests of
their pulp at Texas and Tas-
manian plants proved its value.
Now the idea is that paper-
manufacture should be dove-
tailed in with sawmilling and
pulp-production, to get the most
from the trees —heartwood and
Sap.
Estimates of output set a tar-
get of 70 million board-feet
yearly (60 million of the total
for export), along with 100,000
tons of newsprint (60,000 tons
for export), and 15,000 tons of
pulp, with overseas buyers
taking the lion’s share, Aus-
tralia will be the outsize market,
and Maoriland figures this will
go a long way to correct the
chronic unbalanced state of
trans-Tasman trade. Dollar
savings for M.L. and Australia
are estimated at £l6 million-
odd when everything is in full
swing.
But there’s a big job to be
done before the money comes
rolling in. Capital outlay is
likely to reach £2B million on
present costs, £l5 million of it
to build and equip the sawmills,
pulp plants and newsprint units,
and the balance for roads, a rail
outlet to the Bay of Plenty coast
and conversion of Tauranga
Harbor into a deep-water port.
State experts expect the
grandiose project to net 10 p.c.
for investors, after tax, barring
setbacks, or 7 p.c. if the going
is tough—with private enterprise
running the plant. The railway
and port will be State-owned.
As the Murupara forest belongs
to the State, private enterprise
will be in the middle, buying
State trees and marketing the
output over the State transport
network. Here is a set-up where
co-operation can hold the key.
It’s too early yet to hazard a
guess how it will pan out.
Peter Lloyd Industries
The public issue by Peter
Lloyd Industries, Ltd., Sydney,
was rapidly oversubscribed last
week. There were 415,600 ss.
ord. shares offered at par. The
former shareholders of Peter
Lloyd, Ltd., were issued 584,400
ss. ords. in return for their
194,800 fully-paid ss. shares in
the original concern. Paid capi-
tal of the Industries co. is thus
£250,000 in 1,000,000 ss. shares.
Peter Lloyd, Ltd., was formed
on May 11, 1948, and acquired
the N. S. Wales franchise for
Wolseley and Riley cars, besides
becoming distributor of Nuffield
Universal tractors. In June,
1949, it took over the N. S.
Wales rural distribution of M.G.
cars. Then the N. S. Wales
franchise for Dennis trucks and
firefighting equipment was
added, together with the Com-
". . . and the sticky conditions may be expected to
continue , with a storm developing. "
monwealth (W.A. excluded) dis-
tribution of Dennis municipal
equipment.
Since June 30 last the Mack
truck and earth-moving-equip-
ment agency for N. S. Wales was
acquired, and the N. S. Wales
distribution of Nash cars has
been taken on. The Nash
agency, because of dollar restric-
tions, does not at present in-
volve many cars, but it may be
well worth nursing.
The co. has a leasehold show-
room and offices in Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, a freehold spare-
parts department and main ser-
vice-station in Parramatta-road,
Annandale, with branch service-
stations at North Sydney
(rented) and Blakehurst (free-
hold). Other freeholds have
been bought at Alexandria and
Waterloo.
Net profit of Peter Lloyd, Ltd.,
and its subsidiaries, in relation
to the new capital of £250,000,
represented 26.7 p.c. for 1948-
49 and 34 p.c. for 1949-50. That
was after providing for public-
co. taxes.
Net tangible assets at book-
values, plus proceeds of the new
issue, are expected to give a
tangible backing of 4s. lOd. for
each of the ss. shares issued by
Peter Lloyd Industries, Ltd.
The rate of profit earned from
July 1 to December 31, 1950,
is reported by the managing-
director to be at least equal to
that of previous years, and,
allowing for a div. paid out of
these profits, the net tangible
backing is now believed to be
“substantially in excess of ss.
per share.”
The prospectus has a foot-
note to the effect that “since the
inception of the trading co., divi-
dend-distributions have been
conservative in relation to profits
earned, and it will be the policy
of the board to continue this
procedure so as to consolidate
the co.’s position while present
buoyant trading conditions exist
in the motor industry.”
B.H.P. Rights
B.H.P. rights came on the
market last week at 195., and the
fully-paid shares sold at 51s.
Thjs was a slight weakening on
the closing price of 58s. 6d. for
the old scrip cum rights.
There are 6,527,311 new £1
shares to be taken up, and they
carry a premium of 10s. The
offering is in the ratio of 35 for
each 100 shares held on February
27. The shares are to be paid
for in three instalments of 10s.
each, the first due on April 10,
the last on March 31, 1952.
8.H.P., in its tinplate and
associated works, will soon have
more share-capital represented
than in its original steelworks.
For the next few years profits
and dividends will depend on
whether the steelworks get
enough coal to work at near
full capacity,
James Sandy (Industries)
The ss. shares in James Sandy
(Industries), Ltd., opened up in
the unlisted market at 10s. last
week.
The co, was floated earlier this
year, the prospectus being dated
January 26. The public was
offered 361,372 ss. ord. shares at
par, and the vendors of the scrip
in James Sandy Pty., Ltd., took
718,628 ords. (£179,656) and
£35,631 in cash—a total con-
sideration of £215,287. Paid
capital is now £270,000 alto-
gether.
The business thus acquired
was founded in Sydney in 1853
by thq late James Sandy, and it
imported paints, oils, wallpaper,
glass, etc. In 1892 factory
premises were acquired in
Boronia-street, Redfern, and the
co. started manufacturing
mirrors and bevelling, silvering
and glazing glass. Present head-
office premises at 268-70 George-
street, Sydney, were bought in
1922, and occupied in 1931.
The Redfern factory has since
been extended, and a shop- and
office-fitting service set going.
A Newcastle branch has been
established, and a Wollongong
business has been ac-
quired. A subsidiary.
Carter Paint Pty., has
a large factory at
Auburn, where oil and
water paints, dry colors,
etc., are made.
In addition to its
large paint, glass and
wallpaper business, the
co. also manufactures
and distributes Sandy
louvres.
Profits earned by
James Sandy Pty. and
its subsidiary, after
allowing public-co. taxes, were
equal to 3.7 p.c. on present paid
capital in 1946, 9.3 p.c. in 1947,
9.7 p.c. in 1948, 8.2 p.c. in 1949,
and 10 p.c. in 1950. The new
issue will give the co. about
£47,000 of fresh working capital.
The co. owns the freehold of
all its premises. These had a
book-value of £89,953 on June
30, 1950, and have been revalued
at £148,325. Plant of the co. and
its subsidiary, in the books at
£11,120, has been revalued at
£24,415. On this basis net
tangible assets per ss. share,
allowing for the new capital in-
troduced, are estimated at
ss. 4d.
The co.’s turnover is expand-
ing, and its headquarters are
well situated. The louvre side of
the business should develop—it
is a comparatively recent venture.
The co. so far has managed to
get along with a minimum of
plant, but it is fortunate to own
premises in so many strategic
localities.


Your STAFF will appreciate
sra
TUBULAR FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
&
vr
n
«vce
a%er
Gr®
»<*
«i® ie
i.e‘*
b\ elft *
f r °
nrt 6 ®'
too* 10
and
&£&
FITTINGS
When replacing
your fluorescent tubes
or lamps, insist on
OSRAM, the
Wonderful Lamp,
To speed up work, reduce
mistakes and increase
efficiency all round, instal
OSRAM Fluorescent Tubes
and B.G.E. Fittings. Their
pleasing appearance com-
bined with a greater light
output and glare-free
illumination, renders them
eminently suitable for all
types of installations.
for full particulars consult your local Electrical Cm*
tractor, or the B.G.E. Fluorescent Lighting Department.
ffiii&i&S&utodS&efiuc Ca.M.M
(Sole Australian Representatives of *
The General Electric Company Ltd. of England)
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON. TOWNSVILLE
BS.B
BRANDAUER’S
w.
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER A CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM ENQ>
Visitors and Exhibitors
at the
SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW
The Union Bank offers the following
facilities at its Sydney Royal Show
Agency:—•
• Encashment of cheques, by prior
arrangement, through any branch
of the Bank.
• Encashment of Travellers' Cheques
on presentation.
• Receipt of lodgments.
• Assistance in any transactions
arising from your visit to the
Show.
Phe Bank's officers will be pleased to
welcome you and to discuss any bank-
ing problem, and they invite you to use
the Agency as a meeting place for your
friends.
The Agency is conveniently located at
the Showgrounds in the Hordern
Pavilion, Park Road, near the Main
Entrance.
c lhc
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England)
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in London.
Positions Vacant.
ROYAL SOUTH SYDNEY HOSPITAL
Joynton Avenue, Zetland, Sydney
TRAINEE NURSES
Vacancies exist for Trainee Nurses at the above Training School.
Applications are hereby invited from young ladies desiring to enter
the Nursing Profession. Applicants should possess an educational
certificate from the Nurses’ Registration Board or hold an Intermediate
or Leaving Certificate.
Full details as to Salary, etc., are obtainable from Matron on appli-
cation. Personal interview given any morning at 10.30 or by appoint-
ment —Monday to Saturday.
The Hospital is situated close to the City by tram. Comfortable
accommodation and Recreation Room provided, also uniforms.
CYRIL J. DRANSFIELD, Dip. Ecs., F.1.H.5., Secretary.
Your family’s Security
in the changing world
To safeguard the security of
your family in a changing
world, your Will should give
your Executor and Trustee in-
vestment powers and manage-
ment powers that are broad and
flexible.
Unless a Will expressly per-
mits, a Trustee is not allowed,
for example, to take advantage
of the excellent range of
investments covered by shares in leading Companies,
having sound capital structure and a reputation for
good management and a record of good dividends.
As a result your Executor would be prevented from
obtaining the maximum yield from your Estate to
ensure security for your family.
Discretion in such matters can safely be left to
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. It has a wide
experience in handling Estates of many different kinds,
Investment, Industrial and Pastoral.
The Capital and Reserves of the Company,
amounting to over £500,000 provide tangible security
for its integrity. Its uncalled capital of £BOO,OOO is
an additional safeguard.
If you would discuss this subject with one of the
Company’s Senior Officers, write, or telephone B 0377,
and make an appointment.
r-
i
■tt~a.vjLax
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAQHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director.
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The past few weeks in Britain
have thrown into relief a para-
dox disconcertingly peculiar to
our times: that the surest way to
save money is to spend it. Of
t w o announcements that
appeared in the Press about the
same time, one invited the pub-
lic to buy the new issue of
National Savings Certificates
offering a fairly generous yield,
and the other baldly stated that
the price of utility furniture
would shortly be increased by
20 per cent.
If business has not been
remarkable in the post-offices it
has certainly been brisk in the
furniture-shops. At a time of
year that is normally very quiet,
buying has been hurried and
indiscriminate, and has left
many wholesalers without stocks.
Again, it is significant that the
customers were not the dwind-
ling few who have money to
spare, but the greater mass
whose purchasing - power de-
pends upon the convenience of
hire - purchase agreements:
which seems to suggest that the
common man is less concerned
with “keeping up with the
Joneses” than with investment
in tangible stock by means of
mortgages.
The meat shortage continues.
Housewives’ main grumble is
not so much the quantity but
the atrocious quality of the
quarter-pound of meat they re-
ceive. Feeling about the travesty
of the situation runs high, and
accusations are seriously made
that the Government and
“Canute” Webb, Minister of
Food, have their eyes on the
arbitrary cost-of-living index
and not on the welfare of the
people. A grim touch of ironic
humor is to be seen in butchers’
shops. Printed bills announce
the amount of the ration as “Bd.
meat, 2d. corned beef.” Most
people know this, of course, but
their knowledge brings them
more clearly to the point: the
bills, in heavy black type, are
mourning-notices.
Recent happenings on the rail-
ways and in the dockyards
coincide somewhat discourag-
ingly with the vesting-date for
steel, the latest industry to be im-
pressed into the nationalisation
flotilla. Railwaymen have long
been smarting under the inade-
quacy of their wages to meet
rising living costs. As the rail-
ways have lost £50,000,000 in
three years, the problem has
been especially difficult. Men
have drifted away to other jobs,
and those who remain are
hardly enthusiastic about their
work. But sympathy for them
has faded since their unions
rejected the conditions attached
to the award of an average wage-
increase for 465,000 workers.
These conditions seem to have
amounted to no more than com-
monsense—increased efficiency,
a check on restrictive practices
and a more rational approach to
the conduct of wage negotia-
tions.
An increase in wages was also
ostensibly the cause of a strike
at the docks. For a change
Merseyside and not London be-
came the seat of the strike. The
offer of 2s. a day extra was held
to be not enough. Despite the
customary inspired “sympathy,”
the strike failed to spread to
London. But the familiar Com-
munist technique is writ plain
and large in a device for estab-
lishing a permanent grievance.
The remand of seven agitators,
arrested for their part in the
mischief, has been made the
excuse for a series of token
strikes to be prolonged until the
present order, which rules a
strike as illegal unless a dispute
has first been reported, is re-
pealed. Opinion generally lays
the blame jointly with the
dockers, for their parochialism
and irresponsibility, and with
the enormous Transport and
General Workers’ Union, for
being remote and woolly-
minded.
Parly Line-up
Three divisions in nine days
—over steel, meat and defence
—clarified, if they didn’t stimu-
late, the political scene at West-
minster. On each occasion the
Government held on to its un-
easy tenure by narrow but con-
clusive majorities. A three-line
Whip is a remarkable unifier
when so much is at stake. No
one can say that Mr. Attlee, who
lately has had far more criti-
cism and dissent from the
benches behind him than those
opposite, is not an adroit
manager. Of his recent trials,
the steel debate was probably
the easiest, since it can be seen
in no other light than as a pure
concession to an influential
fraction of his party.
The Government had a more
anxious time over the meat de-
bate, for the Minister of Food
is not without critics among his
colleagues. Opposition speakers
had some embarrassing points
to make that are sure to have
repercussions in the constitu-
encies. Not even the plausi-
bility of a politician can explain
away the hard fact that the most
wretched cut off the joint in 1939
was superior to the present
ration.
So far Mr. Attlee has always
been able to rely on the support
of the Conservatives on a
national measure such as de-
fence. He has not enjoyed the
same unanimity from his own
party, which has in its rules a
conscience clause that “expressly
permits any pacifist to defy the
Whip on any issue of peace or
war.” (Indeed, this circum-
stance was enhanced by the
fact that a Labor candidate at a
current by-election was himself
a pacifist and, therefore, opposed
to the Government policy.) The
Conservative vote of censure,
not on the defence policy itself
but on the Government’s ability
to carry it out, might easily
have brought the Government
down had pricks of conscience
been stronger than dislikes at
the prospect of another general
election. What happened is now
well - known: that master-
tactician, Mr. Herbert Morrison,
had quiet talks with the likely
abstainers and persuaded the
Parliamentary Labor party into'
taking the mushy negative line
that, as rearmament was a cer-
tainty, anyhow, was it not better
to have it under a Labor Gov-
ernment than under a Conserva-
tive one?
Meanwhile, Socialist stock has
fallen so heavily that party
officials themselves fear a re-
verse at the polls if a general
election were held soon. This is
held to preclude the prospect of
resignation.
What seems probable is that
the Opposition will continue to
harry the Government, but that
the division-bell will always
bring Labor M.Ps. into a
numerical semblance of unity.
On this argument only a virus
which discriminates between
political colors or a coach
accident involving a score or so
of Socialists can bring the Gov-
ernment down.


STARTER
HEADLIGHT
HORN
WIPER
RADIO
INTERIOR -
LIGHT .
LIGHT
TAIL
5L
TO START WITH-
MORE POWER
TO KEEP GOING
For quick starting for
all the extra power you
need get a guaranteed
Goodyear Battery. The De-
Luxe has Felted Fibre Glass
insulation that adds 50% to
battery life, increases starting
power by one third. For general
service the heavy-duty All-
Weather satisfies every requirement.
s
GOOD/YEAR
BATTERIES
"As good as the name they bear"
. -
s
JURIS
Circular Chart* for ail ty pot
of Recording Instrument*
•or MU Clara o* HacKinory
•r
MCTffc CHARTS • Spociahy
jacmwo*suluvan%l^
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
m
■m ■
\
3
K,
r^>>
* v
For Business
and Pleasure ■
FLY*
HONG
KONG
in less than 2 days
Fastest route to Hong Kong is
by Q.E.A. Service, via Darwin
and Labuan (North Borneo).
You fly in comfort by modern
Skymaster with first class
steward service and enjoy
delightful quick frozen meals,
served hot in the air.
Regular weekly services from
Sydney.
Enquire now about inter-
change air-sea tours from
your local Travel Agent.
Q£A
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
<?C9a Australia's INTERNATIONAL Airline.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Two women’s societies protested
against the cooking courses for
bachelors. They said the courses
would make the bachelors too inde-
pendent to get married.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
4 1 4*
“Wanted, a man to put me in a
bath, weekends. Phone Mrs. .”
—Sydney suburban paper.
Say Saturday night?
•J*
“The British public doesn’t under-
stand wit any more.”
—Entertainer Ronald Frankau.
Perhaps it’s because the
younger generation of wits are
not as good as the old jokers.
4* 4* 4*
“It is not vanity to develop the
beauty of your face.”
— Women’s paper.
But the attempt is sometimes
vain.
“Your wardrobe must be chosen to
correspond with the kind of life you
lead.” — Fashion note.
Housewives will naturally con-
centrate on harass tweed,
4* 4* 4 1
“Wanted piano, iron frame, old
one would do for child at reasonable
price.”— Suburban paper.
The neighbors would be grate-
ful.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale, as a going concern, old-
established country.”
—Launceston “ Examiner.“
Has Attlee’s nationalxsed-
industries losses forced him to
this?
4* 4* 4*
“Wnarflaborers’ ban on overtime
and the effect of power sestsictions
on industry have caused sesious con-
gestion on the Sydney waterfront.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
And even more remarkable
effects on the setting of the
“Sun.”
Hard-baked Bachelors.
“Come live with me and be my
love,”
She cooed, and gently took my
hand,
“And I shall build a little nest
If you will only cease to rove.
For Dad is rich, you understand,
He’s shearing somewhere out the
west,
And dear old Mum knows all
the tricks
For getting timber, tiles and
bricks,”
I listened to her honeyed words
That promised future ease for
me.
And noted all her tender charms.
The voice as sweet as song of
birds,
The lines as luscious as could be ;
Yet I unwound her circling arms
And said “Til have to pass you
by—
You see, I’ve other fish to fry.”
D.H.E.
Split-personality.
“Well,” said Bert the Politi-
cal No-hoper, washing his hands
in the air in the manner of one
well pleased with himself, “our
great meeting of protest against
the Government’s intended mass-
migration of Germans was a
splendid success. Several fights,
my photo displayed prominently
in some of the papers, my name
mentioned seventeen times in
the write-up, and —oh, yes, we
passed a resolution”
“You know,” broke in Bert
the Champion of Human Rights,
“1 almost turned down the in-
vitation by the convening com-
mittee to be the principal
speaker because some low per-
son might get the idea that I was
simply there either for personal
publicity or to further the sacred
cause of the party by trying to
make it impossible for the duly-
elected Government to govern.
It was only when I considered
that by refraining from appear-
ing I might be robbing the world
of the expression of those noble
sentiments which I have so often
propounded to an eagerly-listen-
ing universe that I realise I had
a duty to my public.”
“Yes,” cut in Bert the Politi-
cal No-hoper excitedly. “And
especially my public out Barton
way who rallied to my banner
at the last elections wish such
devotion and in such astronomi-
cal numbers as to help me
vanquish so convincingly my
“Nearly empty bottlesh !”
opponent. The only thing I wish
is that they put a man against
me next time —a woman is
scarcely a foeman worthy of my
political steel.”
“What gave me perhaps the
greatest pleasure in making
such an appeal with the bril-
liance of my oratory,” went on
Bert the Champion of Human
Rights in that typically modest
manner which has been such a
conspicuous feature of his
career, “was that it gave me an
unparalleled opportunity to
reject any temptation to make
political capital out of it and to
concentrate purely on those be-
liefs in human freedom to
choose its own destiny and in
human dignity, which I have so
often said I have.”
“I was at one stage, I’ll
admit,” put in Bert the ex-
Wearer of the Full-bottomed
Wig, “tempted, as my former
calm judicial outlook demanded,
to point out to my vast and
attentive audience that Germans
were also human beings, and
that racial prejudice, intolerance
and hatred were completely at
variance with the ideals of that
charter in the drawing-up of
which I had, or should have had,
so much to do. Also that as the
Germans had occupied France,
Belgium, Norway, Denmark,
Holland and several other coun-
tries we should also bar the
entry into Australia of all their
nationals because, ipso facto,
they must also have been in-
doctrinated with the Nazi
ideology. I was tempted also to
add that it would be essential to
bar the citizen of any European
country which has been * occu-
pied by Russia, because he also
must have been subjected to the
propaganda of a different totali-
tarian ideology. I most certainly
would have adduced this argu-
ment but for the restraining
impression that the particular
audience I had before me would
undoubtedly have failed to
appreciate the peculiar polemical
niceties of it.”
“Nothing was more gratifying
to me,” said Bert the Political
No-hoper, “than the complete
absence of any Reds or their
sympathisers, either in the audi-
ence or behind the meeting. As
a member of the A.L.P. I am, of
course, forbidden to appear on
the same platform as a Com-
munist, though I’m at perfect
liberty to —in fact, I’m expected
to —go into conference with the
same fellows as bona - fide
leaders of trade-unions which
give the party powerful financial
support and are members of the
A.C.T.L). Still, the meeting was
intended to be the expression of
honest indignation by citizens
who are rightly incensed at this
projected migration-scheme, and
so far as I was able to observe
-—at least up to two rows from
the front —there wasn’t even a
parlor-pink or a fellow-traveller
present. That’s what I’m hoping
the electors of Barton will think,
anyway.”
“I still think,” put in Bert the
Hopeful Future Leader, “it
might be better for all of us to
do what Clive does: be seen at
the ballet and become patrons of
musical organisations. Cultivat-
ing the culture front is quite a
good lurk —why, it’s made many
of the mugs even forget he was
once associated with the Aus-
tralia-Russia Society. If we took
up something like that the elec-
tors of Barton might forget how
we once championed so stoutly
the Soviet viewpoint against
that of Britain and the U.S.A.
when we were on top of the
world at Lake Success. By the
way, Bert, what’s that you’re
pasting in your Press-cutting
book?”
Bert the Limelighter tossed
aside the paper from which he
had just taken a clipping.
“It’s that bit from the Commo
‘Tribune’ which praised us so
warmly for holding the meet-
ing,” he said.
BO.
Shape and Sighs.
“An English parson told his
parishioners: ‘Take off your clothes
and stand in front of a large mirror.’ ”
It’s nice to be proud of your
wiry young form
In the days when you’re mere
bone and muscle.
And the hearts of the lasses are
taken by storm
With your prowess in sport-
ing-field tussle.
You strut then with confidence
down to the shore
To battle with waves on our
beaches,
And drink in like nectar the
worship and awe
That you read in the eyes of
our peaches.
But time has the trick of
debunking all this
As the grim stage of fifty
comes nearer.
When the edge has worn off
from enjoyment and bliss
And the prospect of old age is
clearer.
And if you imagine your shape
is the same
That revelled in line-out or
scrimmage.
Strip off at your glass, but I
doubt if you’ll claim
You can stomach your middle-
aged image.
BERT.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Se.,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DONALD CLINTON FURNER late Of
Newtown.—TAKE NOTICE that LORNA
MARGARET FURNER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 540 of 1948 on the
grounds of your desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
14th May 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164 Phillip Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EUPHEMIA MACKENZIE MAC-
KENZIE late of 1148 Victoria Road West
Ryde.—TAKE NOTICE that ALEXANDER
DOUGLAS MACKENZIE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 210 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
March 1951 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS.
HARRIS R. MITCHELL & EVANS, 350
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR FREDERICK McQURREN
late of Merry lands in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
THELMA MAY McGURREN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 100 of 1951 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by- the
14th of May' 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from ADRIAN
C. R. TWIGG, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
wm
*
a
uu
• 3* ••
w
o
3S
*VOO*
A modern, smartly-styled box camera; large reflex-type
viewfinder, push button anti-shock shutter control, pre-
focused Kodak lens; metal body; satin chrome fittings.
Braided carrying sling. 12 pictures, x 2£, on V 620
film. £5/19/6.
KODAK OtfAKCeK'CAAf£/PA
SIX-20 KODAK "A*' CAMERA
> Anastar f/6.3 lens, focusing from 4 ft. to infinity;
Dalton shutter with two speeds {I/25 and I/50 sec.);
time and "bulb"; 8 exp., 2£ x 3£ ins. Price. £l2/8/3.
SIX-20 BROWNIE
"C" CAMERA
Reliable, easy-fo-use Brownie;
Kodak Meniscus lens; two
large viewfinders; time and
instantaneous shutter; all-
metal body; 8 exp., x
ins. Price, 46/3.
SIX-20 FOLDING BROWNIE CAMERA
Economical and efficient; Meniscus lens; time
and instantaneous shutter; all-metal body;
black-grained leatherette covering; 8 exp.,
x 3i ins. Price. £7/2/6.
KODAK
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
SUNDRY SHOWS
OPERA TRAGIQUE.
From London:
With characteristic boldness
Sir Laurence Olivier has brought
over the entire New York pro-
duction of Gian-Carlo Menotti’s
Pulitzer prizewinner, “The Con-
sul,” and installed them
singers, scenery, 20-year-old
conductor and all—at the Cam-
bridge Theatre. He has pro-
voked the greatest stir in musi-
cal circles since Richard
Strauss’s “Salome” was first per-
formed here 20 years ago.
Menotti’s reputation in Lon-
don is only slight: his two
previous works, “The Medium”
and “The Telephone,” were in-
differently received in 1948.
The Consul” had a moderate,
if sensational, run of 10 months
in New York, has been heard
in Basle and was all but shouted
down in Milan, most likely be-
cause of its political implica-
tions.
London, although less pas-
sionately concerned with dialec-
tical issues, is not at all unani-
mous in its reception. Con-
troversy bubbles and spreads. Is
the opera just a dramatic heart-
throb with incidental music? Is
it Grand Guignol, melodrama or
mere technical fireworks? This
opinion acknowledges all these
constituents, but is confirmed in
the belief that “The Consul” is
a tragedy as classic in funda-
mentals as “OEdipus Rex” or
“The Rape of Lucrece.”
The Sorel family is charged
with the grim inevitability of
doom from the moment that the
curtain rises and John staggers
in, wounded and hounded by the
secret police. He escapes into
the hills to await his wife,
mother and baby son. Magda,
the wife, is unable to break
down the manifold bureaucracy
of the Consulate. Her baby
dies, from hunger and cold ; her
mother-in-law from natural
causes; John is finally appre-
hended and shot; and Magda
herself, worn out by frustration
and heaped anxiety, puts her
head in the gas-oven. Tragedy
enough for one evening!
Perhaps the senses are more
shocked by the fierce intensity of
the first act, with its relentless
progression, woeful arias and
savage ritornelli, than the heart-
strings are pulled by the develop-
ment of the human issues. Mr.
Menotti, who is composer,
librettist and producer, is a
proved virtuoso in all these dra-
matic forms. Unfortunately, he
depends for the development of
his stark, forbidding theme
upon the inscrutable obstinacy
of red-tape rather than upon the
fell insistence of the Red
Terror, which is the true villain
of his piece. (His must also be
the first holocaust in which light
relief is given by a dandy tenor
who is also a professional con-,
juror and extracts from the air
a dove, a white rabbit and an
entire flower show.)
Patricia Neway, whose per-
formance as Magda brought her
instant fame, plumbs the pitiless
core of tragedy with her hag-
gard despair and pulped spirit.
There is no Aristotelian catharsis
here, no purification of the soul
through pity and suffering, bui
only the flayed residue of a
once strong-minded woman.
Music Scholarship.
A travelling scholarship worth
about £5OO is offered to ad-
vanced students of music under
25 by the Permanent Trustee
Co., O’Connell-street, Sydney, as
trustees of the will of Marianne
Collinson Close.
Miss Close, who died in Lon-
don, left £4OOO to establish this
“Vasanta” scholarship in
memory of her mother, sisters
and friends who helped her in
her musical education and under-
standing.
The scholarship is for students
of the violin, piano, organ,
violoncello or viola who have
spent the greater part of their
lives in New South Wales,
preference to be given to a
student who shows creative
talent. It is left to the trustees
to decide, with advice from
musical authorities, who will be
represented on the board of
examiners, where the scholarship
is to be held, but the donor con-
sidered that preference should
be given to Germany, “so long as
that country maintains the musi-
cal status which it held.”
The scholarship is to be
awarded triennially. Applica-
tions for the 1951 award close
on March 31. Details from the
Permanent Trustee Co.
Stage and Concert.
Brisbane Rep. opened for
1951 with Roland and Michael
Pertwee’s “The Paragon,” an
improbable drama about a blind
man who erects a memorial to
his son, supposedly killed in the
invasion of Europe, whereupon
the son puts in an appearance
vyith a record including deser-
tion and manslaughter. Excel-
lent lighting, sets and sound per-
formances by Dorothy Wheller,
Gladys Parkinson and Alex
Foster helped to hold the shaky
plot together. As the son, John
Miller acted capably, but his
voice was monotonous.
* * * *
A spirit of mischievousness
informs the Quartet in G Minor
of Alfred Hill, which is based
on a whimsical Maori legend,
and which was included in the
concert which opened Musica
Viva’s 1951 series in Sydney. A
lyrical work, its idiom has a
faint relationship to the
Bohemian folk-music of Smetana
and Dvorak. In the more serious
pieces—Bloch’s quintet for piano
and strings, and in the great F
Major Quartet of Beethoven, the
first of Opus 59—the ensemble
played with much greater verve
and authority than marked the
latter end of their 1950 season,
* * * «
Len Gotting’s production of
“Bitter Sweet” for the Mosman
Musical Society, Sydney, was
quite a creditable effort, the out-
standing features of which were
the good balance and strength
of the choruses and the work of
Rhondda Baker in the lead. A
girl who can look as beautiful,
sing as well and act as intelli-
gently as this is undoubtedly a
“find.”
V * * to
The young Ukrainian-born
pianist, Anatolij Mirosznyk (or
words to that effect), demon-
strated at his first Sydney recital
that he has both the technical
equipment and interpretative
qualities to go far beyond the
stage he has, reached at present.
The fluency of his style and
his ability to build up formid-
able climaxes he proved in a
virile reading of the Beethoven
“Appassionata,” though in the
slow section he was less impres-
sive than where a strong for-
ward surge was demanded. His
Scriabin Preludes from Opus II
were soundly managed, their
technical difficulties brushed
aside with facility. The tinkling
brilliance of Liszt’s “La Campa-
nula” was well sustained, but
his Ravel lacked subtlety.
• ♦ ♦ «
The usual truncated version of
“Swan Lake,” comprising the
second act, gives about as much
idea of the complete work,
which was presented at Sydney
Tivoli by the National Theatre
Ballet, as the bedroom scene
would give of “Hamlet.” The
choreographic sweep of the
work, its intense romanticism
so finely allied to the melodic
charm of the Tschaikowsky
score, gave to the two leading
figures Lynne Golding as
Odette and Henry Danton as
Prince Siegfried opportunities
of which they availed themselves
to the full.
Dunlop Rubber Australia is
launching in Melbourne its
second annual contest for the
best Australian contemporary
art, the prizemoney this year
being increased from £BOO to
£lOOO, their excellent object
being to create a permanent col-
lection of first-rate pictures
which will go into circulation
per medium of reproduction on
the calendars of the firm. They
have announced that each year
they intend to change their
judges. An even more excellent
idea.


Women’s letters
From Melbourne
From the official table guests looked
on St. Kilda Town Hall ballroom trans-
formed by scarlet and white decorations
intermingled with Red Cross flags. Be-
hind the official table were gleaming white
pillars surmounted with a large Red
Cross. Occasion was the Jubilee Com-
memoration Red Cross ball, attended by
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, Lady
Brooks and their daughter, Jeanette. In
the foyer the vice-regal guests were met
by Mrs. Eric Cottrell, president of the
ball committee, and the president of the
Red Cross Citizens’ Committee, Major-
General Kingsley Norris. Lady Brooks
wore a lovely ice-blue brocade gown
which featured a wide skirt with a straight
panel set in the centre front and the
bodice highlighted with wide straps. Her
daughter’s aquamarine ripple taffeta
gown featured a strapless top and bouffant
skirt. Included in the official party were
Premier McDonald and his wife; she
chose a wine-toned brocaded satin gown
with the flared skirt draped to one side.
Lord Mayor Disney brought Lady Disney,
who was recently chosen one of this
city’s 10 best-dressed women and lived up
to it. She looked lovely in a white
accordion-pleated chiffon gown with
rhinestones gleaming on the bodice and
worn with a wide matching stole lined
with flame chiffon. Mrs. S. J. Fletcher,
wife of the U.S.A. Consul-General, wore
a gown of foaming white tulle, Mrs,
Kingsley Norris added a silver sequined
stole to her wide-skirted midnight-blue
chiffon gown and Mrs. Eric Cottrell’s
choice was a gown of aqua-blue brocade
with handmade French roses scattered
over the skirt.
At the premiere of Mozart’s “The
Marriage of Figaro,” presented by the
National Theatre Movement at the
Princess Theatre, English actress Sonia
Dresdel was outstanding in an audience
of beautifully-dressed women. Her gown
of dove-grey satin glittered and gleamed
with iridescent bead trimming massed on
the tiered skirt and strapless bodice.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll also glittered in a
gown of white crepe lavishly beaded in
gold, and over her sheath-frock of black
tulle Mrs. Simon Warrender wore a wide
matching stole which was embroidered in
gold stars. Gold beads trimmed the
cerise satin gown chosen by Mrs. Frank
Cole, and colored stones and rhinestone
bobbles trimmed the strapless gown of
orchid satin worn by Mrs. Leo Curtis.
Her sister, Mrs. Bill McGowan, was en-
cased in a sheath of black satin, the strap-
less bodice lavishly trimmed with tiny
white embroidered flowers. Mrs. A.
Prahl chose a gown of elephant’s-breath
lace. With Sir John Latham was his wife,
who chose a tailored gown of black crepe.
Lady Knox wore grey chiffon, Mrs. lan
Connell’s choice was a filmy chiffon of
red faintly patterned in white, and a
halter neckline highlighted the black
crepe gown worn by Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald.
Marjorie Lawrence has lost none of
her vivacity, charm and ability to recog-
nise people she met even casually on her
last tour. At the reception given to the
great singer and her husband, Dr. Thomas
King, at the Town Hall by the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Sir James
and Lady Disney, huge bowls of gladioli
in a wide range of colors were massed
about the rooms. Miss Lawrence’s frock
of cinnamon silk-net was embroidered all
over with gold thread in a shamrock de-
sign ; her upswept hat of deep-burgundy
velour was finished with two matching
ospreys. Among the guests were
Lady Angliss, whose white bowler
of hatter’s plush was worn with
a smart black frock ; Lady Heinze, in
navy crepe tailored frock and little boater
of blue-and-white-striped taffeta; Mrs.
Fred Dennett, her silk frock grey-and-
white spotted, her grey straw hat wide-
brimmed ; Mrs. J. W. Ferguson, whose
white crepe frock had the collar edged
with gold beads ; Mrs. Frank Williams,
who favored powder-blue crepe; Mrs.
Isobel Green, a gaily-striped taffeta rib-
bon trimming the black hat she wore
with a slim-fitting black frock ; and Mrs.
Con Charlton, her ensemble in navy.
The autumn racing season opened at
Flemington with the Newmarket, but so
undecided was the weather that winter
suits and hats rubbed shoulders with gay
silk frocks and picture hats. The autumn
suits in lightweight woollens featured all
the new styles, with buttons set to em-
phasise the oblique lines and with velvet
used to fashion collars and cuffs on well-
cut suits. The new larger beret had an
airing, and storm grey and all the varia-
tions of beige were popular colors.
Buttons on the storm-grey wool frock
worn by Mrs. Wyndham Hill Smith defined
the oblique line, and her tiny matching
cloche hat was finished with tiny ospreys
Smart women will never forsake black,
and at Flemington many chose suits and
frocks in this sombre shade. Mrs. Lionel
McFadyen’s black suit had braided
pockets and collar on the jacket, Lady
Snow’s featured broche silk revers and a
weskit in the same silk, Mrs. Arthur
Laver’s black wool crepe frock featured
an apron skirt, &nd Mrs. A. G. Silk, who
has returned from overseas, wore a black
alpaca suit which featured a slim-waisted
jacket and slim, short skirt. Pinned in
the lapel was a cluster of lily-of-the-
valley on a wide riband of emerald-green
moire taffeta.
As the afternoon waxed, so did the sun,
and coats were discarded to show pretty
silk frocks. Mrs. Jo Wilkinson’s silk frock
was in a blue Paisley design, and her large
black hat had a, fluted brim. Mrs. David
Syme’s yellow-and-black-patterned tie-silk
was worn with a wide-brimmed fine straw
hat which matched the black in her
frock, Wyn Kellow’s deep-blue silk frock
was patterned in a broken white stripe,
Mrs. Tony Luxton’s wide-brimmed black
hat, with a cluster of pale-gold roses set
at one side of the drooping brim, was
worn with a black green-spotted tie-silk
frock, and Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade con-
trasted her black-and-white silk frock
with a large shrimp-pink velvet hat.
This picture of Mrs. Ronald Nott was
taken recently at Flemington races. Noted
for her elegant dressing it was no cause
for wonderment when she was listed
among Melbourne’s 10 best-dressed
women. Added to an innate talent for
appreciating clothes in their right setting
she has a gift of understanding others less
fortunate and has been for some years a
committee member of the Melbourne
District Nursing Association. During the
war years she worked on other com-
mittees. Mrs. Nott, who entertains with
easy informality in her delightful Toorak
home, recently returned from a trip over-
seas.
From London: David and Hermia
Boyd, well known in Australia for their
distinctive studio-pottery, came along to
see The Bulletin’s London representa-
tive with captivating examples of their
work and also with well-founded confi-
dence that their long journey has justi-
fied itself. They’ve certainly lost no time
in settling down. Arriving, with their
12-months-old baby, in London last
November, they found a 14th-century
farmhouse at Pinner, Middlesex, moved
in and converted an ojd storeroom into
a studio ; and all within a few weeks.
After having been warned that they were
unduly optimistic in hoping to get
licences and whatnot for the installation
of a kiln, they found, in fact, that the
authorities were keen to help. While
breaking the ground for an exhibition of
their work they chanced to hear that the
Festival of Britain authorities were invit-
ing the pottery industry to submit designs
for official souvenirs. The Boyds’ quick
response has had one effect their plans
have had to be modified and their exhibi-
tion postponed. For, out of the hundreds
of designs submitted, their own are
among the few to be chosen. A very
encouraging start. . .
This month the Victorian Division of
Red Cross has top priority in money-
spinning events. At the Assembly Hall
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, formally
opened the March Appeal foT £lOO,OOO.
Beforehand a Navy band played stirring
music in the grounds of Scots Church,
which adjoins the hall, and coinciding
with the Governor’s arrival a flight of
R.A.A.F. Mustangs flew over Collins-
street. During the week the Town Hall
was a scene of great activity, where many
Red Cross workers staffed well-stocked
stalls. For this Jubilee Red Cross Market
Fair, representatives of Italy, Pakistan,
India, Greece and other nations joined
in. With her floral silk frock Lady
Brooks wore a hat of blush-pink straw
which had a wide brim softly fluted. A
mist-blue gabardine suit and small white
hat were the choice of Lady Disney. Mrs.
R. T, A. McDonald, principal command-
ant of the Australian Red Cross, was in
black-and-white-printed silk frock and
wide-brimmed white straw hat. Divi-
sional commandant of the Red Cross,
Mrs. Eccles McKay, was in her Red Cross
uniform. Others at the official table in-
cluded the Director-General of Medical
Services, Major-General Kingsley Norris,
and Howard Buchanan, chairman of the
Victorian Division of Red Cross, and
Mrs. Buchanan,
From Sydney
It’s a paradox that as the autumn mists
begin to gather social life begins to stir.
There has been much preparatory activity
this week, and “the season” will soon
spring into full vigor.
The Red Cross Jubilee Ball on March
19 looks like being one of the season’s
best. The men will wear uniform, if they
have one; if not, white tie, tails and
decorations will do. If they don’t
have that —well, the committee will be
very happy to see them in the black-tie
outfit. The table decorations are to be
quite something. On the graziers’ table
Mr. T. Wilkie (from N.Z.) is arranging
models of a steer, a sheep and wheat
sheaves. Mrs. George Falkiner’s table
will feature a sheep made of golden
roses. Six country vice - presidents
on the committee: Lady Stanham
(Menangle), Mrs. C. G. Anderson
(Young), Mrs. Geoffrey Ashton (Binda),
Mrs. Roy McCaughey (Narrandera),
Mrs. A. E. Stacy (Singleton), and Mrs.
G. W. Brownhill (Mudgee) will all bring
parties.
An important party scheduled for
May 3 is the International Ball, always
a spectacular affair. Madame Regala
gave an afternoon-tea party at her Darling
Point home during the week to discuss
arrangements for the pageant with wives
of members of the Diplomatic Corps.
Lady Anderson, president of the ball
committee, was present. Madame Vrisa-
kis wore a simple dress of salmon linen.
Madame Regala wore a long white dress
with big red spots and the fabulous
Philippine sleeves. Madame Zalapa was
in black linen with a big black hat.
Everyone promised to help, so there will
be 15 countries represented in the
pageant.
Joyce Shewcroft (in our picture) is a
poet with a pungent personality, a witty
tongue and as much fluency as her all-
Irish ancestry would suggest. Joyce
recently won third-prize in “Sydney
Morning Herald’s” poetry competition
with “Love Affair,” which probably
prompts her observation that it s not
always wise to be a poet in public,
especially for a woman. A barrister, and
legal adviser to the A.8.C., she has a job
which leads her to argue in arbitration
courts and hold discussions with
Attorneys-General. While employed at
the A.B.C. she did the Bar admission
exams—a lonely course, she says, with
no fellow-students to keep one's
enthusiasm glowing. Her first case, while
she was still a student, was an appeal to
the Privy Council, so she may be said to
have started from the top. She has no
plans for going abroad, but if she does
her goal would be America, where her
sister, Dr. Phyllis Kuffler, lives in Balti-
more! Photo by President Studios.
The sprightly comedy “You Never Can
Tell” at the Metropolitan Theatre gives
the memory a needed nudge about the
serious way women took themselves dur-
ing the ’nineties in order to get some of
the rights we take for granted today.
We got the impression that conversation
has somewhat lost its sparkle during the
intervening 50 years, but then, as all the
women in the play are female Bernard
Shaws, perhaps what they say should
scintillate rather more than our own
casual cocktail chatter.
Remark by a society matron, oppressed
by the city crowds during the week’s
torrid weather: “It’s not the heat, you
know, it’s the humanity!”
Elizabeth Palmer spoke at a luncheon
given in her honor at the Y.W.C.A. during
the week on her work for the World
Y.W.C.A. in Pakistan, India, Ceylon,
Burma, Malaya, Siam, Korea, Japan and
the Philippines. The chief work of the
organisation, she said, was to help women
in these countries to adjust themselves to
new patterns of life, to realise that poli-
tical rights brought political responsi-
bilities, and to show them ways in which
these rights and responsibilities could be
exercised. In one district of Manila, for
instance, the women were shown how they
could make a properly organised approach
to the municipality for a water-supply
in their district. She emphasised, too, the
necessity for impressing the importance
of faith in all activities of life,
Fashion points noted during the week
were the pretty hand-painted fans wielded
by Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Mrs. J. P. J.
McCauley and Mrs. Roy MeCaughey at
the meeting for the Red Cross ball. Also
the use of the long-handled umbrella as
a parasol, and the two cute bees on
Madeline Archbutt’s ballibuntal bonnet.
The new three- or five-way handbags
are the cunningest idea we’ve seen for a
long time, A black grosgrain bag can
be bought with an extra cover to be
clipped on. The cover is kid one side,
patent-leather the other and can be used
on either side. The same idea is fol-
lowed with two extra covers, which makes
five changes of handbag in all. They’re
not very expensive, either.
A message from the Queen to members
of the C.W.A. is contained in this letter
received by the Countess of Albemarle,
who arrives in Australia during this
month:
Her Majesty has heard with interest that you
have received and accepted the invitation ot
the Australian Government to their Jubilee
Celebrations this spring, and that the invitation
came through the Australian Country Women s
Associations. It is a delightful compliment to
the work that is being done by country women
all the world over, and the Queen bids me te
you that her Majesty rejoices to think ot a
the greetings and good wishes that you will
carry from the women’s institutes members
here, as well as the wonderful welcome you
will receive from other Australian associations.
The Queen desires me to say how much her
Majesty will look forward to hearing all about
your visit.
One of the most charming ideas for a
Jubilee party is the musicale Jean Garling
is arranging to be held at the Women
Pioneers’ Rooms in April. The music
and the instruments will be exactly the
same as those played in the 1830 s (Jean
will bring her dulcichord) and the
musicians will wear period costume.
Recently returned to Sydney after five
years in England and New York is
Patricia Brown, who says that every big
hotel abroad has a secretarial service
available to travelling businessmen. She
is starting the “Freelance Secretaria
Service” in Castlereagh-street shortly to
supply the lack here. Patricia was one
of “Mr. Calwell’s girls,” whom he tried
to recall when she was working at the
Pakistan Embassy in Washington. She
found her way home in her own good
time, and has had extraordinarily good
luck in finding a central office with a tele-
phone merely by answering an advertise-
ment.
Eleanor Houston, the brilliant soprano
whom Sydney adopted from Wellington,
N.Z., made her London debut in opera
during the week when she sang the role
of Amelia in Verdi’s “Simon B° c '
canagra.” This success follows nearly a
year in England during which she sang
on the 8.8. C. Overseas Service. Since
leaving Australia she has spent some
time studying in Rome and Florence.
Members of the senior committee ot
the Anti-T.B. Association are bust'
looking through their possessions wi
an eye to the jumble sale to be held i
the Fullerton Memorial Hall, Crowii
street, on April 6. Anyone who wouk
like to donate goods or clothing[ snou v
phone Mrs. Millard Hagon at FM47W
It’s becoming increasingly difficult
think of anything new to distinguish
students’ dances and big chanty ' w.
but the Kambala Old Girls had the
tinction of opening the season at
Trocadero on Thursday, collecting
same time the penalty for such mi
—a very hot summer s night. n°w . .
it was a pretty dance, the guests
the paper-leis m school- an . t the
colors which were distributed .
president, Pat Glass, and member
the committee.


m
GP4.25
STILL KEEPS COINS
when the rest hawe stopped !
In every field one performer outstays all
Others in stamina and reliability. In batteries
it has been Exide—since 1888.
Bxibe BATTERIES
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
;®c3fc
PERSONAL ITEMS
After the final Test won by England
S. P. Foenander, sports-editor of the
Ceylon “Observer,” had a go at giving
concrete form to the mythical “ashes” by
reverently presenting Fred Brown with
an emblem of his own making, which
Brown reverently presented to Lindsay
Hassett. Foenander’s symbol is a carved
and polished casket of coconut wood sup-
ported by three carved d>ony elephants,
with a fourth standing on the lid. Inside
are the ashes of a stump salvaged by he
donor after the deciding match in the
1938 series. Foenander has seen 50 Tests
and owns the world’s largest collection of
autographed bats, for one of which he
refused an offer of £3OO. He is returning
to the “isle where every prospect pleases”
with the bat Hassett used in the last Test
—he hopes.
A big light in Australian medical
circles was extinguished by the death in
Adelaide of knight Arthur Cudmore. A
graduate of Adelaide University, he
amassed various other degrees in
Britain, his list including M. 8., 8.5.,
L.R.C.P., 3VLR.C.S. and F.R.C.S. He
served through War I as chief surgeon
of No. 3 Australian General Hospital,
lieut.-colonel, returned home with
typhoid in 1916, but got back to France
a year before the Armistice. He con-
tinued his Army association throughout
the peace, and when it broke into War
II he became chief surgeon at No. 7
A.G.H., Keswick. Adelaide University
owes him much—he helped to start its
Dental School, headed the Faculty of
Dentistry, presided over the Dental
Board and was for a time Lecturer in
Clinical Surgery. Eighty at the end, he
rose Sir Arthur in 1945.
J. F. Cairns, the former Melbourne
policeman who suddenly focused himself
on scholarship, which landed him, at 36,
into the job of lecturer in economic
history at the University of Melbourne,
now gets a Nuffield Fellowship worth
£1125 to study in England, where he
will work with the celebrated Dr. G. D.
H. Cole at Oxford. A member of the
Melbourne C.1.8.’s shadowing squad,
selected because he didn’t look like a
policeman, Cairns started his studies
in 1937 while working as a detective,
served with Army Education in the late
war at Morotai, got his master’s degree
and became a tutor.
“Jindivick” on a painter:
Ivor Hele, whose striking self-portrait was
reproduced in “Sundry Shows” (B. 31/1/’5l),
was, when I knew him in New Guinea, a bundle
of conflicting characteristics. An official war
artist of the Military History Section, he had
been in the ranks in the Middle East before
going over to the recording side of things.
Though a good fellow and good mixer in the
mess or anywhere away from his “studio,”
once he got down to work Greta Garbo had
nothing on him. As far as his work was con-
cerned he was full of temperament, and became
a bundle of nerves as soon as he got his
canvas mounted. Even the orderly delivering
his mail soon learnt to toss it over the top of
the partition rather than risk the upheaval
resulting from a fleeting moment of unauthorised
entry. A visiting general could be shown his
work only after much persuasion or by virtue
of his weight of brass. When sending com-
pleted work from forward areas to L.H.Q.,
Melbourne, it was the practice to photograph all
pictures before dispatching. Hele always took
steps to ensure that the photographer only was
present when this was done. At the conclusion
of his day’s work his studio (whether it be a
thatched hut, a screened-off corner of a bivouac
or a “mansion” such as Army H.Q. had at
Lae) was always left as tidy as a maiden
aunt’s drawing-room.
Hele got his subjects in front of the front
line—on patrols with combat troops, with the
gunners, with the battalions as they went after
the Japs in their foxholes; and his sketches
and studies of the men —and the enemy—are
as rich in characterisation as anything done by
any artist during the war. His draughtsmanship
and color-sense ensured realism and true
picturisation of his subjects without any sugges-
tion of photographic reproduction.
He always said it was his ambition to develop
the Australian tradition; that he expected to
work for a number of years before he’d be ready
to exhibit on an important scale. He left New
Guinea after a nasty jeep-accident in which he
was most fortunate to escape without damage
to his hands and eyes—his one fear. Today
he is working quietly in Adelaide, and many
of us who are acquainted with his work, and
who live far from him, are looking forward
to a Hele exhibition.
Two pleasant things came the way of
Professor Frank White the other day—
the presidency of the Australian Institute
of Metals in Brisbane, and a Nuffield
Foundation Travelling Scholarship pro-
viding three-months’ overseas travel. Now
Queensland ’Varsity’s Professor of
Mining Engineering, White possesses
plenty of practical knowhow' —manager,
in his time, of several Westralian gold-
nrines. Government mining-engineer in
Fiji, adviser on the rehabilitation of war-
damaged mines in Malaya, and senior-
inspector of mines in Selangor and
Malacca. A staunch believer in the
future of Queensland copper, he will use
his scholarship to have a look at the
Belgian Congo copper-belt, and gold-
extraction in the Rand. A cheerful 41.
Tenor Kevin Miller, the South Aus-
tralian whose singing of the role of Count
Almaviva in the National Opera’s
“Barber of Seville” has won great Mel-
bourne applause, began four years
ago as a baritone at the Conservatorium
m Adelaide. He sang as such in Mozart’s
“Cosi Fan Tutti” and Gounod’s “Faust”
without attracting undue attention. His
true quality came out when he decided
to switch over to the style of the lyric
tenor. Composer-pianist Arthur Benjamin
thought enough of him to decide that if
Adelaide people would supply the funds
he would supervise the 23-year-old
singer’s musical education in London.
It was natural that Woolcott should
have drawn Lieut.-Commander William
Ffank Cook, R.A.N., with a grin—the
artist being the Navy’s senior fang-
farrier, the subject being a cheerful small-
ship man with a smile never far below
surface. A snotty in cruiser Australia
when she whipped the Mediterranean in
two successive Fleet regattas, Cook had
his share of bellowing, bullocking and
ballistics at the R.N.’s Whale Island
gunnery academy, emerged a gunnery
specialist, and, just before Hitler downed-
guardrails, commissioned cruiser Perth.
On patrol in the Caribbean when action
sounded, he left that ship and was
shortly in the thick of Malta convoys
and Crete evacuations, 2 i/c destroyer
Voyager, of the valiant Scrap Iron
Flotilla. Sticking to destroyers, he joined
Nizam in Trincomalee, served with
Admiral Somerville as destroyer-screen
to his Eastern Battle Fleet, then made
acquaintance again with Malta convoys.
His next destroyer was his command—
gallant old hard-worked Vendetta, which
OLD HAND .
he drove round New Guinea and at the
Jacquinot Bay landing. Then command
of Nizam was given him, which 4.7-
incher, after bombarding, sub-hunting
and escorting with the British Pacific
Fleet, he took into Tokyo Bay, the first
R.A.N. ship to get there. He had three
months in the Antarctic in the Wyatt
Earp, and is now Ist Lieutenant of the
R.AN. College at Flinders. Launched
inland (Numurkah, Vic.), 1916.
With Queensland politics in a Mt,
Lamington state, artist Gordon gets ifi
before the eruption to introduce one of
the newest seat-holders in the Assembly
—Toowong’s representative since last
year’s election, Alan Munro. Born in
his electorate 51 years ago, Munro
woiiced up from a beginning in account-
ancy to be one of Brisbane’s big business-
men, running his own accountancy
concern and helping to direct Queens-
land Trustees, Bruce Pie Industries, the
“Courier-Mail,” Walkers (of Mary-
borough) and the Colonial Mutual Life!
NEW HAND.
One-time president of Brisbane’s
Chamber of Commerce, he was barred,
medically, from active service in both
World Wars, but filled in with four years
in the V.D.C. of the late show. He bowls.
“C.Q.”: Laid his palette down for the
last time, James Peter Quinn, R. 0.1.,
R.P., one of the best-liked of Melbourne
artists, a quiet, indulgent and humorous
little fellow who mixed comfortably with
all schools. Seventy-six at the finish, he
was a popular president of the Victorian
Artists’ Society after his return from
Europe, where he had almost 50 years of
painting and building up a reputation.
A Travelling Scholarship winner, he
studied at the Beaux Arts in Paris, and
soon started exhibiting at the salons. For
a long time he was one of the most
fashionable of London’s portrait-painters,
painted no fewer than three portraits of
the Queen when she was Duchess of York
and included Generals Monash, White
and Birdwood, Dr. Mannix and Arch-
bishop Booth in his gallery of portraits.
One of his biggest commissions was the
Duke of Windsor when he was Edward
VIII—-the picture is in the Palace of
Princes at New Delhi. The present Queen
sat for him 28 times for one portrait.
The national galleries at Ottawa, Tokyo,
Liverpool and Berne bought his
pictures, and all Australian national
galleries have examples. Quinn had no
time for art controversies. Asked to
deliver a lecture on modern trends in
painting, he said: “You can’t talk about
art. You might as well try to smell
music.” Son of a West Indian English-
man, he was born at Armadale (Vic.), and
married a Frenchwoman.
Ralph Malcolm Warner, who takes
Quinn’s place as president of the Vic-
torian Artists’ Society, is younger than
his predecessor, and should keep that
rejuvenated institution going well on Its
new lines. Melbourne-born, he painted
excellent watercolors before war gave
him a job in the R.A.A.F. camouflage
department. His duties took him to
Washington, D.C., where he made sure of
seeing the art-treasures of that rich
capital. He and a cobber visited a
gallery which ma*de the Melbourne
National look positively austere. The
floors were paved with marble, ferns
flourished in the centre of each room,
and on them fountains lit by rosy spot-
lights played. Warner and friend were
leaning over the rail excitedly investigat-
ing a superb Rembrandt when a sten-
torian voice shouted: “Stand back, you
guys, stand back—l’ve got yer covered!”
They looked round into the muzzle of a
Colt held by a tough-looking attendant.
“We were only looking at the picture—
we didn’t touch it,” they protested
weakly. “It don’t matter,” said the gun-
man. “We don’t want no Mona Lissa
stuff here!” If the Melbourne Gallery
custodians are armed, as yet they haven't
shown it.
Melbourne-born Professor J. B. Cond-
hffe has won the 1950 Wendell Willkie
award for the best work on an interna-
tional subject, with his The Commerce
of Nations, which has been printed in
several languages. Crossing to New
Zealand as a boy, Condliffe became Pro-
fessor of Economics at Canterbury
College; he’s now in a similar posi-
tion at the University of California.
H.A.L.”; Kyancutta (S.A.) is a typical
country town of pub, store, garage and
post-office, yet its name is known well
beyond the confines of this continent.
The man responsible was R. Bedford, who
died last month. Something of a mystery
man it was known that he held degrees
from a British university—he started a
small museum at his home, which soon
began to attract visitors, some travelling
hundreds of miles to view it. His over-
seas fame rests on the fact that he was
always looking for fragments of meteors ;
he found quite a lot, and exchanged dupli-
cates with museums and private collectors
throughout the world, with the result
that his own collection became remark-
ably comprehensive. Some of our own
museums might be glad to take over that
collection now.
Dr. Frank Hartnett, whp, as president
of the Victorian Football Association,
was in the position of being able to vote
himself either in or out of office, did the
latter when he gave his casting-vote in a
ballot in which he and Lewis Page each
scored 16 votes. The new president is a
former president of the Brighton Foot-
ball Club, and an executive member of
the Victorian Road Transport Associa-
tion.
At 64, Dr. Paul Mitchell reckons he’s
had enough of guarding public health.
Calling it a day as Deputy-Director of
Health in Queensland, he has had 17
years in that capacity in the northern
State, and before that had six years as
Perth’s chief quarantine-officer.
Into the Silence: —
At Boyup Brook (W.A.), Mrs. Minna
Mitchell, sister-in-law of Governor Sir James
Mitchell and granddaughter, through her mother,
of Westralia’s first Surveyor-General, Captain
J. S. Roe. Her parents were pioneers of the
State’s Donnybrook district.
In Hobart, at 92, Edwin John Rogers. On
the City Council for 13 years, he was mayor
from 1926-27, and the first secretary of the
Hobart Stock Exchange.
In Perth, at 69, George Herbert Parry, leading
Westralian architect, a son of the second
Anglican Bishop of Perth, Dr. H. H. Parry,
who saw the completion of St. George’s
Cathedral 63 years ago. G.H. completed his
education in England’s Canterbury, served with
a London firm of architects, then came home
to practice in Perth. For years honorary
architect to St. George’s Cathedral, he was
also past president of the Council of the
Westralian Institute of Architects and a member
of the Architects’ Registration Board.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Sarah Jane Barnes, one
of Mrs. Pankhurst’s team and among the first
eight women to canvass votes for women in
England. Coming to Australia in 1913, she
occupied herself with children’s interests, and
for 20 years was a working magistrate of the
Children’s Court.
In Brisbane, Oliver Birrell, who for 35 lonely
years tended the slender swathes of light
swinging from lighthouses along Queensland’s
reef-bound coast. Karumba was his first light,
in 1895.
At Clifton on the Downs (Q.), at 71, James
Patrick Kyle, prominent sheepman. Son of
William Kyle, a pioneer of the district.
In England, on a visit, Gertrude Mary
Walton, daughter of a one-time chief-inspector
of Westralian schools and for 32 years, from
1913, headmistress of the Claremont (W.A.)
Methodist Ladies’ College. Landing in
Fremantle from a windjammer in 1891, she
got her B.A. from Adelaide University; her
diploma in French studies was from the
Sorbonne.
At Taupo (M.L.), at 67, George Patrick
Shepherd, former Under-Secretary of the Native
Department. Joining the civil service in 1906,
he was appointed to the Native Land Court in
1938, and reached the chief-judgeship in 1941.
Known to the Maoris, whom he long served,
as “Te Hapara” (the good shepherd).


New Asthma Aid
Now Available
In Australia
Simplex Dry Spray Nebuliser Makes Your
Asthma Inhalant Ten Times More Effective
Is your asthma quickly re-
lieved when you use your
asthma - inhalant? If the
wheezing does not disappear
or if it quickly returns, the
trouble may lie with your
nebuliser or atomiser.
MAKE THIS TEST
Hold your nebuliser or atom-
iser about two inches from an
ordinary mirror and operate
the bulb a few times. If the
spray leaves the mirror moist
it means it is almost useless
because the inhalant will
liquefy in the mouth and
throat instead of being drawn
into the lungs. When you
make this test with the new
Simplex Dry Spray Nebuliser
the mirror remains dry. This
proves the dryness of its spray,
enabling the maximum amount
to be inhaled right into the
vital spot.
SIMPLEX DRY SPRAY NEBU-
LISERS, scientifically designed
in England by Tidebrook
Chemical Products, Ltd., have
been widely recommended by
the medical profession in
Britain. They represent a tre-
mendous step forward in the
application of inhalants.
These nebulisers are superbly
constructed, contain no metal
parts and are suitable for use
with any fluid. The feather-
light finger-tip bulb action re-
quires absolutely no effort to
operate.
SIMPLEX DRY SPRAY NEBU-
LISERS last a lifetime. If a
part becomes damaged, you
fs
do not have to scrap your
Simplex nebuliser. Spare parts
are available at low cost.
There are two models, both
amazingly compact —the stand-
ard model 42/- and the pocket
model 36/-. Many people in
Britain like to have both.
MONEY BACK
GUARANTEE
Simplex Dry Spray Nebulisers
are fully guaranteed. Your
money refunded if not com-
pletely satisfied. Don’t delay.
Write today enclosing cheque
or postal notes.
H. O. BURTON, Factory Representative,
3 Point Road, Northwood, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me postage paid Standard Model 42/-
T , , . . Pocket Model 30/-
I enclose £ :
Name
Address
x
x
XXXB
-INSURANCE _ for your protection ~~
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
1835.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established
, , N-S-W. Branch: 6-8 OConncU Street. fcoRNWEU ,
Telephone BWBI3I (3 line*).
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
YUGOSLAVIA NEXT.
If a London “Economist”
assessment is right—that the
“next test of strength between
the Soviet Union and the free
nations may well come in Yugo-
slavia ; and it may come within
a few months” —it should be
interesting and revealing to see
how the Attlees act.
Will, for instance, the general
conducting operations there be
told to halt before the 46th
parallel while U.N.O. makes up
its mind (if any) and his tactics?
Probably not, the British
European policy and the British
Far Eastern policy seeming these
days to be those of two entirely
different countries.
The U.S. attitude on Yugo-
slavia has been made clear by
Secretary of State Acheson —an
attack there will mean large-
scale war.
Regarding what it considers
the impending threat, the
“Economist” points out that a
move elsewhere say in
Germany or Persia would
involve the Red Army, whereas
Yugoslavia, like South Korea,
could be attacked by Soviet
stooges. Of course the Attlees
could lay down that the real
threat was not the satellite
countries but Russia. The
chances, however, are that they
would show a wonderful alacrity
in recognising that aggression is
aggression—when it happens in
Europe.
If they should chance to be
looking for excuses, the
“Economist” draws up an
advance list: (1) Yugoslavia is
not a free democratic State ; to
support Belgrade against
Moscow would be to support
one form of Communist tyranny
against another. (2) Tito is an
unreliable ally, now leaning to
the West only because he is in
desperate need of credits. (3)
There is no specific obligation
on any of the Western Powers
to defend Yugoslavia. (4) Any
resources devoted to assisting
Tito would have to be sub-
tracted from what the Western
Powers need to defend them-
selves. (5) Even if Yugoslavia
were absorbed into the Soviet
Empire, this would merely
restore the position existing
from 1945 to 1948, which was
not thought worth fighting
about.
Against such excuses —most
of which, with a word altered
here and there, represent what
would appear to be the Attlees’
attitude on Korea the
“Economist” lists some reasons
why a policy based on those
excuses would be disastrous:
(1) The importance of Yugo-
slavia lies in its geographical
position. If Yugoslavia fell, the
southern end of the Anglo-
American-French line in Ger-
many and Austria would be con-
siderably weakened and partly
outflanked. Moreover, the diffi-
culty of defending Greece and
Turkey—to which the Western
Powers are publicly pledged—
would be seriously increased.
Hostile air-power would be
brought several steps closer to
Italy and to the Mediterranean
sea-routes to the Middle East.
(2) Mr. Churchill has always
emphasised the importance of
the Balkans as a port of entry
for the assertion of Western
power on the Continent. If the
enemy were Russia rather tb"-’
Germany, this argument would
have added force. A firmly-held
Yugoslavia in close defensive
alliance with Greece and Turkey
—if that could be brought about
—would stand on the flank of
any Russian advance in
Northern Europe. It would
open the way for a riposte to-
wards a vulnerable Bulgaria and
the satellite’s communications
with the Soviet Union.
(3) A demonstration that a
clear case of Communist aggres-
sion in Europe was not resisted
by the Western Powers —how-
ever special the circumstances —
would act throughout Europe as
another Munich. The sharpest
and most immediate effect might
well be in Italy, which would
feel itself left alone face to face
with the Communists. If Italy
went, France, once again
threatened on two fronts, would
lose even such resolution as can
now be mustered. Even though
there are no specific obligations
to Yugoslavia, a failure to pro-
vide help would all too probably
dissolve the alliance that has
been built up with such pain in
Western Europe.
(4) There is also the general
obligation. The Charter of the
United Nations is concerned
with aggression by one State or
another; it is not concerned
with the internal politics of its
members. An aggression on
Yugoslavia would be a perfectly
clear-cut case under the Charter,
and failure to act would be the
end of the United Nations.
Towards possible early actual
war in that quarter, the build-up
war of words goes on: “Few
people in the West have any idea
of the violence of the political
propaganda war that goes on
month after month in a corner
of South-East Europe.”
“The Western Powers,” con-
cludes the well - informed
“Economist,” “cannot afford to
treat this increasingly bitter
exchange of incivilities as some-
thing which is of no concern to
themselves. Nor can they be
content simply to sit back and
enjoy the spectacle of Stalin
being so effectively trounced with
weapons taken from his own
ideological armory. The parallel
with Korea is becoming too
exact. Marshal Tito is being
continuously attacked as a dupe
of the Anglo-Americans just as
was the Republic of South
Korea. Provocative incidents,
for which the Cominform Gov-
ernments are responsible, abound
along the Yugoslav frontiers just
as they did along the 38th
parallel. Add to this the undis-
puted fact that Marshal Tito is
a thorn in the flesh of the
Russians —indeed of the whole
East European hierarchy—which
they would give a great deal to
have removed, and it is difficult
to avoid the conclusion that the
next Soviet venture in aggres-
sion by proxy might well be
directed against Belgrade.”
Korean Gallup.
London “Observer” has quoted
some very odd Gallup-poll
figures on Communist China and
the Korean business —odd be-
cause American.
It reports that a Gallup poll
taken in December throughout
the United States on the admis-
sion of Communist China to the
United Nations showed 57 per
cent, in favor and 28 per cent,
opposed ; whereas in July, before
the Chinese attack, only 11 per
cent, had favored it, with 58
per cent, opposed.
Perhaps even odder is the more
recent American Gallup poll
quoted, which showed a three-to-
one majority in favor of with-
drawing from Korea.
Also quoted, other recent
figures showing that the number
of Americans who favor stopping
Russia in Europe by sending
troops there has risen in four
months from 31 per cent, to 49
per cent.; the corresponding
figures favoring similar action in
Asia are 8 per cent, and 9 per
cent.
Sanctions Could Hurt.
If U.N.O. agreed on sanctions.
Communist China could be hurt
quite a bit, in the view of the
London “Sunday Times” writer
“Scrutator.”
Till now, he notes, China has
been able to buy pretty much
what she liked.
“For instance, it was reported
that she had bought nearly the
whole of Pakistan’s considerable
cotton crop. Chinese military
uniforms are made of cotton.
She is also said to have bought
(fw
m
1 1 I
L^ii
Nashville ( U.S.A .) “Tennessean."
A SYMBOL COMES UNSTUCK.
Malayan rubber. The oil and
petrol required to drive tanks
and cars and lorries could not
easily be sent overland from
Russian sources ; but through the
ports they have been readily
obtained from elsewhere. Even
machine tools have been simi-
larly available.
“Cut all that trade away and
China's war begins to pinch her.”
Neutrals Stay Armed.
London “Time and Tide” sees
it as an ironical comment on
the present East-West situation,
and a measure of the disarma-
ment of the free countries, that
Spain and the three neutral States
of Europe possess today the
largest armies on the Continent
(Russia is, of course, excluded,
and the Soviet satellite coun-
tries have in the past few months
raised the numbers of their
armed forces to at least com-
parable figures):
“Sweden can muster some
500,000 soldiers in the event of
emergency and she has at her
disposal the strongest and the
best air force of any Continental
State ; her navy is far from be-
ing negligible and the standard
of her war equipment is very
high.
“In Switzerland a rifle decor-
ates the wall of any house where
an able-bodied man is living and
the country can put into the field
up to 600,000 soldiers well
acquainted with the technique
of modern warfare, as Swiss
citizens are kept fit by being
called to the colors for annual
exercises.
“Turkey is able to produce
about 850,000 soldiers if neces-
sity arises, and, although
weapons used by her army tend
to be obsolete, her armed forces
are in good fighting trim.
“Semi-neutral Spain—which
would like to play the part of a
full neutral but knows pretty
well that such a role would be
denied to her in event of world-
wide conflagration—boasts of
possessing an army about
700,000 strong, and, although
the standard of its equipment is
far below that of either the
Swiss or the Swedish armed
forces, and more akin to that
of the Turkish army, no
strategist brooding about the
chances of a new clash in
Europe can possibly exclude
Spain from his calculations.”
By this reckoning both Spain
and Turkey bad more soldiers at
the close of 1950 than Britain!
Dragnet Digest.
Soviet “Peace.” —Tito, who should
be an expert, interprets thus: “By
peace, Russia means: ‘Stop, Do not
move. Wait to be swallowed up by
us.’ ”
* * * *
India Starves. —“A good deal of
nonsense is parading under the guise
of humanitarianism,” editorially com-
ments “Washington Post,” “in the
current clamor to send grain to
India ‘with no strings attached.’ The
fact is, the self-defeating trade war
with Pakistan has deprived India of
large sources of food close to her
own border. Even now food is
available in Pakistan which would
help greatly to alleviate the Indian
crisis. In 1949 Pakistan is said to
have offered to sell India 600,000
tons of w'heat. Prime Minister Nehru
spurned the offer at the same time
that he was importing wheat at
greater cost. The same situation still
prevails.”
* * * *
One Hope for Peace. London
“Economist” assessment: “The only
hope for peace in the world lies in
the continued partnership of America
and Britain, in which also lies the
only hope for this island of surviving
if another war comes. The price of
partnership is loyalty and mutual for-
bearance. Let us, by all means,
preach that to the Americans. But
since our interest in the partnership
is even greater than theirs, now is
the time to practise it ourselves.”
♦ * * *
The Duration, In Korea.— A New
York “Herald Tribune” writer sees
only one end to it: “The war with
Red China will go on until Com-
munist China takes the initiative m
stopping hostilities. America is weary
of the palavering with Chinese Com-
munist leaders about a ‘cease-fire.
• ♦ * •
Against German Rearmament.
Significant sentence from a ‘New
York Times” Paris correspondent s
report; “Most Communist posters [in
France] have been getting torn down
recently, but those denouncing mer-
man rearmament go untouched. ’
* * * *
Fritz's “Honor.” —General Eisen-
hower speaking; “I have come to
know that there is a real difference
between the regular German soldier
and officer and Hitler and h
criminal group. For my part, I d
not believe that the Germansoldie ,
as such, lost his honor. The tact
that cerfain individuals committed m
war certain dishonorable acts reflects
on the individuals concerned and not
on the great majority of Geiman
soldiers and officers.”
* * * *
U.S. Views Britain’s Rearming
“New York Times,” on Bntatns
announced plans to spend *47
million on defence m the next thr
years, and related undertakings. *
30 per cent, boost in defence spend-
ing, 250,000 reservists called up toi
summer training, greatly increased
war production, a labor dratt i
necessary, new demands on taxpayers
already paying the highest . inc °™ e
taxes in the free world, cuts m con-
sumer goods—these are e
commitments. The amount to
spent, when differences in population
and national income are taken into
account, compares favorably with our
own [U.S.] defence plans. It w the
mark of a Great Power that intends
to remain great, and certainly there
is no weakening in the opposition t
Communism and no appeasement
Russia in this programme.


100 cubic feet
OF REFRIGERATED STORAGE SPACE!
0 The Kelvinator prefabricated Cool Room
stands six feet six inches high with each
wall four feet six inches long. Outside
walls are glossy and easy to clean. Joints
ore neat with no grooves to harbour
dust. Thick insulation defies temp*
eraturc variation. A shelf-high
window provides quick accesss
to small items, while a
large door permits a man to
to carry bulky items in or
out. Shelves are strong
and easy to clean, and
•trong overhead bars
carry carcases and .
large cuts of meat. /
J REACH IN!
i WALKIN'
• POWERED BY
THE FAMOUS
KELVINATOR
AIR COOLED
UNIT
FRESH MEAT FOR FAMILY AND HANDS
When you own a Kelvinator Cool Room you slaughter at your
own convenience. No need to consider flies, dust or humidity.
Meat keeps perfectly, regardless of the elements. And, as well
as keeping large supplies of meat, you can store bulk quantities
of quenching summer drinks, fruit, custards, jellies, eggs, butter
and smallgoods with ample floor space for cans of milk.
The Kelvinator
Cool Boom is
delivered to you sec-
lionally in flat form.
It can be quickly
erected. The con-
densing unit can b«
operated by electric,
kerosene, petrol or
diesel power. Fill iit
the coupon below,
giving details of your
f power system, and a
quotation will be sent
to you.
Prefabricated
COOL ROOMS
TAKE ONLY 20 SO. FT. OF FLOOR SPACE
NEW SOUTH WALES • D.G.M. REFRIGERA-
TION LTD. Showrooms: 10-14 Young Street,
Circular Quay; 549-599 Harris Street, Ultimo.
RAYA (SYDNEY) PTY. LTD., 259 Broadway,
Sydney. Broken Hill: BARRIER ELECTRICAL
APPLIANCES LTD., Argent Street, Broken Hill. VICTORIA • DISTRIBUTORS : A. H. GIBSON
(ELECTRICAL) CO. PTY. LTD., 25 McKillop Street. KELVINATOR AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Williamstown Road, Port Melbourne. QUEENSLAND • DISTRIBUTORS : E. L. LEWIS & SONS
PTY. LTD., 106 Edward Street. CHANDLERS PTY. LTD., Cnr. Albert and Charlotte Streets.
Cairns : E. MARKHAM, 31c Shields Street. SOUTH AUSTRALIA O DISTRIBUTORS: OLIVER J.
NILSEN & CO. LTD., 64 Gawler Place. WESTERN AUSTRALIA • DISTRIBUTORS : NICHOLSONS
LTD., Barrack Street, Perth. TASMANIA • DISTRIBUTORS : MAX GEEVES PTY. LTD., Davey
Street, Hobart; Brisbane Street, Launceston,
r
i
i
\
\
\
i
* {u l\ details of
pi— -f x E,*— c ->' Room -
quotation for details Q [
My P— S>s,em
a e l, -
type, model,
I
I
1
ISatne -
Address -
KELVINATOR AUSTRALIA LIMITED


Seety U'Be&euinfl
You are invited to see a
demonstration of the world’s
most economical Cooker —the
British-built AGA! No matter
how long you cook-wior how
much you cook you can’t
increase you fuel-bills by a
penny, for the AGA is guar-
anteed not to bum more than
a specified, and very small,
quantity of coke per year.
It also makes you free for
life of power restrictions.
And never were dishes more
delicious, nor cooking quite
so clean and effortless! You’ll
find the AGA simple to
manage, and cool to vfork
with, for its superb insula-
tion keeps both cook and kit-
chen cool, it is handsome, too,
with its streamlined design
and sparkling chrome and
vitreous enamel finish. Let
us show you what a pleasure it
Is to own a wonderful AGA!
THE AGA COOKER
•i* i*ir
6 ? fl t
- rctu -
■W.li
?°° t '* S r i !n/. au lty
*ork r nl a,s o,
Bunt £ Q P*hi P :
•*&£*
Him
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS OR SEE A DEMONSTRATION
OF THE "AGA" AT
LEVIN & CO. LTD . 45 KINS STREET, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE- CNR.
MARGARET & ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS: A. G.
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; W.A. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH
A3/16P
M.EnB6»
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelid:
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose&. Co.Pty.Ltd-King St.Sydngy
Don't Forget that Birthday!
the Ideal Gift is 9
l ii /.Vl WATCH
From a wide selection of Swiss
masterpieces, choose one of
these 17-jewelled watches
with the non-magnetic
escapement, to give
years of useful
service. A Lavina
looks as good as it is.
It represents 100%
quality in every part.
lAVINA
Swiss Masterpieces
Lavina —Choice of Millions
LW15.52
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
£4O/12/6
fs
JIT Ax'd
SKO$ ON?
Write for
Ululated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Falling Cattle Numbers.
“Archaps”: Chairman of
Queensland Meat Industry
Board, T. G. Hope, told the
royal commission on Pastoral
Lands Settlement in Queens-
land that the cattle population
of the State had declined from
7,012,997 head in 1894 to
6,304,778 today; a decrease of
708,219. Slaughtering of calves
at the Brisbane abattoir had
increased from 18,144 in 1920 to
a peak of 409,441 in 1939-40.
It was evident that calf
slaughterings, particularly of
dairy calves, had helped con-
siderably in building up the
State’s increased meat produc-
tion over the past 10 to 15
years. Hope pointed out that
the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics estimated that, to
meet the annual needs of the
additional population in Aus-
tralia in 1960, and to keep
exports from falling below the
average of the past four years,
the following percentage in-
creases over average production
from 1946-47 to 1949-50 would
be necessary: Beef and veal, 40
per cent.; mutton, 58 per cent. ;
lamb, 23 per cent, and pigmeats,
78 per cent.
Sir Henry Turner, of the
British Food Ministry, when
visiting Australia in 1948, had
assured the Queensland beef-
cattle industry that the U.K.
Government regarded Australia
as the chief potential source of
extra meat supplies. Before this
expansion could be achieved,
said Hope, large amounts of
capital would have to be spent
and additional manpower pro-
vided for the industry.
It was reasonable to assume
that producers would seek
adequate security of Crown
tenures before embarking on
expenditure to increase produc-
tion, and he thought develop-
mental conditions might reason-
ably be attached to any review
of tenure the Government might
make.
Encouragement of quality
production was urged by Hope,
partly through the fixation of
domestic meat prices on a grade
quality basis. The Brisbane
abattoir, he said, was the only
abattoir in Australia which
graded and grade-branded beef
and mutton according to quality,
but the domestic price structure
provided for a standard price for
various cuts, irrespective of
quality. For such a scheme to
be fully effective, southern capi-
tals would have to undertake
grading and grade-branding,
otherwise there would be a
tendency for greater numbers of
livestock which would grade
second-quality to gravitate to
southern consumption. The fact
that 80 per cent, of Australia’s
meat production was consumed
in Australia seemed to justify
some agreement between the
various States with regard to
grade-branding for home con-
sumption to encourage the rais-
ing of better-quality livestock.
Lime for Lambs.
“Sundowner”: Lime supple-
ments can prevent the particular
abnormality in teeth develop-
ment in young sheep fed on
cereal grain mixtures, according
to C.5.1.R.0. research. Faulty
pre-natal diet has little effect on
teeth development.
Lambs which had insufficient
calcium and phosphorus in
their diet during and after preg-
nancy developed normal teeth
when fed on rations supplying
these elements. Adequate food-
supply reduced damage to the
teeth. Lambs given a large
amount of food (although this
was deficient in calcium) suf-
“Wake up! Wake up! Inigo Jones is right again!”
fered less dental deterioration
than those on marginal diets.
Homs on Sheep.
“Shadow-chaser”: Two of the
most popular breeds of sheep are
handicapped by horns. Why
not breed them off, as has been
done with Hereford and Short-
horn cattle? Horns are of
doubtful value even for defence.
In all contests which I have
witnessed between polled and
homed, the former won unless
hopelessly overweighted.
Horns are a nuisance to
shearers and all who needs must
handle their bearers for any pur-
pose from marking-yards to
slaughter-yard. Through life
they cause trouble, becoming en-
tangled in scrub, netting, yards,
races, railway trucks, etc. And
rams’ horns are frequently fly-
struck at the base after injury
when fighting.
In flood-time homed sheep are
first to drown, the weight of
their horns forcing them down
by the bows.
Onion-growing.
“Hortujg”: April, May and
June are the most suitable
months for sowing seed. It all
depends on the district and
climate. The best idea is to fix
on the hottest part of the year
in your locality and work back
seven months. This will prove a
good average seed-time in most
cases. Get the land free from
all weed-growth. An ideal plan
is to broadcast a crop of oats
fairly thickly. If too late for
this, plough deeply. Remember,
onions are deep-rooters. Go as
far as the subsoil will allow.
After ploughing, leave in the
comb for a while to allow sun
and air to exert their sweetening
influence. Let the weeds come
up and then harrow and cross-
harrow. If still lumpy, use a
roller. A fine tilth is necessary.
About 3in. of nice frjable soil
on top of a good solid well-
worked foundation bed is what
you want.
Choose a soil well-drained,
nice and loose, with a good even
mixture of sandy and black soil
or sandy and red volcanic. A
badly-drained paddock is fatal tc
onions. Leave a good deep
furrow at regular intervals,
especially in these days of freak
rainfall.
The most successful method of
producing large, solid, fleshy
onions is by sowing seed in beds
for transplanting later. Work
up a good seed-bed with a fair
sprinkling of sand and roll so as
to firm the bed. When plants
are about the thickness of a
slate-pencil, take them ©ut care-
fully and cut off top-growth and
root to about 2in. or 3in. from
the bulb. This pruning is the
secret of success. More food
goes to the formation of a strong
little bulb straight away. Trans-
plant at intervals of 6in. Keep
all weeds down.
If you want the matured bulb
to keep, grow Early Brown
Spanish. It’s the best storage
onion, a good size and, what’s
more, it has a good flavor. Don’t
buy onion-seed in packets. Buy
it by the ounce ; it’s more eco-
nomical. To help the plants
along, use a mixture of super,
and wood ashes. I have found
a light regular dressing of the
latter every now and again very
valuable.
Zinc Deficiency.
“Box 173”: Characteristic
symptoms first show at the tips
of the leaders in deciduous fruit-
trees, but are not necessarily
confined there. The term “little-
leaf,” often applied to the dis-
order, arises from the appear-
ance of these signs. Sometimes
a faint yellowing between the
veins may be seen, and the
affected leaves usually fall earlier
than usual. An unusual narrow-
ness of leaves is perhaps the best
distinguishing symptom. With
zinc deficiency crops are re-
duced, and, in extreme cases, the
tree may die.
The remedy is to spray with
zinc sulphate in winter as a dor-
mant spray, but it may be used
later as a foliage spray. A dor-
mant spray of 501 b. of hydrated
zinc sulphate in lOOgal. of water
may be used at any time while
the trees are dormant, but pre-
ferably not within a fortnight
after pruning. Damage may
occur if sprays are applied too
close to bud-burst. A foliage
spray may be made up by mix-
ing 101 b. of zinc sulphate with
51b. of lime in lOOgal of water.
This may be applied at any time
during the growing season, but
is best if applied early in spring
while active growth is still on.
The Lysenko Theory.
“Rooster”; There are, as
“Oxo” states (B. 7/2/’5l), a few
British scientists who hail the
Lysenko nutrient theory as a
biological revolution—but only
a few. The principle objection
is that Lysenko, with dubious
experimentation, virtually rejects
the chromosome theory of varia-
tion in genetics. A true scientist
always reserves judgment on any
theory which directly opposes a
universal law that has stood the
test of time. Lysenko would
have the rest of the world be-
lieve that the whole basis of
genetics as such has suddenly
collapsed, and that he alone is
capable of reshaping the
damaged structure.
The plain facts are that this
new theory is based on an ex-
tremely complicated network


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS ROBB COUGHTRIE for-
merly of Stockton in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
CARMELLE CATHERINE COUGHTRIE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4529
of 1950 on the ground of your adultery
With ANN McMILLAN If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
w the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 7th May 1951
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. J. MANN & K. H.
WILSON, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
■Registrar.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
/>•
S2EBB3ECOH
40z., Boz. t 16dz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
NYLON
SHIRTS
N on-creasing
No ironing
Fully guaranteed
m
Now available to Australia
Now Australians can have the same type
of Nylon shirts that have been so amaz-
ingly popular in America and Europe.
Nylon has revolutionised shirt-making.
For travelling it is easily washed in a
hand bowl, dries quickly without creases
and needs no ironing. It makes you inde-
pendent of laundries.
Strongest Shirting Fabric Known
These shirts are made of English Nylon with the latest
American ventilated weave —the strongest shirting fabric
known. They are in white, cut in coat style, have a well
fitting collar attached, single button cuffs. Collar sizes
14iin. to 18in.
Price 84/6 each
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
285 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Opposite Hunter Street.
ADDRESS MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 165, G.P.0., SYDNEY;
or y*'
T
i
T
Drink and enjoy
WOL Jpf J? SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
(one could not call them series)
of experiments, all of which
have yet to face the test of repe-
tition and time. Many of the
results are still unconfirmed out-
side Russia. The U.S.A., in par-
ticular, has disproved many of
Lysenko’s claims regarding the
deterioration of pure - bred
varieties through “propagation
either by continuous self-ferti-
lisation or by vegetative repro-
duction.” Growers are always
seeking to improve their crops
by introducing hardier, higher-
yielding varieties. Occasionally
they may be unlucky enough to
acquire disease-riddled stock or
seed. Yet Lysenko will have us
believe that the impermanency
of cultivated crop varieties is
the cause of deterioration.
So far as the “new genetics”
affects the man on the land—he
may as well forget it. The much
simpler Mendelian law on
genetics has yet to be deposed.
Lysenko cannot so easily dismiss
the chromosome as the con-
trolling factor in hereditary
characteristics. There may be
much of interest to science in
some of his experiments, but by
and large the “nutrient theory”
is far too revolutionary to be
accepted piecemeal. It is, in fact,
entirely indigestible, mainly be-
cause of its dogmatism.
Mower Care.
“Sundowner”: When sharpen-
ing a mower knife watch these
points: Maintain original width
of bevel and original angle of
shear; don’t overheat the metal
and draw the temper (to guard
against this keep the section
moving on the stone and don’t
apply too much pressure).
Replace sections that are
worn or chipped. Look to the
condition of ledger-plates and
replace those worn smooth or
round on the surface. Check
the knife-head guides. Lubrica-
tion, which largely determines
the life of the machine, should
be attended to regularly.
Inspect for worn bearings and
pinions and check the gears to
see that they are meshing
correctly. Gears unduly noisy
are often meshed too deeply.
Other parts to watch are the
pawls and pawl-springs in the
wheels, ratchet, and pawls and
springs in the hand-lift lever.
Never dismount while the mower
is in gear or while the power
take-off is running. With a
horse-mower never clear the
cutter-bar with the hands or
stand in front of it. Always use
a power take-off shield and belt-
or chain-covers, and don’t wear
a scarf or loose clothing.
Fruit-fly Control.
“Nedrium”: Trials were re-
cently conducted in Cyprus
comparing three standard
methods of attacking fruit-fly.
Unsprayed trees in the experi-
ment were attacked from 60 to
90 p.c. Using an arsenate-sugar
bait, this figure was reduced to
30 p.c. and to 10 p.c. when wet-
table D.D.T. was used. Fort-
nightly sprays were applied.
Greatest efficiency in control
came from D.D.T. applied as a
dust —which brought the attack
down to 6 p.c.
Even 6 p.c. would be regarded
as a dangerously high figure by
southern Australian standards,
where the aim is to eradicate
the pest entirely by stripping and
quarantine methods. As climate
more nearly approaches the
Mediterranean type, absolute
eradication becomes more diffi-
cult.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”; After emptying
fertiliser sacks, wash well in a
non-metal vessel and dilute the
cloudy water with a similar
amount of plain water before
using as liquid manure. Don’t
pour liquid manure on a dry
bed.
“M.”: Contrary to the old
belief, the feeding and watering
of poultry right up to the time
of slaughter maintain condition
and impart a lusciousness and
superior color to the flesh which
is lacking in birds fasted for
some time before killing.
“K.T.”: Do not breed from
hens with excessively fine
shanks. Pullets with very fine
shanks generally break down, or
at the best do not lay very profit-
ably. They often lack stamina.
“Bill C.”: Carbolic-acid fumes
are as poisonous as the actual
acid (B. 7/2/’5l). Immediate
washing with methylated spirits
will prevent the acid from burn-
ing the skin. But the metho is
ineffective unless applied at once.
“W. Court”: Sinking a large
tin having plenty of holes in the
soil beside each newly-planted
fruit-tree will help eke out a
scarce water supply. Water
poured into the tin will get down
to the roots instead of merely
wetting the surface-soil and pro-
moting weed growth.
“Plane Creek”: Guava-trees
growing all over coastal Queens-
land help the fruit-fly along (B.
31/1/’5l). The guavas ripen
some six weeks before the citrus
fruits, and the fly can progress
from the egg stage to the adult
in that time. The guava-trees
are spread by flying-foxes and
other fruit - eating creatures,
which scatter the seeds every-
where.
“Mac Fergus”: Of 1,081,425
acres under crops on the
Darling Downs (Q.) in 1949-50,
only 2 per cent, was treated with
fertiliser. Wheat, barley and
sorghum occupied 1,045,000
acres where fertiliser is not used.
One-third of the Downs fer-
tilised area was absorbed in the
Granite Belt (Stanthorpe), the
apple country of Queensland.
The fertility of the Darling
Downs, which is capable of pro-
ducing two crops per year, wheat
and maize, can be appreciated
when it is realised some of the
country has been in continuous
production for upwards of 60
years without fertilisation.
“Anyndah”: Tell “Graz” (B.
14/2/’5l) that Kangaroo Island
is, and always has been, free of
rabbits. Hence its chance of
some day becoming a world-
famous sanctuary for Australian
fauna. There is no need to
scatter poison-baits for bird or
beast on K.I. The experiment
to which he refers was con-
ducted on Wardang Island in
Spencer’s Gulf.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Cyclically March should not show anything very marked
until late in the month, when some fairly heavy rains are
likely along the eastern coast and adjoining highlands, but
only light rains in the far west and in Centralia. Good rains
are likely in Victoria, South Australia and south-west West
Australia, though in the last-named they may be a little light.
Good rains should fall also in southern Tasmania, in Gipps-
land and along the Victorian coast.


yWi
fy
7 A>
m
A
k
Ipfcn. f.-jj
JOB
qfl
ffi
m
:
vv
t
That indefinable gift,
which guides people of taste
and leads one instinctively to
select perfection, will ensure the
choice of Benson & Hedges as
the cigarettes for all occasions
when only the best will do.
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES 3/3
BensonZj Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
wm
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KING
For Sale.
Seven bluiard tables, singly or in
one lot; condition good. Apply
Garden and Green, Solicitors, Swan
Hill.
ne **
sn CHAMPIONS
WIN ON-
TRADE'
MARK
dfds
IMOI
SPARKPLUGS
wmo's FAVOURITE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson vtb
osuujvan . .
■. -v rmm
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS Be OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPS
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSOL.” BRISBANE
Home Accident
Guide
Statistics the world over
show that accidents to child-
ren in the home are alarm-
ingly on the increase. Have
you any idea how to treat a
head injury? Burns or cuts?
Fractures? Poisonings?
March Reader’s Digest brings
you a most helpful guide
(originally published by a
famous American Children s
Hospital) that tells you what
to do if your child is hurt
—and a safety check-list to
be sure your home is free
of dangerous hazards.
Your whole family will en-
joy March Reader’s Digest
—packed with 37 stimulating,
articles from leading maga-
zines, current books. One
shilling and sixpence. A
newsagents and bookstalls.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Had one but known at the time,
the best form-guide available for the
first day of the V.R.C. autumn meet-
ing at Flemington on Saturday lay
in a perusal of results for the cor-
responding day last year. In the light
of his more recent performances even
the 20 to 1 which was available
seemed an optimistic assessment of
Carnage’s prospects in the New-
market, but, as it turned out, the
more reliable form was his photo-
finish second behind High Jip last
year. Reproducing that form, though
this time with better luck, Carnage
won the 1951 Newmarket by a half-
length from Comedy Prince, with
Flying Halo third, followed closely
by Ralton and the warm favorite
Iron Duke.
Carnage won very well, with a
brilliant burst over the last furlong.
In making his final run Carnage, who
had originally been drawn number
17 in the field of 25, veered right
across the track, but he was by then
well to the fore, and caused no inter-
ference. Comedy Prince seemed for
a moment likely to be successful with
his challenge, but he weakened a
trifle right at the finish. As was
anticipated, a matter of 41b. over
weight-for-age proved too much for
the crack three-year-old Flying Halo,
who, nevertheless, ran a fine race.
It is extremely unlikely that owner
W. Palmer had his sights set near
so high as a Newmarket when he
acquired Carnage as a four-year-old
a couple of seasons back. After show-
ing some promise as a two-year-old,
Carnage had subsequently raced with
indifferent luck while carrying the
colors of former bookmaker Dave
Price. When Price put a number of
his horses up for sale Palmer bought
Carnage for 500 guineas, with the
notion of picking up a few sprint
events at provincial meetings. Car-
nage was an immediate success in
the new colors —the first time he
sported them he started twice on the
same day for two wins at Bacchus
Marsh. A fortnight later Carnage
again started twice at Seymour, and
this time scored a first and a second.
Then, when at his next start he
defeated a really smart field at Werri-
bee, the time was deemed ripe to
again try Carnage in metropolitan
company. In the season or so since,
connections of Carnage have ex-
perienced a wide range of the up
and downs of racing luck, but oatui-
day’s first prize of £2lOO, plus
what was to be gleaned at odds rang-
ing from twenties to 33 to 1, should
fairly balance the total account.
Bred in South Australia, Carnage
is a six-year-old bay gelding by
Shakuni from Calamity. He is
trained by J. Besanko, and was ridden
in the Newmarket by Sam Martin.
In other events on Saturday two
winners in Comic Court and Mid-
way had also been winners at the
same meeting last year. However,
the really odd angle in the way of
history repeating itself lay in the
fact that both Saturday’s classic
events —the Sires’ Produce Stakes and
the St. Leger—were won by full-
brothers to past winners of those
races. Both ridden by W. William-
son, Usage won the Sires’ Produce
and Midway the St. Leger. A son
of Law Maker-Viennese, Usage is a
brother to Ungar, who won in 1948.
Midway, by Midstream from Gazza,
is a brother to last year's St. Leger
winner Delta.
In some ways the St. Leger, with
a field of three barely cantering the
first 12 furlongs and sprinting the
last two, was something of a farce,
but it did eventually provide its share
of sensation. When Midway led the
field in the early stages, and still
showed the way turning for home,
it was widely supposed that he did so
merely on sufferance. However, to
the deep chagrin of backers of the
odds-on favorite Alister, Midway
carried right on with the job, and
beat the favorite by a head in a
thrilling finish. Then, to top off the
sensational aspect, the rider of Alister
fired in a protest. Alister had seemed
to be hampered somewhat near the
finish, but it would need be a pretty
glaring case for stewards to uphold
a protest when a classic crown is
involved, and in this case the objec-
tion was dismissed. Connections of
Midway showed sound judgment in
concentrating on the St. Leger and
scratching their colt from the Aus-
tralian Cup, for which he had been
favorite. Nevertheless, when Midway
and Alister meet again, in the A.J.C.
St. Leger, it will not surprise to see
Alister turn the tables.
The best indication of the manner
in which the St, Leger was run is
the time. Midway clocked 3.16-j—
-the slowest time registered in a
V.R.C. St. Leger since the distance
was altered to 14 furlongs in 1897.
Usage started at 5 to 4, and won
the Sires’ Produce by more than a
length from Beau Silhouette, who was
dose-pressed by Memory Inn and
Lady Havers. Even allowing that
Lady Havers had an off day on
Saturday, Usage seems indisputably
the best of the present youngsters.
The 12-furlongs Ercildoune Stakes,
at standard weight-for-age, saw Comic
Court once again just scrape home
in a photo-finish; but it is the fact
that he does win these desperate
finishes that marks him a real cham-
pion. This time it was Chicquita
who ran him to a head. Undoubtedly
Chicquita is terribly unlucky to be
racing at the same time as a Comic
Court, but it does seem a pity that
she should be repeatedly stacked up
against the champion. It was Comic
Court’s second successive win in the
Ercildoune, and the year before last
he won the St, Leger at the same
meeting.
Some erstwhile admirers of Comic
Court’s Sydney Cup prospects are
now gloomily wondering if the series
of very hard races he has had already
this time up may not have taken their
toll. If he does fail in Sydney it
will almost certainly be attributed
to this cause. But, as has been
pointed out here before, what the
Comic Court camp has really to
worry about is whether the big fellow
has overcome the very marked dis-
like of Sydney racing which he dis-
played on two previous visits. Mel-
bourne racegoers could scarcely credit
how much below his Melbourne form
Comic Court did perform in Sydney;
and Sydney racegoers, for that matter,
seem largely to have forgotten.
**. * *
With the exception of the unknown
quantities represented by a couple of
fields of two-year-olds, the generally
mediocre class of horses engaged at
Canterbury on Saturday seemed to
preclude the likelihood of the results
having any great bearing on the
forthcoming major autumn racing.
One possible exception was the suc-
cess of Bankstream (N. McGrowdie)
in the 11-furlongs Canterbury Park
Cup. Bankstream won most easily,
having four lengths to spare from the
Tattersall’s Cup winner Freedom. A
nice cut of three-year-old colt by
Midstream from High Class, Bank-
stream is yet another example of the
remarkable success Kia-Ora Stud has
had with its policy of mating Mid-
stream with Magpie mares. Bank-
stream has now won two Cup events
in succession, having previously
bagged the Frank Underwood Cup;
his more ardent admirers now
envisage him adding the Sydney Cup
to the collection. Good as they have
shown themselves over a wide range
of distances, the Midstreams have yet
to distinguish themselves at two-miles,
and that is the real test.
One or two likely-looking types
were noted in a couple of Two-year-
old Maiden Stakes. Golden Chariot,
an aptly-named daughter of Golden
Sovereign-Speed, showed other fillies
a clean pair of heels in one division,
and, incidentally, gave jockey W.
Briscoe his first winning mount this
season; hut even more impressive
than the winner was the runner-up,
Defame. Defame, who finished very
strongly, after a slow beginning, is
a half-sister to Shannon, being by
Delville Wood from Idle Words.
Similarly, in the Two-year-old for
colts and geldings, it was the runner-
up, Montana, who impressed even
more than the winner, Maynard (A.
Markland). Maynard is the first
progeny of imported Nice Day to
win here. New Zealand bred Mon-
tana is a half-brother to that good
hut fearfully unlucky galloper Vaga-
bond.
Columnist’s brother Journalist (J.
Thompson) for once consented to do
his best, and comfortably won the
Flying from Heroic Sovereign, who
was making a reappearance after a
brief let-up.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances): —
Parramatta Mixed: Auld Acquaint-
ance, 1; Rumyle, 2; Tapoaki, 3.
MacArthur Quality: Lloric, 1; Hin-
dostan, 2; Montana, 3. Australasian
Mixed: Mosman, T; Monarchy, 2;
Winmil, 3. Rawson Stakes: Grey
Boots, 1; Careless, 2; Benvolo, 3.
Railway Quality: Denali, 1; Over-
sight, 2; Field Boy, 3. Rosehill Cup:
Mona’s Choice, 1 ; Elusive, 2; Cap-
tain Theo, 3. Welter: Beau Sandy,
1; Panama, 2; Pyramid, 3.
* * * *
There comes a time in any form of
competition, sporting or otherwise,
when constant one-sided victories
become first boring and eventually a
thorough embarrassment. With Aus-
tralian participation in international
cricket, and particularly the recent
series against M.C.C. tourists, just
about reaching that stage, there was
a huge sigh of relief from all and
sundry when Fred Brown’s men
wound up their tour by winning the
fifth Test in Melbourne last week. It
was the first time that Australia had
been beaten since 1938.
Surprisingly, when they did get
round to winning, the tourists did so
very easily. The Australian batting
failed badly in both innings. But
for Bassett’s 92 and Morris’s 50 the
first innings would have looked very
sick indeed; as it was the tally was
217. England replied with 320, prin-
cipally contributed by Simpson (156
not out) and Hutton (79). Playing in
his first Test, Graeme Hole, who had
done well enough with 18 in the
first innings, provided the backbone
of the Australian second innings with
topscore of 63. Harvey turned-in a
solid 52, and Hassett played another
good captain’s innings for 48; the
remainder of the side contributed 22,
which, substantially bolstered up by
sundries (12), raised the total to a
paltry 197. In both Australian
innings, and indeed throughout the
tour, Alec Bedser was the destroyer.
In the fifth Test he took five wickets
in each innings. Requiring then only
95 for the win, M.C.C. did the job
for the loss of two wickets; as
infallible with the bat as Bedser had
been with the ball, Ten Hutton con-
tributed 60 of the necessary.
Summing-up briefly, it might be
said that the tourists were virtually
a four-man team—Hutton, Bedser,
stout-hearted Freddie Brown and
’keeper Evans. And if Australia
doesn’t get cracking on the matter
of unearthing some new talent, other
than in the nature of batsmen, of
whom she has an embarrassment of
riches, she will find herself in pretty
much the same state when it comes
to the return tour in 1953.
* * * *
The McWilliam’s Wines golf
tourney, now the top pro. golfing
event in Australia, hits off at Ken-
sington (Sydney) tomorrow, and will
rage for that day and the next two.
The total prizemoney is £2500, and
has attracted pros, from “all over,”
most notable being Dai Rees, the
Welsh champ, whose charm made
him popular last year; Max Faulkner,
a British champ, sartorially as well
as golfially; Montes from the Philip-
pines; Southerden from N.Z.; and
the local stars Von Nida, Cremin
and Pickworth. Cremin won it last
year, and may do it again, though
the competition is somewhat stronger.
A lot of interest lies in the sartorial
contest between Von Nida and
Faulkner, each having sworn to
stymie the other in this respect. The
profits go to the Red Cross, the
course is in great heart, and organi-
sation leaves little room for criticism.
* * * *
Billy Watson (9.12) v. Charlie
Dunn (9.9) at Leichhardt last week
really boiled down to Watson’s
elementary straight left versus the
Dunn’s right swings. Expert theorists
are adamant that the left should pre-
vail in such circumstances, but for
once the theory went astray.
Although Watson boxed beautifully,
Dunn’s dexterous dexter deliveries
won the day. Dunn, clearly, on
points.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Moral Leadership
At the end of the first quarter of this
century we had a vivid memory of a
national spirit that put a volunteer army
of 350,000 Australians into the field in
1914-18. And that with a population of 30
per cent, fewer than in 1950. But what
of the second quarter now closing? A
period in Australian history which
posterity will probably stigmatise as the
blackest since 1788. Why? Because we
failed to produce men with an ability to
sense the drift in human affairs —if there
were some who did they lacked the moral
courage to act and speak accordingly.
Call it what you will, convention makes
articulate the politician of our days when
it would be far better if in many cases
he were ignored. What he says is sup-
posed to be news. A political system has
put into the saddle men who do not, and
never did, hold qualifications for the posts
which such a system can pitchfork men
into. The system has had the effect of,
willy-nilly, splitting the nation into two
groups. In the final analysis party
politics, at least as we know it in Aus-
tralia, has become the most deadly thing
with which the nation has to contend. It
shows democracy, as we know it, as a
fallacy. Its general effect is to put
mediocrity into the seats of the mighty.
And what better evidence could there be
of the gyrations and antics of mediocrity
than the cant and humbug heard in the
national Parliament —the greatest secular
business in the land —in the last 12
months? Would, or could, a concern like
B H.P. tolerate such a performance by its
administration?
We have the choice of strong moral
leadership or bankrupt political and busi-
ness mediocrity.
One would teach what was once the
great national tradition of duty and the
classical implications of the word. The
other, that material so-called prosperity is
the criterion of national progress and
stability. What a delusion! One wonders
if the modern smarties of business, who
are prepared to pay fabulous prices in the
way of inflated wages for juvenile and
other labor for value received, realise
that they contribute nothing thereby to
national stability—that, in fact, they are
destroying it.
Professor Whitehead has written that
“Moral education is impossible without
the habitual vision of greatness,” and
Sir Richeard Livingstone that:
Our real problem lies deeper than politics,
science or economics, and in the absence of
a spiritual ideal we shall never solve it.
If we go on as at present we shall probably
decline into an economic religion, worship-
ping material prosperity in a more or less
refined form. Such a religion is inglorious,
and, because it does not satisfy the deeper
needs of human nature, short-lived.
But the argument seems to be clinched
by the words of the late John Buchan,
as Lord Tweedsmuir, Governor-General
of Canada:
Democracy will only succeed when it
becomes an aristocracy in the classical
sense of the word, where the rule of the
many is the rule of the best.
And of the aristocrat he had only one
adequate definition: “He is the man who
gives more to the world than he takes
out of it.” —W-1. W. (N.S.W.).
German Migrants
The agitation against the proposed
quota of German migrants has been
notorious for hysteria and gross mis-
representation. One would imagine that
it was intended to flood Australia with
Nazis of the most malignant kind. Pos-
sibly some fanatical Nazis will slip
through, no matter how careful the
screening, but they are not likely to influ-
ence Australians.
The number of German immigrants
will be far too small and scattered to be-
come anything of a political force. The
children will be educated in Australian
schools, and, however fixed the political
outlook of the parents, most of the young-
sters will become thorough Australians.
Germans have been among the most
valuable and assimilable of foreign stock
that have settled here. They have shown
“Say when!"
themselves good farmers and have made
worth-while contributions to industry, the
professions and arts and letters. They
were not backward in enlistment in either
the First or Second A.I.F. Their record
has also been high in the U.S.A., Chile
and Brazil. South Africans hold in regard
the descendants of the soldiers of the
German Legion who fought for Britain
in the Crimean War, and who, after dis-
bandment, were settled by Sir George
Grey in Eastern Cape Colony.
As the merits of the 19th-century Ger-
man settlers in Australia are too well
known to be disputable, pretence is be-
ing made that they were radical and
liberal idealists who migrated because
they detested the atmosphere of Hohen-
zoliern Germany. A few may have been
of that type, but a large proportion were
ordinary peasants, artisans or members
of the lower middle-class, who migrated
for the same reason that brought so
many of their British counterparts here.
They saw greater opportunities in thinly-
peopled Australia than in their own
crowded country. There should be plenty
of the same kind available today, and
there is no reason to expect that they
won’t make as satisfactory settlers as their
predecessors. Morris the Tinker
(N.S.W.).
Age and Service
I agree that the calling-up of age-
groups is a weakness in the compulsory-
training scheme (B. 24/1 /’5l), but the
greatest weakness is the age-group itself
youths of 18.
We had during the war the experience
of interrupted apprenticeships and
studies, and of ex-soldiers who had gone
away as boys and returned as men look-
ing for adult wages in jobs for which they
had not completed their youthful
training.
Eighteen is too young. The call-up
should be for the 25’s. After all, plenty
of us gave five years of our lives around
that age ; one year or 18 months should
not hurt anyone.
And to call up those of 25 years of age
would wipe out pleas for exemption on
the grounds of studentship and other
excuses for shirking duty to the country.
—Mutton Jeff (Q.).
Medieval Guilds
“Perseverando” might have gone
further and mentioned that “the powerful
church” was the mainspring of the
medieval guilds. With cradle-to-grave
security, and with free lodgings for
travellers as well as pilgrims, the church
introduced a practical “welfare State” as
universal as Western Christendom.
It curbed the incidence and horrors
of war —the Crusaders were amazed and
disgusted to find the Saracens did not
call it a day when the Angelus had been
rung. The church brought mankind over
that long and dreary road from slavery
to serfdom —a far more wearisome
journey than the hop from serfdom to
today’s democracy. Few know that it
1
was the church that forced the masters
of absconding serfs to give them their
freedom if they were able to remain un-
discovered for a year. Rents were
“adjusted” to 15 days’ earnings, and a
man’s tools of trade could not be dis-
trained for debt.
Without the church it would have been
impossible for the guilds to rise, but their
rising killed the unity of Christendom.
For, with all their power to regulate the
highest and stablest community that was
economically possible, the churchmen
suffered from the one failure that dogs
every “planner.” To plan one has to
predict the future, and as that is impos-
sible one has to force the future to a pre-
conceived mould, which just cannot be
done. When it is tried the most free
elements of the community revolt. The
merchants and the guildmen did just that.
It is significant that Communism gains
easy acceptance where the great lesson
of the Reformation is unknown and un-
heeded. It is even more significant that
the first real dissenter from the Com-
munist universal State should arise in
Yugoslavia, the one part of Eastern
Europe that most nearly experienced the
lessons of the religious and economic
revolution of the Reformation.
As there are many more men of free
intellect, it will not take centuries for the
revolt against Communism and Socialism
to mature. At the best the Communists
can hope for another decade until their
power is successfully challenged from
within the movement itself. It might be
otherwise with a movement which could
achieve effective world domination and
hold it for two or three generations while
it digested the lessons of the past and
evolved a policy of planning without
plans.
As that is both unlikely and almost cer-
tainly impossible we may as well cease
worrying about Communism —except to
prepare for the war that it is almost
certain to wage in its death-throes —and
continue to work out a future by bargain
and compromise. It is certainly the only
future State that is foreseeable and which
does not carry the seed of its own dis-
solution within itself. Dolmetcher
(N.Z.).
Queensland Beaches
Queensland south-coast beach resorts
have, been suffering seriously from
erosion, and with every cyclone comes a
squeal for the State Government to do
something about it. The local authorities
claim that they have insufficient funds to
do the job.
It seems to me that the request for the
State Government to do the job using
State funds is unreasonable. A great
many people in the State never see the
area in question, and those of us who
do manage to visit the south coast about
once in three years pay dearly for the
privilege.
The cost of maintaining the beaches
should be borne by those who make
money out of them—the proprietors of
seaside residentials and owners of
cottages and flats. Rents and board are
high enough to cover increased rates
which would provide the local councils
with sufficient money to do the work.—
Pateppi (Q.).
Woman’s Wage
We women are creeping up, aren’t we?
Seventy-five per cent, of the male wage
now for 100 per cent, of the work. Those
who are still in their cradles may yet
live to see justice done. In the meantime
why shouldn’t charges for meals, trams,
picture-shows, rooms, flats, clothing and
all foodstuffs be reduced to 75 per cent,
for women only?— Una Auld (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 111
Across.
I—Rather1 —Rather prissy French in brown
has no factors. (5, 6)
6—Huntsman’s catch found at the
corner of the baseball diamond.
(3)
B—Queensland town comments on a
characteristic which Keith Miller
finds helpful when batting. (9)
10 — jt is extremely unpleasant to
overturn an enclosure. (5)
11 — The immoderate had a meal in
tantrums. (11)
12 — When performed, lam swallowed
by a prelate. (3)
13 — Here is a way out of backing a
superficial measure. (4)
15 —Qrt with a queer heart. (5)
18 — Possess. (3)
19 — Stumper wagon travels from the
east to the south. (5)
20 — Fish breather might measure the
substance in which the fish
breathes. (4)
22 — Who is Gallic when you and I
join the queue? (3)
23 Abo. endures koalas. (6, 5)
24 — Comptometrist hasn’t a leg to
stand on. (5)
25 —A tempo and a metal ring. (9)
27 Lae has one. (3)
28— The Spanish bow to the King
with comfort, but it’s an asset
to a French-polisher. (5, 6)
Down.
1 — Quiver colleague and mine had a
meal. (9)
2 Fed under the hotel, for such is
natural to the mind. (6)
3 Girl accepts articles from both
sides of the Channel. (3)
4 Be a caption practised by Dr.
Guillotine. (9)
5 French girl is about born. (5)
6 Part of the ear of Flinders’s
travelling companion? (4, 4)
7 Mocked in effigy. (5)
9—Sheep perches such leaders of
driving energy. (7)
14— Elia was in one of those burning
houses which, so he said, cooked
pig. (5, 4)
15— Child of Sycorax has to see
Mohammed’s successor enforce a
proscription. (7)
16 — Sulphur edges Franchot. (9)
17— Mother has nothing, but then the
doctor has a town in N.S.W. (8)
21—Father is to can a venerable
encrustation on a work of art. (6)
22 Bird is to shrink in terror. (5)
23 This lady of the lamp, if grey,
is more likely to make a meal
of you than for you. (5)
26—Married on the way up with
some precipitation. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 110.


■HP
: s;
m -JL
1!?
r
?/ Ji
SW:
.
■i
fe ; :::^-Ui
\
I
II
sf:
:' vO
I.*
gg
H
-
¥i 'M
S
• •.•■ >
■
m
s
1
LOOK YOUR BEST!
The secret of the smart appearance of Stamina
Trousers even after years of dry cleaning is -
1. The beautiful dyes used, that never fade.
2. The wonderful "wrinkle-resistant" Crusader
worsteds that never shrink,
3. The special "cut" of the Trousers
obtainable only in Stamina Brand.
KEEP FIT!
You will find health in every pair of Stamina.
Each wool fibre in Stamina Trousers acts like a
thermostat. It allows the skin to breathe and
protects you from heat and cald, acting as a
natural regulator of body temperature.
It cuts down the danger of chills..
erv
STRENGTH?
Why is it an
economy to buy
Stamina Trousers?
The special pure
wool fibres
in Crusader cloth,
diameter for
diameter, are
STRONGER THAN
STEEL. You are
wise to buy
trousers that DO
resist heavy wear.
CLOTHES
Secure your Staminas before
it is too late.
Only limited quantities are
now available.
The present auction price of wool will
probably mean that soon, the few
Stamina Trousers that are available
will be about £5.10.0.
THE PRESENT PRICE IS
8/4
ASH FOR
Stamina.
~sJLf-SUPPOR T/AO
TROUSERS
TAILORED
FROM
(Entsate
Olloth
