

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72-No. 3707
Wednesday, February 28, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE NATIONAL GALLERY, AN ARTIST'S PARADISE
ON the north side of Trafalgar Square stands one of the most widely-
known buildings in London—the National Gallery, which houses the
most comprehensive collection of paintings in Europe. Over half-a-million
people each year pass through its doors beneath the stately Corinthian
columns to view the priceless paintings, which are among Britain’s proudest
possessions. Here can be seen the progress of painting from the days of
the Caesars to the end of the nineteenth century in a magnificent series of
pictures of every famous school.
The gallery, which stands upon the site of former royal stables, was
designed by William Wilkins, and was opened in 1838. At that time it had
a permanent collection of only one hundred and fifty paintings, thirty-eight
of which belonged to the Angerstein collection, purchased by the British
Government to form the nucleus of a national collection. Gradually, over a
long period, through generous private bequests and Government grants,
masterpiece after masterpiece was added to the collection, which now numbers
about two thousand pictures. Owing to extensive war damage, however,
which closed some of the galleries, sufficient space is not yet available for
the return of all the paintings which were taken away during the early days
of the war to a Welsh valley, where they were stored in underground galleries
and guarded night and day by the specially-trained staff.
Nevertheless, in spile of gaps in the series of pictures now on view, the
National Gallery remains one of the best and most interesting of the world’s
picture galleries. Here may be seen the masterpieces of Rubens and Rembrandt,
beautiful portraits by Reynolds, Gainsborough and Romney; landscapes by
Constable; great paintings by Turner, whose individuality is supreme in the
annals of English art. Raeburn, the Scottish portrait painter, is well represented
there. Surpassing praise and description is Holbein’s “Duchess of Milan,”
which belonged to the Duke of Norfolk, and was purchased for £72,000 before
the First World War. Among the works of the immortals is the outstandingly
beautiful “Rokeby Venus” by Velasquez, which was damaged by militant
suffragettes in 1914. Titian, El Greco, Jan van Eyck and Jan Vermeer of
Delft are only a few of the many great masters whose works may be seen
in the National Gallery.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


ManceJoH^? 1
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Ct7T HERE AND MAIL - - —•
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.151) Age
"The Red Page
THE NEW BOSWELL.
With Boswell’s London Journal we are
given a second masterpiece in self-revela-
tion, the other, of course, being the Diary
of Sam Pepys. But, though both had the
same objective, there is a variation in the
states of mind under which each was
written. Pepys made a lifetime’s secret
of his, while Boswell let friends read his
journal and dedicated its subject-matter to
publicity.
Self-revelation was not a conscious
objective with Pepys. Gusto for life and
the necessity of keeping a precise record
of affairs drove him to keep a diary, while
from the very outset Boswell took for his
slogan the Delphic injunction “Know
thyself.” It was a deliberate exercise in
his special faculty, which was to create
life-size portraits of himself and his con-
temporaries.
The journal of his first year in London
shows him seeking the best method of
approach to his subject-matter, both as
a literary exercise and an essential prac-
tice in duplicity. Man is a hiding animal,
and any apparent proposal to investigate
the privacies of his ego will make him
shut up like a clam. The approach must
be one that will placate him, reassure
him that no treachery is intended, and
finally lure his ego out from cover, where
it may be inspected at leisure.
London is necessary to the practice of
Boswell’s art, for it secretes fascinating
personalities to be investigated, so he uses
the impetus of a row with his father to
escape from home and journey to London
with the avowed intention of getting a
commission in the Guards. And, though
he pesters Lord EglintOn and the
Duchess of Northumberland to use their
influence in getting him the commission,
he knows that there is very little chance
of being enrolled as an officer in the
Guards without paying for it. If he
had really wanted to be a soldier, he
would have had little difficulty in getting
appointed to a less exclusive regiment.
Still, an introduction to aristocratic
circles allows him to toy with the presen-
tation of himself as a man of the world,
dissipated, idle, a pleasure-seeker and a
place-hunter. This is the pose he takes
with a rake like Lord Eglinton. In play-
ing that part a mistress is necessary, and
Boswell acquires one, with disastrous
results. For his affair with Louisa,
readers must be referred to the Journal.
Here is the one subject in which all
autobiography, and nearly all fiction,
defers to a universal conspiracy of silence.
Even Sam Pepys fumbles his amorous
adventures into the Diary under cover
of a jargon made up of Latin, French
and Spanish words. Boswell tells every-
thing, and, what is more, gets away with
it. Such is his effect of innocent candor
that critical fastidiousness is completely
disarmed.
But playing the agreeable rake and
rattle-pated hedonist is only on© of
Boswell’s masks. With Erskine and
Demster, who have minor literary aspira-
tions, he produces a pamphlet attacking a
play by Malloch, and publishes an ex-
change of frivolous letters with Erskine,
all in the character of a literary farceur.
With the chaste, sober-minded Temple, he
presents himself as one earnestly bent on
moral improvement. At Child’s Coffee
House he mixes with ordinary citizens
and discusses affairs of the moment with
them. In correspondence with Sir David
Dalrymple he presents himself as a young
man of good intentions sometimes led
astray by a too impetuous temperament,
and desirous of moral guidance for his
soul’s welfare. This was a device fre-
quently employed by Boswell for getting
into intimate relations with a subject for
his art, well knowing that nothing so
flatters mature vanity as a youthful
request for advice on matters spiritual
and mundane.
That he was extremely good at putting
on an act is revealed by the affair of the
silver-hilted sword. Requiring a sword,
he
....went into the shop of Mr. Jefferys,
sword cutter to his Majesty, looked over a
number of swords, and at last picked out a
very handsome one at five guineas. “Mr.
Jefferys,” said I, “I have not money here
to pay for it. Will you trust me?” “Upon
my word, sir,” said he, “you must excuse
me. It is a thing we never do to a
stranger.” I bowed genteelly and said,
“Indeed, sir, I believe it is not right.”
However, I stood and looked at him and
he looked at me. “Come, sir,” said he,
“I will trust you.” “Sir,” said I, “if you
bad not trusted me I would not have
bought it off you”... J then chose a belt,
put the sword on, told him I would call
and pay it tomorrow and walked off. I
called this day and paid him. “Mr.
Jefferys,” said I, “there is your money. You
paid me a great compliment. I am much
obliged to you. But pray, don’t do such a
thing again. It is dangerous.” “Sir,” said
he. “We know our men. I would have
trusted you with the value of a hundred
pounds.” This [adds Boswell complacently],
I think, was a good adventure, and much
to my honor.
But the episode was much more a
tribute to Boswell’s ingenuity in putting
on whatever front he thought would be
most effective with the company he was
in. Nor did he ever allow objectionable
behavior in a subject to interfere with
the practice of his metier. When old
Sheridan was violently rude to him over
a prologue Boswell had written to a play
by Mrs. Sheridan at her request, and
from which she stole several lines, he
meditated breaking off relations with the
Sheridans. But then he reflected that to
do so would deprive him of an oppor-
tunity of studying old Sheridan, so he
remains on social relations with him, and
Sheridan is added to his collection in the
character of a presumptuous, bumptious,
arrogant and intolerant old fool.
Again, when Erskine and Demster
forged a letter as from David Hume to
Boswell, recommending to him a lout
named Fletcher, Boswell is delighted at
the compliment, though he has an anti-
pathy to Fletcher. And when Erskine
and Demster confess that they were
merely having a lark with him, Boswell
is infuriated, and decides to have nothing
more to do with the jokers. But then
it occurs to him that the affair might
serve as an introduction to Hume, to
whom he at once writes, recounting the
imposition on his credulity, and proposing
that Hume should begin a correspondence
with him on the usual terms of “elegant
sentiments, just criticism and ingenious
observations on human nature.” For
once, this ingenuous approach goes
wrong. Instead of elegant sentiments, he
gets an exasperated letter from Hume,
trouncing him for having published a
disparaging reference to Malloch’s play
uttered by Hume in private, which has
now involved Hume in a quarrel with
Malloch. Still, Boswell at least got a
letter out of Hume, which goes into the
Boswell archives. Even at that early date
he never threw anything away which
might come in useful later.
With all this, Boswell is stiff searching
for both a mask and a method which will
give him the surest command over the
material he is looking for. In Pepys’s
Diary, all sorts of minor characters are
given a place ; he is not at all concerned
to select only those personalities who
bulked largely in the world of affairs,
and gives as much space to his maid Jane
and his boy Tom as to Lady Castlemaine
and Charles the Second. But Boswell is
concerned to get at only the notabilities
among his contemporaries, and warns
himself not to waste space over a row
with an intemperate landlord, or a trick
played on a credulous servant girl. All
through the journal he arrests its narra-
tive to meditate over the most effective
character-presentation of himself as
distinct from the personality he knows
himself to be.
For Boswell suffered from a daimonic
conflict which gave him great difficulty in
finding a nice balance between its two
extremes of being. From states of ex-
travagant exultation he was apt to relapse
into that black abyss of depression which
the Greeks called hypochondria. All
who give themselves to a full adventure
of the ego must endure it, and Boswell
suffered from it in excess.
At the age of 17 he had barely endured
a prolonged attack of it. “I became very
melancholy. I gave myself up as devoted
to misery. I entertained a most gloomy
and odd way of thinking.” Escaping
from it, he rushed to debauch for relief,
and became “A heedless dissipated,
rattling young fellow, who would say or
do any ridiculous thing.”
In the Journal we see him going from
one mood to the other, either moping
about his lodging, unable to summon up
enough energy to go for a walk, unable
to read or write, unable to endure any
intrusion on his abject misery. In reverse,
we see him performing all sorts of mad
pranks in public, bellowing like a cow
to entertain a theatre audience, snatching
a constable’s baton to belabor heads with
it during a brawl at Ranelagh, or dressing
up like a ruffian to go forth with a cudgel
and mix with the lowest riffraff, brawling
with prostitutes, soldiers and the toughest
slum denizens; an extremely reckless
proceeding, considering what dangers
lurked in the unlit London streets of that
era.
Nothing is wanting to make a finished
portrait of Boswell himself at that period
of life, but as yet he has not found the
technique that will draw a character with
a few vivid strokes of the pen. He is
more concerned to analyse states of mind
than to visualise external characteristics.
I He has not yet discovered that externals
—gestures, tricks of speech, idiosyncractic
habits—reveal much more than the
exchange of ideas. We get a good pic-
ture of old Sheridan, Eglinton is fairly
well done, but most of the others evade
a precise presentation of personality.
Elaborate as his affair with Louisa is, we
can’t be sure whether she was a callous
strumpet or the unfortunate victim of a
physiological nemesis.
It is not till Boswell meets Johnson
that all his vacillations over the future
action of his life change to resolution.
The Guards project is dropped. He be-
comes reconciled to his father and agrees
to study law. He throws aside his
irresponsible, unregulated existence and
concentrates on the exercise of his special
faculty. In short, he has found the per-
fect subject for his art and the right
method of both approaching it and
extracting materia! from it.
The accepted understanding is that
Boswell fastened his biographical clutch
on Johnson, but it is equally clear that
Johnson clutched at Boswell as the per-
fect audience. The prime necessity of
Johnson’s existence was to smother a bad
conscience for loafing under the inces-
sant sound of his own voice. He re-
quired to have someone at hand to pro-
vide him with a theme for instantaneous
monologue, and Boswell was the perfect
adept at clicking off a Johnsonian gramo-
phone-record.
We get a glimpse of him at work by
an astute remark of Goldsmith’s. Gold-
smith “said I had a method of making
people speak.” “Sir,” said I, “that is the
next best thing to speaking myself.”
“Nay,” said he, “but you do both.” “I
must say,” adds Boswell, “that if I excell
in anything it is in address and making
myself easily agreeable.”
This passage, by the way, is another
instance that belies the usual presentation
of Goldsmith by his contemporaries as
an irresponsible babbler, a social buffoon,
one who in Garrick’s words, “wrote like
an angel and talked like poor Poll.”
Whenever his conversation is quoted by
Boswell it is always witty and to the
point. Some of the best things said about
Johnson are contributed by Goldsmith,
The first year of the Journal ends with
Boswell’s first record of Johnson’s talk,
later to be used in the Life. Boswell is
about to make the Grand Tour and start
his law studies in Holland. But he has
got what he was searching for, an entree
into the Johnsonian circle, where he will
meet most of the notabilities of his time,
and leave an immortal record of them
as they lived, moved, talked and, in
unbuttoned moments, betrayed the pri-
vate reservations of the ego to Boswell’s
detecting eye. How amazingly swift that
eye was to retain impressions we know
by the way he trained it later to take in
a large group of people at a glance, dis-
tinguish each member by some character-
istic gesture or utterance, give snatches
of detached conversations between differ-
ent members and yet keep a complete
sense of unity in the scene he is visualis-
ing. Of all literary exercises this is per-
haps the most difficult.
It has been complained that the two
figures which evaded clarity of definition*
by Boswell are those of Burke and
Reynolds. The reason of this is not far
to seek. Burke worked himself up to
states of intellectual passion over poli-
tics, but a man’s political opinions tell
us nothing about the man himself. Out-
side politics, Burke was always urbane,
polite, easy and undisturbed. He was
always on guard against any revelations
of his private life to the world at large.
That was to defeat scurrilous attacks by
those paid assassins of reputation, the
journalists. It was a deliberate policy,
as he explained several times in explicit
terms.
As for Reynolds, he lacked that first
essential to self-revelation, a core of
passion to be revealed. There can be
little doubt that he was impotent. He
painted beautiful women all his life, but
was never known to have the slightest
intimacy with one. Nor have any of
those ladies left us a hint of any personal
reaction to him, which is remarkable in
an age of gossip, letter-writing and the
collection of biographical anecdotes.
While Reynolds’s male portraits are mag-
nificently revealing, those of his women
remain charming puppets; the creatures
of a cold detachment which analysed
them as problems in paint but not pas-
sion. But I am forgetting that one
woman, at least, detected the sterile core
of masculinity in Reynolds that Boswell’s
inquisitive eye had failed to see. That
lively and alluring little lady, Mrs.
Thrale, had no doubt of what was lack-
ing in Reynolds when she wrote of him r
Of Reynolds all good should be said, and
no harm;
Though the heart is too frigid, the pencil
too warm;
Yet each fault from his converse we still
must disclaim,
As his temper ’tis peaceful and pure as his
fame. ‘ Aj
Nothing in it o’erflows, nothing ever is
wanting, » ", ;
It nor chills like his kindness, nor glows
like his painting . . .
But perhaps Boswell saw deeper into
Burke and Reynolds than his rather flat
portraits of them in the Life of Samuel
Johnson suggest. They both read the Life
in proof, and made Boswell cut out cer-
tain sections relating to themselves. No
doubt those censored passages are pre-
served in the journals, and will be given
to posterity as that vast mass of MS.
arrives at type-matter.
There is one aspect of both Pepys’s
Diary and Boswell’s Journal that I think
requires a valuation, and that is the
quality of creation as distinct from the
making of a factual record. Pepys’s
Diary has all the constructive elements
which make for a great novel. It has a
beginning, a middle and an end. The
thread which holds it together is that of
a universal aspiration for money and
power. It is dramatised on another uni-
versal motif; marriage suspended on a
threat of disruption by the exposure of
an illicit love-affair. It reaches its
dramatic crescendo by the exposure of
such an affair, and nowhere else in
literature is there such a sustained, in-
tense and meticulous revelation of the
crash of a male ego under attack by an
infuriated termagant wife. The novel--
the Diary —is finalised on the craven sub-
mission of a husband in a distracted
craving for peace at any price.
In Boswell the creative element remains
at character-creation in the grand
manner. The least element in his Journal
is that of a factual record. All its sub-
ject-matter is carefully selected. If he
had labelled Johnson under a fictitious
name he would still have come down to
us as one of the greatest charactei-
creations in literature. Though Dickens
called Leigh Hunt “Harold Skimpole
and Landor “Boythorn,” those two great
character-creations are essentially the
same as Boswell’s —biographical portraits
of contemporaries. True, Dickens makes
them play minor parts in a work of nc-
tion while Boswell’s characters play out
thek parts under the factual procedu*
of their lives, but the quality of artistry
in character-creation is the same m botn
m AnTwhat wealth of character-creation
still remains to be revealed as _me
Journal continues to be published T
is material in its MS. for i/°Lmiished
volumes. That they are to be publish
at the rate of one a year . for Jf * ™ ors .
depressing computation m tim -
I was born forty years too sooni tocat
up with Boswell’s stupendous industry.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
{Red Page continued on inside hack
cover)
THE ALPHABET.
(“With Twenty-six Soldiers of Lead I Shall
Conquer the World.”)
My Twenty-six, my leaden men,
Your day-long skirmishing is done,
Sound out your trumpets to the west
For battles lost or {patties won.
Upon this bare and silvered hill
Pitch your pavilions for the night,
Your single sentry set to cry
The wonder of a moon so bright.
Let him be O who wonder cries
While A to Z lie down and sleep.
Who strive all day unarmed undo
No swords at night: their wits they keep
(For wit’s their weapon) close to hand
Lest from the moon’s bright land should
come
She who alone can beggar sense
And rob the brave and strike them
dumb.
My Twenty-six, my leaden men,
Let morning see your flags unfurled,
And shall we not together then
Set out to conquer all the world?
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


& As
1 1
m 1/
■
hst>A
IMPHRSm^bm
. 11l
••
• - ■
j
: r~rvi J
. ..
mrnszswm
,
v , ■■■,,-i-inrM -~ ■
I
, .. -
Mg
mmmmmmzrr
«
i.. ;
mmmm
me ■
3W***
tessss^l
sS
&
Protect your rooms from heat . . .
Wood Venetian Blinds made to order
Made in our own workrooms from selected Canadian Cedar lathes and best quality
tapes and cords, these Venetians can be painted to any desired colour. If
you live in the metropolitan area our representative will call and measure your
windows. We will then forward quotations. If sending in your size be sure to
measure with a wood or metal rule, as cotton tapes tend to stretch. Blinds
will be delivered to your home approximately five weeks after lodgment of quote.
d
X-L-ALI BLINDS FROM £5/0/6
Pacific Pine lathes with rustless chains for durability
and freedom of rolling. Green or brown. Other
colours on request. Closed spaced or louvered finish as illustrated.
Close type: 4ft. x 4ft. 6in., £5/0/6; 6ft. x 6ft., £B/17/3; 10ft. x 6ft.,
£l4/5/6; 12ft. x 10ft. T £25/5/9. Louvered; 4ft. x 4ft. 6in., £5/15/9;
6ft. x 6ft., £lO/4/6; 10ft. x 6ft., £l6/10/3; 12ft. x 10£t., £26/2/3.
Holdfast Stays, priced at 36/3 per set extra. Write and ask for detailed price list.
We also stock Ratten Core Genuine Chinese Extra Fine Lath Bamboo Blinds in
natural colour only. Complete with pulleys and cords.
3ft. x 6ft,, 24/6; 4ft. x 6ft., 32/6; sft. x 6ft, 41/-; 6ft. x 6ft, 50/-.
TRUTH
fd
f
HOLLAND BLINDS TO ORDER . . .
Scotch Holland Blinds in beige or nigger brown made
to order in various plain and fancy designs, with
or without rollers.
Only Two easy measurements
are needed for ordering
1. VVIDTH (a) from old blinds with rollers
—width of rollers from tip to tip, or (b) from
old blinds without rollers —actual’ cloth width,
or (c) from the window itself.
2. LENGTH (a) of present blind, or (b) if
blinds are installed for first time, measure
actual length of the window opening adding
8 inches for rolling shade up and down.
Illustrated are two of the many styles
available.
df
We specialise in all types of canvas blinds, so send foe
our easy guide to measure and samples of multi-
woven canvas, proofed canvas including the famous
“Brella” canvas, or plain white, green or khaki.
r-. -
\ 'N.
* *s \
S*. : p » 1
v .. . • ■ ;
el
~. r»
&■&># 5
v :
E iStonl
SS
:
a
::
No. 6.
Door, 2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in., 38/6.
2ft. Sin. x 6ft. Bin., 39/3. 2ft.
10in. x 6ft. 10in., 40/6.
Nos. 4 and 5.
Door, 2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in., 42/9.
2ft. Sin. x 6ft. Sin., 43/6. 2ft.
lOin. x 6ft. 10in., 44/9.
✓ ;■ v
Nos. 3 and 7.
Door, 2ft. 6in. x 6ft, 6in., 34/6.
2ft. Sin. x 6ft. Sin., 35/3. 2ft.
lOin. x 6ft. 10in., 36/6.
Nos. 8, 11 and 13.
Door, 2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in., 48/6.
2ft, Sin. x 6ft. Bin., 49/3. 2ft.
lOin. x 6ft, 10in., 50/3.
Keep Flies Out! Protective Wire Screen Doors
Keep flies out—install protective Fly-wire Screen Doors, stocks of which
are now available in standard door sizes in eight different designs.
Above are prices for galvanised wire; bronze wire 11/,- extra. Fittings extra.
Our representative will call anywhere in the metropolitan area. Quotations given promptly. M24ol—Box 2712 C—Blinds Third Flows;


&
m.
mmm
■ : :
\
wm®m
L Qm
mmmmm.
* ~ J
mm.
: , ; ‘-:
i iKil ii HI H im ■
d
HO OTHER JACK LIKE IT,.
COMPARE THESE ADVANTAGES
Lifts wheel off ground in less time than any
other car jack.
Will jack up car on hill, on steep camber, on ice,
in deep mud.
Will not slip or slide car cannot fall off jack
if properly used.
Crawling under car unnecessary no need even
to LOOK under the cor.
Will operate with 2i-in. clearance.
Is all-in-one assembly - no loose parts - nothing
to lose or leave behind.
Has no oil to leak out - will last a lifetime.
Is very easy and absolutely safe to use - mini-
mum effort required - ideal for the well dress-
ed motorist and for women drivers.
Will not scratch or mark the car or bumper bars.
PRKE: £5-10-0
Includes Sales Tax,
Packing, F.O.R. Austra-
lian Capital Cities.
No matter what type of jack you
have you definitely need a Vesta
Safety Jack —FOR SAFETY SAKE!
Convince yourself by asking to see
a demonstration on your car.
MAIL THIS COUPON NOW!
To VESTA PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.,
Box 13, P.O. Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please forward, without obligation, full information of Vesta
Safety Car Jack.
Name:
Address:
State:
My local Vesta garageman is:
BLTN. AD. 28/2/51.
ALWAYS USE A..
VESTA
TR/ANGLE
Safa/
CAW JACK
AS USED BY N.R.M.A. PATROL GUIDES.
fdf
FITS EASILY INTO THE BOOT OF ANY CAR.
Takes up little space in the boot less than
any bumper jack. Chain may be wrapped
around the base and hooked/ then tightened
so it absolutely cannot rattle.
Size:— Length in minimum position 31".
dfd
LIFTS CAR ON ANY SURFACE . . .
The Vesta Safety Jock is the only Jack of its
kind lifts the bumper and wheel at the
same time. On hills, ice or mud the job of
raising the wheel is swift and simple and the
car is held safe and solid.
fd
IDEAL FOR WOMEN DRIVERS . . .
Women drivers may now jack their cars and
change wheels with absolute safety mini-
mum effort required no need to crawl
under car.
Country Visitors to Royal Easter Show
call at Vesta Stand 32 in the Com-
memorative Pavilion.
Mode by VES T A PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
Subsidiary of Vesta Battery Co. Ltd.
Elizabeth Gr McEvoy Sts., Waterloo, Sydney.
Branches in all States and in New Zealand. _


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3707
Wednesday, February 28, 1951
t 0
aQ
t
■ m
mm^rn^ g:
WAITING THEIR CHANCE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
TIME FOR ACTION.
Next week’s meeting of Parliament is
merely a preliminary to the main session.
It is designed, it has been reported, to
allow the Government to deal with its
defence, industrial and foreign policies,
but it is likely that the future of the
Ministry will hang upon its proceedings.
It is just over a year since the new
Parliament first met. The main proposals
hurriedly placed before the Houses as
urgent early last year are still not carried
through. The Communist-party Dissolu-
tion Act still awaits the High Court’s deci-
sion, and the Government sits by, power-
less to take action until that decision is
issued. In the meantime the Communist
party has largely succeeded in defeating
the objectives of the Act. It has trans-
ferred much of its machinery to the large
Communist-run unions, some of which
are integral parts of the Labor party —
a position which needs more explaining
than has been done.
The Government has failed to find
any means of dealing with these union
operations and their Communist leaders,
though, after the failure to convict
Comrade Williams, of the coalminers, of
contempt before the Arbitration Court, it
proposes to try new expedients, which
may be just as challengeable.
In fighting the Communists in the
courts it faces the opposition of the Labor
party, ahd particularly (in his barrister’s
wig) of its deputy-leader, Dr. Evatt.
The “Labor” leaders, from Mr. Chifley
downward, who were last year fulminat-
ing against Communism and the year
before using the military to defeat their
conspiracy on the coalfields, are now
apparently convinced that they would
prefer a Communist victory to a Govern-
ment victory in any industrial contest.
They are virtually forced into that position
by the fact that, being deprived of
electioneering facilities available to a
Government in office and with funds
depleted by the intensiveness of the last
election campaign, they must keep in with
the Watersiders, the Ironworkers, the
Builders’ Laborers and other Communist-
led unions which are part of the A.L.P.
—at least in N. S. Wales —if they are to
have enough sinews of war to battle
through the next election campaign.
The Commonwealth Bank is still,
despite the submission of the amendment
bill twice, in the hands of the Chifley-
appointed governor. Nothing has been
done about the revaluation of the pound,
upon which it is common belief in Can-
berra that there has been a serious diver-
gence of opinion between the Treasurer
and other Ministers.
The modest compulsory-training pro-
posals of the Government are wantonly
held up at a time of grave world crisis
by the “Labor”-dominated Senate, which
took the matter out of the Ministry’s
hands and appointed a purely “Labor”
committee to inquire. The dishonesty of
this proposal was clear from the fact that
“Labor” was freshly out of office, and its
defeated defence Ministers had a full
knowledge of the defence position.
The committee is obviously a purely
political device, wicked and reckless, to
destroy for political purposes the very
modest defence plan put forward, despite
the increasing tension of the world posi-
tion, and to gain time to allow the
Federal Conference of the Labor party
to decide the Senate’s and the Lower
House Labor party’s policy.
The matter of reducing the civil service
to reasonable proportions has not been
dealt with. Despite the present Govern-
ment’s attitude when it was elected, the
service has continued to grow expensively.
The daily Press is sometimes crowded with
advertisements for more and more
planners. Salaries and wages have
climbed, and the huge schemes which Mr.
Casey has for development, some in-
herited from the “Labor” party, and which
were scheduled to cost £750,000,000 or
so when they were adopted a year ago,
may cost several times that amount at the
rate at which inflation is growing.
In the departments of the civil service
not connected with development, offices
are filled with hordes of highly-paid
bureaucrats, thousands of whom would
be better employed in filling the shortage
of labor in private enterprise, and many
of them promoted in a few years from
the work of political agitation to the
public service with no other qualification
than their political color.
As industry is riddled with Com-
munism, so are Ministers’ immediate
secretariats riddled with openly political
appointees hostile and resistant to Liberal-
and Country-party policy and openly in
favor of the return of “Labor” to office.
Even apart from that, there seems to be
little more eagerness for economy among
Liberal Ministers than there was among
“Labor” Ministers, and some, like the
Minister for External Affairs, are dedi-
cated to the same spirit of lavish expan-
sion as their predecessors in office.
The Government will have to face five
major problems at once —the general
financial and taxation problem, including
adjustment of the pound to the realities
of the world position; the handling of
the cost of living and of inflation in
general; defence (which is vital and
urgent); the question of industrial
discipline and the exclusion of the
Communists from the civil service and
union control; and the establishment of
a practical foreign policy which will fit in
with the defence programme.
It is by no means all the Government’s
fault that it has not succeeded in carrying
out its objectives so far. It has been
hampered by a weak and limited Com-
monwealth Constitution which was never
planned for a country in which all
authority is being swiftly centralised in
the national Government. It was intended
for a federation of sovereign States, and
not for an all-powerful central State to
which the supposedly sovereign States
have become subsidiary.
Mr. Menzies has been hamstrung by
the dishonest reorganisation of the
electoral system, unconstitutional in prin-
ciple and in essence, which “Labor”
framed while in office with the deliber-
ate intention of providing an inevitably
hostile Senate to control any non-“ Labor”
Government which might succeed it. He
is hampered, too, by the nature of Aus-
tralian non-“ Labor” politics which call
for a coalition Government of two parties,
a Government necessarily of compromise,
and by the habit which has grown up of
choosing Ministers to represent the States
rather than because of their individual
ability and drive.
But whatever the causes and however
much sympathy is due to Mr. Menzies,
the present position cannot continue. Not
only the country, but the large rank-and-
file of the members of the Liberal and
Country parties are obviously restive and
expect a clear and early lead and prompt
and decisive action on all major issues.
With war looming—“inevitable,” Mr.
Menzies was told —and with the defence
effort threatened by industrial strife
blatantly organised by the agents of a
foreign enemy, there can be no room for
further delay in obtaining the means to
enable the Government to govern and
to carry out its election promises made
15 months ago. The whole of the think-
ing electors will be disappointed if the
Prime Minister does not, during the com-
ing short session, throw down the gauntlet
to “Labor,” and, if he cannot bring it to
heel, take Parliament to the country in a
double-dissolution at the earliest possible
moment.
There must be a Government which
can govern and assert its authority before
the international situation develops much
further. Not to have one in office in the
event of war would spell ruin in view
of the internal enemy-organised sources
from which the present Administration’s
main difficulties arise.
Streamline Expert.
After a hearing lasting nearly two weeks,
including adjournment, on a question of
contempt against itself, the Full Bench of
the Arbitration Court decided, “in view
of a divergence of views of the four
members of this court on questions of
fact,” that the charge of a breach of
undertaking in contempt brought against
president Williams, of the Miners’ Federa-
tion, should be dismissed.
Fortunately the spectacle is rare in our
annals of an ex-Attorney-General of the
Commonwealth appearing in court on
behalf of a striking union’s leader to plead
that his own legislation to prevent strikes
is impotent and invalid, even against a
union which has formally resolved that
it “never has accepted arbitration and
never will.”
It by no means follows that Dr. Evatt’s
argument is right, but it is urgently neces-
sary for the Government to have deter-
mined, in law, whether the late “Labor”
Government did, as Mr. Fadden said at
the time, “ringbark” arbitration so
thoroughly that it is now but a rotting stick.
Dr. Evatt declared—and the court
decision refrained from comment on his
statements —that it was doubtful whether
the Coal Tribunal, Mr. Gallagher, is an
officer of the Commonwealth, and if not
he could not prohibit one-day stoppages.
Why not, if he has the powers of an
N.S.W. Industrial Commissioner? He
said:
The Coal Industry Act of 1946 [Evatt’s
own Act] transferred to the tribunal all
the powers of the Arbitration Court in
relation to the coal industry.
The amending Arbitration Act of 1947
[his own Act] restricted the powers of the
Arbitration Court to “such issues as the
basic wage, standard hours, female rates,
and annual leave,” gave all other powers
previously vested in the court to Concilia-
tion Commissioners.
The Coal Industry Act was not amended
[by himself] at that time to take into
account th|s restriction of the court’s
powers.
Therefore the Coal Tribunal had not any
better powers than those left to an Arbi-
tration Court judge [by Dr. Evatt], and
could not prohibit stoppages of work, and
all orders of the Coal Tribunal, except on
wages, hours and annual leave, made since
1947, were invalid.
This is what Dr. Evatt, while piloting
the legislation through Parliament, called
“streamlining arbitration,” and at the 1949
elections he paraded “ ‘Labor’s’ magnifi-
EPIC OF THE
JERVIS BAY—Page 24.
cent record” as justification for a renewal
of electoral confidence. The inferences,
right or wrong, which his latest effort
invites the public to draw are these:
The Arbitration Court can no langer
either “conciliate” a dispute or make orders
prohibiting a strike, and if it tries to do
so it can be insulted by any rebel union
without peril of contempt of court. It
would seem that a Conciliation Commis-
sioner can forbid stoppages of work
against an award, and when he has met
difficulties with such an order he has
referred the case to the court; this is, how-
ever, apparently now useless.
The Coal Tribunal also cannot settle
a dispute or “conciliate” it, and apparently
cannot even call a compulsory conference
upon one.
The Arbitration Court’s order for pay-
ment of miners’ funds into court (i.e., to
itself) during the coal strike of 1949 was
apparently invalid (though Dr. Evatt did
not say so then).
Communist Williams and other Com-
munist union bosses not only gave no
undertaking in 1949, but could not be re-
quired by the court to give one; and they
did not in 1949 really disobey any Arbitra-
tion Court orders to pay in money because
any such order was invalid (though Dr.
Evatt did not say so then).
In short. Dr. Evatt’s attitude is that, as
a result of his “streamlining” of arbitra-
tion while in office, the entire arbitration
system —the court and the special
tribunals granted to militant unions—can
only, when faced with a strike, collapse
like a foundered horse ; and that any
union, especially one bossed by a Com-
munist executive, can do what it likes
with legal impunity.
Mr, Justice Kirby, a member of the
Arbitration Court Bench, is another
special tribunal (on the waterfront), and
presumably Dr. Evatt’s reflections on the
Coal Tribunal’s powers would apply
equally to him.
It is worth while to look back and see
what the Government which Dr. Evatt
adorned thought of the Coal Industry
Act while “Labor” operated it. That
legislation, now ridiculed as a poor
deformed thing, gave (with the N.S.W.
Government’s co-operation) to the Coal
Tribunal, Mr. Gallagher, the powers of
both an Arbitration Court judge and a
judge of the N.S.W. Industrial Commis-
sion. He was empowered to make any
order within his wide range of authority,
and the Act provided penalties for
defiance of such order ranging up to
£lOOO and six months’ imprisonment.
When the miners threatened a general
strike in 1949 Dr. Evatt’s leader. Prime
Minister Chifley, regarded the Coal
Tribunal as his sheet-anchor:
The Coal Tribunal must deal with dis-
putes in the coal industry. The tribunal
was set up at the request of the Miners’
Federation As an adjunct to that
tribunal certain industrial officers were
appointed [reference-boards] so that diffi-
culties might be dealt with promptly. Pro-
vision is made for the settlement of dis-
putes whether they come from the owners
or the miners. The tribunal Is the only
authority the Government is going to
recognise in settling any dispute.
It is probably the most complete form of
arbitration. If the miners are prepared to
disregard the tribunal and resort to
direct action, the Federal and N.S.W. Gov-
ernments must consider whether the tri-
bunal is worth keeping and whether the
miners will not have to go back to the
Arbitration Court, which, they said, did
not deal with their troubles expeditiously
enough.
Was he sincere in this? Did Dr. Evatt
at his elbow whisper: “Look out, this
tribunal does not really matter a rasp-
berry, only, thank Heaven, Menzies is
with us in fighting the strike”? Or did
the omniscient author of these statutes
remain ignorant, till now, of what he had
done?
Hear also the stern words of Mr.
Chifley’s impeccable McKenna, then
being groomed for Attorney-General if
Dr. Evatt should be removed to higher
place:
The Miners’ Federation had better be
prepared for deregistration. When that
happens their federation will be replaced
by another organisation which has some
responsibility to Australia and the people
living it. There is a very real duty
on the miners to purge the contempt they
have shown for the Australian people. If
trade-unionists are not prepared to dis-
charge their responsibilities to the people
I shall be one of those who recommend to
the Government to take the matter out of
their hands and introduce compulsory
voting and secret ballots.
The 1949 coal strike which followed
began with one-day stoppages. As the
first of these was announced Communist
Williams gave out the special resolution
passed by the Miners’ Central Council,
which declared;
This federation never has, and never
will, accept arbitration as the desirable
method of settling industrial disputes....
Slavish adherence to the arbitration
courts would lead to a serious weakening
of unions, since they would depend upon
the decisions of judges instead of their
own organisations.
Did the Chifley Government ever get
“undertakings” from these Communist
wreckers? Indeed it did. In August,
1949, the Joint Coal Board applied to the
Coal Tribunal for penalties against the
leaders of the strike. Stop-work meetings
on the coalfields were called to protest
against this application. Mr. Chifley’s
Fuel Minister (“Fixer” Ashley) and
N.S.W. Premier McGirr—no nonsense
then about coal stoppages being “nothing
to do with the N.S.W. Government” —
called a conference with the miners’
leaders and the Coal Board. The miners’
leaders undertook, in return for (1)
abandonment of strike-penalty proceed-
ings before the tribunal, and (2) adjourn-
ment indefinitely of a case then being
heard for stricter qualifications for
holiday pay and annual leave payments, to
Call off stop-work meetings.
Give effect within three weeks to their
pledges to enforce Internal discipline.
Recommend to unionists production of
coal on a second shift at open-cuts.
On which employers’ representatives
commented that they did not think much
of the bargain, and the Coal Tribunal
said he would provide for “the matter
to be restored to the list if occasion
arises.” Occasion has never ceased aris-
ing ever since, but the miners’ increased
annual-leave privileges, thus obtained,
have not been rescinded. That the
tribunal has power to rescind them now,
even Dr. Evatt would probably admit.
The whole atmosphere would be
cleared of a lot of make-believe
and tomfoolery if the mineowners
were allowed again to manage their
own business. Perhaps if Mr. Gallagher
were promoted from the position where
he possesses the (according to Dr. Evatt)
insignificant authority of both a Com-
monwealth and a State judge in industrial
jurisdiction to be a Conciliation Com-
missioner, he might be empowered to
include in every award penal clauses to
cover strikes against the award without
resort to arbitration.
Deferred Pay for Youths.
employment” it
was frequently argued that cdminals were
S
hieves and swindlers didn t stea or cheat
throu f “ n f s S ied them
an out-of-date social y«em den ed them
f. P r °P er . share °L th f„ S R
thereby forcing them to try to take it
themselves It was an argument
lop } ; , in
) vhich a PP ear ." d t 0 j isome '/alidfly m
unfortunates'om 7 o
gf^ s re JS 0 “o stealing. But
• accept ed h crime is the
11 11 f y u . Clir . ]v follows
a u c |dd ' a 2 as e if n altogether.
sh °“ ld d £ rea “’ “ ”£ e ™^ e ' case •„ , te
Anat mis f a f ll , nt » must
P-sem .era of must
criminal court rep y orts . Robbery witn
violence, housebreaking and lesser crimes
’ , 0 mrxsf
are of almost daily occurrence, arid m
culprits are young men who nave
, J • u i-'milrln’t
never known a time When a job C
b e picked Up for the asking,
, rWlpwk hnrl cnmething tO Say
Judge CUneWIS nad SOmeiniug *v 3
0 n the subject in Sydney recently when
, . , ]nH , wpr tu/r . vnlln p<sterS of 18 and
he bound Over tWO youngsters ul 10 «
20 who pleaded guilty tO a Charge 01
•
buupuicaa.llls .
I am appalled at the number 01 cases
which come before the courts in which
vouths on high wages squander their money
g to raise more,
and then turn to crime to raise mui*.
fj e suggested that it might be a gOb
plan to make lads on high wages “pa
some of them into a fund on which the)
could draw when they were old en g*
to realise the value of money,
An ex-serviceman himself, the j :
was obviously thinking of the •
deferred-pay system, without whic
a young Digger would have found n®
self demobbed without a penny
pocket, although plentyof:money
passed through his pay book during
time m the se ™£ e -, , Th^ r . , ,
doubt be many difficulties ass
the introduction of such a sysw®) ..
civil life, but most ex-servicemen
agree that it IS Well Worth While nw* &
, nttpmnt
attempt,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Surrender at Sea.
The announcement that the British
Socialist Government proposed to agree
that the command of Atlantic naval
defence should be handed over to a
United States admiral must have come as
a cold shock to the British people, how-
ever excellent the U.S. commander chosen
may be.
For 250 years the R.N. has held its
own special position in the world. The
English have always had a distrust of
armies and have generally been ready to
look on them in European wars merely
as a contribution thrown into the pool,
and not as a decisive factor. They have
never claimed the right to provide Allied
land Cs.-in-C., in spite of the fact that
Marlboroughs, Wellingtons and their like
have often eventually proved the
superiority of British soldierly talent.
The Royal Navy was a different matter.
Never have its home forces served under
a foreign commander. It was not merely
the senior service out of courtesy. It
still is a weapon on which the life and
commerce of the British Isles and the
Empire or Commonwealth depend.
For over 100 years the Royal Navy
enforced its dominion on all seas,
demanded that it receive the salutes of
ships of all nations. It claimed the right
to stop, search and bring to British ports
in time of war neutral ships suspect of
belligerency. A British Court of Admi-
ralty once ruled that “Great Britain, in
virtue of her insular position, blockaded
naturally all the Spanish and French
ports.” In fact, Britain claimed and en-
forced absolute sovereignty of the seas,
and even when modern conditions led to
unobtrusive relinquishment of that claim,
it proved to be enforcable in two great
wars in the Atlantic, as shown by the
shattering and abject surrender of the
German fleet in 1918, the defeat of the
submarine campaign of the Germans, the
stopping of the Japanese in the Indian
Ocean and the holding of the Mediter-
ranean against all odds in World War 11.
The Attlees, by their notorious neglect
of the British naval arm, obviously do
not see eye to eye with Admiral Nimitz,
who, when he gave up the post of Chief
of Naval Operations of the United States
in 1947, wrote:
Sir Walter Raleigh declared in the early
17th century that “whosoever commands
the sea commands the trade; whoever
commands the trade of the world com-
mands the riches of the world, and con-
sequently the world itself.” This principle
is as true today as when it was uttered,
and its effects will continue so long as
ships traverse the sea. That this period
extends beyond the foreseeable future is
apparent when it is realised that the 100,000
long tons of cargo which 44 ships can
transport from San Francisco to Australia
Jtnonthly would require for the same pur-
pose 10,000 four-engined CB7 airplanes
wanned by 120,000 highly-trained personnel,
plus 89 sea-going tankers.
The Attlee Government- apparently is
ready to agree with Admiral Nimitz not
on this point but in his dictum that be-
cause of American naval destruction of
Japanese and German —yes, German —
sea-power, “U.S. control of the sea has
become indisputable so absolute that
it is taken for granted.”
The tally in destruction of German sea-
power was eight to one in favor of
Britain. The Government is prepared
that Britain, the key of the Atlantic and
(with Gibraltar and Malta) of Europe
and the African and Indian Ocean
approaches, shall go a long way towards
becoming what Moscow terms “a naval
dockyard and a 829 base of the United
States.”
Clean Up the Wharves.
Moscow’s orders for the sabotage of
transport industries of all Western coun-
tries, in order to cripple defence prepara-
tions, explain railway and dock strikes in
Britain, U.S.A., France and the wharf-
stoppages now mounting to a general
strike here in Australia as they already
have done in New Zealand.
The campaign against ships’ cargoes in
every port of Australia and New Zealand
is one of deliberate injury to trade and
transport, and is pursued in malice and
enmity against the communities and their
Governments. Reluctance of the Gov-
ernments concerned to deal with it has
vastly encouraged the union’s lawless-
ness, which is carried on in concert by
the watersiders’ bosses on both sides of
the Tasman.
Last week the N.Z. Government de-
clared a state of emergency as a step to
dismissal of all who will not work and
the enlisting of a new working force.
The Commonwealth Government has
held its hand from drastic action for
longer than had been supposed possible
from the viewpoint of its prestige. It
brought out the Crimes Act once —in
Brisbane against the local watersiders’
executive—with immediate and salutary
effect; and its hesitation to use the same
stick now is inexplicable. Communist
Healy’s executive, which previously
banned one shift in three in protest
against the Kirby award, has responded
to the Full Court’s confirmation of it by
threatening to ban all shifts except one,
as well as all overtime, in all ports.
As with the coalminers, the object of
the partial stoppage, along with a limita-
tion of effort while on the job, is to bring
about all the public loss and injury
accompanying a general strike while pre-
serving sufficient of watersiders’ wages to
conserve the union’s strike funds. The
congestion in all Australian ports is
appalling, the costs of sea-freights are
rising fast and continually, and the result-
ant hardships, losses and inflation of
prices will speedily be visited on the
entire community. No self-respecting
democracy can tolerate this outrage.
The Stevedoring Industry Board, the
Government’s agent, has been suspend-
ing gangs for refusing to work overtime
at the end of a day and re-engaging them
next morning at much advertising cost in
Press and radio notices to inform these
rebels that their jobs are still safe. It has
been reported in Melbourne that the
Government has been “reluctant to pro-
voke a general strike.”
There could be no graver sign of weak-
ness in face of a pampered union whose
leaders are at proclaimed enmity against
Australia’s welfare. These rebels and
wreckers ought to be given short and
stern warning of deregistration and
cancellation outright of all award bene-
fits, accompanied by criminal proceed-
ings against their leaders and the indi-
vidual licensing of all waterside workers
as a preliminary to their return to work,
if they want it. Licensing might also
check pillaging of cargoes. The trade
of the country has been laid waste by the
bushranging gang running this union for
long enough.
A Catholic University.
The proposed establishment of a Sydney
university by the Roman Catholic Church
has met with almost general opposition
from other churches. It is contended
that there is enough sectional division in
this community already, and it is well
known that Communism, the enemy of all
religions, seeks to divide. The proposal
was bound to raise controversy. But so
far no question of a State subsidy has
arisen, and in that respect the proposal
differs from the question of State sub-
sidies to denominational schools. As
things are, Sydney University itself is
short of money.
The church’s chief motive, it is
said, is “the discharge of its duty of
training young citizens according to
definite Christian principles.” And there
is no question that, to Christian-minded
people, public educational trends in
recent years have been very disturbing.
It has been made clear that the move
is in great measure inspired by the earnest-
ness of the Roman Catholic Church in
combating Communism everywhere, and
in this instance what have been described
as Communistic sympathies in some
individuals on the Sydney University staff.
The church’s enterprise in the arraign-
ment of the tyrannical and anti-Christian
force in Communism has been acknow-
ledged throughout Europe and is nothing
but praiseworthy. The same influence is
being used here, with some success, in
turning the minds of trade-unionists to a.
clearer perception of Communism’s
menace to their rights within their
organisations. But is it sound strategy
for “fighting Communism” that the
church, so far as university training is
concerned, should wall itself up within a
close citadel? Would not the struggle be
more advantageous as an offensive
carried abroad?
"Shoddy."
From A, T. Ockerby, Manly (N.S.W.):
I read with interest your leading article, “this
Age of Shoddy.” ,
You will pardon me for saying so, but ,1
think that The Bulletin of today is shoddy.
Early in the century The Bulletin was a great
journal, and had a great political influence,
but it has lost its broad outlook, and only a
minority take it seriously—the wishful thinkers!
For instance, Labor could produce a man
of the century, but The Bulletin would still
hold him up to ridicule and picture him as a
self-seeking humbug, while, on the other hand,
it would make a tin god of a silver-tongued
panjandrum on the other side; one who had no
particular vision with regard to the future.
Future problems cannot all be solved by
experience and lessons from the past, and it is
usually the unorthodox man that points the
way.
Orthodox politicians and economists all oyer
the world showed extraordinary lack of vision
between the world wars, and precipitated a
dreadful depression. The same thing may
happen again.
Until private enterprise has the answer to
unemployment it has no answer to a Welfare
State. In times of stress all their financial
advisers can think of is redaction of expendi-
ture and retrenchment. It is then the function
of the Government to lift the unemployed otf
the market, but the Government cannot, do this
unless it pays into a sinking-fund in the boom
times as insurance for the lean years.
It is not necessary to socialise everything, but
State and private enterprise can function lor
their mutual benefit.
Government finance should function in the
reverse way to private enterprise. In boom
times Governments should maintain high taxa-
tion but curtail expenditure, and deposit sur-
pluses into an insurance or social-service fund.
In lean times the Governments should reduce
taxation and increase expenditure by drawing
on reserves; but orthodox financiers never have
had any reserves.
At the last Federal election the majority
of Australians appeared to take The
Bulletin seriously. And if it appeals
only to “wishful thinkers,” then its readers
must delight in harder work, more work-
ing-hours per week, compulsory service,
and ideals of a united Australia. Admit-
tedly this is not the sort of “wishful
YOUTH AND THE
WELFARE STATE
—Page 16.
thinking” that “Labor” politicians in-
dulge in.
When the Australian Labor party pro-
duces a man who sincerely advocates the
principle of a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay, who speaks the truth, who
disentangles the party from its
treacherous Communist affiliations, and
who puts the interests of the country be-
fore those of the party The Bulletin
will be prepared to pay him every honor.
Such a man will, of course, have to
realise that the Welfare State can only be
supported by greater production from
those now working—each additional
non-producing or non-contributing de-
pendant imposes a greater burden on
present workers. The mere printing of
money is no good ; there has to be pro-
duction, which “Labor” in depression
years was only too ready to regard as
real wealth, but which in its last years of
office it was keen on ignoring altogether.
The late Chifley Government did the
cause of the Labor party a vast amount
of damage. If there was a single con-
structive mind in the Cabinet it never
revealed itself in Parliamentary debates
on vital matters. The party’s policy was
based on parisitism rather than Socialism,
its economics on paper money rather
than production. It promoted the class-
war, but evaded defence responsibilities.
And Mr. Chifley, whether orthodox or
unorthodox as a financier—where are the
reserves he could have left from the
boom revenues his Treasury received?
Mr. Chifley, “looking to the future”
and promising a “Golden Age,”
left to his successors a legacy of
rampant inflation and a produc-
tion depression, together with a
disastrously unruly trade-union move-
ment. It was the A.C.T.U. which
governed the country when “Labor” was
in office, not the “Labor” Government.
No such vested interest should govern
any country,
A Knot in the Tangle.
Nothing could better show up the
inland transport muddle than this example
from Berri (S.A.). A co-operative fruit
company there handles thousands of
cases of oranges a year, and it could, if
allowed, put oranges in Sydney and Mel-
bourne at prices below those which
usually rule.
But Berri is not connected with Mel-
bourne by rail, except via Tailem Bend,
and rail to Sydney involves a 1000-mile
journey via Melbourne and Albury, with
transhipping at Albury.
South Australian Transport Strangula-
tion Board won’t issue road-permits to
trucks to cart oranges direct from Berri
to Sydney via the Sturt Highway, a two-
day journey. But if the fruit is loaded on
to a train at Berri, railed 12 miles to
Renmark and unloaded again on to
trucks, road-permits are issued for the
Renmark-Sydney road journey.
Even if the carrier is prepared to do
this he has still to obtain a Victorian
road-permit, which may be refused, and
to pay 3d. a ton a mile over N.S.W. roads
from Gol Gol or Euston to Sydney. That
is in addition to the £lO for Victorian
and S.A. road-permits.
Under a properly-organised transport
system road and rail would be comple-
mentary. In the orange season trucks
would load at Berri, run to Hay (N.5.W.),,
where a fast freight-train would load for
Sydney and intermediate stations, and so
get the fruit to where it was most needed.
For Melbourne the rail station could be
Mildura. But while Government rail-
ways regard road-operators as deadly
enemies nothing like that will ever come
about.
Ready-made Stoush-house.
When it was discovered that Sydney’s
Eastern Suburbs railway had either to
uproot Wren’s Rushcutter Bay Stadium
or slice away parts of an adjacent park,
the McGirrs indicated that they favored
preserving the stoush-house. But a multi-
tude of indignant voices arose, and they
flayed their hand. Controversy then
raged for a couple of years or so. Finally
the; McGirrs yielded—the Stadium must
go. Now, it seems, a solution likely to
calm the injured souls of Wren and all
the followers of stoush has appeared.
Back in 1947 McGirr, desperately seek-
ing an election-winner, rushed in the 40-
hour week, thereby beginning the sorry
story of underproduction and rising costs
that has benighted Australia ever since.
Along with McGirr’s own transport ser-
vices, the privately-owned Sydney ferries
were amongst the first to feel the pinch.
Unlike the trams and buses, however,
the ferries couldn’t bump their losses
back to the taxpayer, and the other day
they had to announce that costs had
beaten them. The McGirr Government
was invited to take them over, but it
snorted something about refusing unless
it could also have the tourist-ferry trade
(which pays) as well.
Meantime, at Circular Quay, a grand
“quay railway-station” costing millions is
under construction. It won’t be worth
much without the ferries. Hence the
solution. Sell it to Wren for a stadium!
The Attlee Set-up.
From London : George Isaacs, pre-
decessor of Aneurin Bevan in the
Ministry of Labor, was a weak Minister ;
Prime Minister Attlee hasn’t much of
quality to choose from, and Bevan had
long been straining at the leash.
If Bevan, till the recent general
reshuffle, had as Minister of Health
held office longer than any pre-
decessor, it is not because of his tact and
administrative skill, but entirely due to
his political position, political-mindedness
and political power. Having alienated
himself from half the country he will
not, as Minister of Labor, command
respect from Employers’ Federations —
and he will have some delicate negotia-
tions waiting for him, particularly in con-
nection with labor-effort in the immense
defence programme.
Of the leading Socialists, three only can
claim respect outside the party fold:,
Chuter Ede, from all quarters;
Herbert Morrison, as a House of Com-
mons man ; and, with reservations. Prime
Minister Attlee for the way he manages to
balance his wobbly boat.
Of the rest, Bevin is sick and the
remaining four have all blundered up-
wards. Shinwell muffed the fuel
crisis and graduated to Minister of
Defence. Strachey’s peanut pioneering
cost the taxpayers £36,500,000, and
he went to the War Office. Dalton’s
Budget indiscretion was but a pecca-
dillo by comparison with his finan-
cial policy and pamphlet, “European
Unity,” and he is now responsible for
housing as well as local planning.
Sevan’s health-service stampede is left
for another to sort out while he takes
over Labor. And poor Isaacs (not
one of the top-rankers in the oligarchy)
needs relaxation, so he’s gone to the
Ministry of Pensions. Unlike the others,
who have suffered no loss of position or
salary, his remuneration is reduced by
£2OOO a year—to a mere £3OOO,
The Opposition would have done a
public service if it had succeeded in
forcing a general election by any of its
censure motions, the defeat of which looks
like leaving the Attlees entrenched for
a fair time ahead,
Australian Publishing.
Angus and Robertson’s complete
catalogue of books recently published
and reprinted—a nicely-printed booklet
of 114 pages with an optimistic aborigine
surrounded by turtles and goannas on
the cover —is a fine record for any Aus-
tralian publisher to be able to produce in
a Jubilee year.
Among the novels and short-stories
there are 37 Australian titles including
Coast to Coast, Brent of Bin Bin’s
Prelude to Waking, Tom Collins’s Such
Is Life, Miles Franklin’s All That
Swagger, Brian James’s Spencer Button,
Vance Palmer’s Golconda —to 13 English
and American.
Every one of the 26 volumes of history
and biography including Nina
((Continued on next page.)


x::-x
They satisfy
In every way •. •
CRAVENA'
wade specially i .
pievwt so
at
r
V*
A
sJSSfflg
res
CIGa
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUfILITYJ
Murdoch’s life of Longstaff, George
Mackaness’s Bligh, Eris O’Brien’s The
Foundation of Australia, Billy Hughes’s
Policies and Potentates, Ferguson’s
monumental Bibliography —is Australian.
There are 35 volumes of poetry and
essays, all Australian; with Shaw
Neilson, McCrae, Mary Gilmore, Rose-
mary Dobson, John O’Brien, “Banjo”
Paterson, Judith Wright, Kenneth
Slessor and Francis Webb among the
poets, and Nettie Palmer’s critical study
of Henry Handel Richardson, A. R.
Chisholm on Brennan, H. M. Green's
Fourteen Minutes and Walter Murdoch’s
essays among the belles lettres.
Travel books are all Australian. The
indefatigable Frank Clune and the in-
valuable lon Idriess figure largely on the
list; and there are also C. L. A. Abbott’s
Australia’s Frontier Province. Arthur
Groom’s One Mountain After Another,
Ernestine Hill’s Flying Doctor Calling,
Frank Hurley’s Shackleton s Argonauts,
Elyne Mitchell’s Australia’s Alps and the
famous Flying Fox and Drifting Sand
by Francis Ratcliffe.
Nature books, too, are all Australian—
Cayley, Chisholm, Thistle Harris, Keith
McKeown, Roughley of the Barrier Reef.
Children’s books —and at a time when
some other firm with a set of American
reprints is just about pushing the Aus-
tralian children’s writer off the map are
at least 50 per cent. Australian, with such
names as Mary Grant Bruce, Pixie
O’Harris, May Gibbs, D. H. Gilmore,
Will Lawson and, of course. The Magic
Pudding.
And so it goes on, into all those odd
flowerings of literature which a big and
broad national publishing policy must
support: technical books about sheep,
sanitary engineering, dogs, ticks, poultry,
milk, building, dressmaking and the
immortal Goulburn Cookery Book.
There is the “Miscellaneous” section
which includes The Bible, Emile Mercier s
cartoons and Dr. H. V. Evatt’s speeches,
also the art book commemorating
Howard Hinton and based on his collec-
tion at Armidale, now on the verge o
publication. There are the educational
books, nearly all Australian; and there
are now Australian authors to tell you
all you should know about diet, human
physiology, the anatomy of the sheeps
brain, feeding the baby and chiropody.
In spite of strikes, blackouts and high
costs, the catalogue lists a total of 43/
books of which 364 —84 per cent.—are
by Australian authors.
POLITICAL POINTS
ment that he intends to adopt the Federal
rolls. Until he does that his electoral
system will always be suspect.
“Australia has never had a fifth-column
in time of war. But what will happen if
the Federal Government dumps
thousands of Germans into this country
under its migration scheme?” ran the
advertisement of a protest meeting
(Df. Evatt star speaker) against the admis-
sion of German migrants. Apparently the
sponsors hadn’t the gall to pretend that
Australia hasn’t a fifth-column in this time
of nominal peace. There will be a very
effective one, too, in time of war if
Russia is the enemy and Communist
officials are still in charge of key unions.
“Miners’ officials” are reported as
complaining that the Gallagher attend-
ance bonus is “unfair to the majority of
miners.” Various circumstances are
cited in which men would lose the bonus
through no fault of their own. If some
of the statements are correct, e.g., that
men would miss out if absent through
illness or accident, breakdowns of
machinery or on statutory holidays, there
seems to be a case for reconsideration,
but holding the community up to ransom
is no way to get it. The miners’ leaders
made no complaint on this score when
they first opposed the award. Their
objection was purely that they don’t be-
lieve in incentive payments.
Mr. A.C.T.U. Monk’s patience is
almost running out. After powwowing
off and on for a Couple of weeks with
Comrade Williams and Co, he has warned
them that the A.C.T.U.
will inform the trade-union movement of
the first sign they see of any attempt to
capitalise this dispute into a political one
at the behest of the Communist party.
First sign? Photographic evidence to the
contrary notwithstanding, it seems that
for the past fortnight Mr. Monk has
been going around with a black bandage
over his eyes, earplugs in his lugs and a
peg on his nose.
As a result of the Maylands by-
election the McLarty Government in
Westralia wifi now have a majority in the
Assembly. His name is Oldfield, and he
got home by 492 over Hartley (“Labor”)
after the preferences of an Independent
and a Communist had been distributed.
State of parties now is L.C.L., 17 ; C.P.,
nine ; “Labor,” 23 ; Independent, one.
“Labor” candidate Lucy led by 49
in a poll of 28,000 when counting ceased
for the weekend in the Ivanhoe (Vic.) by-
election, actual position being Lucy
(“Labor”), 10,009; Block (Lib.-C.P.),
9960; Leonard (Ind.), 8470. On those
figures Block seemed a certainty to retain
the seat for the Libs.
Slangwhanging over the state of the
Queensland electoral rolls is still raging.
Opposition-leader Nicklin last week
claimed that the roll for the Warrego
electorate, where there is a by-election
brewing, had been stuffed. He quoted
several names which he said appeared
twice. Hanlon replied that Nicklin hadn’t
looked carefully enough or he would
have noticed that the names had been
erased from one subdivision and added
to another. Nicklin came back with the
accusation that the erasures had been
made after his disclosures, Hanlon replied
—well, anyway, whatever he replied he’ll
be repeating in Parliament this week when
the Opposition moves a non-confidence
motion covering the whole business. The
only reply he could make that would
satisfy everyone would be an announce-
R. J. Gardner, whose election as
member for Bulimba in the Queensland
Assembly was declared void on January
2 by the Elections Appeal Tribunal, last
week thanked his “Labor” colleagues for
“the way they have stood by” him. Bris-
bane “Courier-Mail,” pointing out that,
had Parliament been in session at the
time of the verdict, it would have been
bound by law to declare the seat vacant
and order a new election, remarks that
All this time the Parliamentary Labor
party has “stood by” Mr. Gardner while
he has continued to draw the pay of a
duly-elected member. No wonder he is
grateful.
Meanwhile, all inquiries as to who was
responsible for manipulating the rigged
votes are met with the reply that the
police are making a full investigation.
They’ve been making it for nearly two
months.
Remarks from the Arbitration Court
Bench during final argument in the recent
contempt case;
Kirby, J.: There was a strong respon-
sibility on the court to see that any
undertakings entered into were clear and
unambiguous.
Mr. Barwick, K.C. (for the Common-
wealth): The court was dealing with men
who were supposed to be men of honor.
Kirby, J.: It seems to me that your
reasoning is an attack on the court for not
being explicit in making the undertaking
with the men. The men are not at fault.
Dunphy, J. (to Mr. Barwick): Do not
consider me in anything Mr. Justice Kirby
is saying. I think he is saying it prema-
turely.
Kirby, J.: I did not suggest any such
thing.
Acting Chief Judge Foster; I find it
hard to believe the court would have
released them if they were going to do
what they have done,
Earle Page’s Department of Health
should investigate a report that the out-
break of encephalitis (or sleeping-sickness)
in northern Victoria is believed to have
originated on the wharves.
Narrow escapes of the Attlee Govern-
ment have almost ceased to be news, but
they can’t be very good for the Socialists’
peace of mind —especially as all the indi-
cations are that a general election at
the present time would see them thrown
out neck and crop. Recent Gallup polls
show the Government’s stocks to have
slumped badly since Christmas, and a
“Daily Express” poll gave the same result.
U.S. Secretary of State Dean Acheson
gave a Press conference last Thursday.
Then the cables from Washington
hummed, and next morning Sydney people
read all about it under the heading
“Pacific Pact Closer.” That’s if they read
the “S. M. Herald” ; those who patronise
the “Daily Telegraph” got the story under
the title “Pacific Pact Far Off.”
As is inevitable at an A.L.P. confer-
ence in a State not blessed with a Gov-
ernment lottery, several branches intend
to urge the Victorian “Labor” party to
advocate the legalised gamble. A reso-
lution to be submitted by the Warrnam-
bool branch claims that a lottery should
be established because “a lot of money
is sent to other States to help maintain
their, charities.” The money is sent to
other States, no .doubt, but those who
send it are not inspired by any thoughts
of charity.
The Red Dean, that great judge of
truth and sincerity, describes Stalin’s
recent statement as something that
blows like a clear wind through the fog
and confusion of false propaganda spread
by the enemies of peace.
If that is so it is time Uncle Joe blew in
the old boy’s ear. He’s been living in
the fog and confusion of false propa-
ganda for close on 30 years.
Liberal party officials in New South
Wales have again been putting out
feelers for “amalgamation” with the
Country party, despite the fact that the
cockies have again and again shown that
they don’t want it. The advantages of
having one anti-Socialist party instead
of two are obvious, but it is equally
obvious that the thing isn’t practical
politics at present. The N. S. Wales
Parliament doesn’t meet until mid-April,
but with the McGirr Government’s grip
on its majority so tenuous Opposition
parties should be prepared for a general
election any time after that. In these
circumstances co-operation should be
the keynote, not controversial talk about
amalgamation.
Suggestions put forward by J. M.
Carter, acting-chairman of the Country
party, present a sound basis for election
tactics:
1. No three-cornered contests.
2. Sitting members of either party not to
be opposed.
3. Where there were three-cornered con-
tests last election, the party which polled the
most votes last time should have the right
to nominate the candidate.
4. Machinery of each party to work for
the candidates of either.
A similar plan has been suggested time
and again and more or less agreed to in
principle, but there always seem to be
exceptions.
It is a little ironic that the Minister for
Education in the McGirr Cabinet
who is charged to bring down the bill
to enable establishment of a Catholic
university in N. S. Wales is the
man who was aforetime chief tutor
in public-speaking to the local Com-
munist party’s training class, who, as
Minister, has done nothing to purge the
executive of the Teachers’ Federation of
those State servants who notoriously
therein pursue the Communist party’s
line, and who, in 1922, following adoption
by the A.L.P. of the “Red” objective in
its platform, took part with two Com-
munist-party officials in a “Labor” Press
organ’s debate to combat the view
asserted by three clergymen that “a class-
less society demands for its realisation a
Christian dynamic.”
“Uco,” from the saloon bar:
I couldn’t hide my feelings of envy when
the sheep bloke told me he’d just sold his
wool —“two hundred and twenty-five pence 1
got, and the wool wasn’t anything marvellous;
a bit burry.” Seeing my look, he went on,
“But what’s the good of it to a man? The
Government gets most of it. There’s that 20
per cent, they’ve bunged on us. On the gross,
mind you, not the net.” I was of the opinion
that the impost was in the nature of a payment
on account and that he’d probably get a rebate
in due course. He reckoned not. Once it was
gone if was gone. Two or three drinks later
I asked if he had brought his wool down
himself this year as he had a couple of seasons
ago. No, it had come by rail. Been waiting
for trucks over two months. “Still, that was
a bit of luck, really. Nextdoor neighbor
decided not to wait; sent his down by road
months ago. Only got 165 pence, and his wool
was better quality than mine.” After we had
parted I did a little figuring. As I see it,
. shortage of rolling-stock has meant an extra
ss. a pound for his wool. That’s more than
the 20 per cent, the Treasurer has grabbed.
Makers of cement-bricks and -tiles
have invited the McGirr Government to
take over control of cement. Don’t they
know how hard the stuff is to get already?
Victorians and South Australians be-
came slightly excited last week when
their newspapers informed them that a
deal to get Callide coal from Queens-
land was about to be closed, the Federal
Government having promised to pay
30s. a ton subsidy on the stuff, telling
them they’d have to take 100,000 tons of
Callide a year before they could get sub-
sidies on overseas coal. There was joy-
ful anticipation of full-time work and
radiators in the winter. Then somebody
noticed that the Communists running the
coal business in this country weren’t
worried. Why should they be? There
aren’t any ships to carry the Callide coal.
N.S.W. branch of the Public Service
Clerical Association says this of two
committees appointed to “streamline”
the public service;
With due respect to the persons involved,
the very composition of the committees
prevents them from operating as indepen-
dent instrumentalities of investigation
capable of delving deep into the intricacies
of any maladministration within the service
and arriving at totally fearless and indepen-
dent conclusions.
We’ll take the branch’s words for it.
According to the N.S.W. “Country-
man,” “State Parliament House Was
Hospital, Almost Became Asylum.” His-
tory seems to be very close to repeating
itself.
Declaration of a state of emergency
in New Zealand as a means of dealing
with the waterfront strike has set people
asking why the Menzies Government
doesn’t do something similar. The fact
is that the Commonwealth Constitution
makes no provision for such a declaration
in time of peace. What constitutes peace
is, of course, becoming more of a poser
every day.


BUTCHER
gTro^ r
INFLATION VICTIM.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“A doctor who has been studying obesity states
in the British Medical Journal that fat men are more
faithful to their wives than thin ones.”
“Sackville”: In this vale of uncer-
tainties there is just one thing that is in-
fallible —my horoscope in the Sunday
paper. It has to be interpreted, of course ;
you treat it the same way as the weather
forecast —reverse it. During a week
“especially bright for travel” I boarded
a train that got itself jammed for three
hours in the bowels of Sydney’s under-
ground. Early in the New Year the ascent
of Mercury over Capricorn, or some-
thing, assured that I would rise in my job
and also make appreciable monetary
gains. I fell down on my job—literally—
result; dislocated shoulder, off work.
Monetary gains: about 40 per cent, of
what my wages
would have been.
For the next fort-
night the prognos-
tications were
neither rosy nor
glum. Then my
sign was again in
the ascendant a
week of good news
was coming. The
doctor started it by
informing me that
he wasn’t satisfied
with the progress
of the injured
wing; therapy
treatment would be
required. A week later he still wasn’t
satisfied: if there was not a great
improvement by Friday he would have
to put the arm in an “abduction splint”
(one of those gadgets that hold the arm
in a “Please-teacher” attitude). It was
then the horoscope told me: “Your most
favorable week in all 1951! Particularly
Friday,”
♦ * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I sympathise with poor
Mr. Gerald Heard, who has been getting
it in the neck everywhere for having
written a book saying that the flying-
saucers were machines piloted by beings
from another planet who were getting
worried about our atomic explosions;
for if I could never quite accept his
theory—l thought myself the saucers
were probably Dr. Evatt dashing about
the stratosphere to U.N.O. meetings—
anything improbable, anything super-
natural, anything that makes life larger
is always very dear to me. But Mr.
Heard, all the same, does air some
strangely rash theories for a man with
an international reputation as a scientific
writer. In his last book, Is God Evident ?,
he expressed the view that dogs, even
sheep and all the lower animals, would
eventually develop hands, and so, if I
read him rightly, become human and
have souls; thus they would escape the
“eternal punishment” of being animals.
However, when I see a flying-saucer come
down from Mars, driven by dogs with
hands —and it would not altogether sur-
prise me if I did—l shall return to full
faith in him.
* * * f.
“Jasby”: Rush hour in the restaurant
and the waitress going flat out trying to
make one pair of hands do their own
work and that of the two pair whose
owners had taken the day off. She
arrived at one table with a load of cups
of tea, and endeavored to find room for
them amid the confused array of plates
and dishes on the tiny table. The first
two diners assisted her by taking their
cups from her hand and easing them into
position. The third one sat tight and
didn’t move a finger. “That’s right,
dearie,” said the waitress. “Don’t take
it out of my hand. Just mark a cross on
the cloth where you want me to put it.”
* * * *
“Hamfat”: An attempt by a Sydney
paper to revive the periodical discussion
about the origin of the word “wowser”
brings to mind Edward Corless, an old
actor whose velveteen coat, butterfly tie
and red face were familiar on Poverty
Point in its palmy days. Corless, a good
“old-man” actor of the old school, was
playing in the Bridge Theatre at Newtown
in a melodrama which gave him a chance
to earn applause by a line in which he
declared that whatever were the sins of
the son (as usual an innocent on whom
a villainous cousin had managed to fasten
his own misdeeds), he was still his son
and he would stick to him. One night
when a “wowser” controversy was raging
Corless effectively changed the line. The
villainous nephew had been sneeringly
talking about the son’s moral lapses and
urging him to disown him ; and the un-
happy father Corless blew himself up,
“No, sir!” he declaimed. “My son may
have r-robbed the bank ; he may have
r-r-ruined this poor girl; he may have
killed the old man, but, thank God, he is
not a wowser!” From gallery, d.c. and
stalls came such a roar of Approval as
the old Bridge Theatre had seldom
heard ; it was several minutes before the
mummers could continue their lines.
* * * *
“Travel Stain”; The doubt in the
mind of “Spokeshave,” and of others,
whether Batman or Fawkner founded
Melbourne, may be justified to a point.
It’s an old wrangle. But the essential
“The chillies Were perhaps a little hot , m'sieur ?”
facts are that Batman did land there
first, did settle a party there, and did
report back enthusiastically to Tasmania.
Fawkner denied that he had been moved
to action by Batman’s report; still, the
report was public before his party set
forth. Moreover, Johnny Fawkner didn’t
land with his own party; he was too
seasick. Batman not only led his party,
but he concluded his funny treaty with
the blacks which, if not wholly legal, was
at least a gesture. It gave him, in theory,
some sort of right to his land for a
village. When Fawkner’s party came.
Batman’s holding party was in residence
within the district on which the “village”
ultimately arose.
* * * *
“R.M.”: “Hobnailed Boots” (B.
31 /1 / ’5l) brings memories. In the old
days when employers spoke with an
authoritative voice, the head of a large
brick company made his annual inspec-
tion of a suburban yard and noticed a
workman without boots wheeling bricks.
“Sack him if he doesn’t get boots out of
his next pay. He’ll be going on com-
pensation next.” The manager, an ex-
adjutant to an irascible colonel, replied,
“Very good, sir.” On his first day wear-
ing boots the wheeler got a skinned heel,
which became infected. There was no
penicillin then and it had to be lanced.
Result: Two weeks on compo.
* * * *
“Lyle”; Set against British surnames
owned by foreigners (B. 14/2/’5l) those
of Britons of long descent with foreign
names. The Keppel family, prominent in
naval history, is of Dutch descent.
The Bentincks, whose head is the
Duke of Portland, and the Van-
necks, one of whom. Lord
Huntingfield, was Governor of
Victoria a few years ago, also stem
back to Holland. Many genuine
Britons have French surnames.
They are mostly descended from
17th-century Huguenot refugees,
though some, of course, date
from William the Conqueror’s
time. Two early Australian artists,
Duterreau and Piguenit, were of
Huguenot extraction. Brigadier-
General Charles Edward Periera,
a famous Asiatic explorer, was
an English regular soldier of the
sporting type with a passion for
horseracing, yet his surname is
thoroughly Spanish. The Lopes
family, of Devon, is also of
obviously Spanish origin, and Jose
is another surname found in
Devon and Cornwall the Spanish
derivation of which is
apparent. German names are fairly
common, some such as Baring seeming
typically English. There are also English
families with Greek names —lonides is a
case in point. Hampshire has old-
established names of Italian derivation—
Gobbo, Mancini, Costello and Caesar.
This is not surprising, as in the Middle
Ages Southampton was the main centre
for the Italian trade.
* * * *
“Pat”: Following in the wake of
“fruitologist” for greengrocer, scores of
equally detestable words have been
foisted upon us in the last few years, but
a radio-announcer stunned me the other
morning when he said that Charles Wesley
was probably “the greatest ‘hymnologist’
of all time.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”; Gertrude Johnson’s baby,
the National Theatre in Melbourne, cer-
tainly seems to have grown. The ex-
opera-singer always believed that Aus-
tralian opera by Australians would appeal
to the Australian public. It has already
broken an Australian record for pre-
bookings, The State Government under
Hollway guaranteed the show against
loss, but it may not have to dip into its
pocket. Over 35,000 tickets were issued
for the four operas of the season before
the initial rising of the curtain. The
Princess Theatre box-office recorded £750
takings for one night of the ballet.
* * * *
“Pateppi”; “Bamekaw,” who thinks
folk - dancing a sissy pastime (B.
24/1/’5l), had better not express such a
belief in the presence of the Black Watch
pipers at present visiting these partsi.
Some of these lads are addicted to High-
“Mrs. Morgan gave me the recipe—
she SAID they'd be very light.”
land dancing, and would undoubtedly
resent the suggestion that it is not a manly
occupation. Folk-dancing, unlike modem
ballroom dancing, is not adapted to
flabby muscles ; two or three rounds of
the Durham Reel will lay all but the most
athletic gasping on the sidelines.
* * * •
“Gippslander”; My entry for the
queer-fires stakes. The fire-alarm was
given at a Victorian R.A.A.F. station
when a grass-fire flared up. How did it
start? A swan flew into the high-tension
wires, then fell, blazing, into the dry
grass. The fire was put out before any
damage was done, but the same thing
could easily happen where no help was
readily available.
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: “No polio cases re-
ported today,” heading a Press column,
emphasises the seriousness of the scourge.
It recalls a visit to the U.S.A. At the
entrance to a dyeworks I read: “No
fatal accident for the last twelve hours.
Please help us to better this record.” The
figure was regularly amended like a
cricket score-board.
TRIBUTE TO THE TURGID.
“Let me have men about me that are fat!”
That was puissant Caesar’s heartfelt cry
When on th’ imperial Roman throne he sat
And cast a dubious, speculative eye
On “lean and hungry” Cassius. That he’d be at
Conspiratorial devilry was nigh
A certainty, at least in Caesar’s mind.
He’d deep mistrust of coves all bones and rind.
With such attenuated ones, he deemed
(And Caesar shrewdly knew his world, you
bet)
A restless energy within them steamed.
The only appetite they had to whet
Was one for plots against him. And they
teamed
With other skinny cranks, to fume and fret
And finally to tote their dirks and cloaks,
So diff’rent from the fat and slothful blokes.
And as it is in the affairs of State,
So does it stand where Hymen holds his
sway.
The bony Benedict will dump his mate
For some attractive “fairy” bold and gay.
The vows he made he’ll quickly violate
And numerous affaires d’amour essay.
Not so the chief who touches sixteen stone.
A one-dame man, philandering he’ll disown.
To fiction and to history you must turn
To find the few exceptions to the rule.
Fat Falstaff as a lover couldn’t earn
At Windsor aught but heaps of ridicule.
Nero, who fiddled as he watched Rome burn,
Was, in the lists of Cupid, quite the fool.
Did Casanova run to scragginess,
Or was he fat? It’s anybody’s guess.
“Laugh and grow fat!” How often have we
heard
That ancient saw? He will be full of cheer
Whose chassis has the pear-shaped look absurd.
Whether it’s due to glands or just to beer.
Or cacchination, he’ll be quite a “bird.”
He laughs because he’s fat. But this is clear:
He’ll never gallivant and cause a row.
“Be fat and faithful!” is the slogan now.
It may be that he lacks the energy,
Having such extra weight to drag around,
To tread the path of infidelity.
Fat men don’t play Lothario, hell-bound.
And why? For those who’ve such rotundity
The dinner-bell e’er makes the sweetest sound.
The wise wife knows the well-fed man won’t
roam;
She concentrates on food —alnd keeps him
home!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
“Chink”: It is true that Henry Lawson
once got away with “whoosh” as rhyme
for “bush,” but “Villefair” (B. 14/2/’51)
has made a slight misquotation on the
point. Anyway, I’m grateful to him for
the recollection, since it caused me to dig
into an ancient scrapbook and look up
Lawson’s Bulletin verses, “The Bard of
Furthest Out.” The cutting is undated,
but it probably belongs about 1907. Here
are the relevant lines: —
The summer silence —creek-oaks’ sigh—
The windy, rainy “whoosh” —
’Tis known to other men, and I —
The Spirit of the Bush!
A week or two later Henry wrote The
Bulletin an apology, not for the
“whoosh,” and not because plural nouns
(the silence, the sigh and the whoosh)
were covered by a singular verb, but be-
cause of that “I” instead of “me.” Being
unable (as he said) to blame the lapse on
to the comps, the editor, the sub, or the
printers’ devil, he passed the buck to
“another devil,” the shade of his old
schoolmaster, a gent, who was wont to
say, “D’yer think the Lord is goin’ to
alter the weather for you or I, me boy?”
That sort of thing, Henry remarked, “gets
me yet when I’m hurried or not feeling
well. Or feeling too well.” By way of
further excuse he mentioned that the
schoolmaster with the highest marks in
his old district always said “Don’t do
that no more”; that Clarke Russell
wrote, “All hands was lost,” and that Sir
Walter Scott always spelt journal
“gurnal.” “And,” he added crisply.
“Josh Billings was worse.”


“There is no culture in Australia. All the average
Australian thinks of is gambling, cricket and beer.”
—Letter to Press.
“Billy S.”; I was waiting for a train.
On my right was an elderly matron,
head bent over a piece of crochet work.
On her right was a gaggle of gawky
youths, and on my left was a giggle of
sweet seventeens. In an obvious attempt
to impress the lasses
the young fellows
were discussing in
loud voices the
copious quantities
of quarts they were
capable of quaf-
fing. The talk
went on until it
seemed to me that
we were all swim-
ming in foaming
beer. During a lull
in the conversation
—the beer had
gone off, apparently—the elderly matron
lifted her eyes from her crochet, turned
to me, and, in a voice loud enough for
all to hear, said “One glass would knock
’em all over.”
* * * *
“S.”: Newspaper reproductions don’t
give the faintest idea of what Russell
Drysdale’s “War Memorial,” bought by
the Tate Gallery, really looks like.
Leaving out the color and focusing on
the lamentable sculpture of a typical
smalltown war memorial, they make the
picture look as crude and grotesque as
some of Drysdale’s early caricatures of
the outback ; but in the original the color,
a beautiful warm gold, seems to extend
through illimitable miles of heat and sun-
light ; and, against this immensity, the
figure of the soldier takes on a twofold
significance—first as a comment on
smalltown lack of taste, but then
beyond that a comment on the
pathos of men travelling from so
remote a place to be killed in a war and
“Lovely material — isn't it, dear?"
on their hometown’s tribute to their
memory. Thus, besides being a fine
landscape in itself, it is an admirable pic-
ture to represent Australia in an English
gallery. The Tate has also bought a
Sidney Nolan landscape of Centralia,
and I suppose that in London, as in Syd-
ney, these big, red shiny pieces of
Ripolin look impressive at first glance;
but there is no inward life in Nolan’s
pictures as there is in Drysdale’s. The
more you look at them the thinner they
get.
* * * ♦
“Pitt St.”; Sydney newspapers are be-
ginning to carry preliminary announce-
ments about the city’s Royal Show, which
opens for business this year on March 16.
Not many people are aware of how big a
job it is running the festival, but some
idea of it can be got from the fact that
no fewer than 49 meetings and functions
will be held during the Show by agricul-
tural bodies and breed societies associated
with it. A couple of million people will
probably pass through the turnstiles dur-
ing the 12 days and nights, a thousand
tons of fodder will go into the animals
on the ground and best part of a million
pies and sandwiches into the people.
Nobody has yet estimated the cubic mile-
age of fairy-floss that will be consumed
nor the gallonage of beer, tea and soft
drinks. Some poet or other ought to have
turned an honest penny by discovering
that the four top men—Sinclair (presi-
dent), Somerville (secretary), Skidmore
(assistant-sec.) and Sarina (registrar)—all
begin their names with S, and turning it
into an alliterative jingle. These gentle-
men, aided by a pretty efficient staff, are
responsible for the whole thing, and they
have but one prayer—that somebody
will capture Inigo Jones and stop him
bringing rain. The most consistent Show
customer is the bloke who, when asked
if he’s going, says “What, me! No fear.
Too many people and too big a crush.
I been to ten Shows and I’ve had it.”
He’ll be there again.
“Laetitia”: Moving into an empty
house in advance of my family and furni-
ture, I had just finished hanging out my
self-washed duds when a seven-years-old
intruded himself with an electric-iron and
the message “Mum thought you might
find this handy.” Half an hour later
a young matron called over the fence:
“Bundle those things up and I’ll run the
iron over them—and my husband says
you’d better come over to eat with us
till your gear arrives.” Recovering from
the spate of hospitality I strolled down
to the pub, where I met a stranger whose
personality invited my confidence that I
was sleeping on the floor under my newly-
acquired roof-tree. “Come out here,
mate,” said the stranger, leading me into
a truck in which we departed, to return
to my new house with a bed in the space
of half an hour. Such a sequence of
events would not be surprising in my late
Queensland environment, but it is rather
bewildering to a recent arrival in a
middle-class Melbourne suburb in which
all publicity had led me to believe that
an attempt to talk to a stranger would
bring a call for the police.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: After seeing many of
’em on the pictures I have come to the
conclusion that the world’s most boring
form of entertainment is the historical
pageant so beloved of Britons, an elon-
gated example of which was the recent
“recreation” of the Sturt expedition. The
pageant which wins the boredom stakes,
however, is Coventry’s impersonation of
Lady Godiva. The Coventry Festival of
Britain committee is advertising for a
woman of mature age, good appearance,
good physique, cultured and able to sit
a horse at walking pace, to take the role
of the heroic lady. Nobody imagines for
a moment that the essential part of the
performance, and the only thing that
gives it any significance whatever, won’t
be left out. Otherwise, why doesn’t the
committee advertise for a tailor to take
the role of the Peeping Tom who took a
gink at the procession through a keyhole
and was struck blind?
* * * *
“Exdig”: Certainly there are various
ways of looking at danger. After
Passchendaele in World War I we were
very much under strength, and double-
fatigues were necessary to do the jobs
required in the line; all the same, some
of the heftiest men in the battalion were
left out on soft and safe jobs on bath-
houses and so on. We were in line to
win the battalion football comp., and we
were not going to risk losing our best
footballers. A small band of us in our
advanced strongpoint at Holebeke in-
cluded Charlie Moore, who had been a
star ’bailer with the old Randwicks.
Although over-age he would have been
“ Don't tell me they've gone HOME!”
welcomed in the team, but he refused to
play. We had an unpleasant half-hour
under a rain of shells from the Huns, who
suspected our presence ; they knocked our
possie about a good deal without inflicting
any casualties. When the hate period
was over I asked Charlie a trifle sarcasti-
cally why he didn’t join the batt. football
team. “Ah, football’s too dangerous,”
he said.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Clooter”: The voice, feminine, high
and full of laughter, came from beyond
the partition in the cafe. “Aw, shucks.
I went with Leslie to the flicks last night.
No good. Too many memories. He
bought me an ice-cream soda before we
went in and a choc, soda after. Aw,
shucks. My old man would've done
better than that. Since he’s been on
night-shift and getting more dough we
always get a taxi; Leslie bungs me on a
tram. Aw, shucks, a girl’s better off
going out with her hubby than with a
boy-friend these times.”
* * * *
“C.S.M.” on a Road Board without
roads: —
Ever heard of a road board without roads?
The French Pass Road and Harbor Board is
one. French Pass is the narrow sea-passage
between D’Urville Island and the South Island
of New Zealand, and the fishing-village named
after it clings to the edge of the picturesque
Pelorus Sounds. Although it has no roads to
maintain, and only launches tie-up at its small
wharf, there is keen competition for a place
on the board. There are only 150 voters in
the district, most of whom travel to and from
their homes in launches. Yet there was a 90
per cent, poll at the last election, in December.
But that did not settle the matter. An un-
successful candidate and some of the voters
came forward with a petition claiming that one
of the elected members had put his nomination
in late.
At an inquiry, heard by a magistrate, the
returning-olficer admitted that the nomination
was received after noon. Everyone knew that,
but they also knew that French Pass had a
custom all of its own. As the mail launch
called only once a week, arriving in the after-
noon, the Road Board decided years ago that
nominations would be accepted up to 7 p.m.
Government approval for the irregularity was
claimed. Sorry, but the law’s the law, said
the magistrate. New election, please. Then a
new trouble cropped up. The Electoral Act
was amended last year, and, through an over-
sight, it is laid down that an extraordinary
election must be held within 25 days; —yet 28
days’ notice must be given to the public! The
magistrate helpfully agreed to delay delivering
formal judgment so that the Road Board could
start the electoral machine in motion. That’s
how it stands at the moment of writing, but
the Board is wondering how much of its £l5O
per annum will be left after paying for the
cost of a second election.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: A Sydney columnist, talk-
ing about the visit of the English
cricketers to Euroa (Vic.), mentions that
the town “lies in the shadow of the
Strathbogie hills, where the Kelly gang
used to hide,” They’d have a job to hide
there now. Flew over it recently, and
except in odd spots you couldn’t hide a
dog, most of the country having been
cleared for grazing or burnt out by bush-
fires. Even the Upper Murray country
is not the wild tangle of forest and scrub
it was 30 years ago. From 7000 ft.
any sort of a campfire would be easily
spotted at night. Which probably
explains why all the modern bushrangers
have their hiding-places in cities, taxa-
tion offices and Government transport
departments.
“Mollie H.”: “Mac Hoots” (B.
14/2/’5l) suggests that the shades
of W. B. Yeats and Maud Gonne,
to whom he wrote so much of
his poetry, might have returned to
earth to spirit away the Coronation
Stone to Ireland. Willie Yeats has, of
course, gone into the silence, but Maud
Gonne Macßride looked very much
alive when I last saw her in Dublin,
though her great beauty was dimmed and
her great height bowed by the years. She
is the mother of Sean Macßride, ex-
ommander of the I.R.A, and present
Foreign Minister of Eire.
* * * *
“Kelms”: It didn’t need those tan
boots to tell the Wogs that “R.W.” and his
mates were Aussies (B. 7/2/’5l). They’d
have known, just as they knew all our
moves. A week before the Sixth Divvy
left Syria on the trek that landed it back in
Australia, credit at all the local laundries
was stopped. We’d been told nothing, but
the Wogs knew. They knew, also, our
approximate destination. They may have
got the information from Lord Haw
Haw. He knew, too.
* * * *
“R.M.”: “What gave the Diggers
away?” Their remarks would constantly
contain their favorite alliterative oath,
and even the blind beggars would know
it was the A.I.F. passing.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I enjoyed that yarn
of the Italian captain who blew himself
to bits with a charge concealed in the
heels of his boots (B. 7/2/’5l), but for
credibility I put it in the same category
as the case which I have filed under the
heading “The Ticking Sausages.” The
snags were halted at the Israeli border,
and a Customs official, hearing a sound
which was unusual even for a Palestine
snag, dissected one to see what made it
tick. He found a watch, and, subse-
quently, several watches. No one thought
to ask how the watches came to be tick-
ing after a day or so inside the snags, or
why the smugglers so thoughtfully wound
them up before incarcerating them. I’m
reminded of an opinion expressed by an
old mentor regarding two professions.
“A schoolteacher,” he said, “will believe
anything he sees in print and a journa-
list anything he’s told.”
* * * *
“Nunk”: My wife conducts shady and
shameless accounts with our boy’s sav-
ings, and recently suggested to him that
he keep tab with a notebook—teach him
the value of money; but going to his
tin box the other day, thinking she might
have left a few bob there from her weekly
raids, she found only his brand-new
notebook, with the one reproachful
entry: Borroded 17s. 6d,
* * * «
“Zake”; The new flapper typist
sauntered across the office to the desk
on which the pencil-sharpening machine
was screwed, put the new pencil in and
began turning the handle, what time she
indulged in some spirited persiflage with
one of the young coves over in the
corner. When she looked down at the
machine again the last inch of the pencil
was disappearing into its maw.. Un-
abashed, she strolled back to her desk,
got another pencil and started again.
When it was about half chewed down
she took it out and tested the point by
putting it vertically on the desk and lean-
ing on it. After it broke she churned
away at it again, the point on the two
inches of it that was left apparently being
to her satisfaction. As she was strolling
past his desk the boss called in a loud
voice to his stenog.: “Would you mind
putting my fountain-pen in the safe, Miss
Pitman, or that’ll be going through the
mincer!”
SHAME UPON US!
We’re not what you’d call intellectual;
Of knowledge our lack is immense;
Our learning is quite ineffectual;
Our hatred of art is intense.
It’s ignorance we are a sink of —
And this can be hardly thought queer,
For all we apparently think of
Is gambling and cricket and beer.
Of culture we’re totally lacking;
Our manners are practically nil.
We dote on the horses we’re backing,
The Tests and the beer that we swill.
The bars and the counters we drink off
Are dotted with diagrams drear —
For all we apparently think of
Is gambling and cricket and beer.
Incurable punters and topers
By horses and batsmen enslaved,
’Tis plain we are hopeless no-hopers,
Depressing, disgusting, depraved.
When strangers spout culture we slink off
Without even waiting to hear —
For all we apparently think of
Is gambling and cricket and beer.
The manners of Eton and Rugby
Are things with which we would dispense
When wondering who could that mug be
Who muffed that last catch on the fence.
The fountain that foreigners drink of
Is cultured and crystal and clear;
But all we apparently think of
Is gambling and cricket and beer.
Bad cess to the virile young nation
Which culture and grace overlooks —
Which soaks in the beery potation,
Plays cricket and bets with the books.
No longer a loop or a link of
The chain which the cultured revere
When all we apparently think of
Is gambling and cricket and beer.
W.A.
DOUGAL.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Emjai”: The seven-year-old, during a
long illness and convalescence, had all
manner of toys for his entertainment, but
his interest centred on the live ones. The
colored rabbits, guinea-pigs, young fox
and ’roo came later, but while he had to
stay put, Rocko, his retriever-cross pup,
spent busy days as messenger between the
sickroom and kitchen, and did a great
shuttle service, except when caught out
doubling up for rewards on stale notes.
Jo, the rosella, waddled in and out and
about the house ad lib., always on hand
to share the invalid’s meals and never
failing at nightfall to seek the same spot
behind the bedroom door and put his
head under his wing for the night. But
Bill, the jew-lizard, caused the diversions
—hysterics in the new nurse when she
picked up the “beautiful bronze orna-
ment,” and indignation of Grandma when
he was dislodged from her bedclothes, the
cause of a “restless night.” He always
gravitated back to the bedroom, and
would be found basking in the sun on
the window-ledge, as flat and black as a
"Hey, Myrtle! Isn't it about time you defrosted the fridge?”
flounder, or in some odd corner,
narrowed to a golden-bronze streak, with
fnoT H° n ChangeS , \° ™T Undin * ton ‘
af^iranap^V l ! 11 ? ni 1 , up snai i l
ng rs, but couM be handled with
impum y by
“kT„vrv” . .!
.o nrfnr J ’ Ue called at the little town-
for hf. tHn “rnin" on !u r !, n f a feW things
i.™ - S n ‘ nordl , he announced
laconically. Otner side of Marree.
Fencm an well-smkin . “You’ll find it
not, 1 said. Bloke came in here last
week from out that way. He said it was
about 120 degrees in the shade when he
left.” The traveller looked thoughtful for
a moment. “Ah well,” he said, picking
up his parcels. “Don’t suppose a cove’ll
be in the shade all the time.”
“Yodi Ela”; Ceylon crows in W.A.
(B. 24/l/’5l) rings a bell. In January,
1920, I was on the New Zealand Ship-
ping Co.’s frozen-meat vessel Waimana.
In Colombo harbor the usual horde of
crows came on board to feed on scraps.
When the ship left for Australia a pair
were so busy that they didn’t notice the
land was receding till it was too late, and
they wouldn’t face the flight. They put
in a worried 24 hours, and next day,
when about 200 miles from Galle, they
disappeared for an hour or two, but
gave it up and returned to the ship. The
engineers’ mess adopted and fed them,
and they settled down to ocean voyag-
ing. Ten days later, when we were
passing the Leeuwin, they disappeared,
and I expect “Kelms’s” par. shows where
they went to.
“Solitude”: At the big hole at the
bend Seventyfiver produced a line from
his pocket, broke off a length of tea-tree,
then, catching a bait, he cast in, while I
collected the nags. Presently there was a
yell, and I guessed he’d hooked a big-
’un. With a short line and no reel to
play the catch, when the trout dashed
downstream Seventyfiver necessarily went
with it. Headlong through a blackberry-
patch he charged, swearing like a
bullocky. “Bring a landing-net, Sol,”
he bawled
urgently. “Y’ll
have t’ make
one.” “Eh?
What out of?”
“Aw, ain’t y’
got a shirt or
somethin’, y’
helpless cow?”
h e shouted,
tearing back
through the
blackberries again, and sprawling over a
log. “Tie the neck end,” he instructed,
heading upstream this time, “an’ thread
a bit o’ wire through the tail. Then get
in after ’im ; an’ hurry.” I hurried. And
I got in. In places the water was
shoulder-deep, and, holding my shirt at
the ready, I coursed the fighting fish upl-
- and down, to a running tide of
vituperation from the bank. When the
fish was upstream, I was mostly down ;
and when it was down, I was salvaging
myself from the rocks of the stream-
bed and spitting water-grass. Half an
hour later, more than half-drowned, and
with my only shirt with a decent pocket
a total wreck, I scrambled out to help the
old bloke admire the big rainbow. And
now —now I sit in bar corners and listen
to the tale of the nine-pounder the old
coot landed.
“A.H.L.” ; A problem, so far insoluble,
confronting botanists, plant pathologists
and foresters is the diagnosis, and the
c ? use and cure or prevention, of the
disease now causing the death of so many
0 f w.A.’s beautiful red-flowering gums.
Until a few years ago an avenue of these
lovely trees lined both sides of the road
in Kin §’ s Park from the entrance-gates to
the Forrest Memorial. Now, except for
half a dozen survivors, they are all gone.
Another avenue bordering the city beach-
road has now been attacked, with cala-
mitous results. The disease shows up
first as dieback with some bark affection
which, despite the most intensive and
drastic preventive measures, gradually
spreads through the tree to an invariably
fatal conclusion. Attempts to propagate
resistant seedlings have so far met with
indifferent success.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The ground where the
plumbers were digging their trench was
soft and boggy, so when the apprentice
“Do you mind getting off my landscape, please?”
turned over a shovelful of sloppy clay,
then suddenly jumped back with a howl
of Snakes, baby snakes—look at ’em!”
1 grinned superiorly. There are two
kinds of leeches in our district; the thick
black ones could very easily be mistaken
n J°L n ® black snakes. In true know-
all fashion I strolled across to air my
knowledge. Instead I stayed to wonder.
The things weren t snakes, certainly, but
neither were they leeches. There were
six of them, 4in. long when stretched on
a rule, Hack on the back and pale under-
neath. But they had the fin? and tails
of eels! Young ecls-buried in the
ground fully a mile from the nearest
creek and more than 150 ft. above flood-
level! I know for a fact that eels will
travel from waterhole to waterhole with
the barest trickle of water between, and
I don’t doubt the story that they will
wriggle along through wet grass But
in view of the fact that scientists agree
that all eels are hatched in mid-ocean,
how could such small specimens get into
a freshwater creek, then manage to
travel a mile overland? And why did
they bury themselves in the mud at that
spot? Perhaps they are not eels, you
say? Then what are they? One
of the • plumbers has an aquarium ;
he took the little wrigglers home
for observation. That was a month
ago, and reports to date still follow the
early bulletins: “They swim like eels and
they haven’t drowned yet.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Bagot was coming past the
property of his new neighbor, who had
won the block in a ballot. Up to his
waist in a hole, he was digging around the
base of a bluegum. The other looked up
at Bagot’s greeting and the request to be
told what he was doing. “Fm going to
bring it down,” the new man informed
him, “But, struth! ” expostulated his
neighbor. “There’s no need to go to that
trouble—y’ don’t dig it out.” “I know
that,” replied the excavator. “I’ll start
chopping it down later. Y’ see,” he went
on, “J reckon it’s silly chopping a tree
down about four feet above ground and
then have to grub the stump out or just
leave it there. I figured it out if I chop
it off about two feet below ground-level
I won’t need to grub it The plough’ll
miss it be a foot. And, being down the
hole, I won’t need to worry which way
to run to save getting bowled over when
she falls.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Old led has lived in the
gully pretty well all his life. He was
born in a bark hut behind the old pub,
and has been miner, bullocky, drover,
fencer, stockman and about everything
else the gully could in turn support. Then
he retired to a humpy a few miles up the
creek. With 80 years behind him, and
not many in front by the look of things,
file locals decided to do something for
old Ted, and, after a little trouble and
more influence, succeeded in having him
admitted to the old blokes’ benevolent
home in the nearest town. There Ted
received better meals than he’d ever
eaten. He had a good bed, the services
of a medico for his crippling rheumatics
and the company of other old blokes for
a yarn when he felt like it, or a game of
cards. To an old bushman it was luxury
unlimited. Ted stuck it out for about 10
days; then, watching his chance, he
slipped away and turned up the dusty
road on his 80-mile trip. He’s back now
in his humpy on the creek. His bed is
a few sacks slung on saplings, he eats
well when he gets a rabbit or a fish, and
he hobbles painfully among the gum-
trees and talks to the magpies. The
locals have given him up ; for what, they
ask, is the use of trying to help an old
fool who doesn’t know when he is well
off? Maybe there’s something in their
argument, only . . . well, I know another
old-timer who will most certainly walk
out on luxury, too, if they ever take
him away from the bush.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: Yelling storm-birds,
croaking frogs, migrating black-ants —
I’ve known many a drought continue on
its remorseless way in spite of their pre-
dictions. But X grade the termite an
infallible prophet of rain. When new
“mortar” is seen on the walls of white-
ant beds in timbered country there will
always be a deluge—generally a flood —
within three or four days. Termites
never repair their nests before a minor
rain, but they time their work so that
the new “mortar” will be dry and hard
before the rain starts. No matter how
threatening the weather looks when the
blind pests get busy, you can bet on there
being a three-day respite.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: According to a Darwin
message to a Melbourne daily, psychia-
trists attribute the sudden insanity of a
lubra to excessive emotion engendered by
the “wailing” ceremony attendant on the
death of a deceased relative. Not daring
to question the veracity of our daily Press
or the accuracy of specialists’ diagnoses,
I must conclude that over the past few
years the Binghi psychology must have
changed drastically. As distinct from his
near-northern neighbors, where Bowie
and Ah Matt run amuck dangerously and
frequently,, the incidents of Binghi insanity
is practically nil. Primitive Binghi's
problems, inherited through ageless
generations, relate almost entirely to
tucker; hence he is unlikely to be con-
fronted by new conflicts likely to produce
mental crack-ups. And the wailing cere-
mony, far from being productive of
melancholy, is really quite an exhilarating
affair. The relatives and friends of the
about-to-be-lamented gather in cheerful
concourse in anticipation of the signal of
a colored compere, at which they become
collectively vocal in an earsplitting dirge
which makes the wailing of all the
damned in Sheol seem like a roundelay.
The paroxysm of grief is sustained for
minutes on end, or till the abo. m.c. de-
cides that reasonable limits of lung-
power have been reached. Interval is a
lively period of smokes, horseplay and
all manner of pleasantries. Then it starts
all over again, to be repeated for several
nights and days on end, to be foll|pvcd
by the death-feast and death-dance in
that order. The lamentation, feast and
dance phases of the mourning permd are
deemed to “pinish take all
out.” Thus the wailing rite is apt to pro-
duce insanity among only the members
of the enforced European audience, which
goes sleepless during its currency. 1
know one Torres Straits Island white
who regularly saved himself from mad-
ness by discharging a shotgun over the
heads of the merry mourners op the thho
night of the “wailing.”
THE “WET” IS HERE.
Watching this morning while the dawn was red
I heard the magpie-geese fly overhead
And, looking up, I saw the flocks on high
And heard each leader call his honking cry
As row by row they sped across the sky
Towards the Wildman with its swamps near by.
I heard the storm-bird’s cry, the dotterel’s
shriek
As these migratory birds a landfall seek
With swiftly-beating wings; each flock flies low
As from the north the tlrst faint breezes blow.
And black men chant the rain-song, for they
know
The “Wet’’ is here and soon the creeks shall
flow.
Out of the Timor sea beside my home
The waves come tumbling in, a swirl of foam
Spraying the trees that swish and sigh and sway.
Banyan, pandanus, bloodwood, gumtrees, they
All show their withered faces to the spray
That showers upon them from the spindrift
bay.
The squark of brown earth-frogs comes from
the ground,
Some laboring termites seal a broken mound,
And from the earth in endless line I see
Black hurrying ants; each one bears carefully
A small white egg into the banyan-tree
Noisy with birds that chirrup gleefully.
A jungle-fowl beside its dome-shaped nest
Gives out a loud, harsh cry, pausing to rest;
We watch the light come to the eastern sky,
And, as the whole earth gleams, a dingo’s cry
Comes wailing from the shadowy bush near by
And past the swamp I hear its mate reply.
Then loud above the blustering sea-hawk’s trill
Come peals of thunder, and all life is still.
Far out to sea a pearler lowers its sails
As grey clouds close the scene with trailing
veils.
And with the wind comes tiny wisp-like trails —
The rains are on us, pelting in the gales.
N.T.
W.E. HARNEY.


(The requirements of Section 137 of the New South Wales Companies Act relating to prospectuses have not been fully complied with in this Abridged Prospectus. The full Prospectus dated
1951, has been filed with the Registrar-General of the State of N.S.W., who takes no responsibility for its contents. This Abridged Prospectus is published for the information of the public
Abridged Prospectus of on Issue at Par of 489,746 Ordinary Shares of £1 Each in
HOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDING LTD.
14 th February,
only.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL:
1,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each £1,000,000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL,:
2,504 Ordinary Shares £3,504
SHARES WHICH HAVE BEEN AGREED TO OR ARE INTENDED
TO BE ISSUED AS FULLY PAID UP FOB CONSIDERATIONS
RECEIVED OR TO BE RECEIVED: —
7,750 Ordinary Shares 7,750
PRESENT ISSUE:
489,746 Ordinary Shares now offered for public subscription ■. 489,746
SHARES HELD IN RESERVE:
600,000 Ordinary Shares 500,000
£1,000,000
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
ALFRED DULY, of 27 Dunmore Street, Bexley, N.S.W., Company Director (Chairman of Directors).
ARTHUR JAMES PICKERING, A.1.C.A., of 154 Sydney Road. Granville, N.S.W., Public Accountant
(Managing Director).
WALTER HALL HANSFORD, of 148 Homer Street, Undercliffe, N.S.W., Company Director.
CHARLES LANCELOT DULY, of 149 Queen Victoria Street, Bexley. N.S.W., Company Director.
ALLAN ALEXANDER STEVENS, of 50 Ryde Road. Pymble, N.S.W., Company Director.
SECRETARY:
ALAN ALBERT GEEVES, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), Manufacturers’ House, 12 O’Connell St., Sydney,
BANKERS:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED,
18 Martin Place, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. KENNEDY & KENNEDY, 185 Elizabeth Stret, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. E. N. AUSTIN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Manufacturers’ House, 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING ARCHITECTS TO THE COMPANY:
Messrs. KENWOOD & HOILE, 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY:
(a) To import, and supply complete with
all fittings, erected or unerected as
required, pre-cut and pre-fabricated
timber framed Fibro-cement Cottages
of two, three, or more bedrooms.
These units will be imported under
an exclusive Australasian Franchise
now in course of negotiation from
Messrs. Holz-Montagebau-Gesellschaft,
Salzburg. Austria. A sample
two-bedroom cottage received from
this organisation has been erected at
58 Hammers Road, Northmead, New
South Wales.
(b) To import under Australasian Fran-
chise from various overseas suppliers,
buildings suitable for Schools, Hostels,
Hospitals, Factories, etc., of steel
or timber frame, according to re-
quirements oi size of building.
(c) To enter into Contracts in relation
to (a) and (b) above with relative
Governments and private persons or
organisations.
(d) To act as Suppliers to the Building
Trade of certain materials obtained
from sources within Australasia and
from Overseas.
(e) To act as a General Construction
Organisation.
applications from the
PUBLIC:
Applications for shares will be re-
ceived only on one of the forms of
application endorsed upon the full printed
Prospectus. Copies of the full Prospectus
and forms of application for shares may be
obtained from the Registered Office.
Subscription lists opened at 10 a.m. on
the 14th February, 1951, and will close
at 5 p.m. on the 6th April, 1951.
ALLOTMENT:
The Directors propose to go to allot-
ment on receipt of applications for not
less than 300,000 Shares.
Allotment of Shares will take place not
later than one month after the closing of
the subscription lists, and the Directors
reserve the right to reject any application.
STOCK EXCHANGE LASTING:
Application will be made in due course
to have the Company’s Shares listed on
the Stock Exchange, Sydney.
A handling fee of U Per cent, will be
paid to members of recognised Stock Ex-
changes in Australia upon all »A are j
allotted in respect of applications lodged
by and bearing the stamps of those
members. _
CONSENT OF FEDERAL
TREASURER:
The consent of the Delegate of the
Federal Treasurer has been oMaiped to
the Company making an issue of 50Q.000
shares of £1 each of its Authorised
Capital. The fact that the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth has consented to the
Company making this issue of shares is
not to be taken in any way as a guaran-
tee of the actual or probable financial
stability or success of the Company.
“Betcha”: Bandy’s camp was several
hundred yards down-river from the lone
house by the roadside, and around it
the grass was lush and green. We were
just turning in, the night I arrived, when
Bandy paused suddenly to listen. “There
it is again,” he exploded. “That blasted
cow! Be-
longs up
the road
there,” he
e xplained.
“Arid just
b e c a use
it’s hard
to find
sometimes they’ve taken to tying
a bell on it these last few nights. It
rings the flamin’ thing ’round an’ ’round
me tent all night, an’ I’ve tried everything
from seein’ the bloke about it to a stock-
whip, but it ain’t no good.” That night
we got little sleep. Half a dozen times I
got up and chased the noisy cow away,
only to hear her back as soon as I had
settled down again. The next night was
wet and windy. “Don’t hear anything
of that cow around yet,” I remarked.
Bandy grinned, but said nothing. We hit
the blankets and enjoyed seven hours’
solid. “You goin’ upstream?” he in-
quired at piccaninny daylight. “Well,
grab that cowbell, will y’, orf that swingin’
limb near them folks’ bedroom. I’ll have
t’ strap it on this ’ere milker again afore
they git up.”
* ♦ * *
“Mat’s Mate”; “Some people reckon
Adelaide’s gone ahead,” said Mat, when
he got back from there. “An’ maybe it
has. But it’s still the same in some ways.
One morain’ about fifteen years ago I’m
on North Terrace station lookin’ up a
train when a one-eyed bloke with black
whiskers an’ a hole in his hat an’ the
kind o’ face y’ get from beer drifts up
an’ says, ‘Look, could y’ do us a favor?’ —
an’ I brush him off. Well, the other
morain’ I’m there again, only I’m lookin’
for a telephone this time, when up sifts
the kind o’ face y’ get from beer, with
a hole in its hat an’ one eye an’ grey
whiskers, an’ opens up, ‘Look, could y’
do us a favor?’ ‘Y’re a bad picker, mate,’
I says. ‘Fifteen year ago y’ struck me
on the very morain’ I wasn’t doin’ any
favors an’, strike me, if y’ haven’t picked
the same kind o’ morain’ this time.’ He
gives me a black look an’ floats off.
But wouldn’t y’ think if a place was as
go-ahead as they reckon Adelaide is it’d
change its hummers now an’ again?
Must be monotonous always gettin’ bit
be the same blokes, year after year.”
* * * *
“Mr. O’Roo”: I suppose I take a sort
of idiot’s-delight in following with avidity
the inter-State ramblings of little Mat and
“ Well, couldn't she leave it at a rest-centre or some where?"
his big Mate in the hope of tripping him
up on what up to the issue of Jan. 24 have
been maddeningly accurate geographical
data. But I claim reward at last for long
vigil. Where does the river get within
eight miles of Kanyapella, and which
dam do the mussels lurk in? As a capi-
talist, barefoot style, my juvenile cronies
and I dispensed mussels to anyone will-
ing to pay the requisite twopence per
dozen. But never did we find fish-
tempters in a dam. They were always in
a channel.
• * * *
“Atlas”: I can’t agree with “Bass”
(B. 17/1 /’5l) that the food eaten by
birds, beasts and fishes doesn’t affect the
taste of their flesh. Many people in the
Laverton (W.A.) district will remember
the plague of beetles which some years
ago invaded the region thereabouts and
the great concourse of wild turkey which
followed and gorged themselves on the
pests. Every gun in the countryside was
pressed into use, and some wonderful
bags were recorded, but the satisfaction
of the sportsmen ended with the shoot-
ing, for only those with the most
atrophied palates passed up their plates
for a second helping when the birds
appeared on the table. Even when
served up as the hottest of curry, beetle
was still the dominant flavor.
* * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; About the time the
last of the black ducks’ broods were on
the water and the cranes had brought
their hopeful down to the swamp the two
magpies from the big gum took their
heirs on a training flight. Instinctively
they made for the back lawn, where some
juvenile humans tossed their crusts and
bits of meat. Each morning they arrived
at daybreak, with the youngsters voicing
their sleep - destroying protests and
vociferously asking to be fed. Westralian
magpies appear not to mate strictly in
pairs, a communal spirit existing, and the
job of nest-building and incubation is a
purely maternal one. But when the young
leave the nest the males assist in feeding
them and instructing them in the forms of
deviltry that are peculiar to the breed.
The youngsters are flying well now, and
should be quite capable of supporting
themselves, but, though the ducks and
cranes which emerged from the shell at
the same time have been entirely inde-
pendent for weeks, these rowdies are still
clamoring for parental care. Some of this
latest batch of youngsters are undoubtedly
males, but it will be another three years
before the distinctive male markings, the
most prominent of which is the fully
white back, appear.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: That little sketch of
Heth’s of the doctor humping his bluey
(B. 21/2/’5l) may seem far-fetched in
these times, but a score or so of years
ago I ran into two of them on the track
at widely-separated places. The first was
camped on the Murray below Euston, a
young fellow not long graduated who’d
got tired of trying to gpt into practice
in a city overcrowded with unemployed,
including doctors, and, having no cash
for travelling, was humping the knot from
town to town in the hope of locating a
partnership or something. He confessed
that he’d be sorry to give up his wander-
ing life. The other, a middle-aged man,
helped me cut burrs on an unemployment-
relief job on the Dubbo showground. His
trouble was a bossy wife and daughters,
and, to get clear of them, he’d chucked a
nice suburban practice down south.
Couldn’t open up in practice again or
they’d have traced him through the
medical register; couldn’t practise under
an alias because that isn’t done within
the B.M.A. He wasn’t happy away from
his vocation, but he stuck to what he con-
sidered the lesser of two evils and solaced
his professional hunger by tending the
minor wounds and ailments of his work-
mates, who paid him in cash or kind.
* * * *
Bill had the strainer-post on
the site and the hole dug, but couldn’t
quite upend the big log on his own. As
the shire truck appeared on its way to
work. Bill stopped it, and was greeted
affably by the five blokes aboard. “ ’Day,
Bill. Ain’t seen y’ in ages. Want us
f’r somethin’?” “Yair. Want one of
you to give us a lift to stand this post
in the hole.” “Sure,” agreed the boss
bloke readily. “Sure. I’d do it meself
if it wasn’t for me crook ticker. Not
s’posed to work with this heart, y’ know,
that’s why they put me in charge and I
do the driving. What about you, Herb?”
He glanced at a shaky little bloke along-
side. “Gripes, no. You look off color.
Herb’s gettin’ over the ’flu,” he explained
to Bill. “But Ted’ll give y’ a lift. Think
you can stand it, Ted?” The bloke
addressed shook his head regretfully.
“Better not risk it,” he replied. “Too
soon after me operation to do anything
heavy.” “Yair, p’raps .y’re right,” agreed
the boss. “What about you, Pete? No,
I reckon you couldn’t manage it, not with
one arm. Bad luck sprainin’ y’r arm
like that a coupler weeks ago, Awright,
you help Bill, Sandy.” “Right-oh.”
Sandy climbed from the truck and
hobbled across to the strainer-post. “Bit
slow witli this blasted rheumatism,” he
explained, catching hold of the post
gingerly behind Bill. Ten minutes and
Bill gave up. “Aw, well, d-don’t matter,”
he puffed. “We’ll leave it. I’m sure to
catch one or another of the cockies
passing along soon.”
* * * *
“Sackville”: A very reputable Aus-
tralian author and erstwhile writer of
Abo. pars obviously believes that a dis-
turbed snake will hiss (B. 17/1/’5l). He,
lon Idriess, mentions it incidentally in
Lasseter’s Last Ride. My own experi-
ence, however, would lead me to support
“Wobbly Kelly”—as far as venomous
snakes are concerned; but I h-.ive heard
a diamond snake hiss. It was not a fierce,
sibilant hiss, but more like an aspirated
breath; nor
was it a sign
of anger; the
snake was
being handled
by its master at
the time, and
was obviously
quite at ease.
I’ve never
heard another snake bias, but a
blue-tongued lizard is a master of pro-
fanity. His hiss, when a dog has him
bailed-up, is a gem of threatening in-
vective, To really hear him at his best,
however, poke him in the brisket with a
stick when he’s holed-up somewhere.
He’ll tell you what you are, where you
can go, and what he’d do to you if you
had the guts to come in there and meet
him lizard to lizard —and he’ll do it all
with a loud, open-mouthed, aspirated
hiss.
LOVE STORY.
The woman and I were forever talking
while spring and the hollyhocks stared through
j the window.
But there was nothing between us really,
she was a woman of ninety in a black dress;
I seven, wanting her to turn
a hundred. A mystery in the number, an
eternity
of long days preventing all but her
from solving it. She was terribly old, but never
older
and she talked about her mother’s mother and
daughters
far away, and the quick growth of the little
garden—
living and creating, speeded-up and watched
from the window. We would sit in her room
on Saturdays
at the cane table, I having brought food
for feasting; not practical preserves or nourish-
ment
but cream rolls and pasties—l was terribly in
love
with cream rolls.
We would feast and talk and look at the garden.
The incredible sun would reach through the
window;
the blue smile of the sky was caught in the air.
Sometimes that room was a world, and bigger,
it was very wonderful to be sitting there.
When it was dark and the room was a sugges-
tion
of the shadows, when even the brown photos
on the wall were only a trick of the half-light,
when under the table was a black blanket
and her hands were a white shadow on the sill,
then it was time to pull down the window
and switch on the light: it was time to go.
I never wondered what she did at night;
she seemed to be only for Saturdays, you know.
Sometimes we’d walk to the old cemetery—
a talking about people and a comparing of
dates —
I with a proud hold of her arm,
a magnificent acceptance of all life could offer.
But mostly we’d sit and listen to the photographs
and the glass ornaments and the crochet-work
telling their old stories. She was everything
that had been before I was born and there
was nothing
more wonderful or long.
Softly spring and the hollyhocks grew up the
wall
and soft day and soft talk silenced into song.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


a*
»e«t« hues
■ •in
Tilings
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7
Your Estate whe Safer
in these
Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not of one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Kauri Timber Co.
To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1942.. 89,648 5 p.c. = 37,500 2,148 185,922
Unexplained addition, £2OOO .. 187,922
1943.. 37,550 5 p.c. = 37,500 60 187,972
Profit, sale of assets, £3038 .. 191,910
1944.. 38,015 5 p.c. = 37,500 515 102,425
Profit, sale of assets, £lBl .. 192,606
1945.. 38,599 5 p.c. = 37,500 1,099 193,705
Added intangibles, £4l .. .. 193,664
Profit, sale of assets, £6608 .. 200,272
Accident ins. res. appears, £4*>Bs 204,857
1946.. 45,956 6 p.c. = 37,500 8,456 213,313
Kauri Timber and Subsidiaries.]
Pref. Ord.
p-c. p.c.
Reserves, new subsidiary, £216 .. 240,151
,„,„ Added intangibles, £139,392 .. 100,759
1947.. 76.148 5 37,500 38.648 139,407
From outside interests, £14,774..]
Reserves, new subsids., £28,652.. [
Added intangibles, £100.624 .. (
Reduction reserves, £3694 .. .. J
78,515
1948. .133,408 64 48,750 84,658 • 163. ivr
Net reserve adjustments, £15,505 .. 178,678
Added intangibles, £101,174 ..
1949. .206.182 64 48.750 157,432 234.936
Reduction intangibles, £26,763 .. 261.699
Net reserve adjustment, £35,537 .. 297,236
1950. .233,236 5 8 60,000 151,986 449,222
‘ After deducting intangibles, now £423,673.
f After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
The remarkable expansion in net earn-
ings of this big timber group over the
last three years is due to the introduction
of £900,000 of fresh debenture and pref.
capital and consequent expansion of
activities, by absorption and otherwise,
combined with unusually favorable trad-
ing conditions. The conversion of tim-
ber-stands into saleable products and
their marketing, however, takes time.
In March, 1947, £400,000 of 4 p.c.
debenture money was gathered and used
to help buy the old-established Adelaide
business of Globe Timber Mills,
strengthen the fleet engaged in the Tas-
manian timber trade, erect new joinery
works and quicken and cheapen logging
by mechanisation. One result was
marked improvement in the 1948 profit.
In the following year a half-interest was
bought in New Zealand Plywood (South
Island), Ltd., which had just erected a
factory at Christchurch, as well as all
the ords. in Circular Head Amalgamated
Timbers Pty., at Stanley (Tas.), thus en-
suring a steady flow of hardwoods to the
Adelaide and Melbourne markets. And,
for the first time since war intervened,
Ipgs were shipped from the Solomons for
conversion into plywood at Melbourne.
Also, to eater for the demand for jarrah
and karri in the Eastern States, erection
of a new mill at Northcliffe (W.A.) was
begun. There was, of course, further
improvement in the 1949 profit. To help
meet the additional outlay involved,
500,000 new £1 5 p.c. prefs., redeem-
able between 1955 and 1968, were issued
to the A.M.P. Society just before the
books closed in 1949.
Last term the new Westralian mill got
into production, and logs from all the
co.’s stands came forward in better
volume. Another ship was added to the
Tasmanian fleet, and the balance of the
share capital (held by outsiders) in Steel
Bros, sawmill (N.Z.) was bought. So,
despite rising costs and shortage of N.Z.
rimu, owing, to shipping difficulties, the
board was able to write combined net
earnings £27,054 stronger at £233,236.
That was after paying debenture interest
(£16,000) and allowing for depreciation
(£164,473, up £33,488) and taxation
(£277,747, up £23,974). The £233,236
covered the pref. div. and 28.3 p.c. on
the £750,000 of ord. capital as against
27.5, 17.7 and 10 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. That leaves out of the
reckoning a net unexplained addition of
£35,537 to reserves and reduction of
£26,763 in intangibles (now £423,673),
which are mainly the difference between
par- and book-value of shares in sub-
sidiaries. The cautious board lifted the
div. from 6y p.c. to 8 p.c., leaving nearly
two-thirds of the year’s net earning to
put on the shelf. The profit, plus de-
benture interest, was equal to 11.8 p.c.
on debenture capital and shareholders’
funds combined, so the debentures and
pref. moneys are earning a lot more than
their keep. After earmarking £41,000 to-
ward their redemption there was still
plenty of elbow-room for a further lift
in the ord, div.
The financial position improved:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £1,100,000 £1,250.000
Outside interests . . 335,158 348,980 345.100
Debentures . . . . 400,000 400,000 400,000
Overdraft .. . . 482,818 472,142 366,818
Sundry creditors*.. 568,868 713,774 834,620
Final div 33,750 33,750 37.500
Properties . . . . 449,657 550,617 570.367
Plant, etc 608,469 672,210 759.407
Stocks . . . . 1,002,819 1,147,046 1,219.519
Book debts .. .. 576,610 707,772 899,790
Shares in other cos. 44,253 106,550 108.302
Cash, etc 71,619 181,406 164,088
Intangibles .. 349,362 450,436 423,673
* Includes provision for taxation.
Net additions of £192,018 to book debts,
£72,473 to stocks, £87,197 to plant, etc.,
and £19,750 to properties were accom-
panied by a growth of £120,846 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
and a cut of £105,324 in the overdraft.
Including the debenture debt with lia-
bilities, the more or less liquid surplus
was £196,903 stronger at £752,761.
It is too early yet to say to what extent
the impact of rising wage and other costs
will be offset by increased selling-prices,
which are mostly controlled. Much will
depend upon what is done to arrest
spiralling costs before they push the price
of new dwellings beyond the reach of the
middle-income group.
At 455. 6d. (335. 3d, a year ago) the
f.-p. pound ords. return 3.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div, basis, or 4.4 p.c. should the
distribution rise to 10 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 31s. lid. The prefs. are not
listed on ’Change.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
Dividends
,—'-Prefs.* — N Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
1942.. 69,175 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 388,872
1943.. 69,390 18,500 2190 15 „ „ 42,843 399.729
1944.. 72,793 13,500 2190 15 „ „ 42,843 413,989
Unexplained additions, £3564 ~ .. 417,553
1945.. 79,182 63,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 438,202
1946.. 79,476 13,500 2190 15 „ „ 42,843 459,146
1947.. 74,610 13,500 2190 15 „ „ 42,843 475.223
1948.. 77,242 13,500 2190 15 „ ~ 42,843 493,932
Exchange fluctuation a/c, £13,428 .. 507,360
1949.. 86,885 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 535,712
1950.. 74,896 13,500 2190 15 „ „ 42,843 552.075
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
f After deducting intangibles, now £46,059.
Well - handled and well - ribbed,
financially and otherwise, M.B. and T.
has been a very satisfactory profit-earner
and dividend-payer ever since the present
co. took over the old-established busi-
ness of the same name about 30 years
ago. Moreover, growth of the undertak-
ing has been financed largely out of
surplus earnings and allowances, etc.
And, with visible reserves now heaped
£94,555 higher than paid capital, and a
comfortable margin between earnings and
distributions, the co.’s scrip ranks high
among industrial equities in the market.
Capital, steady at £457,520 for the last
20 years, or thereabouts, is in 150,000 A
9 p.c. and 21,900 B 10 p.c. cum. prefs. (a
reminder of the dear money days of the
early 1920’5) and 285,620 ords. Over the
four years to mid-1950 the price of the
ords. fluctuated between 87s. and 955. 6d.
The figure has since advanced to 1065.,
giving an immediate return of 2.8 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div. basis. So the investor who
looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his money
counts on the div. going to 22 p.c., or
other benefits, such as a one-for-two
bonus-scrip issue and maintenance of the
div. at 15 p.c. Such an issue would lift
paid capital to £600,330, on which pref.
divs. and 15 p.c. to the ords. would call
for £79,864, or approximately the
average rate of net earnings over the last
three years. The A prefs. at 40s. yield
4.5 p.c.; the B’s seldom appear on
’Change. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £6 14s. 7d. A’s, £39 4s. lid. B’s
and 58s. Bd. ords.
After ord. capital had been doubled
by the issue of £126,000 of bonus scrip
in 1926, the nominal rate of div. was
lowered from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c., and,
except for the six difficult years to 1935
when distributions averaged 6.7 p.c., the
rate has remained steady since.
Activities, which spread throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand, cover
a wide range, and include manufacture
and/or importation of yeast, vinegar,
bottle-seals and supplies and equipment
for aerated - water manufacturers,
brewers, bottlers, bakers, confectioners and
restaurant- and hotelkeepers. The earn-
ings of several very healthy subsidiaries
are taken credit for only to the extent ot
dividends received, and it is reasonable
to assume that these offshoots have fol-
lowed the same conservative financial
policy as the parent. The probabilities
are, therefore, that there is a bit more
wheat in the ear than the eye can see.
The slip of £11,989 in net earnings for
1950 was due fo the effects of the mid-
-1949 coal strike and rising costs. The
£74,896 of profit claimed was written
after allowing a generous £18,756 (up
£4124) for depreciation and whatever
was considered necessary for taxation,
etc. It covered the pref. divs. and 20.7
p.c. on ord. capital as against 21.4, 21.6,
20.6 and 22.3 p.c. back to 1946. A better
showing at next balance is anticipated,
and results achieved under war-time
controls and allocations suggest that the
business has little to fear from an
accelerated defence programme.
The co. is trading well within its own
resources:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £457,520 £457,520 £457,520 £457,520
Sundrv
creditors*.. 163,774 167,483 206,132 182.568
Owing to subsids. 39,898 82,015 74,602 112,397
Final div. . . 36,407 36,407 36,407 36.407
Freeholds . . 327,390 340,881 343,909 349,240
Plant, etc. . . 47,827 49,726 65,309 60.446
Shares subsids. 277,389 269,528 269,528 308,495
Loans subsids. 72,940 86,932 98,436 69,261
Other shares. . 46,875 46,875 46,875
Stocks .. 182,406 262,568 240,089 283,296
Debtors . . 128,499 139,504 156,605 172,001
Cash, etc. . . 136,381 41,343 89,622 51,353
* Includes provision for taxation and other con-
tingencies, etc.
Excluding shareholdings (up £38,867 last
term), the more-or-less liquid surplus was
£244,721 (down £22,890). Stocks (up
£43,207) appear at “not exceeding cost,
less reserve.”
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd.*
(and Subsidiaries.)
, — : -Dividends A
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. - Ordinary. serves, ser.es.
1947- 12,000 8 p.c. = 42,070 55,350 321,596
From tax reserve, £15,368 .. .. 336, yor
1948- 12,000 8 p.c. = 42,070 51,205 388,169
Maintenance reserve disappears, £20,812 367,357
1949- 12,000 8 p.c. = 42,254 112,490 479,847
1950- 12,000 10 „ „ 53,855 110,610 590.457
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
The outlook for this efficient and enter-
prising cotton-spinning, -weaving and
underwear-manufacturing organisation is
one of continued expansion. To help
finance the growth and to lighten the out-
side debt, 300,000 new £1 ords. were
issued at 30s. each, one for two, in August
last. The issue will thus bring in £450,000
—£300,000 capital and £150,000 share
premiums, which make a 10 p.c, div.
worth 6.6 p.c. on the new scrip. Paid
capital will be lifted to £1,050,000 in
200,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs. and the balance
ords., on which last term’s rates of distri-
bution will call for £97,000, or £79,465
less profit than the group earned last
term.
The parent, established as a proprietary
in 1925, was formed into a public co.
10 years later with an issued capital of
£361,996, of which £115,166 was bonus-
scrip. Its main mill at Carlton (Vic.)
is assisted by three annexes, set up at
Springvale, East Oakleigh and Stawcll to
help overcome the labor problem. And
there are three lusty subsidiaries and a
small property co. in which the parent
had invested £649,832 (£336,608 shares
and £313,224 advances) at June 30 last.
For the 15 years to the close of
accounts in 1949 the ords. received annual
distributions averaging 7.1 p.c. —highest
8 p.c. and lowest 5 p.c. in 1936. Since
war ended production has lagged far
behind the order-book, chief bottlenecks
being shortages of raw materials and
labor, aggravated by the 40-hour week,
coal troubles and power-rationing. The
slip in group profit for 1948 was due to
withdrawal of subsidies and delay in
lifting selling-prices, which are controlled.
Last term aggregate turnover advanced
by 30 p.c. After eliminating outside
shareholders’ interests, allowing a
generous £116,751 (up £1240) for depreci-
ation and something for taxation, the
board figured combined net earnings at
a record £176,465 (up £9721), of which
the pref, div. took £12,000. The balance
was equal to 30.5 p.c, on average ord.
capital as against 29.3, 17.7 and 18.6 p.c.
for the three preceding years. Since
money was wanted in the business, only
a couple of points were added to the div.,
making it 10 p.c., thus leaving nearly two-
thirds of the year’s profit to plough back
into the undertaking.
Profits earned by individual members
of the group compare as follows:
Capital
Held By Profit
Parent. 1949. 1950.
Davies, Coop (Melb.).. * £64,560 £75.074
Davies, Coop (N.S.W.) £135,654 47,970 59,152
Davies, Coop (S. Aust.) 100,000 55,242 42,567
Davies, Coop (Flax) . . 100,000 9,2 7 3 11.044
Davies, Coop (Prop’ty) 954
Total .. .. £336,608 £177,045 £187.837
Total profit includes £10,30i, 1949, and £11,372,
1950, belonging to outside shareholders.
* Parent’s paid capital, £741,750, with £16,750 at
call.
The Sydney (N.S.W.) and Adelaide
(S. Aus.) cos. were formed in 1939 and
the flax co., which makes tarpaulins, etc.,
at Collingwood (Vic.), in 1941.
Expanding business, rising prices and
the need to hold large stocks of raw
materials (cotton is in short supply the
world over, and the price has climbed
steeply since the close of accounts) are
reflected in net additions of £288,524 to
stocks and £220,201 to book debts:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £725,875 £725,875 £733,250 £741,750
Outside
interests . . 120,445 122,181 124.856 129.080
Overdraft .. 315,640 589,253 744,558 718.363
Creditors, etc. 129,116 151,883 163,287 657.956
Tax provision 217,794 154,658 161,903 160,421
Final div. . . 29,664 27,035 27,219 33,088
Freeholds . . 434,881 425,499 429,354 422.893
Plant, etc. . . 470,866 416,716 351,077 344.973
Stocks . . 500,954 858,475 1,123,726 1.412.250
Book debts, etc. 453,178 459,098 530,504 750.705
Cash .. 251 266 261 294
To help meet the outlay the co. was
leaning upon sundry creditors, etc., for
an extra £394,669 when the books closed.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£693,421) was £135,899.
Plant, etc., is up-to-date, efficient and very
conservatively valued in the books, no
less than £457,598 having been written
off the item out of earnings over the last
four years.
At 14s. 7d. the f.-p. ss. ords. return
3.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 5.1 p.c.
should the distribution rise to 15 pc.
Including the new issue, net tangible
cover is 7s. 7d. per share. The well-
protected prefs. are seldom traded on
’Change.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, senes.
1943.. 3,482 6 p.c. = 3,150 332 12,825
1944.. 2,035 5 „ „ 2,625 12,235
1945., 7,515 10 „ „ 5,250 }
Staff bonus, £1750 .. f
1946., 11,129 15 p.c. = 7,874 \
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. J
515 12,750
1255 14,005
1947.. 4,866 121 p.c. = 6,562 12,309
1948.. 8,128 12J „ „ 6,563 1565 13,874
Staff bonus, £1250 .. .. 12,624
1949.. 12,412 15 p.c. = 7,875 4537 17,161
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. .. 15.161
1950.. 30,870 30 p.c. = 15,750 15,120 30.281
Staff bonus, £6023 .. .. 24,258
Earnings and dividends of this 91-
year-old Sydney real-estate business


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRDAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
vm
my word, f do like an
■ a ICE COLD f*
Vickers Gin
Squash
It’s the perfect answer to temperatures that soar
round the nineties—the greatest cooling drink I know.
A fellow finds himself putting up with the heat when
he knows he’s in line for a Vickers Gin Squash or
two—take my word for it. But mark you—the
gin must be Vickers. Pop this recipe in your book.
VICKERS GIN SQUASH
Into a long glass put half oz. lemon squash,
2 oz. Vickers Gin.
Add small pieces of ice. Mix well, fill with soda
water and put a slice of lemon on top.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
fdf
A request to The United Distillers Pty. ltd., P.O. Box
759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, will bring you FREE,
an attractive book containing 60 tested recipes (or
cocktails and long drinks. Write for it now.
CKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE I
5 0
VG 41/16
X/AVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Adtt.
TODAYS PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-five years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policies
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
m
mm
RSSURRNCE COMPRNY LTD
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREET SYDNEY
Q
RElLAXiprau 'painf uni!
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAI NTS— for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
fill e
Also available
as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Xopp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
df
Champion\
'Spozrems
d
fd
IN U,S.A. JUNE,I939. A TRAINER,
EXCHANGED HIS APPRENTICE FOR
THE-SIX-VEAR-OLD-QELDING
•TRAMWAY "WHOSE 18 STARTS.
IN 1938-9 SEASON HAD YIELDED
ONLY ONE WIN. THE APPRENTICE
HAD MUCH THE BETTER FORM
HAVING ONLY A FORTNIGHT*
PREVIOUSLY HAD HIS FIRST RIDE
FOR A WIN.
*
a
k
V)
■^Sf:
DID you KNOW THAT
TOOK PLACE IN
MELBOURNE (AUST) IN NOVEMBER,
1855 WHEN JAMES KELLY AND
JONATHON SMITH MET IN A ~
BARE KNUCKLE ENCOUNTER THAT
LASTED 6 HOURS 15 MINUTES.
A
N792D-3.50
m youmw mar
f
e///imo#wMCM is
THE CHOICE OF SMOKERS
APPRECIATE A REALLY SATISFYING ■
SMOKE. AVAILABLE IN FINE CUT,OR.
READY RUBBED.. IT IS TRULY A
CHAMP/OA/ SMOKE
1... V . V
TO
m
- - i
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe.
follow the ups and downs of the
metropolitan property market,
The co.’s recently-established
stock-and-station section, which
handles sales of pastoral proper-
ties, and rents from its own free-
hold contribute, too. Last year
the CO sold a record number of
1 ’+• ° a n^ m a
properties at record pi ices, and
it earned a record profit m the
process. The £30,870 (up
£18,458) netted was a juicy 58.8
p.c. on capital as against 23.6,
15.9 and 9.2 p.c. for the three
preceding years. Since the policy
is to distribute profits as they
are earned, the div. was lifted
from 15 p»c. to 30 p.c., making
average distribution over the last
six years 15.8 p.c. as against an
average of 7.8 p.c. for the pre-
ceding quinquennium, which felt
the full blast of war-time restric-
tions and controls, etc.
Financially the co is comfort-
ably shod •
1948. 1949. 1950.
capital .. £52,560 £52,560 £52.560
liabilities .. 40,846 80,070 89,183
Freeholds, etc. 65,650 65,650 65,650
Equipment .. 2,050 2,120 4,794
sharesothercoV. Ifil floss IS
cash, etc. .. 37,307 81,669 93.399
Sundry debt.,. 5,60, ~656 11,010
A sellers market continues for
city and suburban shop, factory,
office and home properties, and
seems likely to for some time,
So over the last 12 months in-
vestors lengthened their bid for
the co.’s f.-p. 15s. shares from
355. to 555. At the higher
figure the return is 8.2 p.c. on a
30 p.c. div. basis, or a shade
over 4 p.c. on an average distri-
bution of 15 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 21s. lid.
Most of the properties that
fell under the co.’s hammer
were suburban land and dwel-
lings with vacant possession—
these dwellings are easier to
move and command a substantial
premium over tenanted premises.
The absurdly high cost of build-
ing and low rentals fixed by
control authorities have made
house property as a letting
proposition uneconomic. Hence
the demand of the Real Estate
Institute for a 20 p.c. lift in
rentals. The capital value of
properties has been hoisted far
beyond its true economic limit.
Among the factors responsible
for the hoist are a 25 p.c. or
more chaos - and - inefficiency
loading, the 40-hour week,
shortages of materials and high
cost of labor —wage-earners in
the building trades get far above
award rates. While money wage-
rates keep on rising the produc-
tivity per worker remains static,
or declines. The result is an
inevitable inflation of costs and
capital values. And there is a
hidden price rise in the shoddi-
ness of work, too.
Some day the bubble will
burst; but that day is not yet in
sight. When it arrives it will
destroy not real values but some
or all of today’s perniciously-
inflated paper-values. Hence the
urgent need for public measures
to arrest inflation by correcting
its many contributory factors,
and so restore a measure of
stability. It is not an easy task,
and will take time to achieve.
Tennant Creek Field
“Sumting Nutting”: A recent
look over the Tennant Creek
goldfield showed an improve-
ment as to the potential life of
the place. The early assump-
tion, based on the first geologi-
cal reports and experiences, that
values would not occur below
about 200 ft, to 300 ft. from the
surface has been proved to re-
quire amendment in the light of
comparatively recent develop-
ments. By the finding of ore
at the 400 ft. level the Eldorado
has taken on a new lease of life.
On the Patties leases to the west
of Eldorado, and on Enterprise
No. 1 lease still further west,
ore is now being extracted at a
lower horizon than that at which
the values were said to have cut
out. Diamond-drilling at Noble’s
Nob has located payable ore
below the bottom level. On the
Peko mine a drill-hole inter-
sected gold and copper values
100 ft. below the present bottom
of the mine. C. L. Knight’s re-
port, dated March 12, 1947, on
the Northern Star mine states
that at the 235 ft. level the shoot
of the main ore-body cuts out.
Development may yet prove this
to be another case of displace-
ment by faulting rather than
“lensing-out” of the ore-body.
There have been some disap-
pointments, notably the Black
Angel mine, where the owner’s
parcel of over 600 tons crushed
toward the close of 1949 gave
a recovery below expectations of
local enthusiasts. The trying-
out of the Orlando leases,
25 miles west of the township,
by a financial group new to
mining is said to have been dis-
appointing. On the other hand,
a prospector has located a new
strike about 30 miles east of
Tennant Creek on the Persever-
ance lease in the Golden Mile
area. Some rich ore has been
got here at about 15ft. below
the surface, and the owners are
proceeding with the develop-
ment of the property.
* * * *
Ajax Consolidated, NX., is
looking sick.QjJPloated in Syd-
ney in August, 1948, to dewater
and investigate some of the old
Ajax (gold) leases near Dayles-
ford (Vic.), the co. has failed in
the initial part of its task. At
283 ft. it became obvious that the
pumps would be unable to deal
with the flow of water. Experts
were called in, and the board
decided to “give up the ghost”
so far as pumping was con-
cerned. Attention was then
turned to diamond-drilling an
adjoining lease. Here the first
hole failed because of a faulty
bit, the second went to 600 ft.
without meeting with anything
worth mentioning, and the third
is progressing. Now two en-
gineers have been invited to say
whether further drilling is
warranted. At June 30 last paid
capital was £96,250, and there
was £1291 coming to the bank
and others. The lot was repre-
sented by mine £42,500, plant,
etc., £15,226, development
£16,900, shares in Dittmer Gold
£12,500 and in Daylesford
Properties £3850, and pre-
liminary exes. £6565.
* * * *
The board of London-con-
trolled Lake View and Star,
whose mine on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.) is Aus-
tralia’s premier gold-producer,
has unanimously decided that
the disadvantages which would
arise from transfer of head-
quarters, and therefore control,
to Australia in order to avoid
British income tax are so great
as to outweigh the financial gain
to be derived from it. Approxi-
mately 94 p.c. of the shares are
held in U.K. Co. paid a final
Is. 6d. in December, 1950,
making 2s. 6d. per 4s. share for
the year to June 30 last, subject
to English income tax of 9s. in
the £. Ore reserves at July 1,
1950, were put at 4,292,400
tons, averaging 4.77dwt., an in-
crease of 196,000 tons on the
previous year’s figure. The scrip
recently fetched 295. 3d. in the
local market.


A RECORD
W**i
LEADERS FOR 107 YEARS
the
2 IN
No.
Feeding raw materials into the hopper of
a giant mixing machine. Precision control
of the mixing cycle ensures uniformity.
Olympic
f-ridt
TYRES
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Youth and the Welfare State
So many problems are facing
us at the moment, both inside
and outside the country, that not
much thought is being given to
the future beyond what is
expected in the way of inflation
from the most recent basic-wage
rise. Certainly there has been
little or no discussion on the
point of what the Welfare State,
as at present constituted, means
so far as the youth of today
are concerned.
Today’s youth represent the
wage-earners of tomorrow. And
to them the so-called new social
and economic set-up may appear
to be much more attractive than
that to which their fathers, at
their age, were accustomed.
Perhaps even parents today may
feel that their families, because
of the 40-hour week, higher
wages, “free” medicine and
social-security in general, will
inherit a citizenship much more
appealing than that of 20 years
ago. On the face of things, be-
cause of the wider availability of
old-age pensions, it would seem
that tomorrow’s wage-earners
and taxpayers will have less
personal responsibility in the
looking-after of their parents.
But in today’s idea of the
Welfare State there are two con-
flicting forces. To begin with,
the aged, the sick and the un-
employed are to receive greater
“free” benefits than ever before,
and people will “retire” earlier.
On the other hand, the working
hours of the wage-earner have
been reduced by at least four a
week, and the effective reduc-
tion is probably a great deal
more than that.
The picture which that reveals
to the discerning mind is one in
which a greater number of non-
producers will have to be sup-
ported by a proportionately
smaller number of producers,
and that smaller number of pro-
ducers have come to regard as
a right a shorter working week
than their fathers knew.
In other words, because of
the currently lower output per
worker than was customary a
decade ago, it seems impossible
to visualise a Welfare State in
which all the promised social-
security benefits can be enjoyed
unless the new generation is pre-
pared to accept a reduced
standard of living, or is prepared
to work a great deal harder in
40 hours a week than is the
custom at present.
For a number of years past a
bountiful supply of paper money
has confused real economic
issues in Australia. This exces-
sive supply of money has created
an illusion of prosperity, and
has encouraged the production
of consumer goods. So great
has been the demand by wage-
earners with a lot of money in
their pockets for living require-
ments and luxuries that labor
has not been available in suf-
ficient quantities for maintaining
essential services. In conse-
quence our mechanical capacity
for producing essential goods
and services has not been fully
maintained. Instead of mechani-
sation making it easier for the
wage-earner to produce and dis-
tribute goods, his own immediate
demands on the output of
industry have, in many cases,
made it harder.
At present there is not a
proper balance in outlay of the
national income between capital
goods and consumer goods.
There are too many non-
producing civil servants, too
many short-producing wage-
earners in industry, and not
enough of our production re-
served and directed towards a
greater mechanical production
and distribution capacity.
; For some time, in actual
physical fact, we have been
partly living on capital. The
national income, too, has been
to an extent a dividend paid out
of capital. That extent is . deter-
mined by the amount by which
we have failed to provide for
wear, tear, decay and obsoles-
cence of our capital assets.
Perhaps this “depreciation”
which has occurred is to some
extent covered by our unspent
cash reserves in London. These
at present amount to something
like £570 million. JBut it is
doubtful whether this large sum
would even now make good the
unrepaired depreciation in
several of our essential indus-
tries, and its value is falling every
day as the climb in world prices
continues.
A youth today therefore not
only faces the burden of an
increased number of dependants
when he reaches working
maturity: in a number of
ways he may find our indus-
trial machine more defective
than it was in his father’s day.
Yet in numerous cases it will be
found that the juvenile employee
of today is the one who has the
least sense of industrial respon-
sibility. Perhaps that is natural
enough. But if he has swallowed
all the current Leftist propa-
ganda about working less and
asking for more money he is
bound to face bitter disillusion-
ment in a few years’ time. That
is because producers—wage-
earners, bosses and administra-
tors —are the ones who have to
carry the Welfare State on their
backs.
The Sharemarket
Demand for most shares
remained firm on Australian
’Changes last week. B.H.P. scrip
will be quoted ex-rights as from
today (28th); at the end of last
week they were fetching 58s. 9d.
cum rights, giving the rights a
putative value of 21s. Bd.
and the old scrip a nominal
price of 51s. Bd. First instal-
ment is due on April 10, and the
scrip will carry a premium of
10s. a share.
So far the market has ab-
sorbed all new-share offerings in
1951 without a qualm. The big
B.H.P. operation, calling for
nearly £lO million over about a
year, will be watched with
interest.
Assisting Industry
When the South Australian
Premier (Mr. Playford) set up an
Industries Advisory Committee
to find out ways and means of
expanding existing S.A. manu-
facturing and creating new fac-
tories, he followed his usual sane
practice of appointing non-
Government men, and the result
has been advice not colored by
departmental outlook or phrase-
ology. What’s more, while
appreciating the State Govern-
ment’s constructive help to in-
dustries, the I.A.C. hasn’t hesi-
tated to comment on official
hindrances.
As a means of showing Mr.
Playford that his Transport Con-
trol Board is a bit over the fence
with its restrictions on road
transport, the committee sub-
mitted the reports of several
prominent S.A. manufacturers,
of which the following is a fair
sample from a firm making
stoves and washing-machines for
a large inter-State clientele:
Because it is unable to use road-
transport the co. finds that costs of
packing for shipment are £27,000
more per annum than they would be
if road-transport could be used.
Cost of packages;
Sea Road
or rail, or air.
Washing-machines 21s. 9d. ss. fid.
Electric stoves—
Type A .. 225. 6d. 3s. fid.
Type B .. 255. Od. 3s. fid.
Type C .. 555. Od. 7s. fid.
Gas stoves .. 15s. fid. 2s. fid.
31s. Od. 16s. Od.
Gas stoves, large 555. Od. 7s. fid.
It takes three men six hours to
load a railway truck; the same three
can load the same quantity on a
road-transport in two hours. Fur-
ther, road-transport is door-to-door
service, cutting handling by more
than half in transit.
. Jhe co. estimated (Nov., 1950) that
it had £30,000-worth of finished goods
in stock awaiting shipment for any
one period. At 4 p.c. this meant an
additional cost of £l2OO. By rail it
takes goods an average of five days
from Adelaide to Melbourne, three to
four weeks to Sydney.
Sixty p.c. of the firm’s mar-
ket is inter-State. Gas com-
panies in Melbourne and Syd-
ney have told the firm that they
must stop buying its stoves be-
cause of irregular shipments and
unexpected delays. This means
“You and your calculations !"
the firm must build storages in
inter-State cities, and the in-
creased cost thus incurred must
favor competitors outside South
Australia.
In a general reply to this sort
of thing Premier Playford some-
what unworthily replied that if
S.A. manufacturers didn’t like
his road-transport control he’d
substitute the N.S.W. road-tax
system. This road-control, of
course, is designed to protect the
S.A. railways, but in the present
position of shipping the railways
cannot handle a twentieth of the
freight offering.
The scheme for the merger of
the Union Bank of Australia and
the Bank of Australasia under
the name of Australia and New
Zealand Bank, Ltd., was
approved by large majorities at
separate meetings of the share-
holders of the two banks in
London on February 16. The
sanction of the court to the
scheme will shortly be sought.
* - Y * * S
The Lithgow Valley Colliery
Co. last week converted into a
public company with a capital
of £300,000 in fully-paid £1
shares. It has two collieries, the
Lithgow Valley and the Her-
mitage, and operations date
back to 1874. The scrip is to
be listed.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
04 TEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
ALL-BRITISH
jne AU-BKi i
foiWflU
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
d
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27Z), 243 Elizabeth St.. Sydney
OMm
free
f
A.C.A.
ANNOUNCES
DOUBLE
INDEMNITY
INSURE YOUR LIFE
AND MAKE THAT
INSURANCE MORE
VALUABLE BY HAVING
A.C.A. DOUBLE
INDEMNITY ADDED
TO IT NOW!
• 0 Double Indemnity
doubles the sum assured of an ordinary Life Policy in the event
of death by accident. The small cost is only 4/- per £lOO per
year and is available to persons between 18 and 65 years of age.
This benefit can be added to your existing Policy without a further
medical examination or to any new Policy. Fill in the coupon
now and learn how a few shillings each year will give you real
peace of mind . . . confidence that your family will be secure in
the event of death by accident.
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd.
' (Incorporated in New South I Vales)
Head Office: 66 Kins Street, Sydney—Branches in all States.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
The Manager,
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd.,
66 King Street, Sydney.
Please let me have a copy of D.I. Facts without obligation.
Name |
Address I
State
b.d.i.
HOLDEN PROVES ITSELF
in tough taxi work-
-80,000 MILES OF CONSTANT RUNNING
Letters received from
HOLDEN Taxi Operators
who have now
registered big mileages
tell how HOLDEN
stands up to the
continuous running,
the high speeds and
quick acceleration,
the constant starting
and stopping and
slamming of doors
which make taxi work a
tough test for any car.
This letter tells how
HOLDEN came through
with top marks for
economy, and
dependability after
80,000 miles of
taxi service.
df
"Dear Sir,
As we have had some of the new Holden
cars in our service for approximately
two years and during that time they
have completed over 80,000 miles, we
feel that we are now in a position to
give you our impressions of these truly
wonderful cars.
. . . our business . . . calls for a car
that can stand up to constant running,
averaging approximately 20 hours per
day for seven days each week.
These cars have given us excellent
service and apart from a few minor
troubles ... they have been trouble free.
The petrol consumption has been
astounding and there is no car . . .
of the same horse power that can come
anywhere near the Australian
Holden ..."
Yours faithfully.
Ambassador Private Hire Service
Melbourne
d
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
★ There’s an “Air Chief” Radio specially designed
for Holden.
★ Convenient hire purchase terms are available
through G.M.A.C., General Motors’ own finance
company.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
*0278
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Costs and Controls
Buffeted by internal and ex-
ternal inflation, the one from
spiralling wages and the other
from booming exports, Maori-
landers are bracing themselves
for a 25 per cent, rise in costs
and prices this year before they
expect things to level out.
Although this is nowhere
within cooee of the rise Aus-
tralians might have to face, it
will rock easygoing Maori-
landers, who are slow to adapt
themselves. Since prices broke
from their moorings in mid-
-1950 New Zealand’s export in-
come has bounded by £lOO mil-
lion to an estimated £260 mil-
lion for the current season (to
June 30), and M.L. has been
importing on record scale, in-
cluding purchases of 25,000 new
cars in a twelvemonth for only
the second time in its life ; so
there’s an outsize dose of infla-
tion to be digested, with little
sign of willingness to tackle the
job in any direction in real
earnest. The makers of policy
know they can’t hold prices
against pressure from outside,
but they’d be a lot happier if
they could get production mov-
ing at a livelier tempo in their
under supplied market for many
lines.
Except for wool and leather,
Maoriland depends on the out-
side world for all key materials
for industry, and there’s noth-
ing it can do about rises in these.
Manufacturers are under orders
to carry 25 p.c. of the 15 p.c.
February increase in wages and
to pass on no more than 75
p.c., which tightens the squeeze
they’ve been feeling fairly
severely for months past. If
they can get enough materials
from John Bull and other sup-
pliers to hold output, probably
they’ll weather the storm ; but
it seems a big “if” for some of
them, who are already nearly
bare of stocks. At the moment
materials are a bigger worry
than manpower, which is bad
enough, but the balance could
be tipped the other way by a
few good shipments. Freer im-
ports, under decontrol of most
lines, could be a boon to M.L.,
too, if trade could be boosted
this year, but the odds are
against it.
Uncertain which way the cat
will jump, N.Z. is turning more
towards controls, and has issued
a price-freezing order to traders
covering 150 important goods
and services, which govern the
cost of living and business over-
heads. This will hold costs
temporarily, but in the long run
the only real remedy is by work-
ing harder or longer, neither of
which Maorilanders seem willing
to do. Instead, they cling to an
almost childlike belief that
money is the key to prosperity
and can be manipulated to cure
almost any economic ill. They
look on money as an alternative
to work. How the Government
and cos. battling to expand out-
put are going to disillusion them
and restore incentives can’t be
guessed at this stage. There’s
no carrot big enough for some
main industrial groups, above
all, watersiders, who have been
torpedoing M.L.’s effort for a
long time past.
The Motor Trade
Since under-the-table pay-
ments and black-marketing in
homes and small farms in New
Zealand was knocked on the
head by the Holland Govern-
ment’s 1950 decontrol moves,
traders and other Maorilanders
have made a welter of it in buy-
ing and selling cars at fancy
prices, and car-racketeering has
become a favorite pastime with
dealers, who have been able to
hold the public up to ransom.
Price orders to set a ceiling for
secondhand models were
scrapped last May, when it was
plain to everyone they were use-
less and were a laughing-stock,
and lately Minister of Industries
and Commerce Bowden said
there was no way of stamping
out malpractices but by increas-
ing car imports. In the whole
time price-controls operated it
wasn’t possible to amass enough
evidence to support a single
prosecution.
With prices for new cars
pegged, dealers have demanded
trade-ins at give-away prices,
which leave them in a position
to net a profit of up to several
hundred pounds on resale, and
car-hungry Maorilanders have
been letting them get away with
it. The only way to short-
circuit these exploiters has been
by going straight to the source
of supply—Britain—but to do
this buyers have had to put up
sterling funds for “no-remit-
tance” licences, so the majority
have been cut out and left at
the mercy of the racketeers.
Still, the number of buyers of
models for immediate delivery
from Britain averaged nearly
2000 a month for the first six
months from the word “go” in
May, and Maorilanders have
shown extraordinary ingenuity,
pertinacity or sheer indifference
to costs in possessing themselves
of exchange funds, outside
banking channels, by paying
inflated prices for London-
domiciled shares, or other easily-
marketed scrip, like B.H.P. or
C.S.R., and cashing-in on it at
the other end at a sacrifice of
up to 20 p.c.
Early in December Prime
Minister Sid Holland said 11,700
cars had been bought on no-
remittance licences in the half-
year, equal to average annual
imports over the past couple of
years. This meant the number
of new models bought was
doubled in 1950, with several
weeks still to go. Mr. Holland
might have told Maorilanders
that the blackmarket and the
pent-up demand would be
broken if this pace could be
held in 1951, but perhaps he had
doubts because of the growing
bottleneck in steel.
The first shock came shortly
before Christmas, when nearly
half the motor-dealers in N.Z.,
controlling orders for several of
J.B.’s light models, up to 10
h.p., slammed the door against
no-remittance buyers and told
those outside they could come
back in 1952. Till then, noth-
ing doing. The few who still
kept open were besieged for
cars, but the swing to larger and
dearer models helped to cushion
the pressure.
Gas and Electricity
Under the challenge of tax-
free electricity, which now
dominates the power and light
field in New Zealand, gas cos.
are in the twilight, with profits
feeling the growing squeeze of
mounting costs, particularly for
coal, which last year jumped in
price from £3 to £5 2s. a ton
following the pre-winter slashing
cut in subsidy.
Only two of the three leaders
in the industry, the Auckland
and Wellington cos., which pay
4 p.c. and 6 p.c. on ords., were
able to cover latest divs. out of
1950 profits, and they hadn’t
much to spare. The third in size,
Christchurch, had to dip into
backlog funds for £1857 to hold
its 11-year 5 p.c. sequence, and
warned that future div. pros-
pects were shaky.
It’s unlikely there’ll be relief
from the pressure of costs this
year as wages soar. For the
Auckland and Wellington cos.
1949 was the peak post-war year,
but the Christchurch peak was
back in 1946. Investors take a
sober view of gas scrip as they
see the industry struggling and
gas consumption static after
more than a decade in which
the main handicap has been the
ban on gas installations in State
houses. Technical progress is the
industry’s strongest card, and
recurring threats of electricity
rationing help, too.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The rumored new tax on cosmetics is
practically producing a “nerve crisis”
among the girls (old and young), which
won’t improve the aspect of unbeautified
faces one litle bit. Perhaps the tax-
imposers mean it as a compliment, like
the African chiefs who made their women
disfigure their lips so that they wouldn’t
be so attractive to neighboring tribes.
Preparations are well under way for
the N.S.W. National Opera, which begins
at the Tivoli on March 7. Satisfaction
shone on the faces of the committee -
members at their party during the week,
so gratifying have been the bookings to
date. The Minister for Education and
Mrs. Hefijpn were present, also the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress. The
director, Hans Zander, although paper-
white and fine-drawn in appearance, is,
according to members of the company,
most dynamic and vital when he is
directing. Mrs.. C. T. Lorenz looked
charming in cocoa crinkle taffeta. Mrs.
Erik Langker wore moonlit silver brocade,
Mrs. Arthur Davis introduced people
round with great energy and Dorothy
Helmrich smiled benevolently on all the
young opera-singers present.
It was surprising to find how many of
these singers have come from country
districts and from other States. Mary
Adams, who alternates the role of Carmen
with Norma Lever, was brought up in
the Maitland district and is well known
at Newcastle. Betty Hooper, one of the
two Michaelas of “Carmen,” comes from
Perth, where she sang the leading part in
“Tales of Hoffman.” The other Michaela
is Margaret Moore, a pretty Sydney girl
and one of the A.B.C. singers. Ursula
Maddey, who sings in the chorus, comes
from Gosford, where musical circles know
her well. For most of the company the
opportunity to sing in opera is a dream
fulfilled, especially as these three operas,
“II Seraglio,” “Carmen” and “A Masked
Ball,” are being produced in such a
splendid and spectacular way.
The smart world rolled up in force to
the opening of the exhibition at the
Education Department’s Gallery of
Archibald Rejects, held in aid of the
Wybalena Hostel Appeal. Lady Plowman
was chief organiser. Mrs. Percy Spender,
whose husband made the opening speech,
was in navy with a yellow straw hat.
Mrs. Tom Alexander upheld the honor
of American dressing in an oatmeal suit
and cute small hat to tone. Lady Moxham
was exuberant in navy with a striking
hat like a lily turned upside-down. Pink
feathers bobbed in the hat Mrs. Roy
McCaughey wore with her green tie-silk
dress. Mrs. Gordon Johnson’s navy
dress was sprinkled with white dots. The
younger set was represented by Caroline
Fairfax in a floral dress, Madeleine Arch-
butt, Jan and Judy Crossing.
The portraits were, on the whole, more
“interesting” than beautiful. Maybe there
were a few that should have got into the
Archibald exhibition, but there were none
that could conceivably have won it.
Artists shouldn’t complain. There are
so many exhibitions they can show their
works in, for one and all to see. Writers,
on the other hand, cannot hang their
works on the trees in Hyde Park or pin
them up in galleries. There is a man in
Castlereagh-street who shows his poems
in the window of his cake shop, but
cakes are all that people ever buy from
him —never poems.
An “Angel” luncheon was given at
the Australia during the week by Mr.
Harry Fader, when the waiters sprouted
wings and seraphim and cherubim rose
up from blue tulle to hold the place-
cards. The occasion was to introduce
Pond’s new cosmetic, “Angel Face,”
which takes the place of both powder
and foundation cream. St. Peter sent a
telegram asking for the selling rights in
his territory, but as we know that in
heaven there is no marriage or giving in
marriage, the market there mightn’t be
as good as he thinks.
To say that Dinah Shearing, radio
actress of renown, is talented is to under-
state the case. Those who saw her as
Regan in “King Lear” understand why
she has chosen the stage as chief back-
ground for her gifts, but it seems that
she is also a commercial artist, having
studied at the East Sydney Technical
College, to which she won a scholarship.
In addition, she has studied singing at the
Conservatorium and will sing on the
A.B.C. Light programme and Regionals
on March 12 at 7.15 p.m.
An interesting point about Dinah’s dress
as Regan is that the designer has chosen
the Cretan serpent goddess as Regan’s
symbol. It encircles her waist as a girdle
and lies in golden coils as a pattern on
the black robe that she wears in the
second half.
The Girl Guides’ Association (N.S.W.
branch) is preparing for the visit of
Lady Stratheden and Campbell, Chief
Commissioner of Girl Guides for the
British Commonwealth and Empire, who
arrives here on March 14. Lady
Stratheden has a special interest in Aus-
tralia, as her mother was Miss Clayre
Tennant, daughter of a well-known
pioneering family, who married Captain
Anstruther Thomson, aide-de-camp to
the then Governor of S.A. When her
husband succeeded to the family property
in Scotland their name was changed to
Anstruther Gray. Lady Stratheden also
lives in Scotland, her home being Hart-
rigge, Jodburgh.
In our picture we have Valda Bagnall
wearing the costume designed for her
part as Constanzia in “II Seraglio.”
Slender and fragile-looking, Valda has
none of the robustness of figure one
usually associates with opera stars, but
she has sung Queen of the Night in
Mozart’s “Magic Flute” under the direc-
tion of Eugene Goossens, one of the most
exacting soprano parts in opera. After
studying with Madame Mathy, she sang
the soprano part in the Resurrection
Symphony under Otto Klemperer. When
Erna Berger heard her sing, she said
that Valda would be perfect for the part
of Constanzia, so that the opportunity
to sing this beautiful role has given her
great delight. Photo by Clarice Boyce.
With so many people planning trips
abroad, a little advice on what clothes to
take seems timely. The experienced
voyagers travel light, observing rules
which they have found to be successful
over many journeys. The first rule is
to decide definitely on a color-scheme
and to adhere to it. If the main acces-
sories are to be black, for instance,
rigidly exclude any clothes that need
brown or navy shoes and handbag. The
same is true of hats. Never include a
hat that is not an essential part of an
ensemble, no matter how pretty or becom-
ing it may be.
Secondly, cut down on the evening
clothes. Some clever dressers take only
one, with a toning jacket or stole to vary
it. This one, however, must be very
good and not too conspicuous—stripes
and florals and dashing patterns of any
kind are eschewed. Even a cocktail dress
can be dispensed with if other clothes can
be worn to late-afternoon parties. A
faille or tie-silk suit in navy or black is
invaluable, as it can be worn from lunch-
time till nine p.m. and still be right.
Suits are the main thing on which to
concentrate. Two suits, one black, one
grey, can be the foundation of the ward-
robe. An Assam suit with a matclpng
suntop is excellent for hot climates. The
“good black dress” can also be included.
With these basics take plenty of acces-
sories, scarves in bright colors, belts,
collars, jewellery if you like it, stoles and
pretty blouses. A glamorous lame top can
transform a black suit into a cocktail
dress when the need arises.
Although the temptation to have a
wide variety of colorful clothes is a very
strong one, it is not wise to yield to it,
for on a trip they become an intolerable
burden in the packing aqd keeping in
order. Unless you plan to travel on the
Caronia or some other luxury ship where
competition is the main entertainment,
keep your cases lightly packed.
The English-Speaking Union starts off
its Thursday-afternoon meetings for 1951
tomorrow. This will be at the Women’s
Club, when the guest-of-honor will be
Mrs. W. Hermon Slade and the musical
programme will be supplied by Judith
Vern-Barnett, Marjorie Conley and Hazel
McGilvray.
From Melbourne
Gertrude Johnson and all those
enthusiasts who have nursed along the
National Theatre Movement from its
infancy must have had a thrill of pride
as the curtain came down on their first
performance of “The Barber of Seville”
at the Princess. It was a triumph also for
the young South Australian tenor Kevin
Miller who was Count Almaviva, Robert
Simmonds as Figaro and Barbara Wilson,
who made a captivating Rosina. In the
audience were Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, her
ensemble of satin in garnet-red and
black ; her sister, Thelma Halbert, her
ballerina frock of black lace; Eleanor
Baker, whose gown was of grey-and-red-
shot ripple-taffeta. Sir Robert Knox,
who is president of the National Theatre,
was accompanied by his wife and a party
which included Tom Hollway and his
wife, Dr. and Mrs. Cyril Tonkin, and the
secretary to the Treasury, A. T. Smithers,
and Mrs, Smithers.
Mavis Avery, graduate of the Alfred
and Women’s Hospital, has just been
appointed secretary-general of the Aus-
tralian Nursing Federation. She is also
a graduate of the Victorian Baby Health
Centre’s Association Training School and
the College of Nursing. She also holds
certificates for nursing administration. At
the outbreak of the last war Miss Avery,
who was in England doing post-graduate
work, joined the Queen Alexandra Royal
Army Nursing Service, and nursed in the
British Army for six years in the Middle
East, Italy, India and England. The
Australian Nursing Federation is the
national nursing organisation of Aus-
tralia and is affiliated with the Interna-
tional Council of Nurses, a body which
comprises the national nursing organisa-
tions of 30 countries in full membership
and 16 with associate membership. The
War Nurses’ Memorial Centre in St.
Kilda-road will be Miss Avery’s head-
quarters.
Lillian Wightman was the first woman
to stage a fashion-show for charity in
this city—that was at Menzies’ 20 years
ago, but, looking at this recent Athol
Shmith portrait, that statement stretches
credulity. Most of the hospitals have
benefited at some time or other from the
fashion-shows she has run, and all the
fashions come from La Lauvre, Lillian’s
own salon. Mrs.' George Weir in private
life and mother of small daughter
Georgina, Lillian’s hobbies are interior-
decorating and collecting old French gilt
and Chinese lacquer. She decorated her
lovely Georgian home at Kew.
Howard Buchanan paid tribute to the
International Red Cross when he was
guest-speaker at the first meeting of the
year of the Australian-American Associa-
tion held at Scott's Hotel. Mrs. Rupert
Downes, who presided over her first
meeting, was elected to the chair late last
year when Mrs. R. G. Casey resigned.
On behalf of the members she presented
Mrs. C. E. Norton, a member of the
women’s executive and council, and who
is returning to America after spending
four years in this country, with a bouquet
and a book on Australia. Mrs. Downes
wore a navy French-crepe frock and
matching off-the-face straw hat. Mrs.
R. G. Casey brightened her black suit
with gold buttons and a tiny black
jewelled pillbox hat. Mrs. Norton's
junior-blue suit had white pipings and
her hat was a white straw cloche. Mrs.
Howard Buchanan’s grey suit was
matched by her grey straw hat.
There was quite a cosmopolitan atmos-
phere at the At-Home given by the
president and council of the Royal Vic-
torian College of Nursing, at the War
Nurses’ Memorial Centre, St. Kilda-road.
Mrs. Maria Velono, a Philippines guest.
wore a national dress fashioned of pine-
apple fibre, which had been made by her
sister, and which featured the traditional
high sleeves worn by Philippine women.
The fabric was stiffened with sago and
sewn with hundreds of sequins. Mrs.
Velono, who is attached to the U.N.
International Children’s Emergency Fund
in the Philippines, did a Truby King nurs-
ing course in New Zealand, and she has
come to Australia to study maternal- and
child-welfare. Other guests who wore
national dress were Aw Nya Sim and
Mak Chung How, holders of the first
Malayan Nursing scholarships, and S.
Suvarnamani and Udom Subhatrai, of
Siam. The girls from Siam are studying
under the terms of the Australian Red
Cross scholarships. Mrs. Lucu Sechiari
and Claire Dossetor hostessed the party.
St. Kilda Town Hall was dressed up
with mixed hydrangeas, gladioli and
greenery for the cabaret ball organised
by the staff of the Alfred Hospital. More
color was added by the leis and multi-
colored balloons which were sold during
the evening. The Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, and his wife and daughter were
present. The gown of pink lace mounted
over matching satin worn by Lady Brooks
was made with a wide bouffant skirt and
a fitted bodice finished with a low round
neckline. Jeanette Brooks’s strapless
gown of apple-green sprigged organdie
had a very wide skirt. The official party
was received by Mrs. Peter Marshall, ball
president, assisted by Lydia Shaw, lady
superintendent of the Alfred. The
official party included the medical super-
intendent, Dr. R. S. Smibert, and Mrs.
Smibert, Mr, S. Rankine, manager, Dr.
lan McLean, Dr. and Mrs. E. Downey,
Dr. and Mrs. E. Gillespie and Matron
Hanna.
In the latest showing of hats here by
Henriette LaMotte, the Spanish influence
is expressed in many ways. Little black
felt bobbles dangle from the brim of a
black matador cap; a three-cornered
black felt was simply trimmed with heavy
black veiling, and one tiny gold-framed
mirror was the only adornment on a
wide flat beret of white hatter’s plush.
Unusual, indeed, was the grey knitted beret
sewn all over with steel beads; an even
odder touch was the fact that this hat
could be worn as a shoulder-bag. There
were plenty of tassels and lots of original
trimmings on the hats. Tiny mushrooms
in green-and-red velvet trimmed a tiny
green velvet cloche, whilst another
matador hat was fashioned of white satin
and lavishly trimmed with jet beads. A
small blue beret had trimmings of gold
mesh veil, gold dangles set at each side
and finished with a tiny peacock feather.
Gay doings at the Delphic when Dan
and Ray Murphy gave a cocktail-party
to welcome home their parents, Mr. and
Mrs. T. J. Murphy, and sister Stella, whc
had been holidaying abroad for some
months. Party was minus one traveller,
for daughter Moira, who accompanied
her parents and sister abroad, remained
in London, where she has a job. Another
daughter, Carmel, took her final vows as
a nun in Rome while her parents were
there. Mrs. Murphy’s frock and short
bolero in mist-blue silk patterned with
tiny white daisies had a white grosgrain
hat for company. Mrs. Dan Murphy
combined a jacket-suit of powder-blue
grosgrain and a black picture hat. Stella
Murphy’s ballerina frock was of pale-
lemon broderie Anglaise,
Highlight of the party was the
announcement of the engagement ot
Stella, the Murphys’ youngest daughter,
who is a past trainee of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, to Elio, youngest son of Mr.
and Mrs. W. B. Taranto, of Brighton, now
in his final year of dentistry at the Uni-
versity. Stella is wearing a lovely ring
of an emerald set in diamonds,
Mrs. Charles Davidson, of Toorak, is
busy packing preparatory to leaving for
a six-months’ trip abroad. She has been
granted leave of absence from the
Sutherland Homes for Children
Auxiliary, of which she is a committee-
member. In between packing she has
been guest-of-honor at numerous parties,
one of which was the bullet-luncheon
given at Birdwood, Brighton, by Mrs.
Andrew Peacock. The hostess wore with
her white-patterned grey silk frock a
wide-brimmed white chip straw hat. The
guest-of-honor contrasted her draped
frock of mushroom-pink crepe with a
wide straw hat edged with black tulle.
Among the guests were Mrs. Alex Finlay,
in a suit of black faille and a tiny red
straw cloche ; Mrs. Eric Cottrell, wearing
a beige linen tailored frock; Mrs.
Norman Spry, her brown-and-white-
spotted tie-silk frock featuring a draped
apron skirt; Mrs. E. R. Hughes, hei
frock of white silk patterned with
peacock-blue flowers; her daughter
Barbara, a gold straw hat topping her
gold-toned silk frock, which was pat-
terned with tiny groups of red flowers.


«
iiiiiiiiaiii
Schweppes
FRUIT CUP
A NEW BLEND OF PURE FRUIT JUICES
MAY BE OBTAINED AT SCHWEPPES PAVILION AT ROYAL EASTER SHOW
ALL FRUIT JUICE CORDIAL BOTTLES ARE RETURNABLE
PERSONAL ITEMS
Colonel Alfred Spain, 30 years a
soldier, has had also a long association
with Sydney, its ferries, its harbor and its
foreshores. Yachtsman, architect, for
many fruitful years till 1941 president
of the Taronga Park Trust, he
presides over the Royal Empire
Society, is deputy-president of the United
Service Institution (which owes much to
bis zealous interest), and is connected
with half a dozen other concerns, rang-
ing from nurses’ clubs to gas companies
and hospitals. Organiser and com-
mander of a Ist A.I.F. engineers’ rein-
forcement camp in Sydney in the Kaiser’s
disturbance, he left that for overseas
service, clewirg-up with the Sea Trans-
port Service, and in the next war he was
active in forming the V.D.C. Unit
Engineer Battalion. Added to his old
Volunteer Decoration, which becomes
rarer each year, he is entitled to wear the
Royal Shipwreck Relief Society’s Silver
Medal for gallantry in saving life in
Sydney Harbor. He indulges his passion,
yachting, with chairmanship of Sydney’s
colorful Anniversary Day regatta, the
world’s oldest.
Last week the red-balled flag of a rear-
admiral was hauled down from cruiser
Australia’s slender 150 ft. mast, to be
hoisted on carrier Sydney’s stumpy,
radar-cluttered equivalent. Rear-Admiral
J. A. S. Eccles transfers the flag.
It is expected that not more than half of
the starb’d side of Sydney’s stretching
flight-deck will be reserved for his long,
energetic legs.
Sydney-born Dr. William Pickles,
recently arrived in Melbourne from the
Old Dart, is a sort of medical White of
Selborne. Doing post-graduate work as
a young doctor in England, he settled in
Aysgarth, a small Yorkshire village of
200 people, and liked it so much that he
made the district a 20-year study. He
traced the family history of the whole
200, followed up the history of the
hamlet’s epidemics and finally wrote a
book about them called Epidemicology in
Country Districts. Among his findings
was that Aysgarth ’flu epidemics always
started in Denmark, and the best place to
catch them was the local picture-theatre.
He is here for a lecture tour for the Aus-
tralian Post-Graduate Federation.
“Fitz” on a poet:
Born in South Australia 37 years ago,
Bulletin poet John Blight lives in Queensland,
cost-accounting for a Maryborough timber
firm. His father was a farmer who shifted his
family and belongings overland to Queensland
via Broken Hill and Bdurke. John was then a
toddler of two. Educated at Brisbane High
School, he spare-timed caddying at the Indoo-
roopilly golf-links, where his most impressive
customer was Stanley Bruce, whom he remem-
bers as a good golier but who maintained the
countenance and silence of an Indian chief.
Leaving school, John went on to his father’s
property in the Fassifern Valley, once owned
by Major H. Chauvel, a brother of General
Chauvel, and was delighted to find that the
major had left behind a large library, of which
young Blight made extensive use, to the detri-
ment of duties on the farm. For four years
he worked on a citrus orchard, went on the
track with a kangaroo-shooter for a year, and
did some solid work as a ringbarker on a sheep-
station. Having studied accountancy, he worked
as an accountant with Bundaberg and Dalby
firms, landed a job for nine years with the
Queensland prices-control in Brisbane, and was
then appointed by the State Government as
commissioner on its Timber Industry Inquiry
Commission; this took him on an 8000-mile
tour of the State. He first tried his hand at
Bulletin verse when he was 16, and was
knocked-back. He kept trying, however, and in
1939 first saw print in this paper, since when
he has been a fairly regular contributor.
Dymocks, Sydney, published his first book of
verse, The Old Pianist, and he has appeared
in Angus and Robertson’s Australian Poetry
a number of times.
S. Elliott-Smith, who, in 1949, came
down from New Guinea to take on the
Deputy-Commissionership of Native
Affairs in Westralia, last week shifted
back to his old stamping-ground, rejoin-
ing the New Guinea Administration staff.
Former members of the valiant Ist Papuan
Infantry Battalion gave him a kick-off
dinner in Perth —Elliott-Smith having
been the unit’s lieut.-colonel in War 11.
Another War II Digger, E. P. Oldfield,
goes into the Westralian Assembly via the
recent Maylands by-election. His return
gives the McLarty Government a work-
ing majority after supplying a Speaker.
A nuggety 30-year-old who served with
the 2/T6th in the Middle East and New
Guinea, the new man was educated at
Perth Boys’ High School (the Fort-street
of the West), and developed his breezi-
ness as a commercial traveller.
Dozens of footballers and champion
athletes throughout Australia owe their
careers to bone-setter Ernest Saunders,
passed on at 73 at East Brunswick, Mel-
bourne. He had an uncanny faculty for
picking on just the right bone, cartilage or
muscle of the stiff leg or shoulder, and his
powerful hands manipulated bodies as a
pianist manipulates a keyboard. Called
by some a quack and by others a miracle
man, he got results, and surgeons often
sent their patients to him. The Richmond
football team he was devoted to swore
by him, but he treated runners,
swimmers, “strong” men, actors and
jockeys as well, and it could be said
Australia owes the winning of several
Tests to Ernie, He cured the Bradman
fibrositis and he won the Stawell Gift in
1946 for Tommy Deane by relaxing a
strained muscle.
John Lavington Bonython, here Coven-
tried, belongs to the second generation of
knighthood in one of S. Australia’s most
COUNCILLOR.
distinguished families, and to which be-
longs the credit for the present healthy
structure of the “Advertiser ” The name
is renowned, as well, for good works and
public spirit, as witness the recent record
of J.L.—over 50 years on the Adelaide
City Council, thrice as mayor. Member
of endless boards, chambers and trusts, he
got his knighthood in 1935. B-day, 1875.
Limned to the life by Dubois, that
very pleasant pair the Piddingtons.
Known to millions through the 8.8. C.,
they’ve put on their act from the strato-
sphere (the first time a broadcast and a
newsreel have been made in that distant
clime) to a diving-tank (in which the
British Navy’s frogmen received their
initial training). As is well-known,
Sydney Piddington first began his thought-
reading in Changi camp ; but he didn’t
realise how well-remembered was the
act until, in Manchester, his manager
COMMUNICANTS.
extended an invitation to any local
p.-0.-w. to meet the Piddingtons before
the show. Making-up inside, Sydney was
approached by a harassed bobby who
pleaded: “Please, sir, would you mind
moving on your 500 or so p,-0.-w. friends
outside? We’ve got the father of all
traffic jams!” Daughter of Rear-Admiral
Cuthbert Pope, R.A.N. (retired), who was
Naval officer-in-charge at Darwin when
the Japs first unloaded in February,
1942, Leslie shifts with her husband back
to London after their Australian season,
then the pair will thought-read through
Canada and the U.S.
In Australia on business bent, Lord
Rennell, partner in the London firm of
Morgan, Grenfell, which had a hand in
establishing the Anglo-Australian
Corporation in Melbourne. War I soldier
(R.F.A. France, Intelligence officer Italy,
staff man Libya, Sinai and Palestine), he
entered the diplomatic service in 1919,
was charge d’affaires in Rome and Sofia,
went on the Stock Exchange, and donned
uniform again for the Hitler show (major-
general, administering civil affairs in the
Middle East, East Africa and Italy). Now
vice-president of the Royal Geographical
Society, which awarded him a medal in
1929 for his exploratory tramping through
the Sahara, he’ll look in at the Sydney
Show’s Herefords—he breeds ’em back
in Herefordshire,
“Macnell”; Making her Sydney land-
fall next month to exercise with Aus-
tralian gunners, pilots, radar-operators
and signalmen, H.M. Canadian 'cruiser
Ontario ; her 550-odd feet length, 314
knots, three triple 6in. turrets, 10 4in. and
six torpedo-tubes driven by Commodore
Hugh Pullen, 0.8. E., of Oakville,
Ontario, In the R.C.N. since 1920 (ex-
cept for a two-year break with the
Canadian Pacific Steamship Co.), young
Pullen won the coveted Admiralty Dirk
as the best all-round cadet in his class,
served in the Hood, then went to the
Canadian destroyer Saguenay. While in
her he commanded the Royal guard for
the unveiling of the Canadian Memorial
on Vimy Ridge—the first time the R.C.N.
had paraded a guard for the king.
Destroyer-man and gunnery specialist, ho
served in four of the lethal midgets in
War 11, reaching the extremely respon-
sible position of senior-officer of Atlantic
convoy escort-groups—there were few
more thankless or hazardous jobs. When
Canada’s first modem cruiser, Uganda,
was commissioned in 1944, Pullen was her
2 i./c. Now, at 45, he’s one of his
Navy’s most senior officers.
A much-experienced Australian singer
has cast up on his native heath—lvor
Sheridan returning to sing in leading
tenor roles in the N.S.W. National
Opera’s presentation of “Carmen” and
“II Seraglio.” Hailing from Wollongong
(N.S.W.), Sheridan began as a viola
player, moved to Italy to study singing,
and stayed in parts thereabouts for 16
years. The sojourn included a three-year
contract with Sadler’s Wells, singing in
“Balalaika” and Rimsky - Korsakov’s
“Sadko” (for which he learnt the Russian
role in three weeks), “Gay Rosalinda”
(1700 performances) and the “Gipsy
Princess.” James Agate thought him the
ideal young Schubert in “Lilac Time.”
After recitals at the Albert and Wigmore
Halls, John McCormack became his
manager. Plans for an American tour
were upset by Hitler’s disturbance,
in which Sheridan was an actor by day,
policeman by night, and once was buried
under bomb wreckage for close on 12
hours.
Appointed by Eugene Goossens to be
Professor of Violin at the Sydney Con-
servatorium, Adam Kriegel changes
from the staff of Melbourne University’s
Conservatorium. Well-known on the
Continent, the new fiddler studied in
Warsaw, Brussels and Paris, and for a
time was soloist for the National Broad-
casting Institution of Belgium.
Many an old sailor will mourn the
passing of Commander H. G. Staunton,
C.8.E., who was at sea with the Orient
Line for 37 years from 1896. Son of a
British Army general, he served for a
time in the Hunts and Bucks Yeomanry
in the Kaiser’s war, before the sea and
the R.N.R. got him again, captain of the
Orient’s Otway, at the time an armed-
merchant-cruiser. In July, 1917, when
Otway was patrolling the west coast
of Scotland, a torpedo ripped her
open. Staunton survived to become
one of the first commodores of convoys
when the system was introduced to beat
the Atlantic U-boat packs. After the war
he brought the Ormonde here, the
first liner to resume normal post-war sail-
ings to Australia. For the rest of his
seagoing time, from 1924 to 1933, he
drove Orama and Otranto on their lawful
occasions. He was just under 80 at the
Last Trick.
Into the Silence:
At 54, in Sydney, Joseph Nazzari —“Joseph
of the Ritz” to seasoned diners-out in Mel-
bourne. Bom in an inn in Milan, he began
waiting at Cannes when 13; later he dictated
menus to European princes and Asiatic poten-
tates at the Savoy in London, Giro’s in Paris
and the Galle Face in Colombo. Interned in
England during War I, he was subsequently on
a liner which was torpedoed; rescued, he was
then interned in Australia.
At 79, at Mermaid Beach, on Queensland’s
south coast, Colonel A. T. Jackson, the lock,
stock and barrel, as it were, of rifle-shooting
in the northern Slate. For years supervisor
of the Q. Rifle Association, he was a regular
at the N.Q. Association’s King’s Prize shoots
at Cluden.
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 81, Andrew Devlin,
last of the Dominion’s lapidarists. Royal
palaces hold examples of his cutting and
polishing skill, and even the Maoris patronised
his work in Maori greenstone. The Dukes
of York, Gloucester and Windsor own speci-
mens of his craftsmanship.
At 61, in Brisbane, Llewellyn Morcom, one
of the best-known master printers in Queens-
land, and head of the firm bearing his name.
A student of optometry in London when the
Kaiser marched, Morcom joined the British
Army as a ranker, served four years in Europe
and came out with his commission.


THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
FARMERS HAVE PROVED IT
/oe4i fir ANSTMtmCO/VOtrtONS
NUFFIELD
l iJA/i VFRSAL TRACTOKJ
Km* r** "■ 'Jk', = * , \
i *
y..-'
mm
;*: '1
m§ m
i;»;s
mi
IT HAS EVERYTHING: 6<woy power (draw-bar,
Eower take-off, hydraulic lift, belt pulley, 2
ydraulic tapping points), 5 forward speeds.
IT DOES EVERYTHING; Works all types of
equipment, mounted or trailing. Easy on-the-farm
conversion from 4-wheel to 3-wheel.
IT IS BUILT AND BACKED BY A NAME
YOU CAN TRUSTI
Full details and specifl cations
available from State distributors.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR VICTORIA and SOUTHERN
RIVERINA: Kellow-Falkiner Pty. Ltd., 206-218 Russell
Street, Melbourne, C.l. 'Phone: JM 1555. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR QUEENSLAND & NORTHERN RIVERS
(N.S.W.): Flinders Motors Ply. Ltd., 457 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane. 'Phone: B 2420. Branches at: 1
Railway Street. Toowoomba. 'Phone: 2793. 126
Woodlark Street, Lismore. 'Phone: 1802. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND BROKEN HILL:
Kmgsway Limited, 118-120 Franklin Street. Adelaide.
. P Ji22S : .P®. 6870 - DISTRIBUTORS FOR WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Park Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., 926-928
“*y. Street. Perth (Temporary Premises). 'Phono;
B 7913. DISTRIBUTORS FOR TASMANIA: Metro
Motors Pty. Ltd., 36-38 Argyle Street. Hobart. 'Phone;
4061. DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited.
213-217 Elisabeth Street, Sydney. 'Phone;
MA 6357. (Next to T. & G. Building.)
(Above) NUFFIELD UNIVER-
SAL trailing an 18-disc offset,
cultivating in green oats for
"green manure." The oats
s are S feet in height.
f
NAP./24/N3A/SI
NIIFFIEIfI
DEALER
Also Sold and Serviced
by Authorised Nuffield
Dealers Throughout the
Commonwealth.
nn
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND. NEW SOUTH WALES
A SCHOOLIE AND A CHOST
by DAVID ROWBOTHAM
TWENTY years ago, in the
first days of my school-
teaching, I stepped from
the coach at Melamo in the
Alpine country of Eastern
Gippsland.
The night was so indelibly dark
that the coach-driver’s facetious
“Ain’t the scenery lovely?”
fell nothing short of diabolically
upon my ears. According to the
school lists, the place boasted a
population of seven hundred ;
so, as the coach moved off, I
began to look for signs of any of
the dwellings that might have
housed it. One faint light
stuttered a welcome through the
trees. It seemed miles away, but
on approach it presented me sud-
denly enough with the swing-
doors of a homestead-hotel,
where I knocked and was
answered by a man in a beard
who spoke as abruptly as if
knocks on swing-doors late at
night were so common as to be
a nuisance, especially when the
company was merry and the
beer good.
“You the schoolie?”
I replied that I was. “Could I
see the proprietor?” I asked.
“Hey, Clarry,” the man in the
beard yelled ; and Clarry with a
big bony hand emerged and took
me in through a parlor so blue
with smoke that I could see only
the blurred outlines of a few of
its occupants, and so thick with
the odor of beer and stale breath
that I could have cut the atmos-
phere with my pocketknife—
through this parlor, then, down a
hall, and into a bedroom. Here,
after accepting Clarry’s daunting
command to come and have a
drink when I got settled, I
collapsed on the creaking bed —
which, until I became used to it,
was henceforth to wake me up
at nights whenever I turned in
my sleep—and tried to swallow
down my homesickness.
It was unmistakably the lone-
liest place in the world.
When I roused myself suffici-
ently to think about the obliga-
tion under which I had been
placed by Clarry, I got up and
went back to the parlor, where,
after an introduction that
sounded like an intimidation, I
found myself cautiously drink-
ing home-brew between a dis-
charged trooper named Rad and
a smelly ancient called Gid. Gid
spoke little, but when he did, in
a Jewish accent, and much to my
enlightenment.
“Keep your eyes and ears and
mouth shut, and you’ll do all
right here.”
SINCE I stayed three years,
I had plenty of time to find
out just what he meant; for ray
eyes and ears could hardly avoid
penetrating to the rather dubious
secrecies of illicit stills, cattle-
duffing and sheep-stealing that
engaged most of the occupants
of the area
It wasn’t long after my initia-
tion into the company in the
parlor of Clarry’s pub before !
began to realise what being a
schoolie in that country really
signified.
Within a week, my shaky
knowledge of first-aid being
more specifically shaken, I was
trying to restore the man from
the sawmill who had burst into
the classroom in the middle of
an unsuccessful arithmetic
lesson, blood spurting from bis
cut throat by the bucketful. The
miracle was that he did not die,
but sat back in the chair as I
made adventurous excursions
into patching-up and prayer,
The class, agape, but essentially
practical, bolted,
My capacity as jack-of-all-
trades to the district was again
held manifest when, a year later,
Clarry strolled across to the
school and, putting the matter
very reasonably, asked me to
close for a few days, and search
for an old prospector who had
taken it into his head to go off
into the bush and get lost,
“You’ll find him either dead
or mad,” concluded Clarry.
“What if I find him dead?” I
pleaded,
“Just dig a hole.”
Rad, the ex-trooper, came
with me, and the school was
closed for four days while we
searched for the old fellow. We
found him, quite mad, eating the
fungus off trees. The ex-trooper
K.O.’d him so that he could be
brought in with as small hard-
ship to ourselves as possible,
Another role which I seemed
to be obliged to fill was that of
vestryman, every Sunday even-
ing, at the place in which, :he
remainder of the week, I was
accounted master ; for on Sun-
days the school building, which
comprised one room, was con-
verted into; a church. The con-
version was effected simply.
Onto the classroom table went,
with a bang, a soapbox, and
onto the soapbox, barely cover-
ing it, a red or a green cloth —
whichever was available. Ike
Olan, the organist, took up
position in the fireplace, head
and shoulders hidden up the
chimney, his rump reposing on
the blackened brick platform in
the recess and his concertina on
his knees. All his life at Melamo,
Ike never saw a church service.
He took his cue to begin playing
by word of mouth, and his
timing was perfect.
The congregation, straight
from liberal drinking sessions
held serially during the day at
Clarry s pub, began to am e -
seven, and from then on arrived
in varying degrees of unsteadi-
ness and hearty reverence right
up till the service ended at eight.
taking their seats on forms and
desks scarred and pocked by
years of assiduous carving by
the hands of their sons and tom-
boy daughters. Grant Me-
Lachlan's sermons, though kept
suitably dreamy for the women,
were flavored by flashes of
down-to-earthness for the men ;
and the lanterns shed the light of
a unique creed upon all the
creeds there represented.
ONE night after church—just
U such an indelibly-dark night
as that in which I had first en-
tered the Alpine country—
Clarry slapped me on the back
and bawled, “How about a
social visit to Andy’s tonight,
Tom?” It was mark of the ex-
tent to which our friendship had
progressed that Clarry no longer
referred to me as “the schoolie,”
but used my Christian name. I
knew what Clarry’s social visit
was bound to include, so I tested
how much I was good for by
going through my change. When
we had mounted and turned out
of town, I asked, “How far,
Clarry?”
“Just across the paddock.”
I felt prepared for the worst.
Clarry’s computations of dis-
tance were as those of all casual
bushmen who know an area like
the back of their hand and ex-
pect their misrepresentation of
miles as a few paddocks away to
be taken as neither truth nor pre-
varication.
Andy, whom I had met at
Clarry’s, lived, I knew, in a hut
somewhere in the neighboring
hills ; but that was all of my
knowledge, and as I rode beside
Clarry in the darkness I felt, in
no small way, the fears of every
novice in a new country by
night, despite the presence of an
experienced companion.
As the ground began rising
abruptly, Clarry broke a desul-
tory silence with the command:
“Keep close behind and follow
my cigarette.”
I afterwards knew that I
followed that jerking, pinpoint
of red light into terrain about
which even the Man from
Snowy River might have had mis-
givings before he “sent the flint-
stones flying.” We slipped and
stumbled and dipped and
climbed in the thick darkness,
messmate, strmgybark and
beside cliffs and towers of
roc k- j n t 0 w h a t seemed the very
D f country which had
shaped the men of Melamo.
When we arrived at the hut,
shedding chinks of light on the
invisibility of its clearing, Andy
and Clarry and other bushmen
there gathered proceeded to
fleece one another at cards. 1
piled up 1.0.U5. right and left,
but had some compensation tor
this extravagance when, in the
profusion of talk over whisky
from Andy s own still, the his-
tory of Pilton City somehow
came my way, heightened with a
ghost and a mystery which Andy
dared anyone in the hut, or any-
one in the world at large, not to
accept as authentic,
“OF Lor’ Sammy came out
’ere from England, y’ know . . .
an’ ’e foun’ gol’ down there at
Pilton ... an’ a buncha Jews...
gol’-buyers . . . sought im out
an’ done ’im in ... an’ you ve got
the Ghost Stream . . . where is
BEING CONSTANTLY AT THE MARGINS.
Being constantly at the margins, the places of extremes,
You will not remain unhurt. You cannot ride
Along the beach’s edge on a stormy night
Expecting to escape the foam or deter the tide
From laying its horrors on the sand. Though you close
your eyes
A drowned man’s jacket or twisted rotten spars
Wash down to your feet. You must feel if you will not see.
Nor, close to the sky’s rim are there any stars.
Waves sweep over the world and every wave
Breaks somewhere. All edges move and there is no choice
Of refuge. 'Combers that roll on inexorably
May spend their forces in a single significant voice
Or dissipate strength: green paddock and shade-tree
Of last evening are vanished by morning as a ’hopper swarm
Beats and swirls on your land; there a waterhole
Cracks, sucked in drought’s mouth. No fire will warm
Mere flotsam flesh when late-spring frostbites set fruit
To blacken and fall from branches snapped against cold
That has left these bitter tokens of its final hurling
To warn you once more that you are the earth, and old.
Yet, this being so, there is such splendor in swimming
Or in riding a breaker to shore, to an ultimate beach.
As edges move without law, so havens change also,
Land crumbles to sea-bed while islands emerge within reach.
Inert and beautiful pinnacles dream through the seas
While currents, the oily and slow or the fast-moving
Shudder their bases, race on impregnable rock.
No end to stone, to despair, or striving, or loving;
All endless and infinite forces, tugging, compelling,
Even in the recondite shelter, recesses, black caves;
Yawn of the cavern exposed, split and bared to the sunlight.
Stretch of the plain enfolded and buried by waves.
On the baked hill the slide of eroded earth
Is suction and grapple of the terrible undertow
That you cannot expect to escape; the hill is a verge
And the smut-aired shuttered room; the storms blow
Whether by day or night, for a week or a year;
Great glassy tons crash under, a shrill wind screams
And the swimmers thrash huge shoulders and dive through
the breakers.
Being constantly at the margins, the places of extremes.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESOMG.


CINZANO,
SWKKT OR DRY
u£fruHaf
t /m
\
IL
\
//
\
IL
\
V
GORHtRS CWjt
HOntSl
fROW
,/
\ • /
w
V-
'//
v
*£uabiu?y
M I
XJ
uXJ
/
!'/ ./A
\ u'
w
u
•»!
FA
m\
$
a
JUST 3 OF HUNDREDS OF
ENTHUSIASTIC LETTERS
. with per ‘ \
»'' W * "tTw-*—**.“l
ter, . lfe , art , one »• *• '7„
iVSO. » n * a freeze *"
hig 39 that ‘•° nlin ° e
— WBC§ . l \n
Ons di*tnci, m
- ,rrTl station, so beef r I
:rr „ ki „; d r i
JIT ''« k "P •< lre.h (rom . I
th to six weeks and I am pleased to I
s «y right through the summer, though
nature ”a s a* high U 2 degrees
no beef was lost. As for making
(ream this could he made at 1 p . m an{J
>e ready for dinner at 6.30 p. m . on the
.onest of day, and I find it most econo-
mical with kerosene.
• ol occasions
> 1 atld Refrigerators in
last summer «»» e owing lo the ex-
lliis area »ere iel ',,i,oilier
cersive heal. *U «- sl ,.i„n.
Ire-maste, on one "I
Hill eonlinueil .« Ircere.
AL4O
LOOK AT THE
LOOK AT THE
IN THE NEW
ICEMASTER
THE GREATEST OF ALL
KfmtM REFRIGERATORS
★ Icemaster is built and en-
gineered to give dependable
refrigeration where it’s need-
ed most—in the hot heart of
the continent. Note the point
—keeps on freezing when
others are defrosting. That
is reason enough to choose
Icemaster first.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood
Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Pitt and Bathurst Streets.
Broken Hill: Barrier Electrical Appliances
Ltd., Argent Street.
VICTORIA: Kelvinator Australia Limited,
Williamstown Road, Port Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Willers & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
36 Eagle Street, Brisbane. E. Markham, 31c
Shields Street, Cairns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Radio Electrical Wholesalers Ltd., James Place, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Western Appliances Ltd., C/o Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack Street. Westrahan
Farmers Co-op. Ltd., 569 Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Max Geeves Ply. Ltd., Davey Street, Hobart, and Brisbane Street. Launceston.
ghost walks . . . mo-o-o-o-anin’
for revenge . . . the Jews?
. . . swallered hup . . . jis’ like
Jonah in ’is whale ... I’ll bet me
ol’ dolly they perished there . . .
an’ the gol’s still aroun’ . . . ask
ol’ Gid . . . ’e knows.” Andy’s
wink was a mighty one. It
threatened extinction to the
mouth of the glass he held close
to his face.
TWO evenings later, within
bearing of Gid sitting, as
usual, like an old crone, among
his suspicions and secrets, alone
and uncommunicative in his
corner of the pub parlor, I ad-
dressed the ex-trooper.
“Know anything about Pilton
City, Rad?”
“Used to be a big place, seven
thousand-odd. I don’t think
anyone's been into it for about
fifty years.”
“How far away is it?”
“Near the Choowoom, on one
of its tributaries, the Ghost
Stream.”
“Any chance of getting to it?”
Gid showed no interest.
“Yes, I suppose so.”
“How long would it take?”
“A full day, at least, there
and back.”
“Would you take me to it?”
The ex-trooper meditated over
his drink. Gid wore a vacant ex-
pression.
“All right.”
THE following Saturday
morning before sunrise, the
ex-trooper nursing his rifle, and
each of us carrying a small pack
and a hatchet, we rode down the
gap in which Melamo at that
hour slept, and turned gradually
to the right into the timber. On
the other side of the steep ridges
rising covered in scrub and
patches of loose rock before us,
lay the Choowoom River. It
was our intention to follow the
river down stream to where the
Ghost Stream met it and then
cut our way at a slight angle to
the creek through the dense
scrub and vine of the flat, be-
yond which the ghost city
sprawled around its secrets.
The journey bred wonder and
unease.
The unease began at morning-
tea time when, as we boiled the
billy near a grand old kurrajong
in the shadow of a cliff thrusting
its face down into the earth and
finishing in the conelike beauty
of a precipice, the ex-trooper
grew detached over his pipe and
abandoned talk. A whip-bird
slowly uncoiled its note and
struck with If, quickly. The
waterfall spouting from the wet
slant-surface of the rock was
the only sound in the ensuing
silence.
The same retirement of
manner in the ex-trooper hap-
pened close on midday. We had
stopped to rest our horses after
fording the Choowoom at a con-
veniently-shallow spot —almost
opposite, the Ghost Stream
leaped into the river with a
pattern of cross-currents and
bubbles —and were considering
the hard work to come in cutting
our way. through the scrub,
which began there, when the ex-
trooper, announcing “We’ll lead
the horses,” went off into a far-
away attitude. After minutes he
arrived at the decision: “We’ll
eat cow.”
It was only while we were eat-
ing, as I watched him chewing
slowly and at times stopping
altogether, with his mouth full,
that I began to realise that my
companion, far from daydream-
ing, was listening.
Whatever he heard, or thought
he heard, seemed to be his own
((Continued on next page.)


Positions Vacant.
ROYAL SOUTH SYDNEY HOSPITAL
Joynton Avenue, Zetland, Sydney
TRAINEE NURSES
Vacancies exist for Trainee Nurses at the above Training School.
Applications are hereby invited from young ladies desiring to enter
the Nursing Profession. Applicants should possess an educational
certificate from the Nurses’ Registration Board or hold an Intermediate
or Leaving Certificate.
Pull details as to Salary, etc., are obtainable from Matron on appli-
cation. Personal interview given any morning at 10.30 or by appoint-
ment —Monday to Saturday.
The Hospital is situated close to the City by tram. Comfortable
accommodation and Recreation Room provided, also uniforms.
CYRIL J. DRANSFIBLD, Dip. Ecs., P.1.H.5., Secretary.
■
as
gj 'asabe
m
■
a
■: N
5 S
\5
GUARANTEED, NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SAVES ON HORSEPOWER
SAVES ON MANPOWER
d
Electric Boring Attachment
This attachment consists of
32 volt, 500 watt electric
generator, a length of rubber-
covered flex and one Va"
wood bit. You will be sur-
prised at your extra perfor-
mance with this light,
convenient, trouble free drill.
Furthermore you can use the
generator for lighting and as
a fixed or portable 32 volt
power supply
7
mm
mst m
Post hole digging with a Mobile© is post hole
digging at its lowest cost . . . You don't need one man driving a vehicle and
another feeding the auger. With a Mobilco digger one man does the whole
job . . . You don't waste horsepower as Mobilco's 7 b.h.p. is ample. Further-
more, when this machine is not digging holes you can remove the auger and
you have a fine British engine on wheels, ready to do many other jobs around
the place. You make your money go a long way when you buy a Mobilco.
GOOD REASONS WHY THE MOBILCO POST HOLE
DIGGER WILL DO THE BEST JOB FOR YOU
1. The Mobilco is a one-man machine with
its own independent engine.
2. Remove the auger with special tool
supplied and you have the ideal 7
b.h.p. portable power plant.
3. The Mobilco has a third wheel for
stability on rough ground. Belt enables
use of body-weight in pushing between
holes.
4. As the total engine and gear box
weights are directly over the auger
Mobilco is a very fast digger.
5. The Mobilco will dig a perpendicular
hole on sloping ground most impor-
tant in steep or undulating country.
6. Due to Mobilco's light weight and per-
fect balance you can place the hole
exactly where you want it.
Send for full particulars of the
7. When Auger is removed engine and
gear box sit at bottom of frame provid-
ing low centre of gravity for field
towing or road speed towing between
properties.
8. Mobilco's specially designed auger
ensures smooth action and continuous
and complete clearance of dirt.
9. Totally enclosed worm drive running in
oil bath gives positive transmission of
ail engine power.
10. Owners of Mobilco saws can purchase a
digger without engine as all Mobilco
machines are powered by the same
sturdy, reliable, 7 b.h.p., B.S.A. engine.
Mobilco Post Hole Digger NOW
/ nt<m
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT R|
SWAHSTOK STREET, HEU&URME mmt 4m, AFTER
' ' ll ' » ' , %
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Sinsrle Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
531 Ik Jl
'■ I I I : Will!!!
■ N : *i lutmm
Mi ill I"
hi! 11 ';.
.«»!«
&
: -
I™
mm
personal and private concern,
and an hour later, as we chopped
at the last wall of the scrub, when
he tossed me the order, “Wait
here. Don't move,” in such a
matter-of-fact way that it was
obvious it ought not to be ques-
tioned, I waited and didn’t move.
He mounted and rode back
along the track we had cut. I
heard him moving for a time
after he had disappeared, and
then there was silence, except for
the undertone of the bush.
I had time to review all kinds
of discomfiting theories and
wear out the heel of my boot be-
fore he returned, swinging
calmly back into sight on the
track, a question-mark on horse-
back. We resumed our attack
on the scrub, and I noticed that
the palms of my hands were
sweating. The ex-trooper seemed
more spirited, less introvert than
before; though not sufficiently
so to offer any relief from the
burden of wild guesses that fell
around me like the oppression
of the scrub.
WE came upon Pilton City as
if we had stumbled on
something quite unexpected, and
hardly knew we had reached the
place until, across the rocky
creek edged with tree-ferns, a hut
no bigger than a small ship’s-
cabin grew out of the ground.
Vine, weed and fungus clung to
it parasitically.
Whole streets and suburbs of
the old town had completely
vanished. Grass grew on the
earthen and the wooden floors.
The disused shafts, with their
iron rollers and rotting sprags
and ropes, were in the last stages
of sinking into the earth under
the weight of the grasses, the
winds and the rains, that had
piled upon them since the day
when, worked out, the town had
been deserted for the golden call
of a new “strike.” Complete
migration must have taken place
overnight.
where the horse-walks had
been, remnants of skew rail
f ences terminating in split or
tw i sted cross-saplings ran from
tbe shafts. A rawhide bucket
un( j er a i ea n-to that looked more
like a gunyah rested, shapeless,
on its s j de A f orsa k en dolly
lay buried in the grass. Centi-
pedes squirmed away from
beneath an old bark stretcher
that we overturned. Climbing
roses pi anted beside a domestic
m j ner ’ s but now consumed the
economical space where, among
his scanty furniture, his pots and
pans and shovels, his cocks and
hens, and his children,.the digger
once sat down to his meal of
beef or mutton, wheaten flour
and vegetables and tea; for
whatever other hardships he
voluntarily endured, the miner
of the prosperous field generally
ate well.
The decaying houses, huts and
cottages stood so close together
that the ruinous vines climbed
from roof to roof. Every foot
of frontage had once had its
value. There appeared to have
b.een two principal and seven or
eight cross streets, and lesser
thoroughfares, hardly delineable
now ; but the way in which the
huts ran gave some evidence of
the pattern they had followed.
Along them the drays had
trundled, horses had galloped.
Expirees from the penal colony,
refugees from the Old World,
renegades and desperados had
come down them, seeking an El
Dorado. Chinese, Yankee,
French, Spanish, German,
Italian, Hungarian and Pole,
diggers, merchants and camp-
followers, had met and drunk, or
fought, over the tavern bars.
Any of up to fifty or more
buildings could have been pubs,
shanties, sly-grog shops. One
saloon was plainly recognisable
as such. The counter was still
reasonably strong, and an
ancient, consumptive piano,
silently coughing fungi where it
had once coughed out ribald
music, leaned perilously on three
legs in a corner.
The town had contained its
church-going community. A
stained-glass window, blind with
cataracts of vine and casts of
dirt, and ready to fall from its
socket, and a broken wooden
cross, marked one edifice’s origin
and purpose. Gum-trees grew
out of children’s graves near by,
and a mildewed boot darkened
its wall like a dead animal.
the “S„Ts s lZ e ol
into bark and tin, where gamb-
h
mounted tmoners or the foot
constables, were announced,
when, after a scramble, a
vacuous innocence no doubt
settled on the place, unless the
traps were in it too.
Some of these larger buildings
were adorned with plate-glass, as
yet unbroken in a few instances,
although no longer handsome, as
they must have been, behind
which, very likely, had been dis-
played the usual wares of a min-
ing town: haberdashery or
groceries, or fruit, perhaps
* ’ > f f
books. I found myself trying to
guess, since we lacked the time
to explore the town thoroughly,
which hut had been the black-
smith’s, or the baker’s, or the
butcher’s, or the tailor’s; which
building had been the bank, the
pound, the police barracks; and
what greater strike had, like a
plague, so suddenly emptied this
mushroom town, that had grown
and thrived in roaring decades
against the background of the
snow-topped mountains.
Despite Andy’s ghost-story,
we encountered no ghosts and
heard no moaning. At least, 1
didn’t. The Ghost Stream, that
rocky creek we had crossed,
looked as clear of mystery as it
was shallow. But back in
Melamo I gave many a thought
to the strange behavior of the
ex-trooper and noticed, without
comment, as the days lengthened
into weeks and the weeks into
months, that old Gid was absent
from his surly parlor corner.
IT seemed to be tacitly assumed
by all the regulars who fre-
quented the parlor that I knew
why he was absent; so in the
light of this simulation I con-
cluded that I was not entitled to
ask questions. The men of
Melamo had a subtle way of
evading interrogation by creat-
ing the feeling that they had no
need to be interrogated ; no one
could be offended about their
silence, merely puzzled. There
was something almost mystical
about the situation. I was left
with a burden of guesses as wild
as those which had assailed me
when the ex-trooper had gone
through his strange ritual during
the journey to Pilton City.
One evening, quite inadver-
tently, I manoeuvred the ex-
trooper into the corner that had
been so popular with the old
Jew, and, as we sat down, I
noticed the look which passed
into his face ; a look which had
the inscrutability of a bedroom
{Continued on page 32.)
THE GULLY.
N.S.W.
If life is here how stealthily
It moves in this green hall of rock
Where mosses flourish soft and thick
And lichens imperceptibly*
In wrinkled fans and circles shape
A civilisation cold as sleep
On wall of stone and fallen tree.
Only in the deep secrecy
Of bracken-fern and maidenhair
One shaft of pink is glowing here
And poised in tiny ecstasy
With all life’s hunger in its look
And arm outflung for the sweet shock
The trigger-flower strikes the bee.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Pine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Writes MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
Your vacation
self-drive car -
anywhere Britain
and continent -
Davy
Europe’s most reasonable rates!
Most friendly service from £1 per
day for 30 miles, then 6d. a mile.
150 new Jaguars, Austins, Fords. Also
chauffeur-driven. Brochure from J.
Davy, 9 Logan Place, Kensington.
Cables: Jatdeecars, London.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK ROY HILTON RUTT-
LEY formerly of Bondi. —TAKE NOTICE
that DORA JEAN RUTTLEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 247 of 1951 on
the ground of desertion without lust
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend the suit
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 7th of May 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition free of
charge from W. F. HOLMES, Solicitor. 39
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCES JAMES KELMAN late of
Muswellbrook. —TAKE NOTICE that
MONA KELMAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2969 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by ijie 7th May 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from the Petitioner’s Solicitor,
EDWARD LORENZO EVERETT. Bank
of New South Wales Building, Bondi
Junction. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notice.
I, ALEXANDER HAJICONSTATINOU
of Greek nationality, bom at Adramition
Turkey, resident 28 years in Australia
now residing at 3 J Oxford Street, Padding
ton, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali
sation under the Nationality and Citizen
ship Act. 1948,
9i VcAu 9!
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of tbe Art.
Dewar’s famous “White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR’S
“White label”
Shmtnu. SCOTCH
awar
50 MEDALS
W :
50 Cola
soooia
oa&
Prize MeJofr
Prize MeJalif
mussels Antwerp ca !*°
mwm
. White Label"
A Fine Scotch Whiskv
OF RARE ACE. .
John Dewar & Sons h
DISTILLERS
'** Boo**, Hfljmarkcf. SM. Scotland
• „ NET CONTENTS 1 PINT. 6 EL. OZS.
“MWlßffo WHOUV distiuled. matured and BUNDED IH y* ol
SUNDRY SHOWS
GEORGE LAWRENCE.
George Lawrence’s landscapes
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
may be put with the exhibitions
held last year by Lance Solo-
mon and Russell Drysdale, as
something beyond the common
run of art shows; work which
is going to take a permanent
place in the Australian tradi-
tion.
Lawrence, though in his
forties, is young enough as
painters go—Percy Lindsay is
still painting beautiful little
landscapes at 80, and Lloyd
Rees seems only recently to
have come into his full powers
—and these harsh wild ragged
landscapes are very much like
the verses of a young poet, all
violence, darkness and vitality.
In the whole of the show there
is not a single blue sky; there
are no blue hills. Only one sky,
glowing over the big Kiama
landscape, conveys indeed any
impression that there may be a
sun somewhere behind this
wintry universe.
In a sense it is an extremely
personal statement about the
Australian landscape. Like the
early poems of Edmund Blunden
in England, where the weasel
dies “hard as winter” and where
the thorny arms of the brambles
“pierce” into the verse, and like
Francis Webb’s poems in Aus-
tralia, it is a statement of
struggle and defiance, a power-
ful talent seeking an outlet in
stormy themes.
But it is also a true state-
ment ; intrinsically neither better
nor worse than what other land-
scape-painters may find to say
about nature in her more lyrical
moods ; but equally valid. It is
a statement, moreover, that
needs to be made: we have
plenty of summer paintings in
Australia, not enough of winter ;
we have plenty of the charm of
nature, not enough of the
drama.
And if it is a wintry state-
ment, it is never merely gloomy.
Storm has its own kind of
exultation, and under George
Lawrence’s storms the earth, in
sombre gold or smouldering red,
always glows with deep and
difficult life.
When you have a personal
statement like this, allied to
fidelity of observation —not dis-
torting nature but seeking for
scenes and moods to fit what
the artist feels he must say—
you have the ideal approach to
landscape - paintings. And the
approach serves George
Lawrence equally as well for the
city as for the country. For an
artist who can find a stubborn
life in old stone country build-
ings or ragged trees fighting the
salt winds of the sand-dunes or
sullen hills under storm-clouds
and paddocks in the lash of the
rain is admirably equipped to
find what harsh and stubborn
beauty may lurk in the slums,
in the railway marshalling-yards
on a wet day, or in the smoky
industrial reaches of Sydney
Harbor.
Among so many excellent
paintings, all of the same rugged
strength, it is difficult to make
a choice. The present commen-
tator, in fact, marked on his
catalogue 11 of the 25 as out-
standing ; and might as well
have marked the rest. But it is
at least worth noting that in the
industrial landscape of “Annan-
dale,” a rich, rhythmical and
massive study of a railway via-
duct, the N. S. Wales Gallery
trustees got the pick of the
show.
Artbursts.
Sydney does some silly things
in the arts, and one of the
silliest for a long time is the
exhibition of rejects from the
Wynne and Archibald competi-
tions at the Education Depart-
ment Gallery. The most that
the exhibition can do is to
demonstrate that, on the whole,
the trustees do a pretty fair job
with the work that is put in
front of them. There are cer-
tainly no masterpieces among
these rejects: only a couple of
dimly promising portraits ; and
half a dozen landscapes—of
which Hana Juskovic’s “North
Shore” is about the best —
which might harmlessly have
taken their place among the
distant also-rans of the Wynne.
* * * *
Fifteen artists, all more or less
immersed in the modern idiom,
are showing their wares at the
Stanley Coe Gallery in Mel-
bourne. Although generally re-
garded as high-priest of the cult,
George Bell has less of it than
most of his disciples and suc-
ceeds in giving a convincing
study of jetty, sea and boats in
“The Haven.” William Prater’s
two Central Australian motifs
are almost as amorphous as the
accidental patches of color on
a palette. In “On a Street
Corner,” Constance Stokes is
reminiscent of Dobell.
* * * #
William Dobell is at last
represented in the National
Gallery in Melbourne —by two
sketches. One of them is a
young man’s head which any-
body could have painted—
apparently an early work with
none of the quality of the artist’s
later portraits. The other, a
small sketch of a boy and a dog,
has more of the Dobell touch.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Will Shuttlewood’s show at
Melbourne Athenaeum belongs
to old traditions, and yet, apart
from a tendency to sentimenta-
lise his color, the artist often
gets the attempt he aims at.
“Call It a Load,” depicting a
hay-wain in a paddock with the
hay and the grass suffused with
glowing evening color, and
“Mount Cobbler, Sunset,” in
which blood-red peaks tower
out of grey bush, display a con-
siderable amount of observa-
tion. “Autumn Squall,” a small
sketch in which foam-flecked
breakers gleam through rain-
clouds, has a lot of feeling.
* * * *
Selina Muller, who has a show
of aboriginal subject-matter at
the Melbourne Book Club Gal-
lery, is apparently mainly con-
cerned with making patterns,
and the piccaninnies are only
incidental. There is nothing
wrong with that, and the only
important thing is how well she
does it. She uses a dark' palette
and mixes her colors richly and
sometimes gets an effect which,
in an abstract way, is pleasant.
National Grand Opera.
Opera presented by the
National Theatre as part of the
Centenary celebrations at Mel-
bourne Princess started off with
an excellent performance of
“Carmen.” In at least one scene
it was better opera than has ever
been performed in Melbourne,
inasmuch as the music had the
services of the full strength of
the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra captained by the
diminutive Joseph Post.
Justine Reddick gave the
cigarette-factory worker the
benefits of a vivid presence and a
fiery interpretation, though her
voice didn’t always measure up
to the heights of her acting.
Being somewhat stiff in action
and vocally a trifle strangled,
English tenor Ivan Dixon didn’t
provide overwhelming justifica-
tion for his importation. Betna
Pontin presented a thoroughly
appealing Michael a.
Smaller parts were adequately
filled, but it would have been
better if Frasquita and Mercedes
had been played as gipsies and
not as well-brought-up members
of a finishing school for young
ladies.
“The Barber of Seville” was
stropped to an amazingly keen
edge, and, except for some de-
sultory business in the first act,
the simple story of infatuation,
intrigue and dissimulation
captured a packed house from
start to finish. A rare find was
disclosed in tenor Kevin Miller,
who displayed an unusual ability
to follow the emotional line of
his vocal discourse with a voice
which, though light, was
exceptionally pure and full of
feeling. The vocal instrument of
Barbara Wilson, the Sydney
singer, was also light in volume,
but in the place where the com-
poser gives the singer the right
to “sing an air, ad libitum, for
the occasion” she gave a dazzling
display of virtuosity.
Veteran Frederick Collier as
the fat old cuckold was a tower
of strength and experience in a
field of actors doing a job for the
first time, and Keith Neilson was
a picturesque singing teacher.
Robert Simmons’s Figaro
steadily developed power and
humor during the proceedings.
"Corroboree."
William Constable’s striking
decor—there was stark beauty
in its dominating feature, one
huge flat oval rock perched pre-
cariously on a smaller one—was
a fitting background for the rest-
less surge of Rex Reid’s choreo-
graphic patterns and the barbaric
splendor of John Antill’s score
when the composer piloted the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra and
the National Theatre Ballet Co.
in its Sydney presentation of
“Corroboree.”
This is the most important
contribution an Australian com-
poser has yet made to the
theatre. The weird music fits
the action like a glove. Indeed,
it is a disservice to Antill for his
score to be heard merely as
“absolute” music, as a suite
away from the stage which is its
natural habitat.
Robin Lovejoy evidently put
much careful research into his
costume-designing. There was
clever simulation of frogs, ’roos,
snakes and cockatoos, all the
costumes lending vivid color to
a brilliant spectacle.
There are no solo dances ; in
the swirling rush of figures which
goes on almost without pause
only the medicine-man stays
aloof. Rex Reid hasn’t tried a
slavish imitation of the aborigi-
nal dance; indeed, the idiom is
generally in the Western mode,
stylised to a certain extent. But
of its power and effectiveness
there can be no doubt.
"Mary Had a Little."
Melbourne daily-paper critics
emerged from the Tivoli in
Bourke-street the other evening
purple and indignant over its
latest programme. Their state
could only be explained by the
assumption that they are not
very well acquainted with that
celebrated playhouse. There is
no joke or allusion in this opus
from the American factory of
Muriel Herman, Arthur Herzog
and A 1 Rosen which hasn’t been
made a million times before —
there is only more of them.
The occasion for the machine-
gun discharge of wisecracks,
mainly of an obstetrical nature,
is the strange case of a young
woman (Mary Brian) who enters
a hospital to have a non-existent
baby of a non-existent father.
The doctor (Michael Hayes)
takes a scientific interest in his
patient and uses hypnosis to
bring about a painless birth and
a lovely baby. Under the influ-
ence of the hypnosis Miss Brian
gets her various wants mixed up
between the doctor and his friend
(John Hubbard) and the flow of
innuendo becomes a torrent.
Stage and Concert.
A mezzo-contralto with a
voice ef good quality right along
its considerable gamut, Pamela
Marks included in her Sydney
recital Gustav Mahler’s “Songs
of a Wayfarer,” difficult and
dramatic material which her
technical competence left her
free to interpret intelligently. A
group of delicate French songs,
with Duparc and Chausson pre-
dominating, and a heroic Wagner
operatic group were equally well
handled.
* * * *
Back at Melbourne His
Majesty’s with its American
principals replaced by Austra-
lians, “Oklahoma!” started last
week on the third year of a run
that doesn’t look as if it will
finish for a long time.


the world over, appreciate
the compliment they are paid when
a host serves Cointreau . . . Not
only does an “Occasion”
call for Cointreau but
Cointreau makes it
one ... Its quiet
ecstasy must be sipped
tn b#>. hfiliftVfid.
Limited
supplies of
this old
French trea-
sure are now
available.
»•• s , o«^! : % • : : x ‘'ysf^i
sp^
Sdl
§§§T{)
N.W»
NNlr NN!ST“
CO
6
Agents for Australia;
McLaughlin & co. pty. ltd., Sydney
Distributors:
Victoria: Stephen King Pty. Ltd.,
Taylor Ferguson & Co. Pty. Ltd.
South Australia: George Wills & Co. Ltd.
Western Australia: Brown & Dureau Ltd.
C 1.82
‘WORLD BOOKS’ Editions
AT THE AMAZINGLY LOW PRICE
JOIN “WORLD BOOKS”
AND ENJOY THE WORLD’S BEST READING
These handsome editions, beautifully hound in buckram, are
uniform in size and appearance so as to make up a superb library.
Members receive a new title each month which always remains
the member’s own property.
The amazing part about the “World Books” Club is that these
volumes, which are strictly available to members only, cost a mere
6/3. They are superior in most cases to the ordinary editions,
which are invariably priced between 17/6 and 32/-.
MEMBERSHIP RATES
12-BOOK SUBSCRIPTION, only £3/15/- (or posted, £4/2/-)
6-BOOK SUBSCRIPTION, only £l/17/6 (or posted, £3/1/-)
NO EXTRAS!
1951 PROGRAMME
Jan.: “I CAPTURE THE CASTLE” By Dodie Smith
Feb.: “A WREATH OF ROSES” By Elizabeth Taylor
Mar.: “THE WOODEN HORSE” By Eric Williams
Apr.: “THE WILLOW CABIN” By Pamela Frankau
May: “SHAKESPEARE” By Ivor Brown
June: “DINNER AT ANTOINE’S” .. By Frances Parkinson Keys
July: “EASTERN APPROACHES” By Fitzroy Maclean
Aug.: “WHISKY GALORE” By Compton Mackenzie
(Members may reject any titles and make up unwanted books
from a vast array of previous titles.) Previous titles are
available at 6/3 each.
NOTE the rates above and write the amount applicable to your
requirements in the space provided in this coupon.
MAIL THE
COUPON
TODAY!
Kindly add ex-
change to coun-
try and inter-
state cheques.
| MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP
9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please enrol me as a member
I Books.” I enclose the amount or ,
| to cover subscription.
| NAME
| ADDRESS
I 11
8W8607
of “World
B. 28/2/51
THE EPIC OF THE JERVIS BAY
By "MACNELL”
ALL day the convoy had
rolled slowly in formation
eastward across the
Atlantic, thirty-eight ships
of all breeds ploughing vanish-
ing furrows upon a sea that had
the surface and the shimmer of
an undulating piece of grey silk.
There were long, low tankers,
ugly wallowing craft with their
bridges amidships and a stump
of a funnel aft; upright, classy
liners keeping station on cynical,
smutty coasters whose bellies
had never tasted richer fare than
coal or pig-iron; there were
red-rusty tramps whose shoul-
ders had rubbed the piers of
wellnigh every port in the
seven seas, and who’d labored
before on this course, in another
war; and there were some in-
betweeners, passenger - cargo
ships lifted above the herd by
their peace-time loading of
passengers’ luggage among the
wheat and wool and carcasses.
But all ships were now
levelled to a common denomina-
tor by service. All holds were
crammed to the hatches with
guns and planes, tank-treads
and uniforms, with the precious
cargoes piling over into tar-
paulin-lashed humps on their
upper-decks.
On their port wing, aloof and
watchful, breasting the horizon,
steamed their only safeguard,
H.M. armed merchant-cruiser
Jervis Bay, dressed overall in
clean grey, differing from her
charges only in the fore and aft
snouts of her 6in. guns and
the White Ensign curling from
her gaff.
Jervis Bay was an old ship.
Built by Vickers in 1922-23,
after many voyages to and from
England as a Government one-
class ship, she was sold to White
Star in 1928, and when Hitler
marched was manned and
managed by Shaw Savill. She
had been taken off her London-
Australia run on August 24,
1939, by an Admiralty hard-
pressed to find escorts for the
convoys pouring war supplies
into the island, and fitted with
the best the Navy could give her
in the way of armament and
armor, but which, against even
a modern Fleet destroyer,
afforded her hardly more than
the power of token resistance.
She mounted eight old 6in.
breech-loading guns on the
foredeck, midships and aft, with
a few light a.-a. weapons scat-
tered along the decks where
trippers had promenaded through
the Mediterranean and Indian
Ocean.
Not only were the 6in.
barrels worn, but their elevation,
and thus range, was limited. A
cruiser’s gun-houses are welled
with deep pits into which
breeches sink and allow over 70
degrees of elevation on the
barrels. But Jervis Bay’s guns,
with her deck the limiting .fac-
tor, were lucky if they got up to
40 degrees.
She had a rangefinder, but
none of the complicated and
extremely accurate fire-control
tables fitted in a warship. Com-
pared with this equipment, Jervis
Bay was for practical purposes
in local control, with gunlayers
and trainers estimating as best
they could the data churned out
for a warship by her mechanical
brain.
She had 14,000 tons and about
15 knots. Some of her crew
stayed with her. The chief
officer, with the second, third
and fourth, the chief engineer,
with most of his gang, and the
purser were given temporary
commissions in the Royal Naval
Reserve. Most of the ratings
also volunteered, and the Ad-
miralty accepted the most suit-
able, added a stiffening of R.N.
gunnery petty - officers and
ratings, and capped the lot with
a permanent seagoing officer of
the British Navy, Acting-Cap-
tain E. S. Fogarty Fegen.
Fegen was a huge man,
accounted about the largest and
most dashing Irishman ever seen
at Jervis Bay, where about a
dozen years before he was
second-in-command of the naval
college. He was a good Rugby
footballer, and looked it, with
a heavy face carrying black
bushes above the eyes and a
straight-lipped mouth over a jaw
like a kauri stump, set on shoul-
ders to match. He had had a
distinguished First World War
record afloat, and had won two
life-saving medals in the peace
between.
His was the responsibility of
welding a crew of comparatively
slackly-disciplined civil seamen
into the compact, smoothly-
working and interdependent
team necessary to fight a war-
ship. The eminent efficiency with
which he discharged his responsi-
bility was as much a result of
the force of his own personality
as of careful planning, training
and adherence to discipline.
From the time she was com-
missioned as a seagoing unit of
H.M. Navy until her last fight,
Jervis Bay escorted valuable
convoys across the Atlantic.
During these uneventful runs
Fegen had his men constantly
exercising—gun-drills, practice
shoots, supplying ammunition
and exercising breakdowns in
guns and communications —so
that when their time came they
took their ship into action with
the unhesitating dispatch of a
fully-trained warship.
Just before dusk on November
5, 1940, the convoy was in Lat.
52. 45 N., Long. 32. 13 W.—
that is, over the ocean-bed for-
mation known as Telegraph
Plateau, about 1300 miles off
the Eire coast in a direct line
between the south of Ireland and
the north of Newfoundland. The
point is hundreds of miles from
any land —Greenland is 500
miles to the north, the Azores
about the same to the south.
Fegen was on his bridge at
the time, his natural post with
dusk, the favorite attack-time,
coming on. Looking his charges
over, noting the fat and the lean,
the high and the low, in the
slight sea maintaining formation
like the Home Fleet at drill, he
sighted a slight smudge on the
horizon to northward. Believ-
ing it to be cloud, he turned
away ; the lookout’s shout swung
his head back.
“Bridge! Ship on the port
beam!”
In an instant half a dozen
pairs of glasses bore on the
smudge, and in their lenses it
shimmered into the shape of a
pocket-battleship, a haze of
brown heat at her funnel-lip and
a cloud of foam tumbling at her
bows.
The clang of Jervis Bay’s
engine-room bells mingled with
her action alarm. Her engines
pounding, she raced to position
herself between the enemy and
, her convoy.
A signal flashed to the con-
voy commodore (Rear-Admiral
H. B. Maltby, R.N.): “Warship,
thought hostile, my port beam.”
From end to end of the long
lines she steamed, and her long
grey flanks threw out plumes of
smoke that hurried and boiled
for a cable-length from their
floats in their new-found free-
dom and then settled into a
leisurely-coiling greasy white
wall of opacity stretching above
her wake.
Both Fegen and the commo-
dore realised that a delay of only
half an hour would multiply the
convoy’s chances of safety in
the night, and Maltby ordered
all ships to scatter, making
smoke from their funnels and
dropping the smoke-floats with
which all were provided.
Then Admiral Scheer’s first
messengers appeared in gouts
of white water alongside the
nearest ship in range, the N.Z.
Shipping Company’s 16,698-
tonner Rangitiki. The German’s
fire increased, the long orange
flashes from his guns vivid
against the backdrop off dusk, the
huge salvos straddling her target
in vicious gouts of menace.
With his screen laid, Fegen,
on his bridge, had a second to
make his decision.
Astern was the convoy, labor-
ing heavily in flight; to port
was the Nazi battleship—mount-
ing six 11 in. guns firing a
6701 b. shell and a speed nearly
twice Jervis Bay’s. Opposed to
the lean, low strength of her
opponent, the merchantman was
a soft-bellied, wall-sided target,
her stretching length and deck-
packed superstructure offering
only sufficient resistance to jolt
the fuses of the raider’s shells
into explosive action. If he
altered his ship to port to en-
gage, her death was inevitable.
Nelson, who first made his
name at St. Vincent in the Cap-
tain (74), under the admiral for
whom Jervis Bay was named,
would have nodded grim
approval of Fegen’s next order:
“Hard-a-port! ”
Round slewed the clumsy old
craft until her nose pointed
directly at her enemy, whose
turreted length every few
seconds spat a spaced group of
flashes at the packed herd steam-
ing desperately to escape her
plunging salvos. Already Rangi-
tiki’s superstructure had stopped
a shell in a sudden burst of
flame and dirty black smoke.
Up till now, all the time
Jervis Bay was closing the range,
the German battleship had taken
as much notice of her as a wolf
with his dinner in his jaws
would have of his victim’s calf.
Now, however, the old ship’s
salvos, stepping on long legs
nearer their target, compelled
his attention.
On the battleship’s bridge
Admiral Lutjens (who was later
to be on the receiving end in
the Bismarck) noted with satis-
faction the hit on Rangitiki.
Staring over his turreted fo’c’sle
at the forest of masts ahead, he
was thinking of the juicy tar-
gets to which a kind fate had
led him. This would indeed be
a blow for the Fatherland. His
musing was interrupted by his
gunnery - lieutenant, pointing
over the port bow, casually, as
warranted by the insignificant
threat which the object of his
attention presented to the busy
steel-clad.
Lutjens brought his glasses up
and looked. He saw an ungrace-
ful grey shape silhouetted nicely
against the wall of smoke which
it had obviously just laid. His
nod to the gunnery-man said:
“All right. Finish her off.
But waste no time —I have busier
work to do.”
The gunnery-lieutenant spoke
to his phone-number. Admiral
Scheer quietened from her full-
broadside jerking, while all big
guns swung smoothly to the new
target. They jerked past the
bearing, came back, and
steadied on Jervis Bay, now
pounding at her gallant 15 knots
and in close range. The two
turrets let go.
Lutjens barely waited to see
the first broadside explode in a
vicious chain of detonations
along the target’s length before
shifting his glasses back to the
convoy, stoking for its life at
not much more than half the
German speed.
His disinterest in the convoy’s
escort is understandable —Jervis
Bay was being continually and
cruelly hit. Her bow met the
base of a ridge and rose up the
watery slope. Her plunge
through and into the hollow
beyond ended in a shock as if
she had rammed her forefoot on
to a rock. A salvo had burst


GUARD
no
sdMtitCV-
PROTECTA
sUnl<rf4fl
TILL
ffflltiM* ftr ever? irp* of Milhmi »» recerda
alt Sales. Credits. Parent* etc. Strenfly hatli.
pltwini la appearance. Send fer full details
and literature te
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
oiagrihuii*t dfeafe—
BTDNEE
{MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE .
niiß
w. C Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
. Vardon A Sons Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. 4AsiU
fd
Born 1820—
tfill going strong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW. 126 8.12
kooak
Ci?
m
m
koo-a*.
o* <S
>4®
\
O j
* /
iis* K
'.pui.
*OO
W
w
*OOAK
A modern, smartly-styled box camera; large reflex-type
viewfinder, push button anti-shock shutter control, pre-
focused Kodak lens; metal body; satin chrome fittings.
Braided carrying sling. 12 pictures, x on V 620
film. £5/19/6.
KOOAK Oe/AFteX-'CAMeKA
SIX-20 KODAK "A" CAMERA
Anastar f/6.3 lens, focusing from 4 ft. to infinity;
Dakon shutter with two speeds (1/25 and 1/50 sec.);
time and "bulb": 8 exp., 2$ x 3? ins. Price, £l2/8/3.
SIX-20 BROWNIE
"C" CAMERA
Reliable, easy-to-use Brownie;
Kodak Meniscus lens; two
large viewfinders; time and
instantaneous shutter; all-
metal body; 8 exp., 2? x 3jf
ins. Price, 46/3.
SIX-20 FOLDING BROWNIE CAMERA
Economical and efficient; Meniscus lens; time
and instantaneous shutter; all-metal body;
blaclc-grained leatherette covering; 8 exp.,
2* x 3* ins. Price, £7/2/6.
fd
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
under her bow and an iron hand
slammed against her plates. The
next salvo exploded round the
aft bridge with an overpowering
concussion ; her power-steering
gear was wrecked —she kept her
nose at the enemy by working
her twin screws. And closed
the range still further.
She was taking a frightful
punishment; between the bridge
and her poop the wooden decks
were afire in half a dozen places.
The huge shells burst on her
upper deck with an unchained
fury that made a typhoon look
like a zephyr. Canvas weather-
dodgers shredded into their com-
ponent threads, guard-rails
twisted like licorice, seemingly
solid superstructure caved in one
side and bulged till it burst the
other, and three or four life-
boats changed as if by magic
into needled splinters where they
rested on their davits.
One second the crew of a for-
rard 6in. gun were loading and
firing their ancient charge with
urgent haste ; the next their
world ended in the slamming
blast of a direct hit that skewered
their bodies with white-hot steel
slivers, pulled their 15-ton piece
out by the roots and flung it, a
split-sided ruin, across the deck.
Then her bridge stopped a
salvo with shocking force; it
burned fiercely and instantly
under the terrific heat released
by the exploding T.N.T. One
of Fegen’s arms was almost
blown away. Crouching with
agony he half-ran, half-fell down
the bridge-ladder, a shredded
stump at his shoulder, stumbled
through the fire and smoke of
her waist and hauled himself with
terrible courage up on to the
after docking-bridge. And
Jervis Bay’s nose remained point-
ing at her enemy.
Her persistence irritated Lut-
jens. He spoke sharply to his
gunnery-lieutenant, who replied
with respectful logic that his
guns already were in rapid
broadsides, were hitting the
enemy with pretty well every
broadside.
The Admiral could hardly
with justice berate his gunnery-
officer—all six llin. guns were
smashing with giant hammer-
blows at their target, firing her,
blowing her guns bodily over the
side, blasting open her bilges to
the sea, listing her crazily to
port. Yet still she thrust on,
lopsidedly, at her smoke-
wreathed tormentor.
Lutjens was annoyed, not so
much at her refusal to realise
the absurdity of her fight, but
because she was between him
and the convoy, and he had to
keep clear of those of her guns
still firing, in case a lucky salvo
might hinder his operating thou-
sands of miles from his repair-
shops. And all this valiantly
borrowed time the convoy was
stoking furiously over the
horizon into the gathering dusk.
“Am closing the enemy,” the
fleeing ships heard.
When 15 minutes had passed,
and the stricken Britisher was
still striving to close her out-of-
range opponent, a slow admira-
tion began to dawn through the
German Admiral’s rising anger.
Anger won ; he temporarily for-
got the convoy and kept his guns
on Jervis Bay to punch her
under. When, in half an hour
of precious time gained, she
started to founder, he remem-
bered the convoy. It was too
late—four only were in dim
sight; the remaining 33 had
vanished into the friendly night.
Jervis Bay was almost
finished; a final salvo struck.
She reeled like a clubbed man.
Already she had hundreds of
tons of waterweight bulging her
forward bulkheads; the last
salvo burst them. A vast
tonnage of water surged in, and
aft. Deep in her bowels her
engine-room crew still toiled
with incredible guts. Then her
broken bow sank deep. The
engine-room toppled forward
menacingly, like the inside of a
tower nodding in an earthquake.
There was a tremendous racket
of iron things falling ; enormous
lumps of inanimate metal which
crushed and tore insensate from
higher end to lower of the
engine-room.
In that other hell on deck the
sea climbed up her tilted bow
until the bridge structure was
like a half-tide rock awash upon
a coast. Hatches heaved,
buckled momentarily in the
middle like a bent bow and then
were squeezed violently out of
their coamings as the rushing
pressure of water forced itself
in and the imprisoned air out.
She had taken on an appalling
slant; but not until the frightful
fire was lifted from her valiant
body (with the Scheer tearing
belatedly off after those luck-
less four ships) did Jervis Bay’s
men abandon her. All lifeboats
but one were burned. They
lowered that, and those rafts not
hopelessly splintered, and placed
themselves at the mercy of the
mid-Atlantic.
Shivering, exhausted, brains
benumbed by the fury of the
storm they’d borne for nearly an
hour, they stared numbly at what
was left of their ship. She
lurched, and poised a moment.
Then the gallant old ship
pitched heavily with her counter
high in the air, and she seemed
to throw up, like an invincible
defiance, the name lettered on
her stern: “Jervis Bay, London.”
A flaming, spark-fluxing torch,
she dropped hissing under the
sea. She took Fegen and 197 of
her men with her.
But the matchless gallantry
of her men was paying dividends.
Far ahead, safe in the night, a
Swedish captain named Sven
Olander, master of the Sture-
holm, was acutely aware of the
debt he owed. He had decided
on his actions ; with the Scheer
still somewhere back there he
wanted his crew's reaction. He
mustered all hands, put his pro-
posal, heard their unanimous
answer, and hurried back to his
bridge.
Later that night the 65 shiver-
ing occupants of a lifeboat and
four rafts saw a grey shape
nosing at them through the
night. One can leave to the
imagination the tenderness with
which those 65 were lifted aboard
and tended by the Swedes their
fight had saved.
Third-officer Wood was among
the survivors ; he came home to
a D.S.O. The London “Gazette,”
announcing the awards, took the
unusual course of amplifying the
citation:
“Among those who went down
in Jervis Bay, and among the
survivors, there must have been
many whose gallantry, were the
whole truth known, deserved
decoration. The awards should
be taken as an honor to their
ship as well as to those who
earned them.”
The commanding-officer of
that ship, naval officer and
gallant gentleman, “for valor in
challenging hopeless odds and
giving his life to save the many
ships it was his duty to protect,”
will go down to history as
Captain Fogarty Fegen, V.C.


iclPik'
ma
Hie night in Fiji—
noon in London
the BP Aviation Service gives unfailingly efficient
service. At airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney, the BP green and
yellow symbol stands for speed and reliability. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are
amongst the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-iranian Oil Company, Ltd.
X AVIATION
SERVICE^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tel. Address “AIRBEPEE”MELB.
371-23-5 D
r - M
-V^
N
I h
i »-
i-
\\— u //
iMil
I
S':
NOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT and COLD
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for ail
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs too! Even if your home is com-
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE
Write, phone phene or call for information on the moden
insulator—B. I. SLACWOOL
f
d
fd
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY. MA9311 • MELBOURNE. MU3506
BRISBANE, 83604 • ADELAIDE. C 7257 • PERTH, 12107
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIGRATION AND DEFENCE.
Returning to a subject on
which he has been heard here
before, and to which he nowa-
days gives much of his great
ability, Sir Norman Angell has
argued powerfully on these three
main points:--
1. —Unless relatively empty
and undeveloped areas of the
British Commonwealth, com-
prising Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa, the
Rhodesias, show in the near
future a development of popula-
tion and wealth comparable to
that shown by the United States
within the last 70 or 80 years,
the Western democracies will not
possess sufficient power to resist
the expansive pressure of totali-
tarian societies, whose Govern-
ments will use as instruments
the great population masses of
Russia, China, other parts of
Asia, perhaps tomorrow India
and much of Africa,
2. —No development of the
Dominions comparable to the
development of the United
States this last three-quarters of
a century can be hoped for with-
out an immigration nearing the
scale of that which alone has
enabled the United States within
one lifetime after the North and
South war to grow from a
country of 30,000,000, racked,
bled white by devastating civil
and racial conflict, into the
richest and most powerful nation
of the world.
3. —lf a freer migration policy
is to have its full effect in de-
veloping the resources of the
British Commonwealth and
ensuring the security and
economic welfare of Britain
itself, there must be a progres-
sively closer political integration.
In a “World Review” article
based on those points the source
of migrants Sir Norman Angell
particularly referred to was
Germany, where “there are
probably between seven and
ten million people, comparable
to the entire population of Aus-
tralia, who have been uprooted
for one reason or another and
who are dependent on charity
in one form or another, are
without settled homes, in
large part without work, and in
most cases without hope. The
members are added to daily by
those who escape from the
Eastern Utopia.”
The problem of resettling that
huge surplus of Germans had
apparently proved too much for
these days of much-vaunted
planning. Formerly they would
not have been without hope;
now there was an admission of
being completely baffled by the
problem of placing something
less than one million of them:
“Yet half a century since,
before the days of the Welfare
THE SALES'S ON!
Manchester “Daily Dispatch.”
State, of the Utopia, the plan-
ning, the restrictions and
controls, the United States was
admitting immigrants at the
rate, not of a hundred
thousand a year, but sometimes
of a hundred thousand a
month; doing it without plan-
ning, without elaborate welfare
provisions, without indeed
knowing that it was doing some-
thing which we, with all our
social sophistication, are quite
incapable of achieving. It would
seem to indicate that one result
of planning and control is to
make impossible some at least of
the purposes which would be
quite possible if only we did not
plan them.”
He made these further points:
In a little over the 50 years
following the American Civil
War the country admitted over
33,000,000 immigrants; that is
to say, a number in excess of
the country’s whole population
at the beginning of that period.
There were years —several —in
which more than a million
immigrants were admitted in the
twelve months.
This immigration, on a scale
which in our day of quotas,
restrictions, controls, planning,
would be regarded as disastrous
and impossible, did not
disrupt the receiving country’s
economy; it greatly benefited
thereby, since this alone made
possible a rapid development of
the country’s natural resources.
It did not lower the American
standard of life, which rose
steadily all the time.
The supreme fact of that
achievement which should
interest members of the British
Commonwealth “is that the
thing was done on the basis of
smaller territory than that
possessed today by the
Dominions and on the basis of
resources far less.”
On the familiar suggestions
that a reduction of Britain’s
population is desirable on the
economic ground that Britain
has passed her population
optimum and on the military
ground that the atomic danger
demands dispersal of popula-
tion ; that the intense concentra-
tion of population in areas like
that of London exposes the
whole island to utter paralysis
in the event of attack by atomic
bomb, to say nothing of the
danger from blockade to a large
population dependent on im-
ported food. Sir Norman Angell
pointed to serious countervailing
considerations:
“One is time, and time is of
the essence. You are not going
to shift ten or fifteen million
people from Britain to the other
side of the Atlantic or Pacific in
two or three years.” Also,
“Greatly to reduce the popula-
tion, and so her total wealth,
would in many respects weaken
Britain, make her of less weight
both in European and world
politics.”
On these and other grounds,
Sir Norman Angell favors draw-
ing heavily on Germany, whose
displaced millions may otherwise
become a festering sore in the
new Germany now arising:
“But they might become for
the Commonwealth what others
similarly situated in the nine-
teenth century became for the
United States —a source of
wealth and strength and political
power for the democracies which
receive them ; a means of de-
veloping undeveloped resources,
resources which remain sterile
without the labor to work them.
“If we of the Commonwealth
decide that we cannot do what
our forebears did, cannot dupli-
cate with our larger resources
what the Americans have done
so recently with smaller re-
sources, then we may also be
deciding that Western civilisa-
tion cannot be defended against
the alien and hostile forces which
now challenge it.”
Dominions’ Turn Now.
London “Daily Mail,” calling
for Dominion co-operation in a
common British Commonwealth
defence policy;
“Such a policy has never
existed By decisions of the
Imperial Conferences of 1923
and 1926 each Dominion is
primardy responsible for its own
defence, but the burden of pro-
tectmg the whole Commonwealth
and its vital sea and air routes
rests mainly upon the United
, , D ... , ,
This is why the British people
spend 10 per cent, of their
income upon arms while
Canadians, Australians, New
Zealanders and South Africans
spend only a half, a third, or a
tenth as much.
“Britain must naturally con-
tinue to take the major strain,
but it is not unreasonable to ask
our kinsmen to make a larger
contribution to the cost and to
take a bigger share of our world-
wide garrison duties.”
Leftist Litany.
Some Yugoslav statistician
having amused himself totting
up the frequency with which
certain terms used in alluding
to Stalin occur in “Pravda” and
“Izvestia,” “Washington Post”
comments:
“These allusions show that if
Stalin does not now actually
occupy the status of divinity in
the Stalinist form of worship,
he does have a place well above
that of mere prophets such as
St. Marx and St. Engels or mere
martyrs like St. Kirov. We hope
our readers will acquit us of any
blasphemous intention if we
show how easily these allusions
could be arranged into a litany:
V. Great Leader of Entire Man-
kind.
R. Miserere nobis.
V. Great Chief of All the Workers.
R. Miserere nobis.
V. Protagonist of Our Victories.
R. Miserere nobis.
V. Faithful Fighter for the Cause
of Peace.
R. Miserere nobis.
V. Dear and Beloved Leader.
R. Miserere nobis.
and so on.
“We have attached the re-
sponse Miserere nobis (have
mercy on us) instead of Ora pro
nobis (pray for us) to the in-
vocations because it seems more
appropriate not only to Stalin’s
semi-divine status but to every-
thing we hear about the
character of life in the Soviet
theocracy. But, on second
thought, it seems to us that the
one appeal has just as much
chance of being answered as the
other.”
Slav Brotherhood Off.
The r^
Tim himself
Yugoslavia's main tie with
as ™ al “ *
’4. . ,
P ’ p^riiampntarv
r m 7
Deputy Rad v L ,
j T sc ? a . es . , f• lv
University, and w Y


MtG
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE*
INSULATION
I
w
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
f
HOS 6
Bin 4
FONDE
df
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
Gentlemen prefer..
? ;V*
~ZZf*s*r*rrrl>rf W
. - vJ/y ;t. •/
/ -J&
■/.'■!/ "y
tW‘-' hi'
X/X
y-;
h-25't*'
"\ \
■'-Or
a.?
:' J Vy
&
KINUI
0%
£
II
&S
ft
ill# •>. & v? :
;is
la.
:r»?
SfyZ.
m
.'S' *. •I ‘ /kf'' r K*
%A‘}\
>■?.
gfjj g*»£
r»a
I I |j|S
a ||
S^T-KV
ZZ.
/
2*asn
Krw^
X
/<"
-■4/
1
■
H
?D
a
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREB
would not have made his speech
without official sanction. Said
Professor Lalic:
“What remains of our Slav
and Russophile feelings? We
sympathise with the Slav nations
who are under Russian occupa-
tion. We sympathise with the
Polish people who are in the
claws of their ‘elder brother’
and whose country is being
ruled by Soviet Governor-
General Rokossovsky, a worthy
heir of Mouravyov the hang-
man.
“We feel the tragedy of pro-
gressive and civilised Czechoslo-
vakia, whom the Russian satraps
have enslaved, just as we hold to
heart the fate of the Bulgarian
people who are groaning under
the heavy boot of the Russian
supervisor Chervenkov.
“But the policy of Slav soli-
darity is a phase that has passed,
it belongs to the irretrievable
past. There is no longer any
realistic basis for rallying the
Slav peoples under a banner of
Slav solidarity, because the
Russians have shattered it.
“The Slav nations are not
threatened by any direct danger
from any non-Slav conquerors.
On the contrary, such danger
threatens them from Russia.”
Nationalised France.
Genera! findings of the com-
mittee appointed to look into
France’s State enterprises, as
summarised by London
“Financial Times”:
(1) —Most State enterprises
are operating at losses which,
although the situation has im-
proved in a number of cases,
run into thousands of millions
of francs a year.
(2) —The indebtedness of the
nationalised enterprises, especi-
ally of the big public services, is
rapidly increasing every year.
(3) —ln most State enterprises,
personnel is inflated, in spite of
the reductions which have been
made during the last two years.
(4) —There was and still is an
amazing amount of wastage,
abuses and sometimes even
frauds, which apparently are
very seldom, and at any rate in-
sufficiently, punished.
In other words, they’re no
different in France.
Britain’s Beef.
Now down to a starvation
Bd.-worth a week, Britain’s meat
ration is naturally the target for
more and more angry comment
in the British Press. In the midst
of the fury, Edinburgh “Scots-
man” weighs in with a compara-
tively calm statement of what
the trouble is all about, includ-
ing something of the Argentine
case: —•
“It should be remembered that
the Argentine Government is a
bulk seller, so that the deadlock
is essentially a commentary on
the demerits of State trading,
“Last July our [Britain’s]
advisers were of the opinion that
the trend of world prices would
turn downward. But the Korean
conflict put their forecasts well
out. Moreover, the high price
of wool has meant that wool pro-
ducers in the Southern Hemi-
sphere are reluctant to kill their
sheep for mutton. Argentina
knows this, and is seeking to
make the most of the advantage,
though Argentine exporters
cannot readily find alternative
markets.
“Last summer Argentina de-
manded £l4O a ton for her meat.
Britain offered a price of £9O.
Somewhat later Britain raised
this to £97 10s., and towards the
end of the year Argentina
lowered her demand to £l2O.
While Britain has shown a
willingness to go a little further,
agreement has been reached.
“The British Government con-
tend that the latest offer repre-
sents an increase of over 60 per
cent, on the price we were pay-
ing in 1946. But they are
reckoning in sterling. Argentina
contends that even if she
obtained her demand it would
constitute a reduction to her
when reckoned in dollars, be-
cause sterling is devalued. She
complains, too, about the rise
in the price of oil from the
sterling area.
“Before the war Argentine
meat commanded a higher price
than Australian or New Zealand,
but that was because it was
chilled. Argentina apparently is
Mulling to resume shipments of
chilled meat, which would mean
a welcome improvement in
quality. The British Ministry of
Food, however, cannot work in
chilled meat with a rationing
system. The cut reduces the
ration to the lowest point,
reckoned in weight, it has ever
reached. We are worse off than
we were during the war. It
surely was never intended that
the Ministry of Food should act
as a Ministry of Blockade.”
In London “Economist’s”
sizing-up of the bungle, the
British Ministry of Food is now
quite literally making itself a
barrier between British con-
sumers and meat for which they
would willingly pay higher prices.
Grocers, it notes, are doing good
business in imported hams at £5
a tin, and working-class house-
wives are buying the same hams
at 2s, 6d. a jib. “No one wants
the Government to give the
Argentinians any price they ask,
but their latest offer suggests that
they are trying to strike a fair
bargain ; and it is ridiculous that
the Ministry of Food should
refuse in order that the Govern-
ment may take some pride or
consolation in an artificially
depressed cost-of-living index.
Food supplies are being distorted
by party policies that may have
had some relevance to times of
general scarcity and wage
restraint but now are not even
effective for the narroM', and
unrealistic, purpose of keeping
prices stable in an unstable
world.”
The most unkindest cut of all
was the Food Minister’s “1 am
looking into the possibility of
buying meat in Western Ger-
many,” confirming, as the “Daily
Express” puts it, “what ail the
world already knew —that the
defeated West Germans live far
better than their conquerors.”
On this same ironical position,
“Yorkshire Post” quotes a letter
received in England by a family
that had become friends with a
German nurse. “We understand
you are very short of food in
England,” wrote the nurse in
Germany. “Will you let us
know what we can send you, as
we are not short of anything
here,”
Dragnet Digest.
Cussed Zilliacus. —Poor Mr. Zil-
liacus, who was expelled from the
British Labor party for what was
euphemistically called his “Left-wing
activities,” seems now to have been
dropped by the Cominform, too. Its
journal charges him with “suspicious
activities” and with “doing his utmost
to assure the working people that
Tito, the Fascist and butcher, is the
very embodiment of Socialism.”
« « * *
J. Bull’s Defence Scheme. —A Labor
member having asked Mr. Attlee how
the new defence programme, including
planned expenditure of £4700 million
in three years, squared with the
Government’s estimate last year that
£3600 million for defence over the
same period was all the country’s
economy could stand, the Prime
Minister replied: “That was the most
we could manage without taking
special measures. We are now taking
those special measures.” On which
London “Economist’s” comment: “If
the measures are tardy, fumbling and
still in part obscure, at least Britain
is decisively past the stage of business-
as-usual and defence-without-tears.”
* * * *
German Pacifism. Finding of
Brigadier A. H. Head, M.P., in a
London “Daily Telegraph” article
written after a recent visit to Ger-
many: “The Germans today, though
working hard, are tired, disillusioned
and utterly sick of war and its re-
sults. Two disastrous defeats have
caused genuine, though not neces-
sarily lasting, revulsion against mili-
tarism, and the status of the once
dominant Junker elite has declined
to the lowest level. Anti-militarism
is particularly marked among the
younger generation, and although the
cynic may attribute this to a desire
to comply with Occupation policy,
and thus to fool or reassure the
Allies, I found that it is genuine and
widespread.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Keeping China Neutral. 1 ’’ —A Lon-
don “Twentieth Century” writer on
Britain’s insistence on Communist
China being allowed “privileged
sanctuary” (that is, not being itself
attacked, or even opposed with sanc-
tions), despite its waging open war
against U.N.O. forces, including
British: “What in the name of Con-
fucius is the sense of talking about
keeping China neutral when China is
attacking British and American troops
with a quarter of a million men and
the casualty lists mount higher daily
in all the newspapers of America?
China is at the present moment a
belligerent enemy, and the chances of
assuring her neutrality jn a future
emergency by conceding to her a
victory in arms it was not in her
power to gain but for the ‘privileged
sanctuary’ are, to say the least of it,
extremely speculative.”
* * * *
One Word of Deutsch. —As re-
ported by Edinburgh “Scotsman,” at
a reception to General Eisenhower,
German Chancellor Adenauer asked
him: Sprechen Sie Deutsch ? The
reply: “The only German word 1
know is ‘Eisenhower.’ ”
* * * •
Optimism in Season. —“Yorkshire
Post” has its hopes: “In rearmament
[of Germany] it would be folly to
take any irrevocable step before the
Four-Power Conference meets, as
good judges think it is likely soon to
do. The best hope of peace still lies
in agreement between the Western
Powers and Russia, and this hope
would be spoilt by hurrying prema-
turely to rearm Western Germany.”
* * * *
Commonwealth Conference. —N.Z.
Prime Minister Holland’s view of
the recent confab of the Prime
Ministers in London: “Nine men, with
their advisers, had come to London
to study with a serious singleness of
purpose how they could pool the
material resources of their countries
to ensure that the 500 million people
they represented were able to live in
peace and harmony with other nations
and with one another. They wished
to retain for their family of nations
the way of life they had found best
suited to their needs. They had no
territorial aspirations of any kind, did
not seek to impose their way of life
on anyone who did not wish to adopt
it, but would most sternly lesist ary
efforts to deny to them the way of
life that was their birthright.”


Only 0.1 A m
/W
G»nZasjk
m
fly Constellations
A
exclusively to London
FASTEST ROUTE WITH THREE NIGHT STOPS
Tour famous cities
as our guest
Book by air to Britain on the Kan-
garoo Service fly by luxurious, com-
fortable Constellation the most inter-
nationally-famous, proven, long-distance
aircraft. Enjoy air-conditioned comfort,
complimentary meals, superlative service.
Fascinating Eastern cities with exotic
scenes, strange customs, make this the
world’s most colourful travel route.
Expense-free conducted tours of Singapore
and Rome. First-class accommodation,
no tips, no extras.
Relax on three night stops on your 4 day
flight or stopover anywhere at no extra
fare.
Five services weekly from Sydney, regular route via Calcutta,
alternative service via Colombo and Bombay . . . Consult your
travel agent.
fl £ A and
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
FLY TO THE FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN
How's Your Sense
Of Humour ?
Psychologists universally
agree the better your sense
of humour, the more fun
you’ll get out of life. Does
your sex make a difference?
Your nationality? Your
intelligence? Can a sense of
humour be developed?
In March Reader’s Digest,
John G. Gibson gives you
fascinating facts psychologists
have learned about what
people laugh at and why,
“How’s your sense of
humour” is just one of 37
stimulating articles in March
Reader’s Digest. Read and
enjoy it today. One shilling
and sixpence. All newsagents
and bookstalls.
LOOK YOUR BEST!
::
mm
-
mm
- ,
HiUVCt
Hide in
Personal appearance means much
be proud of yours it always pays to
look your best.
We, too, have pride: —Pride in every
bat that leaves our mill . . - Pride in
the dependable service
each hat will give its
wearer . . . Pride in our
splendid customer rela-
tions over the past thirty-
seven years.
•s
AKUBRA
Aafa c^QuaM/
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“To the discomfort of some of his
colleagues, Doc. Evatt has demon-
strated again that he is a man of
many parts.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
But all of them don’t add up
to much.
“Girls in love often lose weight.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
But the fortunate ones gain a
stone.
“Cautious males should avoid
women in mink coats, New York
fur designer Rudolph Schlam
warned.”
At least until they’re paid for.
•I" -I- -h
“Wanted, daily help, good hours,
no laundry, three adults at tram-
stop.”—S. M. Herald.”
They’ll have a long wait for
one going their way.
•i* *l*
“Seeking a divorce, he testified that
his wife had deserted him one month
after their wedding—33 years ago.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
The proceeding took quite a
wait off his mind.
❖ -I- *
“Single men and women have more
headaches than married folk do.”
— “World's News.” *
But not so many pains in the
neck.
Caught on the Hop.
“The luxury liner Caronia wire-
lessed for delivery of 1501b. of frogs’
legs at No. 7 Woolloomooloo.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
The old frog sat beside his pool
And proudly watched the
tadpoles where
They frisked beneath the waters
cool
Without a single thought or
care.
And, lulled into security,
He puffed himself and vainly
spake :
“There’s nothing lives can
frighten me,
Who fear not boy or hungry
snake !”
But while he boasted thus his
wife
Looked down the track and
shook with fear.
In terror both for limb and■ life
Because of accents she could
hear.
And turning to her spouse she
said:
“Here comes a touring Yankee
■ bloke.
So stow your gab, pull in your
head —
Unless, my dear, you want to
croak !”
BERT.
A Matter of Moment.
“As a Frenchman, I find your six-
o'clock swill disgusting and ob-
noxious. "—Visiting French swimmer
Alex Jcmy.
Why blame us poor Australians
who
Are thirsty when the day is
through
From hours of toil in sticky heat,
For if you merely pause to think
You’ll realise that we must drink
A pint or two with friends we
meet.
Why scorn us if we drink en
masse ?
We have no shady cool terrasse
Attached to cafes where we may
Sip leisurely at beer or wine
If we would rather drink than
dine
And do the thing the decent way.
Forgive us then; you surely
will
See that we do not wish to swill;
Conditions quite beyond our
powers
Account for evils you may see
In pubs, yet paradoxically
We all admit the fault is hours !
D.H.E.
A Touch of Propaganda-
Hypnosis.
The Commissar for Collect!-
• j n A ■ ■ u-
vised Propaganda was giving his
weekly report to the Great Be-
loved Leader.
Joe nonchalantly tossed aside
the N.K.V.D. file he had been
idly glancing over. This showed
that the number of slave-labor
prisoners held in “correction”
camps throughout the U.S.S.R.
at latest census was 14,000,000.
But Beria, he knew, was an even
greater liar than his one-time
friend Goebbels, possibly even
as great a liar as Joe himself,
and he wondered whether the
“After lunch let's make a lawnmower .”
figure was closer to 18,000,000.
Not that it mattered much, any-
way.
“What have you done about
accusing New Zealand of hold-
ing three million Maoris for
slave-labor under conditions of
extreme barbarity?” asked the
Red Fiihrer.
“I have arranged for Malik
to get the Polish delegate to
make the accusation at the next
session of U.N.,” replied the
Commissar. “In his speech he
will claim that the Soviet is the
only nation free from the
tyranny of the barbed-wire com-
pound, because the workers are
so happy there is no need for
any to be detained. He will also
make an impassioned denuncia-
tion of the way the imperialist
colonial Powers are making of
their colonies one huge torture-
chamber for the downtrodden
natives. He’ll play up in par-
ticular the treatment of the
Papuans by their cruel Aus-
tralian overlords. But don’t
have the first part of his speech
reproduced in ‘lzvestia’ or
‘Pravda,’ for Lenin's sake!”
At that moment all the lights
went out in Joe’s humble room
in the Kremlin—completely bare
except for 3 deep-pile English
carpet, huge American veneer
glass-topped table and cocktail-
cabinet and £200,000-w'orth of
art pinched from East German
museums.
“Must be a blackout,” com-
mented the Commissar softly, as
if to himself.
“What was that you said?”
asked the Red Fiihrer in a steely
voice.
“I said it must be a black-
out, Comrade,” replied the
C.C.P.
“You are forgetting, I think,
Comrade,” went on Joe in the
same ominous voice, “that you
are living in Russia.”
“I’m sorry, Comrade,” re-
plied the Commissar contritely.
“a whiteout. I must have been
da^ a ™ in S,!° think that black
18 stdl black.
„ And jt couldn . t even be a
wb i teou t” went on the Fiihrer
sharply. “You yourself have
stated in innumerable broadcasts
for reception outside Russia that
the U.S.S.R. is run with such
perfect Communist efficiency
that there is never any com-
modity-shortage, nor ever any
technical breakdowns.”
“Exactly, Comrade, the elec-
trie-lights are still on,” replied
the Commissar as he applied a
match to a branch of candelabra
on the table.
There came a knock at the
door, and two tommy-gunned
guards escorted into the chamber
a serf carrying a cup and
saucer. After the guards had
assured the Fiihrer that the fel-
low was carrying no grenades
the servant, after scraping a bow
(as prescribed in the Workers’
Paradise, where all are equal,
f° r those who approach high
P ar *Y officials), placed his burden
on *b e table. “Your cocoa,
Magnificent, he announced, and
bowed himself out.
After a venom-taster, sum-
moned , bad sampled the brew
t 0 make sure that no ground-up
B lass had been slipped into it
by one of the Great Beloved
Leader’s devoted subjects, Joe
took up and sipped the coffee.
.. had to ° rdar tbe !“l uida :
tion of one of the stupid serfs
last week,” he growled “When
he brought the coffee in he said
it was coffee. There is too much
treason in the Fatherland by
people who will call things by
their correct names. By the
way, you saw to it, I trust, that
my speech attacking Attlee got
the maximum of publicity in the
satellite Press?”
“Assuredly, Comrade-Fuhrer,”
replied the Commissar. “Your
revered name appeared on the
front page of every party organ
in every Iron Curtain country
no less than one
hundred and four-
teen times.”
“Why this sud-
den shrinking -
violet attitude?”
demanded Joe.
“If I’m to be
built up as the
Father of World
Freedom I want
real publicity.
Make it two
hundred times,”
“Yes, Comrade-
Fiihrer,” said the
C.C.P. “And may
I personally con-
gratulate you.
That speech you
made about Attlee was certainly
the most meaty thing you ever
devised.”
Joe’s brows came down in a
thunderous frown as he punched
the bell. As the armed guards
rushed in the Red Fiihrer indi-
cated the Commissar. “Arrest
him and hand him over to the
N.K.V.D. for ‘examination,’”
he ordered. “He is a pro-
Titoist, anti-Cominform, pro-
cosmopolitanism deviation!st
Trotskyite traitor,
As the Commissar was led out
Joe fell back in his seat,
“The hide of the swine!” he
growled. “Deliberately inferring
my speech was fishy!”
BO.


I \.%
'Mk'*-
m a
,"L
s**
*s}%
ati°°
an > s
**^s?
Ore
\>»
I®**
y/if®
A
Hot' 00
stro‘‘ a
A"
HQIZ
df
. . . each secure in the
knowledge that radio’s in-
visible lifelines link with the shore.
A decade before domestic broadcasting
began, A.W.A. commenced the research
and industry which have contributed so
vitally to the increased safety of life at
sea.
To-day modern marine radio installa-
tions, meeting the rigid standards of
International Regulations, are built,
maintained and operated for the
Australian Mercantile Marine by
A.W.A. —pioneers of Australian
Wireless—Makers of the finest
in Radio.
Missing Friend.
SYDNEY HENRY EGAN, deceased. En-
quiry is directed by the Supreme Court of
N.S.W. to ascertain if GEORGE EGAN
or HENRY EGAN, brothers of the de-
ceased, survived him or, having pre-
deceased him. left children who survived
him. The said George Egan and Henry
Egan are sons of late George Egan (also
known as GEORGE CONNOLLY) and late
Catherine Egan (nee Holloway). Any
person claiming to be interested under
the enquiry, whether as a survivor or as
representative of a deceased person, should
communicate immediately with THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., for information as to
filing a claim in the Court. Any person
who can give information about George
Egan or Henry Egan or about any children
of either of them will please communi-
cate with said Public Trustee.
Enjoy
holiday
motoring
•BbSs
year
N
a
*/ t
m
m
9
%
with
GOODYEAR
TYRES
No car is safer than its tyres
and the condition of your tyres
can make or mar your holiday
outings. Protect your family,
yourself, your car with Goodyear
De Luxe Tyres—the tyres with
more built-in safety more
built-in miles.
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
d
BU7/M
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
There were some 35,000 in attend-
ance at Caulfield on Saturday for
the 54th running of the Futurity
Stakes, and betting suggested that a
solid percentage of those present had
arrived at Chicquita as the pea for
the rich sprint. The general line of
reasoning seemed to be that it was
a golden opportunity for Chicquita,
since, for once, she would not be
opposed by her constant vanquisher,
Comic Court. In general principle
the theory was sound enough, but
the horse to whom it should have
been applied was not Chicquita but
Iron Duke, after his very close brush
with Comic Court the previous week.
Such, at any rate, was the notion
entertained by present writer in
making Iron Duke this page’s selec-
tion for the Futurity, and so it came
to pass.
Chicquita started at 7 to 4, San
Domenico was second fancy at 9 to 2
and Iron Duke went out at fives.
Shooting to the front soon after
barrier-rise, Star Port filled the role
of pacemaker, and, leading them
along at a merry clip, soon had the
field well strung out. On the turn
Star Port was still in front, and going
a sight too easily for the mental
comfort of those who had backed
more-fancied runners. However, Iron
Duke was never too far from the
leaders, and a strong and sustained
finishing burst in the straight saw
him win by a length from True
Course, with Eclair third, followed
closely by San Domenico and Star
Port.
The race was marred by a very
rough, bumping finish, largely caused
by Iron Duke veering in abruptly just
before they reached the line. As a
result of the roughhouse finish hard-
luck tales were told on behalf of
some runners, but it seemed that the
real victim of hard luck was Iron
Duke’s rider R. Hutchinson, who
stopped two months’ suspension. This
seemed a bit stiff when one recalls
some of Iron Duke’s exhibitions of
erratic running on previous occasions.
As well, it seemed significant on
Saturday that none of the other riders
evidently considered it worth entering
a protest.
The success of Iron Duke gave
trainer L. Robertson a record likely
to stand for many a day. Iron Duke
is the fifth Futurity winner Robert-
son has turned out. His first was
Top Gallant in 1926; then followed
Gothic (1928), Zonda (1943) and
Counsel (1944). Iron Duke cut out
the seven furlongs in 1.24| only
three-parts of a second outside the
course record, and a fine effort on a
track which had had the sting taken
out by rain during the morning.
A four-year-old bay colt by Le
Grand Due from Vocal, Iron Duke
has a pedigree which combines some
of the most successful lines found in
Australian racing. His sire, Le Grand
Due, is by Blenheim (by Blandford,
the sire of Midstream) from La
Douairiere (by Spearmint, by Car-
bine). Iron Duke’s dam, Vocal, is
by Thracian (a full-brother to
Heroic) out of the Magpie mare
Garrulity.
Form noted on Saturday naturally
led to a wholesale reshuffling of New-
market considerations. Like that of
Abou Ben Adhem, Iron Duke’s name
now leads all the rest. Despite
assurances during the week that he
would run in the Futurity, the erst-
while Newmarket favorite Regal Scout
instead contested the 6-furlongs
Andrew Fisher Handicap. That race
saw Ralton (R. Heather), in a tight
finish, a narrow winner from Kintail,
Gay Saint and Comedy Prince.
The abject failure of Regal Scout,
which seemingly could only be attri-
buted to inability to handle his plaster
of 9.11, made it difficult to feel con-
fident of his prospects with 9.8 in
the Newmarket. Regal Scout’s stable-
mate Flying Halo made a poor show-
ing in the Futurity, and the handi-
capper may just about have his
measure, too, with 41b. over weight-
for-age in the Newmarket. Eclair
ran a really promising Newmarket
trial, especially since he was about
the worst affected by the scrimmage
in the Futurity. And Star Port, if
he reproduces his Futurity form, could
make a very bold showing in the
furlong-shorter Newmarket.
An excellent performance by the
three-year-old Midway (W. William-
son) in winning the £l5OO Lord
Forrest Handicap (12f.) saw the Mid-
stream colt emerge as a clear favorite
for the Australian Cup. Midway,
who is a full-brother to the Derby
winner Delta, finished very gamely
to win by a half-head from the six-
year-old mare Eucardius, to whom
he was conceding 11b. in the weights.
Run over a journey of furlongs,
the Australian Cup has most fre-
quently been won by older horses, but
Midway may well be capable of beat-
ing the bunch stacked against him
this year.
It seems unlikely that Alister will
have many opponents when he is
saddled up for the St. Leger next
Saturday. Tackling a big field of
fellow three-year-olds in the mile
Tennyson Plate the Whirlaway colt
carried 9.11, conceded the others
241 b. and upwards, and he beat them
pointless; Bright Law finished second,
beaten by two lengths. Other events
at Caulfield saw Ungar’s brother
Usage (W. Williamson) a comfortable
winner of the Merson Cooper Stakes
for two-year-olds and Zethos (G.
Bougoure) and Mollundry (W.
s
Williamson) successful in divisions of
the 9-furlongs Wentworth Trial.
* * * *
This page’s early Doncaster-Sydney
Cup double of Achilles and Grey
Boots received a spot of pleasing
encouragement at Randwick on Satur-
day when Grey Boots, making his
first appearance since winning the
Caulfield Cup, thoroughly relished the
job of cleaning-up a bunch of fairish
sprinters in the 7-furlongs Denham
Court Handicap. Grey Boots bowled
around comfortably in midfield in the
early stages, moved up to take the
lead at will in the straight, and won
with ease. The three-year-old filly
Niaranga impressed by the manner
of her fast-finishing burst for second
money; she beat the others (Field
Boy was third) comfortably, but had
no chance with Grey Boots.
Grey Boots’s win provided yet
another example of owner-trainer H.
V. Cooper’s shrewdness in placing his
horses and skill in bringing them to
race-winning condition without any
actual racing preparation. Grey
Boots has now won eight races, and
has started at good odds every time;
7 to 1 was the price on Saturday.
What is to be Grey Boots’s principal
autumn mission is at present uncer-
tain, and, if past experience is any
guide, is likely to remain so until
fairly late in the piece; Cooper, quite
rightly, does not consider himself
under any obligation to announce his
plans for the benefit of all and sundry.
However, our guess is the Cup.
While Grey Boots was conspicuous
at one end of the Denham field,
another of his hue was equally con-
spicuous at the other end. It was
the 1944 St. Leger winner Mayfowl,
having his first run in well over five
years after doing several seasons at
stqd. Unlike some of the veterans
who have been regrettably dragged
back into action recently, Mayfowl
was, at least, thoroughly fit and as
sound as a bell when he was “retired,”
and the general run of stayers at
present in action are so poor that
he might conceivably win again.
Nevertheless, it seems a sorry business.
Apprentice G. Frankland’s handling
of School Belle, or, as one is
tempted to say, School Belle’s hand-
ling of young Frankland, made
rather a circus of the 12-furlongs
Warwick Handicap. Frankland went
out with instructions, and doubtless
the intention, to ride School Belle
from behind, but the mare had other
notions. By the time they had gone
half-a-mile School Belle was some-
thing like 50 lengths in front, and
Frankland had resigned himself to
accompanying the horse. At the turn
School Belle was still a dozen lengths
to the good, but the Brueghel mare
Elusive, very well ridden by W. Cook,
eventually bridged the gap to score
by a length.
Three two-year-old events and a
mile handicap for three-year-olds pro-
vided the principal interest in the
remainder of the Randwick meeting.
The Dhoti colt Hindostan (G. Moore)
shaped well to down Mercury and
Noble Love in the 6-furlongs Nur-
sery Handicap; however, the Breeders’
Plate winner Lloric, who finished
among the also-rans, looked as
though he should do a great deal
better next time out. Divisions of a
Two-year-old Encourage were won by
the Scorpion colt Muffles (J. Deely)
and the Beau Son colt Belshazzar
(R. Binder). The Three-year-old
Handicap went to Aristocrat (D.
Munro) with Poitiers and Careless in
the places.
* * ♦ *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies): Gil-
mara, 1; Port, 2; Undercurrent, 3.
Two-year-old Maiden (colts): Carte
Blanche, 1; Osborne, 2; Wapiti, 3.
Punchbowl Mixed: Stage Act, 1;
Perfect Chatter, 2; Lady Rosetta, 3.
Ashbury Mixed; Auburn River, 1;
Tesmic, 2; Galleon’s Reach, 3.
Flying: Salamanca, 1; Bungymun, 2;
Oversight, 3. Canterbury Park Cup:
Freedom, 1; Bankstream, 2; Elusive,
3. Welter: Tapoaki, 1; Fire Ship,
2; Golden Tan, 3.
For Flemington:
Newmarket Handicap: Star Port,
1; Comedy Prince, 2; Regal Scout, 3.
Australian Cup: Midway, 1; Our
Love, 2; Bold Belle, 3.
* * * *
To retain the Sheffield Shield, which
it had held since the 1946-47 season,
N.S.W. required to score an outright
win over South Australia in Sydney,
and at the same time see Victoria fail
to achieve an outright win over Wes-
tralia in the match being played at
the same time in Melbourne. In
Sydney, N.S.W. did all it could do
about the matter safely, surely and to
the unutterable boredom of the spec-
tators. The ’Walers, with 398 and
none for 44, beat South Australia (207
and 233) by 10 wickets. However,
in Melbourne, the Victorians quite
comfortably keat Westralia outright,
and the Shield was theirs by 29
points to the N.S.W. tally of 27.
Rain, and other interruptions due to
faulty light, gave the Victorians some
anxiety as to their chance of finishing
off the game in time, but eventually
they bagged it with scores of eight
for 182 and two for 49 against
Westralia’s 126 and 103; Victoria
outright by eight wickets,
Victoria has now won the Shield
18 times since the competition com-
menced in 1892-93. The Shield has
been won 24 times by New South
Wales, six times by South Australia
and once by Westralia.
* * * *
About the only interest remaining
in the present series when Hassett
and Brown went out on Melbourne
Cricket Ground last week to toss in
the fifth Test lay in Australia’s
chances of equalling the record set
30 years ago when Armstrong’s XI
won all five Tests of the 1920-21
series. The matter was in abeyance
as this went to the printer. For the
fourth time from his five attempts
Hassett won the toss, and, batting
first, the Australians, in scratchy
fashion, accumulated 206 for the loss
of eight wickets on the first day.
Rain then took a hand, and no play
was possible on Saturday—a crown-
ing piece of misfortune for the tour-
ists, who were depending on the fifth
Test for their total profit on the
tour; prior to it they had just cut
square.
♦ « * •
For his bout with George Kapeen
at Leichhardt last week Tommy
Graham was billed as the “Canberra
Cyclone” and acclaimed as the
accredited welterweight champion of
the Federal Territory, but, after see-
ing the champ, in action, present
observer is prepared to advance the
claims of at least a dozen Hon.
Members to both titles. The
“Cyclone,” which, incidentally, looked
nearer 13.10 than the advertised
10.13, barely ruffled Kapeen’s hair.
Kapeen (10.9 f), on the other hand,
dished out terrific punishment until
the ref. stopped the slaughter in the
seventh round.


MAKING AUSTRALIA STRONG.
Wi
More and More
BUTTER
FOR EXPORT
a/e/ecf be/
/fona/e/son- 7/ppeft
fnq/nes and a///ed
fqa/pmenf,
Australian Butter Factories are equal to any in
the world. Here is a giant churn in operation.
The dairyformer has a major responsibility in
the Country's call for greater production and
his contribution to the national welfare, un-
stinted in the past, will find a generous response
in the future.
In his work to improve his facilities and better
his methods, he uses Ronaldson-Tippett petrol,
kerosene or diesel Engines and other machinery.
Built to the finest engineering standards, thin
equipment plays a large part in making
Australia STRONG.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke Street. N.S.W. Distbrs.:
Bonaldson Bros. & Tippett, Ltd., Fraser House, 43
Bridge St., SYDNEY. Q’iand Distbrs.: Donaldson
Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127
Eagle St., BRISBANE.
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
STOP SMOKING
In only one day you too can Per-
manently overcome the ceaseless
craving for Tobacco with my famous
"SMOKENDA”
A really scientific method. Swift,
Pleasant. Harmless. Succeeds where
other methods fail. Save money.
Double Your Energy. Improve
Health. SMOKENDA is yours for 12/6
Post Free. (Plain wrapper.) Success
Guaranteed.
KEN G. McCALL, d«,.. wi,
Smoking Cure Specialist,
BOX 4SSS, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Always keep
a bottle in
the home
WIA
&
ss
9*
wk
re
•» :*»
‘V*
N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTOR*
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
TST.tl.la
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
gg
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Two Lambings?
“Kelms”: Experiments in
America have shown that ewes
can be induced to breed twice
a year by means of hormone in-
jections. They’re using a
hormone called gonadotrophin
which has an action like pituitary
hormones. It stimulates the
ovary to produce its estrogenic
hormone, which decides the
breeding period. The injection
is given between the foreleg and
the body, and a response is noted
in from five to seven days.
Approximately 60 per cent, of
the ewes treated responded and
were mated. A large proportion
of these had their second lambs
for the year.
Much remains to be discovered
about the treatment and its
effects, including the effect it
will have on the next “natural”
breeding period and on the re-
productive life of the ewes.
A group of yearling ewes will
be maintained on double breed-
ing periods for a lifetime.
Fences and Fires.
“Ngaduri”: If your district is
subject to fires get concrete
posts and flat iron droppers.
Don’t bore the strainers, as the
wire will become red-hot and
the draught through the holes
will do the rest. If the strainers
are round timber and aren’t
bored, they will take a great deal
of burning and, even though the
fence may become a little slack,
it will probably stand a serious
fire.
In these days of cement short-
age a good idea is to use a
round-timber, unbored strainer
of good dimensions, with stake
T-iron posts wired on to wooden
posts sunk alongside. The fence
will still be reasonably effective
after a fire —at least until a
large beast bends the iron posts
over.
With wooden strainers and
concrete posts it is best to run
out the wires from the middle of
the strain and merely tie round
the post, straining and tying in
the middle where it would be
away from the continued heat.
I suggest wooden strainers, as I
have yet to see a concrete
strainer which will stand up very
long to the combination of big
stock and the inevitable unequal
expansion and contraction of
the strains and individual wires.
Though most posts break off
at ground level it is a mistake to
strut the strainer there. It’s the
weakest spot, but as the greatest
strain comes from the top plain
wire—if a barb is used on top
and the wires are run in from the
bottom up—a strut at ground
level will only worsen the posi-
tion by strengthening the damag-
ing factor, which is lack of
“give” in the soil. Therefore,
the strut should be either half-
way from the ground to the top
of the post (supposing that all
wires have an equal stress) or
immediately below the top plain
wire, which is the one with the
greatest leverage,
The strut should be as long
as possible—about 10ft., for
preference—and should have a
sharp downward bend at the last
three or four feet. At the post
it should be scarfed into position,
bored and pinned to the post to
prevent it riding up, and at its
ground end should butt up
against a large stone or block
of wood set at least the same
depth in the ground as the posts
and rammed as tightly. Butting
against the first post is bad prac-
tice, particularly in wet country,
as it will eventually push that
post out of plumb.
Flowering-gums.
“W.C.”: Many flowering-
gums are as attractive as foreign
trees and shrubs, and are some-
times easier to grow. Our best
gums come from the drier parts,
but they are fast growers, and
very suitable for shelter or deco-
ration in any house paddock.
Pink-flowering types are plenti-
ful. It is necessary to order
from seedsmen using the
botanical names, as nicknames
may vary in different localities.
The young trees are raised from
seed by nurserymen; cross-
pollination may occur and cause
changes in the hues of the
flowers.
Leucoxylon rosea and Calo-
j.hylla rosea arc pink gums grow-
ing to 35ft. or more. Ccesia is
a mere 12ft.-15ft. dwarf, but it
is an almost continuous bloomer.
Steedmani grows 15ft.-25ft. in
height, its flowers being yellow
and red. Stricklandi is another
yellow, height 10ft.-15ft.
Fid folia is the well-known
red-flowering gum, height 20 ft.-
30ft. Other crimson gums well
suited for small gardens are
Nutans and Macrocarpa. They
grow up to 10ft. in height.
The smaller varieties in par-
ticular should be protected from
wind or frost until they take a
firm hold.
Extracting Tomato-seeds.
“C.A.A.”: Seed-extraction by
acid is cleaner and has a con-
sistently higher germination than
extraction by fermentation.
Tomatoes should be selected for
their shape, healthy appearance
and cut from plants which have
set all trusses freely.
Cut fruits at the blossom end
so that each seed compartment is
opened, and squeeze pulp into a
wooden barrel or bucket. Mix
one fluid ounce of commercial
hydrochloric acid to every 51b.
of fruit and stir at half-hour
intervals while the acid is acting.
After three hours force water
into the mixture through a
nozzle.
This pressure causes an agita-
tion which assists in separating
the seed from the seed-coats.
Allow seed to sink to the bottom
and decant water off, repeating
the process until all waste
material is removed. Remove
remaining water by straining
through muslin. Spread clean
seed thinly on a newspaper and
dry as rapidly as possible.
In dealing with cucumber,
passionfruit and tree-tomato
seed, use the mixture at double
the strength. To clean passion-
fruit completely it is necessary
to run the seed together and
rewash, thus eliminating the
stringy tissue which attaches the
seed to the wall of the fruit.
Stock-handling.
“Shadow Chaser”: Agree
with most of what “Billjim”
says (B. 10/1/’5l) on preventing
bruising of stock, but it is little
use taking such precautions
on the farm when loaded trucks
of stock are so mercilessly
“shunted” back and forth on
the journey and in marshalling-
yards. That is when and where
most of the bruising occurs.
Because of their protecting
wool, bruising of sheep and
lambs is much less; when
recently shorn they should not
be trucked for immediate
slaughter.
But if “B.” means that dogs
should not be used at all I dis-
agree. One good dog is worth
more than any two men in pad-
dock, yard, road or truck.
Muzzle him if you must when
“Never mind about y'r[?]flu —this'll sweat it outer
y'r system."
working sheep, but never stir a
foot after any kind of stock
without him.
Calf-rearing.
“A-Jay”: Calves should be
allowed to suckle or should be
fed the milk from their own
mothers for the first three days
after birth. The colostrum con-
tains substances which make the
calf much more resistant to
scours.
Daily cleaning of calf-sheds
and washing and scalding of
milk-tins after each feed is most
important. If scours occur,
sulpha drug is very effective when
used promptly.
Only water should be given to
a scouring calf, and scours can
be reduced by diluting the milk
with a quarter of its volume of
water.
Calves should not be kept in
a calf paddock. As soon as they
are able to walk they should
rotate through the paddocks
ahead of the cows.
The Tamarind.
“W. Court”; The tamarind-
tree would be a great tree for
preventing river erosion had it
not one fault (B. 3/5/’5O). Its
roots and leaves render the near-
by water very acid, and stock do
not like it.
As a shade-tree it is hard to
beat, and a pleasant drink may
be made with its fruit. The
tamarind should never be planted
near a garden, since its roots
spread everywhere and take all
the moisture and plant foods.
Bamboos, also, are better kept
away from streams in warm, wet
districts, as their spread may
partly block the creeks and lead
to silting or overflowing. They
do no harm around swamps, and
can provide good roughage for
cattle.
The Small Generator,
“Radian”; A worn commu-
tator will cause arcing, particu-
larly if it is out of round and
the mica insulators are higher
than the copper bars. There is
only one cure—remove the
armature, have the commutator
trued-up in a lathe and cut the
mica back to correct height. A
tool for undercutting mica can
be made from a piece of hack-
saw blade about 4in. long. The
blade should be rubbed flat on
an oilstone, each side in turn, to
remove the “set” from the teeth,
Mica insulators should be cut
back approximately their own
'thickness below the level of
commutator bars, taking care
not to burr or mark the copper
surface. After the commutator
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The next important cyclical weather item is the general
rain due about now. So far, however, the sunspot sup-
port is very weak, so that if it develops from the cycle
alone it may not have the great flood! intensity it had for-
merly. There is no check on the west from the longer cycle;
there were hardly any inhabitants there in those days
(1860) and no reporting observers. If the longer cycle has
the same reactions, then the bushfires in south-west Queens-
land should soon be extinguished.


fd
RELIEF
FROM THE
PAIN OF
RHEUMATISM
Doldn has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic disorders
in America, Canada and England.
Now it is made available for you.
Doldn Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis. Pro-
longed relief is also given because
Doldn contains substances which
improve the supply of blood and
oxygen to the affected tissues.
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no
harmful effects on the heart or any
other organ.
DOLCIN has been approved In
clinical tests and prescribed by
the Medical profession.
DOLCIN is easy to take in Tablet
form.
DOLCIN Is obtainable from your
Chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
6-40
FACING A PEAK
The one thing yoo will imme-
diately notice when you ftay at
the Wentworth Is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. ... The
Wentworth faces a part ... yet
It Is merely "round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
looms are all you would wish
... the service and cuisine
excellent
IGF WEHTWARTH
in
c §>ylney
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 28/2/’5l
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPANY.
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7230
fizm
Ui
/ "|p
Esdcile's 2£x
TELE3COPIC
S'GHT, £l6/5/-
O Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
O Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
O Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2\x —Eye relief
to sJin. Exit pupil 7mm,
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23£ft. par
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,
Sydney.
BW 8631.
f
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
"Phenovls” Worm Remedy
»
jr^ox /is'o
//
>/
/
s//'o.
?
/v/W.
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothaazine Drench
m
df
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
Cut Irrigation costs —and work —by one third
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
WITH
df
■
m
msm
m
.
So llghf a child can carry a 24ft. section with ease.
d
POWERFUL spray heads
Throw a fine
over an area
square, or a
spray up to
square.
spray
48 ft.
heavy
72 ft.
Only half the weight of
ordinary piping. Rainbow's
Aluminium sections save
your precious time and
labour. Rustless, seamless,
the 24ft. sections may be
used for all water pur-
poses and are supplied
with flexible couplings and
non-flexible underground
joins.
fd
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS GIVE
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25°
Worked in a ball
and socket pr!nciple (
the Rainbow coup-
ling is easy to con-
nect and disconnect,
provides a positive,
watertight joint in
any direction better
than 25*.
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordi-
nary outlet, but does
the work of hydrant as
well! Simple to operate,
this practical unit gives
trouble-free operation,
reduces obstruction in
outlet and main.
f
STURDY ANGLE IRON
STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24-ft. section. Absence
of crossbars In tall stands
eliminates Interference to
growing vegetation.
df
KAINDUVV SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone BU 3425.
Branch Offices: C. Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont, Mildura; C. Beaumont,
64 King Street, Melbourne.
Distributors: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street,
South Brisbane: Ralph Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; F. C. Korwill,
68 Hobbs Avenue, Nedlands, Perth.
Representative for New Zealand: Freshfields Ltd., Wellington.
60/83.11
has been turned to truth, brushes
should always be reseated before
the generator is placed in ser-
vice, otherwise arcing will occur.
due to poor contact.
Apart from the sliding-third-
brush method of regulation,
many larger generators have
brushes mounted on an adjust-
able carrier, which has been
positioned while the machine
was undergoing factory tests,
Occasionally a brush-carrier will
work loose and move out of
place, a fault which usually cuts
out generation, or sets up severe
arcing. In most generators of
this type the original factory
setting is marked by a line which
is halved between the carrier and
adjacent frame. To reset the
brushes it is only necessary to
move the carrier back until the
marking lines correspond, where
generation should be normal
again.
When factory setting is not
marked, run the generator at
normal speed and move the car-
rier back against direction of
rotation to a position where arc-
ing ceases and output is steady.
This method of adjusting is
rather rough, but quite effective
if a little trial and error is exer-
cised. After making an adjust-
ment of this kind, watch the
generator carefully for signs of
overheating.
When working on brushes a
pair of spring lifters are very
useful. These can be made from
any clean iron, or steel wire—
-16-gauge steel knitting-needles
are ideal, but must be heated to
bend. Cut off two pieces about
6in. long, grip each in turn 4in.
from one end and bend sharply
at right-angles. The other ends
should be bent as rings, which
will slip over the fingers.
In use the right angular end
of one lifter is inserted under the
spring, easing it sufficiently to
take a secure grip with the
second lifter. With the spring
thus supported, it is a simple
matter to lift out the brush and
gently lower the spring on to the
holder.
Early Moulters.
“K.T.”: Hens that moult
early are not good to egg-
farmers. Some moult because
they have not been fed properly,
but assuming the flock has been
well managed the early moulter
should be culled.
Hens which stop laying in
December and January should be
culled. Some may think they
will moult quickly and start lay-
ing in winter when prices are
high. They don’t. Many of
the good hens which moult in
April and May generally begin
laying as soon as the culls.
Don’t be alarmed if pullets
hatched the previous June and
July go into a moult at this time.
It is natural, and these birds
definitely will begin laying after
only a short rest. It is the last
season’s hens which have to be
observed.
If you desire March chicks, set
eggs from the best of the hens
which are still laying, and with
good care you will rear excellent
birds. Eggs from early-hatched
pullets after they have had their
rest will be quite satisfactory.
Use a vigorous, well-grown and
typy male bird for this work.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Make your own
axle-grease. Sift some finely-
powdered plumbago and gradu-
ally add it through a sieve to
five times its weight of pure lard,
rendered semi-fluid by gentle
heat. Stir thoroughly all the
time, until mixture is smooth
and consistent. Gradually heat
up to melting-point, then con-
tinue to stir while cooling off.
A little beeswax added will
offset melting in warm tempera-
tures.
“Billjim”: Wear protective
clothing when using D.N.O.C.
and the new D.N.0.5.8.P. A
boiler suit is ideal. Button up
to the neck and change fre-
quently. Use goggles and
respirator for eyes, nose and
mouth, rubber boots for the feet
and rubber or leather gloves
when the materials are being
handled. As an added precau-
tion smear the skin with a light
coating of petroleum jelly.
Spray across the wind so that
spray and fumes are carried
away from the operator.
“Bamekaw”: If you have two
or more distinct strains of pure-
bred chooks in different pens,
don’t be afraid to experiment
with crossing. The White
Leghorn-Australorp cross has
proved something of a sensation,
and one Brisbane breeder is
already specialising in it. A
combination of R.I. Red and
Light Sussex can produce an out-
standing table bird. Of course
experiments must be carefully
done, otherwise you end with the
assortment of mongrel fowls
seen in many a backyard.
“Sarina”: A horse that has
suffered injury to the feet should
be kept out of dirty yards until
the feet are healed. Horse-
manure when wet carries tetanus
germs, and it is useless washing-
out the wound with antiseptics
twice a day if the horse is wad-
ing in slush between times.
Keep the horse on short grass,
or in a board-floor shed (clean
straw on the floor). There are
good embrocations for the treat-
ment of sprains, knocks, etc., but
deep cuts mend slowly if kept
clean with antiseptics. If using
hot water for bathing cuts, dab
with kerosene afterwards, or
push a kerosene-soaked plug
into the wound.
“Bill C.”: Brood sows and
their offspring need about two
and a half acres of grassland
apiece if the grass is not to be
gradually grazed out. Light,
movable sheds are an advantage,
and so is a pool of water. Some
experienced pig - raisers are
opposed to the growing practice
of “hogging out” root-crops,
such as sweet-potatoes, arti-
chokes and arrowroot, since they
claim that the pigs miss a lot of
roots.
“C.A.A.”: Orchids are easier
to grow than is generally be-
lieved, and there’s money in
them. Now is the time to plant
bulbs. Place in a pot (with a
hole in bottom) in a compost of
tan-bark, leaf-mould, virgin soil
and a small quantity of gravel.
Grow out of doors for maximum
sun and air, but remove to
shelter when ready to flower.
Plants must not be exposed to
wind. Don’t overwater, but
keep the soil moist,
“Sundowner”: Rations suit-
able for egg production are also
suitable for table poultry. Feed
a chicken mash of the following
ingredients for eight weeks:
Ground wheat, 501 b., ground
hulled oats, 201 b.; common salt,
4-lb. plus 31b. of bone-flour.
From eight weeks to marketing:
Ground wheat 201 b.; pollard,
401 b.; bran, 201 b.; maizemeal or
oaten pollard, 101 b.; meatmeal,
101 b.; common salt, lib. Green-
stuff and shell-grit should be
available.


Ih that
Wrams lace
g 3,n
i i *
You’ll score, and how! with a smooth Ingrams face
to meet the smartest bodyline play. You’ll score 120
cool, comfortable shaves to the Innings from one jar of
Ingrams Shaving Cream, that combines its own face
lotion.
Get Ingrams from your Chemist today.
A Product of Bristol-Myers
*mU3 ONIAVHS
vv
■
More Vle
from Motoring
df
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad" Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
■
WM
m
vm
M
WV-
■
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. E. C. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb,, C.L,
0.E.0. Box 71.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
Progress
is
still
youth
its
m
When we look back on the
advance that we Australians have
made in the last 50 years wc
should be grateful to the men
responsible for it.
The men who saved money and
risked it in the development of
the new discoveries and inventions
bringing us new levels of living
are due for more than our
thanks.
We owe them a promise not
to put obstacles in the way of
their supplying us with more such
marvels as the bulldozer and its
kind, with radio, plastics, rayon
and the like. Progress is still in
its youth. It needs all the en-
couragement we can give it.
This Bank’s duty lies down
this road of encouragement and
help to Enterprise, that all of us
may live better,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
blind when scenes not difficult to
be imagined but maddeningly
impossible to be sure of were
happening behind it, or the in-
scrutability of the mountains
when they were surrounded by
their impenetrable darkness,
although, by reaching out, one
knew that they could be defined.
His face, like Ike Olan’s up the
school chimney, was, despite its
outlines before me, completely
hidden, and, because of this, ex-
tremely evocative of speculation.
With a small revelatory shock, I
had, suddenly, little doubt that a
mind capable of turning the
rather positive and compelling
forehead which compassed it into
a negation was also capable of
murder.
Confronted with this headless
trunk and stimulated by the
beer to a scientific, or poetic,
awareness, 1 began to put arith-
metic and conjecture together.
According to the ex-trooper's
own words, the ghost town had
not been entered for about fifty
years. It had probably been
built, inhabited and abandoned
within the space of roughly ten
years. Gid, as I knew him,
could have been anything from
seventy to a hundred years of
age. I decided on the mean, and
subtracted five to give my
theory more credibility. He
would have been a very young
gold-buyer; still, if the
youngest, the one more likely
to have survived his companions
in crime. Perhaps—and here
arithmetic abdicated to con-
jecture—he had been the “oh
whale” of the “bunch” who had
“done in ol’ Lor’ Sammy.” With
a fortune in gold and mass-
slaughter on his hands he would
hardly have dared, being shrewd
enough in the first instance to
have become a gold-buyer, to
show himself to the civilised
world again. What better re-
treat than Melamo, where no
questions were asked and none
solicited —although I couldn’t de-
vise even a conjectural equation
that would be true for all values
of x, x being the unknown
quantity in the query: What
purpose had he hoped to achieve
by the heinousness?
BUT I suspected that, on the
Saturday morning when
the ex-trooper and I rode down
the gap towards a hoard of gold
and secrets, a miser had found
his one great love threatened,
for the first time for half-a-
century. If he had been on his
death-bed —as it was, he looked
belligerently healthy for his age ;
albeit unpleasant in odor —Gid
would somehow have contrived
to follow us, rifle in hand. He
may have trailed, unmolested
and unmolesting, a less
dangerous man than an ex-
trooper trained to astuteness;
another man might never have
heard him and would have been
less likely to discover skeletons
or gold. The ex-trooper did hear
him, and had acted as un-
scrupulously as the old Jew
would have done had we, like
two Egyptologists, gone opening
tombs and unearthing rhe
“ghosts” of Pilton City.
Somewhere near the old
mining town a corpse, dis-
patched by some quick, noiseless
means —a club on the head
with the butt-end of a rifle, a
rope around the throat, a hatchet
edge in the brain —lay decom-
posing in the damp depths of a
precipice or the obscurity of a
covert. The thought was an
eerie one and made me want to
withdraw my face as successfully
as the man before me had done,
into an inscrutability that was so
similar to invisibility. I would
never know what really hap-
pened because in all probability
the men of Melamo regarded
Gid’s disappearance as purely his
own, the ex-trooper’s and my
again
That tacit assumption of theirs
that I knew was not only
mystical, but significant. Very
likely they silently respected me.
I had been the ex-trooper’s
partner in a programme leading
to the extinction of one who had
always been blot
in the pub parlor. At this point,
in bewilderment, I gave up con-
jecture, forgot about arithmetic,
and ordered two more beers.
The e x-troopefs face emerged,
like Ike Olan’s from its chimney,
a ]ittle quaint for its so journ
there ’ but comforting -
E day , hat> a year , ateri ,
climbed aboard the coach
' hat had broU f t X dufflnnT’
S-»ooper S haT “p 8 ’ ffie
hills to help Andy in some
P r °blem respecting the still, Ike
Olan was drunk over his con-
c:rtina and the man in the bcard-
who had answered my first and
kn ° ck °? ,b »
of the homestead-hotel, was m
char S e o£ * h ', ba t aiK | £elt bl “-
self ’ very wlllingly ’ slave to ]t •
So lhat only Grant McLachlan
savv me oft ’ Wlth a few airy
words and a not entirely
irrelevant from Brownin S
which 1 knew to be as much a
Slgn of a PP reciatlon as had been
the toast and the back-slaps ail
round in the pub parlor the night
before.
Let one more attest,
I have lived, seen God’s hand
thro’ a lifetime , and all was for
the best.
My pupils, the youth of
Melamo, like their fathers, felt
no necessity for regrets or
valedictory speeches. They were,
in between their serious irre-
sponsibilities, more honestly con-
cerned about the new schoolie,
who had been due to arrive that
day. I wondered what his re-
actions would be to the one
faint light stuttering its welcome
through the trees.
The driver of the coach, wear-
ing the same expression that he
had worn on the night he had
delivered me, greeted me and
took me up as if he had put me
down only the day before.
“Great mornin’.”
It was a great morning, for
good weather in that country
was one of the things which
made it unforgettable. The
scenery, so inopportunely re-
ferred to by him on that night
three years ago, was lovely, I had
discovered, the men of Melamo
golden-hearted, and their way of
life intangible.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OfcUIWVAN
t a, nx m a, ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS I
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Public Notices.
TO ELIZABETH MARY BOWSER. SARAH
EMILY JOHNSTON (nee BOWSER),
GEORGE BROCK FORGESEN and
MABEL JESSIE or IRIS McMORLAND
(nee MILLER and formerly BESWICK-
OAWTHORNE), and any issue of theirs,
and the issue of JANE FORGESON (nee
RAYNOR), or any person claiming by,
through or under any of them. PUR-
SUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of New Zealand you are hereby called upon
to send to the undersigned so as to be
received by him on or before 31st July,
1951, your claim to share in the Estate
of HERBERT BOWSER, late of Hamp-
den, in New Zealand, Labourer, failing
which such Estate will be distributed dis-
regarding your claim.—The Solicitor.
PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Wellington.
New Zealand.
WILL ELIZABETH ESTHER DAWBIN,
daughter of HENRY JAMES DAWBIN,
or anyone knowing of her address, please
communicate with the District Manager,
PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Marton, New
Zealand.
*
m
m*
\
m
m
%
I
m
m
i
I
;^ssss
■
>/^
Yes- mine's a"
Lister, too!
FOR PLEASURE OR PROFIT...
It is no accident that fishermen the
world over entrust their livelihood to
Lister Marine Oil Engines, for no other
engine is capable of such a lifetime of dependable
and economical performance.
Owners of pleasure craft, too, have the same satisfaction of knowing
that a Lister engine will always get them there and back.
These famous English engines are available in models ranging from 8-65
h.p, for propulsion or auxiliary purposes.
tSfet :
-m
•3131
-11//
'•/ ijlafliil. tl
m
// * /(
o «-
FROM 8-65 H.P.
for Propulsion and Auxiliary Purposes
Distributed in Australia bp
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Danger, Gedye & Mallech Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Marine Workshop,
Careening Cove.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
60-54 William Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe Carson Limited
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA!
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
12-36 Cross Street. WEST FOOTSCRAY,
TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster A Sens Limited,
HOBART end LAUNCESTON.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Collector wants to buy pre-1914
postcards, particularly theatrical cele-
brities and greeting cards; also
cigarette-cards.—49B6.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter and The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Verse and Recitations. —
4985.
Copy of The Book of the Public
Library (1906) by E. la T. Armstrong.
-4984,
New knives for No. 38 chaffcutter
manufactured by Crowley and Co.,
Sheffield, England.—49B3.
Present whereabouts or any news
later than 1935 of Thomas de Lessen
Bunbury, also known as Thomas
Patrick Bunbury and Patrick Thomas
Bunbury (also sometimes Banbury),
born in Ireland, 1905, came to Aus-
tralia, 1926, believed to have worked
as motor-mechanic, taxi- or truck-
driver. Reply direct to father,
G. W. Bunbury, 22 Westbourne-road,
Terenure, Dublin, Eire.
Two young ex-servicemen desire
fencing contract, painting, etc.,
country, any State; own truck. —4982.
Information Sought.
Recipe for preserving olives?
The fruit should be picked while
still green, before the seed has
hardened. Remove stalks, place in
an earthenware basin and cover with
lightly-salted water all night. Next
day wash in clean water, drain and
pack into jars. Cover with either
another salt solution or a spiced
mixture made from 1 quart vinegar,
50 peppercorns, 1 small piece bruised
ginger, 12 cloves, ilb. brown sugar,
a stick of mace and a little allspice,
this to be boiled a short time and
strained through muslin before adding
to the olives. Place jar tops in
position, bring slowly to the boil,
keep at boiling-point for 10 minutes,
add rubbers and screw down. Test
by turning jars upside down; if they
leak, repeat the hot process and test
again.
♦ ♦ * •
Who was Ivor Kr eager, the
“Match King” ?
A Swedish industrialist and finan-
cier, born in 1880. After working
in America and South Africa, he re-
turned to Sweden to found the
Swedish Match Trust, which obtained
a virtual international monopoly of
match-making. His financial opera-
tions placed various European
Governments under obligations to
him; but he committed suicide in 1932
after the disclosure of his intricate
network of fraud and forgery, in-
volving immense losses in America,
France and Sweden,
* * * *
What are the duties of doctor and
police at boxing contests at the
Sydney Stadium ?
When any boxer is making an
appearance the doctor takes his
blood-pressure and gives him a
thorough medical overhauling. Heart
action, particularly, is tested, and any
preliminary boxer who has been
knocked out cannot take part in
another contest there for three months.
Police inspectors are completely in
charge of boxing bouts they attend.
Their chief duty is to see that no
boxer is unduly punished, and
immediately a contest becomes one-
sided they instruct the referee to call
a halt.
* * * m
What is done in N.S.W. by way of
providing poor persons with legal
assistance ?
Under the Poor Prisoners’ Defence
Act, 1907, a person committed for
trial for an indictable offence may
apply for legal aid for his defence
before the jury is sworn. If the
judge or committing magistrate con-
siders that the person is without
adequate means, and that such legal
aid should be supplied, the Attorney-
General may arrange for the defence
of the either by the Public
Defender or by some other counsel
or attorney, and for payment of
expenses of all material witnesses.
The Legal Assistance Act, 1943-47,
which came into force on July 1,
1944, provides for the appointment
of a Public Solicitor and lays down
the conditions on which legal assist-
ance may be granted. The Public
Solicitor keeps lists of barristers and
solicitors who are willing to investi-
gate and report on applications for
legal assistance or to act for assisted
persons in proceedings. He issues
certificates of eligibility for assistance.
He may act for an assisted person or
may assign a solicitor whose name is
on the list so to act.
* * * *
My cattle-dog, who appears to be
well and in good condition, is always
licking rusty metal. What can I give
him to make up any deficiency in his
diet ?
The licking of rusty metal is in
cattle often a symptom of phosphorus
deficiency, but in dogs it is more
likely to be associated with diseases
such as chronic gastritis or encepha-
litis (inflammation of the brain).
However, as the dog appears well, it
seems likely that the symptom is of
no significance. It is possibly just a
habit. To guard against deficiencies
in the diet of dogs, a good propor-
tion of the diet should consist of
meat, preferably raw, liver being fed
about once a week. In growing dogs
it is necessary to provide calcium by
feeding generous quantities of milk.
Brief Answers.
R.T.G.: Write Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney P.T.C.: Write A. H. and
A. W. Reed, publishers, 182 Wake-
field-street, Wellington (N.Z.)
F.M.L.: Bread and Cheese Club,
Melbourne, 270 Post Office-place,
Melbourne... .J.T.: It was novelist
Jeffery Farnol who said, in his book
Epics of the Fancy, that Peter Jack-
son v. Frank Slavin was the greatest
glove encounter of modern times.
Jackson and Slavin fought at the
National Sporting Club, London, on
May 30, 1892, when Slavin (known
as the “Sydney Cornstalk,” although
born at Maitland, N.S.W. —on January
5, 1862) was k.o.’d in round 10....
H.C.M.: Jack Hassen won the Aus-
tralian lightweight championship
when he k.o.’d Archie Kemp at
Sydney Stadium on September 19,
1948. Hassen still holds the title,
because he has not once defended it.
Since the Kemp contest Hassen has
had four fights. He was .beaten m
three of these, by Baby Ortiz Freddie
Dawson and Joey Brown, but won
his last contest with welterweight Ken
Bailey T.O’G.: Jack Johnson and
Joe Jeannette fought each other four
times. Johnson won one contest (12,
rounds) on points. Their other three
contests were no-decision affairs.
Jeannette and Sam Langford had no
fewer than 14 fights. Langford won
three of these (12, 15 and 20 rounds)
on points, and Jeannette outpointed
Langford over 12 rounds in another.
They also drew over 12 rounds, while
their nine remaining _ bouts were
fought under no-decision rules....
C.M.8.: The coins mentioned were
issued by the Province of Zealandia
in the Netherlands. They were also
circulated in Java under the Dutch
East India Co. In silver the values
are stivers; in bronze, doits. Collec-
tors’ values, prices at which the coins
can be purchased, are silver, 25.;
bronze, Is. They are fairly common
among collectors... .M.G.C.F.: If
your coins are in good condition, not
worn or damaged, they would be
worth more than metal value to a
collector. You may be able to con-
tact a collector who would be
interested if you insert a small
advertisement in the local paper
R.Z.: (1) Population at 1941 census:
11,506,655; No. of Roman Catholics,
4,800,895. (2) N0....C.5.: Steel
engravings are not collectors’ items.
Originally they cost many pounds, but
are now valued in shillings. Those
mentioned are worth about one-guinea
each, if you can sell them. No
Sydney shop will purchase them
T.F.F.: The words are from “A Road
in France” by Oscar Walters, and are
to be found in his book of poems
Shrapnel Green and Other Verses....
N.O’H.: In peek poker, which is a
variety of stud poker, seven cards are
dealt to each player, two face down,
and two are discarded just before
the showdown.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
R.M.: The children playing happily,
and very nicely done, if you don’t
mind our saying so; and then you
knock them on the head with the
hews that mother has died —it used
to be the infallible recipe for what
you might call the Art Short Story
(equating it with what is known as
The Art Song, or words nobody reads
set to notes nobody listens to); but
,we don’t like it any more... .J.C.:
He nearly took the money; then
found he didn’t have to —it’s almost
immoral A.J.W.: It’s got its good
points; but then, it’s got its bad
points, notably the bloke certified
frozen stiff in a sitting position who
afterwards turns up alive in a standing
position A.J.M.: The dreadful
situations immigrant Poles are getting
put into so that we may feel more
sympathetic with them!... .G.MacG.:
Afraid that “Coconut Pearl” will worry
us both to our graves; Madelina and
the child are good, but the super-
imposed story js a dreadful muddle.
Bellerive: A fascinating sight:
W.W.: It’s like an “In
Memoriam” poem more praise-
worthy for its intention than its
execution... .J.J.A.: Well, it’s in a
worthy cause J.H.: “Pearls of
Fate” were neither genuine nor cul-
ture T.A.W.: Your old garbage
man (“From experience, old Tom
knew from what section of the muni-
cipality every load came”) gave our
sense of privacy a nasty knock; the
abo. story seemed a little melodramatic.
....W.A.C.: We try not to deal
in mass-production fiction L.H.:
Ditto R.L.W.: The sheepdog stuff
in Scotland is nice enough, and the
girl not bad, but the plane-crash, the
comings-and-goings by water, and the
dog swimming home are stranger than
fiction, which fiction should not be.
J.D.B.: Thoh singest of summer
in full-throated ease:
G.M.: Wicked wives wearing
poison-rings—they come in here by
the dozen. We have no truck with
them R.A.F.: Why do racing
stories seem to edge up to us mutter-
ing about dead-certs that are always
beaten on the last page? H. 8.:
Sorry, it doesn’t quite weigh its length.
A RHYME OF PORPOISES.
Swift porpoises pranced
With wanton glee,
The fastest swimmers
Of the weltering sea.
At the rapid creatures,
Which did frolic and glide.
Interested I gazed
From the steamer side.
ODE TO A NIGHTINSYDNEY.
(With apologies to John Kcats.)
My light fails, and an inky blackness
fills
My room, as though of metho I had
quaffed
Or got “the wog” without my quinine
pills.
One hour past and still no light aloft 1
What makes this cruel misfortune be my
lot?
What causes all this inky, wretched
darkness ?
So! It’s thou, 0 Bunnerong of ours
In some felonious plot
Of antique plant and breakdowns number-
less,
Robs us of our dear electric-power!
0 for a ray of light! One little beam.
To light my page so I can write to you.
And tell you just how miserable it seems
Without a stove and radiator too l
0 for just one active wireless 1
Full of the true, the sweet electric-
power,
From Bunnerong—that place of infamy
And blanky wretchedness;
That I might “listen in” for just one
hour,
And cook, and warm myself a bit,
maybe!


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Waterfront Larrikins
Regulations for the maintenance
of discipline in shipping exist today
as they have done since they were first
laid down. The failure is due to
the disinclination of ship’s-officers
to attempt to maintain a system
of discipline which has largely been
nullified by the “play-them-soft” attitude
of the managerial shore staffs. They
wanted the ships kept running at all costs,
and they are now reaping the harvest of
their refusal to stand behind and enforce
the provisions of the regulations.
The rot set in during the late war. The
Australian coastal trade looked a safe
proposition before the Jap came in, cer-
tainly a much better proposition than
conscription into the C.M.F. So we
witnessed the birth of a new Seamen’s
Union. Army dodgers and young
larrikins, undisciplined and looking for
a soft spot. A few weeks on this ship,
off on “compo,” then another ship for a
week or two, just keeping ahead of the
required number of days on articles.
Keep the ships running was the urgent
call, and that was right enough. But the
way it was done was wrong. New regu-
lations for maintaining discipline would
be quickly followed by a head-office
instruction which, while it would carefully
refrain from a direct instruction, would
plainly point to the road of appeasement.
Had a firm stand been taken then it
would have scared the larrikins to a
haven ashore, strengthened the hands of
the officers and maintained the pre-war
services. Instead the officers were under-
mined until now they are laughed at,
while ships are run to the whims and
fancies of their crews.
Some owners refused to back up their
officers; in some instances attempts were
made to transfer any officer who had
incurred the displeasure of the crew. A
seaman dismissed for the grossest acts
of misconduct would be engaged the fol-
lowing day to complete the crew of a
ship belonging to the same company,
only to be dismissed again after causing
endless trouble. Was it any wonder that
the officers very smartly took a tumble
to the fact that discipline was “out”?
Exactly the same circumstances are
apparent in the Waterside Workers’
Union. The owners can be tough enough
until it looks as if their ship may become
involved. Then they cry “enough” and
give way.
These have been the Australian
coastal-trade conditions since 1938. And
all the disciplinary regulations in the
world won’t maintain discipline unless
they are backed by authority and carried
out where such action is merited, dis-
cipline having no connection with stand-
over tactics. —X. M. N. (Tas.).
The Landlord’s Basic Wage
Since November last, the basic wage
in Sydney has risen by 315.; since 1940
the increase has been more than 100 per
cent. No one can deny that persons on
fixed incomes are having a particularly
rough trot, and none rougher than
property-owners! In N. S. Wales rents
are pegged on values as they were in
August, 1939—in the days when you
could build a neat little brick house in a
neat little suburb for £750-£800; when
you could buy half a sheep for five-bob,
when a really good suit cost £7 7s. and
one “off the hook” with a spare pair of
pants was 50s. Then you could buy a
21b. loaf of bread for 4jd., milk at 6d.
a quart, butter for Is. Bd. a lb., eggs
for Is. a dozen, peas 9d. a lb., beans 6d.
a lb., pumpkins 2d. a lb., potatoes 141 b.
for Is., carrots the same, beetroot 2d. a
bunch, lettuces Id. each, cabbages 3d. or
4d., tinned fruit 6id. a 16oz. tin and
jams 10id. for a 240 z, tin.
That’s the way things were when the
necessities of war seemed as good an
excuse as any for pegging rents of all
dwellings except those owned by the
Government. And in spite of everything
in spite of the 100 per cent, increase in
the basic wage, the 300 per cent, increase
in haircuts, 400 per cent, increase in the
price of eggs, 400 per cent, increase in
the price of clothes, 600 per cent, in the
price of spuds and flight up out of sight
of the prices of almost every other
variety of foodstuff, commodity and
service—in spite of all that the N. S.
Scales Government has point-blank
refused every request that it take some
steps to alleviate the hardships now being
experienced by landlords.
Last year the Federal Government
recognised the plight of persons on fixed
incomes pensioners and it granted
increases. Not much, certainly, but still
an increase in an income that is not taxed
and which doesn’t cost anything to
obtain. That other section of the com-
munity which is in receipt of fixed
incomes—owners of tenanted property —
are in the worst possible position. Their
incomes, rooted in the most anachronistic
circumstances, have in many instances
been turned into annual deficits after
rates, taxes, repairs and maintenance
costs have been met.
This is placing unnecessary hardship
upon aged people who want possession of
houses in which to live in order that they
may exist on their pensions. The law
will not give them possession of their
premises, nor will it grant them pensions
while they are owners of property of the
value that even the meanest cottage
possesses today. Nor will it give them
a rental return sufficient upon which to
exist.
If N. S. Wales Cabinet Ministers were
to come out of their funkholes and
wander around Sydney for a few hours,
maybe even they would be impressed by
the number of elderly people wandering
“All you ring you take!”
from solicitor to chamber magistrate,
from magistrate to estate-agent, from
there to the Real Estate Institute, and on
again to the Rent Control Department,
They are owners of cottages tenanted by
someone else, desperate in their need, but
faced with the cold blank wall of the most
iniquitous piece of legislation that ever
blotted a Statute Book—the Landlord
and Tenant Act of 1948-1949. The Act
gives them no quarter, the authorities
give them no hope.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
This Age of Shoddy
The Bulletin’s comments on “This
Age of Shoddy” could be extended to in-
clude other sections of the community,
the manufacturers, the producers, the
retailers and, above all, the shoddiness in
the upbringing of the children.
The manufacturers seem to have lost
the pride so many of them once held
in the quality of their products.
No longer do they expect, or demand,
a high standard of workmanship in their
manufactures. Certainly it is doubtful
whether they could get it if they did
demand it, but they appear more con-
cerned to skimp the quality for the sake
of the extra penny.
Fruit that was once given away by the
producer as windfalls, withered, bruised,
marble-sized apples that once had no
market-vaiue, are found in any fruit-
shop. The orchardist, in spite of the
high prices offering, finds he has to
squeeze every penny out of his trees. Or,
should I have said, because of the high
prices.
And so the mad money race goes on.
The worker squeezes the extra shilling
out of the boss, the boss has to squeeze
it out of the consumer and the cycle
continues.
We are living in a money-crazy age,
and such worshipping of money inevitably
means an acceptance of all that is
shoddy. All success seems to be measured
in terms of money, all those qualities of
character and of actions that make the
successful man as we once knew him
are pushed aside in the mad scramble
for money. No one will believe that an
adequate income, the satisfaction that
comes from a job well done and a full
family life are the true factors of a
successful man.
Blackmarkets, betting, art-unions and
State lotteries are all flourishing. The
shoddiness of money for nothing! How
can we expect anything else than a shoddy
social structure when most of us are after
easy money, money that has not to be
earned by hard work?
We are merely repeating the money-
mad age of a century ago when the In-
dustrial Revolution was in full sway in
England. But will we recover from it
as successfully as England did?
The tragic and most serious feature of
this age of shoddy is the decline in the
standard of the moral upbringing of the
children. The war years, with the father
away, the mother working and the child
with too much pocketmoney, have taken
their toll. Today the same parents, still
attracted by the extra money, keep on
their jobs, resulting in almost a complete
lack of parental control. The children,
too, find the earning of big money easy.
Teachers despair at the lack of self-
discipline in the child, and despair, too,
at the lack of ambition. Tell a child that
only hard work will help him through
his examinations and the reply will be,
“I don’t want the Inter. I can get a job
without it.”
We need a spiritual and moral re-
surgence to get back our sense of moral
values. We need, not only to refuse the
shoddy, but to recognise all that is shoddy.
After all, it is merely a matter of knowing
right from wrong, whether politically,
commercially, industrially, morally or
spiritually.—R. W. (Q-).
Costs and Wages
“Hacken” has misread my article (B.
29/11 /’5O). The whole tenor of it was that
if the amenities and easy-working condi-
tions of today are to be maintained
Labor must pull its weight in production.
I don’t begrudge the paid holidays, sick-
leave, tea- and wash-time —they are all
legal obligations to which labor is entitled
—but I do feel there is a breach of faith
by labor in the deliberate slow-down by
individuals and the quota system enforced
by shift workers.
I started my independent life at a work
bench, and I’ve continued at the bench in
overalls, as a working proprietor. With 30
years’ "experience working alongside
workmen I don’t have to be now told
their attitude to work.
Admittedly the subversive minority is
responsible for initiating the slow-down,
but what’s wrong with the “decent”
majority? Why don’t they take their own
remedial action? Why aren’t they suffici-
ently strong, morally, to refuse to obey
the obviously unethical proposition of the
subversive minority?
“H.” also repeats the fallacy that if
workers produced to capacity they might
overproduce themselves out of a job. That
is no answer to the deliberate wasting of
working time. “H.” is, of course, referring
to the depression years. It is just plain
muddled thinking to; say that overpro-
ductiorwcaused unemployment in Aus-
tralia. The real cause was international,
a fall in prices for our exports, the
tightening of money and consequent
underconsumption there wasn’t the
money to spend.
If “H.” has in mind the classic of coal
and the accumulation of large stocks at
pithead, I would suggest that he consider
that the production of these stocks kept
the miners in employment for that much
longer. The limit in stockpiling is the
availability of capital or credit, both of
which were restricted in the depression
years, internationally, by conditions be-
yond the control of anyone in Austra-
lia.
The position today is, there is ample
money but no goods to buy. Prices are
being forced up by the slow-down in pro-
duction enforced by the workers them-
selves. Eliminate the shortages by pro-
ducing the goods and prices will fall.
Labor’s slow-down is nothing but
sabotage of our economic system.
Ultimately the workers themselves will
have to pay for the damage.
When a wage-earner accepts a job he
enters into a moral contract with the em-
ployer to give good and faithful service
during the hours prescribed by law. At
present, many “decent” workers are
deliberately breaking that ethical con-
tract, and their unions are encouraging
them to do so. To that degree they are
dishonest.—J. Henry (N.S.W.).
Australian Films
Like H. A. Lindsay (B. 13/12/’5O), I
have wondered why Australian film-pro-
ducers tend to rely on written-to-order
scenarios when they could secure far
better plots by drawing on the excellent
and varied material to be found in Aus-
tralian fiction.
In the fields of adventure, historical
fiction and the rural novel there are plenty
of Australian books that should be film-
able. Some I would like to see filmed are
Simpson Newland’s Paving the Way, lon
Idriess’s Men of the Jungle and Drums
of Mer, Albert Dorrington’s Children of
the Cloven Hoof, Brent of Bin Bin’s Up
the Country, Ten Creeks Run and Back
to 800 l 8001, J. H. M. Abbott’s Castle
Vane, and Rolf Boldrewood’s Babes in
the Bush. Other works by both Abbott
and Boldrewood could be made into good
films.
It is surprising, too, that Hollywood
has not yet discovered Vernon Williams’s
The Straitsmen.
Apart from the works of Upheld, there
are a number of thrillers by Australians
that are well suited for filming. Aus-
tralian literature is not rich in stories of
urban life, but in this field, too, good
subjects for films are not lacking. Louis
Stone’s Betty Wayside, for instance, has
all the qualities that should attract a film-
producer.—Dentonio (Vic.).
Interest-rates
One contribution towards putting value
back into the pound would be the raising
of interest-rates. These now have no
relationship to reality. They are so low
that no worth-while encouragement is
afforded, under current conditions, to
anyone in moderate circumstances to be
thrifty.
It was different in the 1920’s when a
relative of mine invested £l2OO in bonds
at per cent., free of State income tax,
and £l5OO in fixed deposits at 5 per cent.
The gross return was £l3B a year. The
old-age pension was then about a pound
a week, so an elderly person owning his
or her home and the above amount of
capital invested in gilt-edged fields could
live quite well. Today the same capital
thus invested would return little more
than the old-age pension of those days —
and anyone with that amount of capital
is ineligible for the pension anyway.
No wonder more and more old people
are giving up the struggle to provide for
their retirement. According to Paul
McGuire’s Australian Journey about 26
per cent, of those of pensionable age were
old-age pensioners in the late 1930’5.
Now about 40 per cent, draw it. With
the aged tending to form a propor-
tionally stronger element in the com-
munity—because of greater longevity
and a moderate birth-rate —this trend
may soon become a serious financial
burden to Australia.
It is important that the proportion of
aged drawing the pension be reduced.
As small investors naturally prefer the
gilt-edged type of investment, the raising
of interest-rates would attract them. By
stimulating saving among those in lower-
income groups it would also provide a
check to inflation. Heavy spending by
this section in times of shortage of goods
and plenty of money is a far greater con-
tribution to inflation than is spending by
the wealthy.
Australia’s current inflationary troubles
can, of course, be traced to the fact that
there is far more money in circulation
than there are goods, especially basic
goods, to buy. There are only two ways
whereby unwanted spending-power can
be frozen —by bureaucratic regulations
and controls, or by making it V ort “*
while for the individual voluntarily v>
withhold part of his purchasing-power.—
Den (N.S.W.).


Australian Literature
THE ADVANCEMENT OF SPENCER
BUTTON, by Brian James.
An unforgettable story of an Aus-
tralian State schoolteacher.
12/6 (post 9d.)
WOMAN TO MAN, by Judith
Wright.
The second collection of the work
of one of our finest living poets.
7/6 (post 4d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
THE DOG ANNUAL
An Annual produced for the interest and instruction of dog owners. Edited by C. R.
Acton and articles by a host of experts. Profusely illustrated with photographs and
drawings. Essential for every dog lover’s library. 16/-
AT ALL GOOD
BOOKSHOPS
Send for illustrated leaflet and contents'
list to the Sole Australian Distributor : —
JOSEPH WATERS
Room 90, Third Floor
Collins House, 360 Collins Street
Melbourne
Please send me further details of THE
DOG ANNUAL.
NAME
ADDRESS
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN TRIALS
By P. A. Jacobs
The graphic descriptions of some of the most colourful trials in Australian
courts will appeal to a wide circle of readers. From “black-birding” to Ned
Kelly, from libel to murder, there is variety enough in this book for all
“crime-fans.”
Price 5/-
At all booksellers, or
ROBERTSON & MULLENS Ltd.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l-
TEXT BOOKS FOR TECHNICAL COLLEGE
Full Stocks on All Subjects
Our TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT has an extensive range of Technical College
books. Also now available are Drawing Materials, Mathematical Sets, and
Stationery for students’ needs.
See Dymock’s For Your Technical Needs.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone BL 361 1.
JUST OUT . . .
HAMMOND INNES
THE ANGRY MOUNTAIN
Author of The White South, his latest novel is a tale of intrigue
growing out of the bitter human aftermath of war.
12s. Od.
Available at all Booksellers
COLLINS • PUBLISHERS
“Handy Hints for the Farm”
PRICE ONE
SHILLING
• Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle,
Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne;
239 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 33 Barrack St., Perth.
A character such as the 18th-century
Lord Pembroke is too gay, too wicked,
too hard-headed, too typically and inde-
structibly English to be cast to oblivion
by a mere accident of mortality, and con-
sequently it is very pleasing to see him
preserved in the second volume of Lord
Herbert’s Pembroke Papers (Cape), pub-
lished 10 years after the first and cover-
ing the years 1780-1794.
The book, running to 500 pages,
consists chiefly of letters from Lord Pem-
broke to his son, the then Lord Herbert;
with a few devout and doleful notes from
Queen Charlotte to Lady Pembroke, who,
when her husband’s escapades grew too
much to bear, became one of the Queen’s
ladies-in-waiting; also some restrained
correspondence between Lord and Lady
Pembroke ; and a very lively set of letters,
mostly about horses, from a Major Floyd
who had shepherded young Lord Herbert
on his Grand Tour:
How is old Huntingdon? Has he got
any good Colts? I believe in a few days
time I shall be utterly ruined & undone,
for I have heard such a character of a
horse about 30 miles off that I am going
to see him, &, if [ like him, buye him, &
lay out every farthing I have in the world
upon him. Have ye got a rich old Dowager
in your part of the world. If you have
send me word, & I will come and prance
on my fine horse before her window, &
endeavour to win her tender heart.
Though the family history told in the
letters is necessarily fragmentary and
slow in developing it is astonishing how
complete the book is as a whole, how
very much like a superb novel of 18th-
century life it is—but far more natural
and convincing than most historical
novelists could make it—and how many
separate themes in it, all linked to the
central story of Lord Pembroke and his
amours, are developed, dramatised and
concluded. It is from life, after all, that
the novelists take their patterns; and
here, if not so richly as in Pepys’s diary,
the raw material of life has the effect of
a work of art; half-tragic and half-comic,
colorful, moving and complete.
One theme is that of Lord Pembroke’s
natural son to whom he gave—in a fit,
presumably, of the jaunty good-humor
which passed in him for wit—the in-
credible name of Augustus Reebkomp—
an anagram of Pembroke. Lady Pem-
broke forgave (but never forgot) the in-
discretion which brought Augustus into
the world, and she brought him up with
her own family; but when, Augustus
having become a lieutenant in the Navy,
Lord Pembroke decided to change the
Reebkomp for the family name of
Herbert, there broke out a row which
lasted for years.
Augustus himself doesn’t seem to have
cared much what they changed his name
to —anything would have been better
than Reebkomp but he becomes
interesting on his own account when he
hopes to win “thousands” in prize-money
after Rodney took the island of St,
Eustatia and, subsequently, when he
maddens Lord Pembroke not so much
by running into debt as by becoming an
idler and making repeated trips from
England to Lausanne, the purpose of
which, whether scandalous or innocent.
Lord Pembroke could never find out.
Major Floyd, pursuing horses,
dowagers and promotion with equal
enthusiasm, makes another theme; Lady
Pembroke, proceeding in resignation,
exasperation and dignity towards Queen
Charlotte, makes another; and the story
of the legitimate son, Lord Herbert, a
much quieter character than his father,
culminates in a tragedy when his young
wife and their five-year-old son died
within three months of each other. Lord
Herbert, then in his 33rd year, wrote to
his mother —along with accounts of pil-
laging by Hanoverian and British troops
in Flanders:
I suffer martyrdom from the horrid and
continued struggle to keep down the
appearance of being overcome with grief,
& tho’ I do keep it down, I believe most
surprizingly, I suffer the more for it when
alone... .Good and gracious God, to con-
sider my condition on the 23rd of March,
& what it is now, is terrible beyond descrip-
tion, & at present my whole employment
& every thing belonging to my situation is
absolutely hatefull to me, and I have a
perfect horror of it all.
But however amusing or tragic are
the minor characters it is Lord Pembroke
who dominates the book. Whether he is
insisting that through chicanery in
politics and muddle in war the country
is going to the dogs; or giving his sage
advice on unspeakable diseases in horses
(with a great deal of pride in the manual
he wrote on the subject); or shooting
pheasants; or telling his son how to
avoid catching cold (while suffering from
a very heavy cold himself); or grieving
for the death of a favorite daughter, but
refusing to dwell on the subject (“Enough
of that! ”); or buying a ticket in the
lottery in the radiant but gradually
dwindling belief that he must win; or
turning up in England after years of
somewhat scandalous living on the Con-
tinent and blandly expecting his family
to gather round him again in perfect love
and harmony; and then, on leaving
Wilton for the Continent again, forgetting
to remove from the walls his pictures of
the dancer Bacelli—whatever he does, he
is always, as the present Lord Herbert
says, the epitome of the 18th century;
always gay, profoundly Realistic and
always, in the end, extremely likeable ;
Is it true that the antique & ugly
Langford, late our cook, & since thy maid
at Portsmouth, has been dismissed by J.
Morris for having a child by a man to
whom she is now married? She was a
good performer in the kitchen, & seemed
quiet & honest, with a good character.
Whereon I think it would be a prudent
measure to reinstate her. Do make enquiry
about it.
The present Lord Herbert is fortunate
in having had so colorful an ancestor,
and doubly fortunate in that Lord Pem-
broke’s correspondents, rightly thinking
his letters too important and too pleasing
to be destroyed, refused to burn them as,
in a belatedly prudent footnote, he so
often requested.
AN US OUT THERE.
Has anybody seen
an us out there
wandering wondering
any somewhere ?
Has anybody seen
an us around
flying and fleeing
frqm world means found?
Has anybody beard
a small one voice
that’s ours because
it’s a neverlesa noise?
Has anybody seen
a one-us love
whose know’s more least
than love’s above?
Has anybody seen
an us so lost,
a one that is most
from a two that was least?
N.S.W.
KEVIN J. PIPER.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 110
Across.
I—Copper1—Copper helps her with the French
strip. (9)
6 Girl makes an artist swallow a
brick-carrier. (5)
7 Swagmanship brings Virginia and
Georgia to slavery. (11)
II —Street of regret. (3)
13— I train in art (anagram). (11)
14 — A Chinese mile for Baba. (3)
15— Regime in the carpenter’s gear. (4)
16 — Ginns, perhaps, has a turn at the
creases. (7)
20— Island group accepts articles
about a water-store. (7)
21— Halt saucepans on the way back.
(4) •
24 In all vicissitudes, they comple-
ment downs. (3)
25 — Baronet and the brother in
France achieve a high place in
Western Australia. (6, 5)
28 — Ventilate a tune. (3)
29 — They have very small bores to
give millinery to the sick Ram. (11)
30 — Something surviving from an
ancient culture about fifty-one
hundred. (5) .
31 —Her gentleman friend, father, is
a famous Spanish brotherhood. (9)
Down.
1 — Washroom conservative out of a
volcano? (8)
2 Awkward state of a French profit
with a series of steamers, and
only one of the same. (12)
3 Group of nine objects. (6)
4 Get in ere changing an item ot
apparel for St. Patrick’s Day.
5 -Malicious gossip to put her teeth
into a strong-scented herb of the
mint family. (6)
8 — The edge of a vessel. (4)
9 Duck keynote for Guido isn’t in.
(3)
10 —A demeanor’s noticeable m a
French city. (6)
12—One way of getting put 100 with
anything to be a kind of dear,
or overtaken posterior. (6, 6)
17— Cuban Mac in Northern N.S.W.
(8)
18 — Persian bigwig had a sit-down
strike. (6)
19 — Placated vegetables among the
imitated. (8)
22 —Prey excavation. (6)
23 —Greeting for Hitler when he
comes from both sides of the
Channel. (4)
26 — Famous resident of Ballarat. (5)
27 — Italian brother. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 109.


i
“THE
... S'JWSK-;
d
BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
' •••' '
tmmmm
.;■... jd§i m
-
-3
■■ f, ?>i' Cl!
.aSfc“
H^ : rWv‘
r . "C
><
MB
J *S||||
Vj/^va:
iiiiiii
i
Sx
MS
llil
W
ite
•;
11
ft.‘f
IMS
isa
s-c*
mm
mmmmm
mm
mm
■:V::-<
•:' ■
ap;
i
: •'■■- ■-■■ ■
mim
M|
k-;S®
w-;-S
> ?
Pi
,• :•;: ■
lift
iii
ms9Um
m f
ft '!<k
i
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radioia for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR All
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO. LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. .•
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street. MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD*
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA,
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO*
SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD,
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B 6565, B 4448
