

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3731
Wednesday, August 15, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HP HE high stone crosses of Ireland
* are outstanding features of Irish
sculpture, some of which date from
the ninth century. Throughout the
country forty-five High Crosses still
exist, thirty-two being ornamented
and eight with inscriptions. The two
finest of their kind in the Irish
Republic are situated at Monaster-
boice, near Mellifont Abbey, in
County Louth. The ruins of
Monasterboice consist of a Round
Tower, two churches and three
crosses, which are the relics of a
community founded by St Buithe in
the sixth century and which later
became a great seat of learning.
The larger of the two stone crosses
is twenty-seven feet high and is
made up of three stones —the shaft,
the cross with its arms united by a
ring and the capstone, which is a
replica of an ancient Irish Chapel
with its high-pitched roof- Nine of
the twenty-two sculptured panels
represent scenes from the scriptures,
and include the Fall of Man and the
Last Judgment. The west face of
the Cross represents the Crucifixion.
Nearby is Muircdach’s Cross, illus-
trated here, which is fifteen feet high
and similar in style to the larger
Cross. The sculptured panels are in
a good state of preservation, and
depict figures in tenth-century mili-
tary or ecclesiastical dress, while on
the Cross itself appears the Cruci-
fixion. Muiredach was an Abbot of
Monasterboice who died in 844, and
the translated inscription on the
Cross reads “Pray for Muiredach by
whom was made the Cross.”
(Courtesy Irish Tourist Association Inc.)
ANCIENT SCULPTURES BETOKEN THE AGE OF THIS IRISH CROSS
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON KjC*


i m
sX*2^j
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Itussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.351) -.Ago •
The Red Page
A BUNDLE OF LETTERS.
Anybody who read the first anthology
of famous letters and letters by famous
people put together by Wallace Brockway
and Bart Keith Winer in 1941 should need
no recommendation to A Second
Treasury of the World’s Great Letters
(Heinemann), compiled by the same
authors ; except, perhaps, the assurance
that the quality and richness of the
material has not in any way fallen off, as
so. often happens in a sequel. And any-
body who missed the first volume and
who cares for what amounts as a whole
to a fascinating and revealing human
document, .astonishing in its diversity and
selected with an unerring eye for what
makes news, whether literary, historical
or personal, will be well rewarded by
starting with the present collection.
There is, it is true, a smack of
journalism about the whole thing; the
sort of outlook that led a Sydney paper
not long ago, when writing about Byron,
to describe him in a headline not as a
poet but as a “Regency Rake.” The
historical and biographical commentary,
crisp and to the point though it is, tends
to be shallow, with balanced judgment
sacrificed for the neat phrase or the wise-
crack. Thus the commentary on Pepys
runs:
... .a man who blacked his wife’s eyes,
forced young naval officers’ wives to submit
to him in order that they might collect their
husbands’ salaries, cheated the Treasury,
accepted grafts, and gossiped freely about
Court life. -..
Which js true enough —and indeed
modesf enough—as far as it goes. But
one also remembers Pepys as the man
who was “ravished” for two whole days
by a piece of music ; who reorganised the
Navy Office and made the great speech
in its defence in Parliament; the con-
noisseur of the fine arts and the theatre
as well as of pretty women; above all
as the great artist of the diary—today
he would have been a novelist —who,
while he typified in his daily life the
average man bent on acquiring money
and enjoying life to the full, was at all
times capable of standing aside, watch-
ing himself and writing about himself in
amusement, regret and wonder.
It is -journalism again that records, for
the passing moment rather than for
history, that Emma Hamilton “has
recently been immortalised on the
screen.” Charles the Second, who at any
rate loved the arts, is summarily dis-
missed as “worthless.” A concluding
letter by the comedian Stanley Lupino
describing the bombing of London —“I
want them in terror, long years of it.
And it’s coming. We’re coming—so is
the U.S.A., Australia, Canada, New
Zealand, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece
and the world”—rings too much of the
music-hall or the radio broadcast: surely
that is not the best letter evoked by
World War 11. '
And so on. Scores of such flaws could
be criticised. But then on the whole
the book is pretty well balanced. If the
commentary on Pepys is shallow, the
letter to. Lady Carteret about the Great
Plague,through which he walked with
so much courage, shows him at his
deepest and most dignified ; and shows,
too, the’ superb and tragic cadences of
his prose when he is deeply moved:
The absence pf the Court and the empti-
ness of the city takes away all occasion of
news, save only such melancholy stories as
would rather sadden than find your Lady-
ship any divertisement in the hearing; I
having stayed in the city till above 7400
died in. one week, and of them above 6000
of the plague, and little noise heard day or
night but tolling of bells; till I could walk
Lumberstreet and not meet twenty persons
from one end to the other, and not fifty
upon the Exchange; till whole families (ten
and twelve together) have been swept away;
till my very physician, Dr. Burnet, who
underropk to secure me against any infec-
tion (having survived the month of his own
being shut up), died himself of the plague;
till the nights (though much lengthened)
are grown too short to conceal the burials
of those that died the day before, people
being thereby constrained to borrow day-
light for that service; lastly, till I could
find neither meat nor drink safe, the
butcheries being everywhere visited, my
brewer’s house shut up, and my baker with
his whole family dead of the plague.
One of the best of the letters, from
the beginning of the book, is the terrific
description of a Roman businessman
written by Sidonius, Prefect of Rome in
469, to his son Apollinaris; a piece of
sustained and ferocious invective to be
compared only with Swift or—had not
Pound’s obvious delight in what he was
writing softened the effect —the notes on
hell in the Cantos. An equally effective
letter near the end, though in a very
different strain, is D. H. Lawrence’s
appalling and queerly prophetic picture
of Germany in 1928;
Money becomes insane and people with
it. At night the place is almost dark,
economising light. Economy, economy,
economy—that too becomes an insanity
Luckily the government keeps bread fairly
cheap. But at night you feel strange things
stirring in the darkness, strange feeling
stirring out of this still-unconquered Black
Forest, You stiffen your backbone and you
listen to the night. There is a sense of
danger. It is not the people. They don’t
seem dangerous. Out of the very air comes
a sense of danger, a queer bristling feeling
of uncanny danger. Something has hap-
pened. Something has happened which has
not yet eventuated. The old spell of the
old world has broken, and the old, bristling,
savage spirit has set in And it all looks
as if the years were wheeling swiftly back-
wards, no more onwards. Like a spring
that is broken and whirls swiftly back, so
time seems to be whirling with mysterious
swiftness to a sort of death. Whirling to
the ghost of the old Middle Ages of Ger-
many, then to the Roman days, then to
the days of the silent forest and the
dangerous, lurking barbarians.
A very surprising document is a
Rabelaisian letter from —of all people!—
the poet Thomas Gray. A most vigorous
letter is from Walt Whitman, contemplat-
ing man’s conquest of pain and the fear
of death in an American military
hospital. Gilbert White charmingly de-
scribes the adventures of his tortoise.
And a letter that gives the book a
moment of special interest to this part of
the world is from Katherine Mansfield,
describing flowers, nuns and the smell of
wet sand in the beautifully evocative
prose that springs, in her own words,
from “an infinite delight and value in
detail.”
Men Against the Deserf.
The most impressive of the many
photographs in Men Against the Desert.
by Ritchie Calder (Allen and Unwin) is
of three sample boxes from the desert,
entitled:
Fixed Dunes; Egg-timer sand is changed
into soil by irrigation in two years (sample
trays at one-year intervals).
Mr. Calder, science editor of the
London “News Chronicle” made a survey
of the deserts of North Africa and the
Middle East for the United Nations; his
articles and broadcasts created wide
interest in six continents; and his book
is no less interesting, being for the most
part an objective record of what he saw,
especially of the remarkable work being
done by scientists to make the desert
flower.
It is interesting to find that the Arabs
have a tradition of forestry destruction:
to celebrate the death of the Moslem
marabout, Sid Tayeb, who magically
cleared the forest of Guir of snakes and
ferocious animals, “his followers, to
whom he bequeathed the forest, cut it
down” ; and of recent years:
When the Eighth Army drove out the
Italians, the desert Arabs celebrated their
liberation by cutting down or tearing up a
million trees which the colonists had
planted. When the U.N.Q. Assembly deci-
sion promising an independent Libya was
announced the youngsters of Zuara mafficked
by wrenching up the green shoots which the
British in their turn had planted. ■
But enough trees survive around Tripoli
to make a “rich forest” in 10 years. In
1945-50, Tripoli made its first export
since classical times, 5000 tons of olive
oil, mainly from Italian plantations estab-
lished 12 years before. Although there
have always been olives in Tripoli:
We saw olive-trees which had been yield-
ing for 64 generations, for 2000 years. How
do they know? Because the descendants of
64 generations claim their share in the
produce of the family tree. There are hun-
dreds of them, scattered all over the world,
who can produce a title to their share, and
to whom the authorities can be held
accountable even if that share could barely
dress a salad. Later, in Palestine, I was to
find similar trees, cropped under similar
practice, in which the shares were reckoned
in 100 / thousandths.
In “classical times” Tripolitana was
highly civilised, with theatres, public
baths and water supplies ; “the main sup-
plies came from the Jebel by aqueducts,
which were 70 to 100 miles long”:
In the Jebel there were great olive groves,
and I went to see the Roman olive-presses
there. The ancient Romans, knowing that
oil and water do not mix, used the ingenious
device of pouring the oil on the surface of
the water and using the aqueducts as a free-
flowing method of transporting it to the
coast.
In the desert near Burg El Arab, near
Alexandria, Government and scientists
have restored ah underground water
cistern built nearly 2000 years ago by the
Romans;
The main chambers were nearly 80 feet
high... .a great underground cavern with
vaulted halls and branching galleries. Into
it, from every direction, led the runlets
collecting the water from the surrounding
hills... .There are hundreds of Roman
cisterns in the Egyptian desert,
Australians who fought there will no
doubt be interested in Mr. Calder’s
description of Marble Arch, El Agheila,
Benghazi, Derna, etc., as they are today ;
with a new kind of desert—a tin-can
desert of rusting metal; tanks, oil-can and
petrol-tins have been left by Arab
scavengers—all except American jerri-
cans;—
These substantial containers, now the
saddle-gourds—the water-bottles on the
camels —of the nomads, were rather
comically poised on the heads of the
water-women.
A few months before Mr. Calder
arrived in Baghdad, excavators at Tel-El-
Harmel found “clay tablets which proved
that an ancient mathematician had worked
out the theorems of Euclid (300 b.c.)
2000 years before him.” Eridu, wherb
they have excavated houses 6000 years
old, was once on the Persian Gulf, and
is now 100 miles inland ; after leaving
the Gulf, it was on the banks of the
Euphrates until Rim-Sin straightened the
Euphrates and made it pass by Ur. Eridu
perished for lack of water. And today
these games with the Euphrates—another
was its diversion around Babylon So that
Cyrus and his armies could cross the
riverbed into the city—continue:
One scheme, which is almost completed,
at Habbaniyah, will divert the Euphrates
into a freshwater lake, and when the flood
is excessively high will carry the excess
in the salt depression of Bahar-11-Milh.
The freshwater can be canalised back into
the river from the lake, and, as a regulated
flow, can double the amount of water, in
the summer months, in the Euphrates.
In Palestine around Subetta, in a
Jewish company carrying rifles in case of
Arab attacks, Mr. Calder saw mounds
of stones arranged geometrically over a
whole landscape, a method, thousands
of years old, of trapping dew; “The cold
pebbles in the morning condensed the
moisture out of the atmosphere, and it
seeped through the pile of pebbles into
the good earth below.” But at the same
time Palestinian scientists are experiment-
ing with “sheet nylon as a means of
extracting fresh water from salt sources
and from brackish soil”:
Nylon allows the heat rays of the sun
to get through, but its surface remains cold.
Therefore the water steams off through the
nylon and condenses on the cold surface.
Sophocles for Today.
There is an Australian poet named
Robert D. Fitz Gerald and an American
named Robert Fitzgerald, and the
American has been assisted in his trans-
lation of CEdipus Rex (Faber) by one
Dudley Fitts, who could almost be
another member of the clan who has
somehow lost his gerald.
Those who might be interested to
learn how Fitzgerald’s verse compares
with Fitz Gerald’s will not, however, get
much help from this volume; for if the
American has at other times a native
vigor to compare with the shrewd, salty,
hard-bitten, perfectly controlled poetry
of the Australian, capable of sudden and
dramatic flexibility when the occasion
requires it, any distinctively American
quality here, except for a solitary refer-
ence to the “timberline,” is subdued
for the purposes of putting forward
Sophocles as clearly and plainly as
possible.
Hie verse has some echoes of Yeats
and Eliot; but mostly this plain clarity,
falling a little short of tragic dignity
when CEdipus is quarrelling with
Teiresias —they sound like a pair of fish-
wives—but rising to a fine intensity when,
faced with the full horror of his doom
at last, unmasked in his parricide and
incest, his mother dead by suicide and
he himself blind after savagely stabbing
his eyes with her gold brooch, CEdipus
cries to the chorus:
Ah, no, friends, lead me away.
Lead me away from Thebes.
Lead the great wreck
And hell of CEdipus, whom the gods hate.
For a modern stage performance of
the CEdipus story the present reviewer
confesses to an unscrupulous regard for
Cocteau’s reconstruction written in
some strange interval of lucidity—in The
Infernal Machine: the characters are
very human in it and the plot, because
the playwright tells- the story in advance
and explains that it is a drama of doom
rather than of psychology, takes on a
tremendous tension. But the old masters
remain unalterably the masters; and the
great advantage of Fitzgerald’s transla-
tion is that, freed from outworn poeti-
cisms and with the clear choruses actually
helping the action instead of retarding
it, it lays bare the clean, swift, merciless
progression of the Sophoclean drama in
what Seems a truly Greek simplicity.
Reed in Africa.
Douglas Reed has written some lively
novels lately and perhaps his talent
should always have been devoted to
fiction —his political and prophetic books
suffer from an uneasy intervention of
fact.
At any rate his Somewhere South of
Suez (Cape), supposed to be about South
Africa, is rather arid and windy talk.
Very little will be learned of South
Africa from this book, maybe because
Mr. Reed practically broke his back there,
failing from a horse ; indeed, his account
of the accident, and of low he grew
inpatient with the plaster corset in which
they wrapped his torso completely, and
chopped it off with a razor-blade, eventu-
ally having to get an iron support for
his back, is the best and most factual
writing tn the book, . '•
His opinions include, among others,
that Hitler, Goebbels and Bormann are
alive ; that food and other controls are
part of a plan for the practical enslave-
ment of humanity ; that Roosevelt played
woefully into Stalin’s hands; and that
much remains to be explained about
Harry Hopkins’s dealings with Russia.
Towards the end, Mr. Reed runs
off (mentally) to Palestine, con-
sidering that a Jewish State is being
built up there by questionable means,
which will become a great world Power
and, on a Jerusalem-Moscow axis, run
the world.
Reviewed Briefly.
Film Making from Script to Screen:
Andrew Buchanan (Phoenix House). A
complete account of how films are made,
of particular interest to the amateur.
Chapters at the end give practical advice
on “filming a factory,” “filming a farm,"
“filming your own views,” etc. Any
amateur who, inspired by Mr. Buchanan,
shows this reviewer his own films will,
however, be shot. ■ v
* >* * *
The “Double Tenth” Trial: Vol, VIII
of the War Crimes Trials series (Hodge),
edited by Colin Sleeman and C. S. Silkin,
with a foreword by Viscount Simon. This
volume is of particular interest for Aus-
tralia, for it deals with the trial, which
opened in Singapore on March 18, 1946,
of 21 members of the Japanese Kempei
Tai. charged with maltreating and tortur-
ing 57 civilians in Changi Jail, of whom
15 died.
* * * *
It Was Like This: Anne Goodwin
Winslow (Heinemann). Whatever it may
be in reality, the southern Mississippi is
in the novel the place of decaying tradi-
tion ; where ghostly evil accumulates in
a stagnant pool; where thought rots and
loses the name of action —and though
there is little or no evil in it, that is how
Miss Winslow’s novelette, about a young
poet’s girl, who married his brother while
he was away, and then was sentenced to
regret it for the rest of her life, is.
* * * *
I'm Telling You: E. J. Trait
(Standard Newspapers, Victoria). A
Melbourne journalist chases Nazis in
Sydney during the recent war, talking
corny Cheney. He does things even
Cheney wouldn’t do: having had his girl
kidnapped in a low Sydney dive, he goes
back with another girl, a real beaut.,
who is promptly shot. In this manner he
might have continued, denying most of
the feminine population of Sydney to the
Yanks ; but happily something sends him
out exploring houses in Glebe and Mil-
son’s Point, with the loss 'of only one
more woman —strangely enough, the
heroine. Cheney used to reserve a better,
or a worse, fate for his heroines.
*•* * *
Magic Casements: Langston Day
(Rider). The author has given imagina-
tion free rein in this book of ten delight-
fully-written fables. In ancient Athens
a young man, visited in a dream by
Orpheus and inspired by him to charm
the world with his singing, has his only
success in teaching the nightingale; in
Mexico the butterflies are given their
brilliant colors by the little men who
ride on them ; in T’ang-dynasty China
the fragmentary spires and minarets now
seen in the sky by desert-travellers were
floating cloud-cities ; there is a gem about
socialism in Babylon with a beautifully
ironic ending; and there are Atlantis.
Bloomsbury and medieval England, in
all this, disappearing and bobbing up
again at awkward moments, there are so
many witches and wizards and devil',
and demons to the square inch it i>
surprising they don’t short-circuit om
another.


It’s worth
mentioning-
Vacuum Flasks
Going on a picnic or overland
trip? Lucky you! If food is a
problem for you then look
again at these vacuum flasks.
They ate the idea 1 (way of
preserving the fresh crisp
quality of your food. Anything
from the hottest soup to the
coolest salad will retain its
original zest and zip. And don’t
forget that the contents lose
none of their nutritional value
in the meantime. The tight-
fitting screw top sees to that.
m ■
i n
n
Colours in Red, Cream, Green
or Blue. Apart from their
colour you’ll be proud of their
solid clear-cut lines and you’ll
marvel when you test their
easy grip sides. Food Flask,
39/6; Liquid Flask, price, 22/6.
iei* the rng .
C'
\/ / s -
- /
V
«/
f IrJhL
IW),
gH > ;
Ml
i
.-r
■
u
I Sg
■
\L
s
m
m
m
m
ZWS&
o.
m
S 5»
:•
;s-
T here’s no end to Its
many uses. Gone are days of the rough old rug which lay
forlornly at the farthest corner of the old Tourer. Enter now the rug
as the essential travel accessory, and a handy companion at
picnics, football, boat trips and that long cold car journey home.
m
xm
m
V'
t"
s**
V o T
For Fishing Trips.
Australian made “Onkaparinga” Pure Wool Rug in
reversible check designs. 72in. x 60in. Priced at £9/13/3
For that Picnic.
“Buchan” All Wool Rug in very smart Tartan design
with fringed ends. . 63in. x 74in. Priced at only £4
For that Sea Voyage.
“Highland,” a comfortable warm Pure Wool Rug in
MacLeod Tartan with fringed ends. 58in. x 68in. £4/8/3
For that Spare Bed.
“Onkaparinga,” an excellent quality All Wool Rug,
100% Pure Wool. Various designs. 84in. x 60in. £lO/17/-
For that Train Journey.
“Onkaparinga” Pure Merino Reversible Rug. One side
Tartan, other self colours. In Royal Stewart, Buchanan,
Hunting Frazer and McKinnon. 72in x 60in., £lO/11/9
For All Odd Beds.
“Jaegar,” All Wool Rug made in Great Britain. Good
quality soft wool with fringed ends. Various colours
and designs. Size 54in. x 68in. Priced at only £B/0/9
Freight extra
on all goods.
m
m
m
m
Hm
dfs
a .
TRAVEL WEAR—GND. FLOOR, PITT ST. PHONE M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


POWER VOU UN DEPEND
iiiiiiii
l&a.
mmm
RNi
f •«
H
P j
S#
m
■
%. *
H
H
BI
198
:
■
.®
:
1 i i
SSKSgut
Pumping
Sawing
Winching
Lighting
pushing
w/rnfiQ,
Thats what you want in an engine—and thats
what you’ll get when you install INTERNATIONAL—
THE POWER THAT PAYS.
Each unit is designed to supply a reliable, money
making source of dependable power readily adaptable to
your particular application.
Whether your business embraces pumping, sawing,
winching, crushing or whether you need power for
lighting or power for emergency you will find an
INTERNATIONAL to satisfy your requirements.
/
z
"/y/y/A
>
A 069
rs
\
lIBIT
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVILE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HDBRRT ROELOIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN* DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3731
Wednesday, August 15, 1931
*6^vv
X* V
V*
INGLISI
GET
PORT SAID POSTCARD-SELLER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
NO CO-OPERATION.
This week’s meetings of the heads of
Governments—Premiers’ Conference and
Loan Council —will mark the first active
steps towards placing Australia on a semi-
war footing, as contemplated in the
Defence Preparations Act. Over the
doors of the council chamber might be
written, in the words the Prime Minister
has used to describe the purpose of this
legislation:
We shall rely as far as possible upon
voluntary co-operation to carry through
the necessary adjustment of the Australian
economy, but upon compulsion if this
unhappily proves necessary.
The subject of inflation debated at the
recent Sydney conference of all interests
is strictly only the symptom of the real
trouble. It is the practical expression of
scarcity, of an utterly unbalanced
economy, of “depression thinking,” and
of sheer sectional selfishness. It is first
and foremost the football being used by
rival political teams in a contest which
blinds the public to the dangers over-
hanging us all. High prices everywhere
in the world are a reflection of universal
shortage of basic commodities to meet
modern consumer-demand, which rearma-
ment necessities in the Western nations
have within the past 12 months vastly
augmented. The impact of this condition,
here as elsewhere, is an unavoidable
affliction ; but persistent underproduction
at basic industries in the face of it is
Australia’s own fault.
At the general conference a fortnight
ago Mr. McGirr, of N. S. Wales, bewailed
on behalf of “Labor” that Dr. Evatt had
not been invited, though “he speaks for
half Australia.” But the operative spokes-
man for “Labor” has already shut the
gate. President Ferguson, of the junta
which gives political “Labor” its cast-iron
orders, had said “No co-operation.” Mr.
Menzies, he said, was seeking the co-
operation of “Labor” in this emergency,
“but our answer is that all the support he
will receive is nil.” In the job of
strengthening the country’s defences
against a threat of war which alarms all
the world —no co-operation. For protect-
ing the standard of living at home against
economic forces plainly attacking it —no
co-operation. In conferences for dis-
cussion, on committees for action —no
co-operation.
The rosy dreams at the Loan Council
of a year ago, dreams of huge spending
on public works in every direction, went
by the board formally at the Premiers’
meeting in June last. There all agreed,
whatever “Labor” Premiers may protest
now, that the programme of works must
be severely cut, and that for money to
finance such works they must not, as in
the past, look to bank credit. Tlie in-
vesting public has shied off from cheap
Commonwealth loans whose fancy names
of “security” and “liberty” have worn out.
Over and above that the Prime Minister
showed convincingly that there simply
were not the materials and labor available
for carrying out an unpruned programme
of public works, and that competing
demands on resources at the recent level of
loan expenditure were simply boosting
high prices to heights greater still. The
Commonwealth Government has issued
regulations to restrict commercial capital
issues which have attracted public invest-
ment away from low-interest loans, but
such devices can have no effect whatever
upon short supplies of materials and
labor, and in these both Commonwealth
and State works projects have to be
rationed.
The principles of action are clear.
There are luxuries in public works
as well as in manufactures for civilian
consumption. Both alike must come
under the axe. Priority all round from
now on must go to essential activities, and
the first priority is for the country’s
defences.
Mr. McGirr in N.S.W. may try to show
a lead to the Premiers outside the Loan
Council meeting by shouting about the
irreducible demands of State works —
despite his recognition of the nature of
the problem last June—but his deputy in
Sydney has given that game away. His
electricity commissioner in Britain has in-
formed him that because of steel shortage
there (by reason of rearmament priorities)
N.S.W. power-stations and electric rail-
ways may be delayed. We might make
the wanted steel here if the McGirr-Cahill
Government and party would interest
itself in the process ; but that would savor
of “co-operation with the Menzies Gov-
ernment,” which is to them anathema.
Since the local materials—steel, cement,
coal —are not being produced here abe-
quately and can’t be imported in any
volume that matters, what is the good of
bellowing for unrestricted public-works
programmes in terms of loan money?
When the “Labor” Premiers (in which
the head of the “Labor”-backed Mc-
Donald Government in Victoria must be
included) have been redirected into the
atmosphere of the conference of June
last, they will have to get down to the
actual cuts in the programme of which
they were then warned. Of course some
State works fall within the category of
defence works; but the catalogue of
them is now lined up for drastic revision
of the sort which the Commonwealth
public-service list itself is undergoing, and
it will be surprising if the Common-
wealth does not insist on a pruning of
the State public services also, along with
its own.
N.S.W. “Labor” being the spiritual
home of the “no co-operation” campaign,
Mr. McGirr by location and temperament
has headed the “Labor” obstruction. His
idea was, apparently, to force prices-
control on the Prime Minister by united
pressure of the Premiers and particularly
to resist any co-operation in correcting
the underpayment of butter-producers in
order to compel the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to increase its subsidies to the
industry beyond the already formidable
total of £17,000,000 a year. In neither
aim could he get solid support; in his
refusal of compromise on butter he was
left standing alone.
Over butter he has only made “no co-
operation” look more malignant than
ever. His blanket-pegging of all prices
in N.S.W. is fast building up schemes by
manufacturers to sell their local products
through branch-houses or agents in other
States. As his brother-Premier in Queens-
land said at the outset, it is impossible to
imagine any sillier Government action.
That “Labor” effort in N.S.W. is also
flatly counter to the essential Common-
wealth requirement of priority for
essential civilian goods against non-
essential. It will not rest with State poli-
ticians or manufacturers to make this
differentiation, but with the special com-
mittees which the Prime Minister has set
up—committees with which “Labor” is
trying its best to refuse co-operation, as
in all other directions.
Wastage under this obstruction is
appalling. “No co-operation” as a party
slogan gives the cue right through the
industrial wing of “the movement.” A
few weeks ago the National Bank of
Australasia’s review showed that propor-
tionately to working population Aus-
tralia’s loss of working days through
strikes over three years has been at a rate
half as much again as Canada’s and
about eight times that in Britain. Up to
March of this year over 32 per cent, of
potential coal-production had been lost
through strikes, and the reflection of that
loss throughout industry was at least
equal to that in the B.H.P. steelworks,
which has been running at about 60 per
cent, of full-time output. Yet, while
echoes have hardly died down of gloomy
A.L.P. conference prophecies about the
country’s soon not being able to feed
itself, the A.C.T.U. is preparing a Sep-
tember conference agenda which includes
demands for reduction of the working
week to 30 hours and a lifting of the
minimum basic wage to £l2 a week. In
effect, the basic wage being the misnomer
it is, nobody’s wages would be less than
about £lOOO a year, as a new starting-
point for increases.
It looks as though Mr. Menzies had
better give up any idea of voluntary co-
operation, and prepare to use the com-
pulsory regulations for which he has
legislated against emergency. Whether
his convictions are set that way should
appear from the proceedings of this
week’s conferences with the State
Premiers.
The Old and Bold.
The thirty-fourth N. S. Wales State
Congress of the R.5.5.A.1.L.A., which
was opened yesterday by General
Northcott, Administrator of the Com-
monwealth and Governor of N. S. Wales,
calls attention to the large part which
this returned-soldier organisation now
plays in the life of Australia, It is not
so large as in Maoriland, where the
returned-soldier body is more closely-
knit into the community life, and where
Government recognition of its useful-
ness has led to its being given a greater
official share in the operation of repatria-
tion and soldier welfare. But at the same
time its influence has been large and in
general beneficent.
When the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. came into
existence during World War I there were
misgivings in some quarters that it might
divide the community and become a sort
of swashbuckling concern forcing its
demands on the community by reason of
its strength of numbers and unity of
interest. In fact, if there has been any
complaint (justifiable or otherwise) it is
that the association has been timid
in pushing its claims and conservative in
its outlook.
However, its survival in its existing
influential form is its justification.
It is able to cater for the men
of two generations of wars, and
is beginning to cater for those of the
incipient third. Other service associations
have risen to challenge it, but they have
not been conspicuously successful;
neither have they been helped by the
fact that the staunch stick-together
comradeship of the men of World War I
is not nearly so marked among the men
of World War 11, who seem to be
approaching their post-war problems in
a more utilitarian and less sentimental
frame of mind.
It has been thought in the beginning
that time might stale the appeal of a
soldier body to its members as the war
years receded ; but, if anything, the need
for its existence is being emphasised with
the emergence of fresh problems, due to
the ageing of the force and to the chang-
ing economic circumstances of the
country. Instead of the number of those
entitled to special consideration shrink-
ing they have increased, not merely
through the added encumbrances and
problems developed by new conflicts, but
by the expansion of the fields of depend-
ence and by the accumulation of the
aftermaths of war hardship, wounds and
strain which is now showing up in the
relics of the First A.1.F., all of whom
are now beyond the 50-year mark.
The provision of such concerns as War
Veterans’ Homes has become a vital
necessity, and at the same time a head-
ache to those who are forced to deal with
them in an era of rising costs. New types
of accommodation, such as the “Darby
and Joan” cottages for aged couples
which are being erected in the lovely
surroundings of the Narrabeen (N.S.W.)
home, are a monument to the care with
which devoted workers for the cause of
the soldier are carrying out their trust in
the face of difficulties which at times
must seem to them almost insuperable.
For this particular activity the
organisers are faced with the job of
finding a round sum of about £500,000,
together with about £50,000 a year
management costs, if the needs of
the 300 people expected to be
resident in the homes by the end of the
year are to be properly met.
The homes maintained at Narrabeen,
Yass and Bare Island are an inestimable
boon to the harassed and careworn
Digger, suffering from the delayed fatigue
of battle or illness, and hundreds during
each year find in those too-little-advertised
centres havens of rest where they may
forget for a time the harassments of
everyday existence, and, through rest and
comradeship, restore themselves to
health. These homes are rehabilitation
centres in the most apt sense
of the word, places to which the sick and
worried Old Digger may retire confident
that he will be a welcome and honored
guest so long as he needs their hospitality.
But how long their amenities can be
carried on at the present standard with
the increase in numbers of those who
need them, and in the face of ballooning
expenses, is a matter for further thought.
It is no credit to the country at large that
at present they have to owe a large pro-
portion of their support to lotteries ; but
if lotteries are justified at all it is for
such purposes.
The same anxieties arise in relation to
Anzac House, the large project for
centralisation of soldier organisations in
Sydney, for which the estimate made by
the architects on May 25, 1950, of
£670,000 already threatens to expand to
£1,000,000, against the £500,000 in hand.
But even if this ambitious scheme is not
carried out the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. will
manage to survive, and its other activities
which deal with housing, pensions, re-
habilitation and welfare are far more
important. The housing problem alone
has provided a busy department of the
N.S.W. branch of the league with
thousands of headaches.
It is in the matter of pensions, how-
ever, that the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. has done
most. It is largely due to the cumulative
influence of the State branches and their
centre that Australia’s present scheme
exists. The reform of the system by the
present Federal Government has been
one of the highlights of its period of
office, and it stands !o the credit of the
R.S.L. that the changes seem to have
been largely based on the plan pm
forward by it in 1949-50.
Pensions still cannot fully meet the
ldea l that they should provide living
standards conforming entirely to the basic
a S e and flexible with basic-wage
m creases ; but, considering the magni-
tude of the war liability of the country,
they are about as much as can be
managed. The basic rate has been
VJ£T eased rou ghly 15s. a week, making a
WO-per-cent. pension worth 70s. a week,
1 "e wife of a 100-per-eent. pensioner
ful° a week more than before
vision brought about by the active
f a^P ai Bn/ng8 n /ng of the R.S.L. m 1949, mak-
® Jr® total 30s. 6d. a week, and the
. X f dren unc * er 16 has
* • 11S ’ j
• y _ mca pucitated soldiers now
ee . a weeK whether on the per-
™an®n* or . tem P°[ ar y list, and war widows
th e f lvlng P I® S - a week, or 10s. more
~}f n tormerly j a P art , from domestic
a owances and a B ratuit y of a year’s
Jf 1 nsion upon remarriage, a benefit which
• ° a e y ance during the depression
if
. The u det l Ued c w r ork ° f J** pensions
branch of the R.S.L. in N. S. Wales as in
other states ’ is extensive, well earn d
out and generally effective in producing
adjustments and Establishing entitlements
which most individuals would have diffi-
culty in dealing with for themselves,
Some of an e eager younger generation
whose enthusiasms have not been
groomed by experience think they could
ao the J , s work with more y vi
But over more than a generation the
RSL - has represented the interests
of the Digger manfully, and has
succeeded in the difficult task with-
out becoming an obvious pressure-
S rou P- That is something of an
achievement in a country in which
politics permeate into every corner of
life. It is also an evidence of the unob-
trusive and modest view which the
Diggers as a mass have always taken of
their services to the country. It would
have been scarcely possible in any country
not inspired by British traditions of
service and of individual rights for such
a body to exist without taking command
of national policy and becoming a
menace to the freedom which the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. motto declares to be
obtainable only at the cost of eternal
vigilance.
"Planning " in Practice.
“Sandpatch”: A month or so ago the
executor of an estate in Penrith
(N.S.W.) received a notice that the
Electricity Commission proposed to
resume an area of 15 acres adjoin-
ing the local butter factory, the
purpose being to erect on it a generating-
station, together with storage for 50,000
tons of coal. A day or two after the
notice had been received the constructing
authority arrived, armed with bulldozers
and whatnot. Work is proceeding. The
executor, though somewhat amazed at
the high-handed manner in which the
matter had been handled, yielded to the
authority of the Crown, and unwillingly
allowed the workmen to enter the land
and commence work.
The factory authorities ventured a
protest, as a large heap of coal right
beside their milk-treatment works would
not tend to improve the flavor of the
product. They were curtly told that any
opposition might conceivably result
in the closure of the factory. So they
shut up.
The land forcibly acquired was part
of one of the oldest and richest dairy-
farms on the Nepean. The lessee was
one of the State’s noted Jersey breeders,
and has been producing high-class stock
for 45 years. However, as on the resumed
area were his house, bails and dairy, he
was compelled to dispose of his stud.
On the southern side of the railway-
line and adjoining it is an area of nine
acres, lying vacant, but which the Cum-
berland County Council has declared
must be a “green belt.” The other side,
on which is located much the richer land
from a dairying and agricultural view-
point, has been decreed to be the “in-
dustrial area.” Last year one of Aus-
tralia’s largest firms wished to buy this
nine acres for a modem textile factory,
offering the owner a very attractive price.
But the planners stepped in and refused
permission, in spite of strong protests by
the local people.
Between Penrith and St. Mary’s are
many hundreds of acres of land, infinitely
less fertile, and on which the generating-
station could have been erected without
any disturbance to the dairying economy
of the district. Why a piece of nch
alluvial land, right beside a butter factory,
should have been selected is a question
that perhaps the planners can answer.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Not Just Narks.
The Korean armistice negotiations have
reached what looks like a final stalemate,
with the delegates sitting silent and
glowering at each other and the subject-
matter of debate reduced to the “you-did,
you-didn’t” level of the backyard alter-
cation which gets nowhere and is devoid
of purpose.
It would not have taken much of a
prophet to foretell the course which
events have taken. The objective of the
Communist leaders in paving the way for
the meeting was to exhibit the “peaceful”
nature of Soviet intentions during a period
in which Moscow was intriguing to throw
the British out of Persia and out of
Egypt and to put the final pieces of pres-
sure on Yugoslavia, whose leaders are
expecting invasion as soon as the harvest
has been dealt with—Marshal Tito
within the past few days has been definite
that his country is in grave danger of
attack “this year.”
General Marshall, U.S. Secretary for
Defence, last week was open in his ex-
pressions of surprise that the West
should take any move for “peace” by the
Russian bloc seriously. He told the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee on
July 27 that it was urgent to continue
the U.S. mobilisation plans “whatever
happened,” and he added “with great
feeling” that it was “unthinkable” that
a single statement nebulously favoring
peace like that made by M. Malik could
have affected Western world preparations
as it had:
It was a tragic and humiliating factor to
me that the statement of one man of such a
Government should have such a serious
effect on our whole defence programme.
That is a humiliating reaction. I like gentle
people, but I would like to see the American
people get a little more hard-boiled.
These are words which might be applied
to Australians as well. Such men
as Dr. Evatt are patently lend-
ing their support to Russian views that
the Australian Government, in preparing
against emergencies, is “warmongering.”
The British have no doubt about what
is preparing. On the day on which Mr.
Marshall informed the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee that he favored the
United States’ foreign military and eco-
nomic aid programme to cost about
£4,000,000,000 this year, that General
Eisenhower, under the existing pro-
gramme, would have an Atlantic Pact
army of 2,890,000, including 340,000
Americans, and that plans had been
made to put 5,000,000 men into the field
90 days after mobilisation was ordered,
Mr. Shinwell gave the House of Com-
mons a specific review of Soviet Union
strength. He said that there were now
350 airfields on the western perimeter
of the Soviet-bloc countries capable of
accommodating 14,000 to 17,000 aircraft,
and these airfields were increasing in
number. Total Soviet forces were
5,670,000, including those of Russian
satellite countries, 1,070,000 men being in
Eastern Germany and the satellite coun-
tries.
Yet there are a lot of people in all
walks of life in Australia who believe
that Messrs. Menzies and Fadden, who
seem so much bent, on interfering with
their pleasures, are just a pair of political
narks whose only real problems are the
price of beans and “inflation.”
Investment Its Own Reward.
“Sir Artie” the Commonwealth
Treasurer must have found himself in
violent disagreement with “Sir Artie” the
Brisbane public accountant when he
called the representatives of life-assurance
offices into conference to discuss their
current disaffection for Commonwealth
“security” loans. If the accountant
didn’t prevail over the Treasurer, that
will be so much the worse for the
Treasurer’s reputation—to say nothing of
the Government’s purpose.
For the Treasurer wanted to know
what the institutions could do about
their tendency not only to cease support-
ing new Commonwealth loans but also
to unload their holdings of older issues,
and so “depressing the market.” They
could have had no difficulty in telling
him that in the interests of their multi-
tudinous policyholders they were obliged
to seek more profitable investment than
that offered by the Treasury’s “security”
loans, which, even when issued at a slight
discount, promptly declined (as “Sir
Artie” admitted to State Premiers last
June) appreciably on the market because
the Government was not paying the
market price for the money it wants.
To the indignant taxpayer who (accus-
tomed as he has been to Treasury sup-
port of bond prices in the market) last
May invested £99 in a £lOO bond in the
Treasurer’s Twelfth “Security” Loan at
-3i per cent., and today finds his holding
worth on the market about £94 10s., “Sir
Artie” may reply that what he has suf-
fered is a capital levy or just bad luck;
but in neither case has he any justifica-
tion for expecting happy landings if he
simply tells the investor to buck up and
do it again for some sake or other. If
the taxpayer should inquire whether this
loss will be allowed him on assessment
as a deduction from property income,
what would “Sir Artie’s” reply be? Inci-
dentally, it would be interesting to know
what loss the Commonwealth Savings
Bank has suffered on Commonwealth-loan
investments, and whether the S.B. sub-
scriptions also have “appreciably fallen
off.”
One of the objectives of the Govern-
ment is to encourage thrift in the com-
munity for the combating of inflation
and to build up the country’s capital re-
sources. Another objective Ministers
have constantly proclaimed is to unite and
consolidate intelligent public opinion in
a common effort, with fair play all round,
for urgent national tasks to be taken in
hand. Recent experience over Common-
wealth-loan issues cannot be calculated to
assist either of these purposes.
Fourth Anniversary.
It is four years today since the Indian
Empire faded into history and the two
Dominions of India and Pakistan were
born. The anniversary finds the two
countries breathing fire at each other —
each accusing the other of making threat-
ening troop movements, each vowing that
it has no aggressive designs on the other
and each protesting that its own forces
are disposed in purely defensive positions.
At the time of the partition the future
of Kashmir was left undetermined; in
common with the other princely States it
was left free to decide for itself whether
to join India or Pakistan, About 90 per
cent, of the population of Kashmir is
Moslem, but the Maharajah, a Hindu,
elected to accede to India. His decision
was not exactly a spontaneous one; it
was not made until ten weeks after
partition and at a time when an attack-
ing force, said by Pakistan to consist of
popular insurgents reinforced by tribes-
men “volunteers” from across the border
and by India to be Pakistani regulars, was
only a short distance from his capital.
India sent troops to the Maharajah’s aid,
Pakistani troops entered Kashmir, and for
some months there was open war, until
as a result of United Nations action
a cease-fire was arranged. Efforts by the
United Nations to find a permanent solu-
tion to the problem have so far been un-
successful ; both sides still have troops
in Kashmir, and neither is willing to
make a unilateral withdrawal.
In principle both countries have ac-
cepted a U.N. proposal for a “free and
impartial plebiscite,” but they seem to be
unable to agree on the meaning of “free
and impartial,” Pakistan a short time ago
suggested that both sides should with-
draw their forces and that the plebiscite
be conducted under the protection of
United Nations forces, but India will not
agree to this suggestion.
Briefly, the arguments of the two
Dominions in regard to Kashmir are:
Pakistan: The population is 90 per cent.
Moslem. The Indus and all the important
rivers of West Pakistan rise in Kashmir.
All roads out of Kashmir lead into West
Pakistan.
India; The Maharajah and his Govern-
ment have agreed to accede to India. The
majority of Kashmir’s trade before parti-
tion was with India. Religion should not
be the sole basis of deciding sovereignty.
Mr, Liaquat Ali Khan’s reply to the
Indian case is that the agreement to
accede to India was not a genuine one,
but was more or less forced on the Maha-
rajah ; that the trade with India was by
way of Pakistan ; that religion was the
basis on which the whole sub-continent
was partitioned.
Pandit Nehru’s plea that his troops
entered Kashmir to save it from devasta-
tion at the hands of Pakistani raiders
would sound more convincing if his
record of dealing with other disputed
princely States was a little less dubious.
There is a deep fear in Pakistan that
Nehru and India have never really ac-
cepted partition at all, but merely regard
it as a temporary expedient to be swept
aside at the proper time. If this fear is
based on fact there seems to be little
hope of a settlement such as the United
Nations envisage, based on mutual
friendship and trust.
The McGirrs On Coal.
N.S.W. Mines Minister joined the Mc-
Girr prosperity chorus at the weekend
with a boast that N.S.W. produced 20
per cent, more coal in 1950 than in
1949. Coal consumers may find it hard
to believe, but he took pride in the value
being a record—meaning that cost of pro-
duction was a record, and costs were up
one-third over 1949.
What the simple fellow —or is he only
shaping his talk to the simple-minded?—
does not say is that the mines could
hardly have produced less in 1950 than
in the strike-year which marked the end
of the Chifley Government. Actually the
comparison is, in round figures:
Under- Open-
Total. ground. cuts.
1949 ~ 10,761,100 9,388,600 1,347,500
1950 .. 12,798,200 11,196,000 1,602,000
However, this talk is all about the past.
To date this year, over 29 working weeks,
coal production is down again—and coal
more costly than ever —1,226,560 tons
have been lost through strikes, against
808,263 tons lost in the corresponding
period of 1950. That is, there has been
this year about 50 per cent, increase in
strike-caused loss, and only opencut win-
nings are keeping some sort of a tempo
going in output.
The coal-stoppages this year began
directly after the Christmas holidays
were over, and coincided with the in-
creased Communist effort everywhere in
the Western world to block the demo-
cracies’ rearmament programme rendered
inevitable by Russian aggressive war
preparations in Central Eur ope.
The Legal Convention.
Of all the features of the Jubilee celebra-
tions the one most striking for its
pageantry and effect has been the meeting
of the Seventh Legal Convention in
Sydney. It was an ambitious and seem-
ingly impossible task at first to assemble
the leading judges of the British Com-
monwealth at a spot on the other side of
the oceans from their home cities, for
justice is unsleeping wherever it runs
under British law.
It was especially an undertaking to
detach the Lord Chancellor and Master
of the Rolls of England from their seats
of office for even a few days, but the
newer modes of transport made this
possible. It is a striking fact that the
report of a speech by the Lord Chan-
cellor in the House of Lords, of which
he is a member apart from being its
extraneous president on the foreign island
of the Woolsack, was only delivered in
the air-mail edition of the “Times” hours
after he himself had reached Sydney and
sampled the delights of Randwick, a
centre long associated with the law.
We in Australia have little understand-
ing of pageantry and its effect, but the
average Australian appreciates it when he
sees it as he has, in the most solemn
form, though not always in its best
surroundings, within the past few days.
It was a majestic scene at the
official opening of the convention at
which the president of the Law Council
of Australia, Mr. Harry Alderman, K.C.,
the head and front of the convention,
summarised the role of the law and
lawyers in the foundation of the Com-
monwealth. And few present will for-
get seeing the Lord Chancellor, Vis-
count Jowitt, his purse carried before
him, his train borne behind, sweep on to
a dais packed with visiting judges and
Australian Ministers and judges in
ermine, himself a magnificent figure in
black and gold, to trace the history of his
office back to the sixth century and the
days of Augustine, and modestly claim
succession to the saints (St. Swithin, for
example) and St. Thomas a Becket —later
deposed on a writ of quo warranto —
whose family many centuries later pro-
vided the Victorian Bench with one of
the most distinguished justices of his time.
Going to the Footy?
It’s to be hoped all good unionists,
employers, the Prime Minister and every-
body else concerned with the problem of
beating inflation by more production will
appreciate the action of the N.S.W. Rugby
League in delaying the start of today’s
football match against the French team
at Sydney Cricket Ground.
As stated by Mr. Harold Matthews,
the League secretary, and published in
Sydney “Herald” of 9/8/’5l, starting the
match at 3.30 p.m. will “enable as many
workers as possible to attend,” though
there will be some doubt as to Mr.
Matthews’s further statement that, “With
the late start, most employees would only
have to take off an hour from work to
see the game.” Even if a man’s regular
knock-off time is 4.30 p.m. it seems suffi-
cient time hasn’t been allowed for him
to get there.
However, that is a minor criticism. The
big thing is that if 30,000 workers de-
cide that their lives will not be complete
unless they see N.S.W. play France at
Rugby for 90 minutes the price of 30,000
man-hours lost to production in a single
day is obviously a small price to pay.
Inflation, after all, together with high
living costs, is a fairly permanent in-
habitant of the place, whereas these
Frenchmen are here today and gone
tomorrow.
A.B.C. Costs.
From M. F. Dixon:
According to newspaper reports Canberra has
asked the Australian Broadcasting Commission
to reduce its estimates for the current financial
year by £150,000; at the same time it has been
hinted that the next Budget may provide for
an increase in licence fees to assist in meeting
the soaring costs of national broadcasting.
From my 14 years’ experience of the “inside”
of national broadcasting I should say costs can
be cut sufficiently to stave off an increase in
fees, and without reducing programme stan-
dards, which is the first thing the A.B.C.
always threatens to do when asked to economise.
The commission itself spends a considerable
sum each year in fares and allowances flitting
around Australia, holding meetings in the
various capital cities. It once held a meeting
in New Guinea, perhaps to get a first-hand
impression of the type of programme that ,
would appeal to native listeners. The fares
and allowances of programme and managerial
staffs who are brought to Sydney regularly for
conferences must also amount to a considerable
sum annually.
A keen business mind, attuned to the prob-
lems of broadcasting, would soon discover in
the A.B.C. how substantial savings could be
made by the amalgamation of kindred depart-
ments such as news, talks, sporting and markets.
At present each is controlled separately by a
head and his deputy, with all the secretarial
and typing staffs which inevitably go with such
a set-up. Under one head there would be
greater efficiency and reduced cost, and listeners
would be spared the duplicated and contradic-
tory information they now sometimes hear.
The talks department appears to be a happy-
hunting-ground for university professors. I am
not suggesting they do not earn their money;
but according to listener-research reports they
used to draw comparatively small audiences.
In my opinion a considerable sum could also
be saved if there were full broadcasts of the
concerts which the A.B.C. stages frequently in
all capital cities, instead of only the first or
second (usually the second) half of the pro-
gramme.
I know the programme heads of the A.B.C.
would “dazzle with science” any outsider who
invaded their domain with the object of show-
ing how money could be saved without risk of
programme deterioration, but there are plenty
of people who could do it. The Government
should take an early opportunity of letting
them have a go at it.
The Privy Council.
Among the glorious constitutional incon-
sistencies in the British Commonwealth
is one picked up by the Press from hob-
nobbings with delegates at the remark-
able legal convention just concluding in
Sydney.
Although Canada has —“to the regret of
some Canadian lawyers,” as the Lord
Chancellor of Britain away
from the Privy Council in London as a
final court of appeal, the Chief Justice
of Canada, who incidentally hears appeal
cases in English or French as each may
require, is a member of the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council (the legal
body’s full name), and regularly travels
from Ottawa to London in order to attend
the committee’s sittings.
Lord Jowitt said he had hoped at one
time that the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council would be reconstituted to
include regularly judges from the
Dominions, but “it is too late now.” Why
is it too late?
Mr. Casey On the Job.
A remarkable phenomenon is the
change which has taken place in the
appearance of Australia’s foreign policy
since Mr. Casey took over the Depart-
ment of External Affairs.
In substance the policy has not changed
much, but in its application there has
been a revolution. While Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Spender were in charge the impres-
sion conveyed to Australians was that
a loud-shouting, tough Australian he-
man was trouncing a shrinking world into
compliance with our multitudinous
wishes. There was a tendency to run not
only our own affairs but other people’s.
Nothing happened in the world without
the seal of our approval or disapproval
being put on it.
All this busy oral activity produced
nothing except what other people agreed
to do.
Mr. Casey on the other hand appears
to be that rare bird in the Australian
External Affairs Department a
diplomat. He does not lecture anybody.
His business is carried on tactfully, and
he is the opposite of his predecessors in
that he appears to believe that the duty
of his department is the promotion of
goodwill. He has traversed the South-
East Asia area during the past week or
so without a single altercation with any-
body. There has been no news of offers
from him to settle the affairs of Asia at
a blow.
The climax of his journey has come
in Tokyo. The representatives of every
nation except Russia and Australia have
from the start of the occupation known
{Continued on next page.)


c ; B
»><•*
4203
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENS
m
' * .
1 i
m
m ~
■m
m
m
sS®
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
that Japan would remain Japan, a civili-
sation by itself, ordered, powerful,
patriotic. They have known that it would
be impossible to control the details of its
life, and stifle its defence permanently.
But the Australian view has been that
Japan must pay for its crimes. Our dele-
gates have held it to be an unintelligent,
savage country which must be civilised
according to Australian standards, and
that trade-union democracy must be
organised as the only basis of freedom,
even though the Communists should take
charge with Moscow at the helm. This
was Dr. Evatt’s speciality.
Now Mr. Casey has arrived, and for
the first time commonsense appears to
have been introduced into our approach
to the Japanese problem. He told the
Japanese that in the main Australians
did not believe that Japan would become
a threat to world peace—that Japan had
learned that militarism did not pay ; that
he hoped Japan would enter the camp of
the democratic nations as soon as
possible; that while White Australia
would remain basic he believed personal
contact and trade between the two
peoples was necessary for the promotion
of friendship and goodwill. He is right.
Tolerance backed by strong Australian
defence is the only ticket capable of
achieving much for our security.
POLITICAL POINTS
Premier McErr.
Doc. Evatt opens “Labor’s” “No” cam-
paign in Brisbane City Hall tomorrow
night. With Communist cheer-leaders
well distributed throughout the hall, an
“enthusiastic” meeting is assured.
“Labor’s” case for “No” quotes the
late Mr. Chifley on the subject of the
Anti-Red Bill. It doesn’t quote his reply
to Menzies’s challenge—made after the
High Court decision last March—to fight
an election on the issue. Mr. Chifley
said:
If a Government’s legislation is declared
by the High Court or the Privy Council to
be beyond the limits of the Constitution
there is only one course to take, and that
is to go to the people and ask them for
an alteration of the Constitution.
The Government is now taking what the
late “Labor” leader considered to be the
only course to take, but “Labor’s” pre-
sent leader, speaking with his tongue in
both cheeks, claims that in so doing it is
“trying to usurp the judicial functions of
the High Court.”
If Evatt’s tongue is in his cheek when
he speaks against the Red referendum,
CalwelTs must be tied up in knots. Five
months ago he said “Any referendum to
alter the Constitution by vesting more
power in this Parliament will always have
my support.” Of course Arthur wasn’t
deputy-leader then.
Britain’s Electricity Committee has
announced that a serious power shortage
may be expected in the coming winter.
It may be just a coincidence, but Mr.
Conde has been visiting Britain.
As a sort of a farewell blast from
winter, icy gales whooped across South-
East Australia and left a trail of loss
and damage from Newcastle to Hobart.
Apparently the weather gods were show-
ing Mr. McGrrrrr what they could do in
the freezing and wrecking line. Brrrrr!
Moss, the Victorian Agriculture
Minister, has announced that a bigger
percentage of his State’s onion crop was
sold in Victoria than usual this season,
the proportion rising from one-third to
more than half. The statement has set
Melbourne housewives questioning them-
selves and everybody else, for onions are
as scarce as hen’s teeth in Melbourne.
But somebody must be getting ’em—
unless the growers are buying them from
each other and pickling them and giving
them back.
When the liner Aorangi was held up
a short time ago the Communist leaders
of the Seamen’s Union maintained that
there was no ban on the ship—it was
merely a spontaneous action on the part
of the men that kept the vessel without
a crew. The same spirit of spontaneity
seems to be at work in another Red-
controlled union, the Ironworkers’, long
the stamping-ground of Ernie Thornton,
now of Peking. For the past month
employees at a Sydney works producing
new plant for Balmain and White Bay
powerhouses have been banning overtime
and the engagement of new labor. K,
McKeon, Communist branch secretary of
the Ironworkers, denies that his union is
involved in any plot to hold up produc-
tion, but says it is bound “to respect the
opinions of the rank-and-file members.”
Let anyone suggest holding a secret
ballot to ascertain the real opinions of the
rank-and-file and McKeon and his kind
will howl blue murder.
Two other unions, the Boilermakers
and the F.E.D.F.A., are also involved in
the dispute, and Conciliation Commis-
sioner Galvin, who doesn’t think “these
disputes in the metal-trades industry are
spontaneous as far as the rank-and-file
are concerned,” has given them until next
Monday to tell their Federal executives
of the existence of the ban and to report
to him their attitude towards it.
“Mat’s Mate”: It’s many a long year
since Mat and I sat down to our first
meal in a Victorian Mallee farmhouse
where we were engaged at “thirty-bob a
week and keep.” Mat reached for the
butter, which was promptly snatched from
him by the cocky’s wife, who snapped
“No butter for the working men.” Mat
looked round. “What workin’ men?” he
demanded. “The wife means you,” said
the cocky. “We ain’t workin’ here,”
Mat snorted. “The minute the butter cut
out me an’ me mate did the same.” And
so it was. I’d long thought that cocky
gone to his reward, but it seems he’s
reappeared as Premier of N.S.W. That
gentleman, by refusing to agree with
the other Premiers to a higher price for
butter, has snatched it away from the
N.S.W. working man as effectively as did
that cocky’s missus in the long ago.
Latham Withall, Director of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures, came
out last week with a suggestion that Gov-
ernments should temporarily extend the
retiring age of public servants and sus-
pend recruitments for the service for one
year. This, he claims, would increase the
general labor force. The suggestion de-
serves attention. There should be no
need to make the extension compulsory.
With living costs at their present level
most men due for retirement would be
only too pleased to continue working for
a year or so.
An Ease-Up’s Fable:
Once upon a time there was a man running
a big business which had rapidly increased the
number of employees until the cost was enor-
mous, and completely out of proportion to the
value of the work done. When this was pointed
out by the shareholders the man said, “Very
well, we will reduce the staff by 10,000. I’ll
get the branch-managers on to it straight away.”
And the branch-managers got on to it. Then
there arose a diffident sort of bloke, and in a
mild voice he asked, “What’s the sense in
sacking 10,000 of those already in the place
and at the same time advertising all over the
shop for thousands more? Wouldn’t it be
better to stop the intake of new hands, keep
what you’ve got and make them do a bit more
to make up for those not being recruited?”
But there was so much running about, and
studying files, and discussing reports, and talk,
that nobody heard the diffident bloke, and he
went out, laughing mirthlessly to himself.
S. E. Wilson, managing-director of
Farmer and Co. (Sydney), on the Federal
Government’s defence and anti-inflation
policy, as he was reported by favor of
“S. M. Herald”:
The outlook is developing into one of
destructive negation, and it will reap a
grave harvest of psychological reaction, as
well as a probable economic breakdown, if
some courage and vision are not injected
into the approach.
Far too much jargon in that approach.
The ordinary citizen isn’t in the race
when it comes to exploiting the inflation
spiral. A couple of years ago Victorian
Housing Commission acquired, under its
compulsory powers, land belonging to a
woman —the wife of an incapacitated ex-
serviceman—who had bought it for £125
by running a small washing business. The
commission valued the block at £7O 10s.,
telling the owner that she had been
shamelessly exploited by whoever sold it
to her. A year later the lordly institu-
tion sold the same block for £4OO.
Inflated housing prices? The latest
list of weekend auctions in Melbourne
had half a dozen weatherboard villas
which sold at figures up to £4BOO. It is
a little over 100 years since Robert
Hoddle, city surveyor, stepped in to a
log and offered for sale Howey’s Golden
Acre. The conditions were a deposit of
two quid and “a substantial dwelling to
be erected at a cost of at least £20.”
Here’s a way of ending tramway losses.
The secretary of the N. S. Wales Tram-
ways Employees’ Union, Mr. J. O’Sulli-
van, has been complaining that Sydney
trams are undermanned and that the de-
partment is for that reason losing much
revenue. He says that conductors pay
in from £l2 to £2O a shift, “so that
theoretically another 1000 conductors
could collect another £12,000 a day at
least.” Why stop at 1000? Ten
thousand could collect another £120,000
a day. In fact, it’s only a matter of put-
ting on enough conductors and we’d pay
off the whole national debt.
Last week Sydney City Council in-
creased prices for many council services,
including rentals of the Town Hall and
of sports-grounds. But didn’t McGrrrrr
peg all prices a fortnight earlier?
"Those Commos have suddenly touched
the chameleon-like Jacky Ferguson on
the raw in his capacity as State secretary
of the A.R.U. The Railway Shop Com-
mittee, composed of representatives of
unions renowned for domination by
Communist executives, called a lightning
24-hour stoppage in Sydney and New-
castle railway workshops to advertise
claims for award increases. Ferguson
wrathfully declared this was “cunningly
devised to by-pass the union’s authority”
in respect to rights of railwaymen. If,
after the September referendum, Menzies
pursues Commo industrial rebels into
shop committees (as he certainly should
do), presumably the “Labor” boss-
chameleon would change color again.
In Adelaide the secretary of the local
branch of the Communist-run Seamen’s
Union screeched “National service has
taken dozens of 18-year-old merchant sea-
men and caused crew shortages which
cause big tie-ups of ships.” Whereupon
the National Service registrar remarked
that of the first 1000 lads called into
camp there, only four were merchant
seamen. Somebody else pointed out that
ships had been tied-up long before call-
ups were made, but by that time the
Corns were off on another line.
Speakers’ notes on the “No” case, pre-
pared “under the directions of the
Leader of the Opposition, Dr. H. V.
Evatt,” include a brief history of the
Communist-party Dissolution Act. In
essence this is it: “Introduced into the
Representatives by Prime Minister, April
27, 1950. Became law October 20, 1950.
Found to be invalid by the High Court,
March 9, 1951.” The most important
date has been omitted from the history.
On October 16, 1950, the Federal Execu-
tive of the A.L.P. met in Canberra and
instructed “Labor’s” Senate majority to
pass the bill. Without that order from
Ferguson and Co. the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill would not have become
law.
The Evatt “Speakers’ Notes” assert
that “The American Constitution would
require that a bill of this character could
not be accepted.” Then the defenders
of the American Constitution had better
get busy—last Thursday a bill was intro-
duced into the U.S. Senate with the
object of
(1) Preventing known Communists from
holding office in trade-unions.
(2) Denying bargaining privileges to any
union represented by a Communist.
(3) Empowering an employer to discharge
any person who was a member of an
organisation on the Attorney-General’s sub-
versive list.
If Congress is inconsiderate enough to
pass this bill during the referendum cam-
paign "Labor” speakers will have to
change their line, and, instead of re-
gretting that Menzies has not followed
“the democratic American method” they
will have to accuse the U.S. of copying
Menzies by inserting “A Fascist and
totalitarian blot on their Constitution.”
Commonwealth Consultative Commit-
tee on Coal (under National Defence
Council) met for first time to examine
production, distribution and transport of
coal and to survey industry’s require-
ments. Every State Government was
represented, except that of the non-
co-operative McGrrrrr. A fat lot the
McGrrrrrs care about the coal short-
age, though the evil of it sprags the
wheels in every industry in the land.
Colin Clark, whose economic know-
ledge the Queensland Government is
lending to Indonesia for a few months,
foretells a big boom in primary indus-
tries “when Australia wakes up to the fact
that we have built a lot of uneconomic
manufacturing industries.” He expects
Queensland, Westralia and parts of New
South Wales to do most of the booming,
with Queensland eventually holding 40
p.c. of the Commonwealth’s population—
with full primary development the State’s
population could, he considers, reach six
million by 1981. It’s a new angle on
population-growth ; up till now the argu-
ment has been that we can get the num-
bers only by increased urbanisation.
Clark’s belief is that if we try to expand
our manufacturing much further wages
will fall and the migrant-flow will cease.
On the other hand the world food-
shortage will continue for a long time and
the three States mentioned still have
plenty of underdeveloped land.
Victorian Government is making a
move to force beersellers to let rooms
that have been vacant for more than
three months to people without homes.
Police Chief Duncan is to arrange a hotel-
to-hotel survey by licensing-inspectors.
Pooh-Bah Ferguson, denying that any
split exists in the “Labor” party on the
Red referendum: “In the Labor party
you are either for a policy or against it.
Every member of the Labor party knows
that.” Every member may know that,
but no member knows for certain how
long he’ll be able to support any policy
without being told to switch round and
oppose it.


Department for
pushing & shoving
I D £PfIRTM eNT
fo«.
GIVING
anp
taking
\
&
(^V 6
V? 1
“RETRENCHMENT” IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Well, why the devil didn't you SAY she was
your daughter!”
“Melb’n”: A chair has been found
which it has been decided officially to
regard as the chair on which the Speaker
of Victoria’s first Parliament officially sat.
However, a doubt arises whether official
recognition will make it the chair on which
the Speaker did sit. The beauti-
fully-carved piece of furniture comes from
the St. Patrick’s Society, which has handed
it over to the Government for Speaker
Clifden Eager’s use. St. Patrick’s Hall,
in Bourke-street, was certainly the hall
where the first Parliament met 100 years
ago when Port Phillip cut itself free from
the loathy tyranny of N. S. Wales; later
it became the headquarters of Victoria’s
oldest friendly society. But why
didn’t the Parliament take its chair with it
when it moved? It must have been suffi-
ciently encrusted with tradition, like the
mace and the rest of the paraphernalia.
And why did the Government have the
chair carved with shamrocks, the tradi-
tional emblem of St. Patrick? And why
isn’t it more like the Speaker’s chair in
the old prints of the Assembly, which it
doesn’t resemble any more than the bent
tree under which Adelaide annually cele-
brates Proclamation Day resembles the
tree my grandfather painted a few days
after the landing of South Australia’s first
fleet? My great-aunt said she saw the
original tree chopped down for firewood.
Perhaps something of that sort happened
to the original throne of Victoria’s first
Speaker.
* * * *
“Sack”: I’m crooked on advertising
agents. From the radio they command
me to: “Get a bottle today.” They
leap out of my newspaper to order:
“Mail this coupon now!” They treat
me like a child: “Take those boot re-
pairs to Welters —don’t forget the name
w-e-l-t-e-r-s.” But that’s not all;
they’ve insidiously worked on me and
my kind until we automatically become
silent salesmen with
practically every-
thing we buy. No-
body would allow
a builder to work
in plaster on the
walls of a new
home “Built by
Jerry, Hammer-
ville.” Yet most of
the fittings in the
home he builds will
bear similar infor-
mation. If I buy a
car I become a sort of glorified sandwich-
board-man wherever I drive. Not only
has the maker spread the name over the
front, but all wheels carry the informa-
tion, and often the rear window chips in
—sometimes with this chatty communi-
cation: “Yes, this is another Whatsits-
name.” An artist signs his masterpiece
in tiny letters ; a piano-dealer slaps his
name and address where the large gold
lettering will be moat conspicuous. Yes,
I hate advertising-men. But there’s noth-
ing I can do about it—they’ll have the
last laugh. When I’m buried a suitable
memorial will, I fear, be erected over
me. And at the
foot of it neat black
letters will read:
“Cold and Clammy,
Ltd., Masons.”
* *
“Bo”: I could
never understand
what caused the old
“ bachelo r’s-button’ ’
to disappear from
the market. It was
a wonderful inven-
tion, invaluable for
the married man.
But I never knew a
bachelor to buy
one —landladies in
those days con-
sidered it part of
the job to do a
boarder’s mending.
What a strange
world it now
seems! Like all
great inventions,
the principle of the
bachelor’s - button
was simplicity it-
self. You bought
it in two separate
pieces. One piece,
like a stud, you in-
serted through a
hole you bored with
a skewer through
the strides; you
then merely snap-
ped the other part
over the stud, and that button invariably
outlasted the garment. It could be put
on in a tenth of the time it takes any
man to wet and twist the thread and
poke it vainly at the needle-eye. Since
it has been no longer available the
married man has been forced to use the
“carpenter’s-button.” The use of this,
though, is limited strictly to the top of
the trousers where support for the braces
is essential. It is just a wire-nail
skewered through a pinched-up piece of
the material and over which the braces-
loop goes. Those scratches you some-
times see on a housewife’s wrist are rarely
due to a too-careless handling of the cat.
They are mostly caused by the “carpen-
ter’s-button” on her husband’s trousers
when she has been “fanning” his pockets
in the dark.
* * * *
“Clooter”: A London doctor has
announced, and the Press has broadcast
it, that fat people “tend to become slow-
“Romeo, Romeo! Wherefore art thou, Romeo!”
witted.” I hope that doctor never plays
poker against the brothers, Ed and Art,
who infest our club. Neither of ’em is
under 14 stone, most of it fat, and either
singly or in company their card-sense is
such that few of us will bet against
them. Ed sits back in his chair, his
several chins resting on his chest, his eyes
almost closed, never seems to watch the
deal or the buy and is always ahead. “It’s
my ears,” he told me. “I can tell by the
sound of a bloke’s voice as he bets pretty
well what he’s got.” Art is the reverse;
he sits alert and watchful, ponders every
draw and raise, and bets with decision.
As for ready wits, the night the police
raided the place Ed went clean through
the open window into the backyard and
escaped; Art jammed himself in the
doorway and held the raiders back till
the others got clear, and later collected
a quid apiece all round. His own fine
was £2 and 15s. costs, leaving him a
clear profit of £4 ss.
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: Efforts to grow foliage on
the stone of St. Matthias’s Church, Pad-
dington, after the manner of the English
tabernacle on which it was modelled, have
interested me for over 50 years. Early
efforts to encourage ivy to grow on the
walls were failures ; the plants grew well
enough whilst depending for nutriment
on the soil, but directly the suckers
grasped the stone walls the plants wilted.
Probably the stone, quarried from the old
quarry at Bronte, was so impregnated
with salt that the plants were poisoned
with it. Time may have washed the salti-
ness out, for after half a century of
effort (with ivy, Virginia creeper and
other climbers), all ending in failure, a
partial success has been achieved. Over
a very small section there is now what
looks like a vigorous growth, though the
great mass of the church still resists the
green covering. Perhaps another 50 years
may see the job fully done ; then prob-
ably someone will arise to say that the
vine-covering is unhealthy to the walls
and insist on tearing it down.
* * * *
“Fairf”: I’ve never been able to deter-
mine whether I’m a slave to gentlemanly
instincts or moral cowardice, but one or
other causes me to stew in summer and
freeze in winter. Owing to the short-
sightedness of railway-carriage designers
it is utterly impossible to temper the
atmosphere by adjustments to your own
window —it merely decides the fate of
the person sitting behind you ; the one
in front decrees what degree of comfort
or agony you shall enjoy or suffer.
Many a time, huddling behind broad
female shoulders, I have rehearsed a
gentlemanly: “Excuse me, madam, but
would you allow me to close your window
as I’m getting the full force of the
draught here?” But the speech has never
been delivered; somehow a physical
freezing seems less terrible than the
thought of a moral and mental one. As
for direct action—l once heard the broad-
side delivered at a young man who leaned
over and dropped the window belonging
to a busily-yapping woman in the seat in
front. Lately, however, I’ve been toying
with the idea of presenting to the Rail-
way Department a patent long-lever
attachment which will enable everybody
to lower the window that concerns him—
the one ahead. But what’s the use! By
the time the various unions have decided
whether the installing should be done by
fitters, mechanics or draughtsmen the
summer will be on us and I’d have to
invent a gadget to open ’em.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: One of the latest
martyrs of inflation is a chap who,
probably with the best intentions, wrote
to the “S. M. Herald” suggesting that
some check could be put on the brute
by a curtailment of unnecessary type-
written correspondence involving pay-
ment at high rates to typists who mainly
spend the money on fripperies. For days
the “Herald’s” columns boiled with the
remarks of irate women about this in-
sulting assault on their kind. The corres-
pondence closed with another letter from
the poor chap stating that he had not
meant to criticise typists as a body; he
apologised for not having had his letter
typewritten ; the editor would understand
the reason, he suggested, adding “the man
always loses.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Looby”: While mooching along
Castlereagh-street I heard a bloke be-
hind me say to his cobber “And at four
o’clock it was twenty to five.” I won-
dered for a moment whether daylight
saving had been reintroduced without my
knowledge, but after a few more words
the air was cleared. The remark referred
to football scores.
* * « •
“H.M.”: A woman writer once told
me how, in search for reality for a book
she planned, she tried to get what would
be a doctor’s reaction to a horrific con-
fession. Her tale was that, contemplating
marriage to a young man of whom she
was fond, she wanted to know whether
she was fit to marry. “You see, I
murdered two husbands,” she said, “and
I don’t want the same fate to happen to
this young man.” Nothing but a slightly
arched eyebrow suggested that the doctor
was in any way perturbed. He left the
surgery momentarily to prepare her a
sedative, remarked quite pleasantly that
“Murder is a messy job, isn’t it?” and
asked the season for her act. “Before I
was born my mother was bitten by a
female spider. I think the tendencies of
female spiders might have got into my
blood you know they kill their
husbands,” she said. She made up her
mind that doctors were quite unemo-
tional, and that she would have to rely
on her imagination for the dramatic
scene; but as she was leaving after the
doctor had talked to her calmly and
soothingly, a police-car raced up. It took
her the best part of two days to get out
of the Reception House, and after that
she decided that the pursuit of realism has
its dangers.
THE GREAT SACRIFICE.
“Suspicion is mounting’ in the lobbies of the
French Senate that M. Victor Biakadoba, member
for the Ivory Coast, has been eaten by his con-
stituents.”
“I can hear the tum-tums beating,” said Bob
Menzies to Sir Artie;
“They’re announcing voters’ banquetings
throughout the Commonweal;
Each electoral division has its own peculiar
Party
Where the Member for the District is dis-
membered for the meal.
“It’s the latest Paris fashion for a Senator to
vanish
And be thought to have been eaten by his
own constituents;
The Australian politician cannot stand by,
being clannish —
He must let himself be moulded by the logic
of events.
“For the bush has friends to eat him, and their
hungry voices greet him
When the talk is of inflation in the lounges
and the bars;
Yes; they see the vision splendid of his roasted
haunch extended
At barbecues by night beneath the everlasting
stars.
“We can hardly ask the nation to be making
sacrifices
Unless we lead the way with sacrifices of
our own;
We can overcome the shortages that raise the
butchers’ prices
By offering the butcheries our loyal flesh and
bone.
“I can hear the conversation round a table at
Wahroonga—
‘This rooster must be eighty, love; I’ve never
known such thews!’
‘Yes, darling; it’s a boiler, but I should have
done it longer—
He always was a tough old bird, was little
Billy Hughes.’
“I know that Melbourne’s partial to the corned
and corny Calwell,
And Barton might take Evatt with a grain
or two of salt,
And Eddie Ward —although you’d think he’d
not agree at all well
With anyone, his voters’ tastes are human,
to a fault.
“And you, yourself, Sir Artie —whatever you’ve
been doing,
I’ve heard a lot of people say they’d like a
piece of you”
“Yes, Bob, and I assure you you’ll cut up well
for Kooyong”
“What! Cannibals in Kooyong? Artie, that
would never do.
“However, it’s a subject like the pound’s
revaluation —
It will solve a lot of problems, but one
problem still remains:
We can sacrifice our bodies, lights and livers,
to the nation,
But the butcheries will still, I fear, be pretty
short of brains.”
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


JV3HS
The Stout
that does you a
power of good!
M
H
MALT
£
HOP*
0
0
r
*
©
ov
o>
V co
Al )*
IftiWli AND bottled BY TSQTH * co. limited
85.t60.40
\ »
SJOTJ’Suijg SB r-
7.
r 4
£1
ujmii
a
O*
UO-*
m
V
acpa -
ULLI L
T
' e ’ ! “u
$
//%3>
£n
V(vJ
Talk over
Shrewd businessmen will tell you
of Vauxhall’s higher resale value.
Family men will stress Vauxhall’s
amazing economy with normal
driving, up to 35 m.p.g. in the
12 h.p., 4 cyl. Vauxhall Wyvern
and up -o 27 m.p.g. in the 18 h.p.,
6 cyl. Vauxhall Velox.
Women will enthuse over Vaux-
Vauxhail
hall’s easy handling and the
smoothness of its independent
front suspension. All will em-
phasize that Vauxhall’s brilliant
performance, good looks and low
first cost make it the outstanding
car buy on the toad today! It will
pay you to wait for Vauxhail. Put
your name on your dealer’s list now!
Vauxhall Wyvem is the lowest priced 12 h.p., 4 cylinder car in Australia —the
Velox is the lowest priced 18 h.p. 6 cylinder Saloon or Tourer in Australia.
WYVERN 12 h.p., 4 cyl. O.H.V.
Caleche (Tourer) £665; Saloon (Imp. Pan.)
Bolster Trim £745; Saloon (Imp. Pan.)
VELOX 18 h.p. 6 cyl. O.H.V.
Caleche (Tourer) £715; Saloon (Imp,Pan.)
Bolster Trim £795; Saloon (Imp. Paa.J
Leather Trim £755 (All prices plus sales tax)
Leather Trim £BO5.
Enquire about tbe “Air Chief
built for Vanxball radio —and tbe G.AI.A.C, purchase plan*
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD,
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by 'Yauxhall Dealers throughout Australia. V23-HH.
“Quilliam-st.”: First-hand news of the
battle of Waterloo came to an Adelaide
schoolmaster recently in a rather round-
about way. Mr. Herbert, headmaster of
Norwood State School, received a copy
of London “Times” dated June 22, 1815,
containing the Duke of Wellington’s
dispatch announcing the result of the
battle. The paper was sent to Mr.
Herbert by an American soldier serving
with the Occupation Force in Germany.
While the serviceman was browsing in
the secondhand section of a Hamburg
bookshop he picked up an early edition
of one of Dickens’s novels. Folded up
inside the cover was the old paper with
the historic news.
* * * *
“Eureka”: One of the dailies phoned a
woman to say that her husband had just
won first-prize in a lottery. “He is a
very lucky man,” said the reporter. “He
don’t realise just how lucky he is,” replied
the woman. “I’ve been thinking seriously
of poisoning the big loafer.”
ttTT „ „ , c
Uco : To commemorate the fourth
anniversary of the establishment of
Pakistan the Moslem Dominion has issued
J set ° f new postage-stamps, designed
ky Pakistani artist Abdur Rahman
Chughtai. One design, paying tribute to
the glazed-pottery work long a tradi-
tional art of the country, depicts a vase
and plate surrounded by an intricate leaf
pattern; another includes the symbolic
arch characteristic of Moslem architec-
lure and from which hangs a lamp in-
tended to represent “the lamp of learning
which the Moslems lighted in the world
after the darkness of the feudal ages.”
Most artistic design is that used for the
“leafy green” four-annas stamp and the
“autumnal brown” six-annas ; it employs
the leaf pattern which is the chief motif
of Moslem architectural decoration,
Ancient and modern are united in the air-
mail stamp —in three-annas and twelve-
annas values —depicting an aeroplane and
an hourglass.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Halfway down a blind
lane in Sydney a covered buggy pulled
up and was almost immediately sur-
rounded by a crowd of men who passed
over quids and received in exchange
brown-paper bags containing wrapped
parcels that had every appearance of con-
taining meat. The performance lasted
only a few minutes before the vehicle
was emptied and a satisfied-looking gent,
propped himself on the tailboard while
he counted his takings. How come? Did
someone’s house-cow die?
* * * *
"“Pat”: Every age has its standards of
comfort, and some of those which hold a
high place in the 20th century may pro-
vide posterity with amusement if not
astonishment. An acquaintance of mine
recently went to Brisbane, allegedly to
escape the Sydney chill. Knowing his
intention was to be away for two months.
I was surprised to see him back at the
end of the week. “Brisbane not up to
standard?” I asked. Came the morose
verdict: “Awful place! Everyone told
me you could smoke in Brisbane theatres.
Well, you can’t.” “But I thought you
weren’t keen on going to shows?”
“That’s why,” replied the chain-smoker
grimly.
♦ * * ♦
“Cauboy”: It was perhaps appropriate
that the best Irish bull perpetrated for a
long time should come from a president
of the English-Speaking Union. High
Court Judge Sir Owen Dixon receiving
Sir Denys Lowson, Lord Mayor of
London, in the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne, was the culprit. Indicating the
sword-bearer and the sheriffs who accom-
panied his Worship, he said: “Sir Denys
has brought with him some of the most
ancient officers of the City of London.”
* * * ♦
“Wingella”: Not only British admirals
used umbrellas for shelter (B. 11/7/’5l).
Soon after Queen Victoria’s marriage she
and the Prince Consort paid a visit to
Scotland, and while there they reviewed
some Highland regiments. Heavy rain
fell all that day, and the result was that
every Scottie at the review, “wi’ kilt an’
a’, an’ a’,” sheltered himself under a huge
cotton umbrella. The sight moved a
local poet to write a parody, still re-
membered, the first verse of which ran:
Cam’ ye by Athol, lad wi’ the paletot.
Saw ye oor Highlanders, gallant, brave
fellows,
Wrapped in their dripping plaids,
Wiping their trusty blades,
Each o’ them sheltering ’neath cotton
umbrellas.
“Lad wi’ the paletot” was, of course, the
Prince Consort.
* * * ♦
“Ben Ari”: Apparently intended to
strike at the more tender thoughts of
patrons of a Perth beer-garden a con-
spicuously-colored poster has remained
attached to a wooden gate which leads
to this beer-drinkers’ haven. So far it has
not stirred the feelings of past and present
alcohol-consumers to the extent of
angrily defacing it. A vivid red question-
mark is featured on the dodger and under
it is printed the conscience-stirring query,
“Have you seen the poor families?”
THE PLAY’S THE THING.
“A well-fitted foundation garment can dramatise
your figure.” —Fashion note.
Remember, the audience to whom you’ll be
playing
Has critical faculties, Sis.
A lot will depend on the role you’re portraying,
So see that you stage-manage this.
Your dramatisations
Depend on foundations,
So read and absorb all the signs.
Don’t strike a note jarring
If you would be starring;
You simply must master your lines!
Don’t make the mistake, then, of loosely
assuming
That any old pair’s good enough,
Or every hope that you held you’ll be dooming—
Those lines you can easily “fluff ”
Don’t lace ’em too tightly
Or you’ll look unsightly—
A figure from out of the past;
’Twill give you the feeling
The show you’re not stealing,
You’re simply a girl in a cast.
You’re wishing to be of attraction the centre
Of your little stage, as it were?
For mannequin-like to dramatically enter,
And cause a remarkable stir?
Well, just take a wake-up!
It isn’t the make-up,
The costume, that renders you “tops.”
It’s corsets that do it,
And you’ll never rue it
If you make the most of these props.
It acts as a very exceptional tonic
To think the well-disciplined curve
Allows a free play to your gifts histrionic-
The limelight they fully deserve.
But if your foundations
Don’t bring acclamations
You mustn’t despair—all you need
Is some expert to prompt you,
And very soon swamped you
Will be with some offers of “lead.”
By moulding the bulges (all done with propriety)
You’ll always avoid any traps.
To get good revues, and to add some variety,
Try roll-ons —or step-ins, perhaps.
Don’t be too pedantic;
It isn’t romantic
To merely appear statuesque.
But, Sis —on the level —
Avoid like the devil
A show they’d regard as burlesque!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
The sun was warm, and
within my limited range of vision not a
cloud showed. A feather drifted slowly
earthward, then another and another,
and, rolling my head round, I spotted
the eagle on the dead limb of a gum.
He’d found himself a bird carcass from
somewhere and was plucking it with
eager impatience. I watched idly. She
loves me, she loves me not, went the
wedgie, while the feathers rained on to
the ground below. She loves me, she . . .
aw, what the hell’s it matter, anyway, he
apparently decided, sinking his mug in
the plucked area. A shadow across the
sun, and the wedgie’s offsider arrived on
the end of the limb. The diner paused
in his demolishing, glared sideways, and
as he moved warningly his dinner fell to
the ground. Both birds eyed it, turned
their heads and eyed it from other angles,
then the newcomer descended. Picking
it up, she spread it on a near-by log and
hastily retired as his lordship arrived to
renew his meal. It didn’t take long.
Then, as the smaller bird crept in again
to clean up the scraps, the big wedgie
turned his back disdainfully, strutted to
the highest part of the log, and, large and
noble in the sunlight, ran a lordly eye
over his immediate world. All of which,
somehow, reminded me it must be about
time the missus had my dinner cooked.
“They had a bit of an argument in the pub."
“Billy T.”: If you wish to retain the
breezy friendship of my neighbor, Mrs.
Brogan, don’t let on that you know me.
She’s a good old battler, cheerful when
the going is a bit heavy, generous when
it’s good; yet in spite of this hearty out-
look—or maybe to ensure it—she makes
shopping trips into town pretty often,
and her chief purchases are usually
stimulants. Then it is that you leave her
alone; no assistance is required in the
ritual she follows and, anyway, as the
session deepens, you might unwittingly
disturb the little folk and gay pets that
she gathers around her in the room at
those times and which you could be for-
given for not noticing. It was at that
stage the other night—you can tell it by
the low conversational voice and the little
chuckles coming from the kitchen —when
the neighborhood leapt to a succession
0 f blood-
curdling
shrieks,
folio wed
smartly by
the slam-
ming o f
doors deep
in the
house and
the scurry-
1n g of
strange steps along the veranda. I
couldn’t help it. My goat, Whisky, is a
friendly little animal; she’d been cropping
dock along the fence, and on hearing a
kindly voice from that back room natur-
ally looked in to share the pleasure. On
seeing a figure bent low, with head in
hands. Whisky would understand it was
a case where sympathy would not be out
of place; how the blazes was Ito know
that when their faces met they’d be less
than a foot apart?
* * * *
“Eurimburra” gloomily ponders a
nursemaid’s job;
Passing the pub on my way to the clearing
sale I was hailed by Johnno. With a bottle
of Australian in his pocket, and the best part of
another inside him, he insisted on clambering
aboard and coming with me to buy springers.
The sale was in full swing when we arrived,
and Johnno fell out of the bus and charged
over to the yard, where he put in a bid that
rocked the opposition and landed him with a
couple of “crackers.” The auctioneer declined
to take his bid for the next line, and acidly
advised me to do Johnno’s buying for him or
else escort my pet to the nearest tallowwood
and let him sleep it off. I’d just got him nicely
bedded down, and had gone back, when a
screech from the homestead announced theft
something was wrong. Sure enough, Johnno
was missing, and over at the house I was
greeted by a stormy female looking for a hound
that had clouted on a plateful of snags. My
relief was brief, for the next moment a cob-
webby apparition crawled from under the joint
to announce that “he couldn’t see no dawg.”
The cocky’s missus glared suspiciously, but,
noting his condition, let it pass, so I turned
Johnno loose amongst the plant to be offered,
reckoning that about all he could do there was
bark his shins. A few minutes later I joined
a mob of blokes racing for the barn. Here,
Johnno had managed to start up an engine
coupled to a chaffcutter, into which he’d been
feeding cobs of corn, but had somehow managed
to get his coat caught in the cogs. Fortunately
the contraption was fitted with reverse gear,
and the shock had sobered him sufficiently to
enable him to put it into operation. Thoroughly
fed up, I rescued what was left and lit out for
town. At the boundary-fence he insisted on
getting out to open the gate, and started to
grope in a pocket. “Wait till we get to town,”
I snapped impatiently. “’S orright, ’s orright,
hold her, son, hold her,” he burbled. A few
more gropes and he produced a fried snag.
“Iliere y’ are, Steve,” he said placatingly. “Saved
’er for y’; the las’ of the Mohicans—there
were only eigbt-
* * * *
“Oomalas” (New Britain): In the low
overhanging branches of the mangroves
the pigeons in hundreds, wet from their
saltwater bath, sit preening and drying
themselves making soft noises which
sound to me of satisfaction. As small
flocks fly off to the galip-trees to feed,
freshly-bathed birds take their places.
and so it goes on from after sunrise till
just before noon, when all seek the high
trees for a siesta. This is a daily happen-
ing, though the numbers are less in the
breeding season, the bathers then mainly
being young unmated birds. As the
feathers dry out the birds strut, chest
out, in seeming pride of the glorious
colors they are clothed in, and a lovelier
blend cannot be imagined. Metallic
greens, blacks, creams, pinks, yellows,
greys, browns and bronzes. The pick of
“ Yes —I'm self-taught .”
a lovely bunch is a robust young cock of
fine feather, a visitor from the mountains,
with a pearl-grey body, pearl-grey collar
and a rose-pink head. His tail is bluey-
black on top, underneath brown and
bronze with wings of similar colors,
This fellow is a disturbing influence, mak-
ing advances to all the susceptible hens
and bouncing interfering cocks till they
fly off. The visiting mountain pigeons
are much larger and their colors more
delicate, but they are the noisy assertive
domineering types.
* * * *
“Shadow-chaser”: The meritorious
habit of putting first things first was well
exemplified at Belgrave, Vic., during last
summer’s bushfires. A “settler,” whose
home was threatened, suddenly remem-
bered that the next race, in which he was
interested, was due to start. To the
amazement of his “brigade” he doffed
his fire-fighting gear, raced around the
oncoming flames to the telephone, where
m spite o£ the discomfort of heat and
W Re
ing his tancy declared the winner. Ks -
joining the fire-fighters he remarked, “It
got home, but it was too hot in the house
for me to wait for the •correct-weight’
• i „
® ‘ * * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The little bloke was
about 4ft. 7in. and must have weighed
fully lewt., but he had enough beer in
him to make him as belligerent as these
cock-sparrows become when they’ve got
enough beer in. And, probably because
Mat was the biggest bloke there, he
selected Mat for a chopping-block. “I’ll
have you,” he shrieked, dancing about
and shaping up. “Come on, y’ big ’ump!
I’ll go y’ scone-hot.” Mat surveyed him
and a slow grin spread across his dial.
“You got no chance o’ fightin’ me, mate,”
he drawled. “Ain’t I! Ain’t I! Bv
cripes. I’ll go y’ all right!” yelped the
midget. “Y’ got no hope o’ fightin’ me,
mate,” Mat repeated, still grinning,
Slightly sobered by the big fellow’s atti-
tude, the belligerent demanded, “Why
ain’t I?” “Because,” said Mat, “unless
y’ stood on a box y’d have t’ hit me
below the belt, an’ I ain’t standin’ round
while y’ get a box ; I’ll run awav first.”
Whereupon peace descended on that bar.
* * * *
“Bo”; The boss and young Sam were
painting the iron roof of the homestead,
They started at the same end, one on one
side, and one on the other, using short,
home-made ladders which reached from
the gutter in which it rested to within a
few feet of the ridge-capping, moving
these along as they progressed. They had
it about half-done when one of the steps
on Sam’s ladder broke as he reached up
to do a high part. He fell a foot to the
next rung, just as the boss’s head appeared
over the apex of the roof to do the
capping. As he waved his arms in an
endeavor to retain his equilibrium, the
boss’s face went white. By dropping his
brush Sam happened to grab at, and hold,
a rung, and by some miracle of balance
his pa’int-pot kept almost on an even
keel. As realisation came that his em-
ployee wouldn’t fall, the boss heaved an
audible sigh of relief. “Gripes, Sam,” he
said. “You want to be a bit more careful,
I thought that paint was a goner—the
bloke in the store won’t have any more
of that color in for another month.”
* * * +
“E.”: Those who claim the human nose
is gradually losing its sense of smell may
have something, but I incline to the belief
that many trees and flowers haven’t the
strong scents they once flaunted. The
bush-musk-trees, for instance. Once their
fragrance was quite arresting. Now one
can crush their leaves and sniff himself
breathless without catching a trace of
perfume. In the flower-garden, too, scents
are on the decline. My childhood
memories include a large daphne bush
that heralded its presence some 20 yards
in advance. Today I daily brush by a
daphne bush where dozens of blooms
pass almost unnoticed. The old-fashioned
mignonette which, years ago, scented
granddad’s garden may still have a hint
of sweetness, but it is certainly hard to
catch. Many other old favorites, too,
such as stock, wallflower, etc., are feeling
the effects of overcivilisation and becom-
ing temperamental. Though still potent,
they withhold most of their fragrance
until the night hours when no one is
around.
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”; Joined a droving plant
as horsetailer shifting a mob of bullocks
from Quilpie (Q’land) to Bourke (N.S.W.).
The cattle had been on the road for
weeks, had settled down, lashings of feed
everywhere and the weather was good.
It was a drover’s dream apart from
Sniffler, the boss drover. He had what
he called neuralgia. I had the same
complaint myself, only I knew it by an-
other name, “skin-cracking”—and not
dermatitis, either. We’re getting in to-
wards a little two-pub town and Sniffler
reckons he’ll have to get treatment. When
we get within a few miles of Two-pub I
land on a good camp and Sniffler and a
couple of men make a break, leaving me
and the babbler in charge. About mid-
night a dry storm comes up, and there’s
movement on the camp. Next morning
I’m in the township and locate Sniffler
in bed at the boozer with a bottle of
neuralgia-cure within reach. “What you
doin’ in here, Skuthorpe?” he asks—
Skuthorpe because they reckon I’m a lot
rougher rider than Lance. “You know
that big roan bullock always in the lead?”
1 say. “Yes,” he says. “What about
him?” “Can’t see him anywhere, boss.
I think he’s gone.” “Well, clear back
to camp quick and find him!” he says,
and pours himself out a rozener with me
looking on, I don’t go back to the camp.
I make for the other boozer, spend an
hour and the best part of a quid and
hie back to Sniffler and say, “You know
that bally-faced bullock always on the
tail of the mob?” “Yes,” he says. “What
about him ?” “Gone, boss. Can’t see
him anywhere.” “Look here,
he says. “Can you see any flamin
bullocks out there at all?” “Not a
one, boss. All gone.” “Why didn’t you
tell me that before?” he yelled. “Well,
it’s this way,” I say. “The cook said to
break it easy like, and” He bounded
out of bed —he was fully dressed, boots
and all—and bolts ; calls out something
about rolling the swag and collecting a
cheque and forgets the bottle of Tom
Thumb. But Skuthorpe didn’t forget
and I tricked him, anyway. I didn’t roll
the swag. I bought a suitcase. That
swag-rolling gets monotonous.
TWILIGHT OF THE GODS.
We walk like the breed of gods, golden as
apricots.
Laughter floating from head to head in banners
of joy,
Lhough Chiron gets to be an old horse in the
home paddock,
His brain dulled to the knowledge of barbed
wire,
And apple-sugared children;
Sirius a terrier’s behind diminishing down a
hollow log—
And Pluto’s kingdom is a rabbit world,
ihe Minotaur—a trifle mangy for this brightest
sun—
Skulks as the Tantanoola Tiger, fierce as night
falls,
(When a long-dead circus lion bays through the
Haunted Hills.)
With a muffled “Space-time! Space-time!” a
dragon train
Writhes through the flowing tides of grass, the
treeless plain,
Devouring distance in a drowsy noon,
And, edging to the mountain pass, cuts its own
nick in time.
Now, yellow-fingered on Wahgunyah willows,
In brazen silence, too, a scarlet sun
Makes a small autumn of the afternoon.
And earth swims on, leviathan in the deep,
In its own monstrous shadow.
So we,
Wandering through the ferns of Tambo Valley,
Are the ghosts of now,
Will be
The undistinguished presences of time gone
by—
With the mountain crests gods’ ruins toothed
against the sky.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Andrew McGEE’S famous NIMROD
DRYSMOKER PIPES incorporating the amazing hygienic filter
Choose from 29 different shapes and weights
You’re sure to find a pipe to suit your indi-
vidual taste in the extensive “Nimrod” range.
Illustrated are the most popular pipes in the
eight distinct styles. All “Nimrod” pipes
are broken-in for instant
smoking pleasure thanks to
the specially-prepared car-
bonised bowl which makes
even the first smoke taste
mild and agreeable.
27/6
Add 1/2 postage
for mail orders
ENJOY A MILDER,
COOLER SMOKE
This amazing filter makes
this possible. Tobacco
burns evenly, bowl
stays dry, tars and
oils are removed
leaving only the
full flavour of
the tobacco.
dsf
ANDREW M C GEE
70 PITT and 1 CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY
PIPES
EXPERTLY
REPAIRED
BILLIARD
997 (Heavy)
Also 941 (Light)
PASTIME
992
BLOCK
982
WINNI
957
BULLCAP
884 (Panelled)
945 (Plain)
POT
827
BENT
946
INVERNESS
970
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was doing up
the boundary on Wallaby Ridge, and rode
out there each morning till the station
jeep, passing the vicinity daily, offered
him a lift. “Get you there a lot sooner,”
suggested the driver. “Yair?” The old
bloke seemed uncertain. “No good
gettin’ there before it’s daylight.” “No,
but it’s better travelling. Warmer. And
you’ll get home earlier at night.” Seventy-
fiver gave in, and next morning his dog
and nag were left behind as the jeep
whirled him workwards. He was quieter
than usual when he returned that night,
and worse still the next. On the third
morning I spotted him reaching for his
bridle. “Turned the jeep down, have
you?” I asked, as he led his nag into
the yard. He nodded. “Tell the bloke
not to wait for you?” Again his head
jerked assent. He stooped for his saddle.
“It ain’t that it wus rough or nothin’,
Sol,” he conceded presently. “But”
he rubbed a hand over old Punch, and
glanced down at Blue’s eager mug.
“But, cripes, a bloke’d get the flamin’
dingbats out there all day on his own.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”; I am told by a Sydney
morning paper that out at Forbes
(N.S.W.) “The Lachlan River had burst
its banks in many places tonight, and
water was gushing into Lake Forbes.”
The river must have changed its habits
since my time. Then it was like all
western N.S.W. rivers, flowing lazily
within its banks most of the time, and
when there was heavy rain in the Aber-
crombies and the Waugoola hills it gradu-
ally rose and rose and presently flowed
out over its banks and backed up the
creeks and swelled the billabongs (“Lake
Forbes” is a billabong) until the water
overflowed their banks. Then the water
pushed out into the flats and along dry
old courses, and if there happened to be
a village like Forbes near by it got into
their lower streets and crept up round
the houses and the inhabitants went
leisurely to higher ground, preferably as
near the pubs as possible, and waited till
the river got back to normal. Water
“gushing” into Lake Forbes in the manner
suggested would be something to see.
However, my fear is that if the Lachlan
has taken to these performances a man
won’t be able to camp beside it any more
—he’d never sleep through the constant
noise of the thing bursting its banks.
* * * *
“Amdee”: Those castaways marooned
by the fictionists on palm-fringed, water-
less islands need not die of thirst, even
if they lack strength to climb such a lofty
tree as a coconut-palm for a “drinking-
nut.” Beneath such palms lie scores of
mature nuts, some of them rooted in the
sand or soil, and sprouting glossy green
leaves. It is these young growing palms,
still attached to the nut, that have water
stored in sufficient quantities to support
human life. Wrench such a nut from its
hold in the ground, remove the inches-
thick fibrous husk in crescent-shaped
segments, and by squeezing or chewing
same refreshing drops of cool water can
be obtained. The leaves of such palms,
being deeply corrugated, offer the utmost
“ He's lucky to have a roof over his heads.”
catchment area possible to any moisture
that settles on them. Dew or light rain
is channelled down the mid-rib and
absorbed in the coconut fibre. Evapora-
tion is nil owing to the excellent insulat-
ing qualities of the outer husk and skin,
while the young palm has not yet reached
a stage of growth demanding every drop
of moisture held in the fibre of the nut.
* * * •
“Macquarie”: At dusk on a wet night
a bedraggled, miserable girl came splash-
ing up to the little homestead. Their
small car had broken down and hubby
had hitched a lift back to a garage on a
milk-truck. He must have been delayed.
Could she stop here for the night? She
certainly could. Old Charlie’s wife had
her dry and comfortable in no time. The
woman went to bed early, but the crib
was always an 11-o’clock sitting. We
were on the last game when a startled
scream came from the girl’s room, fol-
lowed by twin bumps as though a pair
of bare heels struck the floor hurriedly.
Charlie and his wife reached the door
from opposite directions just as the girl
burst out. “There’s something wriggling
in my bed!” she gasped. The old chap
snatched up a candle and a bottle and
dashed into the room. A few minutes
later he came out preening himself. “It
was only a little carpet-snake,” he ex-
plained in a dismissing manner. “A —a
snake?” gulped the distressed damsel.
“Aw, only a baby one —a carpet wouldn’t
hurt y’, anyhow,” reassured Charlie. “Oh,
but I really couldn’t go back” began
the girl. Mrs. Charlie came to the rescue.
“You come in with me, and Dad’ll have
to sleep in there,” she offered ; and in
an aside hissed: “Why can’t you be a bit
diplomatic?” Charlie was wounded.
“Diplomatic, she says,” he complained as
he picked up the crib, “What did she
think I was doing? There was no snake
in there, but, cripes, if you told a city
tabby like her she’d had a mouse in her
bed it’d be the stone end of her!”
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: When is a snake dead?
Don’t give me that old one about sun-
down —I’ve known a snake killed late in
the afternoon still to have a wriggle left
in him at midnight. But what is “life”
and what merely “nerves”? I once knew
a fellow who was bitten by the bodyless
head of a tiger-snake—he dived on the
dangerous end as soon as it was lopped
off, and was fool enough to begin looking
for its fangs with his bare finger. Even
a decapitated fowl will open and shut its
beak. It is hard to believe that a reptile
could still be alive when its back is
broken in several places and its head
bashed into a pulp so that it loses per-
haps a tablespoonful of blood —which
must surely be nearly all a cold-blooded
creature’s blood-supply—still, the spas-
modic writhings will go on for hours, of
course. I was always brought up to toss
the battered Joe on an antbed, but after
the last one, a sft. black, I’ve developed a
squeamish streak. He was polished off
as described, and, except for the usual
occasional squirm, he’d obviously “had
it.” Yet the moment the meat-ants
swarmed over his body he writhed and
twisted and squirmed like a creature that
both knew and could feel the terrible end
in store for him. Yair, I know •! am, but
I couldn’t walk away and leave him to it.
♦ * * *
“Arno”: He was the sort of farmer who
was always starting something, losing
interest after a few months, and starting
something else —only he carried it to
extremes. For the 500-or-so chooks that
survived out of the 1000 day-olds, he had
prepared no accommodation. Several
months later his neighbor found him
digging a deep trench between the citrus-
trees in the chookyard. “What’s the idea
of the trench, Clem?” he asked. “Going
to prune the roots?” “No,” said Clem,
looking up and leaning on his shovel.
“No. It’s these flamin’ eggs. I got no
time to be collecting ’em and cleaning ’em
every day. There’s piles of ’em. I dunno
how old they are, so I’m goin’ to bury
’em.”
* * ♦ «
“Columba”: The sound-waves sent out
by the action of a rotary egg-beater have
a peculiar effect on our domestic pets.
Our wise old terrier even knows the
sound of its being sorted out from the
usual 50-odd implements in the dresser-
drawer, and departs from her favorite
kitchen possie before her ears are
assailed. The cat, even over a dish of
raw liver, flinches and wilts, as from a
physical blow, and with a pained and
puzzled air goes outside and waits for
his world to return to normal.
* * * *
“E.”: These station rabbiters are much
like any other pack of animals. There’s
the black kangaroo-cross that throws his
weight around against a big cattle-type
rnong. The cattle-mong gets it back by
belting Lop-ears, and Lop-ears restores
balance by giving Nigger a round. Nigger
suffers defeat only until the useless kelpie
appears, and the kelpie retaliates with an
authoritative snap at Bunker, So it goes
down the line till it reaches the red pup,
who has just discovered he can put it all
over a small whippet-cross. No doubt it
boosts Red’s ego to put the whippet in
his place every so often. Still, they’re
not a bad pack, and it’s not a bad job
either, except that there’s too much to
do, for one man. What I need is help.
A boy would be all right—one I could
send up round the far line of traps. Yes,
come to think of it. I’ll see Andy tonight
and get him to look up the foreman and
see if he’ll ask the boss’s son to interview
the old man about getting a kid to help
me.
« * ♦ ♦
“Nika”: Geese have their own code of
ethics, and any goose breaking it is
promptly ostracised. A strange goose,
on being introduced into a yard, is put
through a period of probation during
which she must not walk, feed or
sit with the flock. Humbly following a
few paces behind, she trails them all day,
squatting when they squat and feeding
when they feed, but always at a discreet
distance. As she gradually comes to be
accepted the distance lessens until, her
probation over, she is admitted to per-
manent membership. This ritual is not
only for alien geese. Should an old-
established member of a gaggle return
after a few days’ absence she is put
through a period of initiation as strict
as that of a novitiate. Trailing in their
wake, and utterly ignored by her erst-
while mates, she walks alone at the
distance prescribed by goose ethics.
Should this line of demarcation be
ignored and she be too confident, she
will be driven off and chastised into a
state of humility befitting one seeking a
too-swift entry into the elite.
FARMER GROWING OLD.
I will not hold my summers to your flame.
Those song-larks calling, the currawongs at
noon
Striking beauty into the bold pine,
The peaked hills soldering the clouds, and the
cone
Of the one old mountain clasping the heart of
time;
The cornstalks lame after harvest that was late,
The lane bitten deep with the cart’s huge
emery wheel,
The sun on the farmhouse, the mailbox at the
gate
And the bark of dogs or a hare’s death-drawn
squeal
(Hot morning hunting the walnut clock to a
chime) —
I will not give them to your withering flame.
But where’s my firebreak? The clouds? The
lane? Green songs
Cut down along the valley from the birds?
1 could not, if 1 prayed, know where. The
herds
With thin legs ambling heavy to their sunset
yards,
The windmill spooling the sleepy air, the rungs
Of the pensioned ladder leaning against the
wall
And the sweet-peas flickering near like children’s
tongues
Begging for a bedtime story in the dusk —
Where, O where among them lives the name
That I could whisper foil into your flame
And would not be consumed or bridged or
broken?
If I have sworn, out of my crumbling husk,
I will not lose my summers to your lust,
Surely, surely by this they should have spoken.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


. J
mn iimiinr
«t»i mm sToci t imui""i
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7
Y our Estate will be Safer
in these
Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not of one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wilis,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in
333 Collins
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Victoria) (Established 1885)
St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 241,813 6.6p.c.= 133,333 25,000 2,364,240
1943.. 241,553 6.6 „ ,,133,333 25,000 2,362,766
1944.. 247,025 6.6 „ ,,133,333 25,000 2,366,764
1945.. 252,423 7.1 „ ,,141,667 25,000 2,367,820
1946.. 262,185 7.5 „ ,,150,000 25,000 2,370,317
1947.. 283,173 8 ,,,,160,000 35,000 2,373,796
1948.. 300,798 9 „ ,, 180,000 35,000 2,374,900
1949.. 320,636 10 „ ,, 200,000 35,000 2,375,842
1950.. 334,796 10 „ ,,200,000 35,000 2,390,944
1951.. 336.012 10 ,. ,,200,000 35,000 2,407,262
In addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
In the halt-inflation campaign, what
part will the trading banks play?
How are their earnings likely to be
affected? Only answers in the broadest
terms can be given to these questions at
the moment, because no more than the
initial shots in the campaign have been
fired. Last week the Government
conferred with the governor of the
Commonwealth Bank and the heads
of the private trading banks con-
cerning measures to be taken in
the banking field. Here the Govern-
ment has, through the Commonwealth
Bank, very extensive powers under the
1945 Banking Act to control credit and
other banking activities which have been
previously discussed in these columns.
Obviously the Prime Minister prefers to
approach his problems by co-operative
rather than bureaucratic methods.
A clearer picture of the Government’s
detailed programme, and its short- and
long-term effects, can be expected to
emerge after (1) the Premiers’ Confer-
ence in mid-August and (2) appearance
of the Budget in Sept, or Oct. next. The
overall picture of policy that has emerged
is: (1) a balanced Budget, (2) “selective*’
and heavier taxation, both direct and in-
direct, (3) more rigorous control of
capital issues and credit, (4) curtailment
of public works and immigration, (5) a
sharp increase in defence expenditure,
(6) a campaign to smash pernicious Com-
munist influences, and (7) an all-out drive
for increased production and thrift. As
for revaluation of the pound, no early
change is expected, but the question is
“constantly under consideration.” The
important problem of price - wage
stability, and with it the vital question
of the level of costs, look like remaining
major problems, owing to the refusal of
organised “Labor” to face up to a wage-
freeze. The chances of the economy pre-
serving some relative stability depends
heavily upon the power of increased pro-
duction to accommodate the growing
demands of rearmament and civil
requirements. Those industries where net
additional demand is greatest will fare
best, subject, of course, to movements in
internal wage costs.
Speaking broadly, the Government aim
is to offset, or severely mitigate, the in-
flationary pressures that would be
normally generated through defence
expenditure under existing conditions by
the other measures to be taken, which
are designed primarily to restrict expen-
diture, and therefore employment, in the
non-essential industries. Additional
factors likely to influence the position are
seasonal conditions (propitious at the
moment), the strength of demand and
level of prices at coming sales of the new
season’s wool-clip, and what happens in
connection with interest-rates.
Among other things, it all looks like
tighter money (advances) for traders in
non - essentials especially in hire-
purchase and other forms of credit —
and for personal expenditure. Still, there
might be little, if any, reduction in the
total volume of bank advances, which
used to be the source of the trading banks’
profits. At the moment, however, these
profits appear to come largely from the
investment basket, the size of which and
the returns therefrom are largely con-
trolled by the Commonwealth Bank.
Apart from the use of interest-rates as
an anti-inflation weapon, a lift in over-
draft-rates will become a live question
when bank investments have to be sub-
stantially reduced to accommodate the
legitimate demands of essential trade and
industry.
Last term the C.B.A.’s gross earnings
(£3,806,179) increased by £669,152. In-
cluding the tax bill (£446,372, up
£67,554), exes. (£3,470,167) gobbled
£667,936 of the gain, due mainly to lifts
in wage-rates. The £336,012 (up £1216)
of profit covered the pref. div. (£84,694)
and 12.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against
12.5, 11.7, 10.8 and 9.9 p.c. back to 1947.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
a moderate 5.1 p.c. The div. was kept at
a nominal 10 p.c., and £35,000 of the
£51,318 that remained was used to write
down the book-value of premises.
Actually the div. is worth only half the
declared rate on all but a small fraction
of the ord. capital, the major portion
having been gathered at a premium of
100 p.c.
An expansion of £29,355,146 in
deposits, etc., and of £4,516,947 in
balances due to other banks was accom-
panied by growths of £17,074,086 in
liquids (including deposits with the C. 8.)
and £16,429,651 in advances:
Paid capital— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Preference .. £2,117,350 £2.117,350 £2,117,350
Ordinary .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Notes . . . . 5.103 5,103 5,103
Deposits, etc.*.. 109,362,278 128,940,870 158,290,016
Other banks .. 3,094,103 1,928,160 6,445,107
Final divs. .. 142,347 142,347 142,347
Liquid assets .. 29,999,731 35,176,931 41,251,017
Deposits with Com-
monw’th Bank 35,448,000 36,448,000 47,448,000
Advances . . 52,020,006 64,021,186 80,450,837
Bank premises.. 1,629.286 1,878,657 2,263,331
* Includes bills, provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
Treasury bills (£10,250,000), public securi-
ties (£4,182,662) and frozen deposits with
the C.B. (£47,448,000) totalled £61,880,662
(up £14,431,917), which was equal to
77 p.c. of the amount advanced to trade
and industry. A contingent liability of
£19,535,788 (up £9,691,232), mostly in
respect of forward exchange, is indicative
of the growing nervousness in respect of
possible appreciation of the Australian
pound. Concerned at the opportunity for
exchange speculation thus provided, the
banks have now limited the period for
which the exchange rate can in this way
be left open.
The co.’s 10s. ords., which fetched 30s.
at end June last, recently sold at 275. 6d.,
giving a return of 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The £lO 4 p.c. prefs. (cumu-
lative to 3 p.c.) at £lO 4s. yield 3.8 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £3O 16s. Bd. prefs.
and 225. ords.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance
Added Capital
to Be- and Ee-
June, Surplus. Dividends. serves. serves.*
£ • £ £ £
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c. = 36,0001
Provident fund, £6OOO .. I
Written off premises, £SOOO 1
18,666 760,546
1944 64,558 9 p.c. = 36,000 ]
Provident fund, £6OOO .. •
Written off premises, £SOOO
17,558 778,104
1945., 67,855 9 p.c. = 36,000’
Provident fund, £6OOO .. ■
Written off premises, £SOOO
20,855 798,959
1946.. 69,640 9 p.c. = 30,000’
Provident fund. £6OOO .. •
Written oil premises, £IO,OOO
17,640 816,599
1947.. 66,079 10 p.c. = 40,000 7
Provident fund, £6000
20,079 836,678
1948. .101,541 12 p.c. = 48,000 7
Provident fund, £600 .. J
47,541 884,819
From tax reserve, £15,000.. (
1949. .130,869 12£ p.c. = 50,000 ]
101,869 986,088
New capital, £IOO,OOO .. .. 1,086,088
1950. .172,553 12J p.c. = 52,083 120,470 1,206,558
1951. .239,572 12i „ ~ 62,500 177,072 1,383,630
* Including reserves for unexpired risks.
The 73-year-old Mercantile has put on
a lot of weight since the war. This is due
partly to the vigor the management has
put into the hunt, partly to a rapidly-
expanding economy, and partly to infla-
tion and its concomitant, namely a sharp
rise in insurable values in all fields of
activity. And those on the register have
shared in the prosperity. Besides lifts in
the div. (from 9 p.c. in 1946 to p.c.
for the last three years), they put up a
further 4s. a share (£100,000) in April,
1950, making paid capital £500,000 in f.-p.
£1 shares. Now, on August 29, they are
to be offered 475,000 new £1 ords. at a
premium of 10s. each, 19 for 20, payable
10s. application Sept. 21, a like amount
March 31, 1952, and the remaining 10s.
as and when required. The first two pay-
ments include the premium. At the same
time, and on like terms and conditions, a
further 25,000 new ords. are to be taken
by the employees’ provident fund.
The current offer exceeded market ex-
pectations, and the scrip, which sold at 955,
in June (78s. a year ago), stood at 105 s.
last week. At the higher figure the ex-
rights cost of the new scrip when f.-p.,
and allowing for brokerage, is 68s. 9d.,
at which figure the return would be
3.6 p.c. on a 12y p.c. div. The first two
calls will bring in £250,000 of capital,
together with a like amount of share
premiums, lifting paid capital to £750,000,
on which p.c. will call for £81,750,.
or £59,622 less than the £141,372 of net
profit claimed last term.
The year’s gross premium income shot
up by £429,464, reaching a record
£2,035,781, of which 50 p.c. (£1,021,269)
was reinsured, leaving the growth in net
premiums at £235,118:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Kate. Bate.
£ £ £
1 940.. 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 p.c. 44.7 p.c.
1946.. 378,891 158,588 175,886 41.8 „ 46.4
1947.. 443,414 205,995 190,905 46.4 „ 44.4 „
1948.. 536,734 229,015 231,710 42.8 „ 43.1 „
1949.. 057,827 272,576 279,027 41.4 „ 42.4 „
1950.. 779,394 313,692 328,186 40.2 „ 42.1 „
1951. 1,014.512 408,007 405,195 40.2 „ 39.9
Other pleasing features are that (1) the
bigger business was written at 445. p.c.
less cost, and (2) the loss rate was main-
tained on an even keel at a moderate
40.2 p.c., despite the unprofitable nature
of third-party risks and narrowing margins
in motor-vehicle and workers’-compen-
sation business. The gross underwriting
surplus was £201,310 (up £63,794), of
which £98,200 was tossed into the reserve
for unexpired risks, making it £410,000,
which is more than usually considered
adequate for the purpose. That left the
net underwriting surplus at £103,110, to
which interest and rents, etc., added
£38,262, making the total net amount
available for distribution £141,372 (up
£17,620), or 28.2 p.c. on capital as against
24.7, 21.9, 16.2 and 10 p.c. back to 1947.
There is nothing at the moment to
suggest that the p.c, div., about half
of which comes from underwriting, is
likely to be interrupted. In underwriting
the big imponderable is the loss rate, upon
which the management has little direct
control. A revision of premium rates,
especially in the third-party and motor-
vehicle fields, is under consideration —in
Victoria the third-party tariff is to be
increased by 50 p.c. or more as from
September 1 next.
Finances are robust, which means
strong protection for both policyholders
and shareholders:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors 549,473 650,545 718,828 847,649
Tax reserve .. 56,000 77,000 157,000 202,304
Final divs. .. 20,000 26,000 27,083 31,250
Freeholds, etc. 458,555 463,882 697,771 726.504
Mortgages .. 28,810 28,166 26,520 31,600
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 854,825 1,055,061 1,156,792 1.410.168
Book debts .. 107,662 134,565 149,584 238,437
Cash. etc. .. 73,840 57,959 78,801 58,003
Purchase of office premises in various
States sent freeholds, etc., up by £28,733
last term. Government securities, etc.
(up £253,376) include £322,799 (up
£125,203) of shares in other cos., which
augurs well for the return from invest-
ments.
Bennett and Fisher (Adelaide)
t Dividends
Prefs. to Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.*
£ £, & £, £,
1940.. 29,107 15,000 3 p.c. = 9,000 5.102 2 421
1941.. 24,028 15,000 3 ,, ,, 9,000 28 2 393
1942.. 20,848 15,000 2J „ ,, 6,750 3 295
1943.. 24,059 15,000 3 „ „ 9.000 59 3 236
1944.. 24,138 15,000 3 „ „ 9,000 138 s!o98
1945.. 24,868 15,000 3i ,, ,, 9,750 118 2 980
1946.. 24.865 15.000 S* ., ,. 9.750 115 2’,865
1947.. 34,362 15,000 4i „ ,, 12,750 6,612 3,747
7J p.c.
1948.. 67,447 22,500 7J ,, ,, 22,500 22,447 26 194
1949.. 71,013 22,500 „ ,, 22,500 26,013 52,207
1950.. 22,500 10 „ „ 30,000 64,418 116,625
1951.. 930.22,500 15 „ ,,45,000138,430 255,055
* After deducting goodwill (£27.000), written out
of the accounts in 1951.
Shareholders in this Adelaide wool-
broking and merchandising business
are now in a stronger position than they
have ever been, thanks to phenomenally
high prices for wool and livestock and a
run of good seasons. At June 30 last
they could see the whole of their capital
intact and £255,055 besides, whereas only
five years ago £2865 of the capital was
unrepresented by tangibles in the books.
Over the same period the div. has climbed
from 3i p.c. to 15 p.c.
Australia’s wool cheque last season was
no less than £616,238,187 (up
£358,241,288). It was over six and a half
times greater than the 1946-47 cheque
(first of the post-war free auctions), and
the inflationary effects have become a
serious embarrassment to the Australian
economy. There was a sharp break in
the steep and almost unbroken rise in
prices for all grades of the staple in
April last, when American buying support
was withdrawn: —
Clean On-Floor Prich.
(Price per lb.).
70’s.* 64’s.* 60’s.* 58’s*
1950, Sept. 1 .. 274 248 211 197f
„ Dec. 15 .. 283 270 246 225
1951, Mar. 16 .. 383 377 381 375
„ Apr. 13 .. 321 292 269 246
„ May 25 ., 297 287 277 264
„ June 29 .. 194 176 173 170
* Average quality, f Approximate.
The decline continued until the close of
the season, when the drop from March
levels amounted to 45-48 p.c. for the 64’s-
58’s bracket, which includes the bulk of
sales. Bids at the opening of the current
season’s auctions at Sydney on August
27 are awaited with widespread interest.
Informed opinion expects an average of
about 90d. a pound for greasy during the
early part of the season as against 148d.
for 1950-51 and 63d. for the year before
that.
The leap in the co.’s gross earnings
(£641,817) was £237,671, of which exes.
(£435,887) took £148,059, leaving the net
result £89,012 stronger at a record
£205,930. That covered maximum pref.
requirements and 61,1 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 31.4, 16.1 and 14.9 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The distribution
was lifted from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c., of which
5 p.c. was labelled bonus. Of the
£138,430 that remained, £27,000 was used
to write off goodwill, not treated as an
asset in the introductory table.
Expansion and the strengthening of
finances are main features of balance-
sheet figures: —
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Creditors, etc. 577,632 532,608 804,957 1,281,671
Tax reserve .. 48,250 47,800 79,500 143,500
Final divs. .. 30,000 30,000 37.500 45,000
Freehold, etc. 157,609 155,872 171,770 201,916
Stocks & plant 84,023 116,751 139,106 194,349
Advances . . 735,357 746,272 937,881 1,288,118
Cash, etc. . . 305,089 243,720 389,826 640,843
Goodwill .. 27,000 27,000 27,000 —
Freeholds, etc., went up by £30,146 and
stocks and plant by £55,243. Creditors,
etc. (up £476,714), advances (up £350,237)
and cash, etc, (up £251,017) are inter-
related items. The more-or-less liquid
surplus (£458,790) was £53,040 stronger,
despite the outlay on fixed assets.
The £600,000 of capital is one half
prefs. and the other half ords. The prefs.
(150,000 A’s and a like number of B’s)
used to carry a cumulative 1\ p.c., which
was reduced to 4 p.c. in 1932 with the
right to another 1 p.c. when the ords. got
5 p.c., and to advance further with the


CINZANO
SWKBT OR DRY J
j&*9tce
: me
i m
hyourchilds
future planned?
Consult
THE EQUITABLE
There Is a definite and very
profitable way of planning the
future of your child. A plan
that will make certain his
secondary education and busi-
ness training, and give him a
good start in his chosen pro-
fession or trade. You are in-
vited to write or call on “THE
EQUITABLE” and discuss
this urgent and important
matter. Your prompt action
now can mean so much later
THE
m
dsf
%AT£V*IITSH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
marvellous nib
Coawoy Stewart fir Co*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friend.
Would any person knowing or
having any information concerning
the whereabouts of
OSWALD ROY PORTER,
late of Mackay, Queensland, please
communicate with F. G. OPIE,
Barrister and Solicitor, National
Mutual Building, 53 Rangitikei Street,
Palmerston North, New Zealand.
Colony of North Borneo
KUHARA RUBBER ESTATE
The Government of the Colony of North Borneo invites applications for
99-year leases of the constituent divisions of Kuhara Rubber Estate,
Tawau, North Borneo, details of which are set forth herein:
AREA IN ACRES.
2. The acreages for Imam, Burnt and Merotai Divisions are based on
preliminary Government survey figures, and are subject to slignt
adjustment. The figures for the Tawau are taken from instate
demarcations and no guarantee is given as to their exactitude.
3. The Estate, the divisions of which are contiguous, lies behind tne
port of Tawau on the East Coast of North Borneo, commencing - miles
outside the town and extending Northwards for 21 miles. _
4. The Estate, formerly the property of the Nissan Norm Kogyo
Kabushlki Kaisha, has been worked conservatively as a Plantation Estate
by the Custodian of Enemy Property with the exception of the Tawau
Division, which is sub-leased by the Custodian on yearly leases subject
to three months’ notice. . .
5. Applications will be for the divisions as going concerns, and
buildings, plant, equipment, vehicles and craft situate on or attached to
the divisions will be included in the sale.
6. A standing timber charge of (M)530.00 per acre will be payable in
respect of those areas of undeveloped land which are under forest.
1. Quit rent will be payable at the rate of $3.00 per acre per annum.
8. The titles issued to successful applicants will be subject to the law
for the time being in force, including the law relating to rubber export duty.
9. Applications for permits to view the divisions, accompanied by a
deposit of (M)$1000.00 for each of the divisions, should be made to:—
The Custodian of Property, Messrs. Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Central Government Offices, 37-43 Pitt Street,
Jesselton, North Borneo. Sydney, Australia.
This deposit will be refunded on receipt of an application accompanied
by an offer for the division concerned. ,
No applications for permits to view will be entertained after the loth
day of September, 1951. „ . , . „ . , ,
10. Applications must be made on the official form attached to the
permit and should be accompanied by:—
(a) an offer of the price which the applicant would be prepared to pay
by way of premium;
(b) proposals for the development of the land; and
(c) a statement as to the financial standing of the applicant.
Applications must be sealed and marked “Kuhara Estate,” and should
reach the Chief Secretary’s Office, Jesselton, North Borneo, not later
than the 30th day of September, 1951.
11. Government is also prepared to consider applications for the Estate
as a whole. , _ „
12. Plans of the Estate may be seen at the offices of the agencies
mentioned above. , . , . .
13. The titles to the various divisions will be subject to certain
easements, covenants and cultivation clauses. Particulars of these
easements, covenants and clauses and any further particulars relating
to the estate or title thereto may be obtained from the Office of the
Custodian of Property, Jesselton.
14. Government does not bind itself to accept the highest or any offer
accompanying applications.
FOR INFORMATION ONLY. The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936, of New South
Wales have not been fully complied with in this advertisement, which is an abridgment of the full prospectus.
A copy of the full prospectus dated the Ist August, 1951, has been filed with the Registrar-General of the State
of New South Wales, who takes no responsibility as to the contents.
Whale Industries Limited
(Incorporated In New South Wales on the Sixth day of June, 1951 X
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF 2.000,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF 5 A EACH
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
4.000. Shares of 5/- each £1,000,000
ISSUED OR TO BE ISSUED
140,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each issued to the Shareholders of Whale
Products Pty. Ltd., Farm Margarine Pty. Ltd. and Hi-Protein Pty.
Ltd. as consideration for the acquisition of the issued share capital of
those Companies 35,000
NOW OFFERED FOR PUBLIC SUBSCRIPTION
2.000. Ordinary Shares of 5/- each, payable in full on application, out of
which 200,000 shares have been reserved for the Directors and
their Associates 500,000
2.140.000 535,000
TO BE HELD IN RESERVE
1.860.000 Shares of 5/- each 465 » 00Q
4.000. £1,000,000
DIRECTORS
ROBERT CRICHTON-BROWN, Company Director, Eastern Road, Wahroonga (Chairman).
WILLIAM BUCKINGHAM, Company Director, Park Crescent, Pymble.
LINCOLN WILLIAM FARNSWORTH, Company Director, 33 Towns Road, Vaucluse.
JOHN FRANCIS MANT, Solicitor, 98 Hopetoun Avenue, Vaucluse.
WILLIAM MAURICE MAYBERRY, D. 5.0., Company Director, Gladswood Gardens, Double Lay.
CAPTAIN ALP MELSOM, Whaling Manager, Tonsberg, Norway.
CHARLES ROYCE McALISTBR SHANNON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
56a Wentworth Road, Vaucluse.
Each of the above Directors has subscribed for 3000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
CHARLES ROYCE McALISTER SHANNON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 34 Young St., Sydney.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
MESSRS. HEADLAM & HEWSON, 117 Pitt St., Sydney, members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Primary Object of the Company, The primary
object with which the Company was formed is:
To purchase or otherwise acquire and carry on
the business of ship-owners, whalers, trawlers,
deepsea fishers, wholesale and retail fish mer-
chants, ice manufacturers, oil merchants and re-
finers, manure manufacturers, and all other
branches of business usually connected with any
such business as aforesaid.
Other Statutory Information. The instrument
constituting the constitution of the Company is
its Memorandum and Articles of Association, and
the Company was incorporated under the Com-
panies Act 1936 of New South Wales on the sixth
day of June, 1951. Copies of the said Companies
Act and Memorandum and Articles of Association
can be inspected at the office of Frank A. Daven-
port & Mant, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Company has not established any place of
business out of New South Wales.
Purpose of the Issue. Whale Industries Limited
has acquired the whole of the issued capital of
Whale Products Pty. Limited, Farm Margarine
Pty. Limited and Hi-Protein Pty. Limited. The
purpose of the issue is to provide Whale Pro-
ducts Pty. Limited with the funds necessary to
establish the Whaling Industry on the East Coast
of Australia. Whale Products Pty. Limited has
made extensive Investigations into, and carried out
the preliminary work for, the development of this
industry; in so doing it has had the advice and
services of Captain Alf Melsom, who is an inter-
national whaling figure. A shore-based treatment
station will be established at Tangalooma, More-
ton Island (near Brisbane), which is one of the
closest points on the Bast Coast of Australia to
the migratory route of whales travelling between
the Antarctic and warmer waters; the Queens-
land Government has approved of the grant of
a lease of 30 acres at this site. In addition, an
assurance has been received from the Common-
wealth Government that, subject to certain con-
ditions, a licence to catch and treat 500 Hump-
back Whales per annum will be granted. The
Directors anticipate that the factory will be com-
pleted and the catchers delivered in time to com-
mence whaling in the 1952 season and that, with
the modern equipment and skilled key personnel
to be employed, the operating company will be
able to catch its quota of 500 Humpback Whales.
Prospectus and Application for Shares. Copies
of the full prospectus and forms of applications
for shares may be obtained from the Brokers to
the Issue, Messrs. Headlam & Hewson, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange. Applications for shares will be re-
ceived only on one of the forms of application
referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy or
the prospectus. The maximum amount whicn
must be raised by this issue of shares and on
which the Directors may proceed to allotment is
£500,000. Subscription lists opened at 10.00 a.m. on
Tuesday, 7th August, and close on or berore
3.00 p m. on Friday, 31st August, 1951.
Stock Exchange lasting. Apphcation wil 1 be
made to the Committees of Stock Exchanges
throughout Australia for official quotation or tne
2,140,000 Ordinary Shares of ss. each.
The issue has been underwritten by MAINGUABD (AUSTRALIA) LI3IITED.
ords. up to the original contract-
rate, and to share in future bonus
issues, if any.
Allowing for the final div.
and bonus (2s. 3d, a share), the
ords. at last week’s price of
365. 4d. return 8.8 p.c, on a 15
p.c. div. basis, or 5.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. On a
p.c, basis the prefs. at 275. yield
5.5 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£5 14s. A’s, £4 14s. B’s and 375.
ords.
Mt. Isa—Mining Trust Deal
Mt. Isa (Q.) has offered to buy
all the issued capital in Mining
Trust, Ltd. (London). Terms
are: (1) That Mining Trust
return £297,299 (Is. a share) of
its capital, and (2) Isa then to
issue one of its own £1 shares
f,-p. for each seven M.T. shares.
The deal is subject to British
Treasury consent to transfer of
M.T.’s domicile from London
to Australia, approval of the
court to reduction of capital, and
a 90 p.c. acceptance of Isa’s
offer to M.T.’s shareholders.
The return of Is. a share
would reduce M.T.’s paid capital
to £1,189,198 in 5,945,988 shares
of 4s. each, which would call for
£849,426 in Isa scrip. But M.T.
already owns £115,463 of Isa’s
share capital, making the net
capital costs to Isa £733,963.
M.T. also owns £916,632 of Isa’s
8 p.c. mortgage debentures,
which would mean a saving to
Isa in interest payments of
£73,331 p.a.
M.T.’s other assets consist
chiefly of all the £IOO,OOO of
paid capital in the Britannia
Lead Cos., reported to have
netted £78,966 last year—its re-
finery on the Thames, near
London, treats Isa’s lead bullion
—843,147 f.-p. 4s. 3d. shares in
New Guinea Goldfields, 397,520
ss. shares in Saudi Arabian Min-
ing Syndicate, Ltd. and 20,000
£1 shares in Big Bell (W.A.).
The saving in interest, plus
last year’s profit from the re-
finery, would more than cover
20 p.c. on the net addition
(£733,963) to Isa’s share capital,
which now stands at £4,907,885.
For the year to June 30, 1950,
the co. paid 15 p.c. as against
25 p.c. and 17 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. An interim
of 2s. a share was paid on July
29 in respect of the year to June
30 last, when more bullion
(33,495 tons, up 1434 tons) but
fewer zinc concentrates (35,096
tons, down 6646 tons) were
turned out. But there has been
a big increase in metal prices,
London averages for the year to
June 30 being lead £5135.9 and
zinc £5148.6 as against £595.8
and £586.6 respectively for the
previous year.
The market for Isa’s scrip
strengthened from 545. 3d. to
595. 6d. following announce-
ment of the proposed deal.
Paringa (W.A.)
Rising costs and a drop in the
grade of ore brought Paringa’s
95,000-ton-p.a. mill on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile (W.A.) to
a standstill on Jan. 16 last. Here
are operating results:
12 Mths., 4J Mths.,
Sl/8/’SO. 16/1/’sl.
Milled tons.. .. 96,506 36,178
Grade, dwt. .. . • 4.20 4.10
Proceeds* •• .. £220,808 £78,597
Costst •• •• £213,855 £96,611
Value, per ton* .. 45/9 43/5
Cost, per tonf •• 44/4 53/5
*After deducting realisation costs.
f Excluding development, £34,305 for
12-month period.
Costs were aggravated by higher
charges for power, fuel and
stores as well as recurrent lifts
in wage-rates. Including de-
velopment and other charges,
etc., net loss for the year to
Aug. 31, 1950, was £34,606. Ore
reserves were put at 91,850
tons, averaging s.oßdwt. The
discrepancy between the grade
of the mill-feed and ore reserves
is due to high-grade pillars that
cannot be extracted at present.
Anew development campaign to
lift the run of available mine
ore to a payable figure has not
yet met with sufficient success
to justify resumption of milling.
A second string to the co.’s bow
was the right to mine, mill and
take half the profits from a mil-
lion tons ore in the Mt. Charlotte
mine at the northern end of
Kalgoorlie, and over which
Wiluna relinquished a develop-
ment option in Sept. last. How-
ever, since a trial crushing of
18,000 tons averaged only
2.sldwt. as against an estimated
3.75dwt., the project has been
abandoned and the mine placed
on a care -and - maintenance
basis. No further drilling has
been done on the adjoining
Maritana areas, now held under
exemption from labor condi-
tions. When the books closed
co.’s current assets, including
quoted investments (£91,459, and
worth more), totalled £178,571
and current liabilities £10,437.
Morning Star, at Wood’s
Point, now Victoria’s leading
gold producer, netted £76,023
(down £21,731) for the year to
March 31 last. Two divs., total-
ling Is. 9d. (2s. 9d. previous
term) per 4s. share took £35,000,
and £22,738 was earmarked for
capital expenditure. The con-
traction in earnings was due to
a shrinkage in both tonnage and
grade of ore and rise in costs.
The 15,902 tons (down 4015
tons) treated yielded 11,5430 z.
(down 39490 z.) fine gold, an
average of 14.5dwt. (down Idwt.)
per ton. Costs rose by 16.95. to
117.15. per ton, due mainly to
heavier charges for labor and
stores and partly to smaller
tonnage. Drilling on the Loch
Fyne lease disclosed nothing of
importance, and the option has
been abandoned. Ore reserves
are estimated at 61,000 tons
averaging 14dwt. Capital-issues
control has deferred consent to
the board’s request to issue
100,000 new 4s. shares at 6s.
each. The money was wanted
to help finance electrification of
the mine and provide deep-
winding and additional head-
frame equipment. The saving
on account of electrification
alone was put at about £20,000
p.a. Total expenditure was esti-
mated at £120,000, balance of
which it was intended to meet
mostly out of savings. When
the books closed current assets
totalled £80,283 and current
liabilities £BO2B. The market
prices the scrip at 20s. lOd. as
against 245. a couple of months
ago.


a
m
m
One of the twenty million
corks used each year for
MOUNT MORGAN
Queensland’s Historic Mine
'///
m
WM
~T-j_
- m.
n
•/
Since its discovery in 1882, the Mt. Morgan
mine has been outstanding in the history of
Queensland’s gold mining industry. In later
years it has been world-famous also as a producer
of copper.
The illustration shows the big open cut today
where the ore is mined by electrically driven
shovels and then transported to the treatment
works nearby. The mine has made and continues
to make a valuable contribution to the nation.
In its own field, the Bank of Australasia has served
the community for well over 100 years. Today,
the Bank’s organisation of nearly 400 branches
and agencies provides comprehensive banking
facilities throughout Australia and New Zealand,
and in Fiji.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Limited
shortly to be merged with The Union Bank of Australia limited in
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealandand in Fiji
and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
- GBA29-1*
Business.Rollery.Etc.
NATIONAL JOB, SECTIONAL INTERESTS.
There are many inspired
voices speaking against the
Federal Government’s attempt
to halt inflation and at the same
time prepare for war with Soviet
Russia within three years.
Sydney is full of them.
As usual, nobody wants to
pay for defence. And few
people desire a return of the
war-time controls which the
Chifley Government intended
to perpetuate in the cause of
Socialism.
But if war in three years is a
serious contingency then we
must do something about it.
And if, by our preparation, in
concert with other Western
peoples, war is averted, then so
much the better.
The general contention is that
Australia wants more produc-
tion, not more taxation. It is
very true that Australia urgently
needs more production, and
equally true that a greater out-
put of goods and services would
by itself give the Government a
greater gross taxation return
without any need to increase the
rate of tax.
An increase in productivity
per head without doubt is the
most economically necessary
thing in the Commonwealth to-
day. But it is one of the most
economically and politically
difficult things to achieve, and
it calls for a great effort of co-
operation from all classes,
sections and organisations,
beginning, of course, with the
Federal Government.
We must reconcile ourselves
to the fact that war preparation
is in itself a tax on the physical
resources of a country, and that
it is best translated as a tax into
the finances of the nation.
Where an attempt is made to
treat defence expenditure as
something that can be financed
by bank credit or by public
borrowing there is created a
most powerful inflationary
force. We should all be able to
recognise this from what hap-
pened during and after World
War 11.
Increased taxation, it is said,
will remove incentives to pro-
duce more. But decreases in tax-
rates since the war have not
increased per-capita production.
In addition to levying in-
creased taxation to meet de-
fence expenditure. Treasurer
Fadden has indicated that he
intends to budget for a surplus
during the current financial year.
That suggests a determined anti-
inflationary policy. It is more
usual—and more unfortunate —
to budget for a deficit when
defence expenditure becomes
appreciably heavy.
Whether increased taxation
and increased control over com-
modities is justifiable in all the
circumstances will depend prin-
cipally upon what other action
the Commonwealth Government
takes to employ the country’s
resources to the best advantage.
Sir Arthur Fadden, as Trea-
surer, is on trial. His job may
be beyond him. But he should
not be judged in advance of his
Budget.
It has been announced that
10,000 Commonwealth public
servants are to be dismissed.
Something of this kind is abso-
lutely necessary, however poli-
tically unpalatable the action
may seem. We are suffering
from a great shortage of man-
power in productive jobs, and
there has been, without question,
a gross bloating of the Com-
monwealth Government pay-
roll. This has partly been the
result of the expansion of the
Welfare State, but also partly
the result of a bureaucratic orgy
that began with the late war and
has continued ever since.
“ He's pretty hot —five guineas for THAT!”
Also essential to our present
effort is legislation to deal with
the Communist party. The
Communists aim to disrupt all
our essential production. The
Menzies Government proposes
to seek powers from the people
in this regard where it has been
denied, by the High Court, the
right to act under the general
defence provisions of the Con-
stitution. The latest Gallup
poll on the subject indicates
that 80 p.c. of the people are in
favor of a ban on the Com-
munist party and will vote in
favor of a constitutional amend-
ment necessary to make it effec-
tive.
It is also true that the 40-hour
week is a most inappropriate
luxury at the present time. But
no employer body has so far
moved in the Arbitration Court
to have the 44-hour week re-
verted to. Until some employer
body does take such a move it is
little use of employer spokes-
men criticising the Government
for lacking a “positive approach”
to present-day problems, and in
particular the problem of
increased production.
We can accept the position
that, without increased produc-
tion, the burden of taxation will
be heavy and the tempo of infla-
tion swift. Even with increased
production the incidence of
taxation will need to be care-
fully judged if it is to have
any deflationary effects. It will
need to hit the pockets of the
spenders, not the savers. It will
need to encourage investment in
the means of production and dis-
courage outlay on consumer
goods. It will need to take
money 'away from the bene-
ficiaries of the Welfare State,
paradoxical as that may seem.
For these reasons the pro-
posed increased tax on com-
panies seems quite wrong. There
has been no reduction in public-
company taxation since the war,
Whereas very considerable re-
ductions have been made in rates
of personal taxation. And yet
companies as a whole have
shown little, if any, increase in
their rate of earning over the
past 12 years, whereas wage-
rates have almost trebled.
It is becoming difficult, if
not impossible, for com-
panies to make adequate depre-
ciation provision for restoring
plant being worn out in the
making of current profits. The
rate of inflation in replacement
costs is too fast. If, then, taxa-
tion-rates on companies are to
be raised, then there should cer-
tainly be a great liberalising of
depreciation allowances both by
the Prices people and the Taxa-
tion Department,
Industry today is earning too
little profit. It should be making
more profit and ploughing back
a greater proportion of it into
its productive capital assets.
On the whole, the Govern-
ment has many unpopular jobs
to do, and it shows courage in
tackling them so promptly.
Country - party interests and
Chambers of Manufactures
should back it up to the full
where the issue is clear and the
remedy obvious. Little co-opera-
tion is coming from the N. S'.
Wales State Government and
the A.C.T.U.
Metropolitan Cement
The accounts of Metropolitan
Portland Cement, Ltd., pub-
lished last week, are now seven
months old. Made up to De-
cember 31 of last year, they
showed a net capital expendi-
ture of £2,135,974, apart from
£26,429 of investments. The
outlay on fixed assets amounted
to £913,920 during the year and
the net outside debt (£1,478,928)
rose by £951,901. The amount
owing, on balance, to the Rural
Bank of N. S. Wales was
£1,302,745 seven months ago.
There has since been more capi-
tal expenditure. Additional plant
is being bought that “will ulti-
mately increase output from
150.000 to 375,000 tons of
cement per annum.”
Formed in 1948 with the aid
of dollar allocations from the
Chifley Government for the pur-
chase of second-hand plant in
the United States, the co. aimed
to begin production before the
end of 1949. Actually, produc-
tion of bulk and bagged cement
began on June 30 this year.
Many problems, including those
relating to labor and weather,
interfered with the construction
schedule, which was overopti-
mistic to begin with.
Paid capital of the co. is at
present £BOO,OOO. It will be in-
creased by the co. exercising its
option over the majority of the
shares in Limestone Holdings,
Ltd., which will involve the issue
of about 250,000 £1 shares by
Metropolitan Portland Cement.
In addition, permission has
been obtained from Capital
Issues Control to offer up to
600.000 cum. prefs. and 600,000
ords. at par. If all these capital
operations are effected paid capi-
tal will rise to something like
£2,250,000, part of it in prefs.
The issue of the new capital
would bring the capital struc-
ture into better proportions with
the outside debt.
At present the co.’s ords. are
at par or slightly below it. There
was a weakening following pub-
lication of the latest accounts.
There will be a ready demand
for all the cement the co. can
produce. That is the brightest
feature in its outlook. It is
heavily capitalised by compari-
son with other members of the


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
Public Notice.
I, ERIKA MOEQENSTERN. of Czechoslo-
vakian nationality, bom at Graz, Austria,
resident 17 months in Australia, now re-
siding at Flat 1, 9 Botany Street, Bondi
Junction, intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
SHARE ISSUE
300,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH
ISSUED AT PAR
THE PRODUCERS' CO-OPERATIVE
DISTRIBUTING SOCIETY LIMITED
(Registered under the Co-operation Act)
Producer Owned • Producer Controlled
As a result of the confidence and consistent support
extended by Producers in every field of primary pro-
duction, the Society to-day is the largest Co-operative
distributing organisation in the Commonwealth. It is
the Producers’ safeguard against speculation and
exploitation.
• Annual turnover, £16,690,799.
• 36 Branches in N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria and
Tasmania.
• Cash reserves (used in the business) total £361,834.
• A dividend has been regularly declared—present
rate, 5%.
• Surplus earnings returned to Producers by rebate
against Commissions paid.
Intending subscribers are urged to lodge applications
early. Full details and application forms available from
THE PRODUCERS’ CO-OP. DISTRIBUTING SOCIETY LIMITED
Head Office—Quay and Valentine Sts., Sydney.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to thr
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated In New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. GEOFFREY F. HUGHES, Deputy Chairman.
ORWELL PHILLIPS, DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT, ROBERT J. VICARS, ERNEST W. STREET.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1951.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney, on
Tuesday, 21st August, 1951, at noon precisely.
Capital— LIABILITIES.
Authorised £ 12,000,000
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued—379,l2l shares of £25 each £9,478,025 0
Less: Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share 4,739,012 10
Paid up 4,739,012 10
Reserve Fund (wholly used in the business of the Bank) .. 4,600,000 0
Final Dividend proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including provisions f
contingencies
Notes In Circulation
Balances due to other Banka ,
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £8,514,308 6 10
Money at Short Call In London 93,750 0 0
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia .. 57,500,000 0 0
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances with and due
from other Banks 5,197,844 4 5
Treasury Bills —Australian Governments 17,000,000 0 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —at or below
market value (Including £4,000 lodged with Public
Authorities) —
Australian Government Securities 41,312,213 16 4
Bills Receivable and Remittances In Transit 12,048,946 6 9
£
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting pro-
visions for debts considered bad or doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites—at cost, less amounts
written off
All other Assets
141,667,062 II 4
55,867,745 11 8
1,203,112 1 8
6,280,057 17 3
ORWELL PHILLIPS]
D. R. LYSAGHT (Directors.
£205,017,978 4 11
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the Head Office
and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and counted the Cash at the
Head Office. We have obtained all the Information and explanations we have required, and in
our opinion the Balance Sheet Is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of
the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations
given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required to
keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
FRANCIS B. OLIVER ) ~ ...
MACQUARIE COWPER (
Sydney, 19th July, 1951.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1950, at the rate of
8 per cent, per annum, paid on 23rd January, 1951
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June, 1951, at the
rate of 8 per cent, per annum £189,560 10 0
„ Amount carried forward 208,660 1 6
£189,560 10 0
26,293 7 0
25,000 0 0
398,220 11 6
£639.074 8 6
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1950 £187,375 17 3
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1951, after payment of all expenses of
management (including Directors’ Fees, £3,750) and provision for taxes
and for rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and
for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies 451,698 11 3
£639,074 8 0
ORWELL PHILLIPS)
D. R. LYSAGHT (
Directors.
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE. General Manager.
RESERVE FUND.
1951 —June 30. . „
To Balance (wholly used In the business of the Bank) carried forward
1950 — June 30.
By Balance brought forward from 30th June, 1950
1951 — June 30.
By Refunds of Federal Income Tax
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account ....
industry, and its production
costs have yet to be determined.
And it remains to be seen
whether somewhat revolutionary
plans for the transport of lime-
stone from Marulan to Maldon
are practicable.
Owing to continued ill health,
Mr. Arnold S. Taylor has ceased
to be managing-director. Mr.
Sydney Christie, of National
Oil Pty., has been appointed
chief engineer.
Glen Davis Oil-shale
“Kerogen”: By all modern
standards the Glen Davis
(N.S.W.) refinery (B. 11/7/’5l),
vintage 1936, is obsolete.
At the time of its purchase
two-coil thermal cracking with
polymer high-octane gasoline
production from the cracked
gases was novel, but catalytic
cracking, with ancillary plat-
forming, alkylation, isomerisa-
tion and chemicalisation is
rapidly displacing the older tech-
nique in larger units and at
relatively lower overall produc-
tion costs.
Among all the suggestions
made for the transfer and
utilisation of the Glen Davis
plant—fantastic and otherwise —
nobody has yet considered a
possible link-up with the gas
plants of the A.G.L., Sydney,
whose desperate and mostly
successful efforts to maintain
some sort of a continuous
supply of gaseous fuel to the
community have been more
commendable than those of its
electric rival.
It should be investigated as to
whether the removal of the plant
to a site near Mortlake gas-
works, where it could be the
nucleus of a properly integrated
larger refinery which, apart from
cracking certain fractions of the
crude oils processed, would fill
the gas company’s oil needs for
its standby c.w.g, plant, and
even provide the electrode oil-
coke requirements of the
Aluminium Commission in Tas-
mania.
The A.G.L. takes now supplies
of liquefied petroleum gases from
the Clyde refinery of Shell, and
the augmenting of such high
c.v. gases into its system as well
as the “end” gases of the crack-
ing process would certainly
lessen its dependence on the
ever - scarcening Greta coals.
Such link-ups between oil
refineries and manufactured
coal-gas plants are common in
America and Europe, and would
have their advantages here.
The claim for the use of the
shale plant proper in a new
cement undertaking by certain
local limestone interests also
seems to be very wide of the
mark. The recent review of the
Australian cement industry by
the Department of National
Development shows N.S.W. as
the most important producer
with a planned capacity of
900,000 tons p.a. for 1952-53
against an estimated demand
then of some 800,000 tons.
Industrial Development
Maoriland’s most vigorously-
growing industries today are
those in the timber and con-
struction worlds, with N.Z.
Forest Products, Ltd., Fletcher
Holdings, Ltd., and Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd., jostling one
another for position, while
State and private enterprise get
ready for the next big spring—
into newsprint—which will cost
a fortune.
The Fletcher combine, at the
moment the most robust of the
trio, is spurred on by ambitions
which have carried it a long
way in the past decade and have
now brought a link-up with U.S.
forces to build a £2 million
Auckland wharf. It’s not likely
the partnership will be satisfied
with one job, and if it’s looking
round Maoriland for other mil-
lionaire contracts it shouldn’t
have long to wait, what with
Auckland wanting a trans-harbor
bridge that will run into £3i
million or more, and the Gov-
ernment pushing on with blue-
prints for new hydroelectric
dams, a railway and new port (at
Tauranga) for the Murupara
pulp and newsprint mills, and
city corporations beginning to
wake up to their demands and
needs.
The Yanks have the know-
how the Fletcher group has been
looking for, and it’s a cinch
they’ll smarten up easygoing
Maorilanders, who seem in the
mood to step more lively today.
Pleased with prospects, knight
James Fletcher, head-serang of
the combine, said lately that
everything seemed set for the
partnership to work up a “very
substantial business” in this field
in the next few years. To get
over manpower bottlenecks,
trained carpenters and others
have been recruited on the other
side of the world, and the co.
will relieve them of housing
worries when they arrive by put-
ing roofs over their heads.
Last term the Fletcher brood
of a dozen subsidiaries romped
ahead to lift turnover by more
than 22 p.c., mainly in volume,
and it was easy to take in
enough extra profit from the
chicks to push up the div. one
point to 7 p.c., to swallow
£66,500.
To keep the ball rolling capi-
tal was reinforced by issuing
another quarter-million ords. at
a 7s. 6d. premium, to make a
million and a quarter all told,
and when the issue was cleaned
up the new scrip, which cost in-
vestors around 345. (with rights),
jumped to 375. Australia’s
C.S.R., which bought a third-
interest in the parent several
years ago, is the biggest holder,
and has done well out of its
investment so far.
Too Much Money
Among banking and currency
reformers there’s no more per-
sistent voice on either side of
the Tasman than Henry J. Kel-
liher, ex-director of the Bank of
New Zealand and successful
head of Dominion Breweries,
Ltd., who year after year has
been demanding a revolution in
banking technique to halt infla-
tion and put to work the grow-
ing hoard of idle money.
In Socialist days Kelliher de-
nounced the Reserve Bank and
Socialist money-spinners, par-
ticularly Finance Minister
Walter Nash, for pouring out a
continuous flow of new money.
For the past year or so he has
been condemning the trading
banks with equal vehemence for
carrying on where the R.B. left
off. Says Kelliher in advocating
a change; “Existing money
should be fully employed before
new money is issued. Too much
is at stake for a continuance of
the present haphazard and un-
scientific system of expanding
the money supply.”
He claims for his system that
it is the creation of leading
world economists and has the
support of many others. It is
a full reserve plan—every pound
lent covered 100 p.c.—with no
freedom for bankers to stretch
lending limits in times like these
and no risk of muscular spasms
if times get hard.
Maoriland was never so flush
of funds as in the past year, yet
bank advances have never grown
so fast—from £9l million to
£137 million. N.Z. has departed
a long way from the old well-
trodden path of keeping ad-
vances and fixed deposits in line,
and the once-sacrosanct fixed-
deposit system—trading banks’
legitimate source for funds to
lend —has nearly gone out of
existence.
Production hasn’t a hope of
overtaking the surplus of money
while it’s being pumped into cir-
culation at the present rate of
a million a week, says Kelliher.
The greatest victims are the
workers, pensioners, folk on
fixed incomes and all who can’t
pass on higher costs and prices.
Uneasy about the future,
businessmen want the whole
scheme probed by an actuary.
There’s no reserve fund, although
national income has never been
so buoyant, and if income sud-
denly dropped back, through
shocks from outside, there’d be
a vacuum.
Terms of A.C.l.’s new issue of
894,448 £1 ords. —at a premium
of £1 each (100 p.c.)—have dis-
appointed the market. At first
whisper of the issue a couple of
months back they went to 86s.
In the recent somewhat hesitant
market they were changing
hands at 745, 6d. —that is, prior
to the closing of the books last
Monday (the 13th). The ratio
is two for each 15 ords. already
held.


The
Letters of Rachel Henning
Introduction
BIDDULPH HEN-
\ lyi NING, the author, was born
&1 * n England 125 years ago. She
was the eldest of five children
who, when Rachel was 14, lost
their father, and when she was 19, their
mother. She then became, in effect, head
of this youthful family.
Her father was the Rev. Charles
Wansborough Henning, M.A. (Cam-
bridge), and formerly chaplain to H.R.H.
the Duke of Cambridge. Her mother,
who was born Rachel Lydia Biddulph,
married Charles Henning in 1825.
The letters begin in 1853, when Bid-
dulph, Rachel’s only brother (then 19,
and considered “delicate”), and her sister
Annie (23) set sail, on August n, for Aus-
tralia in the Great Britain, a crack pas-
senger-ship of its time, renowned for its
ability to reach Melbourne 60 days out
from Liverpool travelling round the Cape.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta
(“Etta” of later letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851)
and Amy were thus separated, for the
time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed
from England to Biddulph and Annie in
Australia. She moved around from one
part of England to another, spending
her time agreeably with some of her
numerous relatives, and keeping Bid-
dulph and Annie in Australia informed
of family, social and political doings in
Britain. She was, at this stage, torn be-
tween her love for England and its associa-
tions and a desire to ioin her brother and
sister in Australia.
The letters, which are now published
for the first time by arrangement with
Mrs. Gerald F. Dampney, of Newport
Beach, N.S.W., niece of Rachel and
daughter of Biddulph, are written in turn
from England, from Appin, Sydney and
Bathurst in N. S. Wales, and from North
Queensland. The Queensland letters are
unique, but all the correspondence, taken
together, makes a fascinating history and
family story of the time of our great-
grandparents. '
This second instalment opens with
Rachel still making up her mind as to
when she should leave for Australia,
which is in the throes of gold-fever.
The first railway is being built.
Exeter,
Devon,
April 22, 1854.
My Dearest Annie and Biddulph,
What a long, long post it is ;
it takes six months or more to
get an answer to any letter.
How curious a hot Christmas
Day must seem! You fared
better for your Christmas
dinner than we did, for we were
minus turkey, apricots and mul-
berries. Etta and I sat by the
fire, as close to it as we could,
for it was a bitterly cold day,
and talked about former
Christmas-times when you were
with us, and drank your health
in some sherry which Mr. Boyce
produced for the purpose.
I will send you out the
London news for this week by
the Great Britain. You will have
heard that war* has at last been
declared. We have sent a
tremendously powerful fleet to
the Baltic under Napier. I hope
the war will be short and sharp
and that the Tsar will get what
he deserves, and also will lose
what he deserves, viz., some of
his ill-gotten territories.
There are all sorts of opinions
afloat, of course. Some say that
Russia is too strong for us, but
I don’t believe a word of that.
“Punch” says this week that the
greatest comfort is that we are
not fighting for the Bourbons,
and we beat even in that bad
cause, so I am sure we shall,
now that we are in the right.
The people in general, with
the exception of the hopelessly
insane of the Peace Party, are
quite enthusiastic for the wa»-.
I suppose you saw in the papers
an account of the deputation of
donkeys who went to Russia
with the full expectation of
doing what all the statesmen of
Europe had failed in, namely,
bringing the Tsar to reason. He
received them very civilly and
sent them away as wise, or
rather as foolish, as they came.
I heard something the other
day about a bill being brought
in to prevent, in future, the
English name being made a
laughing-stock of throughout
Europe by the idiotic exertions
of the Peace Society. It is time
something should be done.
The 26th is fixed upon as a
day of national humiliation for
the waj. I hear the income tax
is to be doubled, which will be
unpleasant, but they must have
money. The worst is for those
who have relations in the fleet
or Army.
April 23. We have been on
several excursions
since we came
here. We went to
Starcross last
week by train
and then walked
across the
Warren to Daw-
lish. I had not
seen Dawl i s h
since the time
when we all spent
a winter there 15
years ago. Amy
and I walked up
to Barton Ter-
race to see our
old house there,
and, I rather
think, excited the
suspicion of the
in h a bitants by
standing and
looking in at the
windows, for an
old lady came
and asked us if
she could direct
us anywhere. I
believe she
thought we were
looking for an
eligible place to
break in at. The
railroad was not made, either,
when I last saw Dawlish. It
does not spoil it so much as I
expected: the tunnels are rather
picturesque.
You ask when our friends’
curiosity will be satisfied. I
think they ought to be quite
content if you write a public
letter now and then, not every
mail. I am going to send round
the interesting one we got from
you by the Harbinger. It is now
gone to Aunt Pinchard, then the
Carrs and Buxtons and Sophy
Henning will have it. Also Mary
Ball and Mrs. Barlow; the
latter has not seen an Australian
letter for a long time, and she is
always greatly interested in
hearing about “poor dear
Annie,” as she has always called
you since you left England.
I hope, Biddulph, you have
found something to suit you
long ere this. It seems rather
an undertaking for both of you
to take a farm, even if a small
one, especially as neither of you
are fit for hard work.
You need not be afraid I shall
think you extravagant, dear
Annie, I am sure you will never
be that. Of course you must
have money to begin anything,
but I am vexed that Biddulph
should have to give £ll7 for
£99 in cash. Of course, in a
time of war, the Funds must be
low. If you take this farm, I
cannot think how you will
manage for furniture. You
know there is a package of bed-
ding at Mr. Buxton’s office,
though not much. I suppose you
will send for it and for your
books, etc., if you really take
the house and farm.
April 24. I was quite sur-
prised at your account of the
climate of Sydney. I thought
that whatever else was objec-
tionable, that was beautiful, but
it must be far worse than Eng-
land, and the country round
Sydney must be frightful, but
perhaps it is better in other
parts. You say that it was
beautiful round Wollongong,
Biddulph, but there can be
nothing anywhere like the green
lanes and fields of England.
The Government gardens
must be very pretty, but it is a
great loss to have no country
walks. I should think Biddulph
fully appreciated the oysters, he
used to be so fond of them.
How I should like to spend a
day under the trees with you
both! You do not know how
I long to see you again, some-
times.
You seem to have plenty of
friends in Sydney and to be
always out, but it must seem
very strange to go out after tea.
Perhaps the custom has been
introduced in consideration of
the high price of provisions. It
is rather provoking that none of
your evening dresses are of any
use, Annie. I wish you had
taken out others instead, but I
dare say you will send for some
things when we go out.
April 26. This is the fast-
day appointed in consequence
of the war, but w 7 e are
not all going to make ourselves
ill by fasting all day, as we did
on that memorable occasion at
Taunton. Mr. Hugh Hedgeland,
who is rather fond of eating,
observed rather crossly, when
someone asked him if he was
going to fast, “that abstaining
from food was no use and that
it was fasting in spirit that was
meant,” so that is exactly how
we are going to fast, and bodily
we are going to eat cold beef
and bread-and-butter pudding.
We took a long walk yester-
day to Pinhoe, a pretty little
church about three miles from
here. Emily met with her usual
misfortunes in the shoe line.
The day we went to Dawlish
she wore tight boots and could
hardly walk at all, and yesterday
she wore such old ones that they
split all across and she had to
walk with her toes on the stones
all the way home, but luckily
they are not the worse for it.
I got a great many wild-
flowers, and we have quite a nice
bunch of them in the middle of
the table.
Tomorrow, if it is fine, we
are going to Waddles-down, in
a fly part of the way, and then
to walk on to Newton-St.-Agnes
and home by the train. Both
did Mr. Hedgeland and his son
are going with us; in fact, the
fly is chiefly for the benefit of
the former.
Mr. Tucker, of an evening,
sits up somewhere in a corner
with his back to the light look-
ing the picture of misery, or
else he walks up and down the
room. I am always so sorry for
him, although we cannot help
laughing at him.. Last evening
I saw him take off his boots,
warm his feet at the fire and
then put them on again to the
no small astonishment of the
Miss Hedgelands. I hardly
know what Emily will do when
we are gone and she is alone
with him ; it will be so dread-
fully dismal for her. I do hope
William Tucker will come and
fetch him out to Sydney, for he
will never go out unless he
does ; he cannot make up his
mind to the exertion.
And now, goodbye, Annie and
Biddulph, and believe me, your
ever affectionate sister,
Rachel HfeNNiNG.
[ln August, 1854, Rachel, her sister
Amy and cousin Tregenna Biddulph
left England in the Calcutta for Aus-
tralia. Her first letter at sea is
addressed to her sister Henrietta
{“Etta”) Boyce, who remained in
England.]
Aboard the Calcutta,
Finished, August 14, 1854.
My Dearest Etta,
I begin to write to you today,
as we hope to reach St. Vincent’s
on Sunday or Monday and shall
be able to send home letters
from there.
Amy, Tregenna and I watched
you from the deck of the
steamer on that rainy morning
till we were so far from the
shore that we could not see you
any longer, and then returned
to the corner of the cabin where
you left us, and whence we did
not move again till we arrived
alongside the Calcutta.
We three betook ourselves to
the saloon, where we sat and
talked about you on your way
homeward, and got rid of the
time as well as we could till we
were called to dinner.
Amy and I had been looking
about and speculating upon the
passengers, and had pitched
upon a pretty-looking girl or
about eighteen, dressed in
mourning, as the only one we
should like for a cabin com-
panion, and when we went down
to look at our berths after
dinner, there she was.
She is very pleasant and good-
tempered, and, I think, a lady,
so we are very well on 111 that
respect. She is going to Mel-
bourne with her uncle and
brother, the former a queer old
gentleman who patronises us.
* The beginning of the Crimean
War.
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEE HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, horn 1830.
AMY HENNING, born 1832.
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A, (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Eydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1843.]
EINDON BIDDUEPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDUEPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother’s
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. WIEEIAM
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


and objects to shaving; the
latter, a good-tempered boy of
fourteen. Both these are in
Tregenna’s cabin, together with
a man of the name of Trench,
who looks like a West India
planter and whom Tregenna
pronounces “jolly.”
We found our berths more
comfortable than we expected.
Miss Maunder has the one under
the porthole, and Amy the upper
one on the opposite side, and I
have the lower one. We put
away all our things after dinner
and found plenty of room for
them. The two boxes which
Mr. Arnold conveyed on board
were safe in the empty berth,
and as soon as the ship was
fairly off, I nailed up the moreen
bags and put up some brass-
headed nails, besides, and no
one said anything to me. Our
cabin is directly over the screw,
so that I dare say they did not
hear.
It poured the whole day on
Friday, so that we could not go
on deck and see the last of old
England. The last I did see
was the Needles from the stern
windows. We have had very fine
weather since, with the wind
directly in our favor, and
hitherto we have come very fast.
Yesterday the wind freshened
so that they took up the screw
and the ship went on under
canvas. I thought it a much
pleasanter motion, but we rolled
about a good deal more, and
there were several alarming
smashes of crockery, and some
of the passengers having, con-
trary to orders, opened their
portholes, the lower deck was
streaming with water, so the
first-officer had all the handles
taken off the portholes, and now
they cannot be opened at all.
Some of the passengers have
been dreadfully ill, and Mr.
Arnold would have lost his bet,
for I was seasick all Saturday
afternoon, which I spent in my
berth. I got better in the even-
ing and came up to tea and went
on deck, and have been perfectly
well ever since ; although yester-
day and today the ship has
rolled and pitched a
great deal. I thought
myself very well off
to get off with half a
day of it as, if people are ill at
all, they generally are so for a
week.
It did me a great deal of
good. Tregenna and Amy have
felt nothing of it. I believe Amy
would be better for it, for she
has a constant headache and
always complains of being
“dreadfully tired,” and spends
half her time lying on the sofa,
with her hands over her eyes. I
read to her sometimes, but she
does not care about it, nor is
she fond of being on deck. She
finds the voyage dull, as might
be expected, and I believe that
what she feels now is her old
complaint of want of excite-
ment, rather than any bodily
malady, and I have no doubt
she will get better as we go on.
The voyage is exactly what I
expected: very tiresome, but
bearable, like the other weari-
nesses of life. I do not venture
to think how we shall live out
three months of it, but I suppose
day after day will pass away
imperceptibly.
We breakfast at 9 a.m. and
then stay in the saloon and write
journals, etc., or go on deck and
sit and read. They give us no
end of a breakfast, hot meat and
potatoes and fish, etc. We lunch
at 12 p.m. and dine at 4 p.m.
This is the great event of the
day with most of the people,
and they certainly feed the
menagerie very well, giving us
soup and fish, all sorts of meat
and poultry, pudding and
dessert. After dinner we gener-
ally read till tea-time, which is
at 7 p.m., and after tea we stay
on deck till it is dark. This is
the only pleasant part of the
day. The sea was most beautiful
last night in the light of a full
moon, but they put out the lights
at 10 p.m., so we are obliged
to go down at a quarter past
nine, unless we like going to bed
in the dark.
We already see the difference
of climate and of time. The
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
evenings are much shorter than
at home and it is getting very
hot. Ido not feel the heat much,
but I am afraid Amy does rather.
I have not said anything to
you about the passengers be-
cause we do not know anything
of them. There are very few
of whom I can remember the
names, though Tregenna some-
times tries to enlighten me about
his friends. He has found a set,
some of them Oxford men, with
whom he smokes and drinks
beer, but in general all the pas-
sengers keep to themselves,
which I think much the
pleasantest way. Ido not think
there are fifty first-class, but I
do not know the exact number.
There are very few ladies among
them at all, and hardly any in
the real sense of the word.
The captain is the only one
of the officers of the ship whom
I know, as I sit by him at
dinner. He is quite a gentle-
man, but I have hardly
exchanged ten words with him.
This is his first voyage as
captain; he came home last
time as first-officer of the Argo.
One of our passengers is a
dumpy little German lady (?)
who plays very well, but has
most remarkable manners. She
was screaming with laughter just
now at some compliments which
were paid to her music, and
then she asked Amy if she could
play, and on her answer, what-
ever it was, she took her round
the waist and gave her some-
thing between a shake and a
hug, to Amy’s extreme astonish-
ment. I shall take special care
to avoid a similar salute, though
I have never yet spoken to her.
Mr. and Mrs. Donaldson* are
in their own eyes the great
people on board, he being actu-
ally a member of the Australian
Parliament (I did not know they
had one). He is very stout, very
bumptious and a great eater.
She is handsome and affected
and has not been married very
long. She has been dreadfully
seasick, and today, for the first
time, appeared at breakfast.
There are also a Mr. and Mrs.
Westgarth. He has
written a book about
Australia, which is
handed about on
board, but I do not feel
inclined to read it. She
looks like a lady, but I have
never heard her speak. Then
there is a dismal-looking Mrs.
Macdonald, who is going to
Melbourne to look for her
husband, that worthy not hav-
ing been heard of for two years ;
a very hopeful expedition, I
should think. She also is awfully
ill even now, and retires in the
middle of every meal.
We rather like a Mrs. Hake,
who is handsome and speaks like
a lady. But her husband,
Tregenna says, is a linen-draper
in Sydney, of whom we shall
probably purchase future gowns.
1 have been writing this in
little bits at a time and hardly
know what I have told you.
Of course we do not know any
of the fore-saloon passengers,
but one of them has attracted
considerable attention. She is a
German girl, who is going out,
quite alone, to open concert-
rooms in Melbourne. She
dresses and wears her hair in a
most extraordinary style, and
"She has not been married very long.”
last Sunday she walked for
nearly an hour by herself up and
down the lower deck, just in
front of the quarter-deck, while
the officers and passengers were
leaning over the rails looking at
her and betting as to whether
she was painted or not. She
certainly has a most beautiful
complexion if she is not. She
has a piano on board, which she
was foolish enough to have un-
packed and taken into the fore-
saloon. They say she does not
play very well.
Some of the second-class pas-
sengers are very troublesome.
The first day one of them with
his wife took their seats at the
captain’s table, and refused to
show their tickets, alleging that
they were first-class passengers.
However, the purser enforced
the appearance of the ticket and
the steward expelled them.
Saturday, August 12. I have
not written yesterday, as I have
had a sort of feverish attack
from a cold, but I am well again
today.
Yesterday year, Annie and
Biddulph sailed. What a little
while ago it seems, and yet,
though we have only been on
board a week, it seems about a
year. If we ever survive to
reach Australia, I am sure we
shall stay there for life, for I
do not think I could undertake
another voyage even to get
home again. It is most weari-
some. The noise is wearisome,
the people are wearisome and
life is wearisome. It is too hot
to work, and I am getting quite
tired of novels, and there is
nothing else on board.
I do not even think that a
voyage is so good for people’s
health as it is said to be. Amy
has never been well since she
came on board, and I, besides
the attack of fever, which was
not pleasant, am continually get-
ting sore throats owing to sit-
ting in draughts. The saloon is
a sort of Temple of Aiolus, and
yet if the windows are closed we
could not live. Most of the
people live on deck, but we
generally betake ourselves to the
saloon. We like the sofas, and
the glare of the sea makes
Amy’s eyes bad.
We have a band on board,
but they do not play particularly
well. Some of their instruments
are out of tune. They play at
dinner-time and most of the
evening and wash the dishes of
the establishment at intervals.
The waiters must have a life of
it, for they are continually at
work. First, the children’s
breakfast, then ours; then
luncheon, then the children’s
dinner, then ours; then the
children’s tea, then ours. One
waiter is so like Lindon that we
generally call him so. Another,
who is likewise the bedroom
steward, Tregenna took the pre-
caution of feeing when he first
came on board, and he accord-
ingly stands behind our chairs
at dinner and waits on us most
assiduously* We like the
stewardess. She is very kind
and attentive, and tells us long
stories at night, which we do
not believe, but which are just
as amusing as if we did.
There are eight or ten children
on board, but they do not bother
us much, as they live chiefly on
deck. One baby screams dread-
fully at night.
August 14, Monday. I must
finish my letter today, as they
expect to reach St. Vincent’s at
five this afternoon. We shall
not be able to write to you again
till we get to Melbourne, as the
mail-steamers are not allowed
to send letters on board a ship
even if they meet one. They
must not stop. I have written a
journal up to the day I began
these letters and shall go on
again now, but it will never be
worth sending home, for there
is nothing to tell. Nothing ever
happens except an extra amount
of rolling about, or a downfall
of crockery.
We stay two days at St.
Vincent’s and I suppose we shall
go on shore to see it, but they
say it is a bare rock with only
a few houses and a heap of coal,
and not a tree on it. The real
trial of the voyage will begin
after we leave it. I wish they
would stop at the Cape.
St. Vincent’s is in sight now,
and they close the mailbag this
evening, so if we visit it, which
I rather doubt —the sea is run-
ning so high for a boat —we
must give you an account of
it in the journal. We have had
a most prosperous voyage
hitherto, and I believe that the
same Providence which has
watched over us hitherto will
keep us to the end. I dare say
we shall both like the voyage
better when we are got more
used to the confinement of the
ship and have forgotten Eng-
land a little more.
How pretty Danehill must be
looking now ; those green woods
quite haunt me! I wonder how
the flowers are getting on in
your garden and how the ducks
are and if you often walk to
Sheffield wood.j
Goodbye, my dearest Etta.
Kind love to Mr. Boyce and
with very, very much love to
yourself. Believe me,
Your ever affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
[On reaching Australia Rachel finds
that her brother Biddulph has rented
a farm at Appin, 10 miles south of
Campbelltown, in N.S.W. But he is
keen on getting another property.]
Elladale Cottage,
Appin,
March 29, 1855.
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
We have been hoping that we
should get letters from England
in time to answer them by the
Pacific, but although the
Lightening has arrived and
brought some for the Biddulphs,
there are none for us. I suppose
Etta wrote by the Red Packet,
and that ship is not yet come in.
Thank you for your note to
me. I received it at Sydney,
where X spent the two first
months of this year. I told
Etta all about my pleasant visit
there when I last wrote.
I returned to Appin on the
sth of this month and found
Amy alone, as Annie had gone
to Shoalhaven about a week
before. I only mean alone as
far as her sister’s company was
concerned, for Biddulph and
Tregenna were here, of course.
I cannot say that I was glad
to get back again, though I dare
say I ought to have been ; but
I found that matters had slightly
improved during my absence.
The servant I had sent up from
o Continued on page 24.)
• Stuart Donaldson, who became
Premier and Chief Secretary of N. S.
Wales in 1856, married Amelia
Cowper in England in February,
1854. In September, 1851, he had
fought a duel with Sir Thomas
Mitchell, Surveyor-General of N. S.
Wales.
f Sheffield Park wood, Sussex.


TOLD BY BELL’S
No.I
/Vr.'jJSS
r~*j
V
>v
c*
They flayed
him alive ...
IT WAS in 900 a.d. The Danes had sailed
up the River Severn, in Western
England, and raided the City of
Worcester. One Viking, not content
with ordinary loot, had stayed behind
to steal the Sanctus bell from the Cathedral. It was heavy. He
managed to lower it to the ground, but it was a job to get it on
his back and stagger off with it. Whilst he was trying to do this the
city people returned and literally ‘ caught him bending’ beneath
the weight of the bell. Furious and outraged, the monks and citizens
fell upon the sacrilegious thief and soon flayed him alive. Then
they tanned his skin and nailed it to the inner side of the
great West doors of the Cathedral, as a warning to others. Parts
of the skin can be seen on the door to this day!
Talking of bells, when you want a smooth mature Scotch
Whisky ring for Bell’s, the good old whisky!
BEIL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Distilled & blended by
ARTHUR BELL * SONS LTD.
Distillers, of Perth, Scotland. Est. 1823
* f Oft l
re
F
icofcjf
V,£f)
TfiAm/M
0
z
z
'--V
cr,
N
fa
$
GcMcJiOM
Gkdftc
ACROSS THE PACIFIC TO USA & CANADA
Comfort Aloft ! Fly in pressurized Canadair
Airliners enjoy the added comfort of
“Loungaire” reclining chairs.
Comfort Ashorel Spend 10 hours at tropical
Fiji . . . 33 hours at romantic Honolulu. At
both stopovers first class hotel room and
meals are provided free I Only Canadian
Pacific gives you these two stopovers at no
extra cost. Travel relaxed—arrive refreshed
when you fly Canadian Pacific.
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents) at 247 George
St., Sydney, and 59 William St., Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency, will be glad to
offer you full information.
NO DOLLARS NEEDED
QxmcJjmm Oadftc
AIRLINES
" WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL S/STEM"
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canada
Backbone of the nation
by HELEN MEGGS
I IS chaps on the land,”
I I stated Uncle Jim as he
I J slapped the head off an
innocent buttercup,
“are the Backbone of the
Nation. Don’t forget that, me
lad, specially at the next elec-
tions. Always vote for the man
on the land. Australia’s carried
on the sheep’s back, y’ know.”
And he shaded his eyes to peer
across the sad-looking potato-
paddock to the bare hill where
a few thin sheep hunted for
blades of grass.
“Would y’ like to ’elp me
round ’em up for old Sammy
to look over?” he offered.
“We’ll put ’em all in the little
paddick, and I’ll tell ’im to come
and take the ones ’e wants this
after. C’mon ; you ride Baldy
and I’ll take Boney.”
Baldy was seventeen years old
and as tired as everything else
on Uncle Jim’s farm, so we
followed Uncle and Boney
(Baldy’s youngest son) at a
somewhat dignified pace around
the potato-paddock. Uncle had
been planting potatoes down this
five-acre slope for the last nine
years, and despite increasing
applications of artificial fer-
tilisers the yield was less every
year. I decided he would be
lucky to get one bag to the acre
this year, especially as the gully
down the middle had washed out
right down to bedrock.
“Ever try contour-plough-
ing?” I asked learnedly when
Baldy and I caught up.
Uncle Jim looked at me dis-
dainfully.
“Contour - ploughing!” he
snorted. “I got more to do than
wander round in circles follerin’
contours. That sort of fancy
farmin’ is all right for the boys
in the agricultural colleges, but
when I dig a row of potaters I
like to dig a row, not a wavy
circle. Huh! ”
I HAD never tried mustering
1 sheep before, but it didn’t
seem very difficult until a
motherless lamb scampered right
beneath Baldy’s feet and I had
to dismount, tuck it under one
arm and climb awkwardly back
into the saddle carrying it.
Then another did the same
thing. With a lamb under each
arm the problem of remounting
was quite beyond me, so I con-
tinued mustering on foot, lead-
ing Baldy and carrying two
lambs.
“Might find their mothers
when we get ’em in the paddick,”
yelled Uncle Jim, “Though that
dead ewe might be one of them.”
“What did she die of?” I
asked, inspecting the fresh
corpse with morbid interest.
“Dunno,” said Uncle Jim
vaguely. “The feed wasn’t too
good last winter. Looks as if
the foxes ’ave been at work,
too, curse the swine!” And he
jerked his thumb at the mangled
remains of a new-born lamb.
“Here’s another dead lamb,”
I pointed out. “And there’s
another. The foxes haven’t
touched them, have they?”
Uncle glanced casually at the
little white figures lying as flat
as cardboard lambs in a shop
window at Christmas.
“They was probably born
night before last —very heavy
frost, d’ yer remember?”
I did remember. We had been
to a hilarious concert in the
local hall, and had been nearly
frozen stiff on the way home in
the utility.
“Couldn’t we have gone out
and looked after them that
night?” I suggested. “Or
wouldn’t it be simpler to bring
in the ewes to shelter when they
are about to lamb?”
“Hell’s bells, boy!” exploded
Uncle Jim. “What do you think
I am? Little 80-peep? I got
more to do than run around
playing shepherdess to a lot of
fool sheep that ’aven’t got the
sense to get under a bush when
it’s cold!” And he delivered
profanely precise instructions to
Rags as to the exact manner in
which he was to herd the miser-
able little flock through the gate
into the paddock.
“Drop them lambs,” Uncle
instructed me. “The ewes that
’ave lost their lambs’ll probably
look after them.” And he added
“I ’ope,” as one of the bereft
ewes butted a questing orphan
■ out of her way.
1 ‘\X / HILE we’re over ’ere,”
* ■ remarked Uncle Jim as
he tied the gate up with barbed-
wire, “we might as well go over
and clean up that old shed under
the pines. Dick saw a big
copper-’ead there last summer,
so there’s probably a whole
family of them there now.”
I was a bit perturbed at the
idea of cleaning up a whole
family of snakes in that dark old
shed with its rotten floor and
falling roof.
“What do we kill them with?”
I asked with small enthusiasm.
“There seem to be no green
sticks around here.”
“Kill what?” asked Uncle
Jim. “Oh, the snakes! Yeah, I
guess we might see them. I’ll
take a bit of fencin’-wire in case.
Better than any green stick. But
what I meant was I’d bum down
the shed so no more can breed
there.” And, fumbling in his
back pocket for his trusty box
of matches, Uncle lumbered off
up the hill towards the old
potato-shed which was all that
remained of Grandpa’s original
home, which had been burned
to the ground in a bushfire. Be-
hind the shed towered two
magnificent pines which
Grandpa had planted on his
wedding-day, and in front of it
stood a glorious red camellia-
tree, planted by Grandma.
“But is it safe to burn it
down?” I queried anxiously as
I followed Uncle up the hill.
“What about the trees?”
“Oh, they’ll be all right,” said
Uncle breezily. “It’s a damp
day and no wind.”
And, heaping a pile of leaves
and twigs under one corner of
the shed, he set fire to it forth-
with.
In a few minutes the shed was
a roaring sheet of flame, and so
were both pines. The lovely pink
camellias, which were just com-
ing out, shrivelled back from the
flames and half the tree died.
Uncle Jim stood back and
licked a cigarette-paper thought-
fully.
“Didn’t think them pines ’ud
catch,” he admitted. “But it
can’t do no ’arm. The pine-
needles’ll come on again next
season all right.”
“You hope,” I retorted rudely,
but the crackle of the flames
drowned my voice, and at that
moment two large snakes rushed
out and wriggled frantically
away in different directions.
Uncle managed to break the
back of one in very short time,
but then he had to waste time
beating Rags off, yelling to me
to hold him away from the lash-
ing snake whose wicked tongue
was darting in and out for the
benefit of any living creature
that came within range. By the
time I had a firm grip on the
barking, struggling Rags the
other snake was, of course, no-
where to be seen, so Uncle Jim
finished off the first one and we
left the dying flames to finish
off the shed.
AS we rode our dispirited
horses back I suddenly re-
membered the old orchard
should be in bloom.
“How are the peaches looking
this year?” I asked. “I must
go over and have a look at the
orchard this afternoon.”
“Oh, I pulled that out six
months ago,” yawned Uncle Jim
nonchalantly. “What with the
potater paddick doin’ so bad I
needed the land.”
I nearly fell off Baldy with
indignation.
“What! AH those beautiful
fruit-trees!” I exclaimed. “I
know they were old and the
apples were full of codlin-moth,
but the peaches and pears and
plums were wonderful.”
“Yeah,” agreed Uncle
amiablv. “Emily was a bit
pipped about havin’ no fruit for
preservin’ this year, but I tell
’er she can always buy tinned
fruit at the store, and it should
be good soil f’r potaters fr a
year or two, I ’ope.”
At lunch Aunt Emily wanted
to know what the blaze was
about, and expressed certain
threats as to what might happen
to Uncle Jim if Grandma’s
camellia had been killed. Then
she wanted to know when she
could expect someone to cut
some kindling for the stove. I
hastened to offer my services,
while Uncle sighed forlornly
and murmured “I suppose a
feller shoulda pulled that old
shed down instead of burnin’ it
and used the palin’s f r kindlin’.
Woulder been just the thing.”
“You don’t mind tea without
milk, do you, dear?” Aunt
Emily asked me as she passed
me an enormous cup of a
wicked-looking brew, “You
wouldn’t think we had two cows,
with never a drop of milk in
the house, but Jim just let them
go dry rather than bother milk-
ing them.”
“Not worth the trouble for
the little milk we use,” grumbled
Uncle Jim, shovelling Irish-stew
noisily past his bushy
moustache. “You can always
use powdered-milk, or get a pint
from Artie Green if you really
want fresh.”
“As Artie Green lives four
miles down the road that makes
a pint of milk a bit expensive,”
pointed out Aunt Emily. “How-
ever, as you say, for all we use,
it’s hardly worth while.” And
she tossed off half a cup of
scalding, jet-black tea with
evident relish.
“What are you going to do
this afternoon?” Aunt Emily
asked as she passed Uncle a dish
of tinned plum jam.
“Go and see old Sammy
about them sheep ’e wants to
buy,” said Uncle Jim, spreading
the jam half an inch deep.
“And p’raps I’d better ask ’im


WOOLGROWERS!
These are our objections
to the Post-War J.O.
Marketing Plan
Ilt is clear that the plan, if adopted, will in-
volve the wool industry in major risks and, at best,
promises only uncertain and limited benefits which
are not comparable with such risks.
2 The Plan does not provide for grower con-
trol. Under it FOUR GOVERNMENTS will control
the level of the reserve price and the policy of re-
offerings. The Central Authority in London will
be the main body: the Australian Wool Organisa-
tion will NOT; it will not control policy and will
take its instructions from the Central Authority.
3 The Central Authority will have TEN directors;
THREE for Great Britain; TWO for South Africa:
TWO for New Zealand; and THREE for Australia.
Of Australia s THREE representatives one will be
appointed by the Australian Government as its
representative, so that there will be only TWO
wool grower representatives. South Africa and
New Zealand will each have a Government rep-
resentative AND THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT
WILL APPOINT ITS THREE REPRESENTATIVES.
There cannot be more than FOUR grower rep-
resentatives in the TEN directors. HOW CAN
SUPPORTERS OF THIS PLAN SAY THAT IT IS
GROWER CONTROLLED?
4 Australian woolgrowers will put up 58% of the
capital and have only 20% of the representation.
5 For the uncertain benefit that the Plan may
bo able to reduce price fluctuations when the
market is at a low level the J.O. reserve was
30d. during the last season woolgrowecs are
asked to risk:—
(a) the definite danger of Government control and
the possible danger of International control of
wool marketing.
(b) the complete dislocation of the wool market
and loss of growers’ funds that could ensue
as a result of a misjudgment of price trends
by the Central Authority.
6 The Wool Marketing Plan was evolved after
conferences and Government discussions extending
over two years. As details were published it
became clear that it must contain a strong element
of Government control. It has been condemned
by the majority of grazier associations and organ-
isations including the Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W., the Victorian Graziers’ Association, the
West Australian Pastoralists’ Association, the
Stockowners’ Association of South Australia, the
Farmers’ Stockowners’ & Orchardists’ Association
of Tasmania, the Pastoralists’ Association of West
Darling, and the Graziers’ Association of Southern
Riverina. Other Primary Producer Organisations
such as the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Association of
N.S.W. and the Australian Primary Producers’
Union have declined to support the Plan officially
and have left decision to their individual members.
We urge you
to vote
Inserted and authorised by
THE WOOL STABILISATION
REFERENDUM COMMITTEE
5 Macquarie Place, Sydney
J. P. ABBOTT, Chairman
R.A.A.F. OFFERS 2 GREAT
CAREER TRAINING SCHEMES
creE COURSES
roRBOYSlSTOl?
• FREE INSTRUCTION WITH PAY
• FREE ACCOMMODATION
• GUARANTEED FUTURE
These two unique training
schemes of the Royal Australian
Air Force offer unparalleled
fds
opportunities for boys to make a worthwhile
career. The schemes are:—
Cl) Engineering or Radio apprenticeships (for boy $
with mechanical and scientific inclinations.)
(2) Junior Equipment and Administrative Training
(for those who seek a clerical or administrative
career.)
In both cases, selected applicants will be accommo-
dated under excellent conditions in a wholesome
moral atmosphere. They will also be provided
with food, clothing, materials, medical and dental
attention, all free of cost. In addition, each
apprentice or trainee will receive the special Air
Force pay applicable to his course.
On satisfactory completion of the course, trainees
are appointed to specialist work in the R.A.A.F.
at special skilled pay rates. They enjoy all the
benefits applying to R.A.A.F. personnel.
Briefly, conditions of entry are as shown below.
e-'
&
7. ENGINEERING AND
RADIO APPRENTICES
Period of apprenticeship is
normally three years. En-
gineering apprentices will
train at R.A.A.F. Technical
College, Wagga, N.S.W.,
Radio apprentices at the Melbourne Tele-
communication Unit, Melbourne, and the R.A.A.F.
Air and Ground Radio School at Ballarat, Vic.
Candidates must be of British Nationality and
must have reached the age of 15, but not have
reached 17, on the Ist January, 1952. (Ist March
for Radio apprentices.)
Educational Qualifications for N.S.W., Vic., Tas. and S.A. for
Engineering Apprentices—to within one year of Intermediate
standard. For Radio Apprentices—to Intermediate standard.
For Q’land and W.A. Engineering Apprentices—to within one
year of Junior standard. For Radio Apprentices— to Junior
standard.
JUUUi
~=\
2. JUNIOR EQUIPMENT
AND ADMINISTRATIVE
TRAINEES
Training period is normally
18 months, the first nine of
which are spent at the
special training centre. Rath-
mines, N.S.W. The other
nine months are devoted to
practical training at various R.A.A.F. units in the
Eastern States.
Candidates must be of British Nationality,
medically fit in accordance with Air Force stan-
dards, and must have reached the age of 15|, but
not have reached 17, on the Ist January, 1952.
Educational qualifications: For Vic.,
Tas. and S.A. —Normally equal to the Sub-
Intermediate standard with passes in English and
one branch of Mathematics. For Qld. and W.A. —
Normally equal to the Sub-Junior standard with
passes in English and one branch of Mathematic*-
For descriptive booklets and
fds
application forms, call or wrife to; —
R.A.A.F. RECRUITING OFFICER,
at the Combined Services Recruiting Depot or
Information Bureau in your City.
RAJTSI.M2.B4
to saw us a bit of short wood
for the stove.”
Aunt Emily slapped down her
teacup irritably.
“It does annoy me to see you
paying someone else for wood,”
she snapped. “To think we
lived in the middle of twenty
acres of forest when we came
here, and now we haven’t got a
stick left for the stove! It’s just
ridiculous! ”
“Progress, my dear girl,”
explained Uncle Jim amiably.
“Can’t live on trees, y’ know.
I’ve slaved all these years to
clear my land, and now I ’ave
to buy wood from an old slow-
coach like Sammy who still
hasn’t got his block cleared after
twenty years.”
“Huh!” retorted Aunt Emily.
“Old Sammy has his head
screwed on the right way, if
you ask me. And by the way,
if you get round to finishing
talking to Sammy before night-
fall I’d like you to hook up a
few of the rainwater spouts that
you took down to clean, or we’ll
find summer here and no water
in any of the tanks.”
“Yeah,” agreed Uncle Jim
noncommittally. “If I’ve got
time. Reckon I might pop over
to see Wilson while I’m over that
way.”
A UNT EMILY and I had
promised to call on my
cousin Dick and his wife on the
other side of the National Park
during the afternoon, so we left
Uncle to his own devices. As
we were walking back through
the park we heard a reverberat-
ing crash not far away and Aunt
Emily looked puzzled.
“Someone falling a tree,” she
explained. “But it sounds a big
one, and I didn’t think there
were any big ones left around
here, except in the park, and I
shouldn’t think that creature
Jack Digby would have the
nerve to do his timber-stealing
so near the road.”
But we saw no sign of Jack
Digby or anyone else in the
park, so when we reached our
gate I told Aunt Emily I’d walk
up the road a bit to see what
was going on.
I passed the little paddock
where the diminished handful of
scraggy sheep indicated the
success of old Sammy’s visit.
Beyond that the scrub on the
edge of the road hid the hilltop
from view, but the sounds of
chugging, roaring and shouting
that shattered the evening’s calm
filled me with as much curiosity
as alarm. Leaping up the bank
from the road 1 plunged through
the undergrowth and stopped at
the gap in the rickety fence
where Grandpa’s main entrance
used to be.
Plunging savagely towards me
snorted a huge yellow bull-
dozer with a fifty-foot log in
tow and a trail of churned mud,
upturned roots, broken branches
and other odd wreckage in its
wake. As it lurched down the
hill the bulldozer gave a twenty-
foot sapling a playful slap in
passing and the sapling lay down
quietly on its face.
For a while I couldn’t work
out what had happened on top
of the hill, but finally I recog-
nised the scene of carnage.
Where a few hours before two
lofty pines and a camellia-tree
had flanked a moss-covered old
shed now nothing but a bomb-
crater remained. Or that is what
it looked like. Out of the mud
and chaos, broken, writhing
branches and spots of camellia-
red produced the effect of a
deserted battlefield.
When Uncle Jim saw me he
shouted hilariously: “Guess
this oughter keep Emily’s stove
goin’ f’r a while! Nothin’ like
a bit uv pine f’r a stove!”
I gazed at the two fifty-foot
logs in speechless wonder as I
calculated how many years’
stove wood could be cut out of
so many tons.
“Of course I’m not goin’ t’
use the big logs f’r firewood,”
Uncle hastened to explain. “The
mill will pay me well f’r those.
But Sammy’s goin’ t’ saw up
all the branch wood into foot-
lengths, and that should keep
Emily happy f’r a while.”
I stooped down and picked up
a camellia twig.
Uncle Jim also looked at it.
“I guess Emily’ll be a bit
pipped about the camellia,” he
muttered uneasily. “But it
couldn’t be ’elped. Accidents
will ’appen.”
A UNT EMILY was indeed
more than a bit pipped
about the camellia. In fact the
domestic atmosphere was so
heavy that evening that I felt
relieved that my visit was to end
next day. But Uncle was his
usual philosophic self when he
drove me to the Rock Mountain
store to catch the bus in the
morning.
“C’mon, Horatio!” he urged
the protesting utility as it rattled
furiously up a steep hill. “You
can do this in first if y’ try.”
But Horatio finally stalled and
Uncle had to change noisily
into bottom gear.
“Sandy Mac’s place,” he
yelled, waving his limp cigarette
in the direction of a few acres
of burnt trees and great heaps
of timber stacked for burning.
“ ’E’s cleanin’ it up real nice.
’E works the land a bit ’ard,
p’raps —can’t get the cost of the
seed back from ’is potater-
paddick now, but ’e’s runnin’ a
few cows there f’r a coupler
years and that oughter rest it up
all right. But ’e works ’imself
as ’ard as ’e works the land —
never stops, Sandy doesn’t.
Looks sixty, though ’e’s only
forty. But ’e should get a
decent profit f’r a few years
outer potaters from that block
’e’s clearin’ now.”
The utility bumped unsteadily
over the potholes outside the
store and snorted to a stop.
Uncle Jim eyed with complais-
ance the litter of fruit-boxes,
cardboard cartons, newspapers
and cabbage-leaves that strewed
the tiny store veranda.
“Notice they’ve put a new
veranda on the store?” he
pointed out proudly as he
fumbled for his tobacco-pouch.
“Yeah, Rock Mountain’s cornin’
on all right. We’re goin’ t’ cut
down them old stringybarks to
straighten the road next week.
You’ll think you’re back in the
city next time you’re up!”
He rolled his cigarette
thoughtfully for a moment, then,
without looking up, commented:
“There’s the bus leaving Bignell’s
now. I’ll ’and y’r bag out to
y’.”
I climbed out, grasped the bag
and repeated my thanks to Uncle
for his hospitality.
“Y’re welcome, me lad,” he
said genially. “ ’Ope y’re’ll come
again soon.” Then he leaned
over and tapped me confi-
dentially on the shoulder.
“Now don’t f’rget what 1 told
y’,” he breathed. “If you ’ear
anyone complain about the price
of primary products, you tell
’em, ‘l’ve got an uncle on the
land,’ you tell ’em. ‘And 'e
deserves every penny ’e gets,
It’s chaps like ’im,’ you tell
’em, ‘what’s the Backbone of the
Nation! ’ ”


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
One of the pleasantest settings for a
party is the officers’ mess at Richmond,
where the officers of the station gave a
delightful dance last Friday. There were
fairy lights in the trees outside and a
floodlit Mustang to give local color. In-
side, the guests flowed from parquet-
floored dining-room to ante-room, to
music-room, to sitting-room, etc., which
all open into one another, giving more
spaciousness than one could dream of in
these days of crowded dance-halls.
Group-Captain Davis and Matron Jones
received the 200 guests, who included the
Lt.-General Bridgefords and the Air Vice-
Marshal McCauleys. Anne McCauley was
sighted dancing a light-hearted measure
(her sister, Prue, by the way, recently an-
nounced her engagement to North Shore-
liner Douglas Stewart). Flight-Lieutenant
Manson, with Mrs. Manson, and Flight-
Lieutenant Crozier kept assiduous eyes
out to see that all the guests enjoyed
themselves, which they certainly did.
The party started at 8.30 and ended (offici-
ally) about 3 a.m.
Blossom-time, especially on the North
Shore Line, where the stuff even grows
out in the streets, brought this comment
from one nature-lover; “Isn’t it exquisite!
And the scent! Just like talcum-powder.”
More about spring clothes, this time
dealing with the “high fashion” designed
for those who don’t have to inquire their
bank balance before writing a cheque
and for those who wish to seem to be in
this happy state. During the season
copies and adaptations of these clothes
will appear, and next autumn the most
popular will be available to most of us.
The really super parade given in aid
of the Sydney Day Nurseries at the A.C.I.
Ballroom showed 100 of these dresses
and hats from French designers on the
topmost bough in Paris and from Ger-
maine Rocher and Henriette Lamotte, of
Sydney. Six of Sydney’s leading manne-
quins modelled the clothes: Judy Barra-
clough, Elayne Evrard, Diana Gregory,
Betty Wilson, Olga Halla and Jacqueline
Messier. Most of our fashionable women
were present, their husbands arrived later,
champagne was served, Cyril Ritchard
auctioned butter and got 30s. a pound
for it, Yani d’Espinay led the applause
and it was altogether a gala occasion.
Fashion-points were:
.. the return of the coat fitted to the
waist and swinging out wide in lovely
full skirts. One of these was of grey
wool lined with sulphur yellow and worn
over a slim yellow dress.
.. the decline of the duster. Only two
were shown. Instead was an occasional
coat running in a 1920ish line waistless
from shoulder to hip.
. . the many full skirts on day dresses.
Straight skirts were also well represented,
however, and all are rather short. Some
concentrated fullness at front or back
only.
.. the pre-eminence of side-drapes and
the sideways line generally.
.. navy blue in first place for day wear.
Black and grey also important and
sulphur-yellow recurring like a theme.
.. the use of buttons —some as large as
coffee-saucers.
. .The combining of suits and cocktail-
dresses by attaching a strapless top to
every skirt. This “strip-tease” effect was
most evident in an ensemble by Dior
which peeled off a 1920 coat to disclose
a dress, of which the top was peeled off
again to disclose a cocktail frock.
.. Materials for day were wool, cotton,
linen, alpaca, silk, taffeta, shantung,
crepe, surah, ottoman and tie-silk. For
evening, organza, chiffon, faille, tulle,
lace, satin, linen and shantung again.
Mrs. H. Odillo-Maher lent her Double
Bay home for the hat-show and cocktail-
party which the Ladies’ Auxiliary of St.
Vincent’s Hospital held last Wednesday.
The mannequins, Mrs. Grant-Lindeman,
Mrs. John Bovill, Mrs. H. G. Ferrier,
Mrs. Jock Simpson, Claudia Beazley and
Madeline Archbutt, walked through the
reception-rooms to the guests star-scat-
tered on the lawn, where a most decora-
tive Chinese-looking peach-tree was
starting to blossom. The attendance was
very large and seemed, on the whole, to
reach a pretty high general standard of
looks and dressing. Among the com-
mittee members who organised the party
were Mrs. Tom Bateman, Mrs. Percy
Dalton and Mrs. E. O’Halloran.
Happy birthday for tomorrow to
Dame Mary Gilmore, who at 86 is one
of Australia’s most distinguished and
reverenced women. The many young
writers she has helped and advised in
her time will be among the most sincere
in wishing her “many happy returns.”
Miss Margaret Gillespie entertained
on Saturday members of the Garden
Club at her Warrawee home, where the
stock standing three feet high and bloom-
ing in every conceivable color was the
main object of admiration. It had not
been grown without tears, however, for
Miss Gillespie said that her gardener
had planted 2000 in January and lost them
all because of untimely rain (stock hate
wet feet apparently). Stiff, with the ten-
acity that only gardeners know, he put
in 2000 more and there they were in full
bloom for all to see. Miss Gillespie has
nearly finished her task of cataloguing the
musical library of the late Sydney de
Vries, which she has had beautifully
bound and is presenting to the Conserva-
torium in his memory.
By this time it must have penetrated
to the consciousness of even the least
fashion-conscious that hats are to be
tilted forward this season, or, more ac-
curately, they fit the head and project over
the forehead, giving merciful shade and
concealment. There is a nostalgic big hat
dating back to 1913 whose brim slides
rather steeply down from a large squarish
crown and which is swathed with gossa-
mer, very feminine indeed. The most
revealing hat is the small “chignon” pill-
box which is worn forward (of course!)
and decorated at the back with saucy
bustle-bows and flowers.
Milliner Stella Fraenkel says that every
seven years there is a fundamental change
in hats, so that they swing over from a
policy of displaying the wearer’s face for
what it’s worth to one of alluring the on-
looker by the mystery of the unknown.
At any rate, we’ve had the full-disclosure
session. Now we’re entering on the hide-
and-seek.
This is attractive Madame Giselle
Popier, who has arrived from Paris on a
visit to Sydney. Mme. Popier surely up-
holds the Parisian reputation for ultra-
smart dressing, and her costume jewellery
is specially notable, one of the most
interesting pieces being an outsize ring
of Parisian design. Photo by Norton-
Trevaire.
About 500 Girl Guides are going into
camp at Narrabeen on 27th of this month,
when girls will attend from all States of
Australia, and from New Zealand,
America, Pakistan, Ceylon, the Philip-
pines, New Guinea, North Borneo, In-
donesia and Malaya. Fashion note is
that the Papuan girls will wear grass
skirts and badges in their hair. Control
of this small canvas town is in the hands
of Eleanor Manning, Chief Commandant,
and the mighty job of feeding the multi-
tude is being done by Chief Quarter-
master Mrs. W. H. Relton. The only
man in camp is to be John Sturrock, who
will manage the special branch which the
Bank of N.S.W. is setting up for the ten-
days duration of the camp.
Maybe this branch will be represented
at the Bankers’ Ball which is being held
at the Trocadero on Monday, August 27.
More than £ll,OOO has been raised for
Prince Alfred Hospital by previous
bankers’ balls, and the committee hopes
this year to make it £12,000. The tickets
are one guinea each, and may be obtained
at the main city office of any bank, or
by ringing Miss Helen Birks, BO 155.
At the 34th annual meeting of the
Victoria League the deputy president,
Mrs. H. S. Nicholas, spoke of the out-
standing work of the secretary. Miss
Beulah Bolton, for the League since its
inception and her success as a delegate
to the London Conference this year. The
League does valuable work in welcoming
and helping British settlers, entertaining
overseas visitors and arranging lectures
of an educational nature. The Young
Contingent sends food parcels to Britain,
contributes to the Dr. Bamardo Homes,
maintains a Schools Correspondence
Course and helps with the entertainment
of new settlers. Elizabeth Northcott was
present at the annual meeting when these
activities were reported.
From Melbourne
British tradition was well served when
the Lord Mayor of London, Sir Denys
Lowson, his wife and brilliantly-arrayed
entourage arrived at the Town Hall for
the reception given in their honor by the
Lord Mayor, Sir James Disney, and Lady
Disney. There were cheering crowds and
no little pomp and circumstance. Sir
Denys wore his black brocade robes,
richly decorated with gold lace and with
ruffles of snowy Swiss lace at throat and
wrists, while round his neck hung the
gold chain of his office and the centuries-
old cameo bearing the coats-of-arms of
London city surrounded by diamonds.
His tricorne hat was smothered with
black ostrich-plumes. The scarlet robes of
the sheriffs were bordered with sable, and
they also wore glittering gold chains. The
bearer of the sword, which was encased
in a richly-embellished scabbard, wore
sombre black robes and a high fur turban.
A blue mink cape stole covered the
black frock worn by Lady Lowson with a
smart black velvet beret worn off the face
and swathed widely to the right side. Lady
Disney’s frock was of fine black French
crepe, her cape cocoa-fox; her black
satin hat had the forward tilt. Among
the councillors’ wives present were Mrs.
Bernard Evans, whose black Persian-
lamb-trimmed coat was contrasted with a
small beige hat trimmed with deeper-toned
feathers; and Mrs. P. L. Coleman, in
rust wool frock and short jacket which
had natural fitch-fur trimmings. Mrs.
George Hume’s white hat had large junior-
blue taffeta bows to match her suit. Mrs.
F. Selleck wore a black ensemble. Mrs.
A. G, Hunter had red accessories for her
black suit and hat. The star of “Bell,
Book and Candle,” Evelyn Laye, wore a
black faille suit and black bead-
embroidered cap.
In the Staweff Gallery of the building
which houses the State’s art treasures, the
English-Speaking Union and the Council
of British Empire Societies held a recep-
tion for Sir Denys and Lady Lowson. The
president of E.-S.U., Sir Owen Dixon,
with his wife, received the official
party. Lady Lowson wore a slender
gown of fine white sheer, the skirt
tucked into a diamond pattern to below
the knees, where it swirled out into a full
hemline. With it was worn a blue mink
cape-stole. Lady Grimwade wore white
ermine over black. Mrs. Daryl Lindsay’s
tie-silk gown was red-spotted grey, her
jacket silver brocade. Lady Lowe wore
black crepe. Mrs. F. H. Wright was in
bouffant elephant’s-breath tulle. Mrs. F.
Dennett mixed dove-grey satin and blue
mink. A band of white roses finished
the neckline of the ruby velvet gown worn
by Mrs. Charles Burge. Lady Robinson’s
chiffons were Parma-violet. Mrs. A.
Michaelis chose silver-beaded hyacinth-
blue crepe. Mrs. S. J. Fletcher’s black
chiffon gown was covered with a full-
length white ermine coat.
Commander Adrian Perry, U.S. Naval
Attache, and Mrs. Perry entertained many
of their friends at a farewell-party at
the Dorchester —they leave shortly for
Washington, where Commander Perry
takes up a new post. The party served
also to introduce Commander Robert
Macklin, who succeeds Commander
Perry, and Mrs. Macklin. Mrs. Perry
wore an attractive ballerina frock of gold-
striped nylon and a short mink jacket.
Mrs. Macklin’s frock was of black crepe,
her wide-brimmed matching hat softly
veiled. The Governor’s daughter Jeanette
was there accompanied by one of her
father’s aides, Lt. Robin Byrne. Over
her black frock she wore a fitted black
coat; her tiny black velvet cap had
feathers at one side. Lady Disney’s
tailored suit was in coral tonings.
Mrs. Edric Henty added a black velvet
picture-hat to her cocktail-frock of tur-
quoise crepe checked with black velvet.
Mrs. lan Miller wore a black frock and
small black velvet hat which had a dia-
mante-studded veiL With her black frock
Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade wore a Mary
Queen of Scots bonnet. Mrs. Leo Frankel,
who is in charge of publicity for the Derby
Eve Ball which will give much-needed
support to the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children Association, chose a black en-
semble. Over her short black satin frock
Mrs. Bill Gluth wore an overskirt of
black tulle, Mrs. W. S. Cox wore a Persian-
lamb-trimmed black coat and ruby-red
velvet cap. She is just back from the
U.S.A., where she visited American hos-
pitals and learned new methods in ad-
ministration, which will help her when she
takes over as president of the Women’s
Hospital committee. A small diamante-
starred hat went with Mrs. W. W. Kil-
lough’s black silk draped frock.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, well known for
her work on behalf of the Royal Mel-
bourne Almoners’ Fund, has been elected
president of the women’s committee which
will work for the Deaf and Dumb Youth
Hostel Appeal. Vice-presidents are Mes-
dames R. F. Sanderson, H. Bedggood and
C. R. S. James. Mesdames J. Lee Archer,
L. Carrodus, A. E. Coates, Joyce Macart-
ney and J. Crichton will also be helpers
in this good cause. Dances and other
functions have already been arranged, and
people who are interested and would like
to see the hostel for 53 deaf and dumb
boys and girls established are urged to
arrange functions that will bring in
money.
In Anne Collins’s alluring collection of
spring and summer hats were original
models by Vernier, of London (designer
of hats for the Duchess of Kent), Christian
Dior, Jacques Path, Le Groux Sceurs
and Paulette, of Paris. The new colors
are pewter-grey, pale-Parma-violet, ash-
blonde (seen mostly in Leghorns), grape-
fruit, a natural Leghorn (used a great
deal by Jacques Path), phantom-of-the-
rose, which is a very pale-pink, caramel,
and marine-blue, which is really a very
bright navy. White combined with black
or with navy will be worn a lot, and the
shapes vary greatly. There’s the “plateau,”
the “mushroom,” the “sailor,” the “cart-
wheel,” the “coolie” and the “cushion
brim.”
Most of the hats have the flattering for-
ward tilt, but for those who prefer the
upward line there are models to suit. The
cartwheels are really gigantic. One in
caramel straw was becomingly lined in
white silk pique. Another, of black
mousseline crinoline-straw, was bound
with black velvet around the undulating
brim and finished with one chaste rhine-
stone ornament. Frosted opalescent
pearls glistened in clusters at each side
of a pale-lilac satin bonnet, whilst a Rose
Valois sailor of white straw, which had
a black velvet ribbon-band, was finished
with a vizor veil of chenille spots edged
with a band of horsehair. Burnt pheasant-
feathers edged the wide brim of a blonde
Leghorn hat. White roses and green
leaves trailed over the wide brim of an
eau-de-Nil Leghorn. The “bustle” back,
a new note for next season, was achieved
on a white Panama cushion-brim hat by
adding loops of royal-blue organza.
What should be a best-seller was a pale-
grey fancy straw which had a swathe of
grey chiffon around the crown and sewn
with tiny iridescent sea-shells. Flounces
of the chiffon set low at the centre-back
gave the bustle-effect.
There was quite a treat for those who
went to the Comedy Theatre for the
matinee Mrs. Frank Tait arranged to
assist the Keele-street, Fitzroy, Kinder-
garten. James Jamieson, star of “Briga-
doon,” danced the Fling as only a Scots-
man can, Father Sydney Mac Ewan for-
sook Hebridean songs to recite in a de-
lightful West Highland accent of the time
“Mac Allister Danced Before the King,”
and lovely Evelyn Laye sang the songs
which have made her the most famous of
England’s musical-comedy stars. Lady
Brooks, her daughter Jeanette, Lady Dis-
ney and Betty Everard were received by
Mrs. Norman Harris, president of the
kindergarten, Mrs, Frank Tait and Mrs.
G. Francis—the latter is hon. organiser
for the kindergarten and was in charge
of front-of-the-house arrangements. In
the audience were Lady Clapp, her
daughter Mrs. Geoffrey Smith, Madame
M. Vigano, her daughter Mrs. Don
O’Donnell, Mrs. E, Grey and Alma Peder-
sen.
Mrs. Tom O’Mahoney, who has been
staying with her parents, Lt.-Col. and
Mrs, L. R, D. Stable, of Toorak, since
the commencement of the war in Korea,
left recently by air for her home in the
U.S.A. Mrs. O’Mahoney has four
children —five-year-old Katherine, three-
year-old Robert, Margaret, 22 months,
and baby Ross, who was bom in Mel-
bourne four months ago. Their father,
Major T. O’Mahoney, of the First Marine
Division, is back in America ; he was
awarded the Legion of Merit. Mrs.
O’Mahoney has learned that her hus-
band has been appointed to the Naval
Base on Puget Sound, near Seattle, and
the appointment carries with it a home
large enough for his family. Gwenda
Clark, of Yarram, a qualified Victorian
mothercraft nurse, has gone with Mrs.
O’Mahoney and the children. Women*
clubs and community centres in the
U.S.A. should be interested to hear of the
training and activities of mothercrar
nurses, as there is no counterpart of this
work there*


PERSONAL ITEMS
Brigadier Don Mackinnon Cl eland, who
becomes assistant-Administrator of New
Guinea-Papua Territories under Colonel
Jack Keith Murray, would probably win
a prize as the quietest of the Second
A.l.F.’s brigadiers. By profession he is a
barrister, called in W.A. in 1924. He
joined the expeditionaries in October,
1939, as a captain and saw much of his
later service in New Guinea as a useful
apprenticeship for his new job. He had
one essay in Federal politics in Fremantle
after John Curtin died, against Kim
Beazley and put up a good fight. Since
1946 he has been director of the Federal
secretariat of the Liberal party. He was
selected from among 140 applicants and
will feel temperamentally more at home
in administration than in the hurly-burly
of party politics.
The long face here Coventried belongs
to a man with a long job. Piers Adrian
Richmond started his roadwork in 1924,
and last year became S. Australia’s Com-
missioner of Highways. For close on 20
years in between he had been highways-
engineer, so he knows a thing or two
about how and where his State’s roads
run. Recently he was one of three Aus-
tralian representatives at an international
conference in Washington of 60 highway-
engineers from 19 countries. Educated
CORRUGATIONS.
at a Victorian agricultural college, he’s
reached his 57th milestone.
Having worn Brisbane’s set of bunny-
skins since 1940, Lord Mayor John Beals
Chandler has decided to give away his
chains. Born in Norfolk, England, which
country he’s now visiting, J.B. is a lead-
ing figure in the north’s private enterprise,
and a staunch opposer of anything which
threatens it. Chairman or director of a
string of Queensland concerns, some of
them bearing the Chandler name, he
bossed his State’s stout effort in comfort-
fund commodities in War 11, and is a
Companion of the Institute of Radio
Engineers of Australia. The war hit him
hard, taking two of his four sons.
“Macnell” inspects a branch-mate:
The important job of fitting 400 national-
service trainees into the intelligent discipline of
the Navy (important because they’ll “tell their
cobbers”) is in the seasoned hands of Com-
modore H. J. Buchanan, Superintendent of
Training at Flinders. Buchanan possesses those
characteristics most appealing to impressionable
youth—the assured discipline, the snap carriage
and the drama of power which go with the
senior executive branch, gunnery. Top of his
advanced gunnery course in England, he was
given command of the British destroyer Valen-
tine soon after Hitler cut loose, and in her
helped to retard the career of German troops
across Holland. The Luftwaffe had retarding
ideas as well —so many bombs dropped around
the little craft that it was scarcely noticed that
one went down the funnel. Valentine’s valiant
remains were grounded, the crew escaped, and
HJ.B. shortly afterwards was handed a terrific
job—piermaster in the Dunkirk rescue. He was
the last off the mole, with his team attended
by Nazi dive-bombers right up to the finish.
With D.S.O. and a brace of “mentions” he
took command of Vanity (she was the vicious
little termagant who was later, in the Mediter-
ranean, to dispatch three submarines in one
day), then reverted to his own Navy, captain
of our destroyer Norman. Command of sister-
ship Napier follpwed, with the leadership of
the flotilla. Napier had the unusual job, for a
destroyer, of acting as H.Q. ship for the Akyab
and Ramree Island landings early in 1945. To
round off nicely a splendid war record,
Buchanan was the first Allied man ashore in
Japan, leader of the British force which occupied
the Yokosuka Dockyard. Now 49, he com-
manded Shropshire and Australia after the
war, and wears, in a weather-burned face, a
pair of the most startlingly blue eyes.
An intellectual migrant (though the
wrong way for Sydney University) leaves
for Cambridge in Alexander Hugh Mc-
Donald, Professor of Ancient World
History in Sydney for the past six
years. Born in Dunedin (N.Z.), 43
years ago, the professor got his advanced
education at Gottingen University and
Clare College, Cambridge (to which he
returns as a Fellow), and lectured in his
subject at Nottingham University College
for five years prior to his Sydney appoint-
ment. At Cambridge he’ll really get to
work on his present absorption, the editor-
ship of the Oxford text of Livy.
Sir Peter Buck (or, to give him his
Maori patronymic, Te Rangi Hiroa),
director of the Bernice P. Bishop Museum
at Honolulu, has added another to his
long list of honors—a Doctorate of
Science from Yale University. He’s
already Professor Emeritus of Anthro-
pology at Yale.
The R.A.N. is after 50 natives for its
Papua and New Guinea naval division.
Natural seamen, they’ll be commanded
by Lieut.-Commander David Nicholls,
who was up that way in 1943, surveying
in H.M.A.S. Gascoyne, particularly round
the Philippines, where the frigate had the
highly unpleasant job (under the eyes of
an apprehensive enemy) of charting a land-
ing-course for the invasion fleets headed
for Leyte and Luzon, Earlier Nicholls
had been in destroyers—in the Medi-
terranean with Vampire, at the Mada-
gascar invasion with Napier. Not yet 30
(young for two-and-a-half stripes), he’s a
son of Sir Robert Nicholls, Speaker of
the S. Australian House since 1933.
Dubois has here caught Ricardo Odno-
posoff, the South American virtuoso now
in his Sydney season for the A.8.C., at
practice on his Guadagnini—he also has
a Strad, with him —and the look of con-
centration is typical of the violinist
whether at rehearsal or on the concert-
platform. Of medium height and solid
build, and commanding excellent English,
Odnoposoff, who was born at Buenos
Aires, has both Latin and Slav antece-
dents, which accounts for the fire he in-
jects into music which calls for
animation. Starting off on a quarter-
size fiddle when he was four, he is another
rare case of the child prodigy whose early
promise didn’t fizzle out. At the ripe
age of five he made his debut. While still
in his early ’teens and studying under
Carl Flesch in Berlin he appeared as
soloist with the Berlin Orchestra, and
since then he has played with practically
every great orchestra up and down the
world and under every famous conductor.
Concertgoers will note the particular ease
with which his violin “fits” him ; should
they look closer they will see a gadget
under the violin and fitting over the
player’s collar-bone. That is an invention
—the best in the mechanics of fiddling for
many years, according to Odnoposoff—
of a Perth jeweller, and the violinist will
ODNOPOSOFF.
take it back to the U.S.A. to put it on
the market. Keeping abreast of his ex-
tensive and ever-extending repertoire
doesn’t take up all of Odnoposoff’s time
by a long shot —he dabbles in mechanics,
furniture-designing and photography.
The R.A.A.F.’s pride, the Canberra jet,
is to be based at Amberley (Q.). Based
there also, as from the other day, Group-
Captain W. H. Garing, unofficially
“Bull,” officially c.o. of the station.
Passing out of Point Cook in 1931 with
a distinguished flying pass, he left Eng-
land just 10 years later with a Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross. In England
when War II started, he was attached to
the Australian No. 10 Squadron of Sun-
derlands, and was commander of the boat
which spotted 46 survivors of the City
of Benares in the Atlantic. When France
collapsed the R.A.F. looked for a man
to fly Alexander, then First Lord of the
Admiralty, to France for secret discus-
sions with the naval staff. Garing was
selected. He lived up to his nickname
in New Guinea, goring the Japs at Milne
Bay and Buna. For this, the American
D.S.C. He goes north from commanding
the School of Land-Air Warfare at
Williamtown, near Newcastle. Naviga-
tion’s his speciality.
“Ek Dum”: What do you mean (B,
8/8/’5l) —Will Lawson “came from
Maoriland” at 36? He was born at
Gateshead, Durham (Eng.), was brought
to Queensland at an early age and wears
the light-blue-and-dark-blue tie of Bris-
bane Grammar School, same as myself.
His school vintage, 1890, and I note that
the school annals record him as “Con-
tributor to the Sydney Bulletin since
1900.”
“Fitz”: E. O. Schlunke, whose stories of
farming life have been appearing in this paper
for the past 17 years, is a native of Temora
(N.S.W.), and farms a property at Reefton,
not far from his hometown. To present para-
graphist he confessed that the circumstances of
his youth were singularly unfavorable for a
literary future; nothing was more foreign to
the sober-minded German community in which
he grew up than the idea of writing fiction.
When he left the family farm to go to Hurlstone
Agricultural High School, Sydney, the plunge
into higher education was accompanied by much
parental misgiving, the neighbors assuring his
parents that “college will only spoil him for
work.” Hitherto the only sons in the district
who went to “college” were those wanting to
be parsons. He confirmed the worst fears
of the neighbors by showing more interest in
books than in wheat and sheep; but family
responsibilities proved him to be a true son of
the Soil. He had a hard struggle in the depres-
sion years—the family had overreached itself in
land-buying in the preceding boom. About this
time, as a relief from farm troubles, he began
to write humorous stories, and still remembers
getting his first Bulletin cheque in 1933 —in
his excitement he wrecked the family car on
the way home from the post-office. His first
personal contact with a Bulletin staff man was
with John Brennan, who licked his earliest efforts
into shape and gave him needed encouragement.
He has since had two serials accepted
by Sydney “Herald,” appears regularly in
Coast to Coast, and has had his writings
translated into German. Outside his farming
Schlunke finds time for extensive reading, the
enjoyment of classical music and the collecting
of Australian paintings. Norman Lindsay and
Lance Solomon are favorites.
“C.E.S.”: Roy Bridges (mentioned
Red Page, 25/7/’5l, as one of our popular
historical novelists) is a sick man at his
home near Sorell, in Tasmania, the locale
of many of his stories. The dynamic little
chap has produced some 45 romances,
most of them with an Australian historical
setting. He got his start with A, C.
Rowlandson’s Bookstall series when he
was a young reporter
on the old “Star,”
which was absorbed
by the “Sun”
(Sydney), 40 years
ago. A full-time
novelist for 20-odd
years, Bridges has
had the distinction
of simultaneous New
York and London
publications with
several best-selling
books. He has been
greatly helped by his
sister, Hilda, herself
a novelist and short-
story writer. A pub-
lisher’s reader said
of an early Bridges
manuscript, “t h e
neatest thing about
this story is the
handwriting.” That
was Hilda’s. She
transcribed the scrawl of her
brother’s manuscripts in the neatest calli-
graphy* until a typewriter could be
afforded.
“Uramao”; Maoriland’s second Maori
bishop, in succession to Bishop F. A.
Bennett, who died last year, will be the
Rev. Wiremu Netana Banapa, at present
shepherding the Maoris in the Taupo
district. His office will be Bishop of
Aotearoa and Suffragan Bishop to the
Bishop of Waiapu. Educated at St.
John’s College, Auckland, Wiremu was
ordained in 1921 and filled several jobs
with his native brethren in the North
Island, including Vicar of Ohinemutu in
1944 and Taupo in 1947.
Herewith by Lambart, James Cameron
Slaughter, who became town-clerk of
Brisbane round about the time J. B.
Chandler became its mayor. Bom on
Thursday Island, Slaughter has town-
clerked in five Queensland towns, and
for nine years helped to make Coolan-
gatta the delight it is to southern tourists,
Accountant by training, he recreates at
golf and fishing, but gets his main joy in
life from addressing responsible bodies
CORPORATIONS.
with trenchant exhortations to quit charp-
ing and build up pride in a better Bris-
bane.
“C. 8.”: Theatrical people the country
over will mourn the loss of that G.O.M.
of the orchestral-well, Gustav Slapoffski,
passed on at 91 in St. Kilda. Slap was
part of the history of opera in Australia.
A 15-year-old pupil of Sir Arthur Sulli-
van at the Royal Academy of Music in
1875, he came to Australia in 1900, under
Sir Henry Wood’s recommendation, to
George Musgrove. His first Australian
exercise with the baton was over an
orchestra of 100 at the Exhibition Build-
ing, Melbourne, at the opening of the
first Federal Parliament by George V and
Queen Mary, then Duke and Duchess of
Cornwall and York. He waved it more or
less continuously for 50 years thereafter,
conducting the music of his old master in
the numerous revivals of G. and S. opera
for Musgrove and Williamson and of
Wagner’s music for Musgrove. A
partly paralysed arm caused temporary
retirement, but his white hair, bent figure
and eagle-like gaze made their appear-
ance whenever his services were needed,
as when Ben Fuller, greatly daring, pro-
duced the “Valkyrie” at the Melbourne
Palace. Slap cropped up again when
nearly 90 to help the National Theatre
take its first steps in opera.
One of the latest New Australians to
arrive in Melbourne, Edmund Schneider,
in pre-war days came into prominence as
a glider-enthusiast. He was a young man
when he started experimenting with
gliders; later he met Messerschmitt, and
together they built a glider-factory which
became the world’s largest, and was
eventually taken over by the Luftwaffe.
The Russians deprived Schneider of his
factory, but he will build another in Mel-
bourne,
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 93, Freddie Rayner, early
Bulletin staff man, who represented the paper
in Queensland in the 80’s. He published his
own paper, the “Sketcher,” in Dunedin (M.L.),
and gave David Low his first newspaper job
thereon. Recently Low wrote him a letter from
London, illustrated with a sketch of Freddie,
complete in flannels and straw boater, with
the attached hope that “If 1 remember, you
looked something like this.”
In Fremantle, at 75, Captain William R.
Clack, former shipmaster, harbormaster and
pilot of the Fremantle Harbor Trust. Lie was
pilot for Royalty twice —when he brought
H.M.S. Renown, with the present King and
Queen aboard, into Fremantle in 1927, and in
1934, piloting H.M.S. Sussex, with the Duke
of Gloucester aboard. In 1924 he piloted
battle-cruiser Hood, the largest vessel to enter
Fremantle. In later years his main interest
ashore was the secretaryship of the Fremantle
branch of the Company of Master Mariners.
At Devonport (Tas.), at 75, Thomas Pettit,
doyen of the Speck’s hefty woodmen. He won
the world's championship for 2ft. blocks with
the axe three times, with the saw five times.
Retiring undefeated at 28, he went to the U.S.
as an adviser on axe-design, and returned as
Australian and New Zealand technical represen-
tative for the Plumb Axe Corporation, a post
he held for 43 years. With his brother Harry
he founded the N.S.W. Axemen’s Association.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 70, Leo Walsh,
pioneer aviator who 40 years ago made a flight
in a crude aircraft from Waitemata Harbor.
The training-school run with his brother Vivian
trained many airmen for the Kaiser’s war. The
brothers built the first seaplane in the southern
hemisphere, and flew it on New Year’s Day,
1915.
In Melbourne, Arpad Joseph Haussegger, who
helped to pioneer electric-light in Australia.
The first arc lamps, in Chapel-street, Prahran,
were installed by him, and he lit many countiy
centres.


Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Works of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
y
£rtisa^er
CLOT
■■■■■■l
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
A One-man Post Hole Digger to Speed up your Fencing
★
★
f
For low cost post hole digging you could not
better the Mobilco. With this machine you
don't need one man driving a vehicle and
another feeding the auger, as one man does
the whole job. On the Mobilco the whole
weight of the engine and gearbox is placed
directly over the auger and that is why a
Mobilco digs faster and calls for practically
no manual effort. Holes of up to 2' 8" are
dug with Mobilco. The specially designed
Mobilco auger digs to 2' 8" depth and leaves
a clean, clear hole. The light weight and
perfect balance of the Mobilco ensures easy
movement and allows you to put a hole exactly
where you want it (and Mobilco will dig a
perpendicular hole on a slope).
•••.' ■s^. v
M?K?®SBBh»s«^2^ : . traSSSSSSS
m
: :
i - : 5
Dig the holes and bore the posts with the same machine
m
dsf
An Electric Boring outfit consisting of a 32 volt, 500 watt
electric generator, 20 ft. of rubber flex and a sturdy,
reliable Mobilco-Sher drill, fits firmly to the frame of the
Mobiico Post Hole Digger (Va‘‘ or Vi" wood bits are
available for this attachment). Thus with a Mobiico you
dig the holes and bore the stand-
ing posts with one machine.
One Machine does many jobs
As fencing is not usually an all-year-
round job the Mobilco Post Hole Digger
is adaptable for shearing, pumping, light-
ing and a number of seasonal tasks.
A one-stand mechanical or 32 volt elec-
tric shearing plant can be run from your Mobilco Post Hole
Digger and the same machine will serve ideally as a paddock
crutching outfit. The Mobilco will fit on to any utility truck
and there is also a special bracket on the front of the machine
for road speed towing between properties.
A 3" centrifugal pump can also be attached to the Mobilco Post
Hole Digger. 300 gallons per minute can be pumped at a 50
ft. head. Furthermore, owners of Mobilco Saws can purchase a
Digger without engine and less 2 wheels, as Mobilco machines
are all powered by the staunch 7 b.h.p. B.S.A. engine sad
have standard size pneumatic wheels.
dsf
Write today for full information on the Mobilco Post Hole Digger.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
252 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
sd
EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.
CEN. 4799; AFTER HOURS WF3IIB
ILS.W. Representative: R. H. SIVERTSEN, 47 South Parade, Campsie
Phone: LF4209; After Hours: FW1754
• Nepean River.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
dSUtUVAN
. VWXITO^
Ess wb»s
tWAOB
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIM
BRISBANE
(AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result oi
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it. ,
The NEO-BARRERE acts like tne
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE-
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28H), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Sydney turned out to be a very
good one, so that there was no
longer any necessity for our
doing hard work.
There had been some rain, so
that the fields looked greener
and the cattle less like skeletons
than formerly, and Amy was
established as housekeeper and
had contrived to become a very
good cook. I was only too glad
to leave her in full possession of
the former dignity, and enter-
taining strong doubts of my
own capacity in the latter
respect, I thought it as well not
to interfere beyond the
occasional stoning of raisins and
beating of eggs. Her eyes are
not very strong still, and she
says that she is very glad to
employ herself part of the day
in work that will not try them,
and I am very glad to be saved
the measuring-out of flour and
dispensing salt beef.
I draw, or mend the stock-
ings of the establishment in the
mornings, and after dinner
generally read to Amy while she
works or nets. We wander
about in the bush for an hour
before tea by way of a walk, or
I go down to Appin to fetch the
letters. Amy goes part of the
way with me and then returns
when this is the case, as a four-
mile walk is rather too much
for her. In the evening we play
cribbage and backgammon, or
work and read and go to bed at
nine. And so the days pass
quickly enough, if not very
pleasantly.
I dislike this bush life
extremely and find it sometimes
difficult to amuse myself, though
home the days used to seem
too short for what I had to do.
I seem to have left out Bid-
dulph altogether in my account
of our daily life, but he and
Tregenna left us for Shoalhaven
very soon after I came back to
Appin, and he only returned
, , . , -T a
home last night. He goes off
again on Thursday as he is now
thinking about buying land at
Shoalhaven instead of on the top
Q f the Bulli Mountain. It would
have the advantage of being
accessible, which would hardly
he the case on the top of the
mountain, and the land there is
equally rich. In other respects
a h parts of Australia are alike,
j suppose. They are so to me
least.
j am gj a( j he is going to leave
Appin, however, for'l am sure
he will never make any money
on this farm. Do you remember
our saying that there must
certainly be something the
matter with it, when he wrote
word how low the rent was,
that there must be a want of
water or that nothing would
grow? There are both these
drawbacks here.
The soil is wretchedly poor,
and this is said to be the very
driest part of Australia.
Frequently, when there have
been torrents of rain at
Wollongong and Sydney, on
each side of us, we have not had
a drop here. There are no
springs on the farm, only a
waterhole, and that was dry for
nearly six weeks in the summer,
and then we had to fetch water
from the river* three miles off.
It is a pity Biddulph ever took
this farm; still, he has gained
some experience here, and, as
his expenditure was chiefly in
cattle and furniture, he has not
lost much.
Annie is still at Shoalhaven,
and she is going to pay a visit
to Sydney on her way back, so
I do not much expect her here
till June. The truth is that when
once we are liberated from
Appin we are in no great hurry
to return to it again.
Lindon has a very comfort-
able house at Shoalhaven and
seems to be making a great deal
of money by surveying, and if
he will only stick to it, I have
no doubt that he will do well.
He is very anxious that Biddulph
should settle near him, and per-
haps it would be pleasanter for
Annie and Amy to be near them
than away on the mountain-top.
He came up with Biddulph last
night and stays here till Thurs-
day to take him back to Shoal-
haven with him. I think he is
afraid he will return to the
“Mountain” plan if he loses
sight of him,
Biddulph, however, will not
be persuaded into anything
unless he thinks it will be best.
I can hardly fancy that the
thoughtful, steady man of busi-
ness, which he really is now,
can be the same with the almost
childish schoolboy we con-
sidered him in England ; and yet
he has lost none of his gentleness
or simplicity of character.
Mr. Sparling, the clergyman,
of Appin, wants him very much
to be churchwarden this year,
but he says he is too young
and has enough to do to mind
his own business without the
business of the parish: and for
the same reason he refused to be
put on the Patriotic Fund Com-
mittee at Campbell Town.
He is at present gone out with
Jack to fell a bee-tree, dressed-
up in a blue gold-digger’s shirt
over his clothes, a thin silk
handkerchief tied over his hat,
and my gardening gauntlets on
his hands. I hope he will get
““
wise got up in a silk handker-
chief. Lindon is sat on a log in
the too ] s hed smoking and Amy
j s making a plum-pudding for
dinner.
We bought Lindon’s cows
when he went to Shoalhaven,
and we have now plenty of milk
and butter to use and some of
the latter to sell. We send it to
one of the shops where we get
two shillings a pound for it. We
have begun to dig our potatoes,
but they are very small and
many of them diseased owing to
the dry weather. We have also
a few pumpkins in the garden,
but our stock of vegetables is
not large.
We can get nothing to grow
in this dry soil, and the fowls
scratch up the little there is. We
have a quantity of poultry.
I have just been standing with
Amy at the back door to take a
review of them. Biddulph put
up two to fatten yesterday and
we have already killed and eaten
some. They were not very
plump, though in better case
than those famous ones you
helped us to dispose of at
Backwell.
The Lightening seems to have
brought no satisfactory news
about the war. Will Sebastopol
(Continued on page 32.)
FLOWER OF WINTER.
Surely because it is winter and westerlies rush
From icy highlands beating the branches down
Travail must shape some pure white thought in the bush
Where leaf and bark lie brown on the dream of stone
And only the flannel-flowers, numb as the earth, endure
The season of death on one huge rocky spur.
Surely some thought—but colder over its stones
Scurries the creek to drop in the dusk of the gorge,
Wilder rushes the wind • . . And there it stands
Frail as a thought indeed on the mind’s dark verge,
Fringed with faint purple out of the warmth below,
The ghostly caladenia whiter than snow.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Vi
CC*>
Thb Klng Ragep
Rwnp The T
Id futile search for gold;
The Queen was led upstairs to bed.
Half-dead with cough and cold,
“I’ve been betrayed,” the monarch said,
"A crown I had. I’m sure;
What shall I do, for a bottle or two
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint
Care.’*
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLIFFORD WALTER GRUNDY late
of 95 Rosa Street Oatley.—TAKE NOTICE
that WINIFRED IRENE GRUNDY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3024 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 23rd day of October 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. PRIMROSE, YOUNG
& PRIMROSE, Solicitors, 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN LOGEMAN formerly of Ers-
kineville—TAKE NOTIdE that ALICE
EMILY LOGEMAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1370 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend the suit you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney by the
19th October 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition free of charge from W. F.
HOLMES, Solicitor, 89 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALGERNON ALEXANDER THEO-
DORE VLANDY late of Sydney and Egypt.
—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH
MARGARET VLANDY had filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2989 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you intend to defend this suit you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 22nd day of October,
1951, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from G. M. STAFFORD,
Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—•
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Al A/ \
j-l ) n
“I think I'd like
a White Horse
better than anything”
£2
SM
m
WHITE HORSE SCOTCH WHISKY
WHX7A
SUNDRY SHOWS
Caesar and
Cleopatra."
William Walsh’s production,
at the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre, of G. B. Shaw’s ver-
sion of the historic meeting of
Csesar and Cleopatra was well
done throughout, but the best
thing about it was that Shaw’s
argument, which was the only
reason why Shaw wrote it, came
through. It didn’t come through
half as well in Shaw’s own mil-
lion-pound production on the
screen.
The argument survived the
Repertory production largely be-
cause of Mr. Walsh’s intelligent
acting as Caesar, the man of
wisdom whose trade is murder
and who, at the peak of his
power and glory, comes to the
conclusion that murder only be-
gets murder. Mr. Walsh, who
is 6ft.-odd, acted the part with
vivacity and feeling.
Shaw puts the ageing Caesar
up against a murderous little girl
of 14 without a brain in her
head but with an appetite for
power as primitive as her in-
stincts and a traditional belief
in killing. Maureen Scott played
the part excellently, and prob-
ably as Shaw would have
wanted.
Everybody else was good,
especially Nancy Fry berg as
Ftatateeta, the mistress of Cleo-
patra’s household, who treats
her mistress as if she were a
baby but carries out her behests.
Philip Burnet as Pothinus, the
political schemer, Huw Roberts
as Rufio, the honest soldier,
Rayden James as Apollodorus,
the dilettante, and Eric Haire as
Britannus, Shaw’s usual typical
Englishman with a superiority
complex, were admirably suited.
"Desert Highway."
Act I of this Priestley play,
written, strangely enough, in
1944 for production within the
Army, and selected by the Tin
Alley Players as their contribu-
tion to the Commonwealth
Jubilee amateurs’ competition,
displays five British soldiers and
a Jewish sergeant stuck in the
Syrian desert alongside their
crippled tank 100 miles from
their division and without food
or water. The argument Priestley
develops is that mankind is a
long procession of brothers for
ever losing and finding and
losing again their essential
brotherhood, and it is tossed be-
tween a Welshman, a Cockney,
a Yorkie, an Oxford man and
the Jewish sergeant with passion
and some humor.
A Nazi plane swoops down
and reduces the garrison by
one and the action steps back
2000-odd years to a time when
the Egyptians owned the empire
on which the sun never set or
ever would set, the Assyrians
were the up-and-coming Nazis
and the Jews were, as usual, the
despised and persecuted. It is
on the same spot on the desert
highway. The priests of Baal
demand a Jewish youth for their
sacrificial altar, and after a long
debate he is handed over, the
various parties justifying their
betrayal of him on grounds of
religion, expediency and duty,
but mainly to save their own
skins.
the action then returns to the
five British soldiers marooned in
the desert. Another Nazi plane
zooms down and drops a
message offering to succor the
beleaguered party if they will
hang out a white flag in token
of surrender. The issue is hotly
debated, and is finally resolved
by the Jewish sergeant, who
quotes the Old Testament
prophets. There is to be no
surrender. Another plane is
heard, and the curtain goes
down on the party speculating
as to whether it is a British
plane or a Nazi.
Priestley’s argument in this
play is inconclusive, and limps
to a lame end. Why did he only
quote the Old Testament
prophets? Why didn’t he quote
Jesus, who said: “It has been
said of old, an eye for an eye and
a tooth for a tooth; but I say
unto you, etc.”? The only
reference here is a vague one
about a new prophet Isa who has
arisen somewhere in Judea. The
weakness of the play is that a
Nazi playwright could have
written a similar play if he had
switched the nationalities round
and it would have passed the
Nazi censors.
Wyn Roberts was admirably
cast as the Welshman. Keith
Macartney did well as a
“knocker,” and William Palstra,
John McGivern and John
Haynes exploited various county
accents. George Fairfax played
Sergeant Joseph with quiet
strength and feeling.
“W.E.F.”: “Peer Gynt” was
intended by Ibsen as the embodi-
ment of certain aspects in the
character of his countrymen at
the end of the romantic period,
and the work is an indictment of
the egoism, half-heartedness and
lack of character that the author
reproved. At North Sydney In-
dependent S.U.D.S. producers
Sam Hughes and Nigel Haw-
kins seemed to have set out
to make a parody of Ibsen’s
magnificent lyrical drama, with
the result that a confused audi-
ence could not tell at times
whether they were viewing a
slice of Marx Brothers’ foolery
or something that had strayed
from a back-street vaudeville
show. It was all a great waste
of time, energy and talent since
Garth Nelson (Peer Gynt), Jean
Anderson (Aasc), Eileen Cook
(Solveig), Ruth Laws (Ingrid)
and Michael Hourihan (owner
of Haegstad farm and the Troll
king) sometimes indicated that
they might do justice to some-
thing more serious.
Odnoposoff and
Orchestra.
South American violinist
Ricardo Odnoposoff found the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Joseph Post so much to
his liking in both the Beethoven
Concerto and the Suk Fantasie
that he called America to see if
his recorders could fly out tech-
nicians to record both these
works.
The Fantasie, given in the
second subscription concert, is
a muscular work, rather light of
theme but of glowing color,
which only the best will attempt
because of its technicalities. It
was a sparkling performance
owing no less to the fine back-
ground work of the orchestra—
once again proving that Post is
a first-rate conductor —than to
Odnoposoff’s spirited bowing.
The rest of the programme
was played on the same high
level.
Odnoposoff’s stature as a
virtuoso became apparent at his
first recital, when, after an
andante by Handel, a captivat-
ing transcription of a fragment
from his Ninth Sonata for Flute
and Figured Bass, he launched
into the full dramatic intensity
of Brahms’s Sonata No. 3 in D
Minor. Upon his slow move-
ments Odnoposoff bends terrific
concentration, and in this lovely
adagio his violin sang with im-
passioned voice, yet his vibrato
was never overdone. In the vivid
third movement, where the piano
takes over the theme and the
fiddle is relegated to the bass,
there was beautiful balance
between the two. The rondo,
with its tragic overtones and
powerful climax, was rendered
its full due of excitement.
After the Brahms, Debussy’s
Third Sonata was musical flum-
mery, but in Bach’s monumental
unaccompanied “Chaconne” the
violinist laid a splendid ground-
bass for the variations he built
with unhurried grace.
Alceo Galliera, Melbourne’s
“permanent” conductor, is draw-
ing huge houses of young music-
lovers of both sexes for his
Youth concerts at the Town
Hall, and the fifth of the series
provided some delightful and
distinguished music, from the
Suite for String Orchestra of
Corelli, through the Brahms
Fourth Symphony, to Mous-
sorgsky’s beautifully etched
“Pictures From an Exhibition.”
For linguistic reasons the Italian
conductor can’t indulge in
analysis of the music like the
Ormond Professor ; perhaps he
has no desire to do it, anyway.
The Heinze dissertations were
charming, graceful, amusing and
entertaining, but in the present
commentator’s opinion they were
as disturbing to the appreciation
of the music as a chef’s recitals
of the various ingredients he had
used would be to the assimila-
tion of a pudding.
4* 4* 4*
The Fourth Annual Choral
Festival presented by the N.S.W.
Guild of Choirs brought out
massed singing ranging from
fair to medium to excellent.
Four choirs were outstanding—
the small Lindfield A Cappella
under Fritz Rice, whose unac-
companied singing of Mozart’s
“Ave Verum” and Byrd’s “While
the Bright Sun” was delicately
wrought; the St. George Ladies’
Choir, at its best in the softness
of Elgar’s “Weary Wind of the
West,” and the Sydney Male
Choir, giving the sure and virile
touch to songs of varying moods
(both these choirs conducted by
J. Lyndon Jones); and the
Y.W.C.A. Choir under Barbara
Mettam, bringing nice artistry
and good balance to some
Schubert.
Art.
John Rowell’s latest output of
canvases covers the walls of the
Melbourne Athenaeum and pretty
well every aspect of Victorian
scenery, from the Grampians to
the highlands, the rugged coast
to the dry inland, and all the
moods of Nature, from winter
frost to dense fog, dawn and
evening, and autumn. Rowell is,
in fact, a serious worker and
catches one mood as well as an-
other, and seems to be escaping
from his formula, to paint with
more freedom. “Cathedral
Mountain” and “Storm Clouds”
are both scenes of tempest and
look spontaneous and feeling.
“Seaside Holiday” has real light
in it.
4* 4* 4*
“F.S.”: One can neither like
s nor dislike the gouache drawings
1 of lan Fairweather at the Stanley
; Coe Gallery in Melbourne, any
; more than one likes or dislikes
a doodler’s efforts. Some of
them are mildly pleasant as in-
nocuous decorations, even if at
first sight they suggest artistic
doodling with their curves and
squiggles; but the doodler’s
efforts are more or less uncon-
scious. Mr. Fairweather’s
squiggles, which are variously
titled “Hell,” “Seated Girl” and
“Figure Composition,” are evi-
dently conscious but so insigni-
ficant in content that the titles
could all be put into a hat and
taken out and put on any picture
without anybody noticing any
difference.


the
Babcock
*T h,Sat *on
the^e
*zgen
at
TS
p A #?|r
■
'"•I
- -v,-
THE LARGEST WORKS IN THE SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE DEVOTED TO MANUFACTURE
of STEAM-RAISING PLANT
Back of Babcock Boilers stand organised engineering
and services —
Extensive Works —fully equipped to manufacture com-
plete steam-raising plant.
A Project Department —which ensures that the most
efficient plant of the right type is offered.
A Research Department —which blazes the trail for
advanced design and solves problems of construction and
operation.
A Contract Engineering Department —which develops
the project to the stage of detailed drawings and orders
for manufacture.
An Erecting Department —well experienced and with
adequate staff and facilities in each State for the erection
of boiler plant, large or small.
A Service Department —which puts the plant into opera-
tion, carries out the required tests and ensures satisfactory
performance.
A Sales Department —with branches or representatives
» in all capital cities of Australia, to put all the above
facilities at the disposal of our clients.
80 YEARS' STEAM ENGINEERING EXPERIENCE
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Representatives in all States
Mm bejjoie cl w (iL
%
Vy
★ BREITLING CHRONOMAT
For Doctors .. . Executives ... Engineers *
Draughtsmen . . . Navigators . . . Airmen ...
Turfmen . . . Athletes.
This amazing Wrist Watch calculates speed
(of car, runner, horse, etc.) . . . distance (a
journey, a race track, an aerodrome) . . . fuel
consumption, percentages, rates of exchange,
prices, interest, rate of production, etc.
It multiplies and divides, is a stop-watch, and
a perfect timekeeper all the time.
Other Breitling Watches include the Datora
Calendar Watch, Telemeter - Pulsometer,
12-hour Recorder, Waterproof, Breitling
Chronograph.
Ask your jeweller to show you
im watdi/ihatliMike mMeU.
Sole Australian Representatives: Segal Si Co. (est. 1890),
Sydney and Melbourne _
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NOT U.S. ALONE.
While the American fighting
effort and casualties in Korea
have been incomparably greater
than those of all the other
U.N.O. nations lumped together,
which is naturally a sore point
in the U.S., the Korean war (as
“New York Times” has very
fairly reminded Americans) is
not the only front in “the world-
wide struggle against Com-
munist imperialism taking orders
from the Kremlin.”
By way of presenting the
“true picture of the free world’s
struggle against Communist
aggression, a picture which gives
a more just appraisal of
America’s chief allies’ contribu-
tion,” the New York paper tallies
up some of the casualties of the
three Far East fronts; Indo-
China, where France has now
had a war on its hands for over
four and a half years ; Malaya,
where Britain has been similarly
engaged for three years; and
Korea, where the U.S. has
approximately 250,000 men and
counts over 65,000 casualties,
including over 11,000 dead.
Included in the U.S. Korean
total are more than 31,000
lightly wounded returned to
some kind of duty, leaving abso-
lute U.S. casualties at about
34,000.
The South Koreans have an
equal number of men in the
field, and their casualties up to
last March amounted to about
168,652, including 16,182 killed.
Thirteen other United Nations
members have only approxi-
mately 35,000 troops in Korea,
and their combined casualties up
to March amounted to 3169, in-
cluding 681 dead.
But the French, with only a
small contingent in Korea, are
maintaining 164,000 French
Union troops in Indo-China, in
addition to more than 83,000
Vietnam Army forces and more
than 48,000 auxiliaries ; and the
casualties of the French Union
forces, which include Foreign
Legion, African and local
troops, amount to 28,929 dead
and 7000 so gravely wounded as
to be incapacitated for further
duty. Among the killed are 9925
from metropolitan France, or
nearly as many as the American
dead in Korea, from a popula-
tion nearly four times that of
France. Also, the French dead
include more than half the
number of officers graduated
from St. Cyr since the Indo-
China war began.
The Malayan campaign re-
quires 32,000 British Common-
wealth troops, plus some 100,000
local auxiliary police. But the
British Commonwealth coun-
tries have also contributed some
26,000 troops to Korea, which
means that the Commonwealth
has a total of about 58,000
troops on the Far Eastern fight-
ing fronts. Their casualties to
the end of April amounted to
about 3000 killed, wounded and
missing. This the “New York
Times” considers “no mean
contribution considering the
many other outposts that Britain
must guard, including Hong
Kong.”
UNDER CONTROL?
London “Daily Mail.”
Accepting Germany.
Though (comments “New
York Times”) the prospect for a
peace treaty for Germany grows
dimmer with every meeting of
the Great Powers that combined
to defeat her, “time and events
are urgent negotiations and they
are acting swiftly to decide the
future of Germany.”
Most important of those de-
ciding events to date was the
acceptance in May of the Bonn
Government in the Council of
Europe—“an ironic accompani-
ment to the sterile polemic” of
the late meeting of the Foreign
Ministers’ deputies in Paris, “be-
cause it was a sign that history
has its own way of making settle-
ments.”
German participation in the
Council of Europe the authori-
tative American paper considers
a long step toward peace with
Germany:
“It does not increase her power,
or her influence in international
policy, but it does make her part
of the European community. It
ties her to the West, and the in-
teresting point is that this change
in what may be called the social
and moral status of the former
enemy is made by the neighbor-
ing States, the chief victims of
her aggression. In the lead of
these States, it is worthy to note,
stands France.
“That the Council of Europe
is made stronger by full German
membership goes without say-
ing, and the main element of this
increased strength is the will of
large sections of the German
people, particularly the youth, to
become not only a part of
Europe, but a part of a unified
Europe. One of the encourag-
ing by-products of the defeat and
division of the former Reich is
that a new and war-disillusioned
generation seeks for a larger idea
than the narrow nationalism that
twice led the country to ruin.”
China’s Terror.
In further comment on the
Communist terror in China,
London “Economist” finds the
mass executions largely ex-
plained by the Korean failure,
which has “made it expedient
for the regime to resort to whole-
sale proscriptions, which at
once intimidate opposition and
stimulate the ardor of the faith-
ful.”
The massacres, it notes, are
carried out with all the horrible
apparatus of modern publicity.
Batches of the accused are
“tried” before mass meetings of
many thousands of people, who
are harangued for hours on end
by Communist orators and then
unanimously vote for the re-
quired death sentences.
The proceedings are broadcast
by radio, and it was proudly de-
clared that an “accusation rally”
in Canton had been broadcast to
700,000 listeners over 229 public
loudspeakers and 40,000 private
sets. In Hangchow 50 “counter-
revolutionaries” were condemned
to death after mass trials said
to have been attended by 110,000
people.
Cities are being combed by
“street teams” for locating
“counter-revolutionaries,” and
factories and schools are being
required to set up “extermina-
tion committees” for rooting out
subversive elements.
People are now being tried and
punished not merely for current
offences, but for crimes of the
remote past, including participa-
tion in the Kuomintang suppres-
sion of the Communists in 1927.
Denunciations are encouraged,
and even demanded, as proof ot
loyalty to the regime ; and Hang-
chow radio holds up as a model
for emulation a 14-year-old
schoolboy who denounced a
member of his own family and
was rewarded by the Youth
League with the gift of a
fountain-pen.
“It would,” the paper grimly
comments, “be a bold insurance
company which would specu-
late on the life of anyone now
prominently associated with the
‘new China’ at any level but the
highest.”
The “Peace” Fake.
Quoting Soviet propagandists
who, for Iron Curtain consump-
tion, make it plain that the
“peace movement’s” place in
Russian policy is “to help in
preparing countries for attach-
ment, one by one, to the Soviet
system,” the “Manchester
Guardian” points out that, in
contrast, the line for “peace


Australia’s finest
Brandy for nearly
a century...
£
Si 9
Ic.
at
TO
$5
N.B.W.
DISTRIBUTORS!
TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
TST.fO.lt
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
B 3
WUdSOfl
BRANDY
REGD.
TABLE LAMPS
c' r
If you want the best Kerosene pressure
lighting you must have TILLEY!
TILLEY Table Lamps, “The Queen”
(illustrated) height 2IJ" and “The
Princess” height I6J", give you perfect
300 candle power lighting for 12 hours
using only l| pints of Kerosene.
TILLEY Lamps are trouble free,
require fewer spares and less
maintenance, and are the finest lamps
you can buy today.
RN
o
r*>
o
o
ca\
nor^
eco
Made only by
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD,
OF
HENDON, ENGLAND
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer's Representatives:
r\
n
t
w
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE, C.l
fighters” in Western Europe and
the U.S. is now “peaceful co-
existence of capitalism and
Communism a world in
which the two systems can exist
peacefully side by side.”
“This kind of appeal,” com-
ments the “Guardian,” “is de-
ceptively reasonable. It asks
scientists to demand that
scientific discoveries be used
solely for peaceful purposes ; it
asks Quakers to join in a call
for universal disarmament; it
asks artists, writers and teachers
to protest against the waste of
creative resources in rearma-
ment ; it asks humanitarians to
join in seeking a general ban on
atomic weapons. It suggests that
if everyone will work for peace
no one need have any fear. The
kind of peace is left undefined.
“The gullible in Western
Europe and the United States are
allowed to assume that it would
be peace in the form of a status
quo. Perhaps it would be for a
time, since revolution cannot be
arranged in every country at
once. The innocents who join
the peace movement would be
horrified to think that they were
instruments in preparing for the
revolution, though that is pre-
cisely what they are intended to
be.”
Weak-link France.
The question of France as a
weak link in the Atlantic-Treaty
defence scheme was by no
means satisfactorily answered
by the French elections, in the
view of a London “Observer”
special correspondent.
From now on, the corres-
pondent commented, France’s
usefulness as an ally will largely
depend on how far it proves
possible to detach millions of
manual and white - collared
workers from their Soviet loyalty
and to give them a stake in their
own French society.
“This is almost as much an
international as a domestic
problem. If there is some inter-
national aid for the modernisa-
tion and re-equipment of French
industry, and if there is inter-
national co-operation in over-
coming the inflationary peril, so
that French workers may be
provided with adequate real
wages, there is no reason why
over a quarter of France should
go on feeling and behaving like
national outcasts.
“If, on the other hand, Wes-
tern economy falters under the
rearmament effort, if inflation
runs riot, prices soar and scarci-
ties increase, it is still doubtful
whether France has the resilience
and political cohesion to meet
the strain.”
Hence, Western leaders would
be ill-advised to forget that
France, “though potentially a
great Power, remains for the
time being among the weakest
and most vulnerable links in the
Western chain.”
Vulnerable Britain.
Not, it says, in any spirit of
alarm, but merely by way of
facing facts, London “Econo-
mist,” while supporting all-out
British participation in the
Atlantic-Treaty defence of con-
tinental Europe, draws attention
to Britain’s special problem of
vulnerableness in that scheme of
things:—
The increase in the range,
diversity and lethal effect of air-
borne methods of destruction,
it points out, means that Britain
remains a very vulnerable part
of the European defence system,
“Britain as a whole is the most
important industrial target in
Europe, and there are four areas
in Britain —London and the
south coast ports, the industrial
Midlands, Lancashire and the
West Riding and Clydeside—
that are probably more import-
ant to the prosecution of a war
in Europe than any industrial
concentration on the Continent.
“If the Russians decided to
attack Western Europe it is in-
conceivable that they would not
attempt to destroy or neutralise
the industrial output and the
communications of these areas.
Indeed, it seems almost certain
that Russian military planning
must have taken account of
Hitler’s greatest military defeat
—the failure to neutralise
Britain.
“As long as Britain survives,
no military conqueror can rest
secure as the master of Europe.
Conceivably,- a Russian attack
on Western Europe might be
preceded by a limited offensive
to gain control of either Nor-
way or the Rhine delta in order
to establish airfields and rocket-
launching sites from which to
pour a continuous rain of bombs
and guided missiles on to British
factories and docks.
“In the last war neither Ger-
man bombers nor German
guided missiles could break the
will or neutralise the industrial
output of Britain. But no moral
drawn from the last war could
afford to ignore the size of the
Russian Air Force, the effect of
atomic bombing and the vast
increase in the range and power
of guided missiles.”
Communist Types.
Anthony Eden, in the Ameri-
can publication “Foreign
Affairs,” pinpoints the “four
types of people who easily
respond to the appeal of the
destructive Communist faith”;
“There are certain idealists,
sensitive to any blueprint promis-
ing a better world. There are
the immature, who crave a
crusade and to whom the sacri-
fices demanded of a Communist
seem a kind of personal fulfil-
ment. There are the discon-
tented and the dupes who will
accept any theory which throws
responsibility upon others and
guarantees uniformity for all.
And there are the seekers after
power who know that they can
win command over others only
through common desires or
common fears.
“To all these Communism is
designed to appeal. Its doctrine
has been presented as some
species of philosopher’s stone,
as a glittering revelation of
fundamental truths about society
which gives to believers the keys
to both understanding and
action. The glitter is spurious,
but so dazzling that the disciples
are blinded and the truth hid-
den from them.
“It is perhaps not irrelevant to
mention the one kind of man
who invariably rejects Com-
munism almost without a second
thought. The true noncon-
formist finds no appeal in
Marxist dogma He is inherently
against subjection to any
hierarchy and spontaneously
rejects all doctrines of infalli-
bility. To him democracy is a
necessary form of human
dignity. By instinct he under-
stands that the decision to be-
come a Communist is usually
the last decision a man ever
makes for himself.
“Communism stalks men in
the guise of a religion ; it de-
mands sacrifice and self-denial
for an ultimate, collective re-
demption. Communism enlists
men in the uniform of mili-
tancy ; it imposes discipline and
austerity and spreads a skein of
subterfuge. And so the needs
of both the mystic and the prac-
tical man appear to be met.
Once a man has been ‘indoc-
trinated,’ even seeing is not be-
lieving. A Communist cannot
be convinced by argument, be-
cause he cannot imagine such an
anomaly as an adversary in
good faith ; to him anyone who
dissents is merely disloyal.
“The Communist-led millions
—and they are nearly half the
world —are not permitted to see
that it is they and their insti-
tutions which are in chains. How
can they realise that it is not
the citizens or workers of the
West who are fettered, but those
of the Communist States? By
the rule of the system the faults
of the system must go unques-
tioned and unchecked. Within
a true democracy the individual
is still free to fulfil himself and
the promise of his abilities, and
the individual and his faith are
the only means by which any-
thing on earth is ever done,”
Dragnet Digest.
Re-employed Nazis. Reporting
that West German Chancellor Dr.
Adenauer has given up trying to find
“experienced democrats” for his civil
service, a London “Economist”
correspondent adds that now men
who occupied positions of some im-
portance under Hitler are back at
their desks. In some cases they are
in more important positions than
ever. Moreover, those civil servants
who sacrificed their careers for their
consciences now often find them-
selves unwanted, drawing lower pen-
sions than their colleagues who
“never left the political stage.”
* • * *
Britain’s Middle East Stake. —ln a
recent London “Times” discussion on
Britain’s part in Middle East defence
Somerset de Chair, M.P., contended
that the oil of the Middle East should
be defended from the outset, and not
abandoned to Russia, who would
immediately more than treble her oil
resources thereby (U.S.S.R. estimated
production in 1950 was 37,900,000
metric tons; Middle East estimated
production was 82,704,000). “There
are,” he added, “probably only two
places where the British Empire can
be irretrievably lost. One is on the
shores of the English Channel and
the other is the Middle East: to
abandon the latter at the outset would
be three-parts of the way to losing
the war.”
* * * ♦
Chinese as Dupes. —Far East ex-
pert O. M. Green, in a London
“Observer” article, comments that “a
date to watch for is next February,”
when Russia is pledged by treaty to
hand over the Manchurian railways:
“It will be very strange, in the light
of Russia’s record in Manchuria, if
she does not manage to wriggle out
of her promise. This might remind
the Chinese Communists that, ever
since Muraviev tore the Maritime
Provinces from China in 1858, Russia
has been a consistent despoiler of
China; and that her policy today, as
laid down by Lenin and Stalin, is to
use the Communists not for China’s
benefit, but merely for the realisa-
tion, through Asia, of her own
expansionist aims.”


a^JSS!
M-S'tv f)
(I
m
m
1
THE ONLY PLACE ! FIND
ROMANCE IS IN THE
DICTIONARY I JUST
HAVEN'T GOT WHAT IT
TAKES FOR A ROMANCE
-V OF MV OWN! )
•w 1
SUE 1
GOT EVERYTHING
IT TAKES-IF YOU’D
JUST GET YOUR
DENTIST TO GIVE ’
YOU THE FACTS On
BAD BREATH /
f.
IP
A%
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM CLEANS
M3UR BREATH WHILE IT CLEANS YOUR
TEETH. AND THE COLGATE WAY OF i
BRUSHING TEETH RIGHT AFTER EATING
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST 1 . >
£
-a*
c-
& -
WHEN 1 GAVE COLGATE CARE A
:hance-1 put the man into romance
0
-7 1
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST I
Most thoroughly proved and accepted home_
method of oral hygiene known today.
Yes, and 2 years’ research
showed the Colgate way-
stopped more decay for morej
people than ever before re-
ported in dentifrice history !|
No other dentifrice offers
such proof the most con-
clusive proof ever reported
for a dentifrice of any type.,
USG COLGATE PCNTAI CREAM
TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
WHILE YOU CLEAN VOUR TEETH
ANP HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
fsd
family economy size3/6
D5/161
America's largest, Australia’s largest, the World's largest selling dental cream
fkfOUGl limb
\ - =;
\S5>
3P
OVER
TOIKNI'M
%mmd
. . . you can't do better than follow the
lead of thousands of operators who have
proved, in actual performance, that Hi-
Milers give the utmost in money-saving,
trouble-free, long mileage.
HI-MILER TRUCK & BUS TYRES
GOODYEAR
m
Hill
S I
11
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fast hauls
on' improved rood
i surfaces.'
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
Recontffl ended
wherever greater
traction is needed.
■ASK VOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR THE JOEL
IOAt-t*
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Women have done the most
ridiculous things to gain equality
with men.” — Visiting feminist.
Slacks, for instance, make a
joke at their expanse.
4* 4* 4*
“I never saw a poor zebu cross.”
—Michael Sawtell, B. 8181’51.
However, worried, like us,
by high taxation and kindred
problems, many of the wealthier
zebus he met were quite vexed.
“Modern make-up can do wonders
for any woman’s face.”
— Women's paper.
Provided she hasn’t picked up
too many wrinkles already.
4* 4* ,
“After all, your ’teens are the years
in which you should be broadening.”
—Advice in women’s paper.
Formfilling on a typiste’s
seat?
4* 4* 4*
“Four men to every one woman
get peptic ulcers between the ages of
15 and 44, a British survey shows.”
Are women immune to their
own cooking?
4* 4* 4*
“The British Ministry of Civil
Aviation is considering plans for a
helicopter taxi-rank on the roof of a
building in the heart of London.”
But the service is expected to
have many ups and downs.
“Would you please tell me the cor-
rect type of sleeve for a winter top-
coat?”
—Correspondent in women s paper-
Leg of mutton, dear, but it’s
most expensive these days.
4* 4*
“Mrs. Fulton complained to the
police that a barking man was annoy-
ing her dog.”— “World’s News.”
The police eventually collared
him.
“And I says to him: 'Unless you can support me in the
manner I've been accustomed to I'll have to ask you
for my freedom ”
“Something should be done about
couples who nestle up to each other
at the pictures.” —Sydney “D.T.”
Why worry? They separate
at intervals.
Restoring Youthful Fire.
“One of New York’s top women’s
hairdressers has predicted that within
a year half the men of America will
be having their hair tinted regularly.”
I mind the time my hair was
black,
And youthful blood coursed
through my veins;
When on the field or running-
track
I used more energy than
brains
And scorned all muscles soft and
slack.
But now I watch my greying
hair
And see it thinning out on
top,
Until sometimes I wonder where
Time’s cranial ravages will
stop,
Yet fashion bids me not despair.
For soon, it seems, that ageing
meit
Will dye their locks and
choose their tint;
Let’s hope the day soon comes,
for then
I’ll pay without a thought of
stint
To get my ginger back again.
BERT.
Room for Jack Sprat.
“Too many workers feel that
churches exist only for parsons,
women and the wealthy.” —Melbourne
union secretary A. M. Storey.
One cannot help suspecting that
The criticism implied is hinged
Upon an outlook somewhat
tinged
By Marxist doctrines learnt off
pat
By fellow-travellers who feel
That churches soothe with opium
The congregations mild and
dumb
Who worshipfully pray and
kneel.
But even if the charge were true
That womenfolk and parsons
are
Well represented there, by far
The most you’ll find in any pew
Are humble fellows who devote
Their time to worship—watch
the plate
As it goes round and estimate
How few in church are men of
note!
D.H.E.
Radio Ads We’re Never
Likely to Hear.
“And don’t forget the
name: Smello, the castor-oil
beautiful. Why not buy the
giant family-size bottle, which
contains twice as much as the
ordinary-size bottle and is only
three times the price?
“The real charm of Smello is
in its luscious flavor. You get
that lovely greasy feeling as it
slides over your tonsils. And
you’ll especially like its repeater
action. It tastes twice as good
then. And you’ll enjoy it for
hours afterwards, too. The kids
love it. Hear what young
Johnny has to say”
“Gee, I wish Pop would buy
it for us to drink instead of
Cuckoo Cooler. Whenever Mum
gets a bottle 1 sneak into the
pantry and take a swig of it.
I’d like to take a bottle of it to
school”
“Of course you would, sonny.
Thanks, Johnny. Well, folks,
you needn’t be a punter to get
the good oil. Just go to your
grocer, but don’t order castor-
oil—say Smello. And the flavor
—um-m-m-m —it’s good! Now,
here’s Moanie Tartin to howl
T Kain’t Stand a Goil with a
Wart on Her Conk.’ ”
“Now, here is a really attrac-
tive offer coming up at Sleet’s
bargain counters tomorrow
morning at nine o’clock —lovely
shrouds in pure-white muslin,
and going for only sixty-nine-
and-eleven. You simply won’t
be able to resist this smartly-cut,
specially-imported line. They
have zippered asbestos pockets
suitable for wealthy optimists,
comfortable toga sleeves, coach-
man collar, reversible gussets,
satin revers, a plunging neckline
and cute loops on the chest cap-
able of holding the stalks of
several lilies.
“Now here’s Artie Choak and
his orchestra playing ‘You’d
Make a Hell Out of Heaven,
Baby.’ ”
“Now that ‘Labor’ has flung
down the gage to the Fashist
Menzies Guvverment by launch-
ing its ‘No’ campaign against the
referendum to give it powers to
suppress the Communist party,
our beloved leader. Doctor
Evatt, has made it plain that
the true reasons why ‘Labor’ is
committed to this course should
be put frankly to the people.
Here are the facts:
“Do you know that if all the
big, powerful Communist-run
unions were to withhold their
capitation fees and election-
fighting funds the A.L.P. would
find it impossible to carry on?
“Give an emphatic ‘No’ when
you go to the ballot-box, and
so make the continuance of
blackouts, blackmarkets, short-
ages, sky-high prices and, above
all, the solvency of the A.L.P. a
certainty. Remember, whatever
‘Labor’ promises. ‘Labor’ will
do. And ‘Labor’ promises the
people to rid the country of
Communists by fighting fqr their
right to remain in key industrial
positions. This advertisement is
authorised by A. Phellotravler,
Trades Hall. And now for your
favorite session, the Swing Bing
Up Club.”
“Do you consider you’ve been
fleeced at other night-spots?
Then come to Joey Squeeza’s
night-club and see how it can
really be done!
“You come to Joey’s in Rolls-
Bentleys and go away in wheel-
barrows. The tariff’s terrific!
If the head-waiter happens to
sneeze as he passes your table
this signal honor puts another
ten shillings on your bill. It
will set you back a shilling for
every gulp of bottled beer you
take. Joey makes a modest six
hundred per cent, profit on every
bottle.
“You’ll find the food good,
too—-that’s if you can find it.
Sometimes the sprig of parsley
put on as an embellishment
causes a total eclipse. You
won’t be hungry again for fully
ten minutes after the meal. And
Joey’s floor-show is a better cure
for insomnia than counting
sheep or relistening to your
wife’s father telling the only two
yarns he knows. But you will
get a thrill out of seeing a crowd
of regular-patron bookies play-
ing football when they get half-
shot with a tightly-rolled wad of
fivers and tenners.
“If you think you’ll be able
to get a dance in on Joey’s
pocket-handkerchief-sized floor
you have another think due—but
you can shuffle two inches each
way.
“Joey Squeeza invites you to
come and be squeezed dry even,
though, paradoxically, you’ll be
very wet. Come and join the
other suckers, who are thicker
at Joey’s than you’d find on an
octopus’s tentacles. Now here’s
a disk you’ll all like: Jerry
Homo whinging the latest hit-
tune. ‘The Dame I’m Cartin’
Round Eats Like a Horse.’ ”
Bo.
Chronic Mistake.
“Wrong horse third. Judge's
error.” — Sydney “D.T.”
Against the judge a lively grudge
for years I’ve nursed—
At all racetracks and in most
races,
According to my view, he places
The wrong horse first.
P.O.M.C.


[*23,1
PP3
gssss®
, , , each secure in the
knowledge that radio’s in-
visible lifelines link with the shore.
A decade before domestic broadcasting
began, A.W.A. commenced the research
and industry which have contributed so
vitally to the increased safety of life at
sea.
To-day modern marine radio installa-
tions, meeting the rigid standards of
International Regulations, are built,
maintained and operated for the
Australian Mercantile Marine by
A.W.A.—pioneers of Australian
Wireless—Makers of the finest
in Radio,
Vi
UA’-r
■X
1
r~
m
m
W'f
VI
I
n'*.
=424
!=«
np
/
////if.
Fly the Broad Highway
the glamorous “variety”
route via the East to
AND ENGLAND
This year, over 30,000 passengers will fly on this
the most popular, the most direct overland route.
No change of planes. No currency problems. And
you can “take it easy” at 3 night stops on your
4-day flight at the world’s most interesting ports of call.
YOUR FARE IS ALL-INCLUSIVE
• See Singapore, Cairo and Rome en route.
• Fly by Constellation all the way—no change of
aircraft.
• De-luxe cabin service—two stewards, one hostess.
No tips, no extras.
• First-class hotel accommodation included.
• Fly to Paris and other European capitals via Rome
or London.
• Stop-over anywhere at no extra fare.
5 services weekly from Sydney. Consult your travel
agent.
OAHTASBOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The running of the Australian
Steeple at Caulfield on Saturday com-
pleted the “Big Four” jumping events,
and punters now have 12 months in
which to lick their wounds, retrieve
their shattered morale and, in general,
ruminate upon the folly of trying to
pick doubles which embrace such
hazard-laden events.
Most notably painful results of the
recent session were the successes of
the 50-to-l chance Hefty Loon in the
Grand National Hurdle and of the
25-to-l shot Royal Reward in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle. Sandwiched between
those efforts the success of 7-to-2
favorite Llandrillo in the National
Steeple offered temporary palliative,
but the books more than “got it
back” on Saturday last when Llan-
drillo, generally labelled unbeatable,
started at 7 to 4 for the Australian
Steeple and finished a poor second to
Bronze Laddie, equal second-favorite
at 7 to 1.
Backers of Llandrillo at least had
a hard-luck story with which to
console themselves the favorite
returned to scale very lame.
Evidently he went in one leg some
distance from home; he will not
race again. But Bronze Laddie won
so extremely well, and easily, that the
possibility of anything else having
beaten him in any circumstances
would seem pretty remote. After
scoring by eight lengths from Llan-
drillo, with Sea Legend seven lengths
further back, Bronze Laddie returned
to scale looking comparatively fresh;
the others looked a very tired and
distressed bunch of neddies. The only
casualty of the piece was the extremely
tall Tasmanian visitor Garrick.
Although not jumping particularly
well, he led them a merry dance —
at times a dozen lengths in front —
for the first couple of miles. How-
ever, as he began to tire his jumping
went completely to the pack, and he
eventually fell in front of the stand.
Sea Legend and Grey Gull were then
left in front. With a mile to go
Llandrillo moved up, and had his
backers in high glee when he went
to the front, but Bronze Laddie then
put in his run, was level over the
jump at the half-mile, and soon after
it was obvious that he had the race
well in his keeping.
Bronze Laddie is trained by D.
Zealey, who also turned out the Aus-
tralian Hurdle winner, Royal Reward.
Usually the bringing-off of such a
stable double would be considered the
result of long and careful planning,
and would occasion long and indus-
trious celebration, but Zeally declares
that he didn’t risk a penny on the
notoriously unreliable Royal Reward;
nor did he have a sou on the double.
Bronze Laddie’s win effected a double
of another sort for leading cross-
country ri'der B. R. Smith. Smith
won the Australian Steeple last year
also —oddly enough on Saturday’s
beaten favorite, Llandrillo. A par-
ticularly meritorious feature of Bronze
Laddie’s win, incidentally, was that
he carried topweight of 10.11;
Llandrillo was next with 10.6, and
the remainder carried less than lOst.
The comparatively inexperienced
cross-country rider R. Boswell, if he
continues in his present vein, will be
recruiting himself quite a following
from the ranks of those cheerful
optimists who dearly love a rough’un
on the tote. Following up his success
on Royal Reward the previous week,
Boswell on Saturday got the 33-to-l
chance Sea Legend into third place in
the Steeple and very nearly won the
Arkaringa Hurdle on Gallivant, a
66-to-l shot having his first outing
over the jumps. Giving a very
promising display in the circum-
stances, Gallivant was beaten three-
parts of a length by Midhurst. Two
Ales finished a just-moderate third,
and, judging from the betting noted
in the course of the plunge which
resulted in his starting a hot favorite,
he must have left some of his sup-
porters bereft even of the price of
a lemonade.
While this year’s Melbourne Cup
may be considered a quite sufficiently
far-off conundrum, one winner noted
at Caulfield might be worth storing
away as one to watch out for round
this time next year. The animal in
question is the Neptune horse Clutha,
which gave a splendid display in win-
ning the £l5OO Malakoff Stakes over
the Melbourne Cup journey. Carry-
ing a solid topweight of 9.2, Clutha,
which, with W. Williamson up, started
a warm favorite, was well with them
all the way, and simply won as he
chose at the finish; runner-up was the
six-year-old Royal Myth, who was in
receipt of 221 b. and was beaten three
lengths. Clutha is not entered for
the Cups this year, but, as owner
W. R. Kemball philosophically points
out, the Neptune horse Is now a
just-turned four-year-old, and there’s
plenty of time for him yet.
Other excellent winning perform-
ances at Caulfield were those of
Anslad and Lohengrin. Anslad (W.
Williamson) ran a very sound Derby
trial, and earned himself a trip north
for the A.J.C. spring meeting by
coming with a brilliant late run to
win the mile Chatsworth Plate for
three-year-old colts and geldings.
Great Gilbert’s effort in finishing even
faster than the winner, to be beaten
a half-neck, also suggested quality.
The outstanding merit of hot favorite
Lohengrin’s half-head victory over
Rickshaw in the 9-furlongs Cambria
Plate for four-year-olds lay in the
“Why don't you keep out of that tiger country ?”
almost incredible amount of trouble
which he encountered, and overcame,
during the race.
• * * »
Weather for the S.T.C.’s meeting
at Canterbury on Saturday was un-
mistakably wintry, but one or two
items of form noted did carry a faint,
advance breath of spring. Most
notable of these was the success of
True Leader in the second Ashbury
Mixed, which was contested by one
of the best fields of the day, main
events notwithstanding.
True Leader and the recent good
winner Triclinium started equal
favorites for the Ashbury, and it was
obvious very shortly after the start
that they were the only two in it.
However, the job of soundly beating
Triclinium seemed to amount to little
more than a warm exercise gallop for
True Leader, who thereby brought his
record to three wins and a second
from the only four starts he has had.
After appearing to stumble, and being
passed by Triclinium in the straight,
True Leader quickly came again, and,
running on to win by four lengths,
he covered the 6-furlongs in 1.12-J —
only a quarter-second outside the
race record.
Following his win True Leader was
the subject of a crop of assorted
stories. He was reported up for sale
to American interests. He was
reported a most unlikely starter in
the Epsom, for which race many had
been inclined to fancy him. He was
reported to have a very dicky leg
that would not stand up to a solid
preparation. There’ll be ample time
in coming weeks for the facts and
fancies to sort themselves out; in the
meantime the one established fact is
that True Leader looks all the cut
of a really good’un, and one to treat
with great respect in any race he
does get round to tackling during
the major spring meetings.
Without beating anything of great
account the High Caste four-year-
old Karangi did hint at a return to
his very best form of last season
when he convincingly won the 9-
furlongs Canterbury Park Handicap.
It was a stout finishing-on effort,
and a vast improvement on recent
runs, when he had faded after being
more prominent early than really
suits him.
Other results revealed nothing im-
pressing as likely to set the record-
books aflame. Old Hava Chat, going
out at 33 to 1, a price quite in
accord with his recent form, showed
noble determination in downing
Quarter Deck by a long-head in the
Flying (?if.). Another aged per-
former in Ginchy (S. Cassidy) started
at twelves and proved too good for
Aden and several other well-backed
runners in the Welter (6f.).
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Three-year-old: Scuddle, 1; Bel-
shazzar, 2; Fengari, 3. Parramatta
Mixed: Video, 1; Forest Beau, 2;
Colonel’s Daughter, 3. Auburn
Mixed: Insurance, 1; Elias, 2;
Traveller, 3. Flying; Riptide, 1;
Humming Top, 2; Perform, 3.
S.T.C. Spring Cup: Snowstream, 1;
Golden Bird, 2; Crag Son, 3. Welter:
Gallant Leader, 1; Sea Serpent, 2;
Barrymore, 3.
• ♦ ♦ •
With three matches to go in the
V.F.L. competition “the four” seems
to have sorted itself out into Geelong,
Collingwood, Fitzroy and Essendon.
Footscray, beaten 5.9-4.6 on Saturday
by Fitzroy, was either suffering a let-
down or is not a premiership possi-
bility, though the side’s youth and
speed seemed likely to do better
earlier on. Geelong had little trouble
in beating Carlton, 12.11 to 7.19, and
meets Essendon next Saturday. The
Dons have had a bad season, and
took an awful licking from Colling-
wood, 12.9 to 5.7, the Magpies staging
form that should set premiership
aspirants thinking hard. Essendon
has to meet Geelong next Saturday,
and as Footscray should beat St.
Kilda that day the old rivals may
find themselves in or out of the
“four,” according to percentages.
Richmond, beating Hawthorn 10.13
to 6.15 on Saturday, has to face
Collingwood this week. St. Kilda
notched 9.6 to Melbourne’s 6.12, and
at South Melbourne the locals got
home by 100 to 99 (14.16-15.9) against
North.
* * * ♦
“Pass-it”: Northern Suburbs
clinched a place in the Sydney Rugby
Union semi-finals with a convincing
win over Gordon on Saturday. Elect-
ing to run against a strong downfield
wind, Norths successfully conserved
their energy for a minimum loss of
points in the first half. Down 0-9
at half-time, they then launched an
all-out speed attack, which quickly
brought its reward of two converted
tries. Gordon began to crack under
the pressure, and Norths hammered
home their advantage to run up 24
points. In the closing stages of the
game Gordon rallied somewhat to
force their way over for a converted
try, and the final score was 24-14.
Norths’ display was most refreshing
to their supporters, who had just
about lost hope after some of the
recent anaemic displays given by the
team.
The other leading teams each had
very easy wins. Easts pulverised
Drummoyne, 53-5; Manly white-
washed Parramatta, 35-0 ; and Univer-
sity stoushed Wests, 31-3. In a
less one-sided match St. George beat
Eastwood, 12-3; Randwick had
the bye. Although two rounds of the
competition remain to be played it
is almost certain that Easts, Univer-
sity, Norths and Manly will fight out
the semi-finals. These last few
matches, however, should be full of
interest, as the four leading
teams will clash, and considerable
light should be thrown upon the out-
come of the finals.
* * * *
Too often in recent years Sydney’s
annual Combined G.P.S. v. Duntroon
Military College Rugby Union match
has been a pretty one-sided affair,
with the Duntroon chaps older,
bigger, more mature in general, and
enjoying the big advantage of having
played together as a team throughout
the season, whereas the G.P.S. lads
have been accustomed to playing
against each other. A pleasant sur-
prise, therefore, to see the school-
boys at Sydney Showground on
Saturday give the troops a practical
lesson in blitzkrieg to the tune of
22-9. A splendid individual effort
was turned in by the G.P.S. three-
quarter F. Dockrey, who notched up
19 of his side’s 22 points; a try,
four penalty goals and two goals.
* * * «
A note of bewilderment in High
Quarters, expressed in a letter to the
Editor of London “Times”:
“Sir, —In the rather curious method
of scoring at lawn tennis, could you
please enlighten me as to why ‘deuce’
is not called at ‘3O-all’ as it is at
‘4O-all’? The position of the con-
testants is exactly the same in either
case.
Your obedient servant,
Brabazon of Tara.”
Having pondered the same matter
in the course of many a pleasant
Saturday afternoon, it is pleasing to
find one’s more trifling thoughts
shared by Illustrious Persons. And we
still haven’t solved the matter.
* * * *
By all that’s fair Ted Sprouster
(9st.) beat Melbourne featherweight
“Bluey” Wilkins (8.13£) on a foul
in three rounds at Leichhardt last
week, but the so-called “no-foul” rule
saved Wilkins from disqualification,
and he finally k.o.’d Sprouster in
round four. With snappy straight
lefts to Wilkins’s face, Sprouster won
the first two rounds beyond question.
Wilkins knocked him half-way
through the ropes in round three,
however, and another left, landing
inches below the belt, spreadeagled
Sprouster for what seemed certain to
be minutes rather than seconds. In
accordance with the “no-foul” rules
the round was called short and
Sprouster given about 10 minutes to
recover, but he was obviously still
only semi-conscious on coming up
for the fourth round, and Wilkins
promptly finished him off with another
left to the midriff.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
P:
mm
Ifii
1
mm
$
me«*'
• . il
- ■
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra,
KOOM-ONI.T BATES:
Single Boom*—
From 11/6 per night
Double Dooms—
From 23/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METRO POLE,”
Sydney.
Telephones;
8W2061 (9 lines)
ST3
f "fp
Esdaile's 2ix
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT. £l6/5/-
O Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
• Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2±x —Eye relief 3£in.
to siin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
f
AND SONS
PTY. LTD,
“Phenovis” Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
0 Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
(R EI LA Xsprmfpaint mif\
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAI NTS— for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
IM
Alto available
as petrol model
or 31 V. and 100 V. D.C. model* for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. I>td.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
|. W. EARN SHAW PT Y. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway. Worth Sydney - ‘Phone XB 39bQ
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Plan.
“Graz”; The case for “No”
in the post-J.O. wool-marketing
ballot was fairly summarised (B.
l/8/’5l), but the first objection
raised by the “No” committee —
that it involves risks not offset
by possible benefits —is based on
pure guesswork. If the reserve-
price plan caused buyers to bid
another penny a pound for the
clip growers would benefit by
£4,000,000. The jump from
to averages for the
1938-39 and 1939-40 clips shows
that buyers can pay at least a
penny more if they have to.
The “No” advocates merely
assume that there will be four
instead of six or seven grower
directors on the central
authority. Information supplied
with the ballot-papers clearly
states that the Australian
Organisation will appoint the
three directors to the central
authority. At the request of all
woolgrower organisations the
Government is guaranteeing the
plan, therefore it wants a means
of putting its views before the
central authority.
Minister McEwen says the
Government will nominate one
of the three appointees, but
emphasises that this director will
not be under Ministerial direc-
tion or veto as to how he votes.
Woolgrower authorities in New
Zealand and South Africa have
stated that it is expected that
both directors from each
Dominion to the central
authority will be free to vote in
accordance with grower policy,
Growers are more likely than
not to have seven votes out of
10 on the central authority.
It is just a catchcry to say
“Australian growers are asked to
find 58 p.c. of the necessary
capital for 20 p.c. representa-
tion.” The fact is that the
central authority will have no
control over Australian money.
Our money will be solely con-
trolled by the Australian Organi-
sation under grower-control. As
“wool is the barometer of our
national fortunes” (B. l/8/’5l)
no Australian Government
would dare agree to low wool
prices.
“A.”: Opponents of the plan
include the majority of wool-
growers proper and their
organisations, while supporters
are, in the main, small sheepmen
whose major income does not
come necessarily from wool.
The proposal has been turned
down by every graziers’ asso-
ciation in the Commonwealth
excepting the United Graziers
of Queensland, whose chairman,
W. Gunn, is a supporter,
Main support comes from the
Australian Wool and Meat Pro-
ducers’ Federation, which is
affiliated with the following
organisations: Farmers and
Settlers of N.S.W.; Selectors’
Association of Queensland ;
Wheat Growers’ Union of
N.S.W.; Victorian Wool and
Wheat Growers’ Association,
also S.A. section; and the
Farmers’ Union of W.A. The
A.W.M.P. Federation claims to
have a total woolgrower mem-
bership of 37,530—it is thought
76,000 woolgrowers will vote at
the referendum.
It does not follow, however,
that the A.W.M.P. Federation is
speaking for all its affiliated
members in urging a “Yes”
vote. For instance, the F. and
S.A. has left the decision to its
individual members, as have
many branches of the N.S.W.
Wheat Growers’ Union.
The plan is condemned by
R. A. Bakewell, chairman of the
Australian Woolgrowers’ Coun-
cil, which represents organisa-
tions covering 19,101 members
running 57,000,000 sheep. The
recent conference of the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association threw out
the plan decisively—lo 3 votes
against and none for.
Main argument centres around
whether the plan is or is not
grower-controlled, while four
Governments hover in the back-
ground. The plan’s organisation
will be controlled by a central
authority in London, where Aus-
tralia will have three representa-
tives out of a total of 10. One
of these will represent the Gov-
ernment, and it is therefore
claimed that the total Australian
grower representation will be
two, or 20 p.c. of the whole.
Summed up, it seems, if there
is a majority for the plan at the
referendum, it will comprise
mainly the smaller woolgrowers
and mixed farmers, while the
larger woolgrowers will be
solidly against it, although there
are cross entries, as many small
N.S.W. woolgrowers are op-
posed, while in Queensland some
large owners are for it. The
plan’s supporters consider they
will have a small majority;
opponents think they will just
about defeat it.
This brings an interesting
problem, as the Minister for
Commerce has implied that the
plan will be implemented only
if there is unanimity among
woolgrowers. Mr. McEwen will
be a bold man if he brings
legislation down in the Federal
Parliament to carry out the plan
when growers are so sharply
divided. This will cause con-
siderable concern to M.Ps. who
represent wool areas, and it is
doubtful whether the plan is
worth all the repercussions which
may follow in its wake.
Soil Fertility.
“Agric”: Giving the 1951
Farrer Memorial Oration at
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) Agri-
cultural Bureau Conference,
Professor L. J. H. Teakle, Pro-
fessor of Agriculture at Queens-
land University, speaking on
“The Role of Nitrogen in Soil
Fertility,” said that at Kalbar
(Q.) half of the nitrogen had
been lost after 25 years of crop-
ping. Tests showed that soil
samples under virgin and culti-
vated conditions from seven
farms, cropped intensively with-
out a rest in pasture or lucerne,
had from 12 to 33 per cent,
lowered nitrogen content; the
farms had carr'ed from 12 to 30
crops.
These losses were alarming, as
they represented the most readily
available nitrogen fraction of the
soil. Furthermore, associated
with such losses it was found
that the soil became more diffi-
cult to work, and infiltration of
rain water was slowed up. Pro-
fessor Teakle said there was no
answer to the question: “What
is an adequate quantity of nitro-
gen for a soil?” as it depended
upon so many factors, such as
temperature, type of vegetation
cover, rainfall, etc., and system
of management.
There was no doubt that some
systems of management were ex-
ploitive, and resulted in a lowered
nitrogen content. On rich soil
such as the Darling Downs,
yields might be maintained for
many years, perhaps until gully-
ing rendered cultivation imprac-
ticable or until soil-borne plant
diseases hampered crop growth.
Prosperous farmers on rich
soils were often hard to con-
vince that maintenance of
fertility was necessary. They
could point to well-sustained
crops, and the agricultural
scientist was at a loss for a con-
vincing argument unless there
was evidence of diseases or soil-
erosion. As yet, few farmers
would be impressed by nitrogen
figures showing changes in soil
composition ; that was a problem
extension services must solve very
soon, in order to secure adop-
tion of fertility-building methods
before the old methods proved
musiS
"I thought Dais could travel free —she ain't five
years old yet.”
exploitive and crop yields and
quality deteriorated.
Every crop removed, all
animal products sold, and soil
removed by erosion involved
some nitrogen loss. Every bushel
of wheat contained from 11b. to
Hlb. of nitrogen, depending on
grain quality, and every 1001 b.
of liveweight in a steer would
lock up 31b. of nitrogen ; of fat
lamb, about 2*lb.; of pig about
211 b., and the milk for a year
from a 500-gallon dairy cow
would contain about 301 b,
A Jetting Mixture.
“Rooster”; It’s for use on
sheep struck by flies after
crutching, and is made up by
boiling 41b. of white arsenic and
7oz. of caustic-soda in 2gal. of
water until the arsenic appears
to dissolve. In slightly less than
2gal. of hot water in another
container, slake 41b. of lump
lime, putting the lime in at lib.
or so at a time, and stirring as
slaking proceeds. Keep some
boiling arsenic simmering
near by and pour the slaked lime
into it slowly. Boil for a further
20 minutes, and then add water
to make 40gal. of fluid for
jetting.
Sheep should be jetted as soon
as blowflies are active. Wool
surrounding the crutch must be
thoroughly saturated.
For sheep carrying two
months’ wool, a pressure of
1001 b. to 1251 b. is needed, the
jet being pointed upward into the
crutch. Make sure of complete
saturation. The alternative, of
course, is D.D.T. dipping, but
it needs to be repeated at
regular intervals and is costlier.
C.5.1.R.0. Publicity.
“Nedrium”: The C.5.1.R.0.
realises (B. 1/ 8 / ’5l) that the gap
between its research work and
its beneficiaries is too wide.
That’s why the organisation
formed a new section early this
year —the Agricultural Research
Liaison Section —to publicise
rural research work in popular
and semi-technical form.
Journalists and illustrators
will work in the new section and
will present ready-use material
likely to be of value to State
Agricultural Departments. Actual
contact with the farmer and
grazier will invariably be done
by the State officers, except for
C.5.1.R.0, field days, radio talks
and Press publicity.
The new section plans to cover
all the important rural research
work done by the C.5.1.R.0.
and shape it into intelligible form
for the layman or the skilled
worker who can make use of
the simplified information.
Research results are valueless
until applied. A new sheep-
branding fluid, satisfactory to
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
There is a new sunspot outbreak which is connected
with the seasonal change due in September. This group
is of some importance, and should cause an added -mpetus
to the seasonal rains along the southern littoral, which may
have begun last weekend.
A resumption of wintry weather is likely, fine for the
most part, with further showers along the southern coast-
line. Heavy rains are possible in the south-eastern corner
of the continent.


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagl
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £78,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£12,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
lh& cs I otei
FACING A PACK
Tfie one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Vent worth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part ... yet
it is merely 'round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WtHTWOBTH
mi
u s r 0
Phone IVW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 15/8/’6l
BRISTOL. TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7230
o
o
GUARD HIM 1
AGAINST )
How long is it since
he was wormed?
Worms sap a dog's
energy, impair his I
health and lower
his resistance to
disease.
All dogs and pup-
pies that have been
exposed to the risk
of infestation by
worms should be
wormed regularly
every three months.
BARKO Worm Powders
have been prepared
specially for the elim-
ination of Tape Worms
and are a safe and
reliable medicine to nse
for this purpose.
WORMS
fT.
Used by dog owners
throughout Australia for
nearly 20 years.
BARKO
WORM POWDERS
PRICE 2/- per box
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
f~~'T wmp'T'Wvt ■■■
mm
'1
ii
m
i
S' \ ■ <■■ > \ j
\-, y-, >'' - : ’ ' i ¥ ■&/ ' ''
f ■■::■ IHi i'rfSW ll
■M
a&S
*'*♦*&* 'g'|
£
THE LION-HEARTED
THE ENGINE THAT LASTS/
Graziers all over Australia, in
common with thousands of other
men on the land, value their Lister
engines above all for their
complete dependability. In a
Lister, important moving parts
are sturdier than in other engines
of similar horsepower. Mainten-
ance is negligible, fuel costs low
and long life assured.
Available in a variety of types and
horsepowers (2 to 40 h.p.) for petroL
kerosene and diesel fuel.
El 8.93
Distributed in Australia by:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dcmgar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street. SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street. PERTH.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited.
12-36 Cross Street, WEST FOOTSCRAY.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe Carson Limited
{lncorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Norwood Bagshaw Limited,
78 Currie Street, ADELAIDE,
TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
both grazier and wool manu-
facturer (one of C.S.I.R.O.’s
minor triumphs), a new method
of preserving eggs by a simple
hot-water immersion, an im-
proved method of artificially in-
seminating poultry—all these
things mean nothing unless those
concerned are told in simple
language of the possible applica-
tions of the new discoveries.
“J.R.D.” is right when he
objects that the language of the
new research journals of the
C.S.I.R.O. is too technical. The
new section should be able to
turn the journal material to good
account. Perhaps the issue of
a quarterly digest by the
C.S.I.R.O., presenting current
findings in everyday language,
would help bridge the gap be-
tween laboratory and farm.
Beef-cattle Production.
“Oxo”: To the Queensland
branch of the Australian Society
of Animal Production S. B.
Reynolds, Moorlands, Oakey
(Q.), said that only the British
breeds of beef cattle could give
required carcass quality, and
the British breeds could be
acclimatised !o meet the varied
environmental conditions of
Australia.
While there were some excep-
tions, most men who bought
zebus had apparently failed in
the husbandry of British breeds.
Some had very poorly-run
properties, they bought the
cheapest possible bulls, and,
when they failed, they blamed
the British breeds. For over 100
years the British breeds had been
going to all parts of the world
to up-grade native cattle, yet in
Queensland people were buying
zebus to up-grade the British
breeds. This didn’t make sense.
On the other hand, he went
on, they had men running
British breeds in the heart of
what was supposed to be zebu
country, and they were turning
off carcasses of the quality
which consumers throughout the
world demanded. One urgent
necessity, said Reynolds, was to
breed off the hair, and it was
unfortunate that their leading
shows were held in the winter
when winning bulls invariably
carried wonderful coats of long
hair—exactly what they did not
want.
The late Sir Charles McCann
had advocated summer shows
so that cattle would be bare of
coat. If summer shows were
held studbreeders would not
bother to breed hair “and curl
it with a comb.” The British
breeds could be bred so bare of
coat that in two or three genera-
tions they made zebus blush for
the want of hair! His experi-
ence had been that bulls by
hairless sires did much better
when sent to the north than bulls
by sires showing a wonderful
winter coat and bloom.
One of the lessons that
Reynolds’s family had learned
after over 100 years of importa-
tions was that cattle could not
be acclimatised to Queensland
conditions by continually im-
porting from cold countries.
They might do well in the
southern States, but for northern
requirements the hair had to be
bred off and this could be done
in a few generations. The surest
way to find out how good a
herd was was to inbreed,
Reynolds claimed. The
champion Herefords of Aus-
tralia over the last 50 years
represented no more than six
female lines.
Tick-immunity.
“Agric”: R. V. D. Cox, of
Cox Bros.’ Glengarriffe Jersey
stud, Maleny (Q.), believes that
a high fat test bred into dairy
stock will bring about immunity
to ticks. His assumption is
based on 30 years of breeding
experience with the highest-
quality stud dairy stock from
three States.
“We are in a ticky district,
but, while our neighbors are dip-
ping once every three weeks, we
have not spent more than £2 for
this purpose, on a herd which
would number at times 150-
head, in the last 10 years,” said
Mr. Cox. In the last two years
he had not dipped or sprayed
and had not used any tick repel-
lent.
This extraordinary state of
affairs was really unexplainable
to them, but they firmly believed
that the high test incorporated
in their cattle had put something
into the hide to provide tick-
immunity. There were ticks on
their property, and these
attached themselves to the cows,
but it had been noticed con-
sistently for some time that the
ticks did not remain on the
cattle and did not mature on the
beast.
Hints for the Farm.
“My”: Woolly-aphis is hard
to control with sprays because
of its protective covering, but a
high-pressure spray of red oil,
strength 1 in 20, will control it.
Home-gardeners should paint in-
dividual colonies with sump-oil
or methylated spirits.
“Koo-Wee-Rup”: Keep young
pigs growing. Rapid growth im-
mediately after weaning favors
development of the muscular
system, which in turn gives the
desirable lean carcasses. Weigh-
ing at weaning gives measure of
production, a good guide to per-
formance of breeding stock.
Production-recording with pigs,
as with dairy cattle and poultry,
is worth while.
“W. Court”: In moderation
peanuts, which contain around
30 per cent, of crude protein,
are good for pigs. Small quanti-
ties of molasses mixed with the
feed will provide extra carbohy-
drates, But when given by the
gallon, as in sugarmill areas, it
will color and flavor the flesh
undesirably. The pigs are also
rendered fat and soft and very
susceptible to heat.
“A-Jay”; San Jose scale, a
small circular scale with a raised
centre, causes a scurfy appear-
ance on shoots and limbs of de-
ciduous trees and may cause the
death of limbs. The combina-
tion spray of winter white oil,
2gal., plus lime sulphur s£gal.
in of water, will control
severe infestations. Red oil or
other dormant spraying oil (one
in 15) or lime sulphur (one in
10) will control minor infesta-
tions of this and other scales.


Step o -
NEWMAN
in a
imiA
BELT
Thousands of men are en-
joying greater comfort by
wearing the world-famous
Linia Balt. Evolved in co-
operation with the highest
medical authorities and
made from a patented
woven Tricot that supports
and massages with every
movement. Light and com-
fortable, the Linia Belt is
easily slipped in place and
readily adjusted. The Linia
method is world wide.
Write to-day for our
free illustrated
"Danger Curve"
Booklet and price
list.
i
■c
m
v
A
L
\\\s
-3
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Australia only by tl» of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE, C.I. Phone FA 8357
Open Saturday Mornings.
Branches throughout the British Isles, and the Continent
If any “Bulletin” illustration lakes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Fast, positive Fire Protection
—in an emergency!
v ’mmr:
m,
"Simplex" Fire
Extinguishers are
approved by all
recognised Authorities
and used by Govern-
ment Departments,
the Navy, Army and
Air Force.
"Simplex" Soda Acid Model
The “Simplex” 2
gallon Soda Acid
Type Fire Extin-
guisher is recom-
mended for offices,
warehouses, factor-
ies, homes, hotels,
guest houses, halls,
theatres, country
stores and buildings.
Would bhtk« !
Ask for illustrated brochure.
“Simplex” Fire Extinguishers are
self-contained units, ruggedly con-
structed, foolproof. Hanging on
the wall of your office, factory, store or
home —in your car, truck or boat, they’re
always ready for instant, positive action
—in an emergency.
There is a “Simplex” for every type ot
fire risk. In the extinguishing of incipient
fires, each does a highly effective job.
Discounts are allowed by Fire Insur-
ance Companies for premises which are
“Simplex” equipped.
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
Manufactured by
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
With Offices and Works at ...
Sydney. Newcastle, Melbourne. Brisbane. Perth, Adelaide. Hobart, Wellington. Auckland
and Branch Offices at
Broken Hill, Geelong, Ballarat, Townsville, Darwin, Dunedin. Christchurch
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LTD. STEELBILT LIMITED
ON GUARD 24 HOURS A DAY! ‘GRINNELL’ Automatic Sprinkler
Fire Protection safeguards millions of pounds worth of the world’s
property unceasingly —‘ Grinnell ’ is never off duty.
sdf
Divorce Notice.
TrTfHE SUPREME COURT OF NEAV
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID JOHN LIVINGSTONE late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ROSE
EDITH LIVINGSTONE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2443 of 1951 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse. If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Bth day of October, 1951, and obtain
a copy of the Petition free of charge from
JOHN D. NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George
Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
In next week’s instalment
Rachel journeys to Bathurst
(N.S.W.).
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today** values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ei TEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
a
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
D
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Sp Has all the finest lectures
cl high-priced lmP orl,d
machines at only a to*
lion of their cost The
••National- Rotary DnP»
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. PW*
Music, etc.
fl.iit » nlif'h I ■ '•"“'“J* lT *>
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY- LTD.
SIDNEY AND BRISBANE
S»™‘ 4 T&»®j|£ES
peeih l ”!.
ever be taken? There is a long
article in the Sydney “Herald”
copied from the “Times” which
speaks strongly of the want of
generals in the English Army,
and, though in a lesser degree,
the French.
I should think there must be
some such reason for their com-
parative inactivity. It can be
from no fault in the troops, for
we have seen what they can do
at Alma and Inkerman. How
I should like to have a good chat
with you about it all!
Nobody here cares much for
the war, and indeed it is so long
before we get the news that it
loses half its interest, when we
remember that perhaps by the
time it reaches Australia affairs
may be wearing quite a different
aspect at home. Perhaps now,
for instance, Sebastopol may be
taken, the Tsar frightened into
a peace, and the French and
English quarrelling over their
conquests, or they may have
been driven out of the Crimea
and a Russian fleet be sailing
up the Channel, though I hope
this last is a very unlikely event.
But it is very tantalising to
know nothing of what is going
on. The Australians have sub-
scribed very well to the
Patriotic Fund, though a few
find it convenient to belong to
the Peace Party when asked for
their subscriptions.
There is an old Dr. Cox, who
sometimes comes here to see
Biddulph, who puts me out of
patience with the nonsense he
talks about peace. He is a
Quaker, and considers such texts
as “If thine enemy smite thee on
one cheek,” etc., as applicable
to our relations with Russia, It
is no use to argue with him, as
Tregenna said —for even he was
roused —for he only goes off into
a long string of heterogeneous
and misapplied quotations. I
told him I was thankful the
English Government did not
think like him, and went off to
feed the fowls; Amy and
Biddulph also took opportunities
of stealing away, leaving
Tregenna, who was too lazy to
move, to endure the full brunt
of a “yarn” which lasted the
whole morning.
I must finish my letter today,
as the mail for the Pacific closes
tomorrow. Biddulph and Lindon
have set out on their return to
Shoalhaven, and a very wet ride
they will have as it is pouring
with rain.
Miss Anna Gurney wrote to
forward me two letters of in-
troduction from Sir William
Hooker to two botanical friends
of his in Sydney. I got Mrs.
Burton to ask him if there was
any “Flora of Australia” yet
published, and he says not, but
sends these letters instead to two
gentlemen who have studied the
plants of the country. It is
extremely kind of him to take
the trouble, but I do not think
they will ever be delivered, as I
hope I shall not be long enough
here to make any collection, and
I do not care enough about the
Australian flowers to take much
trouble with them.
I often wonder what can be
the difference. I suppose it is
the want of any pleasant
associations connected with
them. I often see very pretty
flowers in the bush and just
gather them to take a look at
them, and then throw them
away again without any further
interest, while at Home every
wildflower seemed like a friend
to me.
The Danehill woods must be
getting full of wood anemonies,
primroses and wood-sorrel now.
How beautiful they must be,
and how I should like to see
them!
We have not been riding
lately, as there is nothing to ride
upon. My horse got so thin in
the dry weather that he was sent
off to recruit in a place called
Gerar, where “feed” —as they
always call grass here—was
plentiful, and I have not been
able to get her back yet. Bid-
dulph has changed “the wild
mare,” a beast that nobody can
ride, for a very tall animal
which, he says, he can break into
a sidesaddle. 1 rather doubt it
though, for it is as much as he
can do to hold her in. She did
not look very promising when
he departed for Shoalhaven
upon her yesterday, as she
capered sideways all down the
bush path, till they were out of
sight. An eighty-mile journey
however, with the roads in their
present wet state, must take some
of the superfluous spirit out of
her.
I like this autumn weather,
for it feels like England. Yester-
day was still and cold with that
dull grey sky we so often have
at home in the fall of the year,
and today it is pouring with
rain, like a genuine English
November day.
Amy rejoices in the cool
weather, and I was tired of the
perpetual glare of sunshine.
Fine days here bring me no
pleasure as they do in England:
they are too hot and too
numerous, and besides, you
cannot enjoy them by taking
nice walks —there are no walks
to take.
I suppose you have been
drawing a great deal lately. Your
pictures of Backwell and Danehill
are hung up in our sitting-room
and make us long for home
whenever we look at them. I
have never yet unpacked my
picture-case, as it is so nicely
done up in tin that I thought it
was a pity to open it in my
present uncertainty about stay-
ing here. My books are also still
in the great case which I brought
from Danehill. All except a few
which I wanted. Biddulph made
two new bookcases while I was
in Sydney, but even now there is
not room for all Amy’s with his
and Annie’s,
We are longing for letters
from home. I used to be very
glad to get letters from Aus-
tralia, but it was nothing to the
desire we feel here for home
news, and yet I can hardly call
it a pleasure to receive it, for an
English letter makes me feel
miserable for at least a day, and
Tregenna says the same; he is
nearly as homesick as I am. But
I have said too much about this;
it is like King Charles’s head,
and will get into everything I
write.
Kindest love to Etta and
yourself. Believe me, your
affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
{To be continued next week.)


THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY**
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
REMEMBER -
ROAD COURTESY
MEANS
ROAD SAFETY!
3VS
fe
/a
C 3
V
k
\\
RtW*
CROSS
u** ES
OUB'-£
D
Published in the interests
of Road Safety by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Commonwealth of Australia and
Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
dsf
WRITE
FOR FREE BOOKLET “WHAT IS PETROLEUM?”
Ideal Study Aid for advanced Primary & Secondary School Students
This most interesting booklet is easy to obtain.
All you have to do to secure your copy is to write
your name and address clearly on plain paper,
and send, without stamps, to the Commonwealth
Oil Refineries office in your State. The booklet
describes in simple language and illustrations the
chemical composition of oil, and how it is formed
by nature.
sd
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Whereabouts of Claude Wingate
Terry, author of a comic history of
Australia. —5159.
Name of agent able to supply an
anti-dimming preparation to prevent
glasses worn in a tropical area from
fogging.—5160.
To buy The Bulletin Reciter. —5161.
To buy copy of The Pea Pickers by
Eve Langley.—5155.
To get in touch with agents for
the Hugo Wertheim sewing-machine.
—5154.
To buy books on bookbinding as a
handicraft. —5153.
To buy copy of Gregory’s Dead
Heart of Australia. —5152.
To buy copy of Magic as a Hobby
by Bruce Elliott. —5151.
To buy copy of The Horse’s Mouth
by Joyce Carey.—5157.
To buy copy of book containing
“The Great Australian Adjective” by
W. T. Goodge.—5156.
Words of poem about a horse
called “Mussellman’s Grave.”—5158.
Information Sought.
Biographical details concerning
Jaroslav Hasek, author of “The Good
Soldier Schweik’'' ?
He was born in Prague in 1884,
and had published 16 volumes of
short stories before 1914. Taken
prisoner on the Eastern Front, he
spent several years in Russian prison-
camps. On his return he began to
write The Good Soldier Schweik.
According to his original plan
Schweik was to be completed in six
volumes. He died in 1923, with only
four volumes written.
" Which is the more correct,
“burned” or “burnt,” “leaped” or
"leapt” ?
Both are quite correct. The Oxford
English Dictionary prefers “burned”
and “leaped,” but Fowler’s Modern
English Usage urges the adoption of
the “burnt” and “leapt” forms, and
in justification says that the usual
pronunciation of these words is burnt
(not turn’d) and lept (with a short
e). Many verbs have lost completely
the -ed form in their past tense, such
as creep (crept), feel (felt), leave (left).
However, there are others where the
-t form is only seen as archaic or
poetic usage—such as husht, kist,
curst. Then again there are the
words such as “burn,” “spill,” “spoil,”
which have the two past forms, both
in use. In time some of these will
no doubt lose one or other of their
alternatives. But there is no general
rule which can be applied to tell us
which way each word will go.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning Elbert
Hubbard, the American writer and
philosopher ?
Born in 1856, he founded the Roy-
croft Press at East Aurora, N.Y.,
about 1894, in imitation of the
Kelmscott Press, owned by William
Morris, the English poet and artist.
Roycroft became a large establish-
ment, noted for the production of
artistic books, elaborately decorated.
As ancillaries to Roycroft, Hubbard
established an art school, and set up
shops producing furniture, leather-
goods, etc., in which the aim was
work of the highest craftsmanship.
He published till his death two
monthly magazines which had a great
vogue—they mostly consisted of his
own writings. He also wrote short
biographies of many famous people.
The work by which he is best known
now is “A Message to Garcia,” an
essay on courage, initiative and devo-
tion to duty. He was a consistent
advocate of individualism, and laid
great stress on the importance of
work. He lost his life in the sinking
of the Lusitania, May 7, 1915.
* * * *
A few details concerning the catbird
(Ailuraedus viridis), said to be closely
allied to the bowerbirds?
The catbird is a member of the
bowerbird family. A. viridis is the
green catbird, and is found in the
coastal scrubs of south-east Queens-
land and eastern N. S. Wales, where
it feeds on fruits and berries. Its
rather loud call, “Me-ow,” is not
unlike that of a cat. The nest is
bowl-shaped, and constructed of long
twigs and stems of climbing plants,
lined with dry grass and generally
placed near the top of a low, bushy
tree, sometimes as much as 40ft. from
the ground. Eggs, two or three,
cream or pale creamy white. Season,
September to January.
♦ * * *
Recipe for tartare sauce?
Into a large basin put one egg-yolk,
i teaspoon sugar, dash of salt, mus-
tard and pepper (in that order), stir
all well and add one teaspoon vinegar.
Beat for a moment, then very slowly,
in drops, add one cup olive oil (South
Australian oil is excellent), whisking
the while; if added too quickly the
mixture will curdle. Taste, and if
necessary add vinegar to get a piquant
flavor, then add one teaspoon capers,
one teaspoon gherkin and one small
chilli, all chopped and blended before
stirring into the sauce. Put sauce into
crystal bowl or sauceboat and keep
cold. Serve with fish, or may be used
as salad dressing.
* * ♦ *
How to handle gladioli corms?
When the foliage has died dig the
gladioli and store them in a dry room
to ripen, carefully labelling outstand-
ing colors. The dead foliage should
be broken off after about two months;
then separate the corms from last
season’s withered portion and baby
corms which are attached. The latter
should be sown in a corner to make
mature bulbs, and in two years they
will have grown large enough to place
in the open garden. All stored bulbs
will require sprinkling with naphtha-
lene or lime to ward off pests.
* * * *
Where are the hottest and coldest
parts of Australia?
The hottest area of the continent
is situated in the northern part of
Western Australia, about the Marble
Bar and Nullagine goldfields, where
the maximum shade temperature dur-
ing the summer sometimes exceeds
lOOdeg. continuously for days and
weeks. The coldest part of Australia
is the extreme south-east of N. S.
Wales and extreme east of Victoria—
the region of the Australian Alps.
Here the temperature seldom, if ever,
reaches lOOdeg., even in the hottest
of seasons, while in winter readings
slightly below zero are occasionally
recorded.
* * ♦ «
What kind of a boat is a coracle?
It is a skiff with a slight wooden
frame, covered over with hides, and
made watertight by a coating of tar
and pitch. Caesar describes the
coracles in use among the Britons
of his day, and history speaks of a
seven days’ voyage by missionaries in
878 from Ireland to Cornwall in a
coracle made of two-and-a-half skins.
Coracles were oval in shape, about
3ft. by 4ft. in size, there being room
for one person only. The rower
propelled himself by a paddle. This
kind of canoe is still used on the
River Severn and in Clare, whilst
light boats, very similar, are built for
crossing the lakes on the way to
Klondike, after the passage of Chil-
koot Pass, Alaska.
• * ♦ ♦
Can a N.S.W. publican sue for an
amount booked for liquor consumed
in a public bar?
ti No, the Liquor Acts provide that
“No licensee shall maintain any action
for or recover in any court any debt
or demand for any liquor sold or
disposed of in any less quantity, at
one and the same time, than two
gallons of one and the same, unless
such liquor has been lawfully sold or
supplied by such licensee to bona
fide lodgers or travellers.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Meaning of the term “cause
celebre” ?
A term used to signify any lawsuit
of great public interest or importance,
apart altogether from any question of
legal principle, e.g., the Palmer
poisoning case, the Tichborne
claimant case, the “Hansard” libel
prosecution, the Dreyfus case, the
trial of Madame de Steinheil. The
expression Causes Celebres, according
to Wharton, was the title of a series
of reports collected by Gayot de
Pitival of decisions of interest in the
French courts in the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries.
Brief Answers.
C.R.C.; Write secretary, Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, 8 Young-
street, Sydney... .V.L.: Ghost Stories
of an Antiquary was written by
Montague Rhodes James (1862-1936),
who was provost of Eton from 1918.
As well as editing a great number of
bibliographical and palaeographical
works he edited and translated The
Apocryphal New Testament (1924).
... .C.C.: Modern Australian Abo-
riginal Art by Rex Battarbee, price
635., published by F. W. Cheshire
Pty., Ltd., 338 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne E.J.A.: Cement and
Concrete for the Handyman, price 55.,
published by Robertson and Mullens,
107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne
T.M.J.: Write Australian Wool
Board, 416 Collins-street, Melbourne.
T.H.S.: Full particulars are
obtainable from secretary, Fellowship
of Australian Writers, 38 Clarence-
street, Sydney W.G.: Cowles and
Dunn, gunmakers, 71 King-street,
Sydney, can supply F.F.: Particu-
lars are obtainable from the informa-
tion officer, Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organisation,
119 Phillip-street, Sydney M.F.A.:
J. J. McGirr was Premier of N. S.
Wales when the 40-hour week was
introduced... .E.W.D.: The remark
was made by J. S. Garden F.P.J.:
Write Chancery Registrar’s Office,
Royal Courts of Justice, London,
W.C.2 A.8.L.: From Bruce Muir-
den, editor “The Austrovert,” 21
Grey-street, East Melbourne, Vic
F. : The Arts of Mankind by
Hendrik Van Loon, price 225.,
obtainable from most leading book-
sellers F.G.: Tyrrell’s Bookshop,
281 George-street, Sydney, have col-
lections of old photographs of Sydney
which would repay inspection....
W.R.S.: “The Wild Cat” page re-
views only listed companies, but if
you will forward recent balance-
sheets of the unlisted company men-
tioned we will endeavor to furnish
the information required G.R.8.:
Write G. B. Jackson, Box 1613,
G. Sydney A.J.8.: Norma L.
Davis’s Earth Cry was reviewed in
The Bulletin on May 10, 1944, and
her I, The Thief on August 23, 1944.
There was a general article on her in
the issue of January 15, 1941....
8.M.: Such magazines obtain per-
mission from the original publisher
to reprint the literary material used,
and in some cases are required to
pay for the material. Whether the
author is entitled to a second pay-
ment depends whether he assigned
all rights to the first publisher or
reserved second publication rights
M. 8.5.: Write Grazcos Co-operative,
Ltd., 46 Young-street, Sydney
T.H.L.; “Air Travel,” published
monthly by F. H. Johnston, 34
Jamieson-street, Sydney R.McG.:
Murder in the Cathedral was written
by T. S. Eliot H.L.: Common-
wealth Copyright Office, 18 York-
street, Sydney K.T.: See Inflation
and Expansion by Douglas Copland,
published by F. W. Cheshire Pty.,
Ltd., 338 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne C.K.A.: Write librarian,
the Mitchell Library, Sydney, stating
the name of the ship and the year of
its arrival R. 8.; The Aboriginal
Word Book by Justine Kenyon, pub-
lished by Lothian Publishing Co.,
Melbourne... .E.H.: Stains are prob-
ably now set. Stretch stained part
over a basin, moisten with warm
water and dab freely with warm
glycerine. Let stand, then sponge with
methylated spirits, followed by warm
water to rinse. Wash spot then in
warm soapy water, rubbing well in
the hands. Rinse, and pat dry with
a towel G.P.J.: There are Union
Jacks on three backgrounds—red,
white and blue. The White Ensign
is worn by H.M. ships in commis-
sion ; the Blue Ensign by merchant
ships in Admiralty service, e.g., fleet
tankers; the Red Ensign by the mer-
chant navy, also known affectionately
as the “Red Duster” 8.J.8.: The
White Hart was the badge of Richard
11, and was worn by his courtiers
and adherents. It was adopted from
the cognisance of his mother, Joan,
“The Fair Maid of Kent,” daughter
of Edmund, Earl of Kent R.J.T.:
(I) “Jersey Joe” Walcott had his first
fight on September 1, 1936, when
Billy Ketchall outpointed him over
10 rounds. (2) According to ring
statistics, boxers seldom last longer
than 10 years at the game. Walcott
was born at Camden, New Jersey
(U.S.A.).


Are
yOk
'7l
I ‘I
%}
/%
A
is
z
V //
NOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT and COID
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for ail
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is com*
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modem
Insulator—- B. L SLAG WOOL
TELEPHONES; SYDNEY. MA2311 • MEWMEIE, MU3E05
BRISBANE, 83804 • ADELAIDE. C7257 * PERfH. L2107
STRINGFELLOW’S MODEL AEROPLANE 1848
Construction : Wooden framework, silk-covered monoplane.
Tapered wing with flexible trailing edge. Single tail-
plane without fin. Dimensions : Span 10 ft. Chord 2 ft.
tapering to zero. Wing area 14 sq. ft. Power Plant'.
Horizontal double acting steam engine | in. bore, 2 in.
stroke. Spirit fired boiler. Propellers ; Two four-bladed
16 in. diameter pusher airscrews. Performance: The
first aircraft to fly under its own power. Its best flight
was 40 yards indoors after launching down an inclined wire.
.Today great airlines rely on the unfailing ground
service symbolised by the greeh and yellow colours of the^
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY LTD.
X AVIATION
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All State*.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE** Melbourne. __
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Diesels and Queensland Coal
The statement by “Transpor-
ticus” (B. 1/8/’5l) that Queens-
land has “possibly the worst-run
and worst-equipped railway in
the civilised world” is so
grotesque as to destroy all
respect for the remainder of his
sweeping, unjust criticism.
Surely “T.” doesn’t believe that
Queensland proposes to scrap
the whole of its coal-burning
locos in favor of diesels? Or
that Minister Duggan would not
have the services of “a panel of
experts of unquestioned
integrity”? Isn’t it obvious that
the diesels are to be used for
long-distance passenger trains?
The system which “T.”
spaciously dismisses is to have
eight complete air-conditioned
trains, five to operate between
Brisbane and Cairns on the
“Sunshine route,” one between
Townsville and Mount Isa, one
between Rockhampton and
Longreach and one between
Brisbane and Cunnamulla.
One of the principal reasons
for using diesels is the relatively
low axle - load permitted on
Queensland’s 3ft. 6in. gauge.
The experts at whom “T.”
sneers say that in the diesel-
electric engine the hammer-blow
effect on the track transmitted
by the steam locomotive does
not exist. That allows the track
to carry a diesel engine possess-
ing a higher axle-load than
would be possible with a con-
ventional steam-engine and
enables a machine with a greatly
increased hauling-power to be
used.
The tractive effort of the
diesel locomotive to be obtained
will be slightly more than 50
per cent, greater than that of the
818 1/4 passenger locomotive.
Other advantages are greater
traffic availability, enabling a
very much higher mileage per
year and the absence of smoke
and coal-dust.
It is ludicrous to suggest that
“small mining communities de-
pendent on the railway market
for their existence” will be
“abandoned and rendered
derelict.” Queensland coal pro-
duction last year was an all-
time record and the potential
demand for the future assures
the economic stability of the
State’s coal resources the
greatest in the Southern Hemis-
phere, A new design for Cl 7
steam locomotives to conform
with modern locomotive prac-
tice is well advanced at the
Ipswich railway workshops.
Queensland, which has the
greatest mileage of railways
open for traffic and, with the
exception of W.A., the lowest
population per mile of railway,
was the only State beside N. S.
Wales in which a profit on
working was achieved in 1949.
The percentage of working
expenses to earnings in N. S.
Wales was 90.11 per cent, and
in Queensland 92.25 per cent.,
but in Victoria, S.A. and W.A.
£lO3 2s. 10d„ £123 10s. 2d. and
£l2B 10s. 4d. respectively had to
be spent to earn £lOO.
Peace-time records have been
established in Queensland in the
handling of goods traffic, total
earnings and average mileage
per day. Millions of pounds are
being spent on reconditioning
and replacement programmes,
including large orders for Beyer-
Garratt locomotives from
Britain and France constructed
specially to meet Queensland
conditions. The tractive effort
of the Beyer-Garratt is 32,7701 b.
—nearly 50 per cent, more than
the Cl 9 loco.
“T.” also ignores the achieve-
ment of the Queensland system
during the war in moving
enormous quantities of war
material, hundreds of thousands
of Australian and Allied troops
and their munitions and equip-
ment —a triumph in logistics
with rolling-stock urgently need-
ing repair—over the coastal
railway to the far north. Goods-
wagons with an average mileage
of 29 per day were required to
average 53 a day. Few railway
wagons in the world have
exceeded that figure the
average for American wagons
in 1939 was 36 miles.
The jibe that Queenslanders
are always complaining about
the failure of other people to
extract and use their coal makes
strange reading. Isn’t it
commonsense for coal-hungry
southern States to buy Queens-
land coal, instead of importing
hundreds of thousands of tons
from Bengal and South Africa
—as Victoria is doing? Why
send all the way to India for
coal at prohibitive cost (assisted
by Commonwealth subsidy—
for which Queensland taxpayers
help to pay) when good Aus-
tralian coal can be carried from
Queensland? — Clem Lack (Q-).
Shortages of Apprentices
“Taswegian” (B. 13/6/’5l)
on the shortage of apprentices
touches only half the problem
when he advocates higher pay
for them. In Adelaide a 14-
"And furthermore — don't talk when I'm interrupting!"
year-old lad is earning £9 14s.
per week cutting out hot-water
bottles and he’s not breaking
any record at that. No wonder
boys are itching to leave school.
They will need all the money
they can get if they hope to
marry and build and furnish
homes before they reach retiring
age.
There is not enough incentive
to keep boys at school until
they have won commercial,
trade or professional diplomas
because prospective skilled
workers are being bribed to pour
out every type of luxury article
for employers who are so busy
getting rich quick that they
can’t, or won’t, see the danger
which will confront them in the
future.
When Australian workers are
underpaid, a howl of protest is
heard from one end of Aus-
tralia to the other, but when -
unskilled boys are commonly
paid absurdly high wages, no
one breathes a murmur of
protest. Youngsters getting an
easy £9 10s. per week will never
learn the value of money, and
what is worse, will grow up be-
lieving that they can go on hit-
ting the bosses for ridiculously
high wages without doing much
in return for them. And for
that sad state of affairs
employers can only blame them-
selves. —W. M. H. (N.S.W.).
Inflation
At the anti-inflation confer-
ence Mr. Menzies told the
members that there were 17 main
reasons for the inflation, but
nearly all of the “reasons” he
mentioned are mostly “effects” of
the real cause.
His No. 1 reason, the war,
occurred many years after the
seed was sown for the actual
cause —the revaluation of the
Australian £ in 1931.
Reasons No. 4, “an investment
boom,” No. 6, “vast increase in
public investment,” No. 7, “ex-
cessive demand for labor,” No.
9, “the £1 basic-wage increase,”
No. 12, “a lag in productive
effort caused by overfull em-
ployment,” and No. 17, “inflow
of capital from abroad” —all are
the effects of the revaluation of
the Australian £ which gave a
20 p.c. increased protection to
manufacturers.
Not only did secondary indus-
tries absorb all the unemployed,
which amounted to 28 p.c. of
unionists in 1931, but by the end
of 1941 there ceased to be any
unemployed and the secondary
industries attracted, and are still
attracting, laborers from essen-
tial primary production.
Before the Australian £ was
revalued those engaged in
primary production exceeded
those engaged in secondary in-
dustries, but today, out of all
employees in Australia, only
16 per cent, are engaged in
primary production while 33 per
cent, are employed in secondary
industries. And the position is
getting worse daily.
It has been estimated that there
are 250,000 vacancies for
workers in Australia. Employers
are vying with each other to
obtain new hands and to replace
those who leave for employment
elsewhere. It is this competition
which gives rise to the ever-
increasing wages paid. Very few
able-bodied men will work for
the basic wage when much more
is offered. It is difficult indeed
to obtain any unskilled adult
male to work for less than £l2
per week.
Mr. Menzies stated that dis-
interested economists had advised
him against the revaluation of
the Australian £, but it is in-
teresting to note that the
economic advisers of most of our
important newspapers stress the
necessity of bringing the Aus-
tralian £ back to sterling.—
D. R. (N.S.W.).
N.T. Voters
As in earlier referendums,
Northern Territory electors will
remain voteless during the forth-
coming vote on Communism.
When Macalister Blain, then
M.H.R, for the NX, asked a
question in Parliament concern-
ing the disfranchising of Terri-
tory electors at such times, the
late J. B. Chifley replied to him
(“Hansard”):
Section 122 of the Constitution
empowers the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment to make laws for the Northern
Territory, and consequently the resi-
dents of that area are not affected by
any decision that may be made as the
result of the referendum. The pur-
pose of holding such a referendum
is to amend the Constitution, and
because of the provision of section
128 residents of the Northern Terri-
tory would not be entitled to vote at
the forthcoming referendum, even
though the Government might desire
that they should do so. It would not
be possible, constitutionally, for resi-
dents of the Northern Territory to
vote at a referendum, and even if
they were permitted to do so their
vote would be nothing more than a
make-believe one. In any case, their
vote could not affect the result of
the referendum.
Territorians did vote at one
referendum —in 1914-18 on the
question of conscription. They
gave a very definite “Yes” for
conscription,— Wingella (N.T.),
Passing It On
A, B, C, D and E are brothers,
and before they had to pay in-
come tax they each made a net
£lOOO a year.
A is a primary producer, B a
manufacturer, C a wholesaler,
D a retailer and E an employee,
Income tax of £l2O was im-
posed on a net income of £lOOO,
A managed to increase the
price of his production in such
a way that after paying his tax he
still had £lOOO.
B, who had to buy from A, not
only had to pay an increased
price for his raw material but
had to add to the price of his
manufactured articles in order
that, after paying his tax, he still
had £lOOO.
C not only had to pay a much
higher price to B, but managed
to pass on to D not only such
increase, but a further amount
in order that he still had £lOOO
D not only had to pay for the
amounts added by A to B, B to
C, and C to himself, but man-
aged to pass all this on to E in
order to have £lOOO for himsei:
after paying his tax.
E, on a salary of £lOOO, had
to pay not only a very much
higher price to D for his. goods
but only had £BBO after paying
his tax. In other words, E not
only had to pay his own tax be.
a proportion of the taxes of A,
B, C and D.
A tall story? Look at the
balance-sheets of A, B, C and D
companies. Very few, if any,
show decreased profits after pay-
ing taxes. —A. D. B. R. (N.S.W.).


Wage-fixing
Any system of wage-fixing should be
based on production, and not on con-
sumption. The Arbitration Court, instead
of commencing, for example, with the
breadcarter, who is the last link in the
chain of production and distribution,
should begin with the first link —the farm-
band.
The court should hear evidence of the
labor involved in the production of wheat
and its average yield and selling-price,
and then determine what wages the
grower can afford to pay the farmhand,
and on that basis, with appropriate vari-
ations for skill and responsibility, the
wages of carriers, railway employees,
millers, bakers, and, last of all, bread-
carters could be determined.
That method could be applied to the
production of our basic needs, such as
food, clothing and shelter, and of our
exportable commodities and would build
up a sound economy in which both em-
ployer and employee would benefit by
keeping the volume of production up and
the cost of living down.
On the other hand, the system that
has been adopted can only lead to slack-
ing and waste and an increased cost of
living. There can never be stability, and
the spread between producer and con-
sumer must be continually widened until
the community can no longer carry the
burden.
The skill of the plant-breeder in pro-
ducing better and higher-yielding strains,
and the introduction of power-driven and
more efficient agricultural machinery,
have enabled the farmer to carry on with
less labor, but he still has had to work
longer hours for less money than the
city worker to provide the latter with
food.
It is a popular misconception that
farmers as a class are prosperous. At the
present time the men on the larger hold-
ings inland, who produce woo! and wheat
and sell it overseas, are making -good in-
comes, but those who supply the city
with butter, eggs, fruit and vegetables
do not average the basic wage for the
long hours they work.
But for this food produced under non-
union conditions, and but for such props
as child endowment and devaluation of
our currency, and but for the pegging
of house-rents and the price of tea,
potatoes, etc., and but for sundry other
devices for robbing Peter to pay Paul, the
system would have collapsed long ago.
It cannot be continued indefinitely at the
expense of the primary producer, the
homeowner and the taxpayer.
No suggestion, so far made by poli-
tician or economist, can result in more
than a further postponement of the in-
evitable crash, and any reform that does
not abolish the unsound principle of
basing wages on consumption, rather than
on production, must fail.
One is reminded of the old story of the
abo. who cut 6in. from the top of his
blanket and sewed it on the bottom so
that it would cover his feet The Gov-
ernment might well consider the erection
of a monument to his memory—a genera-
tion of union leaders, politicians and
Arbitration Court judges have apparently
learned their economics from him, —
Delta (N.S.W.).
Exchange
All farm produce sold in capital chips,
and elsewhere, is paid for by cheques to
which exchange is not added. To the
fruit- and vegetable-grower whose pro-
duce is sold weekly in small quantities,
this amounts to a considerable sum yearly.
When the countryman purchases from
city firms —very often the same birds
who never add exchange on cheques
drawn in his favor —he is always re-
quested “Please add exchange on country
cheques.” That is palpably unfair—ex-
change should be added to all cheques or
to none.
When the woolgrower receives his
cheque, less exchange, he will note that
the weight of the woolpacks—l lib. each
—is deducted. Thus these expensive
packs are a dead loss. Should the
country man buy goods from his wool-
brokers he is charged not only for the
packs, but also for the labor cost of
packing, where necessary.
And last, isn’t it time for a review of
all agents’ commissions? Five per cent,
was not excessive when fat cattle sold
from £lO to £2O per head, sheep as so
many shillings, and all other stock and
land pro rata. But it is out of bounds
now in every department—Shadow-
chaser (N.S.W.f*
The Australian Economy
It seems pretty certain that the coming
Federal Budget will provide for higher
income tax (the kite being flown is 15 p.c.)
and increased indirect taxation. These
moves are said to be necessary to curb
inflation rather than to increase Federal
revenue and will be accompanied by re-
strictions on hire-purchase.
A little more of that sort of treatment
and the spirit of the middle classes will
" Fingerprints, my eye —I Was Wearing gloves !”
be curbed for all time. The big spenders
at present are people on the land, par-
ticularly woolgrowers, people in business
who make a fixed percentage of profit on
turnover in spite of increased prices, and
specialist-workers who can demand, and
receive, their own terms of remunera-
tion, frequently with taxes paid for them
by employers.
Generally speaking, those are the people
with surplus money to spend on luxuries
these days, and neither increased prices
nor higher taxation will limit their spend-
ing. But these measures, if they are
introduced, will drive the middle class-
that shrinking, hardpressed section of the
community that shoulders responsibility
in peace and provides leaders in war —to
the very limit of their endurance.
In most younger middle-class homes
today hire-purchase is the means by which
some of the comforts of modern life can
be bought—not luxuries such as homes,
motor-cars and washing-machines, but
essentials such as furniture, refrigerators,
sewing-machines, etc. In many homes,
indeed, where children are being raised
and educated along middle-class lines (and
not chucked into factories or put to work
on the farm at the minimum school-
leaving age)," hire-purchase is the only
way in which such things can be bought
at all, and provides a way of building up
some sort of an equity from fast-
diminishing salaries.
Most practical people in Australia
realise that the current inflation is not
due to that kind of spending.
It is due more than anything to the 40-
hour week, which provides big pay-
envelopes for workers from astronomi-
cally rated overtime, as well as laying the
dead hand on industry ; to the great post-
war boost in primary producers’ incomes ;
and to the easy money made., by manu-
facturers of luxuries, who are protected by
tariffs and the devalued Australian pound.
Another great group of spenders on non-
essentials are youngsters of both sexes in
industry who draw adult wages without
having the normal responsibilities of
adults.
Both the former “Labor” Government
and the present Federal Government have
all along had the partial remedy of re-
valuation at their fingertips; it has never
been applied because of pressure from
primary producers’ organisations and the
Chamber of Manufactures.
There has for a long time been an
isolationist group in Australia which thinks
that while Britain and other parts of the
British Commonwealth should pay high
parity prices for our wool, wheat and
meat, we should protect even non-essential
local industries with high tariffs and a
devalued currency.
Already it is possible to buy many
British and foreign goods cheaper than
those made locally, despite these artificial
advantages, particularly clothing, toys,
sporting goods, etc. If the pound were
revalued the difference would become
even greater, perhaps forcing some local
secondary industries to close down. And
why not, if they are unable to meet com-
petition from within the British Common-
wealth? There is plenty of room in other
industries perhaps more essential to the
country’s economy for the capital and
labor they are using.
Only the more selfish of the primary
producers oppose revaluation, which
would not only lessen the price of imports
but cement trade affiliations overseas for
their products. They are finding that the
materials they have to import, such as
galvanised-iron and cornsacks, have fol-
lowed the wool price up, to the extent
where a wheat-bag, worth about 6d. in
1939, today costs more than 6s.
If a resolute Government revalued the
pound and at the same time reintroduced
the 44-hour week, and related the prices
of all locally consumed primary products
to cost of production (already done with
wheat and butter), all sections of the
community, with the possible exception of
the racing, nightclub and criminal in-
terests, would be making a common con-
tribution to deflation. And they
would still have a chance not only of
beating inflation, but of raising the Aus-
tralian standard of living to where it
deserves to be —among the highest in the
world. The other way, of stepping up
taxes and leaving the big spenders and
the 40-hour week to work their ruin, can
end only in chaos.
Finally, there is the question of morale.
No people can thrive under an administra-
tion of restrictions and frustrations, as
the Attlee experiment has shown, and as
we ourselves discovered in the period im-
mediately following the war. To drive
the things that make life a little brighter
and better progressively further from the
people on fixed incomes (our unfortu-
nate aged people who practised thrift
throughout their lives lost them long ago)
must end in breakdown in the long run.
After all, it is natural for well-educated
young people to want to own their own
homes, to equip them comfortably, to
aspire to ownership of a car, to give
their children the best educations they
can, and to save a little money for the
years ahead, be they years of peace or
war. Or are all the good things in Aus-
tralian life to go to the powerful unionist,
the man with broad acres or the man
who makes handbags in a “pocket” fac-
tory?—Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Housing Loans
Further sharp price-rises and the con-
servative, ultra-cautious outlook of banks
and building societies are making it im-
possible for young married couples to
own a home today. No bank, lending
society or finance company is prepared
to recognise that a house will never again
be purchased for a few hundred pounds.
In Melbourne today one must have at
least £lOOO in cash to a home,
and then it is generally one in an out-
of-the-way area without essential services
and a long way from any form of trans-
port. Timber houses in sewered areas
today are selling for around £4OOO, while
a brick or brick veneer home is at least
another £lOOO dearer. Yet the maximum
finance available to the home-builder is
£2376 from a co-operative housing
society. The Commonwealth \Var Service
Homes Commission will lend a maximum
of £2OOO and banks rarely go beyond
£lBOO or £l9OO.
But it does not end there. The lending
organisations base their advance on their
valuation, which is generally around the
1941 figure. A home which has a valua-
tion of £4OOO on the open market today
would be valued at around £2OOO by the
lending society or bank. And no society
will lend more than 80 per cent, of its
own valuation.«
Saving for a home is out of the picture
for the ordinary wage-earner. So the only
alternative—and this system is being used
by thousands —is to borrow from here
and there at higher-than-bank interest-
rates. Those doing this commit them-
selves to huge repayments rather than
resign themselves to never owning a
home. Should a depression or ill-fortune
come their way they will be left high and
dry.
The only solution to the complex
problem seems for the Federal and State
Governments to examine the whole busi-
ness of home finance and try to prepare
a scheme which still makes a home within
the reach of all. The problem has become
much more acute in the last six months
than ever before in the country’s history,
—Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 134
Across.
I—Head-covering some Kipling
verses in an inferior position to
hearty food. (11)
6—lt is dry in half a second. (3)
8— A boundary sport for the winter
quadruped below average height.
(4-6)
9 Virginia is in Ireland. (4)
11— Bend over the flagon. (5)
12— Pornographic publishers are
always insistent upon this six-
sided figure. (8)
16— Flat-bottomed boat (5)
17— Would these be places opposed to
the Antipodes poetry in a corres-
ponding afterthought. (5)
! B—Japanese sash. (3)
19—A kind of label. (3)
-o—Whoever, extracts the gas and oil
from the coal century has a mark
of approval turning about. (5)
I—Modest to turn up before a
Spanish hero come® back. (5)
Timidity of a broken knee in a
mess. (8)
-2-3—Affectation of speech, doctor,
and whatever clears the way for
an advance of screw. (S)
25 —Units of electrical resistance on
official stationery. (4)
27—See a toneless moss-gatherer in
magpie music. (10)
29 Thus to kiss the hose. (3)
30 — This might be said of mother of
ten —or of father of ten. (11)
Down.
1 — Face ruined by drink. (4)
2 You can’t say this, but you can
write it. (II)
3 Producing flowers on an axis in
a girl with regard to perfume. (12)
4 Instrument upset the booty. (4)
5 Diminutive Renders are noted
producers of Mondayitis. (4-6)
6 A matter of course and a health
resort. (3)
7 This may be tied like a flavoring
impediment. (5-5)
10 —Are between South Australia and
the Salvation Army before father
goes to a brooklet and a beverage.
(12)
13 — Don’t stop Diana, and twist one
town in Queensland. (II)
14— Fasting seaman to stalk acknow-
ledgments of debt. (10)
15— Implement talked before harbor-
ing. (10)
24—Honey’s address is held by the
firm doctor. (4)
26 —Muddle a cowboy. (3)
28—Petrol js rising to slump in the
middle. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 133.


s
•'•v.
•M.
mrnm
■
. .
w ‘ ‘ y
-1
.
PmeiPm&i
SUPPLIES ERERO/ FOR
AUSTRALIA'S DEVELOPM
r
ESI
A.E.G. (Aust.)
PTY. LTD.
78 WILLIAM ST., SYDNEY
Phone M 0412 (38 lines]
DIESEL TIPPERS
TRUCKS • BUSES
Illustrated Is an A.E.C. "Matador"
Mark 111 Heavy-Duty Tipper.
A.E.C. has a grand record for a
long life of economical and profit-
earning service. AH modern
engineering advancements
that have been tested and
proved in service by A.E.C.
("Builders of London's
Buses") are embodied in
the "Matador.”
fds
fd
DIESEL POWERED
SHOVELS • CRANES
DRAGLINES
Maximum profitable use of
construction and excavating
machinery is determined by
its actual productive time on
the job.
Ease and speed of movement wt •yr««T ■
high productivity of equipment is to be attained.
Michigan
e of great importance if
is designed to fill the need lor a versatile, highly
mobile Power Shovel, and has gained wide popularity wl"
Contractors, Industrial Plants, State.
County and Municipal Departments.
EARLY DELIVERY ON APPROVED
PRIORITIES.
mm
Michigan
TMDT 16
Capacity...
* Cubic Yard
78 WILLIAM STREET. SYDNEY
S3NVUO • SI3AOHS 03U3M0d
BLH
DRAGLINES
A Lima Shovel at work In the world's largest
copper mine, U.S.A. With world markets
insisting on cheaper goods, more economical
production is achieved by the adoption of
these new machines. We are bringing these
same machines to Australia.
All Lima equipment is designed to handle the
heaviest, hardest and largest scale earth
moving, and similar work, in the most difficult
terrain.
Early delivery for approved priorities.
£
78
HARLAN D & WOLFF
BELFAST and LONDON
BRITISH DIESEL ENGINES
THE "H. & W." ("Harland & Wolff") Diesel Engine as a power-producing
unit for industrial purposes is noted for its fuel economy, low operating
costs, entire absence of standby losses, and the simplicity, safety and
reliability of its operation. The range of application is almost unlimited.
This "Harland & Wolff" Engine drives a 1,600 K.V.A. alternator at 333
r.p.m. and incorporates the latest four-valve head design ensuring
maximum scavenge and
excellent comburtion
resulting in low fuel
consumption.
AM the ranges of
"Harland & Wolff"
engines are suitable for
dual fuel operation.
m
Mr. H. HASTINGS DEERING
Personal Representative
in Australia for
HARLAND & WOLFF
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown Street Comer.
'Phono M 0412 (33 line*)
bu-T
