

The Bulletin
•The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3724
Wednesday, June 27, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
QNE of the most beautiful and
romantic of Britain’s ancient monu-
ments is Fountains Abbey, which stands in
Studley Park beside the River Skell, four
miles from Ripon. Founded in 1132, Foun-
tains Abbey is one of the largest and best
preserved Cistercian houses in England.
During the early years of its founda-
tion the monks suffered extreme hardship
and privation, for they first settled in the
valley during the depth of winter, their
only shelter being a thatch of straw
around the base of a large elm tree. At
the end of the first winter they were re-
duced to the necessity of eating the leaves
of trees and wild herbs, boiled with salt.
Their hardship continued for a few years
until the Abbey was endowed by Hugh
Dean of York, and this was followed by
benefactions from Serlo and Tosti, two
canons of York. In 1140 the Abbey was
damaged by fire, but restoration was com-
menced in 1203 and finally completed in
1526. Duringthereign ofKingJohn(ll99-
1216) the Abbey received large donations
from the great northern barons, particu-
larly from the Percy family, who were
considered the hereditary patrons and
benefactors of the Abbey.
Fiom small beginnings the Abbey grew
in wealth and importance until at the
time of the Dissolution the buildings
covered twelve acres of land, two of
which are occupied by the present ruins.
The Abbey and a large portion of the
estate was sold by Henry VIII to Sir
Richard Gresham and thereafter it
passed through many hands.
Although weathered by the passing
centuries Fountains Abbey still retains
many traces of its former beauty.
Evidence of its builders’ craftsmanship
may be seen to best advantage in the
“Chapel of the Nine Altars,” a miracle of
delicate design. The length of the Abbey
is 358 feet and is surmounted by a great
tower, 166 feet in height, at the north
end of the transept. The cloisters, 300
feet long, divided by columns and arches,
extend across the River Skell.
Two explanations are given for the
origin of the name “Fountains”—one
asserts that the founder of the Cistercian
Order, St. Bernard, was born at
Fountains in Burgundy and the Abbey
was named in his honour ; the other gives
the name “Skell,” meaning fountain, as
the reason for its name.
Near the Abbey, along the course of the
River Skell, is Robin Hood's Well, one
of the traditional sites of the encounter
between Robin Hood and the “Curtal
Friar” in which the gallant outlaw was
beaten and thrown into the brook.
LOVELY FOUNTAINS ABBEY STILL PROCLAIMS ITS BUILDERS’ INTEGRITY
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.CA


ES®? Jo WSi
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free a*d without obligation.
My Name
Address
(8.B.151) Age
The Red Page
"THE GREAT ESCAPE."
Brickhill ’ s The Great Escape
(Faber) proves once ag&in that England’s
wars really are won on the playing-fields
or Eton; for the R.A.F. officers im-
prisoned in Stalag Luft 111 and the other
camps, all busily tunnelling their way out
playing jokes on each other and driving
the Germans mad with their japes, and
talking a special language of humorous
slang, resemble nothing so much as a lot
of senior schoolboys: which, in fact,
many of them were.
Thus when the Germans, using coils
of wire which would be useful for light-
ing escape tunnels, were installing a
loudspeaker in the compound and one
Red Noble, strolling away with his
blanket over his shoulder from the cooler
where he had just been doing solitary
confinement for his latest misdemeanor,
happened to spot a coil 50 yards in front
of him, he instantly and as a matter of
cou&e “changed course just a fraction,
scooped up the coil, tucked it under his
blanket and walked on.”
And when Morrison and Welch—hav-
ing escaped with 26 others, and having
made their way in faked German uni-
forms to an aerodrome where they
started the engine of a plane but were
forced to leave it because the German
pilot (who mistook them for ground-
crew) came along and flew off in it him-
self—were prowling about in a hangar
looking for a starting-handle to set an-
other plane going and were bailed up by
a German sergeant who stormed up and
asked them what the hell they were
doing, all Morrison said was, casually, in
English, “Well, we thought we’d borrow
this, actually, and go home for the
weekend.”
And when good young Nazi labor-
corps men came tramping past the camp
every morning, with shovels over their
shoulders, just like in a newsreel, sing-
ing happy Nazi marching songs, Jerry
Sage organised 200 R.A.F. prisoners to
crowd to the wire every day, smirking
offensively and singing in horrible voices
“the marching song from ‘Snow White
and the Seven Dwarfs,’ the one that
goes: ‘Heigh-ho, heigh-ho, it’s off to
work we go’—and after four days the
Germans changed their route and went
by another road.”
And when a German general drove in
to inspect the camp and rashly, in spite
of the camp commandant’s warnings,
left his car attended only by his
chauffeur, the general’s gloves, his torch
and map-case and all the portable tools
in the toolkit were of course instantly
seized by expert scroungers while their
companions crowded round the chauffeur
and slapped him on the back and told
him what a good fellow he was ; and
also there was pinched from the car a
German Army handbook which turned
out to be highly secret —so secret that the
general dared not lose it. So the com-
mandant, accepting the other losses as
only to be expected, pleaded with the
prisoners to return the handbook ; which,
two days later, after they had read it,
they did ; only, with one of the stamping-
machines they had invented for the
manufacture of forged passports, they
stamped on the cover, “Passed by the
British Board of Censors.”
Maddening the Germans was a minor
diversion; the great game was escaping.
And in Stalag Luft 111 or anywhere else
they happened to be imprisoned the 600
officers with whom Paul Brickhill is con-
cerned escaped, or tried to escape, so
assiduously that it might reasonably be
said that they never did anything else.
“Piglet” Lamond, “a slight, toothy
little New Zealander,” won fame with
his “mole tunnel,” running four feet
underground from an ablutions-pit; in
which he, with two others, worked stark
naked, buried alive; they got outside the
wire and were, as usual, recaptured some
hundreds of miles away. Buckley, Wings
Day and the Dodger, having once escaped
from a train and been recaptured at
pistol-point, tunnelled 150 feet from the
lavatories at Schubin, Poland, and 40 got
out with them; of whom one was
drowned while rowing to Sweden, one
was “missing,” and all the rest were re-
captured.
When the Stalag 111 crowd saw the
Germans building a new compound they
generously offered working-parties to
help ; and the working-parties went over
to help and “mapped the layout of the
new camp, tramped out distances,
measured angles and more distances by
rough trig and surveyed the area out-
side the wire. Back in their own com-
pound they put it all together and worked
out where to dig the tunnels and how
long they would have to be” ; and at the
same time, from a kindly German sur-
veyor, they stole a plan of the under-
ground sewage system which seemed to
offer “two beautiful, tailor-made tunnels
leading out to near-by drainage areas”
... these, alas, afterwards proved use-
less, for they were only six inches in
circumference.
However, in that same new compond,
there were lorries being loaded with pine-
branches after Russian prisoners had cut
the trees down, and these were im-
mediately useful; people climbed on to
the roofs of huts and, as the loaded
lorries rolled past, hurtled into them and
hid among the branches —“There were
so many trying it that a man about to
jump had to look carefully to see that
there wasn’t already a man who had
jumped from the previous hut looking up
from the branches, making frantic signs
for him to wait for the next lorry and
not brain him with his boots as he came
down.” Each lorry, of course, was
searched at the compound gates; and
each would-be escapee was once again
recaptured; to try something else.
Finally there was the grand escape
with which Paul Brickhill is principally
concerned (and in which he partici-
pated); in which the 600 officers dug
three tunnels 30 feet deep and 350 feet
long, with electrically-lighted under-
ground railways, workshops and air-
pumping chambers; every man in the
camp assisting, some tunnelling, some
carrying the earth away in a spare pair of
long woollen underpants, some keeping
watch on the Germans and signalling the
approach of danger, some bribing and
then blackmailing the weaker or more
good-natured guards for forbidden
materials, some busy forging the 400
passes, the 250 compasses, the 4000 maps
and all the faked German uniforms
(complete with medals) which they would
need for the mass escape.
Seventy-six men got out in the end;
three got to England ; all the rest were
recaptured and, on Hitler’s personal
orders, the Gestapo shot 47 of them.
War, to the Nazis, was not a game.
The Great Escape, since this is what
happened, ends tragically; or rather,
since Brickhill carries the story on to the
Nuremburg trials, in ruthless retribution,
and bitter indignation against some of the
Nazi executioners who escaped justice.
But it is too full of gaiety and the spirit
of gallant adventure to be anything but
stimulating. It is a picture, ultimately, of
two kinds of mind at war: the civilised
and the totalitarian, the mind that can
laugh and the mind that can’t. Of course
this mass-escape is one of the great
stories of the war, and Brickhill tells it
so well that his unpretentious, colloquial
narrative itself takes on a certain great-
ness: that of directness, compactness,
memorable characterisation, dramatic
tension, gaiety. The book will live with
any of the great escape-stories that came
out of World War I.
Polish and Polished.
It is not usual for Australians to be
expert on Poland, but Helen Heney, of
Sydney, author of The Chinese Camellia,
who was there from 1930 until 1936 as
“teacher, companion and translator,” has
turned her experience, with “incidents,
especially the more improbable, told to
me by Polish friends,” into a novel thick
with Polish atmosphere, The Proud Lady
(Collins).
The life story of a woman, from the
cradle to the grave, is as universal a
novel-form these days as the sonnet used
to be in verse; it must satisfy certain
conventions, which approximate the taste
of the circulating libraries’ public, which
approximates the dream-life of the average
woman, notably: the heroine must marry
the wrong man; her life must be one of
incredible tedium relieved by unbelievable
violence; she must move through it all
with a sphinx-like Garbo smile, patient,
noble, capable, covering her woes with
Paris models, stifling her cries with cham-
pagne ; and in all ways, as mother, wife
and national, she must be caught up in
the life-stream of her country and be-
come the embodiment of the history of
her times.
Miss Heney’s novel complies well with
these conventions. Her heroine, Janina,
comes of a small landholding family ; she
fell in love with a Polish nobleman called
Czapski, who, unhappily, had to marry
money; then she married a rich Polish
landowner of Scottish descent, Andrzej
Karr, and lived through the ups and
downs of marriage and Polish life until
another convention was satisfied; for
something profoundly ironic must always
happen in such a novel; in Miss Heney’s,
Janina’s daughter and Czapski's son run
off and enjoy the happiness their parents
denied themselves, and get killed in an
air-crash.
But, the conventions having been satis-
fied, there are still the Polish scenes and
people, especially the peasants, drawn in
sensitive and self-effacing prose; one
remembers the peasants weaving straw
round a tree-trunk at the onset of winter ;
and where the novel touches history,
Karr’s mansion and estate being over-
run by Russians and Germans and
Germans and Russians during World
War I, and the death of Karr himself after
he had struck a quarrelsome German, the
scenes are finely handled. For an Aus-
tralian, the novel is uniquely Polish, and
of rare polish.
A Play By Duncan.
Ronald Duncan’s Our Lady’s Tumbler
(Faber), a verse-play based on the well-
known legend of Le Jongleur de Notre
Dame, shows the influence of both Pound
and Eliot; Pound’s typography and
cadences, Eliot’s thought and language
together on the one page;
While our circumference is sleep as we
move from dream to dream, and
wearily
Wake to dream again. Only
He, alone, is still
Beyond this mortal wheel
which turns from
birth to death;
Returns from death to birth.
It was commissioned by the Salisbury
Committee to be performed in Salisbury
Cathedral for the Festival of Britain. A
light and decorous humor runs through
'it; there are clearly defined scenes with
a thin thread of dramatic tension as one
priest offers flowers to the statue of the
Virgin in the hope that it will move in
accordance with the prophecy, as another
priest offers a poem and finally as the
tumbler offers “the perfect gift” of his
acrobatics and, having received his
acknowledgment, dies; and some of the
writing is very smooth and melodious in
its half-rhymes:
Hour of mourning, day of sorrow;
See the river drags a shadow;
Velvet grief and hollow echo.
The play does not, however, go much
beyond being a nice piece of recitative
verse for its occasion. The playwrights
are following Eliot to the church because,
—whatever their private beliefs may be —
they are desperate for an audience ; and
the church welcomes them because it feels
they can bring fresh interest ; but the
real battle to re-establish the poetic drama
must be fought out where Christopher Fry
is so valiantly and delightfully smiting the
Philistines—on the public stage of the
big commercial theatres.
Aldridge i n Canada.
James Aldridge’s fifth book. The
Hunter (The Bodley Head), came out at
the time when his fourth book, The
Diplomat, would have had a better
public; Persian affairs, of which The
Diplomat is full, came to a crisis only
this year; and for better or for worse,
whether his political ideas were right or
wrong, Aldridge’s book was a forceful
commentary upon them.
The more one thinks of that novel,
indeed, the bigger it appears, with scenes,
richly detailed, in Moscow, Persia and
London; a high argument; a fine love-
story ; a wild adventure story among
Kurds and revolutionaries ; and a search-
ing portrait of a British aristocrat and
diplomat—all run into one novel by an
Australian ex-war-correspondent scarcely
30 years old.
For a mind so quick to digest and
render new scenes and atmospheres as
we find in The Diplomat , a novel like
The Hunter must have been merely child’s-
play ; yet if we had not heard of the big
novel, we might have thought it remark-
able enough that an Australian could
spend a short time in Canada, and come
back with a story about fur-trappers
which reads as though the author had
lived his life among skunks and beavers
and bears and game-wardens and
forestry scientists and frozen lakes and
Canadian backblock farms.
The story is of Roy Mac Nair, a fur-
trapper, at war with the warden, who
rightly suspects that Mac Nair is taking
more than his quota of skins; of how
Mac Nair and some other trappers dare
each other to invade the game preserve;
how they are discovered and trailed ; how
Mac Nair escapes, and what then befalls.
It is also a story of Mac Nair’s queer
liaison with the deserted wife of an old
friend. It is not a great novel, but quite
a good one.
Fly Fishing .
Mr. L. E. Russell’s Let’s Go Fly
Fishing (Georgian House) has one
distinct advantage over all other books
of its kind ; a neat, slim, squarish little
volume of 62 pages, rather like the
familiar edition of Housman’s poems, it
will fit readily into the pocket; and thus
when nothing is rising or nothing will
take, and the mind is filled with despair,
you can sit down on the bank and read
Mr ; Russell’s expert advice on the spot.
True, the reviewer has never known a
fisherman sensible enough to do this ;
and knows, indeed, only one angler
capable of doggedly reading Housman
when the fishing goes off —a very surpris-
ing spectacle. But even for the rest of
us, who will go on desperately flogging
a blank and hopeless stream from dawn
to dark, Mr. Russell still remains a
standby, a gleam of light for the long
and useless season of winter.
His book is for beginners; whether
you choose a greenheart or a split-cane
(either will do), what sort of line to buy,
ho w many flies you need (not too many ;
and Mr. Russell’s favorites are Green-
well’s Glory and March Brown), and
how you cast.
But every fisherman is a perpetual
beginner ; and. the present reviewer, for
one, is grateful to be reminded by Mr.
Russell not to strike when fishing down-
stream but to let the fish hook itself;
to lower the rod-tip when a rainbow
leaps ; and to move the fly in the water
when fishing wet. Also, it is comforting
to be assured, that fishing at dawn, in
Australia, at any rate, and at one’s present
stage of age and indolence, is really a
waste 01. time. It is pleasant to read
about the big ones that got away; and
it is stimulating to think what might be
done with a wet fly, instead of the
hopeless dry, at dusk on a windy night.
Mr. Russell, a Scot long settled in
Australia (his book is recommended by
Crosbie Morrison of “Wild Life”),
seems, like so many of the older school,
to be a little reserved, not to say dour,
on the dry fly; showing a greater love
for the wet and even mentioning, without
a trace of horror, the worm—on which,
indeed, he becomes as lyrical as did
Walton. The reviewer, however, declines
to debate these tremendous and deadly
subjects ; and, with thanks for his book,
has only two brief mystic words, more
by way of addition than criticism, to say
to Mr. Russell; Tup’s Indispensable.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Thin Seam: Sid Chaplin
(Phcenix House). Only a miner could
understand completely this novel by a
Durham miner about a Durham mine;
but the mining jargon and the technical
terms do not abate for the lay-reader the
terrific force of its story, which leads up
to a miner being ripped to pieces by the
picks of a coal-cutting machine; mine
and miners are sprayed on to the page
in a prose that has something of the
intensity of poetry.
♦ * * *
Rule of Three : Douglas Reed (Cape).
The author of pre-war prophecies estab-
lished himself as a novelist with his
murdering Cabinet Minister in Reasons
of Health. In this new novel, about
passengers on a cargo-boat, a murder is
expected daily, even hourly; but the
book is chiefly a study of a young
American wife, the only Woman on the
ship; how she makes eyes at a young
Frenchman —without becoming another
The Captain Hates the Sea it is still a
satisfying set of portraits, and a powerful
action.
♦ * * *
Settlers: John Hale (Faber). Extracts
from the journals and letters of early
colonists in Canada, Australia, South
Africa and New Zealand.' The Aus-
tralian letters are from Elizabeth Mac-
arthur, Marsden, William Barnes, George
Fletcher Moore, Mary Thomas and John
D. Mereweather; New Zealand contri-
butions from Henry Weekes, William and
John Deans, Charlotte Godley, Samuel
Butler. The design of the anthology
necessarily makes it rather scrappy--
bits of interesting stuff from everywhere
but no solid meal from any one
character or any one country—but other-
wise it is in every way an admirable and
very readable book: nicely printed, full
of the fresh life of original documents,
and edited both expertly and unobtrus-
ively.


m
mi
i ttr*
V**. 1 ' • . <
HI M |
v • ■••
*>
' f ;
* fai
. I
: * • *■
*
-.:Vi
•V :;'S
**«i.'.tfws* . -i ~
* .. . v««*
i
-•
mm
aafc
Give your room a Swedish touch.
with a modern Swedish styled Suite sturdily constructed from natural coloured timbers. Designed with an
to comfort, its clean, simple lines will add charm and beauty to your home—and the large range of
specially imported fabrics will allow you to choose a cover to harmonise with your home. Three piece Settee,
from £lO5/17/6; with two-seat Settee, from £95/17/6. Odd chairs from £23/17/6.
M,
M
Mm
m
X
w
’'TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING'
sdf
A Mattress of Superior Quality
For a good night’s rest (and we really mean good—not just a few broken
hours) insist on a famous "Hordura” Inner Spring Mattress.
Containing an imported spring unit as well as layers of coconut fibre, curled
hair, cotton linters—it’s covered in damask. Ticking colours Blue, Rose and
Green. Sizes 2ft. 6in., £l2/13/4; 3ft., £l4/19/9; 2ft. 6in., £lB/0/2; and
4ft. 6in., £2l/15/3.
The “Buoyant*' Inner Spring Mattress contains a spring unit, cotton linters
and coconut fibre, and is covered in durable fancy striped ticking. Sizes
2ft. 6in„ £lO/10/3; 3ft., £I I / 19/1 0; 3ft. 6in., £l4/5/-; 4ft. 6in., £l6/12/-.
Far Right. Pure Java Kapok Pillows, excellent quality,
covered in high-grade Blue-White striped ticking, 29/-.
Right. Three-way Pillow—ideal for supporting patient
or reading in bed, filled with garnetted wool, 55/7 ea.
Yes! Easy terms can be arranged.
is »s ;mm
z
r%.
MATTHESSES-FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—THIRD FLOOR. PHONE M 2401. MAIL BOX 27120, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA.


THERES NO OTHER
CAR JACK
LIKE ITI
HUOSON
o
8
1
LIFTS THE BUMPER AND WHEEL
AT THE SAME TIME.
% SAFETY SAKE
YOU NEED THE
VESTA TRIANGLE
ScJdbi
CAR JACK
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
• Lifts wheel off ground in less time than any
other car jack.
• Will jack up car on hill, on steep camber, on ice,
in deep mud.
• Will not slip or slide—car cannot fall off jack if
properly used.
• Will operate with a 2Jin. clearance.
•Is all-in-one assembly—no loose parts—nothing
to lose or leave behind.
• Has no oil to leak out—will last a lifetime.
• Is very easy and absolutely safe to use-
minimum effort required.
• Will not scratch or mark the car or bumper
bars.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE MAKERS OF FAMOUS VESTA BATTERIES
SEE MOW
SAFEandSIMPLE
IT IS TO USE
:m-v:
m
if I -
Hi
■
o
• Ideal for women drivers and well-
dressed motorists.
• Crawling under the car unneces-
sary.
• Fils into boot of any car. Length
31 in. Weight 131bs. (unpacked).
/-=
No matter what type of jack
you have—you need the Vesta
Safety Car Jack.
The Vesta Safety Jack can be made
to work on any make of car—except
those with flimsy bumper bars.
Ml
Ask your Garageman for a demon-
stration on your car.
FOR SAFETY SAKE . . .
N.R.M.A. Road Patrols are equipped
with Vesta Safety Jacks.
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
TO VESTA PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.,
Box 13, P.O. Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please forward, without obligation, full infor-
mation of Vesta Safety Car Jack.
Name
Address
State Bltn. Ad. 4/5 1


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3724
Wednesday, June 27, 1951
HE’S GOT IT!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O. ), Wellington.
BUTTER FOR GUNS.
It was high time that expenditure o
development-works programmes—Com
monwealth and States alike —should b
made selective when, on top of th
enormous figures issued nine months ag
after the previous Loan Council meet
ing, there has been superimposed th
necessity, accepted by the Government
to place Australia in line with the othe
Western nations, on a semi-war footin
to enable her (with them) to meet an
threatened Russian attack by 1953.
In a significantly different mood from
that of last September, the State Premier
last week agreed with the Prime Ministe
“in complete unanimity on the nature o
the problem” ; also that their works pro
grammes were too big, that the home
loan market is drying-up, and that the
intended borrowing programme fo
1950-51 should be reduced. As for the
“nature of the problem,” the Nationa
Resources Board, advising the Common
wealth Government, is reported to have
recommended “a new orientation o:
resources” for defence—in effect to build
up primary production for export rather
than “an arsenal for democracy” in this
land, a policy of butter before guns.
There are ample reasons for this
change of front. It was evident at last
September’s Loan Council meeting tha
spending by all Governments was run-
ning mad, that there were not the local
resources in capital plant, manpower or
volume of manufacturing production to
meet the contemplated demands —indeed
output in basic materials was insufficieni
for existing civilian calls —and that the
reactions upon our export trade of such
misdirected effort could only intensify
the home inflation problem, quite apart
from the influence upon spiralling home
prices of high expenditure on armaments
as a No. 1 priority.
Last September to the National Works
Council was submitted a programme of
works expenditure by seven Governments
totalling £976 million, compared with
the 1949 figure of £743 million. Patently
the estimate was simply marked-up in
accordance with increase of costs in the
interval. The “Acting Co-ordinator of
Works” apparently approves this sort of
budgeting, not on any calculation of re-
sources available, but simply on such
ground-level of agreement as was reached
between competing spenders. Even in
this astronomical total “certain large
works such as the Snowy hydroelectric
scheme were not included.” Before the
States’ representatives dispersed they were
told that there was at reasonable estimate
no more than £2OO million in the loan
pool and that it might be only about
£l6O million. That maximum raisable
amount was less than half of the amount
required for 30 per cent, of the aggregate
works programme, the proportion of
the programme which the co-ordinator
(blessed word!) reported as “works ready
to commence.”
Such was the outlook nine months ago.
Last week the immediate works pro-
gramme of £175 million then agreed upon
was cut by £lO million —which represents
considerably more when the heavily
increased costs in the meantime are
reckoned —and Commonwealth Ministers
not only said that sufficient loan money
“might not be obtainable” in the coming
year (so that works started or to be
started now must be strictly reconsidered),
but also secured agreement with their
view that the reckless days of raising
loans in anticipation, through issue of
Commonwealth Bank credits, is over.
Since the grand programme of £lOOO
million or so, legacy of the late Chifley
Government’s paper-planning of works
to meet a depression, clearly depends on
the flamboyant Treasury-bill method of
financing, the hard truth is that all seven
Governments must now start afresh and
think again.
The shortened working week and the
unions’ limitation of output have done
their deadly work on the coalfields and
in the maritime transport services ; the
universal rearmament at speed among the
Atlantic Pact nations for the defence of
Western Europe has knocked out any
prospects the Australian Governments
had of importing coal and steel sufficient
to meet current needs, let alone permit
of stockpiling; apd the country has now
to face the fact that it has not got
the coal or the steel or the transport ser-
vices or the building materials for both
the rearmament effort and the industrial
development programme of departmental
dreams, or perhaps for either of these.
The order is now defence first, and
first things first in defence; and the
National Resources Board will have made
no mistake if, as it seems, it has reported
that priority should go to reorganisation
and development of the rural industries.
Therewith is entailed modernisation of
all transport—ports, railways, roads—for
swift distribution and smooth export.
Australia’s role in supply of materials
for the democracies’ combined defence
scheme is initially to be a food-bowl, not
an arsenal. The more intricate arms can
be supplied to this country in emergency
from our pact-partners, and especially
from the United States; in the overall
direction of plans for strengthening the
democracies no reciprocal contribution
from Australia can be as valuable as
food.
Aside from the point that we have not
the coal or steel for the other job, and
that the stagnation of overseas shipping
in our ports, the crippling of our own
coastal shipping services and the deteriora-
tion and insolvency of State railways
ridicule any short-term plans for making
Australia an “arsenal for democracy in
the south,” there are economic advantages
in emphasis on a drive for large-scale
rural development. It will compel a
renovation of transport services, whose
failure is partly the cause of many local
food shortages today. That there should
be famines in Australian communities in
sugar, meat, eggs, butter, salt, grains and
grain-offals is a disgrace to our civilisa-
tion. An important, if not the chief,
cause of this shortage is the clogging of
the distribution services. This country
will neither feed its own people properly,
especially with 200,000 immigrants arriv-
ing annually, nor maintain an export
trade in the foodstuffs which create Aus-
tralia’s chief value to the outside world,
until these transport services are revita-
lised.
Moreover, mobilisation for food pro-
duction can, according to overseas advice
and the convictions of all Australian
political parties, play a more important
part in averting another great world-
upheaval than anything we could do in
armament production as a priority occu-
pation. Britain will always want our
foodstuffs. Asia will need food imports
for an indefinite period in the foreseeable
future. Investment on food provision
would not be non-reproductive in any
event. Success in the effort would assure
in war the interest of the strongest Powers
in protecting Australia against the enemy.
If peace can be preserved Australia’s
influence as a great food exporter might
be comparable with that of Britain’s in
the last century as an exporter of coal.
“If I had only 40 million extra tons of
coal,” said the late Ernest Bevin as
Britain’s Foreign Secretary, a couple of
years ago, “I could assert an influence for
this country in European politics.” Food-
stuffs will be as good as coal for that
purpose in the years ahead.
It is not, of course, meant that our
policy should be one of single concentra-
tion on rural development for food pro-
duction to the exclusion of all armament
and munitions-making, shipbuilding,
training of youth for the fighting services,
and so forth. But, of necessity, first
things must be put first, and it will be
our duty to contribute our utmost to
the common benefit within the mobilising
democratic front against war, to con-
centrate vast investments for national
development to the best economic
advantage.
The business of admitting “New Aus-
tralians” chiefly to city industries must
stop. Straitened times ahead should do
something towards reversing the baneful
drift from the land to the cities. The
national “milk-bar” economy has gone
far to bring about the alarming decline of
dairying, and the only consolation therein
is that it may thus destroy itself in the
process. In a condition where there isn’t
enough butter, or enough coal and steel
for guns, this vulnerable White Australia
of ours is due —overdue—to wake up and
turn to hard work again.
Miltonic Episode
The elections of a leader and deputy-
leader of the Federal Parliamentary
“Labor” party provide an X-ray picture
of the state of “Labor’s” internals.
Dr. Evatt has been promoted to the
full leadership—“unopposed.” This does
not mean that nobody wished to oppose
him. It merely means that nobody had
the courage. AH the factions realise tha
it needs only one small explosion to
off a chain-reaction which might obliterai
the party; and they hope that the publ
does not realise this.
Having made its choice the caucus has
also made history. It has always been
axiom with political “Labor” that th
dominating influence in the party is th
trade-union movement, and that, there
fore, the leader must be a man with
sound record of trade-union and A.L.I
leadership behind him. Dr. Evatt is no
a trade-unionist, unless he has joined on
to give lip-service to official “Labor
principles.
However, Dr. Evatt has had a con
siderably better win than he had
Barton, and it will be interesting to see
how he manages, and how the rank-and
file of “Labor” will take the departur
from normal practice. The A.L.P., as
almost wholly trade-union organisation
is very much subservient to th
Communist-led unions. It does contai
delegates from A.L.P. branches, but
the Macquarie-branch meeting to con
sider a successor to Mr. Chifley onl
eight were present, and the matter wa
left to the State Executive.
It is reported that at the election o
leaders, after the burst of cheering anc
clapping in “Labor” caucus had sub
sided, the party set to work to elect
deputy-leader, and about this matter th
caucus went seriously and in its usua
mood of dissension. It could now afforc
to differ; and, indeed, most of its factions
no doubt were anxious to differ in order
to provide a serious count of heads, anc
to gauge the strength of opposition in
case at some early future time Dr. Evatt’
liquidation should be possible.
Four valiants came to the barrier for
the deputy-leadership stakes —Messrs
Calwell, Clarey (Vic.), Ward and Allan
Fraser (N.S.W.). On the first ballot hi
party built a vault over Mr. Fraser’s
pretensions so solid that he was
not even left room to squirm in—
he got nine votes out of 81. The
other optimists who aspired to be Dr
Evatt’s Man Friday—and to act as chief
liquidator, no doubt, when opportunity
occurs—were Mr. Calwell (38 votes), Mr
Clarey (18 votes) and Mr. Ward (16
votes). On the next ballots Mr, Calwel
got 36 votes, with nine of Mr. Ward's
preferences, and Mr. Clarey 29 with seven
of Mr. Ward’s preferences, while Mr
Ward’s 16 votes stayed solid. The result
seems to suggest that the N. S. Wales
bloc managed its voting (including the
intrusion of Mr. Fraser, the Snowy River
red-herring) as an assay of the chances
of later keeping Mr. Calwell out of the
leadership.
The only thing which smells wholly
genuine about the election is Mr.
Menzies’s comment: “I am delighted.”
If he had not made that handsome
comment he would have laid himself open
to being adjudged ungrateful.
Dr. Evatt, the new leader, apart from
the fact that his appointment breaks with
all trade-union ideas, has recently been
almost vanquished in his own electorate
by a woman with little political experi-
ence, although at the two polls in which
she has attacked him he has been held up
by his supporters as one of the world’s
greatest statesmen. “Labor” has chosen
him at a time when his reputation over-
seas has fallen to zero and when every
prophecy he has made and every move-
ment he has initiated in the sphere of
U.N.O. is in process of defeating itself
—in regard to Korea he has even reached
the point of repudiating himself. He has
recently been censured by the Victorian
branch of the A.L.P. for his defence of
the Communists before the High Court.
The “Labor” party’s “attack” on Com-
munism is apparently to be carried out
with Dr. Evatt for its general, he being a
man whose name has been associated with
toleration of Communism, with the re-
surgence of Communist influence in
1941-42 under his relaxed regulations and
with the removal of the ban from the
Communist party during the war. He
has been praised from time to time by
the Communists for his “liberalism,” and
recently during the election campaign
even for his “Leftism” —and when the
Communists feel that a politician is a
“Leftist” and advocate support of him he
is certainly no Tory. He uses the same
language about Mr. Menzies in assailing
his defence policy as do the Communists
—“warmongering.”
The chief remedy he has propounded
for dealing with Moscow-inspired treason
in the past few years was contained in
a pamphlet issued to explain legislation
which he was instructed by Mr. Chifley’s
Government (or perhaps the British Gov-
ernment) to bring in to protect the rocket-
range against the machinations of some
of his Stalinist admirers, whom he de-
scribed as operating in Australia “for the
sole purpose of defeating the Australian
defence policy,” This was a recipe by
Milton, culled from the blind poet’s
“Areopagitica”—a work of which some
features would scarcely please Mr. Cal-
well. Let truth and falsehood 'grapple ;
whoever knew Truth put to the worse in
a free and open encounter?” The spec-
tacle of Dr, Evatt, armed with “truth,”
grappling with the Red Army’s fifth-
column has so far not been inspiring.
Had Mr. Ward been elected as deputy-
leader to Dr. Evatt it would not have
been surprising; for he, too, is admired
for his “liberalism” by the Left, and
he has been a great admirer of Soviet
Russia’s “progress.” But instead of
Mr. Ward “Labor” caucus has selected
one whom Mr. John Fisher, elevated by
Dr. Evatt during the war from the post of
chief publicist to the Australian Com-
munist party to that of chief publicist of
the Australian Legation in Moscow,
described in the Communist official organ
as “hardened red-baiter” ; this despite Mr.
Calwell’s view that “the capitalist system
is collapsing” and plan that “we will
take over ... we will pluck the fowl”
It is very difficult to believe that a
leadership made up of two such com-
ponents can last long even on the basis
of desperate expediency. For the Com-
munist unions which form part of the
A.L.P. to swallow Mr. Calwell would be
like the Devil swallowing holy water.
And for Mr, Calwell to swallow Dr. Evatt
after the Victorian A.L.P., of which Mr.
Calwell is a very vital member, has
censured him on a major matter, would
call for the chewing of bitter ashes.
To quote Dr. Evatt’s favorite poet
again, “Labor” seems to be in a Miltonic
state of
Demoniac frenaty, moping melancholy
And moonstruck madness.
Its exhibition of self-restraint and com-
promise at the election of leaders shows
how desperately it is anxious to hide its
condition from the electors. At the
gathering “all seemed well pleased; all
seemed but all were not.” Nobody will
be surprised if, in the effort to handle
the Communist question in the coming
session, another piece from “Paradise
Lost” is re-adapted and “all hell breaks
loose.”
At present the party resembles the
factions in a “push” fight disturbed by
the police and giving the best possible
imitation under the circumstances of a
Sunday-school picnic—without much
success,
Arthur Mcllveen Retires.
From the Rats of Tobruk Association
(Queensland Branch):
Brigadier Arthur Mcllveen, of the Salvation
Army, is retiring on June 28, and the Queens-
land Tobruk Rats, and particularly the 2/9th
Battalion and the 18th Brigade, are organising
a fund to pay tribute to his services. There
will be no expenses in connection with this
fund. Every penny will be handed to our old
friend to do as he likes with as some recogni-
tion for the host of unpaid handouts and untold
kindnesses at his own expense which Diggers
of the last war owed him.
He was part of our war —there was no period
in it when we did not have cause to remember
him, and to some of us he has since become
part of our lives. All those who went away
with him, especially if they went in the bottom
of the “Mauretania,” remember him and his
small news-sheets, his scrounges for the small
things that made life worth living and his
expenditures (which we knew came out of his
own pocket) when scrounging failed.
We soon became familiar with his Mttle
gramophone, which became known as the
“2/9’s secret weapon”; it appeared early in the
piece, and was last heard when he brought it
all the way from Sydney to Greenslopes Military
Hospital in Brisbane to play to one of us whose
days seemed numbered. It is now in the
Australian War Museum.
We came to look forward to his inspiring
and manly services, so suited to fighting
soldiers, to which we were introduced in the
ship and which were held unfailingly through
the blackest blitzes of London and the worst
days of Tobruk. We welcomed his sing-songs
on the long, sub.-infested, blacked-out voyage
to Africa as we welcomed his comradeship in
battle and in the desert, he leading a charmed life,
smiling through the worst, and always with
some scheme to break the monotony and keep
courage up. And most of us can still see him
in Tobruk and his sign at the “h.q.” on Scratch
Gravel parade, just off Stuka-avenue, which
got blown up, and his subsequent palatial
hang-out, which consisted of a four-by-four rat-
hole shared with another padre when he was
not plodding the dusty miles of the shell-blasted
Tobruk perimeter. His “How MacDougali
Topped the Score” still rings in our ears.
We have no doubt that he will be rewarded
in the Hereafter for the letters he wrote night
and day for the wounded and the dying and
for his help and comfort for the bereaved, which
still goes on, and for the few shillings which have
always come, without too many questions, from
his pocket at the call of the hard-luck story,
but the Rats want to enjoy seeing him benefit
by our appreciation.
Already a great many have responded—the
Governor, Sir John Lavarack, Sir Leslie Mors-
head and Sir William Glasgow have helped us —
but we want every Rat, and everybody else
who knows what the Salvation Army did for
soldiers, to have a share in our effort.
In the words of the good old Salv’army sign
—so well known to the world that they would
not let it be shown when we were in England
because it would have advertised to the Ger-
mans that the Diggers were there —“Hop in.’*
The hon. treasurer is T. R. Stirkazer, Box
1953 w, G.P.0., Brisbane.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Danger in Persia.
The Persian situation goes from bad to
worse as this is written. The Persians at
the weekend took over the Abadan plant
at the point of the bayonet, asked British
technicians to continue to work for them
and “earn the love and respect” of the
Persian people, and salted this supplic
tion with the remark that if they le
“with malicious intent” they would lie
dealt with under the anti-sabotage law
and the Persians “would be compellec
to try to get along at Abadan withou
the Russians” —an obvious veiled threat.
The situation has been alarmin
enough even to disturb the United State
whose attitude up till now has been a
encouragement to the Persians. Unc e
Sam has taken the wrong course in As
—in the armistice negotiations in Japan
in his anxiety for freedom for India anc
Burma, in his course in China anc
Indonesia.
His precipitate sentimentalism and de
sire to run the world is reacting again
his own interests. The new America
insistence on dominating in all arrange
ments is becoming almost as much
danger to Western civilisation as Britis
Socialist flabbiness, which has become s
marked that Mr. Attlee has virtually
surrendered Europe to the American
and has within the past week dealt
fresh blow to Britain’s prestige in th
Middle East by handing over the com
mand of Atlantic defences in souther
Europe to an American at a time whe
the British reputation was never more i
want of the stimulant of a little self
respect and firmness.
British troops within reach of Persi
have been alerted, but only to protec
British lives.
The controlling factor in the long
term situation is, of course, tankers
Persia cannot trade outside her immedi
ate vicinity if the British, Americans anc
Norwegian interests, which carry nearl
all the world’s oil, refuse to aid and abe
this gigantic piece of burglary.
The real dangers of the situation ar
twofold—that disturbances may threaten
British lives so imminently that troop
will have to be sent in urgently to pro
tect them and that Russia may seize on
this as a pretext to seize Persia —and with
it the oilfields. Out of that the almos
inevitable consequence is world war.
The second, and lesser, is that whethe
Russia acts or not the Persians will pro-
vide the Russians with an auxiliary oil
supply and at the same time give them
a pretext for establishing a port on the
Indian Ocean capable of menacing the
approaches through Suez and the Indian
coastal flank.
Both possibilities represent added
danger to
Anniversary in Korea.
On the eve of the first anniversary of the
start of the Korean war, Jacob Malik
the Russian U.N.O. representative
affirmed that the Soviet peoples—armec
to the teeth and still arming, and the only
outside promoters of the war —believec
that, as the first step to peace in Korea
“discussions should be started between
the belligerents for a ceasefire and for
mutual withdrawal of forces from the
38th Parallel.” He added that he be-
lieved that such a step was possible “pro-
vided there is a sincere desire to put an
end to the bloody fighting in Korea.’
This desire Russia and her satellites have
been alone in not showing.
It is curious that they should suddenly
be infected with it at a moment when
they need to turn the eyes of the world
away from Persia, and on the eve of
another of their world campaigns for
“peace”—to be obtained, of course, by
world Communist revolution. It is
unlikely to be more than propaganda. It
is likely to be designed only for the
purpose of releasing forces and resources
behind the Asian iron curtain for applica-
tion elsewhere.
On the Korean fronts on the anniver-
sary of the outbreak of war there was
no sign of peace, and it was announced
that the British division of 20,000 men —
two U.K. brigades, one Canadian brigade
and one Australian battalion, with N.Z.
artillery and an Indian ambulance unit —
would be in action in the middle of next
month.
A few days ago a member of the
Australian battalion in Korea wrote:
The boys of oar platoon have read an
article in “The Bulletin” headed “All to
Blame” [B. 23/5/’si]... .The facts about
this battalion are quite true.
Up to a fortnight ago the majority were
“K” Force, but because "K” Force
recruits are finished A.R.A. men have been
reinforcing this unit.
We chaps over here answered imme-
diately the call for i spa Hal force because
to us it meant another danger to our
country which must be fought off away
from our native soil to prevent It later
being fought in Aussie itself. Most of
us thought that the other two battalions
of Royals would follow. We left good
Jobs, some extremely well paid, to come
over here. We went into action almost as
soon as we landed on September 28, 1950,
but we did not really hit the enemy until
October.
Ever since then we have been “In”
almost all the time. We are promised a
rest of 10 or 14 days, bnt after two or
three days we get the order to pack up
again, and off we go to fill a breach, or
are thrown into a show without any
information whatever.
We nearly died through the winter, with
temperatures, as yon know, 20 or 30 below
zero. After the Anzac Valley affair, a
big show with a lot of casualties, our
little section got together and found that
there are left only 20 originals who first
came over with the battalion. All the
rest are either killed, wounded or out with
illness, although even now we have boys
back with wounds healed-up.
This letter, obviously no ordinary
soldiers’ grouch, was received just before
Mr. Francis relieved himself of some
windy oratory on the anniversary of the
outbreak of the war, and announced that
the first draft of the battalion to be
relieved would start on their way home
on Monday—a whole 25 men who have
been in the battle-line eight months and
16 months in Japan.
All men, it was reported on May 22,
who had served eight months in Korea
and two months in Australia, would be
eligible for return home to be redrafted.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Francis will
get on with the job a bit faster than he
has been doing.
Otherwise it looks if there will be no
Korean veterans to redraft.
The Wellpark Incident.
“Libra” (N.Q.): When the freighter
Wellpark sailed from Mackay (Q.) for
New Zealand it took in its holds 5600
tons of urgently-needed and much-
delayed sugar. It left behind 300 smiling
wharfies and 1600 yery angry cane-
farmers.
Official annals of the incident will no
doubt record that, following bold and
virtually unprecedented action by the
Government in using volunteer labor to
break the wharfies’ black-ban deadlock —
the naughty boys capitulated and finished
the loading themselves—but 1000-odd
farmers know that they have been used
merely as a strategic tool, and feel that
the wharfies have had the last laugh.
After watching the last of their 1950
sugar production slowly deteriorate in
Mackay harbor’s huge sugar - storage
sheds and noting that the Wellpark had
been lying idle for almost a week because
of the wharfies, two of the able Parlia-
mentarians who speak for sugar—C.
Davidson, M.H.R., and E. Evans, M.L.A,
—decided something should be done.
After overcoming a lot of initial wari-
ness in the attitude of Federal Labor
Minister Edgar Holt and his advisers, the
two North Queenslanders got him to
promise action. Action came, and though
a little more suddenly than either David-
son or Evans imagined, it brought results.
An hour after Mr. Holt announced on
Thursday evening that, unless the
wharfies loaded Wellpark the next morn-
ing, volunteer labor would be called for,
Evans was on the phone to district sugar
leaders, and by next morning a well-
conceived plan of organisation was under
way.
By the Friday afternoon arrangements
had been made for two gangs of farmer
labor to start on the Saturday shift. Here
entered the first shock. While district
canegrowers’ leaders and mill-managers
had been sacrificing a lot of valuable time
in organising a farmer-labor scheme on
the understanding that farmers were to
do the job, the Australian Stevedoring
Industry Board had blithely gone ahead
calling for non-farmer volunteers, and
had actually recruited the first of the
free-labor battalion before the sugar-men
were even aware of the move. Many
years of human effort and skill had gone
into the smooth relationship existing be-
tween the employing end of the sugar
industry and the powerful, moderate
Australian Workers’ Union, yet here was
an embarrassing arrangement under
which farmers were to work side by side
with anti-A.W.U.-principled free labor.
Finding that protests were in vain, and
after publicly dissociating themselves
from responsibility for the move, farmers
nevertheless went to work with a will,
with the backing of the free-labor men.
Men from 60 miles out of town dropped
tools at the key planting period. They
worked from daylight to midnight, and
in one case from midnight to dawn to
get 5000 tons aboard the ship at an
average loading-rate of 21 tons a gang-
hour (compared to wharfies’ average
rate of 15 to 16 tons).
Then came the second shock. The
wharfies bowed deeply and with a flourish
lifted their black ban on N.Z. ships.
Without further consultation, the 5.1.8.
summarily dismissed the farmers and
others it had engaged to load the ship
saying that the wharfies must be allowed
to carry on. And so, with less than a
day’s loading to do, the farmers got their
marching orders.
Men who had been rostered on the
morning shift drove into town and lost
a valuable day on their farms only to
find there was no place for them. When
they said they would do the job they
assumed they would be allowed to finish
it. But they were beaten by a long head
by the wharfies who, in finishing off the
Wellpark, shrewdly entitled themselves to
a fortnight’s attendance money for the
rest of this month until another ship
arrives in Mackay.
"Labor" and a Crusade.
The boss of “Labor’s” Tammany Hall in
Sydney, Mr. Jacky Ferguson, who tells
Premier McGirr what he shall do and
shall not do, will convey from himself
as head of the A.L.P. in N.S.W. to him-
self as president of the Federal Execu-
tive the decision dictated to the N.S.W.
Government opposing any transfer to the
Commonwealth Government of State
powers to legislate against the Communist
party.
That, of course, means that the Com-
monwealth Ministry’s request to the States
on these lines, as a means of avoiding a
referendum, is refused, and also that
N.S.W. “Labor” will campaign against the
referendum to give the Commonwealth
the necessary powers direct from the
people. Mr. Ferguson’s Federal execu-
tive last year ordered the “Labor” Oppo-
sition in Parliament to cease obstruction
to the Government’s bill on this subject,
and Mr. Chifley, who at least was sin-
cerely opposed to it, was told to eat dirt
and let it pass. It will now order Mr.
Chifley’s successor to eat some more dirt
and resist the thing tooth and nail.
This same Mr. Ferguson only a fort-
night before presented to the Sydney
A.L.P. annual conference a long declara-
tion against Communism, calling on “the
movement” to “re-intensify the crusade
against Communism in all spheres.” Mr.
Ferguson was not above having a bit
both ways on his former comrades, and
his direction to the body which he bosses
was, first, that 99.9 per cent, of industrial
disputes were legitimate and only .01
per cent, were caused by Communists —
figures which read much like the voting
results for Stalin’s candidates in the Rus-
sian Soviet elections —and, next, that
“Communism is an international con-
spiracy sinister in character and diabolic
in content.”
Anybody who wonders how Mr, Fer-
guson manages to hold down 10 or 12
jobs in defiance of the “Labor” rule that
each man shall have only one should now
perceive that the art consists in keeping
a sufficient number of faces for his dif-
ferent occasions. When the McGirr party
next places its fate in the hands of the
people, the electors will know that this
is the sort of thing they will be asking for
if they fall for that crowd again.
"More an Asian Nation."
Supporters of the late “Labor” Gov-
ernment’s foreign policy—the policy de-
vised and operated by Dr. Evatt and the
Waterside Workers’ Federation between
them —should be interested to note the
hatching in India of the eggs produced
by that bird whose prime characteristic,
as described by one who served a while
in the aviary, was its tendency to change
plumage in mid-flight.
Among those supporters Professor
Macraahon Ball, for instance, should be
particularly intrigued, as they say in
Ireland, with the Indian chick.
It appears in the form of comments by
the “Hindustan Times,” new guise of the
old “Times of India,” whose pronounce-
ments may be rated as semi-official.
Prime Minister Pandit Nehru, the late
Mr. Chifley’s Asian penfriend, took
occasion not long ago to chide Australia
for clinging to the White Australia policy
—in his view obviously out-of-date and
indefensible. His Press mouthpiece last
week, while offering felicitations to Aus-
tralia in this Jubilee year, expressed its
surprise that Governor-General McKeli
should, in his formal speech at the open-
ing of Parliament, have exhorted the
nation to get ready for war. It observes
that “the present Government’s approach
to international problems is narrower
than that of its predecessor,” and adds:
The people of India hope Australia will
In future consider herself more an Asian
nation than an outpost of the West. We
say this because the Menziei regime has .
revealed tendencies in the latter direction.
The paper goes on to suggest that this
tendency of the Menzies Government is
out of touch with popular opinion in the
country our country because the
“Labor” party “certainly earned the
gratitude of the Australian people by the
way it backed Mr. Nehru’s stand in
Indonesian independence,” This in-
cluded, of course, the Commo waterside
executive’s operation of Our Foreign
Policy by closing Australian ports on and
to Dutch ships for most of the term of
the Chifley Government.
Doubtless some A.B.C. commentators
have helped to mislead Mr. Nehru’s
estimable journal not on the facts of
international life as Australians perceive
them or the real sentiments of the Aus-
tralian people—for Mr, Nehru and the
“Hindustan Times” both know better —
but in supposing that there can be any
save the most adverse reaction to these
propagandist comments in any circles of
Australian opinion except, perhaps, those
cultivated by such believers in a brown-
and-white Australia as Mr. Ball and
leaders of the local Communist party.
"Characters in This 800 k...."
Finish of the Wren libel case:
On conclusion of the five days’ hearing in
Melbourne of the trial of Francis Joseph Hardy
for criminal libel, in his book “Power Without
Glory,” of Ellen Wren, wife of John Wren,
the jury acquitted Hardy.
The evidence was virtually a repetition of
that given in the previous hearing before a
magistrate, and was summarised in these
columns (B. 24/1/’5l and 31/1/’5l). No
evidence was given by Ellen Wren, John Wren
or Hardy. Hardy’s counsel pleaded that the
character West in the book was merely based
on the characteristics of John Wren, and was a
composite fictitious character, and not identical
with the living man. Two Crown witnesses,
John Wren, jun., and Patrick Cody, had agreed
to this, and said that none of the passages
relating to “John West’s” fraudulent activities
and crimes helped them to identify John Wren,
sen. If “John West” was not meant to be
John Wren, then it followed that “West’s” wife,
“Nellie West,” was not meant to be Ellen Wren,
but a composite fictitious character. Both Wren,
juh., and Cody had said that the book portrayed
“Nellie West” as a good, moral woman driven
to adultery by the nefarious conduct of her
husband.
Referring in his summing-up to the evidence
as to identification of John Wren with “John
West” and Hardy’s counsel’s plea, Martin, J„
said that so many incidents in the book pointed
to “Nellie West” being Ellen Wren that it was
immaterial that a lot of defamatory statements
had been added to the story. It did not matter
if the words were not intended to libel Ellen
Wren. The question was whether the words
were understood to refer to her.
The jury, after retirement over the lunch-
hour, returned a verdict of not guilty.
Words Butter No Bread.
If talk amounted to anything Sydney
would be wallowing in butter. When
this was written it was wallowing in mud,
its streets and roads being ripped to
pieces, its citizens shivering in blackouts,
and any odd pound of butter that could
be located was, like Solomon’s virtuous
woman, at a price far above rubies.
Some fortunate folk, with connections
beyond the perimeter, were eating butter
flown in by plane, sent through the post,
carried in luggage or otherwise inserted
into the butter-hungry city. Down on the
N.S.W. South Coast half a dozen mines
went, on strike because the poor suffer-
ing miners had no butter for their bread,
and their union seriously considered
instituting one-day stoppages as a sort
of revenge on the Guernseys or some-
thing.
Meantime, official tongues wagged all
the way down from Minister for Com-
merce McEwen to a junior typiste in the
Dairy Produce Board. Each and every
one had an explanation for the shortage,
each and every one knew the remedy.
The butter, somehow, remained obdurate
and absent.
Sydney Prices Minister Finnan rushed
to Canberra and got the duty lifted from
N.Z. butter. Mr. McEwen is thoroughly
ashamed of this, and is also ashamed of
the fact that onions are being imported
from Egypt and spuds from N.Z. One
bright star in the gloom was a glad
statement from “union officials” in
Sydney that they expected wharfies would
unload N.Z. butter, though they weren’t
as sure that seamen would co-operate.
“No commodity in Australia,” boomed
Mr. McEwen, “is under more strict
statistical surveillance than butter under
the Equalisation Committee’s opera-
tions.” Precisely! But somehow the
dashed stuff resolutely evades the eager
housewife, who can’t spread statistical
surveillance, no matter how strict it may
be, on the family bread.
In Solemn Conclave.
“Well, I suppose I’d better congratulate
you, Bert.”
“Thanks, Arthur. Same to you.”
“Me? What for?”
“Well, you’re my deputy-leader, aren’t
you? Of course, I suppose you’d prefer
to be leader, and I don’t blame you, but
still”
“Who said I wanted to be leader? If
I’d wanted the job I’d have run against
(Continued on next page.)


'
m-
m*
4202
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specially to
fytevertt stoetttooats
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
V
■
mu
you, wouldn’t I? And let me tell you—
if I’d run against you I’d have”
“Now, none of that, Arthur. We’ve
got to work together, you know.”
“Well, that’s easy enough. You go
your way and I’ll go mine, same as we
always have.”
“That sounds pretty stupid, even for
you, Arthur. After all, you are my
deputy-leader.”
“I am not! I’m the party’s deputy-
leader.”
“Maybe you’ve got something there,
Arthur. A fluke, of course, but I really
think you’ve got something. As long as
we don’t both say the same thing we
ORn’t both be wrong”
“I’ll be the one that’s right.”
“ —and as long as we’re not both
wrong the party will be all right.”
“So what?”
“Well, as long as the party’s right,
we’re right.”
“/ am.”
“Both of us. Me as leader, and you
as deputy.”
“Huh!”
“Now, let me see, Arthur. You sup-
port migration. I’m against it.”
“That suits me, Bert. And I’ll oppose
the Corns and you’ll defend ’em in the
High Court.”
“H’m. I don’t think I’ll go as far as
that,”
“But if they brief you, you’ll have to.
You said so yourself. Ethics of a
barrister or. something.”
“H’m. So I did. But I’ll tell you
what, Arthur, I’ll see that they don’t ask
me. Then I’ll be all right.”
“Good! Now, what’s next?”
“Bags I opposing conscription!”
“No, that’s mine, Bert. I was against
it before you.”
“You were not! Why, when I was at
the”
“Never mind that. I started first.”
“Tell you what, Arthur. Let’s com-
promise. You oppose it and I’ll just not
support it. How’s that?”
“Good, Bert, And what about our
socialisation objective? Suppose I go
flat out for it and you advocate watering
it down?”
“Right-oh, Arthur. That clears-up the
main issues. We’ll sort out the others
later.”
“That suits me, Bert. Toss-up for ’em
if you like. It’s all in a good cause.”
“I’m glad that’s fixed, Arthur. Now
what say we have a little drink to cele-
brate our election? You know —leader
and deputy-leader.”
“Not for me, Bert. Eddie might see
us, and he’d be spreading the yarn that
we had to be put to bed by the Indonesian
Ambassador.”
POLITICAL POINTS
InEvattable!
“I am delighted,” Prime Minister
Menzies is reported as saying on receiving
the news of the election of Evatt and
Calwell as leader and deputy-leader of
the “Labor” party. So he should be, and
his delight is probably shared by every
member of the Government parties, not to
mention every cartoonist in Australia.
Whether the rejoicing extends to the ranks
of the party that elected Bert and Arthur
is a different matter.
For the record: Dr. Evatt was
unopposed for Federal “Labor” leader-
ship. Four candidates took a stab at the
deputy’s job—and the first poll, 81
members of caucus voting, resulted:
Calwell, 38; Clarey, 18; Ward, 16;
Fraser, 9. When Fraser dropped out all
his votes apparently went to Clarey and
a couple of deep-thinkers had second-
thoughts about Arthur. Result: Calwell,
36 ; Clarey, 27 ; Ward, 18. Third count
gave the job to Calwell; score 45-36.
Persia’s weeping Premier seems to be-
lieve in pouring troubled waters on the oil.
The bill to repeal the Bank Nationalisa-
tion Act and amend the Commonwealth
Bank Act, rejection of which the “Labor”-
dominated Senate in the late unlamented
Parliament was the immediate cause of
the double-dissolution and election, was
reintroduced into the Reps, on Thursday,
It isn’t likely that the Opposition will talk
itself hoarse on the measure this time,
though a token resistance for propaganda
purposes is to be expected. At any rate
it’ll be a chance for the boys to get their
1930-depression story into “Hansard”
once again.
Is it intended that the bill for a referen-
dum on powers to deal with Communism
shall wait upon formal rejection of
Menzies’s proposals by one or more
States? If so, it seems awfully like a waste
of valuable time. The N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment, for one, won’t meet until Septem-
ber, and unless McGrrriT is prepared to
give a fairly definite assurance that he ex-
pects support to be forthcoming, it is
hardly worth waiting for that,
Brisbane “Courier-Mail’s” Canberra
man, announcing that N.S.W. and Queens-
land were unlikely to hand over powers
to deal with Communists to the Menzies
Government, forecast that the McGrrrrs
would follow a policy of “no co-opera-
tion” with Menzies in everything. Well,
that’s not surprising ; the McGrrrrs can’t
even co-operate with themselves,
A staff correspondent of Melbourne
“Age” offers a contribution to the great
Press-cutting book: “Personal popu-
larity, which he has never sought, did not
win for Dr, Evatt leadership of a party
which chooses its leaders painstakingly.
His scholarship, his experience in inter-
national affairs and his vigorous service
to the Labor cause won him.... ..the
place.”
The announcement by “a transport
official” of the new all-change plans for
Sydney bus services should remove from
the minds of even the most optimistic
of the travelling public any belief that
the McGmrr transport services are run
for the benefit of anybody except the
McGrrrrr Government employees. The
Transport Commissioner’s spokesman
said “Travellers will be tipped into trains
instead of being allowed to come by bus
to the city.” Or “tipped into” ferries, as
the case may be. Bus-travellers are appar-
ently regarded as inanimate loads, or
even perhaps as garbage.
When the three dozen and one
aspirants for the Liberal nomination for
Balaclava had said their piece and
answered their quiz the pre-selection
verdict went to Percy Joske, a Melbourne
barrister. The by-election will take place
on July 28, the same day as that for Mr.
Chifley’s seat, Macquarie. Neither party
has yet chosen a candidate for
Macquarie,
Years ago it used to be said that as
soon as one man got a job four more
got jobs supporting him in food, clothing
and shelter. Now the man gets a job
and has to support four public servants
in food, clothing and shelter. This is
called social progress.
Any notions that Dr, Evatt, on his
accession to the leadership of his party,
would rise superior to the old party
mentality and say to the people that he
was aware of the general situation and
would persuade his party to help the
nation solve its problems, were destroyed
as soon as he spoke in the Address-in-
Reply debate. His speech was a long
tirade, blaming the Menzies Government
for everything from the scarcity of butter
to the condition of the Sydney roads. It’s
a dreary prospect that confirmed listeners
to Parliamentary broadcasts have to face.
Murray Valley Development League is
very sore with the Commonwealth
Jubilee crowd. It believes that as Corowa
was the scene in 1893 of the meeting of
the Border Federation Leagues which led
to Federation, its convention at Corowa
in August ought to have been supported
by the Jubilee bosses. All it got from
them were long silences and occasional
excuses. But surely the M.U.D.L. realises
that what with race-meetings and football
matches there isn’t time to notice Corowa.
Watersiders who walked off ships in
Sydney last week in protest against Judge
Kirby’s decision on the basic-wage issue
were addressed by their branch secretary.
Communist T. Nelson, who professed to
regard their action as tending to create
anarchy, told them they had disobeyed
union instructions and threatened to call
a meeting “to discuss lack of discipline
in the union.” Strange that this lack of
discipline is never apparent when Nelson
and Co. tell their members to strike.
When Satan is found rebuking sin and
when a Commo is found condemning a
strike there is usually a catch in it some-
where.
The technique is a familiar one with
Red-controlled unions. The executive
decrees a strike; the members obey. In
due course the strike is called off and the
union leaders give an undertaking to be
good boys. Then the men down tools
again and the union officials express
regret at their inability to control their
members. The fact remains that the
public suffers, whether the strike is official
or unofficial —and the Communist cause
is served equally well by either variety.
Apparently the Seamens’ Union story
of the Aorangi hold-up is that the union
has not put a ban on the ship—it is just
that the crew spontaneously decided to
resign, and that other rank-and-file
members of the union are spontaneously
declining to take their places. Elliott and
Co. can’t get out of it like that. What is
needed is a spontaneous request by the
union executive for members to man the
ship.
Another of those phony organisations
which, behind a false front of peace on
earth and goodwill to all men, are in-
sidiously working for Uncle Joe, has
sprung up in London. Calling it the
Musicians’ Organisation for Peace, the
convenors managed to persuade Sir
Adrian Boult, for 20 years conductor of
the 8.8. C. Symphony Orchestra, to accept
the presidency. When the Communist
“Daily Worker” announced this on its
front page letters of protest poured into
the old boy’s mailbox, he became ill and
was ordered by his doctors to take four
days’ rest. Sir Adrian’s secretary said
he didn’t intend to show the conductor
all the letters —it might worry him too
much. “I think he is wishing he had never
gone into the affair.” Lots of other well-
meaning people who have allowed the
Comrades to borrow their legs feel the
same way.
There was a rush to “intervene” by
States and Commonwealth when some-
body in Queensland challenged the
validity of the Hanlon’s Primary Pro-
ducers’ Organisation and Marketing Act
in the High Court, no fewer than 11
counsel, six of them K.Cs., appearing.
First to be outed were N.S.W, Egg and
Potato Boards, to whom the court
refused leave to intervene. It’s all about
whether or not the administrators of the
Act can or cannot tell a producer what
he is to do with his produce.
A British port expert named H. B.
Basten is coming from London to “in-
vestigate port congestion in Australia,”
after which he is to advise the Menzies
Government on “remedies.” It’s to be
presumed that the consent of Messrs,
Healy and Nelson has been obtained.
Some time ago the British Government
urged the closer association of Southern
Rhodesia, Northern Rhodesia and
Nyasaland, and a committee representing
the U.K. Government and the three
colonies concerned has now recom-
mended the Federation of the territories.
One of the main difficulties is that
although there is a community of interest
on many matters there is not a complete
identity, largely owing to the differing
composition of the populations of the
three parts of the proposed Federation.
The native population of each is around
the two-million mark, but whereas
Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland
contain only 24,000 and 2000 whites
respectively, and are at the Crown-colony
stage of development, Southern
Rhodesia’s white population is over
100,000 and the colony is almost a
Dominion. The Governments concerned
are now going to chew over the proposal.
It’s to be hoped they don’t take literally
the remark of a Melbourne paper that
the Federation would “compromise” the
two Rhodesias and Nyasaland.
When a coalfields member of, the
House of Representatives asked McEwen
(Commerce and Agriculture) what was
being done to supply butter for miners,
who were going on strike in protest at
the current shortage, it was amid un-
usually loud roars of approval that the
Minister answered —“If dairyfarmers
went on strike every time there was a
shortage of coal there would be no butter
at all.”
N, S. Wales Supreme Court last week
dismissed an application by J, Healy,
Communist secretary of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, that the proprietors
and editor of “S, M. Herald” should be
called upon to show why they should not
be penalised for contempt of Court in
connection with articles published on
June 9 and 11 concerning the Sydney
waterfront, Healy’s counsel claimed that
the articles were likely to prejudice the
trial of Healy under Crimes Act charges.
In pronouncing judgment Chief Justice
Street said that the Court was of the
opinion that the matters discussed were
notoriously of great public concern to
the community at large.
It is not so much the articles which have
appeared that are likely to prejudicially
affect the trial of the applicant as the
happenings themselves and the impact on
the life of the community.
The Court felt that even assuming there
was a possibility of prejudice to Healy,
this was a case where the intervention of
the Court was not required.
Even the McGrrrrs, expert as they are
in steering Parliament into recess and
keeping it there, have nothing on Mc-
Donald and his Spring-street Farmers.
The Victorian Parliament met last Wed-
nesday for the first time since November.
But it wasn’t quick enough to catch
McGrrrr; he had escaped into recess a
few days earlier, with the avowed inten-
tion of staying there until September 12.
The State of Illinois (U.S.A.) has passed
a law making the practice of Communism
within the State a crime liable to penalties
of a fine up to 20,000 dollars and jail.
What, can’t even Chicago take ’em!


Vu mo's^
> GoiRG ASMORE.
\x's OOP HOW ALL THOSE /NTERBSTINO
PEOPUE ON BOARP
BEFORE IT ACTUALLY
SEEM TO EEAVE THE
pots to a *
SHIP-BOARD ROMANCE.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ell”: Adelaide’s tree-lined boulevards,
although pleasing to the eye, have their
disadvantages, as a Victorian visitor dis-
covered the other day. After parking his
brand-new car all night outside his hotel
he thought next morning that most of
the city’s pigeon population must have
been roosting above it. Sympathetic
locals explained that sparrows, not
pigeons, were the culprits. Past pointing
pedestrians and grinning traffic-cops the
visitor drove to the Town Hall to lodge
a complaint. A civic officer could give
only cold comfort. “You can’t put
nappies on sparrows,” was his comment.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: I note that an article in “The
General Practitioner,” a medical journal
published in Victoria, condemns the wear-
ing of the weskit as “an unhealthy habit.”
The garment is, it appears, a “rigid” one
worn over an elastic structure, the chest;
prolonged use of it “leads to faulty breath-
ing habits that may predispose to certain
chronic lung diseases.” My grandfather
was a victim of chronic weskititis. Back
in his day they’d have no more thought
of ordering a suit without a weskit than
without the trousers. Nor in that con-
vention-ridden day would he have dared
go on the street without it even when it
“Break it down —I've just had my dinner!"
was 112 in the shade—he might have been
arrested for indecent exposure. So he
continued to wear it right up to the day
he shuffled off at 94. He might, of course,
have lived till 94| had he dispensed with
a vest—not that he’d have appreciated
the extra six months of life, for so debili-
tated had he become through dragging
the weskit around all his life—filled as it
always was with coins, penknives,
watches, etc.—that at the end he couldn’t
work more than seven hours a day. One
thing only saved the old boy from a pre-
mature death through addiction to this
horrifying habiliment —ignorance. He
thought it was his chest that was rigid
and that his weskit was elastic.
* * * *
“Tailor’s Dummy”: Males may pad
their coat-shoulders (B. 30/5/’5l) with
pound-notes for all I care. What I’d like
to know is how the passage of a little
more than a century has been able so
completely to change the female form.
Poring over albums and portraits of the
early decades of Victoria’s reign one is
struck by the prevalence of the feminine
“bottle-shoulders.” Much admired in the
time of Dickens, a very low-cut neck-
line displayed shoulders shaped, ideally,
like a champagne-bottle. Even the early
portraits of Victoria display such a pair.
And when one looks for pure femininity
the shape, with a slender neck rising from
it, was certainly very lovely. Nowadays
on the beaches one finds the great
majority of female shoulders squarer than
those qjf the male.
“Hoppy”: It rejoiced my heart to read
that the windjammers Pamir and Passat
are being reprieved from the wreckers.
As a lad I spent hours on the wheat
stacks at a tiny port in Spencer’s Gulf
with the view of the tall ships stirring
ambitions of a voyage around the Horn.
I thrilled, too, listening from the veranda
of the pub to the youthful crews’ tales
in a variety of tongues. Years later I
shipped aboard Passat, only to find English
had replaced Swedish as the official lingo
because of the number of Aussies signed
on. 1 was drowsing at the wheel one
sunny morn when the captain walked past
muttering a few words, to which I
answered cheerfully “Good morning, sir.”
Some hours later an irate mate let loose
a string of international oaths and fiercely
inquired “Vot is reason you not alter
course? De Old Man say he give order
—and in Australian.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“A.E.S.”: H. L- Mencken would
give a horse-laugh at the plea (B.
6/6/’5l) for “a few years’ rest
and contemplation between the work-
shops and the grave.” Years before he
reached his present state of wisdom
Mencken expressed the belief that men
worked in answer to an urge for self-
expression, but he abandoned that theory
when he observed that the hardest
workers were often those with nothing to
express. He now believes that man
works (and plays) simply to avoid con-
templation ; that life being fundamentally
not worth living, serious thought about
it would drive man frantic.
* * * «
“Cauboy”: A remark of Yehudi Menu-
hin in Melbourne —that the best audiences
sit on uncomfortable chairs—puzzled the
interviewers, one of whom said that that
would be welcome news to the Town
Hall, whose chairs are notoriously
squeaky. To that the violinist replied
that an audience has to sit quietly when
chairs squeak. Yehudi was really echoing
Rodin’s dictum. When a young woman
asked him why there were no comfortable
chairs in his studio he retorted “If you
want to be comfortable, go to bed.” Com-
fort is the modern mania. Brian Lewis,
professor of architecture at the University
of Melbourne, gave his views the other
day on what is wrong with Australian
architecture. Apparently it isn’t a lack
of beauty, but a lack of comfort. The
housewife has to take too many steps
in the kitchen in preparing dinner, and
all will be well if the sink is placed handy
to the plate-rack. This sets one thinking.
Nobody has yet said that a poem, a
picture or a symphony should be designed
from the point of view of comfort —why
a house? Frank Lloyd Wright, the
"We've got to humor him — that's the only Way he'll sing."
architectural god of the moderns, designed
some horrible-looking buildings—but he
had the right idea, even if he couldn’t
carry it out. A friend, the story goes,
found him writing in the sitting-room of
one of his own houses holding an
umbrella over his head to catch the drips
from the ceiling. When he remarked that
this was a strange thing for an architect
to do, Wright replied: “If you want a
dry roof don’t send for me. Send for
a plumber.”
* * * *
“Becks”: Old superstitions die hard,
particularly those connected with health.
I thought the habit of wearing “anti-
rheumatic” rings bad died out years ago,
but apparently there is still a sale for the
ugly-looking bands of steel and copper,
Yesterday I saw some in a Sydney shop-
window. According to their manufacturer
they protected the wearer against rheu-
matism, neuralgia and insomnia. Some-
body must have believed him ; the case
on display had contained a dozen, and
there were only two left. Now there’s
only one—and I haven’t had rheumatism
or neuralgia for 24 hours, and last night I
slept like a top.
* * ♦ ♦
“Curate’s Egg”; A psychologist friend
was given an undercover assign-
ment with a view to ascertaining the
cause of industrial unrest in a war-time
munitions factory. With phony identity-
papers he entered the factory as an un-
skilled laborer. As a build-up to his dis-
guise he labored conscientiously in ac-
quiring a vocabulary in keeping with his
role, in which, over a considerable period,
he was able to make unsuspected observa-
tions. The day came, however, when,
after noting a whispered conclave among
several of his fellow-workmen, he was
called over by a leading-hand. Fearing
some unthinking manoeuvre had betrayed
him, he awaited denunciation. To his
surprise the leading-hand whispered con-
fidentially “Look here, Bill, you’re not a
bad bloke, and none of this mob here
claim to be Sunday-school teachers, but
if you don’t break your language down a
bit there’s not a blank among ’em will
work with you. So break it down. Bill.”
The researcher broke it down.
* ♦ • *
“Lubnitch Swztz”: The most extra-
ordinary story of World War II will never
be written by those who enacted it,
though the material is there for some
author with the necessary imagination to
make it live. Near Gdynia (Poland) the
Germans had a vast concrete under-
ground storehouse full of food and wine,
In the retreat before the Russians in
1945, six Germans went in to loot some
of the food. While they were inside a
demolition squad blew in the entrance,
entombing them. They had plenty of
food, there was seepage water, air got in
from somewhere. Weeks became
months, months years. Two suicided,
two died—or at least that is the charitable
assumption, since anything might have
happened among six men living like thal
for six years. The other week, engineers
pushed intq the rubble with bulldozers
and discovered the store. Two bearded
and gaunt survivors staggered out, one to
die almost as soon as he reached the
open, the other to linger long enough in
hospital to gasp out an incoherent story
before he, too, died. Last macabre touch
was the finding of the bodies of the other
four, preserved in bags of flour.
“V. Cluse”; I learn that astronomers
on Mt. Palomar (U.S.A.) have not only
discovered 800 new clusters of star
galaxies, some of them so far away that
their light takes 350 million years to
reach the earth, but that the clusters are
rushing away from each other at un-
believable speeds, thus supporting the
theory that the universe is flying apart,
There’s another explanation: Couldn’t
they have heard that Conde, the Sydney
blackout man, is chasing round the globe
looking for more light for his city?
* * * ♦
“Wanchai”: Scots have made their
mark in most professions and occupa-
tions. The skill of the Scottish engineer
is proverbial, but it isn’t generally realised
that Scots gardeners are almost as highly
rated. It’s no new development; Wil-
liam Cobbett (letter to the “Evening
Post”—1820) wrote “....induced the
gardener, who was a Scotchman....”
Turning to more recent literature, stud wits
of P. G. Wodehouse will recall that Lord
Emsworth, of Blandings Castle, is
terrorised by his invaluable Scottish
gardener Angus McAllister. Wodehouse
is on firm ground; a friend has just writ-
ten to me “The owners of the stately
homes of England are nowadays tax-
ridden, but whenever they can afford to
maintain their estates they frequently
employ Scots as gardeners....” And I
know that at Mount Macedon (Vic.),
where there are many wealthy residents,
Scottish gardeners are numerous. Why
should Scottish gardeners be so skilled?
It may be that in their own land, for the
most part a country of poor soil, the
apprentice gardener is taught how to
extract the most from the least,
* * * ♦
“Charing Cross”: Sorry to have to dis-
pute “Ajax” (B. 30/5/’5l), but the
convent about to be established by the
Order of Poor Clares will not be the first
the Order has founded in Australia,
Seventy years ago six nuns of the Poor
Clares came to Australia from Ireland,
and established their convent at Lillian
Terrace, Cowper-street, in the Sydney
suburb of Waverley. They later pur-
chased a property at the corner of
Church - street and Carrington - road,
Waverley, where their convent still stands
today. They were then a cloister order.
My sister and I were their first pupils,
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Curtain Raiser”: Victorian pianist
Nancy Weir seems to have revived the
ancient prejudices of Melbourne against
the native-born. Some of the comments
made by critics on Miss Weir’s playing
closely paralleled what former critics said
of Melba who, apparently, had forgotten
how to sing, even if she ever knew. As
The Bulletin’s Sydney Showman said,
Nancy should have come back with a
name like Szyxyski and the critics would
have raved about her. Well, the A.B.C.
did its best in that direction—on a large
placard in front of the Town Hall if
billed her as “Nancy Wier.”
A BALLAD OF SALVATION.
“The secretary to the Melbourne Waterside
Workers’ Federation said watersiders were keen to
work on Sunday and earn the award penalty rate
(double time and a half). The deputy chairman of
the Australasian Steamship Owners’ Federation said
the court had imposed high penalty rates as a de-
terrent to Sunday work.”
My dad worked on the waterside,
Beginning every Monday,
But if you asked him, he replied
“I’d rather work on Sunday.”
Of Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, too,
He’d say, “They’re worse than Friday;
I must give Saturday its due,
But Sunday—that is my day.”
My father once explained to me
His preference for one day;
He said, “Well, it’s like this, you see—
I’d rather work on Sunday;
The other days I won’t condemn
With reasons for disliking,
Except that if I work on them,
It kind of stops me striking.”
My dad was a religious man,
Afeard of Mother Grundy;
He said, “I’ve hit upon a plan
To let me work on Sunday:
I’ve taught the Arbitration men,
My most assiduous pupils,
With double pay, and half again,
To overcome my scruples.”
But father thoughtlessly ignored
The men who own the Bundy,
Who shouted, “No! We can’t afford
To let you work on Sunday;
We’ve often told you, ‘Go to hell I ’
But now we’ll save—how curious I
Our money, and your soul as well —
And won’t Old Nick be furious I”
n.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


t *
1
%
vo
VO
©
•y
0
0
Sf
SdOH
nvti
'vo**
■ A*
BREWED
AND BOTTLED BY
TOOTH A CO. LIMITED
BS.ISI.M
K
t-
Why a
life
is a happy one
o/j\p
E
Servicemen may well take pride in
wearing their country’s uniform and
of doing today’s most important job
—making Australia strong. For a
young man with ambition a Service
career offers wide scope.
The serviceman today is liberally re-
warded. A career in either the Navy,
Army or Air Force is the highest
form of service to the nation.
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting
Depots or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses or send coupon:
in Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In
Sydney: Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In
Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle Street; In
Adelaide: Richards Building, 99 Currie Street; In Perth:
84 King Street; in Hobart: Franklin Square: in
Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
An 18-year-old Service-
man who has completed
his basic recruit training
(normally 3 to. 6 months)
is paid over £B/7/6 a
week and in addition
food, accommodation,
clothing, medical and
dental care, etc., are pro*
vided by the Services,
(Special extra allowances
for married men.) Fur-
ther, a pension or gratuity
on retirement, assured
continuity of employment
at all times, at least 3
weeks’ holiday each year
on full pay, with travel-
ling time and fares to
your home and back.
The Deputy Director of Recruiting,
G.P.O. Box XYZ, in any of the
Cities shown at left.
Send details of service with Q NAVY
□ ARMY □ AIR FORCE □ ALL 3
services Q Part time Q Full time.
NAME
ADDRESS
jI
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Jasby”: What’s become of the
guinea? I don’t mean the coin itself,
because I’ve never even seen one, but
I mean the mystic symbol formed by
combining equal numbers of pounds and
shillings which used to appear on the
price-tag in the windows of tailors’ shops.
The really exclusive tailor used to con-
tent himself with displaying one suit-
length only in his window, surmounted
by a framed vice-regal appointment
signed by a long-dead State Governor.
His price-card said: “English. £lB 18s.”
The impression he apparently intended to
convey was that he built only one suit
at a time and put the whole of his artistry
into it. Slightly less exclusive tailors dis-
played two or three suitings ; their prices
ranged from 17 to 14 guineas. Then
came the businessman’s tailor. A fairly
comprehensive range of materials divided
into two price-groups, £l2 12s. and
omom
“Better take the three , sir; they'll be treble the price next year."
£8 Bs. Acting as a boundary-mark be-
tween the two groups would be a certi-
ficate from the London School of Tailor-
ing. For the slenderer purse there were
the Mens’ Tailors —windows crammed
full of materials to give the impression
that customers were numbered by the
thousand; prices, seven and six guineas.
Lastly there were the Tailoring Com-
panies and Cut-price Tailors, whose
prices were usually cut better than their
suits —with extra pair of pants, £4 4s.
Tailors’ windows today quote odd figures
such as £27 13s. 2d., £22 9s. 10d.,
£24 3s. 8d. —no dignity at all. That’s
why I ask “What’s become of the
guinea?”
$ $ $ $
“Macnell”: Tell “Vingter” (B.
13/6/’5l) that I had not heard his reason
for the Japs’ alleged failure to use radar
(“no Nip word-equivalent for the highly-
technical terminology of radar”), but, as
they built wireless-sets, and as many com-
portents of radar can be found in wireless,
the story seems a bit thin. As to the
Nips’ failure to detect the Allied subs,
which he puts down to their not using
radar—l think he’s a bit off-beam. An
attacking sub.’s periscope is shown above
water for no more than seconds at a
time, and, contrary to Hollywood con-
ception, no sub.-commander allows his
extended eye to leave a revealing bow-
wave—in any sort of whitecaps it is
virtually impossible to spot the tiny
white wake. Seawaves leave an oscillat-
mg carpet of spiky echoes, called “grass,”
on a radar trace, and in this a periscope,
even if echoing radar waves, would go
unnoticed. In all three Allied sub.
attacks “Vingter” mentions the subs, con-
cerned would have approached their
targets submerged and at slow speed,
with periscope projected a matter of
inches above the water with infinite care.
It would have taken better radar than
even the R.N. had, at that time, to detect
’em. I would say Jap asdic and lookouts
were at fault, not radar, which they cer-
tainly used.
* * ♦ *
“X.S.”: Melbourne’s Russell-street has
long had a psychological department, but
there have been no reports yet of a
copper armed with all the wisdom of
Freud doing anything sensational in the
realm of crime-detection. Apparently
native shrewdness still counts. A con-
stable at Ferntree Gully was called to
investigate a theft of clothing, jewellery
and cash worth £lOO. He found a ran-
sacked bedroom, a hat and an overturned
scent-bottle whose odor permeated the
room. He took a good whiff and then
tore off like a beagle to the railway-
station and went sniffing among the
crowd. Result: a man allegedly carrying
a quantity of stolen goods was taken to
the watchhouse and charged with house-
breaking.
* * * ♦
“S.”: It occurred to me the other night
when the A.B.C, was broadcasting
Harold Blair singing “It Was a Lover
and His Lass” —how could Shakspeare,
when he was stringing together that
charming little rhyme about the spring-
time, the only pretty ring-time, ever have
imagined it would some day be sung on
the radio by a full-blooded Australian
aboriginal! And very pleasantly Harold
Blair sang it.
* * * *
“Doric”: We were having supper in
St. Mark’s-square, Venice, when our ears
were assailed by a familiar sound —bag-
pipes! The wail emanated from a typical
swarthy Italian clad in kilts which
swished in the true Scottish style as he
walked. Oh, well —I suppose there are
also ukuleles in Iceland, but I’ll bet that
players in that cold place don’t wear the
dress appropriate to the instrument.
NOT SCARED.
“Commenting on a statement by the president of
the Dr. Sichel, that eyebrow-plucking could
cause eye trouble, the president of the Sydney Hair-
dressers’ Association said most women would continue
to practise it, even if they 1 knew it to be harmful.”
Though it wreaks harm by stealth
To her optical health,
As the eminent doctor alleges,
Yet what’s that beside
Being cattily guyed,
By her sisters, for wearing twin hedges?
That is why Joan and June
Give their eyebrows a prune;
Superfluous herbage removing,
For what girl’s not aware
That she must do and dare
If on Nature she would be improving?
Some tough hairs, you’ll mark,
She’ll have need to ringbark
(She’ll leave these for much later felling);
The tweezers she’ll wield
As she thins out the field.
More rebellious of brows she’ll be quelling
With the razor, and then
Comes the great moment when.
As onward with Fashion she marches,
The pencil will trace
To the north of her face
Two thin and (she hopes) matching arches.
Antiquarians have traced
This prescription barefaced—
The hairless eye much like a hippo’s—
To a day long since gone;
Back to old Babylon.
It was practised by most ancient Gyppos.
Cleopatra plucked hers.
I ask you now, sirs,
When Antony hit her horizon
Were her eyes so weak
She mistook him for Greek
And, despairingly, took her asp-“pizen”?
Well, such warnings they give
Won’t pay much of a div.
To the lass who will keep her brows hairless.
In the jargon today
She would most likely say
That, for her part, she “just couldn’t care less.”
Naught in that to excite,
For it’s perfectly right
(So stow any cynical laughter);
There’s a race to be won,
And, when all’s said and done,
It’s eye-trouble—the men’s—that she’s after.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Kelms”: Usually when you cross the
Gascoyne River, which enters the sea at
Carnarvon (W.A.), you don’t swim or row
—you walk. But, although its bed is dry,
the river is still running—a few feet
underground. The gardens and banana-
plantations that line its banks are watered
from it, and it provides a usually limit-
less supply for anyone who cares to drive
“ Control-toWer to Abdul ... o.k. to land.”
a spear into its body, A two-year
drought seriously depleted it, and planters
and gardeners had lately taken to gazing
across its three-quarter-mile bone-dry
bed and praying for rain. Then the rain
came, and from upstream a report came
down that the river looked like flowing
as a river should, above-ground. About
balf Carnarvon turned out to see it as it
rolled down in a sft. wall. As the novelty
wore off, people stopped paddling to
watch the water rise around dwellings and
invade the business centre. As I write
Carnarvon is flooded, short of drinking-
water, and full of people who don’t care
how soon the river goes dry again,
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Outside Young and
Jackson’s a wistful individual put it on
Mat for the price of a drink. “Why
don’t y’ get work?” Mat demanded. The
bloke looked us over carefully, became
more wistful than ever, and replied,
“That’s what’s wrong, mate. Don’t think
I wouldn’t work if I had a job. Bet
y’r life I would. But I can’t go lookin’
for it, that’s the trouble.” And he
shuddered visibly, “y* can’t go lookin’
for it?” Mat echoed. “No, just can’t face
the prospect. Too ruddy sensitive, I
reckon. Y’ see, mate, I just can’t face
the chance that the first time I ask for
a job I’ll be disappointed. Can’t stand
disappointment, never could. Thought of
it breaks me down, see, and”— — Mat
shoved two-bob at him. “Here,” he
said hurriedly, “rush in an’ get a drink
quick before y’ break down an’ start
howlin’.”
* * * *
“Kros”; “Old-timer” (B. 20/6/’5l) is
quite right about country employers doing
nothing to keep their hands. Still, that
doesn’t altogether explain the flight from
the land ; nor are the 40-hour week and
“loaf” the only attractions for country
youth. This drift to the city is not a
completely new phenomenon; for over
200 years there have been books and
pamphlets printed deploring the shifting
of population away from agriculture. If
there were a 50-hour week in the cities
now, this drift would still occur. I put
it down principally to the fact that man
is a gregarious animal —he must have
comradeship and association in order to
be happy and contented, and he is much
more likely to find this fellowship in the
city factory and cinema than down on
the farm. This is the main problem, I
think, and one which will need to be
solved —and quickly.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: As recently as 30
years ago you could cut across country
from Guildford —a Perth suburb —and,
without making too many detours to avoid
dwellings, strike the coast between North
Beach and Mullaloo. From there you
could work north along the coast to
Yanchep, living off sea or land as you
went. As lads, my mates and I could
live for days without any of civilisation’s
fancy-goods, carrying little more than
crude fishing-lines and rifles. We didn’t
know anything about a balanced diet, but
we probably achieved it by chewing the
soft ends of “blackboy” grass and eating
swanberries. The “blackboy” grass is
particularly palatable, if the stiff blades,
about the thickness of a match-stick, are
pulled carefully from the crown and only
the white ends munched. The swanberries
were the fruit of a small, ground-hugging
bush and were held responsible for most
of the colic “bush” kids suffered in those
days, I seem to remember robbing bee-
hives, too. They’d be those of the black
bee, probably—the hive of the wild native
bee usually yielded little of any value,
I went over some of the ground recently
and, while it has altered considerably,
there are still large areas of virgin bush,
and there’s still a well-stocked ocean.
There was seen an occasional wallaby,
and, further north, towards the Moore
River, there are pigs, descendants of some
gone wild. With such a home-made
hunting-ground and hikers’ paradise at
their back-door, you’d think Perth youths
would flock there; yet in the week I
moved through there I saw none. It seems
that modern youth must have its outdoor
sport arranged and regimented.
* * * *
“Elgey”: Another groper not quite as
big as “Tenna’s” (B. 23/5/’5l) was
brought ashore further down the Burrum
“Has he got anything on you?"
by a farmer who was combining business
with pleasure. Working his one-horse
scarifier on the bank and keeping a
watchful eye on his line —he used an oil-
drum for a float —he rushed down to his
16ft. dinghy when the drum disappeared
a few times, then streaked for the middle
of the river leaving a wake like the
Queen Mary. He chased it around for
half an hour before he could grab the
drum, pull it
aboard and
secure the line
to the bow-
ring. A heavy
downward pull
brought a
gush of water
over the bows
and sent him scuttling back to the stern
to keep the bow up. Followed a speedy
trip up and down the Burrum with the
cocky in a panic thinking wishfully of
the cane-knife stuck in a fence-post up
on the bank and with nothing to cut him-
self free. After an hour or so of speed-
riding his catch tired enough for him to
row to the bank, scramble out and tie his
line to a tree. With no help around he
decided to give Neddy a change from
hard work and introduce him to big-
game fishing. He hastily transferred the
rope from the tree to the swingle-bar,
and, with a smack of the rope’s end and
a yell, he urged Neddy up the bank.
However, the strain was on; Neddy had
been dozing too long up in the scarifier
and the groper had his second wind. The
prad was up to his hocks in Burrum
mud before fear of a watery grave, plus
a few smart welts with the rope, livened
him up, and with a mighty lunge he
surged far enough up the bank to drag
his opponent out of its element. That
groper weighed over 4cwt.
* * * *
“Trapper”: There were more rabbits
than anything else on Herb’s block, and
with the feed shortage the sheep he’d
bought weren’t doing very well. A weak
animal would get down, and before Herb
could reach it a crow would take its
eye. Then would begin a losing battle for
the animal’s life, a battle that kept Herb
occupied while the crows collected a few
more eyes from his stock. The new
farmer stuck to it, and at length got
round to attacking the rabbits. Calling
in on him, Charlie found him returning
from his line of traps. Down the hill
came Herb with a great bag of furred
carcasses, which he tipped out before
turning back up the slope. Presently he
reappeared, staggering beneath another
load, and, dropping them beside the first
lot, he began to dig in the hard ground.
“Gripes, you’re a goat carrying your
catch ’way down here,” Chari told him.
“Why don’t you skin ’em on your line,
and just bring the skins. Save you a lot
of work.” “Yair? What about burym’
the carcasses?” “Burying ’em!” gasped
Charlie. “Struth, you don’t have to bury
’em. The crows’ll clean ’em up in no
time. They love rabbit —just chuck the
carcasses aside for them.” Herb spat on
his hands and grabbed the bar. “Yair?.”
he snarled, driving viciously at the hard
clay. “Like hell I will! ”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: There was general
approval when Tommy Pegg married
Jenny Lane. Both were on the wintry
side of 40 and both were established
features, Thomas having been the town-
ship’s man-of-all-work for years and his
bride long the chief housemaid of the
local pub, noted for her sunny disposition.
“Tommy’s lucky,” most of us said, “t’
get a cheerful missus like Jenny.” This
was confirmed as time went by, for Jenny
sang around the house all day, worked
and laughed and loved Tommy with
thorough enjoyment. Tommy himself
was a cheerful sort and expanded under
the beneficence of such marital happiness.
Four or five years went by, and then it
was seen that Tommy had become a little
silent; grimness appeared on his dial,
several times he kicked his old dray-horse
in the ribs, he lingered longer over his
evening beer than usual. The mystery
was explained one day when Long John-
son came into the pub, ordered a pot
and said, “Wimmen! A flamin’ man
ought t’ be kicked for ever marryin’ one
of ’em.” “What’s wrong now?” some-
body demanded. “Aw,” snapped John-
son, “it’s me missus. Kickin’ up rows,
goin’ crook, naggin’ at a man, an’ bawlin’
if a man back-answers. Strike me
lucky, 1” “Lucky,” burst out Tommy
Pegg. “Y’ don’t know how flamin’ lucky
y’ are! How’d y’ like a missus that was
always laughin’ an’ singing, never done
a thing wrong, never give y’ a chance t’
go crook. Even if y’ give her a open-
hander in the dial she thinks it’s lovely.
Blime, if only she would get wild or
somethin’.” And Tommy downed his
drink and went morosely home to his
sunny missus.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were on our way to
the back run for two or three days’
mustering, and as we hit the steeper
ranges Seventyfiver remarked that we
were in for a cold spell. I was surprised.
“But Ted Brody’s wireless said last night
we could expect a few days of warm
weather,” I returned. Seventyfiver’s
aloof gaze didn’t leave the tree-tops,
“Them blokes don’t know everything.”
“No, but ...” I glanced round the
sky. “ . . . there’s not a cloud, and no
sign of wind.” “It’ll be perishin’ cold,”
he announced matter-of-factly. “Prob-
ably wet. About t’morrer.” The next
day dawned bright, but half an hour
after we’d left camp a cold wind came
up. All day it blew steadily off the
snow, bringing an occasional gust of rain
or a flurry of sleet. I remembered other
times when the old bloke had been right
about the weather. Strange, the way he
could tell! Probably threequarters of a
century with the elements had taught him
things I missed. Developed an instinct
in him, like the cattle had, about weather.
I mused on the matter quite a bit dur-
ing the afternoon. It couldn’t be the
look of things that told him. Must be in
the feel of the air—though I hadn’t felt
anything. There was the last time we’d
mustered Mt. Baldy, too. He’d said the
same thing then and he’d been right. I
certainly had to hand it to the old cove ;
he had those meteorological experts
beaten hands down. While he was toast-
ing himself by the fire that night I began
probing. “Looks like it’ll be cold again
tomorrow,” I ventured. Already he was
dozing. “But, look here, how could you
tell yesterday that we were in for this?”
“Eh? Aw, I knew it was a cert, Sol,” he
drawled, rousing himself. “I’d gorn an*
left roe Masted east .behind again I,'*
ROLLING JOHN.
Rolling John and night together
Tumble down in stormy weather.
Rolling John and night together
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Where the jagged lightnings rend
Stormy skies from end to end
And the elements contend —
Hi ho my bonny boy.
So the midnight forests strain
And the world is wild with rain,
Rolling John comes out again
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Sings a rolling song around,
Rolling song on rolling sound,
Routs about the sodden ground
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Taps at latches on the door
Thrice behind and thrice before,
What is it he searches for?
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Who he is we do not know,
Where he goes we cannot go.
We have never seen him so—
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Where the breezes go to sweep
Dozey tree-tops out of sleep
Rolling John’s a tryst to keep:
Hi ho my bonny boy.
But when the branches plunge and rear
And air is piled on fiercest air
Rolling John’s already there,
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Where the foam runs thick in trails
Of howling ships in howling gales
Rolling John is in the sails:
Hi ho my bonny boy.
And when wild seas would overwhelm
Wanderers in their angry realm,
Lo the stranger at the helm —
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Rolling John is in the chase
Where the rapid’s waters race
To the weir’s firm embrace:
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Where the desert’s dreadful glare
Rarefies the rarest air
And fantastic forms appear—
Hi ho my bonny boy!
So the traveller, startled, sees
Upturned ships on upturned seas
In inverted sceneries ...
Hi ho my bonny boy.
Where at early morning play
Things that only live a day
Flit about and fly away—
Hi ho my bonny boy-
Rolling John is in the air
Rolling John is everywhere,
Rolling John attend my prayer:
Hi ho my bonny boy.
N.S.W.
A.J. WOOD.


FORDSON MAJOR
FARMS AUSTRALIA
in every type of job, in every type of soil
Read these reasons why Fordson
Major Is Sales Leader among tractors
Because of their complete suitability and versa-
tility in every kind of Australian farming there
are now over 22,000 Fordson Majors working
throughout the Commonwealth. Every day
the preference for Fordson is growing because
only Fordson provides all these features;
1. Choice of Diesel or Kerosene power.
2. Wheeled or half track units.
3« Choice of gear ratios. “Special” ratio? for
work where soil conditions and size of imple-
ments demand extra pounds pull at the drawbar.
“Standard” ratios for conditions where extra
miles per hour and normal drawbar pull are
desirable.
4* Range of wheel and tyre equipment.
£, Lowest cost per horsepower.
6* Specialised Fordson Service available in
districts all over the Commonwealth.
A'
(fcl®
N
w.
l?))l
Diesel power : Rated 28 drawbar horsepower—
which is better than a 12 horse team. In
second gear at 1500 r.p.m. rated load travelled
at 3.5 m.p.h. when equipped with special ratio
gears and at 4.6 m.p.h. with standard ratio
gears. In both cases fuel consumption was
1.79 gallons per hour.
Ratings by official Nebraska-type Tests
Kerosene power: Rated 21.5 drawbar horse-
power—equal to a good 10 horse team. With
special ratio gears, in second gear and at 1200
r.p.m. rated load handled at 2.88 m.p.h. and,
with standard ratio gears, at 3.64 m.p.h. Fuel
consumption at rate of 1.96 gallons per hour in
both cases.
Advice from your local Fordson Dealer
Your Dealer will be glad to give you all details of the Fordson combination that is best for your job.
He will also arrange on your property, a demonstration under your particular working conditions.
Enquire from your local Fordson Dealer
FMB2-BHI*
FORD MOTOR CO USTRALIA IN VIC.) _R EG. OFFICEj GEELOT^^VtCTORIA
“Terence L”: Tomahawk Harry was
in the habit of casting-up at shearing
quarters or out-station around sunset;
he’d sit in for the evening meal and then,
pipe in mouth, sit alone putting a keener
edge on the half-axe that generally hung
from his snakeskin belt and reiterate his
invariable “There’ll be somethin’ doin’ at
eight o’clock
tonight.” After
a while he
would grow
weary of the
unrespon s i v e
audience, and,
gathering u p
his odds and
ends, retire to
the far end of
the veranda. By morning he’d be gone.
Then one day to the out-station came
Snuffling Kane. Far from his stamp-
ing-grounds, Kane had never heard of
Tomahawk Harry, who happened to
be indulging in his melodramatic act
when the snuffler tossed down his swag
and took a seat. A newcomer! Harry
made the most of it. Never had his
voice held so menacing a note. By about
the tenth “There’ll be somethin’ doin’ at
eight o’clock tonight,” the snuffling bloke
had “had it.” Whipping out the longest
sheath-knife we’d ever seen, he sprang in
front of Harry, yelling “There’ll be
sumphin’ blankywell doin’ before eight
o’clock!” Harry was running before he
hit the floor.
* * ♦ •
“Macquarie”: Oily Jackson’s hide was
equalled only by his gift for magging his
way out of things. He borrowed the
boss’s shotgun without asking, put it
back uncleaned and, when tackled about
it, broke into a long dissertation on the
“new discovery by scientists” that the
“carbon” left in the barrel is extremely
beneficial to the steel. The boss strongly
contested the theory until, after a long
debate. Oily capitulated and allowed the
triumphant owner to clean his own gun.
He gapped the trump’s favorite Kelly—
and yapped his way out of that; broke
the girth while having an unauthorised
loan of his nibs’s pigskin —and successfully
“explained” the incident. But when he
borrowed the car and brought it back
“Y' don't want 'im to grow up a sis, do yer?"
with a dent in its super-posh mudguard
the volcano erupted. For two whole
minutes the boss achieved a steady flow
of solid, meaty description before his
breath, or ideas, ran out. Then Oily
began. “You’re taking the wrong view,”
he explained patronisingly. “It hasn’t
disfigured the car at all. Actually it s
an improvement.” “What!” howled the
trump. “You put a great dent in me
car, then tell me it’s an improvement!”
“That’s just the point,” came the inevit-
able explanation. “You look on it as a
dent, but it’s really more like a dimple.
Look, I’ve known bonzer-looking girls
who would’ve looked nothing only for
their dimples.” The boss breathed heavily
through his nose. “All right,” he said
with astounding calm. “It’s a dimple.^
Suddenly he was yelling like Barneys
bull: “But I’m going to send her to get
her face lifted—and the cost of the
beauty treatment is coming out of your
wages!” *
♦ ♦ * *
“Shadow-chaser”: Flying-foxes break
camp only after their worst enemies,
hawks, have put up the shutters for the
night. They fan out in every direction,
going after water which must be taken
on the wing, a mouthful at a time in suc-
cessive swoops. They can’t fly off
scratch, needing altitude to kick off.
Their method of drinking causes many
casualties, particularly where there are
barbed-wire fences or jagged limbs to
sprag their umbrella-like wings. When
outward bound, with no enemy aircraft
to harry them they fly every fox for
himself, but the retreat to camp is con-
ducted on approved lines of strategy.
Before dawn the vanguard arrives in a
well-defined stream not more than 50
yards wide. As day dawns the pace to
camp increases, and the jht reveals that
this river of fast-fliers confined to its
limit by “drovers” who mercilessly dis-
cipline any stragglers. Flying on either
wing they ensure, as far as possible, the
safe return to camp of the screeching
multitude. An early-rising brown hawk
swoops at the “river,” a “drover” swoops
at him. The hawk usually scores, and
makes the shelter of the scrub, where the
big bat can’t follow. Thus the difference
between the coming and going is a purely
defensive measure.
* * * *
“Jackeroo”: Old Baldy and I were
riding up the cleared line during the wet,
with the horses taking their time, when
one of the wool-lift planes flew over. It
was fairly low, the pilot apparently
hoping that by hugging the cleared strip
it would lead him into the next station.
I remarked that it must have been doing
well over 200 m.p.h. “Aw, I don’t think
she’d be goin’ that fast,” said Old Baldy.
“You want to remember that we’re goin’
the opposite way—that’d make him look
as though he’s beltin’ along more than
he is.” '
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: It happened on one of
those days when we had forgotten to
bring a rifle. We were sitting under a
tree having lunch ; about 75 yards away
a fox appeared, carrying a large rabbit,
which it dropped for a spell; as the
fox squatted a shadow passed over
us. We looked up and saw a big wedge-
tailed eagle gliding down towards that
rabbit; when about 6ft. from its quarry
it tilted its wings to act as a brake, and
that sudden apparition from out of the
sky made the fox turn a back-somersault.
The eagle seized the rabbit in its
talons and then, still carried by
its momentum, it soared up for
perhaps 20ft. before it was so close to
stalling-point that it had to flap its wings.
It flew off to a dead tree and there began
to dine off its prey. By this time the fox
had recovered from its surprise, and was
looking for the rabbit. Its nose enabled
it to locate the spot where it had been
dropped—but the bunny wasn’t there any
more. With an air of bewilderment the
fox ran around in circles, nose to the
ground, and then went zig-zagging about,
keeping up the hunt for nearly 10
minutes, finally, with its tail carried in a
sad droop, it decided that its dinner had
indeed vanished and set off to catch
another. Not once did it look aloft.
COLD IS THE NIGHT.
Cold is the night. With sunshine wrap me
round, .
Flow out the purple lilacs to my sight,
Spread desert-peas and lift the daisies white
Along red sandhills, bring back warmth and
sound
Of white-cloud skies and rustlings of the hgnt.
To feel the sun-warm sand and dim the stars
In glowing life would hold from me these bars
Of leaning shadows, boughed across the night.
Where thought could cry into the worm-disc
gleam
Forgetfulness of time and shape the doubt
Of sun and grass, of flocking birds, their shout
Of morning ... Cold this silence holds a
dream
Of yesterday, where no tomorrow comes
To free dark legends from these night-held
gums.
N.S.W.
W.H. ROBINSON.


Continuity . . .
11
3]_ 1
-.1
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*.
C.8.E.; G. S. Col man, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
Genera] Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson. M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heller;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1378.
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of your Will yon
arc assured that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts are completed.
In addition, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 71 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of Estates.
No individual can offer such permanence, experience oc security.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or caff for free booklet,
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.'
■
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
f
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
1946 188,912 62,097 5j p.c. = 132,000 1,728,185
1947 229,539 62,097 6 „ „ 144,000 1,751,627
Interest arrears recovered, £77,904)
Less exchange and premiums on (
debenture repayment, £463,960.. (
Addition goodwill, £11,470 ..J
1,354,101
1948 303,234 61,268 8 p.c. = 218,333 1,382,784
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,362,784
Added goodwill, £12,180 ~ ..1,350,654
Interest arrears recovered, £178,685.. 1,524,239
1949 412,749 10 p.c. = 320,000 1,616,988
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,596,988
Interest arrears recovered, £59,997.. 1,656,986
Goodwill written off, £54,469
1950 596,207 12 p.c. = 384,000
Special grant staff fund, £20,000
1,794,724
Interest arrears recovered, £183,251.. 1,977,975
Surplus sale of properties, £12,808.. 1,990,783
Goodwill written off, £18,450 .."I
1951 718,164 —l5 p.c. = 480,000 1
Special grant staff fund, £30,000 .. J
2,180,497
Never before have the growing and
selling side of the wool industry
enjoyed such phenomenal prosperity.
Australia’s wool cheque for the 11
months to May 31, 1951, was no less
than 138 p.c. (£358,241,290) more than
for the corresponding period of the
previous season:
11 Mths. Average
to May, Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1950 .. 3,278,047 £257,996,899 £74 14 2
1951 .. 3,352,102 616,238,189 183 15 9
The £616,238,189 was over six and a half
times greater than the value of the entire
clip for 1946-47 (first post-war free
auction), and the inflationary pressures
generated have robbed the Government’s
anti-inflationary policy of its intended
effect, notwithstanding the 20 p.c, levy on
growers’ wool cheques as a pre-
payment of income tax.
There was a steep and almost unbroken
rise in prices for all grades of the staple
from the beginning of the season to mid-
March last:
Clean on-Floor Price,
(Price per lb.)
70’s.* 64’s* 60’s* 58’s.*
1950, Sept. 1 ~ 274 248 211 197 f
.. Dec. 15 . . 283 270 246 225
1951, Mar. 16 .. 383 377 381 375
„ Apr. 13 . . 321 292 269 246
„ May 25 .. 297 287 277 264
* Average quality, f Approximate.
American buying support was withdrawn
in April, and a sharp drop in prices
followed ranging from 22 p.c, to 30 p.c.,
according to grade, up to May 25. This
was much more pronounced than the
recession normally expected at the tail-
end of a season’s sales. At what level
prices will be established in the coming
season depends partly upon American
buying, which is the most important
single influence in the market at the
moment, and which is reliable only for
its sudden appearance and abrupt with-
drawal. Though the price background
is fluid, the immediate overall position
favors continuance of a strong demand.
G.M. is the second-largest wool-
broking, pastoral - finance, pastoral,
merchandising and agency business in
Australia, and it keeps on expanding by
absorptions and otherwise. Last term
the co. received 408,000 bales (up 26,000
bales) wool, and sold 377,720 bales
(down 38,941 bales), increasing the carry-
forward to 51,707 bales. Bigger returns
from sales of livestock, land, merchandise
and from the co.’s own properties in
western N. S. Wales and Queensland
helped to swell earnings, too. Excluding
£183,251 (up £123,254) arrears of interest
recovered and a capital profit of £12,808
on sale of properties, the leap in gross
earnings was £1,424,272:
Provi-
Year Gross* Debenture dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 1,130,U40 888,340 62,097 12,161 167,442
1948.. 1,443,967 1,124,417 61,268 16,315 241,967
1949.. 1,925,948 1,494,573 18,626 412,749
1950.. 2,444,603 1,826,294 22,102 596,207
1951.. 3,868,875 3,123,947 26,764 718,164
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments.
After making more liberal allowances
than usual for depreciation (£141,313, up
£75,433) and taxation (£1,213,209, up
£770,068), the net result benefited by
£121,957, reaching a record £718,164.
That was 22.4 p.c. on capital as against
18.6, 12.9, 11.2 and 6.9 p.c. back to
1947. The distribution was lifted from
12 p.c. to 15 p.c., of which 8 p.c. is
labelled bonus—a hint that the 15 p.c.
should not be looked upon as a steady
thing. After writing off the goodwill
(£18,450) of three stock-and-station busi-
nesses purchased during the year and
making a special grant of £30,000 to the
staff fund, visible reserves stood at
£2,180,497 when the books closed.
Inflated prices, the heavy wool carry-
over and continued expansion of the busi-
ness are further reflected in balance-sheet
figures, which also disclose strong liquid
resources—indicative of the co.’s ability
to further assist clients when the need
arises:
1948. . 1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000
Debentures 8,603 1,639 ■—
Creditors .. 2,279,641 8,512,129 4,688,413 9,201,246
Tax reserve 311,648 371,751 755,989 1,451,774
Liquids ~ 2,161,425 3,642.226 3,959,554 5,468,993
Advances .. 3,588,815 3,594,289 4,624,066 8,292,535
Stocks .. 332,642 483,054 624,210 969,679
Shares in
subsidiary 73,536 73,536 73,636 73,636
Shares other
cos. ~ 45,161 52,517 60,195 64,065
Property,
etc. .. 1,067,820 1,047,900 1,186,804 1,265,043
Plant .. 112.078 158,303 233,210 283,666
The growths in the creditors’ item (up
£4,512,843), in advances (up £3,668,469)
and in liquids (up £1,509,439) were due
largely to current wool transactions un-
settled at balancing date. The heavier
stocks reflect bigger merchandising acti-
vities at higher prices, and the additions
to properties (up £78,239) and plant (up
£50,454) are due partly to purchase of the
businesses already referred to. Sub-
stantial additions are to be made to wool-
stores, especially at Adelaidq and Perth,
as soon as circumstances permit. When
the books closed, creditors could see
11s. lid. of every pound coming to them
in liquids alone.
The price of the scrip, which advanced
from 435. 6d. a year ago to 645. 9d. before
the drop in wool prices, now stands at
565., giving a return of 5.4 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 335. 7d.
lllawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1942 .. 10,797 9 p.c. = 9,000 1,797 72.521
1943 .. 15,446 9 „ „ 9,000 6,446 78,967
Loss.
1944 .. 3,512 5 „ „ 5,000 70,465
1945 . . 2,460 5 „ „ 5,000 62,995
Add charter-rate adjustment, £5422.. 68,417
1946 .. 3,345 5 p.c. = 5,000 60,072
Surplus sale assets, £895 .. .. 60,467
Cost refitting, £4OOO .. .. .. 56,467
Profit.
1947 .. 1,850 5 p.c. = 6,000 53,817
From tax reserve, £1862 .. .. 55,179
Loss.
1948 .. 12,809 Nil 42,370
Net unexplained addition res., £25,144 67,514
1949 .. 6,106 Nil 61,408
Repairs expenditure, etc., £20,728 .. 40,680
1950 .. 22,209 Nil 18,471
Profit sale assets, £6337 .. .. 24,808
To replacement reserve, £32,000 .. 56,808
1951 .. 22.046 Nil 34,762
With the flag of the “Welfare”
State nailed to the mast, 1 bureaucracy
has strangled this hitherto pros-
perous little shipping business, whose
fleet has efficiently served the people on
the N. S. Wales south coast for the last
99 years. Including war-time charter-
rate adjustments, trading since 1943 has
resulted in a net loss of no less than
£65,215, and that after making no allow-
ance whatever for depreciation.
Last term the loss on trading was
£22,046, approximately the same as for
the previous year. One unit of the fleet
was sold at a profit of £6337, and another
was stranded on the Moruya bar, and a
cash settlement of £32,000 was negotiated
with the underwriters and credited to re-
placement reserve, and tenders have been
called for purchase of the vessel as she
lies.
While the fleet was under requisition
by the Shipping Board, charter rates,
despite adjustments, didn’t fully cover the
rising cost of maintenance and repairs.
Since derequisition lifts in officially-
controlled freight rates lagged badly
behind the steep rise in running and other
costs, which have been aggravated by the
slow turnround of ships and other de-
velopments connected with the industry.
Though relieved of price-control in
August, 1950, competition from officially
co-ordinated rail-and-road transport has
made it impossible to increase freight
rates sufficient to trade at a profit.
A Government-sponsored committee,
set up a couple of years ago to investigate
conditions under which coastal trade
operated, decided that retention of the
shipping service on the south coast was
essential, and recommended adjustments
in co-ordinated rail-road services to enable
the co.’s fleet to trade under more equit-
able conditions. However, the board can
see no prospect of material improvement
in the position, and, as trustee for the
shareholders, it cannot allow the business
to go on consuming capital. So it
“regretfully recommends termination of
the co.’s activities,” and is now negotiat-
ing for sale of the remaining two operat-
ing units of the fleet. Shareholders await
fuller details at the annual meeting on
June 29.
The published accounts disclose net
tangible assets of 265. 1 Id. per f.-p. pound
share. After sales at 245. 6d. a month
ago the market now prices the scrip at
295. 6d., thus valuing the undertaking at
£147,500, or £12,738 more than its net
book value:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 57,853 89,789 46,473 81,726
Ship property 24,680 21,930 21,930 19,539
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 2,155 2,165 2,155 2,155
Plant, stares,
etc. .. 2,239 2,271 2,484 2,741
Book debts .. 26,127 29,819 23,593 62,567
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 145,023 145,023 114,783 79,486
Bpok debts (less aq. unstated amount for
doubtful debts) and Government securi-
ties, etc., together exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £110,327, equal to 225. per share.
The other £24,435, equal to 4s, lid, per
share, is represented mostly by ship pro-
perty, which decreased by only £2391
during the year, despite payments made,
or due, in respect of the sale and stranding
of vessels already referred to. So, if the
two units of the fleet still operating each
turn in a profit equal to that on the
vessel sold last term, the scrip is not over-
priced at 295. 6d.
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd. (Adelaide)
r~ Dividends N
Ist 2nd 3rd Re-
Mar., Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1942 7,388 7J 6 10 6,600 23,049
1943 8,294 7| 6 10 5,600 25,743
1944 9,704 7i 6 10 7,020 28,427
1945 19,213 7i 6 10 8,700 88,940
1946 23,422 6 5 10 12,265 50,097
Consolidated Figures.
1947 24,810 7i 6 5 10 16,200 58,323
Share premiums, £45,000 .. .. 103,323
1948 52,675 7 i 6 5 10 29,075 126,923
Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 216,923
1949 99,667 7\ 6 5 15 57,200 269,390
1950148,808 74 6 5 15 79,700 328,498
Revaluation assets. £140,000 .. .. 468,498
1951190,838 7J 6 5 15 79,700 579,636
This lusty 19-year-old and its three
operating subsidiaries (another offshoot
looks after services) turn out high-grade
domestic and commercial refrigeration
units, electric petrol pumps, washing-
machines and other domestic appliances.
The board says the co.’s plants are the
most modem obtainable, that the tech-
nical set-up is flexible, and that earnings
are not too dependent upon any one line,
output being carefully planned on the
basis of steadily-flowing processes.
The business has Commonwealth-wide
connections, has given a very good
account of itself from the start, and has
grown rapidly in the sheltered and ex-
panding post-war market, stimulated by
monetary and other inflationary pressures,
including a quick increase of population,
due to immigration. Ord. divs. averaged
7.5 p.c. for the first four years, followed
by a steady 10 p.c. for the 11 years to
close of accounts in 1948, and 15 p.c. for
the three years since, with widening
margins. And the payments were made
on expanding capital— approximately
£20,000 in 1936, £64,941 in 1939, £200,000
in 1945 and £680,000 in 1949 and since.
Last term sales shot up by over 70 p.c.
(£2,144,063), reaching a record £5,182,961,
which was used in this way;
/ 1950 1061
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Materials .. 1,729,656 66.9 8,254,868 62.8
Wages, etc. .. 809,474 26.7 1,218,849 28.4
Taxes ~ .. 292,122 9.6 414,534 8.0
Depreciation .. 58,838 1.9 108,872 2.1
Dividends .. 79,700 2.6 79,700 1.65
Retained in busi-
ness .. .. 69,108 2.3 111,138 2.15
£3,038,898 £5,182,961
Among other things, the figures support
the management’s claims to efficiency and
make plain the fact that increased earn-
ings are the result, not the cause, of in-
creased prices, which stem from recurrent
wage lifts operating through materials and
services, especially transport.
The £190,838 (up £42,030) of profit
covered pref. requirements (£12,200) and
39.7 p.c. on ord, capital as against 30.2,
29.1, 18, and 19.2 p.c. back to 1947. The
£111,138 of the year’s net earnings re-
tained in the business, together with
£140,000 created by revaluing freeholds,
lifted reserves to £579,636 as against
£58,323 only four years ago.
The bigger trading again shows up in
balance-sheet figures, which also show
an improved liquid position:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950. 1961.
Pref. .. £230,000 £230,000 £230,000 £280,000
Ordinary .. 270,000 450,000 450,000 450,000
Overdraft .. 475,465 108,974
Creditors, etc. 231,298 323,779 462,826 734,414
Tax provision 30,880 100,989 128,895 182,840
Final divs. .. 16,225 87,600 51,100 89,850
Freeholds .. 127,437 140,494 161,251 329,119
Plant ~ 152,831 191,383 195,788 225,812
Stocks* ~ 906,774 1,012,984 983,659 1,200,557
Debtors .. 185,302 160,429 225,000 404,315
Cash .. .. 7.892 492 94,621 66,937
* Includes work in progress.
The growth in freeholds (up £177,868)
was due mainly to the writing-up already
referred to. Plant increased by £30,024,
stocks by £216,898 and book debts by
£179,315. Stocks, the dominant feature of
the accounts, are in at the lower of cost,
or market price, and book debts appear
less a reserve for doubtful accounts. Hie
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£704,700) was £44,241.
The outlook for trade and industry
generally is still expansionary. To ease
the pressure on labor and materials Gov-
ernment spending on public works is to
be reduced, a bit more is to be siphoned
out of the private sector of the economy
by taxation, and hopes are that wool
prices will stabilise at more reasonable
levels during the coming season. Still,
investment (public and private) and immi-
gration promise to continue at high levels,
which, combined with a large defence pro-
gramme, is likely to spell “full” employ-
ment, high wages and high costs. It all
places fresh emphasis on the need for in-
creased production and quicker distribu-
tion, especially of basic materials. Speaking
generally, the level of co. profits will be
largely governed by the level of turnover.
At 755. 9d, (445. 6d. a year ago) the
co.’s pound ords. return 4 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. The 6-7£ p.c. participating
prefs. at 295, 7d., the 6 per cents at
245. 3d. and the 5 per cents at 235. Id.
yield 5 p.c., 5 p.c. and 4.3 p.c. respec-
tively. Net tangible cover is 375. all shares
—the prefs., which enjoy priority as to
divs. and capital, share in surplus assets.
Moreton Central Sugar
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. t Dividends serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1946 .. 14,250 6 p.c. = 7,092 7,158 38,140
Taxation paid, £9581* .. .. 28,559
1947 .. 16,601 6 p.c. = 7,092 9,509 38,068
1948 .. 14,777 6 „ 7,092 6,128 51,881
1949 .. 13,251 6 „ ~ 7,123 6,128 61,881
1950 .. 10,094 6 „ „ 7,355 2,739 54,620
* Taxes paid in respect to 1945 and 1946.
This co.’s mill at Nambour (Q.) is a bit
far s<#uth ; it therefore doesn’t handle the


FACTORY and STORAGE
SPACE
For Sale by Public Auction
In
ROCKHAMPTON.
We will sell by Public Auction, on
the premises, the Freehold of The
Queensland Peanut Board, Quay and
Stanley Sts., Rockhampton, 11 a.m.,
Tuesday, 10th July, 1951. Building
66ft. x 129 ft. with 30ft. walls of iron,
2 stories; rail siding right into
Building; deepwater wharf alongside.
The building is very strong, suitable
for factory or storage of heavy goods.
For complete details write:—The
Farm Exchange, Auctioneers, Denham
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Phone 3768.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Australian and Overseas Patents
Trade Marks. — Advt.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
p
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees anc manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down, Sydney, N.S.W.
Positions Vacant.
Applications are invited for the
following Staff positions by The
Raub Australian Gold Mining
Company Limited, Malaya.
1. Assistant General Manager: Appli-
cants should possess a University
Mining Degree or Diploma from a
recognised School of Mines, and a
sound practical experience in
mining and treatment of gold-
bearing ores. Commencing salary
£2200 Sterling per annum, plus
allowances.
2. Mine Superintendent: Previous
practical experience essential.
Commencing salary £l3OO Sterling,
plus allowances.
3. Geologlst/Surveyor: With Univer-
sity Degree or completed Mining
school Course. Commencing salary
£9OO Sterling per annum, plus
allowances.
4. Chief Engineer: To take control
of Engineering Section of Com-
pany’s undertaking. Experience
in the installation, operation and
maintenance of modern mining
and electrical equipment is essen-
tial. Commencing salary £l6OO
Sterling, plus allowances.
In addition to salaries specified
the successful applicants will be
allowed free quarters and a cost-of-
living allowance subject to periodic
revision but which is at present £237-
£B4O Sterling per annum. Fares and
reasonable travelling expenses paid
to Mine. At end of three years’ con-
tracted service six months’ leave on
full pay granted with return fares.
Income Tax rates in Malaya are com-
paratively low. Successful appli-
cants must present a satisfactory
Health Certificate. Applications,
with references and particulars of
age and marital state, should be sent
to the Secretaries, Chas. A. Clarke
& Son, Box No. 277 D, G.P.0., Bris-
bane.
Sufferers Acclaim
THE REVOLUTIONARY NEW
CORTISONE
TREATMENT FOR
• ARTHRITIS
• RHEUMATISM
AT LAST! . . . Revolutionary medical techniques,
developed in famous overseas laboratories, now
available, in simple form, to sufferers in Australia of
Arthritis, Rheumatism, and painful swollen joints I
sd
CONTAINS THE NEW WONDER DRUG
in a SAFE Combined Form
Initial absorption through the skin of the pain-relieving and
remedial agents of Corobin is attained within IS seconds.
Several people have reported a noticeable improvement in
their condition in 2 or 3 days.
Note: Extensive tests show that the use of the combined
form of Cortisone, as contained in Corobin, is safe, and
no deleterious side-effects result from its use!
COROBIN
supplied through all leading wholesale drug houses,
is available now at your Chemist. Price 27/6 a Jar.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
BRITISH JUP
WINS MONTE CARLO RALLY (IV 2 litre class)
c ■ il'C-n -~' v
>■!
■■-V'
m
&
a
H
JOWETT JUPITER
Sports convertible with glass
side windows and all-weather
equipment. Cruising speed is
in the 60’s.
The Jupiter at Speed
In the Monte Carlo Rally last January,
Jowett Cars excelled in the 2,000 mile time-
controlled winter route, the acceleration and
braking, and speed and regularity tests.
They made spectacular wins for Britain:—
%
★ Jupiters were Ist and 2nd in the 1\ litre class,
it The fast Javelin saloon de luxe came 4th in
the 1% litre class.
★ Jowett Cars won the coveted Manufacturers
Team Prize in the 1\ litre class.
★ Jowett Cars shared the Stuart Trophy for the
best British performance.
DISTRIBUTORS; Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty
Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors Ltd.,
Brisbane; British Engineering Appliances Ltd., Adelaide; Western
Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Perth; Donald Carriage Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
fs
JOWETT
JAVELIN
Full "5-scater family saloon. Combines luxury
and perfect safety with high performance.
ai mm
M
THE BRADFORD
The Bradford Commercial range, available
with station waggon body, is known aU
over the world for its amazing economy
and sturdy reliability.
Made in Britain by JOWETT CARS LIMITED, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire
big tonnages mills further north
do. Cane crushed and raws pro-
duced since 1944 were:
Oane Raw Cane Raw
Crashed, Sugar, Crushed, Sugar,
Tons. Ton*. Tons. Tons.
’U , 88,886 8.378 ’4B .103,477 13,524
’46 . 89,052 10.249 ’49 .149,406 19,030
'47 .124,739 16,217 ’5O .124,028 15,990
The record tonnage in 1949
resulted from installation of
additional plant in the previous
year and excellent seasonal con-
ditions. Last year was an excep-
tionally wet one ; hence drop of
25,378 tons in the quantity of
cane put through the rollers and
the shrinkage of 3040 tons in
output of raws.
At the same time there was a
steep rise in wages and all other
operating costs. So, although
the overall average price for
raws was approximately £27 17s.
as against £26 9s. for the pre-
vious season, net earnings were
£3157 lighter at £10,094. That
was after allowing £7OOO (down
£5000) for depreciation and
something for taxation. The
£10,094 was 8.2 p.c, on capital
as against 11.1, 12.5, 14, 11.9
and 9.4 p.c. back to 1945. The
consistent decline in profit since
1947 appears to be due mainly
to rising costs and fluctuations
in tonnages, though undisclosed
adjustments for taxation may
have some bearing on the
figures. The div. was kept at
6 p.c., making the average 5.4
p.c. over the last 16 years. For
the nine preceding years no
divs. were paid—the co. went to
its bankers to finance plant ex-
pansion, and the debt and then
slump pressed heavily upon
earnings. The highly prosperous
decade to 1925, when a run of
10 p.c. divs. was sweetened with
£56,199 of bonus scrip, is, of
course, now history.
Last term book debts were
reduced by £57,848 and £32,614
was clipped off the overdraft and
£17,521 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc.:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. 120,316 121,977 122,656
Creditors, etc* 51,482 183,727 116,206
Bank overdraft 77,160 41,177 8,563
Final dividends 7,092 7,123 7,365
Sugar mill, etc. 143,816 137,665 146,750
Stock .. .. 5,628 5,159 7.027
Debtors .. 150,261 210,626 152,778
Cash & invest-
ments. .. 2,538 2,535 2,840
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
During the year £9085 more
than was written off was spent
on the mill, etc., which explains
the slip of £5772 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£30,521),
When the books closed there
was 14s. of outside money in the
business for every pound be-
longing to shareholders.
For the current season a satis-
factory crushing is anticipated.
Brightest spot in the outlook is
the new sugar agreement with
U.K., which means bigger
export sales and a lift in mill
peaks. The 1951 average export
price of raws is expected to be
about £2 better at £33 a ton.
The ugly feature is the persistent
rise in wage and all other costs,
to help offset which growers and
millers have asked the Govern-
ment to increase the selling-price
of fines in the home market by
lid., making it 61d, per pound.
The increase would be equal to
£l4 per ton, of which growers
would get around £ll.
At 255. 10d.(275. 6d. a year ago)
the f.-p, pound shares return
4.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 28s. lid.
Central Victoria Gold Dredg-
ing’s No. 2 machine began dig-
ging on the Amphitheatre area,
which consists of flats and
terraces flanking the Avoca
River (Vic.), on June 12. Cap-
able of handling 2,000,000 c.y.
р. this dredge was bought
from Victoria Gold Dredging,
dismantled and then reassembled
on the present site, where it will
be occupied in opening-out
operations for some weeks yet.
In this area 20,000,000 c.y. were
test-bored to average 2.04 gr. re-
coverable gold ; average depth
was 35ft., of which 12ft. was
overburden, and the bottom
sandstone and slate. The co.’s
No. 1 dredge, also a 2,000,000
с. p.a. machine, began com-
mercial production on the
nearby Jim Crow area early
in 1950. For the year
to March 31, 1951, it treated
1,619,383 c.y. for 66540 z.
fine gold, an average of 1.97 gr.
per yard, or a shade below the
prospectus estimate of 2.12 gr.
Vith costs at 6d. a yard, it is
expected that the two dredges
will turn in a profit of about
£150,000 p.a. Paid capital is
£390,000 in 10s. shares, which
recently sold around 255, 9d.
* * * *
According to cable reports
London - controlled Paringa
Mining and Exploration, operat-
ing on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.), made a loss of
£534,406 for the year to Aug.
31, 1950. Milling was suspended
in January last. Rising costs
and relatively low-grade ore are
the troubles. Development work
is proceeding in an effort to
open-up enough high-grade stuff
to use as a sweetener in bring-
ing average value of ore reserves
to a profitable level. In
Aug., 1949, ore reserves were
figured at 124,933 tons averag-
ing 4.9dwt. The co. is interested
in the Maritana leases at the
northern end of Kalgoorlie,
which are being tested by the
Mt. Charlotte co., in which
Paringa holds a substantial
share interest. For the three
years to 1947 Paringa paid
121 p.c., followed by nil, 10 p.c.
and nil last term. The co.’s Is.
stock units, which fetched 3s. Id.
in Adelaide in 1950, recently
sold at Is. Id.
* * * ♦
The benefits to the goldmining
industry which followed the rise
in the price of the yellow metal
in Sept, 1949, have been
gobbled, and more besides, by
the persistent growth in wage-
and freight-rates, and increased
prices for stores, materials and
equipment, which are also diffi-
cult to obtain. The labor posi-
tion, especially for skilled
miners, remains acute, and pros-
pecting for new deposits is prac-
tically at a standstill. For these
and other reasons the Westralian
Mine Owners’ Association in
London recently asked Premier
McLarty to support their request
to the Federal Government for
permission to sell part of their
Australian output for industrial
purposes in the open market,
where the metal commands a
premium. South Africa recently
sold about 40 p.c. of its gold
output in this way at a premium
of 38s. (stg.) an ounce.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of;—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in ;
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
CiSSS?
55r
»r
&as
y*y-'"
VJ3
s? I
w
t
i,«.
: Ih
PI. 82
WHEN A COCKTAIL
CALLS FOR ABSINTHE
USE—
PERNOD
Leading Wine
and Spirit
Merchants,
Hotels and Clubs
will supply you
with this essen-
tial to many
of the world's
most exciting
cocktails.
Agents hr Australia:
McLaughlin & Co. Pty. Ltd.. Sydney
Distributors —Victoria: Stephan King Pty. Ltd., Taylor Forgoton & Co. Pty.
Ltd. South Australia: George Wills t Co. Ltd. Weston Australia*
Brown & Dareau Ltd.
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Economic Weather-change
The rising tendency of
interest-rates, the further decline
in wool prices, the trouble in
Persia (with its possibilities of
war), the prospect of higher
taxation, the weakening of share
prices in London and New
York, and the usual year-end
problems all combined to bring
about a fall in the Australian
sharemarket level last week. It
was, however, little more than a
setback. Though weakness,
especially among the market
leaders, was general, the decline,
on the average, was not great
among industrial shares.
Chief uneasiness was in the
bond market. There is an almost
world-wide movement towards
higher rates of interest. Earlier
this year the United States made
a major move towards higher
interest levels, and the trend in
Britain had developed even
earlier. As The Bulletin has
pointed out for many years, the
cost of money in Australia has
been kept artificially low by
Treasury controls and central-
bank support for Common-
wealth securities on the Stock
Exchange.
There is one feature about
the Australian bond market,
common to most countries, that
should help to sustain it, and
it is the fact that institutional
lenders —mostly insurance and
assurance companies—are the
chief holders of Commonwealth
stock, and are unlikely to be big
traders in Consols. They can
well afford to hold out against
temporary movements in the
market and await redemption at
par or conversion at a higher and
appropriate rate of interest
eventually. But they are not
taking up new issues of Consols
so eagerly.
Last week’s bond - market
weakness was, naturally enough,
most pronounced among the
long-dated issues. On June 22
the 1963 3} p.c.’s were down to
£94, including interest accrued,
and were offering a net yield of
£3 15s. 6d. per cent, —13s. per
cent, above the issue-rate.
On Monday of last week
Treasurer Fadden had an-
nounced that the market for
Government loans was “alarm-
ing,” and that sufficient loan
money might not be obtainable
in the coming financial year for
immediate national develop-
mental and defence require-
ments. Up to the middle of
1950, he said, loans to the public
were offered at 3| per cent. But
since then various pressures had
been at work on the market,
and increasing competition was
being met from private invest-
ment.
Sir Arthur Fadden added that
conservative investors had been
attracted from gilt-edged Gov-
ernment securities by premiums
to which ne>v issues immediately
climbed on being “listed.” They
wanted to be in on the ground
floor, and to ride-out inflation
with as much security as pos-
sible. He went on to say that
life-offices and other institutional
investors were veering away
from gilt-edged or public-utility
stocks in order to get a higher
interest yield.
All these trends mentioned by
the Commonwealth Treasurer
are perfectly normal economic
movements. The remarkable
thing is that “trustee” investors
have suffered in silence and
inactivity for so long. They
have come off very badly in the
inflationary gale that has swept
Australia.
Though wool again weakened
in price last week, quotations
for better-class types are still
high, and far above the average
for the 1949-50 season. In the
meantime, of course, costs have
risen, and IOOd. a pound for
wool in 1951 doesn’t mean the
same thing as IOOd. 12 months
ago. There is unlikely to be so
much pastoralists’ money await-
ing investment as there has
been. On the other hand there
are likely to be fewer new issues.
Capital Issues Control has
already cracked down hard on
MATfffMrtV
WAf?D
"I don't know what things are coming to with this
shortage of everything"
concerns seeking new capital,
and the “free” maximum has
been reduced from £25,000 to
£lO,OOO a year.
Now that interest-rates are
lengthening it remains to be seen
whether the price-controllers
will be prepared to allow in-
dustry a higher profit-margin
percentage. There has been, up
to the present, a generally
opposite policy—it has been the
custom to squeeze the pro-
prietary side of industry in order
to pay higher wages to wage-
earners, and at the same time
keep living costs down as far as
possible.
It is certainly a fact that at
present the yields received from
industry as a whole are not suf-
ficient to support sharemarket
prices. The investor of £lOO in
average industrial shares in
1939 is not today getting any-
thing like the same buying-
power from his dividends as he
was in that last pre-war year.
The recent high level of share
prices has been based primarily
on fears of further inflation and
upon hopes of great future in-
dustrial expansion in the Com-
monwealth. Whether the latter
hopes are to be fully realised
will depend a great deal upon
whether basic industries, like
coalmining, are freed from job-
control and other obstructions,
and upon whether the price and
taxation authorities give in-
dustry proper consideration for
the effects of inflation upon con-
trolled profits and upon pro-
vision for asset-replacement.
And there must be higher all-
round man-hour production.
R. B. Davies
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.,
is another Australian co. to be
favored with an arrangement
whereby it will co-operate with
an old-established British con-
cern to manufacture patented
engineering products in Aus-
tralia. (Recent example was
Gibson, Battle and Co., which
entered into a manufacturing
and agency agreement with
Head, Wrightson and Co., York-
shire engineers).
The R. B. Davies agreement
is with the Yorkshire Copper
Works, of Leeds, whereby a
jointly-owned Australian sub-
sidiary will be set up to manu-
facture brass capillary fittings
for water, gas and refrigeration
trades, for which the Yorkshire
co. holds world patents.
Subject to approval from
Capital Issues Control, R. B.
Davies proposes to issue about
145,000 new ords. at par, one
for three, in order to acquire its
proportionate share in the new
enterprise. The new capital will
raise the Davies share-register
total to just under £600,000.
This is subject |o any shares
that may need to be issued to
complete the acquisition of four
established Australian com-
panies—W. H. Wells Pty, and
Wells Export Co. Pty., both of
Melbourne, and Daw Pty. and
Victor Motor Co. Pty., of Syd-
ney. The Wells acquisition will
give R. B. Davies manufactur-
ing facilities in Melbourne,
while the other cos. will fit into
the Davies line of business. Pur-
chase consideration (there is to
be an exchange of scrip) has not
yet been disclosed.
R. B. Davies Industries repre-
sents the biggest builders’-hard-
ware manufacturing organisa-
tion in the Commonwealth. Set
up in the 19205, it became a pub-
lic co. early last year, and this
year its shares have moved up
from 28s. 6d. to as high as
465. 6d, Earnings for 1949-50
represented a shade under 12
p.c. on average capital (the div,
was 7 p.c.), and those for the
year now closing are expected
to be better. The scrip in re-
cent months has been tightly
held. Sellers were offering the
£1 ords. at 465. in last week’s
uncertain market.
Australian wool sales for the
first 11 months of the season
just closing totalled £616,2 mil-
lion, which compares with
£257.9 million for the corres-
ponding period of the previous
season—an increase of 138 p.c.
The total receipts for 1949-50
were £286.6 million. In bales,
sales (3,353,102 bales) were
75,055 bales greater than for
the same period of 1949-50.
Average price for greasy was
147,9 d. in the latest season, com-
pared with 62.8 d. There has
lately been a weakening from
the top prices of the season, but
the average is still high com-
pared with 1949-50 figures.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton’s two-for-
five ord. issue at a premium of
10s. per £1 share will involve
756,835 shares, including 50,000
to be offered to employees.
When the new shares are fully
paid capital will be £2,612,019,
including £153,104 of pref.
money. The co. has been one
of Australia’s most expansive
manufacturing concerns over
the past dozen years, and it has
treated its shareholders well. It
is becoming one of our
largest industrial companies.
Part of its N. S. Wales activities
were recently transferred from
Sydney to the Rutherford area
for labor-supply reasons. The
ord. div. has been steady at 10
p.c. for the past decade. The
old ords. were at 535. 6d., cum.
rights, in last week’s dipping
market.
* * ♦ ♦
Dunlop Rubber, in proposing
to double its nominal capital
(from £6 million to £l2 million),
apparently has big projects in
view. It has a link with Brad-
ford Cotton through its share-
holding in that concern, which,
through a subsidiary, also makes
tyre-cord.


sd
fsd
Circular Chart* for ail lypci
of Becordln? Irutrumanta
Uf Mr «Uu o» HachtA«ry
«* Equl(»m«iwi
MCfCH CMHH •
lE—ea-oumn mm. MH»*NE
\
9.
m
%
V<-#'
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
GREGORY BLAXLAND
On the left of the main western highway from
Sydney, just beyond Katoomba, is the Explorers’
Tree, one of the trees marked by Gregory Blaxland
during his famous exploration of the passage over
the Blue Mountains,
Undeterred by Governor King’s conclusion that
the mountains were impassable, and that further
efforts to master them would be "as chimerical as
useless,” Blaxland determined to test the theory that
the way to cross the mountains was not to follow a
valley but to climb to the top of a ridge and trace
it westward.
Accompanied by Lieutenant Lawson and William
Charles Wentworth and four servants, he set out in
May, 1813, from his farm at South Creek, and, cut-
ting his way through heavily timbered country, suc-
ceeded in opening up a passage towards the western
plains.
On the occasion of the Jubilee of the Common-
wealth of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales
—Australians pioneer bank—honours the explorers
who opened the way for the development of this
great country.
X &
fs
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Milt I 4 H I IN AUSTRALIA
Cinoobpobatbd in new south wales with limited liability)
ASIOBD
YOU’LL MAKE MORE MONEY BY INVESTINC IN
THE
SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
LOAN
£3-8-9
PER CENT. PER ANNUM
This £1,000,000 Loan, issued at par and maturing
in 1963, has two features of special interest to
you. £3-8-9 is a particularly handsome return on
an Authorised Trustee Investment. Whether you
invest £5O, £5OO or £5OOO, your interest will be
paid half-yearly, into your bank account if you wish.
Then, as an investor, you’ll have the satisfaction
of helping to provide more power for Sydney;
the Loan will assist the construction of .the new
Pyrmont Power House (200,000 Kilowatts) and
other vital works.
APPLY AT ONCE
Call at any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the Council s city and suburban offices, or
any Stockbroker for your prospectus and application form.
The Loan is underwritten by lan Potter and Company, Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne,
and will close on or before 7th July.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Recent figures from the Board
of Trade and other sources show
that public spending continues
to increase, notwithstanding the
constant grumble at rising costs.
Takings of departmental stores,
multiple-shops and co-operative
societies have shown an increase
of rather more than 25 p.c, over
the same period of last year. As
customers of all incomes spend
within these stores it is reason-
able to assume that the heavier
spending is both wide and
general. However anomalous it
may seem, at first sight, that
people whose available surplus
decreases month by month
should contrive to spend more,
the explanation is not hard to
find. They are cutting out
“luxury” spending, such as
railway-journeys, weekends in
country or coastal hotels, are go-
ing less to the cinema, making
do with old radio-sets and not
buying television-sets.
The purpose of this is not to
save for a rainy day—the with-
drawal of small savings has been
substantial —but to cash in while
the going’s good and buy clothes
and household effects. In dis-
appearing underground, the old
slogan “Save to Spend” appears
to have suffered the same fate as
good language and become dis-
torted by back-slang into “Spend
to Save.”
Pleasure Trove
Battersea was not always what
it is now—a drab incline of
bricks and mortar, holed and
scarred by war’s thunderbolts,
between the Thames and Clap-
ham Common. Not much more
than a hundred years ago the
marshy Battersea Fields were a
no-man’s-land of questionable
pursuits. It was here that the
Duke of Wellington fought a
duel with the Earl of Winchelsea
at cold dawn; and it was here
that costers and their donahs,
jaunty fustian Bucks and all the
“wide boys” of the early nine-
teenth century came to watch
pigeon-shooting and donkey-
racing.
A century’s progress has,
among other things, drained the
swamp and outdone the hood-
lums. It has also restored the
fair (although, significantly, not
on Sundays) to the original site,
lately called Battersea Park and
now bearing the dignified but
temporary name of Festival
Pleasure Gardens.
Never did a more respectable
body of people besport them-
selves in such respectable sur-
roundings. Well-spoken girls in
period costumes sell guide-books
with studied politeness. White-
collared “barkers” and booth-
holders seem better-tailored than
most of the visitors and might be
business executives at a trade
fair. On this Tuesday evening,
the bars were three-quarters
empty. Quietly-behaved and
rather oldish groups sat on the
terrace, conversing in whispers to
background and discreetly-
muffled light classics relayed
from the Amphitheatre, where a
small orchestra in dinner-jackets
played to an audience of about
20.
Children ride from Oyster
Creek to Far Tottering on the
Emett railway, which is charac-
teristically fascinating close-to
and almost like any other light
railway from a distance ; more
rarely, for charges are high, do
they ride on the dizzy and
mechanically - elaborate fair -
ground appliances.
An odd venturesome youth or
a grey-haired veteran “has a go”
at rifle-shooting at four shots a
shilling. The most popular side-
show is a variation on the coco-
nut-shy in which a bull’s-eye
electrically contrives to tip
the lady out of bed; but
it’s all very decorous and
wouldn’t give offence to a con-
ference of lay preachers. Crowds
throng past a miniature Ver-
sailles to watch, free, acrobats
high up a revolving mast. A few
bold couples pay 6d. for a “short
session” in the dance tent. In
the failing light, clusters of
people chance upon the Amphi-
theatre, now given to first-class
ballet to music by Arthur
Benjamin, and stand blinking,
respectful but not quite sure of
what it’s all about. The restau-
rants are well-designed to save
time, but the food is ordinary and
unappetising. Everything else is
excellent —even lavish —but then
practically everything else is sub-
sidised, either by the State or by
commercial sponsors.
So, with resolute purposeful-
ness and complete absence of
bot h abandon and disorderliness,
do Britons go to the fair in 1951.
indeed, if the huge crowds at
t h e Pleasure Gardens form a
true cross-section of the nation
at leisure—and it’s hard to find
a more representative “sample”
—then the castigations of two
re cent and widely-discussed
SO cial investigations must be
ver y w j,j e 0 f the mark.
my .m
Z , 1C , . ~. . .
The latest product of that m-
defatigable forcing-house, the
Hammersmith Lyric, is an
e p on y mous revue, in the Herbert
• J on tradition of such effect
ar J eon tra , in oi sucn eneci
to put the West End shghtly
t f f 0 „ : the
? ut • , cus> . unc 1 e , agam 9*
bent pm bas triumphed over the
. hr *. at . fisb ; ns . r od True the
elaD 9 ra : e nsnmg-roa. irue, me
1S best-quality steel and is
| ujded by hands that know the i r
bus j ness There are neither
mflpnet ; r sfar<; nor extra-lavish
Stacies but sknnlv a hard-
S P eC , taCleS ’ 15111 aim ? ly a nar r
workin g team of quite astonish-
• versa tijity.
. ~ , .
A r > hur Macrae who is respon-
sible for most of the sketches and
lyrics, is the chief delineator. He
avoids the hackneyed and also
the seamy innuendo of cabaret
or intimate revue. His wry and
witty observations include debu-
tantes rebelling aga i nst "jerseys
and pearls and sensible shoes ,
tke hard-bitten feminine subjec
of an early English oil-painting
protesting against being restored ,
distress or two china ngures
(beautifully expressed in Ricnar
Addmsell s music) on discover-
lnS they are export rejects an
must needs remain in England,
and the almost-rnghtening
masochism oi an American
woman who is determined to
suffer with the Britons,
His theatrical burlesques cover
a wider scope than is usual and
are richly topical: Ibsen s
“Ghosts as a Broadway musical;
pepped up in Cole 1 orter
fashion ; Peter Pan in the style
°f Tennessee Williams ; Ko bin-
son Crusoe ’ according to Nancy
Mitford ; and a Freudian Cinder-
cha with a Central European
ac^ nt - , ... , , .
Those who are sensitive about
th ® Fe f 1 7 r aI , m^ y
* ast f of Noel Coward s Don t
Make Fun J he Fair ’ b 9*
spectacle of four grim, jaded
Britons* defiantly united m not
lettlr ?S the side down, was too
much , f ° r t “ e audience. It
stopped the show,
Of sentiment there might well
be more, and the one touching
sketch (by Gerald Bryant) has to
hark back 50 years for its effect
and concerns a barmaid at the
Folies Bergere who is unhappy
the Bohemians and longs
£ or ber nat i V e Brittany.
Through no fault of its own,
revue is elossv rather than
tn !. is glossy rainer man
chiefly because the topical
a ]t us i ons are so aD t that thev tua
allusions are so apt maimey mg
a t the heartstnngs. Such astnn-
t exDr ession bv authors and
Bnt expr s j on ’ y aumors ana
actors an d audiences sends
ma k e -believe oackine
make believe packing.
Heard near Goueh Sauare*
H eard nea r uougn square,
Visitor: “ ’Sense me,
exactly where is Doctor Johnson s
house?”
Native of New Generation :
“Dunno, Guv. If you want a doctor
you should ask at a post office, not
me I"


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Mrs. Arthur Blakeborough, president
of the Women’s Group of the British
Memorial Fund, and Mrs. Arnold Isaac-
son, organiser, saw their well-laid plans
come to a successful conclusion when 300
guests attended their back-stage supper-
party on the stage of the Princess Theatre
after the conclusion of “The Merry Wives
of Windsor.” Mrs. Blakeborough re-
ceived the guests, who included theatrical
personalities, among them Evelyn Laye
and her husband, Frank Lawton. Evelyn
looked very lovely in a gown of black
faille which featured a three-quarter tunic
with an Oriental influence, and an all-over
embroidered pattern of tiny flowers.
Vivacious Olive Lucius, of the “Briga-
doon” company, was another of the
guests. Others present interested in the
welfare of the British Memorial Fund
were Mr. and Mrs. lan Potter, Lady
Robinson, whose short black taffeta frock
had a deep shawl-collar of pale-mauve
silk, Mrs. Fred Dennett, Mrs. Frank Tait
and Mrs. Ross Grey Smith.
Melbourne Grammar School chapel
was the setting for the nuptials of Helen
Reid, second daughter of Mr. R. H. A.
Cochrane, of Hawthorn, and the late Mrs.
Cochrane, and Geoffrey Roland, only
son of Mrs. D. G. Fink, of South Yarra,
and the late Mr. Fink. The bridal gown
of magnolia-satin was cut on classical
lines and featured a scooped-out neckline
filled in with tiny rosebuds. Rosebuds
made of pearl-embroidered satin also
trimmed the gown and held the tulle veil
in place. The bride carried a simple trail
of variegated ivy leaves. A similar trail
was also carried by the bridesmaid, Jill
Darling, who wore a draped gown of
biscuit-colored chiffon with which she
wore a matching lace bolero and feather
cloche. Stewart Wallach was best man.
Father Lawrence Eyers, who came from
Mount Lofty, S.A., for the wedding,
assisted Rev. J. C. W. Brown in perform-
ing the ceremony. Reception was set
at the Grosvenor, Toorak.
Two pretty girls who were at school
together at The Hermitage celebrated
their coming-of-age with a party at the
Geelong Golf Club. They were June,
only child of Mr. and Mrs. D. G. Baker,
of Anglesea, and Barbara, only child of
Mrs. A. W. Bossance, of Geelong, and the
late Mr. Bossence. June’s snow-white
silver-spangled tulle skirt was allied to a
bodice of sheer white velvet; Barbara
chose a cyclamen net gown which had a
portrait neckline and rhinestones scat-
tered on the skirt. Mrs. Baker and Mrs.
Bossence assisted their daughters receive
the guests, the former in black faille,
which had gold trimming, and Mrs. Bos-
sence in black and silver laces. Among
the many young guests were Joan Nesbit,
Margot Douglas (from Moulamein,
N.S.W.), Hilary Heath, Vilma Welsh and
Nanette Bowman. The two girls cut their
two-tiered cake with the sword belonging
to Mr. Baker, who was formerly a cap-
tain in the 17th Lancers, B.E.F.
There were 200 guests at the late-after-
noon party given by Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Lynch, of Toorak, to celebrate the birth-
day of Helen Drummond McDougall.
This was at No. 9 Darling-street, which
was gay with huge bowls of autumn
flowers, branches of citrus-fruit and
foliage, while log fires blazed merrily.
Mrs. Lynch wore a smart black ensemble
and a small pastel-pink osprey-trimmed
cloche; the guest-of-honor topped her
mist-blue osprey-trimmed shantung frock
with a wide-brimmed matching hat, the
underbrim lined with black grosgrain.
Briefly and wittily T. T. Hollway, former
Premier, proposed the birthday toast, also
for Mrs. Ivor McGinnis, who was cele-
brating her birthday too, Mrs. Hollway’s
ensemble of junior-blue was matched by
her small hat. With Sir Leslie McConnan
was his petite wife, who wore a model
black cocktail frock and small black hat.
Air Marshal G. Jones and Mrs. Jones,
Mrs. S Rowell and daughter Rosslyn
were among the guests. With the Consul-
General for the U.S.A., S. J. Fletcher,
was Mrs. Fletcher. The U.S. Military
Col. Rufus Ramey, was with his
wife and daughter. Among other Ameri-
cans were Bertie Hotchkiss and his wife,
the W. W. Killoughs and Mr, and Mrs.
E. C. Daum.
Lady Robinson and Lady Snow were
both beautifully frocked in black; Mrs.
Norman Lynch and Mrs. A. G. Silk
covered their frocks with blue mink stoles.
With Dr. Paddy Moran was his wife, who
wore black velvet trimmed with white
ermine. Mrs, Scobie MacKinnon wore
mink over black. Mrs. Russell Clarke was
with her husband, the Hon. W. L. Russell
Clarke. Other guests were Keith Morrison
and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Robin-
son, Dr. and Mrs. K. McLean, the Con-
rad Charltons, John X. O’Driscoll and
Mrs. O’Driscoll, Mr. and Mrs, Arthur
Laver, Wyn Kellow, Judith Silk, and
Gwen Reed, who was with her parents,
Lt.-Col. A. E. Reed and Mrs. Reed. A
most welcome gift in these days of short-
ages was the sack of potatoes, dressed up
with flowers and presented by one of the
many newspaperwomen at the party.
Ethel Cosmas, one of the helpers at
the display and sale of gifts organised
by Mrs. Basil Logus at the Delphic, wore
a picturesque national costume which she
made herself. It was designed after one
worn by Amalia, the first Queen of
Greece. The goods were given by
merchants of Greece in grateful remem-
brance of the work done by the Red
Cross for their country during the last
war. The proceeds from the sale will go
to the Australian Red Cross as a gift
from the Greek branch. All the lovely
goods displayed for sale were to have
been sold at the Red Cross Jubilee Inter-
national Fair, but as they arrived too late
the committee of the Greek branch of
Red Cross, headed by Mrs. Logus, held
its own little fair. Exquisite hand-
wrought silver jewellery, lovely glass-
ware, ceramics, fine embroidery and
hand-made dolls, Greek wine, cigarettes
and national foods were seen on the
stalls.
Bulletin poetess Mary Finnin (Mrs.
John Connellan) has one thing in
common with the founder of this paper:
both J. F. Archibald and she were born
in the little village of Kildare, near
Geelong (Vic.). The name Kildare has
long vanished from the locality, but Mary
Finnin has written a monograph on her
birthplace as it must have been when
Archibald’s parents went there 100 years
ago. Her first contribution to The
Bulletin received an “Answers to
Correspondent’s” reply: “Interesting
facts about seaweed carefully noted,”
which disappointed her deeply, but she
was cheered when, in the course of the
review of her first book, A Beggar’s
Opera, the Red Page remarked: “She
has achieved one more remarkable feat;
written a good poem about Sydney’s
bridge, from whose arches about thirteen
lesser writers a week ago went hurtling
into the wastepaper-basket.”
Mary Finnin has crowded much into
her busy life. A graduate of Melbourne
University, she has been highschool-
teacher, artist, play-producer, Red Cross
Society rehabilitation officer and an in-
dustrial relations officer with the Depart-
ment of Labor and National Service. In
Melbourne she studied sculpture under
Paul Montford, painting under George
Bell and Arnold Shore, tapestry under
Edith Pincott and etching under Jessie
Traill and Victor Cobb. Overseas she
studied painting, bookbinding, weaving,
stained - glass designing, education
systems, psychology and aesthetics, and
worked in a mosaic factory in Venice.
The knowledge gained in her studies has
been put to good account in many
cultural fields. Recognised as among our
best contemporary poets, she has half a
dozen books of verse to her credit, and
is represented in nearly 20 different
anthologies. The chief influence in Mary
Finnin’s writings and art is the Australian
landscape, with its light and air, and the
life pulsing through it. She knows
Southern Victoria, the Murray Valley
and the Western Riverina like the back
of her hand, and she and her husband
spend much time in a Kayak on the rivers
or nosing about odd parts of the country
with a dog.
From Sydney
Bligh-street looked like a little bit of
London when the Royal Empire Society
held a reception during the week for the
Governor’s two daughters, Elizabeth
Northcott and Mrs. Donald Coburn. A
red-and - white - candy - striped canopy
sheltered the red carpet on the pavement,
lending an even more dignified air to that
habitually-aloof street. Hostesses Mrs.
Allen Williams and Mrs. Norman
Jenkyn, with Mrs. F. E. Manning, wel-
comed the two girls, and the wives of the
heads of nearly everything round the town
were present, including Mrs. E. C. O’Dea,
Mrs. James McGirr, Mrs. F. H. Berry-
man, Mrs. W. Bridgeford and Mrs. H. C.
Showers, Also present were Lady
Anderson, Lady Braddon, Mrs. Florence
Taylor, Mrs, Frank Louat, Mrs. Persia
Porter, Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Mrs. Alec
Morgan, Mrs. Rahman and Mrs. Donald
Smith.
This calm-eyed beauty is Rosemary
Miller, who will be seen opposite Grant
Taylor in the new Australian film “Cap-
tain Thunderbolt.” This is Rosemary’s
first major role in films, but she is well-
known for her stage- and radio-work.
She has toured N. S. Wales and Queens-
land with the Metropolitan Theatre in
“Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and in
Sydney with them in “The Rivals,”
“Twelfth Night” and “Shipwreck.” As
Barbara Allen in “Dark of the Moon”
she made a notable impression. She was
educated at Marsden College in New
Zealand, where she was bom, and where
her father is chief-of-staff of “The
Dominion” and her mother correspondent
for the “Auckland Weekly.”
When Curzon’s put on a parade of
wool fashions at the Sheep Show the
mannequin who stole all the thunder was
Saul of Boonoke, a merino ram “speci-
ally trained” for the parade. He certainly
looked very handsome and walked with
enviable precision and dignity. The
fashions ranged from sports wear to
evening wear, and included a beautiful
white wool wedding-dress with a low-
cut neckline and a small Medici collar.
The evening coats were gracefully cut,
but it cannot be denied that when they’re
made of wool evening coats almost always
resemble dressing-gowns. The jackets
were more successful, especially the short
white one flaring all round from a cir-
cular yoke and decorated with turquoise
sequins.
The limitations of wool as a glamor
material were also revealed at the Peter
Pan Wool Ball, held at Romano’s on
Saturday night. In contrast to the lavish
brocades and chiffons, the cascades of
tulle and fabulous embroideries worn, the
wool dresses (about 20 in number) never
rose above the level of the good well-
cut dinner-dress. The prize-winner, Mrs.
Bob Withycombe, wore a perfectly plain
black wool with long sleeves, plunge-
neckline and full skirt. The nearest
approach to glamor in wool was the black
sweater embroidered round the boat-
shaped neckline with iridescent shells
which Mrs. John Thompson wore with
a red velvet skirt. Mrs. Jack Minnett’s
lime wool was very beautifully cut and
draped. Claudia Beazley’s red wool had
an interesting asymmetric neckline. Others
who chose wool dresses were Mrs. Ted
Body, Mrs. Roy McCaughey, Mrs. Reg
Gaskill and Diane Ay reton. The presi-
dent of the ball committee, Mrs. Lindsay
Bell, wore pink chiffon and lace. Mrs.
Evelyn Crossing was attractive in brown
tulle. The furs worn were out of this
world, most striking being the full-length
mutation mink belonging to Mrs. Bill
Lloyd.
The departure from these shores of
Sir Angus and Lady Gillan has caused
much regret among their friends here,
but the party given for them by the
Garden Club was nevertheless quite a
gay one. Lady Gillan, who looked
charming In Mack with a spray of
orchids, was to have spoken on “English
Gardens,” but as a true Scot, resenting
the term “English” for the British Isles,
she changed the title to “Gardens I Have
Known,” and paid special attention to the
flowers of Scotland for the enlightenment
of the philistine in the company who
had thought that Caledonia was really
stern and wild and consisted entirely of
mountains and mists and lakes and
heather and thistles. The Australian
flowers decorating the rooms were
interesting, pale-cream poinsettia from
the garden of the club president, Mrs.
Arthur Davis, and a striking arrange-
ment of the native spiky red-and-white
hakea. A very classy-looking set of
gardening implements inscribed with the
names of members of the club was
presented to Lady Gillan by Lieut.-
General Berryman.
By the way, plans are now well in
hand for the Garden Club’s first exhibi-
tion, which will be opened by Lady
Northcott at Farmer’s Roof Garden on
Tuesday, September 18, and will con-
tinue daily tdl September 22. It’s a long
way to look ahead, but as the Red Cross
Chelsea Flower Show may not be held
this year, flower-lovers should certainly
make a note of the date.
As 1700 people came to the Troc. for
the Dragon Festival Ball, all bent on
having a good time, it was a foregone
conclusion that the dance should be a
success. Only the hardiest spirits sur-
vived the barn-dance, which started with
two circles and finished with about six.
The debs, looked charming (most of
them wore dresses with tiny sleeves, quite
right for debs., but not always worn).
They were presented to the Consul-
General for China and Mrs. Martin L.
Wang by Mrs. D. Y. Narme, president
of the committee. Mrs. Wang wore a
black embroidered Chinese dress; Mrs,
Narme’s dress was black georgette, gold-
bespangled. Vice-president Mrs. W. H.
Oong managed to entertain the 120
guests in her own party, chat to the
official guests, who included many mem-
bers of the Diplomatic Corps, and have
a good time as well. Somehow this
Letter had got the idea that there was
going to be a dragon-dance, and was in-
clined to complain “Wot, no dragons!”
but organiser Percy Yan said that the
cut-out dragons, lighted lanterns, flowers
and flags were considered quite enough,
and maybe he was right. Any more
excitement might have set the place on
fire.
The N.S.W. National Opera Company
is getting a bit restive (and understand-
ably so) about the lack of Government
subsidy for their very worthy work. Both
Victoria and Queensland Governments
have subsidised their opera for some
years, but N.S.W., which should be taking
the lead in these matters, still hasn’t made
any grant. The company is asking for
£5OOO p.a., which would enable them to
send their opera to other States and N.Z.
Considering how much the Government
spends on the symphony orchestra and
how worthwhile this has proved, it seems
only fair that the opera company should
receive at least a little help.
Duo-pianists Nancy Salas and Mar-
jorie Ensor are to give a recital at the
Con. tonight at 8 p.m. The programme
will include the St. Anne Prelude and
Fugue by Bach, the Second Suite of
Rachmaninoff, and works by Busoni,
Poulenc, Benjamin Britten and Lennox
Berkley. Eva Kelly and Joyce Norwood
will also give the first performance in
Australia of Prelude Passacaglia and
Fugue for violin and viola by Gordon
Jacob.
Dorothy Stevenson’s ballet “Chiaras-
curo” brought some warm reviews from
the critics, but one of its best recom-
mendations comes from her fellow-
members of the Borovansky co., who all
said how much they enjoyed dancing it..
They were very enthusiastic, too, about
her dancing of “Giselle,” which must
have been very heart-warming for
“Dotty.” Praise and applause from critics
and audience are delightful, but when
they come from fellow-workers they take
on an added value.
John Alden’s “King Lear” and the
Metropolitan’s “Hamlet” both concluded
their very successful seasons this week,
while the Independent commences its
“Merchant of Venice” tonight.
In spite of competition from several
other functions on the same afternoon,
the card-party arranged by the Ladies’
Auxiliary for St. Vincent’s Hospital
brought a large and lively group of
people together. It was hard to estimate
just how many people were there as the
population seemed to shift and change
from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., but auxiliary presi-
dent Mrs. Tom Bateman said that about
£lOO had been raised for the hospital,
and that’s very satisfactory for one
afternoon.


0P4.25
gfiU KEEPS GOING
when the rest have stopped I
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries
it has been Exide—since 1888*
BATTERIES
d
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Group-Captain Stuart Campbell is off
on another sortie, this time a bit off-
course from his Antarctic wanderings
—up to Thailand, adviser to the Inter-
national Civil Aviation Organisation.
Now Director of Navigation and Safety,
Campbell joined the R.A.A.F. in 1926,
flew the plane of Mawson’s 1929-1931
Antarctic expedition, and left the service
in 1933 to pilot Sikorskys for a New
Guinea goldraining co. When Hitler cut
loose he rejoined the R.A.A.F.—the oldest
operational pilot therein at that time.
Successive addresses were Rathmines,
Amberley, Townsville and No. 7 Squad-
ron. And he founded the Deniliquin
Flying School, out of which came some
notable War II birds. He was airborne
again with No. 76 Catalina Wing, mine-
laying and bombing from the Philippines
along the China coast. The Antarctic
saw him again in 1947, leader, in an
R.A.N. tank-landing ship, of the expedi-
tion to Heard Island. He’s a Bachelor of
Engineering, 48.
American newspaperman Hugh Baillie,
here for the Jubilee jousts, as a young
man wrote three daily columns in
American dailies, one of which was in
rhyme. Before the late war he had inter-
viewed Chamberlain, Hitler, Mussolini
and Laval, during the war met Mont-
gomery, Eisenhower and Bradley in the
front lines, and after it he had talks with
Hirohito and MacArthur. Most remark-
able, however, were the 31 questions he
asked Stalin. What’s more, he got
answers to the lot. The visitor is presi-
dent and general-manager of United Press
and of British United Press, Ocean Press
and United Feature Syndicate, which
pretty well amounts to world cover.
Cast-up in Sydney from across-Tasman,
with a bunch of batons and sizeable
reputation in Fernland musical circles.
Will Hutchens, brother of Sydney pianist-
composer Frank Hutchens. In music
almost since his first shrill note. Will got
his Diploma of the Royal Academy under
Sir Alexander Mackenzie, for the past 15
years has conducted a studio orchestra
in Christchurch, has adjudicated at just
about every festival in both islands, and
on previous visits to Australia has been
chief judge in Sydney and Ballarat
eisteddfods. Here this time for keeps,
he’ll conduct the North Shore (Sydney)
Choral Society and Symphony Orchestra
in Alan Bellhouse’s absence overseas.
“Fitz”: David Rowbotham, on his way to
England, and, he hopes, Fleet-street, is one of
the youngest of The Bulletin’s younger poets,
a native of the Darling Downs (Q.). Boot-
making has been the Rowbotham family trade
for a long time; his great-grandfather built the
first boot-factory in Toowoomba, and his father
(the subject of the poem “The Bird-lover”) still
makes boots. David attended Toowoomba
Grammar, one of whose Old Boys was A. G.
Stephens. After clerking in a foundry David went
to the Teachers’ Training College, Brisbane, and
was teaching in the Queensland backblocks when
he enlisted in the R.A.A.F. in War II as a wireless-
operator. After the war he stripped corn and
milked cows for a living, then entered the
University of Queensland, where he edited the
university magazine and won the Ford Memorial
Medal for poetry. Before his first Bulletin
poem appeared in 1946 he had collected 30
rejection slips, and remembers with a chuckle
an “Answers to Correspondents” comment:
“Your drought poem drove the Religious Editor
to drink.” Coming to Sydney, he continued his
studies at Sydney University, where he won the
Henry Lawson prize for poetry. Mixing
university studies with a variety of jobs, he
plugged away also as a freelance writer;
then Angus and Robertson put him on
as an editorial assistant on The Australian
Encyclomedia under Alec Chisholm. David
Rowbotham’s verse has appeared in the Angus
and Robertson Australian Poetry and the Jindy-
worabak anthologies, and in George Mackaness’s
Poets of Australia. A book of poems, Plough-
man and Poet, is prepared, but not yet pub-
lished. A shy, studious-looking, slightly-built
young fellow, he might have been a Methodist
minister if an early addiction to Byron and
Edgar Allan Poe had not guided his steps to
the Inky Way.
“Macnell”: Admiral of the Fleet Sir
Reginald Tyrwhitt, who struck his
pendants at 81 in England last week, was
one of the famous names of Britain’s
War I Navy. As early as 1894 he took
an armed landing-party ashore from
H.M.S, Cleopatra in Nicaragua. Lieu
tenant then, he had his broad commo
dore’s stripe up when he took the letha
midgets of his destroyer flotillas into
action at Heligoland Bight in August
1914, and again at the Dogger Bank
For these tenaciously-fought engagement
he received the D.S.O. and C. 8., anc
another quaint award —the “thanks o;
the Admiralty.” In both actions he wore
his pendant in cruiser Arethusa —com
missioned the day before Heligoland, she
was badly mauled by shore batteries, but
with one 6in. gun remaining in action
laced her German opponent Frauenlob
batteries regardless. Tyrwhitt was stil
commander of the famed Harwich
destroyer force when the U-boats sur-
rendered to it in 1918. His son is
serving R.N. captain, D. 5.0., D.S.C. and
Bar; his daughter, Dame Mary Tyrwhitt,
Director of the Women’s Royal Army
Corps, has the unusual distinction, for a
woman, of being an A.D.C. to the King.
A breezy six-footer in C. R. Gould
now fills the chair of Chief Inspector of
the Westralian Police Force, in succession
to T. H. Andersen, now Commissioner.
Born 57 years ago, Gould joined the
force in 1914, trod beats in Perth and
Fremantle, came back to Perth to the
Liquor Inspection Branch, then for a few
years wrestled with the problems of the
Traffic Branch. He was its chief when he
got the present appointment.
In 1914 Donald Redding landed in
Westralia from England with ideas of
working on a farm. Though the Kaiser
put in his spoke, the newchum got plenty
of horse-work—with the Light Horse in
Palestine. Now he returns to the West,
this time as Bishop of Bunbury. Deacon
in 1921, priest the following year, he goes
west from the vicarship of St. Andrew’s
in Melbourne’s Brighton. He was a chap-
lain in War 11.
The quietly serious young cove here
pictured by Prior could pass for just about
anything but what he is—a movie pro-
ducer. Belonging to Associated T.V.
Pty., Ltd., the Sydney firm which pro-
duced Australia’s first puppet-film last
year, John Wiltshire has just completed
his two-months’ production of “Captain
Thunderbolt,” now in the cutting stage,
featuring Grant Taylor and Rosemary
Miller, lately of “Dark of the Moon.”
Starting in a bank, Wiltshire left figures
for figures, producing newsreel shorts,
PRODUCES.
documentaries for the 8.8. C. and N.B.C.
(U.S.), acting with the Firm (“Sacred
Flame” and “Idiot’s Delight”), the radio,
the D. of I. and helping to found Mel-
bourne’s Little Theatre. Made at the
comparatively low cost of £15,000 (part
of it shot in the Armidale court-house
where the bushranger was tried), his latest
opus will hit Australian screens about
August.
Summed-up by Coventry, C. L.
Abbott, J., after hearing the case of the
university students in Adelaide. Bom
in N.S.W., but raised in California,
the judge settled in Adelaide in
1906; he had the unforgettable
experience of witnessing the big
’Frisco earthquake of that year. Member
of the S. Australian Assembly for many
PRONOUNCES.
years, in which time he answered to
Attorney-General, Minister for Educa-
tion and Minister for Industry and Em-
ployment, he found time to make a name
for himself at lacrosse, and became State
president of the game. Honors fell thick
upon him in 1943—appointed K.C., presi-
dent of the S.A. Law Society and acting-
dean of the Faculty of Law at Adelaide
University. Three years later he reached
the Supreme Court Bench. A prolific and
facile writer of topical verse in his
younger days, he relaxes now judging
(privately) other writers’ efforts.
“Macdee”: Mathematics for diversion
was the Eton choice of the Earl
of Halsbury, now visiting Australia
to exchange knowledge with Government
developmental chiefs and the C.5.1.R.0.
He rowed in the school eight, but
read algebra in his spare time. Then he
went on to study chartered accountancy,
but found time to compete in the Dia-
mond Sculls in 1929. He studied in the
evenings to take his B.Sc. at London
University with first-class honors in
chemistry. His father was a King’s
Counsel and his grandfather, the first
Earl, was three times Lord High Chan-
cellor, and author of the legal classic,
Halsbury’s Laws of England. As Mr.
Giffard (the family name) the present earl
was a research chemist for Lever Brothers
at Port Sunlight. Going from soap to
steel, he helped to produce the tough sort
that could stand up to the tempera-
tures required for jet turbine blades.
When, in 1949, the British Government
set up the National Research Develop-
ment Corporation, Halsbury was chosen
as managing-director. His only hobby
now is mountaineering—no doubt with a
maths book in his knapsack.
K. A. Laught, one of S. Australia’s
new team of Senators, belongs to a legal
firm in Mt. Gambier. Born at Mitcham
(S.A.), in 1907, he graduated LL.B. at
20, and served with the 9th Division in
the Western desert until invalided out,
shortly after Rommel got running. His
political ambitions were nurtured by 22
years’ association with the L.C.L. of his
State. Like his two business partners,
he has been president of the Mt. Gambier
branch of the R.S.L.
Colombo-bound to advise the Ceylon
Government on industrial projects, Edgar
Spooner, Adelaide ’Varsity’s Professor of
Mining and Metallurgy. Tasmanian
Rhodes Scholar for 1931, author of a
tome titled The Electrode Potential
Behavior of Corroding Metals in Aqueous
solution, while away he’ll look in on
metallurgical manifestations round
Jo’burg and the Belgian Congo.
Professor of Jurisprudence at Mel-
bourne University at 31 is the record of
barrister D. P. Derham. And that
achieved with a War II interruption of
four years, private in 1941, major and
0.8. E., 1944. The new prof, has Dr.
Alfred Derham (A.A.M.C. colonel of the
Bth Division, War 11, with the sth Bat-
talion, A.1.F., War I) for father and
Major-General F. P. Derham, D. 5.0., for
uncle.
Mrs. Mary Daly, who gets the first
D.B.E. awarded to a woman who already
has the 0.8. E. and the C.8.E., is
president of the Catholic Welfare
Organisation, which donated 350,000 tins
of food for Britain on one day during
Melbourne Lord Mayor’s Food for
Britain Appeal. She is the wife of a
Melbourne doctor. A more unusual kind
of collecting gained Mrs. Phoebe Faull
Anderson, of Horsham (Vic.), the M.B.E.
For 40 years she has been gathering-in
the threepences from patrons at the hotel
she owns in that town and from shop-
men. Altogether she has handed over
£12,000 to the Horsham Hospital, the
Red Cross, the blind and the Nazareth
old people’s home.
Like Marjorie Lawrence, but for much
longer, Donald Mill Campbell, K.C.,
defence counsel in the Hardy criminal
libel case in Melbourne, has been fighting
a winning battle with infantile paralysis,
starting at 13. He was smitten on
a holiday visit to a bayside resort; but
it did not prevent him winning a scholar-
ship from a State school to Wesley
College and another from there to Mel-
bourne University, where he shared final
honors with Supreme Court librarian E.
A. Coghill and won the Supreme Court
Judges’ Prize. Nor did it impair his
temperament, which is as equable as any
Gent One’s. He has built up a healthy
practice, specialising in common law
actions and jury cases, local government
and licensing laws. Forty-nine, he
hobbies at fishing and golfing.
“Cauboy”: Landed in Australia,
Albert Aden (composer of the El
Alamein concerto), with the partially-
completed score of C. J. Dennis's
“Sentimental Bloke” in his pocket and
with it a libretto written by George H.
Johnston, who is now in London. The
musical comedy on Dennis’s verses
is to have settings and costumes
designed by Cedric Flower, another Aus-
tralian. None of the Australian slanguage
is to be left out, and Fitzroy will see
Doreen walk the boards in her habit as
she lived.
Into the Silence:
At 61, in Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital
(Vic.), Will Sampson, one of the best-known
of Victorian radio-broadcasters and Old Digger.
His community-singing concerts earned £26,000
for Food for Britain.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 80, Bernard Cracoft
Aston, noted scientist. An Englishman who
arrived in N.Z. as a lad, he was educated at
Otago and Victoria Universities, and, among
other honors, had the Freedom of the City of
London conferred on him. He gave M.L.’s
Department of Agriculture laboratory its kick-off
in 1899, discovered a cure for “bush sickness” in
1919, and was one-time president of the N.Z.
Science Congress.
In Holland, at 61, Father Gerard Van Beek,
a Mill Hill father who devoted 33 years of his
life to the Maoris on the west coast of the
North Island. After retiring in 1948 he returned
to his native land and did much good publicising
Maoriland’s attractions for Dutch emigrants and
assisting in their change of location.
In Brisbane, at 78, G. M. Colledge, who, in
his 50 years with the Queensland Works
Department, served under 25 Ministers. Under-
secretary of the department when he retired in
1939, he had been for 12 years secretary of his
State’s cricket association.
In London, at 72, Adelaide-born Harry Laffer,
recognised as a world authority on wines.
He had represented the Australian Wine Board
overseas for the past 20 years.
At Wellington (M.L.), Frieda Baer, mother of
Max, the ex-heavyweight boxing champion. She
had been in Wellington 12 years.
At 52, in Adelaide, R. C. Robin, Professor
of Civil Engineering at Adelaide University,
which he entered on a bursary in 1916. To a
string of scholarships and engineering initials he
added practical experience with contractors in
England, studied reinforced-concreto design in
Boston (U.S.), and returned to his hometown
to land a berth in the Department of Engineering
and Water Supply. A lectureship at the ’Varsity
later came his way, and the professorship in
1938.


MOURNING ON THE MILK RUN
by BRIAN JAMES
lined the end of the sentence.
And now it was twelve —at the
moment, that is.
The farm had been carved out
of a wild, stony region of tea-
tree scrub, so dense that a local
humorist declared you couldn’t
open a pocketknife in it, nor yet
could a dog bark in it. Here
and there in the awful scrub were
scattered stringy-barks, most
miserable specimens of their
kind; dejected, depressed and
always seeming to be grumbling.
The everlasting presence of the
tea-tree might account for their
misery. The only excuse for
Harry’s trying to farm in this
outlandish place was Harry’s
father —long deceased. Carr
senior had “selected” there under
the famous —or infamous—
Robertson Act. Carr senior had
a streak of impractical romance
in his makeup. He would, he
used to say, make the desert
blossom like a rose. Then he
would add, “That was the only
bit left when I took up.” Carr
senior slogged in at the tea-tree
and stringy-barks in a badly-
mistaken pioneering spirit, living
frugally on wallaby and damper.
There were plenty of wallabies.
Sometimes he was not so assured
of damper. Harry, as a gangling
slab of adolescence, helped his
father in the pioneering business,
from the first light in the morn-
ing to the last of it at night. Or
he would take temporary jobs at
fencing or clearing elsewhere so
that the diet would not be wal-
laby straight, which, excellent
as it was, tended to become
monotonous. The rest of the
family doesn’t seem to enter the
records at all.
One Sunday morning, at five
to ten—Harry was very precise
in his details—Carr senior said
“Harry, it’s yours now—all of
it.” With that he waved his arm
in a circling motion towards the
grim tea-tree and stingy-barks,
flopped gracefully into an easy-
chair of sticks and corn-bags,
and very quietly expired,
Harry buried his father—third-
biggest funeral the district had
ever known—up to that time,
that is. The size of the funeral
made a big impression on
Harry and increased the respect
he had for his father. After
that he always referred to his
parent as “father,” dropping
once and for all the vulgar and
slighting appellation of “old
man,”
“I carried on from where
father left off,” said Harry
many a time. And he did, too,
increasing tremendously that
hole in the scrub and planting
out great numbers of cherries
and apples. Then he put up a
house of slabs and shingles—
“the only thing I bought for that
house were nails”—went court-
ing with simple vigor a streaky
maiden, one of the numerous
Barclay girls, who all looked
exactly alike, so Harry didn’t
mind which one, married her
and took her to live in the new
slab house. And from that
moment the great increase
began. Though the telling
phrase of a great statesman was
still a thing of the years to be,
they might well have applied to
Harry and his beloved Lou:
“Never was so much done by
so few in so short a time.”
Harry prospered in a moderate
way—his apples and cherries
became things of beauty and
profit; the sulky scrub retreated
year by year, and gave way to
more orchard and rather shape-
less patches of wheat and oats
and barley. He bought up a
slice of adjoining country for a
mere song, as he said, always
hastening to add, lest he be taken
too literally, that he was no
singer. This section was part
of the famous Specimen Gully
of the days of gold. It was
pitted as thick as honeycomb
with old shafts, and in between
the shafts were grey-box in
enormous numbers, mostly of
second growth. Harry ring-
barked the trees and filled in the
holes, a job that was truly
immense and just as heroic as
the attack on the tea-tree scrub.
The gully grew very fair grass,
and Harry got cows to eat it.
He became “H. Carr, Registered
Dairyman,” and a painted
shingle on a whitewashed dairy
informed the world of the fact.
ABUTTER factory had
started in town, and that
gave Harry a great idea—he
would cart milk for any of the
others who liked to send by
him. Not for nothing of course.
A half-penny a gallon was the
fee for cartage—taking the milk
in and bringing back the skim
for pigs and poddies.
For the milk-carting Harry
had a van and a pair of horses,
rather doubtful and nondescript
in form and breeding, but other-
wise full of personality. Good,
patient, efficient horses, with a
speed-limit of five miles an hour
downhill, four and a half on the
flat and two uphill. Not only in
the interests of alliterative effect,
but because the names were
naturally suited, these horses
were named Dick and Darkie.
Dick was a dumpy, bunchy bay
and one of his chief points was
that he was a good doer. But
he was lazy in a perfectly frank
and goodnatured way. Darkie,
an unhandsome black, ran much
to prominent bones and angles.
He carried his head higher than
Dick did, and in some subtle
way gave the impression of once
possessing spirit and ambition.
But a wall eye on his off-side
gave him an appearance at once
grotesque and sinister, the more
so perhaps that his good eye on
the near-side had an inquiring
and disconcerting stare in it.
“He has no vice—not now,”
Harry used to say of Darkie by
way of defence. Indeed, Darkie
was a gelding of impeccable
virtue. In every way they were
both admirably suited for their
career of milk-carting.
And Harry liked the job. It
paid, and it was a reward for
the earlier years of hard slog-
ging at the stubborn scrub. Also
it allowed him to indulge a
decided taste for companionship
and yarning. The factory was a
wonderful place for meeting all
the fellows. It was, too, a great
clearing-house for all the news
of the district. Nothing was too
small for savoring, and the big
things gave a man a comforable
and important feeling under the
“weskit.” Harry always wore a
waistcoat, one of those sturdy
everlastings called huckaback, a
constant reminder of his court-
ing days and of Lou’s love and
industry. He never wore a coat,
but he felt naked without his
weskit. If it rained he donned
a faded and absurd-looking
garment called an ulster.
Like the bee returning to the
hive loaded with honey Harry
returned from the factory laden
with news and gossip. A slow,
happy, jog-jog progress. Harry
loved it. It made him a public
character, and what is more, a
useful citizen. The two are not
always synonymous, but they
were most fortunately so in
Harry.
The full, rich satisfaction he
gave to a human craving for
gossip—the better if it be
flavored a bit with the spice of
malice —was given the ultimate
of appreciation by Mrs. Finu-
cane, who had two grandchildren
and four cows. She sent her
bit of milk to the factory, and
why not, said she. And let them
laugh if they liked, said she, at
a supplier having only the four
cows. And if she had—which
God forbid, said she —only the
two cows she would up and send
that along to the factory, too.
Said she. She always came
down to the lane on Harry’s
return from the factory and
heard the new and latest, and if
that were in short supply there
would be a tasty hash made of
the old and stale. Dick and
Darkie liked Mrs. Finucane —
probably they were her keenest
admirers of all. There was a
big peppercorn near the sliprails,
and good it was to droop and
drowse in its passable shade,
standing on three legs the
while. In payment for the plea-
sure of retailing the news and
the slanders Harry had to listen
to Mrs. Finucane’s grizzling and
grumbling—“lt’s the sciatticy
now, Mr. Carr, and if it isn’t
the one thing it’s sure to be
another.” And in her case it
was always something. And
above all, she was a widow, and
you can hardly realise, Mr.
Carr, said she, what that means.
No one could. Harry always
gave a sympathetic click some-
where in the region of his back
teeth in his contemplation of
widowhood. But no ; you can’t
realise it, Mr. Carr, even if you
do more than most. And Doug-
las’s bull had broken the back
fence, twenty years ago nearly
that was, and had Douglas
mended it properly? Douglas
hadn’t, and that, said she, was
the sort of man Douglas was;
and she was no better... And
Finucane himself —God rest the
poor man—was little enough to
be proud of. A flash digger he
was, said she, and deceiving
everyone, and herself most of
all, by the flash ways of him ...
Through golden hours when
Dick and Darkie jog-jogged, or
dozed in the hot sun, or in wel-
come shade, or stood on three
legs, while Dick’s pendant lip
almost touched the ground and
Darkie’s good eye heeded what
there was of passing show —
through rattle of wheels and
slow creaking of leather —
through dust and flies, through
mud and slush when soft spring
rains put that first thin mantle
of golden green over slopes and
flats —Harry carted in the milk
at a ha’penny a gallon, and
brought back the skim and the
latest news.
CAME at last that fierce
January when the new cen-
tury stepped on to the stage.
Suchlike scoops as Magers-
fontein and Mafeking were
memories now —past triumphs
only, though the Boer War was
to drag on and on for another
year and more. Harry was a
great authority on The War, and
should have been, for he had a
direct and personal interest in
it —wasn’t the wife’s cousin in
the very thick of it? The
Governors had been caught long
since, and Jimmy of that ilk and
Jacky Underwood had been
hanged. Harry had made the
hangings very popular affairs
(i Continued on page 22.)
VARIOUS VERSE
SONG FOR A DANCER.
Ballerina,
it is not your feet
that are birds but your hands
that are leaves of the cedar
falling in the drift
of the grey winds.
White dancer,
it is not your dress
that is white but your self
that is without color
pure and clean
with no stain.
0 girl of a picture,
it is not you
that I love but your pretence
that is child’s dream—
real, without being,
and convincing to my heart.
If I saw you on the footpath
it would not be you
that I saw but your existence—
with a hair astray
or a ladder in your stocking:
1 would have to turn away.
IT was from Harry Carr that
you learned that “Old
Scifleet’s dead—at last.” The
“at last” was the commentary
denoting a long and painful ill-
ness, a circumstance that Harry
viewed with cheerful philosophy.
Or you learned that Terry Moran
broke his leg—badly, too; “And
I was only talking to him yester-
day afternoon—not an hour
hardly before it happened.”
Again, when Graham’s Flour
Mill burned down, it was Harry
who brought the first news of it—
“ Graham was on the rocks, any-
way—and, oh, yes, that mill was
insured. Heavily.” Or there
was one of those constantly re-
curring maintenance cases. If
children were within hearing
Harry managed to give a pretty
comprehensive rendering of the
interesting affair by a delicately
conceived series of nods, grim-
aces and other gestures.
Further afield there were such
items as that bubonic plague in
Sydney—“ She’ll spread, you’ll
see. Come up here, too, as like
as not.” And big politics were a
specialty—Lyne and See, George
Reid and Toby Barton, Paddy
Crick and all the rest of them.
And the Breelong Blacks.
In short, Harry was as public-
spirited a purveyor of news as
any old-time minstrel —all sorts
of news; local disgrace, all the
big and sudden happenings,
comedy, tragedy—all that the
mind of man likes to dwell upon.
With special emphasis on
tragedy.
Harry carr didn’t look
like the old-time minstrel at
all. He was tall and thin and
very stringy, but a man of great
strength withal. He had a well-
shaped head covered in black
hair, and a very fine thick beard
of the same color. His liking,
for the spectacular, perhaps,
caused him to tinker with that
beard from time to time: it
would grow long and rank and
tangled; or it would be clipped
into something of the Sir Francis
Drake style; or Harry would
shave smooth an area, like a fire-
break, round his mouth, which
was the recognised lay-preacher
fashion; or he would ruthlessly
shave off everything and give
himself a distinctly clerical
appearance. If recognition came
slow and uncertain after one of
these changes, Harry would be
immensely pleased. Possibly
there was some childish vanity in
him. But the rest of his frame-
work was so distinctive that it
seems likely there was often a
pandering to this vanity. Harry
was a popular public figure.
Harry lived on a farm with a
wife as thin as himself and a
family altogether too big for the
farm. There were twelve
children, but Mr. and Mrs. Harry
had reserved to themselves the
right to increase that number
from time to time, a right they
had freely availed themselves of.
Harry may have been proud of
his family as children, but he cer-
tainly was proud of them as
numbers. If anyone asked
Harry in all seeming innocence
“How many kids now, Harry?”
the reply would be, “We have
ten —at the moment, that is.”
JJride and determination under-
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
BEARDED ORCHID.
Well as to gnomes and elves,
I can see clumps of heath.
Dwarf-apple and needlebush
thicket,
And nothing behind or beneath
Except the wild irises flying
Like lilac butterflies;
But who are these seven small
gentlemen.
So bearded and wise and wicked
With their black pinhead eyes,
Malignantly sunning themselves
Against that wall of leaves
On a stem from the hot red earth?
Well as to trolls and such
They exist, or don’t, in vain,
And a flower with a purple beard
Grows it by chance and rain.
But these had such a look
Of supervising the summer
And knowing black secrets below
In the earth where they toiled and
glared.
All kinds of curious fauna
It seemed in the sunlit hush
Took one step out from the busb
And one step back again.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THREE IMAGES.
1. Sunflower.
Of the sunflower’s dream are
born
Gentle day and radiant sun,
Who for this strict purpose
clapped
His burning image in a crypt.
2. Definition.
Poetry is the noise the leaves
make
When the winds of time awake.
3. The Unborn Hare.
Eternal in the seed reside
Crouching hare and mountainside
Whose diminutive height resounds
To baying of immortal hounds.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
SPIDER.
In beauty drops the spider,
Large as a bird,
Brown and swift as terror
Falling unheard.
That web of air my pebble
Broke across the road
Shines a crystal-crumbling
Light of a god.
And the spider, taloned shadow,
Crab-of-sand,
Climbs the steeple granite.
And mocks me like a hand.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


OPENING... "17 WYLDE STREET”... POTTS POINT
J. K. Morley Management takes pride in announcing the opening of this magnificent 10-storey
block of Home Apartments, with its glorious, panoramic view of the Harbour and city skyline,
v situated at the comer of Macleay Street and Wylde Street, Potts Point, Sydney,
.
* ■ ' ’ #• ■ ■£;>
■V■ *' 0S
<■
m
f iV 1 ’* .V*'\v
v< -:•
rr*
m
wm
v '**V
wv>4 « MmH ri«HMO»<OIIO»
*»<’"
! ' *
awwww^
;
S2SiK;»SS3S
Sfi?
ftts
~1
vV>c&* •• ?• ‘ *.•••. •. :
•xox*
1 ; - -s; • .
Situated in an area rich in
history and tradition, with civil
and social activities smoothly in-
tegrated, “17 Wyide Street” has
the advantage of convenient
access to all centres of city life.
The building was erected for
Urban Co-operative Multi-Home
Units No. 4 Ltd. Each Apart-
ment is individually owned.
The building represents an exten-
sion of the system of individually-
owned Home Apartments as in-
troduced to Australia in 1946 by
J. K. Morley Management. “17
Wyide Street” is one of the six
projects now built or under con-
struction, comprising 150 family
units and representing a public
investment of nearly £1,000,000.
“17 Wyide Street” is the biggest
non-Government multi-dwelling
project completed in Australia
since 1940. Obviously the task
of creating such an outstanding
building in these difficult times
would be an almost insurmount-
able task for private capital.
Therefore, it is a significant
tribute to the value of co-operat-
ive enterprise that the Societies'
projects have been so success-
fully established.
Architect A . M. Bolot, A.RJ,B.A. f A,R,A,LA.
J. K. Morley Management is proud of the honour of having been entrusted
with the organisation of these co-operative ventures.
Urban Co-operative multi-Horne Units No. 1 Ltd.
• —this building on the Harbour front at Kirribilli
contains 18 Home apartments.
Architect — A. J. Harris, A.S.T.C., A.R.A.I.A.
It has given many people of moderate means an
opportunity to obtain beautiful homes in those
choice harbor-side areas that, until recently, were
exclusive to the very wealthy. Only Co-operative
Enterprise could make this possible. The latest
projects now in construction are on the harbour-
side at Kirribiili and Balmoral Beach (on the
site formerly occupied by the Amphitheatre), with
a direct beach fitontage of 200 feet and magnificent
views over Balmoral and through Sydney Heads,
These are two of the best positions available in
Sydney today. To be completed next year, these
two buildings will easily excel in design, finish
and quality of construction of any similar type
of residential buildings erected in this city for
many years.
All the apartments, which contain two or three
bedrooms, have been subscribed for; however,
five are available for transfer to applicants.
m
■
m
-V
mm
tm
Urban Co-operative multi-Home Units No. 2 Ltd.
—this building on the Harbour front of Mac-
Mahon’s Point contains 27 Home apartments.
Architect — A. M. Bolot, A.R.1.8.A, A.R.A.I.A.
m
m
ZWTm
: m
l»w FX
<•■■-•
;Mi
•■ v;
Urban Co-operative multi-Home Units No. 3 Ltd.
-—this building on the Harbour front of Balmoral
Beach will contain 34 Home apartments.
Architects —in association — A. M. Bolot and L. P.
Burns, A.5.R.1.8.A., A.S.R.A.I A.
m
ill
p#;i|
m
m
>*?
m
m.
m
U
■■Hi
11
m
■NHH
m
Urban Co-operative multi-Home Units No. 5 Ltd.
—this building on the .Harbour front of Kirribilli
will contain 24 Home apartments.
Architect — A. F. Blackwell, A.R.A.I.A.
—i
w
m
m
m
m-
Urban Co-operative multi-Horne Units No. 6 Ltd.
—this building on the Harbour front of Kirribilli.
opposite Circular Quay, will contain 6 Home
apartments.
Architect — A. F. Blackwell, A.R.A.I.A.
PARTICULARS FROM J. K. MORLEY MANAGEMENT, 2ND FLOOR, WINGELLO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY. PHONE BL 2196-7


en
is
s
Q
lasts longer
> •
m
mi
-
vm
c
n
still
costs LESS!
5C9.103
1*0
&
LISTER is the only Separator with
a "Dynetrically" balanced, "float-
ing" bowl, discs of genuine
"Staybrite" stainless steel, ball-
bearings on the intermediate and
bowl spindles, and scores of other
features to ensure 100% skim-
ming efficiency for years and
years of service.
YET. WITH ALL THESE ADVANTAGES,
A LISTER STILL COSTS LESS.
SIZE FOR SIZE, THAN ANY
OTHER SEPARATOR.
THEY'RE BEST
AND THEY'RE BRITISH
Distributed in Australia by:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Danger, Gedye & Malioeh Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malioeh Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe Carson Limited
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
VICTORIA:
Gippsland & Northern Co*op. Co. Ltd.,
613 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
A. W. Sandford & Co. Ltd.,
75 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA:
All British Separator Service,
Wilmot Street, BURNIE.
Agents. LAUNCESTON, HOBART districtsi
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited.
7 *****
TRACTORS
PULL BETTER
Milling
limit
mSt&im Hi
s&SSi.
WORLD’S
Pfiaes
TRADE
MARK
FACTORIES' FELTHAM ENG.;
TOLEDO. U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
fs
CHampiOll
SDdIdMHMS
and extracted the full humor
that rested in the naivete of
Tacky, who inquired very seri-
ously on the morning of the
event if he would be in heaven
in time for dinner.
There was a drought on of
course, and the new century was
showing just what it could do
in the way of droughts...
Clement Wragge had said this
and that, and Harry concurred,
in the main, that is. Adding in
great fairness, however, that still
you never could tell —not
always ... The Duke of York
had already assisted in in-
augurating the Commonwealth.
Harry had explained the Federal
System with interesting clarity,
making it clear, too, that he him-
self was on the side of Free
Trade...
And then —the biggest scoop
of all his public career—the
Queen died. Queen Victoria’s
died! It was momentous news.
No later generation can ever
understand how the ending of
one mortal career could so shock
a whole Empire. But it was so
—from the heart of London to
the wildest outer fringe of some
new bush settlement. The
Queen’s dead!
The Queen was much more
than a fat old lady who possibly
in herself was no more estim-
able than she should have been.
She was Queen Victoria, regal
in her robes and golden crown,
the grand symbol of a world
Power. She represented an Age
as no one had ever done. Hardly
anyone then living could re-
member a time when there was
no Queen Victoria. Her going,
then, was as the laying waste of
the temple. The dawning of a
new Age. An awful reminder
that the new century would not
prosper as the old. And above
all, and deep down, was the feel-
ing that man and man’s power
are indeed vulnerable and
mortal...
HARRY was first with the
news—tearing off with only
half the skim he was in duty
bound to return to suppliers;
tearing off at six miles an hour,
the first and last time Dick and
Darkie ever attained to such a
crazy speed.
Dick and Darkie knew that
the Queen was dead. Certainly
they didn’t fully realise all the
implications and all that was
involved. But they knew—they
sensed it, the awe and bigness
of the event. To their eternal
credit they sped, without slap-
ping of reins and slashing of
whip, to the utmost limits of
their equine powers—and then
beyond even that. Over the
bridge they rattled in wild
career, through the avenue of
pine and poplar and elm that
led out of town, through the
rich flats of corn and lucerne...
Up the terrible slope of
Newton’s Hill —they trotted all
the way up at four miles an
hour,..
Harry’s black beard —he was
wearing a “shovel” at the
moment —was dramatically in
accord with his mission. It was
a beard for funerals and mourn-
ing. He glanced back, but so
far no one was following. In
front a slow-approaching speck
turned out to be old Steve
Ridden with a load of wood.
Dick and Darkie slowed down
and pulled up. They hadn’t to
be told—they knew. Dick and
Darkie knew the courtesies of
the road and they practiced
them.
“Good day, Steve!”
“Good day, Harry!”
“Bit of rqountain-oak, Steve?”
“Bakers’ wood, Harry, Flint
an,d Salmon, They know what’s
what.”
“Heard the news, Steve?”
Steve fumbled for his pipe.
“No, Harry. What was that,
now?”
“The Queen, Steve.”
“What happened, Harry?”
“Dead, Steve!”
“You don’t say! Queen Vic-
toria, Hany?”
“Queen Victoria, Steve.”
Harry took off his battered felt
hat. That was an act quite un-
premeditated—one of those rare
and sudden inspirations so often
attributed to the spur of the
moment.
Steve slowly took off his hat
—in his case it was mere
imitation.
“That’s bad, Harry.”
“It is bad, Steve.”
“Queen Victoria, Harry?”
“Queen Victoria, Steve.”
“When’s the funeral, Harry?”
Steve was strong on funerals —
he had something of a record
for attendance.
“Not decided yet, of course,
Steve.”
“She was a fine woman,
Harry.”
“She was all that, Steve.”
“And a good wife, Harry.”
“Yes, Steve, she was.”
“And a sorrowing widow,
Harry.”
“None to beat her at that,
Steve —as far as I know.”
“And a great Queen, Steve.”
“And now she’s gone, Harry.”
At this point Steve burst into
tears. He always did at funerals
—a regular and looked-for
feature that made even a fourth-
or fifth-rate funeral quite a
success after all.
“I’m sorry, Steve, to have
such bad news.”
“Thanks, Harry.” This recog-
nition of the extreme tenderness
of his heart was very pleasing
to Steve.
“Must make along, Steve. So
long, Steve.”
“So long, Harry. And thank
you, Harry.”
HARRY drove off, still hold-
ing his hat, with the reins
in his left hand. He had to
admit that his breaking the news
to Steve had been an unqualified
success.
He dumped Toohey’s cans—
two empty and one only
quarter-full on the stand.
“Jell your father,” said Harry
to a swarm of the younger
Tooheys, “that I wish to see
him.”
Toohey himself came out. He
was a goodnatured man with a
grievance who was always very
strong on his rights. “It’s my
just dues that I want, and that’s
all I’d be asking of any man,”
was how Toohey summed-up his
grand principle of living. Those
empty cans would be a terrible
blow —an undermining of the
grand principle. There had been
words more than once on the
matter of unfair shortage of
skim-milk, not without a glanc-
ing at the impost of a ha’penny
a gallon.
Harry was standing very erect
near the front of the van. The
direct and sudden approach was
indicated.
“Queen Victoria’s dead,
Morgan!” .
Toohey stopped - short in his
journey to examine the cans.
“What’s that now, you’d be
saying, Harry?”
Harry said it again, very
solemnly.
“Holy Moses! Queen Vic-
toria now.”
“She’s dead and gone,
Morgan.” _ ,
“God rest her, then.” Toohey
was a shade doubtful over the
pious wish, whether it could
have any special merit in the case
of one who didn’t “belong.” But
there was the comforting story
that Queen Victoria worshipped
according to the old faith on
the sly.
(Continued on page 25.)
TALLIS TO VAUGHAN WILLIAMS.
Stars? They were the old cronies, invariable mumblings
of light
Above vapor without a cranny: my theme had no end,
True enough, not the harbor of an end nor an honest
breathing:
My sails were antiquely trim—for only the polite
Quickening, wariest easing, of scholarly wind.
This voyage meant nothing, perhaps—but so courtly a
nothing,
Befitting the mariner, Gent, of the Royal Chapel;
And it was timeless. Now this new timelessness
You offer, frock-coated Sirius: would you have me a tree
Once again—still fast the old root, but the living ripple
To wander in the sky of another head, in its stress
And mild moon-interval, rain and blueness, yet be free?
Shall my leaves be true to your tongue? for the tree’s
vision
Though a captaincy shrewd and vigorous, season by season,
Must observe the arrogant signal, hoisting and fall.
From that stubborn personal root in command of all.
How should we be one?
I gathered and lost my sun,
But the strange oldness returns,
But a strange newness burns.
Sirius, your warm notation is steady on the vapor,
Past denying: my caravel must take root,
With its staid yellow lateen dissipated as branches.
I shall live, you write, in your sky, nor the smug torpor
Of time and time-color be absolute;
For the boundless field of the vision, and the guiding inches
Of root beneath, and your guiding light have no quarrel.
Together, then, we create. What have they seen,
My branches and your sky?—The theme enters; there is
snow,
The hundred lines imposed for this shining mural;
Now the caution, the gathering passion, of a green;
A flower, and a hill, and a blight—strings muted now.
What heard, what felt? the simple unease and the loving,
Moonless minutes and daylight in the theme moving:
Your sky, my importunate root, are conjoined in a shield
With heraldic earth, the crying and laughter of a child.
How should we be one?
I gathered and lost my sun.
But the strange oldness returns,
But a strange newness burns.
VICTORIA.
FRANCIS WEBB.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY MAUD URLICH also known
as FARRINGTON or WELLER late of
Potts Point New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MILOS GOLUBAN URLICH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1736
of 1961 on the grounds of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 10th September 1951
and obtain a copy of the Petition free
of charge from MESSRS. HERON
ROBERTSON PARKHILL ROFE &
MOFFITT, Solicitors, 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRAULEIN ELIZABETH McKIER-
NAN late of Nowra. —TAKE NOTICE that
GEORGE NOEL McKIERNAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3994 of 1950 on
the grounds of your alleged adultery with
GEOFFREY GRAHAM If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Court Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 11th day of September
1961 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN
& MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 88 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL PATRICK O’CONNOR late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that JOAN
IRENE O’CONNOR has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2156 of 1951 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 20th August
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from the Petitioner’s Soli-
citor, WILLIAM CHARLES MOSELEY.
51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Ambrose Patterson.
When Professor Ambrose
Patterson, an Australian artist
who has been many years in the
U.S., called at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery last week to
inspect his “Collins - street”
landscape it was, of course, in
the cellars —where any Aus-
tralian painting you particularly
want to see usually is.
Still, the acting - director
courteously dug it up for him,
and also gave him a preview of
the Jubilee exhibition, where
the professor was pleased to
renew acquaintance with the
paintings of Frederick McCub-
bin, who was his first teacher.
The University of Washing-
ton, at which Ambrose Patter-
son is Professor of Fine Arts, is
located in the State’s largest city,
Seattle, The professor has been
there since 1919. Before that he
was at Honolulu, where some of
his paintings still hang in the
official gallery; before that, in
Paris, where he hobnobbed with
George Lambert and Rupert
Bunny and was elected a mem-
ber of the Autumn Salon; and
before that he studied at the
National Gallery school in Mel-
bourne and inhabited a studio
underneath that occupied by
Norman and Lionel Lindsay,
afterwards immortalised in A
Curate in Bohemia.
Looking a little like General
MacArthur, tall, broad, with
aquiline features and a veneer
of American accent, the profes-
sor is in Melbourne this week;
then comes back to Sydney;
then, with his wife, who also
paints and lectures, he is going
to Europe.
He brought with him one
gigantic oil painting—more or
less after Picasso: “only non-
representational art gets a hear-
ing in American galleries today”
—and color-slides of some of
his other works, among which
one chiefly remembers a dra-
matic landscape of a Hawaiian
volcano in eruption, some fresh
and clean-cut Parisian land-
scapes, and a sensitive and
vigorous portrait of an Ameri-
can girl with dark hair and dark
eyes. He hopes, after his pre-
sent phase of experiment, to
come back refreshed to realistic
landscape.
The “Collins-street” landscape,
a pleasant and harmonious work,
is mentioned in William Moore’s
Story of Australian Art, along
with Tom Roberts’s “Bourke-
street” and McCubbin’s “Swans-
ton-street,” as a pioneer effort
in city landscape. Professor
Paterson is also represented in
the Adelaide Gallery and by a
commissioned portrait in the
Commonwealth collection at
Canberra.
Foreign Affairs.
One of the chief delights of
getting to some far-off foreign
place where nobody knows you
is that you can do, for once,
exactly what you like: wear
outrageous clothes, sing loud
songs at midnight, inspect the
lovely ladies of the Folies
Berg&res, drink in open-air
cafes at n00n,., and, artistically
speaking, it is this sort of ex-
hilaration that shows itself in
John D. Moore’s landscapes
from Europe at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries.
Mr. Moore has always painted
well; but severely, coldly, show-
ing his training as an architec-
tural draftsman. But here, along
with some prim little water-
colors from Bathurst, some
slight and pleasant bits of bush
and a dark and delicate “Storm
Over Sydney” are four or five
big oils with a boldness and
breadth of treatment and a vivid-
ness of color altogether new in
his work.
The effect is of Monet; but
not Monet-and-water, but Monet
with abandon. The intensely
crimson “Balcony” seems rather
overdone; but “Sunlit Land-
scape,” scintillating in reds and
blues, is a very striking piece of
work, as also is “Landscape
with Pine Tree.” Two of his
Australian landscapes, “Head-
land” and “The Swimming
Place,” seem to have picked up
the same excitement.
The Menuhins.
The last appearances of
Yehudi Menuhin in Sydney gave
that city the greatest week-end
in its musical history.
Following his final solo night
Menuhin and his sister Hephzi-
bah made the graceful gesture
of appearing with the Musica
Viva Society’s players at a
matinee concert —well-deserved
support, for this ensemble has
done, and is doing, sterling work
in lifting chamber-music to its
rightful place, and in presenting
a wide range of works old and
new.
The Third Sonata of Enesco,
performed by brother and sister,
is of no great musical moment;
but of a vastly different grading
was Chausson’s Violin Concerto,
heard here for the first time, in
which both Menuhins col-
laborated with the Musica Viva
players. This beautifully-knit
work has melodic strength and
harmonic richness, with some
cataclysmic climaxes thrown in
for good measure. It also has
logic, and some splendid writing
for the keyboard as well as for
the solo instrument. The
Menuhins in this were all that
one has come to expect of them,
and the work of the other
players, led by Robert Pikler,
dovetailed in grandly.
The Musica Viva players—an
extra viola added for this un-
usually - scored work had
reverent regard for Schubert’s C
Major Quintet, his masterpiece
in the smaller ensemble forms,
with the intensity of its tragic
nature well captured.
On the following night Yehudi
Menuhin undertook a colossal
task: the Brahms and Beethoven
concertos the two greatest
works in the literature of the
violin with the Sydney
orchestra under Goossens.
The greatness of the Beet-
hoven lies in its exalted concept,
the charm and beauty of its
themes and their working out,
and the fact that as well it gives
the soloist full technical scope
for his virtuosity. Against the
background provided by the
orchestra—which rose magnifi-
cently to the occasion—Menuhin
displayed the mastery of his
bowing in leaping figures, in
trilling of great brilliancy, of
cascades of tones falling in
glowing colors. The wonderful
elaboration of the Kreisler
cadanza held the capacity audi-
ence spellbound.
The hollowness of the saying
that Brahms wrote a concerto
not for the violin but against it
was exposed in the playing of
his D Major (the same key as
Beethoven’s). While the work
has great strength, the solo in-
strument, even in the fiery
rhythms of the Allegro giocoso,
more than holds its own with
the orchestra. The profundity
and serenity which pervade the
lovely slow movement were
brought out with great poig-
nancy by Menuhin, the warmth
of whose tone in the low register
was perfectly wedded to the
mood.
-<►
A swopping of conductors
sent Bernard Heinze to New
Zealand and brought Michael
Bowles to the platform of the
Melbourne Town Hall for the
fourth of the 1951 subscription
concerts, the programme of
which consisted of two Sibe-
liuses, a Wagner, the first sym-
phony of Beethoven and
Strauss’s “Rosenkavalier”
waltzes. Following on the light-
footedness of Galliera, Mr.
Bowles’s tread seemed some-
what precise and heavy, and the
orchestra seemed dead until the
advent of the Wagnerian singejr.
She was Marjorie Lawrence and
her bravery and her magnificent
voice, not to mention her mar-
vellous appearance, electrified a
packed house. With a powerful
spotlight following her prim-
rose hair, her alabaster neck
and arms, her rose-pink gown
and her dazzling spangles about
it was as if a marvellous giant
doll had been gifted with the
voice of an archangel. She sang
wonderfully of the immolation
of Siegfried’s body, but her tire-
lessness made the orchestra seem
more tired.
❖ _ 4* 4*
After a string of guest con-
ductors and unexciting pro-
grammes, it was good to see the
resident conductor, John Farns-
worth Hall, back in the rostrum
with some first-rate material for
the third subscription concert
by the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra. Though some of the
essential fire was lacking in the
“Prometheus” Overture of
Beethoven, the orchestra rose to
the necessary warmth and pas-
sion in the Brahms Fourth
Symphony. The lovely ’cello
theme of the slow movement
and the surging energy of the
third were splendidly rendered.
Soloist Ricardo Odnoposoff left
J.SPOOFLE J—
ngMomure
“ Cripes—Spoofle senior must be a whopper!"
the usual beaten track of
violinists to explore the roman-
tic territory of the Glazounov
Concerto. Obviously one of his
favorite works, he wooed it with
a broad, expansive violin tone.
The lyrical quality of this con-
certo sets it far above the more
popular Tchaikovsky, yet few
soloists have adopted it. Odno-
posoff is one of the few to ven-
ture past the usual four or five
virtuoso show-pieces.
4* + 4*
Respighi was one modern
composer—he died 15 years ago
—who really thought music
should be listened to with plea-
sure. In his transcription of
Ancient Airs and Dances for
the Lute, 3rd Series, he has
woven around airs by 16th and
17th Century lutenists orchestral
texture, fine yet strong. The
four movements were accorded
stylish treatment by the Sydney
Orchestra under Alceo Galliera
on Saturday night. For Cesar
Franck’s Symphony in D Minor,
which combines a warm lyric-
ism with intellectual strength—
a sort of romantic scholasticism
—the orchestra was in top form.
Nancy Weir was soloist in
Schumann’s Piano Concerto, a
performance marked by well-
disciplined strength in the three
allegros —nowhere better than
in the descending scale-passage
work—and the true poetic
touch, so necessary for Schu-
mann, in thf slow sections.
"Private Lives."
The brittle, close-clipped wit
and sarcasms of Coward’s “Pri-
vate Lives” rest none too com-
fortably in the sentimental, nos-
talgic and slightly flowery bed
that Cyril Ritchard and Madge
Elliott are making for it at Syd-
ney Palace; although, in fair-
ness to both players, it should
be noted that, particularly
during a good deal of the second
act, one falls to wondering a
little uneasily how much of
Coward is genuine comedy of
manners with some enduring
value, and how much is comedy
of the moment with more wit
and topical trivia than human
observation.
Ritchard, with a good deal of
polish and accents suitably terse,
seems more at home than Madge
Elliott, who is a little inclined
to treat the piece too much as a
romping ground. Bettina Welch
and Leonard Bullen as the two
second matrimonial ventures,
and Audrey Teesdale as the
French maid, are an admirable
supporting cast.
"The Human Touch."
“The Human Touch,” by J.
Lee-Thompson and Dudley
Leslie, put on by the Coronet
Theatre Group at the Melbourne
Repertory Theatre, concerns
James Simpson, the Scottish
baker’s son whose discovery of
the use of chloroform in opera-
tions, particularly obstetrical
operations, has saved mankind
incredible torments,
Simpson was born into a world
where the surgical operating-
table was almost as awful as
the torture chambers of medieval
barons and where the instru-
ments used weren’t much differ-
ent or cleaner ; when the medical
profession believed in the
Biblical dictum “In sorrow thou
shalt bring forth children” ; and
when cows were buried alive as
a punishment for giving murrain
to other cattle.
The play introduces Simpson
as loathing pain and being horri-
fied by the medical slaughter-
houses. He starts experimenting,
first on himself, then on his
friends in his own house where
they hold nightly sessions. One
night he finds himself on the
floor beside his dignified col-
leagues who are snoring like
drunkards. He has discovered
his anaesthetic and he starts
applying it to his patients,
although he runs the risk of be-
ing indicted for murder. Finally
he uses it on his own son.
In the meantime the medical
academies have roused the mob
against him and his professional
career is tumbling in ruins, but
he is so obsessed with his idea
that he can think of nothing else.
Academic medicine comes in and
tries to certify him as a madman,
but a few years later Queen
Victoria makes him her physician
in Scotland and takes his
anaesthetic when she bears her
children.
The present commentator
doesn’t know how far the story,
as presented by the play, is true,
but the authors have painted a
living picture of officialdom
contra individual which could be
stated in terms of 1951 just as
well as 1840. It was admirably
recreated by John Kilmartin as
Simpson, Moira Hunter as his
wife, Charles Matthew as his
devoted apprentice and Fred
Collier, Ken Withers, Edmund
Clements and Terry Norris as
the pillars of convention.
Anouilh's "Antigone."
In this tragedy of personal
loss arising out of a young girl’s
defiance of a despot’s edict
denying her brother’s body
decent burial, the whole tragedy
of occupied France was symbo-
lised. Yet so cleverly does
Anouilh maintain sympathy for
both tyrant and girl that it seems
not so remarkable after all that
in 1943 the Nazis permitted the
play to appear in Paris,
In the Brisbane Twelfth Night
Theatre production the highlight
was the pitiful spectacle of
Antigone convinced by the king
that her brother was a political
schemer, deceitful and quite un-
worthy of the sacrifice that even
this disclosure cannot prevent.
As Creon, the king, James
Stevens fully realised the con-
flict between human values and
the demands of authority.
Jacklyn Kelleher scored a major
triumph as the young girl caught
up in noble action almost be-
yond her powers of fulfilment.
In a play dependent upon
speech rather than action, pro-
ducer Rhoda Felgate could not
have bettered her casting of
these two principals, and Peter
Munro as Chorus —Olivier’s
role in the London version.
As the work was presented in
modern dress in accordance with
the author’s wishes, a few weak-
nesses of the French practice of
rewriting Greek tragedies be-
came apparent. Ancient funeral
rites ill become a character re-
ported as having paused to light
up a cigarette, and the guards,
unaccountably dressed in formal
civilian attire, looked like escorts
to a party rather than the
instruments of justice upon
Antigone.
There is not a great deal of
enchantment or pathos in the
Borovansky ballet company’s
current performance of “Giselle”
—one has seen them do it better
—and the fault seems to lie
more in the general production
than in the individual dancing.
Nowhere in particular can one
take exception to Dorothy
Stevenson’s dancing as Giselle ;
Paul Grinwis, as the prince,
seems to dance better than he
has at any time during the sea-
son ; and Peggy Sager brings a
suitably cold classicism to the
Queen of the Wilis; yet one
goes away more impressed with
those three principal dancers
than with the ballet itself.
Dorothy Stevenson’s imaginative
“Chiaroscuro” (to Schumann’s
Piano Quintet), which has a
good deal of graceful dancing
and grouping, plus a few awk-
ward acrobatics, and a repeat
performance of “Aurora’s Wed-
ding” complete the programme
—the last of the current Sydney
season.
4* 4* 4*
In one respect the Brisbane
Repertory Theatre’s production
of W. Chetham Strode’s “The
Guinea Pig” bettered the film
version. Excellent actor though
he is, Richard Attenborough was
rarely convincing as the young
schoolboy “guinea pig” for a
Government - sponsored educa-
tional experiment. Earle Cross,
cast in the role in this present
production, looked the part and
gave a most convincing perform-
ance. Others in the cast were
not so successful. Gloria Bird-
wood-Smith revealed a talent for
production, but it seems a pity
that this theatre should con-
sistently present plays which have
already appeared in well-nigh
authoritative versions from Eng-
lish film studios.


m
m
«p
m ®
mm
mm
■ftS
„• «
m
tt’mmzei
m;
m*
&
m
Erosion Control, Tank-sinking, Land Clearing, Road-building, Plowing:
Pastoral Company Finds Full Programme for the Versatile Oliver!
• Graziers and pastoralists everywhere are
confirming what many farmers have long
known to be true —that for all-round ability to
tackle every job on the property the Oliver-
Britstand tractor equipment team is unbeatable.
Mr. W. R. Edwards, manager of a leading
N.S.W. pastoral company, uses his Oliver
“BD” with Britstand hydraulic trailbuilder
(shown above) for re-
building eroded creek
banks, removal of stumps
and brier for pasture
Cbritstand)
OLIVER
AUTHORIZED
OLIVER “BD”
38 drawbar b.p.
OUV'R
!»»5
>»»»»5
»)»»»
improvement, hauling fencing timber, road-
making, tank-sinking. With the blade detached,
the Oliver “BD” takes over contour plowing
and other tasks where wheeled tractors would
bog down. With a 12-month programme in
every year, no wonder that this owner considers
his Oliver-Britstand team a money-saving
investment I
• Get the facts to-day on how Oliver-
Britstand can save money on your
property.
OLIVER-BRITSTAND
OLIVER WHEEL AND CRAWLER TRACTORS.
FARM MACHINERY AND BRITSTAND EQUIPMENT.
DISTRIBUTORS
Q.: U.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-379 Wickham St.,
Brisbane. N.S.W.: Britstand Distributors Ltd., 56-64
Gardeners Rd., Mascot, Sydney. VIC. & TAS.:
Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.,
31-48 Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne, 5.C.4. S.A.;
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-35 Currie St., Adelaide.
W.A.: Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay St.,
Perth. N.Z.; Frederic W. Smith Ltd., Nathan’s
Buildings, Grey St, Wellington, C.l.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
ii .
y.
m
df
Classical and Contemporary Ballet
By ROLAND E. ROBINSON
_
HE native Jeemborala and I
had arranged to meet near
the deep shade of a fig-
tree at the end of the billa-
bong when, as he said, “That
moon begin to come up.”
Portion of his tribe had been
travelling up the river and were
then camped some little distance
away. They would be making
many songs on this occasion and
Jeemborala would take me into
the tribe to hear them.
For quarter of an hour, from
the shadow of the fig-tree I
had watched the sky growing
lighter beyond the scrub. Sud-
denly the rim of the huge
glistening moon appeared. The
night was scented and flowering
with the paperbark trees in
blossom and rapidly now the
full moon cleared itself from the
earth and rose gleaming behind
the tresses of the dark, still
leaves.
I began to think that Jeem-
boorala was going to fail me
when I heard voices and then the
laughter of a lubra. I called into
the darkness and it was Jeem-
borala who answered me. Jeem-
borala had his lubra Corlala
with him and together we went
down into the sandy bed of the
river and followed its course
through the islands of young
paperbarks until we heard the
throb-throb of the drone-pipe
playing.
J N a moonlit stretch of the
* river-bed we came on to the
camp of the tribe. It was
shadowed with fig-trees and
paperbarks. There were two or
three small fires going and the
tribe, with their blankets and
belongings spread out on the
sand and leaves, lay about in
little groups with their children
and dogs.
I greeted and was greeted by
some of the natives I knew and
we were asked to sit down with
the group that had been playing
the drone-pipe. I broke open a
packet of cigarettes and handed
them round. Some of the
natives began, it seemed, to sing
to themselves in low voices An
old man began to clap his thin
hands, the bone-sticks began to
clack out their time and the
children gradually came back to
the outskirts of the circle and
sat listening in the sand.
They sang me many songs:
the song of Lumbook the pigeon
coming in to water in stages
from the desert, the song of
Janaran the Jabiroo stork as he
wades in the billabong and
spears the fish with his beak, and
the song of the morning star
who was once a white stone that
a blackfellow found in the bed
of a running stream. But, to me,
the most haunting song of all
was the song of Narait the white
cockatoo, the song which tells
how Narait lives in the desert
and finds water in the forks and
big knots of the paperbark
trees. This was a song of the
“dream-time” when Nar a i t
screamed down from the paper-
barks and told the blacks how
they could live in the desert. It
was Jeemborala who sang this
song, and his voice soared up
and seemed to circle among the
tops of the trees.
Someone nudged me and
motioned me to look behind.
There, dancing silently in the
moonlit sand, were three lines of
lubras. The back line of lubras
comprised the grown-ups, the
second line was of the girls of
about fourteen or fifteen years
of age, and the front line con-
sisted of the small girls all
gravely and silently dancing.
The smallest children seemed
quite familiar with all the ex-
pressive hand, arm and body
movements, dancing to the song
as unselfconsciously as their
elders. These songs and dances
are called “L ei r a s,” songs
accompanied by the drone-pipe
and bone-sticks or by boomer-
angs quivered together. The
moon was pale and high behind
the trees on the other side of the
river when I made my way back
to my camp.
NOW, in Darwin, I had gone
walking down towards the
sea after sunset. The road led
down in a narrow gully that
opened out on to a pale-green
sea. I came upon a cluster of
rusting iron sheds and the re-
mains of a wharf that had
lurched and slipped into the tide.
Stranded on the beach were the
wrecked and rusting hulls of
three Army barges and the mast-
less hull of a lugger with its
stern smashed in. Still farther
out on the mud a pearling
lugger with tapering masts lay
on its side.
On the wharf a group of
natives were sitting near a shed
in which they were camped. I
spoke to them in a widely known
Roper River dialect and received
an answer. These natives were
the crew of a mission boat.
They were a mixed lot from
Wessel Island, Milingimbi, and
Port Roper in the Gulf. One of
the natives, who said his name
was Denis, spoke good English
and told me he had been taught
to read and write at the Roper
River Mission. This time, in-
stead of the inevitable drone-
pipe, one of the natives in this
group had a Spanish guitar.
It had become dark whilst we
were talking, and the fast in-
coming tide was slapping against
the piles of the wharf and the
tall masted lugger was begin-
ning to float on the flood against
the fire of the west.
The native with the guitar had
been quietly playing a kind of
music that was not aboriginal
and that seemed in some way
Polynesian. We sat on the low
rock wall against the sea and on
boxes and empty drums. We
smoked and I did not talk much
and presently the native Denis
began to sing and the guitarist
immediately took up the song.
Another native found a battered
kerosene-tin and sat with it
between his knees beating a fast
insistent time to the music.
Other singers joined in and, as a
phase of the singing paused, the
beautifully played accompani-
ment of the guitar and the
drumming went on. Song fol-
lowed song, the native Denis
always calling the song first. I
found the opportunity to ask
Denis where these songs came
from ; and he told me that they
were Thursday Island songs. I
knew then that perhaps I was
hearing the language and music
of the Melanesians.
“They dance these songs on
Thursday Island,” said Denis,
and he walked over to a place of
clear earth and began kicking
stones and rubbish away with
his bare feet as he called to the
musician for the song. “This is
a boat-song,” called Denis, and,
as the guitarist played, he began
to dance. He danced slowly, his
expressive movements revealing
an original choreography. Now
Denis danced with arms out-
spread as the bowsprit of the
boat pointed the way and the
following sail was held to the
wind. The boat rose to the
waves and fell away and the
dancer slapped his thighs in time
to the slap of the waves. Now
the bowsprit pointed upwards to
a piercingly bright star that
showed the boat its way across
the sea. Denis revealed his
white teeth in pleasure, and in
pleasure the musicians and
singers laughed at my applause,
“Now,” said Denis, “I show
you a boxing dance,” and I
knew that here contemporary
influences were at work. An-
other dancer, with some persua-
sion from Denis, came forward
and the guitarist began. And
now, dancing to distinctly
original choreography, the two
natives imitated for me the white
man’s science of pugilism;
punching, countering, ducking
and weaving. They showed me
a football dance, the expressions
of running, of leaping to take a
mark and of kicking all con-
trolled within the design of the
dance that made it a consumma-
tion of choreographic art.
MY principal dancer sat rest-
ing on the sea-wall talking
to me. Some of the natives
began to drift away calling out
“bo-bo” and “main-muck” as
they left. Denis and I sat on the
wall and smoked. Denis told me
of his life at the mission, of the
coming of the war and the Army
and of how the soldiers had
made friends with the natives
and taught them their games and
their songs.
As we talked, a low moaning
sound that seemed half-animal,
half-human rose out of the
darkness and the lap-lap sound
of the water. Now it seemed
like the fretful wailing of a baby
and now like the thin howling of
a dingo heard far inland when
we were camped under the
down-hanging leaves of the
paperbarks in the white sand of
a river-bed.
“That boy is singing of my
country now,” said Denis.
“That song tells about hunting
dugong. The canoe has been out
all night. It is coming back and
big waves are slapping against
its sides. Some men are sitting
on a beach and see that canoe
passing an island in the sea.
They make that song about it.
It is a good country, my country.
Plenty of turtle, dugong, bar-
ramundi, plenty wallaby, porcu-
pine, bandicoot.” Denis made
a sucking sound with his lips in
appreciation. “Maybe in two,
three days’ time the mission boat
will be ready to start back.
Then, in five days’ and nights’
time, we will come to my
country. That song is telling
about my country now.”


m
>■l,
X
i
' m
Ire- i
< .
-
. »
*;•' ■■
You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes, Madam''
■■■
U
V- -
'
$
■*v
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by ttENSONmdHEDGES
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
contented mood
BY appointment
*m/t/ t/te nttM
sdf
TOBACCONISTS TO
M. M. KlN<} OEORGS V»
BENSON
OND STREET * LONDON
W
“It’s a great blow, Morgan.”
“And it is that, Harry.”
“She was a good Queen,
Morgan.”
“And far be it from me to be
saying otherwise. My quarrel
has been with the English people,
but never at all with the Royal
family. She was not in favor,
they do say, with the Boer War
at all.”
“She wasn’t, Morgan. Against
it from the start. And I wouldn't
be surprised if grieving over it
brought on the end.”
“To say nothing of her age,
which might have had a trifle to
do with it, too.”
Toohey went inside to break
the news to the others, and to
reflect upon the religious and
racial aspects of the big event.
MRS. FINUCANE next. She
drew up a dotted and
spotted apron over her head
against the sun. She was not
oversympathetic; though, for
Mrs. Finucane, not so bad either.
She pointedly observed, “All I
can say is that we all have to go
when the time comes, Mr. Carr.”
Harry admitted the truth of it,
but seemed inclined to think an
exception might have been in
the case of Queen Victoria. Mrs.
Finucane didn’t see it in that
light at all. But she was sorry,
too, and. said so. But she was a
difficult woman, and Harry was
glad to be finished with her.
OUT of the lane and on to
the main road again. Harry
still in front and Dick and
Darkie still maintaining the ulti-
mate of speed. On to Douglas’s.
Old man Douglas took it well,
considering. On to Morton’s,
where Mrs. Morton paid Harry
in the precious coin of tears,
breaking down obligingly when
she heard that the good Queen
was truly dead. Beyond Mor-
ton’s, Bill Forsyth and two of
the Rawson boys were working
on a fencing contract —a half-
mile of new fence for Morton’s
road frontage. Although Bill
was a wonderful fencer, he was
emotional and sentimental. A
tough leathery face and a kind
of long-distance squint in his
eyes didn’t altogether beautify
his sentimentality.
Bill had once been in the old-
time Volunteers —he had “riz”
to be a lance-corporal after
many years of devoted service—
and quite rightly considered him-
self a soldier of the Queen. And
as Queen’s soldier he stood to
attention, using the long-handled
spade as a rifle reversed. His
face worked horribly with the
strength of his feelings. To
Harry it was a beautiful sight,
and fortunately he didn’t see the
reactions of the Rawson boys
who were much noted locally as
hard cases. They winked at each
other slyly, and then put on such
a travesty of solemnity as would
not have deceived Darkie’s wall-
eye.
Bill spoke. “The saddest
thing I’ve ever heard, that is,
Harry, as far as a family circle
is concerned.”
“As a family circle, Bill.
That’s right. You’ve said it.
Bill.”
The Rawson boys were so
overcome by their feelings that
they had to turn away and con-
template the distant blue ridges
by way of relief.
“She was a—-a —great —a
great” Bill fumbled for the
word.
“Identity?” suggested Harry.
It was a word much in use when
prominent locals passed on.
“She was a great identity,
Harry.”
“She was. Bill. I should say
the very greatest.”
“They’ll find it hard to replace
her.”
“They won’t ever be able to
do that, Bill.”
“Do you know, Harry, but I
don’t think I can do any more
work today.”
Harry quite understood the
noble sentiment.
“So could you give me a
lift?”
Harry was delighted to do so.
Bill put the fencing tools in a
thick clump of bushes and told
the Rawsons they could go home
if they wished. Apparently the
Rawsons considered they could
do the Queen more good by not
working the rest of the day.
ON to Sorley’s, Davidson’s,
Gray’s and Ryan’s. Bill was
a decided acquisition—he let
Harry do all the first part of
the breaking of the news. He
stood to attention in most
soldierly fashion; his face
worked more awfully in his grief
each time he exercised it; his
long-distance squint became
more terrible in its distance ; and
he repeated every time the
phrase, “As far as a family circle
is concerned.” The sad neatness
of the phrase made a big appeal.
In Ryan’s paddock two old
derelicts were putting down a
shaft among the old workings,
quite near the road. How they
came to be working as mates
was quite a mystery, for Jimmy
and Alec had nourished a whole
lifetime of hate and bitterness
towards each other. They had
much to divide them, for Jimmy
was Irish and Alec was Scotch.
On the other hand, Jimmy was
nearly blind, but had a highly
refined sense of hearing, while
Alec was almost deaf, but blessed
with exceptionally good eyesight.
Each, of course, was most in-
tolerant of the other’s deficiency.
“We’ll tell them,” said Harry,
“It would be only the decent
thing to do,” said Bill.
Jimmy was on top and Alec
beiow. Jimmy was winding up
an ancient greenhide bucket of
mullock.
“Jimmy!” called Harry. “I
want to talk to you.”
“And for what?” boomed
Jimmy, who had still a strong
voice for all the trembling hulk
it came out of. Also, Jimmy
was a man of very independent
spirit and resented anything that
sounded like orders.
“News, Jimmy dreadful
news. Wind up your mate,
Jimmy.”
“News! Dreadful news!”
Jimmy was still young enough
to be interested in news. “What
might the news be?”
“Get Alec up first, and I’ll
tell you.”
It was not so easy to get Alec
up. He had only just started his
shift below. And Alec was even
more touchy about orders than
Jimmy was.
Jimmy bellowed down the
shaft and Alec ignored him —
even if he could hear him.
Jimmy dropped a small lump of
clay to secure attention. The
strategy was entirely successful.
The clay took Alec between the
shoulder-blades. If it had been
a granite boulder the response
could not have been more vocal
and profane. A thin high-
pitched, cracked voice came out
of the shaft. Jimmy boomed
and bellowed back and made
helpful signs and gestures with
his hands. He turned to the
van—“lt’s not the deafness alone
entirely—the man's mad, mad,
I do believe. And that’s what I
have to put up with from the
one day to another.”
Another lump of clay, a larger
one which he dodged, made Alec
decide to come up. But he was
in a vile temper over the matter.
“Are you daft, you great
loon?” he greeted Jimmy as his
head cleared the timbering.
Then he saw Harry and Bill.
With commendable patience,
Harry waited till the squabbling
relics were reasonably ready to
receive the news. “Queen Vic-
toria’s dead!” It took a long
time to make Alec aware. And
Jimmy’s method was certainly
calculated to exasperate. “Man
alive, why don't you clean the
bloody ears of you—the Queen’s
dead, they say —in Kerry they’d
shoot the like of you but for
the waste of the good powder
and shot.”
“Dead! Who’s dead?”
cackled Alec, who at least
caught that essential word.
“You are,” says Jimmy, “or
you might as well be for all the
good you are—Victoria, Queen
Victoria! ”
Bill was at attention in
preparation for the message
percolating to Alec’s under-
standing. And when that
moment arrived, Jimmy acted
disgracefully—he blessed him-
self. It wasn’t as if Jimmy was
a practical Catholic at all —he
was only that in prospect,
always declaring that he’d fix-
up things later on —when he had
more time and leisure for such
things. He was, he knew, “a
(Continued on page 32.)


*o*
u
r^.
to*
FIRM
k
(I
m
A British-made adhesive plaster that is
comfortable, elastic and conveniently
wound on a metal spool. That’s Elasto-
plast, the truly modern dressing! Flesh-
coloured and inconspicuous, it stays
neat and clean. Firm, flexible Elastoplast
replaces bulky bandages. 1" x 1 yd.
long, it stretches to l|/2 yds.
FROM ALL CHEMISTS
oastoplast
TRADE MARK
E-L-A-S-T-l-C ADHESIVE PLASTER
First Aid Dressings, in RED tins, also available. I|/|M
MADE IN ENGLAND B/ T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD.. HULL
sd
fs
df
sdf
sd
No home should
be without it...
m
ESTA
Special hospit
,-MtTiiiKO AMO •OTTUB U
lTWtt ** AOftAlM-
T <>UtV. SCOTT • TOUIK tl
I. s. w. distributors! TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
TST.IS.fS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WHY RUSSIA DELAYS.
A former Red Air Force
colonel, quoted in London
“Twentieth Century”:
“It is pointless to inquire
whether the Kremlin is driving
towards war. There is no doubt
about the reply.... .The question
is why the Kremlin does not
strike now. It seems absurd to
wait until the Eisenhower Army
is fully equipped.... .[But] the
Kremlin is not obsessed by the
idea of a lightning war. [The
Soviet Government] will un-
leash war only when it feels sure
of its long-term ability to sus-
tain the conflict. At present
this is clearly not the case. The
question therefore is: when is
the Soviet Union going to be
ready for another war?”
A London “Daily Express”
correspondent, looking into the
same puzzle, comes up with the
comforting conclusion that
Russia still needs quite a good
stretch of time to overcome
“some shortages that no amount
of courage or luck can outbal-
ance.” He makes, among others,
the following comparisons:
(1) Russia’s 1950 output of
steel, which limits the production
of tanks, guns, lorries, aircraft
engines and warships, was about
24,000,000 tons. This is less
than one-quarter of the com-
bined steel production of the
Western Powers. It is less than
America was producing in 1913.
(2) Last year Soviet miners
dug out 230 million tons of coal
—on which the production of
explosives, synthetic rubber and
rocket fuel depends. This is
only seven per cent, more than
the British miners produced. It
is less than half U.S. production.
Even Stalin’s 1961 target of
500 million tons barely exceeds
America’s present output.
(3) Soviet electric schemes
generated about 80,000 million
kilowatt-hours of usable power
—on which practically every
major munitions industry, and
particularly atomic-w eapon
manufacture, depends. This is
only 20 per cent, more than
power-starved Britain produced.
It is less than one-quarter of the
power available in America.
(4) Russia’s overall oil sup-
plies—chiefly obtained from
highly vulnerable wells round
the Caspian Sea—total about
37,000,000 tons a year. U.S.
home-produced oil exceeds 265
million tons. A further 100
million tons is produced by
American-controlled companies
operating abroad. This does not
include the 30,000,000 tons
obtained from the disputed
Persian oil-fields.
These grounds, in the cor-
respondent’s view, must con-
vince the Kremlin that it could
not win a long global war any
time within the next 10 years.
Hence, “Russia will try hard to
avoid a reckless clash.”
In his book Peace Can Be
Won, former Marshall Plan
administrator Paul G. Hoff-
man (he’s now president of the
Ford Foundation) states that he
had “sought all over Europe”
for answers to the question of
why Russia doesn’t march now,
while the West is still only part-
ready. He had questioned
Churchill and Britain’s then
Foreign Minister Bevin, as well
as like leaders of the Continental
nations;
“Foremost in almost every-
one’s mind (and Churchill placed
his main reliance on this),”
writes Hoffman, “was the belief
that our bigger and better stock-
pile of atom-bombs and our
swift moves toward the creation
of the hydrogen-bomb were tell-
ing deterrents to any Red Army
adventure. Everyone I met was
heartened by the United
Nations’ prompt response to
aggression in Korea. The
Kremlin knows unmistakably
that it cannot march into
Western Europe without precipi-
tating full-scale war.
“The Europeans, who know
the Russians far better than we
[Americans] do, also pointed out
certain political and ideological
brakes to a major Russian
aggression. The Kremlin is
aware that any aggressive move
in Western Europe would finally
and irrevocably turn all of the
free world against the Soviet
Union. The tolerance displayed
by many Indians, Pakistanis and
Burmese toward Communist
tactics would be sharply
reversed.
“Moreover, Europeans argue,
the Soviet leadership considers
a major war to be unnecessary
at the present time. The Polit-
buro still believes in the Marxist
doctrine that the capitalist world
has within it basic conflicts and
contradictions which will even-
tually bring about its collapse.
The hope persists in Moscow
that Communism can wait it out
and ultimately pick up the pieces
of broken capitalism.
“Finally, Stalin knows very
well that the downfall of Hitler
and Mussolini resulted directly
from the full-scale war touched
off by invasion of free countries.
To take a chance in the light of
such precedents, of such long-
shot odds, is not in line with
Stalin’s previous strategy. When
Averell Harriman was
America’s post-war Ambassador
to Russia, Stalin said to him dur-
ing a Kremlin conference:
‘Hitler’s great mistake was to get
involved in a long war,’
“Of course,” adds Hoffman,
“these speculations do not
guarantee that the Russians will
not start World War 111. Nor
are they reasons for com-
placency. But they do offer the
hope for a few decisive years in
to build up our defensive
military strength to the point
where the Red Army will not
dare march.”
U.S. Middle East Oil.
Demonstrating that America is
as vitally interested in Middle
East oil as is Britain, the London
“Financial Times’s” expert in
that line has quoted statistics
prepared by the Petroleum In-
formation Bureau, showing
percentages in ownership of pro-
duction in 1949 in the Middle
East area as: U.S.A., 46;
British and Dutch interests, 52;
others, 2.
In proved reserves America’s
ownership, is shown as exceeding
that of British and Dutch in-
terests, the percentage figures be-
ing 49 and 45 respectively.
Saudi Arabian production is all
American - controlled. The
operating company is Arabian
American, in which Standard of
California owns a 30 per cent,
interest, the Texas Company 30
per cent,, Standard (New Jersey)
30 per cent., and Socony-
Vacuum 10 per cent. The next-
largest American interest is that
held by Gulf Exploration in
Kuwait Oil Company, which is
jointly and equally controlled by
Gulf and Anglo-Iranian.
There are, the report further
points out, three companies
operating in Irak: Irak Petro-
leum Company, Mosul Petro-
leum Company and Basra
Petroleum Company. The two
last-named are fully owned by
Irak Petroleum, in which Ameri-
can interests own a 23| per cent,
share through Near East De-
velopment Company, whose
capital is equally held by
Standard (New Jersey) and
Socony-Vacuum.
Bahrein Petroleum Company
is completely in American hands.
Standard Oil of California and
Texas Company each owning 50
per cent. The Qatar oilfields are
owned by Irak Petroleum Com-
pany, the American interests in
which have already been indi-
cated. Irak Petroleum also
controls Petroleum Development
(Palestine), Lebanon Petroleum,
Syria Petroleum and Transjordan
Petroleum.
The Kuwait neutral zone be-
tween Saudi Arabia is owned
jointly by King Abdul Aziz and
the Sheik of Kuwait, no partition
having been made between them.
Both the Sheik’s share and the
" Candido,” Milan, Italy.
THE CHESS GAME.
Saudi share in any potential oil-
field in this territory have been
granted to American companies,
the former to the American
Independent Company and the
latter to the Pacific Western Oil
Corporation.
In Egypt, Socony-Vacuum has
a half-share in oil produced in
the Sinai Peninsula. This
amounts to approximately half a
million tons a year.
Finally, the report states that,
although American companies
have no direct participation in
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company,
two concerns—Standard (New
Jersey) and Socony-Vacuum—
have entered into long-term con-
tracts for the purchase of large
quantities of Anglo-Iranian out-
put, and it is believed that they
are currently absorbing around
40 per cent, of the company’s
production of more than 30 mil-
lion tons annually. Thus
America, in addition to its in-
terests in Middle Eastern oil as
a whole, is also keenly and
directly affected by the threat to
the Persian assets of Anglo-
Iranian.
Paris Dead-end.
Even as Soviet-attended inter-
national conferences- go, the
latest one in Paris was something
of a record. It drooled on for
over three months and got no-
where.
It had been first suggested by
the Kremlin, though for what
purpose remains a mystery. Some
overseas observers deduced that
the whole purpose was purely
propagandist; others held that
the aim was to gain time for
some move yet to be revealed.
It ended when Gromyko’s
demand for inclusion of the
North Atlantic Treaty in the
agenda of the mooted Foreign
Ministers’ meeting convinced the
Western deputies that whatever
the Kremlin’s aim may have
been it was not to hasten the


ELIZABETH TAYLOR
A Game qf//ide and Seek
fsd
A remarkable
novel, perceptive,
witty and deli-
cately written, by
the author of A
Wreath of Roses.
Scenes, conversa-
tions, ripple with
pure comedy.
“Miss Taylor’s finest novel. It has something of the
lucid delicacies of Persuasion together with, at moments,
more than a touch of the fiery-icy strangeness of
Wutbering Heights”— ELIZABETH BOWEN.
At aU Booksellers PETER DAVIES Ltd.
ff
vrss&r
a tism
u
BHE^
mm
u BIT' 5
W OAO°
i! [I
iabi £
R V-
keep® 2
* ? -s, > ./ * m
■ ;•;,
; ...
MMmm
■• v
m
m
IX3
TRADE um
AMERICAN DISCOVERY
APPROVED BY DOCTORS
FOR RELIEVING
RHEUMATISM - SCIATICA - NEURITIS
FIBROSmS ■ LUMBAGO ■ GOUT
Doldn has brought relief to countless
sufferers from rheumatic disorders in
America and England. Now it is
made available for you. Dolcin Tab-
lets give prompt relief from the pain-
ful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Gout. Prolonged relief is also given
because Doldn contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Doldn gives prompt relief and is also
non-toxic. It will not harm the heart
and can safely be taken for long
periods to relieve the rheumatic ac-
tivity in severe cases.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheumatism, in-
duding people who have given up
hope of ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work—thanks to
the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets
have brought them.
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no harm-
ful effects on the heart or any other
organ.
DOLCIN relieves painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout.
DOLCIN has been proved in clinical
tests and is prescribed by the
Medical profession.
DOLCIN is approved under the British
Free Medicine Scheme.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIH
S/330
Helpful and informative literature on Dolcia
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Aust.l Ptv.
Limited, Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney. v
proposed meeting. Notes were
subsequently sent to Russia sug-
gesting that the Foreign Minis-
ters’ meeting should be held in
Washington on July 23 on the
basis of what had been agreed
to in Paris. They gave the
Kremlin the choice of three
different agendas.
The Kremlin, however, insists
on inclusion of the North
Atlantic Treaty and America’s
world bases in the agenda.
In editorial summing-up on the
Paris conference, London
“Times” commented on the
treaty point:
“The North Atlantic Treaty is
not a subject on which the
Western Powers are prepared to
bargain or to make concessions.
It is the foundation of their
policy of self-defence and self-
preservation. If the Soviet
Foreign Minister wishes to
criticise it or discuss it he will
have a perfect right to do so
under the first item of the draft
agenda which calls for ‘examina-
tion of the causes and effects of
present international tensions in
Europe,’ but it would be entirely
misleading to suggest that the
Western Powers are prepared to
modify the treaty at the request
of the Soviet Government any
more than the Soviet Govern-
ment would be prepared to burn
the works of Karl Marx at the
request of the Western Powers.”
The same goes, of course, for
America’s strategic bases.
An "Economic Truce."
An agreement (reported in
London “Economist”) between
the Finnish Government and the
representatives of employers,
trade-unions and farmers for an
“economic truce” makes odd
reading in present-day Australia.
Under it, wages and prices are
to be kept stable until September
30, by when an Economic
Council will have drawn up a
long - term programme of
economic stabilisation, and
measures will have been studied
to relieve those suffering especi-
ally from the burden of taxa-
tion.
“The employers’ and trade-
union leaders, in subsequent
official statements, expressed
their satisfaction and once more
exhorted the population to work
harder and to observe self-
discipline”
Various Voices.
American General Marshall
(on the “vital effect” of destroy-
ing the trained Chinese Com-
munist armies in Korea): “It
takes a long time to create such
an army; it also presents
problems of equipment and
things of that sort. We have
filled the hospitals all over
China, and what happens with
the wounded that are released,
and naturally talk, though they
may do it secretly, is bound to
have its effect on the Chinese
people in the end, although it
will never have a sudden effect.”
British Chief of the Air Staff,
Sir John Slessor; “We [Britain]
have much to learn from the
American Air Force and the
American aviation industry;
and they have much to learn
from us. And as long as we are
not complacent, as long as w
strive with ail our brain anc
nerve and sinew to keep the leac
we have gained in the air, .
believe that British anc
American air-power can ensure
the peace of the world for
another hundred years, as British
sea-power secured it for one
hundred years after Trafalgar.’
John Foster Dulles: “We
should plan in terms of our
strength and our opponent’s
weakness, rather than in terms
of our opponent’s strength
Despotic societies always look
much more formidable than they
are. From without they seem
hard and invulnerable: in
reality, their inner life is cor-
rupted by the excessive power
of a few, by fear and jealousy
and by the stifling of individual
initiative and responsibility.”
British Ambassador to the
U.S., Sir Oliver Franks (address-
ing graduates at McGill Uni-
versity, Canada); “1 believe that
by the time that you who
graduate today see your children
in these same seats, we shal
have passed over the plateau [oi
present tensions] and descended
to the calm and prosperous
valleys of settled peace.”
President of Harvard Uni-
versity, Dr. James B. Conant
“The danger of a third globa
war, I am convinced, turns on
the fact that a few years hence
the handful of men who rule
Russia may decide that the
power of the free world’s
strategic air force has been
largely cancelled out. If at that
time Europe is defenceless on the
ground, the Russian hordes
might well begin to move.
Strengthening the defence of
Europe in terms not of a de-
terrent threat against Russian
cities but in terms of armies to
stop an advance seems to me
the top item on the agenda of
the free nations of the world.
Only then can we achieve a true
global stalemate.”
American General Bradley:
“From a military viewpoint
appeasement occurs when you
give up something which is
rightfully free to an aggressor
without putting up a struggle or
making him pay a price. For-
saking Korea withdrawing
from the fight unless we are
forced out would be an
appeasement to aggression. Re-
fusing to enlarge the quarrel to
the point where our global capa-
bilities are diminished is cer-
tainly not appeasement, but it is
a militarily sound course of
action under the present circum-
stances.”
German Chancellor, Dr.
Adenauer: “West Germany will
work in the Council of Europe
with all its force toward unity
as the only means of keeping
peace and meeting the pressures
from the East and from Asia.”
Dragnet Digest.
Ex-U.N.O. —Philip Gibbs, in one
of his books published in the 1930’5,
recorded his having asked workmen
constructing the old League of
Nations’ palace at Lake Geneva
what they were building, and being
told “A hospital for the next war.”
The same sort of irony touches
U.N.O.’s late residence at Lake Suc-
cess; its quarters there (as reported
by London “Times’s” U.N.O. corres-
pondent) “will now be largely de-
voted to the needs of the American
rearmament programme: bomb-sights
and other instruments of war will
soon be in production in the halls
that have seen such persevering
efforts for the maintenance of peace
by the Security Council and many
other bodies of the United Nations.”
* * * ♦
H.C. of Rearmament. Figures
given out by a British defence com-
mittee indicate that a huge slice of
Britain’s £4,700,000,000 rearmament
(over the next three years) will be
eaten-up by the hugely increased costs
since 1945. Examples of prices then
and now: Bren-gun, £35—£65; rifle,
£7 11s. 3d.—£ll 17s. 6d.; 601 b. H.E.
aircraft rocket projectile, £4 12s. —
£9 10s.; 2in. H.E. mortar bomb,
ss. 9d.—£l os. 7d.; fighter aircraft,
£9680 —£16,160; and bomber aircraft,
£15,915—£77,600.
* * * *
West, Too, Needs Time. —While a
good many evidently hold that Russia
still needs time before it can be ready
to start a big and long war, a New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent points out that that applies
to the West’s defence preparations
also. Debunking “recent optimistic
talk,” he comments: “The American
productive machine has been put into
high gear, but it will be a year to 18
months before the really critical
items, such as aircraft and tanks, are
available in quantity. General Eisen-
hower has begun his great effort, but
it will be two to three years before
Western Europe and the Western
world are really secure. This is the
true state of affairs today.”
* * * *
Jap Problems Solved ? —London
“Spectator” has its doubts: “Nobody
outside Japan seems to have any
idea how the old evils of cheap ex-
ports based on terribly low living
and working conditions are to be
averted. Nor has any answer been
found to the difficulty that Japan is
one of the few places in the world
where the specifically economic
causes of war are still potent. Have
the Japanese an answer of their own?
If they have they ought to be asked
to give it quickly. It would be a
disaster if the rest of the world, and
in particular the Americans, woke up
one day to the realisation that the
creature they had been nourishing was
the same old viper.”
* * * ♦
Spanish Partners. —Increasingly the
British Press is endorsing what
London “Daily Telegraph,” for one,
has been advocating for a year or
two: the acceptance of Spain as a
partner in the Western defence
scheme. Thus, the London “Econo-
mist” has commented; “There is
no reason why, at this grave hour
in the cold war with a common
enemy, past hostilities and antipathies
should now prevent a working part-
nership with the Spaniards on the
basis of live and let live. Throughout
the world democracy is having to
compromise with systems which are
alien to it —in Yugoslavia, in the
Middle East and in Asia. There is
no real reason why Spain should be
different now that the North Atlantic
alliance has fully established itself.”
U.S. Not Isolationist. —What Mr.
Churchill has detected as an “isola-
tionist wave” in America, the Louis-
ville “Courier-Journal” interprets
thus: “The wave that is running is
really one of anti-European feeling,
a tide that flows recurrently across
our country. It always sweeps
hardest against the interests of our
most dependable ally in the world,
Great Britain.”
* ♦ * *
Holding Formosa. —ln London
“Economist’s” view the American
Government now accepts General
MacArthur’s contention that on stra-
tegic grounds Formosa should not be
allowed to fall into Communist
hands. The protection of the Ameri-
can fleet is due, in accordance with
President Truman’s declaration, to be
withdrawn from Formosa at the con-
clusion of the Korean war; but the
intention is apparently meanwhile so
to strengthen the Nationalist forces
in the island that they may be able
to hold out there indefinitely.
* * * ♦
Same Boat. —Noting “the almost
eerie neatness with which the debates
in Australia, Britain and the United
States are knitted into a pattern,” a
“New York Times” writer comments
on the actual global nature of the
seeming local problems of each:
“Fundamentally, all the internal argu-
ments in the democratic world to-
day focus on the same points: how
much State control over an economy
suspended between peace and war;
how to deal with the effects of infla-
tion on the living standards of the
people; how much national capital
and income can safely be devoted to
armament.”


Perpetual Motion
mt
mm*
m
As every mother knows, the nearest thing to
perpetual motion is a small boy. This fellow is
Superman, swooping down on the “baddies.” He
needs a lot of exercise like this, in the fresh air
and sunshine, to grow healthy and strong.
mm
|
mm
iilii
m
i L Xl
mm
When Superman has tidied up the situation, he
comes in and gets himself a slice of bread and
jam. He is replacing the energy used up in his
game. Jam, and many other delicious foods,
like biscuits, custards, and preserved fruits, are
rich in sugar, a wholesome energy food. Sugar
is an essential part of the balanced diet
youngsters need.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LIMITED
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are: —•
12 months .. .. £1 16 0
6 18 6
3 „ .. .. .. 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
i&m
,
xv^v^yew
»B'f
Don't be a %s*'this winter
see
where
you re
W 9
wHh
The odds are that you’ll be "left in the dark”
if you use an inefficient battery in winter, for
cold starting and longer use of lights soon
find a battery’s weaknesses. If your battery
is failing, make sure of Quick starting and
safe, comfortable winter driving by replacing
it with a guaranteed Goodyear Battery. There
are two Goodyear Batteries
from which to choose: De
Luxe with Felted Fibre
Glass insulation and
the lower priced Heavy
Duty All-Weather.
AD
; 'v.--
mi
*
THE
BATTERY
As good as
the name it hear*
Ul.lt
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Men can tell some of a woman’s
character from studying her legs.”
— Women’s paper.
Provided there isn’t too much
skirting around the subject.
4* 4* 4*
Everywhere you meet women who
have mislaid their bright dreams of
themselves.” — Women’s paper.
And husbands who find them
nightmares.
“Armed wireless - patrol police
watched the exits of the Regent
Theatre, Thornbury, salt night in the
hope of catching the escaped
prisoner.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
Right on his tail!
4* 4* 4*
“Melbourne traffic divides people
into two classes—the quick and the
dead.” —Visiting preacher Rev. Dr.
Leslie Weatherhead.
To stay in the first group you
need to know a few useful
dodges.
Taking the Long View.
The more we realise how unearthly
things are in outer space the more I
think we shall be content to stay
away.” —British astronomer C. D.
Grimwade.
Look through some mighty tele-
scope and see
The moon suspended almost in
our grasp
And planets with a new
proximity
That makes our probing hands
reach out to clasp
The girdling rings as though
they were a toy ;
And then seek further into vasty
space
Whose sheer variety can never
cloy
The soul that hungers for
infinity.
Small wonder if the man who
once has stood
Spellbound and gazed on island
galaxies
Incalculably far should wish he
could
Wing with the speed of thought
where it should please
His ranging mind to go adven-
turing.
Yet though these distant stars
may have their points
I think that on the whole Vd
rather cling
To those whose brightness
shines on Hollywood.
BERT.
Breakdown.
“Dartmoor convicts each read an
average of 11 books a week. The
prison officer said: ‘Their minds are
so numb from reading that they have
no energy for work.’ ”
Fm doin’ me six months hard,
see, an’ on me day orf I starts to
read, and blimey! after a dozen
books me strikin’ arm goes all
numb-like.
“Wot’s up?” says the quack
when he’s called to me cell.
“Crook, doc,” I answers.
“I’m goin’ numb all over!”
“Readin’ much?” he asks.
“ ’Bout average,” I says, and
shows him wot I’d got through
for the day: some Havelock
Ellis, Strange Marriage Customs
of the Aztecs and a bound
copy of six months’ “True Con-
fessions.”
“H’mph!” he sez and calls
the guard.
“Fair go, doc! ” I yells as they
start to lead me out. “I’m goin’
t’ have a nervous breakdown!”
He takes no notice. The guard
dices me books, takes me out-
side to a pile of rocks, gives me
a hammer, then strike me if I
don’t go and have a proper
crack-up.
JONAS DILL.
Aptitude Test for Prospective
Estate-agents.
1. —Explain why the terpi
“salubrious” may be applied
with conviction purely from the
viewpoint of salesmanship,
equally to a rus in urbe area, the
salient features of which are its
invigorating near-mountain air
and a plenitude of gum-trees,
and to a landscape which
liberally abounds in chemical
factories, boiling-down works,
tanneries, etc.
2. —In a Press advertisement
for a house you have on your
books for sale you describe it,
inter alia, as being “a stone’s
throw from the station.” In
response to it a prospect pre-
sents himself at your office,
which is alongside the station,
“It’s easily remedied—carry the wife's parcels in the
RIGHT hand for a change."
and announces his desire to in-
spect the place. As you are
about to usher him into the car,
which stands right outside, he
remarks “Oh, we may as well
walk, mayn’t we?” Without
thinking of its import you
casually reply ‘Thanks all the
same —you don’t catch me walk-
ing that far. Hop in.” His
change of expression warns you
that you have “pulled a boner.”
Which would you consider the
most satisfactory course im-
mediately to pursue: (a) To step
out briskly, talking incessantly
on a variety of subjects all the
way so as to keep his mind off
the distance covered? ( b ) Slap
him on the back as you bundle
him into the car with a hearty
laugh and a “Just a little joke of
mine, but I want to see how the
carburettor’s behaving—it was
playing up on me this morn-
ing”?
3. —Further to the previous
question. Assume that you
selected ib). When you pull up
outside the property your pros-
pective client glances signifi-
cantly at your speedometer and
says “Well, I’ve never heard
of anyone yet who was able to
sling a gibber over half a mile.”
Would you feel disposed to
launch into a coldly scientific
dissertation on the possibility of
such a feat not being outside the
bounds of possibility if a gigantic
man using the maximum of
body-swing and having an ex-
tensive knowledge of the law of
physics as applied to trajectory
of a heayier-tban-air missile
were to train assiduously before
attempting it? Alternatively,
would you consider it more pru-
dent to say in an off-hand
manner “That speedo of mine
has taken to galloping lately—
can’t understand what’s made it
go haywire”?
4. —Hearing that the owner of
a property in your suburb con-
templates selling it, you approach
him and casually ask if this is
so. He expresses diffidence in
the matter, but eventually says
he might think about it. He
confesses, though, that he hasn’t
the faintest idea of what it is
worth on the present market,
and asks what is your opinion.
You are a real-estate valuer,
knowing the district well. You
make a thorough inspection of
the house, and in the end you
give him what you consider a
maximum sum that it could
bring. He says he will “chew it
over.” In the next Saturday’s
paper it is advertised for pri-
vate sale at the figure you kindly
supplied, and you hear later that
a sale has been effected. You
also hear that the one who told
the person who told you about
the possibility of its being for
sale was the owner’s wife.
Write a thesis of no less than
5000 words, on asbestos, and
using a minimum of 60 p.c. of
adjectives, on the necessity of
making it a criminal offence for
any property-owner to sell other
than through an agent.
5. —You collect rent for a cot-
tage on behalf of a principal
who is touring abroad, but who,
through giving you power to
effect repairs and replacements,
has made it clear that these must
be kept to a strict minimum. The
tenants have for months been
pestering you in vain for a new
bath-heater. On rent-collection
day the tenant’s wife invites you
in to look at the bath-heater.
You go from one subject to
another, finishing up having
morning-tea in the lounge-room
discussing animatedly a movie
you had seen the previous night,
and which, by chance, she had
also seen. In rather jovial mood
you are imitating the soulful
look which Joseph Gotten gives
in the film to Valli when the
woman’s husband comes in un-
expectedly. He is about 14
stone and looks extremely mus-
cular. Would you feel it was
your duty, in the interests of the
preservation of the property on
behalf of your principal, to an-
nounce that you had decided not
only to have installed a new
bath-heater but a gas-fire, a new
stove and have it wall-papered
throughout as well?
6. —You have had on your
books for sale and for several
months four adjoining blocks of
land without success. They are in
a very low-lying area and have
an easement through them. Hap-
pening to be passing them one
day after about 3in. of rain you
note that the lower sections of
each block are under a foot of
water. Would you feel justified
in advertising than as “water-
frontages”?
7. —A property for sale you
advertise as having “extensive
views.” The front faces a paling
fence ; on each side are factory
walls, and the back is a high
iron fence. State why you
would consider this ethically
correct in view of the uninter-
rupted view of the empyrean
above.
Bo.
Debunked.
Though wiser ones see subtle sin
In Mona Lisa’s vaunted grin
I sense a simple motive in
It, hidden from the clever;
Those puckered lips weren’t
pursed to steal
Men’s hearts away, or to reveal
Soul maladies —but to conceal
Unsightly teeth forever.
BRAIN BUREAU.


8.0.A.C. SPEEDBIRD SERVICES
TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
You can book to almost
anywhere in the world by
8.0.A.C. Service on one
ticket ail the way. Your
8.0.A.C. Agent makes no
charge for expert advice
and trip planning help.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA . MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA
PAKISTAN • AFRICA • ITALY • GREAT
BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA * BERMUDA
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0~A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all
cities end towns.
8.0. i
AI7/AUa
Specify 8.0.A.C. "Air Cargo “ for your overseas shi pm sots 4
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QAKTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LIMITED, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED AMS SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
fj
c ddci
a
mum
is "a movie fan,"
Every boy is a half-built man.
Every boy of the "make-good’' sort
Sticks to study as well as sport.
Every boy with a healthy brain
Will greet a sneak with a boy's disdain.
Every boy with a cold, be sure.
Barracks for Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
Bom 7820
i fill going tfroog.
.rar.uH.u
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The conclusion of Saturday’s racing
at Moonee Valley saw the Grand
National double one week nearer to
hand and its solution as remote
as ever. It was a Melbourne Hunt
Club meeting. The 20-to-l chance
Dynamic made more or less hacks of
his opponents in the Berwick Steeple,
and the other jumping event, the
Melbourne Hunt Steeple, was, of
course, scarcely expected to produce
any Grand National form.
The Berwick Steeple saw a collec-
tion of just-moderate jumpers
tumbling like ninepins very early in
the piece. By this process of elimina-
tion Dynamic was left in front with a
mile to go, and he was not thereafter
headed. Faunus alone looked a pos-
sible danger when he gained ground
with a mighty leap at the last fence,
but by then he was beginning to feel
his topweight plaster of 11.7, and,
running like a very tired horse in the
straight, he was beaten a half-length;
eight lengths further back Sea Legend
headed the remainder, or, rather,
those of them still in action; six of
the dozen runners had fallen, Cleric,
in particular, coming a most spec-
tacular catherine-wheeling purler in
front of the stand.
In what must have been a spirit
of exceptional optimism, the rider of
Faunus fired in a protest against the
winner on the ground of alleged inter-
ference at the second-last fence.
Stewards took about four minutes to
dismiss it, and might well have
devoted three-quarters of that time
to contemplating soaking the objector
for “frivolous protest.”
Having described runners in the
Berwick Steeple as “just moderate”
jumpers it is difficult to aptly epito-
mise the jumping ability of those
who contested the Melbourne Hunt
Steeple; possibly it would be best
simply to pay tribute to the courage
of those riders, both professionals
and amateurs, who undertook to ride
them. At one stage the three leaders
were being hard pressed by nine
riderless horses. All told, 11 of the
17 starters failed to get round.
Conditions of the Hunt Steeple
prescribed “for horses which in the
opinion of the Committee of the Club
have been fairly hunted with any
recognised pack of hounds twice
during 1951, under conditions as pre-
scribed by the Recognised Hunt Clubs
of Victoria.” Most of them gave the
impression that any fox they pursued
would eventually surrender in sheer
boredom.
The no-hopers and the possibles
had been drastically sorted out by
the time they passed the mile peg.
At that point Gyrone was leading,
and over the remainder of the journey
he gradually increased his advantage,
to eventually win by five lengths from
Lesgar, with Edison third. Gyrone
(R. Quigley) carried 11.5, which might
be reckoned a rough sort of weight-
for-age—he’s rising 12 himself.
As favorites were beaten in all five
flat races as well as the two jumping
events punters had about the worst
of several extremely bad days they’ve
experienced over recent weeks. The
worst upset was provided by the suc-
cess of Narre (A. Burton) at 25 to 1
in the 13-furlongs Hallam Handicap,
but, by the same token, the popular
elect, Laertes, in this event gave
backers of favorites quite the best
run they had for their money all day.
A slow beginner, Laertes was last
early, and hadn’t improved much
when they passed the 6-furlongs ,
mark, but he came home with the j
proverbial wet sail, to be beaten only 4
half-a-length.
A clear win over Flying Cradle and
Assemble in the First Lyndhurst
Handicap for two-year-old fillies saw
the Midstream filly Vanacara (W.
Williamson) return half the 1100
guineas she cost as a yearling. The
second division went to Beta (out of
Alphabetical), with favorite Super Set
second and Los Feliz third. Conjurer
(V. Caddy) beat fellow three-year-olds
over the mile of the Clyde Handicap,
and Our Title (L. Lott) won by six
lengths the Dandenong Highweight,
in which a ton of punters’ cash went
down the drain on the former Sydney
sprinter Tesmic.
♦ * * •
The psychological effect of pleasant
sunshine at Rosehill on Saturday
almost enabled one to forget the foul
weather which had prevailed up to
the previous night and to be less
aware of the fact that the 'track was
just about barely fit for racing and
that was all. However, owners and
trainers did not allow the sun to
blind them; there were over 50
scratchings in the course of the after-
noon, some fields being almost halved.
Surprisingly, punters fared quite well,
the eight winners including four
favorites and an equal favorite.
Most New Zealand-breds seem to
go well when they strike a heavy
track over here, and Peter Robinson
proved a case in point by comfortably
beating Aerofoil and Field Boy in the
Flying. However, it was a poor field,
with only six runners altogether, and
connections’ announced intention of
taking Peter to Brisbane for the
Doomben Ten Thousand seems to be
aiming a trifle high, particularly as
he’s an eight-year-old. The three-
year-old Craigavon, naturally, beat
nothing of much account in the
Three- and Four-year-old Maiden
Handicap, but it was, with 15 starters,
the biggest field of the day, and he
won by what was very conservatively
“Sorry, Missus, but the boss doesn't allow trick-riding."
estimated at 12 lengths, Craigavon
is a son of Craigie, who went well in
the wet, out of St. Lucia, dam of
another fair mud-runner in Trover.
Le Dauphin (S. Carter), taking the
second division of the Parramatta
Mixed, was another very easy
winner, with six lengths to spare at
the finish.
While those mentioned above gave
reasonable indication that they take
kindly to soft going, Khedive and
Beau Caste, both with other recent
heavy-track wins to their credit, can
be labelled really genuine mudlarks;
both are sons of High Caste. Khedive,
who won in the mud at Rand wick a
couple of weeks back, downed the
consistent country performer Bilarillas
in the 10-furlongs June Handicap.
Handicappers are likely to express a
much higher opinion of Beau Caste
next time they have to deal with him.
At the Hawkestmry Race Club’s meet-
ing at Clarendon last Wednesday
Beau Caste won the Windsor Flying
by margins of three lengths and eight
lengths; about an hour later he was
saddled up again, with a 71b. penalty,
for the Wilberforce Welter, and won
that by eight lengths. At Rosehill,
with a further 71b. penalty, Beau Caste
won the Welter by four lengths and
three lengths.
* ♦ * ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Nursery Handicap: Blue’s Sister,
1; Lianda, 2; Passing Fancy, 3.
Juvenile Handicap; Muffles, 1;
Alkanna, 2; Brazen Sovereign, 3.
Novice; Surya, 1; Final Act, 2;
Tahlee, 3. Three-year-old: Ananzi,
1; Auld Acquaintance, 2; Rumyle, 3.
Moore Park Handicap: Penmore, 1;
Aden, 2; Salamanca, 3. Pacific
Handicap: Silver Buzz, 1; Tamunga,
2; Saville Row, 3. Maroubra Handi-
cap : Granite, 1; Lady Shuna, 2;
Homeleigh Dick, 3.
* * * ♦
Writing from The Speck, “T.V.W.,”
of Hobart, weighs in with some
interesting addenda to this page’s
notes (B. 6/6/’5l) on the Hawkesbury
Race Club’s recent resumption of
racing at Clarendon (N.S.W.): —
“Tasmania has links with Admiral
Rous, with the Hawkesbury Race Club
and with Clarendon. Records show
that on October 24, 1828, his Excel-
lency (Colonel George Arthur) sailed
down the Derwent with Captain Rous
in the Rainbow in order to select
the most suitable spot for a light-
house on Iron Pot Island. Situated
11 miles from Hobart, and brought
into action on September 16, 1833,
the Iron Pot light was the first
exhibited in Tasmania, and it still
guides mariners to Hobart Harbor.
“In the ’eighties the Tasmanian-
bred Meteor won the Hawkesbury
Grand Handicap, while another Tas-
manian in Kitawa was unplaced, but
later proved good enough to run
second in the Sydney Cup. These
details I have extracted from the
racing diary of the Hon. Thos.
Reiby.
“The thread linking Tasmania with
Clarendon (N.S.W.), where so many
Hawkesbury Grand Handicaps have
been run, traces back to the William
Cox who built the first road over
the Blue Mountains, completed in
January, 1815. Some years before
being commissioned to build the road
Cox had settled as a farmer at
Clarendon, and was subsequently
appointed magistrate at Windsor.
Later he acquired other properties,
and his interests extended afield, but
Clarendon remained his home. Cox
had several sons, all of whom made
their mark as pioneers. James, the
second-eldest, moved to Tasmania,
where ho settled at Clarendon on the
Esk River. On this estate Tasmania’s
first home-grown thoroughbred was
foaled on December 3, 1824, which
fact suggests that the Cox family
doubtless took an interest in the
racing which was conducted in the
Windsor district of N.S.W. in the
very early days. The thoroughbred
in question grew into a mare named
Miss Grizzel, to whom traced Aspen,
who won two Newmarkets at Fleming-
ton, in 1880 and 1881. Today
Clarendon is the home of the very
successful sire Legislator, a son of
Law Maker.”
* * * *
For the Wimbledon championships,
which commenced on Monday, Sedg-
man was given the honor of No. 1
seeding. Sedgman will have to lift
his game considerably to live up to
that mark; the last few weeks have
seen him really badly beaten by
Drobny in the French championships
and by the S’African Sturgess in the
Queen’s Club tournament.
This year selectors seeded 10 players
for Wimbledon; this is a compromise
between the normal eight and last
year’s experiment of seeding 16.
Sedgman faces a pretty tough pas-
sage through to the finals, for in his
half of the draw are the Americans
Flam (No. 5), Mulloy (9), Larsen (3)
and Savitt (6). Drobny is seeded
No. 2, and in his half are Bergelin
(10), McGregor (7), Budge Patty (4)
and Sturgess (8). The first seven of
the eight seeded players for the
women’s singles are Americans, with
England’s Mrs. Walker-Smith placed
No. 8, Sedgman and McGregor head
the seedings for the men’s doubles,
and, it is regrettable to observe, both
appear also in the seedings for the
mixed doubles; evidently they refuse
to learn the lesson of past experience.
* * e ♦
“Pass-it”: Cricket fans would have
wept without restraint at the sight
presented by their beloved Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday when
the N.Z. All Blacks beat Australia,
8-0, in the first Rugby Union Test.
The turf, of which the billiard-table
levelness and greenness make such a
beautiful background for the summer
game, was churned into an atrocious
sea of thick, slimy mud, and any
comment on the play of either side
would be unfair. An explanation of
why the New Zealanders won would
be that they adapted their play more
easily and showed a dogged deter-
mination to win. The Australian
forwards shaded their opponents in
the set scrums and lineouts, but con-
ditions hampered the free movement
of their backs, who, in consequence,
did not display the brilliance that was
expected of them. Given better con-
ditions, it is still present observer’s
prediction that this brilliance will
sway a match in Australia’s favor,
and the state of conditions prevailing
for the second Test is awaited with
interest.
'♦♦ ♦ ♦
There’s been a bit of bobbing
about in the V.F.L. “four,” both
Richmond and Fitzroy running into
trouble on Saturday, while Footscray
walloped Melbourne to the bottom of
the list and nearly booted itself into
the top-liners. Collingwood, on top,
was untroubled to beat Hawthorn,
13.7-8.9, and then found itself ahead
of Geelong on percentages only,
Geelong having enticed Richmond
Tigers to its home ground and there
devoured them, 10.14 to 8.8, with
Richmond scoring only six points in
the last two quarters. Fitzroy began
the last quarter against South Mel-
bourne two goals behind, and, dumb
with astonishment, managed to kick
3.3 to 1.3 to even it, 12.13-all, when
they were saved by the bell. A
revived Essendon beat North Mel-
bourne, 13.13 to 8.11, and is within
striking distance; Carlton disposed of
St. Kilda. 15.15-9.11; and ’Scray
belted Melbourne, 23.14 to 5.19.
♦ • ♦ *
Is there any team of any kind any-
where —from football to women’s
croquet—that can equal the record of
Port Melbourne thirds in the Vic-
torian Football Association —98 suc-
cessive wins in six seasons?


Safer Castration
of Calves wim
ELASTRATOR
////;
EUSTRATOB
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR
&
lor
lambs
calves
&
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
and
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD,
125 Will Join St w Melbourne.
ELlo
MAKING AUSTRALIA STRONG *
fs
ran tni
WORLD
Jht Sy titty Tirminal Oral* Kltvaltr
whetut huli Mfauats tf If'ktat orsu
tit octant U a wadttaf umld.
Feeding the hungry world mokes great demands
on the food-producing nations, and our magnificent
Wheat Industry plays a proud part in helping to
satisfy this demand.
In this groat Australia-wide effort, the Ronaldson-
Tippett Organization aids both Wheat Grower and
Bulk Handler by supplying Engines and allied
equipment
Wheat Growers use thousands of Ronaldson-
Tippett Engines. Many others are driving Wheat
Elevators and Graders . . . Co-operative Bulk
Handling of W.A. operate over 300 Diesel Engines;
the Grain Elevators Board of N.S.W, more than 200
large Kerosene Engines ... a fine tribute to sound
engineering and no small contribution towards
making Australia STRONG!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
MELBOURNE Office: G2B Bourke Street. N.S.W.
Distbrs.: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett, Ltd., Frazer
House, 42 Bridge St., SYDNEY. Q’land Distbrs.:
Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd,, Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle St., BRISBANE.
N? 6
RONALDSON-TIPPiTT
Q
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle for Climates.
“Oro”; Dr. D. F. Dowling, of
the C.5.1.R.0., told the Science
Congress in Brisbane that a
beast’s ability to shed its coat
was the outward sign of its
ability to adapt itself to sub-
tropical or tropical climates. It
had been found that marked
seasonal changes in the weight
of hair per unit of skin surface
and the change in the hair
structure, which included the
felting properties of the hair,
depended on the degree of hair
shedding and its rate of growth.
The felting qualities of hair,
thought by a South African
scientist to indicate adaptability,
had been found to be dependent
on the degree of medullation
(i.e., softer hair which felts) of
the hair fibres.
Therefore, in cooler climates,
the hair growth response was
accelerated in autumn, and such
hair would exhibit marked felt-
ing qualities if moistened and
rubbed together. From this it
would be seen that selection of
stock in the south for use in the
north on felting qualities was
impractical. Conversely, hair
from the same animal would not
felt after the winter coat had
been shed, therefore a bull
which might be classified a
“felter” if examined at a
southern stud in July would, if
examined during the spring or
summer, be passed as a “non-
felter.”
Cattlemen in tropical and sub-
tropical areas well know that
the hair-shedding response is
controlled by temperature, the
condition of the animal, and,
predominantly, by diet, as, for
instance, if it was run on fresh
green grass. Light, which is
known to influence hair-shed-
ding, plays a greater part in the
temperate regions under normal
dietary conditions. Under
tropical conditions, where
marked seasonal changes don’t
occur, the animal appears to stay
permanently in its summer coat.
Other factors which influence a
beast to retain its winter coat,
and therefore remain a “felter,”
may be the depressing action of
high temperatures, under-
nutrition, suckling a calf or
being in calf.
Parasites and Drought.
“J.R.D.”; Latest annual
report of C.5.1.R.0. activities
includes interesting material on
the varied effects of worm in-
festation on sheep in conditions
ranging from poor to good.
Tests were applied to groups of
wethers that had been kept on
fairly short rations for the best
part of a year—approximating
to drought conditions.
At the beginning, liveweights
ranged from 501 b. to 10011?. and
groups of five sheep of equal
bodyweights were drafted out.
Several groups were infected
with larvae of the barber’s-pole
worm. In the good-conditioned
group, two out of the five sheep
developed heavy infestations and
one died. In the group of four
poor sheep, three developed
heavy infestations and all died.
Two similar groups were
infected with larvae of the black
scour worm, the most serious
internal parasite of young
sheep; with age sheep appear to
develop some immunity to it.
Of the five strong sheep, two
developed heavy infestations but
survived. However, four of the
five poor-conditioned sheep de-
veloped heavy infestations, from
which one died.
This confirms what vets have
been preaching for a long time.
A strong sheep will withstand
disease where poor sheep will
die like flies. It points the fact
that overstocking has been re-
sponsible for heavier losses of
stock than has been believed.
While drought undoubtedly
kills the bulk of worm larvae
living outside the sheep, flocks
may still carry through a
nucleus of parasites which will
reinfest the new pastures when
the drought breaks. The new
feed soon builds up the lost con-
dition of the sheep, but not
nearly so quickly as the worm
parasites can reach danger-
level. The inference is not to
rely on droughts to clean up
internal parasites by themselves.
In any case, if the sheep are
drenched before they go into a
drought they will be able to
gain more benefit from restricted
rations if they don’t have to
share them with the worms, and
recovery will be speedier and
more permanent when the
drought breaks.
Insect Ally Sought.
“W eedexp”; Queensland
Government has sent A. P.
Dodd to Hawaii to investigate
an insect enemy of Crofton-
weed, which threatens the
Queensland coastal dairying
country. It first showed up in
southern border districts about
15 years ago, and during the
last five years has spread rapidly
and now occupies some of the
“Best thing We ever had on the farm.”
finest dairying pastures to the
exclusion of natural and de-
veloped grasses.
The shrub, of 4ft. to sft. high,
bears white flowers which make
it attractive. It is a native of
Mexico and Costa Rica, and was
introduced into N. S. Wales as
a garden shrub.
Dodd visited U.S.A. and the
Argentine in 1926, and dis-
covered and sent to Australia
the cactoblastis moth responsible
for the destruction of the
prickly-pear.
Weevils.
“Hortus”: Look at the stored
grain at frequent intervals, and
at first sign of weevils act
quickly. Cheapest and easiest
remedy is to fumigate with liquid
carbon bisulphide. Be careful
with it. The gas given off is
inflammable, and should never
be used near a flame or hot
metal. It is given off spon-
taneously and is very heavy, and
so has a tendency to accumulate
near the ground in any enclosed
space.
You can fumigate grain in
bags by using a tarpaulin as a
sealed cover. Put one or two
fluid ounces into the top of
each bag. The liquid becomes
a gas on exposure to the air, and
the fumes diffuse downwards
through the grains.
An empty tank is ideal.
About 12 bushels fill a lOOgal.
tank. With three bushels to a
bag of maize 20 bags will fit in
a 500 gal. tank. An ounce of
carbon bisulphide to every four
bags will suffice.
If fumigating loose grain,
place a shallow vessel on the
top, into it pour a pint of carb-
bisulph. to every 1000 cubic feet
of space. You can follow out
this latter idea with stored
potatoes as a remedy for potato-
moth larvae or adult insects.
Round Worm in Sheep.
“Waverly”: The life history of
hcemonchus contortus begins
when the female, in the large
stomach of the host, lays 5000
to 10,000 eggs a day. Most of
them pass out with the sheep’s
droppings. The initial larvae
hatch out in the droppings, pro-
viding conditions are suitable.
These grow, feeding upon
bacteria, until their skin moults.
Developing rapidly, this second
larval stage is completed and the
skin is moulted again. Instead
of being discarded this skin is
retained and the third larva finds
itself completely encased and un-
able to feed normally. It must
exist upon the food granules
stored up within itself, and
cannot develop further until it is
eaten by another sheep.
Once this third larva is inside
the sheep’s stomach, it discards
the sheath and gets to work on
the stomach walls. Two more
moults and the adults emerge.
They pass all their lives in the
living host, piercing the abom-
asum walls, sucking the life-
blood and setting up intense in-
flammation. If many are
present severe anaemia develops.
The sheep becomes listless, loses
appetite and weight, may die.
Good management is the best
preventive. Round-worm re-
quires at least three weeks to
develop from the infective phase
to the adult stage ; large numbers
of the larvae fail to enter the
sheep, and most of those that do
fail to mature. Resistant sheep
are, in fact, tolerant to a certain
number of roundworms. So
long as the rate of intake is not
overwhelming there is little
chance of infection.
But if resistance is broken
down by poor feeding, exposure
to severe climatic affects, debility
caused by other diseases, or other
factors, the infective larvae will
multiply at an alarming rate.
Beating Potato Moth.
“C.S.”: The moth causes
heavy losses by attacking stored
potatoes and the tops of those
growing in the paddock. In a
dry season losses in one State
alone have mounted to 20,000
tons. C.5.1.R.0. Bulletin 248
says dusts and sprays contain-
ing D.D.T. offer a means of
control.
Tests on stored potatoes
showed ferric oxide as the best
dust. It gave the treated tubers
a desirable ruddy color, and
addition of 0.1 per cent, of
D.D.T. defeated the moth com-
pletely.
On the growing crop a boom
spray distributing a mixture of
0.1 p.c. of D.D.T. in water did
the trick. It was begun when
the attack first appeared and re-
peated two or three times at
21-day intervals.
In dry weather, when water
isn’t readily got, moth damage
can be high. The remedy then
is dusting with a power duster,
using 2 p.c. D.D.T., repeating
the dose at the same intervals.
In the tests it came out that
Factor and Katahdin, popular in
N.S.W., were susceptible to moth
attack, whereas Tasmanian Red-
skin and Brown’s River varieties
hadn’t the same attraction for
the pest.
Value of Bees.
“Drone B.”: Orchardists,
vegetable-growers and seed-pro-
ducers have at times accidentally
discovered their value when
some migratory apiarist has
placed his bees in the vicinity of
their crops and yields have
shown a marked rise for that
season.
Modern agriculture, with its
complex programme of soil til-
lage and insecticidal sprays, has
done much to reduce, and in
places to wipe out, native wild
bees. These bees in the past
were responsible for a good deal
of pollination. Destruction of
native bees has long been de-
plored in U.S.A., and authori-
ties there have recommended
maintenance of uncultivated
areas along roadsides, around
paddocks, etc., to help increase
the native bee population.
The factors affecting the use-
fulness of bees for pollination


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
0
Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Worlds of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
Bsdaile’s have a full range of BROAD HURST &. CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
df
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece,
Several models to
choose front.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
sdf
A N D ,S 0 N $
PTY. LTD.
The strongest ready-to-use glue (or sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-^—recommended for shearing*shed work.
1
m
m
m
40z., Soz., 16dz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
sd
m
©V
5 00
OA?
s»
tCt-'
FIVE HUNDRED CLEAN
SHEEP PER GALLON
TAUBMANS
RII DIP DUAL-PURPOSE
DDT DIP AND JETTING COMPOUND
I s 2SO CONCENTRATION - EASY TO MIX - EASY TO USE
RUD3P *
★
★
★
★
★
★
★
KILLS LICE AND KED ( I GALL. TO 250 GALL. WATER)
MIXES WITH SULPHUR DIPS FOR ITCH MITE CONTROL
MIXES INSTANTLY WITH HARD OR SOFT WATER
ABSOLUTELY NON - STRIPPING
MAKES A PERFECT TIP-SPRAY OR JETTING SOLUTION
PREVENTS BLOWFLY STRIKE (I GALL. TO 62 GALL. WATER)
NO UNPLEASANT ODOURS
IS NOT AFFECTED BY RAIN FOLLOWING DIPPING
c
VJ
Rudip is the result of three years careful field-tested work it is offered as the perfect
modern sheep dip. Dips made from Rudip positively do not strip during dipping analyses
of dip fluid shows identical DDT concentration before, during and after dipping. True dip
economy because no '‘Make-up” during dipping is required. .
RUDIP MEETS EVERY DEMAND FOR A SHEEP DIP PLUS THE COMBINATION
FEATURE OF A TIP SPRAY OR JETTING COMPOUND. ANY RUDIP LEFT OVER
AFTER DIPPING IS ON HAND IF NEEDED AGAINST BLOW-FLY STRIKE.
For fuller details see our Rudip Leaflet obtainable from Stores, Wool Houses
and Stock and Station Agents. 5Y.52
a Product of TAUBMANS LIMITED Chemical Division
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH
are many and to a large extent
beyond human control. Weather
conditions at time of flowering
can exert a decisive influence on
subsequent yields. Cold, wet
weather will keep bees in the
hive, resulting in poor yields, or
in a large percentage of small
deformed fruit (due to mcom-
plete fertilisation of the flowers),
Competition among flowers
fer the visits of bees is not
generally appreciated. Bees
will normally seek out the nectar
with the highest sugar concen-
tration. An experiment in Cali-
forma showed that bees would
neglect plums and pears to work
apples, which have a higher nec-
tar sugar than the two former.
Many species of weeds may
compete heavily with com-
mercial crops for the visits of
bees, as will also some species
of native flora.
Distance of the bees from the
crop has a considerable effect,
as bees will travel no further
than is necessary. Bees should
be placed in the crop to be pol-
linated and scattered through the
paddock in groups of three or
four hives. Colony strength is
of major importance, one strong
colony being more effective
than two or three weak ones.
The morphology of the
flower is important. In red
clover, for instance, the length
of the flower tube is such that
the bee’s tongue cannot reach
the nectar glands. Unless the
bees are specially trained or
badly in need of stores they will
not ordinarily work red clover
flowers.
It seems inevitable that co-
operation between apiarist and
farmer must come to pass. This
has long been realised in U.S.A.,
and some apiarists now manage
their bees almost exclusively for
pollination purposes. Costs have
been worked out, and the system
seems to be working smoothly.
Cane Disease.
“Sarina”: Cane - farmers
around Mackay (N.Q.) are
worried about the spread of a
fungoid disease of cane called
“pineapple disease” (because of
an odor of pineapples that
accompanies it). It attacks
plants (setts) at planting time
and prevents normal germina-
tion.
The fungus gets into the setts
through the cut ends. Its attack
is prevented if the cane-sticks
are cut into lengths and dipped
in disinfectant before being
planted.
Such treatment is not expen-
sive, but unfortunately most
cane-planting is done by cutter-
planter these days. Sticks of
cane are loaded on this imple-
ment, which then cuts them into
lengths and plants them. It is
not possible to treat the setts
with disinfectant when the
cutter-planter is used.
It seems that some farmers
will have to go back to “drop
planting.” The drop-planter,
generally horse-drawn, has to be
fed with cane already cut into
short lengths or setts. Plant-
ing is slow with this obsolete
implement.
I mpac tion in Cattle.
„. r r
M- . Common causes are
excessive fading or eating
pf foreign material. Hand-feed-
mg and a shortage of jinking
wa er al P P ’P, t
Jarly as chaff is frequenffy cut
too short for cattle. This lies
heavily in the paunch, retarding
rumination.
Outlining Preventive metres
W. J. Pryor, B.V.Sc., recom
mends the provision of ample
supplies of drinking water in all
paddocks, especially near die
cow-yard, and also the cutting
of chaff not less than lin. to Hin.
long for cattle. Cattle which
have contracted the trouble
should be given prompt treat-
ment by drenching with 11b. to
l|lb. of Epsom salts mixed with
£lb. of molasses. Massage of
the left flank for about 20
minutes will assist to relieve the
congestion.
Cauliflowers.
“Sundowner”: Sow cauli-
flowers now for spring harvest-
ing, incorporating in the soil
fertiliser at 4oz. per square yard.
This can be made up of three
part of blood-and-bone, one of
super, and a quarter-part of sul-
phate or muriate of potash.
Liming will help, as caulis dis-
like acid conditions.
As continuous growth is im-
portant, keep the plants well
watered and hoed. Spraying
with a solution of arsenate of
lead and nicotine sulphate will
safeguard against attack by pests
until the plants are established.
Set out 18in. to 24in. apart in
rows 24in. to 30in. apart.
Tree-planting.
“Billjim”; See what species
have done well in your own dis-
trict and follow the lead when
planting trees. Spacing is de-
pendent on purpose. For plan-
tations and production of timber
7ft. to Bft. is usual; for avenues
and ornamental purposes 20ft.
to 40ft. and for shelter clumps
10ft. to 12ft.
All of the following will do
well in areas of medipm to high
rainfall. Softwoods: (pines)
radiata, pinaster, Aleppo, Canary
Island, ■ native ; cedar, cypress.
Hardwoods: (gums) sugar, blue,
red and flowering; sheoaks,
swamp- and river-oak ; wattles,
Queensland, Cootamundra and
silver wattle.
Every care should be taken of
the trees in the first year or two
of growth, with particular atten-
tion to watering in dry periods,
weeding, mulching, protection
against rabbits, stock and fire.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: Store seed potatoes in
shallow trays in the open, under
trees for preference, or in a well-
ventilated, well-lighted shed. To
stimulate bud-growth cover them
until the shoots are just show-
ing, then expose the tubers to full
ventilation and light. This
hardens and greens the shoots,
“Old Crab”: At a field day at
Three Moon (near Monto) in
the Upper Burnett, a Queensland
veterinary officer warned that the
bacteria of Leptospirosis (red-
water of calves) may be intro-
duced to a herd by carrier cows;
but more commonly pigs are re-
sponsible. So watch the drain-
age from the pig-sties. Humans
can get redwater, too.
“Metax”; Pin bank-deposit
slips inside the cheque-book
cover. This will save a lot of
hunting and make checking
against the bank-book a quicker
job. As a further help, add the
date from the slip beside the
amount when the entry is made
on the cheque-butt (there is room
for this on the back of the pre-
ceding butt).
“Rooster”: Peaches and necta-
rines thrive best with deep pre-
paration of the soil before plant-
ing. A little lime and well-rotted
manure will stabilise the mineral
content. Steady growth will fol-
low regular mulching during the
spring months. Good pruning
makes a good tree.
“Quorn”: Goats need shelter
from sun as well as from wind
and rain. Give goats in an open
paddock a brush shelter for
shade and protection against pre-
vailing winds. Goats detest
damp weather and are best left
in a shed and hand fed during
wet weather.
“C.S.”: Believed to be the
highest-priced bull of any breed
to come to Australia, the Short-
horn yearling bull Cruggleton
Pandelus has arrived for J.
Kemelfield’s Wongala Stud at
Woodend (Vic.). Cruggleton
Pandelus was bought at the
Perth (Scot.) sales last February
by Kemelfield for 5500 guineas
(sterling). In Australian cur-
rency this represents £7219,
which freight and insurance
charges will probably increase to
about £9OOO.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Another important southern sunspot group has made its
appearance, reviving the sunspot activity on a large scale.
This in turn revives the hitherto declining Uranian cycle,
which, for the time being, supersedes what is usually the
main cycle, and in that way makes the rainier winter of
1867 the stronger control. Thus further rains are likely in
place of the rather dry winter which the main cycle would
have produced. Under the longer cycle there are moderate
rains in July and August, good general rains in September,
after which the season dries off to some extent.


y -
m
S*“B
M
. « ws
Achievements of an Industry, No. 4.
“PERSPEX” acrylic resin is one of the most
versatile and attractive of the new synthetic materials which
the British chemical industry has yet produced. Since 1.C.1.
chemists discovered it in 1932, this crystal-clear plastic has
found hundreds of uses as varied as the transparent parts
of aircraft, electric light fittings, chemical plant, and
corrugated sheets for roof lighting. “Perspex” is made
from acetone, of which one method of manufacture is
based on molasses, a by-product of sugar manufacture.
The first step in making it is to produce a water-white
liquid called methyl methacrylate. The next is to poly-
merise this liquid—that is, to cause its molecules to join
in long chains. The result is polymethyl-methacrylate
which is sold under the proprietary name “Perspex.”
Although only half the weight of glass, “Perspex” is ex-
tremely tough, and its development was a timely achieve-
ment of the British chemical industry. In 1939 it was
adopted for the transparent parts of all British fighting air-
craft, and today new uses are constantly being found for it.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
L 4.8.14
SCHOOL CHILDREN: Copies of the previous series of announce-
ments “Ancestors of Industry” are now available. If you would like a
set for use in your school projects, then write to:
ICIANZ ADVERTISING SECTION,
P.O. Box 1911, Melbourne, Victoria
Cut Irrigation costs —and work —by one third
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
WITH
ALUMINIUM
SPRAY SECTIOMS
'
*>'J fU,
■m
m
m
So light a child can carry a 24ft. section with ease.
POWERFUL SPRAY HEADS
fds
Throw a f!n« spray
over an area 48 ft.
square, or a heavy
spray up to 72 ft.
square.
Only half the weight of
ordinary piping. Rainbow's
Aluminium sections save
your precious time and
labour. Rustless, seamless,
the 24ft. sections may be
used for all water pur-
poses and are supplied
with flexible couplings and
non-flexible underground
joins.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS GIVE
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25*
Worked in a ball
■ • . . •
and socket principle,
the Rainbow coup*
ting is easy to con-
nect and disconnect,
provides a positive,
watertight joint in
any direction better
than 25*.
f
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Cosh the same as ordi-
nary outlet, but does
the work of hydrant as
well! Simple to operate,
this practical unit gives
trouble-free operation,
reduces obstruction ia
outlet and main.
sdf
STURDY ANGLE IRON
STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24-ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tail stands
eliminates interference to
growing vegetation.
\
RAN
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone BU 3435.
Branch Offices: C. Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont, Mildura; C. Beaumont, 64 King
Street, Melbourne; 230 Sheridan Street, Gundagai, N.S.W.; Mr. N. Peacock, Bridge
Street, Muswellbroob, N.S.W.
Distributors; Waugh and Josephson Pty. Ltd., 103-134 Melbourne Street, South
Brisbane; Ralph Curry, 34 Light Square, Adelaide; F. C. Korwill, 68 Hobbs Avenue,
Ned lands, Perth.
New Zealand Agent: Freshflelds Limited, 118 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
00/88.11
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
atiiai
WArnnso
VKios^avr
TRADE
MARK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Process Engravers
Stereotypers and Typefounders
Office Systems and Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Engineers
Jackson and
O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pafer Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
rnrr Call or send stamp for
F Kr.C. FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and H days’ fret trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27). 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
thrifle careless,” with no evil
intentions, however ; but he’d fix
things up later on. But to be
making signs of the cross here
and now, and in front of Alec!
It was just a vulgar parade and
meant to be offensive . . .
j ... tt
l } r?u n u ~b e sa ,id that Harry
and Bill had any luck with these
old hatters. It was a painful
anti-chmax. And Jimmy and
Alec dissolved their brief part-
nership straightway, each mak-
mg with quivering dignity for
his hid-
That shaft on the old work-
ings was never finished.
ii I THINK, Harry, that we
* might, don’t you think, go
on to the Half-way.” Harry
agreed. He had been hoping
that Biff might suggest it. There
were sure to be many ripe and
ready to receive the news at the
Half-way.
-ru xs if, l
The Half-way half-way
nowhere in particular—was a
hotel with a long and chequered
history. The long, low rambling
building had a kind of welcome
upon it. That may have been
due to the original grey shingles
of its roof, or a vigorous climb-
ing rose at one end of the
veranda, or the paunchy kurra-
jongs in front, or to the
numerous matronly black fowls
and an enormous red rooster
scratching round. Or it may
have been to the two dogs
asleep under the kurrajongs ; or
the two long hitching-rails, not
so much used now, but at the
moment occupied by two sadly-
patient saddle-horses.
Mrs. O’Shea was in charge, a
comfortably - bosomed woman
of rich and rare intuitions and
one specially designed by
Providence to be a hotel-
keeper’s wife. She was of that
indefinable age when certain
advances would be “nonsense
now, and what do you think
you’re trying to do?” and yet
as attractive still as the full-
blown rose. Further, her under-
standing of and sympathy with
man in his frequent frailties
were boundless.
“Well, if it isn’t Harry! It is
Harry, isn’t it? lam none too
sure without me glasses. And
Bill —well, I never! It’s like
old times to be seeing the pair
of you. Am 1 in order entirely
to be asking what is wrong?”
“Is Joe in, Mrs. O’Shea?”
“Ach, no. Himself must be
absent this day at the Granites
on the matter of some fat steers,
Harry, And the family—is it
the twelve now or the thirteen
yet?”
This in the tones of what a
lovely thing it was to have such
a big family.
“All well, thank you, Mrs.
O’Shea —when I left home. But,
Mrs. O’Shea, it’s Queen Vic-
toria.” Harry’s slow melancholy
tones dropped right to the floor.
“Dead! Don’t stand there,
Harry, and tell me she’s dead?”
“The good Queen is dead, Mrs.
O’Shea.”
Mrs. O’Shea stopped in her
easy amble on the other side of
the bar, and the late summer sun-
shine of her face turned into the
solt pitying sky of April. Bill
was standing to attention, his
facial contortions by now having
reached the stage of perfection.
“Is it the truth you’re telling
me, Harry?”
She knew it was the truth, and
her words were for dramatic
effect only.
“No man would joke on such
a matter, Mrs. O’Shea.” Harry
spoke severely, but without re-
proof.
Mrs. O’Shea got down a bottle
of Green Stripe and poured two
generous doses and the barest
needleful for herself. There was
no need to mention it —it was on
the house and something un-
precedented at this early stage
of a visit. But then the occasion
was unheard-of, too.
“To the memory!” said Mrs.
O’Shea.
“To the memory,” said Harry.
“To the memory!” said Bill.
The fellows who owned the
saddle-horses came in and that
started to the memory again.
Joe O’Shea and a battered old
stockman came back from the
Granites with a bunch of steers.
The memory of the good Queen
was moistened again. “Hungry”
Weston —who was about midway
to being a full squatter, looked
in. And the Rawson boys
drifted in on their spidery nags.
And several others, by now be-
yond any exact identification.
Even Jack the Ripper—the hope-
less and mostly useless handy-
man —left his pottering jobs in
the backyard and came in to
assist in drowning the sorrow —
a long process that was punctu-
ated by loud laughs and ribaldry
which would have been most un-
seemly if one didn’t understand
the true feelings that prompted
them. Bill worked his “S’ far as
a family shurcle’s consherned”
at least fifty times. He plugged
Hungry Weston for some fancied
unpatriotic slight, but what is
far more likely for some dimly
remembered raw deal in a
fencing contract. Hungry
dropped—a shapeless huddle —
and went to sleep where he fell.
I T was nearing sundown when
1 Harry, full of unaccustomed
whisky and maudlin sorrow, took
his departure. Bill was nowhere
in sight.
Dick and Darkie brightened
up after the long, cruel waiting
—like the wearied host when un-
welcome visitors take their over-
due departure. Harry was be-
yond realising his wife’s anxiety
at his unusual absence, or the
fact that she was the only one
not informed of Queen Victoria’s
passing.
Hollow-sided and thirsty, Dick
and Darkie swung into the lane,
but the dash and vim of the
earlier hours were gone from
them. Harry slumped and rolled
on the seat of the van, muttering
to the one focal point of his
consciousness, “Done m’ duty—
done it like a man. Ssheesh
dead.”
The lane was rough and rocky
and in a few places the track
sloped badly from the siding.
Possibly it happened because
Dick and Darkie had had too
little that day to sustain them,
and Harry had too much ; but
there it was. The theory that
Dick stumbled over his bottom
lip is to be discounted as very
poor and ill-timed humor.
But there it was. Hours later
by starlight they found Harry
down that tricky slope. He was
in a bad way, half-pinned be-
neath the overturned and
wrecked van, soaked in skim-
milk from his own three dented
cans. Dick was dead, with a
broken neck, probably ; and the
once-proud Darkie lay pathetic
with a broken leg.
It was a sad wreck and tangle,
Harry was nearly gone. He
managed to say “Queen —Vic-
toria’s —dead.” And then he
died himself.
THEY buried Harry days be-
fore they did Queen Vic-
toria. It was a grand funeral,
and old Steve Ridden excelled
himself at it, “Let them say
what they like, Harry was a
man.” Then Steve broke down
in sheer helplessness. Bill
Forsyth was able to apply the
“family circle” with the more
touching local significance.
Everyone agreed that Harry
was a great loss, and many
couldn’t help wondering what
Providence was thinking of —
taking him off like that.
It was left to Morgan Toohey
to voice something deeper
down: “But I will say this—a
ha’penny a gallon was only an-
other kind of robbery!”
Harry Carr and Queen Vic-
toria were only parts and por-
tions of the storied past.


Public Notice.
I, JOHANNES MARINUS SEGERS, of
Dutch nationality, bom at Amsterdam,
Holland, resident two years in Australia,
now residing at 31 Great Buckingham
Street, Redfern, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Missing Friends.
ANYBODY knowing DARKIE KEDWELL,
one-time timber worker in sou’-west of
Western Australia 1900-1920, advise him
that 808 EDMIL, Box 223, Fremantle,
wishes to hear from him.
BENJAMIN.—-Re CLARA (or CLARA
RACHAEL) BENJAMIN, daughter of
SAMUEL BENJAMIN and RACHEL BEN-
JAMIN (bom MOSES) and grand-
daughter of LYON BENJAMIN (who died
in London, England, about 1862), and of
MOSES MOSES (who died about 1845),
Clara Benjamin died a spinster at Sydney,
N.S.W., Australia, on 14th November,
1911. PURSUANT to a decretal order of
the Supreme Court of New South Wales in
its Equitable Jurisdiction dated the 12th
May, 1960, and made in a suit (No. 238
of 1950) intituled “In the Matter of the
Trusts of the Will of Clara Benjamin late
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales, Spinster, deceased. Between Per-
petual Trustee Company Plain-
tiff and Dora May Price Defendant,”
WHEREBY the following enquiry was
directed, viz: Who were the nearest blood
relations of the said Clara Benjamin as at
the Bth December, 1948, and whether any
of them are since dead and if so who are
their legal personal representatives ?
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under
the said enquiry are to send by post pre-
paid to Perpetual Trustee Co. (Ltd.), 83
Hunter St., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, so
as to reach it on or before the 31st
October, 1951, their full Christian names
and surnames, addresses and descriptions,
and full particulars of their claims, or in
default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said decretal Order unless
a Judge or the Master in Equity on appli-
action otherwise orders. Claimants are to
attend personally or by Solicitor before
the Master in Equity at the Supreme
Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney, aforesaid,
on Tuesday the 4th December, 1951, at
11 a.m., being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims. A claimant
not residing in New South Wales must
send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notice to the
claimant can be sent. Dated this First
day of June, 1951.—PURVES, MOODIE
& STOREY, Solicitors for Plaintiff, Ho
Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
y//f/u •
%om% :s^f§,
,-C— — jnTT'l 1 rT^
a T I T 7r?T L^iU s
fl fi n
-OSes’
• *. /Vb^r'^-Z —'
Wffiß'BD
m
n
mMmmli
LM I
Fl
0 n
m
U&ZZ-
=t;
<==
r±-
m
•eee.
P'
ts
*.4*"
?i^s
sii
es
Above : An artist’s imprtssion of
carburettsd-water-gas making
atg*
Today, over 20 million gallons of oil is used annually to
manufacture gas in Australia. From this oil about 2 billion
cubic feet of gas is made. This oil gas which has a very
high heat rating, is used to enrich the gas produced from
coke and make it suitable for use in industrial and
commercial appliances.
Similarly, for generating electricity ... for firing railway locomotives
and powering road transports . . for bunkering ships and fuelling aircraft,
C.O.R. Petroleum Products diesoleum, diesel oil, furnace oil, marine
fuel oil, motor and aviation spirit are being supplied in ever-increasing
IS PLAYING AN IMPORTANT ROLE
' IN KEEPING THE NATION'S
ESSENTIAL SERVICES OPERATING
quantities.
_ . (A in the
Manufacture
SECONDARY . „ HoW Oil is used m Btu deuts.
useful P 1 0) d free to Sec ° nd addressed (but
£ c fJ,Tcopy «*■ £. ta yo-^“-
T~**.-t£ZSZ ~ by !KP>
h&
Cf?
a
y- :
AT YOUR SERVICE FROM COAST TO COAST.
Ocean Terminals at: FREMANTLE, ADELAIDE, PORT PIRIB,
MELBOURNE, HOBART, PORT KEMBLA, NEWCASTLE;
TOWNSVILLE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, DARWIN.
Refinery:— LAVERTON, VICTORIA.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD,
{Commonwealth of Australia and Anglo-lrantan Oil Co. Ltd .) _____________
sd
TAKE Q/
IRE Qn ftOADS - “Li Precious
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of No Hero by
Warwick Deeping. —5119.
Words of poem “The Squatter s
Lament.” —5120.
To buy large-paper edition of
Henry Lawson’s In the Days When
the World Was Wide (1896).—5122.
To buy copy of Triangles of Life
and Other Stories by Henry Lawson.
—5123.
To buy copy of Henry Lawson’s
While the Billy Boils.-— 5124.
To buy copies of “Meanjin,” vol.
1, Nos. 2 and 4; “The Australian
Magazine,” 1899, part 2; also any
works on book-collecting by Dibdm,
also any works on printing, particu-
larly the platen press and its manage-
ment. —5126.
Information Sought.
Have experiments been made with
the soilless growth of plants (hydro-
ponics) in Australia ? Are there any
commercial possibilities in this at
present ?
Expense and technical difficulties
have been against commercial de-
velopment, and water-culture has
been tried only on a small scale in
Australia. It is only with glasshouse
crops that there would seem to be
any economic possibilities by using
chemical solutions, and there is no
doubt that soil-cultivation must re-
main the normal procedure for years.
Hydroponics must be considered
nothing more than a hobby at present.
The N.S.W, Department of Agricul-
ture has a leaflet on the subject.
# * * *
Is the wife of a seaman reported
missing during World War II per-
mitted to remarry? If she remarries
and the first husband returns, who is
entitled to custody of the children?
Would adoption of the children by
the second husband affect the posi-
tion ?
A person is not presumed to be
dead until he has not been heard of
for seven years by those who, if he
had been alive, would be likely to
have heard of him. Until he is
proved or presumed to be dead his
wife cannot remarry. If after seven
years the wife remarries and her first
husband returns he is entitled to the
custody of his children. Adoption
of the children by second husband
would be rendered void by return of
first husband.
* * * *
How to remove a colony of bees
that have established themselves be-
tween the two walls of a weather-
board house?
One or two outside boards should
be removed from above the bees’
combs and the section plugged so
that the bees cannot move upward.
Then remove the lower boards to ex-
pose the colony and use smoke to
control the bees and force them to
cluster above the combs while each
section of comb is removed. After
all the combs have been moved the
clustered bees may be scraped off
with a tin and placed in a hive.
Another way is to block the wall
entrance used by the bees, and as the
colony is unable to obtain food to
carry on brood-rearing the population
will decrease and finally die out.
* * * •
Simple rules for conducting a de-
bate ?
Opened by the first affirmative
speaker, followed by the first nega-
tive speaker, and so on until six
speakers have finished their construc-
tive speeches. These are followed by
six speeches whose purpose is to de-
stroy the arguments presented by
opponents in their constructive
speeches. Occasionally the last
speaker for each side is allowed extra
time to sum up his case. The order
of speakers in the second round (re-
buttal) is reversed, the negative team
speaking first. The captain may
change the order of speakers in re-
buttal if the chairman is informed.
* ♦ * •
How to tan and dye a sheepskin for
making a mat?
Dissolve £lb. household soap in hot
water and add enough cold water to
cover the skin. Leave for 12 hours,
remove skin and squeeze, place in
second bath made with fresh soap
and water and rinse well after another
12 hours’ immersion. Melt 11b. each
of alum and salt in hot water, add
cold water to cover and soak skin
12 hours longer. Take out, squeeze
and drain. Boil two packets dye in
a little water, add cold water to cover
and leave for six hours or more,
working it in occasionally. Drain
and dry, but while damp rub in a
50-50 mixture of alum and saltpetre
till skin is soft. Comb out wool
when dry.
* ♦ ♦ »
(1) Do any large aeroplanes have
water placed in their tyres to assist
compression? (2) Do any aeroplanes
have motorised revolving wheels?
(1) No. (2) Department of Civil
Aviation advises that aircraft over
150,0001 b. all-up weight usually have
an arrangement whereby the wheels
are set rotating prior to the landing.
There are none of these aircraft in
Australia, but some aircraft, like the
Lockheed Constellation, have a flap
arrangement on the wheels to start
rotation when they are lowered for
landing, but it is generally conceded
that this system is not very satis-
factory.
Brief Answers.
G.M.; The line “And the busy
steamers racing down to half a
thousand quays” is from Edward
Dyson’s “Men of Australia.” The
poem is printed in Selections from
the Australian Poets edited by Bert-
ram Stevens and George Mackaness.
... .T.W.: James Lionel Michael
(1824-1865) was born in London and
came to Australia in 1853. He Poe-
tised as a solicitor in Sydney and
Grafton, and published two books of
verse, Songs Without Music and John
Cumberland. Henry Kendall, as a
lad, was employed in his office, and
received from him a good deal of
encouragement in his own poetical
efforts P.P.: Australian Literature
Now, by E, Moodie Heddle (Melb.,
Longmans Green, ss. 6d.); Hand
Book of Australian Literature, by R.
C. Ingamells (Melb., Jindyworobaks,
3s. 6d.) J.H.: Write Associated
Newsagents Co-operative, Ltd., 100
Clarence - street, Sydney M.M.:
Write A. G. Pagett, Hon. Sec., New
Guinea Ex-servicemen’s Club, 8 Slade-
street, Bardwell Park (N.S.W.)
R.J.W.: From Royal Australian His-
torical Society, History House, 8
Young-street, Sydney G.K.: Write
Hazlewood Bros. Pty., Ltd., P.O.
Box 1, Epping (N.S.W.) C. 8.:
Barney Ross became world welter-
weight champion by outpointing
Jimmy MoLarnin (15 rounds) in New
York on May 28, 1934. McLarnin
regained the title after outpointing
Ross (15 rounds) on September 17,
nearly four months later, but Ross
again became champion when he
scored his second points victory (15
rounds) over McLarnin in New York
on May 28, 1935. Ross remained
possessor of this title until Henry
Armstrong outpointed him (15 rounds)
at Long Island City (U.S.A.) on May
31, 1938 R.H.: The firm appears
to have gone out of business....
L.H.8.G.: See report of judgment in
McCarter’s case (“Argus” Law Re-
ports, part 12, 1950), where all those
transport cases are referred t 0....
W.J.8.: The position of the South
Magnetic Pole is approximately lati-
tude 72deg. south and longitude
152 deg. east, and of the North Mag-
netic Pole approximately 72deg.
north and longitude 95deg. west. The
positions of the poles are not fixed
in the surface of the earth, and move
about to some extent. If one were
situated at the Magnetic Pole a com-
pass reading has no meaning, since a
freely-balanced magnitude needle is
pointing straight up and down
F.C.A.: J. J, McGirr was Premier
of N. S. Wales at the time F.K.:
That Lawson story is called “Women’s
Hearts and Women’s Tongues.” It
appeared in The Bulletin of April
24, 1919....M.M.: The Orient Line
Oronsay is 28,200 tons, 708 ft. Sin.
long, and has a speed of 22£ knots.
E.H.M.: Write E. Esdaile and
Sons Pty., Ltd., 42 Hunter-street,
Sydney T.R.8.: There is no
evidence to show that castor-oil trees
if planted in the fowl run will keep
it free from stickfast fleas or ticks.
J.D.Y.: Write secretary, State
committee, C.5.1.R.0., 119 Phillip-
street, Sydney... .C.L.: Write Divi-
sion of Wood Technology, N.S.W.
Forestry Commission, 96 Harrington-
street, Sydney V.M.: Ron Mc-
Laughlin never held the welterweight
championship of Australia. Hockey
Bennell became Australian welter-
weight champion after he outpointed
Jack McNamee over 15 rounds in
1938, and held that title until Vic
Patrick stopped him in seven rounds
at Sydney Stadium on September 4,
1943 P. 8.: Sydney Writers’ Club,
Box 4999, G.P.0., Sydney.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|dL per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Free Enterprise
More than a change of Government is
needed to break lazy habits which have
developed in Australia in the last 10
years. A public, frustrated by boards
and controls and schooled to regard the
Government of the day as the donor
of all life’s essentials, could hardly have
failed to develop the habit of looking
to Governments for its every require-
ment.
Now, despite a resurgence of
Liberalism, the practice of demanding
Government help to start a new enter-
prise or provide a public amenity remains
as an insidious residue.
The practice is most apparent in claims
for roads, railways, bridges, dams—the
list goes on and on —made in the name of
“national development.” Immediately a
“national development” portfolio was
created, chambers of commerce, develop-
ment leagues, progress associations and
even local authorities rediscovered in-
numerable hinterlands each containing
“unlimited potentialities” if only it had
such amenities to “develop” it.
Enthusiastic committeemen, most of
them avowed free entrepreneurs, would
do better organising some practical
enthusiasm among the public than trying
vainly to excite Governments. If the
latent possibilities they see are too latent
for some section of the public to be
interested, a Government cannot be
blamed for scepticism. But no Govern-
ment could afford to ignore organised
groups of 100, or a dozen, potential
tobacco-, rice-, cotton- or peanut-
growers, or any other kind of growers,
prepared to demonstrate these areas
really had possibilities.
In S.A. the A.M.P. Society has secured
from the State Government a develop-
mental lease on 200,000 acres, this area
to be divided among workers on the job
as blocks are made productive. A large
company has the resources to do this,
but if latent potentialities claimed for so
many undeveloped areas are as good as
they sound in public speeches, similar
enterprises should be possible elsewhere,
if on a smaller scale. The right of any
section of the community to Government
help, high taxation notwithstanding,
should be earned and then claimed, not
just claimed.
The only safe way to develop a country
is for free men to work their own land
or build their own businesses. National
development is too important to be
entrusted solely to public servants. For
their ultimate security Australians must
stop harping on their “rights” due from
Governments, and start thinking and act-
ing for themselves again in the authentic
spirit of private enterprise.— Ossa (Q.).
New Australians
From time to time “Old” Australians
receive unsettling reports of their new
brothers, such as the recent conviction
at Adelaide of a Germanic type who
thrashed his wife with the buckled end
of a belt for 73 consecutive days. In
sentencing him to the maximum stretch
(only two months), the magistrate de-
scribed his conduct as the most brutal
he had come across. “Your only
explanation was a petulant question to
the police, ‘Hasn’t a man the right to do
this to his wife?’” the magistrate told
him.
Since the migrant scheme began New
Australians of Continental extraction
have built up an unenviable record of
crimes of violence in proportion to their
numbers. In the larger cities, Melbourne
particularly, there are almost daily con-
victions for crimes involving knives,
while old-fashioned Continental habits
of brutality towards their wives and
children are just as common
In most cases the law is absurdly
lenient towards the culprits—witness the
two months’ sentence imposed on the
Adelaide sadist. On the other hand,
migrants unfortunate enough to be of
British extraction receive little mercy
from the immigration authorities. When
two young English girls were convicted
of petty theft recently they were returned
to the U.K.
The law, of course, is the same for
both old and new inhabitants, but our
laws have always been far too soft with
bashers and their like.
No doubt it is difficult to ensure a 100
per cent, morally perfect flow of migrants
in a large-scale scheme, but very little
trouble seems to have been taken to
separate the sheep from the goats, despite
the fact that a highly-paid staff of immi-
gration officers is sojourning abroad for
this express purpose.
The pay-off will most likely come at
some future time when work and money
are not so plentiful as at present, and
we discover close-knit criminal groups
of foreigners in our cities. That hap-
pened in America, particularly in New
York and Chicago, where large numbers
of migrants congregated after the mass
migrations of pre-1914 days. Their
capture of the vice rackets is well-known.
The remedy, in the interests of both
old and new Australians, would be
ruthlessly to deport migrants of all
nationalities who commit crimes of
violence, or who prove undesirable after
a reasonable probationary period. With
something like 200,000 new people arriv-
ing every year (enough to populate Mel-
bourne in five years), some such action
is imperative.— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Nature-lovers?
Are Australians lovers of their native
fauna and flora? I have doubts. First
the Director of Victoria’s Fisheries and
Game Department wishes to make a
“controlled war” on possums (B.
6/6/’5l). Another blow comes from the
District Council of Kingscote, which has
sent a recommendation to the S.A.
Premier that the Government should re-
linquish 75 p.c. of the Kangaroo Island
sanctuary. Flinders Chase, for settlement.
Being free from fox and rabbit,
Flinders Chase presents some idea of
Australian animal-, bird- and plant-life
before the appearance of the white man.
There the nature-lover can find South
Australian native-cats and bandicoots,
dormouse possums and kangaroo types of
mice and rats. Even the curlew, which
has not been seen on the S.A. mainland
for many years, is nesting in the Chase,
A charming little book by Mervinia
Masterman, Flinders Chase (reviewed B.
7/2/’5l), provides nature-lovers with a
compact picture of life in the sanctuary.
The Chase gives a glimpse of unsullied
country life, making it ideal for the
naturalist.
Why does the Kingscote District Coun-
cil wish to lop off 159 square miles from
“Just an eyebrow-trim , sir?”
this sanctuary? They claim that the
land could be used for production “in
view of the world-wide shortage of
food.” That is allied to the statement
that the Victorian possums were causing
serious economic loss.” Do economic
values outweigh every other considera-
tion?
The council also claims that tourists
are often disappointed at seeing such little
life in the reserve. The main object of
Flinders Chase is to provide a sanctuary
for native life. Tourists are of secondary
consideration, as they barely spend more
than an hour driving through the reserve.
Flinders Chase is controlled by the
S.A. Fauna and Flora Board. The
responsibility of preserving this land be-
longs to scientists and naturalists. They
can only be aided and abetted by the
“dinkum Aussie.” Does he care if the
land is used for settlement? Does it
matter to him if the possums are
slaughtered in Victoria? Does the Aus-
tralian have any love for his native land?
—Driftsand (S.A.).
Blair Athol
So there is a scheme to develop Blair
Athol coalfield (Q.) to produce 3,000,000
tons of coal yearly (B. 23/5/’5l).
Blair Athol is 239 miles from Rock-
hampton ; that is 40 miles further than
Wallangarra is from Brisbane. Its link
at present is a single-line railway.
If every possible working day were
worked, there would be 240 days worked
in a year; presumed output, 12,500 tons
daily each and every day.
Queensland shipping hopper-wagons
carry approximately eight tons each. At
eight tons per wagon, 1560 wagons would
be required to transport one day’s output
of coal to Rockhampton.
At 30 wagons per train that would
require 52 trains daily—that is 52 from
Blair Athol to Rockhampton and 52 with
empty wagons from Rockhampton to
Blair Athol on a single-line railway which
has to carry all other traffic.
With, say, one day’s wagons being un-
loaded at Rockhampton it would require
at least 4686 wagon£.
At, say, 6250 tons per ship it would
be necessary to load two ships daily.
As The Bulletin remarked, a mighty
big set-up is involved. —J. B. C. (Q.).
Socialism
While Sydney housewives are appar-
ently resigned to suffering the indignities
and inconveniences thrust upon them by
the N. S. Wales McGirr Government,
their British sisters are not being quite so
tolerant of Attlee’s organised misery.
Four British housewives, in an action
reminiscent of the suffragettes, lately
burned their food-ration coupons and
identity-cards outside the Houses of Par-
liament, and there are widespread
rumblings of female discontent.
There is little doubt that the British
people are sick of Socialism, but they
will find, as we have in Australia, that
even after they get Attlee out
it will take years, perhaps decades, to
overcome the damage that has been done.
Here in Australia the backwash of
Socialism continues adversely to affect
our economy, particularly through the 40-
hour week and the debilitated state of the
pound.
Although there has been a Liberal
Government at Canberra for more than
a year no attempt has been made to revert
to the longer working week, while the
question of revaluation has been shelved
time and again. In lesser ways, too, the
Socialist aftermath is still with us ; farm-
ing land is still being acquired by the
N. S. Wales State Government for less
than its value (at the direct expense of
those who pioneered it), politicians still
enjoy pensions that are extravagantly
high in relation to their period of service,
while banking transactions and capital
issue are still rigorously controlled.
Indeed, every day witnesses some in-
crease rather than any diminution in State
controls; every commodity shortage is
still followed by artificial restriction, and
too often these restrictions are aided by
shortsighted people who should be on the
side of private enterprise.
We’re a lot less free than we were in
1939, and the way ahead looks darker, if
anything. Once upon a time there were
men prepared to stand up against
tyranny at the expense of their
personal liberty, even their lives,
but even as I write a N. S. Wales
man is to be forcibly removed from his
property, acquired by the Government,
because he considers it unjust that it
should be taken from him at a price less
than half its current value —he will be
removed physically at the direction of the
Sta.te Minister for Lands —and scarcely a
voice has been raised in protest. — Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Nursing
It will take more than raising or lower-
ing the entrance age to make nursing the
popular profession it was a generation
ago (B. 30/5/’5l). Nursing was then one
of the few attractive professions open to
women—a career for the ambitious and
a vocation for the idealist as well as a
means of making what was then con-
sidered a good living. The career-girl
of today has a wide choice. The idealist
may become a doctor, masseuse, social
worker, almoner and so forth, and retain
her personal freedom into the bargain.
There is also the economic angle. In
other days the average girl expected to
live at home, or with relations, till she
married. By contrast a nurse’s life was
both adventurous and profitable. When
she married, she expected to be taken
to a home, furnished at no expense to
herself. A girl now goes straight from
school to a job—as a rule the family
exchequer demands it. Often, too, her
savings go to help furnish her home if
she marries. Naturally, she likes a job
with immediate good prospects.
Nursing not being a job that can be
done by machinery, there seems to be
no obvious solution, except, perhaps, to
make home-nursing a compulsory subject
for all senior schoolgirls. For those
going on to a university, it could be
accepted in place of, say, a language;
and for others, the knowledge, besides
being practical, would be at least as
cultural as the smattering of French or
algebra so many learn and forget.—
G. 1. L. (Vic.).
“No First Prize”
“No Sirrah” (B. 6/6/’5l) and others
who complain of the withholding of first
prize in literary competitions may have
a case, but these days, when good crafts-
manship is rare, isn’t any attempt to
keep up the standard of writing worth
while? Big prizes for shoddy work
would encourage the second-rate.
Look at it from another angle. The
rules of the competitions are published,
and competitors should abide by them.
Squealing afterwards is akin to the prac-
tice, so common among football crowds,
of naming the referee as the best player
for the winning team.
If a writer feels himself to be a com-
petent judge, reckons the work awarded
second prize to be really first-rate, and
feels that the decision not to pay out the
big money was made from motives other
than an honest assessment of the quality
of the work, then he can make his pro-
test by shunning any competition run by
that body.— Taswegian (Tas.).
Unions
If “Taswegian’s” suggestion (B.
13/6/’5l) could be carried out it would
certainly ensure that there would be
younger tradesmen to replace those retir-
ing, but as far as the building trade is
concerned (in N.S.W., anyway) it falls at
the first hurdle. The Builders’ Laborers
Union would instantly order “down tools”
if an apprentice did a laborer’s work,
while the Building Workers’ Union would
be outraged if a laborer picked up a
saw or trowel.
I saw this happen: A builder employ-
ing many men wanted somebody to drive
a truck around the project picking up
materials, excavated earth, etc. It was
an easy job for a laborer. One man
volunteered. He was immediately pulled
up by the job steward—no builders’
laborer was going to do work that came
under the jurisdiction of the Transport
Workers’ Union.
The laborer claimed that in his previ-
ous job he had been a member of that
union; he produced a card that proved
he was still financial. It made no differ-
ence. The oracle had spoken. If a man
were in the laborers’ union he was a
laborer —and nothing else. No laborer
was going to drive a truck.
Perhaps the laborer could have taken
the matter to the Trades Hall, where he
may, or may not, have received a differ-
ent ruling. He didn’t. Union reps, keep
well away from the job he has now, but
it seems ironical that he’s up in Korea
now fighting against tyranny. — Swelpmb
(N-S.W.L


Inflation
“L.F.W.” (B. 6/6/’5l) presents some
measures to combat inflation, but, like
good advice, unpleasant. Until export
prices fall no one will heed, and no
Government will take resolute action.
Meanwhile those on fixed incomes will
be battered from frugality to penury.
Statistics prove a reduced man-hour
quantity output, but who would dare
to alter the 40-hour week? Redundant
supervisory staffs in private as well as
Government undertakings are having a
strangling effect on economy, and the only
remedy being applied is the increased-
wages-increased-prices absurdity.
There is not, never was, and never will
be a manpower shortage in this or any
country. Such appears when projects
exceeding existing man-hour production
are attempted. The original Australians
knew the production problem from A to
Z —they reduced work-hours to nil, with
a corresponding living standard. A visit-
ing U.S. citizen from high-man-hour-
production America must surely think
Ausl alia is following the example of the
original inhabitants.
The present situation will continue and
worsen as long as the U.S. continues
with gift money to the world of which
Australia., indirectly, is a large recipient.
How long will the U.S. continue to give
to a rapacious and mostly ungrateful
world in the mistaken motive that such
is necessary to bake the world safe for
the U.S. to live in!
‘ Help to those less fortunate is a fine
trait, but gifts long continued too often
come to be regarded as a right. Is the
world less fortunate than the U.S.?
Some including Australia, are
not. U.S. wealth is production wealth.
No one gives the U.S. anything. Aus-
tralia, on present man-hour production,
is heading for a crash as surely as in the
1919-29 period, when for 10 years she
lived above her production standard, as
did much of the world, proved by the
fact that Australia and most countries
bad adverse trade balances (as now) with
the U.S.
In 1929 the U.S. ceased excess export-
ing (on U.S. credits), and the world was
jerked back to a living standard and
e conomy equivalent to production. This
occurrence was known as the depression.
The fact that the U.S. after 1929 did not
adjust internal economy and allow U.S.
c itizens to use previous excess exports is
beside the point. Today every country
outside the U.S.S.R. has an adverse trade
i balance with the U.S, In the 1919-29
period adverse trade existed on U.S.
credits (most of which were cancelled by
tho U.S.). In the current period adverse
trade exists on U.S. gift money or goods.
Unless adverse trade balance countries
increase production to equal the adverse
balance a cessation of U.S. gift money
can cause the aftermath of 1929 to
happen again. One reply to this is that
Governments know now how to deal
with a depression. Let’s hope they do.
—A. T. C. (S.A.).
Forty-hour Week
1 Simple business arithmetic for
“P.0.M.C.” (B, 6/6/’5l) and other ex-
ponents of the 44-hour week: Beaver,
employed by Goldeye, tends a machine
that produces one article per hour ; sell-
ing-price £1 per article. Beaver’s effort is
not important; the machine does the
work. Both he and Goldeye are driven
bv the profit motive. In a 40-hour week
Beaver produces 40 articles at £4O. If
Goldeye works him on Saturday mornings
he produces 44 articles in the week.
Under the present system Goldeye has
to pay time and a half for the extra four
hours. For the 44 articles produced
Beaver receives 46 hours’ pay. Increased
production-cost is in the ratio of 2 : 44,
or lid. in the £l. Instead of wasting
your time chasing all over the town for
the £1 article (and not finding it), you
would find one in the nearest store at
£1 Os. lid. Would you take it? Of
course you would. Would Beaver accept
Goldeye’s offer of overtime? Too right
he would. He makes a clear profit of
two hours’ pay.
But Goldeye sees that he has to pay
Beaver 50 per cent, more for the extra
four articles. He cannot be sure that
“I might need an amplifier."
44 articles would not be, perhaps, one
article per week more than the market
would absorb. And then, of course, he
can make a greater profit when his article
is scarce than when it is plentiful. Added
to all these possibilities of Joss, there is
the certain loss of his own .Saturday
mornings. Now, who’s to blame for
the shortages—Beaver, or Goldeye?—
R. A. $. (Q.).
Industry and the £
The Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice last month listed 126,800 vacant jobs,
but when unregistered vacancies are
taken into account the total is likely to
be 250,000. That state of affairs has
occurred even though there were 152,505
immigrants in 1950.
This is the first time in the history of
the British Empire that the demand for
labor has been greater than the supply—
excepting a period in the 14th century fol-
lowing the Black Plague, when, despite
the fact that it was declared a penal
offence for laborers to demand higher
wages, both wages and prices increased
considerably.
As there are no unemployed, how are
these vacant positions being filled? It is
not likely that a worker will leave one
job for another unless he receives a
higher wage, and all employers are con-
tinually having to pay higher wages to
keep their labor.
That state of affairs —one of the main
causes of the ever-increasing cost of liv-
ing—has come into being following the
devaluation of the Australian pound.
It had taken Australia 150 years to
build up 26,941 factories employing four
or more hands, the number of employees
totalling 565,106. That was the position
when the Australian pound was devalued.
Taking advantage of the extra 20 per
cent, protection this has given them, new
factories quickly sprang into existence,
until the number of factories and hands
employed therein have almost doubled
since 1938.
There is a serious shortage of labor in
all our primary industries, and that is
one of the main reasons for the present
shortage of butter, potatoes, onions and
many other household commodities.
Should the Australian pound be re-
valued and brought back to par it would
have the immediate effect of curtailing
the activities of a number of superfluous
and spoon-fed secondary industries.
Should any such secondary industry be
unable to stand on its own feet after the
Australian pound were revalued it would
be the proprietors only who would lose,
since, because of the enormous demand
for labor, employees would quickly find
more useful employment elsewhere. —
A. D. B. R. (N.S.W.).
Interest-rates
I can’t agree with “S.G.S.” (B.
23/5/’5l) that if any change is to be
made in interest-rates it should be
upward. The control of interest-rates
may not be a very strong weapon in the
general fight against inflation, but it is
wrong to suppose that high interest-rates
are always deflationary and low rates
always inflationary.
At this stage of the current business
cycle in Australia inflation is almost
bolting. Prices are rising quickly, and
anyone who can borrow money can use
it to buy goods and hold them for capital
appreciation. If the mere holding of
goods can yield a profit of 15 p.c. or 20
p.c. in one year, the rate of interest
ceases to be a material factor so far as
the borrower is concerned —certainly he
will not be discouraged if the rate of
interest on his borrowings is increased
from 4+ p.c. to 6 p.c. or even to 9 p.c.
The position is the same if goods are not
merely held, but fabricated also before
eventual sale at an enhanced price-level.
'The curbing of inflation involves pre-
venting such borrowers obtaining their
finance. If all controls were abolished
immediately the rate of interest would
rise naturally through the competition of
borrowers for funds with which to make
the large profits that are clearly avail-
able ; this pressure is already having some
influence in Australia in forcing rates up.
However, we will not fight inflation by
giving way to this pressure and allowing
interest-rates and inflation to take their
course.
On the contrary, positive action must
be taken against the natural flow of
events and, as far as borrowing and lend-
ing are concerned, that can take two
general forms. On the one hand capital-
issues control can be enforced to prevent
borrowers obtaining finance unless it is
for purposes approved specifically by the
Government.
On the other the lending of money can
be made less attractive by a downward
revision of interest-rates. A loan of
money involves agreement between
borrower and lender, and if rates of
interest are reduced lenders generally will
be less ready to agree to make funds
available to borrowers for speculative and
unessential enterprises. Where such
borrowers would be little affected by a
substantial increase in present rates of
interest a moderate reduction would have
an immediate effect upon lenders, cause
them to withhold their funds and so con-
tribute a weapon—important even though
its field is limited—against inflation.
To allow interest-rates to rise is to let
inflation take its course, whereas the
reduction of rates will make every lender
of currency more cautious, — Sher
(N.S.W.).
“Working-in” on Newspapers
M. F. Dixon’s query (B. 13/6/’5l) as
to how many times Sydney daily news-
papers have telephoned the A.B.C. for
details of stories broadcast could certainly
be answered in the affirmative in Mel-
bourne, but those responsible for this are
that body (unfortunately growing) which
believes in “working-in,” swapping stories
and doing everything to bring about a
syndication of news-gathering similar to
that operating in England today.
It is a bad habit, frowned on by
editors, news-editors and chiefs-of-staffi
and normally done behind the boss’s
back. It is not to the credit of the A.B.C.
that its men are rung-up for details of
stories, but the A.B.C. is forced to do it,
for it, too, has often rung up the dailies
for details of their stories.
Most people reading their newspapers
believe they are getting a completely
independent cover of news; they don’t
know the real story behind news-
gathering today. The system of
“working-in” goes something like this. A
bunch of newspapermen are sent off to
do some job or round, they meet, swap
yarns, do the job then swap notes later.
Result, stories next day are much the
same.
On “rounds” the practice seems to be
part of the general set-up. In one of
the many important rounds in Melbourne
the roundsmen have been known to swap
“blacks” or carbons of their stories, sub-
sequent to their being filed. On another
round the newspapermen retire to the
local and swap everything they have.
But it doesn’t end there. At night they
are busy ringing each other’s offices
swapping more points.
It is being so taken for granted on
some of the Melbourne rounds of late that
some newspaper proprietors are thinking
of establishing an agency which would
allow one man to do the round with his
copy going to all the papers in the
syndicate. The result would be the same
as the present set-up except that some
men would be out of work.
Unless newspapermen pull up their
socks their livelihood will be threatened.
Proprietors, too, keen to preserve their
independent cover, would be wise in put-
ting a stop to this lazy practice. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 127
Across.
I —Writer and I go to the campers’
“room,” then I accompany the
ram to Pentridge, Long Bay,
Sing-Sing and such places. (14)
7 —lt is open to tease a. girl, but it
makes a show seem bigger. (5, 5)
9—Young buck to seek favor by a
cringing demeanor. (4)
It —Piece of published music con-
cealed one with a snake family.
(7)
14 —Anybody but Idriess? The idea!
(6)
16 —Totally negative and inoperative
article doubled a primitive
weapon. (5, 5)
18 — Fixed to one spot, yet moving at
high speed, this is broken at the
breakfast-table. (4)
19— Spot. (4)
20 — Burgundy could accompany this
confused king and sick. (5, 5)
23 —It is motionless yet it can spoil
the reception at your house. (6)
25 —Pianoforte in French and a lubrr,
backing German money. (7)
27 — A bashful grey. (4)
28— South hair-do and an aeronaut
have it inverted for a wax from
a whale. (10)
31 —Juggle the piano- balance I put
the spade in before it fed. (14)
Down.
1 — Support nothing below one who
formulates a theory in favor of
a basher. (10)
2 Born. (3)
3 Duck. (3)
4 Peer created by him was Gynt.
(5)
5 The act of vanishing into thin
air to pave up the tine speech.
(11)
6 The difference between Dorothy
Sayers’s “Tailors” and Agatha
Christie’s “Nigger Boys.” (3)
B—An ecclesiastical gentleman re-
lated to a range in the New
World. (6)
10—Pen. (3)
12 — Long hop puts the vessel over
two. (4, 7)
13 — A substance for fiddlestrings be-
fore I finish off a rodent. (5)
15—Cave feature street followed by
an ex-convict creature of tiny
proportions. (10)
17 —Come on, don’t let the standard
of fibbing slump and go to bed.
(3, 2)
21 — Great changes in this N.S.W.
Army camp. (5)
22 -Fed. (3)
24 —Top-gear on the king-emperor
island. (5)
26 —Gossip in a former Japanese
base. (3)
29 — King in France. (3)
30— -Age. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 126.


9P
Cfl
♦♦
. IJMC
VST f* 1
MARS
MACHINE
TOOLS
Built under Guarantee, are unsurpassed for their wide operational capacity.
All necessary revolving parts are Dynamically Balanced, and each machine
is supplied with a Test Chart showing tolerances against Schlesinger
Standards.
Smooth running is ensured by Machine Grinding all main working parts
and Generation of all gears.
Available for Immediate Delivery
No. 4 Universal Miller, No. 2 Plain Miller, 6in. “Thor” Lathe, 7in.
“Apollo” Lathe.
Available for Early Delivery
16iin. Shaper, Io|in. Lathes (up to 10ft, centres), Min. Lathes (up to 20ft.
centres). Sin. “Atlas” Lathes, s|in. “Hercules” Lathes.
MARS
DIESELS
are manufactured in 3 H.P., 5 H.P., 8 H.P. and 10 H.P. Stationary and
Marine'.
You can START the “Mars”—STOP as required—STAßT it again—and
keep it running—all on Distillate Fuel Oil. The coldest or wettest day
makes no difference. No Kerosene priming is necessary.
Almost Vibration Free, the “Mars” is Slow Running, Dynamically
Balanced and very Economical to run.
Ideally suited for Milking and Shearing Machines, Pumping Units, Light
and Power Generating Sets and all other Agricultural and Industrial Power
requirements.
MEEHANITE (REGD.TRADE MARK) CASTINGS
All Castings are produced in the Mars Foundry under the super-
vision of highly trained metallurgical and laboratory staffs. We
manufacture 21 grades of MEEHANITE IRONS.
ETA
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth.
S.A. —W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
Vic.—Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-9 Little Bourke St., Melbourne.
Qld. —Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
INDIA (BOMBAY PROVINCE). —R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chambers,
Fort, Bombay.
PHILIPPINES.—The Earnshaws Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
IMMEDIATE ACTION
If you are likely to need a Machine Tool or Diesel in
the near future—we suggest that you send in your
enquiry NOW. Immediate action will ensure priority.
jjtfrrr-
£
"MARS" UNIVERSAL
MILLER
Rapid power traverse, all move-
f merits. 18 speeds—l 6 feeds —
Built-in Electrics. Guaranteed
Accuracy. Complete with /: aU
accessories.
"MARS" No. 2
PLAIN MILLER
Integral Motorised Drive—High
and Low Speed Range—Table
Traverse Power Driven-Complete
with Semi - Universal Dividing
Heads.
<ssm
fsd
"MARS" RADIAL DRILL
Designed to suit Engineering
Workshop conditions requiring
Capacity and Accuracy. All gear
drive —Power and Hand Feed.
Quick Change and Ease of Opera-
tion —Portable Work-table.
"MARS" 8 H.P. DIESEL
The ideal Diesel for the Primary
Producer —Easy and Economical to
run Detachable Cylinders Re-
placeable Liners. Force Feed
Lubrication Variable Speed.
Easy Starting.
a
'
mm?''
. jif 7 :. ■
"MARS" 101-inch ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
Long Angle Vee-Ways —Wide Speed Range—Fitted Remote
Control—Guaranteed Accuracy.
!
A-'
1
Mi CHINE TOOL
mfc. cumin.
'■
J. & O’S.
