

The Bulletin
“Jhe Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3712
Wednesday, April 4, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
LIKE THE ACROPOLIS OF ANCIENT ATHENS IS EDINBURGH'S CASTLE ROCK
THE dominant feature of Scotland’s beautiful capital city is the Castle,
standing like some vast eagle’s eyrie upon its plateau of rock which, on
three sides, falls a sheer 270 feet to the gardens below.
This great and famous fortress stands upon the site of a very early
Pictish settlement, and in the seventh century Edwin, the first king of
Northumbria, established a military outpost there which became known as
Edwinsburgh, and later, under its Celtic lords, as Dunedin.
Unlike the traditional English castle, Edinburgh Castle consists of a
group of buildings constituting a self-contained and isolated community which,
because of its strength, could hold out indefinitely against besieging troops
which occupied the city below. A supply of water was provided by a well
sunk deep into the rock. The earliest reference to the castle dates from
the year 452, and throughout its long and stormy history its ownership
alternated between Scottish and English hands. In 1296 it was captured by
Edward I, and was retained by the English until 1313, when the Earl of
Moray and thirty men performed the astonishing feat of climbing the southern
face of the precipice by night, surprising the English garrison and capturing
the castle in the name of King Robert the Bruce. The fortress was dismantled
by Bruce, and later given back to the English by Edward Baliol. Re-fortified
by Edward 111 in 1337, the castle was again taken by the Scots in 1341. It
was there that the saintly Margaret, Queen of Malcolm Canmore, died in
1093, and she is commemorated by a Chapel which bears her name and
which occupies the highest point of the rock, 443 feet above sea level.
It was in Edinburgh Castle that Mary Queen of Scots gave birth, in
1566, to a son who was destined to become James VI of Scotland and
James I of England. In 1745 the castle gates were closed against Prince
Charles Stewart, who was unable to take the fortress, and during the
Napoleonic Wars French prisoners were confined in the castle dungeons.
In the foreground is the Scottish National War Memorial —a monument
which is entirely the work of Scottish artists and is probably the most
beautiful war memorial ever to have been built.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CU t here AND MAIL mmmm ~ m ~~~
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.251) Age..,..,
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P-O. Box Ao*
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and
tralian books, also in bookish items of
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give ? d g/.)
news gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/J
Book lists on Mansfieldiana, Caxto “
recent A/sian poets .(Douglas
and others). Specialised field* for book huntuw
The Red Page
EZRA POUND.
Ezra Pound has long been a cause why
wit is in other men, as a teacher, as an
Aunt Sally, and, especially, as in Ezra
Pound, A Collection of Essays to Be
Presented to Ezra Pound on His 65th
Birthday (Peter Nevill), as an inspirer-to-
high - class - mental-gymnastics-of-people-
attempting-to-explain-his-writings.
Although he is under the shadow of
the worst crime known to nations, no
one will say that he is mean-spirited,
venal or vicious; and although econo-
mists laugh at his economy and profes-
sors of Gree'lc, Italian, Chinese and Eng-
lish titter over his mistakes, no one will
deny that as a poet, an inventor of new
modes of poetry and an influence upon
young writers he has only one equal in
the English-speaking world today, and
that is T. S. Eliot.
And, says Mr. Eliot:
In 1915 I met Pound. The result was
that “Prufrock” appeared in “Poetry” in
the summer of that year; and through
Pound’s efforts, my first volume was pub-
lished by the Egoist Press in 1917.
And, more surprisingly;
It was in 1922 that I placed before him
in Paris the manuscript of a sprawling
chaotic poem called The Waste Land which
left his hands, reduced to about half its
size, in the form in which it appears in
print. I should like to think that the
manuscript, with the suppressed passages,
had disappeared irrecoverably: yet, on the
other hand, I should wish the blue pencil-
ling on it to be preserved as irrefutable
evidence of Pound’s critical genius.
Such grateful testimony could be
repeated from scores of satisfied users;
but it looks at last as though, contrary
to critical expectations of the 1930’5,
Pound the schoolmaster will be obliterated
by Pound the poet; it is good to see, in
essays by Edith Sitwell and others, the
little suite “Hugh Selwyn Mauberley”
being hauled out of the ruck of Pound’s
work and appreciated as the “great
poem” Eliot said it was in 1928. For
here, besides the scathing survey of the
London literary scene of the 1920’5, the
biting wit and the brilliant caricatures,
were cadences never heard before:
Nature receives him;
With a placid and uneducated mistress
He exercises his talents
And the soil meets his distress
where the last line, spoken as in
ordinary prose, raises the simpla state-
ment to unexpected rhythmical grandeur ;
and new ways of achieving the inexplic-
able beauty of Blake:
Or through dawn-mist
The grey and rose
Of the juridical
Flamingoes
But apart from this yatter, as Pound
used to call it, the reader will want to
know whether these essays shed any light
on the “Cantos,” of which 70, excluding
the “Pisan Cantos,” have recently been
put out in one book, Seventy Cantos
(Faber). And here Mr. Eliot advances
again, this time bringing consolation:
he can’t make head or tail of some of
them, either:
In the Cantos there is an increasing
defect of communication, not apparent
when he is concerned with Sigismondo
Malatesta, or with Chinese dynasties, but,
for instance: whenever he mentions
Martin Van Buren 1 am incidentally
annoyed, myself, by occasional use of the
peculiar orthography which characterises
Pound’s correspondence, and by lines writ-
ten in what he supposes to be Yankee
dialect
In this second objection Mr. Eliot is
supported by Miss Sitwell; she naturally
goes for the romantic parts with strange
words strangely used (“Lynx-purr and
heathery smell of beasts”). But maybe
Mr. Eliot don’t know the business
world like Ezra; in the tone of many of
the. big-business and modern-political
monologues in the Cantos, at least one
reader can hear the exact tones of his
father’s voice:
So there was my ole man sitting
And he had his despatches from St.
, Petersburg,
And Mensdorf had his from Vienna,
And he knew, and they knew, and each
knew,
That the other knew that the other knew
he knew,
And Mensdorf was just reaching into his
pocket
That was to start things, and then my ole
man
Said it:
Albert, and the rest of it.
Those days are gone forever.
And no doubt many another reader
would recognise his ole man talking in
many another of the business passages,
or in the superb old commercial traveller’s
story which John Quinn (in the early
editions “Jim X.”) told to the bankers’
meeting in the style and tone of Chaucer,
who would be puzzled by the Sigismondo
passages.
But it is surprising how a little read-
ing can make the Cantos moie readable.
For instance, a recent book on Abigail
Adams throws a flood of light upon the
Cantos which deal with early American
history; and if the constant references
in the big-business sections to “Steff”
send the reader to The Autobiography of
Lincoln Steffens (you skip the childhood
years and begin where Steffens takes up
financial editing and muckraking), it will
serve the double purpose of illuminating
the Cantos and introducing one of the
most enthralling and significant books of
the past half-century. If you could read
enough to understand everything in the
Cantos you would know more than some-
what.
Probably no one book covers the
Italian references, but the essay in this
collection, “The Italian Background,” by
John Drummond, makes a practical
effort to annotate all the references and
give some of their history. Still, one is
annoyed not to find in it a dissertation
on the gorgeous passage at the end of
Canto XX; beginning with the progress
of heavy cars drawn by panthers ; there
is a road, and the cars moving along it:
And at windows in inner roadside:
le donne e i cavalieri
smooth face under hennin,
The sleeves embroidered with flowers,
Great thistle of gold, or an amaranth,
Acorns of gold, or of scarlet,
Cramoisi and diaspre
slashed white into velvet
Perhaps, after such a crush of silk in the
mouth, it doesn’t matter. But:
And at last, between gilded barocco,
Two columns coiled and fluted,
Vanoka, leaning half naked,
waste hall there behind her.
“Peace! *
80r50...., Borso! ”
—was it a funeral procession? Who was
Vanoka? (Mr. Drummond explains
about Borso.) If this was what she said
when they brought home her warrior
dead it would be magnificent. But how
awkward if it wasn’t!
Here is about time one introduced you
to G. S. Fraser, who in his essay
“Pound: Myths, Masks, Man,” ventures
the most complete diagnosis yet made of
the overall plan of the Cantos:
The nature of the underlying myth in the
Cantos begins to become really clear about
half-way through, in the two long sections
where the anecdotes, of which the poem is
largely composed, are no longer broken oft
in the middle to be taken up, in a different
section, several Cantos further on. Of t
these two monolithic chunks, intruding so
J strangely into a kaleidoscopic poem, one is
about John Adams, the second President
of the United States; it consists largely of
letters by him or about him, of documenta-
tion. For most readers, just as poetry, it
is one of the least successful sections....
the other section is a condensed version
of the history of China... .These two sec-
tions give the key to the myth.
It is the myth of the noble leader and
the stable community, of the good society
which has been, and can be again, and
which wicked men seek to destroy. The
good society, for Pound, is stable rather
than changing; the only natural kind of
change is deterioration, and therefore to
preserve the stability of society a constant,
daily effort of renewal is required. Certain
sacred exemplars of stability must be kept
in mind, figures like Confucius and Adams,
documents like the Confucian writings and
the American Constitution. The noble
leader, like Adams, and the stable society,
like China, have qualities in common
There is also an essay on Pound’s
Chinese by Hugh Gordon Porteus, in
which Pound’s mistakes and confusions
are weighed, to his advantage, against his
achievements. There is an essay on
Pound’s “Conception of the Bank,”- by
Max Wykes-Joyce, from which Mr.
Chifley might gain some consolation.
Wyndham Lewis revives some of his
Apes of God hatreds in a portrayal of
Ezra the Professional against a back-
ground of British literary amateurs; and
the editor of the book, Peter Russell, in
his introduction, shows us Ezra Pound
surrendering to the Americans in Italy:
After a period [in Genoa] he was taken
by road to Pisa, where he was imprisoned
alone in a barbed-wire “cage” where he
was exposed to extremes of weather and
physical violence which combined to
cause the mental breakdown he suffered
during the following months....
At that he was lucky: a poet must
resign himself to giving unto Csesar those
things which are Cresar’s; but later times
will probably agree that Pound did the
other thing, too, r. McC.
Whaling Discovery .
Nelson Cole Haley, whose account of
his voyage as a harpooner in the whale-
ship Charles W. Morgan in 1849-1853 is
published for the first time under the
title Whale Hunt (Hale), was a contempo-
rary and compatriot of Herman Mel-
ville. He ran away to sea when he was
12, made the long voyage with the Charles
Morgan when he was 16, and wrote his
narrative, presumably from a diary, years
afterwards when he had left the sea and
was living at Hawaii. The manuscript
was presented by his daughter to the
Marine Museum of Connecticut in 1944
and so —with no material changes, say
the publishers—found its way into print.
Setting off in the Charles Morgan at
16 with a slight physique which was
afterward to develop into something short
and broad, with blue eyes, golden hair
and a dark-red beard, Haley landed at
Fayal in the Azores, bought chickens for
a dollar a dozen and was enchanted with
the spectacle of one of his fellow-
voyagers who got himself up in a
wrinkled bell-crowned beaver, blue claw-
hammer coat, scarlet vest and pants that
came half-way down his shins from his
knees and asked the captain to put him
ashore because he was sick of the voyage
and wanted to walk home to Maine.
The captain met smugglers at night off
the Azores and sold them tobacco. As
they crossed the Indian Ocean King
Neptune came aboard, shaved the green
hands with a piece of hoop-iron, jammed
the tar-brush into their mouths when they
answered the question whether or not
they had ever kissed a negro girl, then
tipped them blindfolded into a canvas
tub with a yell of “Man overboard!”
They landed to get fresh water at Two
People’s Bay, W.A., saw “the snowy-
white sand beach, almost too dazzling
for the eye to look at in the sunlight,”
encountered an immense snake “20ft. or
30ft. long,” and were told by the captain,
who had previously been whaling in
the bay, a story of an aborigine who ran
120 miles in 30 hours to deliver a message,
after which he ate a bucket of ship’s
bread, took a drink of water and slept,
face upwards in the sun, for two days.
Shortly afterwards, off New Zealand’s
Three Kings, Haley struck his first whale
to the accompaniment of roars of en-
couragement from the captain, a more
jovial character than Melville’s Ahab.
When Haley was preparing to strike, the
captain shouted, “Only strike that whale
and I will give you anything I have,
anything except my wife! ” and when the
harpooner struck successfully he cried,
“He is fast! Take my wife and all I
have!”
They called in at the Bay of Islands,
saw a little of colonial life ; but though
on a later visit he describes a magnifi-
cent fight between soldiers and whalers,
up and down the whole length of the
beach with almost the entire population
of Kororareka joining in, Haley was too
nice a young man to let himself go on
all the sights of that wild locality: fie
mentions only that the population of the
Maori settlement “is always added to in
the season whale-ships come here, so
residents say,”
On their way to Fiji to pick up hogs
they met with another whaler, the
Christopher Mitchell of Nantucket, and
the Mitchell’s captain, coming aboard for
a “gam”—whalers’ parlance for gossip 1 —
told them an extraordinary story which
was also reported, say the publishers, in
the newspapers of the period, of a woman
who sailed on the Mitchell disguised as
a man; she was pursuing a lover who
had run away on another whale-ship,
with the intention of knifing him when
she caught him, and was put ashore in
Lima to be shipped home to New York.
Haley now really gets amongst the
whales he is looking for. He sees one
of the monsters take fright when a clumsy
sailor knocks his paddle against the side
of the whaleboat. He is charged by
another whale and tipped into the ocean.
He is caught in a wild and dangerous
turmoil when three whales are harpooned
simultaneously by different boats and the
lines cross. He goes adrift on a whale’s
back surrounded by hordes of sharks
when he is working on the carcass off
the ship’s side.
Then, for a spell from this arduous
activity, he has adventures among the
cannibals of the Kingsmills, who have
learned their worst tricks from convicts
escaped from Port Jackson. There is a
most dramatic story, which Haley retells
from hearsay, of one of these renegade
white men being pinned by a whaler’s
lance to the deck of a ship he was trying
to capture, yelling at his cannibal friends
to continue the fight while he writhed
and plunged in agony. Off Sydenham
Island Haley himself had natives trying
to capture his ship when it was in danger
of being wrecked; and his captain, when
they cleared a point to safety, memorably
saluted, with a charge of shotgun pellets
in the rear, a native who had been making
“rude gestures” at them.
On Strong’s Island, in the company of
lovely brown maidens and a chieftain
drunk on kava, Haley attends an old-
time native concert of song and dance
and explores mysterious ruins of stone
—the work, if the Kon-Tiki people’s
theory is right, of the ancient refugees
from Peru. Then he is chasing whales
again, between Fiji and New Zealand.
He harpoons a monster which yields 120
barrels of oil. He sees even more colossal
monsters, presumed to be giant squid,
whose estimated dimensions are too
astronomical to be credible —but there is
no reason to doubt that Haley did see
something large and strange. He has a
superb struggle with a whale in a storm;
he is capsized again and waits for many
hours in the water while the captain
searches for him in vain; and at last
he comes back to New Bedford and
“promised Mother that I would not en-
gage myself for sea again, right away.”
Packed with so much exciting material,
Whcite Ship is indeed a pleasing “dis-
covery” in seafaring literature. So much
of it is set around Australia, New Zea-
land and the Pacific Islands that it has
a special interest for this part of the
world. Except that Haley has obviously
improved his repartees when he is putting
the captain or the first mate in their places
—he is very much his own hero—the
narrative all reads like authentic material.
It is told straightforwardly in a quiet,
plain, matter-of-fact tone.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Long Bright Days : David West-
heimer (Wingate). A meticulously-
'Wiitten novelette, in which an innocent
14-year-old boy puts down the jigsaw
pieces that add up to the seduction of
his slight! y-older friend by his friend’s
stepmother.
* * * *
A Year in the Country : Sir William
Bead; Thomas ; selected by J. C. Trewin,
decorations by Philip Gough (Wingate).
Sir William has written nature-notes for
the “Observer” for over 20 years and this
collection makes a very pleasant picture
of the English countryside from a sensitive
watcher of birds, beasts and butterflies.
jj: He * •
The Mystery of Dreams: William
Oliver Stevens (Allen and Unwin). A
popular account of “telepathic” and
“clairvoyant” dreams, mostly of the
prophetic and warning varieties, taken
from reminiscences, biographies and the
records of reputable societies of psychical
research. In a chapter on “The Dream
in Literature” Dr. Stevens recalls that
Swinburne said he dreamed three
plete stanzas of “Spring in Winter,” that
R. L. Stevenson dreamed the plot of
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and that the
horror-novelist, Mrs. Radcliffe, used to eat
large indigestible meals before going to
bed, in the hope of inducing useful night-
mares. '
* * * *
The Indiscretions of a Magistrate:
Basil L. Henriques (Ha trap). Mr.
Henriques, a prominent British magis-
trate, has lectured for the British Council
in Australia and New Zealand. Sub-
titled “Thoughts* on the work of the
Juvenile Court” his book surveys the
whole field of juvenile delinquency in a
style both humorous and humane. He
finds “broken homes” —-meaning divorce
—chiefly responsible for crime amongst
children, with slums and overcrowding as
the second most important factor. Deal-
ing with methods of reform he praises the
systems of New Zealand’s Burwood
School and the Thornleigh Cottages of
N. S. Wales.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
A Doctor in Siam: Jacques M- May
(Cape). The doctor begins with a difficult
obstetrical operation on a Japanese
woman whose husband refuses to allow
her to have chloroform; he deals with
the princess, whose person was considered
too sacred to be examined ; he frightens
a Siamese girl with X-rays to dissuade her
from poisoning the Frenchman with
whom she is living ; and he concludes by
stowing-away on a British ship to escape
the Vichy French in 1940 —a colorful and
very readable combination of doctor s-
book and travel-book. Dr. May was in
Bangkok for the French Foreign Office
and now practises as a surgeon in New
York.


&
r>
r
1
A
m
I
s
.*■ "■'•■•'
■ --'V
Wm .% <* ~ ,* "
'WtSSffs;:
s*. *»■* • * *
!
wm
ot
c
Elf I
■. P
r»
■
> m
SSB ~
No
Patterns No. 5, 24, 25 in colours of beige, o/whit’e,
mushroom, gold, blue, green and rose.
Above;
No. 5 design. Double bed £7/7/9, 3ft. bed £7/5/-.
6ft. 6in. curtains to order £6/1 1 /- pr.
No. 25
-1
if***
' y£m%
a» r
i»U~^
X
mss
as
m
SP
ss«s
No. 25 design. Double bed £9/14/3, 3ft. bed
£9/11/6. 6ft. 6in. curtains to order
£B/17/6 pr.
■
I
■^l
fm
...
<sim\ & . ■• i««*V**«..?,• " ' wr-x.
■k- ' ,
•;. ~
m. Rtef Jl f?®, fag W ■ ™
|lf’ , :
rJmm :; swa. t
feSR *3S»®
mSL -"e&'s
Mt <s^
■■l
f <K' ik mmm , lii m
;yry^,^
X.T
/ No -
■ ,;
MBSm
)N. ADVLRTIbiNG
r
Give your bedroom a new dress for
Made exclusively for Anthony Horderns’, the “Jeldi”
Tufted Chenille bedspreads are in tailored style
and made to fit either 3ft. or 4ft. 6in. beds. They
feature gathered flounce both sides and base of spread,
with split corners giving a neat, attractive finish.
Autumn
!
; i : • :■
/y
m
m
Ilk:
U
< %
K m' ...'
*&
555
®W3
w 98S
m
m ■
.::-r:s^
m
H
Z#*€
No. 24
Above:
No. 24 design. Double bed £7/6/3, 3ft. bed £7/3/6.
6ft. 6in. curtains to order £6/9/6 pr.
Patterns No. 10, 20 on white background with floral
patterns in pink, green, blue and gold. Same may be
obtained in vat-dyed backgrounds in pastel shades of
pink, green, blue and lemon.
rapr \\ \S,
** J>j -
w> x-^r«Ow
:• ;< ; ,
:>*-rr.
n
■ •
BMR
2S!
■
su*
S 8
*
«*-
Bsc rap
mm
■ Mi iss
>.. <4i>
W***!®-:.^^.
|
*««.
&
‘ - ... 4
£^T>
No. 20
No. 10 design. Double bed £9/2/9,
3ft. bed £9/-/-. Curtains 6ft. 6in.
to order £B/6/- pr. No. 10 (vat-
dyed) double bed £lO/2/6, 3ft. bed
£9/19/9. Curtains 6ft. 6in. to order
£9/5/6 pr.
No. 20 design. Double bed £9/ 1 1 /3,
3ft. bed £9/8/3. Curtains 6ft. 6in.
to order £B/14/3 pr. No. 20 (vat-
dyed) double bed £lO/11/-, 3ft. bed
£lO/8/-. Curtains 6ft. 6in. to order
£9/14/- pr.
BEDSPREADS THIRD FLOOR. PHONE M 2401. MAIL BOX No. 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA ON ALL ’SPREADS.


r
4h YEARS
NON-STOP OPERATION
Can you imagine such amazing perform-
ance? Yet that’s the actual equivalent in
terms of time worked by this remarkable
Bulldog Tractor owned by Mr. R. W. Irvin
'of Tulletop. He writes;
“My 1 1-years-old “N” Model Lanz Tractor
worked 30,000 hours before it was rebored
and approximately 10,000 hours since, and is
still in really good order. The transmission
has not been renewed anywhere, nor have
the king pin bushes been replaced, or front
wheel bearings adjusted. Over the 1 1 years I
have paid out £204 in repairs and replace-
ments, including a rebore. Fuel consumption
on most work pulling 6-furrow, I.H.C. mould-
board plough, 1 2-disc Shearer, 1 8-run com-
bine and Bft. header ground drive is about
one gallon per hour and approximately \
gallon lubricating oil per
1 0-hour day. My tractor
has been an outstanding
tractor for reliability,
economy and power.”
1*
Si
KL t UNX
Bulldog
CfuuU Oil ruoroM
"Mq
BULLDOG
Crude Oil Tractor
saves
me
£lBO
everii
qear!
“Here’s how it works out! I work my property of 500 odd acres
with my BULLDOG on an average of 7 to 8 times a year and use
approximately 1875 gallons of crude oil. With crude oil at 1/2 a
gallon, my total fuel bill comes to £lO9/7/6. Now, if I had a
kerosene tractor, which would consume 2 gallons of kerosene to
BULLDOG’S 1 i gallons of crude oil, doing the same work. I’d
use 2500 gallons of kerosene priced at 1/9 per gallon. That
totals £2lB/15/-! —or just double what my BULLDOG CRUDE
OIL TRACTOR costs me. When I add BULLDOG’S further
savings of £7O on annual maintenance and depreciation—due to
its remarkable simplicity and heavy duty construction —all told,
my BULLDOG CRUDE OIL TRACTOR saves me £lBO
EVERY YEAR on the running costs of other tractors. I can t
afford to be without a BULLDOG. Can you?”
M
Contact your State Distributor
for full particulars:
3
Boort, Vic.
“The only cost of repairs and
replacements to my 12-year-old
Lanz Bulldog Tractor was ap-
proximately £ I 4, when the engine
itself was overhauled about two
years ago. The gears and differ-
ential have never been uncovered.
I am still using the original hot
bowl.’’
C. Cable.
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304-314 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William Street, Perth.
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
K.L. Tractor Sales Ply. Ltd., 121 Brunswick Street, The Valley, Brisbane,
Elder Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie Street, Adelaide.
SHELTER
By Les Roliuson
(HAD been a long way out in
the western suburbs and
arrived back too late to catch
the last boat across tne
harbor, which would take me
within walking distance of my
abode ; so, therefore, had to find
a bed for myself somewhere.
This I knew, especially as it was
holiday-time, would not, except
perhaps for the affluent, be easy.
Rain was falling steadily. I
considered myself fortunate to
be near a shop veranda.
I had only been standing under
it for a minute or two when a
night-watchman, patrolling the
area, paused near me to roll a
cigarette. I asked him if he knew
where lodging could be obtained
“Well, there’s one place you
might! try,” he said, after giving
the question a little thought. “It
was only for servicemen during
the war, but I was told the other
day that civilians now are also
admitted.
I found the building within the
next half-hour or so. A ware-
house at one time, in appearance
at all events, it had been con-
verted into an institute or a
recreation centre, apparently.
The door was open and there
was a light burning inside.
TO my great relief I wasn’t
knocked back, nor was I
requested to fill in forms or sub-
jected to a questionnaire.
“Down there,” said a man
behind a counter, indicating a
staircase after I had parted with
three and sixpence.
The basement to which it led
had a musty smell rather like
that which assailed one’s nostrils
when one raised the lid of one’s
school desk after a lengthy
vacation. Not much provision,
if indeed any, seemed to have
been made for ventilation.
There were six floor-occupants
when I entered it. They had a
ma ttress and a blanket each. I was
shown the locker-room in which
the bedding was kept. I would
not have liked to be locked in
it, for naphthalene had been
strewn about lavishly in order,
no doubt, to asphyxiate moths,
fleas and other The
atmosphere was overwhelming.
The occupant of the mattress
on one side of me was, I soon
found, voluble. A voracious
reader of newspapers. Evidently
their comments on things in
general had become twirled
about in his mind and inextric-
ably mingled with, I surmised,
the prophecies and diatribes of
Domain orators, plus inferences
and opinions of his own, which,
if lopsided, were at all events
unique. He kept on getting up
every few minutes and shuffling
to and fro. Asked by someone
at last why he didn’t relax be
said that the only way he could
think was to move about.
I gathered from his discourse
that he was a jack-of-all-trades.
While on the move he’d catch a
word of somebody’s conversa-
tion, the name of a country town
perhaps, and it would be sure to
remind him of something he’d
seen, heard, or that, in his
wanderings, had happened to
him. He’d come to a standstill
then and narrate. One reminis-
cence or anecdote would lead to
another, and, whether anyone
was listening or not, he’d go on
and on and on. His monologues
were lengthy, discursive and
covered a wide field both geo-
graphically and in subject-matter.
Was there a place in which he
had never set fool, an occupa-
tion, we all wondered, yawning
after a while, he had omitted to
try?
Every now and then, when not
talking, he imitated the twitter-
ing of birds. It seemed to be in-
voluntary, a habit with him, in
the same way as twitching the
eyebrows or scratching the nose
can become one. These imita-
tions were excellent. It would
not have been hard, in fact, if
one closed one’s eyes, to imagine
that one was imprisoned in an
aviary.
A FEW feet away on the other
of me was a different kind
of citizen altogether. He was
hatchet-faced, small but wiry, and
didn’t become communicative
until joined by a friend he hadn’t
seen, evidently, for a month or
two. He then with gusto entered
upon a lengthy account of his
doings since they had last been
together. It was the seamy side
of life. He was a hawker some-
times, his hearers gathered, but
more often, one at least of them
concluded, merely a vagabond.
Any event in that man’s l.ife v
no matter of what kind, called,
apparently, in his estimation, for
a celebration, and was invariably
accorded one. He seemed to be
beset perpetually by a craving
for conviviality. Perhaps he had
just come out of a hospital after-
recovering from an accident he
had sustained, or an illness, or
had triumphed over adversaries
in a brawl. All such events,
births, marriages and divorces,
among his relatives and friends,
because of the festivities con-
nected, with them, so often to a
large extent instigated by him,
seemingly, he recalled, it was
evident, with merriment for a
long time afterwards. These
junketings, according to him,
nearly always, for some reason
or other, became riotous. They
also were itinerant. Commencing
in one part of a slum they ended
invariably, after passing through
sundry phases, all of them hectic,
somewhere else.
He was lighthearted, laughed
often and easily, but not always
at the things that amuse most
people. He was malicious, sly,
crude, and much given, it seemed,
to playing practical jokes on his
cronies. Their forbearance, one
concluded, after he had divulged
in detail a few of these pranks,
must surely have been ex-
ceptional.
Some people might not have
revelled in that kind of life, but
he, there is no doubt whatever,
enjoyed it immensely.
I N front of me in the next row,
1 his mattress almost touching
mine, was a kanaka. Except
that he was shivering, because,
being late in autumn, the night
was chilly, he might just have
emerged from a banana-grove
instead of a city thoroughfare.
He was clad in coat and trousers
of flimsy material, a cotton
singlet and sandshoes. He had
an explosive kind of cough that,
as it “exploded” about once
every two or three minutes, was
nerve-racking. At long last,
however, he went to sleep.
There was indeed a super-
abundance of coughing, sneezing
and wheezing. Those who were
trying hard to go to sleep but
not succeeding very well had
some pestiferous snores to con-
tend against, as well. That, in
particular, of one sleeper was
extraordinary—a masterpiece, in
fact. It commenced pianissimo,
soared gradually, ever increasing
in volume and achieved its
climax with a sound like that of
a steam-whistle. Every now and
then, as might, I think, have been
expected, he waked himself with
it.
The kanaka when sleeping
looked like a heap of luggage or
a hummock over which a
blanket had been thrown. I
think he must have slept in a
most unusual fashion, perhaps in
a crouching position.
I learned that night from a
late-comer how to make the
most of a blanket. Before lying
down he wound it tightly round
him ; then, producing two pieces
of thick string ne had brought
with him for the purpose,
evidently, he tied it top and
bottom so that it would not be-
come unwound —made a sort of
parcel of himself, in fact.
I slept only fitfully myself,
and, whenever awake, heard
the “jack-of-all-trades” shuffling
about and twittering, plus all the
other noises, too, of course, pre-
dominant among them being the
clumping of heavy boots down
the stairs, for the light was kept
burning and wanderers kept on
arriving until two or three
o’clock in the morning.
AT about half-past-six a gong
was beaten to intimate that it
was time to be up and going.
Only a few of the inmates, how-
ever, I among them, got up, and,
after having a wash and putting
their mattresses and blankets
back in the locker-room, took
their departure


The Bulletin
Vol, 72—No. 3712
Wednesday, April 4,
fsg
“WE CAN ALWAYS TRY TO BE HONEST.”
— Mr. Chifley, giving “Labor's” policy.
"She was po-o-o-r, but she was honest—
Or, at least, she tried her best...."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
TWO-WAY HORSE.
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, the ex-Communist
president of the Federal A.L.P., may have
been sincere when he said, in introducing
Mr. Chifley to his policy-speech audience,
that “Labor” “willingly accepts the chal-
lenge for an election.” He was unable,
however, to communicate his enthusiasm
to Mr. Chifley even with the aid of a
hall scientifically scattered with a
“diamond” of cheer-leaders and applause-
raisers.
Mr. Chifley sounded all too aware that
he was speaking under the eye of the
heads of the A.L.P. Executive, to
which he showed himself at the last
caucus meeting of the session to be so
subservient that he was prepared to rule
out of order any resolution moved in
Parliamentary party meetings which con-
flicted with the august edicts of Mr.
Ferguson and his piebald junta.
Under the circumstances it was natural
that Mr. Chifley should have given the
impression of a man uttering words
which had been injected into him by a
hypnotist and few of which he believed.
It must have been difficult for
even a “Labor” audience of hard-
bitten union-organisers and agitators not
to laugh in its sleeve as it heard their
leader professing his “love for the great
party which I lead and for my country,”
while in fact at the moment the “great
party” is not even held to a semblance of
cohesion by the instinct of self-preserva-
tion.
Socialisation? That word the “leader”
avoided like the plague, though he de-
clared that “Labor” had “always one
great objective, and that for the benefit
of the masses of the people”: it was
“driving for the light on the hill, the
good of ordinary men and women and
the love of humanity.”
The feature which emerged from
Mr. Chifley’s dull and dreary recital of
his masters’ Socialist plans was its
obvious insincerity. It was difficult to
imagine that even he himself expected
the country to take seriously his
eulogium of the Triennial “Labor” Con-
ference’s defence policy, to which he a
few weeks ago had expressed himself
opposed. And he can have little con-
fidence that the electors will swallow his
pledges to “eliminate all seditious and
subversive activities and all forms of
industrial sabotage” without recourse to
“unconstitutional or illegal methods,” and
by devices based upon “existing laws and
the principles of British justice.”
For his past presents a picture of Par-
liamentary “Labor’s” subservience to
the Communist unions in both domestic
and foreign policy. It is unlikely that
in its present disrupted state, with its
leadership surviving only through
support of the Left-wing of industrial
“Labor,” which it has done so much to
save from a clean-up, the party will do
better, or indeed dare to attempt to do
better, than in the days when its trade-
union war-advisory committee boasted a
majority consisting of members of
Communist-party executives, and when
its policy on Indonesia was made for it
by the Communist - led Waterside
Workers’ Federation.
The horse. Anti-inflation, which Mr.
Chifley proposes to ride to victory at the
elections is a peculiar animal somewhat
like the famous Doodlakine camel which
nobody could master because it could
only travel both ways at once. This is
precisely what Mr. Chifley proposes to
do with his economic policy. He has
firstly pledged himself to take measures
to halt inflation, and to stabilise the
economy of the country with the aid and
co-operation of the trade-unions. He
does not explain how it comes
about that he could never achieve
this co-operation during his previous five
years of office except on the basis of
complete surrender to the unions.
He says nothing of any move to check
the leap in wages, being satisfied with the
arbitration system, which is futile for the
purpose ; but he is very strong on the
power to regulate prices and profits. This
might bb logical if he is prepared to
legislate also on production, and to
ensure that while sellers of the com-
munity’s needs give a fair return for their
money, the sellers of labor do the same.
But this would offend the Leftist trade-
unions, which are not likely to co-
operate unless Mr. Chifley can show that
all the sacrifices are going to be made by
the other fellow.
Mr. Chifley proposes to carry out a
programme of vote-buying which must
cancel out whatever measures he thinks
he can take against inflation.
Additional child-endowment, more old-
age and other pension money, more
social services, marriage allowances, more
subsidies on homebuilding, maintenance
of vast —and, in some cases like Glen
Davis, hopelessly uneconomic—develop-
ment works irrespective of the defence
position, reduction of sales tax on
women’s luxuries, the repeal of the wool
levy and the handing-back of the money
already collected under it are all offered
to electors.
These things are supposed to have
an electoral appeal to certain unthinking
elements of the community who do not
realise that the ultimate result of them
is inflationary, and that the burden of
them must fall in the end on the very
people whom they are supposedly
designed to benefit, since they call for
more taxation, which in turn calls for
higher prices to meet it, unless the taxed
are to reach the point of ruin.
Yet there is nothing in “Labor’s” “con-
structive” policy save this kind of vote-
buying, to the ruinous effects of which
Mr. Chifley and his immediate advisers
cannot be blind. Their talk of “the
galloping horses of inflation” and of
“the road to ruin” in the light of their
wanton policy of bigger handouts is
pure sham. Their talk of securing co-
operation to get increased production
from Communist-led trade-unions (the
objective of whose heads is avowedly the
overthrow of the Parliamentary system
of the Government, the destruction of the
Commonwealth Governmental system as
it exists, and its replacement by a Soviet
system firmly allied to Russia) is as much
bunkum as Dr. Evatt’s scare - cry
that the wicked Menzies Government
“wants to get control of the Common-
wealth Bank, in which nearly all the
savings of the people are contained, and
hand it over to an outside body.”
In the existing condition of world
prices and commerce, with rising costs,
increasing shortage of shipping and trans-
port facilities and rapidly-growing popu-
lations, it is almost impossible to conceive
that any sane party could declare itself
honest and at the same time pledge
itself to maintain the existing exchange-
rate with sterling, to increase social
benefits, and to “take every measure
necessary to halt the present disastrous
inflation.”
The only reason why “Labor” makes
these promises so freely and seemingly
incautiously is that its pledges are to
operate only when “power has been
obtained for Parliament from the people
to control prices and profits effectively.”
This sort of power is so wide, as con-
ceived by “Labor,” that it amounts to a
power to socialise the country. The
electors understood this well enough to
refuse it decisively to the Chifley Govern-
ment when at the height of its popularity.
Mr. Chifley and his bosses must know
that the chances of the same powers being
granted to them now in the unlikely event
of their being returned to office are
so remote that they feel safe in promising
almost anything.
An Did Man Problem.
For some time students of Australia’s
social structure have been issuing serious
warnings about the acute problems, apart
from threat of war, which will assert
themselves during the next 10 years.
It is the problem of an ageing population
looking to be subsidised with free
pensions, free of any means test, too,
from money (that is, goods) supplied by
the working proportion of the nation.
This problem underlines all the doubts
about the future of the Welfare State,
and emphasises as gravely as any other
consideration the necessity to raise the
community’s man-hour output. It may
be said at once that the job will never
be done on the present ideas of easy-
going and a nominal 40-hour week, let
alone a further reduction on the working
v/eek for which some unions are already
agitating. The prospect is serious enough
to have swung the “Labor” party to
advocate mass-immigration during the
post-war years in contradiction to its
strenuous opposition to immigration dur-
ing the 25 years preceding. Since the
same serious study of the problem is
proceeding in Britain there is good
warrant for expectation that the British
Government will before long place limi-
tations upon the drain by this country
of Britain’s own working hands: that is,
if the Welfare State idea is to survive
there also.
So serious are the revelations from
the last census (1947) that the Common-
wealth Parliament will, on all the signs,
be obliged to examine this old-age
problem apart from any party considera-
tions, and the Government ought at the
earliest opportunity to appoint a Royal
Commission to present the full clear
picture from facts which have received
little if any public attention.
Already many thousands of Australian
families are harassed by the care of aged
relatives while hard-pressed by the infla-
tionary conditions of today and defeated
in every thrifty effort by the dreadful
things inflation is doing to the value of
savings and provision through life-
assurance for their own old age. It is
not merely a question of how an increas-
ing age-group of old people is to be
cared for, though that is serious enough.
The diversion of working-time and
working-output, or the equivalent, is
twofold in direct service, mostly
unorganised, and in provision through
taxation for old-age pensions which
the Welfare State is expected to
hand out in rising annual sums,
now a huge aggregate and always
deemed insufficient. As for other pro-
vision—rest-homes, hospitalisation, and
in many cases “decent conditions” of
living—these are (where provided by
private enterprise) steadily being extin-
guished because of scarcity of labor.
Mr. Angus Maude, M.P., recently
wrote in the London “Spectator”:
A hundred years ago there were 1,000,000
people in Great Britain over the age of 65,
and they represented less than 5 per cent,
of the population; for every old person
there were nearly 13 of working age. To-
day there are more than 5J million old
people in the country; they represent
nearly 11 per cent, of the population, and
there are only about six people of work-
ing age to support each one. In 35 years’
time there will be 8J million over the age
of 65 —16 per cent, of the population and
w T ith only four workers to each one of
them. The cost of State retirement pen-
sions, now about £373 million, will then
be more than £5OO million a year.
That present position in Britain is re-
flected in the Australian demographic
statistics. The 1947 census shows that
more than one in ten of the population
is officially old-aged, and a rough calcu-
lation from the age-distribution shown by
the census returns allows the deduction
that the proportion of workers to the
aged is less than six to one. This is a
condition almost exactly reproducing the
current British figures.
The population at the time of the
census was 7,579,358. Of these the
number qualifying by age for old-age
pension (women over 60 and men and
women over 65) was 774,641. The “work-
ing population” is not exactly defined
in the demography - tables; but the
number of males between 21 and 65 was
2,217,991 ; a proportion to the aged of
about three to one, and the group total,
with females 21 to 60 included, was
4,199,741 —a proportion of actual or
potential workers to the aged of 5.4 to
one. There are, of course, workers younger
than 21, and many women in the 21-60
age distribution division are not pro-
ductively employed. The increasing
length of life in the individual is shown
by the record that there are more old
people aged 75 and over than there are
in the age-group 70-74.
As for the oncoming workers, the
statistics show that between 1933 and
1947 the group under 21 years decreased
from 38.6 per cent, in the former year
to 34.4 per cent, in the latter, and those
over 21 (including the aged) increased
from 61.44 to 65.6.
We do not have to go so far back as
the British comparison does to see the
seriousness of the Australian position.
Let this table of percentages in age-
groups testify:
Year. Under 15. 15-65. 65 and Over,
1901 .. 35.14 60.88 3.98
1911 .. 31.65 64.08 4.37
1931 .. 31.71 63.86 4.43
1933 .. 37.48 66.04 6.48
1947 .. 35.05 66.9 8.05
At the pre-1947 rate of increase in the
old-age group the percentage of 65 and
over in 1972 would be 14.5. The higher
birthrate of 50 years ago has served to
maintain the working-age group at about
65 per cent, of the population, but it
will soon be similarly reflected in in-
creased numbers of the aged. Again,
the losses in two world wars within 40
years have distorted what might have
been a more gradual increase in pro-
portion of the over-aged. But wars, the
depression and a falling birthrate, while
explanations, do not alter the facts.
There is no getting away from the story
of the figures : if we take the 15-65 age-
group as roughly the working-age group,
then, on the percentage table above, while
there were 14.4 workers to every one old
person in 1921, in 1947 there were only
8.3 workers to every one old person.
The decline of natural increase in the
depression years of the ’thirties is plainly
illustrated in the numbers of the age-
groups (1947 census) between 17 and
seven. They will reach 21 years in the
decade 1951-61 and represent a shortage
in supply of worker-recruits at a period
when increased production is a first essen-
tial of national progress. This disadvan-
tage can be offset by immigrant labor,
but (putting “New Australians” generally
in the 30-35 age-group) these will pass
the old-age line in 30 years’ time and
provide, in turn, a new impetus to the
increase of the pensionable group from
about 1980 onwards. In that year the
infants of today will be taking on the
full burden of the problem that is alarm-
ing many of their fathers today.
Youth’s belief today that it is bound
for good times such as their fathers
never knew assured employment,
less work, more pay, social security,
free health services while in the
prime of life and free pensions in
old age—looks like a horrible delusion,
especially if the checking of soaring prices
of everything (including paper wages) is
delayed much longer. There is just no
prospect of prosperity from such condi-
tions, and the problem during the next
generation of maintaining the aged is a
frightening thing on top of the struggle
for peace and security for the working
generation itself.
The “Spectator” declares that the infla-
tionary effect today of further rises in
pension rates “would be almost too
appalling to contemplate.” He concludes
that only a combination of three courses
of action will solve the problem:
The rise in cost of living must somehow
be halted.
The productivity of the workers must be
continually increased.
The unbalanced age-structure of the
nation must he redressed by an adequate
birthrate.
But, he adds, “the third requirement
will not be fulfilled if the clamant needs
of old people are met at the expense of
young potential parents.”
It is of the gravest urgency that the
Government and the public should know
the dimensions of this problem and the
practicable means of reducing it. The
welfare of the mass of the people is
enormously dependent upon the results.
A National Trust for S.A.
After three years of preparatory work,
a group of public-spirited citizens has
now established in South Australia a
“National Trust for the protection of flora
and fauna, and the preservation of sites
and objects of historic and scientific in-
terest ©r natural beauty.” With a few
modifications to suit Australian require-
ments, it has been modelled on the world-
famous National Trust of England: an
organisation which came into being 56
years ago through the inspiration of
Octavia Hill.
She saw historic buildings falling into
ruin for want of upkeep; valuable
art collections being dispersed when
their owners died ; quarrying operations,
cutting of timber without replanting, and
the erection of unsightly buildings
desecrating beauty spots; Roman and
Saxon ruins being carried away piece-
meal by souvenir-hunters. The trust,
formed to carry out by private enterprise
what the Government had neglected to
do, has made steady progress ever since.
Today Queen Mary is its president;
it holds in trust for the people property
of national interest worth a fabulous
sum ; the leading artists, architects and
scientists are proud to serve on its
advisory boards, and its business affairs
are directed by a group of businessmen.
A national trust is not a Government
department, its members are not
appointed hy the Government, and it is
not subsidised from public funds. All
that it asks from a Government is special
legislation, similar to that which has been
passed in England, to enable it to carry
out its work. All its income is derived
from donations, legacies and bequests,
which, in England, have always been free
from any form of taxation or duty.
Similar tax concessions will be needed in
Australia.
There is nothing to prevent every
State in the Commonwealth from
establishing such trusts, and there is
an urgent need for them. The
Dandenongs, near Melbourne, and the
Mt. Lofty Ranges, near Adelaide, are
in danger of being turned into close-
packed suburbs. Many people in those
and similar areas are willing to bequeath
or to donate beautiful properties to be
used as flora reserves and parks and play-
grounds for the people —if there was in
existence an organisation which would
hold them in trust and would care for
them. The fine response already made in
S.A. shows what can be expected in the
way of help in other States —if groups ot
people will take that indispensable first
step of forming national trusts on the
English pattern.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Impostor.
“Labor’s” leader succeeded in delivering
a policy speech without once mentioning
coal, the wharfies’ blockade of Australian
ports, or the international war-tension
which has set all Europe and America
rearming.
Not one word about any of them.
Yet every man and woman in Aus-
tralia must by now be aware, through
daily blackouts in industry, the short
working of many factories and the cutting-
off of country trains, that the coal-famine
produced by the miners’ Communist
bosses is prohibiting not only any national
development of this country, but even
day-to-day processes of keeping a
rationed economy going.
The hamstringing of the steelworks,
against which the coalfields bosses have
made a dead set, is a disgrace to Aus-
tralia. Every enterprise, from the man
who wants to mend his iron roof or his
wire fence to the great Snowy River
schemes on which Mr. Chifley puts his
faith for national salvation, is denied
steel as long as this sabotage lasts.
That any aspirant for leadership of
the national Government should rant
about the iniquity of high prices while
he looks on unmoved at the needless cost
added to all goods by the go-slow tactics
and stoppages on the wharves —set policy
of another Communist-bossed union—
is a subject only for derision. Yet Mr.
Chifley pretends his political heart is
wrung by the growth of the inflation-
movement raised earlier in his own
Socialist nursery-garden, and has not a
word of reproach for those Communist
allies of “Labor” which have given Aus-
tralian ports a name everywhere for the
worst treatment of shipping in the world.
Mr. Chifley has heard of the threat of
world war —the acute tension in Germany,
Yugoslavia, Persia, South-East Asia and
Korea which has compelled U.S.A.,
Britain and 16 Atlantic-treaty countries
to immense efforts for self-defence in a
hurry. Nobody could help hearing of
it. He has even become aware that Aus-
tralian troops—few in number, but all
we have —have been fighting in Korea for
some nine months. But he affects to
regard all this as a war scare engendered
by Mr. Menzies for the purpose of win-
ning an election. Even so, he carefully
avoided any views whatever on this
subject in his election policy speech. To
him it was not even worth a mention.
Mr. Chifley has long played the hum-
bug in politics. He is now qualifying
as an outstanding political impostor.
Ghosts from the Past.
If listeners sensed an eerie atmosphere
about Mr. Chifley’s policy speech on
Wednesday it was probably because he
was haunted through every minute of it
by his past, afraid that some awkward
person might rear up in his audience and
quote from his speeches of a year or two
ago.
Last April he was campaigning for the
McGirr Government, then about to be
returned to office by the grace of Mr.
Geraghty, and was saddled with the
delicate task of deprecating the success
of the Menzies-Fadden Government in
removing petrol-rationing in the face of
his gloomy prediction of failure. He said
at Bathurst on April 4:
I never denied that this country could
get enough petrol if it was prepared to, get
dollars, but I did say that to get petrol it
would have to go without other things.
He had, of course, clung to the asser-
tion that petrol-rationing was a vital
necessity which could not be removed
without disaster. Now the fact that plenty
of petrol was available, and that we did
not have to “go without other things,”
and that the removal of petrol-rationing
has been an inestimable benefit to every-
body, including the workers, is something
which “Labor” would like to forget, since
it is one of the strongest arguments
against “Labor’s” demand for control of
prices (which inevitably means rationing).
Next Mr. Chifley said;
The extra child-endowment to be intro-
duced by the new Government will mean a
lowering of the basic wage. Endowment
for families with one child is not the most-
needed form of social service to this
country.
About that time the “Labor”
majority in the Senate, no doubt having
been taken by the ear and led to the light
by the A.L.P. Executive, showed itself
not only ready to agree to ss. endowment
for the first child, which was to mean “a
lowering of the basic wage,” but raised
the figure to 10s., and “Labor” started
an outcry when the Government refused
to accept its amendment.
The basic wage has continued to
soar like a Mustang in spite of
everything, and “Labor” rushed in
breathlessly with the scheme for 10s.
endowment for the first child the moment
the double-dissolution was granted —
making it one of its most-advertised baits
for electors.
Finally Mr. Chifley said last April
(there then apparently being little danger
of a Federal election for a long time):
The real issue in the recent Australian
election was Socialism v. Capitalism. It
was a straightout fight between these two
great forces.
Mr. Chifley learnt how bad an
issue Socialism is for an election,
and while he was frank last April with
no Federal election looming, he was
zealous in his policy speech last week
not to mention Socialism, just as he was
careful not to touch on the detail of
international affairs and the possibility of
war.
“Labor” is jeering at the sugges-
tion of the extreme danger in the interna-
tional situation, but it is leaving it to
mouthpieces like the incautious Dr.
Burton to do the dirty work in that
matter, remembering all too clearly the
awful mistake it made in August, 1941,
when its leaders —and particularly Dr.
Evatt —sneered loudly at Mr. Menzies’s
warnings about the danger of attack from
Japan only three months before the
descent on Pearl Harbor. A resurrection
of some of the things which Dr. Evatt
said then a few months before the Aus-
tralia First men were interned for
allegedly saying the same sort of things
earlier would go ill with “Labor’s” re-
sounding objection to the rearming of
Japan.
A.B.C. News Service.
From M. F. Dixon, former head of the
A.B.C. news department:
The A.B.C. had an excellent opportunity last
week to justify its independent news service,
but failed to take it. The interruption to
normal N.S.W. daily-newspaper circulation left
many suburban and country residents without
an adequate news service, and it was the duty
of the A.B.C. to fill the gap by increasing the
number and length of its bulletins, as it did
a few years back when an industrial dispute
interrupted publication of the Sydney daily
papers.
The A.B.C. was largely dependent on the
papers at that time for its supply of news,
but within a few hours of the dispute occur-
ring we had recruited a skeleton staff to cover
all important news sources in Sydney. A.B.C.
regional officers and country correspondents
were also asked for a flow of news, and the
staff in other States sent in a bigger flow of
truly national material than we had ever had
before. We gave listeners an extended news
service until the newspaper dispute was settled.
Owing to staff and salary increases during the
past six months the A.B.C. news service must
now be costing more than at any time in its
history—close on £200,000 a year, I should
think. But, in spite of this, the A.B.C. has
shown a tendency recently to curtail rather than
expand the service. Last Christmas morning,
when daily-newspaper publication was sus-
pended, the A.B.C. reduced its two normal 15-
minute Sunday-morning news bulletins to one
of five minutes; it did the same on Good
Friday, when there were also no metropolitan
daily papers. During the cricket season the
1.30 p.m. bulletin was several times postponed
to the end of a cricket commentary, and on
Easter Sunday night the 9 o’clock news service
was put back to 9.30 for no obvious reason.
In my time at the A.B.C. the extension of
the 7 p.m. news service beyond 15 minutes was
consistently refused on the ground that listeners
cannot “take” more than 15 minutes of speech
at one time. The commission, in my opinion,
never really believed there was any substance
in this excuse, but although the 7 o’clock
bulletin remains at 15 minutes, it is now fol-
lowed by News Review, another 15-minute
speech programme which sometimes covers
much the same ground as the news bulletin.
The A.B.C. should take note of the con-
clusions reached by the committee which
recently published its report on the operations
of the 8.8. C. On page 147 of the report it
says:—•
The news bulletins have the largest
regular audiences of anything broadcast
by the 8.8. C.; they are listened to by
many who tune in seldom to any pro-
gramme. They, like the 8.8. C. publica-
tions, have received little but praise in the
evidence given to us from outside.
If broadcast news bulletins have such a strong
hold on listeners in a pocket-handkerchief area
like Britain, which is well served by metropolitan
and provincial daily papers, how much stronger
must the demand for such bulletins be in Aus-
tralia, with its vast distances and distribution
difficulties? The A.B.C. has served listeners
well up to a point, but its failure to extend
the service when N.S.W. newspaper circulation
was interrupted last week surely demands an
explanation.
Ebenezer Comes Back.
Mr. J. T. Lang, for all his years—he is
74 —is an exemplar of how indestructible
a dexterous politician can be.
Twenty years ago he was Premier of
N. S. Wales and the darling of the Reds.
After the Lang faction had brought down
the Scullin Government with a resound-
ing bump, and Sir Philip Game had
brought down the Lang Ministry with an
even louder one, Mr. Lang rose from his
recumbent posture with a loud yell of
“Down with Stalin” and forthwith
charged his former admirers, accom-
panied somewhat uncertainly by a couple
of wavering lieutenants, Messrs. Rose-
vear and Beasley. He has ever since been
the leader of “anti-Communist” Labor,
his last Parliamentary supporters having
abandoned him—Mr. Beasley eventually
to die a High Commissioner by grace of
the “enemy” faction of “Labor,” and to
leave a fortune of £33,000.
Securing a seat for himself in the
Federal Parliament in 1946 after failing
in 1943, Mr. Lang assumed the role not
only of the St. George of anti-Communist
crusaders, but of the one dyed-in-the-
wool, undiluted Socialist who was ready
to do or die for the faith and the objec-
tive and the Labor platform. He was
defeated at the 1949 election by Mr. Eli
Harrison, having characteristically stood
for the toughest part of his reorganised
electoral area.
Last week he appeared as the great
champion of constitutionalism who is
putting up for the Senate as an inde-
pendent for the purpose of breaking the
deadlock which may otherwise ensue
as the result of the machinations of
the group of the A.L.P. in the late
lamented Chifley Government which he
himself schooled and groomed for their
roles as Leftist Labor caucusites.
Lang proposes that those in favor of
constitutional government shall give him
their No. 1 Senate votes to an extent
which will enable him to win one seat,
thus leaving a Senate consisting of 30 of
one party, 29 of another, and himself.
He has promised that he will support
the party which receives a mandate in
the Representatives election provided it
agrees to take the most drastic action
within its constitutional power against
Communism, and to submit to the
electors a referendum which will give
them a chance to abolish the Senate in
accordance with “Labor’s” platform.
It is an engaging proposal. In effect,
if Mr. Lang succeeds, he will become
dictator of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment for the time being, and no Govern-
ment will be able to carry on without
him.
While few will help admiring the
dexterity and resilience of the old
warrior, even fewer are likely to appre-
ciate his new Lang Plan. If Liberal,
Country-party and Official A.L.P.
organisers have anything to say about it
he has little chance of election. Not even
if he sends his name to the top of the
independent grouping list by taking out
temporary Chinese nationality and chang-
ing it to Ah Lang.
Waterfront Monopoly.
Whether or not the present trouble on
the waterfront is settled by the applica-
tion of the Crimes Act or by other means
the basic evil that blights the Australian
shipping industry will still remain.
The watersiders’ ban on overtime has
aggravated congestion on the wharves,
but it is not the primary cause of that
condition. Even before the ban was im-
posed every main port had its quota of
ships waiting for berths, or lying along-
side wharves waiting for labor. With
Australian and oversea ships alike it is
the same story ; slow turn-round adds to
costs, causes steep freight-increases,
hampers industry waiting for raw
materials. These evils all mean added
costs to the consumer, a further twist
to the inflationary spiral.
Even before the war cargo-handling
rates on Australian wharves were a by-
word among masters of oversea ships, but
by comparison with the figures of today
the rates maintained in 1939 look rather
like the work of supermen.
For a long time now the loading and
unloading of ships in Australian ports
has been the close preserve of a privileged
class, who have maintained, and been
conceded, the right to restrict their
numbers. Wharf work is their monopoly,
and, like most monopolists, they have
abused their power—so much so that the
transport of goods by sea, once the
cheapest and surest means of getting
merchandises from State to State, has
become at best a gamble, at worst an
impossibility.
If the watersiders do not want over-
time or weekend work, there are plenty
of men who would welcome the oppor-
tunity to do it for them. During the
war the ships were kept going by the use
of troops and of volunteers who turned
out for a night-shift on the wharves after
doing their own jobs during the day.
If the volunteer system were introduced
now to cope with the backlog of cargo
there would be no shortage of offers.
Volunteers would be used only when there
were not sufficient watersiders available
for work offering or in hours when they
did not desire to work. In rush periods
the use of volunteers would obviate undue
delay to ships; as the necessity for their
services lessened the numbers of
volunteers would be tapered off.
The shipping bottleneck is second only
to the coal fiasco in hampering the
progress of the country. Consideration
for the monopoly rights of a section
which has no regard for any but its own
selfish interests should not be allowed to
stand in the way of overcoming it.
The Board Pest.
“Mock Turtle” appeals to Mr. Casey:
It is time somebody dragged himself to the
mike to ask that the C.5.1.R.0. should develop
from their myxomatosis something that can be
used against a pest much worse than the rabbit.
After all, the rabbit has from time to time
earned dollars for the country. Can’t we get
something to inject into specimens of the
pest which is fast killing one industry after
another, namely the Board pest?
The Apple-and-Pear Board, now confined to
the remoter fringes of the Commonwealth, was
allowed to flourish till the apple just about
became extinct in the poor man’s market. Egg
Boards are fast wiping out the domestic egg,
which in pre-board days was so plentiful that
anybody in the community, however hard-up,
could throw them at politicians without counting
the cost. The Rice Board had hardly got itself
established when rice started disappearing from
the market. Most people did not know there
was a Peanut Board in existence until peanuts
became almost extinct. The only result of
establishing a Potato Board has been to make
potatoes impossible to come by because
unprofitable to grow. A Honey Board has
not yet quite removed honey from the post-war
domestic table, but it is making its mark. The
only places in Australia where people can still
be sure of getting fish are those regions beyond
the reach of a Fish-marketing Board.
The Commonwealth Shipping Board has
entered upon a second reincarnation, and (he
shipping industry, just beginning to recover
from the first board, is now fast going into a
fatal decline. The Commonwealth Auditor-
General has reported that it lost approximately
£7,000,000 of the taxpayers’ money in the three
years up to mid-1949, as well as presiding over
the dissolution of the industry. The Joint Coal
Board was appointed to show the colliery-
owners how to run their industry and get coal.
It not only can’t get coal; it can’t even produce
its own annual reports, now nearly three years
in arrears, and apparently containing such a
dreadful commentary upon its own function-
ing that the story must not be made public.
These are only a few specimens of the plague
which has been breeding like rabbits or white-
ants in the Australian administrative structure
ever since the first bureaucratic infestation
under the first Australian dictator, Billy Hughes,
during World War I.
Experience can awaken only the gravest fears
from the incubation of the Commonwealth
Government’s National Seeurity Resources
Board, and national resources may forthwith
be expected to dwindle in proportion to the
length of this board’s life. its calibre is,
doubtless, of the highest. As Carlyle wrote of
a most respectable young gentleman: “He was
a young prince of great promise, as young
princes often are.” If the inhabitants of this
board-ridden land don’t look out, remaining
national resources will go the way of
eggs, rice, peanuts, coal, potatoes, fish, milk
(now resembling nothing that comes at first
remove from the cow), ships and timber.
Let's Hope it's Catching.
Some union bosses in Melbourne are
mighty worried about an outbreak among
building workers, who seem to think that
working for yourself at contract rates is
a darned sight better than working for
wages and being shoved around by union
delegates.
Melbourne has had a lot of building-
worker trouble, largely because building
is controlled there by Comrade Don
Thomson and his Communist-run Build-
ing Trades Federation, the mob which
stopped all Melbourne City Council work
for several weeks because the Council
refused use of the Town Hall to a phony
“peace” meeting last year.
Anyhow, it now appears that “un-
scrupulous” building contractors, sick of
strikes and go-slow, have persuaded
some building gangs to accept sub-
contracts, whereupon the gangs hop in,
ignore 40-hours and the rest of it, work
hard and are making up to £6O a man.
This —the incentive system in one form
—is described by the Comrades as a
“swindle,” and, at a special meeting at
Melbourne Trades Hall, union bosses
accused the happy gangs of “disregarding
hard-won award provisions about wet-
weather work, overtime, penalty rates,
public holidays, annual leave” and so on.
So the thing is to be “investigated” and
reported upon.
Meantime the “rebels” are doing thrice
the work by contract that they were do-
ing by wages ; buildings are going up and
all concerned are happy. How happy
would the rest of Australia be if the same
conditions could be applied to industry
generally—the rest of Australia, that is,
except the Communists and the “Labor”
leaders who don’t believe in workers be-
coming “little capitalists.”
Bigger and Bigger.
“Wusslean” : One of the paradoxical
features of present - day Australian
economy is that, with shortages of capital
equipment, labor and essential goods, the
country is being forced to carry the
burden of a public service swollen to
intolerable proportions. Some Federal
departments have more than doubled
their pre-war staffs without a propor-
tionate increase in services and with a
general lowering in efficiency.
The reduction of public-service
employees is a problem that has been
o Continued on next page.)


For election comment in this issue David
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
sm
CRAVENA
—lor your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10’s & 2®’s .
(*»•§,
&
A
f
6744-R
CARRERAS LTD. • OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
dodged by successive Governments, State
and Federal, while each year sees the
numbers growing with no prospect of
relief from the heavy burden of taxation
and serious drain on manpower that
would otherwise be available for pro-
ductive employment.
The Victorian Public Service Acts (and,
presumably, the legislation of other
States and the Commonwealth) provided
in unequivocal terms for the number of
public servants to be reduced whenever
necessary. The Acts (displayed in the
public offices) state:
Whenever the head of any department
shall find that the number of officers
under his control is greater than is reason-
ably necessary to perform the current
work of the department, he shall report
the circumstances to the commissioner.
Officers in sub-charge will rejmrt to the
permanent head any reduction in staff
that may be made on account of reduction
in the amount of work or rearrangement
of duties.
There is no recent published record
of any senior public servant finding that
he has more officers than reasonably
necessary under his control, or reporting
any possible staff reductions, but the Act
indicates that the possibility of such an
occurrence has not been overlooked by
our legislators. The action fervently
desired by taxpayers might well be
achieved if such provisions were stiffened
to provide the penalty of dismissal for
public servants who fail to keep their
staffs down to reasonable proportions.
The executive officer in private employ-
ment who overloaded his department
would find himself out on his ear in no
time.
POLITICAL POINTS
If any further proof were needed of
the friendly terms on which the two
Government parties are co-operating in
this election, it is provided by the reaction
of the Country party to the winning of
the Liberal nomination for Eden-Monaro
by Captain A. G. Keys. The party
had intended to contest the seat, its can-
didate being Ulrich Ellis, one-time secre-
tary to Earle Page and publicity officer
to the party. When Ellis heard of Keys’s
nomination he told his party he did not
feel he should oppose a serving soldier;
the central council of the C.P. agreed
with his attitude and Keys will have the
support of both Government parties. This
means there will be no three-cornered
contests at all in N. S. Wales.
Request for a copy of Mr. Chifley’s
policy speech brought a document
“confidential until 8 p.m. (E.S.T.)
March 28, 1951,” which bears the title
“Federal Parliamentary Labor Party
Statement of Policy General Elections
1951 by the Leader of the Opposition
(Mr. J. B. Chifley).” It doesn’t say that it
is the speech delivered at the Empire
Theatre on March 28, which is just as
well, because it isn’t; it is merely his
speech shorn of most of the untruths and
misrepresentations which he broadcast,
but doesn’t want on official record —such
as that the High Court declared the Com-
munist Dissolution Bill “contrary to the
principles of British justice.” The court
did no such thing; it merely said that,
because it differed from the lawyers who
helped to frame the bill about when the
defence powers could be made operative,
the bill was not constitutional now.
One of the statements which was
printed in the official version of the speech
read:
Last year in the Senate Labor inserted a
provision in the Child Endowment Act for
the payment of 10s. a week for the first
child in every Australian family. The
Government cut this down by half to ss.
Labor pledged itself at the time, when
returned to office, to increase first-child
endowment to 10s.
Mr. Calwell, who led the debate on the
measure for the Opposition in the Reps.,
said that “this bill introduced by the
[Menzies] Government does a modicum
of justice, but does not do enough. It
should be allowed to stand as the Labor
majority in the Senate altered it.” And he
claimed that, as it would only cost the
taxpayers a mere £15,000,000 extra,
mothers would “expect” this of them.
Lack of time in which to conduct pre-
selection ballots was the reason advanced
by “Labor’s” N. S. Wales executive for
doing its own picking of candidates for
seats at present held by the Government.
Those who have reason for being grateful
for the decision include Nelson Lemmon,
Chifley’s Minister for Works and
Housing. When he came to Sydney last
year after losing Forrest (W.A.) to
Gordon Freeth the dogs barked that he
was on a promise of a N.S.W. seat.
Lemmon denied it and so did the party
heads. Promise or not, he has the nomi-
nation for St. George, which “Labor”
seems to consider the metropolitan seat
me a likely to be wrested from the
Liberals.
St, George is sandwiched in between
two “1 abor” seats —Doc, Evatt’s Barton
and Mulcahy’s Lang—and the A.L.P.
executive prefers to think that Bruce
Graham’s win there in 1949 was an acci-
dent. Actually it was the result of hard
campaigning and personal canvassing by
Graham, and votes won that way usually
stick. Moreover, electors, no matter what
party they support, seldom appreciate
having a defeated politician from another
State thrust upon them, and the St.
George “Labor” electoral council, even
though it has not carried out its threat
of choosing its own candidate, has shown
it is not at all pleased at being handed
a Lemmon.
Nancy Wake will again be Bert Evatt’s
opponent in Barton ; the Liberal selec-
tion committee chose her from nine triers.
Last time she lopped nearly 10,000 off
Evatt’s majority and it won’t exactly
cheer up the Doc. to recall that she
claimed that given three more weeks she
would have beaten him. Mrs. Wake
was selected last Friday. That gives her
three weeks —and another one to spare.
According to an official of the Miners’
Federation only the housing shortage in
the cities prevents miners flocking there
to take other jobs at higher wages. Yet
let someone suggest putting migrant labor
into the mines and there’d be a howl of
sufficient strength to blow the Joint Coal
Board from Cessnock to Bulli.
“It was inflation that put Hitler into
power in Germany and Mussolini into
power in Italy,” declared Mr. Chifley.
And he obviously hopes it will put
Chifley into power in Australia.
Country pArtie.
It is generally conceded that the party
which draws first position on the Senate
ballot-paper gets a few thousand bonus
votes from those cheerful idiots whose
idea of exercising their franchise is to
number straight down the card without
regard to party or anything else. There
is no way of ascertaining the exact
number who play this game, but the votes
recorded for Communist candidates at the
last Senate election give a slight clue.
Only in Victoria was the Communist
team placed first on the ballot-paper, and
in that State they polled 3.2 of the votes
cast. In New South Wales, where they
drew second place, they could muster only
1.5 per cent., and the average for the
whole of Australia was 1.9 per cent. Tak-
ing the last figure, it would be reasonable
to assume that the Comrades in Victoria
collected at least 1.3 per cent, more votes
than were intended for them simply
because their candidates’ names were
printed first.
It is interesting to apply that figure to
the 1949 Senate figures for Queensland.
The Government team polled 52.7 per
cent, of the votes, the highest percentage
of all States, despite the fact that “Labor”
had the advantage of first position and
consequently secured the bonus votes. It
is reasonable to assume that had the posi-
tions on the card been reversed the
Lib.-C.P. total would have been 1.3 per
cent, higher, i.e., 54 per cent. That
figure is only 0.55 per cent, below the
quota required to secure six Senate seats.
To win six seats in Queensland the Gov-
ernment has therefore to improve its real
votes by 0.55 per cent., and draw first-
place on the ballot paper. Strong cam-
paigning may achieve the one; the other
depends on Lady Luck.
When it became known that Premier
McDonald had planned to go to Queens-
land next week, Liberal deputy-leader
Oldham accused him of running away
from Victoria to dodge the election cam-
paign. He alleged that after the Premier
had announced that he would campaign
on behalf of sitting C.P. men against
“Labor,” he had been warned to “clear
out if he wanted a continuance of ‘Labor’
support” in the State sphere. Mac’s reply
was that he was going north to see some
men about some coal.
If Dr. Burton’s behavior and utterances
since he decided to walk off the job at
Colombo are typical of the brand of
diplomacy practised in the Department of
External Affairs, which he ran for Doc.
Evatt, then the electors should be able
to appreciate more easily what Paul Has-
luck, M.P., called “the larrikin strain” in
Our Foreign Policy during 1946-49. Inci-
dentally, there is a sign here of how hard
a knock Hasluck’s revolt at U.N.O. must
have given to Evatt’s self-esteem.
With a certain amount of triumph it
is announced that as a result of the so-
called Australian Transport Conference
in Hobart, a “special committee to in-
vestigate level-crossing accidents will be
set up.” If level-crossings are to remain,
the only way to avoid accidents at them is
to prohibit trains and road-vehicles from
using them.
In an effort to catch ’em young, the
Victorian A.L.P. lowered its entrance-age
for members to 14, because “this is the
day of youth.” Then, to prove they were
really in earnest, they gave number-one
position in their Senate team to a young-
ster who served in the Boer War.
Lang’s formula for solving the Senate
deadlock —“Put me in and I’ll hold the
balance between the two parties”—isn’t
likely to get him into the Senate, but it
will probably set the keynote for every
independent candidate for that Chamber.
There are close on 2,000,000 voters on
the N. S Wales Federal rolls, and to be
elected under the current brand of pro-
portional-representation Lang, or any
other independent candidate, needs to
score something like 170,000 votes.
Against the party-machines that’s almost
impossible. In 1949, apart from the
party-teams and the Communist four, 11
candidates tried their luck for a N. S.
Wales Senate seat; they averaged less
than 4000 votes.
If J.T.L. had the party organisation to
run Reps candidates in every electorate,
they might pick him up sufficient Senate
votes for his purpose, but, running as a
lone wolf, it just can’t be done. Still,
the old warrior is battling hard; this
week he speaks at 15 country meetings,
some of them as far afield as Casino and
Tenterfield. No mean effort at 74.
Said one citizen after listening to the
Chifley policy speech. “There’s no doubt
about it. Chif’s greatest asset is the way
he’s able to put himself over as the bluff,
honest son of the people.” “Yes,” agreed
his companion. “And it succeeds until
you start to analyse his speech to find out
how much is honest and how much is
bluff.”
Coal report: Coal lost through strikes
for week ended March 24 (first elections
week) 10,270 tons, making total so lost
for 10 weeks of 1951, 658,300 tons. To
corresponding date of last year loss was
423,492 tons.
Of the 13 Assembly members of the
Victorian Country party, which governs
by courtesy of “Labor” at the expense
of its own conscience, only one can be
described as a rank-and-file member.
Nine are Cabinet Ministers, one is party
Whip and the other two receive emolu-
ments as members of standing commit-
tees.
It must be rather a strain on the
nervous system just now to be a supporter
of the Victorian Country party. One
moment you’re expected to hate the
Liberals (State brand) and rub along with
the local “Labor” lads ; the next you must
curse “Labor” (Federal) and, as far as
possible, love the Libs. It’s all very
confusing, which explains why Bendigo
supporters of the Country party, though
instructed to give their second prefs. in
the Bendigo Legislative Council by-
election to the “Labor” candidate, largely
disobeyed the command —the Liberal got
60 per cent, of C.P. prefs., enabling him
to win in a canter.
Judged from what they say, some of
the Federal election candidates will stand
for anything we’ll fall for.
After four years of public ownership
of their trams, during which fares more
than doubled and maintenance costs
more than trebled, the Belgians want to
sell them back to private enterprise. If
they’d had our experience of them they’d
give them back.
The managing-director of the Thorny-
croft firm which builds heavy petrol and
diesel hauling units blew into Brisbane
the other day and announced that in June
or July there would arrive a 250-h.p.
prime mover capable of pulling 100 tons.
It would tour the Australian capitals in
order to show Australians a vehicle that
“could render outback branch railways
obsolete.” When the Premiers hear about
this there are likely to be hurried amend-
ments to State transport laws —we can’t
have these motor people rendering out-
back railways more obsolete than they
are.
The purges in Soviet satellite countries,
the machinations of Russia in Persia to
rob the British Commonwealth and India
of oil, the threatening events taking place
in Afghanistan, the wholesale executions
in China and the discovery of a Com-
munist-type plot, led by a high military
officer, to overthrow the Pakistan Gov-
ernment, plus the stern measures being
taken to put the West in a state of de-
fence, are having salutary effects on Indian
political leaders. Even Mr. Nehru, who
has leant towards Marxism and who has
been as thick as porridge with Mao in
China, has suddenly begun to shout that
“the Communist party is completely un-
scrupulous.”


3ill
ot*
T*j>
w
«LUE,
1^
ember m 6
ne.
</£
'S vyUf/Y/
m
tetzies ..
%p
u
df
<10^
ber Hi£
4s*
(os*'
0 co jyv
Ban
df
IS %
6?°'
fke
Go**'
A4o v
Ou
% IRON %B
.Bbn The
RTMWBS'B
•0£
I
. 'TW 3
dfd
pe £J>? ? /5fc
wm
T &
o° T
jjn£.
fds
mi
.-we '"? £
A^
nn£v^bC^
</£
- </ljp
I
VAU °f
dt*
I^orr\Cmlo€.v'
■CtE
.o
3 $ %
6#^
« uT
f
%I'W.gof,
BW Twe.
BOMB
r^'
m
IfivtS
m
J '* i
dsf
>
%Wo V;S^
«1M T«fc
dm sums
THE BOYS OF CAUCUS SCHOOL.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Tedscor”: Fleas seldom bite me;
either it is that my tough hide baffles
them or else they don’t like what they
taste when they pierce it. But they worry
me all the same, and, unless you’ve had
the experience of being awakened from
your beauty-sleep by a flea stamping its
feet on your chest, you haven’t suffered
the worst indignity the creatures can
inflict. But I think I’ve found the answer.
The other
night one of
the little
blighters
woke me up
by jitterbug-
ging on my
chest. I went
to the
b a t h r oom,
plugged the
empty bath,
stepped into
it and care-
fully disrobed. He made the usual agile
leap, but for once it was of no use. His
footwork was a lesson in technique,
but what with the white enamel
and giving weight away he didn’t have a
chance; his highest leap was not
enough to get him out of the bath. I
got the insect-spray and gave him a shot
which quietened him down considerably,
and then, when he was practically out on
his feet, I grabbed a cake of wet soap
and dabbed it on him. It was then a
simple matter to dispose of him with the
thumbnail in the approved Army style. I
now recommend the method to fellow-
sufferers.
* * * ♦
“Capricornus”: Seeing a fancied re-
semblance between a lass depicted in a
newspaper advertisement and a friend of
hers, a woman asked her husband “Who
does this remind you of?” The husband
took a quick look, and said, “Mrs.
Brown.” That wasn’t the lady the wife
had in mind, so she replied, “Do you
really think so? I think it’s like Mrs.
Smith.” The foolish husband then started
to elaborate his reasons. “Of course it’s
like Mrs. Brown,” he said. “She does
her hair like that, always wears that sort
of hat and it’s the dead-spit of her mouth.
And that low-cut blouse —I’d know it
anywhere.” That tore it. Said the wife,
“You seem to have taken particular
notice of Mrs. Brown,” and thereafter the
atmosphere became decidedly sniffy. It
took a large box of chocolates to restore
the status quo.
“P.0.M.C.”: While convalescing from
a sharp illness I happened to meet a
nephew in a city street. We stood, yarn-
ing for a few minutes ; then “Well, so
long, uncle,” the youth remarked as he
dived for a tram. “I hope you get better.”
And, just quietly, so do I.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Not being a scientist I am
not prepared to pooh-pooh the claim
of President Peron’s pet scientist to have
solved the secret of atomic energy. After
all, if naturalised Englishmen make the
“Now perhaps you'll keep your frogs somewhere else."
best film-producers, it is reasonable to
assume that naturalised Argentinians
make the best nuclear physicists. But, as
a layman of average gullibility, 1 refuse
swallow Professor Richter’s story of how
he achieved his success ; there is a limit
to the size of my gullet. He says his new
process generates a heat of millions of
degrees centigrade. Perhaps it does—-I
wouldn’t be the one to argue with him
over a few million degrees —but I wish
he’d tell me what sort of rock he uses
for the stone furnace in which he pro-
duces that heat. After all, as the poet
points out, stone walls do not a prison
make for electrons and protons. Richter
needn’t answer that one unless he wishes
to, but I insist on further details of his
“noiseless explosion.” An explosion
without a bang or a pop isn’t worth
tuppence in any currency. If the pro-
fessor disagrees, let him try a simple
experiment next time Buenos Ayres is
celebrating Liberator San Martin’s birth-
day. Let him take his youngsters out
into the garden and try out his new-
fangled silent explosions on a bundle of
crackers and double-bungers. If the kids
don’t tell him to jump in the Plata I’ll eat
a plutonium sandwich.
* * * *
“Law”: Melbourne hospitality (B.
28/2/’51)? Alone on my first night in
Melbourne, I was trying to coax the
ticket-girl at a theatre to sell me a good
seat. “House full” was her story. I
kidded her some more, and finally she
pulled a ticket out from under the
counter. As I paid her, a voice over my
shoulder asked, “There wouldn’t happen
to be another one there, would there?”
Resignedly, she gave him another —the
seat next to mine. We strolled into the
theatre and chatted till the crowd came
in and the show started. I told him it
was my first visit to Melbourne, and
that I was down for only three or four
days. As we strolled out after the show
he asked where I was staying. “Look,”
he said, “let’s collect your port, and you
come out to my place for the rest of
your stay.” The remainder of my time
in Melbourne was spent as his guest.
« * » *
“Vaucy”: The row between Sydney
daily newspapers and Sydney news-
agents over the latter’s share of the
increase to 4d. a copy for a daily showed
me how this inflation spiral works. My
10-year-old has been picking up pocket-
money delivering papers after school for
a small agent. “Gee,” he announced
gleefully, “if my boss gets more for sell-
ing the papers I’ll ask him for another
shilling a week.” There it is: The news-
papers get a price-rise because the Prices
Commissioner recognises their rise in
costs, the newsagents want more because
the papers cost more, the newsboys then
want more because the newsagents get
more, and presumably they 11 take a leaf
from their masters’ books and strike if
they don’t get it. Then the agents’ll
want more to pay the newsboys and the
newspapers’ll want more to meet agents’
margins and —hang it, I’ll get my news
from the radio.
V * * •
“Clooter”: Truth may be as strange
as fiction, but it’s not as funny. A genera-
tion ago “Kodak” O’Ferrall set Aus-
tralia laughing with “The Lobster and
the Lioness,” in which the inebriated
Thomson takes a stray lioness home to
his boarding-house in the after-midnight
hours, and is himself completely baffled
by the fuss everybody makes over his
“dog.” Not the least amusing episode is
where Thomson goes to the coffee-stall
and orders a pie for himself and one for
“me dog,” to the consternation of other
patrons and the pie-stall owner. Well, in
California the other day a lioness escaped
from a performance, went to the back of
the house, poked her head through the
kitchen door, and “the cook, thinking she
was a dog, threw her a piece of meat.”
But there was no “Kodak” about to do
justice to it, and the story became a mere
news-item.
“Pawang”: A report, subsequently
found to be incorrect, that a boy in the
Melbourne suburb of Camberwell had
contracted malaria, supposedly from a
bite from one of the anopheles
mosquitoes which breed in millions in
Gardiner Creek, which runs or trickles
through the district, sent my thoughts
back to an epidemic of malaria which
struck Labuan Island, Borneo, when I
“This ‘ shock ’ treatment for the hair, madam, is exclusive to our salon."
was stationed there. There had been no
cases for a generation, but in a few weeks
half the population had the rigors. The
outbreak was traced to an Englishman
in the cable service who had been trans-
ferred there from the Gold Coast. The
official reaction was rather comic. The
P.W.D. man, who was in charge of pre-
ventive measures, had never heard of Sir
Ronald Ross, and nothing could shake
his belief in the old notion which gave
the disease its name —that it was caused
by foul exhalations from the stinking
marshes. This exempted him from effort,
because if the whole population had
turned to, it couldn’t have filled them in.
For weeks residents went to bed in the
sweltering evenings with all doors and
windows closed, and with clothes
drenched in camphor tied over their
noses; but they got the wog just the
same.
■K * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: In our kid days
we called the cheating device by what
some of us tried to steal an advantage in
foot-races ; ‘inching-up” ; nowadays inch-
ing-up seems to be largely adopted in
regard to holiday travelling. In Easter
week holiday-makers determined to get
a bit ahead of others were already storm-
ing the railway-stations on Tuesday for
a holiday not supposed to start until, at
the earliest, Thursday night, and the
“ahead -of - the - crowd movement” is
already inching towards Monday. At
least one shopkeeper in my neighborhood
banged shut his doors and got his family
away a whole week before the actual
holiday, being prepared to buy a bit of
comfort in travelling with the loss of a
week’s trading and unprofitable shop rent.
X! * * *
“Woody”: While chatting with a
Polish-born New Australian I found that
he, like myself, had only a passing
acquaintance with Klagenfurt, the town
of my longest incarceration, a passing
which had been accelerated by a heavy
air-raid. He had time only to leap from
the train, rush from the station and fall
into a large excavation beside the station
wall as American bombs crashed down
into the street. Finding under these con-
ditions that the large hole seemed like
the wide-open spaces, he wriggled into a
narrow channel which cut across the road
just prior to a direct hit that deepened the
excavation by 12ft., ended the servitude
of several conscripted workers and lifted
a two-ton elevator onto the roof of the
station. Then I had my say, at the con-
clusion of which he held out his hand
with “Sanks, you saved my life!” A
bunch of prisoners had dug that hole,
and the channel which sheltered the Pole
was all my own work.
* * * *
“Sad”: The quiet bloke was sitting in
the hotel lounge, having a drink, when in
came one of the local would-be poli-
ticians, who parked alongside him and
began to earbash the bar. “You know,”
he confided half an hour later, “I’ve
done so much speaking on this cam-
paign that I think I’m losing my voice.”
“Well,” said the quiet one, “If you find
it missing in the morning come up to
ray room. You’ll find it in my ear.”
* * * H=
“Ceg”: When “Emjai’s” old boys (B.
14/3/’5l) with their pocket-knives have
finished carving up the stone-work on
the steps of Melbourne’s old G.P.O. they
need not despair of finding other suitable
public buildings to serve as whetstones.
The stone came from Mount Difficult
in the Grampians; it is a freestone, hard
and generally free from faults and of
good color and density, and it won’t
flake. In the 1870’s it won a prize at the
Paris Exhibition, and when the matter of
a suitable stone for the front of Victoria’s
Parliament House had to be decided,
the Mount Difficult quarry was chosen by
a board set up by the Government in
1878. In 1882 a Select Committee was
appointed to inquire further into the sub-
ject, and the controversy which raged came
to be known as the Battle of the Stones.
The large obelisk in the grounds of the
Exhibition Building is a “sample” of
Grampian freestone, brought to Mel-
bourne when the battle was at its height.
Among more recent buildings the State
Savings Bank in Elizabeth-street is largely
faced with it.
THE LIGHT ON THE HILL.
“Mr. Chifley ended his policy speech with a refer-
ence to ‘the Light on the Hill,’ towards which, he felt,
‘Labor’ was progressing.”
Once was a light on a hill
That shone by night and day,
Burning calm and still
To guide the pilgrims’ way.
What waited at the end
The pilgrims didn’t know;
It’s just that pilgrims tend
To want a place to go.
The keepers of the light,
A most exclusive club,
Thought it would shine more bright
Put closer to a pub.
And pilgrims near and far
Swelled to the genial wink,
And crowded in the bar,
And had a lot to drink.
“The Golden Age has come!”
The guardians gaily said;
“We’ll make the village hum;
We’ll change the light to red.”
Let not a word be spoke
About those goings-on . . .
At last the pilgrims woke
To find their cash was gone.
The keepers of the flash
Cried “Pilgrims, form your ranks!
The light now leads to cash —
We’ve put it in the banks!”
But some were bored and tired,
And some began to doubt.
And some of them conspired
To put the keepers out.
The keepers tore their hair;
“We’ll get you all for this!”
And hung the light in air
Above a precipice.
“Look at the Light on the Hill!
How lovely! How sublime!
How pure! How sweet! How still!
it’s been there all the time!”
But, pausing on the brink,
The pilgrims’ eyes were bright:
A keeper said, “1 think,
Alas, they’ve seen the light!”
RONALD McCUAIG.
252 George-street, Sydney.


A GOOD MEMORY IN FIVE HOURS WITHOUT STUDY OR PRACTICE
How? By “Controlled - visualisa-
tion.” “Controlled-visualisation” is
the psychologically correct way of
harnessing the faculties which govern
your memory.
You learn and remember through your
mind’s eye, by means of your natural
faculty of visualisation. You are visualis-
ing UNCONSCIOUSLY all day long. In
its copyright course of instruction on
“Controlled - visualisation,” the National
Institute for Visual Learning shows you
how, by applying this faculty CON-
SCIOUSLY, by means of “Controlled-
visualisation,” you can instantly remember
anything you want to—facts, figures,
things to be done, studies, details 'of your
speech, office routines, music, the fall of
cards, racing data—and, valuable accom-
plishment, PEOPLE’S NAMES.
NEITHER STUDY NOR PRACTICE
REQUIRED.
There is nothing to study and nothing to
practise. You merely read the course, and
put it into practice as you go. On com-
pletion you are guaranteed that you will
forthwith be able to remember at least 20
unrelated things after seeing or hearing
them once, and the names of at least 20
people introduced one after the other. As
a matter of fact, such unusual feats as
memorising a complete pack of cards or a
thousand names and faces cut from maga-
zines, can be accomplished by “Controlled-
visualisation” with accuracy and ease.
OBTAIN PARTICULARS—FREE.
We offer to send you, FREE and WITH-
OUT OBLIGATION, interesting and in-
structive literature about “Controlled-
visualisation.” Also, photographic copies
tof some of the thousands of letters re-
ceived from notable people and firms all
over the world, extolling, from their per-
sonal experience, the merits of “Con-
trolled-visualisation.”
You need a good memory. Irrespec-
tive of your age, youth or education,
“Controlled - visualisation” will
quickly give you one. Write, today,
for full particulars.
USE THIS FORM.
FREE
TEAR OFF
AND POST
TODAY
NATIONAL
FOR VISUAL LEARNING, Operating in England. America, Canada, South Africa, Australia: Daking House, Sydney,
aa*- II coupon has been used, address enquiry to BOX 280, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
/ The National
/ Institute for
/ Visual Learning
/' TEAR
OFF AND
/ POST
POST
/ BOX 280, G.P.0.,
/ SYDNEY.
/ Without obligation to
/ me, please send me by
/ return, full details of
/ "Controlled - visualisation”
' under plain coyer.
f j. uJ Address
86461
Name (clear)
■ «u
“Harbel”: Any man who gets an idea
that his mate could be a better cobber
should spend five minutes gazing in the
window of a Sydney “novelty” shop. He
would read; “Dehydrated Worm. Drop
it in your friend’s beer when his back is
turned. He will be horrified to find a
lifelike worm in the bottom of the glass.
Causes great merriment.” And this piece
of comradeship: “Place this flower in
your lapel and ask your friend to smell.
When he does you press the bulb in your
hand and a stream of water squirts in
his eye. Always sure to raise a laugh.”
Another harmless spot of fun is provided
by: “Itching Powder. Sprinkle this
powder down your friend’s neck while
he is not looking. Within a few moments
he will be scratching violently. Causes
roars of laughter.” The “Breaking
Window Novelty” seems to be quite a
jolly trick: “Your friend comes rushing
in in great consternation thinking his
window is broken.” A happy moment
can be spent with: “Sneezing Powder.
Scatter this powder around the room.
Soon everybody will be sneezing uncon-
trollably. Very amusing at a party.”
Then there is the “Cut-off Finger. Your
friend will be horrified at a gruesome
finger with dried blood surrounding it.”
But the gem of the collection is probably
the “Plastic Slug. Place in your friend’s
dinner and see him almost turn sick.”
Only one essential is missing—the booklet
“How to Make New Friends.”
* * * *
“Nailil”: That workable arrangement
by which the British skipper, to a regular
weekly timetable, swept the mines laid
by his German counterpart (B. 14/3/’5l)
had a parallel in the Solomons in the
Pacific war. During an interval of stale-
mate two adjacent knolls, known as Little
George’s and Big George’s, were occupied
by U.S. and Jap outposts respectively.
So close were the crests of the knolls
that the mess-parade signals of the oppos-
ing forces could be clearly heard from
either. The Nip call was sounded every
midday a few seconds after the Yanks
had filed out for their issue, and for
months each force ate in sight of the
other. This sociable arrangement was
upset by the replacement of the Yanks
by Australians who, with a callous dis-
regard of etiquette, scoffed their Own
grub, and then attacked and took Big
George’s before the Nips had time to
finish theirs.
* * * ♦
“Curate’s Egg”: That “Smith’s
Weekly” overpayment to a contributor
(B. 14/3/’5l) makes me shiver a little in
the recollection of a yarn of mine pub-
lished in the same journal. The story,
inspired by the superb performance of a
stage drunk, was woven around a
fictional actor who was a chronic
inebriate whose best turns were given
when he was completely under the influ-
ence. In the yarn the hero, at the height
of his fame as a comedian, mysteriously
disappeared. Rumor had it that he had
entered a religious order. The climax
was discovery of him as an inmate of an
“Did you notice what the meter read ?”
inebriate asylum. Of coarse I invented
a fictitious name, but, in typing, appar-
ently made a hair-raising error, over
which a sub-editor must have nodded.
Anyway, in stark script the actual name
of the living actor appeared in one
passage. It was months before I breathed
normally again, in the knowledge that I
had not contributed towards another
chapter to the history of libel actions
against Smith’s.
* * * *
“Stripey”: Piddington claims to have
developed telepathic powers in Changi
camp (B. 14/2/’5l). In the same sur-
roundings a Queensland sergeant dis-
covered a peculiar capacity for seeing
in the dark. He was able to dodge
sentries, and could see his way through
the wire when there was not enough light
for anyone else to do more than blunder
along. His envious mates nicknamed
him the “Black Shadow” and the “Black
Cat.”
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: Although at times some-
thing of a bacchanalian myself, it annoys
me to hear anyone called a “wowser”
simply because he doesn’t drink. A
wowser is one who not only abstains, but
wishes to force others to his abstentions.
Many nondrinkers are not at all like
that. One of the most generous and
tolerant men of my acquaintance not
only did not smoke or drink but
eschewed tea and coffee as well; he
declined to take anything that would form
a drug habit. Yet in his home there
were always all kinds of liquors for his
friends ; smokes, too, if they wanted them.
His own drink-dodging was not a saving
habit either, for he was a great giver of
largess ; he held that giving to charily
was a religious duty. Insurance was an
enthusiasm of his; after his death a
number of charities to which he had
already subscribed handsomely benefited
by special insurances on his life.
* * * *
“Bo”: The perfumery counter of the
big department store was almost com-
pletely covered with bottles of various
shapes and sizes, but none so far put
down for her inspection was to the
well - nourished dowager’s satisfaction.
Despairingly the salesgirl dredged the
shelves and succeeded in parking another
half-dozen precariously. Patiently the
salesgirl opened a few of the newcomers
for olfactory appraisal, though the
customer’s haughty sniffer must by then
have been rendered completely insensitive
by the multitudinous scents it had tried.
Slowly the dowager conned the bottles
again, and eventually narrowed the selec-
tion down to about 20. Further along
the counter two other salesgirls lookec
along at their hapless confrere. Then
one of them said in a well-carrying
whisper: “Whacko, Daph.—she’s got ’err
down to the Possibles versus Probables! ’
* * * *
“Kelvin”; Paddy Kenniff (B
14/3/’5l) must have sought vainly for
last glimpse of blue sky a moment before
his death-drop at Boggo-road. On the
morning of his execution Brisbane skies
were overcast, a circumstance hailed by
those organising the petition for his re-
prieve as a preternatural indication that
an innocent man was being hanged.
Almost at the moment of execution a
violent storm broke on the crowd
assembled outside the jail,
* * * *
“Villefair”; An American publisher
recently stated that Australian writers
“can’t make American characters talk
right.” Quite likely. But neither can
Americans capture Aussie speech. I
once heard a Hollywood “Australian
sheepfarmer” describe something as
“Topping, topping.” English author
Nevil Shute does much better in his
A Town Like Alice, but fails to grasp
that “Oh, my word” merely signifies
assent; it is not used, as he makes a
stockman use it, as an exclamation of
amazement or disgust. And an Aussie
wouldn’t invite a girl to “have a bathe”
where she could “wear ‘bathers’ all day” ;
he’d ask her to come for a swim or have
a dip; and, though the young blokes may
have adopted the much-advertised “swim
suit,” we old’uns would tell her to bring
her “cossy.”
V * * «
“Doric”: The outcry when men first
took to wearing shorts (B. 14/2/’5l) was
tame compared with the one that arose
when women caught the craze. In 1927
I was holidaying in Suva, Fiji, and
picnic was arranged. I could hardly
believe my eyes
when the quite
respectable girls
in the party
turned qp in
shorts. On re-
turning to Sydney
I told a friend
about it. “They
must be pretty
rough,” he com-
mented. When I
reminded him of
it the other day on the way to the beach
--he was wearing a pair of trunks and
his wife a bare midriff costume —he
didn’t exactly call me a liar. But I’m
sure he thought it!
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: Tallow Beach, near
Stanley (Tas.), has seen five wrecks in
the past 100 years, but the one which is
most likely to be remembered happened
the other day when the 200-ton Alvina
piled herself up there. Built at
Southampton 60-odd years ago and
registered in Melbourne since 1903, the
still handsome-looking steamer was first
a luxury yacht on which Edward VII, as
Prince of Wales, gave some of his gayest
parties. It was subsequently given to
Lily Langtry. The Jersey Lily was prob-
ably the only English actress to be pre-
sented with a 140 ft. bouquet of that sort,
and it may have inspired the title of her
novel All at Sea. Alvina became a
pleasure steamer on Port Phillip and
Westernport, put in some time in the
pilot service and was later bought by a
Geelong man. Her most famous role,
however, is recorded in Melbourne police
records. During the depression Henry
Stokes, of baccarat fame, bought her,
moored her off St. Kilda and turned her
into a floating casino.
* * * *
“Dahaka Las”: After a series of tests
for allergies a friend of mine, a hay-
fever victim, was handed a prescription
not for himself but for his fiancee. She
was to use a face-powder without orris
root among its components. When they
are married I wonder what she’ll say if
he comes home from the office in the
throes of an attack of hay-fever? Will
she be satisfied when he blames the
heavily-powdered blonde who sat next to
him in the tram?
* * * ♦
“Shyster”: While I was poring over
some old documents the other day I came
across an item which made my Scotch
hackles rise. A deed, dated 1887, de-
scribed one of the parties as being
domiciled “in that part of Great Britain
and Ireland known as Scotland”! It’s
enough to make the laddies who took the
Coronation Stone go back for the chair.
* * * *
“Pedong”: My entry for the long-
distance-fall prize. An airman pal of
mine, ex-p.-0.-w., recalls a case he knew
of an R.A.F, navigator who, during a
raid on Berlin, was blown out of a Lan-
caster at 19,000 ft. He landed in a larch-
tree and bounced into a snowdrift. The
Germans picked him up, wandering in a
daze with a few scratches on one cheek,
but with no other mark. They took his
incoherence for evasiveness, and things
looked black for him until his crew, who
had bailed out in the orthodox manner,
identified him. Satisfied that his case
was genuine, the Germans issued him
with a certificate to the effect that he had
fallen that amazing distance. The only
after-effect of the fall was complete loss
of memory for 12 months.
A NEW CULT.
“The modern woman is too concerned with legs,
face and bosom, forgetting that well-curved elbows
possess the ageless lure o£ the Pyramids, and that
they can express her entire personality.”
—Yugoslav sculptor Yucca Salamunich.
Old standards of beauty, observe,
In these days no longer may serve.
When keenly aspiring
To glances admiring
Do you pin your faith to a curve,
To your hair, or a petal-skin face,
Or the waist you so tightly encase
(Allurements out-dated
And much overrated)?
Say, sister, you’re not in the race!
The eurved and encamadined lips,
The swing of the shapeliest hips,
Man views with abstraction;
They hojd no attraction,
These features now doomed to eclipse.
The girl who is shrewd, worldly-wise,
Has no need to mascara her eyes.
She knows she can capture
True masculine rapture
With elbows to panegyrise.
Katisha, of the manner direct,
That daughter-in-law unbedecked,
Of thats so prolific,
Of mien so terrific,
Admitted, you may recollect,
She’d a face rather low on the list,
One that didn’t invite to be kissed.
She’d an elbow, however,
Whose beauty men never,
Whatever their state, could resist.
With an elbow it’s hard to conceal
As it’s easy enough to reveal
A girl’s personality.
Here’s the reality:
How, for a man, does it feel?
Ah! Hail to the grim face, her Nibs
(At meeting her everyone jibs)
Who through the crowds boring
Is heavily scoring
With sharp, bony elbows in ribs.
Why a joint should possess the same lure—
At least for the keen connoisseur—
As a mass pyramidal
Is rather a riddle.
And, anyway, could he be sure?
Egyptologists, serious folk,
Would be almost inducing a stroke
Were they mentioned together.
Why, one wonders whether
They’d e’er see the point of the joke!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Tire man in the
Barham pub told us of a cove who
wanted some rabbits dug out. “But,”
said he, “you’ll have t’ get on t’ him
pretty quick; he’s out at the place now,
but he’s leavin’ for Victoria in the morn-
in’. He won’t come this way because
he’s got business in Echuca on the way.”
The place was nine miles out on the
Noorong-road; we got directions and
struck out for it just on dark. Presently
we crossed a bridge, then another, and
another. After the fifth bridge Mat be-
came silent, plodding along in the dark
beside me. On the sixth he hesitated,
but went on. On the seventh he stopped.
“Look here,” he said, “this is a funny
ruddy track. We’d be doin’ about four
miles an hour, which makes a bridge
every quarter-mile. I read about Venice
an’ Stockholm an’ them places an’ their
bridges, but this has ’em all beat.” “Oh,
well,” I said, impatient to get along.
“You know what this Murray creek-
country’s like. The Wakooi’s out this
“I Wake up in the mornings feeling MUCH fresher."
way somewhere an’ the creeks ’d be
cornin’ in, an’ ” He picked up his
swag. “O’ course I know it,” he grunted.
“But I was just thinkin’ o’ that bloke
who invented the sayin’ about not crossin’
y’r bridges till y’ come t’ ’em. Out here
a man seems t’ be over the flamin’ bridges
before he gets t’ ’em—-strike me blue,
here’s another!” If I remember aright
there were 11 in the nine miles, and
when we got to the place there was
nobody there.
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Brumbies are again becom-
ing plentiful around the coastal plains
north of Perth, and fine specimens
amongst them are prompting some de-
termined efforts to run them in. They’re
proving hard to get. Surefooted, intel-
ligent and speedy, they know the fences
and the gaps where abandoned holdings
have been burnt out, and, since there’s an
ample and varied supply of water on their
domain, it’s impossible to fence off the
waterholes and starve them into sub-
mission. Still, I think we’d have got them
30 years ago. Then, if a young chap
wanted a horse he got a few friends to-
gether and went bush for a few days.
You could live off the country then, and
we generally got a pony or two. Further
south, the cockles around Coolup and
Pinjarrah used to take the horses they
were spelling out to the “estuary”—the
Peel inlet, which enters the ocean at
Mandurah —and turn them loose. Around
that inlet there were hundreds of horses
wearing a variety of brands, and when a
cocky wanted his brought in he and his
neighbors ran them down. Then there
were two brothers —I’ll think of their
name in a minute—who made a living
running brumbies into their property at
Toodyay. They seldom broke or sold
a horse —merely clipped their tails and
manes and turned them loose to grow a
fresh crop. With horsehair at half a
crown a pound they made a living—a
hard one, but they liked it. Taken all
round I think we’d get those brumbies,
if some of the old teams rode again.
* * * *
“E.”; Not often a nag will drown
against a bridge if he has room to turn
and make back (B. 7/3/’5l), but we had
a low level in these parts that was a
regular death-trap for smaller stock. It
was put down for the purpose of crossing
cars. Three heavy stringers were laid
across the stream, bolted into cemented
bedlogs and decking put on top. Trouble
was, the only suitable stock-ford was
directly above the bridge. With a flush
in the stream, sheep were constantly
being washed under the bridge, to come
up between the stringers. There, quite
often with their noses above water, they
would struggle till exhausted. It was not
uncommon to come on a wet, draggled-
looking drover dashing along the edge
of the structure and demanding loudly
of the scenery when the so-and-so was
somebody going to do something about
this bridge. As no one could think of
anything to do, the trouble continued.
It was the practice of Big Bill, one of
the regular drovers, to start his mob
across well up, then get into the stream
above the bridge and watch for
threatened casualties. Then Big Bill’s
dog got himself washed underneath, and
all the cars had to detour to the far
bridge after that.
* * * *
Was hoeing out thistles the
other day when a Land-Rover stopped
and a young bloke climbed out. “Is that
Mount Hope?” he asked, pointing to the
hill behind me. I told him it was
not. “But it must be Mount Hope,”
declared another bloke, getting out of the
vehicle, and spreading out a map of the
area. “Well, it hasn’t been for the past
thirty years,” X explained. “But wait
till I call Buff.” “No, and it ain’t been
for the thirty years before that neither,”
corroborated the old pioneer. The
strangers were reinforced by two more
blokes from the Land-Rover. “Well, do
you know where Mount Despair is? ’ they
inquired. “Not round these parts.” “Oh,
yes it is. We’ve got both those places on
the map here. The department has sent
us out to get a survey of all this codntry
and mark the main features. It will prob-
ably take us six months or more. Trouble
is, we’ve spent days looking for Mount
Hope, and it must be that hill there.
“Must be a circus in town.”
Mind if we drive up and put a slab on
top?” At snail-pace the vehicle crawled
up the long steep spur, gaining a few
yards, then a few more, till half-way up
the slope proved too steep and it stopped.
Four blokes piled out, stared up at the
high crest above, shook their heads, and,
apparently deciding I might be right after
all, they as slowly returned Last seen,
they were sailing down the road, still
looking for Mount Hope. Dragging a
sleeve across my hot face, I returned to
my thistle-cutting. Someone's got to earn
enough, I reckon, to pay the wages of
those four blokes with the official map.
* * * *
“Bo”: Old Fred, who lived on his
own in a blackberry-and-bracken block,
had an ancient square ship’s-tank to
catch his water. So far as anybody in
the district knew, Fred had never cleaned
it out in all the years he’d been there,
though on a few occasions he’d dredged
out of it the cadavers of several small
animals and reptiles when they’d become
too “high” to tolerate any longer. Jimmy,
his neighbor, happened to be passing
one day as Fred was contemplating a
small leak in the bottom rung of his
tank. “That’s easily fixed,” said Jimmy
as Fred scratched his head in puzzlement.
“Stuff a bit o’ rag in the hole and slap
a bit of thick paint over it.” Fred looked
horrified. “Not on y’r life!” he said.
“I’m not riskin’ gittin’ lead-poisonin’!”
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were delivering a small
mob of steers to a bloke out Ridgetown
way, and, as I’d been there before, I
decided I’d better put Seventyfiver wise to
the set-up. “This cove out here’s a bit
of a wowser,” 1 explained. “Objects to
cussing, and won’t have a bloke on the
place if he uses bad language.” “Yair?
Must be damn’ short-’anded,” drawled
the old bloke. “Any’ow, I don’t swear,
Sol, not ’nless I git riled.” “No; well,
don’t get riled, that’s all,” We reached
the joint, and were turning the steers in
the gate when a tall dreamy bloke
appeared. “You the boss?” Seventyfiver
began politely. “Think the count’s right,
but y’ better check ’em. Only don’t stand
in the ruddy gateway,” he added, “or
we’ll never get the blankers through.
Tha’s better. An’ mind this blasted thing
with the spotted face,” he warned. “Give
us a helluva run, that adjectival so-and-
so did. Man ought t’ tan its ruddy blank
hide with a flamin’ stockwhip. Well,
there y’ are. All c’rect? We’ll be gettin’
back then. G’day t’ y’, sir.” Twenty
yards down the road Seventyfiver relaxed
with a self-righteous sigh. “Didn’t look
a bad sort o’ cove, Sol,” he remarked,
“ ’cept ’e scowls a lot. Just as well y’
told me about not gettin’ riled though, so
I c’d watch me langwidge.”
* * * *
“Blime”: “If y’ ask me, that Bill
Nome’s a bit batty,” confided Dill, as
we rode out of town. “He says to me
that when he left home this mornin’ a
green limb fell orf a tree right behind
him. He didn’t think nothin’ about it till
he gets half-way to town, then he spots
another, fair acrost the middle o’ the
road. He keeps his mince-pies open after
that, an’ just when he come to the short-
cut near Boskins’s there’s another limb
down. I asks him if he seen it fall, an’
he says no, but it only fell the night
before, an’ y’ could see where it come
from, plain as day. Three, he tells me;
an’ it’s a sure sign; an’ we can expect
rain inside o’ twenty-four hours. Now,
ain’t that a batty thing for a grown man
t’ think?” I agreed, and, thus encouraged.
Dill continued with fresh vehemence. “I
told the silly cow he was mad, an’ them
limbs prob’ly blew down or got caught
be the top of a semi-trailer or somethin’,
but y’ couldn’t talk sense inter that coot.
Crines, findin’ ’em like that,” scoffed
Dill disgustedly, “when any fool knows
y’ got t’ see ’em fall t’ git rain; an’ any-
way it ain’t twenty-four hours, it’s three
days”
* * * *
“Amdee”: Cattle-ticks seem to have
magnetic personalities. I plucked a
blood-bloated tick off Strawb’s hind-
quarters with my left hand, while I kept
the stream of milk singing into the bucket
with the right one. I put the tick on the
floor of the bail and it promptly headed
north. Every time I picked it up and put
it down it made for that point of the
compass. Any explanation?
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: It’s Wubin, in the
Westralian wheatbelt, and the ground is
parched. The winter rains had been
sufficient for the wheat, but had left the
dams half-full. They were empty now,
and farmers were carting water for stock.
Some late crops were still being
harvested, and the dust from the threshed
wheat hung over the machines in a cloud.
Save for an odd shade-tree there was
not a touch of green to relieve the
monotony of the browned earth. That
evening lightning appeared in a clear
sky. Clouds followed quickly, and to-
wards morning the rain came in a teem-
ing drive. We got Sin, all told, and the
dams are full. So are all the depressions.
Where two days ago a thirsty, baked
soil glared back at a savage sun, now
filled dams and waterholes sparkle in the
refreshed air. While most fanners are
rejoicing at the unexpected downpour,
some are mourning ruined crops; and
down the line, lying on their sides, are
railway water-wagons which were de-
railed when the rake struck a stretch
from which the rains had washed away
the ballast.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Brick E.”; Tosser found a piece
off a lOs.-note, and possibilities immedi-
ately occurred to him. Wrapped around
a piece of cement-bag it looked bulky
enough to be a folded half-fiddly; the
bait was set. Laid on the ground where
everybody on the scaffold could see it
while still working, the scrap was passed
unnoticed by the foreman, two carpenters
and a laborer. The joke was falling flat.
Then came a plumber. In the manner
natural to his craft he was rtioonmg
along, staring at the ground in silent
meditation. The sight brought him to
earth —literally. Five grinning brickies
watched his expression change from eager
expectation to blank disappointment, then
sheepish acceptance of the joke. He
looked up, swore good-humoredly, then
set the trap again. Six laborers
approached carrying a rolled-steel jois
on three short lengths of Sin. x 2m. ? Ole
Dainty saw the prize, He couldn t let
go of his end altogether, so he kicked
scratchingly at the note for paces,
then suddenly dived with one hand. lfi e
action nearly rolled the burden on top
of the other two men on his side, but
when he straightened up he had die note
shoved in his pocket. “Me foot slipped,
he explained loudly to the yeUed-from-
behind “What’s up with yT’ Obvious!}
Dainty’s Socialistic ideas didn t embrace
sharing found 10-bobs with his mat_
At lunch-time he was seen to head to-
wards the pub, stop suddenly, men
dejectedly return.
THE SAILS OF TASMAN.
[From “Tamaki-Makau-Rau,” a poem on the history
of Auckland.]
It is the time when trees by the riverside
Redden the waters of their own shadow s
jade, ■ .
And careless of such brief glory that is
theirs
Let fall their summer on the ebbing tide.
High on a branch, with stare that never
veers,
The old shag watches petals drifting by-
Then suddenly swoops down and dis-
appears.
The waters ripple out, but who can guess
The spot where stem-like from the surface
His unexpected thin black neck will rise?
So history will play at subtleness,
Swoop down and then pursue a hidden
course,
Man in his lifetime may not see the truth
Of strange events whose ripples soon dis-
perse.
A rumor from the dunelands on the
coast —
How people, looking across the western
sea,
Perceived an awesome thing, they could
not say
Whether an ocean god or monstrous ghost.
Rumors ripple, “An evil thing, they said,
“It swallows clouds I It creeps upon the
sea I
It flies through foam with luminous wings
outspread 1”
Tamaki’s people gossip from hill to hill,
Her seers rake their hearts for prophecies,
Elders sit in council, Chiefs look grave——
Then as sudden as it began all talk is still.
Event dives deeply under the flowing days,
It seemed to them no more than a shadow
passed
Over the warm light of old familiar ways.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


y
1
wwm
is "a movie fan,”
Every boy is a half-built man.
Every boy of the "make-good” sort
Sticks to study as well as sport.
Every boy with a healthy brain
Will greet a sneak with a boy's disdain.
Every boy with a cold, be sure.
Barracks for Woods* Great
Peppermint Cure.
&
m
\Mote Pleasure
\ from Mot
dsf
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge...
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
0
:•
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia:
MR. E. G. JONES.
43-49 Hardware St., Melb.. o.lm
G.P.O. Box 71.
where C^calatcM
- s B •
MOVE-
MERCHANDISE
MOVES
This Otis escalator installation at Anthony
iordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney, invites cus-
omers to see and buy goods on other floors.
Offering convenient, constant and immediate
ransport, escalators step up traffic volume
. . distribute a greater flow of customers
illicitly and easily to all merchandising areas
. . and permit maximum sales to be
'ealised. Otis will be glad to survey your
.tore and report on the facts discovered.
ii
E
a
m
1 ' %
m
■
mm
;
*v* A
; ■ ;A
■ .■ «
V v : :
m
m
..
; . *
■
■
;- v
■' ;
■.:;5
m
mm
m
, M
SmM IQ
S;/ ; ..
two or Teh
OS
a r
e s
n
scalavors
ns t a
a t
d
Anthony Hordern & Sons Lid., Sydney
J
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • UELBODRRE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
“Wahgunya”: A dozen years ago a
kelpie pup strayed into R. D. Gearing’s
home at Corowa (N.S.W.). Mrs. Gearing
adopted it, dubbed it Nigger and made it
a companion. When World War II
arrived she taught Nig. to wear a collec-
tion-box on his bade, in Corowa, Wan-
garatta, Tocurawal and most of the places
between; over £5OO went into Nigger’s
box for the Red Cross during the war.
Everybody used to borrow the kelpie (a
black barb) for collection purposes, especi-
ally the kids, with whom Nig. had some
high old times. When he was about two
Mrs. Gearing put him in the dog section
of Corowa Show, partly as a joke, and
he won first-prize. He won more firsts
at Corowa and other district shows and
a championship at Tallangatta. Thus was
greatness thrust upon an unknown pup.
The other day he lost an argument with
a motor-vehicle, and this is one of his
obituaries.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Dugg”: This spiralling business has
got me in a whirl. Whereas my bath-
water runs out clockwise, my climbing
beans spiral anti-clockwise. Horses run
clockwise at Randwick and anti-clock-
wise at Remington. All canines spiral
clockwise before lying down for the
night. But I’m still uncertain which way
the goanna comes down the tree, how
the vicious circle turns and how a
politician twists. “The prices spiral,” of
course, goes only upwards, and all
ways.
‘■Oliver Filter”: Floods, famine and
whatnot finally drove old Mac off his
holding. He sold up what was left of
the place along with his few cows and
headed for the city looking for 40 hours
a week. At the factory where he applied
for a job he was rather bewildered by the
lovely young popsy who interviewed him
and even more so by her title of
“Personnel Officer.” She took down his
name, age and other particulars and then
asked “Have you a certificate of service
from your last place of employment?”
“ H'm. . . inflamed coconut.”
Mac looked as though someone had
stolen his strides. “A what?” “A certifi-
cate of service.” “I dunno ’bout that.
Miss,” said Mac. “I used to get some-
thing like that from old Flannagan
before I’d pay him for hirin’ his bull,
but nobody never gave me one.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I suppose a man can
spend most of his life in the bush and
miss things, even though gifted with
hijgher observation faculties than the
average. My range covered Victoria,
most of New South and a fair lump of
South Oss, and during that time I prob-
ably caught and ate a million yabbies.
I’ve camped for varying periods beside
creeks and dams literally crawling with
the things, met them on village streets
on wet nights and got them inside my
shirt while working on weirs and in
irrigation channels. But never in my
born days did I ever hear a yabbie sing,
grunt, chirrup or chuckle. Yet twice in
Such Is Life Tom Collins refers to their
noise, the first time as the “sound of
frogs and yabbies,” the second as the
“r-r-r-r-r of yabbies.” I dunno whether
to doubt Collins or myself. Anybody
help?
• ♦ ♦ •
“Laetitia”: Overhanging the Wide Bay
(Q.) township of Kilkivan is the towering
mass of Ml. Booboo, whose bald pate
stands out in conspicuous contrast to its
densely-wooded slopes. That shaven
mount is Kilkivan’s enduring monument
to another Jubilee, that of Queen Vic-
toria. On that occasion the local blacks
were organised over a period of six weeks
in building up a colossal woodpile which
occupied almost the then entirely-scrub-
covered summit of the mountain. On
Jubilee night the pile was fired and made
a flame that was visible for over a
hundred miles. So great was the heat
generated that, to this day, not a stick
of timber has since grown on Booboo’s
peak, despite its volcanic soil. The name
Booboo, in the dialect of the Wide Bay
blacks, denotes smoke, and, according to
the local Binghi legend, smoke used to
belch forth periodically from several
fissures on the side of the mountain. As
geologists fix Booboo’s volcanic stage as
several aeons ago, the persistency of the
abo. legend is strikingly vindicated.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Terence LThe afternoon was in-
sufferably hot, and already I and the
kelpie had induced the 500 full-woolled
wethers across three of the deepish cross-
ings of the twisting river. Next crossing-
place the jumbucks dug their toes in, mill-
ing around stubbornly on the stream’s
brink and refusing to play. Grabbing a
brace of lively ones I flung them into the
water and endeavored to coax the rest
with physical manipulation and lusty
shouts! The kelp yapped and heeled. But
we couldn’t get a lead going. In despera-
tion I selected a big curly-horned stag and
skull-dragged him into the knee-deep
stream towards the opposite bank. Three
parts of the way across he escaped my
clutches; and as he leaped from my
grasp a crumpled horn caught my signet-
ring, ripped it from my finger and tossed
it into the water. The stag bounded the
remainder of the way over, and the mob
followed. Two thousand cloven hoofs
turned the ford into a mud-bath. Nurs-
ing a bruised finger I rolled a consoling
cigarette, swung on to my prad, and
leisurely followed my charges. Mid-
stream something caught my eye. It was
my signet-ring. The gold band, lying
on a bright quartz-stone, shone dimly
through the settling water.
THE GORGE.
“Look down," you say, and stand and
stare,
Half fearful of the darkness there,
Of limestone drop and driving air
And grip the rail
With fingers chill as autumn frost
And know yourself a fragment tossed
Within the arms of space and lost.
“Look up,” you say, and point to where
You gripped the rail and paused to stare,
A pygmy on the summit there;
And turn away
To clamber where the ages slept
And changing time her torment left
In granite tears within the cleft.
N.S.W.
B. W. PEACH.


Q
,vr
fd
INVESTMENT IN
Cool, mild and satisfying Army Club cigarettes are, indeed,
your soundest smoking investment. Proudly made in
Australia from the world’s best leaf, ripened by sun,
mellowed by time, they are rolled in pure, filigrained
paper, free from printers’ ink,
f
JtrmyClub
CORK TIPPED
■
sr!
■
The WILD CAT COLUMN
I.C.I.A.N.Z., Ltd.
I.C.I.A.N.Z. AND Subsidiaries.
r Dividends
Year, Pref. To Re-
Sent.. Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
’45..308,698 50,000 4J p.c.= 238,839 19,859 309,223
Net reduction reserves, £ 18,008 >
Added to intangibles, £179 . .5
291,036-
’46..413,802 50,000 5 p.c.= '272,662 90,640 381,076
Unexplained additions, £77,083 1
Res. of new subside., £43,863 1
Added to intangibles, £170,396 j
331,726
’47..463,024 50,000 5 p.c. = 274,676 138,349 470,075
Reserve adjustment, £9374 net .. 479,449
Added intangibles, £15,176 .. 464,273
From subsidiaries, £10,000 .. 474,273
Non-trading profits, £10,821 .. 485,094
’48..523,690 50,000 5 p.c.= 290,300 183,390 668,484
Added intangibles, £22,833 .. 645.649
Non-trading profits, £12,648 .. 658,297
Unexplained x.educt’n res., £44,718 613,579
’49..568,693 50,000 5 p.e.= 352,800 165,893 779,472
From subsidiaries, £3390 ,. .. 782,862
Deferred tax reserve, £132,615 .. 650,247
Added intangibles, £8112 .. .. 042,135
Net reduction reserve, £49,147.. 592,988
’50..882,633 50,000 5jp.c.= 439,642 392,991 985,979
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles (now £868,180).
For the ordinary investor the most
important development has occurred since
the close of accounts. To finance further
expansion the co. came on to the market
in October last with £3,000,000 of 15-20-
year 4 p.c. debentures and 1,006,505 new
£1 ords., offered at a premium of 2s. 6d.
each, thus providing the public with its
first opportunity of gaining an equity
interest in this big and rapidly-expanding
undertaking. Both issues were quickly
oversubscribed, the ords. heavily so,
14,902 applications being received from
Australia and Britain for no less than
7,507,922 shares. And allottees have
good reason to be pleased with their pur-
chases. The new scrip, now called to
7s. 6d. (including 2s. 6d. premium),
recently sold at 24s. 3d., making the f.-p.
cost per pound share 39s. 3d., at which
figure the return is 2.8 p.c. on a 5i p.c.
div. basis. So the investor who looks for
a wink over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on an 8 p.c. div., which is within com-
fortable reach, and/or other benefits.
The new share-issue will advance paid
capital to £10,000,000, of which a million
is 5 p.c. pref. money put up by the
Australian public at the end of 1938. The
old f.-p. ords. (7,993,495, not listed on
’Change) are held approximately 64 p.c.
by the big parent I.C.I. co. (Eng.), and
most of the balance by B.H.P., A.C.I.,
Electrolytic Zinc, the large raining cos.
at the Barrier and Commonwealth Fer-
tilizers, all large consumers of the co.’s
products. On the £10,000,000 of share
capital the pref, div, and 8 p.c. to the
ords. would call for £770,000, or £112,633
less profit than was claimed last term.
The board has adopted a cautious finan-
cial policy, keeping the div. moderate and
making generous allowances for deprecia-
tion, taxation and other contingencies,
thus strengthening the prop for capital,
visible and otherwise. Including the new
share-issue, which brings with it £125,813
of share premiums, net tangible cover is
visibly £11 2s. 2d. prefs. and 22s. 5d.
ords.
The co., together with its three wholly-
owned subsidiaries and group of inte-
grated associated undertakings, is the
backbone of Australia’s adolescent heavy-
chemical industry. It is thus a vital
supplier of essential raw materials and
an important factor in the national
economy. Moreover, it is aware of its
responsibilities and ready and able to
meet them, as the quick expansion of
loductive capacity and attention given
research, etc., show. New processes
id new products are constantly being
sted and brought into commercial usage,
nancial administration has been made
msually difficult by inflation, shortages
id rapidly-rising cost$ —the first-men-
>ned has added to the money needs of
e group, while the last rapidly empties
e cash-box.
A lot of new plant, etc., came mto
Deration last term —over £1,417,000-
orth of capital equipment had not had
chance to contribute to the pool when
te books were ruled off in 1949. Includ-
ig the three wholly-owned subsidiaries,
lies shot up by £3.8 million, reaching
record £16.2 million. After allowing
446,411 (up £76,775) for depreciation
ad £601,247 (up £182,322) for taxation,
ambined net earnings of the group were
313,940 (55 p.c.) stronger at £882,633.
hat leaves out of the reckoning
132,615 reserved to meet expected
iture taxation in relation to last year’s
0 p.c. initial allowance for depreciation
n new plant, as well as sundry reserve
djustments, etc., interlined in the table.
In addition, £lOO,OOO of the profit
laimed was earmarked as “special” pro-
ision for depreciation. Realising that
irices are unlikely to fall to such an
xtent that depreciation on the basis of
iriginal cost would prove adequate, the
»oard decided to meet the position in
he only way open to it, namely, by
naking provision out of taxable profits
gainst inflation of fixed asset values—a
losition that urgently calls for correction
it Government level.
The £882,633 of profit claimed covered
he pref. div. and 10.4 p.c. on average
>rd. capital as against 7.3, 8.1, 7.5, 6.6
md 4.7 p.c. back to 1945. The div. was
ifted from 5 p.c. to 5i p.c. On share-
mlders’ funds as they stood at the close
)f accounts, the profit was equal to
1.1 p.c., so the pref. capital is earning
nore than its keep, and the new deben-
ure money ought to prove very helpful
o the ords.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets
vas £1,342,890, to stocks £378,072,
o book debts £818,994 and to invest-
nents (mainly shares in associated cos.)
£114,685:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
’aid capital .. £7,743.495 £8,993,495 £8,993,495
Dutside interests* 617,108 694,113 833,344
sundry cred’t’s, etc. 2,666,066 2,507,288 4,233,626
Taxation, etc. .. 747,220 71.0,477 1,259,831
Final div. .. 298,633 361,133 447,975
freeholds, plant, etc. 3,797,458 4,332,433 5.675,323
Stocks .. .- 5,688,092 6,515,873 6,893.945
Debtors .. .. 2,066,104 2,129,223 2,948.217
Investments .. 1,003,078 1,093,513 1,208,198
Dash .. .. 225,568 28,944 28,567
Intangibles . . 837,233 860,068 868,180
* Including proportion reserves.
To meet the outlay £1,726,338 was added
to the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc., which includes an overdraft of
£1,105,194 (up £464,553) and £1,184,748
(up £309,889) on advance from the big
English parent co. The new share and
debenture moneys will strengthen the posi-
tion, but they will take time to develop
full earning-power,
Waugh and Josephson
To Re- Re-
june, Profit. r~ —Dividends —serves, serves.
1949.. 88,600 10 p.c. = 23,125 65,475 158,012
Unexplained addition, £495 .. •. 158,a07
1950. .125,265 10 p.c. = 30,000 95,„60 253,772
It has been an interesting and very
profitable transformation. Established
as a partnership in 1880, the business grew
up on production of boilers and butter-
factory and dairyfarm equipment. In
1923 the Queensland agency for the Holt
Tractor Co. (U.S.), predecessor of the
Caterpillar Co., was acquired. In June,
1934, distributing rights were obtained
for Caterpillar products for N. S. Wales
as well as Queensland.
From this point the co. began gradually
to withdraw from its original field and
to concentrate on sale of tractors and
production of motor-graders and other
earth-moving equipment. So great was
the demand for this equipment from the
Allied Works Council and U.S. Army
that its production became the co.’s major
occupation during the war. Then, in
1946, the Caterpillar people prevailed on
the co. to vacate the field of manufacture
and to concentrate on distribution, service
and maintenance of Caterpillar and allied
products. The old premises at St. Peters
(Sydney) were sold and a new and larger
factory (assembly -and service shops) was
erected at Alexandria. Also, branches
have been opened at Gunnedah, Wagga
and Forbes (N.S.W.) and at Innisfail
(N.Q.). And in July, 1949, the N. S.
Wales and Queensland distributing rights
for the Deer Co. (U.S.), which makes
wheeled tractors, etc., was added to the
list of agencies. Meanwhile, as a counter
to the dollar, and therefore supply,
problem, Steelweld Pty., Footscray (Vic.),
began manufacture of Caterpillar and
other allied products under licence.
Some idea of what has happened on
the demand side can be gathered from
the following table, which shows the
number of tractors in use in the two
States: —
Tractors.*
On Rural Holdings. Crawler Type.
r f > Total
March 31, N.S.W. Qld. N.S.W. Qld. Tractors.
1945 .. 15,146 12,696 1214 1957 31,012
1948 . . 18,659 16,312 1699 2637 39,207
1949 ~ 21,283 17,980 1643 2781 43,687
1950 .. 25,533 20,616 . 2466 8111 50,726
Increase p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
since 1945 68.6 62.4 108.1 59.0 ' 63.5
* Commonwealth Statistician’s figures.
Good seasons, high prices and ready
markets, as well as growing recognition
of the value of mechanisation in combat-
ing agricultural costs, are the chief factors
behind the growth of the figures.
Average net earnings over the three
years to June 30, 1948, were £58,178,
after allowing for taxation on a public-co.
basis. Paid capital was then £150,000.
After a par issue of 14,993 £1 shares in
March, 1949, the public became interested
in the following May, when 75,000 new
£1 shares were offered and snapped at
255. each.
And the gains from expanding
turnover have lengthened their lead over
advancing costs. After allowing for
depreciation (£18,170, up £11,520) and
taxation (£86,000, up £10,000), last term’s
net earnings were £36,665 stronger at
£125,265. That was a juicy 41.7 p.c. on
average capital as against 38.3 p.c. for
the previous year. The div. was kept at
10 p.c,, and the £95,265 (76 p.c. of the
year’s profit) that remained lifted reserves
to £253,773—n0 account is taken in the
books of the value of agency rights, etc.
To meet last term’s net additions of
£276,731 to stocks (largely on account of
the Deer agency) and of £42,107 to free-
holds (on account of the Alexandria
factory, etc.) the amount coming to trade
and other creditors was increased by
£157,850:
1949. 1950.
Paid capital • • .. £300,000 £300,000
Mortgage .. . • 40,000 48,000
Creditors .. .. 115,811 273,661
Tax provision .. .. 83,670 116,463
Finals div. . . . • 23,125 30,000
Freeholds -. .. 105,054 14/, 161
Plant and machinery .. 23,749 81,914
Shares .. . . .. 500 500
Stock 395,742 672,473
Debtors . . . . . . 114,682 121,258
Cash 80,891 48,590
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£374,697) was
£35,488.
On March 15 last £60,000 of bonus
scrip was scattered, one for five, of which
£17,000 came from share premiums and
the other £43,000 from a property-revalua-
tion reserve (£44,681). At the same time
120,000 new £1 shares were issued, one
for three, at 30s. each, to help lighten
the debt and finance further expansion.
All that will lift paid capital to £480,000,
on which 10 p.c. will call for £77,265
less profit than was claimed last term.
Two primary questions concerning the
co.’s future are those of supply and
markets. The recent dollar loan and
local manufacture under licence, already
referred to, have eased the supply posi-
tion. Demand will be governed largely
by the course of seasons, prices and com-
petition. The capacity of local manu-
facturers of tractors and earth-moving
equipment has greatly increased since
1945, and when farm mechanisation, etc.,
reaches saturation-point competition will
make itself felt. However, the co. is in
good trim, financially and otherwise, to
meet whatever lies ahead.
The old shares sold at 725. 6d. cum
rights, at which figure the ex rights cost
was 625. sd. For the rights buyers
recently offered 265. and sellers asked 295.
At the middle figure the f.-p. cost is
575. 6d., giving a return of 3.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
Sargood Gardiner, Ltd.
t — Dividends To Re- Re-
June. Profit. Pref. Ord. Amt.* serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’47.. 87,641 5 p.c. 7 p.c. = 55,659 31,982 267,811
Special dividend, £48,001 .. .. 219,810
To tax reserve, £lB,BOO .. .. 201,010
Share premiums, £6231 .. .. 207,241
Unexplained addition, £9OOB .. .. 216,249
’48..113,970 5 p.c. 7 p.c. = 56,196 67,774 274,023
Share premiums, £19,560 .. .. 293,583
To tax reserve, £13.800 .. .. 279,783
’49.. 86,906 5 p.c. 7 p.c. = 57,702 29,204 308,987
Share premiums, £BBl9 .. .. 817,806
Unexplained addition, £7889 .. .. 325.690
’50.. 79,082 5 p.c. 7 p.c. = 62,953 16,129 841.824
* Includes exchange on stock on London register.
Originally it was Sargood Bros, (estab-
lished in Melbourne in 1851) and W.
Gardiner and Co. (established in Sydney
in 1860), two big softgoods wholesalers
and moneyspinners in their heyday. But
with the development of the Australian
textile trade, growth of the specialty
house and big department- and chain-
stores, the softgoods wholesaler saw
much of his trade slip away. So to make
up his volume of trade he had to gather
a multiplicity of small orders, thus in-
creasing overhead as well as credit risks.
To eliminate overlapping and reduce
overhead the two cos. got into double-
harness in 1927. Then, in the early
1930’5, falling turnover, exchange, the
tariff, price-recession and the bad debts
problem brought a fresh crop of
troubles, and in 1933 Bs. a share was
lopped off the ords. and 2s. 6d. a share
off the prefs. to wipe out the deficit. In
Sept., 1947, the business was converted
into a public co., when the two old fami-
lies sold part of their shareholdings—
-127,000 prefs. at a premium of 2s. 6d.
each and 97,000 ords. at a premium of 9s.
each. Meanwhile the co. branched out
into manufacture on its own account,
setting up several clothing factories
throughout the Commonwealth. The last,
which turns out men’s wear, has just
been completed at Dee Why, near Syd-
ney.
Average net earnings for the five years
before conversion (1942-46) were
£95,692 ; that was after allowing for ordi-
nary income-tax on a public-co. basis.
Profits in the table are those shown in
the accounts. For the three years to
1949 they were written after charging
taxes actually paid each year, but with-
out making any provision for the next
bill when it arrived. Allowing for tax
at the estimated amount that would be
payable as a public co. each year, profits
were approximately £104,500, 1947,
£98,000, 1948, and £83,970, 1949. Last
term’s figure is a true reflection of net
earnings, taxes paid during the year
(£135,185, which apparently cleans the
slate to 1949) being charged against tax
reserves (lumped with sundry creditors
in the published accounts), and a pro-
vision of £60,500 was made to meet the
assessment on 1950 earnings.
After paying the pref. div., enough ot
last term’s profit remained to show 11 1
p.c. on average ord. capital as against
14.6 p.c., 18.5 p.c, and 20.4 p.c. for the


TROUT FLIES
TIED TO ORDER!
By arrangement with the makers of RISE Trout
Flies we can supply special types, to your
own specifications, at short notice.
Forward sample fly with order.
■ft!
*mse-
aEcna
The makers’ long study of flies and
fly-tying ensures excellent quality. Minimum
quantity 1 doz. of any pattern.
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD."
624 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. M 6261
Wi
&
Earth Core Drilling Specialists
IF YOU WANT A
HOLE IN THE GROUND
See
QUEENSLAND CONTRACTORS PTY. LTD.
30 Park Road. Milton. Brisbane
Telephone FM 3941
We will provide the evidence and
expert geological advice
Metalliferous Drilling Coal Drilling
Foundation Drilling Mine Development
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
df
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers ,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & GOLLISON, Patent Attor-
ney*, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C-l.
Australian and Overseas Patent* and
Trade Marks. —Anrr.
♦ ♦ * *
Hydraulic Povref, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts. Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
O. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
COMMONWEALTH FILM
LABORATORIES PTY. LTD.
Announce the Formation of
Australia’s Premier Film Organisation
AVONDALE
PIT. LTD.
Avondale Studios, situated at Turrella, near Arn-
cliffe, and formerly Commonwealth Film Laboratories
Production Studios, have now been established as
an independent production organisation.
These Studios, which contributed towards the techni-
cal excellence of such major Australian productions
as “The Overlanders,” “Sons of Matthew,” “Eureka
Stockade” and “Bush Christmas,” are geared for
large-scale production of Feature films. Documen-
tary, Travelogue, Instructional and Advertising films.
Equipment is the most modern, including the
largest Western Electric Sound Recording System
in the Southern Hemisphere. Mr. Charles Chauvel,
renowned Australian Producer/Director, is on the
Board of Avondale Studios to advise on all stages
of production. Enquiries are welcomed from Govern-
ment Departments, Industrialists, Advertising Service
Agents, and other organisations interested in a
professional film service, complete from scripting to
distribution, and embracing the most modern black
and white and colour processes in 35 mm. and 16 mm.
111
AVONDALE STUDIOS PTY. LTD.
Henderson St., Turrella, N.S.W.
With which is associated:
Commonwealth Film Laboratories Pty. Ltd.
Charles Chauvel
Australian Instructional Films
Associated Film Printers
A 5.1.22
M
...amdmfi
__ md iMnm
The “PERFECT POLICY’’ of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accident or specified illness —and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNCAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITS'
NUUTIR *i» ftllC-H STREETS.SYOSHs
three preceding years on
adjusted figures. Turnover has
kept on expanding, the slip in
net earnings being due to
pressure of rising importing and
operating costs against controlled
selling - prices and narrowing
gross margins.
Thus far both pref. and ord.
divs. have been paid tax-free.
The pref. div. taxed reserve is
now exhausted, but enough re-
mains in the ord. div. taxed
reserve to cover another 2\
years’ distribution at the rate of
7 p.c. p.a.
During the year shareholders
put up an extra £23,517 of ord.
capital, plus £BBl9 of share
premiums, and the co. went to
its bankers for an extra
£346,374. The lot, and more
besides, went mainly into stocks
(up £109,831), book debts (up
£67,302) and fixed assets (up
£59,715):
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950.
Pref. .. £550,816 £550,816 £550.816
Ord. .. 386,616 438,777 462.294
Overdraft .. 368,476 437,466 783.840
Creditors,
etc.* .. 471,228 454,171 378.728
Final dive... 30,621 30,869 33.865
Freeholds .. 281,034 279,035 317.327
Plant . . 34,364 44,212 65,635
Stocks . . 1,381,255 1,525,335 1.635.166
Book debts.. 370,942 345,274 412,576
Shares sub-
sid., etc. 8,504 16,914 27,705
Cash, etc... 5,681 10,316 87.958
* Includes provision for taxation.
Stocks, the dominant feature of
the accounts, appear at the
lower of cost or market price.
A recent valuation (since the
close of accounts) of the co.’s
two main freeholds (one in
Sydney and the other in Mel-
bourne) shows a surplus of
£260,838 over book-values.
To lighten the overdraft and
provide more working capital,
the co. has just issued £400,000
of A{ p.c. registered unsecured
notes (underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son), redeemable at
par in eight years or at co.’s
option after six years. These
notes rank equally with all other
unsecured liabilities of the co.,
and they look like earning more
than their keep, last term’s profit
being equal to 5.8 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds.
At 28s. the £1 ord. stock
returns 5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. (Interim recently declared
was 2J p.c., tax-free, against
3 p.c. last year.) Net tangible
cover is £2 9s. 2d. pref. and
345. 9d. ord.
New Guinea Goldfield*, Ltd,
The co.’s leases cover lode
and alluvial gold-bearing areas
on the Edie Creek field. New
Guinea, where things are begin-
ning to move again, and where
hope and disappointment are
intermingled. However, the out-
look for the co. generally is
“better today than at any time
since the commencement of
operations,” chairman Krutt-
schnitt says.
A profit of £4903 showed up
for the year to Sept. 30, 1950, as
against a loss of £33,610 for the
previous term. Better was ex-
pected, but the bigger yardage
of alluvials handled failed to re-
turn more than direct costs,
owing to high and rising prices
for everything and the decreased
efficiency of native labor. And
the co.’s share (£4497) of joint
operating profit from Koranga
Alluvials was disappointing,
owing to costly interruption to
the water-supply and working
programme. Here there are
about 6,592,000 c.y., average
value Is. sd. a yard, awaiting
treatment. Installation of power
nozzles is expected to lift both
throughput and profit for. the
current term.
Timber and sawmilling opera-
tions expanded,considerably, and
were profitable, a large trade
being done with the Administra-
tion in pre-cut native houses.
The timber section of the co.’s
activities is being further de-
veloped, especially in connection
with the export market.
Chief hope centres in the
Upper Ridges lode, where mill
construction, development and
other work accounted for a large
part of the year’s increase of
£104,450 in the book-value of
plant and equipment (£322,830).
At Sept. 30 last estimated ore re-
serves were put at 102,717 tons,
averaging 9.2dwt. after allowing
for 10 p.c. dilution. There is
thus 2i years’ work ahead of
the mill on a throughput of 100
tons a day. The amalgamating
section is scheduled to be work-
ing to capacity by June next.
Allowing for a 100 p.c. increase
on pre-war costs, this section is
expected to show a profit of
about £3OOO a month. When the
cyaniding plant is completed,
profits are expected to approach
£5OOO a month. Prospects of
more pay-ore being developed
are encouraging, especially in the
calcite body disclosed by drilling.
When the books closed stores
(£84,822), book debts (£23,621)
and cash and bonds (£123,653)
totalled £232,066. Creditors
figured for £40,484. The market
prices the f.-p. 4s. 3d. shares at
2s. 3d., thus valuing the
entire undertaking (paid capital
£950,371) at £503,137.
The future of Austral N.Z.
Mining, Ltd., the only lame duck
in Austral-Malay’s otherwise
prosperous stable, remains un-
certain. For the year to Sept.
30 last the dredge, which is dig-
ging auriferous gravels on the
Clutha (N.Z.), handled 2,993,000
c.y. for 66090 z. fine gold and a
net loss of £1478. Nothing was
allowed for depreciation of plant
or mine. Halfway through the
term 50 of the 80 buckets on the
band were renewed, and the
other 30 have been replaced
since the close of accounts. The
current term’s operations are ex-
pected to show more profit, pro-
vided the values which are
thought to exist are recovered,
the chairman says. The trouble
is that the gold occurs in narrow
gutters and pockets on an undu-
lating blue-clay-and-schist bed.
However, the co. has the right to
dredge the river-bed, which has
not been bored, for some dis-
tance ahead. When the books
closed stores figured at £19,086,
and bullion, cash, etc., totalled
£2354. The outside debt
amounted to £84,842, of which
£81,224, secured by mortgage,
had been advanced by the parent
co. Paid capital is £211,750 in
210,000 f.-p. £1 shares and 35,000
deferreds of Is. each. The
market prices the pound shares
at 25., or thereabouts, as against
7s. a year or so ago.
* * * *
“Cambist”; Apart from the present
doubtful possibility of being allowed
to sell portion of their output on
the world’s “free” gold markets,
hopes of Australian producers for a
further lift in the price of the yellow
metal must rest primarily upon the
chances of a rise in the official
dollar price of the metal. Recent
international developments have
kindled new expectations in this con-
nection. They arise from the fact
that the U.S., previously the world’s
largest buyer, has now become the
largest seller of gold. At the same
time there has been a net increase
in the value of dollar assets held by
other countries. The explanation is
that the U.S. has been exchanging
part of its stockpile of gold for stocks
of other more urgently-needed com-
modities. However, foreign aid on
the scale now envisaged by U.S. and
maintenance of American troops
abroad will impose heavy burdens on
the U.S. balance of payments. This
could mean that the U.S. will con-
tinue to lose gold, with repercussions
on the gold policy of the I.M.F.
Therein lies the long-term hope of a
revision of the world price of gold.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of :~~*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in;—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies s—-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
SCOTCH COLLEGE
MITCHAM
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Applications are invited up to and
including Monday, 16th April, 1951,
for the position of Headmaster, Scotch
College, Mitcham, South Australia.
Applicants should be communicants of
a Protestant Church and be prepared
to assume duty at the beginning of
the First Term, 1952.
Full particulars are contained in the
Brochure which may be obtained from
the Secretary, Mr. Murray Hogben,
Savings Bank Building, King William
Street, Adelaide, South Australia, to
whom applications, together with
testimonials and all particulars, should
be addressed.
Your family’s Security
in the changing world
To safeguard the security of
your family in a changing
world, your Will should give
your Executor and Trustee in-
vestment powers and manage-
ment powers that are broad and
flexible.
Unless a Will expressly per-
mits, a Trustee is not allowed,
for example, to take advantage
of the excellent range of
4)
y
Psß'fi
ill®
E
ft
Pm
5 r
! JSU
91
investments covered by shares in leading Companies,
having sound capital structure and a reputation for
good management and a record of good dividends.
As a result your Executor would be prevented from
obtaining the maximum yield from your Estate to
ensure security for your family.
Discretion in such matters can safely be left to
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. It has a wide
experience in handling Estates of many different kinds,
Investment, Industrial and Pastoral.
The Capital and Reserves of the Company,
amounting to over 5£500,000 provide tangible security
for its integrity. Its uncalled capital of j£Boo,ooo is
an additional safeguard.
If you would discuss this subject with one of the
Company’s Senior Officers, write, or telephone B 0377,
and make an appointment.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES A OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. Y. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. O. ARMTTAGE. Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA VTAGGA , TAUWORTB and ORANtM
Business. Rollery. etc.
Production and Inflation
Mr. Chifley has made as
much as he can out of the cost-
of-living problem in his policy
speech. But to listen to him one
would gather that inflation was
a development of the past year.
Actually the election policy
of Mr, Menzies 16 months ago
included a promise to try to
put value back into the
pound—the Chifley pound. It
is a matter of history that all
his legislation aiming at doing
this has been held up for months
by the “Labor” Senate with the
object of preventing his Ministry
from governing at all.
The answer to the inflation
problem in Australia really rests
with the trade-unions. We must
have greater production per
head. And such greater pro-
duction could be easily achieved
without inconveniencing the
workers in any way.
Mr. Chifley takes his political
orders from the trade-unions,
Communist-run or otherwise.
With a “Labor” Government in
office the unions govern the
country. And some Queens-
land delegates to an A.L.P. con-
ference recently demanded that
any reference to increased pro-
duction should be deleted from
the agenda!
While greater production re-
mains a mortal sin in the eyes of
the trade-unions Mr. Chifley’s
party will remain what it always
has been —the greatest machine
for the manufacture of inflation
that the Commonwealth has
ever seen.
Associated Rural Industries
Associated Rural Industries,
Ltd., has offered 335,998 ords. of
ss. each and 100,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs, of £1 each, both lots at
par. The whole issue has been
underwritten and taken firm by
Sydney brokers A. W. Harvey,
Lowe and Co. and Ernest L.
Davis and Co. The co. was
formed on July 3, 1950, mainly
for the purpose of taking over
all the ord. shares in Australian
Rice, Ltd., the deal being com-
pleted on Dec, 19, 1950.
The Australian Rice co. had
been formed on May 6, 1930.
Today it is one of Australia’s
leading rice-milling cos., with
“substantial holdings in the
growing section” of the industry.
Two years ago the co.’s
rice mill at Griffith (N.S.W.)
was destroyed by fire. It
has been rebuilt, and is
now being equipped with modern
plant. It has been operating at
part-capacity in conjunction with
the co.’s Sydney mill, which is
to close down in accord with
Government decentralisation
policy.
The Griffith mill, when com-
pleted, will have a capacity in
excess of the average rice
tonnage grown in the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area. The mill
is on eight acres, with store-
rooms, railway-sidings, em-
ployees’ cottages, etc.
Through subsidiaries, the co.
owns properties in the main
street and industrial areas of
Griffith. It also owns “a number
of mixed farms (producing paddy
rice, fat lambs, wool, etc.) in
the Benerembah district,” also
“a large area of property in the
new rice area in the Murray
Valley, which, in addition to rice,
has a large carrying-capacity for
sheep, etc.” All these properties
are claimed to have been well
bought.
Through subsidiaries Aus-
tralian Rice is the joint owner
(with Swift and Co.) of Griffith
Developments Pty., which owns
the Griffith premises of the also-
jointly-owned Coral Manufactur-
ing Co. Pty. and Swift’s Winery
and Distillery Pty.
The Coral co. operates starch
factories at Sydney and Griffith,
and will produce wheat-starch,
gluten, glucose, dextrose, sizes,
etc. Starch-manufacturing in the
past has been a notable contri-
butor to profits.
Swift’s Winery and Distillery
BEER
OFF
V c
“Well, is THAT clearer ?”
Pty. was established during
1949-50 and operated during the
1950 vintage. The complete out-
put will be taken by a Swift
subsidiary.
Australian Rice, Ltd., has a
controlling interest in cartage
activities at Griffith, also farm-
machinery and motor-car
agencies.
For the year to June 30, 1950,
net profits of Australian Rice and
its subsidiaries were £35,293,
allowing for tax, and for the
three years to that date the
average was £38,634.
Allowing for pref, divs,, the
average profit was equal to 10
p.c. on the proposed new ord.
capital of Associated Rural In-
dustries, Ltd.
Total capital of this holding
co., when all the new money is
in, will be £400,000 in 1,200,000
ords. of ss. each and 100,000
6 p.c. cum. prefs, of £l.
Net tangible assets of Austra-
lian Rice and its subsidiaries
figure in the prospectus at
£155,491. Total tangibles of
£527,989 appear to be in at con-
servative values. Overdraft,
creditors, tax provision, div,
allocation and interests of out-
side shareholders figure at
£372,498.
Allowing for new capital, total
net tangibles will increase to
£350,535. Deducting £50,000 of
redeemable pref. capital in Aus-
tralian Rice, Ltd., and £lOO,OOO
of pref. capital in Associated
Rural Industries, Ltd., net tan-
gible backing for each ss.
Associated ord. share would be
3s. 4d.
Dividend prospects will depend
to some extent on how soon the
new capital now being raised
can be put to work. The present
rate of earning from existing
assets (10 p.c. on total ord.
capital) should give the under-
taking a good kick-off. The
business in the past has needed
more capital. It has interesting
possibilities.
Directors of the co are Sydney
R. Bell, Mervyn E. Farley,
Patrick R. Larkin and Walter
E. O, Middleton.
Defence and British Industry
British industry is looking
forward withput much enjoy-
ment to the Budget which will
be brought down shortly. De-
fence costs will figure promin-
ently in it, and these, apart from
the taxation which they involve,
will mean more shortages of
essential materials.
Australia is already threatened
with a reduction in the supply
of most British goods, especially
machinery and motor-cars.
The Information Division of
the British Treasury sums up
U.K. economic prospects for
1951 as follows:
Production.
1. A 4 per cent, increase in indus-
trial output —half last year’s figure—
is the most that can reasonably be
assumed for 1951. Shortages of raw
materials will limit the rate of rise.
2. Most affected by shortages are
the metal-using industries, from which
60 per cent, of the expanded arms
production must come.
3. The materials outlook is also
uncertain in the textiles industries,
which are required both to meet
additional defence orders and help
take the place of engineering goods
in the export trade.
4. Supplies of materials will limit
expansion in building, and defence
works will postpone some building
investment and delay housing locally.
The total housing programme is not
to be reduced.
Defence.
5. By the end of the third year of
the arms programme, production for
defence may be absorbing 15 per cent,
or more of the nation’s output of
manufactured goods, compared with
under 4 per cent, last year.
6. Over the three-year period, the
production element in the programme
will be about 55 per cent, of the
£4700-million total.
7. In 1951-52 the increase over the
current financial year in defence
spending will be of the order of £5OO
million.
Balance of Payments.
8. On top of defence costs, further
deterioration in the terms of trade
may cost as much as £3OO million
more in 1951, quite apart from sub-
stantial additions to our import needs,
9. The combination of defence
expenditure and the burden of main-
taining the 1950 overseas balance of
payments surplus would certainly
exceed the expected rise in the
national product.
10. So the surplus —last year it
was over £2OO million—must be sac-
rificed, and a very great effort will
be needed to avoid running again into
deficit (apart from stockpiling).
11. This lays a special responsibility
on industries which can increase their
exports without clashing with defence
orders—notably those making con-
sumer goods.
The Home Market.
12. So there must be some reduc-
tions in home-market supplies: in
particular, of clothing and fabrics,
domestic equipment, pottery and
glass and radios.
13. The fall will be slow at first
as stocks are drawn upon, more
rapid in the middle of the three-year
period, slower again as rising pro-
ductivity matches up to the rate of
rearmament.
Prices.
14. From June till December last
year import prices rose 14 per cent.,
and are still rising.
15. Internal prices will go up—how
much depends on how great is the
pressure of spending-power on the
limited supplies of goods.
16. After two years of stability,
money incomes are now moving up-
wards. Further increases can only
benefit one section at the expense of
another, or bring still higher prices,
or both.


BMI4
FONDE
d
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
c
f
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO PRODUCE .
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
rm
r-^CL—I
dTq
8 T
X
U
section
Head boiler unit
arranged for^p..!-
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office* and Agendas In all State*
Position Wanted.
PRODUCTION MANAGER. British, ex-
perienced, age 35, at present working in
British Film Industry, desires employ-
ment in any position in any industry in
Australia requiring organisational and
administration experience. Accustomed to
taking responsibility and making decisions.
Full term of War Service, demobbed as
Major. Matriculation and Higher School
Certificates. Fluent French. Australian
wife, two children. Can arrange own pas-
sages and accommodation on arrival.
Present salary £1560 p.a. First-class
references available. Reasonable starting
salary with every prospect of advancement
essential, to make change of position
worth while. Replies will be forwarded to
London by airmail from No. 333, Advt.
Dept., Bulletin, Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
df
01
Circular Charts for all (ypet
of Recording instruments
tor ifl|r elate ot MtcMiug
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Special*?
JACWfromUVA^
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
MIGRANTS FROM THE
GLOUDSI
■
/jutf/tfr/sitHl'Ul
/>4*
pm
Norwegian peasants used to believe that
the lemming came down from the clouds.
THE lemming is a small, pugnacious and courageous
animal about five inches long. Their desperate attempts
to secure security make them a fascinating subject for
animal lovers, who can admire their determination at a
judicious distance, and a scourge to Scandinavian farmers
almost as bad as the rabbit is in Australia.
The lemming is tawny yellow, shading to reddish
brown, and has a black stripe running down his back. He
usually lives in the great central mountain chain of
Scandinavia, but every three or four years the population
becomes too great, and there are insufficient roots and
vegetables (their diet is strictly vegetarian) to go round. For
female lemmings bear three to eight young every six months.
When the population becomes overcrowded the
lemmings start their desperate migration. According to
the area of Scandinavia in which they live, the lemmings
move either north, south, east or west, whichever route is
the quickest approach to the sea. Moving at night it is
often several days before farmers realise that their land
is invaded by a destructive horde of courageous rodents.
Their swift appearance, in fact, gave rise to the idea that
they descended from the sky!
A more modem hypothesis, according to the
Encyclopedia Britannica, is that the lemmings are respond-
ing to an inherited instinct and “travelling to the place
where their ancestors of the Miocene period, at a time
when there was dry land over the Baltic and North Seas,
emigrated when driven from their ordinary dwelling places
by overcrowding or scarcity of food.”
Whatever the cause, nothing stops the courageous little
creatures. Attacked by animals and man, they steadily
advance over all obstacles until they reach the coast and
plunge into the sea, swimming fruitlessly to the non-
existent haven of their forefathers. They don’t give up the
struggle until they drown from exhaustion.
The lemmings’ search for security ends in tragedy,
just as so much human endeavour has in the past. Today in
Australia, however, we no longer have to search. Security
is provided simply and scientifically by our free and
independent Life Assurance Offices. By providing the most
practical and profitable form of saving, by giving their
members’ families complete protection all the tune, and by
investing their funds for the welfare of every section of the
community, Australian Life Assurance benefits every man,
woman and child in the country.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Spring, like the Festival of
Britain, is on us, if hardly with
us. The two have this at least
in common—they are heavily
veiled, the one by pouring rain
and the other by apathy.
Sooner or later sunshine must
break through the overcharged
clouds and hold the arena for
longer than a teasing afternoon.
It is probable that the Festival
(whose activities at present are
confined to its own zestful staff,
to frantic hammering and rivet-
ing behind high walls, and to
bustle in rehearsal-rooms) will
have the same effect.
Londoners are frankly un-
concerned. They pay little heed
to advance notices in the Press,
but, as an unofficial census of
available bedrooms is being
made both publicly by various
authorities and privately by
friends and relatives, they are
beginning to realise that their
own lack of interest may be due
purely to familiarity. When the
festivities (a singularly un-
fortunate word for 1951) break
out, as they seem destined to do,
with sudden, almost violent,
force, the effect should be one of
spontaneity. Not only do they
promise to take us by surprise,
but also to turn our incredulity
into enthusiasm.
The latest news from the in-
flation front is that clothing has
suffered another jolt, with in-
creases from 15 p.c. upwards.
Banks complain of debased
currency in the form of hundreds
of thousands of sixpences which
nobody seems to want. On the
spending side, there is a local
boom in television even greater
than the one five years ago when
gratuities were cashed and pianos
offered in part exchange. The
explanation? That many house-
holders feel they must have a
t.-v. set sooner or later. So
why not now, before the Budget
clamps heavier purchase-tax on
them?
Rough House
It’s not very long ago—only
13 months—since Mr. Eden,
speaking from the Opposition
front-bench in the newest of old
Parliaments, hoped that the busi-
ness of the House would be
conducted without “factious
and fractidus” scenes. Since
then rough play has inexorably
taken possession of the game.
The biggest foul, in the opinion
of the opponents, was the home
team’s determination to play fast
and loose with the Steel Bill.
After that the skirmish developed
into as near a free fight as the
Chamber’s rules will allow, with
no quarter being either given or
accepted.
Remembering that those con-
cerned are public servants, the
Englishman’s love of a hard-
fought game has not extended
to the battle of Westminster. He
is pretty well disgusted with the
whole business, particularly as
Mr. Speaker, a referee with a
long tradition for impartiality
and firm but fair handling behind
him, seems at times to have let
the game get out of his control.
The present siege by which
honorable members on the
Government side are forced to
sit up, taut and strained, until
the small hours is having its
effect upon both defenders and
attackers. Nerves are frayed
and tempers are short. Un-
parliamentary manners and
language have been testily in-
creasing. When Mr. Eden’s in-
fectious pleasantness is seen to
give way to temper, and always-
reasonable Mr. R. A. Butler has
an angry exchange with the
Speaker, something is sadly
amiss.
In his broadcast, Mr. Churchill
cleared the sullen air to some
extent, if only by a frank state-
ment of policy. After so long
a demonstration by one and all
that the sweets of office are not
given up without a last-ditch
struggle, no one expects the
Government to resign. If the
present distasteful and exhaustive
war of attrition is to continue,
then Britons can only bear the
agonising suspense with patience.
The majority undoubtedly would
prefer to hear of its end in
capitulation by the besieged, if
only because, at this season of
spring-cleaning. Parliament itself
needs a clean sweep. The task
of restoring its lost dignity and
outside respect will be as great as
any that the successors have to
face.
Old, Old Story
Roger MacDougall is a new
playwright who has attracted a
great deal of notice during the
past year. He has been com-
pared with Shaw, Bridie, Lonsdale
and almost any other comedist
that happened to come to mind;
and, alone among British writers,
enjoys the distinction of three
West End productions in seven
months.
His latest play, “Mac Adam
and Eve” (Aldwych Theatre),
should put his apprentice and
journeyman days into the dim
shades of memory. He shows
himself to be not a young hope-
ful but a skilful master of his
craft. It is perhaps unfortunate
that he has picked up the cheap-
jack tricks of the trade so
quickly, but professional play-
wrights can’t live on art alone,
least of all in the commercial
theatre.
The basic idea is a good one,
and he extracts the utmost out
of it: Adam is presented in re-
incarnation as a composite
Wandering Jew, Ancient Mariner
and Don Juan. The short open-
ing scene lets out the tricks: a
foul-mouthed medical student
and his submissive fiancee are
trying to live in sin at a small
Scottish resort and fail conspicu-
ously because of fierce, aggres-
sive Calvinist morality. The
student’s torrent of swear-words
(he has more “bloodys” to a
sentence than a sailor has un-
mentionable monosyllables) and
the blatant, if impotent, uncon-
ventionality get the audience, as
it were, in the mood. It is rather
like having a bawdy song as a
curtain-raiser to “The Marriage
of Figaro.”
Once on the green and sure
of a gallery, Mr. MacDougall
tones down the crudities and
withdraws his art from too-
conscious concealment. He un-
folds his whimsy-free fantasy
with telling, if sometimes over-
verbose, skill and commendably
avoids puppetry. His characters
are not merely players; they
have life-blood in them.
John Gregson is a towering
success as the medico (he is said
to be the most sought-after
Scots actor in London —a
triumph indeed for a Liverpool
man who has spent only a few
months in Scotland). Beatrice
Varley makes a fearsome yet
sympathy - winning landlady.
Richard Pearson’s easily-led
clergyman is a subtle character-
study in everything but accent.
John Laurie evokes the super-
natural by a performance in the
grand manner: what he has to
say is never brief and often
tedious, but he says it splendidly
and, apparently, with relish,
Mr. MacDougall’s trade is not
one in which he is likely to find
crippling competition, and he
can fairly hope for outstanding
and international success. If he
wins fame, he may choose to
dump his bag of tricks and rely
solely upon his talent, which
appears to be considerable. In
either event, more will certainly
be heard of him.


Less than 2 days by Air
HONG KONG
Fascinating City of the Orient
Exciting, cosmopolitan Hong Kong is so easy to reach by
fast, comfortable, Qantas Skymaster Service. You’re there
in under 48 hours —to see all the amazing contrasts only
Hong Kong offers !
From your window of the famous Peninsula Hotel you can
marvel at the fascinating scene of native colour and customs,
and a harbour crowded with an amazing variety of craft.
The famous Peak dominates the city at night with a fairy-
land of lights. Famous restaurants welcome you to “dine
and dance.” Less time by air means more time there !
Consult your travel agent.
df
\\
-
*;;;
y:.^y^^\y.vAV. v .. •
s :■
\”T
QCII
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia’s International Airline
BRANHAUERS
d
f
d
ď
f
PENS
Every point
guaranteed-*
do not experiment with imitation*
C. WAHDAUER * CO. LTD. BIRMINGHAM. CMC
wm
k
' xA
ML
yM
w
K -
J
ft^
Q.
t'
J^TStf&u^uuz!
Men and women everywhere arc realising how
much this safe, convenient method is streamlining
the payment of their accounts.
Just a few strokes of the pen make out the
cheque. A few more strokes address the envelope.
The postman does the rest. In modern business or
in the home, a cheque account in the Commonwealth
Bank is a necessity. An account is easy to open and
simple to operate.
The manager or other experienced officer at any
Branch of the Commonwealth Bank will be pleased
to open one for you.
Other services includes
INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS: OVERDRAFTS; LETTERS
OF CREDIT AND TRAVELLERS- CHEQUES: HOUSING
LOANS; SAFE CUSTODY; LOANS FOR PRIMARY
PRODUCTION, ETC.
(iroiiimonwealtblank
ofBustralia.
C.C.IJU*
T H E B AN K
m
YOU OWN
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“I wear the trousers in ray home,
but I wear them underneath a skirt.”
—CorresDondent in “New Idea ”
T hnc ‘ r . nmn i.u|„
litus putting, it completely
ver the masculine element.
„
yo„TkVZ s Tri“wrao!i”o«?"
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
“Fonsp m T et ”
“Like all good Australian has-
bands mine always helps with the
dishes”— Correspondent in Sydney
“Daily Telegraph.”
But many successfully make
a break from it.
“A Cheshire dentist found that a
patient did not respond to gas and
had to defer an extraction.”
—“ World’s News,”
Certainly it was no laughing
matter.
4* 4> 4*
“Exclusive Rest Home with unsur-
passed views and grounds, suitable
for walkabouts.” —Suburban paper.
Only native Australians
accepted?
“No woman continually nags with-
out a good reason.” —Sydney “D.T.”
She must get off the high
horse occasionally.
+ 4* 4*
“It is possible to know a man’s,
character from the form of his head.”
— Woman’s magazine.
If it’s flat, there's something
fishy about him.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale, lounge suite, practically
new, burgundy and cream, also
metronome with bell, new.”
—Suburban paper.
Time-payment accepted.
“ Thanks, blokes—drinks are on me up at Riley's."
“What is the chief difference be-
tween an expert salon hair-do and an
amateur effort?” —Correspondent in
woman’s magazine.
Only that painstaking casual
effect, dear.
Bad Hats.
“A hat resembling a Ned Kelly
bushranger mask was among latest
models to be shown this week.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Carlyle was right to note the trait
Of hero-worship in mankind
That makes a king
Or soldier humble in his way,
An object of devotion blind
Whose praises ring
Down through our lengthy
history ;
And women likewise have adored
The hero bold
Who showed by deeds of arms
that he
Could conquer dragons on the
sward
In days of old.
And in these new enlightened
days
Have women laid such thoughts
aside ?
Not so. One dreads.
On seeing modern fashion’s ways,
Lest thoughts of Ned who used
to ride
Go to their heads.
BERT.
Purely Personal.
“ ‘Glaring reversals of form do not
necessarily signify improper practices.
After all, horses are only human,’
says a sports writer.”
I agree. Bullant, a gelding
which toured the bush meetings
with me for two years, couldn’t
raise a gallop when sober. But
give him a bottle of whisky 10
minutes before a race and he’d
hold his three-lengths advantage
over what he imagined was a
field of vermilion crocodiles
right to the post.
Then there was Dobbin, the
local butcher’s utility horse,
which delivered meat all the
week and won the Flying with
monotonous regularity on Satur-
days. Excepting one Saturday
when he ran last. Forgetting he
was racing next day, he neglected
to warn the butcher on the
Friday night to unhitch the
cart.
And what about Sir Valentine,
the high-priced yearling whose
long succession of lasts in his
first season set his owner inquir-
ing into his antecedents? It was
discovered that he was awfully
well-bred, and much too polite
to pass his opponents in a race.
Then one day he came home at
50 to 1 when the stable had
gone bald-headed for a win on
the favorite. This took a bit of
explaining, but the stewards
accepted the starter’s opinion
that Sir Val had given himself
such airs and graces on the way
to the barrier that the country
bumpkins he was up against
didn’t dare pass him.
PERCIVAL.
The ’Fifty-oners.
“Mr. Chifley opened an old-time
prospector’s saloon, complete with
two bars, a dance-floor, curtained
boxes, banistered galleries and vaude-
ville show, which had been rebuilt in
Bathurst for the city’s Gold Cen-
tenary celebrations.”
“A bunch o’ the boys
Were whoopin’ it up
In the Chifsabute saloon”
Big Ben had struck one!
“How did y’ come to strike it,
Ben?” asked a grizzled old
ballot-box prospector, the party
rag with which he was fanning
himself, and which it would have
been worth more than his pre-
selection for a blue-ribbon seat
not to have loyally bought, per-
forming for him its sole
function.
The Big Noise pulled at his
pipe for a while with that
carefully-cultivated air of the
homespun philosopher on which
the party was counting so heavily
for the mugs’ votes.
“Waal, it’s like this, old-
timer,” Ben drawled at last. “I
was out in the wilds o’ Machattie
Park ‘way out yonder’ ” —and he
jerked a thumb in the direction
of the centre of the city. “I
had me head buried in the sand
one day—that’s the on’y way,
pard, for a good ‘Labor’ pros-
pector to get a sight o’ what’s
goin’ on around him—an’ I
think I see good color. I pegs
me claim right away, an’ calls
me show the Golden Age.
“Yep, it was a wonder—or it
would ha’ bin on’y for the
bankers spraggin’ me wheel,
curse ’em.”
“Did they have a mortgage on
it?” asked another ballot-box
prospector, a stocky fellow with
spectacles, looking up from con-
templation of a photo, of him-
self.
“Not exackly,” said Ben,
“though, knowin’ bankers —that
is, private ones—l reckon they’d
have liked to. It was just that
they ’ad a snout on me.”
“Did they try to stop y’
workin’ on Saturdees?” put in
another.
“Not exackly,” repeated the
Bathurst Burr. “I couldn’t ha’
worked it then, in any case.
I’d just got MeGirr to bring in
the forty-hour week. That
pushed up me dollyin’ expenses,
an’ on top of that the deeper
I got stuck into the Golden Age
show the more the color o’ the
stuff seemed to change.”
“It was salted on y’?” asked
the Doc.
“That’s it,” said Ben. “Sorlted
by me enemies—y’ make a lot in
this ballot-prospectin’ game. It
was a dirty trick o’ the Vested
Interests. How was / to know
the metal would turn out to be
Red stuff —these Socialist glasses
I’m wearin’ makes everything
look sorter yeller. The show
turned out to be a duffer.”
“It’s the luck o’ the game,”
commented one of the party.
The Burr scowled. “Listen,”
he said. “I’m the on’y officially-
appointed dispenser o’ philo-
sophy in this camp. Stow y’r
gab”—and his fountain - pen
finger moved menacing towards
the pocket in which he kept the
list of party members who had
ever criticised the executive.
A few of the camp-followers
moved among the prospectors
trying to sell copies of the camp
rag, only to find that some of
the underground workers had
got in before them. They had
turned the front page of their
own paper inwards and had suc-
ceeded in selling a lot of
“Tribunes” as “Standards” in
the interests of prospecting soli-
darity, also as a gesture of
goodwill towards their fellow-
Socialists.
Just then the m.c. asked for a
generous hand for the first of
the vaudeville items. It was a
small boy, who sang in a childish
treble “Don’t Go Down the
Mine, Daddy, You Might Git
Bit by the Darg.”
It was his second childish
treble within a few minutes, for
he had just had an all-up bet on
three nags for Rosehill with the
distinguished s.-p. merchant who
always copped a good whack
around the party diggings.
The second item was a patter
turn by Cocky and Doc, the Un-
conscious Comedians, who as an
encore sang “You Scratch My
Back and I’ll Scratch Yours.”
In one corner of the Chifsa-
bute Saloon sat Eddie, the
Dangerous Man of the Diggings,
alone except for his light-o’-
love, the Lady That’s Known as
’Loo. His trigger-finger was
idly drumming the Q.W.E.R.T.
of a typewriter—a strange
weapon for a prospector, but
then Eddie was a strange man.
Suddenly there was a great
shout from outside, and some-
one rushed in to say a prospector,
a bloke called Menzies from
some other diggings, had struck
it rich.
The Bathurst Burr looked
gloomy. “He would, the tinny
cow, just dependin’ on hard
work. Boys, it looks as if this
yere saloon’s up the poll.”
S. W. KEOUGH
252 George St, Sydney.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Boy or Girl?
The Mystery of Sex
Next to being born, the most
important single fact attending
your coming into the world
was whether you were to be
male or female.
How and when—is a baby’s
sex determined? Does the
mother’s age affect it? Are more
boys born in wartime? Does a
tendency to bear sons “run in a
family” ?
April Reader’s Digest brings
some fascinating facts about how
sex is determined and how
science in the future may give
parents power to control it.
This is just one of 33 stimulat-
ing articles in April Reader’s
Digest. Read and enjoy it today.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH EUGENE LEVERTO'N late
of Campsie Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDNA MAY LEVERTON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4397 of 1950 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Bth day of June 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
VINCENT J. BRADY, DONALD & CO..
Solicitors, GO Hunter Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH VALENTINE SCHOLTZ for-
merly of 360 Bexley Road Berdey.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife EMILY LILLIAN
SCHOLTZ has tiled a Petition for Divorce
(No. 3933 of 1950) on tire ground that
you have deserted her without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Bth day
of June 1951 You may obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ALLAN UTHER & DAVIS, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 350 George Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
“THE GUARDSMAN’
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246—300 CANDLE POWER
Iff
wmmm
l-M
mmm
m
3S
5=5
Mf/i
wBSi.
«■
w
m
llirt* *l
High Polished Finish in th *»
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEY^LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
'Tie. Jlamp6 with
tie ijappy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer *s Representatives :■
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl*
SUNDRY SHOWS
Early Australian prints from
the collection of Rex Nankivell,
on view at the Print Gallery of
the Melbourne National Gallery,
make a fascinating exhibition.
Some of the best were done by
convicts, and one of them, John
Eyre, had the patronage of
Governor Macquarie, who went
to much trouble to get them
engraved and printed. They
give a surprisingly good descrip-
tion of the country except from
the horticultural point of view.
None of these early artists —
Eyre, Gill, Preston and the
others—saw a gum-tree, though
they must have looked at mil-
lions of them. All they saw
were oaks and elms and other
European flora, so Sydney
Harbor, Botany Bay and Parra-
matta appear clothed in an alien
verdure. So strong was this
nostalgic feeling that colonial
mansions are supplied with Eng-
lish gardens and the corrugated-
iron on their roofs is replaced
by thatch and shingle. Yet the
human element is always quite
competently and often humor-
ously depicted with all its quaint
habits and customs. E. Dayes,
the teacher of Thomas Girtin,
begins to get a glimmering of
correct vision, while one of the
most realistic of the early artists
was Colonel Light, the founder
and surveyor-general of Adel-
aide, whose “Encounter Bay”
could be a modern painting. A
curious example of early deal-
ings with the abo. is Governor
Davey’s proclamation to the
native population of Van Die-
men’s Land made in 1816. As
Binghi couldn’t read the white-
man’s language he was told in
pictorial language that British
justice made no discrimination
between white and colored. That
was done by showing a black
piccanniny in the arms of a
white woman, a white baby in
the arms of a lubra, a black
man who has speared a white
man being strung up to the
gallows and a white man who
has shot a black man receiving
the same treatment. Had prac-
tice followed theory the history
of the Apple Island might have
been very different.
•Jr 4*
Len Annois has returned
from Europe with a varied
assortment of watercolor draw-
ings ranging through Florence,
Venice, Paris, Wales and Eng-
land, all well-worn and well-
known subjects. They are
hanging at George’s Gallery,
Melbourne. The color is fresh,
forms are not distorted, but there
is something disturbing and irri-
tating about the pictures. Any-
body who walked out of the ex-
hibition into Collins-street and
saw above it a sky such as in
“Seine Bridges,” “Orvieto,”
“Quay de Louvre,” “The Forest
of Fontainebleau” or “Deptford
Roof Tops,” would think that
the end of the world had come
or go to an oculist for treat-
ment. Insensitiveness of this
sort has curious effects in some
of Mr. Annois’s paintings. Some
of his clouds look rockier than
his rocks and some of his rocks
look cloudier than his clouds, and
if this is the result of imposing
“design” on Nature it might be
asked why the Old Masters, who
also often imposed design on
Nature, didn’t make this un-
fortunate mistake—-the flesh of
El Greco’s elongated saints looks
fleshlike and the skies in his
imagined heavens look earthly,
not earthy.
Music.
The N.S.W. National Opera’s
production of Verdi’s “The
Masked Ball” was a big artistic
step forward from the previous
offerings and gave promise of
much better things, especially
from the young principals for
whom this has been a first ex-
perience in full costume. One
of the outstanding successes of
the season has been June Bron-
hill, whose coloratura is clear
and pure and produced with
almost ridiculous ease. Added
to that she has a piquant per-
sonality, and as the pert page
Oscar she wrung the last ounce
of cheekiness out of the role.
Her air in the ballroom scene,
“You Would Be Hearing,” was
the right essence of flippant
sauciness, and a rattling good
piece of singing. The other prin-
cipals started off on the wrong
foot —James Wilson was early
off the note, Ronald Dowd as
Riccardo, Count of Warwick
and Governor of Boston,
seemed weighed down with the
task of wondering whether he
should be having spaghetti,
bloaters or hot dogs for supper,
being such a cosmopolitan
character, and Phyllis Rogers’s
top notes were rather on the
fruity side. But as the night
wore on the abrasive touch on
some of their notes wore off,
until long before Riccardo
stopped one in the back all three
were not only singing as if they
liked it but had even turned on
some presentable acting, Ronald
Dowd, in particular, putting in
some fervent work in the love-
passages with the unhappy
Amelia. Fortunately Reinhardt’s
great aria “Is It Thou?”—
the best in the opera—comes
late in the piece, so that James
Wilson was able to do it, if not
justice, at least something close
to it. There were some well-
sung ensembles, with top marks
for the quintet “Your Prophecy
Absurd.”
4* 4* 4*
Kathleen Dempsey put on
two big works at her Sydney
Con. pianoforte recital; Beeth-
oven’s Sonata Op. 31 No. 2,
and the Brahms “Handel” Vari-
ations and Fugue. “Read Shak-
speare’s ‘Tempest’,” was
Beethoven’s answer to a question
put to him as to its meaning.
The pianist’s tempest in that
opening Allegro was scarcely
enough to make one hang on
to one’s hat, though of the
purely technical brilliance there
was no question. The middle
section was thoughtfully sculp-
tured out of the ivory, whilst
the closing allegretto rippled as
happily as water over a brook’s
stones. In the Brahms work
Miss Dempsey was at her best —
and a very good best —building
the variations up with great
breadth of tone, with the har-
monic progressions of the theme
clearly outlined. She brought
to the elucidation of the varying
moods, rhythms and embellish-
ments a keen musical intelli-
gence, and her treatment of the
monumental Fugue was some-
thing out of the box.
4* 4* 4*
The Melbourne Philharmonics
and the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra under Bernard
Heinze’s baton put up one of
their finest and most sustained
efforts of collaboration in the
performance of the St. Matthew
Passion at Melbourne Town
Hall, which was packed for the
occasion. It has been said that
the Ormond Professor doesn’t
know his Bach, but does the
critic who said so know his bite?
Soprano Elsie Findlay and
double chorus led off majestic-
ally in the Prologue, Evangelist
Godfrey Stirling made the an-
nouncement of the Passion in
his sweet tenor and baritone
Robert Payne, as Christ, painted
the musical picture of the Mount
of Olives, while Keith Neilson,
as Judas and Pilate, added black
tones to the canvas with his bass,
which seems to have gained in
richness. Joan Jones’s contralto
was adequate to the needs of the
aria “Have Mercy.” The
choristers have seldom sung
better than they did in the dark
finale.
Stage.
John Antill’s “Corroboree” is
back with Joanne Priest’s “The
Listeners” and “Les Sylphides”
in a return season of National
Theatre ballet at the Princess,
Melbourne. Both Australian
ballets stand up well to
renewed inspection. Miss
Priest’s mystical rendering of
De La Mare’s poem is a finely
imaginative performance, and the
eternal triangle of the Traveller
(Rex Reid) the Woman He
Loved (Maria Duchesne) and
the Woman Who Loved Him
(Joyce Graeme) had more emo-
tional content than many more
pretentious ballets. John Antill’s
pioneering attempt to recreate
the atmosphere of the Never-
Never improves on acquaintance,
but still leaves the impression
that a little sub-editing would do
it good.
James Stevens, as Falstaff, in
the Brisbane Twelfth Night
Theatre production of “The
Merry Wives of Windsor” was
lacking in the full lasciviousness
the role required, but he made
up for the deficiency by giving
full rein to the comedy of the
situations. As the two merry
wives, Marjorie Mant and
Rhoda Felgate were in excellent
contrast, and as Ford, the jealous
husband, Peter Munro ranted
and acted in a manner befitting
the Elizabethan origin of the
piece. Judging by some of the
other men in the cast, there was
some scraping of the “Twelfth
Night’’ pot to fill all roles, but
Antoine Denat, as the French
Doctor Caius, showed what
could be done with impossible
doggerel in a gusty performance
that stole the show. The pro-
duction was occasionally a little
too serene for the absurd comic-
opera situations of the story,
but the charm of Shakspeare’s
country plays was successfully
maintained.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
“To the nurses of today and tomorrow,
with the prayer that they may always be
blessed with that outstanding spirit of
service for which all of us owe the nurs-
ing profession throughout the Empire
thankfulness and gratitude”—with these
words the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
unveiled a plaque at the Melbourne
School of Nursing to commemorate the
occasion after he had officially opened
the school. The Governor was accom-
panied by Lady Brooks and their daughter
Jeanette; they were welcomed by the
chairman of the committee of manage-
ment, Major-General A. H. Ramsey, and
the dean of the school, Miss J. Head-
berry. Sir Dallas said the school was an
important step forward for the nursing
profession, the medical profession and
ultimately for the whole community. The
first group of 64 trainees, who in their
orchid-blue frocks, white caps and scarlet
capes formed a guard of honor for the
Governor, have completed their eight-
weeks’ preliminary training at the school.
They will now be drafted to the four hos-
pitals interested in the scheme; Royal
Melbourne, Women’s, Queen Victoria
and Fairfield.
Pianist Nancy Weir is still being feted,
for there are many people who want to
see her after her long absence from her
home town. Latest party was given by
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Corder and im-
presario Archie Longden. Mrs. Corder
is, of course, Ada Freeman, who first
brought out Nancy’s remarkable talents.
The party was held in the Corder home
in Hawthorn, which was decorated with
mixed bowls of dahlias, zinnias and roses,
and a marquee was set up in the garden.
Mrs. Corder wore a ballerina-length frock
of black taffeta with pink brocade trim-
ming. The guest-of-honor wore a black
taffeta ensemble. Prof. Sir Bernard
Heinze and Lady Heinze, Mr. Justice
O’Bryan and Mrs. O’Bryan and Mr.
Justice Dean and Mrs. Dean were among
the many guests. Eleanor Baker chose a
grey suit with grey Persian-lamb trim-
mings, Joanne Duncan was in brown-and-
white-patterned silk and a tiny gold halo
hat trimmed with pearls. Charmian Jacka
pinned red roses in her aqua-blue frock.
Black ospreys trimmed the aqua-blue felt
cloche Mrs. Edmond Downie wore with
her black moire frock. Under a brown
coat Madame Florence Austral wore a
floral frock; her hat was of brown
felt. A wide-brimmed black lace hat was
worn by Mrs. Sam McKay with her black
frock. Mrs. Basil Hart’s jacket-suit was
of black broche and worn with a minia-
ture black straw coolie hat.
An additional touch of glamor was
given to the wedding of Jess Moffatt at
Toorak Church, for ’groom, best man and
groomsmen all wore Air Force uniforms.
The bride, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Donald Moffatt, of Portland, pinned
a family gift—a diamond-and-sapphire
brooch—in the bodice of her white
faille gown, which had a centre-panel
of silvered brocade, a bustled back and
a slim bodice finished with a deep por-
trait-neckline. Over it foamed the misty
white tulle veil held with a coronet of
orange-blossom. Attendants were Mrs.
Herbert Davies, sister of the bridegroom,
who had come from W.A. for the wed-
ding, Morna, the bride’s sister, and
Sheila Irving. They wore orchid-pink
satin frocks and bandeaux of matching
feathers finished with a cluster of pink
roses in their hair, and they carried a
trail of dark red roses. The bridegroom,
Squadron-leader Claude Dodwell Browne,
R.A.A.F., second son of Mrs, Dodwell
Browne, of West Australia, and the late
Dr. Dodwell Browne, had as best man
Wing-Commander Glen Cooper, whilst
Wing-Commander Alan Douglas, R.A.F.,
and Wing-Commander Robin Grey were
groomsmen. No. 203 Domain-road was
the venue for the reception.
The most amusing invitations to the
Coral Sea Ball have been issued by the
Australian-American Association. They
are in pidgin-English, and those who have
received them have had lots of fun trying
to translate the wording. Evidently Mrs.
T, S. Spensley, organiser of the ball,
who lived for some time in New Guinea,
is responsible for the interesting effusion.
Mrs. Rupert Downes is ball-president and
ticket-secretary is Mrs, John Hill (Haw-
thorn 1745). Tickets will cost three
guineas a double, and proceeds are in aid
of the Association’s Patriotic Fund and
the Royal Australian Naval Memorial
Chapel Appeal. If the translation is too
difficult the ball is on May 4, at St. Kilda
Town Hall.
Fairy lights twinkled gaily in the
garden of the Toorak home of Mr. and
Mrs. Athol M. Teare for the many young
guests who came to enjoy the debut of
their daughter Marion. Bands of blue
ribbon were inserted in the full skirt of
the strapless white organdie gown Marion
wore. It had a sash of blue ribbon,
finishing with a large bow at the back.
Mrs. Teare received the guests wearing
a gown of floral brocade. Another
daughter, Diana, helped her mother in
hostessing duties in a pretty yellow-
spotted net frock, strapless and with a
bouffant skirt. Guests included Patricia
Menzies, Mary Mackinolty, Fiona Blair
and Jocelyn Paynter.
Choreography which ranged from the
essence of grace to the nth degree of the
demoniacal —in short, from “Les
Sylphides” to “Corroboree” —made attrac-
tive fare for the final week of the National
Theatre Ballet Company’s successful
season. Sir Robert and Lady Knox were
there. With Lady Murdoch, who had
just acquired a grandchild, were sisters
Betty and Joan Rayner, celebrating the
completion of a 10,000-mile tour with
their travelling theatre. Both were in
black ensembles. A cerise crepe gown
encrusted with sparkling diamente was
worn by Mrs. A. Blakeborough. A tiny
bolero made neat corollary for Olga
Roughe’s draped satins. A slim-fitting
white satin gown was the choice of Mrs.
Van der Plaats. Her sister, Judith Jothan,
wore a full, flowing cape of midnight-
blue satin. Mrs. B. Swinnerton was in
ice-blue satin, and Mrs. Pat Terdich wore
a dainty gown of pastel-pink moire
taffeta. Mrs. Edric Henty draped a wide
leopardskin stole over her black frock.
This picture is of radio actress Nancy
Calloway. Although she is the mother
of three sons, the eldest of whom is only
seven years old —she is the wife of Lieut.-
Commander J. R. H. Piper, R.A.N.R. —
Nancy still finds time for her career. She
has appeared in many plays with the
A.8.C., her most recent role being in
the late Ivor Novello’s play “I Lived
With You.”
Gaily-colored handkerchiefs fluttered
from the pockets of trim frocks and
suits, and there were many autumn
fashions featured at the M.R.C.’s meeting
at Moonee Valley, Junior-blue and ink-
lue were popular colors, with panther-
grey and steel-grey next for choice.
Velvet cuffs and collars were seen on
many interesting ensembles; shoes were
trim, the closed-in court-shoe with
medium heels carried their wearers in
comfort through the day, and there was
a sprinkling of colored shoes. Hats were
varied. There were pillboxes of velvet
enlivened with clusters of ospreys, quills
were slashed across the upturned brims
of wide felt hats, untrimmed berets,
depending on their classic simplicity, were
chosen to complement a well-cut suit, and
quite a number of tiny coolie hats in
velvet or peachbloom felt were worn.
Mrs. S. Garnsworthy, wife of the
M.R.C. chairman, wore a coat in ink-
blue worsted, the front belted, the back
full and swinging. Matching velvet cuffs
finished the bracelet-length sleeves, and
the wide collar was also of velvet. Her
ink-blue hatter’s-plush tricorne was
finished with fine veiling. Lady Disney’s
suit was also ink-blue, her tiny white
grosgrain beret having a white bird
perched on the crown. Mrs. Neil Rogers
wore a panther-grey wool frock, a short
bolero and a tiny coolie hat of black
hatter’s-plush. With Lady Clarke, who
contrasted her steel-grey suit with a red
hat and bag, was her sister-in-law, Lady
Olivia Taylour, whose green-checked suit
was matched with a beret. White lilac
spilled from the pocket of the jacket-suit
of steel-grey handwoven tweed worn by
Mrs. W. McGowan.
From Sydney
Ladies’ Day at Randwick was rather a
let-down. The sky was overcast, the fields
small, the dividends miserly and the
dressing not up to Saturday’s standard.
As nobody seemed to be winning, there
was a notable lack of enthusiasm among
the crowd, which raised only a very feeble
cheer when Billy Cook won for the fourth
time in succession. It seems that after
his fifth win the applause was really
worth while, but by that time your Letter
had given the whole thing away and gone
home. The only happy punter encoun-
tered was Mrs. W. P. Endean, of Auck-
land, who was cheerfully backing every-
thing even slightly connected with New
Zealand and doing very well out of it.
There had been some criticism in the
Press about the crowds at Randwick on
St. Leger Day, but as La Bateman re-
marked “There’s always a crowd if a
thing’s a success. If there’s room to
move at a social function these days, the
committee can’t pay the expenses.”
Adorning this Letter is Dorothy Steven-
son, prima ballerina in the Borovansky
Ballet, which opens at the Empire on
Friday. Slim and mercurial as a sprite,
“Dotty” seems like a person born and
reared in the atmosphere of ballet, but
really she comes of a family of clergymen
(her father is a bishop). She says that
her people were rather rocked back at
first when she decided at 16 to be a
dancer, but the beauty of the ballet soon
won them over and now they are de-
lighted with it. After all, as she adds, the
theatre began with the church. Born in
Brisbane, she studied dancing there, then
went to England, where she learnt from
Prinzina and danced with the Russian
ballet. In 1942 she and Laurel Martyn
joined up with Borovansky in Australia,
then returned to England in 1946, where
she married Her return for this ballet
season has delighted all who have seen
her dance before. One thing we like par-
ticularly about her is that her name is
still Dorothy Stevenson and not some
spurious Russian version of it.
Next time you think of complaining of
the high cost of footwear, remember the
ballet. A pair of ballet-shoes costs about
£l, and a dancer wears out two pairs a
week! Shoes worn in performances are
provided by the company, but not
practice-shoes. Naturally they are looked
after very carefully, next only to silk
tights, which cost £lO and are darned over
and over again until sometimes there re-
mains nothing of the original tights,
These are bought by the dancers except
for special colored tights for perform-
ances, which are provided.
ts’ Kppsim? whose book of noems
Nancy Keesmg, whose book ot poems,
Imminent Summer, has just been pub-
lished, is still another of those New
Zealanders who make their mark in
Sydney. Although she came here when
she was three her people are well-known
in Maoriland, having lived there since the
1840 s. Educated at S.C.E.G.G.S. and
Frensham, Nancy is now (unwillingly, she
says) a social worker, but she wants to
give this up for “work somewhere, any-
where, either at writing or among books.”
At present, it would seem, she has a very
pleasant life. During the week she lives
at Potts Point and at weekends goes to
her parents’ home, which is almost in
the country. She also has a small room in
town where she works two days a week at
writing. Dark-eyed, and with the pointed
face that physiognomists say denotes a
strong sense of humor, she says that one
of the most important things in her life
are her friends, and that wihout them and
the stimulus to thought they provide she
would be completely at a loss. Her poems
have appeared mostly in The Bulletin,
and her new book has been published by
the Lyre-bird Writers, a group formed
specially for the publication of Australian
poetry.
Don’t read this if you’re Scottish. A
youngster at the Black Watch concert
was overheard to ask “Why do pipers
move round while they’re playing?” To
which his father replied: “I suppose it’s
because a moving target’s harder to hit.”
Many women’s organisations were
represented at the enthusiastic reception
given to the C.W.A.’s distinguished guest,
the Countess of Albemarle, at the
Trocadero. The Countess, who is pretty
and youthful-looking, wore a cream dress
and stole of nylon seersucker and a black
“floppy” picture-hat. She spoke fluently
(for over an hour without a note) on the
activities of the Women’s Institutes in
England, Wales and the Channel Isles.
The work embraces health and housing
in rural areas, social and cultural work,
education and matters dealing with
citizenship and civic responsibility. Each
section was vividly illustrated by the
Countess with individual examples, such
as the improvement made in water and
sewerage services to areas, one of which
reported that nothing had been done for
them since Tudor days! Although the
area covered is not so vast as in Aus-
tralia, the amount of work is apparently
just as great, and is being dealt with very
energetically.
A series of entertainments which
promises to be very enjoyable is being
arranged by Vinia de Loitte at the
Lyceum Club, starting Wednesday, April
11, then every first Thursday for the rest
of the year. They will take the form of
excerpts from the G. and S. and other
light operas, the singers Margaret
Durkin, Beryl Gurney and Stan Buddie.
Vinia will be the compere.
Mr. R. W. Kippax, Director of Services
for the Blind in N.S.W., told members
of the National Council of Women last
week that Australian books are available
to the blind only through the efforts of
voluntary women workers. None is
ever transcribed in England. The workers
take about seven months to learn to write
Braille (going to the institute once a
week), then do the transcription at home
in their spare-time. Mr. Kippax said
that all blind people cannot learn to read
Braille, as it is about as difficult as Pit-
man’s shorthand, and needs a delicate
sense of touch which everyone does not
possess. Elowever, he once taught a man
who learned to read Braille even though
he had no hands. It was very interesting,
too, to hear from Mr. Kippax that some
prisoners in the jails spend their spare-
time transcribing textbooks for three
blinded ex-servicemen who are attending
Sydney University,
A nice little party was held in the rooms
of Boriss, William-street, to celebrate the
first birthday of the younger-set of the
Anti-T.B. Association. One candle stood
on the cake made by Audrey O’Regan,
who certainly knows how to make
almond icing. John Davis, whose wife
was in a natty blue cocktail-dress and
white cloche, presented a cheque for £7OO
to Mr. Lazarus for the Albion-street
Clinic. Last year’s president, Pat Black-
lock, wore a petunia cloche covered with
white lace. The committee is now con-
centrating on its “Snow Ball” to be held
in June.
Don’t forget the next function arranged
by the senior committee of this associa-
tion, which is the recital by the Musica
Viva ensemble in the Royal Empire
Drawing Room on Thursday, April 12.
The tickets are Bs. 6d.
How to brighten up the home with
indoor gardens was the theme of a talk
given by Mrs. H. Hungerford, wife of
the U.S. Consul, at the Garden Club
during the week. The simplest sugges-
tion was to stick some young ivy vines
in water and let them trail down the
mantelpiece. A sweet-potato vine is
apparently another ornament no home
should be without. Indoor plants can be
arranged on shelves in the kitchen or on
a traymobile, which can be wheeled
around from sun to shade with ease. One
member suggested also using a tiered pot-
stand for plants. Mr. Osborne showed
some beautiful examples of Rex begonias,
which can be grown indoors if they are
taken outside from time to time. All they
need, it seems, is a good medium to
start with, leafmould and dairy manure.
Choose small plants, but allow for their
growing very large. Give them plenty of
water and a nicotine spray if they need it.
These things (plus some moderately green
fingers) will give you something to make
the neighbors marvel.
Musical artists under 21 have a chance
to win £5O and a contract to make a
record for Columbia in David Jones’s
Jubilee Young Artist Quest. There are
three sections (a prize iri each) for piano-
forte, stringed instruments and vocalists.
Entrants who reach a prescribed standard
will also appear at D.J;’s midday recitals.
Entries close on Saturday, April 30.
Entry forms are to be had at DJ-’ S
Record Department now.


Ci
SIS
GP3.25
SIIU KEEPS 601 KC
when the rest ha« stopped I
m OTroPtr norri Ann noprAPmov AUif.
In every field one performer out-
stays all others in stamina and relia-
bility. In batteries it has been Exide
-since 1888.
BATTERIES
I
m
ms
y
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Chosen from what must have been a
record field —there were 21 starters —
Francis Armand Bland, former professor
of Public Administration at Sydney Uni-
versity, becomes the Liberal candidate for
the Warringah seat, resigned by Percy
Spender on his appointment as Australian
Ambassador to Washington. As lecturer
and professor, Bland propounded the prin-
ciples of public administration for over
30 years within the university and, in-
creasingly in recent years, outside it. He
campaigned strenuously against the 1946
Referendum for the extension of Federal
powers and just as strenuously, though
less successfully, against the Greater
Sydney plan, which meant the demise of
a large number of suburban municipali-
ties. At 68, Bland can hardly be said
to be bringing youth to politics, but he
does bring vitality and enthusiasm.
Colonel C, W. Nye, A.A.M.C., who has
received, at Osaka, the Gold Cross of
Honor of the Association of Military
Surgeons of the U.S., is Assistant-director
of Medical Services of the B.C.F. in
Japan and Korea and has served continu-
ously with the Australian forces since
the beginning of World War 11. He was
described in the citation as “a wise col-
league and willing co-operator” who ex-
posed himself fearlessly “when his
presence could be of help to his
comrades.”
New president of Westralia’s National
Football League, R. P. Rodriguez, has
been player, coach or official for over
35 years, got his guernsey at 16, and
once won the award for the game’s leading
goalkicker. An ardent yachtsman as
well, he joined the R.A.N. with “down
guard-rails,” had six years there, and
came ashore after the surrender with two
and a half rings up. In civil life a lawyer,
he became Perth City Coroner, and
relieving magistrate in 1947. Part of his
spare time is spent in saving himself
nasty coroner’s jobs by teaching canoeing
nippers on the Swan to swim.
Presented herewith, the latest Liberal
political champ., winner of the contest for
Ivanhoe electorate —A. F. K. (Frank)
Block. Born at Echuca —his father
skippered Murray River paddle-steamers
—he was three when the family migrated
to Melbourne, and it wasn’t long before
young Frank was selling newspapers to
help keep the wolf off. At 16 he had got
to France with the 46th Battalion,
First A.1.F., and nobody woke up until
he was discharged three years later at
19. Took on the building trade and built
himself a nice business, studying politics
meanwhile. In 1949 he had the audacity
BLOCK.
to compete against E. J. Holloway for
the hot Labor seat of Melbourne Ports,
and gave everybody, himself included, a
shock by taking 2000 votes from his
opponent. Last May he had a go at
W. B. Barry for the Carlton belt.
Although knocked out in the last round
he put up a show that contributed largely
to his preselection against 12 other candi-
dates in the Ivanhoe scrap.
J. M. Ferris, Ford’s new deputy-head
in Australia, is a Canadian, prairie-born,
who joined the company only four years
ago. A British Columbia University
man, he’s 37, and did his War II service
with the Canadian Navy.
Another Canadian - born is John
Roderick, Sydney University’s new
Challis Professor of Engineering. For the
past eight years assistant to the distin-
guished engineer Professor J. F. Baker,
at Cambridge, Roderick has a head full
of ideas on modern factory and bridge
design—one of them is to weld beams
together in the manner of a picture-frame
instead of the conventional riveting to
uprights. Recently back from lecturing
in the Ruhr (where he found his ideas
on welding established practice), he’s a
graduate of Bristol University, stocky,
cheerful and 37.
“R.V.”: Died at sea off Antwerp en
route from Australia, Tom Williams, one
of the best-known and most popular
members of the English staff the Eastern
Extension Co. sent out to Adelaide in
1900 to open the Australian link with
England via Cocos —he was also one of
the first batch to land on that coral atoll.
Those were the days when the cables
were worked by “human” relay and a
message had to be sent by hand and
gummed and rpsent a dozen times before
it reached London ; times of transmission
were expressed in hours instead of
minutes. Williams also served at Vigo,
in Spain, at La Perouse in Sydney (where
he helped to train the first Australian
operators to be sent to Eastern stations),
at Darwin, Hong Kong and Singapore.
On his retirement as divisional manager
in Malaya in 1938, he was so popular that
each section of the office staff—
Europeans, Madrassees, Chinese, Malays
and Indians —gave him a separate send-
off party.
“El Verdugo’s” memories:
The episode of the editorship of the old
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” (1914-1922) by
Dudley Disraeli Braham, dead in England at
76, is almost forgotten, but it was a sensation
when he was appointed to succeed Dr. F. W.
(“Whiskers”) Ward. The “D.T.” board had a
new building of ornate exterior and expensive
but chaotic architectural interior, and it decided
to treat itself to the best in everything, includ-
ing a new editor. Its choice was Braham, a
product of New College, Oxford, a distinguished
foreign correspondent with an unexcelled con-
temporary knowledge of Europe, a director of
the “Times” and the successor of Sir Valentine
Chirol as head of its imperial and foreign
department. Both sides were disappointed, and
Braham found himself in a corner of the world
where even in war-time local politics were
paramount and where more interest was taken
in the potato-market than in European affairs.
The board, which had come to regard editors
as impressive gentlemen with large whiskers and
honorary doctorates, found itself unimpressed
by an unassuming little man who had not even
a frock-coat to recommend him, whose sole
asset was outstanding knowledge and ability in
his own field and who was apt to receive
visitors on a hot evening in his stockinged
feet. One of the ablest men ever to grace
Australian journalism, Braham was no success
at the economically harassed “D.T.,” and did
not tit into the Australian scene. W. G. Conley,
his friendly rival and admirer, g.-m. of the
“5.M.H.,” said of him that he could never
remember that he was an Australian writer —
he “always believes he is a missionary sent by
God to bring the ‘Times’ to the Antipodean
heathen.” Braham left the job in 1922, spent
two abortive years trying to establish a journal
of comment called the “Forum,” and for the
last years of his Australian visit (1924-30), edited
the “West Australian,” after which he returned
to London to rejoin the “Times.” He was
probably the only Australian editor in history
to be a member of the Athenreum.
“X.S.”: First-Constable Tom Cun-
ningham, of Melbourne, who invented
the camera method of detecting traffic
offences, and now has a camera, mounted
on the driving-seat beside him, had his
busiest weekend at Easter. From Friday
to Monday he booked 226 offenders, most
of them with incontrovertible evidence of
their guilt in his photographic record. An
extension of his system could be an
automatic movie-camera at major inter-
sections. If this were done, nine-tenths
of the motoring population could be up
before the court on Monday mornings,
instead of the present handful.
“Fitz”: Val Vallis, one of the newer
Bulletin poets, is a slightly-built, dark, rapid-
speaking young man bearing the hallmarks
of his predominantly Irish ancestry. Born in
Gladstone (Q.), where his father, the “Michael”
of many of his poems, is a fisherman-whartie,
Val was educated at Rockhampton High School,
worked on the local telephone-exchange and as
a cashier before joining the Army in 1941, in
which he ended up as a warrant-officer in the
music section of the Education Service. While
with Army Education in New Guinea he met
Tom Inglis Moore, then a major in the same
service, who pruned the Tennyson-Keats
influences out of his early poetry. As an
immediate result of that pruning Val sold his
first poem to The Bulletin, “Songs of the
East Coast,” written in Madang, and full of
homesickness for Gladstone. On discharge Val
was granted a three-year course at Queensland
University and graduated in 1950 with Honors
in Philosophy. He is now an assistant-lecturer
in the External Studies department at the Uni-
versity. His hobbies centre around a boat
on Gladstone Harbor and a shack on one of
the adjacent islands. It is Vallis’s opinion that
the Australian poet is a most helpful bloke to
brother-poets. Besides Tom Inglis Moore, he
has been guided in his writings by Bulletin
poets Judith Wright, John Blight, and, above
all, Douglas Stewart.
Recently Frank Edward Tilley notched
what must be close to a record —elected
for the 11th successive year chairman of
the Sydney Stock Exchange. A member
of ’Change since 1912, Tilley is a director
of several big Sydney hotels, was born in
Charters Towers 67 years ago, and golfs.
Geoffrey Sandford Reed, J., here
Coventried, is a Port Pirie native who
was admitted to the Bar in 1914 and to
the First A.I.F. about the same time.
Gaining his LL.B. at Adelaide University,
BENCH.
he later returned there to lecture on
private international law and law of
evidence and procedure. As an acting-
judge of the S.A. Supreme Court, he
chaired a Royal Commission on trans-
port, and as a K.C. chaired Adelaide’s
Commonwealth Club. In 1943 he went
back to the Supreme Court bench, with-
out the “acting.” Till recently he headed
the Security Service in Canberra.
Recreation, golf; B-day, 1892.
“Pip Tok”: The award of the U.S.
Silver Star to Private J. H. Stafford, of
South Perth (W.A.), for gallantry in
Korea, reminds me that the most unusual
honor ever conferred by an Allied Power
went to another South Perth man, the
late Major George Abjornson, in the
Kaiser’s war. In 1918, Abjornson, a
lieutenant in the 32nd Battalion, captained
an Australian rifle team which won a
shooting match with the French
Chasseurs Alpins. The Frenchmen were
good losers, and showed this by making
him an honorary corporal of the
Chasseurs. This was no empty gesture ;
at the time the honor was held by only
four men outside France, of whom one
was the King of Italy. Abjornson was
issued with the complete kit of the regi-
ment and was inducted at a special
ceremonial parade. The insignia he after-
wards wore with his A.I.F. uniform con-
sisted of two thin green chevrons, run-
ning from the wrist of each sleeve to the
elbow.
Dropped into The Bulletin from One-
Feller-Creek, packed with anecdotal
v ; ta j: tv Territorial! Rill Harnev tn meet
’ * amy ’ lerr “ onan pBl ™ney to meet
old cobbers before high-tailing it for the
top-end again. What the old-stager
doesn’t know about Binghi and his coun-
fry ncd: much use asking the next man
BINGHI.
about. The pose here presented could
belong to none other than a first-
class dit-spinner. Harney has been
close on 30 years in the Territory—
he’s one of the few who know the
local languages, and who can recount the
stirring legends of the Arnhem coast.
Old Digger—he served with enjoyment in
the 9th Battalion, pioneers of Anzac
Beach—he has written a swag of books
and poems, many of the latter for The
Bulletin. In 1943 the Red Page highly
praised his first book, Taboo. Retired
now from Native Affairs, which he served
as well as any man for adventure-packed
years, Harney has a launch and a house
under a tree just east of Darwin’s Charles
Point. He loves the blackfeller.
Coming here from across-Tasman for
the A.8.C., bringing his baton with him,
Michael Bowles conducts the Fernland's
National Orchestra. A County Sligo man,
with six years in the Irish Army, he was
principal conductor of the Irish Broad-
casting Service for eight years, a sort of
Irish Eugene Goossens —he founded the
Dublin public symphony concerts. Com-
poser, too (three masses for unaccom-
panied choir and two books of Irish folk-
songs), he’s 41 and pulls a first-class oar.
Successor to Dr. A. G. Butcher as head
of New Zealand’s correspondence school,
E. N. Le Petit, M.A., Dip. Ed., has
been deputy-head since 1948. Starting
in the teaching profession in Auckland
in 1916, he taught at various schools till
1932, when he moved to the correspon-
dence branch. In 1942 he joined the Army
and his knowledge was utilised by the
Army education welfare service. After
the war he became headmaster of Hataitai
school in Wellington.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, John Butler Cooper, journalist
and author. He wrote a 1914-war novel
Coo-00-ee, Leg-Bail, a historical Tasmanian
novel, and A Rogue in Amber, which was pub-
lished as a serial in The Bulletin He also
wrote extensively on early Victorian history.
In Melbourne, at 50, Carl F. Koerner, head
of Melbourne Technical College department of
engineering. Author of many scientific papers,
he did much of the research into some of
Victoria’s biggest water projects.
In Sydney, at 69, Harold Cropper, well-known
city grain-merchant. His character was told
by his recreation —organiser of the Wakehurst
Camps (in which G.P.S. and industrial-area
boys are tented together), War II Toe H
bjlieting-officer, and, for 20 years, church-
warden of St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
In Melbourne, at 77, Arthur P. Rawson, for
decades a familiar figure in shipping circles.
Sixty years with Huddart Parker, he started at
Geelong in 1887, and later became confidential
secretary in Melbourne.
In Sydney, Henry William Lees, associated
with James Fielding’s printing and box-making
business since 1907. He started off in the legal
profession, but gave it away to join the Fielding
concern, of which he was secretary for many
years and a director for the past twenty.


fd
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwalladcr; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heller;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager; C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Full time Service
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest trustee ompany, as,
inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to the provision of prompt, efficient an eco
service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
• It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
• It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
O Its charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
fd
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Qpifal (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN’S PEACE-AIMS.
America’s “peace pro-
gramme,” as authorised by U.S.
Ambassador-at-large Dr. Jessup,
has already been given here in
summary form. Here, similarly
summarised and condensed, is a
London “Spectator” interpreta-
tion of British aims in the policy
now being pursued;
Great Britain is rearming
against her will and at great sac-
rifice. The reason is plain. A
danger threatens. The Soviet
Union alone of the Great
Powers which took part in the
last war has maintained a vast
standing army. It has 175 divi-
sions on the soil of the continent
of Europe; Great Britain has
three. Russia’s imperialistic aims
are demonstrated by the hold
she has established over the
formerly independent countries
of Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, Rumania and Bul-
garia. Yugoslavia, itself Slav
and Communist, has realised the
danger and successfully resisted
it.
Russia has imposed Commun-
ism on Eastern Germany and
severed it from the rest of the
country. Her endeavor to con-
trol the whole of Berlin, con-
trary to Four-Power agree-
ments, was frustrated by the suc-
cess of the Anglo-American air-
lift in 1948, but of the serious-
ness of the endeavor there could
be no question. All Europe west
of the Elbe and north of the
Pyrenees is democratically
governed. It is essential to
defend this democratic way of
life. But first and foremost
the British must defend them-
selves. That can only be done
on the continent of Europe. If
Russian armies reached the
Channel coast the defence of
Britain from destruction would
be impossible, for guided
missiles are incomparably more
deadly than when Germany
launched flying-bombs and V2s
from the Pas de Calais and the
Low Countries.
The basis of British foreign
policy is co-operation for peace.
Great Britain unreservedly sup-
ports the United Nations. To
the avowed purpose of the
United Nations “to maintain
international peace and security,
and to that end to take effective
collective measures for the pre-
vention and removal of threats
to the peace and for the sup-
pression of acts of aggression”
it wholeheartedly subscribes,
and its whole policy since the
United Nations was established
has been guided by those aims.
The only circumstances in
which Britain would be prepared
to fight would be to repel, or
join in repelling, aggression. It
has no territorial ambitions in
any quarter of the globe. It
seeks no fresh territory. It has
freely conceded complete inde-
pendence to countries like India
and Pakistan, Ceylon and
Burma, which for differing
periods have lived under a
gradually relaxing British tute-
lage. Its ultimate aim is self-
government for African and
Asiatic peoples within the Com-
monwealth as they become edu-
cationally and culturally fitted
for it. So far from deriving
revenue from the colonies, it is
expending large sums on them
through the Colonial Develop-
ment Corporation and in other
ways.
If there is any country in the
world which has reason to shrink
from war it is Great Britain, not
only on account of its great and
obvious vulnerability, but be-
cause it has carried the doctrine
of the Welfare State further
than any other great Power. Its
one desire is to live at peace
with all men and devote its re-
sources to the welfare of its
people, particularly in the fields
of health and housing and edu-
cation. The expenditure of
£4700 million in three years on
the armed services will involve
sacrifices such as the nation has
never had to face in peace-time,
and which it would emphatically
refuse to face if there were a
moment’s thought of those
forces ever being used for pur-
poses of aggression. It is be-
cause every citizen knows that
they never will be that all parties
accept the sacrifice and differ
only as to how to get the best
value for the money.
Aggression must be resisted,
whether in Korea or in Europe.
As a member of the United
Nations, Britain is pledged to
that, but equally pledged morally
not to continue armed resist-
ance beyond the point at which
its original object has been
attained. Britain has no quarrel
with Communist China, except
the quarrel which China, by her
action, has forced on Britain and
all other members of the United
Nations. The British Govern-
ment is the only great Power,
other than Russia, to have
recognised the People’s Republic
of China. Its desire for friendly
relations with the People’s Re-
public, whether Communist or
not, has been made amply evi-
dent. But there can be no
friendship if one party rejects
friendly overtures.
Britain desires to retain its
position at Hong Kong, which
under efficient British adminis-
tration renders as valuable ser-
vice to China as to Britain.
It aims at welding into a
prosperous and ultimately self-
governing community the
Chinese and Malays of the
Malayan peninsula. With
American policy regarding For-
mosa it has not identified itself.
It has no more quarrel with
Communism in Russia than with
Communism in China. Every
nation is entitled to determine
its own form of government;
even if that is forced on the
majority of the people by a
clique, it is not for outside
Powers to interfere. There will
be no aggression against Com-
munism ; it is only when Com-
munism itself becomes aggres-
sive that danger arises. It is
against that that it is necessary
to be prepared at whatever cost.
Great Britain is standing to
arms because she must. But her
supreme desire is to “pile arms.”
The word is with Russia, with
whom alone it lies to ensure
peace for all the nations.
Korean Toll.
David Lawrence has thus re-
in YnrL “Herald
P t hina of the
Tribune on something ot me
toll that has lately been taken in
Korea;—
“American air-power is now so
substantial that air raids of a
saturation type can be conducted
on a scale comparable to that
which was inflicted on Germany
during the last war. Thus, 250
°f the 829 bombers carry a ton-
nage equivalent to that of 1000
of the Bl7s, which did such ex-
tensive damage in Germany,
wii
s
d
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
FACING THE WIND.
When the newspapers used to
report a 1000-plane raid the
American people got the impres-
sion that the maximum amount
of damage was being done.
Something of the same sort is
going on right along in Korea,
but the American public isn’t
aware of it as yet. Possibly it
is because there has been a
noticeable soft-pedalling on the
extent of the damage being
visited on large areas. Un-
doubtedly many civilians are
being killed, too.
“ ‘Napalm,’ which is the
deadliest of the fire-bombs, rings
the enemy troops. When they
infiltrate behind our lines our
ground forces signal to the Air
Force the positions of the enemy
and everything within the circle
is pounded to pieces or burned.
“The tragic truth is that the
Red Chinese are taking some
awful punishment. Their crack
army cannot indefinitely take
such heavy losses. They will
need these trained troops for
battles in the interior of China.
“Incidentally, Russia isn’t risk-
ing any of her armies while Red
China is bearing the brunt of
the Korean struggle. The casual-
ties on the U.N. side are rela-
tively low due to the defensive
campaign being waged and the
utilisation of counter-offensive
moves on a hit-and-run basis.
This kind of campaigning can
go on for a long time. It could
happen that the Red Chinese
will be begging for a cease-fire
without any conditions very
soon, and the U.N. will then
have a free hand to discuss or
negotiate whatever it pleases.”
Rearming Germany.
Recently visiting Germany,
Brigadier A. H. Head (a
member of the House of
Commons) looked specially into
the question of rearming that
country. With a variety of
obstacles still to be overcome,
he expects that if the Western
nations’ strength in Europe is
eventually 50 divisions, 10 of
these will be German.
In that event, he suggests, it is
natural that fears should be ex-
pressed concerning the actions
and policy of a strong Germany,
especially regarding her likely
demand for the return of Eastern
Germany. “Such a situation
might well make war more likely
and control of West German
policy difficult.”
Admitting that there are many
serious risks in rearming a
nation whose attitude notori-
ously changes with strength,
Brigadier Head points out that
for many years the other
partners seem likely to retain
powerful sanctions: the German
economy will long be dependent
on Marshall Aid and the threat
of its withdrawal would be a
serious one.
He considers it unlikely that
Germany can hope to manufac-
ture atomic weapons. “This
vast and elaborate process is not
one which can be carried out in
secrecy, nor has Germany access
to the necessary raw materials.
The lack of this weapon would
seem bound to prohibit for a
long time any independent
threat of force or aggression.
“Anxiety is also felt, especi-
ally among the French, concern-
ing Russian reaction to German
rearmament. So far there would
seem to have been a thread of
continuity running through
Russian policy which, conform-
ing to the theories of Marx and
Lenin, comprises a patient ex-
ploitation of weakness and dis-
sension by all methods short of
total war.
“For that reason,” writes
Brigadier Head, “it is my belief
that Russia will not counter re-
armament by immediate aggres-
sion, but it seems more than
probable that she will reply by
a large-scale rearmament of
Eastern Germany with heavier
weapons and larger forces.
While such a policy would tend
to counterbalance the added
strength of Western Germany, it
would also tend to reduce the
chances of attempts to regain
German unity by a West
German aggression against
Russian-controlled East German
troops. Nor is it likely that a
Russian aggression against West
Germany could then be under-
taken by East German troops.
“The inevitable risk of rearm-
ing Germany has presumably
been weighed against the urgent
dangers of an unprotected
Europe. It is certainly hard to
visualise any realistic system of
European defence without
German participation.”
U.N.O., Made in U.S.
While the British (in the view
of a London “Observer” corres-
pondent at Lake Success) have
“always felt a mild scepticism
about the United Nations, and
hearing the Americans using
solemn language about the
Charter, world law and aggres-
sion, some are inclined to be-
lieve that this is just cant, a way
of clothing ordinary power-poli-
tics in fine words,” Americans
generally take U.N.O. every bit
as seriously as they seem to do;
“Americans now feel about
the United Nations exactly what
Britons felt about the League
of Nations 15 years ago. In-
deed, these feelings are probably
more widespread, and often
underpinned with stronger rea-
soning, in America now than
they ever were in Britain.
“The United Nations is an
American invention and an
American system —one might
almost say the American system
—of international relations, and
to many Americans it is still the
only valid alternative to isola-
tionism. If American belief in
the United Nations were defi-
nitely broken the consequences
would be unpredictable.”
One consequence that might
be fairly safely predicted would
be such a revival of isolationism
that nothing could stop its
return.
-German
Ch.nallor AdenS retuiiiS in. a
recent speech what the Soviet Union
had a i reat } y won without the shedding
of Russian Wood said
d ew not wh 7 n^ a ul s ot be Wa the evSmal
]oser _ “Russia knew that she would
suffer a 4 e f eat which would threaten
hex existence.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
|s&>
r~m
o
•'S
Wl.
Established 1808 in Reign of
Qeorge III.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
ATEAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPUING STREET, SYDNEY,
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
lor Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
(701717 Call or send stamp for
* FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and V, days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ESTATE JOHN COBB BUSCALL Dec’d.
IF GEORGE BUTTLE BUSCALL, or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, will com-
municate with VILLENEUVE SMITH &
HARFORD, of Mutual Life Chambers, 44
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, the said George
Buttle Buscall will receive information
materially to his advantage.
TO WALTER SCOTT Respondent late of
State Electricity Commission Western
Camp Yallourn Victoria. —A Petition for
Divorce has been filed against you Upon
an application by letter to The Registrar
Divorce Registry Ingersoll House 9 Kings-
way London England a copy of the Peti-
tion will be sent If within three months
hereafter no application has been made
nor appearance entered the Court may hear
the Petition and pronounce judgment.—
H. A. de C. PEREIRA, Registrar.
WILLIAM CAMPBELL, son of the late
DANIEL and ANN CAMPBELL (nee
NICOL), of Melbourne.—WOULD the
above, or his child or children or anyone
knowing his or their address, communicate
with SNOWDEN NEAVE & DEMAINE,
Solicitors, 433 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, on or before 14th June, 1951?
Otherwise William Campbell, or his child
or children, may be excluded when the
residuary estate of Annabelle Campbell,
late of 48 Kooyong Road, Caulfield, Mel-
bourne, who died on 27th May, 1950, is
distributed among her next-of-kin.
ALIX. —WILL the Husband of ETHEL
ALIX, who died in Brighton, England,
on the 31st day of January, 1951, or any-
one who knowsi of his whereabouts or of
any relatives of Mrs. Alix, please com-
municate with WOOLLEY BE VIS & DIP-
LOOK, 8-11 Pavilion Buildings, Brighton,
England 7
THE ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY
INVITES APPLICATIONS FROM SUITABLY QUALIFIER
Boys IG’/z to 18 Years
WHO WANT ATTRACTIVE CAREERS AS
NAVAL OFFICERS
Selection for this special entry of Cadet
Midshipmen and Cadet Midshipmen 151
into the Royal Australian Naval College
will be made from boys who attain the
age of 18 years during the period Ist
January, 1951, to 30th June, 7952; i.e.,
those born on or between Ist January,
1933, and 30fh June. 1934.
f
d
The young Naval Officer has
before him a career which
will hold his lifelong pro-
fessional interest and, in
addition, will bring him the
rich experiences of world
travel and real opportunities
for promotion to the highest
rank.
Successful candidates will
begin their training at the
Royal Australian Naval Col-
lege. On graduation they will
proceed to England for a
further 3i years’ training
which will include service in
various classes of warships
and specialist courses at
famous Royal Navy shore
establishments. They will then
return to Australia and begin
their careers as sub-lieutenants
in the Royal Australian Navy.
Candidates must be the sons
of British subjects by birth or
naturalisation and of pure
European descent. They will
be required to undergo a strict
medical examination and, if
fit, appear before a selection
committee.
CADET MIDSHIPMEN
(Special Entry)
Entries in this group will serve
in the Executive, Engineering
or Electrical Branches of the
Royal Australian Navy.
Selection will be made from
youths who have passed school
or technical school examina-
tions of Matriculation stan-
dard in Mathematics, Physics
and English. Satisfactory
passes in two other subjects,
not necessarily of Matricula-
tion standard, also required.
CADET MIDSHIPMEN (S)
Entries will serve in the
Supply and Secretariat Branch
of the Royal Australian Navy.
Selection will be made from
youths who have passed the
Leaving Certificate, Senior
Public, or Tasmanian Schools’
Board examinations.
Successful candidates in both
entries will enter the R.A.N.
College early in July, 1951.
Applications close with the
Secretary, Department of the
Navy, Navy Office, Melbourne,
S.C.l, on 15th April, 1951.
APPLICATION FORMS AND
ALL PARTICULARS can be
obtained from Naval Re-
cruiting Office in your
capital city.
NC8.83A.31
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Fair Girls and
Gray Horses by Will H. Ogilvie.—
4999.
To buy Guilford’s General Psycho-
logy, Blum’s Industrial Psychology,
Maier’s Psychology in Industry, John-
son’s Essentials of Psychology, Bing-
ham’s Aptitude and Aptitude Testing,
Tiffin’s Industrial Psychology, Gheselli
and Brown’s Personnel and Industry.
—4998.
To get in touch with manufacturers
of or agents for “Mustdie,” an insect-
powder on the market several years
ago.—sooo.
Whereabouts of William Asher
Ellis, one-time resident in Ceylon,
where he left about 1939; or the
address of his nearest relative. Write
direct to J. H. Kriekenbeck, Kegalla,
Ceylon.
Words of verse “The Riflebird,”
in which two characters, Ben and
Bill, N.S.W. North Coast sleeper-
cutters, appear.—4996.
Words of verses by H. C. McKay
(“Augustus Blowfly”) dealing with the
tribulations of a Greek cafe-proprietor;
also verse about Italian who left
Australia to fight the Turks in the
Balkan War. —4997.
Information Sought.
In cricket literature one frequently
comes across the name of John Nyren.
Who was he?
Born in 1764, he was a famous
early cricketer and writer on cricket.
He was a son of Richard Nyren, also
a famous cricketer, was a member of
the Hambledon Club, founded by his
father, of Hampshire. John Nyren
was a left-hand average batsman and
a good fielder at point and mid-
wicket. His reminiscences were pub-
lished in The Young Cricketer’’s Tutor
(editions edited by C. Cowden Clarke,
1833, and E. V. Lucas, 1907).
Andrew Lang refers to him as the
“Herodotus of the early historic
period of cricket.”
* * * *
Meaning of “let” in the phrase
“Without let or hindrance” ?
It here means an obstacle, a retard-
ing or a hindrance. This was the
original meaning of “let,” which was
then a noun as well as a verb. The
meaning of many words has changed
considerably over the centuries (“pre-
vent,” for instance, once signified to
“precede” or “arrive before”). “Let”
is another such word; it now means
to “allow” or “permit,” except in
the phrase quoted in the question and
in tennis, where a “let” ball is one
that has been obstructed by hitting
the net. Plenty of examples of the
old use can be given from Chaucer,
Shakspeare and others, one such
being Hamlet’s cry as he is being
forcibly restrained from following the
ghost his father:
.... Unhand me, gentlemen.
By heaven! I’ll make a ghost of him
that lets me.
Another example is “What lets me
now from going to my Lord?” from
Newman’s “The Dream of Geron-
tius.”
* * * *
Recipe for making mead?
Take 6 gallons clean rainwater, mix
with 15 gallons honey in a large
cauldron, add 2oz. hops, and bring
the whole to the boil. Boil for li
hours, cool slowly, then draw off into
a barrel when cold. Add £pt. of
fresh yeast, place in a moderately
warm spot without the bung and let
ferment for 8 to 14 days, the shorter
period being in hot weather. Skim
off the foam every few days, or daily,
if necessary, and keep adding a little
honey and water to keep the barrel
full. When fermentation ceases the
bung may be driven in and the liquor
allowed to stand a few weeks before
bottling, but a better process is to
draw off the liquor into a fresh barrel
and repeat the fermenting with
another lot of yeast, the process
lasting as long as the first time. Then
drive in the bung, allow to stand for
a few days for settling, then bottle
and store for some time. Nutmeg
and cinnamon may be added at
bottling, if liked.
* * * *
What provisions are there for
N.S.W. electors living near a polling-
place who are unable, because of
sickness, to attend a polling-place to
record a vote at a State election ?
Persons living within five miles of
a polling-place who by reasons of
illness, infirmity or approaching
maternity are precluded from attend-
ing at a polling-place may apply to
record their votes in the presence of
an electoral visitor, or, in certain
circumstances, may record their votes
at “mobile” polling-booths. An
electoral visitor (one to be appointed
for each subdivision by the returning
officer) is required to visit each appli-
cant at a reasonable hour during the
daytime, taking with him a locked
ballot-box. Scrutineers may accom-
pany him. He is to supply the
applicant with a ballot-paper to be
marked by the elector and deposited
in the ballot-box.
* * * *
What is Mason and Dixon’s line?
The boundary line separating Mary-
land from Pennsylvania in U.S.A.
Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon
were two English astronomers who
surveyed it between 1763 and 1767,
and thus put an end to the disputes
between the Baltimores and the Penns,
the respective proprietors of the two
colonies. This line was part of the
boundary between free and slave
States. Since 1820 it has been a
popular name for the whole of that
boundary.
* * * *
What is forensic medicine?
Application of medical science to
questions of common law. A large
body of scientific facts has been built
up, having for its purpose the elucida-
tion of points, as far as medical
knowledge can throw any light upon
the matter, concerning the civil rights
of individuals and the nature, extent,
causation, etc., of personal injuries.
So important has this legal aspect of
medicine become that forensic medi-
cine is included as a subject of study
in the training course of every medical
practitioner. Among the subjects
dealt with are evidences of age, per-
sonal identity, pregnancy, insanity,
paternity, etc., as far as they are
likely to have any bearing on the
responsibility of an individual or his
capacity for certain rights; and
evidences of rape, abortion, death by
poison, drowning or hanging, possi-
bilities of live-birth in trial for infanti-
cide, the identification of bloodstains,
etc.
Brief Answers.
F.J.R.: Probate and estate uuty
would be payable on value at date
of death R.A.S.: Georgian House
Pty., Ltd., 431 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne A.E.C.: Write Mr. Riggs,
engineer, Willaston, Gawler (S.A.)
A. 8.: The fee was extremely
moderate and reasonable J.H.S.:
The Commonwealth organisation only
has been deregistered under the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Act, 1940, as
amended, but the New South Wales
branch is at present registered as a
trade-union under the Trade Union
Act, 1881-1936, and as an industrial
union under the Industrial Arbitra-
tion Act, 1940-50.... L.M.8.G.: A
husband, not judicially separated, is
liable for his wife’s torts, i.e., civil
wrongs, but not for her crimes or
misdemeanors... .A.C.: See article
“Australian Peerage,” pages 282-83,
Vol. 2, The Australian Encyclopedia ;
also “An Australian Guide to Titles”
in Who’s Who in Australia, 1950.
....K.P.E.; The Balmain (N.S.W.)
seam is about 3000 ft. below the land
surface, and the mine ceased opera-
tions owing to high running costs
making continuation uneconomic.
The total available coal reserves, both
at Maitland and on the South Coast,
are considerably more than those in
the Balmain area. Coal in both the
former localities was originally avail-
able from the surface, and was
cheaply mined S.H.: As far as we
can trace the Queensland Wax Com-
pany, Nambour (Q.), is the only
company that manufactures sugar-
cane wax J.G.C.: Write Kelly and
Lewis Pty., Ltd., 69 York-street,
Sydney H.A.L.: See article “Bar-
rington Prologue,” pages 139-141,
vol. 1, The Australian Encyclopedia.
F.F.: Frank O’Connor was at
his top in 1916. He k.o.’d Hughie
Mehegan in 1915, then Herb McCoy
in 1916, and was rated as one of
Australia’s best lightweights- Beaten
by Jack Read in 1916, O’Connor
more than held his own against many
leading lightweights and welterweights,
although he never succeeded in win-
ning the championship of either divi-
sion E.L.: Ambrose Palmer was
born in Footscray (Vic.), on Septem-
ber 19, 1911, and began boxing as an
amateur in 1927, when he won the
Victorian welterweight championship,
but was beaten in the final of the
Australian championships that year
by N.S.W. representative Dud Barling.
Turning professional in 1929, Palmer
won the eight contests he had that
year. After a successful career,
Palmer’s last contest was with Ameri-
can Gus Lesnevich on December 8,
1938, when Lesnevich won in 12
rounds... .R. 8.: Cannot see any
immediate profitable value in the
hobby. If collections were made over
a number of years of specialist
periodicals, and these were well bound
and indexed, buyers might be found
in the future, but even this would
be problematic M.T.: How to
Conduct Meetings (Is. 3d.), obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
D.G.R.: Well, a course in writ-
ing might help you; but why not try
a little reading? L.K.: “Neighborly
Relations” not bad, the weak point
being the lawyer; there you and your
plot stand convicted of collusion.
B.A.C.: A fgiir effort; but in
“the endless cycle” the same poem
is continually repeated.... R.H.: The
best New Year resolution is never
to write a New Year poem D.M.:
A touch of imagination, somewhat
exuberant; but you can’t write poetry
in what is not poetry —free verse.
Clarack: You speak, in a way,
for millions: —
“This gem was collected by me from
the wall beside the bar in the
Nagasaki Club, with the kind per-
mission of the bar-boy, somewhere
around 1924.” And a very sustain-
ing piece of philosophy, too; but as a
piece of bar-room art we prefer Chloe.
L.C. (New York): No perch
here for the Hippocanarius M.M.:
If you wander down the old bush
track as often as you say, why not
describe some of the things you see
there? M.E.McL.: Couldn’t you
have found a happier rhyme than
“knows no peaceful whim ” with
which to end the motoring poem?
Dim? Brim? Skim? Grim?
J. 8.: They’re all on general subjects,
in a style full of generalities. Write
about what you’ve seen Boatman’s
Mate: “Wongi Rock” wants a polish.
M.T.: Some good lines in the
Dido poem. As a whole it’s too
vague and scrappy... .A.R.H.: Try
again when you’ve struck some Aus-
tralian themes.... Agatha Shakspeare :
Now pull the other leg L.S.: A
sincere tribute to Daisy Bates, but
that’s not enough... .A.D.R.: If
you did go over the Gap it must
have been due to nervous-prostra-
tion after an attempt to decipher
your own handwriting A.McF.:
Poems about “abysmal gropings” are
not quite our cup of tea M.M.:
Pardonable if you are young....
A.S.: We’d sooner have the old
tin jug than its meditations in verse.
Mick Mayoh: Come in and
bring the mouse:
F.H.: “There’s wattle abloom in
the bush, boys, and horses atrot on
the track.” Then off with a will you
can push, boys, and don’t be too
soon atrot back F.L.H.: No
doubt you had a nice holiday on
“the mighty Murray” ; but your poem
on it would hardly do justice to the
Tank Stream... .K.F.: None up...,
S.F.: Toothache poem painful
P.C.: Nothing new in that 10t....
White Dutch: What cows cows are!
Many years ago I read, with pity in my
heart,
The tale of a poor young wife who always
was apart
From her spouse—he was a traveller, and
not a miner,
Who endeavored to supply “Oil for the
lamps of China.”
Time marched on, science produced electric
light,
Which, no doubt, is a boon on a dark
and stilly night.
But, alas and alack, we have all the
paraphernalia
Of filling up with oil the lamps for Aus-
tralia.
Blackout! Instantaneous as a blow on the
head.
A word that fills the nation with a feel-
ing of dread.
But makes us realise, with failure of
Bunnerong,
If our oil supply gives out, things will
be really wrong.
A young and virile country—God alone
can save us—-
For our only independent means, it seems,
is Glen Davis.
And this, a drop in the ocean of our dire
need—
Miners, with their darg system, pay not
the slightest heed.
M.H.: All lightweights,.. .H.D.:
WHAT BEER WILL DO.
He breasted the bar in sports-shirt and
shorts
And ordered a schooner of beer.
With a poker face as hard as naila
And strength that a lion might fear.
With evident relish he swallowed the
drink,
But saved about half a gill.
Then opened his pocket and poured it in.
Then he ordered a refill.
The performance repeated five or six times.
But he never offered to shout.
Curiosity beat the barman’s pride
And he asked what it was all about.
Mind your own business, you stickybeak.
What I’ll do to you is a sin—-
If you’ll step out here from behind that
bar,
I’ll push your face right in.
Then from that pocket a mouse poked its
head,
And whimpered as little mice do.
Smoke that in your pipe, Mr. Publican,
And it goes for your lousy tomcat, too.


Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
-J.A'
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
fd
a v n j(■ .5 c '•
n - »/ ‘ -r •- .
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder for shearing-shed work.
n
16<Jz., 1 gallon sizes . . ♦ Hardware and general «tore«.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
STUD CATTLE AT SYDNEY SHOW.
“Bulago”: Prospects were
never better and breeders antici-
pations were fully realised.
Clearances at auction were good.
One or two sellers did not see
eye to eye with buyers and some
bulls were passed in, but by the
end of the series private sales
had effected an almost complete
clearance and buyers were still
looking for more.
Shorthorns and Poll Short-
horns occupied the opening
day’s sales, and though bidding
was seldom hectic, even for par-
ticularly good stock, buyers bid
boldly and seldom quibbled
about the size of the raise. Only
a very odd lot sold for less than
lOOgns. and some of the newer
studs did remarkably well.
First bulls to reach four
figures were the Coonongs. C.
Titus, an 18-month-old red, went
to Lugsdin Bros, for 1025gn5.,
then Coonong Uprise, the white
yearling that was first in his class
at the show, was bought by H. C.
Stevenson for 1450gns. First of
the Wongala (Vic.) bulls to enter
the ring—the red Wongala
Champion (imp. in utero),
reserve champion at the show —
quickened bidding interest to the
extent of 3 lOOgns., at which
record price he went to the
Queensland Apex stud. All the
Wongalas sold well, and when
the females came under the
hammer a roan heifer —Mossy
3rd —also went to Apex, for
lOOOgns,
There was a strong demand
for Woomargama bulls. Woo-
raargama Objective, a roan by
Coonong Napoleon, went to
Mrs. Ekin for 1800gns. Next
was Woomargama Ovation, the
stylish red junior champion of
the show, which after spirited
bidding, went to Elsinora for
2900gns. A third bull from this
group, W. Paradox, just made
four figures ; the stud’s average
was excellent. Junior reserve
champion —Ky wanna Jaeger —
also made 2900gns. The demand
for females was excellent and
prices were high. Wongala,
Turanville and Dauntless aver-
ages were very good.
Poll Shorthorns met an eager
market and anything showing
quality and breeding brought
good prices. Top figure and a
record for the breed was
2700gns. paid by Bruce Walker
for the roan junior champion—
Peel Raider. Netherby polls
were in great demand, and, be-
sides averaging well, brought
1200gns. (Dublin Fusilier) and
950gns. (Silver Lining). An 18-
month-old red from Albinia went
to Gordon Bros, for 1 lOOgns.
and a Gillendoon bull brought
950gns. There was a good
demand for the Antrim polls,
two of these changing hands at
1 lOOgns. and ISOOgns. Prices
for females were also attractive.
and the best ranged from 400gns
to 650gns.
Poor Figures for Blacks.
Second day’s sale covered
Poll Herefords, Devons, Aber-
deen-Angus and Red Polls, and
of those the more fashionable
breeds met a good market.
Nobody seemed to want Red
Polls, and only two were sold at
auction. Aberdeen-Angus sales
were patchy. Buyers were
willing to pay for quality, but
anything at the other end of the
scale was passed. The only bull
to register four figures was the
show champion, Booroomooka
Salom, bought by Werribee
(Vic.) for 1350gns. Dropmore
(Vic.) and Milong bulls sold to
500gns. and Terrinallum (Vic.)
averaged well, but most prices
were round the 200gns. mark.
There was a limited market
for Devons, but buyers were pre-
pared to pay for what they
wanted and prices realised were
the best on record. A Table Top
bull brought 320gns. Chief
interest centred on the Havilah
offerings, particularly on the
young bull Midas 18th, winner
of champion and junior cham-
pion ribbons. He went to E. E.
D. White, of Queensland, who
judged the Devons at the Show,
for the record Australian price
for the breed of 950gns. Havilah
Forester 59th, the reserve cham-
pion, brought 600gns. and Midas
26th 550gns.
Poll Hereford Hits Record.
Poll Herefords provided the
greatest sensation of the sales.
There was a keen demand for
quality and plenty of money to
back the demand. The first hint
followed the appearance of the
junior champion Blandford
Leander, when the bidding
mounted quickly to 1125gns.
Shortly after, a young Milton-
bred bull offered by Harrington
Park brought 1050gns. Then
K. G. Luke (Vic.) put up another
Milton bull by the same sire—
the shapely 2i-year-old Milton
Sanak 4th; he was reserve
champion at the show and is
just a trifle light in color. Bid-
ding rose steadily to the 3000-
mark and continued to 3500gn5.,
at which it was knocked down to
D. and W. Carnegie, of Kil-
drummie, Holbrook. The price
is not only a record for the
breed but an Australian auction
record for any breed.
Three other bulls reached four
figures. Merawah Tobruk, blue-
ribbon winner in the 18-21
months class, was sold to A. W.
Locke, of Holbrook, for
1250gn5., then two Mt. Hamilton
polls brought 1400gns. and
lOOOgns. respectively, the latter
to A. S. Nivison, of Walcha.
Out of the first 24 Poll Here-
fords sold, six bulls aggregated
close on £lO,OOO, which prob-
ably makes another record.
Third and final day’s sale was
entirely Herefords, and although
the Poll record price was not
attained, the all-round averages
showed an even more substantial
increase than the other breeds.
It took quite a bit of money to
buy any sort of Hereford at all,
and the averages of the leading
studs were phenomenal. At least
30 bulls recorded four-figure
sales.
South Boorook (Vic.) repeated
last year’s sales performance and
topped this year’s list with
3100gns. for S. Boorook Boston,
paid by E. E. D. White (Q.),
who also bought the top-priced
Devon bull. S. Boorook Lanca-
shire was next at 2600gns. The
12 bulls sold at auction by this
stud averaged 1302gns.—a meri-
torious performance.
Bexley’s average for seven
bulls sold at auction was even
higher—l34ogns. Top price was
2700gns. for Bexley Instructor,
champion Hereford of the Show.
Reserve champion, Bexley
“He Wants to swap a rub o’ tobacco for a spray o’ D.D.T.”
Comic Court, brought 1400gns.
and the junior reserve, Bexley
Arbitrator, 1800gns. A stud
must have some good cattle at
home when it can win three out
of the four top Hereford bull
awards and can afford to sell the
winners.
Colly Creek registered some
good sales, and their stock by
Vern Voucher (imp.) was in keen
demand. Their two-year-old
bull. Colly Creek Volcano,
brought 2600gns. and their
junior champion, C. C. Con-
juror, 1600gns. The progeny of
Vern Vereker (imp.) also col-
lected a tidy return for F. N.
Snow. K. P. Wright paid
2000gns. for Cuppa Concord
and a Cuppa heifer (by Cuppa
Churchill) brought 900gns.—top
price for females. Bon Spiel
(Vic.) did not sell many at
auction, but two bulls brought
2400gns. and 1400gns. respec-
tively.
One old-timer among the
youngsters was the 7i-year-old
Windsor Royal Robin, who
brought 850gns. for Bective stud.
On the whole, it was a great sale
from the breeders’ viewpoint, but
cityites must feel glum at the
thought of the price they’ll have
to pay for steak next year.
Breeding Dairy Cattle.
“A-Jay”: For a long time
standard advice was to use pedi-
greed bulls, cull all low-pro-
ducers and breed only from the
daughters of the highest-produc-
ing cows. Although this has
been the stock advice for over
50 years, it has not succeeded
often enough to warrant general
adoption.
Reasons for diverse results
are several. Little improvement
can be expected from pedigreed
bulls, because the average herd
already has five or six genera-
tions of pedigreed bulls behind
it. In many New Zealand cases
the effect of using pedigreed
bulls was that it was just enough
to hold the average level of pro-
duction without significant im-
provement. It appears that this
aspect of breeding has reached
a stage where little further ad-
vance is possible.
Breeding only from the
daughters of top - producing
cows fails for two reasons. To
begin with, the amount of wast-
age from a herd is usually too
high to permit it. Then there is
what is technically known as
“regression”—the daughters of
top-producers do not always
give the best results. This is, of
course, the major factor to be
considered when selecting the
daughters of top - producing
cows.
Culling low-producers is not
always fully effective. Besides
that, the practice is not always
economical because of the loss
in production while awaiting re-
placements. In many cases it is
considered better to retain a
poor producer than to have no
cow at all. Culling, therefore,
is usually done on the basis of
replacement heifers that are
available.
The picture is not a reassuring
one, but there are several
promising avenues disclosed by
recent overseas research.
One is the use of proven
sires. No bull should be killed
until he is old enough for the
results from his daughters to be
seen. This progeny - testing
must go hand in hand with arti-
ficial insemination, so that the
proven sires may be as widely
used as possible.
As an external indication of
breeding value an examination
of the calf’s udder tissue when
four months old has shown
evidence of being a useful guide
to future production potentiali-
ties.
The classification of blood
groups is another line being fol-
lowed. In New Zealand it has
been shown that there are over
40 blood groups in dairy cattle.
If some of these groups are
genetically linked it may be a
valuable shortcut to herd-im-
provement.
Cross-breeding has distinct
possibilities. The use of a bull
on cows of a different breed has
often given a lift in production
of 601 b. to 701 b. of butterfat.
This is due to hybrid vigor, and
is not retained beyond the first
generation. However, a system
of rotational crossing is being
developed which promises to
retain the hybrid vigor in sub-
sequent generations. This method
will meet great opposition from
the breed societies, though no
matter how far cross-breeding
comes into fashion there is no
fear of reducing the demand for
pure breeds.
Fogging Sheep.
“J.S.”: “J.T.L.” (B. 14/3/’5l)
disagrees with my views on the
subject without producing evi-
dence to back up his own
remarks.
He admits that fogging lice-
infested sheep is not 100 per
cent, effective, but his claim that
it is near enough will cut no ice
with sheepowners in this district,
nor with any stock-inspector or
veterinary authority. Dipping
is 100 per cent, effective in
killing lice if it is properly done.
I have proved it, and scores of
other graziers will bear me out
in this.
The question “If dipping were
100 per cent, effective, why have
we still more lice than ever be-
fore?” betrays a lack of know-
ledge that is unfortunately too
common. It is my belief that if
every sheep in Australia could
be properly dipped in a suitable
dipping fluid within a period of
one week it would be the end
of sheep-lice in this country.
Admittedly it would be impos-
sible to do this, but as far as I
can see it is the only way to
eradicate the pest.
The answers to “J.T.L.” are
(1) that correct dipping will kill
all the lice on a sheep, but can’t
be expected to keep it from
getting a fresh dose through
contact with lousy sheep during
the ensuing 12 months; and (2)
that as dipping is not compul-
sory in N.S.W., little is done
here in the west or in other lice-
infested districts. In fact, mighty
few properties out here have a
dip, although the new power-
spray dips are making it easier
nowadays.
With regard to fogging for
protection against flystrike, one
large property in north-west
N.S.W. had about 10,000 sheep
fogged early in last year’s fly
season. To give it every chance
the job was done by specialists
who had been using the machine
for some time, and who should
have had the correct insecticide
formula. At the end of a fort-
night after being fogged these
sheep had just as many struck
as the untreated sheep. The
manager of that station is now
one of the keenest advocates of
spraying.
The owner of a fair-sized
property went in for spraying
his sheep with D.D.T. to prevent
bodystrike. In the early spring
one mob of over 5000 young
ewes was brought in and the
struck sheep taken out and
dressed. Thereafter the whole
mob was sprayed on the back
: with D.D.T., and not a single
sheep was struck during the
ensuing seven weeks in spite of
heavy rain and grass as high as
; the pommel of the saddle.
This it not an attempt to run
; down the fogging machine. I
i am still a prospective buyer, but
, I want conclusive evidence—
-1 facts and figures that can be sub-
; stantiated —to prove that the
i machine can cope with sheep-
; lice and blowflies with as high


ttfS
RELIEF
FROM THE
PAIN OF
RHEUMATISM
Dolcin has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic disorders
in America, Canada and England.
it is made available for you.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis. Pro-
longed relief is also given because
Dolcin contains substances which
improve the supply of blood and
oxygen to the affected tissues.
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no
harmful effects on the heart or any
other organ.
DOLCIN has been approved In
clinical tests and prescribed by
the Medical profession.
DOLCIN Is easy to take in Tablet
form.
DOLCIN Is obtainable from your
Chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
6-40
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Pine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- pep lb.
“PACIFIC” Pine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 8/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- pep lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co M Ltd*
Box 77, Talley P. 0.. Brisbane.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
fd
ďf
06
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only CHEAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eves and Eyelidf
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Pty.Ltd-King St. Sydney
Divorce Notice.
IN THK SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction.
TO MARJORIE ROBINSON (known as
SCOTT) formerly of Woollahra in the
State of New South Wales and Brisbane
in the State of Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that GWENDOLINE ADELE
SCOTT has filed a Petition No. 1561 of
1949 for Divorce from DONALD BAL-
FOUR SCOTT on the grounds of his
adultery with you coupled with desertion
for two years and upwards (under Vic-
torian law) and you may apply to the
Court to be allowed to defend A copy
of the Petition may be obtained without
charge from BRIAN MULLEN, Solicitor,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS,
Deputy Registrar.
hi ANY WEATHER
you con safely mark with
ELASTRATOR
I fori
/hf&dehnnli
EL&STRATOB
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR
&
TAKER
for
lambs
calves
&
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD
125 William St., Melbourne.
ELIS
-INSURANCE —for your profecf/on-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(.Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
A P
,0 THROUGHOUT THE NATION
S;
'
ffie great name in Swing Saws
In just a few years the lightweight, shaft-driven Mobilco has earned nation-wide
acceptance. From Mackay, Queensland, right through the Eastern States and
on to South Australia and Western Australia wood cutters, primary producers
and contractors are high in their praise of the Mobilco one-man portable
Circular Saw. in all types of country on all classes of timber Mobilco is
proving day after day that this rugged lightweight machine is the sure way to
greater output for less effort. Look around your district (there's sure to be a
Mobilco nearby) and you will find a user who will endorse everything that is
claimed for Mobilco, the small, compact machine with BIG PERFORMANCE.
A DRAG SAW ATTACHMENT TO FIT YOUR MOBILCO
In twenty minutes you can remove the Circular
Saw Shaft from the chassis and insert a Drag
Saw Attachment which will fell and crosscut
trees of up to 8 feet in diameter . . . And
you can also fit an Electric Wood Boring
Attachment or drive an Electric Shearing
Machine from your Mobilco Saw. YES,
MOBILCO is truly versatile.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
d
EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.
252 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE. TEL.: CENTRAL 4799. AFTER HOURS; WF3IIB
a degree of efficiency as can now
be obtained by existing methods.
Pig Production.
“Mr.”: Although home-con-
sumption price for wheat is now
7s. lOd. per bushel in bulk lots,
it’s still a paying proposition
when sold as pigs. A. D. North,
in the Victorian “Journal of
Agriculture,” considers that the
recent rise in local pig prices
and the guaranteed export price
for baconer carcasses of Is. 6d.
per pound provide a good basis
for future expansion.
Allowing as a generous esti-
mate 61b. of dry food (of which
10 per cent, is animal protein)
the extra cost of the wheat result-
ing from the recent rise of
Is. per bushel, if wheat
forms the remainder of the diet,
adds l|d. per pound to the
cost of producing a bacon car-
cass. As the previous contract
price was worth Is. 3d. to pro-
ducers, the rise of 3d. per pound
compensates amply for increased
food costs.
The local market price has
always been ahead of the con-
tract price during the past few
years, and it is expected that the
demand for pigmeats in the near
future will be sufficient to main-
tain the market price at its pre-
sent level.
Bees as Pollinators.
“Soc”: That is a pretty com-
mon headline, but hardly an
orchardist in Australia does
anything about it. You’ve got
to cross the Pacific and put 6000
miles behind you before you
find a fruitman interested
enough to prove that bees will
grow a handful of apples where
one grew before.
Most, or all, of the agricul-
tural colleges of U.S.A. have
issued bulletins setting out the
great improvement in yield of
crops ranging from cucumbers
to grapes; of apples, pears,
quinces, plums, sweet cherries,
prunes and a dozen other crops.
Albert Repp, joint owner of an
800-acre fruitfarm at Gloucester,
N.J., opines he’d no more think
of raising a crop of fruit with-
out bees than he would without
spray-pumps.
The fruitgrower in this coun-
try understands about sprays all
right, but not about bees. A
colony or two, half-smothered
in the headland grass, is a help,
but the great task of setting the
fruit should be taken up much
more methodically. The bees
will have to be rented at a price
that will pay the beeherder for
the move from his wintering
site. The hives need to be scat-
tered throughout the orchard,
for in early spring the weather
is against the bees, and only
those trees nearest the entrances
may be visited as populously as
is necessary to set the trees’ full
crop.
Eventually the fruitgrowers’
organisations will look upon
having bees in the orchards at
pollen-time as merely a routine
step, and all three parties—
orchardists, bees and bee-
keepers—will profit.
Pruning Fruit-trees.
“C.A.A.”: This should begin
as soon as the tree is planted,
and continued each year if regu-
lar and profitable crops are to
be harvested. Head the main
branches in the winter, removing
all other vigorous growths
which are not required, and leav-
ing a few of the weaker laterals
to shade the tree.
In the second year the main
framework of five to seven
secondary limbs should again be
headed back, choosing the best
placed buds or small laterals to
build a stocky tree. Suppress
all other growth.
Head the leaders again in the
third year, and if sufficient space
is available one or two more
main limbs may be built in, but
care should be taken not to
overcrowd the tree —a maximum
of ten main limbs is enough for
most varieties.
At this stage the tree should
be 6ft. to Bft. high. Begin now
to develop fruity laterals. Don’t
fall into the common error of
retaining too many of them.
Favor the willowy drooping
branches which spring from the
central lower framework, as
from these the fruit is more
economically thinned and
harvested.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”; One way of getting
acacia-seed to germinate is to
put it in the dying embers of a
fire and allow to remain until
cool. Alternatively, the seed
may be scratched with a file to
ensure entry of water to the
embryo, or boiled for a minute
and then removed and planted.
“C.A.A.”: Use an emery-
wheel to sharpen tinsnips. Grind
each blade at right-angles, taking
care to keep up a sideways
movement across the wheel to
ensure evenness. The cutting-
edge shouldn’t be visible when
sharp. Use an oilstone on the
ground edge to obtain a good
cutting-edge. Treat hedge
clippers similarly.
“Waverly”: Planted out
during February, cauliflowers
will afford late-autumn and
winter crops. Heavy soils are
best, well-worked and in good
heart. For best results set in a
hole as big as a tumbler, cutting
off the tip of the long tap-root.
Mulch in plenty of stable
manure ; give side dressings of
sulphate of ammonia or nitrate
of soda. Keep beds well drained
and give each plant room for
expansion.
“Rooster”: Citrus - growers,
especially in N.S.W. irrigation
areas, sometimes experience
heavy losses from septoria-spot;
it consists of small, dry brown
depressions on green or partly
colored fruit. This fungus is
similar to black-spot. In Vic-
torian tests sprays of Bordeaux
mixture 3:3:50 (one-third nor-
mal strength) in autumn and
spring proved effective.


4
A
A)W-
‘•rV//, $
•r-'j.s
v
■ ‘.j,
X / /
li >
»
it
V«
©J
I
J
%sp:
23*
33
*s
WO 1«
Not every day, but now and
then, comes an occasion -which
rises far above the ordinary
and demands a fitting tribute
of nothing but the best,
Benson & Hedges cigarettes are
made with precise care,
appropriate for just such times as
these —when the merely good must
be left for other people—when
for you, only the best will do•
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
In
tins of 20
3/3
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
cmd
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. 3, P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Established 1888
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
O'SULIJVAV x /
\ wxcra
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Process Engravers
Stereotypers and Typefounders
Office Systems and Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Engineers
Jackson and
O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
FOR MEN ONLY!
ss »“
life. YOU TOO can he v'nle again
in a matter of days with NU-MAN.
This amazing new treatment contain
genuine male hormone extract, avail-
able for the first time as a simple
home treatment.
Be a Real Man again, send for full
details of NU-MAN and
FREE SAMPLE
A. B. WARD & CO., (Dept. B 4),
Box 3323, G.P.0., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The four-day A.J.C. autumn meet-
ing which concluded at Randwick on
Saturday was, in many respects,
decidedly disappointing. Certainly it
represented, on the whole, a poor
response to a prizemoney distribution
of close to £70,000. With occasional
exceptions fields fell much short ol
what is expected at a major meeting,
either in quality or in quantity or in
both. Particularly emphasised was
the current dreadful dearth of decent
stayers. Really, the general class of
stayers on the scene at present is so
poor that it is not surprising, how-
ever regrettable, that some owners
have in recent months been tempted
into dragging out from long retire-
ment good performers of other days.
Unhappily the outcome has been not
renewed glory for the veterans but
instances of irreparable breakdown
and the destruction of horses which
had well earned retirement.
Principal saving grace of the
autumn meeting was that the major
prize—the £lO,OOO Sydney Cup—pro-
duced a staying performance so good
as to make fair amends for the defec-
tions of others in this direction. The
three-year-old Midstream colt Bank-
stream started third in the betting at
5 to 1 for the Cup, and won in grand
style. With N. McGrowdie in the
saddle Bankstream shot to the front
five furlongs from home, and from
there on made every post a winner.
Bankstream was well clear turning
for home, and, running as true as a
gun-barrel down the straight, he won
by five lengths from Freedom, ynth
Comic Court a moderate third. Time
for the two miles was 3.22 —the best
since Lucrative set the course and
race record of 3.20* in 1941.
Bankstream must be rated the stay-
ing find of the season; he has won
three Cup races in his last four starts.
Sandwiched between these was a
flying trip to Melbourne, where he
ran third in the Alister Clark Stakes;
the fact that that rushed trip did not
have any detrimental effect upon his
performance in the Cup is in itself
remarkable. Owned by F. L.
Batchelor and trained by V. Thomp-
son, who is a comparative youngster
among the tribe, Bankstream is a
brown colt by Midstream from the
Magpie mare High Class, a sister to
Talking. Bankstream, in a sense, put
a seal on the reputation of Mid-
stream, for he is the first of that
sire’s get to win a handicap over the
classic test of two miles. With this,
as it were, topping off the countless
other notable performances by Mid-
streams it was not surprising that on
the day following Bankstream’s Cup
victory buyers at the first day of the
Sydney yearling sales forked out
34,590 guineas for 15 Midstream
youngsters —an average of 2330
guineas per nob. The lowest sum
fetched by any of them was 1100
guineas, and the prices ranged up to
5200 guineas paid for a brother to
Shannon and Bernbrook and 6000
guineas for the brother to Delta and
Midwise.
Surprisingly Bankstream made only
one appearance at the autumn car-
nival. In the light of his Cup victory
and of the efforts of some of the
others sighted, at least a couple of
other events at the meeting should
have offered easy pickings for the
Cup winner. However, he is to spell
now until the spring. 1
In every respect Midstream was the
most successful sire over the meeting.
His progeny scored three wins, two
seconds and three thirds to accumu-
late £13,233 in stakes. Actually these
figures are subject to some revision,
as stewards announced on Friday that
Even Flow, who won the Princess
Handicap on the first day, had yielded
a positive dope swab. Next on the
list as concerned number of winners
was the Australian-bred Ajax with
three winners, but no minor placings
and only £3600 in stakes. On the
score of prizemoney Ajax was beaten
by several other sires. Principally
they were Channel Swell, represented
by Ocean Bound, whose victories in
the Sires’ Produce and Champagne
Stakes netted £8152; Beau Son, for
whom Oversight's Doncaster victory
and several minor placegetters toted
up £6619; and Burhan AH, rep-
resented solely, but most successfully,
by Freedom, who won two weight-
for-age events and ran second in the
Cup to register, in all, £5286.
Although Playboy was the hardest-
worked horse of the meeting, running
on all four days and covering
miles in the course of recording a
win, a second, a third and a fourth,
Pat Osborne’s Freedom was the most
successful horse —that is aside from
the prizemoney aspect. Starting the
good work by downing Comic Court
at weight-for-age on the first day,
Freedom followed up by again finish-
ing ahead of Comic Court in the
Cup (Freedom second and Comic
Court third). On the Wednesday
Freedom downed Playboy and Midway
in the weight-for-age Cumberland
Stakes (14f.).
Among the two-legged ingredients
of the game the best performances
were registered by jockey W. Cook and
trainer Maurice McCarten. Despite
having the stiff luck to be on the
runner-up in both the Doncaster and
the Cup. Cook could scarcely com-
plain ; his tally for the four days
was nine wins, six seconds and two
thirds. Cook had an absolutely
fabulous day on the Wednesday,
when he rode five winners and a
third from six mounts. McCarten
beaded the trainers’ list for the meet-
“y ou couldn't get a better
guide!"
mg with five winners (including Even
Flow), two seconds and two thirds.
A few figures may convey some
impression of the disappointing
aspects of the autumn meeting, and
particularly of the deficiency revealed
when call was made for anything
resembling a spot of stamina. With
seven events per day, there was a
total of 28 races run. Half-a-dozcn
of these were for two-year-olds. Of
the remaining 22 races 12 were run
over distances beyond a mile —rang-
ing from 10 to 18 furlongs. Of the
dozen only two (one of these the Cup
and the other the 10-furlongs Final
Handicap) attracted fields of more
than eight runners. On the other
hand, of the 10 races over sprint
distances only one failed to attract
a field of at least a dozen runners,
and that, significantly, was the weight-
for-age All-Aged Stakes won on the
Wednesday by Achilles. Over the
meeting four weight-for-age events
were provided; the response was two
fields of three runners and two of
four runners. Distances of the weight-
for-age events were 8, 12, 14 and 18
furlongs.
Aside from the Cup only two
handicap events were provided which
called for any real staying ability.
These were the 12-furlongs City
Handicap on the Wednesday and the
13-furlongs Dangar Handicap on the
final day. Both were won by Fire
Ship, an aged gelding (rising 10
years) whose only previous metro-
politan success had been in a mile
Corinthian Handicap.
Another veteran to land a double
at the autumn meeting was the Col-
lingwood gelding Johnny Zero, who
is of the same vintage as Fire Ship.
Johnny won the mile Point Piper
Handicap on Wednesday and the 10-
furlongs Final Handicap on Saturday;
his last previous win was in Decem-
ber, 1949. Also greeting a surely
astonished judge on Saturday was
Valiant Crown, who took the mile
Woollahra Handicap. It was his first
win since he stole the A.J.C. Derby
in 1947.
One final item which contributed
to the disappointing nature of the
autumn meeting was the comparative
failure of the Melbourne stars, who
had been expected to take out most
of the plums. In respect to Comic
Court’s failures present observer can
scarcely feign surprise, having repeat-
edly predicted the same since his
visit to Sydney was first mooted. The
champion—.and, make no mistake, he
is a champion—simply seems unable
to produce his real form in Sydney.
Alister and Midway both felj below
expectation. Achilles let this page
down by failing in the Doncaster,
but, as pointed out, he ran a good
race, and later comfortably made
amends in the mile All-Aged Stakes.
Likewise True Course, who turned in
a shocking run at her first appear-
ance but redeemed herself to a fair
extent by winning Saturday’s 10-
furlongs Adrian Knox Stakes.
* * * *
Melbourne punters last week also
had ample opportunities to do their
chips, which, in general, they did.
There were meetings at Flemington
on Easter Monday, and at Moonee
Valley on the Tuesday and Saturday.
At Flemington the major upset was
the defeat of Chicquita in the San-
down Jubilee Cup. Against a small
field, and a seemingly mediocre bunch
at that, Chicquita started at 3 to 1-on,
but she was beaten a head by the
16-to-1 chance Prince o’ Fairies (G.
Bougoure). The Prince is owned by
O. R. Porter, and is a brother to his
former champion St. Fairy. Chic-
quita really is unlucky; with Comic
Court away the road seemed open
for her, but again something had to
bob up and just toss her. It was her
fourth attempt at a Cup race, and
for the fourth time she finished
second.
The Talking gelding Purple Prince,
who finished third behind Prince o’
Fairies and Chicquita in the Cup,
was a ready-made favorite for the
13-furlongs Montrose Handicap at the
Valley on Saturday, but again he was
unlucky. The John James five-year-
old Royal Release pipped the favorite
by a half-head. It was a rattling
good finish, with Hoyle only a neck
further back in third place.
Quite the easiest winner of the day
at Moonee Valley was Our Title, who
downed Targie and Epsom Boy by
margins of four lengths and two
lengths in the 6-furlongs W. Pulteney
Mein Handicap, but one of the most
impressive was the El Golea colt El
Solvino (S. Ralph), who made it two
in a row when he comfortably won
the Berwick Handicap for two-year-
olds. A stablemate of Chicquita, El
Solvino looks a handsome bargain
at the 150 guineas he cost as a year-
ling.
* * * *
For Rand wick (before accept-
ances) :
Nursery Handicap (fillies): Golden
Slipper, 1; Golden Chariot, 2; Cym-
bidium, 3. Juvenile Handicap (colts);
Sol Rex, 1; Hindostan, 2; Muffles,
3 Members’ Handicap: Davey
Jones, 1; Poitiers, 2; Rumyle, 3.
Denman Stakes: Blue Flag, 1; High
Brow, 2; Salamanca, 3. Novice:
Eloquent, 1; Legal Wig, 2; Bonfire,
3. City Tattersall’s Handicap: Per-
sist, 1; Mona’s Choice, 2; Putoko,
3. Club Welter: Golden Tan, 1;
Fire Ship, 2; Erpingham, 3.
* * * *
Mentioned here a couple of weeks
back, with his score then standing at
the even dozen, the champion New
Zealand three-year-old Mambrace has
since raised his tally to 14 successive
wins. Altogether he has notched up
20 wins, one second and one third
from his total of 22 starts, and, a
sure mark of a really good horse, he
has been switched back and forth
from sprints to staying tests without
apparently causing him any concern ■
the distances of his last four starts
have been, in order, 7, 14, 14 and /
furlongs. * *
* ♦ *
Senior club crews dofflt get much
of a look-in at the histone Rtverview
Gold Cup Regatta nowadays; the
fixture is fast assuming the nature of
a dress rehearsal for the G.P.S.
regatta. The field for Saturday’s
rowing of the Gold Cup included
seven of the eight G.P.S. crews, and
Shore scored a handsome victory;
Haberfield and Sydney (Club crews
deadheated for second, and they were
followed by St. Joseph’s and
Grammar. Sydney High was the only
absentee from the race, and will, of
course, once again be the dark horse
of the G.P.S. regatta.
* * * ♦
Both main events at Leichhardt
last week were inter-State affairs, with
Sydneysiders Charlie Dunn and Clyde
Mclnnis meeting respectively the Mel-
bourne reps. Tony Hall and Bluey
Wilkins. Dunn (9.4) v. Hall (9.7)
was scheduled for 12 rounds, but
Dunn gave the Melbourne lad nary a
chance, and stopped him cold in
the seventh. In cleaning up Hall,
Dunn avenged Sydney honor; in the
earlier 10-rounder Wilkins (9st.) gave
Mclnnis (8.11) a frightful pasting for
a very one-sided points decision.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
The Snowy Mountains Project
Out from the little southern N. S. Wales
town of Cooma, in the boulder-strewn
bleakness of the Monaro tableland, 1150
men are clearing the ground for the
biggest and probably the most worth-
while job in Australian history. The
Snowy Mountains Project payroll, under
2000 all told, would barely staff a
moderately-sized factory at present, but
potentially the scheme dwarfs such under-
takings as America’s much-vaunted
Tennessee Valley Authority. This
gigantic hydroelectric and irrigation
scheme first made the headlines in
1949, but as far back as 1884 P. F
Adams reported that if the Snowy River
were diverted into the upper Murray,
just across the Alps, the amount of water
available for irrigation and navigation
along the middle and lower river would
be greatly increased, and its fluctuating
drought-affected volume steadied.
Australia, the driest and flattest land-
mass in the world, has few possible
settings for vast hydro-irrigation schemes.
The best bet is the Murray-Murrumbidgee
river-system and its source area, Aus-
tralia’s undersized Alps, the Snowy
Mountains. Here there were two main
requisites—perennial streams dropping
steeply from high levels, and wide,
fertile, thirsty plains waiting for water.
Also—and it is this that makes the
scheme possible—the Alps slope much
more steeply on their western (Murray)
side than on their eastern (Snowy) side.
Jindabyne and Adaminaby, the two main
diversion points, are both over 3000 ft
up, while just over the Divide the upper
Murray and ’Bidgee valleys are only
1000 ft. or less above sea-level. A third
projected diversion, between the Snowy’s
headwaters and Island Bend, is even
shorter and steeper. To translate these
hydroelectric possibilities into volts and
amps registering on millions of meters in
factories, shops and homes is the main
aim of the scheme.
It means that Australia’s electrical out-
put and the number of her irrigated acres
will probably be doubled; that ample
power for both defence and civilian needs
in south-east Australia will be available,
that electricity supply will be adequate to
allow for unlimited industrial expansion
for years to come, and that King Coal’s
stranglehold on industry will be broken.
Irrigation cities of 50,000 and even per-
haps 100,000 people will grow up in the
Riverina and the Murray Valley, and the
country will be able to double its present
population without any fear of pulling
down its living standards. That is the
meaning behind the bulldozers and fork-
lifts at bleak, end-of-the-world places like
Jindabyne, Island Bend and Tumut Pond.
The Snowy project divides itself into
two main parts, northern and southern.
In the south the Snowy main stream is
to be dammed at Jindabyne, and its waters
are to be sent fluming down through 29
miles of tunnels and shafts under the
Alps to join the Murray tributary of
Swamp Plain. Higher up, the Snowy is
to be trapped at its birthplace on
Kosciusko, and sent by short-cut tunnels
and shafts to rejoin its own course at
Island Bend before being allowed to race
on to Jindabyne. At Island Bend is to
be the 60,000-kilowatt Guthega power-
station, the first part of the project slated
to reach completion. It will be in opera-
tion in under four years.
To the north, the Snowy’s tributary, the
trouty, gurgling Eucumbene, will be
dammed at Adaminaby, sent surging
through a 15-mile tunnel to Tumut Pond
over the Divide, and thence by other
tunnels to Sob’s Hole further down the
Tumut River, a Murrumbidgee tributary
The upper ’Bidgee waters are themselves
to be dammed and tunnelled into Sob’s
Hole, and a Murray tributary, the Tooma
creek, is also to be tunnelled into Sob’s
Hole via Tumut Pond. These united
waters are to be taken downstream by
a canal to a final regulation reservoir at
Blowering, near Tumut town.
In all, there are to be seven major
Uiidßrg
Da^flPS
“Make up your mind what you Want or it'll be an early breakfast."
storage dams, funnelling their imprisoned
waters down through 86 miles of tunnels
to turn the generators in 16 major power-
stations, most of them underground, with
an ultimate capacity of 2\ million kilo-
watts, Two million acre-feet of Snowy
water a year will be made available for
irrigation and other purposes.
Figures don’t convey the vastness of
the project. The two biggest storages,
Jindabyne and Adaminaby, will be inland
seas 20 miles long. Each of them will
hold far more water than Burrinjuck.
The biggest of the tunnels, which range
in diameter from 19ft. to 44ft., could
take triple railway tracks. The longest
will beat the Simplon, the world’s largest
railway tunnel, by three miles.
A big order, and made bigger by the
fact that before a sod could be turned
work had to be made possible at all.
The Snowy Mountains Authority’s area
is 2500 square miles of the highest,
ruggedest, bleakest and most inaccessible
country on the continent. It is largely
uninhabited, unroaded, except,for one
crosscountry highway, sketchily mapped
and even unexplored in places. Since
work started 15 months ago, the Authority
has been carrying out thorough geo-
logical investigation and stream-flow
testing, air-photo-mapping the area,
building accommodation camps at each
of the eight main construction sites, put-
ting in access roads to them, and bring-
ing into being a new satellite town at
Cooma, which has been earmarked as the
capital of Snowydom. It is the first
town in Australia to be directly affected
by the Project.
Three years ago, Cooma had about
2500 people and the figure had hardly
altered in a generation. Now it has 4000
and will certainly grow to 7000, and prob-
ably 10,000. The sober, solid little
capital of the Monaro, cuddled in its
hollow against the razor-edged blasts
from the Alps, is sprouting a bright new
hillside suburb of long wooden office
buildings and timber and fibre cottages.
These will house the administrative and
stores headquarter staffs and their
families. Of a planned 900 houses, 130
have been completed or nearly so. Cooma
is having to sacrifice its snug comfort
and isolated independence, and the local
economy suffers from the newcomers’
high wages, but these are small and
temporary debit-items to set against what
it stands to gain.
Critics have said that nothing about the
Snowy scheme is so impressive as its cost
—original estimates hovered around
£225,000,000, spread over a construction
period of about 25 years, and it will be a
lot more than that. But it is a rock-
bottomed, concreted and steel-lined in-
vestment and, sooner or later, a national
necessity. It’s no longer a question of
can Australia afford such a scheme; the
plain fact is that we can’t afford to be
without it.—K. A. S. (N.S.W.).
Farmers and Old Debts
Many a country storekeeper must be
feeling irritated when he observes the
spanking new cars now being paraded
in the main streets of country towns by
farmers who, a very few years ago, paid
their creditors shillings in the pound
under the various Farmers’ Debts Adjust-
ment schemes. Some of the banks also,
which agreed to compositions with farm-
ing customers, under which large
amounts of interest and principal were
written off, must be feeling chagrined
about it all.
Never has the farmer been better off,
and it is cheering to record that, in the
Wimmera district of Victoria, some
farmers have voluntarily made good their
erstwhile creditors’ losses under the
Debts Adjustment schemes. Not many
will do this, however.
The point was made during the Royal
Commission on Banking that the policy
of the Australian banks was too much
one of borrowing short and lending long,
and that no doubt had particular refer-
ence to cockies’ overdrafts, which were
mostly in the Kathleen Mavourneen
class. What a change has come over the
scene! It’s a reasonable assumption that
in many of the good farming districts a
cocky’s overdraft is a thing of the past.
The fancy London exchange-rate was
imposed largely to help the farmer out of
his troubles. Well, he’s out of them now,
so why does the rate remain? — Ceg
(Vic.).
Thieving with a Difference
Just how great are the advantages of
being a waterside-worker? In the Bris-
bane Police Court a magistrate remarked,
when fining a wharfie convicted of pil-
laging, “The time was soon coming when
men convicted of stealing from the
wharves would have to be sent to jail.”
This sort of statement makes my blood
boil. Why should the time be still to
come? The man in this case was con-
victed of stealing an electric motor and
a quantity of tools. For stealing property
of equivalent value an ordinary thief
(non-waterside variety) would probably
get jail without the option. This one was
fined £lO.
It’s enough to make a man give up
honest burglary and take on wharf-lump-
ing.—Burglar Bill (Q.).
Road Toll
Slogans and exhibitions are a waste of
time (B. 14/2/’5l), but in W.A., where
magistrates aren’t sentimental, accidents
are still on the increase. Here the penalty
for a drunken-driving conviction is a
fine, usually £3O, and a three-months’
suspension of licence. For a second
offence the suspension is doubled, and
a third usually cancels it for life. Those
sentences are set by law, and no doctor-
or lawyer-hiring businessman can escape
them if he’s convicted.
The proportion of second-offenders is
small, so presumably the punishment has
some effect. But the number of drivers
who are prepared to try it once isn’t
diminishing, so the power of example is
small.
The W.A. police force does its utmost
to keep drunken drivers off the road. If
a driver has been to a party and feels
even remotely incapable of driving, a call
to the central police station will bring
someone either to drive the car home or
park it while the owner goes home by
taxi.
You can’t eliminate drunken driving
while liquor remains at its present
strength. When a man is too drunk to
drive he’s usually too drunk to realise
that fact, and, according to expert evi-
dence, he’s too drunk after he’s had two
pots. Which means that any man who
calls in at the pub on the way home from
work becomes a menace. At least, if he
has an accident after his visit to the bar
he’s classed as a drunken driver.
Beer could be made just as palatable
with a lower alcohol content. Aus-
tralians are quick drinkers. They don’t
linger over their beer as European
drinkers do, so a lower-strength beer is
justified.
Not all accidents are caused by drink.
But mere regulation-breakers, speed-
hogs and discourteous drivers can be
controlled. — Kelms (W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 115
Across.
I—Portly one with a parent and
offspring of Mahommed. (6)
4—Sydney beach whale backing to
invalidate a finish. (8)
9—“ Star of Bethlehem” shows a
.suicide point near Sydney, an
insect and a Bohemian religious
reformer. (10)
10—Where is Diana’s breakfast after
breakfast represented by John
McEwen. (4)
12— Footballer hog’s thigh is game.
(10)
13— “Pin.” (3)
16 —Hood to steal in and get the
bird. (5)
18 — A dreary drudging task and a St.
Vitus’s dance sounds like an
international trouble-spot. (6)
19— Beat it to a city of the East. (3)
21— Impede picnic supplies. (6)
22 The objective is one of these
detective adventures, not to men-
tion the possessive luggage. (5)
24 Coterie like ready-to-serve jelly.
25 — One person shows how Violet of
10 across comes at the double. (10)
29 —Malevolently grin back during a
dance. (4)
30— Maid returning the insect in a
river. (10) .
31 — Chateau steamer producer, in
such a condition, cannot hope to
stage a play. (8)
32 — Florence to point Spanish flowers
in the Azores. (6)
Down.
1 — Skitingly ostentatious and under-
weight device clears up some
obscurities in the cinema. (10)
2 Hardwood of Kate. (4)
3 Whinge to a place in N.S.W. (5)
5 Rob swallows America’s greatest
republic in a Scottish island. (6)
6 Cupboard newspapers of the flax
industry? (5, 5)
7 Voracious and rising prima
donna. (4)
8 — Providing financial backing for a
saint with only a sovereign. (7)
11—Zero progenitor possesses Red
Indians. (6)
14 — A tendency to grouse which are
in the gum and another tree
steamer. (10)
15— Happened to be a description of
the candidates who assembled for
the recent examinations. (4, 2,4)
17 —Red ban disturbs this girl. (6)
20—A 1450 rebel in Kent and my
place where you learn such use-
less bits of information. (7>
23—Helps salvia to grow badly. (6)
26—To render totally ineffective. (5)
27—Bedser mixes Chinese food. (4)
28—Although Juliet was on this, it
did not mean, notwithstanding
the sound of it, that she was
boozing. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 114.


ROLLS RA
ď
m
<?■ V
i
>'2s
OvX*'
<r<^
N v'
&s
le
BH
The famous
One Blade Safety . . .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemists
and Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write direct to
us and we will see that your requirements are sent to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Cigarette Lighter Repair Service!
If your cigarette lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken parts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The cost
is low and we can offer a 48-hour service on repairs.
msm
IV~SrS/3
•* - /
1
or
•• nj/o
r the f/ieetou-
ELECTRIC
DRY-SHAVER
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
following oi us fci £.. d ing characteristics.
/l. It is fully guaranteed against de-
/ fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires no
lubrication.
3. There is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving. |f
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
Shave anywhere - anyl
* OJ/2 ”
l/ievioy—
NON-ELECTRIC DRY
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non-
electric precision instrument is a useful
substitute for your Viceroy Electric
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your car and shave where you like
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op-
erate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver.
CAI
SHAVER
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BWIO3B
interstate Representatives:
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMAHjA; Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris. Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Cornell Ltd., Plrle Street, Adelaide.
