

The Bulletin
•The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3719
Wednesday, May 23,1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. RS.W„ Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
BATTLE ABBEY COMMEMORATES THE FATEFUL DAYS OF 1066
THE tide of English history was turned on the green fields where Battle
Abbey now stands, for, in 1066, it' was here that the fateful battle was
fought between the Norman invaders under William the Conqueror and the
forces of Harold, the Saxon king.
William vowed that “If victory is granted to me in this battle I will found
an. abbey here for the salvation of the souls of all who fall in the engagement.
Victory hung in the balance for a full twelve hours, but finally the Saxons
broke their ranks to chase the Normans, and fell into a trap; Harold received
the fatal arrow in his eye, and William’s battle was won on the field of
Senlac. In later years the Norman name of “Senlac” disappeared, and the
battle is universally known as the Battle of Hastings, although that town is
seven miles away.
True to his vow, William founded a great Abbey, which rose in all its
splendour upon the spot where King Harold fell; a massive quadrangular
edifice enclosed by a circular wall nine miles long. Sixty Benedictine monks
from Normandy, under their Abbot, appointed in 1076, formed the nucleus.
William died before the building was completed, but his son, William Rufus,
presided over the consecration in 1094, and presented the Abbey with his
father’s coronation robes and the sword lie had carried in battle, together
with the battle roll of the knights who had fought by his side.
Battle soon became one of the wealthiest abbeys in Britain, and among
its many privileges it had one which allowed its abbots to sit in Parliament.
At the Dissolution in 1539 the Abbey and manor of Battle were granted to
Sir Anthony Browne, who destroyed the church and cloisters and converted
the Abbots’ lodging into a dwelling-house. It was upon him that the last
monk of Battle Abbey laid a curse that the family who had despoiled the
abbey should end by fire and water. This curse is said to have been fulfilled
in 1793, when the eighth Browne in succession was drowned and the family
home at Cowdray was destroyed by fire.
The abbey as a family mansion has changed hands many times, and is
now a well-known school for girls—a worthy memorial marking the site of
the greatest battle in early English history.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


I
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
To STOTT’S; Please send me. free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.851) Age
The Red Page
CHAUCER.
Nobody with a proper appreciation of
the appalling charms of the Wife of
Bath, of the wicked comedy of the
Miller’s Tale and the Reve’s Tale, and
of the rich English earth and sparkling
sunlight which are the total effect of the
pilgrimage to Canterbury, could wish to
diminish any praise that might be
bestowed on Chaucer; but John Speirs
in Chaucer the Maker (Faber), cautious
though he is in the academic way never
finally to commit himself, has one
irresistibly challenging statement;- —
But when the variety and dramatic energy
and the completeness of Chaucer’s human
comedy are considered, the claim 'that
Chaucer is- not only the first great English
author but the greatest next only to Shak-
speare may well seem the inevitable one.
Everybody, no doubt, has his own
choice for “next after Shakspeare”; for
the poetry of nature, Wordsworth ; for
the “high seriousness” which Matthew
Arnold admired and which Mr. Speirs
rightly questions, Milton; for a world
translucent with vision, Shelley; for
technical mastery, Tennyson. The pre-
sent reviewer’s choice is Browning; and
for the very reason that leads Mr. Speirs
to select Chaucer; that a poetry of
humanity, provided it is lit with vision as
is Shakspeare’s, is greater than any re-
stricted art of nature, mysticism, “high
seriousness” or technique.
In the stupendous mass of Browning’s
collected works you will find not only
lyrics almost equal to Shakspeare’s ; not
only passages of nature poetry equal to
Wordsworth’s; not only technical
mastery and, if you want it, high serious-
ness ; not only~as in “Childe Roland”
—a visionary intensity equalling “Pro-
metheus Unbound” or “The Ancient
Mariner” ; but also, in the great bulk
of the poetry of humanity on which his
reputation chiefly rests, that Shakspear-
ian vision of mankind set frail and
tormented against eternity which
Chaucer, as Mr. Speirs admits, never
quite attains. Surely it is in The Ring and
the Book and the Dramatic Monologues,
rather than in Chaucer, however much
we love his solid world of comedy, that
we must find “the nearest thing in
English to sheer drama outside the
Shakspearian drama itself.”
Well, Browning bides his time. We
stand in relation to him now as Pepys
stood to Shakspeare ; a little amused, a
httle doubtful, vaguely suspecting that he
wrote rather well and rather copiously;
too close to the mountain to see it. Mr
Speirs does not mention him. Nor,
astonishingly, does he mention the other
great figure who instantly springs into
mind when one thinks of Chaucer ; his
spiritual brother in the religion of
abounding life, his companion in earthy
laughter—Rabelais.
Throughout Chaucer the Maker Mr.
Speirs seems, indeed, anxious to avoid
the bawdy element in his poet. One
hardly expects him, in the present state
of official morals, to describe exactly
what happens when Alisoun’s lover goes
to the window, or exactly what dis-
graceful pranks are played in the miller’s
bedroom after the guests have moved the
cradle; but it is at least necessary to
indicate that these tales, with the Wife
of Bath’s, are as bawdy as anything in
literature —hence, because it is such a
healthy bawdiness, their immortality
—and you cannot write a satisfying
criticism of Chaucer when you sum up in
such evasive terms as these;
The Reve’s Tale is very nearly a match
for the Miller’s in strength and maturity.
The characterisation —particularly Simkin
the miller and his wife (“She was as digne
as water in a ditch”) and daughter—is. again
brilliant, a quick succession of surprises in
knock-about tumbling action, such as we
witness later as the climax of the Nonne
Preestes Tale; it is dramatic grand farce.
Of course Mr. Speirs cannot altogether
avoid discussion of Chaucer's bawdiness.
But he plays it down. His criticism is
very much of this century, partly under
the influence of F. R. Leavis, chiefly of
T. S. Eliot, so many of whose followers
have become, so to speak, not readers of
literature but lay-readers. And so on the
one hand we have the narrow modernity
that ignores Browning and that, when
timidly approaching Chaucer’s bawdi-
ness, selects for comparison the singularly
inappropriate figure of D. H. Lawrence ;
and on the other hand we have a general
tendency to stress the Christian frame-
work of The Canterbury Tales at the ex-
pense of their essentially pagan content.
Chaucer,. no doubt, was as sincere a
Christian as Rabelais; he found
Christian morality a prudent basis for
human behavior, Christian theology a
satisfactory explanation of the mysteries
of (he universe ; but he took his religion
easily, comfortably, in a way that makes
comparison with Eliot inappropriate, and
his real concern was with the enjoyment
of earthly life;—-
But lord Crist! whan it remembreth me
Up-on my yowthe, and on my jolitee,
It tikleth me aboute myn herte rote.
Unto this day it dooth myn herte bote
That I have had my world as in my tyme.
Mr. Speirs, then, seems to be ap-
proaching Chaucer backwards; or from
the wrong direction. But he does, one
way or another, and most welcomely,
lead you to Chaucer ; and, with expert
commentary, right through all his
poetry; and once that meeting on com-
mon ground is established he is—apart
from his one rash moment of over-
praise—-extremely pleasant and illuminat-
ing company.
He sees Chaucer as the founder of the
English novel as well as of English
poetry. He regards him not as an
isolated phenomenon of (he Middle
Ages but as the natural forerunner to
Shakspeare. And he argues lucidly and
convincingly against other scholars to
prove that English must have been
broadly established as the national
language, at the Court as well as among
the people, when Chaucer’s poetry was
written, and that there must have been a
large, sophisticated and highly civilised
audience to appreciate it, as there had also
been an audience for the masterpieces
of ballad literature.
Dry of Tasmania.
Richard Dry, described in G. A. D.
Baker’s The Life and Times of Sir
Richard Dry, 1815-1869 (Oldham, Bed-
dome and Meredith, Hobart), as “the
eminent Tasmanian statesman,” is an
example of how notable pioneers can
drop out of sight in a generation or two.
Born in the stirring bushranging days
of Michael Howe, and in the year of
Waterloo, Dry was a man worthy of a
larger sphere than the Tasmania of the
twilight of the convict days, which he
fought as strenuously as any of his time
to end. He was, in a sense, the Went-
worth of Tasmania, a driving force in the
fight for a free constitution and a mem-
ber of the committee which drew up pro-
posals for that constitution for submis-
sion to the British Government.
He was the first of the Australian-born
to be knighted, and he lived to be
Premier of the colony in 1866, and led
the Ministry which he then formed until
his all-too-early death three years Idter.
This slight, well-printed and well-
illustrated book is no more than a some-
what discursive sketch of his life, but it is
at least a beginning on which later writers
may build, and, pending a larger
biography, is a useful addition to
generally available historical material.
The Amefhysf Story.
Frigate Amethyst was fired on by the
hidden shore-batteries of Communist
China on April 20, 1949. Fourteen
weeks later, free, she dropped anchor
outside near destroyer Consort. The
story of those grim weeks is con-
nectedly told for the first time by
Lawrence Earl in his Yangtse Incident
(Harrap).
Amethyst’s trials are still fresh enough
in memory to make further recital un-
necessary here. The author has apparently
systematically interviewed everyone he
could aboard her, and the story he pre-
sents consists mainly of each man’s ex-
periences. Amethyst’s fight—her initial
bombardment; the consequent pounding
at close range while she lay grounded ;
the endurance of her crew ; and her final
dash down-river under a new skipper—
offers material strong enough to carry
the book, but the story is told amateur-
ishly, with a weak attempt at charac-
terisation. Briefly describing a young
hero by the color of his hair or the shape
of his nose (a favorite device) is a poor
substitute for displaying his character by
his actions under stress, as did C. S.
Forester so tellingly in his book of a
British cruiser in action, The Ship.
The Royal Navy can do no wrong—
but, with whatever degree of impiety, it
must be recorded that in the present
writer's view (he has some knowledge of
frigates) there were shortcomings in the
conduct of Amethyst’s key personnel
under the first blast of action.
Assuming (that word is carefully con-
sidered) that Lawrence Earl has his facts
right, why did the helmsman —when he
found himself without orders from the
stricken bridge, and unable to see out of
the wheelhouse because of the deadlights
over the scuttles —dash up on to the
Compass-platform to see where he was
going? Why not simply lean forward and
unscrew the deadlight directly in front
of his wheel? When he got back to the
wheelhouse Amethyst was a few feet
from the mud.
And why did the telegraphsman, when
he received the “full astern together”
from the bridge, instead of wrestling
fruitlessly with the shell-jammed starb’d
engine-room telegraph, not poke his head
out and yell to a hand on the upper-
deck to run the few feet aft to the engine-
room upper-deck hatches and shout the
“astern” order directly down?
The order passed to the gunnery-con-
trol director, according to Mr. Earl, was
“Director, get on to target”—-there was no
indication of what the target was, nor
where it was. Naturally enough
Amethyst’s gunnery was mainly ineffec-
tive, because her grounding put her for-
rard mounting out of action through
inability to bear.
Initiative and training, not courage,
seem to have been lacking. In a sunk
Australian cruiser during the war, for
instance,, a torpedo-man, without ordefs,
fought through flames in the torpedo-
space to fire the war-headed torpedoes ;
a gunner formed a chain of men to hurl
boxes of ammunition from a burning
pom-pom magazine. And, in cruiser
Sydney, it was one of the after-turrets
shifting promptly to local-control, with
all normal fire-control measures rendered
inoperative |?y the raider’s shells and tor-
pedo, which made an inferno of the
German’s innards.
But, then, it is easy to be a guard-rail
critic. Amethyst’s crew was mainly
young; and her later dash down
a bar-cluttered waterway, one of the few
in the world on which the British Navy
uses pilots, thrilled the world.
MACNELI
Shelley's Father-in-law,
William Godwin, as David Fleisher says
in his WUUam Godwin, A Study in
Liberalism (Allen and Unwin), is best
remembered as the father of Shelley's
second wife; it is Mr. Fleisher’s purpose
to resurrect the political philosophy,
notably Political Justice, which made him
famous during the French Revolution,
and execrated after it.
Godwin’s ideas may have made a great
difference in his own times; what Mr.
Fleisher revives of them here seem rather
barren turnings-over of old ground. He
believed that men would do right if they
knew what right was, and that man was
not moved entirely by self-interest; he
disliked secret ballots for a reason that
would seem strange to the Australian
Labor organiser: that they sapped the
sturdy independence of the individual;
and he disliked organisations and meet-
ings because they tended to merge indi-
viduals into movements.
He believed at one time that a man
should have no more consideration for
his own family than for anyone else;
and regretted it later. He early dis-
approved of marriage, and recanted that;
so that when Shelley, a married man and
a father, came for Mary, he found
William Godwin a very disapproving
Papa indeed. Later, when Godwin found
it convenient to “borrow” money from
Shelley, this disapproval melted a little.
However, the preliminary essay on his
life and work is well worth while; the
analysis of his novel, Caleb Williams, for
instance, a study of the ability of a rich
man to blackguard and break a poor
man, shows a most unusual and original
mind. Godwin was a man of immense
industry ; histories, novels, philosophies, a
refutation of Malthus, a Life of Chaucer ;
and at the age of 50, and at the height
of his notoriety, he set out to retrieve
his fortunes as a publisher of books for
children, writing as “Edward Baldwin”
and “Theophilus Marcliffe” (it was he who
first published Charles and Mary Lamb’s
Tales from Shakspeare .)
Godwin’s memorial, prefixed to the
posthumous works of Mary Wollstone-
craft, who had borne a child to an Ameri-
can and been Godwin’s mistress before
becoming his wife, inflamed public anger
against him ; add to this Mary and Shelley,
and June (Clare) Clairmont, daughter of
the widow who became his second wife,
who became Byron’s mistress, and we can
see why, as publisher of books for
children, he should have decided to have
an alias.
He'‘died in 1836, aged 80, having for
three years held a Government sinecure,
as Yeoman Usher of the Exchequer.
Reviewed Briefly,
Irofile of Science: Ritchie Calder
(Allen and Unwin). An exceptionally
dear, readable and appalling account of
the most important modern scientific de-
velopments from Rutherford to Boyd
Orr: the atom, radar, penicillin and vita-
mins. The author is Science Editor of
London “News Chronicle.”
* * * *
Lag’s Lexicon: Paul Tempest (Rout-
ledge and Kegan Paul), A dictionary of
contemporary slang in English prisons
compiled, says the author, after serving
a _j' ive years’ sentence for manslaughter.
The explanations of the various col-
loquialisms are expanded to make the
book an exact and unusual picture of
prison life.
* * sfc *
v, Among the Doctors: - Paul de
Kruif (Cape). An up-to-date account of
what leading American doctors and
scientists have been doing in the war
against such diseases as cancer, pernicious
anaemia, syphilis, multiple sclerosis, polio,
etc. I he author, who knows most of his
doctors- personally, writes authoritatively
m a vigorous, optimistic, typically Ameri-
can style.
* * * *
Schubert Thematic Catalogue: com-
piled by O, E. Deutch and Donald Wake-
Img (Dent) The first list of all Schubert's
works, published, unpublished and lost,
arranged in chronological order, with the
“themes' of every single number or
movement. It makes a book of 566 pages
and is partly intended as a complementary
volume to Professor Deutch's Docu-
mentary Biography.
* * * *
introducing Astronomy : J. B. Sidgwick
(Faber). Not the usual popular survey
of the latest scientific discoveries and the
chances of flying to the moon, but a
serious and sober textbook for the student
or the amateur who wishes to take up
astronomy for himself: what to look for
in the night sky, exactly where it is, and
how you find it.
* * * *
Shooting and Shooting. Bushcraft: S.
W r Barney”) Edwards ( Angus and
Robertson). How you whistle a fox ; how
you skin a rabbit; how you clean the
gun ; and how you avoid shooting your
best friend, being bitten by snakes, and
getting bushed. Useful for adolescents
and other innocent persons.
* * * *
J M, Dent and Sons, who lately did
the world a good turn with a complete,
uniform edition of Conrad, are now doing
the same with W. H. Hudson. The first
three volumes published are The Purple
Land, Nature in Downland and A Hind
in Richmond Park; next on the list are
Green Mansions, Adventures Among
Birds and Far Away and Long Ago. The
series is pleasantly bound in red cloth,
and the printing, with large type well-
spaced on paper of reasonable quality, is
clear and attractive.
* ♦ * 0,
The Top Boot: Milward Kennedy
(Hale). A Canadian cop gets his man,
already dead, in a Sussex pond, and
follows his tracks back and forward to
a London night club, uncovering some
big-time blackmarket operations and a
good deal of delectable night-club
femininity ; although Mr. Kennedy has
not the assurance among night-club
women of Mr. Cheyney. He seems
troubled, at such moments, by the thought
that someone ought to slap his face.
* * * *
■ Global Mission: General H. H.
Arnold (Hutchinson). The late Henry
Harley (“Hap”) Arnold was one of the
four or five top-ranking generals in the
U.S Army when World War II broke
out. He was head of the U.S. Army Air
Force —he was detailed to it (or rather
“to the Signal Corps for aeronautical
duty”) as a young lieutenant in 1911, and
the most entertaining portion of his book
is its opening chapters describing care-
free youth with the early Wright and
Curtis planes. Because he was detailed
for the Washington executive job in the
embryo U.S. air force of World War I,
Arnold saw no war service in the 18
months of America’s participation in
that war, and he was too old for com-
bat duties in the second one. He did,
however, keep abreast of new strategical
ideas as the U.S.A.A.F. grew during
World War II into a gigantic world-wide
organisation ranging all the seas and
continents, from the North Pole to the
tropics. Though useful for reference, his
book is too disjointed to offer any great
contribution to the history of that
struggle. He believes, and he may be
right, that the Air Force is the arm
which has made and keeps the United
States the chief world-Power.


■TRUTH
!N . ADVERTISING
f
r' &- '*■'
/mf V,
...
,
, •
-. ■ ,
: : ; •■•
■■ . •
~a* t
MM
y* M
r
iX $
k 3
* w
&
, :
-
’/■' //
,
*mz* sw?'*.-* ■•
-•-»<•'•
&■;■•• ..-■
-w
C
Imported Ammunition for all Guns
Make sure that shot is safe and true with specially imported high quality ammunition that we now have in large quantities for all calibre guns. Now
obtainable in our Gun Department on the Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
' I
- ’ '
yr * A
'wm
at Tt
rm
si
ggM*
WV)
(I
ZNWmm ..
- ~ «**MV>
St
5?
5*
iS
vV
■Ss 'Xn y s N >
‘i-A.-'-. r- "•*
*- % . . \
_ ' -i V -r . •
i - >-» —
fs£s£!9iSh<
•~<jy ; X ; - - - ‘ i; ■ ''•-
j
; :-£
IS
%
&
mm
mm
■ r : : .■- %
. :a
'
!
m
m
m
ass
m
ft
0?
iMintM to**
&&S h*t>i
g(V
B m '''"
-»*■--— .-■- . ■, .. ,„■:.... . . jjj
AMMUNITION WE NOW HAVE IN STOCK
.22 Long Rifle Cartridges. English make. 10/6 hundred, £5/5/- thousand.
.22 Long Rifle Cartridges. Made in Finland. 1 5/- hundred, £7/10/- thousand.
.410 Country Club Cartridges. English make. Box 25, 2in. 12/-; Box 100,
2in. 48/-; Box 25. 2£in. 13/-; Box 100, 2|in. price 52/-.
12 Gauge Cartridges. Made in England. Three Crowns manufactured by Hull
Cartridge Co. Hand loaded, shot size 1,2, 3, 4. Price per box 25 16/6, per
hundred 66/-, case 500 £l6/10/-.
Falcon 2|in. Manufactured by Hellis Cartridge Co. Shot sizes 1,2, 3, 4.
Each cartridge guaranteed. Price per box 25 23/6, per hundred 94/-, case
500 £23/10/-.
Economist 2£in. Cartridges. Manufactured by Hellis Cartridge Co. Shot sizes,
1,2, 3, 4. Price per box 25 18/-, per hundred 72/-, per case 1000 £36.
Fiocchi Trap Cartridges 2fin. Manufactured in Italy. Shot sizes 1,2, 3, 4.
Per box 25 27/-, per case 500 £27, case 1000 £54.
Fiocchi Cartridges 2jin. Shot sizes 8.8. 1. 2,3, 4. 6. Price per box of
25 24/-, price per case of 500 £24, price per case of 1 000 £4B.
HEADLIGHT FOR NIGHT SHOOTING
A comparatively light in weight headlight throwing
a good strong beam and fits comfortably on
head. Complete with flex and battery. Price 45/-.
A—. 22 Cartridge Belts. Priced at
7/6 each.
B—Stephen Young English Gun Oil.
3/- per 2oz. bottle.
C—l 2 Gauge Cartridge Belt. Price
12/6 each.
D—Flannelette Cleaning Roll. Price
3/6 for 12 yards.
E—l 2 Gauge Cleaning Rod. Com-
plete with jag and mop, 17/6.
Unillustrated. .22 Pullthroughs. 2/6.
MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT). FREIGHT EXTRA


ih
Successful farming with 6UUPO6S
it
*s*
■
m
f
70,000 acres
SAYS EDDIE ROHDE OF GERANG GERUNG. VIA HORSHAM. VIC.
jpORTY-ONE years ago, in scrub you couldn’t ride a
hack through, the Rohdes cleared 640 acres of heavy
Wimmera country and started in wheat.
For many years horses supplied the hauling power for
farm implements until 1934 when the family acquired
a crawler type Bulldog Tractor and replaced it 3 years
later with a more versatile pneumatic tyred Bulldog.
Today Eddie Rohde and his father Emil farm 2300
acres and have averaged a 12 bag wheat yield most years,
with the same old reliable Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor.
“It's on the go all the time,” says Eddie. “Bulldogs
seem to thrive on hard grind. We’ve done well over
70,000 acres with this one in the 14 years we’ve had her,
and she won’t need her first rebore for a long time yet.
Repairs have been extra light, and she’s starting first kick
today, same as she’s always done.
“During the war, inexperienced drivers punished her,”
he says, “but she’s taken it in her stride, and is still
wonderfully economical. On the heaviest work she uses
less than 1 \ gallons per hour. We’ve had 1 late-model
compression-ignition diesel tractors working alongside
her on this place, and their intricate component parts
have time and time again led them to fail under our
tough working conditions.
“Our successful farming of this big acreage,” Eddie
says, “is due to the outstanding economy, power and
reliability we’ve enjoyed from our wonderful old Bulldog.
I estimate that we’re saving £360 a year over kerosene
tractor costs with her.
“Our Bulldog has meant the differ-
ence between success and failure to us.”
EMIL ROHDE, like his sons
Eddie and Mervyn, is mighty
proud of the Bulldog and the job it
has done.
Hunted2ooo miles for a Bulldog!
ƒ
A
With tractors and labour still
scarce in 1947, Bulldog owner
J. T. G. Long, of Lake Charm,
Vic., hunted as far away as West
Australia for another Bulldog. He
located one just 60 miles from
home and paid £4OO more for it
than its new price!
“I recall one of the many great
jobs Bulldogs have done for me,”
tells Mr Long. “We went over a
100 acre paddock three tunes —
combining and sowing. Wages,
fuel, and lubricating: oil for the job came to £l6!—wages
were then £1 a day. Those figures are completely re-
liable.”
In summer it gets pretty dry out at Lake Charm, so Mr
Long does a lot of pumping. He says—“l run my Bull-
dog three weeks at a time without stopping—and it does
a great job. When pumping, the vibration of a Bulldog
is so little it wouldn’t flicker the flame of a lantern.”
“How do I like Bulldogs? You couldn’t sell me anything
else!”
■J.i —
**C||
re
y°ut
sMc cess
Cl
or
~ftOOf
Oft
rp«s
"hole*
ale
tie
tract
*2 sea *%& t 0
314
OR
ana i
if or
"tan
Sp eN C6ft r * TY - ltd.
sales
Wc.
INTERSTATE REPRESENTATIVES.
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Elder, Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William Street, Perth, W.A. K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth Street, Hobart, Tas.
K.L, Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick Street, The Valley, Brisbane, Q’lnd.
My uncle's mishap
by LES ROBINSON
AT a quarter to three on
the afternoon of July 23,
1891, after I had men-
tioned to him that I
thought it would be a good idea
to cross the flannel-flower with
cotton-bush and thus have a
flannelette plant which might
then perhaps help to bring about
a reduction in the price of
pyjamas, my uncle, with some
asperity, said to me “Always
work hard, my lad, and leave
thought to those who have apti-
tude for it.”
Having noticed that the more
I acceded to his requests the
better we got on together and
the less he seemed to be plagued
by dyspepsia and gout, I de-
cided to bear in mind the advice
I had now received from him.
He still remembered as well
most likely having seen me
sprawled out on the grass in the
backyard one hot day engrossed
apparently in study. He was
enabled to do so, because the
fence was in an advanced stage
of dilapidation.
“How long has it been in that
wretched condition?” he had in-
quired at the time, sternly, as
though indeed I was destructive
and addicted to demolition.
“Since the hurricane on the
night of February the fourteenth,
eighteen seventy-six,” I replied.
‘‘And I suppose it will remain
like that for another fifteen
years,” he said reproachfully.
“Well, according to the theory
of probability, which, as you are
doubtless aware, Uncle, is an
equation” I began.
“Pish! Tush!” he exclaimed
with impatience, then added,
with vehemence and, seemingly,
annoyance, too: “Get a hammer
and nails! ”
One of his delusions was that
all anybody really needs are im-
plements of some kind.
CIFTEEN more years slid by,
* their tranquillity only dis-
rupted from time to time by
him trying vainly to make me
become the kind of efficiency
expert he always visualised him-
self as being. Meanwhile, hav-
ing been so often drenched
when walking to and from the
station, I had decided to con-
struct an underground passage-
way to it. I was at work upon
this project one afternoon when
my uncle, who was searching for
a collar-stud he had lost, hap-
pened to notice me.
“What on earth are you
doing?” he asked.
I told him.
“A preposterous notion!” he
exclaimed. “Too fantastic, in
fact, to be credible! Why, my
dear fellow, as the station is at
least three-quarters of a mile
from here, it would take even
an excavator who was competent
about a hundred years to com-
plete such a crackbrained under-
taking!”
“No, Uncle,” I murmured
gently, “I don't at all see why
it should, for I read in the paper
the other day that a convict
escaped by making a hole in the
concrete floor of his cell and
then tunnelling until he was be-
yond the prison walls. All that
he had to aid him in the task
was a piece of hoopiron, yet he
completed it in two years.”
“Only a credulous imbecile
would believe such a cock-and-
bull story,” my uncle snorted,
then added, glowering at me and
with a sigh that denoted discon-
tent almost verging upon despair,
“I can never get any sense out
of you.”
“Can I help that, Uncle?” I
asked him mournfully, for he
seemed just then to be immersed
or steeped in gloom, and would,
I knew from past experience,
only have become irascible and
vituperative if I had endeavored
instead to dispel it.
With an impatient gesture, but
not deigning to reply, he left me.
While picking and shovelling
some weeks later in a trench now
about seventeen feet deep I
heard suddenly behind me a
sound like that which a sack of
potatoes, if dropped perhaps
from an aeroplane, would be
likely to make. There was
silence for a moment or two,
then I was subjected to a torrent
of vituperation. Rushing round
from behind the house —impetu-
osity has always beep one of my
uncle’s failings—and without
looking, apparently, where he
was going, he had, alas, fallen
into the trench. I think it not
improbable, too, that he had
forgotten all about the project
upon which I was engaged.
Never had I seen him more
irate.
As I helped him out of the
excavation he called me every-
thing X had always hoped not to
be.
“The whole trouble with you,”
he spluttered finally and with
ferocity, “is that you don’t
think /”
While he paused for breath I
had at last a chance to speak.
“Did you not say to me,
Uncle, at a quarter to three on
the afternoon of July the twenty-
third, eighteen ninety - one,
‘Always work hard, my lad, and
leave thought to those who have
aptitude for it’?”
He stared at me speechless, as
though indeed stricken suddenly
with lockjaw; then, savagely
slashing with his cane at the
larger of the weeds bordering the
path, a manifestation, I conjec-
tured, of extreme dissatisfaction
and choler, he limped away.
Just a little depressed, for I
had been watering and manuring
those weeds with a view to find-
ing out how tall, thus en-
couraged, they could become, I
went steadily on with my work.
AN OLD WOUND.
A road on Sunday sometimes seemed more homely—
The backtracks. I refer to, where the sparrows
(And, here again, the diamond-sparrows, namely)
Dropped from the mistletoe’s drooped arrows.
Then I might meet a couple, in the saddle;
Note her deep blush at me. Unnecessary.
Attention paid me most his face to raddle:
To close my shirt; be of my patches wary.
But, fence-wire for a button, what my cares
Who stared at me and, cock-a-hoop, took note!
I had that kind of garment built in squares,
If somewhat faded, much like Joseph’s" coat.
Except a goat had chewed it. Sometimes I
Felt through that rent a strange humility.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
VoL 72—No. 3719
Wednesday, May 23, 1951
r/ll nfiliw\A /
iw^TS
vs\
NOT A ONE-HANDED JOB.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.O.), Wellington.
ALL TO BLAME.
It should be an easy matter for a country
like Australia, young, full of trained
soldiers and trained soldiers’ relatives and
amply supplied with money through a
booming revenue, to send a battalion to
the Korean front, to keep it well stocked
with reasonable comforts, to keep a suffi-
ciency of trained reserves ready to fill
up its gaps and assure that its sick and
wounded are able to recover at leisure.
It should be no strain on the Common-
wealth to make its small force an adver-
tisement for Australia, as the First and
Second A.I.Fs. were advertisements.
But the fact is that anything which the
3rd Royal Battalion has achieved on oui
behalf has been little due to Arm>
Minister Francis and his Army organisa-
tion. The original recruiting plan became
an almost inextricable muddle. The bat-
talion was sent away pursued by the
rolling oratory of Mr. Francis, but it
would sooner have been pursued by a
sufficient supply of soap and other neces-
sities, and particularly a rolling barrage
of warm clothing, for the lack of which
it has suffered bitterly and would have
suffered more if it had not been for the
help given it by the Americans,
It has fought and fought whenever and
wherever it was wanted. It has been
out on a limb again and again, in common
with British troops, and has earned itself
a peerless reputation for tenacity in cam-
paigns which, even for well-equipped
troops, can have had few parallels for
discomfort in modern war. We have
had in Japan a Lieutenant-General on
the spot and an organisation for the com-
fort of troops, put together for the
benefit of the Australian component of
8.C.0.F., which has scarcely been
equalled for wasteful luxury. Yet our
Korean force has been an endless source
of complaints.
It has been alleged by Australian
soldiers in Korea that leave has been
doled out in the Royals to only six men
at a time so that some have no hope of
a rest for years. It has been said that
there were only 300 reinforcements in
Japan a few days ago, instead of 1000 as
alleged by the Minister. Even though
some of the complaints may be exag-
gerated, the haste with which 200 troops
have been flown off from Australia at a
moment’s notice in the middle of the con-
troversy lends color to this charge,
especially since Mr. Francis followed the
departure of the detachment by announc-
ing that on May 17 he would confer with
the Chief of Staff on “methods of reliev-
ing the 3rd Royal Battalion.”
The British have had a method organ-
ised for months. They had a second
brigade on the spot to relieve the first as
soon as possible. They have now taken
out the battered 27th Brigade, as the
Australian Royals should be taken out
after their long service under crude
Oriental winter conditions, and have sent
a new brigade to take its place. But Mr,
Francis is only beginning to think out
plans which he has no immediate means
of carrying out short of liquidating the
Australian land force in Korea altogether.
Mr. Francis, of course, though he is a
Minister responsible, is not entirely to
blame. The blame attaches to a few
million other people, just as our defence
position generally is a reflection of
national laxity.
In the week in which charges of send-
ing recently-wounded men back into the
line were under discussion it was an-
nounced that thousands of youths had
failed to register for National Service
on the due date;
TOTAL FAILED TO
REGISTERED. REGISTER,
N. S. Wales .. .. 14,000 2,000
Victoria •.. .. 8,500 2,800
Queensland ~ .. 4,600 1,400
S. Australia .. ~ 2,700 500
It was pointed out sternly by the Press
that, in defaulting, these 18-year-old boys
are disobeying the law and are liable to
a fine of £5O. But there is at least an
excuse for them inasmuch as a great Aus-
tralian political party, which commands
nearly 50 p.c. of the electors’ votes, at the
recent Federal election spent weeks per-
suading them that there is no danger of
war, that the call-up is due to the fact
that the Government is made up of
warmongers,” and that military service
is to be deprecated when the same result
can be obtained without any hard work
or fighting by merely sending Dr. Evatt
to talk to U.N.O. Quite a lot of the
defaulters, no doubt, have also heard
that numbers of selfish employers have
refused to facilitate voluntary enlistment.
As for the daily Press, which chides
them for breaking the law by not register-
ing, even youths of 18 should be cynical
enough to reflect that the Press itself pays
not the slightest attention to uncomfort-
able laws like that which makes, say, s.-p.
betting a canker on the life of the com-
munity.
The whole community must share the
responsibility for what is happening in
Korea and in compulsory training and
defence in general. It has failed to
insist on standards which, as a matter
of course, in other British countries, are
called for both from Ministers and from
citizens in general who have obligations
to obey the law, to provide for the safety
of the country and to bury politics and
unite when national issues of danger
arise.
This country seems at present to be pro-
ceeding about its business with the
optimism of a gambler in the full flush of
a successful run. It is reaching the point
at which the Duke of Wellington could
say of it, as he said of an effete Spain,
trampled underfoot by a powerful foreign
enemy:
The national disease of Spain is boasting
of the strength and power of the Spanish
nation, till they are seriously convinced
that they are in no danger, then sitting
down quietly and indulging their national
indolence.
Also his other remark about the Indians
might be as pertinent to the situation —
that they are the only philosophers about
their government I ever met with, if in-
difference constitutes philosophy.”
Votes or Hara-kiri.
Mr. McGirk has little room for satis-
faction in the decision of Mr. Justice
Maxwell that there would be nothing
gained, in view of the limitations of the
Electoral Act, in going on with the chal-
lenge to the election (for Darlinghurst
seat) of Mr. Finnan, Minister for Industry
and Prices. Mr. Finnan forms the thin
barrier which prevents Mr. McGirr from
tumbling into Opposition.
The whole matter, which has been
under discussion for nearly a year,
should have been cleared up months ago.
It is not so long since when any Ministry
which had allowed charges of fraud in
respect of more than 1063 votes to rest
unchallenged for 10 minutes could not
have stayed in office.
There must be some strange loophole
in the Electoral Act provisions if the
charge can be sheeted home that 1063
persons voted wrongly as the result of
fraud, that 729 of these votes were cast
in the names of persons not entitled to
be on the rolls, and that there is no means
available of challenging the rolls before
the Tribunal.
Mr. Ashburner, for the challenger, said
at the hearing that the ruling that rolls
must be accepted as correct meant
that he could challenge only 325 votes,
which was not enough to upset the elec-
tion, since Mr. Finnan won by 732 votes.
He added that
the challenge to about 200 was on technical
grounds, but 125 were challenged on the
ground that more than one vote was cast
in the name of the elector, and of those
80 showed deliberately-organised fraud and
impersonation... .cases in which electors
had voted personally in Darlinghurst and
absent votes had been cast in their names
in other electorates. The inference was that
many more of the 1875 absent votes
counted in the poll were also suspect, but
not discoverable as fraudulent because the
electors concerned had not also voted
personally.
These charges and inferences have not
been disposed of by the finding of the
Elections Tribunal. It does not matter
that Mr. Finnan has not been reflected
on personally. The whole issue is
whether a member is sitting in Parlia-
ment illegally, and it is Mr. McGirr’s
duty to find out, because it is conceiv-
able that, if Mr. Finnan is not legally a
member and legislation has been carried
on his vote or acts have been done by
him by virtue of his being a member of
Parliament, there might be wide reper-
cussions.
What is the position of a law carried
by a vote of one in Parliament House of
which the “one” is not legally a member?
And what, in any case, does Mr. Finnan
himself feel about it, in view of the fact
that he has been receiving salary as a
Minister and member since his election?
Surely he feels that it is vital to clear the
matter up.
There seems little doubt about it that
whether or no there is legal provision for
the Tribunal to investigate the rolls, Mr.
Finnan is not a member of Parliament if
he did not poll sufficient legal votes to b
elected. And if any other position is pos
sible, then the Act is a mockery of th
Constitution and democracy is dead, anc
the way is open for Governments
office to resort to any kind of chicanery
to continue in office.
It is a singular fact that there are now
only two State “Labor” Government
on continental Australia, and the elec
toral arrangements of neither of them
would be calculated to arouse any
enthusiasm outside of Russia.
Some matters in connection with the
Bulimba State election in Queensland
which was upset for good reason by the
Election Tribunal, cannot be discussec
because of certain proceedings in the
courts ; but the whole matter of elections
in “Labor”-governed Queensland needs
wide discussion, because there is a very
strong suspicion of the State rolls and o
electoral conduct there in general.
The Queensland rolls have been sub
ject to the gravest doubt since the days
of the Ryan-Theodore Governments in
World War I. Then, after the electorates
had given a decisive Nationalist victory
in a Federal election, sweeping out every
“Labor” Senator and giving the
Nationalists 10 seats out of 11 in the
House of Representatives, Messrs. Ryan
and Theodore startled the country by
winning a State election by 48 seats to
24 in a poll in which the electoral change-
of-face certainly could not have been
accounted for by the difference between
Federal and State voting areas.
Since the abolition of the Upper House
the position has gone from bad to worse
The State Government flatly refuses to
do what other States have done and adopt
a uniform roll with the Federal Parlia-
ment, and it cannot blame a lot of people
if they draw the worst possible conclu-
sions about the reasons. There are most
startling facts which Mr. Hanlon and his
colleagues make no convincing attempt to
explain.
In December, 1949, when Common-
wealth elections were held, there were
696,691 persons on the Queensland
Federal roll. This had increased by April
30, 1950, to 699,134. But at that date
there were 718,685 names on the State
roll. At the recent Federal election (April
28) the number on the Queensland Senate
roll was 715,723, or 3000 fewer than there
were on the State roll just a year previ-
ously. It seems that there are more than
20,000 State electors who are not also
Federal electors. It also looks as if there
may be more electors in Queensland than
there are adults.
The position of the parties in Queens-
land’s only House after the last election
in April, 1950, was “Labor” 42, Liberal-
Country party 28. “Labor” won no fewer
than nine seats, each by 400 votes or less
—five of them with under 200. And these
seats made the difference between their
remaining in office and going into Opposi-
tion. So the facts are obvious—a few
thousand voters improperly on the roll in
the right places could win—or lose —an
election.
There are 17,000-odd votes on an aver-
age in Queensland electorates won by
Liberals on the figures of the last poll
and only about 7000 average in “Labor”-
won electorates. This suggests a mon-
strous all-over piece of gerrymandering.
The doubts which exist, and of which
the Government loftily takes no notice,
on the principle seemingly that while it
is in office it cannot be called to account
because it controls Parliament, and will
always take care from now on that it
controls Parliament by hook or by crook,
are increased both by incidents reported
from time to time at the polling-booths
and by the Federal polling results.
At the Senate count in 1951,
up to the last figure received
before this was written, 365,285 had
voted for Liberal-Country party candi-
dates and only 257,942 for “Labor.” At
the State polls in April, 1950, the votes
were 309,530 for Liberal-Country party
and 295,138 for “Labor.” With a
majority of 14,000-odd votes in the
aggregate over “Labor,” the Liberal-
Country parties won only 28 seats
against “Labor’s” 42.
Messrs. Hanlon and McGirr are
Premiers of the two worst-governed
States in the Commonwealth. States in
which gambling is encouraged and loafing
has become rife in the great key indus-
tries, which are being ruined ; the two in
which politics are dominated by the
unions, which are hag-ridden to a stand-
still by Communism.
Mr. McGirr is unlikely to clear up the
Darlinghurst scandal unless he is forced
to do so by public opinion. And Mr.
Hanlon will have to be dragged by the
hair of the head if he is to be made to
join the other States and adopt the
Federal rolls, about which nobody has a
qualm, at Queensland elections. Hara-
kiri is not much in the line of either of
these “democrats*”
Deadlocks.
With the Government assured of
Senate majority—a small one, indeed, bu
twill serve—the immediate purpose fo
which the election was held has bee
achieved. In the Twentieth Parliamen
the Prime Minister will no longer b
faced with the state of affairs that vitiatec
his legislative efforts in the nineteenth
of having an overwhelming majority i
the Lower House, yet being frustrated
every turn by a hostile Senate, deliber
ately rigged by his opponents for tha
purpose.
When “Labor” introduced proportiona
representation for Senate elections, it wa
pointed out that the application of th
system at the next election, when onl
half the Senate would go to the country
would mean that “Labor” would sti
have a majority in the Senate, no matte
how badly it might be defeated in th
House of Representatives. Mr. Chifle
and his colleagues, while denying that
Labor” defeat in the Lower House wa
conceivable, freely admitted they realisec
that in that contingency they would sti]
control the Senate.
Although Mr. Menzies and others on
his side of the House showed that they
were clearly awake to this part o
“Labor’s” scheme, they did not seem to
realise at the time the deeper implication
of the change—that even a double-disso
lution would not necessarily break the
deadlock, as the Constitution had in
tended. Most “Labor” members, too
were silent on this point, but Mr. Calwell
the party’s chief exponent of the Open-
Mouth policy, spilt the beans on that as
on other occasions.
Now that the electors of Queenslanc
have thwarted the plot for a deadlocket
Senate, “Labor” will doubtless deny tha
any such plot ever existed. Hansard
April 21, 1948, provides evidence that ii
did.
Mr. Menzies : No matter how unpopular
you may be, we admit that you will get
at least three seats out of seven....
Mr. Calwell: Or five out of ten seats
in a State in the case of a double-dissolu-
tion.
Events have proved that Calwell, not
for the first time, crowed too soon.
But the real Senate problem still re-
mains. The deadlock which has been
avoided in 1951 may easily eventuate in
1953 or 1956.
When Parliament meets next month the
Senate will, in accordance with the Con-
stitution, decide which of its members
are to enjoy a six-year and which a three-
year term. As Government members are
in the majority, this means that the Gov-
ernment will have the task of sorting out
the sheep and the goats. If it follows
the precedents of 1901 and 1914 it will
share the longer-term seats with the
Opposition, the most likely division —on
the basis of the order of election within
each State —being 16-14.
Assuming, then, that L.-C.P. Senators
get 16 of the six-year terms and “Labor”
Senators 14, it follows that in 1953 15
from each side of the House would face
the electors. In every State one or other
of the parties would be bound to get a
3-2 majority. If “Labor” managed to get
the decision in four States there would
be a deadlock in the Senate, no matter
which side won the Representatives.
Last year the Prime Minister introduced
a bill designed to avoid Senate deadlocks.
It rejoiced in the breezy title Constitution
Alteration (Avoidance of Double-Disso-
lution Deadlocks) Bill, 1950, and it con-
tained a delightfully worded clause:
2. The Constitution is altered by insert-
ing after section seven the following sec-
tion :
7a. The number of Senators for a State
(whether an original or a new State) shall
be a number which is divisible by two
without remainder but is not divisible by
four without remainder.
The purpose of this piece of apparent
double-talk was to ensure that half the
number of Senators for each State would
be an odd number. Senate vacancies
were then to be split into two odd-number
groups, to be voted for separately—one
group to be elected for three years, the
other for six. It was claimed that this
would eliminate the risk of deadlocks.
Actually it would do nothing of the sort.
It would reduce the risk of double-disso-
lution deadlocks; it would do nothing to
reduce the chance of a deadlock follow-
ing an ordinary election.
“Labor,” by virtue of its Senate
majority, shelved the bill by referring it
to a Select Committee. As the situation
it was designed to overcome has been
avoided without its assistance, the Govern-
ment would be well advised to leave the
bill on the shelf and look to other ways
of avoiding future deadlocks.
If the Government wishes the Senate
to fulfil its proper function as a States
House —as visualised by the framers of
the Constitution—it will be wiser to scrap
the crazy p.-r. structure instead of trying
to mend its more obvious deficiencies.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Anzacs' Comrade.
Farewell to a commander:
Field-Marshal Lord Birdwood, who died last
week in one of the Royal apartments at Hamp-
ton Court Palace granted to distinguished per-
sons to whom the country owed something, w
the last of the higher commanders of Gallipoli.
He was in a sense . the founder of
the Anzac idea —the name originated in his H-v-
-at Shepheard’s, since he had been the com-
mander of the first Australian corps of troops
to be formed, one of the strongest influences
in making it an Antipodean formation and one
of the strongest influences, also, in changing
it from a British-controlled body into a purely
Anzac concern with an Anzac G.O.C.
Birdwood, a major-general, was in India when
the call came to him to take over the com-
mand of the Australian and Maoriland troops
designed for war in the Middle East. It was
then intended that the formation should be
British, with a wholly British corps staff and the
expenses met by the United Kingdom Ireasuiy
in the main. , . . .
He arrived to find himself as much astonished
at the quality of the Australian staff officers
and command in general as he was at the
physique and fighting quality of the men of the
Anzac forces. On the other side, the Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders were as much
astonished at his own demeanor. They were
astonished to find over them a man who cared
far more for ability and personality in officers
than he did for any other qualities, though he
always insisted on military neatness, and who
did not care whether he had British or Aus-
tralians round him so long as they were effi-
cient. He was easy on mere forms of discipline,
strict on the kind of discipline which makes
for battle efficiency, and he had a habit of
mixing with all ranks on a basis which inspired
confidence without producing insubordination.
The secret of his outlook was largely due to
his Indian-Army training, the old-time Indian-
Army officer being in the habit of keeping the
closest individual contact with his troops and
acting as father and mother to them.
Birdwood was a member of an old Indian
medical family—his father was a high Indian
Judge with medical training; his grandfather was
General Chic Birdwood, one of his uncles a
distinguished Indian Judge, and another, ffiso
medical, a great authority on Indian art. His
mother was one of the historic Impey family, of
whom the most famous member was Elijah,
adviser to Warren Hastings and victim of the
abandoned impeachment proceedings on the
Nuncomar affair.
Before he went to Egypt he had been Chief
Staff Officer in the Mohmand campaign,
Quartermaster-General and Secretary to the
Indian Army after a career which had begun in
the 12th Lancers, from which he exchanged
into the 11th Bengal Lancers. He had been
Military Secretary in South Africa to Lord
Kitchener, who had chosen him for the job in
command of the Australians and Enzedders,
which he only relinquished to Sir John Monash
after he had seen the Anzac Corps built to five
divisions, wholly Australian-New Zealand ; but
he felt a natural pride that he was taken away
to reorganise the Fifth British Army, mauled
and sore after its retreat of March, 1918. As
great an achievement as that of his earlier
command was his building-up of this great body
with swift efficiency so that it was able to go
back to the front in June and play a great part
in the final Allied offensive which drove the
German Army to defeat.
After he had returned to India for a period
as Commander-in-Chief, the King, in 1930, pro-
posed to appoint him Governor-General of Aus-
tralia, where his daughter lived, married to a
Westralian A.I.F. officer. It was a job which
he coveted, but Prime Minister Scullin
boorishly refused to accept him, the Labor
party having decided on a local appointment.
Labor thus missed bringing here a man
who almost certainly would have become the
most popular Governor-General this country
ever had. He twice visited Australia, the second
time after this disappointment, and he did not
fail until his last years to share in the public
celebrations of Anzac Day. Latterly he had
been in ill health, and had lived in quiet retire-
ment at Hampton Court,
In appearance he was a short soldierly, rather
bullet-headed man with all the marks on him
of the good horseman he was, very active on
his feet and an incessant parader of trenches,
a modest eater, almost a teetotaller. At Anzac
he chose for his H.Q. one of the most danger-
ous sites on the Beach, around which many
were killed, including his own aide-de-camp.
And in France he refused to move from his
H.Q. in Hazebrouck even when the Min. shells
of one of the great German railway guns began
to fall at its front door.
He was, in fact, the embodiment of every
quality which was needed to make the A.I.F.
what it was, and his name will five in Australian
history.
In a Socialist State.
A member of the Advisory Council of
Canberra has played a sardonic joke on
its managers which is a curious com-
ment on Socialism.
Canberra is a Socialist city in which
everything belongs to the Government,
and, as in Moscow, it has no municipal
government other than the Minister. Its
electors, being mainly civil servants,
should be intelligent, public-spirited and
the cream of democracy, able to make
their city something for planners to
dream about. But in a Socialist State
like the Federal territory this is not the
main issue. The first consideration is
that Ministerial whims should not be
thwarted. “Labor” and Liberal are alike
in their view of the question.
Therefore, until recently, anyone who
has had the temerity to live in Canberra
has been completely disfranchised. He
had no vote for the Federal Parliament
until the election of 1949, when he was
granted one to produce a sterilised
member who can vote in the House
only on matters concerning Can-
berra itself —in a minority of one
in 123. He is paid £l5OO a year for
this minute duty along with all his other
perquisites. He may get a chance to
vote once in one term. Canberra resi-
dents still have no vote for the Senate.
In the municipal- and what would be
the State-government field, if there were
such things in Canberra, the Minister is
a dictator, and the most public opinion
has been able to do to force itself on
the Government in local matters has been
to secure the creation of an “Advisory
Council,” of the advice of which the
Minister rarely takes the slightest notice.
This body is chosen on principles
apparently discovered in the palimpsests
of Habbakuk recently dug up in the
Middle East and attributed to some cen-
turies b.c. The ordinance provides for
the election of a minority of members,
the majority being officials appointed by
the Minister. When there is a vacancy
on the council it is not filled at a by-
election. The Minister offers the vacant
seat to the candidate at the previous
elections who stands next in order to those
actually elected.
At the last election 8993 primary
votes were cast in the poll. The
three members elected out of eight
candidates polled 7394 votes, leaving
the five non-elected with the residue
1599 votes. Two of the three
elected candidates have since resigned —
one some time ago and the other, Mr.
Fraser, when he was elected to the
Federal Parliament on April 28. The
Minister has filled these vacancies in
terms of the Act by appointing two re-
jected candidates, who between them
polled 978 votes out of 8993.
The situation which would arise if the
third of the elected of 1949 went
out was too much for Mr. U. R. Ellis,
one of the capital’s most ardent fighters
for self-government. He himself last
week resigned in order to illustrate the
ridiculous system and to protest against
Canberra Socialism.
His resignation presents the new
Minister for the Interior with a prob-
lem. He must now choose a “non-
official” member from the remaining
three candidates of 1949, each of whom
lost his deposit—they polled respectively
219, 213 and 189 votes.
Is Riverina To Be Robbed?
As long ago as April 1 John Redrup used
“The Riverlander,” organ of the Murray
Valley Development League, to warn
dwellers in the Murray basin that if they
didn’t look out the power developed by
the Snowy River scheme would be fed to
Melbourne and Sydney and all the
Murray people would get would be the
water.
Mr. Redrup based his prediction on
the fact that, though work on the Snowy
scheme was being pushed on and there
were forecasts that the first power would
be available by 1954, nobody seemed to
have any idea of how it would be used
in the Murray basin, what industries
would be established or what new towns
sited or old ones expanded. He told the
Murray people to get ready to use the
power or see it taken away to the capi-
tals.
He was on the right track. A bunch of
Sydney newspapermen went and had a
look at the Snowy works last week. The
“Sun” man reported that the first power
would be “on” in June, 1954 \ the
“Mirror” man put it this way:
This is the highest camp on the road the
Snowy Mountains Authority is pushing
through to the site of the Guthega Dam,
which will be supplying Sydney with power
by 1954—if all goes well.
That expresses a widespread Sydney
belief that when Snowy power is de-
veloped Sydney’s blackout worries will
be over. In its original conception the
Snowy scheme was not for the benefit of
overcrowded cities but to develop and
settle the vast Murray basin and help
decentralise factory industries.
Meantime, it is pertinent to ask whether
the Sydney McGirrs look upon the Snowy
as the imminent solution to their black-
out muddle. Is that why they dodder
along from day to day, while the posi-
tion gets worse and worse, and refuse to
take effective action towards correcting it?
"The Fat and the lean."
“Old Pastoralist” : Re your article
“The Fat and the Lean” (B. 9/5/’51):
In a district where feed was fence-high
last year, in an over-40in. rainfall area,
where sheep were in water for half the
year, and always in wet mud or grass,
cattle whose calves were born in swamps
with “Lucy,” the green fly in millions
worrying sheep, men working hours the
city “feckless” would strike at the thought
of, using all kinds of spray, wet to their
knees, on country a Land Rover would
not face, the men through a lot of this
north-west N. S. Wales country worked
and saved a big percentage of sheep and
lambs.
How does The Bulletin suggest silos
could have been made, grass cut, land
ploughed, oats, wheat and corn sowed,
reaped, pressed and stored against the
“lean years” in these circumstances? We
graziers know the bad years will come.
We also know the mouse plague over so
much of our country is spoiling our hay
which has been put in sheds, ruining the
standing grass, and hard times threaten.
Perhaps if the editor of our local paper
told you how to run The Bulletin you
would feel much as an experienced grazier
feels about your criticism.
According to Taste.
The masterpiece below may not be the
dirtiest piece of election advertising in
last month’s campaign, but anything that
beats it will have to be pretty grubby. It
appeared in the Young (N.S.W.)
“Witness” over an appeal to vote for the
“Labor” candidate Fuller against the
Country-party’s Anderson, V.C.;
MOTHERS . . .
IF YOU LOVE YOUR SONS
Remember at the Ballot Box
THE MENZIES FADDEN GOVT
Want to Send your 18-year old
Boy overseas to fight . . .
ON ANY WORLD BATTLEFRONT
But your same 18-years old boy
is not considered capable to
EXERCISE A VOTE.
VOTE FOR LABOR AND SAVE YOUR
BOYS
FROM BEING GUN-FODDER.
The Bulletin will not insult the
women of the Hume electorate by be-
lieving that this disgusting piece of mis-
representation was the factor which swung
the few hundred votes necessary to unseat
Anderson; but the advertisement, which
itself insults both the intelligence and the
patriotism of the electors to whom it is
addressed, is symptomatic of “Labor’s”
attitude on the defence of Australia. At
Canberra, after shilly-shallying for
months, die party voted in favor of the
National Service Bill, but apparently
decided that it would be good vote-
catching policy to oppose it on the hust-
ings.
This ignoble policy, which must bear
no small part of the responsibility for
the reluctance of thousands of 18-year-
old youths to register for training, was
implemented in various ways and styles,
according to the fancy and taste of the
candidate. As the piece of literature
quoted above concludes with an injunc-
tion to “Vote for Fuller,” it presumably
represents the taste and fancy of that
gentlemen. It is therefore suggested that
he hang a large framed copy of it on the
wall of his room as an ever-present source
of inspiration for his contributions to
defence debates during the coming
Parliamentary session.
Gift from McGirr.
In a measure which provides for secret
ballots at N. S. Wales elections in
limited circumstances, the McGirr-Evatt-
Finnan outfit has provided for the inser-
tion in all State awards of clauses grant-
ing three months’ long-service leave on
full pay after 20 years’ continuous service.
There is to be pro rata leave where an
employee is dismissed after 10 years’
service for any reason other than serious
misconduct; also for sick leave based
cumulatively on a standard of one week’s
full pay per annum for each year of
employment with the same employer.
It is a typical McGirr contribution to
the prevailing production depression.
Workers now have a nominal 40-hour
week, which is rarely more than 35 hours
in practice, and so much less in thousands
of cases that it is becoming a common
practice for men to carry on two jobs—as
a good many will do during long-service
leave —union secretaries who are firm on
the principle of one-man-one-job appa-
rently being blind in their cases.
They also have two days clear in the
week, a mounting number of public
holidays which, for about half the year,
make the two-day weekend into a three-
day one. They have up to three weeks’
holiday on full pay in the year, apart
from sick leave and the time off which is
snitched in many big unions for strikes,
public consultation and just plain loaf of
a type which has become so common
that it has added a new word to the
language—“absenteeism.”
Now another 4\ days a year are to be
added to the workers’ rest at the cost of
his employer. This means another sub-
traction from production, and it will be a
tax upon the good employer who keeps
his employees for long periods, and a
preference to the bad employer who can’t
keep his staff. It will be also a preference
against workers in seasonal industries in
which employment is intermittent and a
handicap on the back of the small em-
ployer, since it must hit him much harder
than it will hit the big concern. It will
be an extra load for prices to carry and
a heavy contribution towards building-up
inflation.
And it will be another nail in “Labor’s”
coffin, since the Golden Ass who carries
its gifts and bribes to electors is beginning
to weaken under the load. Lastly,
it is probably an indication that Mr. Mc-
Girr knows that he will soon have to
face the country at an election and that
it will need desperate measures of
electoral bribery and a hurricane of wild
promises if he is not to take a hiding at
the polls.
Only desperate men would conceive
some of the legislation and other measures
which have emanated recently from the
McGirr-Evatt crowd in N. S. Wales.
The A.B.C/S "Forum."
The Australian Broadcasting Commis-
sion, in shaping the teams for its Forums
of the Air, which are listened to through-
out Australia, continues the policy under
which the “Left” seems always able to
steal the show.
When nationalisation of banks was an
issue it chose Mr. J. A. Ferguson, presi-
dent of the State A.L.P., to lead a debate,
and presented him with a useful elec-
tion pamphlet in a reprint of his outburst
which he was allowed to revise to suit
“Labor’s” programme.
Last week the debate in Sydney was
on secret ballots in the unions, a matter
on which the Menzies Government intro-
duced legislation last session. Opposi-
tion to the idea was presented by Mr.
Ferguson again—introduced as Federal
president of the A.L.P. —and Mr.
Shortell, introduced as president of the
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council,
the spokesman of the unions. This was
on the eve of the introduction of a secret-
ballot bill by Mr. McGirr.
But for the support of the measure the
A.B.C. asked two private citizens who,
though they each did a reasonably good
job in putting his case, were compara-
tively unknown to the public.
Messrs. Ferguson and Shortell
appeared with the usual bunch of carap-
folloWers. These sat in the theatre and
burst into applause as on© man at intervals
when the “Labor” men were speaking,
and into a mutter of simulated dismay
and astonishment every time their oppo-
nents appeared to be making a telling
point, this procedure apparently being
timed to distract the attention of
listeners.
The Press, being what it is in Sydney,
gave most of the next day’s reports of
the debate to the wisdom of Messrs.
Ferguson and Shortell, showing small
interest in the views of their little-known
opponents.
If Mr. Ferguson had had knowledge-
able opposition—say, somebody like Mr.
W. C. Wentworth, M.P. —he would have
been laughed off the air when he de-
scribed the Australian Railways Union
—president J. J, Brown, Communist
Central Committee —as “my own very
moderate union body.”
His own branch was the first union in
Australia to affiliate with the Red Inter-
national of Labor Unions in Moscow,
and until it appointed him —an ex-
Communist —as its secretary, it had had
Communist secretaries in office for nearly
20 years, one of them selected for it in
Moscow by an Australian Comintern
delegation headed by Comrade J. S,
Garden. _
A Plot That Failed.
Sydney City Council, or any council in
N.S.W. for that matter, won’t prosecute
people who faffed to vote at the State
municipal elections last December.
Northern Rivers Association of Muni-
cipalities and Shires went further —it
hurled back to the conceivers of compul-
sory voting in local-government elections,
the McGirr gang, the onus of prosecu-
tion.
Compulsory voting at l.g. elections is
a McGirr “Labor” stunt to elect “Labor”
councils in cities and towns. Election is
on the first-past-the-post system, and
“Labor” assumed that, since “workers”
are usually in the majority in towns and
cities, compulsory voting would ensure
“Labor” councils. But the McGirrs
weren’t game to take on themselves the
responsibility of prosecuting non-voters;
it left that to the councils.
System of l.g. election in N.S.W., as
modelled by “Labor” Governments, is a
disgrace. The adult franchise, which
gives everybody over 21, whether rate-
payer or not, an l.g. vote, failed to achieve
the desired end, for the “workers” in
ntost cases didn’t care who was on the
council. Thus compulsion followed.
Of course the McGirrs are not con-
cerned with civics. All they sought was
the election of “Labor” councils all over
C Continued on next page.)


For election comment in this issue David
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
V'
m
m
- Jt
V
For your throat’s sake
CRAVE NA
Always reliable
Obtainable In
ID’s & 2©’s
is®
~
«w
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
the State, and, with cynical disregard for
the rights of the citizens concerned, they
forced amalgamations of councils without
giving those affected a chance to approve
or otherwise. Thus, with adult franchise,
compulsory voting, and forced amalgama-
tions, McGirr “Labor” sought to domin-
ate l.g. administration throughout N.S.W.,
and this was an important initial step
towards that socialisation which the 1949
Commonwealth elections stopped in its
tracks.
The scheme hasn’t worked, largely be-
cause of the good sense of the very people
it sought to enlist. Attempts to make
shire and municipal elections bitter party
affairs have signally failed, and thousands
of voters have steadfastly refused to vote
in l.g. elections in which they are not
personally interested. The McGirrs, be-
ing singularly blind to public opinion,
are unlikely to repeal the legislation;
but it will become more and more a rod
for their own backs as time goes by.
POLITICAL POINTS
At the weekend the U.K. Government
sent a temperate and sensible Note to
Persia; (1) Refusing to allow the Persian
agreement with Anglo-Iranian Oil to be
cancelled and promising that, if it is, the
matter will go to the Court of Interna-
tional Settlements; (2) asserting its
willingness to negotiate; (3) sternly
warning the Persian Government that it
will take all steps needed to protect
British lives in Persia. The Persians in
their usual hysterical manner at once
shrieked that they would not negotiate,
that “Persia is a store of gunpowder, and
that, if the British set fire to it, we will
go up with it.” Then the Premier
attacked the United States. One product
of U.S. apparently has not permeated to
Tehran: the book How to Win Friends.
It now sounds as if Moscow is behind
the whole business.
To Sydney’s blackout blues was added
last week drastic gas-rationing. Six men
at the city’s biggest gasworks went on
strike, and when they were suspended
1000 others downed tools in “sympathy,”
It’s time some of these unions instilled
into their members a little sympathy for
the long-suffering public. There was a
time when a man who struck took a
risk—the chance of losing his job, his
livelihood, his future, the comfort of his
wife and children. The modern striker
runs little or no risk, and if he happens
to be employed in what are hollowly
called “essential services” the whole com-
munity suffers.
Best quip of the times in Sydney
bobbed up at a suburban council meet-
ing when an alderman, protesting about
the danger to life of sudden blackouts,
said some warning system should be
adopted and demanded that the council
take action. He was instantly supported
by a colleague, who said, “Mr. Mayor,
let us do something. Surely we are en-
titled to the most up-to-date power-failure
system we can get.”
The nature of the anti-British cam-
paign being carried on by almost the
whole U.S. Press and by its servile fol-
lowers in Australia is becoming more
obvious every day. First, it was charged
by General MacArthur and accepted and
advertised sensationally by the Press that
the British were feeding petrol to Com-
munist China. It proved utterly untrue.
Then it was canvassed that she was send-
ing huge quantities of strategic war
supplies to Peking. This, too, proved a
furphy. At that stage it was discovered
that the bulk of supplies to China from
the outside world was being carried to
Chinese ports by U.S.-owned ships flying
the Panamanian flag and under U.S. naval
and air protection. So far there has been
no shriek of protest about this, but that
particular anti-British campaign perished
suddenly.
Dedman seems to have acquired at
least a little restraint during his 18 months
in the wilderness. At the declaration of
the Corio poll —Opperman won by 134 —■
he was almost humorous. He remarked:
The electors have made their choice.
They have made their bed and must lie in
it. I hope the bed will be less inconvenient
than I think it is going to be.
Now, if he’d said something like that in
1949 instead of hurling abuse at his
vanquisher, he might easily have been the
winner this time. Australian electors
don’t like a bad loser.
Action of the A.C.T.U. in advising
Australian unions not to support the New
Zealand watersiders is to be applauded,
though as its colleagues of the N.Z.
Federation of Labor had condemned the
strike it could hardly have done anything
else. Sections of watersiders and seamen
have already flouted the council’s instruc-
tions. The council can disaffiliate any
union that defies it. But will it?
In 1947 Premier McGrrrrr beat the gun
by introducing the 40-hour week in N. S.
Wales while the Federal Arbitration
Court was still considering the matter.
A State election followed almost
immediately. Last week Promising
Jimmy introduced a bill granting long-
service leave to all employees on State
awards. An announcement of polling-
day may be expected at any moment.
Somebody put it around that Test
cricketer Keith Miller was trying for the
“Labor” nomination for Burwood in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, vacant since the
death of Liberal member Jackett. Miller
promptly denied the rumor. He was
wise ; if he wants to enter “Labor” poli-
tics Burwood doesn’t offer him much of
an opportunity.
McGrrrrr’s Electricity Commission is
considering a plan for subsidising the use
of auxiliary power-plants by private in-
dustry, to help reduce blackouts. Before
they build their hopes too high they should
get in touch with a brick-manufacturer on
the North Shore who, fed-up with loss of
production through blackouts, installed
an auxiliary-plant. Almost immediately
he found his labor-force dwindling. Some
of his workmen just disappeared without
giving any reason; others made it clear
that a job where work went on all the
time had no attractions for them. Net
result: production has ceased altogether,
as the yards have closed down.
Fair rain in the N.S.W. wheat-belt
rescued seeded country and enabled those
who’d been hanging off to get the drills
going. But it came a bit late, and that,
together with the fact that a fair num-
ber have got out of wheat into wool, will
mean a lower general yield next Christ-
mas. In a way, it will do no harm —
wheat land can always do with a rest.
In their shop in Sydney’s William-
street, the Comrades have large posters
displayed: “Korea for the Koreans.
Malaya for the Malayans. Withdraw all
foreign troops!” If they’ll advocate ex-
tending the same courtesy to Latvia,
Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Bulgaria,
Rumania and some others all Australia
will support it.
The Sheahan Railway Department in
N.S.W. has informed country-dwellers
that sheepskin-bales tied with wire will
no longer be accepted for carriage by
rail. Why? Because the Storemen and
Packers’ Union decided not to handle
them. On these same railways bales of
lucerne tied with wire are carried with-
out comment. Why? Because the S. and
P.U. hasn’t decided not to handle them.
It’s on again! For years schemes for
the large-scale development of Blair
Athol coalfield rolled out of Queensland
as regularly as the Sydney express. Then,
just as it seemed that a British concern
was about to commence operations,
silence fell upon the field. For the last
couple of years Callide has had the head-
lines, but now Blair Athol has struggled
back into the limelight. This time the
story is of a £25-million company to
develop the field —four English firms to
put up half the amount; the Federal,
Queensland, Victoria and S.A. Govern-
ments to find the rest. The suggestion is
that the two last-named States would
agree to take 3,000,000 tons a year for
25 to 30 years. Sounds good, but on past
records it’ll be interesting to look back
on in 25 to 30 years’ time.
One State, South Australia, isn’t so
interested in developments at Blair Athol
as it might have been a few years ago.
Boring in S.A.’s own Leigh Creek field
has revealed two new seams, and it is
hoped these will provide sufficient open-
cut coal to justify duplicating the £lO
million powerhouse to be completed at
Port Augusta in 1954.
The decision of McGirr’s Transport
Department to “shame” passengers on
his ramshackle trams who do not pay
their fares by publicly taking their names
is fully in line with “Labor’s” new totali-
tarianism. It is only a step short of the
procedure in vogue in Japan before the
war. There the fare-inspector took
along with him a hefty member of the
Kempei Tai to slap the face of the sus-
pected defaulter.
N.S.W. Minister for Local Govern-
ment Cahill told Molong people that
forced amalgamations of 1.-g. areas had
resulted in “advantages” to the areas con-
cerned, and said something about “the
weight of evidence” being in favor of
amalgamation, “The Shire and Muni-
cipal Record” reminds him that at the
Molong inquiry all local evidence was
against amalgamation ; the only evidence
for it came from a representative of the
McGirr Electricity Authority. “Neverthe-
less,” remarks the journal, “the areas
were amalgamated by Ministerial direc-
tion.” But by that time Cahill was
somewhere else.
Premier McLarty, of W.A., bobbed up
at the British Industries Fair and told
the oversocialised British that their capi-
tal, goods, industries and migrants would
be most welcome in his State. He should
be more careful, or a bunch of Food
Ministry coves may rush out and start
planting peanuts all over the place.
When is full employment not full em-
ployment? When the Attlee Government
defines it in a letter to the Secretary-
General of the United Nations;
It is the firm policy of his Majesty’s
Government to keep unemployment at die
lowest level compatible with the avoidance
of inflation. The experience of the last
few years has shown a level of about 2 per
cent, at the seasonal peak.... The Govern-
ment has therefore decided to make a small
allowance (for factors arising outside the
United Kingdom) and to express the full-
employment standard of the United
Kingdom as a level of unemployment of
three per cent, at the seasonal peak....lt
applies of course to the United Kingdom as
a whole and does not preclude the
possibility that in particular areas the per-
centage of unemployment might exceed
three per cent.
Two coves in Melbourne tried to sell
blackmarket spuds to a man they thought
was a dealer. He turned out to be a
Potato Board inspector masquerading as
a dealer. The two coves turned out to
be Potato Board inspectors masquerading
as growers. Nobody knows who got the
spuds. This may be true or it may not
be true, but don’t kid yourself it couldn’t
happen—all roads leading into Melbourne
are infested with P.B. inspectors.
In Tasmania a Board of Inquiry has
been looking into the question of dead-
locks in the House of Assembly and has
made the following recommendations:
1. Assembly strength to be increased from
30 to 35 members, five electorates each to
return seven members by proportional-
representation,
2. If both sides of the House remain
equal after the election of a Speaker there
is a case for appointing a Speaker from
outside the House or for declaring the
Speaker’s seat vacant to allow for the elec-
tion of another member in his place.
The board, which consisted of Professor
Hytten and Mr. H. J. Exley—a third
member. Professor Giblin, died during the
inquiry—considered that the Speakership
suggestion should be applied only when
a Speaker could not be elected from the
House without leaving voting strength
even.
According to Country-party “News
Bulletin” No. 15/5, Mr. Davis Hughes
(C.P., Armidale), outlined the position of
potatogrowers to the N.S.W. Parliament
and “reged the Government to give most
serious consideration to the facts.” But
how is “reging” the Government going to
get more and cheaper potatoes?
According tg Commerce Minister Mc-
Ewen, “officials of the four participating
countries are working on the final details
and the drafting of the plan.” This is
the post-J.O. wool-stabilisation plan, but
McEwen is a trifle ahead of himself.
Australian growers are by no means con-
vinced that Government chaps can plan
wool-marketing, and, since McEwen him-
self promised them a vote on it before
he went to election, it might be a good
idea to take the vote before spending
time and cash on plans.
Those who voted “Labor” on April 28
in the pathetic belief that “Labor” could
control prices ought to be cheered by the
news from Britain that, under the Labor-
Socialist food- and price-control there
butter this week is up 6d., tea 4d., cook-
ing fats 4d., coffee 7d., and that more
than 300 grocery lines have increased in
price since March. Yes, they should be
cheered that “Labor” didn’t get in to
follow the British example.
So we’re a nation of gamblers, are we?
Well, in Britain a Parliamentary com-
mittee has discovered that four of every
five adults gamble in some form, 77,000
workers are registered as employed in
the “gambling industry,” about £2 million
is staked in bets, thousands of postal em-
ployees do nothing but handle 637 mil-
lion letters and 239 million postal-orders
exchanged between the public and foot-
ball pools every year. Isn’t Socialism
supposed to wipe out want and the need
for money?
A Mr. L, Churchward, senior political-
science lecturer at Melbourne University,
is credited by Melbourne “Argus” with
saying that to “achieve friendship with
Asian peoples we must: Recognise the
People’s Republic of China ; actively re-
sist Japanese rearmament; recognise
Red China’s right to a seat at U.N.;
withdraw foreign troops from Korea;
withdraw the Air Force from Malaya;
refer the Western New Guinea dispute
to U.N.” Yes, he lectures at Melbourne
University.


TRAINING
CHARTERS
HoWMIITAMCE.
C R jLtH otl
0
foom,- e-**.
Ob e i^oSZ
V Nou) ‘9'TART JUMPING-,
COiVNGLApe, OR WE ‘START
SHOOTiMCr % "
*
Use Not P£RMim=P
To throw without
A , "
'We uOiSH To v/ETO THE UiHOt-E
Proceedings . Our. athuetes have 6EEn
PREVENTEP FROM WINNING 6y THE
Scheming western imperialists .
%
w
THE WORLD-BEATERS.
“The Soviet proposes to enter a team for the next Olympic games."


<y)
*
of
i*
ji
p
<y>
Your WILL is
first and foremost
a business matter
Your Will is probably the
most important document that
you will ever sign. Failure to
treat it as a business matter of
the highest importance may prove
costly to your family.
The best procedure is to
discuss your problems, in con-
fidence, with Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited. The Company
has more than 63 years experience
in Estate administration and is
well qualified to guide you in
your planning.
Pit
)E
m
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by
a Solicitor. This will involve the appointment o£ an
Executor and Trustee. If you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly with a
relative or friend you will be following the lead of many
of our wisest and most successful citizens.
If you would have particulars of the services offered by the
Company, ring BO 377 (or write) —and make an appointment.
A Senior Officer will he glad to supply the information you desire.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000.000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAQOA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORAEOB
Business. Rollery. etc.
Wages and Work
From the presidential address
of Mr. A. E. Heath at the
annual conference of the
Associated Chambers of Com-
merce in Melbourne:
Following the accelerated speed of"
increase in the basic wage, grave
doubts are now expressed as to
whether this system has all the
merits claimed for it. The whole
picture is blurred by high export
prices, and is also rendered artificial
and unsatisfying through the lapse of
time between the operation of the
elements in the basic wage and the
receipt of same by wage-earners.
The real disaster is the failure of
production. Dividing its units into
the total sum, there is a constantly-
rising wage figure instead of a falling
or stabilised result.
The movement in the basic wage
during the year (Sydney basis) is;
May, 1950 138 s.
August, 1950 .. .. 1425.
November, 1950 ... .. 1465.
December, 1950 ~ .. 1655.
March, 1951 .. .. 1735.
May, 1951 180 s.
It is interesting to note the relative
increases in cost of living in this
country in 1950 over 1949, as com-
pared with some others, as issued by
the National Labor Office, Washing-
ton, U.S.A., viz.:
Australia and France .. .. 12 p.c.
Canada, U.S.A. and Sweden 6 p.c.
United Kingdom, Northern
and Southern Rhodesia .. 4 p.c.
Belgium 2 p.c.
One important factor, the con-
stantly-increasing costs, caused by
basic-wage increases and reduction of
hours, is that of the total Govern-
mental employees in relation to the
number in private employment. At
January 31 last the figures were: —
Governmental authorities .. 671,500
Private employment .. 1,921,000
2,592,500
THE 40-HOUR WEEK.
In my last presidential address I
suggested that the time was then
opportune for the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court to initiate the test
which it indicated in the judgment
which brought the 40-hour week into
operation on January 1, 1948. I do
most respectfully and sincerely sug-
gest that this question is now of
supreme, nay, vital importance, and
the court is the one and only tribunal
that can impartially handle it.
I know there will be the usual
outcry that an attempt is being made
to take away “hard-won” conditions
from the worker. I suggest that, with
the threats now upon us, conditions,
however “hard-won,” which will not
fit the inescapable protective and
economic programme now upon us,
and so prevent pulling our weight
with the other nations of the world
in preparing for defence, will be
very easily lost if we shut our eyes to
realities, and what is now suggested
is a mere bagatelle compared with
the result that will follow if we fail
to make good.
SLOW TURN-ROUND OF SHIPS.
The grave position prevailing in
most Australian ports has been inten-
sified, and our reputation in the main
shipping centres of the world is an
unenviable one.
A ship carrying lumber from
Canadian and West American ports
to Australia reached Townsville on
January 1 with less than 500,000
super-feet of deck- and hatch-cargo
for discharge. She was there for
fourteen days, completing on January
14, during which time charterer’s
money was payable day by day, and
the remarkable fact is that the quan-
tity of timber mentioned was loaded
in British Columbia ports by four
gangs in less than nine collective
working-hours, during which period
heavy rain fell almost continuously.
This ship proceeded to Sydney,
arriving on January 18, to discharge
the remaining 3J million super-feet.
On January 23 a berth became avail-
able, but only one gang of men was
supplied, and this condition lasted
for many days. Ultimately the ship
completed discharge of her Sydney
cargo on March 9 —that is, a period
of fifty running days, or, from the
point of view of .the charterers, 68
running days from the arrival of the
ship at the first Australian port until
the completion of the Sydney dis-
charge. The actual time of loading
the whole cargo (of 5,000,000 ft.)
was 12 running days, during which
time the ship shifted five times, loaded
at six different ports, and the actual
time occupied in loading was 1131
hours. It is much more difficult to
stow a ship than it is to discharge it;
consequently we find that Canadian
wharflaborers, working in no better,
and probably worse, conditions as
far as weather is concerned, are
working at a rate which makes our
performance a sham.
Another ship with the same quan-
tity of timber which arrived in Sydney
on December 18 did not leave the
port until February 5.
Vanguard Insurance
Vanguard Insurance Co, has
outstripped its foster-parent,
Mainguard, in popularity on
Sydney ’Change. Vanguard ss.
shares are at 10s. 7d., Mainguard
bslv^V^LMJ
“We'll collect him tomorrow."
in the early stages combined
with sound investment policy.
On Vanguard’s board are Sir
Alfred Davidson (chairman),
Rear-Admiral Bracegirdle, A. T,
Anderson, I. E. Cassidy, K.C.,
and M. E. Farley. General
manager is W. M. Mayberry.
There was a further easing of
prices on Sydney ’Change last
week. Melbourne again was
ss. scrip at 9s. sd. Paul Cullen,
leading spirit in Mainguard, does
not appear on the board of Van-
guard.
It is unusual for an insurance
co. to issue ss. shares. United
Insurance, of which George
ludah Cohen used to be chair-
man, has £5 shares, with another
£5 liability.
Vanguard was floated towards
the end of April. It offered
1,000,000 ss. shares, of which
400,000 were taken by Main-
guard, its directors and associ-
ates, 400,000 were “reserved for
companies and persons who will
contribute to this company’s
premium income,” and 200,000
ords. were offered for public
subscription. . The issue was
rushed.
The co. intends to underwrite
all classes of general insurance.
It expects support from its
many associated enterprises.
The prospectus spoke of an
assured, adequate premium in-
come. No vendors’ or promoters’
shares were issued. Mainguard
(Aust.), Ltd., received 2£d. a
share commission, and allowed
Id. a share brokerage on appli-
cations accepted from Stock
Exchange members.
The prospectus gave aggre-
gate figures of six Australian in-
surance public cos., which indi-
cated earnings of 38.8 p.c. on
capital. But of this 12.2 p.c.
came from investment earnings,
the remaining 26.6 p.c. from
underwriting.
It is unlikely that Vanguard,
however strong its connections,
will earn even that underwriting
percentage to begin with. And
until it builds up its reserves in-
come from investments will be
low.
The establishment of reserves,
also, will tend to keep dividends
down, and, until large reserves
are established, net premium in-
come in relation to capital is un-
likely to be of the ratio indi-
cated in the prospectus. The
prospectus would have presented
a truer picture of underwriting
prospects if the reserves as well
as the paid capital of the com-
panies quoted had been given.
The promoters say “Vanguard
will be developed on sound con-
ventional lines which have
proved successful throughout in-
surance history,”
Bankers and Traders’ Insur-
ance had been in existence 20
years before it paid more than
7 p.c. to shareholders. But it
now earns 52 p.c. on its capital
and pays \l\ p.c. That is the
way it generally goes with in-
surance cos. High earning-
power at maturity is usually the
result of restraint in div.-paying
firmer, being encouraged by a
flush of large-scale bonus issues
from locally-domiciled stocks,
including Kia-Ora and K.M,
Steel Products (one for one in
each case).
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Publishers Holdings, Ltd.,
formed recently in Sydney,
represents the “Man” magazine
business. It takes over all the
shares in K. G. Murray Publish-
ing Co., the Kenmure Press and
nine other subsidiaries. An
issue of 800,000 ss. shares is
being made, of which 600,000
will be taken by the directors
and their associates; the public
will be offered 200,000 shares.
Net profits for the three years
to December 31, 1950, averaged
15 p.c. on capital. Net tangible
assets equal 3s. sd. a share, or
4s. 6d. including profit for the
first quarter of 1951 and actual
stock valuations,
* * * *
The ord. shares in Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
rose from 365. 6d, to 38s. last
week following announcement
of a close liaison with Head,
Wrightson and Co., Ltd., York-
shire engineers. The English
co. will take up 50,000 £1 ords.
at par, with a five-year option
over a further 25,000 on the
same terms. Gibson, Battle will
have the exclusive agency in
Australia for all the heavy-
engineering products of its new
associate, and it will draw on
the English cO.’s experience in
the course of an extended manu-
facturing programme. Gibson,
Battle already has an extensive
list of well-known engineering
agencies, and runs a particularly
modern machine-shop in Syd-
ney. Its paid capital at present
is £300,000, of which £75,000 is
in 5 p.c. cum, prefs., the rest
ords. Last year’s earnings were
13.3 p.c. on ord. capital and the
div. 1\ p.c. Previous “high” for
the ords. this year was 38s. 6d.
* * * *
Nor’-West Whaling Co., Ltd.,
is being formed as a public co.,
and will issue 196,000 10s. ords.
at par. The co. will operate
from Point Cloates, in Westralia.
It appears to have been doing
well. Main thing is for it to
keep on catching whales.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Courtaulds’ lOs.-paid shares
have responded to the announce-
ment that the co. would begin
converting tyre yarn to tyre
fabric before the end of 1951,
Full operation of the Tomago
(N.S.W.) factory is hoped for by
1953. The co. will have a large
capital to earn divs. on when all
factories are operating.


Bent, Phillip and Young
Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariS. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONE Y BATES;
Single Rooms—
l-'rom 11/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE"
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
W‘tUm MMAX ~
■ :■ K
i
:,;;s|i!ii'*? f ‘ ? W’llajfP
WR
5 11:-
yWtMii t ; » i! tai
nil
• ;< < '
i »•«
raze
SS
;; „.;x
G AGA?NST M WORMS
How long is it since he was wormed ?
Worms sap a dog’s energy, impair his
health and lower his resistance to disease.
All dogs and puppies that have
been exposed to the risk of
infestation by worms
should be worm-
ed regularly
every three
months
A
BARKO Worm Powders
have been prepared speci-
ally for the elimination
of Tape Worms and are a
safe and reliable medicine
to use lor this purpose.
BARKO
WORM POWDERS
PRICE Z/-a box. ALL CHEMISTS
KUV mom
*Mtlu
SANDERS
4K& files
CerraipoDd«nc«.
•tot*menu. #tc.. Olod In (ha
“Sondm“ mb b* moimly
bound and couvnitd Into O
porloct book of itUtanca oi
•he and of ooch a»lk m
«my otbor ported
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
» a rm«ii * c*. Ftp. tu.
■„ Mmmmkmm Sm» WA
J VkMtß A lM« U 4.
4g*mu r—
ITDWI f.
MCLBOUUfB -
AK>lb*l|fe» fj
4*9
frU«» t«4 f»r-
Uk«r
gf
gf
gf
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
MATTHEW FLINDERS
In 1801, Matthew Flinders was given command of
the "Investigator” to chart the remaining unexplored
coastline of Australia. He had previously engaged in
Australian coastal exploration and was a navigator
of outstanding ability.
Arriving at the south-west corner of Australia in
December, he surveyed the south coast from Cape
Leeuwin to Port Phillip Bay, and explored and
named Spencer Gulf. He also proved that Australia
was not divided into two large islands as some
imagined.
Setting out again from Port Jackson in July, 1802,
Flinders followed the coast northward and arrived in
Torres Strait in October. Having charted the Gulf
of Carpentaria, he continued his voyage and, stop-
ping at Timor for repairs, sailed round the continent
to arrive in Sydney on 9th June, 1803.
On the occasion of the Jubilee of the Common-
wealth of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales
Australia’s pioneer bank honours the explorers
who opened the way for the development of this,
great country.
r
g
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Mill lANK IN AUtTIAil*
(INOOBPOBATBD IX NBW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITBD LIABILITY)
A&tfi(7o
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Ettabliahed 1878
Head Office* 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. OALB (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD
6TRDAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZBB.
k. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
VOm
#tW r i
II
[ rtt n
-Ut
¥
■A
P
'/I
r'
I'-nfilf"
r+
»s
U-> 5
NOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT and COLD
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for all
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is com-
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone at coil fer orformotioo cm the madetw
mtulator—B. L SIAGWOOL
fg
fdg
Insulation
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MA931.1 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, 83604 • ADELAIDE, C 7257 • PERTH, 1710?
,W© Have to Face It
There were thousands of smug
magsmen throughout Australia,
possibly equally distributed all
over the world, who favored
monetary manipulation as a
stimulus to trade and employ-
ment prior to World War 11. The
same type of people usually re-
garded the 40-hour week as a
good thing, also any economic
or political novelty that came
along. Communism, where not
actually favored, was regarded
as being of no danger —there
were so few self-confessed Com-
munists.
“Labor” politicians, of course,
were chief among these cocky
characters ; but not far behind
them were a type of suddenly-
successful businessmen who re-
sented the established order of
things, and pressed for national-
isation of banking, a “new credit
system,” and were prepared to
play around with anything they
regarded as being—in their own
jargon of a “positive”
character.
Early during the recent war a
much-publicised multi-company-
director, a cut above the afore-
mentioned order, decided to let
the country have the benefit of
his brilliant “modern” methods
of solving the problems which
afflict mankind but more
especially businessmankind. His
slogan for the election was “This
war is for posterity—let posterity
pay.” He failed to win his seat,
but he and his generation are
still paying for the war he
sought to avoid paying for.
And all those magsmen —
“Labor” politicians, business-
men and the like —who wanted
inflation, the 40-hour week, etc.,
now have what they asked for.
They also have a managed credit
system, geared to maintain full
employment. Yet, notwithstand-
ing it all, we are rushing head-
long into a production depres-
sion.
True, the Communist snake
has entered our paper-money
Eden and deliberately set out to
strain and crack the economy.
But plenty of other sectional
interests, from the A.C.T.U. and
the A.W.U. to (at times) the
Country party, stand out for
their own selfish interests regard-
less of what happens to the wel-
fare of the country as a whole.
The time is not far distant
when all sections of the com-
munity, in Australia and New
Zealand, will be faced with the
problem of continued existence
as an enlightened, progressive
civilisation. We are not work-
ing hard enough, not producing
enough, and not maintaining our
capital assets. We are creating
too much paper-money, and
soaring costs are having a
thoroughly demoralising effect
on industry and society.
Last week the president of the
A.C.T.U. was reported as say-
ing that “there would be a real
industrial brawl” if employers
sought to increase the working
week beyond 40 hours. It was
not necessary for the court to
review the 40-hour week.
Mr. Monk and his followers
need reminding that they are
subject to the laws of the land,
and what the Arbitration Court
awards them it can, in just cir-
cumstances, take away from
them. All other sectional in-
terests —manufacturing, pastoral
or finance —will have to play the
game, too. The economy can’t
continue to run along lines
similar to a State lottery.
Maoriland Share Prices
When the opening of the 1951
main dividend season in New
Zealand brought a revival of in-
terest in local securities a few
weeks after Easter, New Zea-
land investors began to revise
their ideas of values of Aus-
tralian shares on their market as
they discounted prospects of re-
valuation, and prices for Com-
monwealth securities in the
Dominion got out of step with
Australian trends.
Until this setback Australian
issues were discounted by Maori-
landers to the extent of about
half the exchange-gap, and N.Z.
hopes were pinned on an
eventual return to parity. As
the feeling grows that nothing
will be done about the exchange,
the drift will go further, and
N.Z. equities will improve their
position.
This doesn’t mean that there’s
any fundamental r e a c t i o n
against Australian equities —
nothing of the kind —but it
means that Maorilanders have
been growing uneasy about the
ebbing pound. They no longer
think Australian currency is as
alluring as they did a while
back.
When they’ve made the neces-
sary adjustment on this score
Australian securities will regain
their place. There’s an attrac-
tiveness about them, helped by
the scope, industrial prospects
and procession of new issues,
which makes a powerful appeal
when viewed from across the
Tasman, and they’re the best
outlet for Maorilanders who
want to place funds abroad.
Strike Aftermath
Months after New Zealand’s
waterfront strike and hold-ups in
coal, cement, the freezing-
works, coastal shipping and land
transport New Zealanders will
feel the stunning backlash in
stiff price-rises on all imports,
and there’ll be a costly reckon-
ing over the next year.
The first imports from the
Old Country under the 50 p.c.
surcharge on shipping freights
should reach M.L. in July, and
from then on Maorilanders will
feel the steepest rises in produc-
tion costs and the cost of living
they’ve ever known.
Even without the surcharge
they’d have been hit by a big
inflationary tidal-wave under the
force of record prices for wool,
cotton, metals and other raw
materials, which would have
sent retail prices bounding up-
wards in every direction, but now
they’re exposed to outsize doses
of inflation from two sources
simultaneously.
To Maorilanders who have
been highly price-conscious for
months past the blow will strike
like a thunderbolt. Those who
could afford embarked on a buy-
ing spree last year, which was
whipped along lately when they
saw the way the wind was blow-
ing, and stocks of woollens, tex-
tiles and other lines in the
middle of the inflationary stream
have been nearly swept off the
shelves, so there’ll be startling
price contrasts as soon as new
shipments flow in and are placed
on display.
Maorilanders will have to
cough up several million pounds
extra in one form or another be-
fore they can write “paid” to
the most costly strike they’ve
ever experienced. No doubt new
goods at luxury prices will have
a wilting effect on demand, and
turnovers will shrink in volume,
but there’s still a fairly long list
of booked orders to be filled or
shortages to be overtaken. Car-
pets, blankets, rugs, cars, re-
frigerators, washing - machines,
sewing-machines and a wide
range of equipment for fac-
tories, farms and homes have
been scarce for years.
The pinch will be felt most
by Maorilanders on, or close to,
the borderline, and traders figure
out there’ll be a swing from
cash- to credit-buying, alongside
a move away from less-essential
goods towards necessaries. Busi-
ness will have to keep a sharp
watch on trends and be ready to
take quick defensive action.
After their costly lesson,
Maorilanders not only see that
the best way to tackle the cost of
living is by speeding-up trade,
shipping and production but
seem more ready than for a
long time to put their shoulders
to the wheel. Shipping has been
one of the most inflationary fac-
tors in their post-war economy,
and if they did no more than
cure this trouble it would pay
them handsomely.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Sack”: Darkness in the picture-
theatre ; a woman seated immediately in
front of me is nursing a baby. It begins
to whimper; the unmistakable cry of an
uncomfortable, very young infant. The
mother hisses a threat. More whimper-
ings. The mother —through clenched
teeth —“Sh-ut up!” No abating of the
sounds of distress. Sudden vibratings of
the seat as the child is shaken violently
Loud wails. The mother, with terrible
vehemence: “Shut up or I’ll bash your
head against the seat.” Sustained crying,
A torch flashing from the aisle. Authori-
tative whispers. A reluctant clambering
upright; fierce threats; vicious slappings
all the way up the passage. Later. The
baby having apparently cried itself to
sleep—or been knocked-out —the mother
is back. On the screen the tear-jerker
is unfolding a sob-story: A girl, reared
as a happy member of a comfortable
family, finds, on her 18th birthday, that
she was adopted when a baby. For that
reason she is behaving towards her loving
foster-parents like an ungrateful little
beast, and the audience is obviously ex-
pected to sympathise because she has
never known the love of her “rear*
mother. Sniffles from the seat in front
of mine—a “real” mother is sympathising.
* * * *
“Bass”: When the oil-tankers Suez and
Greensboro collided in a fog in the Gulf
of Mexico, it was stated that both vessels
were equipped with radar. Sometimes,
in fog, the magic eye goes blind. When
the Canadian destroyer Micntac collided
with the Yarmouth County, the warship’s
radar screens showed nothing in the fog
ahead. Experts differed on the reason,
some maintaining that the radar was out
of order, others that the air has belts of
varying density and that it would be
possible for the radar-waves to be lifted
over an object. In this latest disaster, in
which 39 lives were lost, there’ll probably
be as many inquests over the radar as
over the Victims.
* * * •
“Wiilpar”; Told by his sharebroker
that his wife had not returned an applica-
tion for shares which the broker had
reserved in her name, a Sydney man
questioned the lady, pointing out that the
chance was one to be snapped up. She
pleaded she had never received the letter.
After further questioning, she hesitated.
“Wait a minute. Would it have come in
one of those long brown envelopes?”
Emphatic affirmation from her husband,
“Oh, that,” she said. “I threw it out. I
never open that kind of envelope.”
* ♦ ♦ «
“GToper”: So there begins a “New
Era on the Nullarbor” (B. 25/4/’5l) with
streamlined diesels flying at 90 m.ph.,
cutting the three days Perth to Adelaide
to a fraction. Mourn with me, then, the
passing of that mobile hotel the great
Overland steam-train. Time and again
have I dined in its excellently appointed
dining-car, waited on by Australia’s best
waiters, dressed for their job, serving the
best food this continent could produce,
cooked by experts, the while the illimitable
plain roiled past at 50 miles an hour,
almost noiselessly, just outside the wide
observation-windows. Or halted at a
siding where, through the windows, one
watched the antics of some of Australia’s
primitive people seeking to sell, and
successfully, samples of their handicraft.
And the wanderings along the lengthy
corridors, with pauses on the observation-
platforms. And the company one met —
men and women, travelled, informed, in-
telligent. And the long sleep on the com-
fortable beds, even in second-class, where
the smooth motion of the train brought
slumber even to the chronic insomnia
sufferer —and morning-tea at 6.30. And
the lengthy stops at such places as Cook,
where one could get out and walk the
desert, treading soil which, but for the
great Overland, would have been as in-
accessible to the ordi-
nary traveller as the
plains of the moon.
“R. * Mack a”:
Natives of the
Papuan Infantry Bat-
talion were in-
valuable to infantry
patrols in New
Guinea, and the re-
spectful liking which
they displayed for
the A.I.F. was a
credit to the Aus-
tralian soldiers they
met. This flattering
affection was evident
in their imitation of
the Diggers’ habits,
and particularly of
Aussie slang. Just
before the assault on
Sattelberg, some
natives from a village
on the slopes of the
mountain sneaked
past the Japs into
our lines. They had
useful information on
the enemy positions
and were given jobs
around the beach-
head, Three of these
villagers were cutting
down the kunai-grass
around our gun posi-
tion when a lad from
the PJ.B. came up
and asked the way to
a perimeter battalion.
After giving him directions, our sergeant
pointed to the grass-cutters, saying,
“We’ve got a few of your blokes giving
us a hand.” The fuzzy infantryman
scornfully replied, “Who, them? They’re
chockos!”
♦ * * •
“Zake”: Under the peculiar impression
that the paying public is interested in the
cause as well as the effect, the people
whose best interests are served by seeing
that the humble cabbage—one the size of
a motor-car wheel could once be bought
for sixpence—is retailed at around six-
bob and the cauli. for seven-and-six, are
put to strange shifts in issuing their almost
daily apologies for the impost, A shower
of rain may fall somewhere or a drought
be reported from up Marble Bar way—
either is good enough to blame rain or
a lack of it for a shortage and consequent
top prices. Apparently thinking the
public was getting tired of their eternal
ringing the changes on these old excuses,
some bright soul thought of the start of
the frosts, and trotted that out as the
“Swaps!"
reason for the failure of caulis, cabbages
and Brussels sprouts. Frost is the one
element in which these thrive, sprouts in
particular deriving their flavor from the
incidence of frost on them. I’m expecting
next to hear that mists have ruined the
pumpkin crop, forcing that weed up to
Is. 6d. per pound, retail.
“Bo”; The 8.35 a.m. that starts from
our suburban terminal station for the city
was already two minutes beyond its
starting-time, caused by a steam-train
having priority, when there came rushing
down the steps a fat, middle-aged man
whose mauve face and bulging veins be-
spoke a skyrocketing blood-pressure.
Flopping exhausted into a vacant corner-
seat he hoisted the window to its limit,
omitted an enormous sigh of relief that
he had “made it,” then mopped his brow
as he gulped in great draughts of air.
This for almost a minute; then he sud-
denly remembered something, for he
looked around, glanced at his watch,
registered anger, then panted at his fellow-
passengers : “What’s the confounded
“Good practice for Kosciusko !”
hold-up? It’s three minutes late . . „
Damned service ... they’re never on
time! ”
* * * ♦
“Xont”; I was watching the annual
“Wars of the Roses” cricket match—-
Lancashire v. Yorkshire—at Old Trafford
when a heated discussion developed be-
tween groups of rival partisans. After a
while a cultured voice made a contribu-
tion —much to the point. One of the
Red Rose supporters then demanded:
“Are tha fro’ Lancasheer?” “No,” was
the quiet response. “Are t’ fro’ York-
shire?” queried one of the Whites. “No,”
was the same reply. “Then what’s it to
do wi’ thee?” came a general yell from
all sides.;
* ♦ * *
“Craiser”: The present price of wool —
weight for weight about equal to that of
an Old Master —may have been the com-
pelling reason for the National Gallery
in Melbourne throwing open its portals
for “A Thousand Years of Wool,” the
story of the golden fleece through the
ages. The only aesthetic item is the
hundreds of tiny figures done by Peter
McAndrews, a young English sculptor, of
English men and women of all classes
wearing wool according to the prevailing
fashion. Unfortunately, they’re not well
done. A curious exhibit is a 15th-century
magistrate’s certificate found in the Cots-
wolds stating that in the shroud in which
So-and-so was buried no flax, cotton,
silver or gold thread or other material
except wool had been mixed or mingled.
An old Spanish engraving has the legend
“Sheep have golden feet, and wherever
their footsteps are seen the land turns
to gold,” a statement with which Professor
Oliphant would vehemently disagree.
* * * ♦
“P.E.A.”: Now that the elections are
over, one is again reminded of our
polling-day prohibition of drinking. In
Australia our pubs are closed so that we
can arrive at the booths in “fair order
and condition” to record our votes. In
Britain things are different. Hotels are
allowed to stay open past the usual
“Time, gentlemen, please!” Cannot we
Australians be trusted to behave our-
selves? Or do our Governments think
that we will drink ourselves into a fighting
state and go forth to give pitched battle
for our choice?
* * * ♦
“Ceg”; Coastal steamers Time and
Corio, wrecked recently off Port Phillip
Heads and Cape Banks respectively, for-
tunately without loss of life, serve as a
reminder of the long roll of shipping
disasters on that stretch of coast. One
of the most tragic wrecks occurred in
September, 1851, off Cape Bridgewater,
near Portland, Supposed to be the Marie
of Antwerp, a vessel of about 400 tons,
she carried 10 of her original passengers
when she left Adelaide for Sydney. First
signs of the tragedy came when portions
of a ship were found on the beach at
Bridgewater Bay, and larg» quantities of
wreckage were discovered dashing on the
rocks on the west side of the cape. Great
quantities of clothing were washed up,
all of foreign make. The only article
found with a name on it was a hand-
kerchief marked “Austin” ; a priest’s cape
bore initials only. Not a vestige of cargo
had been thrown up, and only six bodies,
horribly mangled and unidentifiable.
Later, some fragments of a piano and a
harp were picked up and portion of a box
with the name “Grizard” on it.
♦ * * *
“W.P.T.”: Back in 1854 employers
were having much the same labor trouble
as today, but for a different reason. All
sorts of inducements were offered men
to keep them away from the goldfields.
During the construction of Mort’s Dock
(Sydney) wages were increased to 28s. per
day, and in addition each man demanded
a piece of freehold land on which to
build a house. This is one demand the
coalminers and wharfies seem to have
overlooked.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Doric”; I was awaiting passport in-
spection at the Franco-Italian frontier
when another Australian joined me in
going crook about all the red-tape it en-
tailed, “However,” he said, “this is
nothing to what we went through in
crossing into the Russian zone on the
way to Vienna. It was the wife who was
in a spot of bother —as her father was
English, they wanted to know what year
he arrived in Australia and by what ship
he travelled. The date was easy—she just
stated 1881 (pure guesswork) and the
only ship’s name of early vintage she
could think of was the schooner Hesperus
—so down that went in the record. The
Customs officer was quite satisfied and
went off smiling—or as near to it as is
allowable behind the Iron Curtain."
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”; Dick Skuthorpe and
his alleged relics of Leichhardt have been
getting newspaper attention again.
Certainly the whole business is as puzz-
ling now as it was 70 years ago when
The Bulletin offered £lOOO for “the
first conclusive and substantial proof’ of
how and where the Leichhardt party of
1848 reached an end. Whether or not
that offer influenced Queensland bush-
man Skuthorpe, his ideas ran far beyond
the thousand quid—his demand on the
N.S.W. Government, for the alleged
journals of Leichhardt and his second-in-
command (Classen), plus a telescope and
a compass, was £6OOO. Making that re-
quest in 1881, he asked for a competent
agent to be appointed to take delivery
of the relics and stipulated that he be
protected against any claim by any
person interested in their ownership. The
Government took no definite action in
the matter, and Skuthorpe did not press
his proposal. As The Bulletin re-
marked subsequently (April 22, 1882), it
was inconceivable that a man would
claim without basis to have such articles
as manuscript diaries, and yet Skuthorpe,
when his offer was not immediately ac-
cepted, simply “retired to his station on
the ‘Never-Never’ and there seemed to
sulk like Achilles in his tent.” After 70
years, Skuthorpe’s “relics” still remain as
well hidden as the objects they were sup-
posed to represent, the eight men and 80
animals of the lost Leichhardt party.
EPITHALAMIUM.
“The Bronx Zoo, New York, has taken its two
platypuses, Cecil and Penelope, off display for the
summer and put them in a burrow lined with eucalyp-
tus, Where it is hoped they will mate.*’
Platypus, platypus, pitch some woo.
Please the attendants at the old Bronx Zoo.
Your love-nest,
A cryptic crypt,
Has been dressed
In eucalypt—
All the rest is up to you:
Platypus, platypus, pitch some woo.
Cecil and Penelope, don’t be shy.
Both be sweetie-pie-platypi.
All this summer
You can hob and nob
At what for your mumma
Was a spare-time job;
So look each other in the eye,
Cecil and Penelope, and don’t be shy.
Like Jove with Leda, platypus,
You’re never platitudinous :
Body of beaver,
Bill of duck —
Gay deceiver,
Half your luck!
But nobody gives a tinker’s cuss
For a platonic platypus.
K.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Pawang”: Don Salvador de Mada-
riaga apparently objects to Hamlet’s be-
ing represented as a refined young gentle-
man when, as a matter of fact, he is the
most foul-mouthed character in Shak-
speare, speaks to Ophelia in language no
man should use to a woman and to his
friends, even the Queen, in the same
awful language. If this is a sample of
the professor’s Shakspearian criticism it
seems to me on the same level as that
of a one-time professor of literature who
used to declare that a great novel could
never be written in Australia because there
were no ruined castles here. Hasn’t the
learned don heard of the unconscious,
and hasn’t he ever observed a refined
young gentleman behaving in a neurotic
manner which belies his college educa-
tion? When she goes mad Ophelia also
sings songs that could only be described
as bawdy and scarcely befitting the lips
of a high-school young lady. Hasn’t the
professor ever heard of the phenomenon
of repression? Shakspeare may never
have heard of those terms, but I would
back the accuracy of his powers of obser-
vation against any literary professor’s,
however academically distinguished.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I have a theory that a
terrible prudence always descends upon
the judges of literary or art competitions,
so often do they feel the first-prize is too
much money to award. Thus Lance
Solomon gets the £2OO second-prize in
the Dunlop art competition and no first-
“ That'll be eleven and ninepence , please .”
prize is awarded ; and Tom Hungerford
and Barbara Jefferis got the second-prize
of £lOOO shared between them in the
“S. M. Herald” novel competition and the
£2OOO first-prize wasn’t awarded. Seeing
that earlier judges, in the first flush of
enthusiasm, had awarded the Dunlop
prize to Sydney Nolan’s slice of Ripolin
and the “Herald” prize to second-rate
popular novels such as The Harp in the
South and High Valley, I can’t possibly
believe that the standard in the competi-
tions has fallen off ; the judges should be
more courageous with what is, after all,
other people’s money.
* * * *
“Airs-crew”: Birds and aircraft some-
times clash with disastrous results to both,
as was recently illustrated in Launceston,
where a plover came crashing through the
windscreen of a DCS as it took off.
Fortunately the pilot was able to maintain
control. The report brought back to me
a vivid memory of a large black-feathered
creature that whizzed past our Lane’s
starboard wing-tip on a dull morning
500 ft. over Lincoln fields. In England
R.A.F. authorities became so perturbed at
the mishaps caused by birds that the
ancient art of falconry was revived. Does
Launceston require a falconer?
* « * *
“Effgee”: A short time ago a Brisbane
firm published an advertisement stating
that it begged
to be interviewed by capable furniture-
polisher considering taking position offering
£1 over award, with congenial conditions.
The proprietors and staff are prepared to
produce references to their good characters
and pleasant dispositions.
T loitered outside the, furniture-shop next
day, but saw no queues of eager job-
seekers. And no wonder! The advertise-
ment made no mention of free transport
or “jam” sessions to while away the hum-
drum working hours. Why, it even looks
as if workers were expected to provide
their own meals!
* * * ♦
“Cremorne”: “Vingter,” speaking of
the German officer Ponsonby Lyons (B.
11/4/’5l), says that the incongruity of the
ultra-English patronymic appeared to
have been overlooked at the time of his
capture. I seem to recollect that Bean’s
history records that Ponsonby Lyons was
asked by the interrogating officer how he
came to be fighting the British when he
bore so English a name. He replied,
“For the same reason as you are fighting
us, with a name like yours! ” The interro-
gating officer’s name was Brandt^
“H.A.L.”: “Lord Luvus” (B. 25/4/’5l)
is off the track about the statue of
Hercules which used to stand in Adelaide’s
Victoria Square. The sculptor left Here,
completely nude, so there was no need for
practical jokers to steal his fig-leaf. What
they used to do was to put fig-leaves on
him, a near-by Moreton Bay fig-tree sup-
plying the material.
* * * *
“Wilgray”: Wonder why the origin-
ators of the A.B.C. Jubilee Song Compe-
tition tied competitors down to writing
of towns, rivers, etc. The result may
well be an avalanche of mediocre material
from the pens of novices. Experienced
scribes prefer to suggest the locale more
subtly, in the Rodgers-Hammerstein
manner of “Oh, What a Beautiful Morn-
ing!” Our own W. G. James exploits
a similar neat device in his Bush Songs.
* * * *
“Angus Bob”: “Ek Dum ? s” article,
“Aussies and Slashers at Bay” (B.
2/5/’5l), raised old memories. I was
attached to a battalion of the Gloucester,
the old 28th, in the Kaiser’s war. We
frequently had Aussies near at hand and
shared many hospitalities, in and out of
the line. We were near them at Passchen-
daele, October, 1917, and early in 1918
the Aussies took over in front of Amiens,
It was understood that the nickname The
Slashers” was acquired about 1777
either in America or the West Indies.
Some of the regulars would refer to the
troops as “The Old Braggs —an older
nickname referring to General Philip
Braggs, who had the colonelcy for a
quarter of a century from 1734. Ine
Gloucesters were proud of the fact that
they wore a badge at the back of the cap
as well as in front—a small sphinx within
a laurel wreath. The back badge is in
commemoration of the distinguished con-
duct of the First Battalion when engaged
in front and rear at once in the battle
before Alexandria in 1801. Since their
epic stand in Korea the distinction is
doubly earned.
* * * *
“Ricmon”: Overheard two cyclists
arranging a rendezvous in Sydney’s Cen-
tennial Park. “I’ll meet you at Sir Henry
"Don't you think there's enough junk up here already?"
Parkes with his nose off,” said one, and
the other agreed without comment. Per-
haps there is an intact Sir Henry else-
where in that domain with which they
didn’t want to confuse the damaged one.
* * ♦ *
“C.A.L.”: They were discussing the
town’s meanest man. “Tight,” said Joe.
“Why, he uses the rubber from old tyres
to mend his boots with.” “I wouldn’t
doubt it,” replied Dan. “I’ve seen him
at the rubbish-dump pulling sprigs out
of old boots to nail the soles on with.”
* ♦ •
“Hamer”: A Swiss watchmaker who
transferred his business to England and
claims to have invented the wristlet-watch
is now in Australia. He dates the launch-
ing of the wristwatch as in 1905, and says
that at first wearing the contraption was
regarded as unmanly. It was. A Sydney
jeweller tried to put them on the market
early in the century, but the few buyers
got the bird from the populace and soon
forgot to wear them. The timepieces did
not have a chance until the First World
War came, and a watch that could be
glimpsed in a flash by officers who had
to be exact about the synchronising of
time made them an Army necessity.
Then what had been a sign of namby-
pambyism became a mark of war service.
Like “Yankee shoulders” (what scorn
there used to be in Australia for the
effeminates and pretenders who adopted
the fake padding of the shoulders that had
come from U.S.A.I) they have been
accepted as part of the regular masculine
outfit.
“Mad Hatter”: A grim sign of the
times—a notice outside a Melbourne fish-
shop: “No chips sold without fish.”
* * * *
Ray Whiting: It is true? that on their
dash from Syria to Africa the Ninth
Division’s tan boots made it plain to every
Wog in Syria, Palestine and Egypt that
they were Aussies, and doubtless their
distinctive expressions helped also. But
the real reasons were simpler still. There
was no one else in Syria it could have
been; the British had come up to relieve
us a few hours before, but obviously it
wasn’t their convoy turning round and
going back again. Second, every vehicle
in the huge Aussie convoy had fore and
aft a plate on which was painted the
division’s insignia, the platypus and
boomerang.
* ♦ * ♦
“Amdee”: D. 1.; S.A.—I wonder where
those four letters are today? Ornament-
ing some Digger’s mantelpiece or buried
in Libyan dust? Ninth Div. troops trans-
ported to the Middle East on the Queen
Mary were a bit at sea as to the correct
eating-stations on their first mess parade.
Gazing at the immense space between
decks, only those chaps with a smattering
of Chinese cpuld make anything out of
the words Ming Loon emblazoned in
polished brass letters 2ft. high over the
entrance to one of the world’s largest
dining saloons,
* * ♦ *
“Kelms”: Westralian graziers are will-
ing to bet that it couldn’t happen any-
where else but in their State. A flock
of 104 sheep, unbranded and with only
one ear marked, has been roaming a
country district for some months, looking
for an owner. Any number of farmers
in the district are willing to buy them,
and so many inquiries have been received
that the police have decided to auction
them if they’re not claimed within a few
more weeks. Then good money will be
paid for them by someone who could
easily have acquired them for nothing if
it weren’t for that old-fashioned honesty
which characterises country folk.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: I am sure “Tedscor’s”
elaborate recipe for the disposal of his
fleas (B. 4/4/’5l) will have a wide appeal.
May I suggest, however, that if he were
to use his bath more often for the purpose
for which it was manufactured, he might
not need to use it so frequently as a
flea-extermination chamber.
* * * *
“V.D.C.”: The sense in which “Exdig”
(B. 7/3/’5l) uses “bivouac” seems to be
the opposite of its conventional meaning,
which implies a camp in the open air,
without even tents. With other oldsters, 1
attended several bivouacs in the last strife,
and all the protection supplied between
Willie and the welkin was a couple of
blankets. My dictionaries support this
view, but then they are even older than I.
* * * *
“Pat”: If industry were as concerned
about production as are some suburban
housewives about the fortimes of radio-
serial characters, blackouts would be a
mere nothing.
Three women
from a street in
which a friend of
mine lives con-
verged upon him
at midday with
pleas to be
allowed to sit in
his car and listen
to the lunch-hour
serial from the
battery - set.
Apparently they
had heard a bare
three minutes of the day’s episode when
the power went off; they had wasted an-
other five wondering and deciding what
to do, and further precious minutes still
walking to his house. But, they ex-
plained, as long as they heard the last
three minutes of the programme they’d
have no trouble picking up the thread of
the narrative next day.
♦ ♦ * *
“Bump”: An Atlanta (Georgia) jewellery
firm tried a novel method of debt-
collecting. In order to contact its client,
it sent him a postcard reading: “Dear
Milford, I will be in Lagrange, Georgia,
next week. Call me at 5693. Love,
Mary.” The recipient sued the firm for
£ll,OOO damages and was awarded £2232.
Grounds were that his wife had seen the
postcard and had doubted his fidelity.
* * * *
“Rann”: The pilfering of 10 tons of
cement from an overturned lorry in
N.S.W. reminds me of those masters of
pilfering the Syrian laborers. We
didn’t mind their collecting the sugar
escaping from tom bags, and we looked
tolerantly at the time lost while they ran
after the bags, holding out their caps to
catch the sugar as it poured out. But
when the percentage of torn bags rose
suddenly we thought it time to investi-
gate. Sure enough, as the bags were
carried up the gangway a quick stroke
of a knife and there was the bag, nicely
leaking.
A VANISHED RACE.
“What has become of the merchant who used to
give his customer a cigar or shout him a drink when
he paid his bill in full and in a reasonable time t
Fled is that day—
A day not so long gone—
When you’d expect, upon
Going along to pay
Your bill, whether ’twas for
A “three-piece sac-suit” or
A bale of hay.
The gift of a cigar,
A set-up at the bar;
What merchant would not spar
Up for this, eh?
A bagatelle,
Something that set him back
No more than just a zack?
Let cynics dwell
On what they deem back-scratch,
A sprat wherewith to catch
A mackerel.
He did achieve, you’ll grant,
Goodwill, not now extant.
He thought it consonant
With job to sell.
So great a lift
He got at seeing your dough,
He felt impelled, you know,
To make a gift.
He was old-fashioned, true.
Nothing at all he knew
Of any such shift
As under-the-counter trade.
With customers he made
Friends, and with him they stayed.
There was no rift.
It’s only fair
To say that this old race
Has gone without a ( trace,
Like smoke in air,
For one good reason. This
Is the hypothesis,
Also the snare:
He who gulps down the pill,
Paying in full his bill,
Promptly, with no ill-will,
Is now so rare!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: Slowly the blackness
changed to grey, and the darker tree-tops
took shape. A plover called down the
gully. Then the stark limbs of a dead
gum became etched on the grey canvas,
and, turning my head, I made out a thin
line of smoke rising from the smoulder-
ing ashes of last night’s campfire. A
pleasant business, this dreamy waking in
the ranges. There was a big day ahead
of us. A lot of top country to be worked
over, cattle to be driven down, and we’d
probably finish in the moonlight. Not
a bad life, though. Lot better than being
chained to one place, and regular hours.
I thought sleepily of all the poor cows
working in cities. Shut up in factories
and offices. No sunlight, no breeze, no
cattle, no mobs of Toos or emus to
break the day, and only a blasted tram to
ride on. I opened eyes again to the
shadowy ridge, in smug satisfaction, as
a movement came from the dark object
on the other side of the ashes. Was
“ You should see him in an egg-and-spoon race. "
Seventyfiver musing, too, on the bush
dawn? “Time to get up?” I queried con-
tentedly. The dark object sat up.
“Might’s well,” it said. “We ain’t goin’
t’ dodge it nohow.” “Dodge what?”
“Aw, y’ can’t see it from there, Sol,”
came the voice, “but it’s bankin’ up fast
over Feathertop, an’ inside two hours it'll
turn cold and be snowin’ blue murder.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: The tentative proposal of the
N.S.W. Scouts Association to hold the
1952 world jamboree at Fairfield has set
the town in a buzz. Long known as
Bossley’s Bush, the site should be ideal
for scouting needs, the only drawback
being that the creek, except in flood-times,
does not carry sufficient water to pro-
vide good swimming facilities. However,
the Municipal Council has offered to con-
struct a weir, and, if the Water Board
will co-operate to the extent of supply-
ing the necessary fluid should nature
fail to oblige, the difficulty will be over-
come. The creek has been associated
with youthful welfare before. It’s name
derives from a humane scheme evolved
by Governor King in 1803. Appalled by
the number of orphans in the colony,
King founded an orphanage in Sydney
and another in Parramatta. To assist
in the cost of maintenance he made a
grant to the orphanage of 12,300 acres
at Fairfield, the land to be rented to small
farmers. The grant was bordered by
Prospect and Cabramatta Creeks (tribu-
taries of the Georges River) and tra-
versed by the semi-tidal creek that
dwindled away to a chain of waterholes
a few miles from the mouth. Hence the
name which the historic little watercourse
still bears: Orphan School Creek.
* * ♦ #
“Shadow-chaser”: Fred owned the
farthest-out scrub-farm in a settlement
surrounded by cattle-stations. He also
held a slaughtering-licence and supplied
his neighbors and a few roadworkers
with cheap beef. When the supply of
cleanskins was exhausted, he took a
business risk with station “strays,” and
was soon under a cloud with the sergeant
at the nearest police-station, some 20
miles distant. Complaints from irate
station-managers became so numerous
that the sergeant decreed that Fred was
to slaughter nothing until it had been
inspected by himself or his subordinate.
One Sunday morning, when Fred knew
the subordinate was away on other
business, the sergeant was annoyed to get
a message asking him to come out as
Fred intended to “kill” that evening. He
had the trip to the slaughter-yard to see
a rooster in an improvised coop waiting
for the axe.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: Sight of plumed, grass-
skirted Torres Strait Islanders in Bris-
bane’s May Day march brought back
nostalgic memories of those islands of
malaria and mangrove, but it might have
left some onlookers with a wrong im-
pression. The everyday garb of Kusu
and his mates is a waist-cloth (lava-lava),
more-or-less clean, with a singlet, or
shirt, seldom clean. The younger bucks
favor shorts or battered pants. The
women conceal whatever charms they
might possess beneath shapeless Mother
Hubbard gowns. This is a carry-over
from the early evangelisation of the
islands, when the missionaries were of
the Mother Grundy era, and hastened to
get the black wenches out of banana-
leaved skirts and to hide their bare
torsos. /Esthetic, as well as moral, con-
siderations may have prompted their
edicts against semi-nudity, as die women
age rapidly, and there are few more re-
pellent sights than a withered Island
crone. Few, if any, of the natives, how-
ever, have proper laundering facilities, so
the wearing of some civilised garb by
these people has had unfortunate results.
A grass skirt could at least be burnt.
Furthermore, it is probable that unwise
covering of the body may have had much
to do with the high incidence of t.-b.
amongst these natives,
# * * *
“Wippegong”: Currawongs! More
even than the cabbage-palms and turpen-
tines, the lantana and coral-trees, the
scalloped coastline and tethered goats,
they seemed to tell a bloke that he had
landed back in the green Illawarra. Over
the tops of the gums they drift to the
- \A L -Tt R
“Madam's ensemble will be featured in all the
cocogravure supplements."
lillipilli-lined creeks below, pied wings
flicking now and then establishing their
positions after you’d lost them gliding
against that dark backdrop; and when
the train stops their garrulous discourse
fills the air outside. Two more feathered
citizens confirm your stirring memories
as soon as the rattling train leaves you
behind; spinebills are probing the
tecomas and cassias and coral-trees by
the station, whilst from the lantana across
the line comes an urgent chatter unheard
where the rivers chase the sunset. This
is the Lewin honeyeater—yellow-eared
if you prefer it —and he’s as much a part
of the rain-forests as his white-eared
cousin is on the sandstone ridges above.
But neither of these challenge the curra-
wong’s dominance, either in vocal efforts
or in sorting over the picnic scraps. The
scientists say that this big fellow is near
the top of the avian tree ; he has evolved
from his finny ancestors almost as far as
the birds-of-paradise and the bower-birds,
and is slightly above Kelly, upon whose
sagacity there is no need to dilate here
Anyway, he’s smart enough to have
other people working for him, for in due
season he will inspect your fruit-trees
and mine to decide just when and where
he will enjoy his dessert.
* * * *
“Rumberg”: Ex - servicemen who
served in New Guinea and the islands
will recall the evil-smelling “cheroots”
made by the boongs out of trade-tobacco
and any paper they could get hold of,
preferably a news-
paper, or, failing
that, brown wrap-
ping-paper. In the
Trobriands, at least,
they would disdain
an ordinary cigar-
ette, which would
doubtless seem
very insipid after
their own power-
laden ones. Aussie
or Yank cigar-
ettes were in keen
demand, however, by the younger fry.
When one little bloke asked me for
“sigret” I countered by saying he was too
small to smoke. His proud dad, puffing
lethal fumes from a ten-inch brown-
paper special, spoke up. “No, Taubada,
O.K. ’e smoke. ’E five.” Then, pointing
to an even more diminutive “gwahdi,”
and with the air of one making a nice
distinction, he added, “’E no smoke. ’E
three! ”
* * * *
“Bo”: When young Arthur, the
“hand,” saw the crow alight on the dead
ironbark to which one end of the clothes-
line was tethered he sidled inside the
house, loaded the shotgun, put it behind
his back and sauntered outside. When
within range be whipped it to his shoulder
and let fly with both barrels. The panic-
flight of Kelly was unnecessary ; most of
the shot went through the boss’s Sunday-
best suit which the missus had put out
for a long-overdue airing. As the
aggrieved Arthur said to Alf after the
missus had told him off and threatened
that the repair-cost would come out of
his wages, “The boss had ventilation-
holes in his hat, and I can’t see what the
difference is if he has a few in his suit.”
• * * *
“Blime”: Dill eventually used up the
writing-paper he’d bought back in the
’thirties, and for the next six months did
his scribbling on brown-paper bags, tell-
ing the scenery each time that he must
get himself another pad one of these
days. Then, down
at the store, he re-
membered his short-
age. “Letter paper?”
answered the store
bloke. “Here you
are. Just what you
want.” Dill picked
up the tablet and in-
spected it critically.
“Gripes, it’s dog-
po o r,” he com-
plained. “Fell away
to about ’alf the size
it used t’ be, ain’t
it?” “Yes, they
make them like that
nowadays,” the store-
keeper explained.
“But they’ve evened
it up,” he added,
glancing at Dill’s
sixpence, “by charg-
ing twice the price
for the m.” “Y’
sure?” Dill looked
a trifle suspicious.
He held up the pad
and eyed it specu-
latively. “Awright,”
he agreed, diving into
blueys for another
zack. “Seems fair
enough. But y’
weren’t goin’ t’
catch me payin’ no
same price f’r this skinny little runt!”
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: For my hound’s peace
of mind it is well that he doesn’t know
his Night of Terror is approaching. Yet
for seven years “Cracker Night” didn’t
worry him at all. Why, then, does the
sound of fireworks transform a sensible,
placid mong into a whining, barking,
demented creature with only one idea of
haven: close contact with his human
friends? Perhaps
some cruel or
though tless kid
threw a hunger that
burnt or hurt him,
and he now associ-
ates the noise with
pain—just as a gun-
shy dog trembles
and cringes when a
report recalls a pain-
ful memory. The
fact that Paddy has
developed a terror of thunderstorms
seems to confirm the theory. But what
a self-torturing thing the canine mind is!
Dogs can be kicked by horses or homed
by cattle without contracting a lasting
fear of the animals that caused the pain.
Few canines are cured of chasing cars
when a vehicle inflicts an injury other
than a fatal one. A cruel master may
instil fear into a dog, but the emotion
never remotely resembles terror. Yet an
unexplained pain causes such an impres-
sion on a dog’s mind that a noise associ-
ated with the phenomenon becomes a
torturous memory for the rest of the
sensitive creature’s life.
* * ♦ *
“Old-timer”: Some sort of a parallel
with modern life was displayed to me
when a young friend packed his gear for
a weekend “hike.” Enough stuff went
into a great haversack to stock a small
shop, and into his pockets as well went
sundry small items. He was to be away
two days and two nights, never more
than 10 miles from a township. I
thought of the old days, when a man
could put into an 801 b. swag, plus nose-
bag and billy, all he needed for a journey
which had no defined destination or time-
limit, and during which he might be up
to 100 miles from the nearest house. But,
then, nobody today goes on a motor-tour
with anything less than a complete ward-
robe and a roomful of furniture in the
boot, whereas we once drove off in a
sulky with a few things slung in a wire-
netting carrier underneath. Then, again,
the houses we lived in weren’t cluttered
up with radios and stainless-sinks and
gadgets of all kinds. The pubs were
satisfied with a plain, frosted window on
the bar and wooden counter and a couple
of kegs under wet bags; today they’re
all chromium-plating and taps and
handles and highly-colored brewery
ads on their tiled walls. Gripes, no
wonder the cost of living is such that a
man can scarcely afford a drink in these
marble palaces!.
OLD WARES.
Stacked up in disarray behind the glass,
Unclaimed and dispossessed and filmed with
dust,
Are all the worn-out things that no one wants.
Shelf upon shelf of cameras and clocks,
Old fishing-rods, a piccolo, some knives
Mixed up with pearls and trumpets, mandolins,
And half-a-hundred watches on a string.
Somewhat apart a dusty sextant lies
Derelict in its box, the lid thrown back
To show the stamp of Kew Observatory,
Marked eighteen-eighty, and its maker’s name.
The red and blue horizon shades are gone—
The index-glass is stitched across with flaws.
Palely the sun comes slanting from the street
And touches the brass telescope with light.
Making his pilgrim way along the world
A navigator once beheld the stars
Within this teeming lens; each day at noon
Shot down the image of the raging sun
Until it rested on a crimson sea;
Worked out his new position to a mile
And steered towards his goal unerringly.
Onward in confidence he went, no sign
Or voice to guide him save the sun and stars
Blazing upon the sea, and came at last
To a green island underneath the world
Where palm-trees leant to meet a glistening
beach.
Then went ashore to look about the place
(He said), but did not afterwards return
Though guns were fired and sailors sent in
search,
“Killed by natives, perhaps,” his captain wrote,
Steaming away, the island far astern.
And lashed his things, sextant and all, in a
chest
Marked by a puzzled hand, “Deceased’s Effects.”
N.S.W.
ALEC BOLTON.


gfd
KBl
1
ii
S 3
Qu^
a
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER —Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
5S
GIFFARD MK. I DIRIGIBLE 1852 Construction:
Strengthened longitudinal main spat suspended
from cigar-shaped gas bag. Open framework type
car carrying power unit and crew hung from
mainspar.
Dimensions: Length 143 ft,; max. diameter 39
ft. Capacity of gas 88,000 cu. ft.
Power Plant: Vertical single cylinder, 3 h.p.
steam engine. Weight 117 lbs. pet H.P.
Airscrew: Two blade lift. diam. fixed pitch.
Tip speed 32 ft. per sec. Control: Vertical tri-
angular fin on mainspar. Performance: Max.
air speed 6 m.p.h. Recommended cruising speed
5.5 m.p.h. Maximum lift 4,900 lbs. Maximum
range in service, 17 miles.
rODAY: great airlines rely on the unfailing
ground service symbolised by the green and
yellow colours of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company Ltd.
'AVIATION
m
SERVICE
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd., All States*
Telegraphic Address “Airbeepee” Melbourne.
“Mat’s Mate”: The shades of night
were falling fast, and we were two points
down as Mat took the mark about 50
yards out. There was a veering breeze
and the goals were at an angle, and 764
people, 11 dogs and a tethered pony held
their breaths as Mat dug his heel into the
turf, lined the ball for a place-kick and
then backed slowly away from it. The
tension could be felt as he stopped,
studied the angle and the breeze, looked
round and then bowed his head as though
in prayer. An audible sigh broke from
the crowd as he ran in and kicked and
the ball sailed through the air. It veered,
straightened, and there was a roar as it
plunged fair between the posts for a sixer
and victory right on the final bell. When
I looked for Mat he had bolted from the
field. Later I asked, “Was you sayin’ a
prayer just before y’ kicked?” He
blushed. “No, when I went up for that
mark I busted me waistband. I had me
head down tryin’t’ work out whether me
shorts’d hang on long enough for me t’
kick. Cripes, it’s just as well everybody
was watchin’ the ball. They fell down
just as me boot hit it!”
* * * *
“Billy T”: Young Texas is halfway
to heaven. Ever since infancy he’s been
crazy about horses; while still a tiny
chap he’d acquired a pair of leather pants
with a fringe on the sides and had learnt
to walk bandy-legged the way he saw
’em in the cowboy pictures. His talk
took on a strange, outlandish style, with
phrases lifted straight from Western
varns all mixed up with his own efforts
to give ordinary re-
marks an equine
twist; and if you
were so foolish as to
ask Tex if he thought
it was going to rain
you’d get a disserta-
tion on grass and
markets but never a
hint that the whole
town wanted a fine
afternoon for the football match. He
wore ’lastic-sides while still at school, and
only the fact that he was mercifully tone-
deaf saved us from a guitar and the yowl-
ing that is supposed to be a cowboy’s
way of expressing himself. But, as I tell
you, he’s halfway, for he now has a
horse to handle. It’s not really a camp-
draft champion, but Tex has bought a
great black hat a yard wide, all studded
witb b rass a nd reinforced with leather,
put a red handkerchief round his neck.
and if he isn t exactly sidling down the
roa( j on a prancing pinto, at least he s
heading that way. He’s driving the
baker’s cart.
* *
“Elgee”: Your Murray whalers have
not hing on us Burrum Gropers in Queens-
r T B ur- L.,. firw tarkle
land. We have no Zane Grey tackle,
but we land the big ones our own way.
-penna Andersen, with a shark hook
“You can't come in yet—l haven’t finished dressing."
(baited with a mullet), 3ft. of trace-chain
and about 100 ft. of fin. hemp rope,
hooked a 5601 b. groper, down the Burrum
from the traffic bridge. Luckily his mate
was handy and saved Tenna from being
pulled in, but couldn’t bring the catch
near the bank. The mate s car being
handy, he hooked the rope around the
bumper-bar, only to yell to the angler
to cast off as, with wheels spinning on
the grassy bank, the car was rapidly being
towed into the river. The tide was well in.
“Play him for a while and we’ll tie up
to this gum-tree when she’s full.” As
the tide fell the monster, 6ft. long and
2ft. 4in. across the gills, was beached
and weighed. It brought KHd, per pound
from the Fish Board.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The swamp has risen
with the first rains, and the dragon-flies
are mating. Soon the females will lay
their eggs, the eggs will hatch in the water,
and a bloodthirsty killer will begin its
life From the moment of hatching the
dragon-fly is a menace to insect-life,
Under the misleading name of nymph, it
nrosnects the mud for forms of life
smaller or less alert than itself. Since
swamp-mud teems with life it feasts well,
and it isn’t beyond cannibalism if it
catches another nymph off-guard. It does
a great job cleaning up mosquito larvae.
Pmhahlv its longest snell off work occurs
“JnfdafS efrly spring, it wilt
climb up a reed-stalk and dry out m the
sun Then the nymphal skin will split
and the dragon-fly will emerge, fully-
equipped for aerial combat. After a brief
4 FP
rest it is off, the fastest flying creature in
the swamp. It can outpace a swallow
and outmanoeuvre a mosquito. It can
stop dead in mid-flight and dart side-
ways a shade quicker than the eye can
follow. Against it no insect has an earthly
chance; yet, though dragon-flies will
appear in thousands over this small
swamp next spring, there’ll be enough
mosquitoes left to warrant smoke-fires
in the evenings. Seems that Dame Nature
can keep one jump ahead of even the
fastest of her creatures.
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: My youthful experience
with the shotgun differed somewhat from
that of “H.A.L.” (B. 9/5/’5l). When I
was about 12 years old I acquired a
heavy, brass-bound smooth-bore known
as a. Tower Musket, bored to take a ball
about the size of a cockatoo’s-egg, which
it threw with considerable velocity but
negligible accuracy over a range of
several hundred yards; but it served me
well as a scatter-gun until I had saved
enough to buy a long, second-hand
Westley Richards duck-gun, a weapon
capable of stopping any turkey, curlew,
duck, pigeon, wallaby, kangaroo-rat or
bandicoot that came within 40-50 yards
—the rabbit, hare and fox had not then
penetrated into our neek of the woods.
We used the only gunpowder available:
Curtis and Harvey’s F.F.F., commonly
known as “stinko.” We cut our wads
from an old felt “wide-awake” or a dis-
carded boot-top; we didn’t get them by
ramming the muzzles of our guns against
the green bark of a gum-tree, because
the muzzles weren’t ground to a cutting-
edge, and the rib which held the barrels
together was carried out flush with the
muzzle. We never used balls of paper
or other inflammable material for wad-
ding, as any boy caught at that game was
belted until he was the sorest and sor-
riest nipper in the district. In default of
anything better, shooting-addicts of the
period used a muzzle-loader charged
with “stinko,” but, despite the inferior
quality of that aptly-named explosive, I
was never prevented from getting in my
second barrel by the smoke from the first
discharge.
* * * *
“Sackville”: “You’ll find the old place
has progressed somewhat,” my old cobber
had written. He was right. I counted
eight bus-stands along the main street —
and a couple of the buses were huge
trailers. There used to be one horse-bus ;
it seated about seven each side, facing
each other. On the crowded trips going
home from the Saturday “pitchers” the
boys used to see that the girls had com-
fortable seats, but neither stood. It was
completely satisfactory. The shops now
are brick, mostly two-storied and very
busy. There were no forms against the
back walls and nobody seems to have
time to yarn. Gone is the red-gravelled
road; it and the footpaths are con-
creted. The footpaths always seem to be
crowded, and nobody speaks to strangers
any more. Yes, the place has progressed.
Charlie appears to be proud of the park.
One corner is taken up with bowling-
greens ; there are well-kept tennis-courts
and a children’s playground, and the oval
is in fair condition. But the spot in the
tidal creek that was the recognised swim-
ming-hole! The tea-tree “diving-tower”
is now a snag across the stream. Low-
tide reveals junk, battered tins, broken
bottles. “We have a garbage service now,
and until the incinerator was built this
washaway in the bank was the tip.
Floods must’ve washed it into the creek.”
But it doesn’t really matter: signs warn
the public against swimming or fishing—
the water is contaminated. The health
inspector recently discovered that the
overflow from the sewerage-treatment
plant is polluting the creek. Charlie got
his rate-notice today; the envelope
carried a message on the outside also;
“Come to Ourtown. Boating. Bathing.
Fishing.” Hurray for progress !
THE UNKNOWN LANDSCAPE.
I found the stark slopes lying under sn°w;
A looped and hanging track; and the climb slow
And Sways upward; and heard the airborne
Note of falling water. But the distant rock
Rearing a barbed crest above the tussock,
The plains, patterned under the weight of wind,
And humped hills —these I had not thought to
find,
And never should have found had I failed
The hazard of cliff and chasm, and a track
That often leapt into chill vacancy, or slid
Beneath the snowdrifts, to emerge and shape
A course along the washaways; a track
That wavered, turned aside, yet finally scaled
The last grim height that led me out, to this
Moment of evening, and an unknown landscape.
TASMANIA.
EDNA REFSHAW.


m
\\\
r
The (On® Rue©
RxwlwfeaMy
»
In futile search for gold;
The Queen was led upstairs to bed.
Half-dead with cough and cold,
"I’ve been betrayed,” the monarch said,
"A crown I had, I'm sure;
What shall I do, for a bottle or two
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint
Core,”
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28C), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Hev&t, befpte a, wdfak Me
I
&
gf
★ BREITLING CHRONOMAT
For Doctors ... Executives ... Engineers .. i
Draughtsmen ... Navigators ... Airmen ~ <
Turfmen ~. Athletes.
This amazing Wrist Watch calculates speed
'(of car, runner, horse, etc.) . . . distance (a
journey, a race track, an aerodrome) ... fuel
consumption, percentages, rates of exchange,
prices, interest, rate of production, etc.
It multiplies and divides, is a stop-watch, and
a perfect timekeeper all the time.
Other Breitling Watches include the Datora
Calendar Watch, Telemeter - Pulsometer,
12-hour Recorder, Waterproof, Breitling
Chronograph.
Ask your jeweller to show yon
g
Sole Australian Representatives; Segal & Co. (est. 1890),
Sydney and Melbourne
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MacARTHUR SIDELIGHTS.
A selection of comments on
MacArthur issues condensed
from the British and U.S. Press:
“New York Times” : It is now
“more than ever the duty of
the United Nations to provide
an effective answer to the Com-
munist aggression by issuing a
new and convincing declaration
of purposes, and by adopting all
available measures to aid the
fighting forces in Korea.”
The same: “Even some of
General MacArthur’s specific
recommendations are not so far
out of line with Truman
Administration policy that they
may not be adopted if circum-
stances warrant or conditions
change. Even bombing of Man-
churia cannot be excluded if the
enemy should resort to massive
air attacks,”
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“General MacArthur’s basic
recommendation plainly rests on
two assumptions: that limited
expansion of the war will not
bring in the Soviet Union, and
that it will make the difference
between stalemate and ‘victory’
so far as Red China is concerned.
When he launched the North
Korean offensive in December
on two closely similar assump-
tions —that Red China would
not intervene and that a ‘shoe-
string’ expansion of the conflict
to the Yalu would bring a con-
clusion —he was proved tragic-
ally wrong. The costs of that
error were very great, in both
life and position. Should his
present advice be followed and
should it again prove wrong, the
costs would be colossal.”
The same : “Even the General
himself, in repeating his dictum
that ‘war’s very object is victory,
not prolonged indecision,’ leaves
the inference that an expansion
of the war in Korea into a war
against Red China would involve
us in the colossal task of secur-
ing ‘victory’ over the whole of
China.”
“Philadelphia Inquirer”:
“General MacArthur’s repeated
declaration that new political
decisions have been called for
ever since the Chinese Reds got
into the war, and that they have
not been made, goes to the heart
of the matter. If the free world
is going to stand up against the
global threat of Communism, it
has to make up its mind about
doing it. The U.N. cannot fight
indefinitely a half-war in Korea,
with the United States paying
the costs. It cannot appease
Communism through a negoti-
ated peace which would reward
aggression. It cannot refuse to
meet the issue in Asia, and meet
it successfully in Europe.”
“Wall-street Journal”: “For
our part, we do not believe that
World War 111 has begun or
that it is inevitable. To assume
either of these things is to be
truly defeatist, and to assume
them and act on them aggres-
sively might be catastrophic.”
The same: “What is inevi-
table—we hope—is that the
harsh searchlight which General
MacArthur has turned on the
Truman Administration’s foreign
policy will continue to glare S
its empty spaces. General Mac-
Arthur’s real contribution is that
he has had the couraee to chal-
courage to cnai-
—"De Volksrant,” Amsterdam .
IF IT HAD HAPPENED IN MOSCOW.
lenge and the stature to make
his challenge effective. It is
possible now that out of this
crisis a workable policy will
emerge. And it is for that
chance that General MacArthur
deserves once again the un-
stinting gratitude of his country.”
“Washington Post” : “T h e
course General MacArthur
recommends is a course of all-
out intervention, step by inexor-
able step. It is war. It is war
against the wrong foe on the
wrong battlefield, fought without
allies, with our real enemy hus-
banding its men and resources
while we are wallowing in the
Chinese bog. The Japanese
could tell General MacArthur
something about the size and the
depth of the mass into which
he would commit America.”
The same: “This newspaper
pleaded that Formosa be taken
over back in 1946; nevertheless
it feels that it is nonsense to
assert that the whole Pacific and
the Americas would be lost by
the breach of the Pacific moat
through defection of Formosa.”
London “Observer ” ; “General
MacArthur’s whole doctrine
appears to be based on a dis-
regard or denial of the fact that
America has, and needs, allies.
In his survey of Pacific strategy,
he fluently bracketed Singapore
and Vladivostok as ports which
could be ‘dominated’ by Ameri-
can air and sea power.”
The same: “It is a fact, and
a very dangerous fact, that
‘thinking Allied’ has for some
time been at a low ebb on both
sides of the Atlantic; nor is it
possible to put all the blame for
this on the Americans. Euro-
pean neutralism is as dangerous
a form of day-dreaming as the
combination of getting tough and
thinking isolationist that the dis-
missed General MacArthur
represents.”
(J
Manchester Guardian :
“Anybody who can believe that
the Philippines are ‘a mighty
Christianity in to
Far East andl has an ‘unlimited
capacity for high moral leader-
ship in Asia’ can believe any-
thine ”
s '
The same: " His policy would
lead either to an all-out attack
on Continental China which he
«vrrrn n I ! riur iH
says no man in his right mind
would advocate, or else to a
defensive action against China,
conducted, not at the southern
wasp-waist of Korea where
defence is comparatively easy,
and where negotiation for an
honorable and peaceful solution
is still possible, but somewhere
in the remote plains of Man-
churia, where ultimate disaster
might be unavoidable.”
Lieut.-General H. G. Martin,
in London “Daily Telegraph”:
“It was his appreciation of facts
that convinced General Mac-
Arthur that the United Nations
forces could not reach a decision
in Korea itself. In order to
finish the job, according to his
view, it was necessary to make
use of Chinese Nationalist forces
and guerrillas, and also of
United Nations air and naval
forces, against the seat of Com-
munist power in Red China it-
self. Whatever the political im-
plications of this view may be,
no clearcut military alternative
has yet been presented.”
Washington correspondent,
London “Economist” : “When
he had finished speaking to Con-
gress there was no doubt that
he was a formidable personality,
even when removed from the
careful staging of Tokyo, a
better orator than any contempo-
rary American, except General
Eisenhower, a superb actor of
the old school and a more able
speechwriter than any in the
coveys of ghosts who haunt the
White House and the Depart-
ment of State.”
The same: “ ‘lt was not pre-
cisely,’ said Mr. James Reston
in the ‘New York Times,’ ‘the
speech of a man who was de-
termined to fade away’—cer-
tainly not as an old soldier fades
away—the General is more
likely to follow the example of
the Cheshire Cat.”
Dragnet Di crest.
® ®
Sawbones, Esq. —From “Yorkshire
Post,” the most cutting illustration so
far encountered of Britain’s meat
] t ' a in
his stall looking proudly at-an array
of tiny chops and joints. They were
SL a orh
w ° r k- He had achieved the remark-
fjl 1 ® dl * 1 dl v®, °
rat.cn,, uunus excess fat and
* * * *
f Russian war task.— uxtord Fro-
. fessor Mildary History Cyril Falls,
m a “World Review” article: “It is
often said that Russia has no interest
* n . bringing on a war; she is not
continue them. This belief is quite
possibly true, but none the less a
terribly dangerous one on which to
base policy and action. Even if we
do not see what she has to gain by
war, even if we are honestly con-
vinced that she has infinitely more to
lose than to gain by it, this may not
be how the matter appears to the
Kremlin. We do not know one way
or the other. It would be a very
serious risk to count on Russia hold-
ing her hand.”
* * * *
Britain’s Example for the U.S. —
“As the leader of the free world,”
comments Paul G. Hoffman in his
book Peace Can Be Won, “the United
States must revise its attitude towards
foreign trade. The great ‘giver of
peace,’ Great Britain, in the 19th cen-
tury advanced international stability
and amity by means of a world trade
that benefited everybody. The United
States must build to the same end.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
Japs and Korea. —A London “News
Chronicle” correspondent reports that
Japs are indirectly helping the U.N.
war effort in Korea. Several thou-
sand work as mechanics, drivers and
on other manual jobs on U.S. Army
ordnance and supply installations and
on air bases. Japanese seafarers are
serving on ships, chartered by the
U.N. command, ferrying supplies to
Korea. On which the correspondent
comments; “Japan’s Pacific ex-enemies
are worried about this. While they
have put forward no suggestions as
to how Japan can be ‘kept down’
or neutralised, they fear a resurgence
of the old militarism with the end
of the Occupation. Perhaps they are
right to do so.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Whitewashed Hitler.— -Commenting
that the doctrine of force and the
habit of blackmail will not quickly
lose their hold on the German mind,
a London “Sunday Times” writer
declares that “Even Hitler’s regime—
at once the greatest disaster and the
greatest disgrace ever suffered by
Germany—is after only six years
beginning to be whitewashed.” Many
Germans, he further reports, fancy
the Western Powers need German
troops so much that they will yield
anything in order to get them.
♦ * * *
Peaceful J. Bull.—" If,” editorially
comments “Manchester Guardian,”
“Mr. Stalin were really in any doubt
about the preference of the British
Government for peace, he could set
his mind at rest quite easily by glanc-
ing through the Economic Survey for
1951, published by the Government.
It is about as far removed from
economic ‘warmongering’ as anything
could be. It is dominated —as it had
to be —by the necessity to find money
and materials for defence, but it
shows the Government hoping against
hope that it will not be necessary to
call upon the nation to accept a full
war economy.”


EVERYBODY’S
JOB
Investing in the Twelfth Security Loan to the very limit is everybody’s
job. Every man and woman with savings of £lO or more can play an
active part in Australia's future development by investing that money-
to-day.
Perhaps you feel that your small investment would be like a drop in the
ocean. But multiply such investments by thousands and you will see how
important they are. This money will go to provide the sinews of peace
necessary to build a strong and secure nation. Important, too, are the
benefits you yourself will receive from investment in the Twelfth
Security Loan.
1. Safety. Security Loan Bonds and Stock are safe .. . gilt-
edged. Repayment of your money in full at maturity is guaranteed by
the Commonwealth.
2. Profitable Return. The Interest you receive from your
investment is paid regularly every six months.
If you have never bought a Security Bond before, here Is your chance. 1
If you already are a holder—buy more. Lead all yxm can taake
Australia strong.
Invest in the
Twelfth Security Loan
LOAN FACTS: CD The main purpose of the Loan is to pay for Public Works and Services
of the Commonwealth and the States. (2) Bonds or Inscribed be purchased for
cash or by instalments through any Bank. Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
13) 11-14 Year Securities (issued at £99 per cent) wiU bear interest at 3i% per annum. 3-Year
Securities (issued at par) will bear interest at 2% per annum. (4) Interest will be paid each
six months. (5) Repayment in full at maturity of the face value of Securities is guaranteed
by the Commonwealth Government
nrctt fHi**
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Mrs. was speaking on the
telephone when the car hit the
cabinet,”
Had it happened an hour be-
fore she’d have just missed being
there.
4* 4* 4*
“About 250 guests sat down to a
sumptuous repast of beautifully-
decorated tables.”
—Cairns (Q.) "Post/’
Most of them managed the
crepe suzettes, but only those
with their own tatts were able
to tackle the sausage balloons.
4* 4* 4*
“Another great poet and scholar,
Yuan Mei, wrote a most wonderful
essay on his cook.”
—“ Reader’s Digest.’’
Unfortunately it came off the
first time the babbler took a
bath,
“Stud swept by fire.”
—Melbourne "Age/'
Well, he shouldn’t have got
so hot under the collar.
4* 4* 4*
“Women never entirely grow out
of their love of dolls.”
—Adelaide "Advertiser."
But they’re not all as girlish
as they’re painted.
In Happier Vein.
“A Kyneton man gave away his
interest in a goldmine shortly befipre
his two partners discovered a rich
seam in the mine.”
My sympathy goes out to him
Who, activated by some whim.
Or with his interest grown cold,
Was moved to give away his
share
And look for Lady Luck else-
where
When almost on a seam of gold.
I know just how he’d kick him-
self —
I’ve done if when some bookie’s
pelf
Has rested safely in his bag
Because I, knowing of a cert.
Could see myself without a
shirt
And wasn’t game to back the
nag.
And yet a real philosopher
Might argue that he would pre-
fer
To let the money go and find
The greatest joy beneath the
sun —-
The happiness that comes to one
Who has no lode upon his mind.
BERT.
Getting the Hang of It.
Going through the household
bills I was horrified to see that
the dress Agapanthus had had
made cost three pounds. Just an
ordinary dress—a straight-up-
and-down affair, as I observed
when she brought it out for my
inspection, with a piece sliced
out for the neck, a bulge allowed
for the bust and a belt, presum-
ably to pull it in at the waist or
let it out as the wearer con-
tracted and expanded. I an-
nounced then my resolution to
make her next dress—my wife’s
skill with the needle is limited
to getting splinters out.
“But men don’t know any-
thing about dressmaking, dear,”
she said.
I pointed out firmly that the
world’s greatest dress-designers
were men—or at least they be-
longed, somehow, to the male
sex. “What,” I asked, “is the
difference between cutting out a
dress and cutting the lino to fit
around refrigerator - legs and
cupboards in the kitchen? It’s
simply a matter of working to a
prearranged plan, and with
precision and clarity, qualities
in which, I may modestly claim,
I am not lacking. Now say no
more. Select your material and
leave the rest to me.”
The material she got was
moss-crepe or repp or some-
thing. By the feel of it I knew
instinctively I would need to
exercise care, for it was stuff
that would be inclined to drop.
Now, where women who make
their own dresses commit the
cardinal blunder is in sticking to
bought patterns. No imagina-
tion. They may like the top half
but not the bottom half; per-
force they must take the lot or
none; in consequence they are
dissatisfied with the dress and
soon discard it. Designing, on
the other hand, gives scope for
the imagination, the creative
urge, the aesthetic sense. And
it is far less complicated than the
dressmakers would have you be-
lieve. Just a matter of a drape,
say, across a hip, a swathe across
the whatsthis, a godet or a gusset
here and there, a yoke—this, of
course, would only go with
something white—a bodice if
one feels this would give it the
smart touch, a hem (though
definitely not a haw) and a few
hooks-and-eyes. Simplicity it-
self.
It didn’t take long to get
Agapanthus’s measurements — 3\
hammer-handles around hips
and bust, six from the calf to the
elbow with the arms held
akimbo, li from the abyss of
the plunging neckline to the
knee. No measuring with a
stretching tape-measure for me.
I tried it once when I ordered a
plate-glass top for our dressing-
table ; it overhangs the edges
2in.
Having got this vital data, I
was set. Why women insist on
first cutting out little pieces on
a table and then patiently trying
to fit the jigsaw-puzzle together
I can never understand. How
much more logical and easier to
lay the whole of the material
out on the wall-to-wall carpet
as I did. Sketch out clearly on
it the design you want with an
artist’s brush and some Chinese-
white, using like the true artist
a bold freehand, and then slice
it out with a razor-blade. When,
later, young Johnny brought to
me —fortunately not to his
mother- —a piece of carpet shaped
not unlike the human feminine
form and said there was a hole
where he’d picked it up, I
sternly ordered him to put it
back and not touch it again—I
could sew that back later.
Agapanthus said I should tack
the material. But to what? I
could have, had there been a life-
size model of her available. In-
stead, 1 decided to stitch it
around loosely before the fitting.
An innovation of which I was
particularly proud was my in-
built uplift, made of blind-
linen stiffened with heavy cart-
ridge-paper, thus eliminating the
necessity for a separate bra. For
the rest I had side-pleats—a re-
freshing change from the eternal
back-and-front ones—a hori-
zontal zip across the waist,
which could serve the dual pur-
poses of giving comfort after
heavy meals and of allowing
egress and ingress (even the
famous Pierre Balmain hadn’t
been able to think of that), a
waistline that worked on the
Venetian-blind principle, allow-
ing it to be raised or lowered
according to current fashion, a
scalloped hemline to save fool-
ing around trying to get it
straight, telescopic sleeves for
both winter and summer wear,
and a cunningly-concealed pad
to house the “spare tyre.”
When, however, I gave her
the first fitting Agapanthus hit
the roof.
“You idiot!” she shrieked.
“You’ve gone and ruined that
beautiful material! Look how
you’ve cut the bodice —if I wore
that in the street I’d be arrested.
And this uplift is on a level with
my shoulder. This zip should
be perpendicular and on the
side, and how do you expect
me to get my head through four
inches? One side of the skirt
is showing the top of my stock-
ing and the other side I’m nearly
treading on. And look at the
waist —you must have measured
it by a bell-tent. Where did you
get it from?”
I replied with dignity that I
had forgotten to measure her for
that, so took it from the pink
candlewick-chenille thing in the
wardrobe.
“That’s my dressing-gown,
stupid,” Agapanthus bellowed.
“It doesn’t have a waist. This
one’s at least seventy inches.”
Shakspeare should have said
“woman’s ingratitude” when he
spoke about the winter wind.
Anyway, only a woman would
do a damnfool thing and mis-
lead a man by hanging her
dressing-gown up among her
frocks.
Bo.


mA
Am
%jit
m
'm
*IA
'ttfS
if*
V'&
WP.
'/'<
~r''<„
sas?
a?
r-i;
fes£:,
8883
•-'
roonocKce
jf-e-
-»KS3
I
■**
1
c.
c.
N
t:
&
A
IS PLAYING AN IMPORTANT ROLE
IN KEEPING THE NATION’S
ESSENTIAL SERVICES OPERATING
FOR the production of electric power and gas,
the firing of railway engines and the fuelling
of road transports, the bunkering of overseas
and coastal ships and the fuelling of aircraft
C.O.R petroleum products—diesoleum, diesel
oil, furnace oil, marine fuel oil, motor and
aviation spirit are today being supplied
in ever-increasing quantities.
hu>
■ u Ir
m
3f-
AT YOUR SERVICE
FROM COAST TO COAST
Ocean Terminals at: —
FREMANTLE, ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE, MELBOURNE,
HOBART, PORT KEMBLA,
NEWCASTLE, TOWNSVILLE,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, DARWIN.
Refinery: —
LAVERTON, VICTORIA.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
{Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
CBB/163S
TAKE Care Qn Boa DS so Precious
•>’ f ■
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wauls.
To buy The Geelong Book on
Winegrowing. Curlewis’s The Mirror
of Justice and a pamphlet on the
transfer of land by a South Australian
German, who claimed that he had
anticipated Torrens. —5059.
To buy copy of The Piano Forte:
Its History Traced to the Great
Exhibition of 1851 by Rosamund E.
M. Harding.—5060.
To buy copy of J. S. Polack’s
narratives of Travel and Adventure.
—5061.
To buy copy of Dieffenbach’s
Travels in New Zealand. —5062.
To buy copy of Wakefield’s Adven-
ture in New Zealand. —5063.
To buy copy of Butler’s Erewhon-
—5064.
To buy copy of Grossman’s In the
Heart of the Bush.— 5065.
To buy copy of Satchell’s Toll of,
the Bush. —5066.
To buy copy of Franklin’s All
That Swagger.- —5067.
To buy copy of Oxford Classical
Dictionary. —so 74.
To buy copy of Frank Harris’s
Autobiography. —so6B.
To buy copy of Newman’s The
Baltic Background. —so7s.
To buy copy of Oras’s The Baltic
Eclipse. —3o69.
To buy copy of Inge’s Philosophy
of Plotinus. —so7o.
To buy copy of Renan’s Life of
Jesus. —5071.
To buy copy of Roberts’s History
of Australian Land Settlement. —5072
To buy copy of Fitzpatrick’s
British Imperialism in Australia and
British Empire in Australia. —so 73.
To buy copy of The Lore of the
Lyre Bird. (Reply direct to Mrs.
Claudia C. Sample, 325 West Charles-
street, Munice, Indiana, U.S.A.).
Information Sought.
From whom did Ray Coleman win
the Australian featherweight boxing
championship, and did he successfully
defend this title against anyone before
Elley Bennett won it from him?
Ray Coleman received recognition
as Australian featherweight cham-
pion after defeating Alfie Webster at
Leichhardt Stadium on February 15,
1951. Coleman defended this title
against Danny Hirsch, of Melbourne,
at Leichhardt on March 8, before
Elley Bennett k.o.’d him in round 14
at Sydney Stadium on April 9 last.
* * ♦ ♦
Method of preparing cedar table-
top for wax polish?
After being brought to a smooth
finish the wood must be filled to give
a good surface. A useful filler is
made from lib. whiting, one-tenth
gallon raw linseed oil, one-fifth each
mineral turpentine and terebene; to
this should be added some coloring
matter to match the dark cedar, Van-
dyke brown with a little Venetian
red, mixed into the filler in either dry
form or oil stain. The filler is then
plastered over the wood in a thickish
coat, rubbed in with a piece of
hessian, allowed to stand for about
20 minutes and then cleaned off with
a piece of hessian. It must be well
cleaned up, and not allowed to stand
too long after the first application, as
it may dry hard and be difficult to
remove. The next process is one of
time and patience and hard work.
The wax polish may be one of those
bought ready for use, or may be made
thus: Shredded beeswax and paraffin-
wax are mixed with turpentine to the
consistency of butter, the container
being stood in a basin of water over
a safe fire until the mixture is smooth
and soft. This is very inflammable,
and care with fire must be observed.
The polish is applied with a woollen
rag, and may be put on when it has
cooled; polish with a clean woollen
cloth and finish with a piece of old
silk. A little wax and much rubbing
is the rule, and this can be carried
on after the furniture is put into use,
so that eventually it has a soft but
high polish.
« * * «
Some particulars about the author
of “All Quiet on the Western Front ” ?
He is Erich Maria Remarque,
born, in 1898 at Osnabriick, Germany,
his real name being Kramev. He
fought in the German Army in the
First World War, and made his name
with the war novel Im Westen
Nights Neues, translated into English
by A. W. Wheen under the title All
Quiet on the Western Front and pub-
lished in 1929. In Germany, over
which country it swept like a gospel,
500,000 copies were sold in less than
three months from publication. It
went further than the frankness of
Zola, being brutal and devoid of
romanticism, but alive with a terrible
realism and pathos. It followed a
spate of books on the First World
War, mostly of indifferent merit, but
outrivalled its predecessors in its
universality and detachment and in
its avoidance of both rhetoric and any
attempt to propagate pacific Socialism.
His later novels, though not so out-
standing, continued the theme of a
world in which the individual was
crushed by the irrationalism and blind
cruelty of the world. These are The
Road Back (1931), Three Comrades
(1937), Flotsam (1941), The Arch of
Triumph (1946). After living in
Switzerland for eleven years he went
to the U.S.A. and became an Ameri-
can citizen. In 1938 the National
Socialists had deprived him of
German nationality.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
To what extent and how is molyb-
denum used for agricultural purposes 7
What are its other uses 7 How much
is produced locally, and prices paid
for clean concentrates 7
As far as is known to the N.S.W.
Agriculture Department the use of
molybdenum as an addition to soils
is still in an experimental stage, and
there is little demand for it in bulk
for this purpose. It has been added
to soils in the form of sodium
molybdate, and also as the mineral
molybdenum, in an attempt to over-
come deficiencies in the soil. For a
more comprehensive description as to
the use of molybdenum in soil
the N.S.W. Agriculture Department
should be consulted. The chief use
of molybdenite is as an alloying agent
in the steel industry, all other uses
being relatively unimportant. The
Australian production of molybdenite
is about three to four tons per annum;
only part of this is consumed locally,
the balance being exported. The price
paid for clean concentrates contain-
ing not less than 85 p.c. of molyb-
denum sulphide is about £3BO per
ton, the exact price depending on the
quality of the material offered for
sale.
* * * *
How did the term bowdlerise
originate 7
Thomas Bowdler (1754-1825), an
English physician, achieved in 1818
an undying fame by publishing a
Family Shakspeare, an expurgated
version that either omitted or grossly
modified those parts “which cannot
with propriety be read aloud in a
family,” as he himself phrased it.
Not content with that piece of literary
vandalism he had to go and do the
same with Gibbon’s The History of
the Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire.
* * * *
Who was Father Damien?
Father Damien was the name in
religion of Joseph de Veuster, a
Belgian missionary born at Tremeloo,
near Louvain, on January 3, 1840.
In 1858 he joined the Society of the
Sacred Heart of Jesus and Mary (also
known as the Picpus Congregation),
and while still in minor orders, in
1863, went as a missionary to the
Pacific islands, taking the place of
his brother, who had been prevented
by illness. On reaching Honolulu he
was ordained priest in 1864. Struck
with the sad condition of the lepers,
whom the Hawaiian Government
deported to Molokai Island, in 1873
he volunteered to take spiritual
charge of the settlement. Besides
attending to the spiritual needs of
the lepers he managed, by the labor
of his own hands and by appeals to
the Hawaiian Government, to improve
the water-supply, the dwellings and
the victualling of the settlement, and
after five years received assistance
from other resident priests. He suc-
cumbed to leprosy on April 15, 1889.
Some ill-considered imputations upon
Father Damien by a Presbyterian
minister produced a memorable tract
by Robert Louis Stevenson in 1890
entitled An Open Letter to the Rev.
Dr. Hyde.
Brief Answers.
N.M.: The books mentioned are
not collectors’ items, and are worth
only a few shillings J.A.: Get in
tokch with the services departments
of the firms manufacturing various
types of refrigerators. Another source
of information is Mr. F. C. Connors
of the Mechanical Engineering
Department, Sydney Technical Col-
lege, who is an expert on refrigerator
systems E.M.A.: Sun-worship has
been common at all times and in all
parts of the world, for the sun is
naturally regarded as the source of
life. The sun-god was worshipped in
Persia as Mithra, in Egypt as Ra, in
Greece as Apollo, and under other
names in Peru, Northern America and
Northern Europe F.H.U.: Martin
Tupper, born 1810, died 1889, was
an English author. He published
much poetry, including Proverbial
Philosopl%y, which was immensely suc-
cessful at the time, but is turgid and
commonplace. His autobiography
appeared in 1886. Other works are
A Dirge for Wellington (1852), A Mis-
sionary Ballad (1855) and Washing-
ton: A Drama in Five Acts (1876).
W.S.D.S.: (1) To take out pro-
bate of the will. (2) To collect the
assets of the testator. (3) To pay all
the testator’s debts. (4) To administer
the estate in accordance with the
terms of the wi11... .P.P.: Write
Gaston C. Renard, Antiquarian
Bookseller, P.O. Box 529588, G.P.Q.,
Melbourne.


LOOK YOUR BEST!
m
Hide iN
Personal appearance means much —
be proud of yours —it always pays to
look your best.
We, too, have pride:—Pride in every
hat that leaves our mill . . . Pride
in the dependable service each hat
will give its wearer . . . Pride in our
splendid customer relations over the
past thirty-seven years.
AKUBRA
hafa ofi Qu
IsssS
a tism
ugOM
tica
SCIA
•ssw
OAl TIS
HSslhSs
bag°
111 I 1 *
tON
ill
ective
IAB*- E
rEI
tile
keep® 0
0
HADE MARK'
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED BY DOCTORS FOR RELIEVING
Doldn has brought relief to countless
sufferers from rheumatic disorders in
America, Canada and England. Now it is
made available for you. Dolcin tablets give
prompt relief from the painful symptoms
of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis,
Lumbago and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood and
oxygen to the affected tissues.
Dolcin gives prompt relief and is also non-
toxic. It will not harm the heart and can
safely be taken for long periods to relieve
the rheumatic activity in severe cases.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able to work—
thanks to the relief from pain Dolcin has
brought them.
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no harm-
ful effects on the heart or any other
organ.
DOLCIN relieves painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN has been proved in clinical
tests and is prescribed by the
Medical profession.
DOLCIN is approved under the British
Free Medicine Scheme.
DOLCIN •» obtainable from ,our
Chemist.
100 TABLETS FOR
. 1 * ’ .' . ■ •
1/330
Helpful and Informally# llteralur# on Doleln will be
sent on request to Doleln (Australia) Pty. Limited,
Box 1652, ©.P.0., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Dunlop Contest.
The first Australian art “con-
test” organised by Dunlop Rub-
ber in 1950, with prizes totalling
£850, attracted over 800 entries.
This year the prizes were in-
creased to £1000, making it one
of the highest art awards in the
world.
Curiously enough, although
the sum at stake is larger, the
quality of the exhibits at Tye’s
Gallery in Melbourne, except
for Lance Solomon’s landscape,
is lower than at the first one.
Most of Australia’s leading
painters are conspicuous by their
absence, and the reason isn’t far
to seek, X, who can get any-
thing up to 500 guineas for a
landscape, or Y, who never
paints a commissioned portrait
for less than 600, isn’t likely to
submit a picture which may
have taken him a year to paint
and inferentially contains the
knowledge of a lifetime, for fear
that he might win a second or
fifth or sixth prize of 20 or 50
guineas and lose his picture, for
one of the conditions is that all
prize-winning paintings become
the property of the organisers of
the contest.
The Dunlop project was excel-
lent in its inception, and could
develop into something of real
importance, but if so the condi-
tions will have to be altered, and
winning artists will have to be
given some rights over their pic-
tures.
In the latest contest no first-
prize was awarded. Second-
prize went to Lance Solomon
for “The Yabbies’ Pool,” a fine
Australian landscape, though not
one of Solomon’s most im-
portant works, and third-prize to
Laurence Pendlebury for
“Suburban Station,” a poor
piece of illustration. A special
prize of £100 was recommended
for Ramon Horsfield, a Mel-
bourne artist, for “Studio Scene,”
a capable piece of work which
unfortunately didn’t fulfil the
conditions, being painted square
instead of oblong.
The Borovanskys.
The present commentator, be-
lieving that ballet should be
mainly dancing, was disap-
pointed in “The Outlaw,” the
featured attraction in the current
Borovansky programme at Syd-
ney Empire, and an attempt to
tell something of the character
and history of Ned Kelly in
terms of ballet. Although
Dorothy Stevenson has the op-
portunity for some flashing bril-
liance early in the piece, and
although Paul Grinwis, as Ned,
manages a few twirls and couple
of stomps towards the end, the
overall impression is one of pos-
ing and posturing, and the feel-
ing that Grinwis, Miss Steven-
son, Kathleen Gorham as Ned’s
girl-friend, and Peggy Sager as
Justice, could have all done
much better with their hobbles
off. Some dramatic grouping
and Constable’s sets, by turns
fiery and sombre, are the most
notable features of the produc-
tion.
“Coppelia” was the best thing
of the evening, with Borovansky
as the old toymaker and Edna
Busse as the girl who invades his
premises. It is one of the best
of Miss Busse’s little-girl roles,
and she makes a very charming
business of the miming and all
the scolds, terrors, curiosity and
games that the part offers.
“Capriccio Italien” wound up
the programme with some lively
dancing from Kathleen Gorham
and Martin Rubinstein. Rubin-
stein, who was noticeably missing
from “Fagade” and “Schehera-
zade” because of a leg injury,
seemed keen to exhaust himself
completely in the cause of
dancing; with Miss Gorham
it is not easy to decide
where her personality ends
and her dancing begins, but that,
at any rate, is a very satisfac-
tory combination, and her dark,
plump, Gallic exuberance seems
to have the knack of taking over
the stage and audience whenever
the owner chooses.
Lightweights.
The Independent Theatre,
North Sydney, with Philip
King’s “On Monday Next,” and
the Kuringai Theatre Guild, at
Killara, with Rose Franken’s
“Claudia,” are both indulging in
a couple of lightweights. King’s
play is a lightly humorous ac-
count of the goings-on at re-
hearsal of a small English reper-
tory theatre, but the play is all
bark and no bite—-and the bark
isn’t very loud at that. Edward
Howell, Therese Desmond,
Aileen Britton, Richard Ashley,
David Nettheim and Rosamund
Waring handle the piece lightly
and brightly.
The Kuringai Guild’s presen-
tation of “Claudia” (produced
by Winifred Hindle) is smooth
and competent, without disguis-
ing the sentimentality and cloy-
ing humor of the piece. Wendy
Blacklock, as the young wife
who can add up anything and
make four of it, Peter Richards
as her patient, if slightly be-
wildered, husband, and Sue
Crowley, as Claudia’s mother,
are all quite pleasantly capable,
and all just a shade too serious
about the whole business.
Music.
Mr. Goossens seems to have
an affection for the symphonies
of Vaughan Williams, and last
week he guided the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra through
the Fourth, an agony relieved
only by something that ap-
proached music in parts of the
slow movement. Coming after
a real Lord Mayor’s show,
Haydn’s Symphony No. 85 and
the Chopin Ist Piano Concerto,
played crisply and with authority
by Jascha Spivakovsky, the
Vaughan Williams was a very
flat dish.
4* 4*
Further Sydney recitals by
Nancy Weir emphasised the
complete interpretative mastery
—of her technique there was
never any question—over works
of all shades of musical thought,
from the classics to some well-
selected moderns. Some might
gain the false impression her
playing lacks warmth, merely
because Miss Weir doesn’t toss
her head about or lift her hands
exaggeratedly—her art has no
need for such theatrical props.
The fire of her Liszt-Paganini
Variations, the limpidity of the
Liszt Sonetta del Petrarca and
the purity of her Chopin B
Minor Sonata will all be
remembered.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
U.T.®
It costs less when Experts manage your Estate...
"EFFICIENT management of an Estate is
dependent on the wisdom and experience of
the Executor or Trustee. In unskilled hands,
wastage and unnecessary expense may cause con-
siderable loss. The relatively small cost involved
in appointing the Union Trustee as your executor
may be more than offset by the careful, economi-
cal management of your Estate.
The specialised knowledge of a group of experts
in every sphere of Estate administration is
permanently available.
Charges, limited by law, are exceedingly moderate.
A confidential interview can be arranged to meet
your convenience.
Phone, call or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 393-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
/—• Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 7i p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £> £ £,
1941.. 35,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
1944.. 187,368 76,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
Ord. div. appropriation added re-
serves, £91,675 1,361,904
1945.. 159,696 75,000 Nil 84,695 1,446,599
5 p.c.
1946. . 346,872 75,000 235,000 86,872 1,483,471
1947.. 418,570 75,000 Nil 343,5701,827,041
1948.. 278,206 75,000 Nil 203,026 2,030,067
1949.. 210,884 75,000 Nil 135,884 2,165,951
Tax-provision account, £72,212 .. 2,093^739
1950.. 617,621 75,000 Nil 541,621 2,685,360
With a paid capital of £12,000,000—a
million 1} p.c, prefs. and the balance
ords.—this is the largest of B.H.P.’s sub-
sidiaries. Indeed, pig-iron and steel-ingot
capacity of the blast and open-hearth
furnaces at Port Kembla will soon vie
with those of the parent’s own big steel-
works at Newcastle. Of the ord. capital,
all held by 8.H.P., £4,000,000 was sub-
scribed last term, making the increase
£6,300,000 over the last two years. And
more will be needed before the extensive
programme of development is completed
—to provide elbow-room in this direction,
authorised capital was lifted from
£8,500,000 to £20,000,000 a year or so
ago.
Since it took control some 15 years
back, B.H.P. has consistently placed
national requirements in front of its own
immediate interests. It has received only
one div. (5 p.c.) during this period, thus
enabling all the profit (totalling
£2,375,957, after payment of pref. divs.),
together with generous allowances for
depreciation (aggregating £10,172,002), to
be ploughed back into the business.
The board gives no hint as to how long
this heavy ploughing-back of profits is
likely to continue ; all that can be said
definitely at the moment is that the co.’s
actual and potential earning-power (and
therefore that of the parent) is being
greatly strengthened and rests on solid
foundations. Shortages of good coking
coal, labor, materials and transport diffi-
culties still stand in the way of maximum
output, to which the level of costs is
closely related. All the other ingredients
essential to satisfactory earnings are
present, such as an overflowing order-
book, efficient plant and technical skill.
Also, the co.’s steel products are being
sold cheaper than they can be had from
any other country in the world.
The marked improvement in last term’s
declared net earnings (up £406,737) was
due mainly to increased output from ex-
panded plant, and partly to the fact that
the 1949 figure was affected by an eight-
weeks’ production hold-up, due to the big
Communist-inspired coal strike. The
£617,621 of profit claimed was written
after allowing £1,221,398 (up £307,532)
for depreciation and an unspecified
amount for taxation and other contin-
gencies. After payment of the pref. div.
the balance of the year’s profit was a
moderate 4.9 p.c. on ord. capital as it
stood at the close of accounts, compared
with 1,9, 4.3 and 7.3 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. A lot of the new
capital, however, is represented by assets
that are not yet revenue-producing.
A new battery of 48 coke-ovens came
into operation early last term, continued
electrification and mechanisation of the
co.’s five collieries lifted coal output a
little, and the new merchant bar, rod and
strip sections of the rolling mills came into
action. Construction work at Cockatoo
Island, Yampi Sound (W.A.), is complete,
and high-grade iron-ore will be drawn
from this source as soon as shipping is
available. A further 24 by-product coke-
ovens and a third blast-furnace are ex-
pected to come into production about the
end of 1951. As these additions near
completion, work on the big million-ton-
a-year hot- and cold-strip mill and tin-
plate plants (they are being installed in
•association with 8.H.P.) is to be accele-
rated.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets,
mainly plant, was £3,483,631;
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £5,700,007 £8,000,000 £12,000,000
Sundry creditors,
etc.t .. .. 4,038,700 5,478,864 5,023,570
Fixed assets .. 9,142,457 12,280,497 15,764,128
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 386,498 886,497 386,497
Stocks .. .. 1,743,306 2,076,596 2,453,396
Book debts . . 512,980 844,412 1,071,570
Cash, Govt, bonds 21,033 21,101 20,839
t Includes provision for taxation.
Stocks increased by £376,800 and book
debts by £227,158. The reduction of
£455,294 in the outside debt was mainly
in respect of the overdraft (£185,304,
down £411,924).
The market for the well-protected prefs.
has followed the general trend of fixed-
interest-bearing securities. At 365. (38s.
a year ago) the yield is 4.1 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £l4 12s. Bd.
General Industries, Ltd.
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
r~ ——Dividends
£ ref - To Re- Re-
f eb.. Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £.£,£,
1941 112,206 20,851 12ip.c.= 79,646 11,709 244,521
1942 111,386 20,851 12J „ „ 79,646 10,889 255,410
Jo?? 99 >£? 5 20 > 851 10 .. 63,717 14,937 270,348
1944 90,239 20,851 10 „ 63,717 5,671 276,019
19*5 95,560 20,851 10 „ „ 68,717 11,992 288,011
,?®’ 933 20 > 851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,865 299,376
1947 110,496 20,850 10 „ „ 63,717 25,929 325,305
From tax provision, £46,000 .. ..371,305
1948 121,146 20,850 10 p.c.= 63,717 36,579 407,884
Share premiums, £156,389 ~ ..564,273
From tax provision, £21,500 . . . . 585,773
* B -f9 138,778 20,851 10 p.e.= 71,834 46,093 631,866
1950 168,912 20,851 10 „ „ 78,755 69,306 701,172
Reserves capitalised, £262,514 .. ..488,658
1951 208,850 20,851 10 p.c.=105,005 82,494 521,152
The mounting apprehension among
investors about the impact of inflation
upon the buying-power of their capital
has led to a lively interest in, and wide-
spread buying of, industrial equities,
with, of course, a consequent advance in
prices. The stimulus is actual or
potential increase in earnings and lift in
the dividend rate, or distribution of
bonus scrip—especially where substantial
provision has been made for deprecia-
tion of fixed assets in the past—or issue
of new shares for cash on favorable
terms to provide for expansion and the
increased cost of carrying stocks and book
debts, or a combination of any or all of
these things.
In July, 1950, this big holding co. capi-
talised £262,514 of reserves—£l4l,3B9
from share premiums and £121,128 from
accumulated surplus earnings of subsidi-
aries—in a one-for-three bonus-share
issue to the ords., thus restoring part of
the £319,077 (7s. 6d. per share) written
off in 1934. On completion of this bonus
issue three) new shares of 16s. Bd. each
were issued in exchange for each four old
shares paid to 12s, 6d. each. At an early
date it is proposed to make another bonus
issue to the ords. by increasing the face
and paid-up value of their shares from
16s. Bd. to 20s. each. The sum involved
is £210,011 (3s. 4d. per 16s. Bd. share),
which is to be provided from a reserve
created by revaluation of assets. After
that 311,587 new £1 ords. are to be
offered to those on both pref. and ord.
registers at par, one for five. It will all
lift paid capital to £1,869,527, of which
£297,874 carries a fixed cumulative 7 p.c.
p.a. The pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords.
on that lot will together call for £178,016,
or £30,334 less profit than was disclosed
last term.
The market for the ords., which rose
from 375. 7d. in April, 1950, to 51s. 6d.
in January, 1951, advanced to 555. at Mar,
31 and to 61s. 3d. on May 16. Allowing
for both brokerage and the bonus issue,
and after exercising the rights to the par
offer, the net cost at 61s. 3d. is 545. 9d.
Theoretical value of the rights is thus
345. Id. The return at 545. 9d. is only
3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis, or 4.5 p.c.
should the distribution reach 12} p.c.
The investor at 375. 7d. in April, 1950,
who exercised his rights to all subsequent
bonus and cash issues, will hold his scrip
at an average cost of 345. lid. per share,
giving a return of 5.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. On an ex-rights price of, say,
545., he can also see a capital gain of
19s. Id. a share in the market if he cares
to take it.
Exercise of the rights through pur-
chase of the prefs. at 335. 9d. (last re-
ported sale) would give an overall return
on cost of the combined parcel of 4.7 p.c.,
as well as show an overall capital appre-
ciation of 10 p.c., or thereabouts, at prob-
able ex-rights market value of the same
parcel.
The two operating subsidiaries
(Metiers, Ltd., Sydney, and Metiers
K.F.B. Pty., Melbourne), which have
Australian-wide connections, turn out a
variety of stoves, baths, gas-heaters,
builders’ hardware, enamel goods, radia-
tors and other electrical appliances. Last
term there was a substantial increase in
output and turnover, with demand still
in excess of output, which was below
capacity because of shortages of raw
materials and labor and electrical-power
rationing and blackouts in Sydney. After
allowing for depreciation and taxation
(amounts unspecified), and including
£2883 dropped from somewhere into re-
serves, aggregate net earnings were
£39,438 stronger at £208,350. That
covered the pref. div. and 17.8 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 18.8, 16.4
and 15.7 p.c. back to 1948. The div. has
been steady at 10 p.c. for the last nine
years, and at 12} p.c. for the six years
before that.
Expansion is the keynote of balance-
sheet figures, which reflect a sound
financial structure:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
£>£>££>
Paid capital.. 935,041 1,085,415 1,085,415 1,347,928
Creditors .. 207,416 179,400 177,602 240,440
Tax reserve .. 229,019 296,953 313,875 425,828
Staff- fund . . 20,000 25,000 30,000 33,005
Final div. . . 42,283 49,432 49,803 62,928
Freeholds .. 363,213 412,817 436,891 513,585
Plant . . 483,092 530,453 560,598 580,148
Stocks . . 770,846 837,467 801,240 1,022,100
Book debts .. 198,895 326,611 418,777 488,231
Shares other cos. 24,630 24,630 24,630 24,630
Cash . . 1,113 138,463 115,731 2,588
The year’s net addition to fixed assets
was £96,244, to stocks £220,860 and to
book debts £69,454. To help meet the
outlay the co. went outside for only
£62,838; the cash holding (down
£113,143) and surplus earnings, etc.,
provided the balance.
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Assur-
Ex- Added to ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds.
£/£/£/£> £/
1946.. 208,757 86,926 36,301 85,530 1,466,848
1947.. 225,912 85,142 36,501 104,269 1,571,117
Bonus reserve, £5OOO .. .. 1,576,117
From General Dept., £lOOO .. 1,577,117
1948.. 242,962 104,533 39,314 99,115 1,676,232
From General Dept., £4OOO .. 1,680,232
1949.. 264,806 101,732 44,412 118,662 1,798,894
1960.. 289,479 112,070 42,456 134,953 1,933,847
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1946, £2289; 1947,
£2482; 1948, £2744 ; 1949, £2937 ; 1950, £3293.
Industrial Department.
Assur-
Ex- Added to ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1946.. 362,139 144,706 106,894 110,539 1,595,528
1947.. 376,364 152,502 108,113 115,748 1.711,276
Bonus reserve, etc., £6543 .. .. 1,717,819
1948.. 392,538 168,407 107,786 116,345 1,834,164
From General Dept., £3OOO .. 1,837,164
1949.. 405,885 160,481 112,569 132,335 1,969,499
1950. . 416,634 175,096 115,510 126,028 2,095,527
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1946, £2711; 1947,
£2500; 1948, £1820; 1949, £1875 ; 1950, £lBOO.
The 55-year-old Metropolitan, whose
business is confined to the three eastern
States and S, Aust, marches quietly along
strengthening its position and paying
regular bonuses to policyholders and divi-
dends to shareholders. It handles its
business at reasonable cost, has accumu-
lated reserves in excess of liabilities under
policies, and funds are represented by
sound revenue-producing assets.
When the actuary made his triennial
overhaul of the business a year or so ago,
liabilities under policies were calculated
at a lower rate of interest, which means
that larger reserves were set aside to meet
them, the aim being to protect future
bonus-paying capacity. In the 0.D.,
where the co. has to earn £9 or
more for policyholders before share-
holders are entitled to £l, rates
adopted were a stringent 2} p.c.
(24 previously) on with-profits endow-
ment assurances maturing up to
1965, 2\ p.c. on other participating con-
tracts and 2\ p.c. on non-participating
policies. In the I.D. the rate was dropped
from 2\ p.c. to 2% p.c. At the same
time the 189,289 f.-p. £1 shares, or all
but a small fraction of them, in the
Union Investment Co., Ltd., were bought
at approximately 245. Bd. each. The in-
vestment portfolio was thus strengthened
with a security showing a better immediate
return than Government paper, with pros-
pects of a still better return later on. For
the year to June 30 last this investment
co. netted £8925 (down £2337), or 4.7
p.c. on its capital, and paid 4} p.c.
During 1950 £1,265,072 (down
£116,282) of new business was put on the
books —£667,212 (up £22,785) ordinary
and £597,860 (down £139,067) industrial.
In common with all other life offices the
co. has had to shorten sail in the indus-
trial field. Here collection of premiums
is a weekly door-to-door affair, which is
becoming increasingly expensive with
each lift in wage-rates. To keep costs
down, and so protect the interests of exist-
ing policyholders, the number of agents
operating in this field has been reduced,
with an inevitable contraction in the
amount of new business written.
A tight hold was kept upon outgoings
last term. Including allowances for de-
preciation and the staff fund, but not
dividends, exes, in the O.D. took 17.6
p.c. (down 2.6 p.c.) of net premiums, and
in the I.D. 32.7 p.c. (same as previous year).
The net rate of interest earned on mean
funds was £3 10s. 6d. p.c. (down Is. 7d.
p.c.). The margins between this actual
return and the rates assumed in the valua-
tion are wide enough to ensure mainten-
ance of existing bonus-rates. In the O.D.
the rates range from 16s. p.c. on con-
tracts less than five years in force to
245. p.c. on those 15 years old or more.
In the I.D. increments on the sum assured
rise from 5 p.c. on five-to-nine-year-old
policies to 10 p.c. on 15-year-old con-
tracts, plus 1 p.c. for each additional year.
Total income of the two life depart-
ments was £706,113 (up £31,922)
£570,498 (up £27,970) premiums and
£135,615 (up £3952) interest, rents, etc.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., including £5093 in divs. to share-
holders, £262,064 was added to the assur-
ance funds, raising them to £4,011,874.
In addition there were bonus, investment
and general reserves totalling £27,500,
which also belong to policyholders.
In the general or shareholders’ section
the surplus was £38,754 (up £25,882),
which included £30,363 profit on realisa-
tion of assets. After passing £4OOO to
policyholders in the O.D. and £1157 to
shareholders in divs., the remaining
£33,593 was added to general and other
reserves, etc., which now total £125,242,
or £25,242 more than paid capital. The
div. was maintained at 12} p.c.
Shareholders welcomed a call for
another £50,000 of capital, making total
on the register £lOO,OOO. Together with
the life and other funds, it is invested as
follows:
1949. p.c. 1950. p.c.
Freehold, etc. .. £247,163 6.2 £199,268 4.6
Public securities,
etc 2,638,406 66.1 2,833,417 65.1
Shareholdings, etc. 754,323 18.9 846,728 19.4
Mortgages . . 134,671 3.4 213,067 4.9
Loans on policies 132,362 3.3 142,596 3.3
Book debts .. 72,261 1.8 82,338 1.9
Cash .. .. 11,269 0.3 84,768 0.8
£3,990,455 £4,352,182
Main additions were to public securities
(up £195,011), shareholdings (up £92,403)
and mortgages (up £78,396).


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH JAMES SHEEHAN late
of Wentworthville. —TAKE NOTICE that
ANNIE EDNA SHEEHAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1540 of 1951 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 25th July 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. PIKE AND PIKE, Solicitors,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO VENO DELLAVANZO formerly of
Kalgoorlie Western Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife SYLVIA
CHRISTINA PEARL DELLAVANZO has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for divorce on the ground of desertion
If you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within thirty clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 11th day of May. 1951.
Q. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. NEVILLE
J. HEENAN, Solicitor, Sun Insurance
Building, 70 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Agent for HEENAN, HARTREY & CO.,
Palace Chambers, Kalgoorlie, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN CECIL GRIMSON late of 92
Hawthorne Parade Haberfleld in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAVIS AILLEEN GRIMSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1599 of 1951
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the First day of August 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES.
Solicitor, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACICSOiy
osuixrvsAtf
i% mm
Manufacturers of:
Roll Feed Stationery
Sanders Patent Binder Files
“National” Rotary Duplicators
“Protecta” Self-Registering
Tills
Process Engravings
Stereotypes
Pure British Parchment
Butter Wraps
Waxed Milk Bottle Caps
Rubber Stamps
Office Systems & Equipment
Jackson and
O’Sullivan
Ptt. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Alt BRITISH
Q
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
77bf'$ullei2>n.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months £1 16 0
6 18 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Telephone:
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E, De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Worhj of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
Crusade
m
BMMMIi
*S2
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
NOW OPEN
for Public Subscription
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT
CO. LTD. (BRISBANE)
New, issue of £600,000
First Mortgage Inscribed Stock and
Registered Debentures with interest at
3
per annum
for 14 years
FREE OF EXCHANGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Principal will be repayable at par on the 31st January, 1965,
subject to the Company’s right of earlier repayment.
% This loan is a Trustee Security in Queensland.
£ Interest payable 31st January and 31st July each
year.
£ Debentures will be issued in sums of £5O or
multiples thereof thus affording both large and
small investors an opportunity to participate in
this loan.
0 Purchases may be made by (a) Full amount on
application; (b) Deposit of 10% on application,
balance in full on or before 15th August, 1951.
APPLY NOW! Prospectus is available from, and
applications may be lodged direct with any office of the
English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd., and the
National Bank of Australasia Ltd. (Bankers for the
issue) throughout Queensland and at Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston, Newcastle and
the Northern Rivers Districts of New South Wales.
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
LOAN CLOSES ON OR BEFORE 9th JUNE
Larnt Tin Fields, Ltd.
Operating at Taiping (Malaya),
this one of the Anglo-Oriental
group got its Nos. 4 and 5
dredges digging again in
February and September, 1947.
It has given a good account of
itself since, and promises to con-
tinue to do so, subject, of course,
to political, economic and other
developments over which the
board has no control.
Here are combined dredging
performances for the four years
to the end of 1950:
Recovered, Yield,
Year, Treated, t. 0., c.y., Cost,*
Dec., ’OOO c.y. Tons. lb. c.y.
1947 ~ 2302 397.17 0.37 6.92 d.
1948 . . 4255 841.43 0.44 6.86 d.
1949 . . 4553 1000.48 0.49 7.66 d.
1950 .. 3878 854.11 0.49 8.42 d.
* Operating.
No, 5 machine shut down for
a fortnight in April, 1950, for
installation of high-pressure oil-
firing equipment, and again from
October 7, 1950, to January 7,
1951, for extension of the bucket
ladder and general repairs be-
fore crossing into the Jebong
area. Hence the drop in last
year’s total yardage and recovery
figures. Including ore from
amang, the year’s total recovery
was 868 tons t. 0., equal to 648
tons metallic tin.
The average price of ore sold
was equal to £S7OI 14s. 6d. per
ton metallic tin as against
£5557 19s. sd. for the previous
year. All-in costs were only
£S42 3s. Id. heavier at
£5424 Is. lid. per ton of metal.
So the board was able to show
£37,236 more profit at £145,222,
of which £4500 was written off
restoration exes., reducing them
to £77,208. Two divs. totalling
2s. per ss. share (Is. 3d. in 1949)
were paid, less Malayan income
tax, which reduced the net rate
to 29 p.c. as against 20 p.c. and
16 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The Malayan tax on
dividends was recently lifted
from 20 p.c. to 30 p.c.
There has been no appreciable
change in the area held by the
co., which contains some
86,700,000 c.y., estimated to con-
tain 17,039 tons tin ore, an aver-
age of 0.441 b. per yard. An
adjacent area of about 150 acres,
including the township of Tai-
ping, has been bored and proved
payable, and a Government
committee has been set up to
deal with the questions of com-
pensation and resettlement of
present population, Co. also has
a one-third interest in 55,000,000
c.y. of 0.571 b. dirt at Bangtoe,
West Siam.
Finances are comfortable —
cash, etc., £403,675 and current
liabilities, including final div.,
£88,580. Stores figured at
£66,631, and there is a rehabili-
tation loan of £113,863, which
will be offset, or largely offset,
by the co.’s war-damage claims,
assessed but not yet paid
At the moment one of the
biggest imponderables for the
investor in tin is the probable
price of the metal in the future.
The London price, which fol-
lows the New York market,
rocketed from an average of
£SS9O a ton for April, 1950, to
a peak of £51615 in February,
1951. Chief cause was U.S.
Government stockpiling, follow-
ing events in Korea, which gave
rise to world-wide rearmament.
Both Governments and tin-con-
sumers have been anxious to
build up stocks quickly, because
of doubts about continuity of
supplies from Malaya and other
producing areas in s.-e. Asia.
Recently, however, the politi-
cal situation in Malaya has im-
proved. Also, the U.S. Senate
sub-committee on preparedness
has talked about the “gouging”
of American taxpayers by tin-
producers and speculators, and
the U.S. Government has
slackened its rate of purchase
for stockpile purposes. The im-
mediate result was a steep
fall in the price of the metal,
the London spot figure having
dropped to £51077 10s. about a
fortnight ago, but rose again to
£51132 10s. on May 16. Cur-
rent opinion in overseas official
and trade circles as to what the
“fair” price should be covers a
wide bracket —£81000 to £SBOO
per ton. Even at the lower figure
most Malayan producers can
win handsome profits. Still, any
prediction about the future
course of tin prices is susceptible
to a large margin of error.
Larut has a paid capital of
£300,000 in ss. shares, which the
market prices at 17s. or there-
abouts as against 9s. 9d. a year
ago.
The annual report of the
Westralian Chamber of Mines
for 1950 shows little change
from the previous year in the
quantity of ore treated (2,463,423
tons) in the State. The gold
yield, however, fell from 649,572
to 608,633 fine ounces, reflecting
a drop in the average grade
from s.2dwt. to just under
sdwt., following extension of
marginal reserves. However, the
rise in the price of the yellow
metal lifted total value of the
yield to £9.4 million as against £8
million for 1949, and share-
holders benefited by distribution
of an extra £352,306 in divi-
dends, which totalled £1,096,088.
Principal producers were:
Tons Gold,
Company Treated. Oz.
Big Bell 359,082 47,592
Boulder Perseverance .. 114,443 24,455
Central Norseman .. 155,822 42,475
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie 163,829 41,482
Great Boulder .. .. 331,739 79,827
Hill 50 44,632 11,517
Kalgoorlie Enterprise .. 46,940 14,417
Lake View .. .. 525,924 126,748
New Coolgardie.. .. 32,154 16,429
North Kalgurli . . .. 241,366 59,430
Parlnga 96,488 17,058
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 88,754 25,558
South Kalgurli . . . . 90,094 21,279
Lake View again headed the list,
followed by Great Boulder,
North Kalgurli, Big Bell and
Central Norseman. There is still
an acute shortage of skilled
labor; only about 60 of 356
sponsored British migrants are
reported to have remained in
the industry. Costs continue to
rise at a threatening rate, and
shipping difficulties have aggre-
vated the essential-supplies prob-
lem.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The National Theatre’s opera season is
still doing great business, A packed house
acclaimed its latest offering, “Madame
Butterfly,” at the Princess. Betna Pontin
was very pretty and appealing in the role
of Butterfly. President of the National
Theatre, Sir Robert Knox, brought his
wife and a large party to the premiere.
Lady Knox wore a gown of rose-pink satin
and a white Arctic-fox cape. Mrs. T. T.
Hollway’s gown of mist-blue crepe had
iridescent-bead and sequin trimmings.
Lady Clapp wore black. Lady Mc-
Connan’s gown was of her favorite Alice-
blue toning. The dove-grey faille ballerina
gown worn by Mrs. M. Snider was most
attractive. Mrs. Norman Coulter covered
her burgundy gown with a jacket of blue
mink.
Forgetting the outside world, gloomy
with wind and rain, guests sat entranced
in the W. R. Hughes showrooms as pretty
mannequins paraded before them in
lovely Ecstasy creations. Dame Fashion
has many surprises for the coming spring
and summer, and there is attraction in the
new colors and materials. There’s
regina, a lighter-than-usual navy ; caress,
which combines pink and beige ; sugar
beige is a gleaming gold; Galahad is an
armor-grey; regency a rich grape-red.
Gay and bright is Castilian-blue, rose-
petal reflects the sunset’s glow. There’s
moonlight, a new pale-aqua shade, lilac
dawn, chaperon, a pretty mauve-grey,
and blossom-time, a cherry-red. Fea-
tured in the new materials is powder-
bloom, a finely-woven moss-crepe made
in Australia, tissue-faille is rich and very
lovely. Nylon was used to make many
frocks, whilst shantung and sea-island
cottons also had a place. Patterned silk
jerseys were printed on pastel back-
grounds in preference to the white ground
of former seasons. A very soft, dull-black
jersey was used to make two beautifully-
draped afternoon frocks.
Designers are using the one covered-
shoulderline or else covering up with
stoles, scarves and shoulder-straps. One
of the prettiest frocks was an ankle-
length dress in French organza, which
bared one shoulder, while the other was
covered with flowers in pastel-pink and
blue. Nylon-metalique was used to
fashion a full-skirted ball-gown which
showed the new long tunic-bodice. Moire-
faille was another lovely material used
to make a gown which had the turn-
back cuff of the bodice beaded in crystal.
A drape of the material was brought
across the back and over one shoulder,
forming sash-ends just below the shoulder
in front. The bolero is still in the news,
and was seen for both night- and day-
wear. Matador collars, a few cut very
square and almost like sailor-collars,
highlighted many frocks. They were
worn outside the bolero, but were still
a part of the frock-trimming. Sometimes
these collars were finished at the edge
with tiny flowers, and they were fashioned
of white faille or sharkskin. New neck-
line on day-frocks is the “walled” or
“stand-off” collar. This is just an up-
standing cuff, sometimes wide, sometimes
narrow and often keyhole in shape. Still
popular for cocktail-wear is the ballerina,
whilst for dancing the ankle-length frock
in pastel-chiffon or faille still holds the
fashion picture.
Italian conductor Alceo Galliera was
guest-of-honor aj a late-afternoon party at
Menzies’ given by the A.8.C., whose
Conrad Charlton, manager for Victoria,
was host, with Mrs. Charlton hostess.
Also in the official receiving-line were Mr.
and Mrs. Percy Vanthoff—he is a member
of the commission. Tiny pink roses
trimmed the small black hat worn by
Mrs. Charlton with her black frock and
furs. Mrs. R. W. Spraggett wore a sable
coat over her black frock and with a
small black velvet hat. Mrs. Tom Holl-
way’s tailored suit was navy and white,
her cloche white. Lady Heinze wore
black under dyed-ermine. Mrs. W.
Foster’s aqua-blue wool jacket-suit was
topped by a carbon-blue beret. The small
beige felt hat Mrs. S. J. Fletcher wore
with her black jacket-suit flew black
ospreys. Mrs. Guy Bakewell chose a
lime-green frock and matching hat. Mrs.
Frank Tait, jubilant because the Mother’s
Day concert for the Women’s Hospital
had raised £4OOO, wore with her dyed-
ermine coat a small blue cloche finished
with a matching osprey.
Climax to the week of conference
organised by the president and members
of the Chamber of Commerce was the
late-afternoon party at the Australia.
The president, H. N. Gibbons, was
assisted by his wife and the president-
elect, John Allison, and Mrs. Allison in
receiving the guests. With her black suit
Mrs G f bbons b wore a wide . b rimmed hat
£ w k ve , v Mrs , Auison . s black coat
h d b|ack Persian . lamb trimmings; hcr
bu und £elt hat was trimme d with satin
nM b ons f n £he
same tonings. May Daly,
{ Sydney contrasted her donkey-brown
woo / suit " ith a small black hat t J rimmed
wi£h fl e vciling , Mrs p H Wright
wi£e o£ £he Con 6 sul fm the Neth erlands,
cbose a b j ack wool frock with wide revers
of chantiHy lace
over pink taffeta ; her
small platter bere t was of soft pastel-pink
me lu S ine, finished with veiling. Mrs. D.
j_j Sargood’s dyed-squirrel coat was worn
OV£r a powder . b iue angora frock. Mrs.
j obn jj asam bad ospreys in the black hat
she wore with a black suit M rs. j.
Malcolnij wife of the
senior N.Z. Trade
Commissioner, wore a black Ottoman
jacket-suit, the collar and lapels of which
were heavily beaded with jet and black
sequins. Mrs. lan Connell chose bottle-
green for her wool suit and beret. Shirley
Kirk added a pale-pink hat with matching
ospreys to her black coat,
Wearing a lovely gown of apricot
faille. Rosemary Bassant, pictured here,
was one of the finalists in the A.B.C.’s
Concerto and Vocal competition The
only child of Mr. and Mrs. George
Bassant, of Menzies’ Hotel, Rosemary
was educated at Clyde and is now studying
for her diploma at the University Con-
servatorium. In 1949 Rosemary won
the Lady Turner Prize, and at the Ballarat
South-street competitions she won two
equal firsts in open competition for piano
solo and concerto. Last year she gave
a recital in Adelaide.
A number of Presswomen were enter-
tained by Mr. and Mrs. J. Malcolm in
the offices of the N.Z. Trade Commis-
sioner. The party was given to renew
friendships made when the Malcolms
were stationed here five years ago ; since
then they have been in Canada, where he
was N.Z. Trade Commissioner,
Before she left, with her son Peter, on
the Chandar for an extended visit to
England, Mrs, Mary Pierson Lewis was
guest-of-honor at a farewell-party given
by lan McGinnis, at Chevron. Mrs.
Lewis’s simple black frock had brilliants
scattered over the waistline. Among the
guests were Mrs. Arthur Keegan, wearing
a sea-green corded velvet frock; Mrs.
Norman Lynch, who covered her black
waffle-faille frock with a short mink
jacket; Mrs. Tony Lewis, who teamed a
blue-and-black-striped angora sweater
with a black velvet ballerina skirt; Mrs.
Peter Lynch, in a frock which combined
beech-brown and sage-green taffeta ; Mrs.
C. Hartcliff, who had pearls and gold
embroideries on her black cocktail frock ;
and Mrs. Peter Law, whose grey wool
frock had a white ermine collar and cuffs.
From Sydney
There are one or two beautiful things
to describe this week, so readers will have
to bear with a certain lengthiness from
their Letter.
The first is “Beaver Valley,” the wild-
life picture at present showing in Sydney,
which is the type of thing which will
eventually put zoos out of commission.
It shows the life of the beaver in his
natural surroundings from the time when,
at two years of age, he leaves his father’s
waterways to seek his fortune. He finds
a bride who turns out to be a widow
with a little one to support, and the
responsibility seems to get the beaver
down, for from then on he never stops
working. He works chopping down trees,
building dams, making his home secure
and storing up food all through the pic-
ture while the crickets sing, the spotted
frogs give mighty voice and the owl turns
a yellow eye to the moon. He works
through the entrancing episode of the
wild ducklings learning a quick take-off
from the water, while the strong salmon
leap up the cascades and the bear walks
calmly over the rapids to his Lucullan
meal. He takes no notice of the bitterns
and the wild geese and the squirrel eating
flowers —he’s too busy preparing for the
winter. But this is no grasshopper-and-
ant story, for the otters who have been
seen joyfully clowning away the whole
summer have an equally good time come
winter, tobogganing, skating and swim-
ming under the ice of the lakes beaver
with his dams have built so laboriously.
It hardly seems fair.
What do you say to a garden, beautiful,
orderly, dignified, which is never
watered, no spray is used, no digging
done (except when the plants are put in),
nothing is ever killed and snails live
happily, contributing, the owner says, to
the beauty of the garden. The owner is
Dr. Stuart Scougall, of Wahroongah,
whose home was one of those visited by
the Garden Club last Saturday. An ash
grove at the entrance leads one to a large
rectangular lawn in front of the house
which runs away to a carpet of forget-
me-nots and is flanked by blue spruce-
pine and blue cedars. On the stone
porch are succulents, green and red,
crucifix orchids, rosemary and queer
frosty cacti with little haphazard red
flowers. There are six golden elms like
gothic arches facing the tennis court,
and at the back a memorial garden of
beech, maple, prunus, holly and dog-
woods, again with carpet of forget-me-
nots and clover. Dr. Scougall has de-
signed the garden according to a plan of
symbolic beauty (the symbolism is a little
too elevated'for the likes of this Letter),
and says that it requires on an average
from only one to two hours’ work a week.
The other home visited by the Garden
Club belongs to Mr. and Mrs. S.
Symonds, also of Wahroonga. Here the
maples dominate the garden in all their
glowing-fire colors, set against cypress-
and pine - - and gum-trees which have shot
up straight for about 50ft. before branch-
ing out for another 20ft. The garden is
full of promise and surprise, clumps of
lily-of-the-valley to bloom later, hundreds
of azaleas, wisteria climbing round a
tree. In its present autumnal beauty and
calm it makes one feel that all this talk
of present-day nerviness is a mere furphy.
Here is Shirley Fong, of Geraldton
(W.A.), who has come to Sydney to make
her debut at the Dragon Festival Ball on
June 12. The host and hostess at the ball
will be the Consul-General for China
and Mrs. Martin Wang, to whom about
20 debs will be presented. The decora-
tions will include lighted lanterns, dragons
(cut out from cardboard, don’t be afraid)
and masses of flowers. Souvenir dolls
just arrived from Hongkong will be sold,
for which the prizes are camphor-wood
boxes, lacquer jewel-boxes engraved with
dragons and hand-carved cork pictures,
Sign in a city shop-window lit by one
small candle: “The lighting in this
establishment is from our own emerg-
ency plant.”
Presided over by its Federal president,
Mrs. G. A. Vasey, the War Widows’
Guild of Australia held its annual meet-
ing during the week. The Guild has been
very active during the past year and.
judging by Mrs. Vasey’s outline of plans
and projects, it looks to be even more so.
Agitation at present is for more
sympathetic handling of the children of
war-widows, especially in the determina-
tion of what jobs they will take. Mrs.
Vasey says that the present system is too
arbitrary and that an informed group of
people (including mothers) should
discuss every case. The children should
also be allowed to earn money while re-
ceiving educational allowances. Other-
wise the mothers will remain the only
working members of the family, which
makes the children selfish.
Other plans of the Guild relate to
housing, the building of large blocks of
flats for war-widows, the establishment
of an advice-bureau for people seeking
social service and a flat rate of 2 p.c. for
war-widows on housing-loans. The
money from the Canteens Fund should
contribute to these schemes, says Mrs.
Vasey, for the huge patriotic funds
which “were gathered up and held
nobody quite knows where or how"
should be used now to prevent the
children from getting into any trouble
and not at some distant date when it is
100 late.
The Bush Book Club also held its
annual meeting this week. After 41
years of existence this club seems still to
provide for a vital need in the country.
One member wrote in to say that he’d
like books on carpentering, painting or
plumbing, and “for light reading, digests,
biographies, travel and philosophy, in
fact anything readable except Westerns
or detective stories.” Another member,
an elderly woman, wrote to say how
much the club meant to her: “I do not
greatly care for fiction, but I am fond of
travel and I do like a nice juicy murder.”
Tastes certainly vary, but the Bush Book
Club caters for them all and will con-
tinue to appeal for books for the out-
back for many years to come.
There were some very snappy bits of
dressing observed at the opening of the
American books-and-photographs ex-
hibition at David Jones’, with honors
about even for the Sydneyites and the
American representatives. The U.S.
Ambassador, Mr. Pete Jarman, opened
the exhibition ; Tom Alexander was host
to a gathering highly representative of
Sydney’s art and social world. The
books are very beautiful, being the 50
best published in America during the past
year. They range from “The Art of Paul
Klee” to a new edition of Frances
Trollope’s “Domestic Manners of the
Americans.” Fables” and
“Rector’s Naughty ’Nineties Cookbook.”
The photographs are rather too much on
the vivid side for this Letter’s taste.
If Sydney wants opera it now has a
chance to help itself get it. The Lord
Mayor opened the Opera Chest in Hyde
Park last Friday, and £6O was contri-
buted straight away. The next few weeks
will show how generous our city folk
can be to themselves by dropping the
odd shilling, ten shilling, £5O, etc., into
the chest.
Madame Yvonne Marotta is one person
eager for opera who has already col-
lected £llB towards the fund. Some of
this was raised at a musicale at her
Neutral Bay home last Saturday, when the
visitors heard Queensland pianist Joyce
Miller and singers Patricia Baird, Jacque-
line Talbot and Robert O’Donnell. The
accompanist was Adrian Holland.
Are there any pictures or articles of
historical interest in your home which
others should see? If so, there will be
a chance to show them at the exhibition
to be held by the Royal Australian
Historical Society from June 26 to July
17. The exhibition will be in the gallery
of the Education Department, which is
practically fireproof, and, as the exhibits
will be fully insured and a watchman on
guard throughout the exhibition, owners
need not fear for their safety. Anyone
interested should phone BUI 160.
The pleasant little kiosk in the grounds
of Sydney Hospital is run by voluntary
workers, who seem to get a lot of
pleasure from their task. More helpers
are needed to wait on tables between 12
noon and 2 p.m. any day, Monday to
Friday, so if any readers are interested
in giving a hand they should get in
touch with Mrs. E. Braun, president of
the auxiliary at the kiosk, or ring Miss
Joyce Stratton, 8W6934.
Mrs. J. R. Gwilt, of New Guinea, who
arrived in Sydney recently, was, with her
husband, among the nine European sur-
vivors of the Mt. Lamington volcanic
disaster. Their rubber-estate is only six
miles from the volcano, and she says
that had it not been for the head-wind
driving the blast back they would most
certainly have been killed. Mrs. Gwilt is
a member of the Papuan-New Guinea
division of the Red Cross, whose help,
she says, was really wonderful. The Red
Cross informed relatives of residents in
the area of their families’ safety even be-
fore the headlines had appeared in the
paper. Mrs. Gwilt is at present holiday-
ing with her sister, Mrs. F. W. Caxton,
of Cronulla.
Isn’t it strange how casual, comfortable
clothes look affected and absurd in the
wrong setting! At the American exhibi-
tion there was one woman present wear-
ing slacks, a jacket and a knocked-about
felt hat, which in that well-dressed
assembly looked like fancy-dress. Still,
it got attention (if not of the most favor-
able nature), and that was probably its
purpose.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Robert Jackson Noble, Director of the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, has
been a principal foe of pests and para-
sites since he joined the department as a
cadet in 1913. He got leave in 1915 to
go to France and parts thereabouts,
where his study of wild machine-gun plants
brought him three stripes in the sth M.G.
Battalion. Getting his advanced educa-
tion at Sydney and Minnesota (U.S.)
Universities, he brought his knowledge
back to his department, rising to prin-
cipal assistant-biologist in 1925, and, two
years later, to head of the biology branch.
His subsequent list of decorations and
association with learned societies would
just about overrun a column. Bom at
Fivedock (Sydney), as modest as they
come, he frequently indulges his dislike
of parasitic plants on the fairways of
Killara Golf Club. Last week he received
its Year’s Outstanding Achievement
Award from the University of Minnesota.
When they read “A. D. M. Longden
presents” music-lovers know a first-
rate artist is in the offing. Since, as a
chartered accountant, he kissed a not-too-
fond farewell to trial-balances and all
that, and accepted his old friend John
Brownlee’s invitation to manage his
Australian tour, Archie Longden has
entrepreneured a succession of fine
artists: Florence Austral and John
Amadio, Marjorie Lawrence, the dancer
La Meri (he took her to 42 coun-
tries over 2\ years), Aleksandr Helmann,
PRESENTING LONGDEN.
the violinist Campoli last year and now
Nancy Weir, the brilliant Australian
pianist. Longden knows music—he
learnt the piano from Edward Goll; and
music is a family tradition —his grand-
mother was a pupil of Franz Liszt. He
also dabbles in composition ; his song
“V Victory V” hit the jackpot in War
11, in which he served throughout —in
fact he was with the R.A.A.F. till 1947.
For the three years prior to his leaving
the Air Force he had been in charge of
all its entertainments, serving in New
Guinea and later in Japan. For 15 years,
on and off, he has been angling for a tour
by Gigli, Caruso’s successor as the world’s
top tenor, and is still hopeful of getting
that elusive artist next year.
England-bound in the Orcades, J. E.
Webb, editor of The Bulletin from
1933 to 1948. He was over that way
for King George V’s coronation in 1911,
and expects to return from this trip about
the end of the year.
Everything at the Jubilee Concert at
Melbourne Town Hall was Australian —-
barring most of the music. Arthur Ben-
jamin had a place with his Cotillon, a
Suite of Old English Songs; Alfred Hill
with “The Moon’s Gold Horn,” from a
Hugh McCrae poem, and scherzo from
his “Life” Symphony; and a lyric by-
Adelaide composer Miriam Hyde com-
pleted the native programme. Marjorie
Lawrence gave a superb interpretation of
Isolde’s Narration from “Tristan and
Isolde,” violinist Beryl Kimber showed her
maturing talent in Saint-Saens’s “Intro-
duction and Rondo Capriccioso,” and
pianist Richard Farrell watered the aridity
of Rachmaninoff’s “Rhapsody on a Theme
by Paganini.” Harold Blair, back from
U.S., was the aboriginal representative.
Peter Dawson celebrated his own jubilee
of 50 years of public entertainment by
singing Bach with a depth and vigor that
plenty of the younger generation might
envy.
Promotion to Public Protector No. 1 of
James Brophy (he took over the Auditor-
Generalship from A. C. Joyce the other
day) is the culmination of 43 years in the
Public Service, mainly concerned with
£ s. d. A Treasury accountant in Bris-
bane, Melbourne and Canberra, he was
assistant-secretary to the Treasury at the
time of his recent rise. His recreation is
the encouragement of sport among Can-
berra’s youth, of which he knows enough
—father of 10 children and president of
Canberra’s Combined Sports Organisa-
tions, its Swimming Club and its Hockey
Association. Melbourne-born, 61.
“M.”: Leslie Greener, whose first
book, He Lived In My Shoes, was Red-
paged favorably two years ago, has come
out with another. No Time to Look
Back, set in a Malayan prison-camp. A
lean fathom or so. Greener had an ad-
venturous life before he settled down to
directing adult education in Tasmania,
Born in South Africa, he left with his
mother on the last train out of Mafeking
(father staying to fight), entered Sand-
hurst, then the Punjab Rebellion of 1919,
and, economised from the Army, shared
a French chateau, learnt French, had an
unregretted shot at blue-cod fishing round
New Zealand, took up art and a wife,
studied in Paris, exhibited in a salon and
ended in a garret. Taught French in an
Alexandrian college for four years,
teamed up with a Chicago University
archaeological expedition to Luxor to put
its fossickings in black-and-white (a copy
is in the Mitchell Library), joined “Pix”
in Sydney, joined the A.I.F. in 1939, was
commissioned in Bth Division Intelligence
and ended in Changi. To keep up morale
taught dead languages, advertising and
shorthand and wrote his first book. Tas-
mania was after a man of cosmopolitan
experience for its Education Director
in Greener it would certainly seem to
have got him.
Appointed Lecturer in Chinese at
Queensland University last week, Wan
Huang, a scholarly Celestial who gradu-
ated in law from Tientsin in 1915, shifted
to Columbia University (U.S.), then to
the London School of Economics. Back
East when the Nips took over, he was
sought by them to chum out political
propaganda; refusal brought him 16
months’ jail in Sumatra, after which he
slipped through and hid from the Japs
for three years. Now 67, he has some 30
students under him in Brisbane.
“Fitz”: Brian James, author of First Furrow.
Cookabundy Bridge, The Advancement of
Spencer Button, and numerous Bulletin short
stories, has been compared with Henry Lawson,
and was actually born on Henry’s birthday,
58 years ago. Also, his father’s selection, on
which he was born, adjoined the Lawson selec-
tion at Eurunderee (N.S.W.). It was Brian
James’s father who first taught the school at
Eurunderee, and Henry Lawson, who made
many references to “the old bark school” in
his writings, was one of its early pupils.
Eurunderee was then a beautiful spot, with its
vineyards, orchards and farms, a creek with
giant sheoaks, and the blue and distant range
that encircles all the Mudgee district on the
south. Lawson immortalised it all in scores of
poems and stories, and early reminiscences of
old Eurunderee have also been shaped into
many a story by James, particularly the Cooka-
bundy series. But it was a farm the author
once owned that started him on writing. He
took up a patch of scrub at Glenorie (N.S.W.),
cleared it, and planted it with oranges, lemons
and passionfruit, but low prices forcing him
to give up the little farm he took on writing
as a spare-time hobby—with considerable suc-
cess. A Master of Arts, and a schoolteacher
by profession, he taught in out-of-the-way one-
man schools, at a Sydney high school and in
England. It was his pedagogic experience that
made The Advancement of Spencer Button such
an authentic novel. “Brian James” is a pen-
name which conceals the identity of one of
The Bulletin’s most genial contributors.
“Macnell”: Bombardments make head-
lines, but a recent Korean story of quiet
courage and sustained endurance has gone
unnoticed. When British cruiser Kenya,
after fuelling from a tanker, had her
8000 tons and 12 triple-turreted 6in. guns
rendered useless by a 4£in. berthing wire
which had wrapped eight steely bands
round her port outer screw, and experts
from a U.S. salvage tug had worked
fruitlessly from dawn to dark on the
jammed screw, Leading-Seaman A. H.
Flook, of Essex, had a go. With water
temperature down to 40 degrees, and mud
and a strong tidal set constantly striving
to sweep him clear, Flook, one of Kenya’s
divers, toiled for 43 minutes in pitch
blackness to get five turns off. He sur-
faced, went down again, to have his inlet
valve foul and cut off his air-supply.
Hauled up half-unconscious, he recovered
and insisted on descending again into the
icy blackness. Another hour of struggle
and the wire was heaved clear. Freed
from the stranglehold, Kenya resumed
her patrol.
Victoria’s shortages shouldn’t run to
musical talent. The five pianists and two
vocalists who lined up at the Melbourne
Town Hall for the finals of the A.B.C.’s
annual concerto competition never fell
below a very high standard. Ruth Farren
Price won with a sensitive interpretation
of the Kabalevsky Concerto No. 2 in G
Minor and Muriel Luyk came first in the
vocal section. But it was when Robert
Holmes, a small boy in shorts who looked
as if he could have been in bib and
tucker, sat down at the piano and struck
his first notes, that the whole house sat
up. He was not merely precocious, but
took command of his instrument and the
orchestra with an assurance sc far beyond
his years that conductor Joseph Post
almost beamed himself off the rostrum.
“F.S.” on a K.G.C.:
Anybody who wants to know some facts
relating to literary Australiana needn’t go
further than John Moir, Knight Grand Cheese
once, and now Oknirabatta (wise man of
the tribe) of the celebrated Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club. The club was started
by artist Ted Turner in his home, where
a few literary blokes and artists used to fore-
gather once a week to discuss bread and cheese
and beer and other subjects. John Moir keeps
up the tradition in his home in Bridge-road,
Richmond, an old shop he bought when he
couldn’t find a house. On Fridays and Sundays
anybody is welcome to open the door without
knocking; he enters a library rich in Australian
books, documents and historical detritus, from
which the owner allows him to borrow in a
way that would make most bibliophiles faint.
Moir’s services to journalists and writers are
well known; what isn’t so well known is how
hard he works. He seldom gets to bed before
one in the morning, to be up at daylight catch-
ing up on the letters and inquiries he receives
from all over Australia before he goes to his
job of company-management in the city. If
you want to upset him you have only tp say
that you’ve been up all night reading an author
who is not an Australian. His list of honorary
jobs displays his peculiar prejudice in this direc-
tion: treasurer of the Historical Society of
Victoria, patron of the Gordon Society, the
Cobb and Co. Old Coachdrivers, and com-
mitteeman or member of the Australian Literary
Society, the Henry Lawson Society, the Ballarat
Gordon Memorial Committee, the Poetry
Lovers and the Writers’ Club; also, donor
of the Australian Natural History medallion.
His own contribution to Australiana is Aus-
tralia’s First Electric Tram (1940).
Adelaide medico Donald Dowling was
honored recently by appointment to a
vice-presidency of the World Health
Organisation, headquartered in Geneva.
Brother of James Dowling, S. Australian
banker and secretary of the State R.S.L.
for the past 15 years, Donald enrolled at
Adelaide University in 1914, again in
1919 —his address in the years between
being the A.I.F. —had 18 years medicoing
with the Commonwealth Department of
Health, then shifted to Canberra, senior
m.o. He’s now C.M.O. at Australia
House, London,
Herewith, South Australian Police Com-
missioner Ivor Green. As Coventry’s
sketch indicates, he reaches over 6ft.
and scales 16 stone. Five years
in the War II R.A.A.F. (squadron-leader
and camp commandant, Brisbane and
New Guinea), he began his police record
as deputy-clerk of the Adelaide Police
POLICEMAN GREEN.
Court in 1925. Grandson of a hardy
Englishman who walked overland from
Bendigo to the copper-mines at Burra
(S.A.), Green’s activities since his P.C.
appointment include redesigning of the
police-cap badge (he studied commercial
art long ago), establishment of the first
advanced driving-school in Australia for
traffic-police and welcome alteration of
his force’s summer uniforms to khaki. He
was born 53 years ago at Port Pirie,
where his father was a Salvation Army
captain.
“Uramao”: Professor N. E. Odell,
temporary head of the geological depart-
ment of Otago University, has now
accepted the Chair of Geology as a per-
manent job. Mountains are his pet sub-
ject—before landing in M.L. he was a
member of the North American Arctic
Institute expedition which explored the
mountain-range of St. Elias, in Alaska,
and in 1924 and 1938 he had a shot at
Everest.
PRIZEWINNER.
(A Dubois impression of Lance Solomon,
who was awarded £200 in this year’s
Dunlop art competition for his landscape
“The Yabbies’ Pool.”)
Recently retired from the Department
of Social Services after five years as
Chief Rehabilitation Officer administering
the Disabled Ex-servicemen’s Scheme,
Captain Morton H. Moyes, 0.8. E.,
B.Sc., F.R.G.S., R.A.N. As the initials
indicate, he’s had a full life since he left
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide. Champion
footballer and high-jump athlete at
college and university, he was a Queens-
land representative in Australasian cham-
pionships. He left the science-mastership
of his old school for the R.A.N., was a
member of the 1911 Australasian
Antarctic expedition, was in the relief of
the Shackleton expedition in 1916, and
there again with Mawson in 1929-30, his
last acquaintance with those frozen seas
being as survey-officer in the Discovery.
Thousands of Australian youths passed
through his hands when he was instruc-
tor-commander at Flinders Naval Depot.
Bishop Moyes, of Armidale, and
cricketer A. G. Moyes are brothers.
“G. Elburg”: Westralia’s Governor
Mitchell, whose term ends on June 30, has
an unshakable belief that the State could
treble its population and give the world
all the food it wants if things were man-
aged properly. This is invariably the
theme of his public speaking, whatever
the occasion. Opening an exhibition of
paintings in Perth Town Hall recently his
Excellency rode his hobby-horse vigor-
ously for a quarter of an hour or so ;
then, realising that something more appro-
priate might be expected, he confessed
without shame that he knew nothing
about art. After the speech Sir James
was taken on an official tour of the ex-
hibits. He proceeded at a hand-gallop
past the unfruitful gum-trees and
pictures of uncultivated soil, till he came
to a painting of fish. Here he stopped
and, adjusting his pince-nez, peered
closely at the canvas. “Trumpeter,” he
announced with conviction, and resumed
his gallop. He was probably right—fish-
ing is his first love in sport.
Into the Silence:
In Hampshire (Eng.), at 78, Colonel Geoffrey
Robert Pridham, late Royal Engineers, into
which Jre was gazetted in 1892. With them he
won D. 5.0.; later he commanded Maorilands
Engineers in the Kaiser’s war.
At 76, in Sydney, Frederick Orpen Steel, a
long-standing stanchion of the Sydney Stock
Exchange. Member for over 40 years, he’d had
several terms as chairman, totalling nine years,
and 30 years as committee member. Old Fortian,
a mining-engineer in his early days, he put
what he knew of the Stock Exchange, which
was just about everything, into a handy book.
In Perth, at 47, Gordon Hack, who on his
only venture into politics almost unseated
T. Burke from the Perth seat in the
1949 Federal election. Licensee of Perth's
Savoy Hotel when War II broke out, Hack was
selected by the Army Q. branch to do a catering
job with the troops—he finished the war Deputy-
Controller of the Army Catering Services. One
of his recent jobs was the household arrange-
ments at Perth Government House for the Royal
visit.
In Christchurch (MX.), Charles Buckett,
principal of Buckett’s gymnasium for 40 years
and well-known coach. He broke
several world records —swinging 61b. 6oz. clubs
continuously for 72 hours 46 minutes, topping
the world record of 72 hours; swinging a pair
of Army regulation swords for 60 hours; a
combination swinging for 36 hours; and twirl-
ing 81b. clubs for 48 hours. He served in the
Kaiser’s war in the N.Z. medical corps and
aboard the hospital ship Maheno.


Safer Castration
of Calves with
ELASTR&TOR
A
7/
EUSTRATOB
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR » JAILER
lot d
L lombs & colves
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St* Melbourne.
ELIS
CINZANO
BWCKT OR DRY
noted
j&wvce
fd
.
m
gtsSaam
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt,
now available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest
advance In rupture treatment. It supports not only the
hernia, but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving
the entire weight and pressure on the hernia area.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable support!
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflatcd) for the
hernia region.
TFT]
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at wilt.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY, LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel; FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet "The Rigiflex Method
ADDRESS ■ ..mu ■ rrr~~• m *,• w«.«3anu» M• >
STATE
. I»BUJQK*
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Learner Shearers.
“Outback”: W. A. Hunter,
Luna, Oraanama (Q.), considers
that until the attitude of graziers
and the A.W.U. changes estab-
lishment of a school for learners,
as advocated by A.W.U. general
secretary Dougherty, would be
a waste of time.
Hunter contends that solution
of the learner problem is simple.
If graziers would make pens
available to learners and if the
A.W.U. would police the award
in this respect as enthusiastically
as it does in other respects the
problem would solve itself. He
can j&oduce “irrefutable evid-
ence” that learners are available
but are unable to get pens.
The Rooney school in N.S.W.
gave its pupils a good’ground-
ing, but graziers would not em-
ploy them after they left the
school. No school could fit a
man to shear 120 sheep a day,
Hunter points out; only practi-
cal experience could do that,
and employers will not give pens
to men whose tally is 50 to 60
per day.
Hunter suggests that the
A.W.U. and graziers’ organisa-
tions should together ask the
Arbitration Court to have a
“learner” defined as a shearer
who has not shorn 2000 sheep,
and an “improver” as one who
has shorn 2000 but less than
5000. The award should be
amended to provide that one pen
in five be reserved for a learner ;
that, in sheds of four stands and
under, one stand in three be re-
served for an improver, and that
the parties agree to police the
award rigidly in this respect.
It is unfortunate that so
many graziers are so short-
sighted that they will not em-
ploy learners. Reports from all
over Queensland indicate that
since the Queensland shearing-
rate was increased to £7 Bs. per
100 flock sheep a number of
shearers who left the industry
are now returning to it. This
has eased the acute position pre-
vailing a few months ago, when
there was a great shortage of
shearers ; but unless something
is done now to train shearers
the position will become as bad
as ever.
Wool Future.
“Graz”: The J.O. stockpile
will be liquidated by June 30
next, and it is estimated that
there will be a gap of 15 per
cent, between the quantity of
wool available in 1951-52 and
the present rate of consumption.
The two largest consumer coun-
tries are preparing for the short-
age by using more artificial
fibres.
In the U.K. pure wool textiles
carry a sales tax of 66| per cent.,
while those containing a per-
centage of cotton, rayon and
other artificial fibres are tax-
free. The Government’s purpose
is to divert the “all-wool” pro-
ducts to the export trade, but
nonetheless it has the effect of
spinning out the short supplies
of wool by encouraging the use
of other fibres for the home
market. The Truman Adminis-
tration has agreed to a 15 per
cent, dilution of artificial fibres
in military clothing.
Though manufacture of syn-
thetic fibres has thus been
speeded up, a major slump in
wool prices is not anticipated
while rearmament programmes
continue.
Poisoning Rabbits.
“Pat O’Day”: The autumn
being dry in Riverina and the
padd o c ks consequently not
“Think I collect plurry Water to feed your horses ?”
“greened up,” bunny does not
turn his sensitive nose up at
black - thistle - root baits, and
poisoning is effective.
The procedure adopted by
neighboring graziers is to
arrange that where one employs
a poisoner he lays at least 1000
thistle-root baits in paddocks be-
yond the boundary-fence. This
is very much more effective
than poisoning one particular
property, and the one next to it
receives the influx of scared rab-
bits —for they do clear out from
a poisoned area.
The usual haul from the num-
ber of baits laid is up to and
over 300 bunnies per night, and
if the paddock is badly infested
further baits should be laid out
again for the next couple of
days.
Mopping-up is important in
rabbit-eradication. After thin-
ning out by poisoning, tractor-
ripping, occasional fumigants in
bad burrows and shooting, trap-
ping will usually deal with the
survivors.
A rabbit-poisoner needs a
good dog, trained not to eat
dead rabbits but to find them
and bring them in to his boss.
This saves miles of walking, and
a couple of good dogs double the
saving.
Treating Honey.
“Billjim”: Honey will respond
to treatment after granulation if
reliquefied and a starter of
smooth - grained honey is
thoroughly mixed in. Place a
tin of coarse-grained honey,
with lid loosened, in a large pan
of very hot water (but not boil-
ing) until the honey is clear
liquid.
Water should not reach higher
than two or three inches from
the top of the tin, and may be
kept hot by a gentle heat. When
honey is clear stand tin in cold
water until temperature has
dropped to about 75deg. F. Skim
off froth and slowly stir in a
quantity of smooth - grained
honey (about 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.
of the starter).
After a thorough mixture has
resulted seal and store in a cool
place until it has granulated to
a firm consistency. This may
take from four to six days in
the winter.
Sowing Peas.
“Hortus”: Field peas may be
sown from February to May.
Make a succession of sowings
every fortnight or so. Most suit-
able soils are loams and clayey
loams of an open nature. You
can grow peas with success in
sandy soils, as long as you give
the latter some “body.” Poultry
manure, worked gently into the
surface soil, is good. With the
rotted weed - growth turned
under some time before sowing,
this gives the required “body.”
Autumn soils are often cold
and wet and spoil the seed’s
efforts to sprout. Treat the seed
with a suitable fungicidal dust,
and you will notice an improve-
ment. Tetroc at the rate of l\oz.
to the bushel gives good results.
Drilling is recommended, using
one bushel to the acre with
icwt. to Icwt. super.
Calf-rearing.
“A-Jay”: The customary
practice of rearing calves on
skim-milk for the first six
months and then turning them
out on grass is effective when
properly done, but it represents
a colossal waste of skim-milk,
averaging 200 gallons per calf
reared.
One of the disabilities of rear-
ing calves on skim-milk is that
often they fail to do well when
put on to grass. This can be
overcome by rotational grazing,
which reduces losses consider-
ably and gives heavier calves,
heifers being 1501 b. heavier at
two years old and giving 501 b,
extra butterfat.
In N.S.W. experiments have
been conducted with early
weaning and it has been found
possible to wean calves at as
early as 14 days old and then
have them do well when pul out
on grass.
Problems encountered in
changing over calves to grazing
have been investigated in the
U.S.A., where good results have
been obtained by transferring to
the calf a piece of the mother’s
cud. This method has been
pried in N.S.W. by obtaining
port i o ns of cud from
slaughtered cows and feeding it
to calves, with good results.
A Useless Grass.
“W. Court”: Heavy rains
along the C.Q. coast early this
year gave yellow-grass an un-
wanted boost. Large areas of
cleared land have been overrun
by this creeping pest, and it is
spreading into cane paddocks.
Yellow-grass has the same
habits as couch, but is far more
difficult to control. Ploughing,
harrowing and “bumpering”
merely spread it, and, although
the grass dies back sharply in a
drought, it revives immediately
after rain.
The growth of yellow-grass
is altogether too strong for
couches, paspalum dilitatum and
similar forage grasses. Not even
nut-grass can thrive with it. It
is useless as fodder.
Goats for the Farm.
“Nedrium”: Goat’s milk has
a high feeding value for infants,
having an average of 5 p.c.
butterfat in globules smaller
than cow’s milk (average 3.2
b.f.). More important, perhaps,
is the comparative freedom
from disease —t.b. being practi-
cally unknown in goats. Eco-
nomically, milch goats are
cheaply fed, and only a small
area is required to house a doe.
As to milk yield, champions
produce over 50001 b. annually,
while the average animal gives
half a gallon a day over a seven-
month lactation period. Higher
figures are more likely when
herd-testing is introduced.
Does can be mated at 18
months, and will kid at 23-24
months. Breeding can be twice
a year at any time.
Twins are common the
characteristic is hereditary.
Apart from the milk, the skin
and the hair, how useful is the
goat, tethered on a long chain,
cropping away at unwanted
saffron, horehound, blackberry
and those other spreading green-
farm troubles!
Little attention is needed —and
little is usually given except for
stud milch females —and so
much steady work can be done
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
There are now very slight prospects for rain except on
the southern littoral of the continent.
There is now visible an enormous northern sunspot
group, hut these groups have very little effect on the weather
of the Southern Hemisphere unless they are joined by a
southern companion, which must be of almost the same
order. On the last occasion when this junction occurred
the southern groups were not large enough to effect a
transfer of influence and only light scattered rains resulted.
Under the cycle there is no important rain till Sep-
tember, except in southern areas, but as the finer weather
came earlier this season so the rains may come before
September.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
K.
a
a
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.iVa plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 23/6/’6l
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
117 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, MA 7230
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
6i YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON” That Fine Old
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co M Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CRONULLA
"Westella"
Guest House,
Kingrsway, Cronulla, N.S.W.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW
MANAGEMENT
Our aim is a first class Service
for Visitors. Accommodation for
80. It’s warmer by the sea.
Resident Proprietor, G. E. Lloyd.
1 n*• .. tr* ' y: $
i
I / r^js
rr
S « ; <
fSZ
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,'
Sydney,
BW 8631
Esdaile's 2Jx
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT. £l6/5/-
9 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
Cl Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
0 Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2ix —Eye relief 3iin.
to s}in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
rfAdaim
AND SONS
pry. ltd.
41’ HUNTEH STREET. SVPNl
” Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
Jf^ c
T
king time
titriG
/
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
'}///\
y/
ffl'a
v/Zv 7 //
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
gf
dgf
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
M
V
The Mobilco-Eiectro
MOTOR GENERATOR
How much easier a job of post hole
boring becomes when the new Mobilco-
Electro is used. This little machine can
be pulled around the roughest paddock
and placed in any position ready for work.
A steady flow of electric current drives
the light, vibrationless power drill and
the Vt" bit bites through the timber with
smooth and effortless certainty.
Welded steel frame, solid rubber
wheels, 1 h.p. J.A.P., 4-stroke,
air-cooled engine, 32 volt, 500
watt generator, switch, 20 ft.
rubber-covered cable, Mobilco-Sher
Power Drill, Y&" capacity in hard-
wood, Vt*! in steel.
Also available as an attachment to
Post Hole Digger, Circular Saw or Tractor
The 32 volt 1 , 500 waft generator and Mobilco-Sher Power Drill are made
up into an assembly to fit a Mobilco Circular Saw, a Mobilco Post Hole
Digger or any type of Tractor. There is no easier way to bore wood or
metal than electrically, it provides the maximum manoeuvrability,
since the 20 ft. light flex gives a big range of movement and thus
eliminates the necessity of having to move the generator unit frequently
. . . And electric power is reliable power since long mechanical drive
shafts and transmissions are eliminated . . . And bear in mind that
you can light a house or shed or run an electric one-stand shearing
machine from the versatile Mobilco-Electro. The usefulness of this
machine in field and workshop is such that it will soon be regarded as
essential equipment. Write now for illustrated literature.
dgfd
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.
252 SWANSTON ST, MELBOURNE - PHONE: CEN. 4799; AFTER HOURS WF3UB
if the animal is shifted around
the property gradually, cleaning
up the bad spots that would be
such a nuisance to hoe or
plough.
The Cow in Winter.
“Myrrhee”: It’s more profit
able to feed a cow in winter
than at any other period. More
milk is produced, the cow holds
her condition and is more valu-
able if she has to be culled. She
calves in good trim, produces
heavy yields from the day she
calves and will drop a bigger
and stronger calf.
A dairy-cow needs an ample
and regular supply of feed —
about 601 b. of green grass per
day for maintenance and
another 301 b. for each gallon of
milk she produces. A. C. T.
Hewitt, in the Victorian “Jour-
nal of Agriculture,” estimates
that, on first-class spring pas-
ture, a cow can graze 1501 b. in
24 hours, enough to produce
three to four gallons of milk.
On short pasture, however,
she’ll have to work hard to
gather 401 b., which is scarcely
sufficient to hold her condition.
It’s clear that extra nutrients
must be given long before this
stage is reached, and these are
best supplied in the form of
good-quality grass-hay or chaff
and 31b. of concentrate to the
gallon of milk.
Toe-picking Chicks.
“Country Woman”; Begin on
the assumption that the chicks
need salt. Clean all drink-
ing - vessels and fill with
slightly-salty water. Allow the
chickens access to this for a day,
then refill with fresh water. A
little salt added to the mash once
or twice a week is helpful.
Give them an abundance of
greens, the wider the variety the
better. Silver-beet is splendid ;
dandelion is rich in iron; milk-
thistles, lucerne, chopped caulie.
and cabbage-leaves, carrot-tops
and red-beet leaves are all good.
Cucumbers make a welcome
change. Chopped onions are
good for liver trouble in fowls
and should be included in the
diet. If limestone is available,
crack with a hammer and scatter
in the run.
Oats for Grazing.
“Mr.”; Given reasonable
treatment in spring, oats fed off
during winter will produce a
good yield of grain. Victorian
Department of Agriculture tests
show that the earlier-maturing
varieties, Mulga, Dawn and
Orient, produce more green-feed
early in the year than later types
such as Algeribee and Fulghum.
Algeribee and Orient were
best of the varieties tested in
their ability to recover after
grazing and give a satisfactory
yield of grain. H. L. Hore,
senior agronomist, recommends
a seeding-rate of 50 per cent,
higher than that normally used
if the crop is to be fed off.
Grazing, says Hore, invariably
reduces the grain yield of oats,
but in the better-rainfall districts
the check in growth induced by
grazing has the advantage of re-
ducing a crop’s tendency to
lodge.
Duck Houses.
“Urana”; Ducks should have
a warm, dry house in which to
sleep. Height of the walls is a
matter of choice. My prefer-
ence is for a building high
enough to enable me to stand
up, about sft. deep and as long
as is necessary for the number
of ducks.
One end I leave for camping,
covering the floor with grass or
straw, which can be easily
removed and replaced. At the
other end I make laying-com-
partments 18in. wide. The back
wall forms one side of the nest,
and low divisions of a couple of
rows of bricks divide them. They
need only extend 18in, to 2ft.,
so there is plenty of room to
move about in front of them.
Ducks like to have a nest
each, and will usually lay in the
same one all the time. If you
want them to set, the results are
more likely to be satisfactory if
the duck is allowed to stay un-
disturbed on the nest to which
she has been accustomed.
When the ducklings hatch,
shift them and the mother away,
as they will make the other
setters restless and may cause
them to leave their nests.
Hints for the Farm.
“Konanda”: If there is not
much suitable brush at hand to
make a shelter for the garden
set up a skeleton fence and fill in
the gaps with weeds or shrubby
bushes. The herbage from the
yard—that has to be kept down
because it makes ideal cover for
snakes —filled in the spaces sur-
rounding my Quorn (S.A.) gar-
den. Even spear-grass makes
filling. It stays put except in a
very heavy blow.
“Rooster”: Give young pigs
ground limestone and salt in the
proportion of four to one when
the diet consists mainly of cereal
grains or meals. Where plenty
of skim-milk, buttermilk or
whey is available the lime and
salt content is sufficient for rapid
growth,
“Billjim”: Sweet-corn does
well in most soils. It will be
helped by blood-and-bone,
to 12ft. of row, and an equal
amount of dry wood-ashes to
provide potash. It is a good
crop to plant on small vacant
patches, but to ensure pollina-
tion plant in clumps of not less,
than four or five about 12in. to
15in, apart If sown in Decem-
ber it should be ready in March
and April. Best corn is obtain-
able only over a short period.
Pull cobs when corn is at
“milk” stage, while they are
juicy yet plump and firm. The
tassel is then dry.
“M.”: For apricot-scab, a
fungous disease which also
attacks peach, cherry and
almond, thoroughly spray with
a Bordeaux mixture, strength
6:4:40. Apply in autumn as
the last of the leaves are falling
and again at pink-bud stage in
early spring.


GOODYEAR
TYRES
HAVE CHANGED
TOO!
I
1915
m
1951
In the development of motor trans-
portation, tyres have played an
important part and none more v;,v .'jurp
than Goodyear Tyres. Out of Goodyear’s unparalleled
experience in building tyres have come many historic
improvements resulting in greater tyre safety, longer
mileage and comfort. Goodyear Tyres today are dramatic
evidence of Goodyear’s ability to give you the finest tyres
it is possible to build.
Again in 1951 ... as in every year for the last 36
years, more people, the world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
GOOD
*r
m
EAR
gdf
Bi.»a
p>'
tfO 7HANI&!
T&P Co*Ay
y?
vwe F
CAPSTAN
g
• «
847 D-3.51
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The A.J.C. merits a word of praise
for the increased attention it is
giving of late to the matter of pro-
viding more suitable race-names than
the usual dreary repetition of Welters,
Highweights, Flyings, Novices and
the like. While Sydney still lags a
long way behind Melbourne in this
regard there is discernible some
movement in the right direction. In
particular an effort has been made to
adopt appropriate names for events
restricted to fillies and mares —the
potential stud matrons of the future.
Some have been named after leading
studs; some after great mares of the
past. At Randwick on Saturday a
7-furlongs race for fillies and mares,
three-year-old and upwards, was
designated the Bruce Lowe Handi-
cap in commemoration of the Aus-
tralian breeding authority who de-
vised the now widely-adopted system
of classifying leading equine
“families” by what are known as
their Bruce Lowe numbers. Un-
fortunately, on Saturday, the horses
themselves were not particularly co-
operative in connection with this
gesture. The race was won by the
four-year-old Talking mare Perfect
Chatter, who doesn’t rate a Bruce
Lowe number; while stone-last in the
event was Fossick, a member of the
theoretically esteemed No. 1 family.
The Randwick card was framed
principally for the benefit of the lesser
lights who dominate the scene round
this betwixt-seasons time o’ year.
Only two events were open to all
and sundry, and the traditional Fly-
ing Handicap was for once an
absentee. The Flying was replaced
by the mile Belmore Handicap, which
brought to light the roughest winner
of the day when the Pentheus six-
year-old Penmore avidly seized upon
a gift opening on the rails and just
got up to collar the heavily-backed
second favorite Golden Wedge.
Karachi finished well enough into
third place to suggest that he’s fit
to pick up something over a shade
longer journey, T
The Felcrag four-year-old Crag
Son has lately been showing signs of
a return to the form which marked
him a promising colt last season, and,
sent out favorite at threes, he made a
good job of winning the 10-furlongs
May Handicap. The outsider Insur-
ance hung on surprisingly well when
challenged in the straight, but the
favorite scored by a half-length.
Finishing fast for third money the
Genetout mare Belle Amber notched
up her fourth minor placing from
five Starts —a consistency which soon
must surely be rewarded.
Auld Acquaintance’s half-head vic-
tory over Ananzi in the mile Three-
year-old Encourage seemed mainly to
be the old story of a good big-’un
proving a shade too good for a good
little-’un. Not that Ananzi is so
particularly small but Auld Acquaint-
ance must be about the biggest colt
racing in Sydney at present. The two
raced close together most of the
journey and the margin between them
at the finish might well have been
merely a matter of the winner’s head
being that much longer. However,
of the pair, Ananzi would be present
observer’s choice as the one more
likely to go on to win much better
races.
By three times in succession finish-
ing from the clouds to run third in
6-furlongs events, the Waikare filly
Blue’s Sister had indicated that a
longer journey might be her meat, and
consequently she went out a solid
favorite for the 7-furlongs Tarwyn
Park Handicap. The assumption
proved correct; Blue’s Sister won
comfortably from the Nizami colt
Trizami, with Lloric a moderate third
arid the rest out of sight. Blue’s
Sister is a full-sister to that cracker-
jack miler Blue Legend and she
should be capable herself of running
a very solid mile, if not further. Blue
Legend did win at up to 12 furlongs.
* * * *
The performances of Benarca (R.
Hall) in winning the F. E. Shillabeer
Steeple and Tyrian (K. Wilson) in
taking the Port Phillip Hurdle at
Caulfield on Saturday brought very
much to mind that the jumping
season is upon us and Grand
Nationals in the offing.
Benarca’s sire Precentor (now dead)
was not a particularly fashionable
sire, his stud fee being only a few
guineas. But his sire was David, the
most successful sire of jumpers we
have had, and Benarca seems cer-
tainly to have inherited the qualities
which have seen progeny of David
11 times win one or other of the
four major jumping events.
Benarca on Saturday carried 12.7 —
the maximum that he can be given in
the Grand National —and carried it
like a feather. With two fences to
go Benarca was several lengths
behind the leader Niblik, to whom he
was conceding 231 b., but, when asked
for an effort, Benarca fairly swept
past Niblik and went on to win as
he chose. Carrying just three stone
less than the winner, Rossfield finished
a distant third.
Niblik is a rather unlucky custo-
mer, particularly insofar as bump-
ing up against Benarca. In addition
to winning once he has run five
seconds from his last six starts, and
three times in a row he has been
second to Benarca. Benarca has now
"I'll give y' the apple if y ' don’t tell yer mum.”
had 14 starts over the fences for eight
wins and two seconds.
A minor placegetter in both Grand
National and Australian Hurdles last
year, Tyrian, in winning the Port
Phillip Hurdle, displayed form which
should see him again somewhere close
to the money in the big races this
year. Always, reasonably close to the
leaders, Tyrian moved up to take a
real hand in the fray- almost six
furlongs from home. Over the last
hurdle Tyrian landed clear and went
on to down Fairy Fable by a length,
but with a lot in reserve.
Of winners on the flat at Caulfield
the grey Nizami four-year-old Dur-
ham was far the most noteworthy;
he impresses more and more as one
to keep well in mind when the Cups
come round. Although bumped up
81b. in the weights to 8.1 for his
King’s Cup win, Durham had no
difficulty whatever in downing the
bunch stacked against him in the 12-
furlongs Goulburn Handicap. Dur-
ham (A. Burton) started equal
favorite at the extraordinarily good
odds of 4 to 1 and won by a length
and a half from the little-fancied
pair Robert Bruce and Heather Rose.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Handicap; Alkanna,
I; Red Trial, 2; Main Sail, 3. Three-
and Four-year-old Maiden: Vien
Court, 1; Chief Pontiac, 2; Loch-
aven, 3. Punchbowl Mixed: Dolphin,
1; Lady Shuna, 2; Silent Glory, 3.
Burwood Mixed: Phar Deiri, 1;
Texas, 2; Sapristi, 3. Flying: Ac-
quittal, 1; Trover, 2; Royal Cargo, 3.
May Handicap: Hurry Up, 1; Bland-
stream, 2; Tamunga, 3. Welter:
Karachi, 1; Blue Ensign, 2; Saville
Row, 3.
* * * *
The Hawkesbury (N.SiW.) Racing
Club, one of the oldest in Australia
but limited for years past to one meet-
ing per year held at Rosehill, has suc-
ceeded in its application to be declared
a provincial club, thereby permitting
it to conduct midweek meetings on its
own course. So next Wednesday, for
the first time in many a day, they’ll
be racing at ’Oxborough.
* * * *
Some horses are certainly made
thoroughly earn their retirement. At
a meeting at Casterton (Vic.) last
week the Normanby Steeple was won
by Wise Counsel, who was a six-year-
old when he won the Australian Cup
in 1942.
* * * m
Winston Churchill being Winston
Churchill, one might safely have
wagered that he would not rest until
he himself had led in a winner of the
rich race named in his honor —the
Winston Churchill Stakes. Churchill
achieved this heart’s ambition a week
or so back with his mighty good grey
Colonist 11.
* * * *
For the next few weeks any persons
noted shoving through lunch-time
crowds with exceptionally proud bear-
ing, chest stuck out, sporting a glow-
ing smile and whistling the while
“Ilkley Moor” or similar anthems, is
practically certain to be a New Aus-
tralian from the Old Dart, basking in
the reflected glory of the touring Eng-
lish Soccer team which is making a
devastating job of restoring some part
of British sporting prestige in these
parts. In a pipe-opener at the N.S.W.
South Coast town of W'ollongong last
week the tourists slaughtered local
enthusiasts to the tune of 7-nil, and at
Sydney Showground on Saturday they
made quite as, thorough a job of a
N.S.W. team which was trounced 8-1.
The “one,” we have been assured in
divers broad accents, was a sheet-
ruddy fluke.
* * * *
Saturday’s V.F.L. football in Mel-
bourne gave form followers a knock,
for the mighty fell in several places;
every team in the League has been
beaten this season and “the four”
changes every week. Over 40,000
jammed themselves into the Richmond
ground (while the vaster M.C.G. stood
empty a quartet-mile away) and saw
the local Tigers pull. Collingwood off
their high horse, tear them to tatters,
scatter the remnants and themselves
mount the nag to the tune of 16.20 to
9.11. While this massacre was going
on, Carlton was similarly dealing with
the other leader, Fitzroy, using a
dominating ruck and centre for a
19.15-10.12 win. Footscray moved to
second place with an easy canter
against the visiting St. Kilda, 11.15-
7.11; Geelong made the flattened
Essendon concave with 14.12 to 10.8;
South Melbourne piled up 15.6 to
Melbourne’s 11.12; and North Mel-
bourne beat Hawthorn, 14.14 f o
7.18, more by good luck than good
management. It left Richmond on
top, then Footscray, Fitzroy next, and
Collingwood, Geelong and Essendon
level on the next line. The teams
rest next Saturday while Vic. and
South Aust. meet at M.C.G.
* * * *
“Pass-it”: In the Sydney Rugby
Union round last Saturday, Northern
Suburbs suffered their first defeat
of the season, going down to Manly
16-27. With a major share of the
ball from the set play Manly re-
peatedly had their pacy backs racing
goalward. For a brief period in the
second half Norths gained the upper
hand by forcing the Manly inside
backs into errors and led 13-12. How-
ever, Manly regained the lead wdth a
snap try, and over the last quarter ot
an hour launched an avalanche
attacks which proved too much for
their fast-weakening opponents.
Norths should benefit from the de-
feat. It is obvious that they will have
to redesign their scrums and lineouts
to get a greater share of the ball.
Also noticeable was a general lack or
decision and confidence among then-
backs ; the half-back combination
lacked understanding, and the full-
back did not play with the certainty
that might be expected. The general
tackling of the team could be more
determined, and there is room, too,
for improvement in their condition.
Norths are a well-balanced team which
should improve as the season pro-
gresses. They have the talent avail-
able, and, provided they get down to
the hard work of ironing out these
weaknesses, they should be a force to
be reckoned with when the finals are
reached.
In other matches .on Saturday
Randwick obliterated Parramatta ;
Gordon tossed Drummoyne; East-
wood downed Wests; Easts beat St.
George; and University had the bye.
* * * *
The Australian bantamweight title
changed hands at Sydney Stadium
last week when the holder, Elley Ben-
nett, was outboxed and outfought
in every round by the former amateur
champion Jimmy Carruthers. Car-
ruthers represented at the 1948
Olympic Games and has had only
nine professional fights en route to
the title—rather too rapid progress
really for his own financial good,
as he has clearly run himself out of
local opponents. It is good to see a
national champion emerge from the
amateur ranks —something which was
once almost the rule but is nowadays
a rare exception.
Another of the aborigine boys who
were dominating Australian boxing a
year or two back took a pasting last
week when, at West Melbourne
Stadium, Jack Hassen, for the second
time, was beaten on a t.k.o, by the
half-stone-heavier Mickey Tollis.
Hassen is game—too game for his
own good. Right after last week’s
fight he was talking of a third meet-
ing with Tollis. That certainly
shouldn’t be permitted. And, study-
ing Hassen’s record since the tragic
Archie Kemp fight, one wonders
if the lad shouldn’t toss the game
in altogether. The responsibility to
see that he does so rests not with him-
self or with his alleged advisers, but
with the boxing promoters. Unhappily
past experience shows that responsi-
bility rests very lightly on the
shoulders of these persons.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2%d. per line.
Future Tradesmen
The Commonwealth Reconstruction
Training Scheme (in N. S. Wales, any-
way) has ended its courses to train young
men as bricklayers, and the courses in
carpentering are finishing—and nobody
seems to care. Yet the shortage of build-
ing tradesmen still exists, even though
thousands of ex-servicemen trainees were
turned out during the last five years.
What is going to be the position in, say,
five years, with the older tradesmen
dropping out and few, if any, young men
replacing them?
Before the war the supply of trades-
men was kept up from three sources:
apprenticeships, father teaching son
(especially in bricklaying), and the
mutual agreement system whereby a
tradesman took a willing lad and taught
him the trade with no obligations on
either side.
Today, the roll of apprentices is
alarmingly small. There are two reasons.
For a small employer it is almost in-
sanity to indenture an apprentice. If he
does he “marries” the boy. With a Com-
munist-controlled union watching his
every movement, he can be jumped on
for asking the boy to do anything that is
not teaching him the trade. Thus, if he
and the boy are working together, the
boss must boil the billy. Should a room
need sweeping out the boss must do it —
the apprentice “must be kept on the
tools.”
Admitted, some greedy employers
have, in the past, used apprentices as
laborers, but extremes go in both direc-
tions.
Then, for the young chap thinking
about an apprenticeship there is this
aspect; For the first two years, at least,
he will be earning less in three weeks
than most of his mates will receive per
week. He will also have to devote a lot
of his time to “Tech” studies. Mean-
while he sees semi-skilled men making as
much, or more, money than many trades-
men do. So, too often, the boy thinks
only of the present
The father-and-son arrangement is not
approved by the union, since it can only
be applied if the father is a sub-
contractor, and the Building Workers'
Union does not sanction piecework. As
for mutual agreement, a union-organiser
would consider it a hanging offence to
take on a boy without tying both parties
down.
The C.R.T.S. served the dual purpose
of assisting ex-servicemen and also
assuring that there would be some trades-
men in the future. That the number
trained fell far short of the target can be
directly attributed to the administration
responsible for placing trainees in jobs.
A few conscientious but hopelessly over-
worked men were left to handle the
whole situation and given no co-opera-
tion at all. Then came the inevitable
deadlock when hundreds of trainees had
attained their 40 per cent, proficiency
and were waiting impatiently to go out
to their subsidised jobs. Hundreds of
ex-servicemen who had enrolled for train-
ing heard, about the bottleneck and
dropped out. The union, seeking a
chance to squash the whole scheme,
dictated to the Chifley Government,
which made a miserable compromise to
carry on the scheme “on a greatly re-
duced scale.”
That scale has now run its pathetic
course, and the only means of training
adequate numbers of building tradesmen
has ceased to exist. — Swelpme (N.S.W.).
Interest-rates
“Sher” (B. 25/4/’5l) is up the wrong
tree when he looks only at lenders of
money and suggests reducing interest-rates
to help curb inflation. Attention should,
in fact, be directed at borrowers of
money.
Before a person or company makes an
investment he or it looks at the probable
net return from such investment and
compares that return, expressed as a per-
centage per annum, with the cost of
obtaining the necessary capital or, alter-
natively, with the income to be derived
from other ways of using its funds —e.g.,
buying bonds on the Stock Exchange, if
the funds are available and do not have
to be borrowed.
It follows then that an investment will
only be made if it is expected to yield a
margin of income over the cost of borrow-
ing the money, and that an investment
which is profitable when the rate of
interest is four per cent, is less profit-
able and so less attractive if money can
only be borrowed at, say, four per cent.
Hence, if interest-rates were raised, there
would be a fall-off in the amount of
private capital investment for profit, and
that for purely cost reasons. Psycho-
logical reactions may be expected to rein-
force the effect.
As our money national income in any
period is made up of the sums of con-
sumption and investment —leaving to one
side components such as Government ex-
penditure and export incomes which do
not affect this question—it is obvious that
a fall in money national income would
follow a fall in investment, just as it
would follow a fall in Government ex-
penditure or export incomes.
I am not plugging interest-rate changes
as a “cure-all,” nor do I think their
effect would be strong, but if any change
is to be made it should be a change in
the right direction —upwards. If interest-
rates have any effect at all upon incomes
it is that high rates are deflationary and
low rates inflationary.—S. G. S. (S.A.).
R.A.A.F. Wireless Reserve
The R.A.A.F. Wireless Reserve (B.
25/4/’5l) is as necessary today as it ever
was, and pleas by R.A.A.F. officers for
amateur radio - operators to join the
active reserve have met with little or no
response.
The R.A.A.F. active reserve is a sound
institution, but it is too binding for young
men who, though keen to help the
R.A.A.F., cannot afford time to visit
R.A.A.F. units or attend lectures.
Pay does not interest these men —nor
does a full kit or service life interest them
very much. They are simply keen to
re-form their own body as an integral
part of the R.A.A.F. reserve set-up and
keep themselves up to scratch. But the
powers-that-be state that the wireless
reserve will not be re-formed.
There are between 750 and 1000
technically-sound radio men willing to
join the R.A.A.F. wireless reserve if it
were re-formed on pre-war lines, but
they are not interested in the present set-
U p.— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Lighten Our Darkness
Four years ago N. S. Wales Premier
McGirr announced that his Government
would not tolerate the blackout position.
Today we have a permanent - 3 per cent-
blackout, with 100 per cent, m a
of the city and country areas on each
working day of the week, and inter-
mittent blackouts in the rest of the place
the whole of the week, Sundays included.
Largely because of this, the industrial
capacity of the State is fast going to the
dogs, while transport is in chaos.
It calls for immediate action to restore
the power position, irrespective of what
heads fall in the reorganisation so
obviously necessary. Australia is what
counts—not a Labor junta or a few
highly-paid officials.
Mr McGirr and Ministers have
blamed former chairman of the Sydney
County Council J. O. Cramer, though it
is not so far back that the same Labor
Cabinet was waving aside his warnings
and dubbing him Calamity Cramer. .
Almost daily Cramer warned the Gov-
ernment that the condition of Bunnerong
and its subsidiary generating plants was
causing concern, but at that time
Mr. McGirr was too busy making ex-
cuses for the maintenance-men who
refused to carry out essential work on
the machinery and in organising the 40-
hour week.
During this season of Jubilee, while
housewives are battling fdr candles to
light their homes and workers sit by
silent machines, everyone should reflect
on the position and the necessary action
to end it. As a start, Mr. McGirr and
his Government could resign and permit
the election of a Government capable of
retrieving the situation while there re-
mains something to retrieve.— Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Farmers
There are two sides to “Ceg’s” par on
farmers (B. 25/4/’5l). To employ a
groom to milk the cows, cut wood, feed
fowls, kill sheep, etc., the farmer would
have to pay about £lO to £ll a week and
keep—provided he can get someone to
do the job. Fowl-feed is both dear and
scarce, with pollard and bran often un-
obtainable. A house-cow costs close to
£3O in the yards and is quite likely to be
somebody’s cull. Under those conditions
it pays a farmer who is getting on in
years to buy his dairy products and save
himself the extra hour or so a day.
—Peter B. (Vic.).
Sheep
“Tummas McNark” (B. 11/4/'5l)
seems to have more theory than experi-
ence about the workings of a sheep
property.
Professor Oliphant is right up to a
point—sheep do pulverise the ground,
cause a certain amount of erosion and,
in bad times, pull out good grasses by
the roots. That, however, is brought
about by inexperienced sheepfarmers.
It would amaze both “T. McN.” and
Professor Oliphant to see, say, this open
downs country during a drought and then
see it again after rain has fallen. In
actual fact, high prices are the best thing
that could have happened as far as sheep
country is concerned. It has enabled
woolgrowers to stodk reasonably and
make a good living, whereas so many
people formerly had to overstock —or
thought they had to—even to pay ex-
penses. The result was the country was
murdered, and mutton and wool produc-
tion (per head of sheep) fell away.
So many inexperienced men cannot
understand what carrying-capacity really
is. It isn’t the number of sheep which
a certain area of country will keep alive ;
it must allow for maximum wool and
meat production.
Give sheep plenty of room to move
about and they won’t cause much erosion.
In good seasons paddock sheep are
usually in one big mob, but when the
feed goes off they scatter all over the
paddock.
As for setting aside money and assets
as an insurance against droughts, floods
and other natural upsets, we do our best,
but after income tax, provisional tax and
wool tax have gone, there isn’t much left.
It is a pretty good bet that most wool-
growers would like to go back to 1924-25
levels, costs and wool prices. We had
a fair income of real money, could get
what • materials we wanted and get the
men we wanted to keep our places in
good order. Many properties today have
never been worse off because of lack of
materials and labor. —J. C. (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 122
Across.
I—Added to lissom coves try
Edward. (12)
B—Foot troubles of a former N.S.W.
slow bowler in the trees. (11)
11— Bird. (3)
12— 100, or any number, of it in a
chain. (4)
13— Sphere by a northern English
river author of The Coral
Island. (10)
16 — Grandfatherly on a Sydney
beach. (6)
17— Canonised rent when nude. (8)
22—Drunkard backing drinks for
topers. (8)
24—The disorderly braved a part of
speech. (6)
26—Shake nothing and 1000 between
a record and a way of standing.
(10)
29—Pillar wharf. (4)
31 — See, you are a mongrel! (3)
32 — Joint parent turning to a French
friend of these beasts. (11)
34—Male painting and conflict by
Menzies is emotionally affecting.
(5-7)
Down.
1 — A late meal with the flexible
Upppppjipr (O')
2 Fop urges a letter to pay a brief
visit. (8)
3 Was dishonest in a work by
Schubert, or Wolf. (4)
4 (3 > . - -
5 People who insist upon spelling
Snodgrass will soon name this
European city. (5)
6 Brawl involves me and an oppo-
nent of Grant. (5)
7 A mount, or amount of £25. (4)
9 Crack the skin of the bloke. (4)
10— Tdi about the unpunctual. (6>
14 — Revolver in the summit. (3)
15 — A sudden political stroke by a
firm in an aeroplane. (4)
18 — Übb is thus in a N.S.W. town
of Hindustan. (4)
19 — Italian conductor before the
essentially life-giving one. (9)
20— Getting off the ship; republicans
do it. (9)
21 — Cork street circle and a whelp
don’t go to bed. (4, 2)
23—Half a second, this is dry. (3)
25 Solo, although badly rendered,
might be regarded as capital by
some Europeans. (4)
26 Money of the French animal. (5)
27 Eros, being out of place, is
aggrieved. (4)
28— Yellow duck with a century
spoils her. (5)
30 —Pennies belonging to you and me
are hard, cold and stubborn. (4)
33—Irishman participating in a strike.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 121.


CROUP
5 Famous Names
from a Famous
Australian Factory
Wherever you see the red, blue and
gold Rootes Group sign you’ll find the vehicles
and genuine spare parts that are the products of
Australia’s Friendliest Factory. The sign
is a symbol of friendly service to the thousands
who own Rootes Group cars and trucks.
fg
f
gfgf
i
ft
/^pnn
A->W»^
****
< ..;.Xi<* wr
*V '•'• ;,y -' ■ ’
***•
-wr
X
211
x ? „x
sg?
v
m
m
X
X
&
if" jf.
-S'"'
■
X
m
is
...■<■•
Sri
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT,
COMMER, KARRIER
PRODUCTS OF THE
ROUTES GROUP
FISHERMEN'S BEND, MELBOURNE—AUSTRALIA'S FRIENDLIEST FACTORY
