

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3709
Wednesday, March 14, 1951
Price 9d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DURHAM CATHEDRAL, A GEM IN OUR HERITAGE FROM NORMAN BUILDERS
DURHAM’S massive Norman Cathedral stands, as it has done for nearly
nine hundred years, upon the summit of a plateau in a loop or tne
River Wear. No other cathedral in Britain has a more impressive location
or is surrounded with greater romantic legend. It stands upon the site of a
Saxon church built about the year 995 to house the shrine of St. Cuthbert,
whose remains were brought there by Bishop Aldhun from Chester-le-Street.
Legend asserts that a dun cow guided the bishop to this spot —a legend which
is perpetuated in the figure of a cow within the Cathedral.
In 1072 William the Conqueror recognised the natural advantages of
Durham as a fortress against the northern invaders, so he and his successors
encouraged the growth of a strong, self-contained community, and the Prince
Bishops of Durham became kings of Northumbria, holding regal sway.
In 1092 the building of the present Cathedral was begun, and during the
suebeeding four hundred years the stately pile rose in boldness and beauty.
With its great central tower, 320 feet high, and the two western towers, 13b
feet high, Durham Cathedral remains today the noblest example of Norman
architecture in England. In past centuries pilgrims crowded to the shrines oi
St. Cuthbert and the Venerable Bede and their offerings addcdgrea
wealth of the church. Portions of the ongma coffin in which St. Cuthbert
was buried in 698, the portable altar which belonged to ffim, and the oldest
piece of English needlework, presented to the shrine by King Athelstane m
934, are all preserved within the Cathedral.
On the north door of the Cathedral is an ancient sanctuary knocker—
a rina held in the teeth of a grotesque monster. In olden days a fugitive who
succeeded in clasping the ring before the officers of the law had been able to
catch him could claim the protection of the church for thirty-seven days.
If during that time, he failed to make peace with his enemies, he had to leave
the counfry. By so doing he would lose all his property, but could, at least,
save his life, or avoid some barbarous form of punishment.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B SEPP E L T & SONS L.T D.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON


In Constant Demand
CATHERINE GASKIN
ALL ELSE IS FOLLY 12/6
DUST IN SUNLIGHT 10/6
WITH EVERY YEAR . . 10/6
THIS OTHER EDEN 10/6
Available from all Booksellers.
COLLINS
BOOKS WE RECOMMEND
MAURICE GUEST, by Henry Handel Richardson.
A remarkable novel of musical life, by the author of The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony. Strong, vital, significant. 11/6 (post 9d.)
THE FOUNDATION OF AUSTRALIA, by Eris O’Brien, M.A., Ph.D.
New, revised edition of a scholarly study of English criminal practice and
penal colonization from 1786 to 1800. 25/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS and ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
For Your University Texts
See DYMOCK’S
ARTS, MEDICINE, SCIENCE, ECONOMICS, ENGINEERING,
DENTISTRY, AGRICULTURE, VETERINARY, etc.
See the wide range of Personal and Commercial Stationery, Fountain and
Ballpoint Pens, Instruments, Exercise Books, Botany Books, Spring-back
Folders, etc.
Our University Catalogue is Now A vailable Free on Request
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 8L3611
f
f
riTaaHJiim
Write now for Stott’s FREE _ literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stotts
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAH'
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.251) Age
The Red Page
A BOOK OF WATERCOLORS.
More than one Australian artist —in-
cluding J. J. Hilder and Blamire Young
—was presented to the public in modest-
enough format in the days of the “Art in
Australia” publications ; and the books,
not so much for the style in which they
were printed as for the fine paintings
reproduced in them, quickly became col-
lector’s pieces.
It is pleasant to see this tradition con-
tinuing in Frank McNamara’s unpreten-
tious Landscape in Watercolor (Legend
Press, Sydney), a small clothbound book
with nine color-plates and a few decora-
tions in black-and-white, prefaced by two
admirable articles on the art of water-
color, one by the artist and one by Mr.
Missingham, director of the N. S. Wales
National Gallery.
Publication in this form means that
the book can go out to the public at a
reasonable price ; and that the artist is
content to wait for further paintings to
reinforce his reputation and time to con-
firm it before coming out in the sumptu-
ous editions appropriate to such acknow-
ledged masters of oils or watercolor as
Gruner and Norman Lindsay.
And, modest though the book is, there
is no reason why it should not be collected
as eagerly as was the “Art in Australia”
series. From the moment McNamara’s
vigorous and poetic “Rough Weather on
the Coast” —the reproduction here does
not fully capture the lovely greys of the
original—was exhibited at the Watercolor
Institute exhibition in Sydney (1945) and
was bought by the Gallery, it was obvious
that a new painter of original force had
arrived ; and the interesting question was
whether or not that force was going to
carry him further than the broader,
quieter art of such highly competent
watercolorists as John Eldershaw and G.
K. Townshend.
That point remains to be decided. The
present commentator is inclined to think
that McNamara’s real strength lies in the
quick impressions such as “Rough
Weather” (which he says he painted at
Newcastle from the front seat of his car
in 20 minutes “with my wife knitting
beside me and my young son clambering
about us”) and the equally forceful
“Entrance to Newcastle Harbor” rather
than in the “deliberate” paintings recon-
structed in the studio from notes made
on the spot in which he is now becoming
interested. What he may gain in “archi-
tectural” qualities he may lose in poetry.
Still, if “Nambucca” is a “deliberate”
painting, as it appears by contrast with
“Rough Weather” or the more quietly
charming “Early Morning, Newcastle,”
it is a very fine piece of spacious and
luminous landscape ; and indeed there is
no painting in the book which is not
marked with the stamp of quality, crisp,
clear and distinctive.
Novel of Melbourne.
The core of Geoffrey Dutton’s The
Mortal and the Marble (Chapman and
Hall) is in the fourth and fifth chapters,
which, added together, make a complete
and unusually delicate short-story; a
subtle and sensitive analysis of the rela-
tions between husband and wife, with a
background of sea and moonlight, such
as Vance Palmer might have written.
Mark and Barbara Vaughan wake in
Melbourne on their third wedding-
anniversary, both hoping that their
marriage will never decline from its
present high plane of love. They cele-
brate the occasion by a weekend around
Wilson’s Promontory; and after their
drive through the bush, walk to the beach
across moonlit sandhills to go flounder-
spearing : —-
Suddenly the scrub ceased, and there
before them the open sandhills stretched
in purity, gleaming in the moon as cold as
marble, yet formed as softly as flesh. Mark
remembered flying up through cloud, swirl-
ing and bumpy, till the aeroplane roared,
too loudly, into the unmapped, dazzling
countries above, tranquil and cold. Here
there was the same austerity of light in
complete absence of variation, no tree or
stone or bush to cut the unbroken smooth-
ness ; and the moon’s light, having no
dance or sparkle, except on water, threw
all the more coldly the black projection
of each sandhill’s summit on the brilliant
valley of its neighbor. The wind, shaper
of all these contours, was still, and every
rise and fall before them was frozen in
stillness and silence. As they moved on,
the sand splashed like fragments of unmelt-
ing ice against their ankles. Their foot-
prints, black in shadow, looked enormous
behind them.
They wade into the sea and begin
spearing the flounder ; Barbara treads on
a stingray, is pierced by its barb and,
while she is lying in agony on the sand,
Mark discovers that any marriage, how-
ever sympathetic, is still a fragile and
precarious union of separate identities:
“Nothing shows more the distance be-
tween one human being and another than
the presence of pain. The powers of
comfort and consolation vested in touch
and understanding are useless ; it is im-
possible either to look on or to turn
away.”
Then, in defiance of the “impersonal”
pain, which separates lovers like the
impersonal moonlight and the im-
personal sandhills, they struggle back
to the car, the man with his arm around
his wife, along the line of their own foot-
prints; they have gone from unity in
love to disunity in pain and back to a
deeper harmony.
Essentially, the whole of The Mortal
and the Marble is contained in this single
beautiful episode. A young South Aus-
tralian writer who spent his schooldays in
Victoria and who now lives in London,
Geoffrey Dutton has previously pub-
lished poems and short-stories ; but this
is his first novel, and the tenuousness of
the central story and the lack of strong
secondary themes show that he has not
yet fully developed from short-story-
writer to novelist.
The movement of the book, as husband
and wife find and lose and find each
other again and as Mark progresses from
intellectual snobbery to balance of mind,
is so slow and minute as to be almost
imperceptible, and a triangle situation
developed when a refugee professor steps
into the scene comes too late in the day
to create a dramatic conflict. The story
needs richness, orchestration.
But it is, all the same, brimming with
promise. Thoughtful and meticulously
written, it is the kind of intellectual novel
which is too rarely attempted in Aus-
tralia —Leslie Mellor and Kenneth Mac-
kenzie are the exceptions —and which, if
its promise were fulfilled, could lead to
an art like that of Aldous Huxley, Charles
Morgan or Frederic Prokosch. It is well
worth reading for its fine prose style, its
excursions into musical and Shakspearian
criticism, its lyrical love-scenes, its well-
drawn minor characters —intellectuals,
refugees, a robust airman, a Melbourne
society hostess, an irate farmer and a
notable hatter—-and, particularly, for its
poetic descriptions of Victorian mountain
and coastal scenery.
Ironies of History.
Irony is so rare, so almost unknown a
thing these days, that its presence in
Michael the Finn, by Mika Waltari, trans-
lated by Naomi Walford (Putnams,
Dymocks), the new novel by the author of
Sinuhe the Egyptian is enough to haul
the book out of the ruck of sentimental
sagas in which the world is wallowing.
At the same time there is enough
novelty in the story itself —the adventures
of a simple mind among the venality
and cruelty of the Inquisition on the one
hand, and the stupidity and bigotry of
the Reformation leaders and the blood-
thirsty rapacity of rebellious peasants on
the other.
There is a horribly powerful recreation
of a trial for witchcraft; and another of
the sack of Rome. There are portraits of
the great leaders of the times: Luther,
Muntzer, Emperor Charles of Spain, the
Duke of Bourbon, and of the German
lords who crushed the peasants’ revolt.
Maybe it is not surprising that, in the
heavy crush of this lively history, the fine
vein of irony should peter-out half-way ;
but it remains a rich and colorful novel.
It is built around Luther and the Refor-
mation in northern Germany, a territory
much less documented by the historians
and the historical novelists than the
Netherlands in the same period.
A Glimpse of Sappho .
Lawrence Darrell’s Sappho (Faber)
provokes the reflection that contemporary
poetry has done much less to re-establish
the poetic drama on the stage than, in
the excitement and goodwill which the
attempt naturally awakes, we are accus-
tomed to think. '
Faber has published a great many
verse plays—by Stephen Spender, Auden,
MacNeice and others—but anything
which would fill a big public stage with
the sparkling delight of comedy or the
impassioned grandeur of tragedy is hard
to find ; and anything less than that is no
more —if no less —valuable than the plays
of Browning and Tennyson, well enough
as pieces of writing but not quite the
restoration of the poetic drama that
everyone hopes for.
Among the Faber plays T. S. Eliot’s
Murder in the Cathedral came nearest to
the real thing— The Cocktail Party,
though it has been a success on both sides
of the Atlantic, is sustained only by Mr.
Eliot’s immense prestige. But there
really seems to be only one man,
Christopher Fry, who is outside the Faber
group, capable of filling the stage with
the richness of the Elizabethans.
Mr. Durrell’s play ends where it ought
to begin. We are told in the fifth of its
nine scenes that Diomedes, a pleasantly
Rabelaisian old scoundrel, has committed
suicide because he is in love with his
son’s wife ; but we are shown nothing of
the dramatic struggle appropriate to such
a situation. We are told in the same
scene that Sappho has been acting as the
Delphic Oracle, usually in a trance, but
on one occasion, when she “cheated”
and sent a wearisome lover off to the wars,
in full command of her faculties ; and
once again, too late to make a weary,
despairing and strangely insipid Sappho
interesting, we have, instead of dramatic
struggle, last-minute revelation.
Finally, as late as Scene vi, we are
told that Kreon, Sappho’s husband, a
rich man who has been searching for
title deeds to his ancestral property in
the ancient city of Lesbos, submerged in
the sea by cataclysm, has discovered that
he is Sappho’s father. Thus, belatedly,
though the “discovery” is afterwards
proved to be false, the play is shown to
be based on the traditional Greek theme
of incest; but, coming at this point in
the drama, it is as if Macbeth had dis-
covered, about the end of Act IV, that
he had accidentally run over Duncan in a
chariot, or some appropriate vehicle,
twenty years earlier.
Perhaps Mr, Durrell is aiming at a
Greek fatalism ; but his play cannot hold
the attention like the Elizabethan drama
of character, with its clearly-stated cause
and inevitable effect. One is left with the
author’s meditations on time, his rather
too obvious attempts to show Sappho’s
Greece as the equivalent of modern
Europe—in a state of collapse and
despair, due to too many wars—and with
occasional felicitous lines and thoughts
and pleasant descriptions of Greek
scenery ... the decorations of drama
without the structure.
Reviewed Briefly.
Far Horizons: Dorothy Mellor (Aus-
tralasian). A Sydney stenographer has a
holiday in a bush boarding-house whose
proprietor hopes to make money out of
turning some caves on his property into
tourist wonders. There are a titled
Englishwoman and her son, a German
baron and his entourage, the unprincipled
young lawyer of the township, and a
down-to-earth old squatter, Sir James.
But all seen, as in a glass, darkly.
* * * *
A Saddle at Bontharambo: H. J.
Samuel (Longmans). A story for children,
based on the trek of the Docker family,
more than a century ago, by bullock-dray
and gig, from Sydney to Wangaratta,
where the family still lives in an elaborate
English-style mansion, Bontharambo, in
the middle of plains stocked with sheep
and cattle. . Making friends with
aborigines, the hold-up of a neighboring
station by Morgan the bushranger, and
his death there, stand out from a back-
ground obviously elaborated from old
papers and diaries.
# * * *
Danger in Paradise: Octavus Roy
Cohen (Hale). The well-known “Saturday
Post” author doesn’t quite strike tho
sophisticated tone of New York big busk
ness. His fashion-photographing execu-
tive chasing a beautiful radio-singer is
only with difficulty restrained, on every
other page, from clapping his hands and
shouting “Goody-goody!” The singer,
on a tour among the soldiers during
the recent war, has been entrusted in
Cuba with a box of cigars for the sinister
Hernandez in New York; these are hi-
jacked by a murderous gunman; variety
entrepreneurs, glamorous switch-girls and
photographic executives get knocked off;
and it all turns out to be a competition
between two sets of villains, public and
private.
* * ♦ •
Seeds of Treason; the Strange Case of
Alger Hiss: Ralph de Toledano and
Victor Lasky (Seeker and Warburg). In
January last year Hiss was convicted in
the U.S. of perjury in denying that he
had passed on secret information to
Moscow ; he had been a high-up official
in the State Department. The authors
tell his story in full, basing the book not
only on the official proceedings but on
interviews with Whittaker Chambers, an
ex-Communist and former senior editor
on “Time,” who was the chief informant
against Hiss. Points of obvious interest
to Australia are the widespread Com-
munist infiltration of the U.S. civil
service; the automatic obligation of the
Communists to commit treason; and the
authors’ account of the “underground
section of the Communist party which
does the real work —Hiss had to sever ah
open connection with the party before he
began his career as a spy.


/ ) .
;
r
'iJ'A t:\
(,
> c
&4r
umll
fer
to
i
aSM|
&sC
\S
/ ' /
■ >> »fPi
i ‘ . A ' Vi .f \
\ v/ urJm 1 y
\ ti-V^
''l KMI ' ' ' s, i-S
jff ,- 't '_'<!
vVft>> - ’/- V
, \ \ \ \
JE 3
9‘ c-rtt
"TRUTH
.IN ADVERTISING'*
.
■
3
Again this year we are making a special
display of modern furniture fashioned along
contemporary lines, all made in our own
workshop from the design of Miss Joyce
Brown of A.B.C. radio fame, our furniture
adviser and furnishing consultant.
Furniture
Furnishings
Agricultural
• Electrical Appliances
• China and Glassware
9 Carpets and Rugs
A Cordial Invitation to Visit
PAVILION
We want you to see our show display and enjoy the surprises we have in store for you, so we
won’t take the coating off the gingerbread by giving away secrets now. But we can say were
going to feature home furnishings again with furnished rooms as well as individual displays.
Our team of men have been working for months getting the pavilion
ready. The craftsmen in our factory are full of enthusiasm for our new
furniture designs which are still on the secret list.' So be sure you see
Anthony Horderns’ Pavilion this year.
These photographs illustrate some of our past displays
m
L
J
■
'
if
•• . .
m
SS®
H
Hi
SsS
s>s
>s
1
Z
mm
m
ANTHONY HORDERNS’—PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)—BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY—BRICKFIELD HILL


HOODOO SHIP
by STANDBY (RS Porteous)
4 ‘ rv ON’T have anything to do with
| her. Don’t go near her.” Grey-
J haired Captain Saunders tapped
Harvey urgently on the shoulder.
Impatiently Harvey shrugged the older
man’s hand oft and said, “It’ll take more
than a pack of old women’s tales to
scare me off my first command!”
“That ship’s got a hoodoo on her,”
Captain Saunders said impressively.
“She’ll behave for weeks, months maybe,
like any normal ship, then suddenly she’ll
do things no normal ship would ever do.
Don’t ask me why. If I could answer
that I wouldn’t have run her up on a
reef. And that wasn’t the first queer
thing she’s done.”
“Elliot was her first master. He ran
her aground north of Cooktown. The
court suspended his ticket. The company
took pity on him because he’d been with
them all his life. They offered him the
first-mate’s berth and I’m blowed if he
didn’t accept it. He’s still holding it
down. You’ll find him a decent old
stick, very conscientious, a good seaman,
very loyal to the shop, but a bit weak.
“A chap named Harman took her next
—Paddy Harman —a hard case and a
a damned fine seaman. Two months after
he joined her Harman disappeared. The
steward took his tea up one morning and
Harman wasn’t there. Nothing’s been
seen or heard of him since. Elliot
brought the ship back to Sydney and the
company put Carson in command.”
“That’s the bloke that went off his
rocker?” Harvey interrupted.
“Yes. Carson finished up in a mental
home. Quite an interesting story that.
Do you know what he wanted to do the
morning after he nearly piled her up?
He wanted them to lower the boats and
abandon ship. Abandon a perfectly sound
ship on a calm clear morning! ”
HARVEY joined his new ship next
morning.
The Mirani was on a regular Sydney-
to-Darwin run, a route calling for careful
and exact navigation, particularly through
the maze of coral reefs between Cairns
and Thursday Island. Captain Harvey
practically lived on the bridge during
that first voyage.
It wasn’t that he believed the stories
about the Mirani; simply he was taking
no chances with his first command.
The voyage was completely without
incident. The Mirani behaved exactly as
any normal ship would have done ; and
if Harvey had any fault to find, it was
the comparatively small one that Elliot
was too easygoing with the men. He got
the work done, always had the ship look-
ing as smart as a crack liner, but in
Harvey’s opinion he lacked authority.
Certainly Elliot had nothing of his
captain’s brusque, bullying manner. In
every way he was a colorless man —a
lean, lantern-jawed fellow with the palest
of pale-blue eyes and colorless hair
brushed carefully in an effort to disguise
a balding head. Though he rarely spoke
except when ship’s business demanded it
he did venture one conversational remark
when they tied up in Sydney.
“You brought her alongside very nicely,
sir, if I may say so,” he said.
“Huh! ” Captain Harvey snorted. “She’s
a sweet ship to handle, Mister. Never
seen a better. So much for your damned
hoodoo-ship yarns.”
“She can be like that, sir,” Elliot agreed,
smoothing his pale hair carefully into
place with the palm of his hand. “Behave
like a lady for a month or more, and
then”
“Some incompetent fool lets her get off
her course and blames it on the ship.”
Captain Harvey’s heavy jaw shot forward
and he ran his fingers impatiently through
the stiff bristles of his close-cropped hair.
“You don’t believe, sir, that ships have
individual personalities, some good and
some bad?” The question was diffident.
“I don’t!”
Elliot’s pale-blue eyes lit up. “Look
at the Great Eastern, sir! What a sinister
name she made for herself, one disaster
after another before they finally broke
her up and discovered the human skeleton
sealed up in her bilges.”
“Are you trying to suggest, Mister, that
the Mirani’s got a corpse or two stowed
away somewhere?”
Elliot flinched at the biting scorn of
the tone. “No, sir. 1 offer no sugges-
tion. I only wish I could. But I do
know that there is something evil about
this ship, that she is a destroyer of men.”
“Is that so? Then why the hell do you
stay in her?” He brought his huge fist
down with a bang on the rail to give
emphasis to the point. “You’ve been with
the ship ever since she was launched and
she hasn’t destroyed you.”
“I was speaking more in terms of
careers, sir,” Elliot said mildly. “You
forget I commanded her once.”
THE Mirani’s next voyage north was
equally uneventful. Not once did she
give her master the slightest cause for
worry. But on the southward voyage
Captain Harvey got his full share of
incidents.
The wet season had set in, and
when she passed the light on Hannah
Island the Mirani was running nearly
thirty hours behind schedule. That was
during Mr. Elliot’s watch, though he
was doing little more than filling the
duties of extra lookout. Captain Harvey
was on the bridge and very much in
charge. They passed one mile off the
light— not one-tenth of a mile more or
less; Harvey made very sure of that
before altering course for Wharton Reef.
In an hour, at most, he would pick up
Wharton Reef light.
As was his habit in bad weather, Harvey
was conning the ship from “Monkey
Island,” the exposed platform where the
standard compass stood directly above
the bridge. Regardless of the fine drizzle
of rain that trickled down his neck and
lodged under the collar of his oilskin he
paced to and fro, from the port rail to
the starb’d, with monotonous regularity.
Amidships the faint glow of the
binnacle light illuminated the face
of the standard compass. Should
the helmsman let the ship wander even
a fraction from her course his careless-
ness would be recorded there at once.
Mr. Elliot was also up on “Monkey
Island,” keeping unobtrusively out of his
captain’s way, yet always watchful as he
scanned the dark horizon with a pair of
powerful night glasses. Occasionally he
stood for a moment alongside the standard
compass, intently watching th« steering.
Captain Harvey was glancing astern
when the mate called urgently, “Light on
the starb’d bow, sir.”
It was faint, so faint that it needed a
trained eye to pick it up and identify the
feeble flicker as the distant, regular
flashes of Wharton Reef light. Captain
Harvey identified it immediately just as
he instantly noted that the ship was dead
on her course.
He roared: “Get a bearing on that
light,” and leaped for the head of the
ladder, colliding so heavily with Mr.
Elliot in his haste that he sent him crash-
ing against the rail. Elliot hadn’t
recovered himself when the engineroom
telegraph clanged as Captain Harvey
jerked the pointer first to “Stop” and
then “Full Astern.”
From the first glimpse of that faint
light there had not been one second’s
hesitation, no waiting for a bearing that
could only confirm what both men
realised instantly. The Mirani was miles
off her course! Instead of being dead
ahead, Wharton Reef Light was far out
on the starb’d bow.
“Get an anchor down, lively now,”
Captain Harvey ordered as soon as
Elliot reported the bearing. The ship,
shuddering under the increased revolu-
tions as her engine went full astern, was
shaking no less violently than he was.
In one second his attitude had changed
from “it can’t happen here” to “it has
happened.” Probably for the first time
since he reached manhood he was afraid —
not of the supernatural, not of the evil
hoodoo on this ship, but afraid because
of the very narrowness of his escape.
Laid off on the chart, the bearing of
the light showed that the Mirani had come
to a stop less than a mile from an ex-
tensive line of reefs. In another five
minutes she would have been ripping her
plates open.
WHEN daylight came Captain Harvey
had proved beyond doubt that there
was no unknown compass error. Nor
was there any strong tidal stream that
could have put the ship so mysteriously
and so dangerously off her course.
He didn’t report
the matter when he
berthed in Sydney
nor did he confide in
anyone, well know-
ing the attitude that
would greet such
confidences. But he
sought out Captain
Saunders and got from him a detailed
account of the Mirani’s wanderings under
his command —times, places and every-
thing Saunders could supply.
The weather was kinder to him on his
next trip north. He passed Wharton
Reef light on a clear starry night and
was unable to repress a shudder at he
narrowness of his recent escape. The
lines of strain were already showing on
his face, for that experience was a con-
stant reminder that, though it takes a
seaman many years to climb to the top
of his profession, he may crash to the
very bottom of it overnight.
Before he left Sydney he had formed
a vague theory about the strange
behavior of his ship, but to form a theory
and to prove that theory were two very
different things. Moreover he was well
aware that in the attempt to prove it he
might very easily ruin his career.
The Mirani was heading south again
before an opportunity presented itself.
Since sundown a thunderstorm had been
growling away ahead of them, and as they
passed the light on Waterwitch Reef the
rain started. As tropical thunderstorms
go, it was not a heavy one ; for they were
two miles beyond the light before they
lost it. Again it was Mr. Elliot’s watch
and again he was merely filling the duties
of extra lookout for his captain.
“I’m keeping on,” Captain Harvey in-
formed him. “There’s not much rain in
this storm and it should peter out in half
an hour.”
Mr. Elliot said, “Very good, sir,” and
stepped over to caution the helmsman
about his steering.
“I’m going below for my oilskin.”
Harvey was again addressing the mate.
“Keep a sharp check on her. I’ll join
you up top.”
The helmsman’s intent stare flickered
upwards from the lighted compass-card.
The Old Man taking the mate into his
confidence! Actually making conversa-
tion ! Must be, getting soft, or jittery,
maybe. This sudden change in the Old
Man’s attitude was interesting, so interest-
ing that the helmsman let the ship wander
nearly ten degrees off her course.
Hurriedly he spun the wheel and only
managed to get her straightened up when
the Old Man came back.
“How’s she steering, Barnes?” he asked,
pausing to stare into the binnacle.
Without hesitation Barnes answered,
“Like a lady, sir. One spoke either way
keeps ’er on ’er course.”
“Watch her, then. Don’t let her get
off it.” Captain Harvey growled the
warning as he strode off, leaving Barnes
to congratulate himself on his escape.
Up at the standard compass Harvey
began his methodical pacing, pausing
occasionally to glance at the lighted com-
pass-card, Not once did he detect the
slightest swing. Barnes was steering per-
fectly. Once or twice Mr. Elliot saw a
huge fist shoot into the circle of light as
his captain checked the time by his wrist-
watch.
The rain was heavier now; a soft
blanket of it enveloped the ship, shutting
her off from the outside world.
As Barnes had so shrewdly guessed,
Captain Harvey was feeling jittery—very
jittery. He was testing a theory.
If his hunch was correct he could safely
keep going for one hour after he lost
the light. If it was wrong—well, it was
better not to think of that.
ONCE again the arm shot forward so
that the gleam of the binnacle light fell
on the face of the wristwatch. Fifty-five
minutes since they lost the light and still
the rain pelted down.
“Get ready to anchor, Mister,” Captain
Harvey said. “I’m going to stop her and
wait for this to clear.” He followed the
mate down the ladder and rang the
engines to “Stop.”
He was bending over the chart-table
when Elliot returned and reported the
anchor holding. Without turning his
head he grunted, “All right. Mister. Get
your riding lights up and as soon as the
rain clears get some bearings and put
the ship on the chart.”
Twenty minutes later the rain ceased.
Mr. Elliot, shedding his dripping oil-
skin, came down to the lower bridge and
reported that he’d taken some bearings.
“Lay ’em off,” Captain Harvey
snapped.
Conscious of the fact that his captain
was standing just behind him Elliot moved
the parallel rulers carefully across the
chart. He drew the first line, juggled
the rulers and was about to draw the
second when he paused, unable to control
his shaking hands. There was no need
to draw that second line. It was obvious
that it would intersect the other at a
point little more than a mile from an
extensive coral reef, well to the eastward
of the shipping channel. And at the
intersection of those lines Captain Harvey
had drawn a tiny circle with an anchor
symbol and the time of anchoring pen-
cilled beneath it.
“I —er —I didn’t know you’d already
taken some bearings, sir,” Elliot said,
turning to face his captain.
“I didn’t take any.” Captain Harvey
shot his lower lip forward and hunched
his powerful shoulders. “I marked that
position as soon as the anchor went
down.” '
“But how?”
“Stow it,” Harvey snapped. Obviously
he was finding it difficult to control him-
self and speak quietly. “I’ll tell you how
I plotted that position, Mister, and then
you’re going to do some talking.”
He paused for a moment in a vain
effort to make Elliot’s eyes meet his own.
“Captain Saunders estimated he was
ten degrees off his course when he hit
that reef. We figured Captain Carson
was ten degrees off course when he
finished up on the wrong side of Chap-
man Island, and I know I was ten degrees
off my course when I damn’ nearly piled
up last voyage. Three tens is more than
thirty. Mister; it’s stretching coincidence
a bit too far. Tonight we kept going for
one hour after we lost Waterwitch Light,
and allowing we were steering ten degrees
off our proper course we’d finish up two
miles out of position. That’s how I
plotted our place of anchoring and my
answer comes to the same as yours.”
His hand shot out, grasping Elliot
roughly by the shoulder.
“Now then, Mr. Bloody Wrecker, tell
me how you do it. And talk fast.”
ELLIOT didn’t talk at all. He took
two small magnets from his pocket,
jingled them in the open palm of his
hand and stared vacantly at them.
“So that’s how you worked it!” Harvey
snatched the magnets away. “As simple
as that! Drilled holes for ’em in both
binnacles, I suppose.”
It was all adding up now. Once the
holes were drilled it would be a. simple
matter for Elliot, as officer of the watch,
to slip the magnets in or out. He could
do it when he bent over to check the
steering. No one would notice the swing
of the compass except the helmsman, and
he’d only think he’d let the ship swing
off her course.
“My God!” Harvey roared, “You’ve
piled this ship up twice, you’ve ruined
men, you’ve probably even murdered a
man and you stand there looking like,
like”
Quite suddenly he realised what Elliot
did look like. Those pale eyes were star-
ing into his. Almost opaque they were,
with widely dilated, unseeing pupils. For
several seconds the two men stared at
each other, then Harvey released his grip
and stepped back.
“Hell!” he said quietly. “The man’s
cuckoo! As mad as a March hare!”
Even Elliot’s motive was plain now.
He’d probably never been quite sane since
he lost his ticket. Gnawing at the back
of his mind had been the idea that if he
could scare off every master who took
over, the company would reinstate him.
Gruffly Harvey said: “Come on,
Elliot. Snap out of it.” The uncanny
fascination of those pale eyes took all
the anger out of him so that his tone was
almost kindly.
Elliot’s lips formed a smile as he
squared his shoulders in a pathetic effoit
to assume the dignity of command.
“You can take over now, Mister,” he
said. “I’m turning in. Call me if the
weather thickens or if you’re in any
doubt.”


The Bulletin
VoL 72—No. 3709
Wednesday, March 14, 1951
AT
'3
!f ? /A
na. / 7 // /r / I
# V
K
THE THROWBACK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
IN COUNTEMPT.
The Triennial Conference of the Aus-
tralian Federal Labor party, which
finished last week, is a symbol of the
totalitarianism which Australian “Labor”
has chosen as its way of life and politics.
Most of its work is done in secret com-
mittees. Its own proceedings are not
open to the Press in general. Its three
dozen members —six from each State —
are largely unknown even by name to the
people of the Commonwealth. They are
chosen by the State branches of the
A.L.P., not even by a uniform method
in all States.
The A.L.P. branches themselves con-
sist of the representatives of the unions—
not elected by the rank-and-file, but by
their leaders, who are as often as not
Communists —and of representatives of
A.L.P. local branches, which usually con-
sist of a dozen or so active members and
a number of ghosts from whom a modest
few shillings is dredged for expenses.
These branches are often well Red-anted.
The president of this strange “Federal
Labor conference,” which has neither a
soul to damn nor a body to burn except
once in three years, or when it is
hurriedly convened for emergency, is just
now Comrade J. A. Ferguson, ex-Com-
munist, an ex-leader of the fight initiated
in Moscow in 1933 to destroy arbitration
in the interests of Communist organisa-
tion. He obtains his franchise to be a
member (and president) of the N. S.
Wales A.L.P. branch and of the Federal
conference by virtue of being a leading
official of the Australian Railways
Union, of which the Federal president
has long been Comrade Brown, a
notorious member of the Communist
Central Committee.
Mr. Ferguson is N. S. Wales State
secretary of the union. Only four years
ago he invited the Communist party to
disband and join the A.L.P. in a body.
In 1948, on the Communist question, he
“objected to loose talk about banning
minorities.”
He is, of course, today a “moderate,”
and at the Federal conference he
demanded that “unionists smash Com-
munism in the trade-union move-
ment,” and complained that “the apathy
and indifference of the average trade-
unionist explains the success of Com-
munism in the unions” ; though he said
nothing about how much of the success
was due to people like himself.
He says that Communists “cannot get
into the unions if they are alert and in-
formed,” and, attacking “moderates who
were complacent” about the Red curse,
he declared that although Labor was
“committed to the struggle against Com-
munism and other forms of totalitarian-
ism,” Labor must “guard at all times
against any tendency to join forces with
those possessing nothing more in com-
mon with us than opposition to Com-
munism,” remembering that “every self-
confessed opponent of Communism is
not necessarily a friend of democracy,”
and also that “Communism cannot be
legislated out of existence.”
In other words, an advocate of demo-
cracy who five years ago plumped for
perpetual government of the country
under war-time national-security regula-
tions objects to a national front
against Communism and suggests that its
destruction must be treated as a family
matter inside the trade-unions. Yet,
for all his talk for public consumption,
the public are still in the dark as to what
Mr. Ferguson has done to oust Messrs.
Brown and the other Communists who
dominate the Federal control of the
union of which he is a prominent em-
ployee.
The Federal A.L.P. conference in-
cluded—apart from such industrialists as
Mr. R. A. King, formerly official trade-
union leader of the Communist party,
but now a moderate even more cautious
than Mr. Ferguson—a few lights of the
Federal Parliamentary Labor party.
This party, unlike the Triennial Con-
ference, is elected by nearly 50 per cent,
of Australian voters on a stated
policy, yet takes its orders meekly from
the Federal politburo which represents
nobody outside union-leaders, Communist
and otherwise. The reason it prefers
this course is that if it did not the unions,
including such Communist-led bodies as
the Watersiders’, the Ironworkers’ and the
Building Workers’, which are part and
parcel of A.L.P. State branches and yet
Communist-led, would refuse them
money for election purposes and also
refuse them endorsement.
The domination of the party by the
conference, and even by its executive, is
complete, as has been proved over and
over again, the most notable recent
instance being the manner in which, hav-
ing asserted its determination to vole
against the Communist Dissolution Bill
tooth and nail for months, the Federal
Opposition knuckled down and reversed
its attitude like a whipped cur when a
special meeting of the Federal Executive
of the party ordered it to do so.
The Mr. Cal well who is “himself”
in the conference ceases to be “himself”
after the vote is taken. Henceforward
he becomes Puppet Calwell, mouthing in
Parliament arguments in favor of
policies to which he expressed violent
opposition in the conference, or is struck
dumb and paralysed.
The so-called “leaders” of “Labor,” to
whose care the welfare of the country is
committed when they are in office, have
no say in the formulation of their own
policy, Mr. Chifley is always invited to
speak. He uses his opportunity invariably
to ask humbly that he be given his orders
—“tell us what you want and we will do
it.” At the same time he justifies his
stewardship and adds some advice. This
year, for instance, he said that com-
pulsory military training was “economi-
cally unsound” and opposed it, but the
conference nevertheless agreed by 19
votes to 17 to approve compulsory train-
ing for home defence, “subject to a
proper regard for the national economy,”
and it can be taken for granted that this
will henceforward be Mr. Chifley’s
policy.
In terms of a resolution passed by the
conference Mr. Chifley and his followers
can speak against clauses of a bill in
Parliament, but they must not vote
against the bill. If they disagree, they
must refrain from voting.
That such a body should in any case
be master of the country when
“Labor” is in office, and that the
“Labor” Parliamentary party should obey
it and its ex-Communist leaders in pref-
erence to the electors and their own con-
sciences, is grave enough ; but what is
even graver is the acceptance by Parlia-
ment as a whole and by a sport-mad Press
of this situation. If it is allowed to con-
tinue a reality Parliamentary govern-
ment has ceased to be Parliamentary, one
of the parties in power having agreed
to act —sometimes against its own leaders’
views—as spokesmen for an outside
body, under strong Communist-led union
influence.
Some of the resolutions passed by Mr.
Ferguson’s secret junta at its last meet-
ing need close examination by the
Speaker. In Great Britain any outside
persons instructing members of the House
of Commons as to their conduct inside
the House, and as to whether they may
or may not vote on a bill and as to
whether they may even speak against it,
would quickly find themselves at the Bar
of the House for contempt.
And, anyway, what sort of a country
is it which accepts the principle of rule
by a secret junta in the constitution of
which Communist-led union executives
have a powerful say?
Three Years?
It is nearly a year since the Foreign
Ministers of the “Big Three” Western
Powers agreed on the main lines for
“mobilisation of the free world” against
the threat of world war in the conviction
that Russia would be equipped to wage a
full-scale war by 1953.
Mr. Menzies’s essential exhortation is
this:
If the Western democracies, including;
ourselves, fail to prepare completely within
three years, they may regard a war of
aggression against them as in the highest
degree probable.
If, on the other hand, they prepare and
are adequately armed for full participa-
tion in a war from the moment it begins,
there is a real chance the war may NOT
begin. Confronted by strength the
potential enemy may open the door to
negotiation
There is infinite danger for all of us
if the [Soviet] Communists are encouraged
to misjudge our temper, our resoluteness
or our capacity for national and individual
effort It is essential that we should
have the strength to enable us to co-
operate with our friends. Is it possible
that America would guarantee security in
this area if we don’t reciprocate?
The “Labor” Government in Britain
has also entered upon a rearmament pro-
gramme to be completed within three
years. The United States has already put
its industry on a full war-footing, has
restored universal military training, and
legislated for expenditure in 1951-52 on
these preparations to the amount of 20
per cent, of the national income.
In Australia the “Labor” Opposition-
leader pretends to doubt the genuine-
ness of all this. He says compulsory mili-
tary training of young Australians is
“economically unsound.” Yet three years
ago Mr. Chifley, as Prime Minister, went
to look at the scene of the opening of
Russia’s military aggression against the
West —the blockade of Berlin. He came
back declaring that Australia would back
Britain “up to the hilt.” Well, the British
“Labor” Prime Minister then is the same
leader of Britain now who has called on
the country for a rearmament effort in-
volving conscription and extended service
for the Army and the doubling of annual
war expenditure, and this is what he told
the British Trade-Union Congress last
September:
The diversion of labor and resources
from peace production to munitions of
war and the retention of more men in the
armed services must adversely affect our
standard of living. How serious that effort
will be is to some extent within our con-
trol increased production fuller use
of the capital equipment of the country
[i.e., longer hours of work], still greater
co-operation among workers can to a large
extent, if not completely, offset these ad-
verse consequences. We ask the nation to
accept the sacrifices in the interest of
security. I ask you all to regard any
alterations in your working conditions as
your contribution to ensuring the safety
of the nation.
But to Mr. Chifley all this is phony.
Three years may be an overliberal
estimate for the period before Russia is
ready to strike, but it seems a short time
indeed, on recent experience, in which
to rally all parties in this country to the
national effort required. Mr. Menzies’s
job is to give Australians the leadership
they must have in the strenuous period
immediately ahead; but the popular re-
sponse must be forthcoming. Without
ungrudging support from all parties, no
Australian Government could succeed in
the job that must be done.
The war has in fact been in progress
for nearly three years. It began with the
blockade of Berlin in the summer of
1948. The Russians were beaten in that
preliminary. The lesson they read from
it was that Moscow could not afford so
to lose face a second time; and they
have conducted their subsequent hostile
operations through satellite States. The
Greek war was ended when Tito in
Yugoslavia split with the Kremlin. Since
then the Communist shooting war has
shifted to Malaya, Indo-China and Korea.
In Korea, indeed, the Communist
aggression, inspired from Moscow, is
directed against not only the indepen-
dence of a small nation in the wardship
of the United Nations, but also against
the armed forces of the United Nations
enlisted for its defence.
What the Australian people have to
recognise is that, with one battalion and
an air fighter-squadron engaged in Korea
and another air squadron engaged in
Malaya, practically the entire trained
and equipped strength of the country in
these arms is accounted for. They have
to appreciate further these facts:
That the Prime Minister, following
the heads of the British, American and
French Governments, has declared that
the aggressive Power threatening world-
peace is Russia.
That the Prime Minister has also
declared the Communist wreckers of
Australian industry are agents of that
Power.
That no young Australians between
the ages of 18 and 25 —save for the
handful of volunteers in Korea and an-
other handful enlisted at home —have
had any military training whatever;
and those over 30 are modernly over-
age.
That the reduced Australian Navy is
so undermanned that extended fleet
exercises with other Dominions Naval
units the other week had to be inter-
rupted in order to give the crews a
rest for sleep.
That with steel and transport indus-
tries crippled through strikes, and in-
dustry as a whole cut down to half a
40-hour week because of coal shortages,
maintenance of normal supplies is im-
possible, let alone the undertaking of
any rearmament effort.
Having digested these facts, let any
Australian ask himself whether continued
complacency in face of the vulnerable
condition of this country which they be-
token is not an actual encouragement to
any potential enemy to attack us at the
earliest possible moment. A defenceless
condition has never failed to encourage
aggression everywhere else in the world.
The “Big Four” Foreign Ministers’
Council meeting, for which preliminary
meetings of the Ministers’ deputies in
Paris are now in session, may perhaps be
the last in an unhappy series. Prospects
are damped in advance by the great purge
now going on in East Germany—a purge
of the entire active manhood in that zone,
to be carried on over six months (one-
sixth of Mr. Menzies’s three-year margin),
and designed to discover every weakling
in the unswerving obedience to Moscow
now demands of a section of the
German people supposed to have been
given self-government. The same purge
is going on in Czechoslovakia ; and pre-
ceding purges in the Russian-dominated
Balkan countries are supposed to have
prepared those satellites for the attack
on Yugoslavia which Tito has said he
expects before long.
Disagreement at the F.M. conference
will, in the view (as reported) of British
Foreign Office commentators, be not
simply just another failure ; it is expected
to be followed by a wholesale withdrawal
from the “United” Nations by the Soviet
bloc and the proclamation of a rival
body, the Communists’ world “peace”
council, into which Moscow will then
seek to enlist all wavering States in Asia
and the Pacific. The Swedes expect
Finland to be forced under the same
yoke that lies on the other Baltic
countries.
Past pretences about U.N.O. will
be shorn away if the Russian bloc
retires finally behind its iron curtain into
a separated and hostile society of States ;
and when there remain of the 60 nations
which have subscribed to the original
Anglo-American Charter of Freedom the
groups comprising the Atlantic Pact, the
Pan-American Pact and the contemplated
Pacific Pact, there will be only one rule
through all these regions for their
common welfare—namely, the building
of armed strength to create the necessary
balance of power between two antago-
nistic worlds.
It is utterly vain for Australians to
bewail the prospective rearming of Japan
and Germany. The call Mr. Menzies
has been making—and which he must
now drive home throughout this land
with all his powers of persuasion and all
the help he can attract to his side —is
clearly something imposed upon him in
the high position of trust to which he has
been elected. The friends upon whom
we rely in the British Commonwealth, and
in the United States whose President has
called the whole free world to action,
will no doubt afford us help in time of
need, but not without weighing our readi-
ness to help ourselves and them. Such
in a hard world will be the measure of
our deserts if it comes to an all-in
struggle.
On the Diamantina.
“If England were what England seems,”
said Kipling, “how soon we’d chuck her
—but she ain’t.” For which reason —
because Australia seems to be made of
strikes, crooks, blackouts and muddle, but
perhaps, after all, she “ain’t” — The
Bulletin prints this story that came in
when Mrs. R. K. Milson died in Sydney
recently:
In her youth Mrs. Milson was once staying
with the Debneys of Monkira Station, 100 miles
down the river from Diamantina Lakes, taken
up by George Debney in 1880. Mrs. Milson
and Mrs. Debney had been friends together in
Adelaide. The blacks were hostile, and on an
occasion when George Debney and his stock-
men were out on the run, about 40 miles from
the homestead, the tribe surrounded the house
and demanded that one Tommy, a half-caste
youth, be given up to them —they were going
to kill him “for the wrong done to their fore-
fathers.”
The boy was thoroughly frightened, and
strongly objected to losing his kidney-fat, so he
crawled under a bed in a room occupied by
Miss Alice Debney and Mrs. Milson, while Mrs.
Debney kept the blacks at bay.
In the distance the women noticed a cloud
of dust, and eventually two very scared new-
chums rushed into the house and locked them-
selves in their bedroom. Miss Debney came
to their door and said “Don’t you think you
had better have these rifles?” They grabbed
them and bolted the door. Miss Debney quietly
walked back along the veranda and joined her
mother and Mrs. Milson in full view of the
howling mob. On seeing Mr. Debney and
the other stockmen coming in the distance the
blocks left.
Some months afterwards the half-caste
Tommy told Mr. Debney he wanted to go
for a walkabout. Mr. Debney told him that the
Myorlies would kill him, but Tommy said he
was going with two of the house boys, and he
would be all right.
Three months later the party came back
without Tommy. Mr. Debney was informed
that Tommy was at a bark shelter, and on
investigation he found Tommy’s head in a
coolamon. As their forefathers had been
vindicated the party had brought Tommy’s head
back for a ceremonial burial.
Mrs. Milson was 91 when she died.
Her husband, who took up Springvale
station, on the Diamantina, in 1880, died
a year ago at 94. He was a grandson of
the James Milson after whom Milson’s
Point on Sydney Harbor was named, and
who was also a pioneer of western
Queensland. They seem a race of giants
now, those pioneers of the outback, with
something legendary about them; it is
their strength and their stories that make
up the tradition we call “Australia,” and
as long as their spirit continues we shall
do all right.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dissolution Inevitable.
The events of the past week inside and
outside Parliament make it certain that
the Commonwealth Government must go
to the country on a double-dissolution as
speedily as possible. It is not hard to
find a formal pretext.
Mr. Menzies has said that war appears
to be inevitable, and that the limit of
safety for preparation is three years.
Inside Australia a large fifth-column
deriving its plans and policy from the
“inevitable” enemy is operating to destroy
defence measures and the safety of the
country by limiting the production of
coal, the source of nearly all power, by
holding up ships, by sabotaging the war
effort generally and by causing all the
disruption it can in other ways.
This week the leaders of “Labor” have
rejoiced at the defeat of the Govern-
ment in the High Court irrespective of
the fact that it enables the Communists,
to thwart whom they themselves turned
out the military two years ago, to proceed
with their treasonable work. In a Senate
of their own rigging they have held
up the National Defence Bill for
months and failed to pass the Banking
Bill. They have shown themselves deter-
mined to prevent the passage of the Gov-
ernment’s amendments to the Arbitration
Act and the Coal Industry Act.
While professing to act according to
the highest principles in the interests of
“individual liberty”—which is really
licence —they have shown themselves to
be the playthings of an outside secret
junta. When it calls them shortly to order,
their great principles are heard of no
more. If they protest, the noise of their
remonstrances is drowned by that of the
cracking of the*-whips of J. A. Ferguson
and A. E. Monk, who drive them in what-
ever direction they wish as if they were a
mob of bullocks. Many of the Govern-
ment’s plans with which “Labor” shows
violent disagreement are plans in line
with their own, but they oppose them
because they have not the carrying-out of
them, the cry which the Communists in-
vented for them in 1940—“ Only ‘Labor’
can be allowed to govern”—being still
their watchword.
Their leaders declare that they are
ready for an election, and they propose
to try to make the issue prices and infla-
tion.
The “Labor” party, of course, could
have done a great deal, through its moral
influence on the unions, in those avenues
if it had wished ; instead, it has encouraged
industrial anarchy openly and nakedly
because its first objective is not to deal
with prices, but to create conditions of
chaos in which it can point to the Gov-
ernment’s “failures.” All Communists,
loafers, greedy extortioners are wel-
comed as allies by “Labor’ in its fight
to “defeat Menzies.”
These allies and supporters should in
themselves be enough to earn “Labor's”
destruction at the polls.
In the circumstances, frustrated in carry-
ing out its mandates from the people,
unable to secure the internal defence of
the Commonwealth because of limita-
tions of the Constitution as proved by
the High Court ruling on the Communist-
party Dissolution Act, and wantonly
hampered by the Senate, the Government
obviously cannot govern until it removes
the obstacles in its path. These can only
be pushed aside through a double-
dissolution, and by some amendments
of the Constitution to rectify the Senate
position and amplify the Government s
defence powers to meet the Communist
threat. The Government can go to the
country without fear it it gives strong
leadership and puts the issue squarely.
Defence Powers.
The majority judgment of the High
Court upon the Communist-party Dis-
solution Act astounded most people,
especially the implications in the state-
ments of judges’ reasons that, in effect,
it lies not with Parliament nor the
Ministry but with the court to declare
whether steps taken to provide for the
defence of the country against threat of
war are reasonably necessary.
One judge, Mr. Justice Fullagar, even
said that the defence power was one con-
cerned with protection against external
enemies, and that “the only situation
justifying an extended defence power
must be an international situation.”
According to this opinion, if a State or
the Communist party in Australia should
start civil war against the Commonwealth
Government, resistance by the Common-
wealth would, presumably, under the
defence powers be invalid.
The electors, the supreme court of
appeal in this entirely political issue, must
be required without delay to decide —as
the Chief Justice, who differed
emphatically from his fellow-judges, says
—whether the Parliament or the judiciary
is to be the authority which decides
when and to what extent the defence
powers are to be used to protect the
nation.
Would the High Court also declare
invalid, if the Government’s proposals
are challenged, steps foreshadowed to
prepare the nation to meet the threat of
aggression, for which preparation the
Prime Minister says we can allow our-
selves no more than three years at the
outside? Would the court rule out legis-
lation empowering the Government to
declare a state of emergency in order to
put the nation on a war-footing?
As for the subject of the judges’ obser-
vations, namely the need to uphold
the nation’s welfare and security against
the Communist industrial conspiracy in
this country, the Government had an
emphatic mandate for its policy from the
general elections, and at those elections
proposed exactly what it legislated for in
the Act now declared invalid. “Labor”
pretended to be rejoicing over a victory
last weekend, but the reactions already
visible are likely to be entirely in the
Government’s favor.
'Hie Government can now add cubits
to its stature by clearing the decks forth-
with for a double-dissolution on any issue
available. Perhaps it should not even
wait for the passage—sure to be denied
by “Labor” in the Senate—of a bill for
a referendum to give the Commonwealth
the defence powers possessed by each
State before Federation, and supposed to
have passed to the Commonwealth under
the Federal agreement and the 1900 Act
of the Imperial Parliament.
Communism and Law.
The Communist party of Australia, as
part of its work as a treasonable, Mos-
cow-based conspiracy against the safety
of the Commonwealth, plans (according
to its Party Training Manual) to “break
up and destroy the Capitalist State
courts of justice, military and police
apparatus.”
The courts have been a particular tar-
get. The Australian Comrades share and
propagate the view of Vyshinsky, the
leading authority on Soviet Union law,
that “the bourgeois courts are one of
the weapons for repressing the toilers and
resisting encroachments on the system of
Capitalist relations,” and that of Lenin,
that “in Capitalist society the court is
pre-eminently a mechanism of oppression
and bourgeois exploitation.”
Nevertheless, in Australia the Com-
munist party uses the Capitalist courts to
the full. No gang of Communist rioters
ever appears in a police court without
opportunity being sought to appeal
against the conviction of the first man
sentenced so that the trials of the rest
can be held up for months until the pub-
lic has lost interest in them. And though
Communist leaders treat the Arbitration
Court judges with insolence, contempt and
abuse, they have no hesitation in appeal-
ing to Capitalist law to protect them
from the consequences of their own law-
less behavior, as was done in the case of
Comrade Roach.
The High Court has again and again
been attacked by the Communist party
as a biased Capitalist machine. But it is
the first refuge for which they dive when
threatened, as they did when the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Act was passed.
And six judges out of the seven (Latham,
C.J., dissenting) interpreted the law with
traditional impartiality and found that the
Act was unconstitutional through the
defects which deprive the Commonwealth
of power to deal with enemy agents be-
fore war is declared or shots fired. The
victorious revilers of the court have been
granted costs. These in the aggregate are
said to total £30,000.
Because of defects in the Constitution
revealed by the High Court’s findings, the
time is overripe for a convention on the
Constitution to reconstruct the States and
their powers and those of the Common-
wealth so as to meet the changed gov-
ernmental and world conditions and
trends of today, particularly in relation
to internal security.
A nation which cannot punish treason
against itself and which cannot even take
measures to stop the operations of highly
organised enemy agents working openly
in the heart of its crucial defence indus-
tries is not likely to survive long. And
a country in which the subservient States,
which are centrally financed, have greater
powers and are more formally national
than the central Government is an
absurdity.
Polio After-care.
Writing in the “Medical Journal of Aus-
tralia” on orthopaedics and physio-
therapy, Dr. Jean Nacnamara (Dame Jean
Connor), of Melbourne, mentions a
service operating in her city that is
of especial interest to relatives of
poliomyelitis victims, as well as to people
in other States where no such service
exists.
In the course of her article Dr.
Macnamara says:
In 1930 the committee of the Children’s
Hospital, Melbourne, established the itinerant
physiotherapy service, bringing to the mother in
the home a guide and instructor, called a
physiotherapist, who checked the splinting and
coached her in the details of a regime planned
to help her child.
The itinerant service of the physiotherapy
department of the Children’s Hospital, Mel-
bourne, has functioned without intermission for
almost twenty years. Originally three full-time
physiotherapists were provided. The numbers
increased to the equivalent of more than 60
full-time people during the after-care following
the epidemic of 1937-38. At present, 2a
persons, the equivalent of 13 full-time physio-
therapists, are caring for 362 children in their
homes in the metropolis. Years have taught
us that a mother can learn more readily in the
quietness of her home than when bustled and
rushed after a journey to the outpatient depart-
ment, even if transport is provided. The
physiotherapist can check the bed or perambu-
lator used by the child and the suitability of
chairs, tables, etc., which he uses. The mothers
and fathers are co-opted as members of a
team. They quickly learn the principles and
the details of care required to give their child
a chance. When many new patients demand
care from the staff, the parents of those para-
lysed earlier are competent to handle their child
with supervision at longer intervals from the
physiotherapist—once weekly, fortnightly, or
monthly.
Many physiotherapists in N. S. Wales
would be glad to offer their services,
part-time, in order to establish a service
similar to the Melbourne one, or along
the lines of the District Nursing Associa-
tion. All they ask is for transport to be
provided.
Dr. Nacnamara mentions in her
article:
The provision in Melbourne of a comparable
service to-paralysed persons older than fourteen
years—the age-limit of the Children’s Hospital—
means recognition by the Consultative Council
for Poliomyelitis of the fact that the fatigue
involved in transport of an adult with paralysis
of muscles of the trunk or lower limbs to an
outpatient department for physiotherapy
defeats the purpose, if improvement of the
patient’s muscular power is the purpose.
Obviously N. S. Wales lags behind Vic-
toria in the after-care of poliomyelitis
victims. It is up to the health or hospital
authorities to give a lead in the establish-
ment of an itinerant physiotherapy
service, which many people would be
glad to support, but who at present don't
quite know how.
Queensland Election Charges
Latest development in the Queensland
electoral investigations was the arrest in
Brisbane last Thursday of Bernard
Joseph Maguire, Queensland’s Principal
Electoral Officer, on a charge of forging
a document purporting to be a ballot-
paper marked as a vote of an elector.
The charge arose out of the inquiry
conducted by Justice Mansfield, sitting
as an Election Tribunal, into allegations
of improper practice in connection with
the counting of votes in the Bulimba elec-
torate at last year’s general election. In
the final count Gardner (Labor) finished
42 votes ahead of Hamilton (Liberal).
Hamilton disputed the count, claiming,
among other things, that there had been
irregularities in the counting of absent
votes. The tribunal found that irregu-
larities had occurred, and he declared
the election void. He said there was no
evidence that Gardner or his agents had
been responsible, and he made no finding
as to who was responsible.
The Hanlon Government ordered a
police inquiry, as a result of which last
week’s arrest was made. In laying the
charge against Maguire, the police-
inspector in charge of the investigation
indicated that his case would consist
largely of the evidence of handwriting
experts from Brisbane and Sydney
C. 1.85. A remand was granted until
tomorrow.
In another part of Queensland alto-
gether an appeal is still to be heard over
the Nash seat, which “Labor” won by
25 votes, and Opposition-leader Nicklin
complained last week that for three sit-
ting days since he had given notice of a
motion to refer the Windsor election to
the Election Tribunal the motion had
each day been placed at the bottom of
the notice-paper.
He claimed that in one batch of 42
absent votes the Liberal candidate
obtained only 11 votes, although 22 of
the voters had since supplied statutory
declarations that their votes were cast for
the Liberal candidate. Parliament re-
cently authorised the police to examine
absent votes for all electorates at the
1950 general election and for by-elections
held at Ipswich and Kurilpa in 1949.
"Cant, Hypocrisy, Humbug."
So the “Labor” Opposition in Canberra
is now instructed by its extra-Parlia-
mentary objective to bring in a bill for a
referendum to abolish the Senate! It can
do so in the present Senate, and every
“Labor” Senator can safely vote for it
knowing (1) that the Government will not
accept it and (2) that the majority of
electors in at least four States out of the
six would never, in the unlikely event,
vote for it.
The motive is obviously to put up yet
another time-wasting subject for debate
for priority over urgent Government
business, and is in line with “Labor’s”
studied contempt of Parliament as an
institution, revealed by the subjection of
popularly-elected members to the orders
of a non-elected outside junta, and in the
disgraceful rigging in advance of the last
Senate elections in order to create an
obstacle to the passage of all legislation
from a House of Representatives in which
“Labor” expected to be denied power,
There was no such proposal during the
last Parliament, when the “Labor” party
dominated both Houses, and the reason
is now obvious; viz., that Dr. Evatt’s
Senate-enlargement scheme was designed
to prepare the Senate for the operation
of slaying not itself but the legislative
rights of the other House.
If there were any sincerity whatever
in dragging up this fifth-rate objective of
the “Labor” platform, why does not the
McGirr Government, having a majority
there, abolish the N. S. Wales Legisla-
tive Council?
That, of course, is the similar objec-
tive in “Labor’s” State constitutional
platform, and there it is at the top of the
agenda instead of No. 5. But do the
dutiful caucus lieges, including Cabinet
Ministers, beseech the A.L.P. with cries
of “Mother, where is that better land?”
They do not.
The N.S.W. Legislative Council is in
process of being stuffed with union
officials and members of the A.L.P.
executive itself, thus affording them a
fine free club, free postage and tele-
phones, many other non-paying privi-
leges, free transport passes and £6 a week
“travelling allowances.” Nobody would
credit for a moment that A.L.P. execu-
tive members have demanded to be made
M-L.Cs. because they want to abolish
this source of individual benefit and can-
not trust the rank-and-file to obey any
abolition orders they may issue from out-
side Parliament.
A Premier on Transport.
Premier Cosgrove, of Tasmania, little
suspected that he almost took his life in
his hands when he got up at a conference
of vState Transport Ministers in Hobart,
and said that roads should be built
to take up to 50 tons on vehicles at
50 m.p.h., and that the travelling public
demanded something better than steam-
trains.
The affair at which Mr. Cosgrove spoke
was billed in mainland newspapers as a
“National Transport Conference.” It
wasn’t, being merely a conference of State
Ministers and their railway heads, with a
Federal official or two in evidence. Any-
body finding a representative of the
private transport industry, and particu-
larly of private road transport, wouldn’t
have been believed.
Mr. Cosgrove admitted that it would
be beyond the finances of the States to
construct the highway he visualised, “yet
they must be built if the transport
facilities of the nation are to progress
as they should.”
Road transport is now big business on
the mainland. It is claimed that between
350 and 400 heavy road trucks pass
through Albury alone every week. Every
main road is thick with these vehicles, and
both States and Commonwealth exact
heavy tribute from them and do little in
return, except to harry and prosecute
owners and drivers in a futile attempt to
protect their railways. s
A “national transport conference
staged by railway authorities and not
attended by representatives of private
transport is a prime futility. Not that
transport generally isn’t in need of drastic
overhaul and some form of unified or
uniform reasonable control. All the
Hobart conference seems to have done is
to prolong the bitter animosity existing
between Government and private
systems. A nation alarmed about its de-
fence organisation ought to put a stop
to that sort of foolishness at once.


T
[>M
h
They satisfy in every way.
CRAVENA
ƒ
154
CARRERAS
LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
The atmosphere of an impending elec-
tion which overhung Federal politics
for the latter half of last year,
alternately lowering and lifting as
“Labor” fought furiously or backed
down, is with us again. Chifley and Co.
are under instructions to fight to the last
ditch on the Bank Bill, to oppose pro-
posals for secret ballots in union affairs
and to oppose amendments to the Arbi-
tration and Coal Industry Acts. Any of
these could be an issue for an ultimate
double-dissolution, but the Bank Bill
provides the means for ending the Nine-
teenth Parliament almost immediately.
Discovery of the loopholes left by their
predecessors in the Coal industry Acts
and of Constitutional'obstacles to dealing
with the Communists in the way the elec-
tors authorised them to should put an
end to doubts which Government
members seem to have had lately about
the wisdom of seeking a general election.
Although the most likely result as far as
the Senate is concerned would be an
evenly divided House, that is surely pre-
ferable to the present set-up under which
the Opposition has taken the business of
the House completely out of the hands of
the Government.
There is something gloriously ironic in
the thought that the Comfnos have, for
the time being at any rate, been saved
by the court they have traduced and a
system of justice they profess to despise.
Try it the other way round: the Soviet
passes a law banning a democratic party ;
the party challenges it and a court of
impartial judges upholds the challenge.
There is no prize for guessing what would
happen to the democratic party —and the
judges.
Chifley’s comment on the High Court
decision was that all along his party had
regarded the bill as monstrous. Yet he
and his Parliamentary followers voted for
the “monstrous” bill because they feared
to fight an election on the issue. Principle
means no more to the “Labor” party
than truth does to the Corns.
Communism can best be fought inside
the “Labor” movement. That’s the
opinion of Chifley, Ferguson and other
leaders of the party. HoW does it work
out in practice? Well, the most active
element in trade-union activity against
the Reds have been the A.L.P. industrial
groups, yet when at the Federal confer-
ence a motion was proposed recording
appreciation of their work it was turned
down flat, Clyde Cameron, M.H.R. for
Hindmarsh (S.A.), remarking that the
groups “seemed to be used for nothing
but to fight against the Communists.”
When S. J. Bryan, in opposition to the
stand taken by his five fellow Queens-
land delegates at the A.L.P, Conference,
voted for compulsory training and thus,
swung the party’s policy, he was not
defying instructions from his State execu-
tive. Unlike their opposite-numbers in
the other States the Queensland execu-
tive did not issue cut-and-dried instruc-
tions ; it merely told delegates to listen
to all arguments and then make their
own decision. They possibly intended
that the decision should be unanimous,
but they didn’t say so.
A motion by Peters, M.H.R., in Federal
“Labor” caucus to discuss Dr. Evatt’s
appearances before the courts as counsel
for Communist agitators was ruled out
of order by the quaking “Leader” of the
Opposition, Chifley. It appears that
caucus has now sunk so low that it cannot
discuss the conduct of its own deputy-
leader, the matter being dealt with for it
by its masters of the A.L.P, Executive,
who are to consider the matter in secret
session. Dr. Evatt should be delighted.
He will receive human sympathy at least
from those members of the executive who
graduated to the heights of “Labor”
politics through a Communist-party
training.
Government rank-and-filers have been
critical of the voluntary recruiting
scheme. No wonder! In the five months
since the latest campaign began total
enlistments in the three services have
totalled only 4575.
Not long ago it was being urged that
the Speck, because of its geographical
luck in having large lakes perched on the
central plateau, could supply cheap
hydroelectric power to mainland States.
Taswegians now think that’s a wry joke ;
abnormally dry weather has forced
water-restrictions, and householders have
been ordered to cut their consumption of
power by 25 per cent. Cynics are suggest-
ing that if the submarine-cable is laid
across Bass Strait it’ll be for the purpose
of bringing power from the mainland.
A Senate debate moves a Canberra
man to near-rhyme;
The Basic Wage is near a tenner,
But “Labor’s” cheap as Nick McKenna.
Coal report: For week ended March
3 coal lost through strikes at N.S.W.
collieries was 98,560 tons, bringing total
lost for seven working weeks of 1951 to
496,145 tons. Quantity lost for corres-
ponding period last year was 259,737 tons.
When a deputation from the Vic. Muni-
cipal Association asked Premier Mc-
Donald to look into the financial respon-
sibilities and resources of local govern-
ment, he shrieked something about the
Commonwealth’s financial relations with
Victoria being a “downright scandal” and
then cooled down and said he didn’t think
an inquiry was called for. The State, he
added, could do no more until it got
“financial justice from the Common-
wealth,” It might do a little if it got
political justice from McDonald’s Country
party, which has no electoral right to be
the Victorian Government.
A question inquisitive Queenslanders
have been asking for more than two years
is “Who paid the fines of Communists
Healy, Englart and Julius and secured
their release from jail?” It cropped up
again last week when E. Evans, C.P.
member for Mirani, fired it at Premier
Hanlon, who said he had nothing to add
to a reply he gave last October. This
was that the only thing the police had
been able to find out was that Julius had
told a Rockhampton gathering that the
Trades and Labor Council had paid his
fine. Hanlon said he believed there was
no truth in the rumor that Santa Claus
had come to light with the money.
Joel Moses Gabb, tragically dead in
Adelaide, is remembered in Canberra,
where he represented Angas (S.A.) as
“Labor” member from 1919 to 1925,
and from 1929 to 1934, for two things—
his refusal to take the salary rise his
fellow-Parliamentarians had voted them-
selves and his fondness for calling the
Speaker’s attention to “the state of the
House.” The second item earned him
the nickname “Quorum” Gabb.
Communist “Tribune”: “Realisation of
the slogan ‘Down with Menzies,’ around
which all peacelovers and democrats can
unite, is a vital task in the struggle to
save Australia from the catastrophe
Menzies is preparing on the orders of his
American masters.” x
Senator McKenna, next day: “The
defeat of the [Anti-Communist] legislation
should now unite the working-class move-
ment in such a way that Mr. Menzies
will be defeated.”
“Unite the working-class movement”
could mean one of two things—an admis-
sion of a split in “Labor’s” ranks or an
invitation to the Communists to join with
“Labor” for the election campaign.
Which is it, Nick?
Clearest pointer to “Labor’s” attitude
on the subject of an early election is
given by last week’s developments on the
coalfields and waterfront. Mr. A.C.T.U.
Monk spoke to the wharfies, and they
decided to call off their overtime ban and
give arbitration another try. He spoke
to Williams and Co., and they decided to
advise their followers to adopt a similar
plan. It used to be “Fixer” Ashley’s job
to plead the policy of no-strikes-till-after-
the-elections. It looks as if Albert has
taken his place.
Fines totalling £350 were imposed last
week by the Queensland Industrial Court
on the editor, publishers and printers of
the “Advocate,” official organ of the
Queensland branch of the A.R.U., for
contempt of court. The offence lay in a
paragraph published in the January
issue:
After reviewing recent events, we no
longer trust the Arbitration Court. We
consider it a haven for unscrupulous poli-
tical stooges who manoeuvre it against the
workers in the interests of the employing
class.
Defence was that the article, a con-
tributed item, had escaped the notice of
F. Nolan, editor of the “Advocate” and
secretary of the State A.R.U. Nolan
made “a complete and abject apology”
and promised to publish k in three con-
secutive issues of his paper. Justice
Matthews accepted the plea of negligence
and said that had the contempt been
deliberate long prison sentences would
have been imposed.
Queensland economist Colin Clark
puts it plainly: “You can get £5OO a
year for doing practically nothing. Con-
sequently to get men for the heavy work
needed on cattle stations you must pay
them £lOOO a year. That means we have
to pay high prices for meat.” Maybe it’s
not quite as simple as that, but it’s an
aspect few people consider.
“Molonglo Mike’s” warning:
As happened to A. M. Blain, formerly mem-
ber for the Northern Territory, when he made
an attack on Dr, Evatt’s alleged associations
with the Communists, W. C. Wentworth is
being described by the Opposition as mentally
unbalanced (also as a “gorilla”), and Mr.
Dorothy Dix Daly shouted:
Mr. Wentworth is a disgrace to the
Parliament, and his record will not bear
investigation,
Mr. Wentworth will do well to remember that
implied threats of exposure of this kind by
Dr. Evatt’s loyal admirers were not idle in
Blain’s case. As he himself has never been
a prisoner-of-war, and cannot be attacked
groundlessly for showing his gold pass to the
Japanese, it may be taken for granted that
something will presently reveal, as proof of
Mr. Wentworth’s insanity, that he took an
honors degree at Oxford, and as proof that he
is a “gorilla” that he was also an Oxford
athletic blue.
A cable announcing the resignation of
Ernest Bevin as Foreign Minister and his
replacement by Herbert Morrison re-
marked that Morrison “is widely regarded
as Mr. Attlee’s successor as Prime
Minister.” There is also a fairly big
school of thought which believes Attlee’s
successor will be Churchill or Eden.
The importance of the by-election for
the Bendigo seat in the Victorian Legisla-
tive Council is that if the L.C.P. man
wins the Hollway party will have a
majority in the Council, This has brought
Premier McDonald out into the open ;
he is urging C.P. supporters to give their
second preferences to the “Labor” can-
didate. McDonald is the man who was
a staunch anti-Socialist until he saw the
chance to climb into office on the backs
of Cain’s Socialists.
Senator O’Sullivan, speaking of the
Senate Select Committee’s report on the
National Service Bill, said it was “reeking
with cant, humbug and hypocrisy.”
What else could be expected of a report
issued by a body whose very appointment
reeked with cant, humbug and hypocrisy?
An ill-omened sign of the times is the
fact that an extraordinary large propor-
tion of new university students in all
States this year are girls. The obvious
explanation is that too many young men
are being enticed from study for careers
into the highly-paid jobs now offering for
youngsters —most of the jobs being of
the dead-end kind and offering no more
than high wages—which will collapse the
moment the national economy gives way
under its growing strain.
Melbourne reported last week a
fire which burnt out a Footscray
lawnmower works, from which “flames
raced across 100 yards of grass-
land to within a few feet of in-
flammable bitumen piles alongside the
safety-fuse works of 1.C.1. The
breeze changed and the fire was con-
trolled. The 1.C.1, official said there was
enough gunpowder about to lay a fair
area flat.” But was. it nobody’s business
to see that this fire-hazard at
such a spot was removed in a summer
announced for weeks to be one of record
fire-menace all over Victoria?
Because of “wastage and unwarranted
extra costs incurred by the homebuilder”
through the practice. South Australian
Bricklayers’ Society and Builders’
Laborers’ Union won’t handle bricks
tipped outside the foundations of a build-
ing job instead of being properly stacked.
The Building Trades Council supports
the decision. So will the homebuilders.
The Federal Government now hopes
to have the first batch of compulsory
trainees in camp by July—registration to
begin on April 14. That, of course, is
if the Senate does its part and hurries
the bill.
Strangely, while the daily Press of
March 2 recorded Jackie Ferguson’s
diatribe against Communism, the Com-
munist “Tribune,” the official organ of the
party’s headquarters, had a paragraph on
March 1 headed “A.L.P. Leader Supports
Miners,” in which it quoted Mr. Fergu-
son as writing in the “Railroad” that the
miners “have a case, and that for the
moment should be the main question of
concern to the rest of the trade-union
movement, which should set about to
help the miners get redress.” The
“miners’ case” is purely a Communist
case.
Darkest Africa is becoming darker than
ever in the eyes of British Socialists.
While the peanut venture on the eastern
side of the continent has been swallowing
up the millions almost as fast as the
Treasury could pour them out, the
Gambia egg scheme in West Africa has
been getting itself addled more quickly
than its socialised hens could lay the
eggs. The sad feature about the collapse
of both schemes is that they did show
a certain amount of vision and enterprise;
they failed because their sponsors placed
too much reliance on blueprints and not
enough on experience. Peanuts and eggs
have one thing in common besides shells;
they just don’t understand Socialist rules.
Lord Hyndley, chairman of Britain’s
National Coal Board, has issued a warn-
ing about the prospects of the coal in-
dustry. He says “there’s no telling what
may happen in six or ten months from
now.” That’s under Socialism, whose
planned economy was to have removed
for ever all doubts about the future.


" Were waiting for a member
of the Carpenters'Union
to NAIL it up. "
-fc-
THE HOLD-UP.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“With the ‘Labor’ party threatening to oppose
constitution of a central-bank board and restoration
to the Arbitration Court of those powers to enforce
Coal Tribunal awards which they left out of their
revised legislation, the horrible Ti-Dumpty again
stalks Canberra.”
“Clooter”: While you’re reading this
the Bodenwieser ballet is cavorting before
the stricken gaze of coalies on the
N.S.W. coalfields —where the altruistic
policy of no work between meals has
reached such a high pitch. It’s all part
of the Joint Coal Board’s fixed deter-
mination to jam the coalies full of sport
and culture by sending ’em football
trunks in the winter and ballet girls in
summer. I’m not sure who pays for it,
but the troupe is gallivanting around the
centres of culture between Newcastle and
Maitland in a “mobile theatre-wagon.”
This vehicle doesn’t use coal for fuel, nor
is it towed on or behind any of the N.S.W.
trains, which guarantees it getting to the
coalfields and to its various appoint-
ments on time. The female members of
“ It'll be funny when her sunburn shows up."
the ballet are very lightsome and charm-
ing persons; so, I understand, are the
male members. I could wish that they
would tour our suburb occasionally, but
since most of us there work our full 40
hours each week I don’t suppose we’ve
got a hope. However, what really worries
me about filling the coalies with culture
is this: Suppose the honest fellows get
an irresistible yearning for it and close
up the mines and come down to Sydney
every time there’s a ballet or opera sea-
son, a showing of Archibald-prize entries
or a symphony season. It could, I only
say could, mark you, end in less coal
being dug than before, and since nothing
from nothing leaves nothing—oh, well.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”; “Swilliam” (B.
21/2/’5l), on the subject of the proposed
sale of Dunk Island, contrived to
assemble quite an impressive array of
rhymes for “Dunk.” How would he
have fared if faced with the native name
of the little principality, “Coonanglebah”?
The original white lord of the isle, Ted
Banfield, was always in something of a
dither regarding this matter of title. As
a friend of the abos he leaned towards
the native name, but as an admirer of
Captain Cook he felt an obligation to
retain the name of Dunk. Nomenclature
aside, there is scope for speculation on
how far the sale-price placed on the island
has been influenced by the romance im-
parted to it by “The Beachcomber’s”
books. Banfield had a warm affection for
his “delectable Isle” —he went there to
die and continued dying very pleasantly
for about 25 years—but I can’t imagine
that he ever dreamed of the place being
(a) equipped with a pub and ( b ) offered
for sale at £BO,OOO.
* * # *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Why decry pageantry
(B. 28/2/’51)? I travelled down the
Murray with the Sturt re-enactment party,
and I can vouch that the people along
the river thoroughly enjoyed the whole
thing and flocked# in their thousands to
take part in the ceremonies, in spite of
shade temperatures often well over the
century. We could have similar pageants
—on a smaller scale on the anniversary
of many other historical events. “Lord
Luvus” implies that the pageant is a
purely British institution, but it is even
more beloved in Europe, and Americans
go mad over pageants.
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: The passing of “Smith’s
Weekly” reminds me. Sent a story there ;
it was accepted and cheque received. The
title was changed, and along came an-
other cheque for the same amount. I
did the right thing—cashed it at the
nearest pub. Referred the matter in
confidence to Horsehair, J., with whose
opinion, “It raises interesting points,” I
concurred, although pints was the appro-
priate word.
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay; That Italian in the
street who ordered two of his countrymen
to take a job (B. 21/2/’5l) was what
Australians in the know refer to as the
“Boss Dago,” a well-known figure in every
Italian community. Does an Italian want
to buy a property? The Boss Dago has
a list, and for a fee gives sound advice as
to those worth buying—and those not
worth owning. A good job? The B.D.
can find his countryman one, charging a
small percentage of the wages in return.
What price should be tendered for a
contract? For a fee the Boss will give
advice. If the Boss is unscrupulous, the
system degenerates into a Mafia or
Camorra racket, with standover tactics
and extortion. I knew an honest type of
B.D. quite well. The only time I ever
saw him adopt standover methods was
when some woodcutters cleared out with-
out paying what they owed to the local
storekeeper. He paid the bill and then
blacklisted his dishonest countrymen until
they were glad to repay him —and a
thumping commission as well.
* * * *
“O’Hell”: Mooching around tfye art
exhibition, we paused opposite a picture
of orchids with a green snake coiled up
among them. The snake dominated the
canvas. After looking at it in silence
for a minute one looker turned 10 his
cobber and said, “That reminds mi, Bill,
I’ve been promised a nine-gallo[n for
tonight’s shivoo.”
“Give my shoes a polish, too."
“Cryla”: War propaganda (B.
28/2/’5l) is all right up to the point
where the recipients have the opportunity
to judge for themselves how much of it
is truth and how much fiction. When we
first went up the Western Desert in 1941
newspaper articles had given some of us
an idea that the German troops were
weedy, ill-fed specimens clad in poor-
quality ersatz gear. The first batch of
prisoners we saw at Mersah compound,
men from Rommel’s elite motor-cycle
corps, opened our eyes. For the most
part they were perfect physical specimens
of German youth, and their clothing was
a damn’ sight more serviceable than our
own stuff. When, through the wire, those
of them who could speak English derided
the rations of bully and biscuits, and sug-
gested that if such were our regular
rations we could never hope to win the
war, we were a bit dismayed—until some-
one pointed out that after all the Jerries
were prisoners ; we weren’t.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I read with some perturba-
tion that D.D.T. is wiping out the world’s
flea circuses, and that according to Major
J. A. Wilson, secretary of the Victorian
Showmen’s Guild, there are so few fleas
to go round that the Festival of Britain
amusement park is likely to have to carry
on without one. Toby Clarke, Australia’s
best-known flea showman, has closed
down his circus and now runs a glass-
blower’s act. Flea-men used to catch
their stock in the old cinemas by donning
long white underclothes and white socks
and sitting in the front stalls, delousing
themselves when they got home. Since
theatres started spraying themselves with
D.D.T. big-game hunting of this sort
provides such small bags that English
showmen are appealing for supplies from
Australia. The Commonwealth Deputy
Director of Health says there is no law
against their exportation, as there is no
plague in this country. Fleas can there-
fore be sent by air and given the biggest
jump of their lives.
* * * *
“O’Hamfat”: Here’s St. Patrick’s Day
come round again and, more shame to us,
no fuss atall, atall. No true Irishman
wi’ the green up looking for Orangemen
who dare put yellow in their buttonholes
—an’ finding them, too. No broken heads,
and publicans even with such names as
Michael O’Connell not opening their bars
one hour earlier, and having no Irish
whisky to sell, either. Tis not like the
ould days when Paddy Bourke, rest his
soul, never let St. Pat.’s day pass without
a grand party in his ranger’s cottage in
the Domain, and not a man able to stand
up when it finished. There was the time
when Paddy arranged a special surprise
for his guests ; at the cue from Paddy
a harp was to sound in the garden with
an elegant Oirish air. And none other
than Australia’s premier harpist, Signor
Bertillo Torzillo, was to be the harpist.
The party was at its peak when Paddy,
beaming on his guests, demanded “Ivry-
body happy? Is the whisky good? Is
the tucker good?” to all of which queries
he got a roar of approval as answer,
“Then,” said Paddy, opening the window
as if to let in more air, “all we whant
now is a har-rup to play ‘The Har-rup
that Wance T’roo Tara’s Halls.’ ” There
was no sound of the harp’s opening
chords, only the barking of Paddy’s dogs.
Paddy leaned out the window and shouted
“I sa-ay, phwat we whant is a har-rup
to play The Har-rup that Wance’”— —
Came Bertie’s voice, stuttering, from the
garden, “W-w-well, if you want your
b-b-blanky harp,” it said, “c-c-call off
your b-b-blasted dogs!”
** V * •
“Emjai”: Melbourne G.P.O. steps may
not be seats of learning (B. 21/2/’5l),
but for as long as the oldest inhabitant
can remember they have been the ren-
dezvous of the old boys, the pensioners
and the gossips, and the refuge of the
footsore and weary. Through the years
they had left what seemed to be in-
delible marks in deep scores in the bases
of the pillars, from the sharpening of
countless pocket-knives, accompaniment
to the yarning, smoking, dreaming. In
some spots the holes were inches deep.
In a spasm of renovation some years ago
they were filled up with cement. They
have started again ; tentative rubbings and
minor depressions have appeared, but
they will never attain their former
state, for the pocketknife is on the way
out with the pipe and the plug; nowa-
days most habitues smoke cigarettes.
* * * *
“Sepak”: Who said women can’t be
tolerant, co-operative, understanding and
patient? Let him observe the ways of
the sex with fortune-tellers, cup-readers
and the like. No bush-lawyer could
divert the truth the way a “foretold”
female will prove a prognostication. My
sister was once told that it was her fate
to go on a short rail journey and that
she would marry a man from “across the
water.” Well, she had to get home, of
.course —from an inner suburb to an
outer one —that took care of the first
prediction. The second one was a bit
of a facer, however —with her engaged
to a native son! A week’s rain fixed it
up all right; the intended couldn’t make
it on the Saturday night —the creek was
flooded for the first time in years.
* * * *
“Chink”: Reading recently an account
of the half-century-old tragic tale of
Queensland’s Kenniff brothers, I was re-
minded of Steele Rudd. The author of
On Our Selection served as deputy-sheriff
in Queensland in the early part of the
century, and so had to rally round when-
ever Jack Ketch functioned. In that
capacity he witnessed the hanging of Pat
Kenniff. “As he stood on the scaffold,”
Rudd told me, “he kept his eyes fixed on
a certain spot at an upward angle. The
intensity of his gaze impressed me, and
later in the day I wandered up to try to
see what he had been looking at. I
found it all right. The bushman had
been taking his last look at one small
patch of blue sky.”
THE THINGUMMY.
Along the still Molonglo, I saw a floating box;
Twas slit on top, had iron bands, and staples
for the locks;
I fished it out and opened it, and then to my
surprise
A dirty big double Ti-Dumpty jumped right out
before my eyes.
I called on Mr. Chifley, saying, “Look what
I’ve got here!
It’s just what you’ve been longing for for
longer than a year.”
But Chifley took one look at it, and turned and
faced the wall:
“There’s no such thing as Ti-Dumpty, son; it
isn’t there at all!”
I called on Doctor Evatt, then, the Commo’s
Friend at Court,
But when he saw I had no brief,, he cut me
rather short:
“When fighting laws I fixed,” he said, “I find
it hard to lose —
It’s different with Ti-Dumpties —No! I really
can’t enthuse.”
So Senator McKenna was the next I visited.
“Please don’t insult a man,” he said, “who’s
nearly almost dead —
I promised the boys to abolish myself, but
though I’ve got the hump,
I don’t want any Ti-Dumpty till I feel inclined
to jump.”
At last I took my present to a union talking-
shop ;
“Get out of here,” said the delegates, “before
we call a cop!
We don’t like secret thingummyjigs—we can’t
explain what for—
So take your rotten Ti-Dumpty out, and don’t
come back no more!”
I lie moral of this story is; If somewhere you
have seen
A “Labor” mob with spanners round a Govern-
ment machine,
Don’t ask why it’s not going, or inquire into
their lurks:
Ihey don’t want any Ti-Dumpty —only time to
smash the works.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“1921-1951. Congratulations to the R.A.A.F. on its 30th Birthday.
*s*
V AVltfrioixlß SERVICE^
_///>' %
*
m
*
From reindeer to kangaroo —•
across the globe you can rely on the unfailing
readiness and efficiency of the BP Aviation Service,
available at airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney. Qantas Empire
Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are amongst
the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it
the'global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company,Ltd.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tal. Address ‘‘AIRBEPEE” MELB.
r
m
vim
.<l-^
'.MX
y&Z.
ICI
Rabbits in their countless millions con-
stitute one of Australia’s most destructive
pests. Good grazing land can be rapidly
turned into barren acreage if these pests
are uncontrolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting more
than worthwhile by helping to reduce the
numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are hard-
hitting and 100% reliable.
f
T6-1S
ELEY-KYNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
“P.P.”: The sight of a woman with a
duster in her hand makes me shudder.
Although space has made real castles
anachronisms, any room where a man
works should be his castle ; it ceases to be
one when a woman is allowed to enter it.
The paper he threw on the floor so that
he would know where to find it disap-
pears ; the things he left on the table.
instead of being
in the disarray
in which he
knew where to
find what he
wanted after a
short search, are
“tidied” into
stacks, or shoved
into drawers.
About three
months ago a
female relative
invaded my flat
on the excuse of
anxiety about
my health. One of her first acts was to
write her name with her forefinger on
my dressing-table mirror. I told her
firmly that I always dusted that mirror
every two or three months ; I had dusters,
but they were locked away in a cup-
board, and the key was lost. I knew that
once she started she wouldn’t stop at
mirrors—and I was right. The next day
my flat was raided by a determined young
woman who, my landlady tells me, imme-
diately tied a handkerchief around her
head to shield her from disturbed dust.
I’ll never forget the appalling tidiness
that greeted me when I got home ; I’m
still looking for things I need. And I
had to thank the well-meaning enthusiast
for the labor that caused me so much
inconvenience.
* * * *
“Rooster”: An English parson must
have caused a flutter of dismay within
his flock when he suggested that study-
ing one’s nude reflection in a full-length
mirror might be a cure for the doldrums.
My wife, for one, took a dim view of
f
this cute idea, not being impressed with
the “humor” of it. The originator of
the suggestion explained that, with all
the elaborate care and costliness involved
in trying to hide anatomical defects and
disadvantages, the study of the birthday-
suit is a palliative against self-depression.
I must remember that, next time I’m
under the shower, wistfully wishing I
could see my feet.
* * # *
“Billy S.”: The Italian captain who
blew himcelf to bits feet first as it were
(B. 7/2/’5l) reminds me of a German
minelayer skipper who was hoist with
his own petard. Hie story goes that the
minelayer had been in the habit of laying
mines once a week in a certain area off
the east coast of England. Just as regu-
larly British minesweepers would sally
forth and clear them away. This went on
for some time; everyone knew of the
proceedings and no shipping went near
the place except the layer and the sweeper.
One week the minesweeper missed out and
didn’t clear the mines away, and next
week when the German ship came along
to lay a new hatching, it was blown up
by a mine it had laid the week before.
The German skipper was eventually
rescued and the story has it that he was
extremely annoyed, not so much that he
had been blown up by one of his own
mines, but that the Royal Navy had let
him down in not carrying out what by
custom and usage had become its part
of the contract.
* * * *
“Fairf”: You ought to see our new
pub. Spotlessly clean, brightly painted,
is has tons of room, miles of counter, no
overflow of humanity out on the foot-
paths —gosh, what a pub! And the beer-
garden—well, imagine a courtyard paved
with bright -hued flagstones, gaily-
colored tables and chairs set out in neat
pattern, striped umbrellas to shelter the
patrons from too much of the gorgeous
sunshine; just enough clientele to be
pleasant without overcrowding, waiters
bringing drinks to the well-dressed,
extremely respectable citizens —the whole
a perfect blend of color, beauty, restraint,
good company, moderation, service,
respectability and enjoyable refreshment.
What, you don’t believe it? Well, you
can see for yourself. It’s on exhibition
in a shop window in the heart of our
town ; and that’s the way it’s going to
be —the architect has drawn it that way.
* * * *
“X.S.”: An American-born German
has been charged with the murder of his
mother, a fracas occurring between the
two over the epitaph for his father’s
tombstone. The father requested “My
life was nothing but work and worry.’’
The mother ordered “Rest in peace.”
The son insisted on what was quite pos-
sibly a perfectly true piece of auto-
biography on the part of his deceased
parent and hit his mother over the head
with a hammer. One assumes he did it
for love of his father.
■ * * *
“Villefair”: The housewife of Sydney
and suburbs is a long-suffering soul. She
may allow herself to be made a pack-
horse ; she can be forced to deal from a
milkman who habitually beats her for a
saucerful every day, and she can be left
with no option but to patronise a baker
who consistently makes “mistakes” about
the number of loaves delivered. A power-
failure can trap her in the middle of the
ironing, thwart her cooking or disrupt
her housework programme. She can be
compelled to grope for candles or strain
her eyes doing chores by the miserable
light of a smoky hurricane-lamp. And
she will suffer all this with no more than
a mild grumble or a semi-humorous
whinge. But, by heaven! a snowball has
been started rolling—a snowball that is
going to grow to the proportions of an
avalanche. Interrupted housework can
be resumed. Tradesmen may be checked.
Cooking can be completed on a primus.
But a morning radio serial missed through
a blackout is an episode gone for ever!
Mark my words —the next State election
will be won and lost over “Sary Living-
stone, S.P.” or “Crosswords of Strife.”
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: Sydney’s blackouts
found one cove a mate. With his watch
stopped after a night on the binge, he
switched on the radio to hear the time.
Bunnerong’s pleasure kept it silent.
Neighbors’ departure-times being known,
he watched till a luscious blonde’s exit
made it eight-fifteen. Admonished for
staring, his sore-headed temerity made
him retort in kind, but he promised for-
giveness if she’d join him for dinner.
Dazed by his cheek, she meekly accepted.
The reforming drunk and his long-haired
pal now hope blackouts will be blacker
and longer,
* * * ♦
“F.S.”: The gift of Mrs. F. L. Dods,
of Donnington, Lincolnshire, of Matthew
Flinders’s sea-chest to the Melbourne
Gallery has been supplemented by
Russell Grimwade with a portrait of the
navigator—as a lad of 16. The artist was
Gainsborough Dupont, nephew of
Thomas Gainsborough, and the portrait
was painted in 1790. The sea-chest,
measuring 2ft. by 3ft. and deeply carved,
is, if anything, more artistic than the
portrait. It is to be hoped that both
gifts will be put in a place where well-
wishers won’t cut their own names on
them, as they have on almost every inch
of the interior walls of Captain Cook's
cottage —also a Grimwade gift.
ANOTHER RUSSIAN TRAGEDY.
“Lipstick scented with alcohol is allowed to be
sold in Russia.’’
Now, before he acquired the strong urge
To become a Stakhanovite worker
(A knout was the prompter), young Serge
Had been rather a bit of a shirker.
In a great offal factory he toiled
Through forty-below-zero blizzards,
Ten roubles a day
Was his generous pay
For sorting the lights from the gizzards.
A Hero he quickly became
As he sorted ’em faster and faster,
Until he achieved such a fame
He was honored by Joe, the Great Master.
No “darg,” you will note, was imposed
By his union ; he wasn’t blacklisted,
Nor before it arraigned,
For the plain fact remained
That his union no longer existed.
Now, Serge liked his vodka, it seemed
(It was made from the stuff that he sorted),
One day in the pub he blasphemed,
This a worker-spy promptly reported.
You may think this event rather strange,
Seeing they don’t recognise the Creator.
But let me explain:
Serge had taken in vain
The name of old Joe, the Dictator.
Forewarned by an “underground” spy
He’d been potted, and very well knowing
Lead-pois'ning he’d get by and by,
Serge wisely agreed to get going.
So, farewelling giblets and guts,
He grabbed a disguise and his Olga,
And soon he and she
From the N.K.V.D.
Escaped in a ship down the Volga.
Escaped, yes. They never were caught.
But, ah! Don’t be misapprehending.
Their romance, alas, came to naught;
For them there was no happy ending.
They got over the border, it’s true,
And gallantly did he assist her.
But Serge was a sot —
He went and got shot
Soon after he ardently kissed her!
N.S.W,
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Fairf”: The gaunt old fellow fish-
ing beside me off the breakwater was
obviously a real fisherman. It showed in
the mildly-amused way he regarded my
lib. bream. There was mocking toler-
ance, too, in the way he took small
yellowtail and “old wives” off the hook
and flung them contemptuously into his
sugarbag. I seldom throw small fish back
—after all, a fellow likes to be able to
show that he
caught
something
but I was a
little
a s t o nished
that he
didn’t. Ho
guessed
what I was
think ing.
“The missus
has a tribe
of cats,” he grinned. “She can’t turn
away a stray; and every night they wait
for me at the gate. I never disappoint
’em.” Four hours later I’d caught my
usual quota—five tiddlers —and was
packing up. I was just wondering
whether I could kid the wife to put them
through the mincer for rissoles when the
old cove said, “May as well chuck them
over here —one of the kittens might get
a feed off ’em.” I’d have done it, too,
only a boy came frisking along with a
dog. “ To, Granpop,” he greeted the
feeder of cats. Then he took a closer
look at the assorted small-fry lying on
the sugarbag. “By cripes. Pop, you got
amongst ’em today, eh? Whacko, fish-
rissoles for breakfast tomorrerl”
fIU
1 ivie. of
\ ICECREAM Cones
i\ IS IS)C*EAS£P
\W»,s)3HV
ii F>s 'ffcoi'fl
loppy.
<sit> Bmc<
“And they talk about puttin' value back into the pound!"
“Mat’s Mate”: We very nearly went
to sea when we heard that a wheat ship
at Wallaroo (S. Aus.) wanted a couple of
hands. The skipper was Dutch and inter-
viewed us on the wharf —we didn’t know
then that taking on hands was the mate’s
job and that the skipper was deputising
for him —and after a lot of struggling
yith his and our ideas cl English we
finally agreed to ship as deck-hands.
When that was achieved Mat looked
round, sighted a pub near the jetty and
said, “Well, boss, we better wet the con-
tract.” The skipper didn’t understand at
first, but when he did and realised that a
couple of “fcastle schelm” expected him
to shout be nearly hit the roof. We
heard him out and then Mat said, “Look,
except for wowsers and Jimmy Woodser
drinkers, every ruddy boss I ever worked
for shouted for me an’ didn’t have no
ideas about demeaning himself when he
done it. The next time you get a chance
t’ buy a drink for a coupler blokes like
us you grab it. It’ll make a man of y’
and” But by that time the raving
skipper was frothing at the mouth. As
I said, we very nearly went to sea once.
* * * *
“Solitude”; From the top of the ridge
I could see our nags making towards the
gap in the fence, so let out a yell in the
hope of attracting Seventyfiver’s atten-
tion. He was hammering at a broken
strap, and didn’t look up. I hurried part-
way down the slope and yelled again.
Still no sign from the figure under the
apple-box. “Hey,” I bawled ; and again,
“Hey, there.” He banged at the stubborn
strap, while the nags went through the
gap and I hurried downward. “If you’d
only listen when a bloke calls,” I com-
plained a bit later, “we wouldn’t have to
walk half a mile for the mokes.” “Well,
how’d I know?” he defended. “Y’ should
’a’ kept on yellin’, then I might’ve heard.”
“Kept on! I started at the top and
called all the way down the flamin’
slope. Must’ve called about ten times.”
“Ten! No, by cripes y’ never, Sol,” he
said decidedly. “Y’ never yelled more’n
four times; an’ y’ know darn well a
man can’t hear when he’s hammerin’!”
# * * *
“Wippegong”: “Rooster” (B. 21/2/’5l)
is disloyal to his species. It is possible
that the evolutions of a housefly are
technically superior to the gliding of
woodswallows, the whirring of quail or
the clowning of dollar-birds. The attack-
ing wasp may use tricks unseen in the
steely streak of an attacking falcon, the
power-dive and stall-turn of a maggie,
the sweeping swerve of swifts, the dive
of a gannet or the gossamer touch of a
swallow drinking on the wing. Bees in
flight may perhaps do things omitted by
galahs in their evening aerobatics, by
starlings outmanoeuvring a hawk, by
black duck in line-abreast half a mile
across and high overhead or black swan
in the same formation at water-level, or
by clouds of budgerigars coming in to
water. And above water the dragon-
fly can probably turn on stunts not in
the repertoire of a frigate-bird moving
stiff-winged across the line of a sou’-
westerly blow, a wandering albatross
casually circling a ship without once
flapping a wing, or a pelican soaring out
of sight. Similarly a flea in leaping from
the carpet to my shin doubtless turns in
a more noteworthy performance than an
old-man red Too clearing a fence; yet,
irrespective of irritation, I know which
one I’d rather watch. Same with the
others; my friend McKeown can pro-
duce scientific data to support claims for
the superiority of his beloved wogs, but
I still prefer the birds —they’re easier to
see. Which suits lazy coots like me.
)|t jj; jfg s|g
Snakes do hiss (B. 7/2/’5l).
Driving along the road I saw a streak of
dust rising ‘ frdm the ground ahead,
grabbed the whip and climbed out.
Couldn’t see Joe for some seconds but
could hear a loud hiss. Located him
about 30ft. from me, and he was working
the hiss overtime. One step towards him
“You ASKED me to lay a crazy pavement, didn't you?"
and he was nearly at my feet, so rapidly
did he move. I left him to it, the first
and only time I’ve let one go when it
was possible to get him.
* * * *
“Sack”: Dad had great faith in the
local chemist, little in the doctor. When
he got a “bad back” he drove in,
described his symptoms to the chemist,
and got a bottle of
medicine. The stuff
worked ; by the time
the bottle was empty
he was almost right.
However, he didn’t
continue the treat-
ment, and within a
week the back was
crook again. I was
sent to get another
bottle. The chemist
was very busy and
instructed me to call
on my way home from school. At the
first dose Dad pulled a face and reckoned,
“He’s given me some stronger stuff this
time.” The contents of the bottle steadily
dwindled, but Dad still walked bent.
On the last dose he happened to glance
at the label. “Look! ” A horrified finger
pointed to the name. “That idiot
sent me old Dewlap’s medicine!” Then
he thought hard and said, “Listen, son,
go over to Dewlap’s and find out what’s
up with him.” Mum looked amazed. “I
thought you had no time for old Dew-
lap?” “Neither I have,” he grinned.
“But it’d be interestin’ to know what was
wrong and whether or not he’s cured.”
* * * *
“Wonk”: Dad Simpkins listened to the
wool prices and pondered. Then, hear-
ing that Hobson’s wool was being offered
for sale, he rode over there and eagerly
awaited the results. After that, the prices
of each district clip sold were sought,
Dad gravely taking in the amounts and
saying nothing. Dan found him parked
on the post-office steps, and as soon as
the mail was sorted the old bloke snatched
out an envelope and scanned its contents.
Slowly his eyes travelled down the list,
then, raising them to the horizon, he
began to curse. “What’s the matter?
Your wool returns a bit light?” “Light?
No, it ain’t that, Dan,” snorted the old
bloke. “The prices seem right enough.
It’s all them other years, Dan,” he pointed
out. “All them other years. Gripes, the
blighters must ’a’ bin robbin’ us pretty
bad before.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Reading an article on
America’s rattlesnake I was reminded of
the time I got a boot in the face. We
were climbing the mountain directly be-
hind Corrimal on the South Coast
(N.S.W.). Near the summit the going
became almost perpendicular, and what
had been a suspicion of a track was lost
in overgrowing vegetation. Ahead of me,
climbing with hands and feet, my mate
suddenly slipped flat on his face. The
next second he gave out a horrified gasp
and shot backwards like a toboggan. His
dainty No. 8 landed exactly in the middle
of my face, scuffled a moment, then
grated off and continued downwards. I
estimated that he rode my shoulders fully
25 yards before we came to rest —and
that undergrowth was the most horrible
vegetation I ever tasted. “Gripes,” he
gasped. “A dirty big snake—and 1 nearly
rubbed me nose dfi him! ” For a minute
I wouldn’t have cared’if he had swallowed
the wriggler, but my magnanimous nature
prevailed, and I followed him in the up-
ward crawl to do battle. Commonsense
told me that the wriggler wouldn’t have
stayed there after being sniffed upon, but
suddenly Charlie made a wild swipe at
something higher up the mountain. “Got
him!” he yelled. He had, too. But the
“him” was a snake’s slough. 1 What has
that to do with a rattlesnake? Well,
according to the article, it couldn’t have
happened with a rattler, because that
snake doesn’t cast its skin. The slough
rolls back to the tail and becomes a
“rattle.” A rattlesnake’s age can be told
by the number of rattles.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “That shallow
trench filled with hot coals and covered
with earth, and upon which the native
slept” (B. 21/2/’5l), recalls that the abos
had a cure for rheumatism along some-
what similar lines. They dug a trench
about 2ft. deep, placed hot ashes in the
bottom, then a layer of sand and a pile
of gum-leaves. The patient lay on the
leaves and was covered with more of
them, after which the trench was filled
with sand, leaving only the patient’s head
protruding. There he lay and literally
stewed in the eucalypt brew, and if his
rheumatism wasn’t cured he at least
derived some benefit.
* * ♦ ♦
“Blime”: “Why don’t you buy a wire-
less, Herb?” suggested tihe town agent.
“It’d be just the thing for you, away
back here on your own.” The old
bachelor pondered. “Keep you in touch
with things,” urged the agent. “You’d
get the news thrice a day, and at night
there’d be music and other entertainment.”
“Aw, I don’t like noise.” “No, but you
could shut it off,” the agent pointed out.
“I just
put in a
ba ttery-
set for
Ted
Dryson.
Come
over
t o night
and hear
it, then
see if
you’d like one.” Early that evening Herb
presented himself at Dryson’s, and with
a flourish the agent turned on the set.
“But that,” came the voice of the
comedian, to an accompaniment of sub-
siding laughter, “had nothing on the man
who, entering the taxation office with his
yearly toll, was mistaken for someone
else.” Herb leaned forward eagerly.
“Seeing him, an official approached and
said” Ack, ack, a-a-ack, burp, whee-
ee-ah came the static, which cleared in
time for Herb to catch the peals of
laughter. “Now, here’s the news,” said a
voice presently. The agent turned on the
volume. “The position in Korea is ’ ~
Ack, ack, a-a-ack. “Today the wool
market was” Blob’ll obel obel
whee-ee. “The Government expects the
price of” Whah-ee-ee. “ —-rise
higher yet.” “There you are, Herb,” the
agent bawled above the blare and crackle.
“Do you like it?” Herb nodded. “Good-
oh,” he said. “But how do y’ get so
many flamin’ cockatoos inside such a
small cabinet?”
THE FISHERMAN’S HUT.
The fisherman’s hut is a nest of rust
Where everything rots in sand and dust,
With a leaning chimney of faded red
That-plainly shows the life it has led.
It’s built of odd fragments of sacking and tin —
A patchwork of jumble without and within,
And looks like an island surrounded by sand,
With the strangest of gardens ever was planned:
A cask, a drum, the remains of a tank,
A pot, a kettle, a boot green and dank,
Fishing-net corks that once used to float,
Around what is now the tail-end of a boat;
Old mussels and shells and wood burnt black,
An oar, bleached bones and pieces of sack,
A worn-out hat, a bottle, a dish,
And backbones and skulls of very dead fish.
The fisherman’s hut is sinking low,
The sea has dealt it many a blow,
With its leaning chimney—as 1 have said —
That plainly shows the life it has led.
VICTORIA.
JAME HACKSTON.


f
“Didn’t yon
know?”
44 Yon entertain a lot—yon
ought to have a useful opinion
about Whisky.”
“Yes, I’ve had a lot of exper-
ience, and an ounce of exper-
ience is still better than a ton
of theory.”
“Well, what would you say was
Australia’s best Whisky ? ”
“Oh, unquestionably Corio
Special wins, no matter what
standards of comparison you
take ! Everything’s the same
at Corio Distillery as overseas.
Nothing used but pure malt,
pure grain and Anno Domini.”
“How do yon mean, Anno
Domini ? ”
“Age ! Ageing ! That’s what
makes a pure whisky a good
whisky.”
“How long do they age it ?”
“At least five years—nearly
three times as long as Common-
wealth laws require. They
absolutely guarantee it against
flavouring agents or adulter-
ants. Do you drink whisky ? ”
“Thanks —I don’t mind if I do!*
“Here, you come and try a
Corio now. It has real char-
acter and it’s Australia’s best
whisky.”
CORIO SPECIAL
Whisky at its prime
“It’s 5
years old”
I/"
gs?/
C35/I6
Boys WA to 18 Years
OPPORTUNITY FOR CAREERS AS
NAVAL OFFICERS
IN THE ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY
<s*>
M
An entry of Cadet Midshipmen (Special Entry)
and Cadet Midshipmen (S) into the Naval College
will be made from suitably qualified boys who
attain the age of 18 years during the period Ist
January, 1951, to 30th June, 1952; i.e., those born
on or between Ist January, 1933, and 30th June (
1934.
THE CAREER of a Naval
Officer is one that must
appeal strongly to a manly
and healthy boy. It is a
career which modern scien-
tific advances have made
more interesting than ever
in its professional aspects
while the opportunities for
world travel and for gain-
ing high promotion and
distinction add still further
to its attractions.
TRAINING IN
AUSTRALIA
AND ENGLAND
Successful candidates will
begin their training at the
Royal Australian Naval
College where they will
gain their first knowledge
of the technicalities of
Naval life. On graduating
from the College, Cadet
Midshipmen proceed to
England for training in
the Royal Navy training
cruiser and, subsequently,
in various classes of war-
ships and in famous Royal
Navy shore establish-
ments.
After about 3i years
abroad they return to
begin sea-going service
with the Royal Australian
Navy.
Candidates must be the
sons of British subjects by
birth or naturalisation and
of pure European descent.
They will be required to
undergo a strict medical
examination and, if fit,
appear before a selection
committee.
CADET MIDSHIPMEN
(Special Entry)
Entries in this group will serve
in the Executive, Engineering
or Electrical Branches of the
Royal Australian Navy.
Selection will be made
from youths who have
passed school or technical
school examinations of
Matriculation standard in
Mathematics, Physics and
English. Satisfactory
passes in two other sub-
jects, not necessarily of
Matriculation standard,
also required.
CADET MIDSHIPMEN(S)
Entries will serve in the
Supply and S ecretariat
Branch of the Royal
Australian Navy,
Selection will be made from
youths who have passed the
Leaving Certificate, Senior
Public, or Tasmanian Schools'
Board examinations.
Successful candidates in
both entries will enter the
R.A.N. College early in
July, 1951.
Applications close with the
Secretary, Department of
the Navy, Navy Office,
Melbourne, S.C.I, on 15th
April, 1951.
APPLICATION FORMS AND
ALL PARTICULARS can be
obtained from Naval Re-
cruiting Office in your
capital city.
NC.6.83.31
“Old-timer”; Two of us, both claim-
ing to be bushmen, were in an A.N.A.
Skymaster over the Abercrombie River
country in N.S.W., each trying to outdo
the other in picking out landmarks from
8000 ft, up. Far down on a hillside three
dots moved from the shadow of a timber
clump, followed by a fourth. The fourth
was evidently in pursuit of the other three.
“Dog after sheep,” we declared. Then,
“No; sheep couldn’t move that fast.”
“They could if it was a dingo.” “That’s
right. But that country’s too open for
dingoes.” “Yair. Might be a fox.”
“Rot, foxes don’t chase sheep in broad
daylight.” Brief silence. Down below
the pursuing dot swung to the left of the
other three and turned them. “Tell you
what, the height’s tricked us. It’s a foxie
—no, that couldn’t be. Must be a dog
and sheep.” Then, from the fourth dot
there winked up at us two quick, metallic
flashes. We looked at each other. “Yair,
man on a horse all right—flashes from
stim*>irons or bridle-rings—the others
are cattle. Gripes, it just shows y’ how
far above ’em we are.” After that we
became mighty careful about identifying
ground objects.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The Kelly gang had
no hiding-place in the Strathbogie Ranges
(B. 28/2/’5l). When the gang stuck up
Faithful’s Creek cattle-station and robbed
the bank at Euroa they made their get-
away in the direction of the Balmattum
hills; this led to the widely publicised
but erroneous report that the hideout
was in the Strathbogies. Their main hid-
ing-places were located in the rough,
heavily-timbered, wattle and bracken
country between the head waters of the
King and Broken rivers, where, with the
active assistance of sympathisers, they had
little difficulty in eluding the police until
they made the fatal error of raiding
Glenrowan. When the outlaws decided on
holding up the bank at Euroa they left
their hiding-place and travelled on a
westerly course through the uninhabited
and heavily-timbered Wombat Ranges,
Fern Hills, Blue Range and Mt. Lindsay
country until they reached Mt. Separa-
tion, on the eastern boundary of the
“Best to start off on somethin' quiet , missus .”
Strathbogie Tableland. After passing
Mt. Separation they traversed compara-
tively level but heavily-timbered country
until they reached a point a few miles
from their destination, where they
descended to the flat country and held up
Faithful’s Creek station, using it as a
base for operations against Euroa. After
lootin'-. Konk tbev to their
hideout over the route by which they
had come after a round journey of about
100 miles.
* * * * wU™
“Betcha”: With most of our wild
animals, fear of mankind is not apparent
when they are very young, but comes
later, provided they remain in their native
state. Young rabbits and hares are not
frightened at being handled nor are
young possums. A discarded joey ’roo,
or a young wallaby, mostly turns only a
wide inquisitive stare on his captor, for,
like other bush creatures, it isn’t the man
but the sudden movement which sends
him hiding his head. I noticed that as
my old dog came whining to squat
against my boots he was followed by a
baby wombat. Evidently the little cuss
had wandered alone from a burrow, and
he showed little objection to being picked
up and handled. Foxes and dingoes are
more timid. For the most fearless, the
little flying phalangers would be hard to
beat. Even when fully-grown, if carried
inside, some of the little chaps take off
from the top of the curtain-pole with
startling suddenness, and like as not will
land on your upturned face.
* * * *
“Te Ngakara”: Hongi, in his sixties,
applied for a pension under Social
Security, which benefits aborigines and
pakehas. The Registrar handed over the
four pages of foolscap which had to be
filled in by the applicant: age, parents,
family and many other details. Hongi,
slowly murmuring, went over the exten-
sive questionnaire word by word. Then
came the query: Length of residence
(meaning how long he had lived in Maori-
land)? “Py gorry!” he exclaimed. “T’at te
—w’at you call? —ah, te teezer, wot?”
Then out loud to the Registrar “You’ll
hold on for me a little wile. I got ta go
home. Be back te werry soon now.”
Not waiting for consent, Hongi grabbed
the form and hurried out. Back again,
puffing as became his 17 stone, he filled
in the question and passed over the sheet
of paper. When the Registrar came to
the line “length of residence” he read
“17ft. 6in. —less te veranda.”
* * • *
“Mifim”: At a youth-club fitness night
we decided to try out “F.G.W.’s” yulka-
doo (B. 21/2/ ’5l) in spite of the opinion
of the oldsters that it was a leg-pull
I was one of the first tier in the con-
struction of the sleeping-basin, and sat
flat on the floor with legs outstretched.
By the time the second tier got them-
selves arranged we of the floor stratum
could feel the thigh-muscles tightening,
and when the third tier had settled on
their precarious perch our muscles were
straining. After about two minutes the
perspiration commenced to flow and the
breathing became labored; then the
whole structure collapsed in a tangled
mass. I’ll vouch for the warmth that
might be generated by the yulkadoo, but
I can assure “F.G.W.” that it was
unconsciousness that resulted, not sleep.
For a comfortable sleep I would rather
turn in with Such’s yogi on his bed of
nails.
MILLER’S POINT.
This sun-splashed stone, hewn by men long
dead,
Has safely warded off the damaging hand
Of that obnoxious character the planner,
Intent on marring (fields instead.
The Hero’s pleasant premises still stand
At peace with all the world, while in like
manner
The Garrison Church sleeps on in dignity
Across the road. The Observatory’s dome
And quaint old Georgian houses lend a touch
Of vanished architectural harmony:
A corner built of convict-quarried stone,
Where time lifts up a finger and says “hush.”
N.S.W.
IAIN McDOUGALL.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7
Your Estate will be Safer ___ .
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not ot one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne: 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
—Dividends N To Re-
June, Profit.* Pref. Ord. Amount, serves. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
; 1943. .114,753 5 6 115,000 — 1,503,407
1944. .115,545 5 6 115,000 545 1,503,952
1945t. 81,042 5 6 83,375 — 1,501,619
Exchange on special remittances,
£160,000 1,341,619
Net additions reserves, £286,562 .. 1,628,181
1946.. 92,576 5 8 i 86,062 6,514 1,634,659
Unexplained reduction res., £90,385.. 1,544,310
1947. .161,825 5 9i 92,125 69,700 1,614,010
Unexplained addition reserves, £918.. 1,614,928
1948. .221,267 5 9 i 92,125 129,142 1,744,070
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1949. .219,145 5 9* 92,125 127.020 1,967,042
Exchange fluctuation, £9901.. .. 1,957,141
Adj. book-value investment, £22,125 1,935,016
1950. .403,391 5 12 112,750 290,641 2,225.657
* After deducting contributions to staff fund, t The
1945 and subsequent figures are shown after de-
ducting English income-tax on divs. The rate
of dividend shown is the gross rate.
Never before have the growing and
selling sides of the wool industry
enjoyed such phenomenal prosperity, the
inflationary effects of which have become
an embarrassment to the Australian
economy. Spectacular price rises for
both the staple and livestock have been
accompanied by three good seasons in
a row, with consequent bigger clips, and
on top of it all a windfall distribu-
tion last season of £24.3 million to Aus-
tralian growers from profits on sales of
war-time wool stocks of J.O Moreover
nature’s smile has continued during the
current season, and the fatness has been
larded with even more spectacular price-
rises,
Dalgety’s is the world’s premier wool-
broking house, and it does very extensive
pastoral-finance, shipping and other
agency and general merchandising busi-
ness as well. Headquarters are in
London, and the co. has strong and grow-
ing connections in East Africa, but most
of the business is done in Australia
(where more than half the capital is in-
vested) and in New Zealand. Continued
growth of the undertaking over the last
five years is illustrated by the increase in
the number of branches in each country:
1945. 1950. Increase.
Australia .. .. .. 57 115 58
New Zealand .. .. 78 92 14
i East Africa .. .. 4 6 2
Total .. ..139 213 74
Last term’s net earnings from the African
section, where merchandising accounts
for the major part of turnover, were the
lowest for some years. First drought
and then price-cutting by Asian com-
petitors were the troubles.
The volume and value of the wool clips
in Australia and New Zealand over the
last five years compare as follows: —
Bales. Amount.
'45-46..2,862,786 £58,508,930
'46-47..2,955,972 92,601,206
'47-48..3,079,712 155,784,245
'48-49..3,244,281 194,792,875
'49-50..3,597,940 286,919,294
, New Zealand
Bales. Amount.
1,022,124 £21,552.153
934,730 23,136,014
844,522 29,868,425
869,226 31,325.858
911,572 48,163,091
In Australia the average per bale shot up
from £20 Os. 8d. for 1945-46 to
£79 14s. lid. last season, when the im-
provement was £19 14s. Id. For the
seven months to end-January, 1951, the
average per bale had reached no less
than £168 5s. Id., total sales for the period
being £347,222,408, or £60,303,114 more
than for the whole of the preceding
season. The co.’s Australasian livestock,
agency and merchandising activities all
contributed to the improvement in the
year’s profit, too.
Being prudent men, the directors again
made “substantial appropriations to
reserves against less favorable times in
the future.” After making an unspecified
provision for bad and doubtful debts,
allowing £209,679 (up £10,500) for de-
predation and £775,498 (up £236,364) for
taxation, and sending the usual £25,000
to the staff fund, net earnings of the co.
and its subsidiaries were figured
at a record £403,391 (up £184,246).
After paying the pref. div. (£13,750 net),
enough remained to show 25.9 p.c. on the
£1,500,000 of ord. capital as against 13.7,
13.8, 9.8, 5.1 and 4.2 p.b. back to 1945.
That leaves out of the reckoning reserve
adjustments interlined -in the table. The
distribution was lifted from 9i p.c. to
12 p.c., of which 2 p.c. was labelled
bonus. English income tax of 9s. in the £
reduces the 12 p.c. to 6.6 p.c. (stg.) in
the hands of shareholders, or 8i p.c. in
Australian currency at the current rate
of exchange. For the same reasons the
pref. div. is worth only 2| p.c. (stg.), or
3.4 p.c. in Australian currency.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect
the effects of inflated prices and expan-
sion of the business, as well as a strong
liquid position, which means ability to
further assist clients when the need arises:
Consolidated Figures.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital* .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Debentures . . 2,975,454 2,975,454 2,945,755
Current liabilities 5,951,140 6,663,217 10,767,286
Tax reserve .. 585,000 565,019 791,870
Interest of outsiders — 6,328 7,901
Provident fund .. 881,993 1,108,902 1,118.966
Final dividend .. — 56,375 77.000
Freehold, etc. .. 1,560,807 1,812,781 1,934,888
Advances .. .. 2,580,525 3,354,641 3,329,418
Other debtors .. 2,185,921 2,307,381 3,330,256
Merchandise .. 1,333,333 2,304,205 2,733.219
Cash & investments 6,583,446 5,563,329 8,606,654
‘Includes £500,000 5 p.c. prefs.
The growth of £4,104,069 in current
liabilities (largely amounts held on de-
posit for clients) and of £3,043,325 in
cash, etc., are interrelated. The drop in
advances (down £25,223) mirrors the
prosperous condition of the pastoral
industry, while the increases in other
debtors (up £1,022,875) and merchandise
(up £429,014) are due to livelier trading
at higher prices.
What the future holds for wool is
anybody’s guess. Under the double
pressure of defence and civilian re-
quirements the supply position seems
likely to remain tight for some
time. That means a continuance of high
prices, though there might be some reces-
sion from present peaks. Most encourag-
ing feature in the outlook is America’s
intention to stabilise price levels, to which
end “international commodity com-
mittees” have been set up at Washington.
Whether wool will ultimately go
the way of silk is a matter for
speculation at the moment; much
depends upon what the chemists are able
to do with substitute fibres. Meanwhile,
the effects locally are to expand the credit
base, stimulate spending, raise costs and
generally strengthen inflationary pres-
sures. To help soften the economic con-
sequences, the Government is taking
20 p.c. of growers’ wool cheques in pre-
payment of income tax, and intends to
use £20 million or more of the money to
damp-down anticipated price rises in
locally-manufactured woollen goods.
At 15s. 7d. the f.-p. 5s. ords. return
2.6 p.c. on the basis of last term’s distri-
bution, subject to adjustments in connec-
tion with double taxation. Net tangible
cover is visibly 12s. 5d, a share. The
well-protected prefs. seldom appear on
the Australian market.
Australian General Insurance
Dec., Profit.
£
Dividends.
£
To Re-
serves.
£
Re-
serves.
£
1943.. 15,965 10 p.C. = 7000 1
Staff fund, £2000 .. ..j
6,965 115,508
1944.. 14,900 10 p.c.
Staff fund, £IOOO .. ..j
6,900 122,408
1945.. 17,556 10 p.c. = 7000 {
Staff fund, £IOOO .. ..J
9,556 131,964
1946.. 17,241 10 p.c. = 7000 }
Staff fund, £IOOO .. .. J
9,241 141,205
1947.. 31,231 10 p.c. = 7000 (
Staff fund, £IOOO .. .. J
23,231 164,436
1948.. 33,047 12 p.c. = 8400 \
Staff fund, £IOOO ..
23,647 188,083
From tax reserve, £BOOO
.. 196,083
1949.. 36,444 121 p.c. = 11,750 24,694 220,777
1950.. 42,793 12j ~ „ 12,500 30,293 251,070
The successful underwriter is one who
accumulates enough money now to meet
the claims that will be made upon him
during the next 12 months, and leave a
margin after these claims and his exes.
have been paid. Judged on this basis,
the 43-year-old Sydney-controlled Aus-
tralian General has given a very good
account of itself. The business is confined
to the Commonwealth, and the board has
always followed a cautious policy. The
div., steady at 10. p.c. for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1947, was
sweetened with bonuses of 2 p.c. in 1948
and 2j p.c. in the two following years.
And, a couple of years ago, shareholders
welcomed the request for an extra 3 s. a
share, which lifted paid capital to £100,000
in £1 shares paid to 10s. each.
Premium income remains expansive,
owing to the quick rise in insurable
values which has followed on the heels
of inflation, a high level of employment
and expanding volume of trade. Last
term gross premiums (£364,352) stepped
up by £65,963, reinsurances (£127,482)
were £27,867 heavier, thus leaving the
gain in net premiums at £38,096: —
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*3.2 41.4
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 48.4 44.7
1945.. 99,758 46,688 42,860 47.7 43.8
1946.. 113,409 57,809 46,168 50.9 40.7
1947.. 144,688 66,916 54,463 46.2 37.6
1948.. 169,310 78,056 66,781 46.0 39.4
1949.. 198,774 87,077 85,485 43.8 43.0
1950.. 236,870 110,394 95,292 46.6 40.2
Most pleasing feature there is the con-
traction of 56s. p.c. in the expense rate,
despite the growth in volume of business.
The loss rate was 56s. p.c. heavier,
due mainly to the unprofitable nature of
third-party risks and the high loss rate
in respect of workers’-compensation and
motor-vehicle insurance, and losses on
account of pilfering on the wharves.
Third-party rates have recently been in-
creased, and, to help offset the continued
rise in the accident rate and in the cost of
repairs, so have those for motor-vehicles.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£31,184 (up £4972). That was before
making any provision for unexpired risks,
which on the usually-accepted 40 p.c.
basis would reduce the net underwriting
surplus to £15,945 (up £1518), or 15.9 p.c.
on capital. Add the return from invest-
ments (£11,609, up £1377), and the profit
from all sources available for distribution
was £27,554 (up £2895), or 27,5 p.c. on
capital as against 24.6 p.c. for the previous
term. Since the return from investments
alone was only £891 short of the \2\ p.c.
distribution, practically the whole of the
underwriting surplus was available to
swell investments, and returns therefrom.
Government securities (up £41,392)
represented 62.4 p.c. of total assets at
December, 1950: —
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £70,000 £100,000 £100,000
Liabilities .. 73,078 86,496 104,346 122,248
Tax reserve .. 21,500 27,000 13,500 29,000
Freeholds . . • 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages .. 25,771 19,917 46,817 45,318
Debentures .. 6,000 6,000 6,000 39,500*
Shares other cos. 3,729 6,461 25,475 52,466
Govt, securities 219,588 258,588 276,681 318,078
Book debts .. 16,165 22,857 23,354 34,170
Cash, etc. .. 63,270 61,155 65,295 17,789
* Includes fixed deposits.
However, owing to the low return now
received from Government paper, atten-
tion '-is being turned to shares in other
cos. (up £26,991).
The market, which sees no cloud in the
co.’s sky, prices the lOs.-paid shares at 45s.,
giving a return of 2.7 p.c. on a 12i p.c. dis-
tribution. Net tangible cover is 35s. Id.
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
Amfol & Subsidiaries.
f — 1 -Dividends— —
Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £
Combined nominal reserves .. .. 205,790
Premiums on new shares, £38,370.. 244,160
1947 .. 61,285 6 6 52,279 253,166
From debts-reserve, £47,733 ..1
From assets written-up, £25,000 1
Less bonus to deferred share- |
holders .. .. • • J
251,949
Unexplained reductions of combined
nominal reserves, £111,492 .. 140,457
1948 .. 164,444 674 76,796 228,105
Premiums on new shares, £61,616 j 2 00 163
Added reserves, £442 .. .. )
1949 . . 181,881 6 8 82,459 389,585
Cost cancellation contract, £24,000 365.585
W/off oil exploration, £25,000 .. 340,585
Share premiums, £157,100 .. 497,685
1950 .. 190,594 68i 104,995 583,284
* Subject to £261,460 Intangible assets.
At the start this 15-year-old Sydney-
controlled distributor of petrol and
petroleum products had to fight hard, to
get a footing in a severely competitive
market. However, shareholders got into
the picture with a maiden 7 p.c. in 1941,
followed by annual distributions averag-
(ing approximately 7 p.c. for the 10 years
‘to the close of last accounts, when
'reserves of £583,284 (subject to £261,460
of intangibles) had been accumulated to
support and assist £1,830,000 of issued
share capital.
In 1945 the Alba Petroleum Co. Pty.
(Melb.) was taken over for £424,144, of
which £305,150 was satisfied by the issue
of f.-p. £1 ords., thus giving the co. a
firm footing in the Victorian market.
Progress has been marked since, turn-
over advancing with the increase in the
number of petrol-consuming vehicles in
use and the widening of the field of
operations, which was extended to South
Australia last term. Here a seaboard
terminal was established at Port Adelaide,
and a large number of electric pumps
were installed throughout the metro-
politan area, but too late to benefit the
year’s trading, which had to bear part of
the initial cost involved. The co.’s sales-
territory now embraces N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, Tasmania and South Australia.
The other outstanding event of the 12
months covered by the last accounts was
abolition of petrol-rationing in Feb.,
1950, in which the co. played a
prominent part. It imported 9,000,000
gallons of French petrol, which was addi-
tional to Australia’s restricted dollar
quota. The transaction resulted in a loss
(amount not stated), which, the hoard
claims, was justified by the gain in good-
will. Increased sales during the second
half of the term lifted turnover to
£5,941,633, up 45 p.c. But rising f.o.b.
and distributing costs, for which no
increase in selling-prices was granted, re-
duced the net return from distribution.
More than half the £190,594 (up £8713)
of profit claimed was earned by two
chartered tankers employed in “carrying
cargoes in many parts of the world at
very profitable spot rates.”
The £190,594 was written after allow-
ing for depreciation (£159,577, up
£61,908), taxation (£82,195, down £53,744)
and sending £20,380 (up £2178) to the
staff fund. It covered the pref. div. and
16.7 p.c. on average ord. capital, com-
pared with 20, 18.1 and 7.4 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The div. was lifted
from 8 p.c. to 8£ p.c. Reserves, which
benefited by £157,100 of share premiums,
were charged with £24,000 (paid in f.-p.
ord. shares) compensation on cancellation
of an “unprofitable contract,” and with
£25,000 on account of the hunt for oil in
Westralia.
To help finance entry into the South
Australian market, as well as all-round
expansion of the rest of the business,
306,000 £1 ords. were issued at a premium
of 7s. each and 250,000 £16 p.c. prefs.
at a premium of 4s. each toward the
close of accounts. There was £135,830
still to come on the ords. when the books
closed: —
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,073,950 1,250,000 1,694,170
Overdraft .. 148,101 532,979 59,755 1
Creditors .. 488,161 217,014 313,764 j
664,787
Tax-provision — 133,500' 179,700 158,000
Final divs. 44,490 61,796 34,501 45,688
Freeholds,
etc.* . . 261,469 289,945 297,453 370,457
Plant, etc... 479,822 526,816 573,650 751.131
Stocks . . 597,390 770,392 643,880 1,169.307
Debtors, cash, lg4^Qg 398 681 450) g 6 2 593.574
Intangibles 410,529 261,460 261,460 261.460
* Includes country storage terminals.
The new capital and share premiums,
together with an extra £291,268 from out-
siders, went mainly into stocks (up
£525,427), book debts (up £142,712),
plant, etc. (up £177,481) and freeholds,
etc, (up £73,004).
As for the current term, the South
Australian business should give generally-
expanding turnover a substantial lift, and
tanker earnings are reported still on the
up-grade. The troublesome feature is the
mounting cost of petrol and its distribu-
tion. All distributing cos. claim that the


FONDE
*
EN 1724
BMI4
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
Coal.
ƒ
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO PRODUCE.
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. Wi t h
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
it i
□ i □
n
A
X
111
4 «r at;,* w
Head boiier unit
’ «TVi
wMtU <a«r Art. ’
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
BEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office* and Agenda In all State*
DVVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —A DVT.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorcs.
TO EDWARD HENRY SOAMES formerly
of The County Council Lismore. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE IRENE
SOAMES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4629 of 1960 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 19th day
of May 1951 and obtain a copy of tbe
Petition without charge from MESSIEURS
E. R. TRACEY k COMPANY. Solicitors,
of 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
YEARS OF SERVICE
TO IBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
ail# 1
p
irt
n
.[H
MOW is the to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT and COLD
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for all
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is com-
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modem
insulator— 6. /. SLACWOOL
f
i
.
; 'Jri
/
f
f
foRfOUGIfrWs
I
m
I^s
lv *
p
OVEftTOllGlV'tftuis
pw
. you can't do better than follow the
lead of thousands of operators who hav®
proved, in actual performance, that Hi-
Miiers give the utmost in money-saving,
trouble-free, long mileage.
HI-MILER TRUCK & BUS TYRES
GOODYEAR
ƒ
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fart haul*
on improved toad
surfaces.
hi-miler
all-weather
R e c o m mended
wherever greater
traction is needed^
,ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR THE JOB-
tOAfl*
recent lift of Id. a gallon in sell-
ing-price is insufficient to cover
the rise in costs to date. Still,
on issued capital as it now
stands (£1,830,000) the pref. div.
(£30,000) and 8j p.c. to ttye ords.
(£113,050) would together call
for £47,544 less profit than was
claimed last term.
At 395. 6d. the ords. return
4.3 p.c. on an 8y p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis the lOs.-paid
contribs. would return 4.6 p.c.
when fully paid. The prefs. at
255. 6d. yield 4.7 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is £4 6s. Id. prefs.
and 245. lOd. ords.
Clifford Love & Cos., Ltd. (Syd.)
Net To Re- Nora.
Spt., Profit. Dividends. serves. Res.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
’42..26,975 10 = 22,188 4,787 183.960
’43..28,046 10 22,188 5,858 189,818
’44..31,480 124 „ 27,735 3,745 193,563
’45..11,438 10 „ 22,188
’46..35,694 10 „ 22,188 13,506 196.319
’47..20,724 10 „ 22,188
Share premiums, £16,535 .. 221,390
’48..38,005 12* = 28,501 9,504 220,894
’4.9..34,663 12* „ 30,396 4,267 225,160
’50..34,645 12* „ 30,491 4,154 229.314
+ Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500,-
and excluding contingencies, depreciation,
etc., now £259,106.
Asa long-term investment the
scrip of this dry-goods merchant,
which turns out some well-
established proprietary lines, has
yielded very satisfactory results.
Since the public became in-
terested about 30 years ago
shareholders have had a steady
10 p.c. with a 2} p.c. bonus
added for . the half-dozen fat
years to 1930 and in 1944 and
again during the last three years.
Also a number of new share-
issues have increased the average
return, and the aggregate capital
value of holdings where rights
have been exercised and the scrip
retained, though share premiums
have taken some of the icing off
the cake.
Those on the register are now
offered 81,310 new £1 ords., one
for three, *at 355. each, subject
to approval of capital issues con-
trol. The issue would lift paid
capital to £325,241, on which
12i p.c. would call for £6OIO
more profit than was claimed
last term, and that appears to
be well within reach. The
premium (£60,982), which will
make 12 \ p.c. worth only 7.1
p.c. on the new shares, was a
bit stiffer than the market
anticipated, and the price of the
old scrip eased from 70s. 3d. to
695. following the announce-
ment. After exercising the
rights, the net price at 695. ir
615., giving a return of 4.1 p.c
on a 124 p.c. div. basis.
Theoretical value of the rights
is 265. Including the new issue,
but excluding the contingencies
reserves, etc., net tangible cover
is 33s. J 4d. a share.
FailuVe of the oats and maize
crops in N. S. Wales was
responsible for the sharp shrink-
age of profits in 1945, and
drought again affected the 1947
figure. Nature has been kind
since, and turnover has kept on
expanding, but rising costs and
transport and other difficulties,
including power and fuel short-
ages, prevented net earnings
getting the full benefit of the
bigger trading. Last term there
was no change worth mention-
ing in declared profit, which was
14.2 p.c. on capital as against
14.2, 16.6, 9.3, 16.1, 5-4 and 14.1
p.c. back to 1944, But larger
allowances were made for de-
preciation (£ll,lOO, up £5420)
and taxation (£30,000, up
£11,000) and £19,987 (£4924 in
the previous term) was added to
the reserve for contingencies
and depreciation, making it
£259,106, or 95.9 p.c. of the
book-value of plant, etc., which
appears at cost.
Here are balance - sheet
figures:
1948. 1949. 1959.
Paid capital £240,299 £243.931 £243.931
creditors.. 63,186 114,351 Z
Tax reserve 30.000 21,000 30,000
Final div. .. 11,548 12,196 12.196
Properties* 218,222 249,561 258,9(0
Plant, etc.* 220,164 256,837 ,270.141
Stocks .. 151,355 197,256 186.018
Debtors . . 62,676 70,056 71,412
Cash, etc. .. 75,197 9,653 5.303
Trade-marks,
etc .. 72.500 72,500 72,000
* At cost.
The more-or-lcss liquid surplus
(£130,740) was £1430 stronger,
despite the growth of £22,713 in
fixed assets. Stocks were reduced
by £11,238 and £24,554 was
snipped off the outside debt.
London - controlled Paringa
Mining and Exploration, operat-
ing on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.), has suspended mill-
ing. Rising costs and relatively
low-grade ore are the troubles.
Estimated loss for the year to
Aug. 31, 1950 (accounts not yet
available), is £535,000, after
allowing for development and
depreciation. For the months
to Jan. 16, 1951, 36,178 tons ore
was milled at a cost of £596,611
for a return of £878,598. For the
year to end Aug., 1949, the co.
received £850,242 in Govern-
ment aid, and netted £811,481 for
treatment of 90,164 tons of
4.79dwt. ore. At end-Aug,, 1949,
ore reserves were put at 124,933
tons, averaging 4.9dwk For each
of the three years to 1947 co.
paid 12i p.c., followed by nil,
10 p.c. and nil last term. The
Is. stock units, which touched
4s. sd. in Adelaide in 1949, re-
cently sold at Is. 3d.


f
m
m.
£■ ’'X'Xny '' '-3
bvywtiT#
tfo. :■-&*
BRANDY
fULt STRENGTH
ENFOLDS WINES PTUTft
■ : :vS;.iV: ; v ; :;: ;:
iM&LL tor. s tOliii
rc.p. 80/80
m
r s
m
USO
II
r/
M
■C4S
awwi
ili
SgS
PiiiSi
rtAfc°*
) 'onk
ovjhos
E V
S2S,
dhm/fard' me^m
ENJOY the convenience and safety of Bank of Australasia
Travellers’ Cheques which provide you with ready cash
anywhere and at any time, yet are valueless without your
authority. You can obtain these cheques in denomina-
tions of £l, £2, £5, and £lO and cash them readily at
banks, hotels, business houses, and travel agencies. Don’t
run the risk of loss or theft of money whilst holidaying
or travelling. Enquire about this simple, convenient
method which is available to all members of the public.
Established 1835
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand and In London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
8A25-16 mmmmm
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Frederick Ash, Ltd.
In order to convert the busi-
ness into a public company for
taxation and Stock Exchange
listing purposes, a parcel of £1
shares in Frederick Ash, Ltd.,
have been made available at
375. 6d., plus 4d. brokerage,
through Sydney brokers McNall
and Hordern. The offering was
keenly sought after and rapidly
taken up last week.
This Newcastle paint, hard-
ware and timber business has
been established for nearly 96
years, and, except for the initial
capital put in, most of its ex-
pansion has been financed out of
profits ploughed back. It had no
overdraft last balance-day.
Set up in 1855 by Frederick
Ash, an Englishman newly
arrived in Australia, in 1887 the
business was converted into a
limited company with a capital
of £30,000. Expansion involved
acquisition of additional
premises ; also, in 1910, a branch
was established at Lismore
(N.S.W.). Another was opened
at Cessnock in 1924, and a third
at Wollongong in 1928. The
Sydney glass, shop-front and
glazing branch was set up in
1930.
In 1933 the co. acquired “sub-
stantial interests in the old-
established company, R. S. Exton
and Co. Pty., Ltd., of 280
Queen-street and The Valley,
Brisbane, also Toowoomba, a co.
trading in similar lines to those
of Frederick Ash, Ltd.” The
other interests in Exton’s are
understood to be influential, and
the business soundly established.
In 1920 capital was increased
from £30,000 to £150,000, and at
this stage £60,000 of the capital
had been issued for cash,
£90,000 of it for consideration
other than cash. Though
£120,000 of bonus scrip was
recently issued, partly financed
from reserved profits and partly
from assets-revaluation, no cash
has been sought from share-
holders for at least 30 years.
The co.’s main business is in
builders’ hardware, paint, oils
and colors, shop-front and office
fittings; it manufactures sheet-
metal products for the building
trade, and deals in plumbers’
and builders’ supplies, glass,
wallpaper, tools of trade, etc.
The co. has “considerable
financial interest in Vencore
Veneers Pty., Ltd.,” of New-
castle, manufacturers of patented
core-boards, and in Harlequin
Products Co. Pty., makers of
disinfectants, polishes, liquid
soaps, etc.
Assets at June 30, 1950, com-
prised cash £15,859 ; stock (at
lower of cost or market value),
£186,327; debtors, etc.,
£110,557 ; vehicles and plant,
£15,868 ; land and buildings (at
valuation), £129,150 ; and shares
in other cos. (valuation), £82,874.
Sundry creditors figured at
£74,648, income-tax provision at
£66,000, and dividend subse-
quently paid at £22,500.
Net tangible assets (£377,487)
on the basis of present capital
represented 28s. per share, ex-
clusive of any goodwill or profits
earned subsequent to June 30
last.
All premises occupied by the
co. (four in Newcastle alone),
except the Sydney glass store,
are freehold. The co. also owns
land for future building pur-
poses at Taverner’s Hill, Sydney,
and at Corrimal.
The recent assets revaluation
and capitalisation of reserves
doesn’t appear to have been over-
done. Allowing for public-
company taxes, earnings for the
year to June 30 last were equal to
19.2 p.c. on the enlarged capital
of £270,000, compared with 16,5
p.c. in 1949, 14 p.c. in 1948,
10.4 p.c, in 1947 and 8.4 p.c. in
1946.
An interim div. of dO p.c. has
already been paid in respect of
the half-year to Dec. 31 last.
In present trading conditions
maintenance of that rate should
be a comfortable matter, with
prospects of improvement.
On a 10 p.c. div. basis, and
allowing for brokerage, the £1
shares at 375. 6d. offer the attrac-
tive yield of £5 ss. 6d. per cent.
The scrip represents an interest
in a type of industry at present
popular, as witnessed by the
market support for shares in
Swans, G. E. Crane and Malleys
on Sydney ’Change.
On the Frederick Ash board
are Howard Ash, son of the
founder (chairman); H. E.
Askew (managing director); and
Peter H. Ash (general manager).
Metropolitan Cement
Metropolitan Portland Cement,
Ltd. (of Sydney, Maldon and
Marulan), began production of
clinker on March 2. The co.’s
chairman (J. T. Walton) expects
full production to start in about
two months.
When the co. was promoted
in 1948 it was forecast that the
works would be “fully operating
in 1949.” That this was an over-
optimistic claim is now plain ;
but the co. has had abnormal
wet-weather and other condi-
tions to cope with, which have
added to construction costs as
well as to delays.
The co.’s paid capital is
£BOO,OOO, and it may be increased
to over £1,000,000 if all the
prospectus intentions are carried
out. The bank overdraft at
Dec. 31, 1949, was £487,821, and
there has been considerable
capital expenditure since.
The planned capacity of the
plant was 150,000 tons of cement
a year. This was less than the
capacity of each of the major
cement companies operating in
the State, and the capitalisation
of Metropolitan, if the overdraft
is included, is nearly twice that
of Kandos Cement, for example.
Since Metropolitan was floated
a considerable increase has been
allowed in the price of cement,
which is still in very short
supply. Costs, of course, have
risen, too. Market for the co.’s
£1 shares is around 225. 9d.
Business Problems
Broken Hill Proprietary,
making its second large share-
issue within two years, says that
even this issue will not be suffi-
cient to complete the works in
hand.
While it is probable that
original plans for tinplate and
rolled-strip mills, plus colliery
mechanisation, have been added
to, it is equally probable that
rising costs, both in Australia
and abroad, have caused the
management to revise the
original estimates of capital out-
lay.
In any case, B.H.P.’s two
latest issues will bring in more
share and premium capital than
the share-register total of 1948.
The new works, in other words,
will cost more than the book-
value of all fixed assets prior to
1949.
Here, no doubt, is consider-
able expansion. But in terms of
actual physical values it is
likely that the pre-1949 under-
taking represents a great deal
more than what is to be the
result of projects now in the
course of development.
Certainly very large sums in
depreciation have been written
off pre-1949 book-values, whilst
what has happened since is
mostly new capital expenditure.
The increased cost of expand-
ing any industrial undertaking
today, however, is well illustrated
by B.H.P.’s figures. And until
the whole programme"is com-
pleted and operating the drag of
the new capital on earning-
power is likely to be greater
than originally anticipated.
In these figures there is a
lesson to be absorbed by all
businessmen.
In times of severe inflation
many businessmen, taking money
at its face-value, are in danger
of “selling themselves poor.”
They sell good stock and wear
out good plant in return for
money that will not replace the
stock or maintain the plant in
a year’s time.
They appear to be making
reasonable profits—perhaps the
same percentage (or more) on
capital as they did a dozen years
ago.
But it is only a nominal per-
centage. Capital and profits are
only nominally the same money.
Capital is represented mostly
by pre-war pounds, current
profits by near-relatives to the
“Chifley quid.”
When the time comes to re-
place plant and other fixed
assets the company’s deprecia-
tion reserves are likely to be
completely inadequate, and re-
placement will involve compara-
tively large new issues of capital.
With private companies, this
will mean in many cases going
outside existing shareholders for
funds, and the forcing of con-
versions into public cos.
What is happening .has been
well described by the C.S.R. in
its booklet on “capital erosion.”
The Taxation Department does
not allow, in its permitted rates
of depreciation provision, for the
effect of inflation on plant-
replacement costs. Nor do
price-controllers sanction profit-
margins that will cope with the
effect of inflation on industry.
It is difficult indeed for most
businesses to provide adequately
for depreciation without cutting
out dividends altogether.
Most company-directors who
ever received their salary in the
form of golden sovereigns need
to be re-educated to the
problems which exist in the
present-day economy. They are
accustomed to prices going up
in a boom before coming down
in a slump. But they are not
accustomed to prices which go
up and up—and up—in a paper-
money economy (politically
managed) before stabilising or
slumping, What private financial
managers used to think was good
for an industry’s economy has
now been discarded in favor of
what politicians regard as being
“politically practicable!” for
the time being.
Many old-established concerns
are poorer than they think.
Their freeholds and plant are
currently worth more than their
book-values, as a rule, but in-
vestments in Consols, etc.,
usually held for future plant-
replacement or business expan-
sion,. have lost much of their
buying-power in recent years.
And profit-margins are gener-
ally cut to a much lower per-
centage on turnover than was
the custom a decade ago.
This smaller margin is weak-
ening a lot of businesses, even
where they appear to be putting
something to reserves out of
profits.
Some concerns, too, are not
getting full value from their
plant. This is particularly true
of shipping cos., whose ships
are held up unnecessarily (but
under trade-union direction) in
port while loading and unload-
ing. But any industry which,
for one reason or another, is
forced to work a restricted
number of shifts, or hours per
week, is not getting the value out
of its plant that it was once
accustomed to. And this places
a further burden on the financial
structure of the concerns
engaged in the particular
industry.
With inflation on the scale
we now see around us it will be
fatal for many business concerns
if they accept money figures as
the test of their financial stability
or progress. Tests have to be
much deeper and considered in
relation to what appears to be
ahead.


CINZANO
SWKKT OR DRY
&<>rvce
/m
f
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OTS 4
OSUUJVAtf
V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Visitors to Sydney
for fhe
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
n ' . ' ™
A firm has recently been established in Sydney to enable
business houses in the city, also country and inter-State
visitors, to have their typing and stenographic requirements
executed with a minimum of delay.
Businessmen may dictate their letters over the telephone, or
call at the FREELANCE SECRETARIAL SERVICES, Royal
Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Street (Corner Hunter St.). All
that is required is the client’s signature. Correspondence Is
typed, stamped and despatched.
This is a complete secretarial service situated in the heart
of the city. Telephone BW 3382 for further particulars.
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in ali Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
TROUT FLIES
TIED TO ORDER!
By arrangement with the makers of RISE Trout
Flies we can supply special types, to your
own specifications, at short notice.
Forward sample fly with order.
fc-l
"RISE" I j
ƒ f
ru?S k
The makers’ long study of flies and
fly-tying ensures excellent quality,
quantity 1 doz. of any pattern.
Minimum
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD.
624 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. M 6261
• ' <
%
WHERE
CtCaiatCM MOVE —MERCHANDISE
MOVES
This Otis escalator installation at Anthony
Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney, invites cus-
tomers to see and buy goods on other floors.
Offering convenient, constant and immediate
transport, escalators step up traffic volume
. . . distribute a greater flow of customers
quickly and easily to all merchandising areas
. . . and permit maximum sales to be
realised. Otis will be glad to survey your
store and report on the facts discovered.
-
I
’
M
TWO OF Teh ,
Post-War Design Otis Escalators Installed at
SYDNEYi
MELBOURNE:
ADELAIDE:
BRISBANE:
PERTH:
Anthony Hordern
& Sons Ltd
David Jones Ltd. ....
Mark Foy’s Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. .
Manton & Sons Ltd. . .
Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd
McWhirters Ltd
Boons Ltd
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney
m
n
fA
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE
COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Taxation Overhaul
New Zealand’s long-overdue
tax probe will be a job for a
team of experts over the next
few months, with orders to find
a way out of the maze of
anomalies and injustices in the
much-amended 1923 Land and
Income Tax Act.
A tax reform business leaders
and others have been asking for
is a changeover to “pay-as-
you-earn,” but the Tax De-
partment is scratching for
staff, and is in no position to
shoulder extra work. It couldn’t
make the change this year, or
next, even if it wanted to, with-
out running the risk of getting
bogged. So Maorilanders will
have to continue footing outsize
annual tax bills which force
them to dip deeply into savings
or overdrafts every February,
and a lot of them could be
landed in financial trouble if
incomes dropped back.
New Zealand’s tax-exemption
limit of £2OO has lagged behind
inflation, and should be more
than doubled today to give the
same “real” exemption as in the
pre-war decade. If £260 was a
fair limit away back in the
depression years, when the
pound was worth up to treble
as much as now, taxpayers have
had a raw deal since inflation
pushed incomes up to levels
where they’re stung at gradu-
ated rates, and even juveniles
can earn wages that make the
exemption figure look small.
Women in N.Z. have a griev-
ance because of the department’s
habit of aggregating incomes of
husbands and wives to assess
them at the same rate as for
bachelors or spinsters who have
the same totals.
Levies on capital gains are a
sore point, particularly with
producers, who have been bled
heavily since the wool boom
boosted prices for sheep. Even
before this boom values were
inflated enough to load farmers
with almost prohibitive taxes
when they sold their broad acres,
livestock and chattels.
Today mounting tax demands
are a big drain on farm capi-
tal, and the only way aged
farmers who feel like retiring can
escape is by sitting on their
farms. As they’ve got to go
easier, this means a sacrifice in
production and bars the way for
younger men. If they stay
there till death ends their farm-
ing careers estates are then
milked for heavy death duties,
and families or trustees who
want to carry on the farms are
left gasping.
If this goes on long enough it
will sap the strength of the great
primary industries and load
them up with mortgage indebted-
ness incurred to clear estate
duty or taxes. There’ll be relief
when prices and values drop,
but this won’t help if farm
incomes slump, as they will,
then. Farmers claim livestock
should rank like plant and
machinery in a factory, and not
like materials of production ; it
should be a capital item, and
tax-free.
Capital gains on shares,
houses, farms, motor-cars and
anything else that can net a
profit on resale aren’t taxed in
Maoriland, and with shares
soaring in price and cars at a
premium of up to several hun-
dred pounds when they’re run-in
a good deal of easy money has
been gathered in. The experts
might have something to say in
favor of taxing short-term gains
like these. If so, they’ll have to
draw the line between short-
term and long-term because a
tax on, say, a house that has
doubled in value over 15 years
when all other houses have been
rising, too, while the pound has
been shrinking, would amount
to a capital levy. The term
would have to be short enough
to make the fall in the pound a
minor matter.
Divs. are exempt from tax
where cos. pay the whole of the
tax on profits they distribute,
and the tax is passed on in the
price of goods. This suits in-
vestors, but it’s inflationary and
hurts consumers. The Aus-
tralian system of splitting up
the tax between cos. and share-
holders would take part of the
pressure off prices, and would
be fairer to small investors.
Company - taxing is a
specialised field, and there should
be room enough in it for the
experts to disport themselves to
their hearts’ content. Deprecia-
tion allowances are too low for
cos. to set aside enough untaxed
funds to keep abreast of de-
mands for replacement of plant
and other fixed assets as infla-
tion ambles on, so there’s ero-
sion of capital in N.Z., as well
as in Australia, in consequence.
Tax scales aren’t evenly gradu-
ated, pinch at some points, and
are another of the many weak-
nesses cos. would like to be
freed from.
Of course, when it’s all
boiled down, tax cuts are only
possible if equivalent increases
are made elsewhere, or the
Treasury will suffer. Most
Maorilanders seem to overlook
this.
“Lazy Man’s Paradise”?
As export prosperity romps
ahead in top gear, New Zealand
is counting on higher wages,
price-controls, larger subsidies
and increased social-security
benefits and State superannua-
tion payouts to keep it on the
rails. With export income up
by £lOO million to an estimated
£260 million this production sea-
son (to June 30), thanks to wool
and a buoyant season for meat,
butter and other farm products,
Maoriland is sterilising about
£45 million in woolgrowers’
bank accounts, leaving £55 mil-
lion extra to swell the monetary
stream.
On the strength of this it’s
risking a wage-lift of 15 p.c.
(from February 15), which will
add up to £4O million to its total
wages bill, including State pay-
rolls, and, is loading taxpayers
with an extra £lO million or so
to subsidise woollen manufac-
turers and hold down prices of
all mill products, to take the
weight of higher costs for butter,
milk, \bread and flour, and to
shelter? the growing army of
pensioners and other dependants
of the “welfare State” from the
chilly blast of rocketing prices.
Employers, with another
£750,000 to find to pay weekly
wages, were the first to feel the
pinch, and were far from happy
when the outsize baby of higher
costs was handed to them. At
the moment consumers don’t
know how long they’ll be able
to avoid having it thrust upon
them, but as they’re producers,
too —or most of them are —it’s
largely in their own hands, for
the only way to stop rising costs
at the source is by putting their
shoulders to the wheel and
boosting production. If output
isn’t lifted no controls will hold
back costs for long.
Maorilanders are easygoing,
and in a field of overfull em-
ployment take a leisurely view
of toil. As they’ve never had to
go short of essentials, except,
perhaps, to some extent in the
depression years, they’re not tor-
mented by thoughts that they
can’t consume more than they
produce, and generally life is
extremely carefree. They might
agree that there’s truth in the
saying “No wage is too high if
it’s earned,” but they prefer to
shorten it to “No wage is too
high.” They waste much time,
take frequent, and often long,
tea-breaks in mornings and
afternoons, and don’t worry over
jibes that they live in a “lazy
man’s paradise.” They’ve done
a lot of harm to the cause of
the 40-hour week by lowering
hourly, as well as weekly, out-
put, but this doesn’t bother them
either, and if an attempt were
made to rouse them from their
indifference probably they’d
point to ballooning export pros-
perity and ask “So what?”


Zy THE BAG
THE BAGS
AREPACKED
A
\ i
m
WM
Before you travel on business or pleasure you should
obtain a supply of Commonwealth Bank Travellers'
Cheques. Issued in £5 denomination, these cheques
provide complete protection for your funds. They may
be cashed free of inland exchange at any branch of any
bank in Australia, and are readily accepted by principal
tourist bureaux, transport offices, hotels, etc.
As your signature and counter-signature are necessary
on ail cheques before they may be cashed, they are safer
than money. For carefree travel use Commonwealth
Bank Travellers' Cheques, obtainable at any branch.
OTHER HELPFUL. COMMONWEALTH BANK
SERVICES INCLUDE CHEQUE ACCOUNTS.
LETTERS OF CREDIT, OVERDRAFTS.
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS, HOUSING
LOANS, FINANCE FOR INDUSTRY OR
PRIMARY PRODUCTION, EXPORT AND
IMPORT CREDITS, SAFE CUSTODY.
CononweaWnk
oflustralia.
Friendly and practical advice on banking and
financial matters is available to you at every Branch.
%
C.G.8.17-S2
KUV mom SAFE*
SANDERS
(^tffcFILES
A”. I
■s&¥,
r'-x^xrf*
Correspondence. lo »ol« •»,
statements. etc.. tiled in the
"Sanders** cos b« securely
bound and concerted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the cod of each month —or
any other period.
f*i lea* m%a Inr-
«|i«u
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
t)u trihmUnt AttMH—
kVBNIT
mklbouhnb .
AUELAU)! mt •
gAKIM p »
3
C fcafaltf * C*. my. LM.
Hmsmmm Br«s. Pty. Ltd.
V»rd»a * law LM.
O%ofc*t Ca. (AuU
LOOK YOUR BEST!
m
FroM
0$
f
Viewed from the front, side or
back, your Akubra always looks
smart and stylish.
Choose the colour, size and shape
to suit you and you will un-
doubtedly look better dressed.
AES, SIR! From any angle, Comfort—
Style Durability Superb Quality.
AKUBRA is ahead for all-round value.
vaanav
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“A lot of punters and bookmakers
are not disposed to travel 100 miles
to a provincial meeting provincial
meeting and then back up at the trots
and then back up at the trots at
night.” —Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
“The State of Maryland taxes pro-
fessional hotel bedbug hunters by
making them take out licences, giving
the State £11,550 yearly in fees.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Bedbugs have big bugbears to
bite ’em; and so ad infinitum.
4* *F *F , ,
“Male fashions will be presented by
male mannequins at a ‘Salon <pf
Modern Man’ which will open in
Paris soon.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
It will eventually supersede
the old-fashioned male-order
houses.
•F *F *F
“Communist scientists have in-
vented a skinless sausage, the East
Zone Food Ministry announced in
Berlin this week.”
—Sydney "Sunday Sun.’'’
Meatless, too?
“A husband, children and a home
—whal more does a woman want?”
—Sydney ' “Sunday Sun.’'’
A different kind of husband,
more children, and a better-
home than that old dump.
•F *l* *i* .
“A Bondi woman last night mistook
men in their underpants for naked
men.” — Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
Better luck next time.
»F *F *F
“Truck dives into pond.”
—Melbourne “Herald.’''
Probably had a bee in its
bonnet.
•J#
“Televised slimming.”
—Melbourne “Herald.’’’
For most women just another
spectator-sport.
•F *F
“I’ve recently come up from Mel-
bourne, and I think the ferries con-
stitute half the glamor of Sydney
Harbor.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
The mysterious glamor, in the
ferry company’s view, of women
without visible means of sup-
port.
Too Much.
To Gosford, Kembla or Wyong,
To Gosford, Kembla or Wyong
They went in search of winners;
Or, were they bagmen, skinners.
But judging by duplexed reports.
Some of these mid-week-minded
sports
By travelling were troubled.
Then to the trots then to the
trots
Instead of snoring in their cots ?
No, they were caught that way
before,
Yes, they were caught that way
before —
When totting - up the sorry
score.
They found (at least, the punters
did —
I must repeat, the punters did)
Their flaming losses doubled!
P.O.M.C.
Slippery Business.
To begin with, it should be
announced that “Bo” is away on
holidays. The vacation is not
so much earned as forced upon
him, the motivating force being
a large concrete pipe which
enters his room through the floor
and makes its exit through the
ceiling. Its purpose is to get rid
of exhaust fumes from the diesel
plant in the basement; more
often it gets rid of “Bo.”
No one knows why the pipe
should be inside the building at
all, but “Bo” has various theories
to explain how his room came to
be chosen for the honor. His
favorite one involves a nefarious
plot, the joint work of repre-
sentatives of the Portuguese,
Egyptian and Russian Govern-
ments, who, he considers, en-
gineered the scheme in revenge
for imagined insults. There is
no evidence to support this
theory.
Not that “Bo” is always
opposed to the pipe. In the
wintertime he’s all for it —goes
round the office with his chest
stuck out talking of central heat-
ing. In the summer he goes
round with his head pulled in,
Ipoking for an empty room to
work in. Any room will do. If
the Religious Editor slips out
for a quickie “Bo” slips into
his room. If the Sporting Editor
goes out for a milkshake “Bo’s”
at his desk before he’s had time
to decide which flavor he’ll
have. And wherever “Bo” goes
he leaves behind him a trail of
copy-paper, scrawled with mys-
terious phrases such as “Uncle
Joe and Molotov scratching each
other’s backs,” or “Bring home
“Sorry, Bodge. All I could FIND Were the
pinking-shears."
a dozen crumpets and two
pounds of Sipuds.”
Owing to “Bo’s” peregrinating
habits, his absence on holidays
was not noticed until the printer
started calling for this page.
Followed a frantic hunt for his
copy. A search through the 14
rooms he was known to have
occupied during the previous
few days yielded slips of paper
on which were jotted the follow-
ing notes:
President of Spiggoty republic puts
tax on banana-skins.
Revolution threatened.
Ramon Bazaaro . . . Miguel ???
. . . Lake Pizzicato.
Bring Commos in.
Senor(s) . , . Don . . .? Dom . . .
Caramba (use plenty) Sapristi (not
so many) . . . Ring Eden re hotel
accommodation . . . Bert Evatt leader
of small nations . . . don’t forget
spare spark-plugs.
“Well, there’s the raw
material,” said the Editor. “Get
going all of you. I think he’d
start it something like this”:
“Caramba! ” said President Bazaaro,
“There’s nothing to fear from the
swine. Not today, anyway. Spig-
govia’s never had a revolution on a
Thursday yet.”
“There always has to be a first
time, Excellency,” replied the Minister
for Fiestas as he gouged a water-
melon-seed from his left earhole and
flipped it with unerring accuracy at
the nose of a sentry dozing in the
doorway. The sentry smiled wanly
on the side of his face visible to the
Minister, and scowled darkly on the
other. .
“Pah! I mean Sapristi,” replied
the President.
“You see the idea,” said the
Editor. “Now you carry on,
Wild Cat.”
Wild Cat began:
The remarkable expansion of
banana-growing in Spiggovia, with
the consequent increase in the number
of skins, is one of the most astonish-
ing features of the post-war era. It
is a problem that has to be faced
and met, either by absorption or
otherwise, if we are to do anything
to arrest, or even curb, the rising
spiral, or, for that matter, the
spiralling rise of costs. Er—Caramba 1
“That’s enough,” said the
Editor. “ You try, ‘Ek Dum.’”
“Ek.Dum” launched out:
“Your Excellency,” said the
Minister for Rough Justice. “For
years I have been pointing out how
thoroughly the Communists have
been white-anting the banana industry.
There’s a cell in every banana-patch.”
“Caramba and two more Sap-
ristis!” said the President. “Why
haven’t we shot them?”
“Didn’t want to spoil the bananas,”
replied Rough Justice. “This threat-
ened revolt, coming at the very time
when Soviet forces in Uzbekistan are
looking towards the Pamir plateau,
seems mighty suspicious to me.”
“The Army is loyal,” said the
President.
“White-anted through and through.”
“Sapristi! The Air Force?”
“Even worse.”
“Not our Navy?”
“That’s my cue,” chipped in
“Macnell.”
The tiny gunboat plugged gamely
on across the waters of Lake Pizzi-
cato. Qn her port quarter a terrific
typhoon bore down upon her; a
hurricane in all its fury approached
from the starboard; the pent-up rage
of the tornado from which she had
been seeking to escape since early
dawn was now only a cable’s length
behind her. Straight in her path
waited the rebel battleship, like a
remorseless sabre-toothed tiger wait-
ing for its prey. Admiral Jones,
former sub-lieutenant of the R.A.N.,
stood on the gunboat’s bridge, a grim
smile on his clean-shaven face, which
hardened slightly as broadside* after
broadside from the battleship’s 18in.
guns passed through the paper-thin
sides of his frail craft. “Our only
chance is to board her,” he mur-
mured. Undermanned, outranged,
her guns shot to bits and her engines
a tangled mass of iron, the little ship
now had nothing left to drive her on
except her commander’s iron deter-
mination, but she still managed her
thirty-six knots . . .
“Come back to land,” said the
Editor, “and bananas.”
“Some verse, perhaps,” sug-
gested “Swilliam” diffidently:
The plangent poignancy of the fruit-
less skin
Moves e’en the stern dictator to
nostalgic sighs,
Evokes a passing mem’ry of what
mighta bin.
Passing? It’s passed! “The tax
must stand,” he cries.
“That’s good," says Red
Page approvingly. “Can I have
it for my page next week?”
“I’ll do you a longer one,”
says “Swilliam.”
“We only need a couple more
inches,” reports the head printer,
who has no soul for art.
“Here’s a telegram from
‘Bo,’ ” says the Editor. “Per-
haps it’ll tell us where he left
his copy.”
It doesn’t. It merely says
“Air-freight one set new spark-
plugs to Eden,”
“Two more inches,” prompts
\ the head printer.
| “Finish it off, ‘Jasby,’” says
the Editor,
Which, regretfully, I do:
Two shells crashed simultaneously
through the walls of the Presidential
palace.
“The revolution, she is on,’ re-
marked the President, up to his neck
in falling masonry.
“Caramba, ex-Excellency,” said the
Minister for Fiestas, who, being a
taller man, was only embedded as
far as his chest. “I thought you
said revolutions never occurred on
Thursdays?”
“They don’t,” replied the President,
using up the rest of the stock ot
Carambas and Sapristis as he tried to
nod his head towards a gaudy piece
of printing still displayed on the sole
remaining wall. “Today’s Friday.
My idiot secretary is still using last
year’s calendar.”
JASBY.


For Sale.
Seven billiard tables, singly or in
one lot; condition good. Apply
Garden and Green, Solicitors, Swan
Hill.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME! COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HELEN MERRY SMITH late of New-
castle.—TAKE NOTICE that DAVID
ROBERT SMITH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3057 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
by the 14th day of May 1951 at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney and a copy of the Petition may
be had without charge from S. S.
MITCHELL, Solicitor, of Bank Corner,
Wickham, Newcastle, or his Sydney Agent,
Mr. J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE" SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LIONEL EDGAR MILSOM formerly of
Armidale, N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY MARY RUTH MILSOM has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3763 of
1950 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the 9th day of May next and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. BIDDULPH &
SMITH, Solicitors, Guyra, or their City
Agents, MESSRS, BIDDULPH &
SALENGER, Solicitors, Selborne Chambers,
174 Phillip Street, Sydney. —J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME uuuiti oi xNjaW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH LAURENCE KIRK late of
Campsie.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
MURIEL KIRK has Med a Petition for
Divorce No. 3754 of 194 R on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 21st day of June
1961 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from M. L. F. GLASHEEN
& CO., Solicitors, of 3 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, City Agents for MESSRS. K.
O’MALLEY JONES & GROVE. Solicitors,
of 83 Campsie Street, Campsie.—J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES ALEXANDER WILLIS late
of Kellett Street Darlinghurst Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that OPAL JOAN WILLIS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2576
of 1950 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards IP you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance on or before the
22nd day of May 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
TAYLOR, KEARNEY & REED, City
Mutual Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets,
Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
MODERN
SANITATION
m
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE HYGEIA UISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary system)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ƒ
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD
26-30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 22 years
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: B. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Badolectrix Sales and Services.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
(MoSticr
SAVES ON HORSEPOWER
SAVES ON MANPOWER
f
Electric Boring Attachment
This attachment consists of
32 volt, 500 watt electric
generator, a length of rubber-
covered flex and one Vs"
wood bit. You will be sur-
prised at your extra perfor-
mance with this light,
convenient, trouble free drill.
Furthermore you can use the
generator for lighting and as
a fixed or portable 32 volt
power supply
/1
I
I
m
Post hole digging with a Mobile© is post hole
digging at its lowest cost. . . You don # t need one man driving a vehicle and
another feeding the auger. With a Mobile© digger one man does the whole
job . . . You don't waste horsepower as Mobilco's 7 b.h.p. is ample. Further-
more, when this machine is not digging holes you can remove the auger and
you have a fine British engine on wheels, ready to do many other jobs around
the place. You make your money go a long way when you buy a Mobalco.
10
GOOD REASONS WHY THE MOBILCO POST HOLE
DIGGER WILL DO THE BEST JOB FOR YOU
1. The Mobilco is a one-man machine with
its own independent engine.
2. Remove the auger with special tool
supplied and you have the ideal 7
b.h.p. portable power plant.
3. The Mobilco has a third wheel for
stability on rough ground. Belt enables
use of body-weight in pushing between
holes.
4. As the total engine and gear box
weights are directly over the auger
Mobilco is a very fast digger.
5. The Mobilco will dig a perpendicular
hole on sloping ground - most impor-
tant in steep or undulating country.
6. Due to Mobilco's light weight and per-
fect balance you can place the hole
exactly where you want it.
7. When Auger is removed engine and
gear box sit at bottom of frame provid-
ing low centre of gravity for field
towing or road speed towing between
properties.
8. Mobilco's specially designed auger
ensures smooth action and continuous
and complete clearance of dirt.
9. Totally enclosed worm drive running in
oil bath gives positive transmission of
all engine power.
10. Owners of Mobilco saws can purchase a
digger without engine as all Mobilco
machines are powered by the same
sturdy, reliable, 7 b.h.p., B.S.A. engine.
Send for full particulars of the Mobilco Post Hole Digger NOW
p6o\
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
ƒ
252 SWANSTOK STREET, MEIBOURNE h f CENTRAt 47W, AFTER HOURS r W 3H*
SUNDRY SHOWS
Marjorie Lawrence.
From couches, chairs, thrones
and palanquins borne on the
shoulders of slaves, Marjorie
Lawrence, looking like a rosy
goddess in a white-and-pink
cloud, dominated the proceed-
ings at the National Theatre’s
production of “Aida” at the
Princess, Melbourne. Sitting
immobile except for her eloquent
torso, arms and facial expres-
sions, she turned the opera Verdi
wrote to the order of the
Khedive into an entirely differ-
ent business. The romantic
affair between the commander-
in-chief of the Egyptian army
and the slavegirl Aida, which
couldn’t have ended in anything
but disillusionment, anyway, sank
into insignificance beside the
love and hate of Amneris, the
Pharaoh’s daughter, and her
jealousy of her slavegirl rival.
Through it all Miss Lawrence
sang superbly, and it was a treat
to hear, along with ringing top-
notes and low-notes that never
lost expression, a middle register
so rich and warm with feeling.
Despite her excellence, how-
ever, Miss Lawrence didn’t over-
shadow the effort of Betna
Pontin, whose little slavegirl
lamented, cajoled and pleaded
with a voice that would have
been faultless if the top notes
hadn’t been sometimes forced un-
duly. Ivan Dixon gave Captain
Rhadames a dignified deport-
ment but a voice that had been
coarsened through shouting
orders.
Life in a Seraglio.
It must be said that the N. S.
Wales National Opera Co.’s
opening venture at Sydney Tivoli
provided one of the mildest
nights the present reviewer ever
spent in a seraglio. Only Frank
Lisle’s palace gardener, rumbling
away in his bearded bass about
chopping people’s heads off and
boiling them in oil, really recalled
the old days in Turkey; and
there was a rich sprightliness in
June Bronhill’s Blonda that gave
promise of better things in a
better opera.
The plot of “II Seraglio” must
be about the thinnest thing that
was ever beaten out to three
acts —merely how a couple of
captive ladies try to hop over the
harem wall to rejoin their lovers
—and if something could be
done by polished stylism and en-
thusiastic singing to make it suc-
ceed as a kind of caricature of
itself, not enough was done by
this performance.
Ivor Sheridan, as Pedrillo,
worked feverishly to be funny,
and, though he had his moments,
was more feverish than funny ;
Eric Mitchelson, in the romantic
tenor role, had a lightly melodi-
ous voice that didn’t carry him
very far and, with a monotonous
pained expression and indecisive
gestures, was hardly a fiery lover
out of Spain, Valda Bagnall’s
Constance, though she improved
after her nervous opening, always
showed strain. Lloyd Berrell
was a robust Pasha, splendidly
costumed, but not very much
alive either as a kindly senti-
mental soul or a Shavian carica-
ture —which are the alternative
interpretations of this non-
singing role.
But if, except for Frank Lisle,
the piece didn’t stand out very
firmly in any of its separate
parts, it held together pleasantly
as a whole. Mozart, even when
he is not taking himself seriously,
is always Mozart; and when the
four principals supported each
other in their quartettes they
were charming.
Minor points, but indications
that the producer paid a proper
attention to detail, were that the
Pasha’s guards really looked like
soldiers —not like the usual scare-
crows and lilies dragged in to
walk on and walk off —and that
the chorus in its brief appear-
ances at the beginning and end
sang with joy and gusto like a
flock of starlings.
Dudley Parker.
Most of Dudley Parker’s oils
at Sydney Grosvenor Galleries
are devoted to the easier and
more obvious charms of nature
—the sunlit gum-trees, the blue
hills —or the more obviously
paintable subjects which the
landscape submits, such as boat-
sheds and boats on the skids.
It is a genuine response so far
as it goes, and Mr. Parker sets it
down pleasantly enough. But
essentially it is limited, without
passion, without drama, without
intimate observation ; and when
it is spread out over a large
canvas the effect is shallow;
rather like a Gruner or a
Streeton print from which the
lyricism or force of the original
has been lost.
“Newport Jetty,” a fine stretch
of greys and blues with boats on
the water in the dusk, is an ex-
ception with more feeling in it
and a subtler palette applied to
it; but otherwise the smaller
canvases, in which the limited
feeling is expressed compactly
within its proper limits, are the
best: notably “Batlow Road,”
“A Country Road” and “Clouds
at Kurrajong.”
Carnival.
The things Francis Lymburner
likes to paint are clowns, cats,
circuses, carnivals, boats, beaches
and blondes; and since the
present commentator also likes
all those things he likes Mr.
Lymburner’s show at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, It is light,
gay, free and, though there is no
attempt at realism, lively in color
and movement.
But Mr. Lymburner has said
all this before, and he isn’t say-
ing it any better. If, as long as
you don’t demand realistic draw-
ing, there is no picture in his
show you can’t like, there isn’t
one you can like more than an-
other —thought and technique
alike are playing about within a
very limited range.
And indeed all this utter dis-
regard of drawing and all this
easy, smeary painting leads one
to the conclusion that Mr. Lym-
burner isn’t only painting clowns
but clowning as he paints. And
clowns, however much one likes
them in their place, don’t stand
very high in the artistic world.
This is art for a restaurant, art
for a merry-go-round, art for the
cocktail bar, but it is not art that
can be put alongside any paint-
ing of genuine, solid quality.
Outwardly, at least, life is
respectable and conservative in
the Sydney suburb of Mosman,
where the North Shore Art
Society is holding its fifth annual
exhibition, and the art on view
is conservative and respectable
to match. The best watercolors
are those by Rufus Morris —
executed in crisp, clean colors
with bold brush work —and G. K.
Townshend’s “The White Barn”
and H. Edgecombe’s “Wee
Jasper Country.” Best oils are
Alan Grieve’s Blue Mcfuntain
study “Through Channels of
Coolness the Echoes Are
Calling,” Richard Ashton’s sea
and coast studies painted vigor-
ously and richly, in particular
“Sand Dunes,” and Alan D.
Baker’s flowerpieces.
* * * *
Two of Sydney’s main reper-
tory theatres —the Independent
and Metropolitan—both have
excellent current shows, to be re-
viewed here as soon as space
permits. The Metropolitans have
a bright, stylised version of
Shaw’s “You Never Can Tell,”
and the Independent has just
started a season of Philip
Yordan’s “Anna Lucasta.” There
are a lot of commendable work
and entertainment at both
addresses.


Women's letters
From Sydney
Music and opera, as well as arrangers
of winter parties, are speaking up well for
themselves this week, probably because
once the Royal Easter Show starts and
Randwick comes into the social picture,
they won’t be able to get a word in edge-
ways.
The opening night of the opera season
at the Tivoli was all glitter and glamor.
Owners of long white gloves gave them
an outing, and satins, brocades, frothing
chiffons and tie-silks appeared in a welter
of magnificence. Some beautiful fans of
ostrich-feathers or lace were carried.
Sequins and beading sparkled every-
where.
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz wore a fairy-queen
type of dress in pale blue with a spangled
stole of pale-blue tulle. Madame
Regala’s black dress, with its stiffened
sleeves and front panel appliqued in while
and outlined in silver, was striking and
elegant. Mrs. Robert Paterson wore
brown tie-silk. Mrs. Arthur Davis got
a slightly Grecian effect with blue
accordion pleats and an asymmetric line.
Mrs. Arthur Chartres wore black, lavishly
beaded in jet. Countess Pietrasanta-
Sauvaigne had cascades of crystal em-
broidery on a grey chiffon dress. Mrs.
Tom Bateman wore ice-blue satin asparkle
with crystal. Bouquets lay along the edge
of the dress-circle for the official party,
which included the Lord Mayor and his
Lady, the Clive Evatts, the Italian
Minister and the Countess Marisa del
Balzo, and the Erik Langkers.
Though the audience was so splendidly
arrayed, the dressing of the show (“II
Seraglio”) indicated that fashion today is
very mild and restrained compared with
the fantastic costumes of 16th-century
Turkey. The full effect of their variety and
strangeness was gained only at the end,
when some of the most adventurous and
millinery-minded of the audience became
quite restive at the sight of so many
really startling hats.
The return of pianist Richard Farrell
was a notable event. His first concert
was given on a night of exhausting heat
and thunderstorms (one real, one pro-
vided by the orchestra in the Straus
symphony), and the musicians wore white
shirts and black trousers. But Eugene
Goossens and Richard were in white tie
and tails, Mr. Goossens’s collar suffering
badly during the concert. Mrs. Goossens
was the best-dressed member of the
audience, looking all golden in printed
chiffon and stole, with a heavy antique
gold pendant.
Richard Farrell was given a reception
by the A.B.C. Orchestral Committee at the
Pickwick early in the week, and on Wed-
nesday the Musical Association rallied
round to welcome him back. The presi-
dent, Mr. Godfrey Stirling, recalled the
time when “the Farrell gang” of two
small boys used to rifle his dressing-
room at the Opera House in Wellington
(N.Z.) years ago. No plumed hat or
stage sword was safe, he said, and
Richard displayed then the same concen-
tration in play which he has later put
into his work. Richard has been five
years in America studying and giving
concerts (he is only 25 now). His teacher
was Madame Samaroff-Stokowski, who
told him one week before she died that
he had finished taking lessons and must
now learn by himself.
Many distinguished Australian
musicians were present at the reception,
including Alfred Hill and his wife, Frank
Hutchens, Cyril Monk and Gordon
Short. Mr. and Mrs. John Dean were
there, also Mr. Werner Baer, Ruth Ladd,
Doreen Jacob and Mrs. I. M. Pogson.
Richard’s mother, Mrs. J. Farrell, was
charming and vivacious in a navy outfit
with white accessories.
When Rowly Litchfield showed his
films of the Snowy River scheme and of
the Air Force, several stalwart airforce-
men were present, so probably there were
men from Snowy River there, too. The
pictures of the icy waters were a slight
refreshment from Sydney’s temperature,
which hit the hundred-mark that day.
Mrs. A. G. Cameron frosted up a
monkey-brown dress with a dashing white
pique collar. By ram ManseU’s summer
outfit included a green-and-white-striped
shirt and a cute little white bow-tie. He
told us about the air-conditioned railway
carriages that he has decorated in “earth”
colors and which cannot go on the run
until there is more coal.
The Musica Viva ensemble will give
an afternoon recital at the Royal Empire
Society’s drawing-room on Thursday,
April 12. It starts at 2.15 p.m.; tickets at
2s. 6d. can be obtained by phoning
MA1782. This is being organised by the
enthusiastic members of the Anti-T.B.
Association Senior Committee, whose
latest new member is Mrs. Russell Evans.
University freshers must have started
work this week with more confidence
than was the case “in our young day,” as
they’ve already gone through a period of
orientation during which they met many
of their fellow-undergraduates, learned
much about their new Alma Mater and
realised that they must have a brief-case
at all costs. Orientation week is a
splendid idea for lessening that awful
sinking feeling the “first day” can bring.
It’s a feeling even worse than the first day
at school, for one is more sensitive at
16 or 17 than at five and less protected.
The number of clubs and organisations
open to undergraduates is amazing. There
can be no interest of the expanding
adolescent mind that is not catered for.
There are clubs for addicts of fencing
(with swords), chess, table-tennis, music,
politics, photography, football, bush-
walking and even cave-exploring. There
are religious organisations, music clubs,
classical associations, V.A. detachments
and Guide groups. The only danger
seems to be that the enthusiasm of youth
might lead one to join so many clubs
that the zoology, etc., might be neglected.
Still, man does not live by zoology alone
and examinations are a good curb on too
much outside activity.
This bright face belongs to Mrs. L.
Bleekrode, who leaves at the end of the
month for her homeland, Holland, on the
Dutch freighter Overysel, a beautiful ship
which carries only 12 passengers. During
her six months abroad Mrs. Bleekrode
will visit Paris to discuss with the French
Government arrangements for the Ginette
Neveu Memorial Scholarship, of which
she is founder. The scholarship will be
open to talented Australian violinists and
the winner entitled to two years’ free
tuition at the Paris Conservatoire. Photo
by Norton-Trevaire.
Scheduled for Monday, April 2, at the
Troc. is the Annual Ball of the Loreto
ex-students, always a good party. The
president of the ball is Dr. Tess Car-
michael and the proceeds are in aid of
the school bursary and building fund.
The latest ingredient to go into
cosmetics is silk. Just how this fibre is
incorporated in a face cream is not easy
to imagine, but it sounds nice. Not so
long ago the craze was for “hormone
cream” which was designed for the
“maturing skin” (in plain language this
means lined and wrinkled skin). It was
very successful, but now a new cream
on the American market is advertised as
guaranteed “absolutely free of hormones.”
This reminds one of the man who had a
lot of very pale salmon so he put it up in
tins labelled “guaranted not to go pink
in the tin.”
The fancy talk of cosmetic and fashion
advertisements has now gone so far that
reaction must surely set in soon. One
writer says that it would be a relief to
see advertised “Cheap dresses for fat
women” instead of “Budget-priced glamor
gowns for the not-so-slim.” Well, it’s a
moot point. Vanity is still very strong
in most of us. A very large firm which
makes corsets (foundation garments)
always marks its goods 2in. smaller than
they really are because they sell more
that way. To wear a dress marked S.W.,
no matter how large it is, gives an O.S.
woman a lift in morale, even though it
might have a bad effect on her plans for
dieting.
Beethoven’s Sonata in C Sharp Minor
(the “Moonlight”) will be played by
Ronald Farren Price at his concert at
the Conservatorium on March 15.
Ronald, who is the winner of the A.B.C.
1950 Commonwealth Concerto competi-
tion, leaves in July for Europe. His
concert comes between the two which
Richard Farrell gives at the Con. this
week, so it will be particularly interesting
to hear him.
The Royal Empire Society’s Jubilee
“at home” will be held on March 21 at
2.30 p.m., when the hostesses will be
Mrs. P. C. Spender and Mrs. G. Mack.
They will entertain wives of the High
Commissioners of Commonwealth coun-
tries, overseas visitors and country mem-
bers “down for the Show.”
From Melbourne
Harlequins danced, Anna and the King
of Siam looked the dancers over with
lordly air, Hamlet and Ophelia went their
gloomy ways, two Ugly Sisters followed
in the train of a very pretty Cinderella
while stately ladies in hooped gowns and
white wigs accompanied by swains in
velvet and laces tripped a measure at the
Theatre Ball in St. Kilda Town Hall.
Conservative Melbourne went gay in a
bewildering array of costumes, depicting
characters from ballet, opera and litera-
ture. It was all part of the National
Theatre Movement Arts Festival, and the
800 dancers moved in a Mardi Gras
atmosphere.
Governor Sir Dallas Brooks, Lady
Brooks and their daughter Jeanette were
received by the president of the National
Theatre Movement, Sir Robert Knox
(imposing as a figure from “Chu Chin
Chow”) and Lady Knox (as Lady Teazle)
and the president of the ball committee,
Mrs. Fred Dennett (as Isolde). Lady
Brooks wore a gown of champagne-tinted
satin which had a bodice finished with a
Bertha collar and a full skirt of unpressed
pleats. Gold coins jingled on the white
blouse worn by daughter Jeanette, who
had the vividly striped skirt of a gipsy
dancer. Others in the official party were
Lady Angliss, Spanish costume from
“Carmen” ; Gertrude Johnson, Queen of
the Night from “The Magic Flute” ; and
Gladys Moncrieff, Teresa from “The
Maid of the Mountains.”
Mrs. Philip Dare, pictured here, has
just returned home after a trip overseas.
While abroad she visited most of the
famous fashion houses, including
Christian Dior and Jacques Path, and
brought back many interesting details
which she has incorporated in her Stell-
Ricks creations. Specially interesting is
the theatre coat fashioned of black
English duvetyn, with large black velvet
flaps on the patch pockets, a shawl collar
edged with black velvet, and with black
velvet making wide cuffs on the sleeves
which, by altering the cuffs, makes the
sleeves shorter. John Warlow photo.
Banana is a new color, and a coat made
of gabardine was so cleverly cut that the
slit pockets were formed in cutting the
top of the coat, which had push-up sleeves
and a tulip collar. Winter white mohair
fashioned another coat which was waisted
and had a swing back, while pockets and
front featured the new oblique line. The
jacket story tells of nipped-in waists and
rounded hiplines, padded to give the right
effect. These jackets can be worn with
slim, tight skirts or the skirt pleated all
round. Other jackets have the oblique
line achieved by one long lapel to button
just below the waist.
Blythswood, Kew, home of Lady Syme,
was the setting for a gay masked ball
given by Commander and Mrs. Hore-
Lacey for Jennifer Haggard’s 21st birth-
day. Jennifer is the daughter of Mrs.
Hore-Lacey and is Lady Syme’s grand-
daughter. Guests wore their masks and
were not announced by name. They came
up a carriage-way lit by miniature oil-
lamps which were also set among the
trees facing the house. A buffet was
arranged in the courtyard. Masks of the
males were amusing and depicted dogs,
cats, donkeys, etc. The girls chose pretty
masks. Mrs. Hore-Lacey received the
guests in a gown of gunmetal silk, the
flowing skirt finely pleated and with
flower embroidery of silver paillettes on
the bodice. With her gown of pearl-pink
and grey brocaded satin, Jennifer wore a
black velvet mask with two pearl “tears”
and edged with tiny white feathers. A
silver-striped turquoise taffeta gown and
a blue velvet mask veiled with tulle and
finished with little blue feather wings
hid Jeanette Brooks. Mrs. Jacqueline
Deasey, Jennifer’s sister, chose a mask
of black velvet fastened at the side with
diamente clips and Mrs. Peter Condon’s
silver-edged mask was scarlet to match
the bolero worn over her gown of white
brocade. A Parma violet mask, dotted
with sequins, matched the violets pinned
in the shoulder of the pale-maize mar-
quisette gown worn by Mrs. Hugh Mc-
Kenzie.
When the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital say
goodbye to members going home to the
United States they present each with an
engraved silver teaspoon. At their
afternoon-tea party in the Venetian Court
of the Hotel Australia Mesdames C. E.
Norton and Helene Fischer were the
recipients. Mrs. Daum, smart in a
cinnamon-brown linen suit with pheasant
feathers trimming her brown straw
cloche, was elected president. A surprise
visit was paid by foundation-member
Mrs. Jerome Potter, who came on the
Caronia for a short holiday. Her un-
usual silk frock was patterned in a
leopardskin design and featured black
velvet cuffs and collar ; her small hat was
of black velvet. Welcomed back was
Mrs. W. W. Killough, after four months
in New York with her daughter, where
she met for the first time her first grand-
child. Mrs. Killough chose a very smart
winter-white felt bowler-hat finished with
a birdcage veil, and her frock was a
London-tan and white silk. Others
present were Mesdames H. Settle,
Herbert Allen, Harry Cavenaugh, Jules
Bernard, Tom Blarney and Miriam
Ramey.
This country achieved a triumph in
opera with the premiere of “Aida,”
which starred Marjorie Lawrence and
brought into the limelight Betna Pontin.
So absorbing was the opera that many
of the large audience missed the last train
and thought it worth the experience.
Members of the Lawrence family came
from Dean s Marsh and Winchelsea to
see their favorite singer in grand opera.
There was a brilliantly-dressed audience,
among them many who had heard
Marjorie Lawrence in opera-houses in
Europe and America.
Lady Disney was in the official party,
which included the Premier and Mrs.
McDonald. Lady Disney's gown was of
pale amethyst satin worn with gold and
amethyst jewellery, and her shoulders
covered with a matching tulle stole. Mrs.
Len Buxton wore gold and black taffeta
and was accompanied by her daughter,
Mrs. Ross Batten. Outstanding was the
short, emerald-green jewel-encrusted
moire jacket worn by Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh over her black gown. Madame
Reshid Bey wore an off-the-shoulder gold
taffeta gown, Madame Stern wore a
platina-fox stole with her black
embroidered crepe gown, and Madame
Chable chose a red-and-black-shot-taffeta
gown. Mrs. Paddy Moran’s white crepe
gown was gold-embroidered, and Mrs.
Scobie McKinnon’s black gown had the
off-the-shoulder bodice edged with
emerald-green satin. Mrs. P. Elcoate
chose a bouffant gown of pastel-pink tulle
worn with a matching stole, Mrs. A. A.
Lord wore pale aquamarine-blue with
silver bead trimming and Gladys Mon-
crieff pinned purple orchids in the bodice
of her silver lame gown.
Highlight of the autumn race festivities
was the Government House garden-party.
Four thousand guests were invited. A
high wind and gloomy skies made dressing
of women guests uncertain, so silk frocks
and garden-party hats mingled with
autumn frocks and hats. Lady Brooks
wore a dove-grey French crepe frock
with the slim skirt featuring a draped
apron front. The long tight-fitting sleeves
were set low at the dropped shoulderline.
Her shallow crowned hat was of black
ballibuntal straw. Jeanette Brooks wore
an orchid-pink two-piece suit, the skirt
knife-pleated to match the basque of the
jacket. Lady Albermarle’s dress was of
white ripple nylon, sashed in sapphire-
blue and finished with a stole of the
nylon. The Lady Stratheden and Camp-
bell chose a graceful frock of amber
faille, pin-spotted in black made with a
portrait neckline and draped skirt. Her
black velour picture-hat was finished with
a gold plume. Mrs. T. T. Hollway chose
a navy-blue sheer frock and small match-
ing navy-blue cloche with a white felt
folded crown. Lady Disney covered her
tulip-patterned frock with a full-length
black grosgrain coat and her hat was a
wide-brimmed black straw. Heather
Menzies wore a pale London-tan linen
dress printed all over with bold white
letters forming the word Paris.


The PERFECT Port
at the POPULAR price
f
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMs
A man and a gun won the U.S. Army’s
Silver Star in Korea recently. The man,
Private J. H. Stafford, of South Perth,
with the gun, a Bren, slid round the flank
of a well-served enemy light m.g. post,
fixed that, took on the main enemy
position, laid such accurate fire on it that
his pinned-down cobbers moved up and
added their fire. Thus helped, Stafford
went forward with his Bren spit-
ting from the hip, to such devastating
effect that the rest of his platoon more-or-
less walked in on the position. Still with
some ammo left, the gunner came to what
he thought was a camouflaged dugout;
let go, and to his gratified surprise
caused a violent explosion. He’d
hammered into ammunition on the side
of an enemy tank. The tank’s crew
abandoned ship ; the Bren was waiting.
Stafford was the target for intense enemy
fire throughout these operations—he
carried something else with him beside
his gun.
Took off for the U.S. the other day
to look over coalmining developments
there, Charles Marshall, adviser to the
Coal Board, richly-seamed in mining
experience, lately Professor of Geology
at Nottingham (Eng.) University, now the
same at Sydney’s. As nimble as a flea, a
powerhouse of energy, the 42-year-old
professor on return will set up a coal-
research laboratory at the ’Varsity.
The passing of Thomas Peters in
Sydney recently snapped a widely-known
link with early public-works construction
in and around the city. Having worked
on the construction of the western rail-
way through the Blue Mountains, he fol-
lowed that with Parramatta’s sewerage
and the wood-blocking of many Sydney
streets. Then he traded as Lane and
Peters—the Cataract Dam grew under his
guidance, as did Burrinjuck, both for the
N.S.W. Public Works Department. The
Water Board got him then, and before
transferring to the Main Roads Depart-
ment he left the mark of his competence
on many of Sydney’s sewers, sub-mains
and pumping-stations, as well as laying,
for the City Council, miles of main
electric cables from Bunnerong. A life-
governor of Sydney Hospital, one of the
founders of Furlough House, Narrabeen
(N.S.W.) —to which he loaned a starting
£5OOO and later made it a gift—he
reached 85.
“Fitz”; Irrepressible Ray Whiting, whose
drawings are delighting Bulletin readers again,
was drawing for the paper long before most of
the present-day regulars. Born just over half-
a-century ago in Sydney, Whiting, whose grand-
father fought the Redcoats at Eureka, went to
the very best schools, and his father, a wealthy
Melbourne merchant, intended that his son
should follow a business career. Ray, however,
who was always in and out of trouble because
of his cartooning at school, was determined to
be an artist, and, after some early success with
Melbourne “Punch,” art won the day. He
studied under Julian Ashton in Sydney, and
while a student contributed to The Bulletin
and “Smith’s Weekly,” and was one of the
lively young Bohemians of the period. He did a
lot of speedy motoring, and between hill-climbs
and trials, when he broke an occasional bone,
he was, apart from drawing feverishly, engaged
in amateur boxing and producing plays for
charity. He tramped the country, sketchbook
in hand, for Melbourne “Herald” during the
depression, and in 1929 went to England, drew
comic sketches for motoring papers, and had
a three-act play, “The Man Who Did,” pro-
duced at the Comedy Theatre, London. Several
visits to the East with a sketchbook followed,
and once he was commissioned to deliver 100
greyhounds to Bombay, which he did, sound in
limb and barking (the greyhounds). Despite
medical disabilities he left Australia for War 11
as gunner reinforcement to the 2/12th Field
Regiment in the Middle East, and saw action
in Syria and North Africa, driving a gun-tractor
when he was not on hygiene or cookhouse
duties. In the latter job he was always being
bawled out by the sergeant-cook for doling out
too much porridge—it was the family product.
He came home to Australia with the 9th
Division after Alamein. An arm injury having
put him in hospital, he finished the war sar’-
major, instructing in camouflage. He now lives
by the beach at Mt. Eliza (Vic.), with his
dalmatians and Bulletin ideas for good
company.
Pictured here by Coventry, Dominic
Paul McGuire has returned recently
from Prime Minister Menzies’s con-
ference in London, which he attended
as an adviser. Giving, even in casual
conversation, the impression of thought-
ful, energetic intelligence, McGuire is
rigged well enough to advise on world
affairs —in the last 10 years there are few
capitals he hasn’t cast up in, observing,
writing, lecturing. Very widely-read also,
McGuire learnt his pothooks at the
McGUIRE.
Christian Brothers’ College in Adelaide,
and served in the R.A.N. in World War
11, from which came the excellent Price
of Admiralty, written with his wife, who
turned out as well the mass of accurate
information in The Royal Australian
Navy, probably the best reference work
on the subject. In his earlier days a poet
of some class, McGuire has written such a
capital travel book as A ustralian Journey
and a swag of detective novels. A nuggety,
cosmopolitan 47.
“C. 8.”: A story the late Jimmie Quinn
(B. 7/3/’5l) used to tell concerned a
portrait he painted of a high church
dignitary. The sitter was restless and
Quinn expostulated, “I don’t mind you
moving your body so much. Your Grace,
but couldn’t you keep your head still?”
“I have nothing to look at,” said the
h.c.d. “If you put one of your pictures
on the wall behind you I think I could
concentrate more.” Without looking
round, Quinn reached back, picked up a
picture leaning with its face against the
wall and hung it up. His Grace re-
mained motionless for the rest of the
sitting. Quinn had hung up a nude paint-
ing.
The line of the musical Bradley family,
of Melbourne, looks likely to be con-
tinued in the person of one-time child
prodigy Desmond Bradley, now a suffi-
ciently-mature violinist to earn this
prognosis sent to his parents by his tutor
in Paris, Georges Enesco; “I find your
son greatly gifted. His instrumental
equipment is excellent. The way he
understands the meaning of music is
excellent.... there is no reason why he
should not become a really great master.”
Enesco never undertakes the teaching of
more than three pupils at one time —he
was Yehudi Menuhin’s master. The 15-
year-old boy, who gets his musicianship
from mother Eunice Garland and father
Reginald Bradley, started playing the
fiddle at three, gave his first recital at
seven in the Town Hall, at eight played
as soloist at a Symphony Orchestra
concert and at 14 came top of 6098 in
an A.B.C. competition. He has cousins
coming on, too —three of them, children
of Kevin Bradley* all play some instru-
ment or other.
Hot on the trail of New Zealand’s
scenic wonders, particularly Stewart
Island and the Sounds area, for colorful
presentation to the world through his
journal the “National Geographic
Magazine,” Howell Walker, of Wash-
ington (U.S.). In Australia when Pearl
Harbor was lambasted, Walker became
an Intelligence officer with the U.S.
Army, his intimate knowledge of the East
Indies being the qualification.
This week Leo Wilson, the world-
known English dog-judge, arrives in Aus-
tralia in the middle of a six-weeks’
canine-criticising tour. He’ll certainly
earn his money—on the way out he
judged in Calcutta for the Indian Kennel
Club; and in Singapore for the Malayan
Kennel Club Show. In Sydney for the
Royal Easter he’ll judge all breeds bar
cattle dogs and kelpies; in Honolulu the
Hawaiian Dog Association awaits him ;
and, on return to the U.K. next month,
he will decide the Peterborough White
Terrier Club championships.
Another ex-serviceman who made good
use of his rehab, studies, Rex Hobcroft
is back in Melbourne from Paris, where
he studied the piano with the celebrated
Madame Basourret, who seems to
specialise in Australian pupils. Doing
music at the Adelaide Conservatorium
when war sounded, he joined the Air
Force, pilot on coastal patrol. De-
mobbed, he flew with Ansett until rehab,
gave him his chance to renew his studies
with Raymond Lambert at the Mel-
bourne University Conservatorium. Hob-
croft did so well that a year or so later
he was appearing in London as pianist
with the Sadler’s Wells Ballet at Covent
Garden. His father was a soldier-settler
of War I, at Redcliffs on the Murray.
Asked to write his own ticket in auto-
biography, Frank McNamara, here por-
trayed by Prior, furrowed his paint-
brush brows and turned in the following:
Started Hitler’s war in the Armored
Division, shifted to Intelligence, staff-
sergeant with the 6th Infantry Brigade,
served in New Guinea and New Britain,
landed at Jacquinot Bay, and served in
the 4th Tactical Recco Squadron with
Steve Heysen, son of Hans. Having got
on to painting, autobiography became
reminiscence, not of himself but of
painters he knew and knows. Interest-
ing, too, but McNamara has done enough
in his own right to warrant filling in the
autobiographical gaps not mentioned in
McNAMARA.
his own record —at 34 one of Australia’s
youngest successful watercolorists, first-
prize winner of the War on Land Section
of the Australia-wide “Australia at War”
exhibition, well represented in the N.S.W.
National Gallery, as well as in most
capitals, and, as Redpaged in this issue, in
a fine little book of his watercolors. More
probably will be heard of Mr. Mc-
Namara—which those members of the
Recco Squadron holding portraits of
themselves he drew in New Guinea could
remember.
Last week knight John Medley
graduated into retirement from the vice-
chancellorship of Melbourne University,
a post he’d held with great benefit to the
University for the past 13 years. Pro-
fessor George Paton, Dean of the Law
Faculty since 1943, and Victorian Rhodes
Scholar, 1926, takes over.
“Uramao”: Cast up again on his native
Fern Land, that remarkable medico L. S.
Rogers, whose exploits with Tito
partisans in the late scrap made welcome
and red-blooded copy for Maoriland
newspapers some five years ago. With
Hitler beaten, Rogers explored in Persia,
gathering some valuable antiques, among
them a statue of a Sumerian god of
3000 b.c. vintage, and another full-length
deity statue only 500 years younger. An
Otago University graduate of 1927, at
the moment he’s Professor of Surgery at
the Royal School of Medicine, Baghdad.
Angus H. Amos, present warden of
the Glamorgan (Tas.) Council, on some
distinguished records of service to the
council which, formed in 1860, is the
oldest rural municipal authority in
Tasmania:
May I point out that, though two branches
of the Amos family have been councillors for
three generations, only two generations have
held the office of warden —the late Alfred J.
Amos, son of James Amos, one of the first
councillors, and his two sons, L.A. and
thyself. The Shaw family have held office for
three generations, and the Lynes (two branches)
two generations. The Collin family were
councillors for 73 years without a break, but
for the last 17 years have not held office. The
senior councillor is A. V. Lyne, who has been a
councillor for 38 years without a break, and
during that period has been a warden for eight
or nine years.
Rotary International thinks enough of
26-year-old Adelaide medico Donald
Cheek to present him with a special
£l3OO Fellowship to further his medical
research at America’s Yale. He first
attracted the donors’ attention about a
year ago, with his good work researching
into Pink’s disease among children.
Cheek’s is the third award of the special
Fellowship, and the first to go to an
Australian.
Frank R. Moulds, recently appointed
principal of Creswick (Vic.) Forestry
School, is a graduate of that institution
and its first to be awarded the high
American degree of Doctor of Philosophy
of Yale. The research for his 200-page
thesis took him almost four years. Done
partly in the U.S., it dealt with Pinus
insignis or radiata, the tree most com-
monly used to check deforestation in
Victoria. The new doctor is 37.
Into the Silence;
In Perth, Monsignor Peter Hayes, parish
priest of Bunbury, and former A.I.F. chaplain.
Born in Tipperary, ordained in Dublin, he came
to Westralia in 1902, and was administrator of
St. Mary’s (Perth) Cathedral from 1911 till he
went overseas with the 3rd Australian Division
in 1916. He remained on active service till
1919, being “mentioned” by Haig. An out-
standing administrator.
In Melbourne, at 58, Charles Montefiore
Nightingall, who pioneered X-ray in the days
when it was much more dangerous to handle
than it is at present. He established, in asso-
ciation with his brother, the first X-ray equip-
ment at the Base Military Hospital in War I.
In Sydney, at 81, Joseph Charles Prowse,
one-time police-inspector and King’s Medallist.
Prowse learnt his policing in exciting times —
he was in charge of the Gulgong (western
N.S.W.) lock-up when the Breelong blacks were
terrorising the countryside. One of 14 children
of an old pioneering family of Adelong, Prowse
was the only son of eight who did not stay on
the land. A brother, J. H. Prowse, represented
the Westralian electorates of Swan and Forrest
in the House of Representatives for 23 years.
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 47, Dr. David Gervan
McMillan, the city’s deputy-mayor. Elected
Labor member in 1935, when Michael Savage’s
party was returned, the doctor, at 37, became
one of the youngest Ministers in New Zealand’s
history. Influential in shaping social-security
legislation, he retired from politics in 1943 to
build up one of the largest practices under the
system.
In Sydney, at 63, flourmiller Harry Gordon
Jackett, who took off the mayoral chains of
Burwood (Sydney) to represent it in the State
Parliament between 1935-38. By 1941 he was
back again, small-framed and big-voiced, and
was still Burwood’s member at the end.
In Melbourne, Arthur Chanter, composer,
singing-master and first student to be enrolled
at the Melbourne University Conservatoriiim of
Music. Graduating as a Bachelor of Music, he
took some of his compositions to London, had
them published, and also had two of his operas
produced in Melbourne.


One of the most Important
Documents you
will ever sign . . .
n
'J
*9
YOUR WILL is a document that vitally affects the
welfare of your dependants. It should be competently
drawn; it should be promptly revised whenever
necessary; and it should appoint an efficient Executor
and Trustee for your Estate. In this regard, a wise
choice is to appoint the Permanent Trustee Company
. . . specialists in Trust and Estate management since
1887, with over £1,000,000 of uncalled capital and assets
as your guarantee of security.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
Permanent
Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E.,
M.B.ChM., F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager:
F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary:
S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector:
Hugh Stewart.
PT. 26.19
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE NEW ATOM-BOMBS.
Adding up such evidence as
he has been able to muster, a
“New York Times” corres-
pondent has concluded that the
purpose of the most recent
atom-bomb tests (near Las
Vegas, in southern Nevada) was
to try out the “smaller” type,
or types, on which the U.S.
atomic experts have been con-
centrating over the past couple
of years.
If that is so the “smaller”
bombs would seem to be quite
big enough for most tastes —or
purposes. London “Times” pub-
lished one photograph which
could give anyone a nightmare.
It was taken at night 70 miles
from the explosion: the flash
fills the sky in the distance, and
buildings, trees, posts and what
look like beehives in the fore-
ground of the picture are prac-
tically as clear as if photo-
graphed by daylight.
On the four Las Vegas explo-
sions, the “New York Times”
man commented:
“For the United States, and
to a lesser extent for the rest of
the Western world, there is a
desperate and uneasy sort of
satisfaction in the almost cer-
tain knowledge that we have
more and more terrible atomic
bombs than our only competitor
in the race, Russia. And we
almost certainly have a long lead
on them in our research and
production facilities to make
even more terrifying variants of
the species—which very likely is
at the heart of what has been
going on out in the Nevada
desert.”
Mentioning that for the cur-
rent U.S. fiscal year the Atomic
Energy Commission has been
granted a total of $2.3 billion —
more than double any previous
year’s appropriation —to put
every ounce of effort it can
summon into its programme,
with the chief emphasis on
weapons production, the writer
points out that this has meant
not only extensive enlargements
of the existing twelve major
production and research installa-
tions scattered around the coun-
try but also the construction and
development of at least three
huge new facilities.
The most spectacular of the
new places, he reports, is the
new plant to be situated on the
Savannah River, near Aiken,
S.C. This will occupy a tract of
some 250,000 acres, and its pre-
sent cost is estimated at about
$500,000,000
Next in size is a new plant
near Paducah, Ky., for the pro-
duction of uranium-235. The
third important acquisition is
the one in Nevada, at which this
year’s tests were conducted.
This is the U.S. Air Force’s Las
Vegas bombing and gunnery
range, sprawling over some 5000
square miles of desert and moun-
tainous waste not far from Cali-
fornia’s Death Valley.
The conclusion that a
“smaller” bomb has been de-
veloped is held to be supported
by the fact of the tests having
been made where they were.
Also, it is agreed that the explo-
sions were “of a lower order
than those of Hiroshima or
Eniwetok.”
What is of course being aimed
at is an atom-bomb that can be
used “tactically”—i.e., against
masses of troops.
The “Aggressor” Brand.
Against the possibly general
idea that the “aggressor” brand-
ing of China was all right as a
gesture but had no real signifi-
cance, a New York “Herald
Tribune” writer lists one or two
rather more substantial effects:
“Because Red China is an
aggressor, she cannot be ad-
mitted into the United Nations
until the Communist regime has
been completely purged of any
further tendency toward aggres-
sion and pledged herself to make
reparation for damage done to
Korea. This means that in all
probability Red China will not
get into the U.N. for a long
time, and perhaps not at all,
especially if another Govern-
ment of substantial strength
should emerge to challenge Red
China’s claims to recognition.
“With Red China declared an
aggressor. Great Britain and
other Governments which have
recognised the Peking regime
will be in a position to with-
draw such recognition. Other-
wise they would be in the em-
barrassing position of carrying
on diplomatic relations with an
aggressor regime. [The Attlees,
apparently, have no objection to
continuing in that “embarras-
sing position.”]
“The United States, by agree-
ing to limit the war to Korea,
has not foreclosed the oppor-
tunity on a subsequent occa-
sion to demand that the U.N.
permit the bombing of Man-
churia as a means of ridding
Korea of aggression.
“Measures of economic and
naval blockade of Red China
will be brought up for discus-
sion later on, but as long as the
fighting inside Korea is inde-
cisive, there is no immediate
pressure for the adoption of
further penalties against the
territory of Red China.”
The Opposing Forces.
An estimate put out by the
U.S. Senate Foreign Relations
Committee gives the round
figure of “over 4,000,000,
organised into about 175
divisions” as the Soviet armed
strength at the end of last year.
Soviet satellites, excluding
Communist China, add a further
1,000,000 men under arms.
At the same date about
2,300,000 men were under arms
in the ground forces of the U.S.
and the North Atlantic Treaty
countries, while total armed
forces, land, sea and air, were
about 4,500,000. As well, there
were about 2,700,000 in the
organised reserves of those
countries.
Listing estimated comparative
East - West capabilities, the
report said the gross national
income for the Soviet Union and
its satellites was $112,000
million, while gross national
income for the West was
$434,000 million.
A German Labor
Experiment.
Examining editorially what it
describes as a “development of
great significance and still un-
foreseeable consequences,” “New
York Times” gives details of
the arrangements resulting from
German trade-unions having,
under the threat of strike, forced
the Bonn Government to agree
to a “drastic industrial re-
organisation.”
By the new agreement (as the
New York paper interprets it).
Providence ( U.S.A .) “Bulletin."
BUT WILL JOE SIT BACK AND WAIT?
the German trade-union leaders
are guaranteed a 50 per cent,
share in the management of
German industry, beginning
with coal, iron and steel, with-
out any financial risks to them-
selves or to their unions.
They have exacted a law
which provides that iabor, as
represented by the trade-unions,
shall have equal representation
with the old management in both
the board of directors and an
executive committee managing
each company, as well as in a
top organisation, called a
“senate,” representing each in-
dustry as a whole.
As members of these bodies
the trade-union directors and
senators will have an equal voice
with the old management, not
only in matters of wages, hours
and working conditions, but also
in all day-to-day operations, in-
cluding business policy, produc-
tion quantity and methods, pur-
chasing, selling, amount of em-
ployment, sale or shutdown of
plants and, most important of
all, in appointments to manage-
ment positions.
The owners and stockholders
are relegated to back seats with
little voice in their companies’
affairs, and the only check on
complete union domination is to
be the presence in these bodies
of either an “independent,” a
“technical,” or, in the case of
the “senate,” a Government
representative, holding the bal-
ance of power.
On which set-up the “New
York Times” comments:
“This system, which leaves
ownership of the means of pro-
duction in private hands but de-
prives the owners of control,
passes under the name of
workers’ ‘co-determination.’ It
is not exactly new, having been
on Socialist programmes in many
European countries since the
war, and in some countries it
has already been introduced in
an advisory form. But nowhere
has it been expanded to the
point now contemplated in Ger-
many, and once introduced there
it may well attain impetus in
other Western countries as well.
At its best it might increase pro-
duction and labor peace by giv-
ing workers a sense of partici-
pation. But it could also be
used by trade-union officials to
centralise industrial control in
their own bureaucracy and thus
not only impair productive
efficiency but also become the
vehicle of political domination
by a minority unable to win a
majority at the polls.”
Truman Hopes.
Always inclined to be
optimistic—and so far mostly
right in his optimism—Presi-
dent Truman was still hopeful
when he spoke recently on U.S.
world leadership:
“Fate has made this country
a leader in the world. We
shirked our responsibility in the
19205, We cannot shirk it now.
We must assume that respon-
sibility now, and it will take
everything we have —all the
brains and all the resources that
we can mobilise.
“Leadership carries with it
heavy responsibilities. Good
leaders do not threaten to quit
if things go wrong. They expect
co-operation, of course, and
they expect everyone to do his
share, but they do not stop to
measure sacrifices with a tea-
spoon while the fight is on. We
cannot lead the forces of
freedom from behind.
“The job we face is hard.
Perhaps it will be harder in the
few years immediately ahead
than it will be in the years there-
after. If we can get over the
present crisis successfully, if we
can restrain aggression before it
bursts out into another world
war, "then things will be easier in
the future ; and I think we can
do this. We cannot be sure, of
course, but there is good reason
to hope for success.”
Ho Chi-minh’s Role.
Insisting that Ho Chi-minh
and his following in Indo-China
are now “cast for a major role,”
that Ho Chi-minh is “no longer
just the leader of Nationalist re-
sistance against what Mr. Nehru
would call effete colonialism, a
personality attractive to the
European Left and even —not so
long ago—to the Americans,”
London “Economist” sums-up:
“His role now is a military
one: to maintain a third front
in the cold war by pinning down
in a crucial area of Asia men
and material needed for the de-
fence of Western Europe.
“How successful he has
already been is seldom grasped
outside France. Here on China’s
southern frontier, 8000 miles
from home, are engaged 150,000
troops, the cadres of n.c.os. and
technicians around which the
new French Army in Europe of
20 divisions should be forming.
The budget for the campaign of
1951 is almost half of the cost
of home defence —that is to say,
of France’s contribution to the
Atlantic Pact.”
The Almighty State.
Some thoughtful diagnosing
by Richard Law, M.P., in his
book Return from Utopia, pub-
lished by Faber and Faber:
“It will hardly be disputed
that the outstanding fact about
the world we live in is the
tremendous exaltation of the
authority of the State that we
have seen in our lifetime. Nor
will it be denied that as the
power of the State increases
beyond a certain point, the
dignity of man tends to be
diminished and his personality
to be devalued.
“And yet there are many
high-minded people who support
the idea of a planned society, a
society in which the whole
activity of the community is
directed in detail by the State,
not so much because, as they
also claim, it will be productive
of more material well-being than
the free society, but precisely
because they believe that it will
be a ‘better’ society, better in
the sense that the men and
women who compose it will be
not only physically but morally
superior to those who live in a
free society.
“What is the basis of this
astonishing creed? It arises, I
think, from an intellectual con-
fusion about the nature of
human virtue. This confusion
shows itself, for example, in the
naive belief that private property
is evil, and that the members of


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Er:ceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
f
Mi)
BULLDOG
Crude Oil Tractor
saves
me
QUO
every,
year! \
4i YEARS
NON-STOP OPERATION
Can you Imagine such amazing perform-
ance? Yet that’s the actual equivalent in
terms of time worked by this remarkable
Bulldog Tractor owned by Mr. R. W. Irvin
tof Tulletop. He writes;
"My 11-years-old "N” Model Lanz Tractor
worked 30,000 hours before it was rebored
and approximately 1 0,000 hours since, and is
still in really good order. The transmission
has not been renewed anywhere, nor have
the king pin bushes been replaced, or front
wheel bearings adjusted. Over the I 1 years I
have paid out £204 in repairs and replace-
ments, including a rebore. Fuel consumption
on most work pulling 6-furrow, I.H.C. mould-
board plough, 12-disc Shearer, 18-run com-
bine and Bft. header ground drive is about
one gallon per hour and approximately \
gallon lubricating oil per
I 0-hour day. My tractor
has been an outstanding
tractor for reliability,
economy and power.”
1*
5*
•C7*
\2
K Lfr
ƒ
lANX
Bulldog
CimU &£ tra gtom
“Here’s how it works out! 1 work my property of 500 odd acres
with my BULLDOG on an average of 7 to 8 times a year and use
approximately 1875 gallons of crude oil. With crude oil at 1/2 a
gallon, my total fuel bill comes to £lO9/7/6. Now, if I had a
kerosene tractor, which would consume 2 gallons of kerosene to
BULLDOG’S 1 i gallons of crude oil, doing the same work, I’d
use 2500 gallons of kerosene priced at 1/9 per gallon. That
totals £2 18/15/-! —or just double what my BULLDOG CRUDE
OIL TRACTOR costs me. When I add BULLDOG S further
savings of £7O on annual maintenance and depreciation—due to
its remarkable simplicity and heavy duty construction—all told,
my BULLDOG CRUDE OIL TRACTOR saves me £lBO
EVERY YEAR on the running costs of other tractors. I can t
afford to be without a BULLDOG. Can you?
f
Contact your State Distributor
for full particulars:
f
Boort, Vic.
“The only cost of repairs and
replacements to my 12-year-old
Lanz Bulldog Tractor was ap-
proximately £ 1 4, when the engine
itself was overhauled about two
years ago. The gears and differ-
ential have never been uncovered.
I am still using the original hot
bowl.”
C. Cable.
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304-314 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William Street, Perth.
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney
KL. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick Street, the Valley, Brisbane.
Elder Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie Street, Adelaide.
a community in which there is
no private property will be
morally better because there is
no private property.
“But, of course, the members
of such a community are neither
better nor worse, regarded as
moral beings, because private
property has been done away
with. All that happens, when
private property is abolished, is
that over one field of human
activity the practice of virtue
(or, of course, of vice) has been
made impossible. You have not
gained a moral victory. All that
has happened is that the war has
moved on to another theatre,
leaving a moral vacuum behind.
“The same kind of confusion
shows itself in the idea that we
can create a society which has a
virtue of its own, entirely distinct
from the virtue of its members.
Thus it is often said that a society
in which economic activity is
based upon competition and the
profit motive is evil, and that a
society from which competition
and the profit motive are ex-
cluded is good. But even if it
can be shown that competition
and the profit motive are wholly
evil, the most that you have done
by banning them is to remove an
evil; you have done nothing to
promote good. And if, as seems
more probable, competition and
the profit motive are innocent in
themselves but capable of abuse,
what you have done by outlaw-
ing them is once again only to
restrict the practice of virtue....
“The idea that virtue is a
function of society, as distinct
from the members of society, i;
not only a fallacy ; it is posi-
tively derogatory of the dignity
of man, because it justifies the
belief that the State has an
existence of its own apart from,
and on a plane superior to, the
life of its citizens. It justifie
any tyranny so long as the Stat
is the tyrant. It leads us to con-
fuse means with ends, and make
us forget that the State exists tc
serve man, not to master him.”
Dragnet Digest.
Munich on Wake Island. —Com-
ment in London “Economist” on the
stiffening of the U.S. attitude regard-
ing Formosa; “This development in
the policy on Formosa suggests, as
some have lately begun to suspect,
but none realised at the time, that
the real Munich of this war —and the
word has been too much used
recently—occurred at Wake Island.
Certainly the most plausible explana-
tion for the [U.S.] change of attitude
towards Formosa —a change which
just grew and was never announced —
is that, faced with a rebellious com-
mander, Mr. Truman appeased
General MacArthur at the expense
of his announced policies.”
♦ ♦ * *
Steel Repeal. —Mr. Churchill leaves
no shadow of doubt whatever: “I am
forced to repeat that should the Con-
servative party be successful in the
general election, which cannot be long
delayed, however tightly, even pas-
sionately, Ministers may cling to
office, we shall at once repeal the
Steel Act and adopt the compromise
solutions which the Trade Union
Congress have set before us.”
♦ * * *
Korea Worth While, Maybe. —“lt
is,” comments David Lawrence in
New York “Herald Tribune,” “being
asked, of course, on many sides:
‘What will all this accomplish?’ The
only answer that seems at the moment
to be acceptable is that if the Korean
episode does prevent a third world
war by impressing the Communists
that the free world will fight aggres-
sion wherever it arises, the sacrifices
made will have been more than worth
while.”
AnMcr "Woo, e-
Kon^ b Vco„omist” orr Xcfa S
the mectre of a successful substitute
for wool is looming in the form of
Dvnel the new synthetic developed
hJHfh’e Tinion Carbide and Carbon
wool except that it is non-inflam-
mahle resists chemicals and fungi, is
mothproof, and holds its shape. Also
it sells for $1 25 a pound even in
present limited production, as against
about $4 for cleaned wool, and the
makers are stepping-up output
steenlv ”
Py l * * *
T
Reinstated Germany— ln the view
of the German paper “Dm Welt,”
Germans, since Eisenhower’s visit,
can be clear on at least three points:
Even those who were Germany’s
bitter enemies are now ready to take
the Federal Republic into equal
partnership in the defence of Europe.
Germany is to have full freedom of
choice in resolving this offer. Finally,
past history is no longer to be laid
at the door of the Germany of today.
* * * *
Dodging Inflation. —After surveying
the credit restrictions and other
efforts of various countries to combat
infl-ition the monev-market editor of
ondon’ “Financial ™ Times” com-
ments • “At the head of the list of
countries which have so far made
nr> derisive moves aeainst inflation
of any kind stand thl United King-
Horn and France It also takes in
several other Commonwealth coun-
tries Switzerland, Italy, Portugal and
many Central and South American
countries. Their turn is to come.”
* * * *
No Tears for U.N.O.— S’African
Prime Minister Malan, explaining a
statement of his that South Africa
would not shed tears over the dis-
appearance of the United Nations,
said that this applied to the United
Nations as at present _ constituted.
Little was discussed on its merits at
Lake Success, he went on. Lobbies
there were a horse market. World
peace would not be achieved that
way, and either the United Nations
should be reformed—the reform to
include the abolition of the veto
or it should be replaced by some-
thing better, such as regional group-
ings on the model of the pan-
American alliance.
* * * *
Church News. —Reported by Lon-
don “Times”: “Paul Adenauer, son
of the Chancellor of the Federal
German Republic, was among 16
deacons ordained priest in Cologne
Cathedral,” on February 2.
* * * ♦
U.S.-British Unity.— Upholding the
American view that Britain (since its
new rearmament plan was announced)
is pursuing “a strong policy at home
and in Europe compared with what
we [U.S.] would consider a weak one
in the Far East,” “New York Times”
comments: “England gives the im-
pression these days of the circus
strong man who shows that he can
stand firm while two horses pull in
opposite directions. The drag from
America in the West and India in
the East is, however, unequal, for
we have the stronger pull. The new
defence programme is proof that
Britain is with us in preparing Euro-
pean defences, and if it came to a
desperate crisis she would be with us
right around the world. In all our
exasperation over events in Korea
and the United Nations, these facts
are worth keeping in mind.”
* * * *
“Final Crisis ” This Year. New
York “Herald Tribune” columnists
Joseph and Stewart Alsop see 1951 as
a year of destiny: “Unless every
intelligence service in the world is
wildly misinformed, the final crisis
in the gigantic struggle between the
free and slave systems of society will
be in 1951. It will almost certainly
confront us in America with the
terrible choice between offering to go
to war in the cause of freedom or
accepting a sort of surrender-by-easy-
stages.”
* * * *
Tough Job in Italy. London
“Economist” points to a few of the
difficulties Signor De Gasperi has to
overcome in keeping Italy aligned with
the West: “The Italian Prime
Minister has not only the powerful
arm of the Communists against him
[“the most dangerous Communist
party in Europe”]. He has also to
overcome the lingering resentment
towards the allies of the first war—
Signor Orlando, the veteran colleague
of Lloyd George, voted against the
Atlantic Pact because of the ‘humilia-
tion of Italy’—and a latent isolation-
ism, sometimes fanned by statements
from the Vatican, which encourages
hopes that Italy might, after all, be
able to stand aside from a war
between the Great Powers.”
* * * *
Mixed Views on Communism. —
“We [British] do not fed directly
menaced in our way of life if Com-
munism spreads abroad —as we feel
no danger for our monarchy if other
countries go Republican,” notes a
London “Observer” correspondent at
Lake Success. “The Americans, since
Alger Hiss, feel differently. After the
terrifying experience of stealthy,
creeping treason at the core of their
government, excused and defended
by fellow-travellers even now, they
have become doubtful whether they
can live in the same world with
Communism.”
* * * *
Schuman Plan Optimist. —Pointing
out the vital necessity for creating “a
Europe which has a future for which
Europeans will be willing to die,”
Walter Lippmann in New York
“Herald Tribune” hails an important
step: “The first great measure
towards such a Europe—certainly the
greatest in our time, and perhaps the
greatest in many centuries—is.... the
Schuman plan, which, while it is in
substance an agreement about coal
and steel, is in fact and in intention
the reconciliation of France and Ger-
many and the foundation of a partner-
ship between them. There is more
to be got out of that, not only for
the defence of Western Europe, but
for the liberation of the whole of
Europe, than out of anything else that
we now have to work with.” The
Germans, however, are being more
and more reluctant.


f
-SSS&
£ hA
SY4O
\J|OW A .. d...'
__ lns« r ‘
««**
%
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fogging Sheep.
“J.T.L.”; As one of the first
users of the T.I.F.A. equipment
for fogging sheep, I have dis-
cussed the results with other
T.I.F.A. owners, and I cannot
agree with “J.S.’s” statements
(B. 14/2/’5l). I will not say
that by fogging you will receive
absolutely a 100 per cent, kill of
parasites, but the result is so
near that the difference is of no
consequence—orthodox dipping
methods, whether plunge or
«pray, are not 100 per cent, effec-
tive. If they were, why have we
more lice now than ever before?
With the increasing shortage
of labor I could not manage
without fogging. I think the
Government and/or other
authorities should do all they
can to develop the method. I
understand that neither the
C.5.1.R.0. or the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department have a
machine, yet if I have been
correctly informed, the
C.5.1.R.0. came out with a cir-
cular condemning the method
when used to control body-
strike. I also understand that
the C.5.1.R.0. delivered this ad-
verse judgment when they had
only made two small tests, one
under insectory conditions,
which are not practicable, and
the other with about 50 sheep in
a suburban area.
In neither of these cases was
the chemical formulation recom-
mended by the agents for the
machine used. The C.5.1.R.0. is
held in the highest regard, it is
rigid and inelastic, and rightly
so if its findings are to carry
weight in the pastoral industry.
In view of the fact that no
T.I.F.A. owner has complained
about his results, surely the
C.5.1.R.0., which made tests on
less than 100 sheep, cannot
seriously consider their results
worthy to be presented against
those of graziers controlling over
a million sheep.
Results from fogging are too
consistently satisfactory for this
method to be neglected by those
in a position to help in its de-
velopment, or condemned by
anyone who has not had practi-
cal experience.
I, like other users of the
equipment, would welcome an
inquiry as to the comparative
results obtained between fogging
and spray-dipping and feel
that the agents for the machine
would co-operate in arranging
same. I have every confidence
in the method, and any forecast
that blowflies will trouble us
again will not cause me
consternation. Having installed
the T.1.F.A., I am now in con-
trol of the whole situation.
Economics of Beekeeping.
“Soc”: Whilst wool booms,
wheat is “spoke for” before the
headers roll, fruit is flung from
the drying racks to catch the
£2O-a-ton rise, eggs are dearer
than beer and the farmer’s world
is apple-pie, how can the bee-
man, crying out for succor, be
heard, or even believed?
What outsider could take it
for gospel, for example, that
there is one primary-producer
who, notwithstanding the worst
spiral of rising costs in Aus-
tralia’s history, is receiving in
actual figures of cash—let alone
buying-power less than his
father received 20 and 30 years
before him for the same tin of
honey?
Choice yellow-box honey—as
good a honey as can be gathered
anywhere in the world—is sac-
rificed for 255. a tin. Thousands
of tins were sold for this price
and less, because, penniless by
the time they got it in the tin,
bee-herders needed the money.
Those men who valued their
product stored the crop and hung
on, hoping that their executives,
flying hither and there, would
find someone who liked honey.
The panic started a year ago,
the industry-leaders are still
running hither and yon, whilst
the bee-herder has died, sold his
crop for the poor price or gone
on to less ennobling work.
Thousands upon thousands of
colonies have gone out of pro-
duction, men who have farmed
bees for a lifetime have gone
into garages and workshops,
fetching and carrying, losing
their fine sense of independence
... a vast family of “loads”
pushed out on to the highways
by speculators, poor leaders,
Governmental indifference and,
most of all, the failing honey-
consuming power of the Aus-
tralian, who can’t eat —believe it
or not—a pound and a half per
person per year,
Because of extremely bad sea-
sons and hundreds of colonies
going out of production, honey
will be short and the price
trouble will cure itself, possibly
within the next six months, but
the taint of it will blight the game
for years ahead. Right now no
banker would lend a tenner on
100 hives, notwithstanding it
took £4OO or more to set them
up.
What man in his senses would
risk money in an enterprise
where it costs a capital outlay
of £5OOO, plus a further cost of
£2 Bs. lOd. per tin of honey to
set it on the selling floor, where
it is pegged at £1 17s. 6d., and
where, mark you, it sits for any
part of a year?
That’s the bee game—while
most other primary-producers
are thriving.
Zebu Hybrids.
“Brahmin” (Fiji); It is com-
mon knowledge that, in tropical
countries, temperate - climate
breeds of cattle depreciate both
in milking and physical quali-
ties. The reason may lie in
inferior grasses or the climatic
conditions obtaining.
Twenty-five years ago experi-
ments were conducted at the
Tropical College of Agriculture
at Trinidad, with the introduc-
tion of zebu blood to arrest
further depreciation. It was
found that 1/64 influx of zebu
blood revitalised the strains of
English milking stock in each
respect.
Some years ago a number of
“Brahmin” cattle of the Guyerat
strain were introduced to Fiji
from America. With the corres-
pondence relative to the stock
was included a pamphlet con-
cerning a breed of cattle evolved
at the King ranch in Texas,
This type was bred up with the
inclusion of a proportion of
Brahmin or zebu of Guyerat
strain, and proved eminently
successful and superior to any
other breeds they had in
weight and quality of beat 1 * and
beef. I hesitate to state from
memory some of the weights
given, but I recall their being
phenomenal. It was said they
were better foragers than
ordinary breeds, and stood up
better to poor conditions.
We know in Fiji from experi-
ence that the cross may be wild
and uncontrollable, with much
of the zebu blood, but the answer
is in the new strain at the King
ranch. It would be worth the
while of our breeders to con-
tact the owners of the King
ranch.
Wheat for Cows.
“Mr.”: Where cows can get
some feed in the paddock wheat
is best fed as a supplement
ground to a fine, gritty texture
and mixed with long chaff (lin.
or more), one part of chaff to
four of wheat, otherwise it may
form into a doughy, glutinous
mass in the rumen which cannot
be regurgitated, causing food
sickness.
Where no other food is avail-
able the following mixtures are
good for a cow producing 3gal.
of milk a day: 101 b. of good-
quality oaten chaff, 91b. of
ground wheat, 51b. of linseed-
meal and loz. of ground lime-
stone ; or 101 b. of oaten chaff,
121 b. of ground wheat, 2lb. of
meatmeal and loz. of ground
limestone. If grass hay is avail-
able, 2lb, of it may be used to
replace 11b. of ground wheat.
A dry cow can be maintained
under the same conditions on
6ilb. of ground wheat daily
mixed with 21b. of long chaff and
1 per cent, ground limestone.
Show Eggs.
“Field”: The nests of layers
of show eggs should be cleaned
thoroughly and filled with saw-
dust. Grit will score the egg-
shell, and straw may stick to it,
leaving a light mark. From some
eggs these marks may be washed
off, but in all probability the
general evenness of color will be
marred.
For show sets the mam points
are uniformity of appearance
and size, texture of the shell and
its color. All must have only
one yolk.
Arrange the eggs on a table
and go over them, discarding
those with a rough surface of
pimples or ridges. Out with any
that are outsized or have dents
or bulges. Large eggs are usually
faulty and hard to match,
especially for sets of six.
In the final choice select those
which are evenly textured with
no open pores and shaped
properly. One end should be
broad, the middle reasonably
thick and the other end narrow
but not too pointed.
The judge will be looking for
the set of eggs that are the most
alike in all respects; not the
largest.
In Praise of Pyrethrum.
“The Ghoul”: Pyrethrum not
only kills all insects immediately
but is absolutely non-poisonous
to human beings and all warm-
blooded animals. This unique
quality makes it a valuable
spray where food would become
contaminated if other poisonous
chemical sprays were used. Vic-
torian Health Department recog-
nised the danger of using
poisonous compounds. The
Health Act was amended in
1946 to make it compulsory that
all preparations for sale con-
taining D.D.T. should have a
warning printed on the label to
the effect that the contents were
dangerous to human life if
allowed even to come in contact
with the skin.
Other uses for pyrethrum have
been found, including spraying
of fruit and vegetables to destroy
insect pests at times when
arsenical sprays would be too
dangerous. The insecticidal
properties of pyrethrum have
been known for over a hundred
years. With Japan at war, her
markets gone and food becom-
ing short the pyrethrum fields of
Japan became fields of food.
Kenya then became the chief
world supplier. When D.D.T.
was becoming famous many
Kenya pyrethrum-farmers had
to look to other sources of
revenue. Nevertheless, Kenya
held a practical monopoly of
pyrethrum. The price sky-
rocketed and the U.S.A. is buy-
ing up most of the available
supplies.
Australia is alive to the possi-
bilities of crops which return
6001 b. to 12001 b. of flowers to
the acre, worth £5OO an acre or
over. The plant needs very little
attention after planting, except
when harvesting and the addi-
tion of a little fertiliser to make
up for the quantity taken out of
the soil by the crop,
In 1933 a quantity of Japanese
seed was imported and trials
made ; but costs were too much,
In 1943, with the prevalence of
malaria amongst our soldiers,
pyrethrum became as important
as munitions. An experimental
station was quickly established
in Victoria to grow it in large
quantities by Italian p.-0.-w.,
and considerable quantities were
harvested by hand. A plant was
developed that could be machine
harvested; produced more
flowers per plant than those
growing in other countries ; and,
in addition, contained higher
percentages of active ingredi-
ents. With these advantages
over the plants grown in Kenya,
it would not be very difficult to
capture the world market for
Australia. The potential value
of this market is over
£A20,000,000 annually, and will
certainly increase to many times
this figure.
In suitable localities in Aus-
tralia, Tasmania and New Zea-
land farmers will find this crop
well worth while. No other
crop in Australia equals it in
return, acre for acre. It will
resist frost and drought, and is
in ideal conditions with a rain-
fall of 30in. to 60in., or under
irrigation. It is far more profit-
able than sheep, even at the
current extremely high price of
wool. Unlike most other plan-
tation crops, pyrethrum can be
established at a relatively low
cost per acre. It is also useful
for planting to wheat-land
infested with take-all disease.
Pig-feeding.
“A-Jay”: Sows should be
brought into the sty a week or
two before farrowing and fed up
to six gallons of milk per day,
but this should be reduced to
two gallons, plus bran (if avail-
able), on the date on which they
are due. Signs of constipation
should be watched for.
Baconers from spring litters
should be sold as sow-feed re-
quirements increase, as it is
important not to starve the sows
and litters. These sows require
six gallons of milk, plus an
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The sun has not yet shown any fresh southern activity,
so that the full response to the cycle of the late February
rains remains unfulfilled.
According to the cycle a new rainfall series should
develop about March 11, and at that point a fresh series of
rains in the tropics may occur, with further rains in the
Herbert, Barron and Central Queensland coast areas. Pos-
sibly the delayed January rains may occur further north.
In the southern States there is still a risk of further
heat-waves and bushfires, after the rain from the March 11
impulse has subsided.


Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4. 6, 8 cylinders. 10/6. 30/.,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. O.O.iJ.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 14/3/’5l
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7330
0 FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’*
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Science Vindicates
Antihistamines
Hailed last year as cold-
killers, they were immediately
attacked even called
“dangerous.”
In March Reader’s Digest,
Paul de Kruif, well-known
American writer reports on
antihistamines —gives you the
medical profession’s view-
point shows how recent
tests convincingly support the
original findings—that these
new drugs do help check
symptoms and prevent colds.
In the same issue, the
month’s best reading value
—37 articles of lasting inter-
est condensed from leading
magazines and current books.
Get your March Reader’s
Digest today. One shilling
and sixpence. All newsagents
and bookstalls.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
"CANADIAN CLUB” Heady Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 24/- per ib. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
"PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rnbbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oa.
Packs, Priced 8/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per Ib.
"WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that Is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
pcr lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s rood
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box IT, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
KLG
I
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE’
INSULATION
ƒ
f
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
HOB 6
f
have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
f
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from .
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
ƒ
f
f
*2 HUNTER STREET SYDN
Beware of Imitations
THERE IS ONLY ONE
f
Trade Mark of Flak Industries
CONCENTRATED
RABBIT FUMIGANT
(Approved by N.S.W. Rabbit Inspectors)
As Supplied to N.S.W. Government Railways and Soil
Conservation Commission
• QUICKER • NON-IRRITANT TO USE
• EASIER • CHEAPER (One penny per
• MORE EFFECTIVE hole)
In 2-lb. and 8-lb. Tins
This revolutionary new Concentrated Cyanide (use only 2-4 as much as old types,)
Rabbit Fumigant is obtainable throughout N.S.W. from—
Co-operative Societies
John Meagher & Co. Pty. Ltd ALL BRANCHES
M. Campbell & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
Permewan Wright Ltd.
Winchcombe Carson Ltd.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Ltd.
and all leading Stores and Stock and Station agents.
WE REGRET WE ARE UNABLE TO SELL FLAK IN VICTORIA DUE TO
CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE VICTORIAN POISONS ACT
Flak Industries
Pest Control Division f
Telegrams: “FLAKEMSYDNEY.
23 ADDISON ROAD.
MARRICKVILLE. N.S.W.
Telephone: LA 4351
additional gallon for each pig
in the litter. Meal may replace
part of this ration at the rate
of 11b. of meal for every gallon
of milk.
Garden Plants as Pests.
“Wilco”; Many a trouble-
some weed pest has had its be-
ginning in somebody’s flower-
garden. Particular care should
be taken when choosing annuals
and perennials for gardens in
warm, wet districts.
Three creepers that should be
avoided in the tropics are Aristo-
lochia elegans (usually called
Dutchman’s pipe), English
passion-flower and English jessa-
mine. Other undesirable sub-
jects are Ageratums, cox-
combs, cosmos, asparagus-fern
and bachelor’s buttons. These
plants are all right in areas of
moderate rainfall, but, in the
incessant tropical heat and
damp, they soon get out of
hand.
Chrome-plating.
“Radian”: Parts in hardened
and ground steel, which are
worn and impossible to replace,
can often be reconditioned by
chrome-plating.
In modern practice the coat-
ing of chromium can be
applied with great accuracy and
worn surfaces built up to exact
requirements, after which the
part is reground in a special
grinding machine and usually
lapped to a final fit. Chromium
as a metal has much to recom-
mend it for the building-up of
worn wearing surfaces; it is
very hard and not easily affected
by heat or corrosion.
Some discretion is necessary
in deciding which parts warrant
repair by this process. For in-
stance, it would not pay to have
a worn valve-stem plated, even
though a new valve could not be
obtained, because the average
engineering shop can manufac-
ture a new valve in less time
than it would take to repair the
old one.
Parts which I have seen suc-
cessfully chrome-plated are:
diesel-engine injector-needles and
seats, fuel - pump camshafts,
plungers and governor parts,
gearbox synchro-mesh parts,
spline shafts and selectors.
The star job was on the pinion
shaft of a large truck. A race
had seized and the shaft had
continued to rotate inside it.
Result was a badly-worn shaft,
for which no spares were avail-
able. Repair by welding was
out because of distortion and
upsetting of the original heat
treatment. The plating process
was used, mainly as an experi-
ment for future reference and,
at the most, a temporary repair.
The truck has since completed
over 35,000 miles under heavily-
loaded conditions.
It goes without saying that
this method of repair calls for
skilled workmanship and is a
specialist’s job; however, in
these times of short supply it is
well worth investigating.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mac Fergus”: Sorghum
crops off the Darling Downs
(Q’land) last season were, to
some extent, infected by smut
disease, which is probably the
most destructive of all sorghum
diseases. Tests conducted by the
Queensland Department of Agri-
culture reveal that smut can be
completely controlled by seed
treatment of two ounces to the
bushel of copper carbonate or
proprietary mercury. The de-
partment stresses that less than
two ounces to the bushel has a
corresponding decrease in con-
trol.
“Billjim”: Clean cultivation
and burning of dry weeds are
important in vegetable-weevil
control. Before ground known
to be infested is replanted re-
move remains of preceding crop
and apply turnip,
marshmallow or dandelion leaves
sprayed or dusted with arsenate
of lead.
“Myrrhee”: In Victoria green-
manure crops are best sown
before the end of March, or
earlier if there’s an autumn
break. Legumes are most suit-
able and the most commonly
used are tick beans, blue lupins
or Dun peas sown at the rate of
\\ bushels with 2cwt. of super,
to the acre. The crop’s greatest
value when turned under in early
spring is as a fertiliser, but it
also provides a large bulk of
organic matter which has a bene-
ficent effect on soil-fertility. On
acid soils lime in the form of
ground limestone, two tons per
acre, will improve the crop,
“Rooster”; Trials at the
Mallee Research Station (Vic.)
have shown that sheep can sur-
vive a drought period when fed
solely on wheat, and that there
is no advantage in crushing the
wheat. When sheep become
accustomed to wheat it can be
fed only twice a week, at the
rate of ylb. a head per feed.
They don’t fatten much on this,
but they do maintain condition.
“Big Billy”: For a long-term
pasture the following mixture
per acre will give good results:
31b. of phalaris, ylb. of Palestine
strawberry clover; ylb. of
O’Connor’s strawberry clover;
lib. of perennial ryegrass ; lib.
of shaftal clover and —on stony
knobs or other high ground—
lib. of barrel medic and lib. of
sub. clover. Strongest recom-
mendation for phalaris is that
it will, in a few years, eradicate
the übiquitous thistle. For a
short-term pasture 41b. of H.l
ryegrass and 41b. of black medic
will give excellent results.
“A-Jay”: Brown-rot of stone-
fruit is spread either from
infected twigs or old dead fruit,
which is either hanging on the
trees or lying on the ground.
Hanging fruit should be care-
fully collected and destroyed.
Fruit on the ground should be
buried deeply, and in addition
the soil, particularly around the
butts of trees, should be stirred
before bud-burst. When prun-
ing remove all twig infection.
“Billjim”: Fertiliser in store
should be given the utmost
ventilation and least condensa-
tion. Place on a platform of
crossed planks with as much
space between bags as possible.
If stacked in tiers, the tiers
should not be more than eight
bags high, with a space of 2ft.
between each tier.


(X
$
“I think I'd like
a White Horse
'-" , ■ *
better than anything”
f
dSm.
WHITE HORSE SCOTCH WHISKY
WHX7A
-MO
M 3113 B MMOM
fpn
ƒ
f
CMoM
f
wmw
FAvmm
'U,
\
mm
\
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FE IT HAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
J/f\\
6«
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
f
Your vacation
self-drive car -
anywhere Britain
and continent -
J. Davy
Europe's most reasonable rates!
Most friendly service from £1 P er
day for 30 miles, then 6d. a mile.
150 new Jaguars, Austins, Fords. Also
chauffeur-driven. Brochure from J.
Davy, 9 Logan Place, Kensington.
Cables: Jaydeecars, London.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28A), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Australian Cup is one of the
oldest races in the book^—first run
in 1863. At two miles one furlong
and a half it is the longest note-
worthy handicap flat race run in
Australia. Topping the prizemoney
with £4OOO, plus trophy, it is theoreti-
cally the principal event of the V.R.C.
autumn meeting. In actual fact the
Australian Cup has become little
more than a very ordinary suburban
handicap. Indeed, on some occa-
sions, if guided by a glance over the
acceptors, one might be excused for
supposing that the event was a
jumpers’ flat race.
The remedy which all too easily
suggests itself is to bump up the
prizemoney; winner’s cut in the Aus-
tralian Cup is a flat £2BOO, while the
winner of the Sydney Cup run a
few weeks later collects, with sweep-
stakes added, somewhere round the
£BOOO mark. However, while the
present unreasonable Government grab
of tote profits continues, Victorian
clubs are scarcely in a position to
engage in a prizemoney war with
major clubs in other States. And,
in any case, regarding the Australian
Cup, to achieve any real result would
require a far more drastic increase
than is remotely likely to be contem-
plated. Last week, as a matter of
prestige, the V.R.C. bumped the 1951
Melbourne Cup up to £14,000, which
makes it all the less likely that the
Australian Cup could be raised to the
£lO,OOO which would be necessary.
While one is reluctant to tamper with
tradition, the only other direction in
which the salvation of the Australian
Cup would seem to lie would be in
a moderate increase in the prize (say
to £5OOO or £6000) together with a
complete change in the basic nature
of the race. Instead of a handicap,
something, possibly, in the nature
of weight-for-age with penalties and
allowances, a la Futurity Stakes,
thereby offering the double induce-
ment of a weight-scale attractive to
the better weight-for-age performers
plus the opportunity to pick up a
worth-while prize at the V.R.C.
meeting without risk of incurring a
penalty for the richer A.J.C. meeting.
The 1951 running of the Australian
Cup at Flemington on Saturday
proved no exception to the unfor-
tunate trend. Originally some 78
horses had been weighted, headed by
class in the shape of Beaumaris with
9.9, Carbon Copy (9.6) and Playboy
(9.3). When they lined up on Satur-
day the field had dwindled to 16
runners. Topweight was Dark Marne,
whose 8.9 seemed more a tribute to
his deeds of a couple of seasons back
than an assessment of his more recent
form. Hoyle was next with 8.8;
then it was a big drop to Raysun with
7.4, and nine of the others were
weighted at 7st. or under.
Forsaken by the better-class horses,
the Cup was also marked by the
absence of leading riders. The very
low weights of most acceptors gave
few senior hoops a chance to com-
pete for the handsome winning fee of
£l4O. Even as it was, with apprentices
aboard the majority of runners, over-
weight had to be declared in seven
cases, and when overweight ranges as
high as 111 b. it must make the handi-
capper wonder why he bothered.
In one respect the 1951 Cup did
provide a spot of variety—it was won
by the favorite. Bold Belle was the
first Cup favor|te to do the trick since
Marauder in 1938. Trainer Peter
Fergus had at no stage been reticent
in expressing his belief that Bold
Belle was really the goods for the Cup,
and after putting a record-breaking
track gallop behind her on Thurs-
day the mare started on Saturday a
warm favorite at 11 to 4. Receiving
a knock early in the race which sent
her back to the tail of the field, and
again later encountering a dead-end
pocket when she went for a run on
the rails, the favorite gave her sup-
porters brief moments of anxiety;
however, all doubts were put to rest
when she ranged up to race round the
leaders on the turn. In the straight
Bold Belle stretched out and won run-
ning away by four lengths. The grey
Land Tax was second and Purdey
third.
All three placegetters are five-year-
old mares. A daughter of that good
sire of stayers Solar Bear and Petite
Joan (dam of Bold Beau), Bold Belle
was purchased at the 1947 yearling
sales for 575 guineas. Early she was
a backward filly, and the job of
bringing her up to racing condition
was not made any easier by her being
involved in three falls. All things
considered, her record of two wins
and three seconds from 29 starts is
not quite sp bad as it might be
thought of a five-year-old, especially
since her placings, representing nearly
£4OOO in stakes, have been registered
in rather less than three months.
Bold Belle was ridden in the Cup by
W. A. Smith.
The most thrilling win of the day
was San Domenico’s brilliant, though
ever so narrow, defeat of True Course
in the mile C. M. Lloyd Stakes. San
Domenico (G. Whitney) led through-
out, and after being permitted to set
a very leisurely pace in the first three
furlongs he had enough left at the
end to beat a fast-finishing True
Course by a head. True Course
started a hot favorite at 10 to 9.
San Domenico went out at 13 to 2,
and while his win at a mile may
have surprised many Melbourne
punters it must have enriched Sydney
visitors who recalled the Hua gelding
“Make it snappy, boys. Np more than two rounds — I've
got to get away early.”
defeating Grey Boots, Achilles, Play-
boy and others at weight-for-age over
the same journey in the spring.
Four of the six runners in the
Ascot Vale Stakes (6f.) for two-
year-olds were accorded solid support,
but Beau Silhouette and Diplomacy
were the most fancied, and duly
fought out the finish. Favorite Beau
Silhouette (R. Heather) scored by a
half-neck after Diplomacy had tried
to lead all the way. A son of
Culverhill and the 1936 Oakleigh
Plate winner Belle Silhouette, Beau
Silhouette has notched up two wins,
interspersed by four successive
seconds, in his last six starts.
* * * *
A number of interesting items were
noted at Rosehill on Saturday, includ-
ing the fact that an absence of special
race-trains renders the course a con-
foundedly inaccessible neck of the
woods; but the most remarkable
feature of proceedings was the blithe
indifference which the majority of
punters exhibited towards solid recent
form. Thus Drastic (B. Killian), with
three consecutive wins to his credit,
was allowed to start fourth in the
betting at 7 to 1 for the Railway
Quality Handicap; the last-start win-
ner Amused (G. Podmore) went out
almost the rank outsider at 14 to 1
for the Rosehill Cup: and Tesmic
(W. Cook), also a good winner in
similar company at his previous start,
went out at tens for the first Parra-
matta Mixed. All three won, the
combination of Drastic and Amused
returning £5l 12s. 9d. for five-bob
on the doubles tote.
The six-year-old Binnia Gift gelding
Drastic is the most astonishingly im-
proved galloper in training. When
he went out for the Minto Handicap
at Randwick in January his last pre-
vious win had been in a suburban
Welter in 1949, and prior to that he
had won only a Mixed Stakes and a
couple of minor events at country
meetings. However, he won the
Minto Handicap, and in rapid order
since has bagged the Australia Day
Handicap, the Glenfield Handicap and
Saturday’s Quality. Undoubtedly the
handicapper must be fairly itching to
do something really drastic about his
assessment of the gelding at 7.2 for
the Doncaster.
Other excellent performances were
turned in by three-year-olds in the
Railway Quality. New Zealand-bred
Davey Jones, having his first start
here, came from the clouds in dash-
ing style to finish a close second, and
the local colt Poitiers was only a
head behind the New Zealander.
Best of other efforts seen at Rose-
hill were Grey Boots’s effortless win
in the 9-furlongs weight-for-age
Rawson Stakes and the fine, sustained
run with which the Delville Wood
colt Hydrogen (W. Cook) won the
MacArthur Quality for two-year-olds.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Warwick Trial Stakes: Rumyle, 1;
Tapoaki, 2; Exlight, 3. Fairfield
Handicap: Montana, 1; Lloric, 2;
Betoota Bound, 3. Cobbity Handi-
cap : Alister, 1; Aristocrat, 2; Care-
less, 3. Chipping Norton Stakes:
Grey Spots, 1; Benvolo, 2; Comic
Court, 3. Liverpool Handicap:
Denali, 1; Davey Jones, 2; Comedy
Prince, 3. Autumn Handicap: Bank-
stream, 1; Freedom, 2; Elusive, 3.
Cabramatta Handicap: Amused, 1;
Khedive, 2; Auld Acquaintance, 3.
• * * *
Norman von Nida was probably
the busiest little man about the place
last week. He was successful in his
first venture on the Turf when his
two-year-old Devil Diver won a
Maiden Stakes at Gosford (N.S.W.);
got married; won the McWilliams
Wines golf tournament by a clear
four strokes; helped collect £lBO at
Manly in a four-ball to gather dona-
tions towards the tour of himself,
Cremin and Nagle on their trip to
England; and left for South Africa
on Monday in search of Bobby
Locke’s scalp. He had the McWil-
liams event won early, having turned
in a 74, 71, 72, 72 (289), to finish
four strokes ahead of Pickworth and
five ahead of Cremin. It was the
third McWilliams tourney. The Von
won the first and third, Cremin the
second. Total prizemoney was £2500
(£6OO to the winner), and the McWil-
liams people are talking of making
it £5OOO next year, which should
attract top golfing talent from every-
where.
* * * *
Since Sydney Stadium champions
seem adept at honoring jn the breach
rather than the observance the
alleged championship rule that an
Australian titleholder must defend his
laurels within six months of acquir-
ing the same, it is refreshing to record
that at Leichhardt last week feather-
weight champion Ray Coleman suc-
cessfully defended the title which he
had won in the same arena less than
a month previously. Coleman scaled
9st., and the challenger, Victorian
Danny Hirsch, 8.10. * After winning
the first two rounds and losing the
third, Coleman really hit his stride
in the fourth, which had barely
begun when a chin-cracking right
dropped Hirsch for nine seconds. A
little later Hirsch appeared to earn
disqualification by going down with-
out being hit, but he undoubtedly
stopped the subsequent right which
put him down for the third time,
whereat the ref. gave it to Coleman
on a t.k.o.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Orders
A commanding officer whom I
learned to respect more than any other
man I met during my Army career never
lost an opportunity to point out to his
junior officers that there were two essen-
tials to remember when giving orders.
The first thing was to give the order in
a clear, convincing manner; the second
was to follow up the order and make
sure that it was carried out properly,
even if this meant a good deal of per-
sonal inconvenience to the officer or
n.c.o. who gave the order. And as we
never knew when or where he was going
to bob up just to check on the way his
own orders were being carried out the
discipline of the unit was at its highest
peak during the period of his command.
Remembering that, it often strikes me
that if these two principles were given
more attention by the Ministers who so
lightheartedly dish up scrambled edicts
about the use of electric power, taxi-
drivers’ hirings and all the many regula-
tions which are promulgated at frequent
intervals and which, because they are not
properly policed and enforced, are
almost totally ignored by the population,
then civilian discipline would be of a
much higher standard.
After all, Australians are supposed to
be good gamblers, and when it is pretty
obvious that the chances of any action
on charges of breaking minor regula-
tions are thousands-to-one against, you
have to be a very' model citizen if you
strive to obey every edict. If you are
just the normal man-in-the-street your
first thought when any new fiat is
brought out is “Is this regulation going
to be thoroughly enforced, or have I an
odds-on chance of disregarding it and
getting away with it?” Thus many
would-be law-abiders are tempted by the
sight of the neighbor getting away with
breaches, and they, too, take a chance
and disregard the regulations.
When regulations are properly enforced
they are treated with respect; for
example, friends who ride on the things
tell me that tram-scaling in Sydney has
not been a better-than-even-money
chance for a long time, and that at those
cramped odds it takes a lot of scaling to
pay the fines inflicted. But even moder-
ately well-policed regulations such as
parking restrictions can be dodged if
you note that on certain streets the
“brown-bomber” goes off for two hours
for his lunch every day.
Petty breaches don’t amount to much?
Maybe they don’t, but still, when you
have a city of over 2,000,000 people and
reckon that about a quarter of this
number are breaking up-to-date regula-
tions every day when they think they
can get away with it, there’s some justi-
fication for feeling that it would have
been better if these unpoliced regulations
had not been introduced, and the average
citizen had been left with a little respect
for the law and its enforcement. —C, R.
(N.S.W.).
Unions and Compulsory Service
Although the resolution against com-
pulsory military training was passed at
the recent A.W.U. convention (B.
7/2/’5l), it was not a unanimous vote.
Some union-leaders, while being against
compulsory training, pointed out that
circumstances alter cases.
Labor unions have always been against
compulsory training, but I do not recall
that policy having had any adverse effect
on the recruiting campaigns of the last
war. The rural industries were denuded
of labor before the compulsory call-up of
men for the services got properly into
stride.
Some union-leaders should not be
taken too seriously. They usually appear
to think that politics consist entirely of
abusing the other side. That, of course,
is the main idea of Labor politics today,
and it will eventually ruin the Labor
party altogether. The working-man is
not so easily led as he used to be. —
Ex-VX (Vic.).
Compensation for Resumption
“Gravelsnatcher” (B. 10/1/’5l) touches
some vital points in the matter of
compensation of affected parties in re-
sumptions.
Rate of compensation for both resump-
tion by States or acquisition by the Com-
monwealth (the effect is the same in the
f
rav. v\y I
\
VJOft*
SiSU&O
SiT>BiP|C£
“I suppose it's the artistic temperament."
long run, although the difference lies in 1
the fact that the original title of land is l
vested in States and not the Common-
wealth, so that although a State may “re- ]
sume” a title the Commonwealth has to (
acquire it) is based on formulas laid down i
in the particular Acts of Parliament under r
which resumption or acquisition is carried 1
out. Incidentally, an existing anomaly in
this respect is that whereas the Common- i
wealth has to take into account fair ;
market value in arriving at value for :
compensation purposes, States do not i
necessarily have to do so, but 1
may legislate to resume upon any i
basis they desire —without any compensa- :
tion at all if the Government of the time 1
feels it might get away with such piracy, i
It is under such laws that the Govern- 1
ment of N. S. Wales has made itself a j
good fellow with returned-servicemen ]
settlers at the expense of private-property
owners.
Under conditions which existed when j
the Public Works Act and sundry other
statutes were enacted, matters to be taken
into account in assessing value for com-
pensation were fair and reasonable, but
today’s conditions place the issue in a
different category. Also, although a
person has rights under the various Acts
of Parliament which might ensure him re-
ceiving a fair deal, it is a costly business
getting to the point where such rights as
exist may be exercised. Thus, holders of
building blocks worth small sums, which
have been resumed by the N.S.W. Hous-
ing Commission, are offered trifling com-
pensation and are left to their own devices
from there.
Many of these people are not aware
that to protect their interests they must
forthwith request the Valuer-General for
a valuation as at date of compensation
and, if still not satisfied, may appeal to the
Land Valuation Court and seek what they
consider is fair compensation. When they
become aware of this necessary procedure,
they are, in many instances, deterred by
the information that the cost of taking
their case to this court is unlikely to be
less than £6O for one day and £4O for
each additional day, and that they will
be lucky to get out of it under two days.
Moreover, under the archaic law dealing
with such cases, to recover their costs they
have to secure a judgment awarding them
all they ask for. Should they receive only
the amount offered by the respondents,
they receive no costs at all. Half-way
between what they are offered and what
they seek will bring half their costs.
Thus it is that influential and wealthy
persons and organisations can take their
claims to the Land Valuation Court and
secure fair treatment. Poor persons
rarely can afford to do so and are thus
bilked out of their rightful assets.
Also, in dealing with compensation for
resumption certain guides are laid down
as to what may be taken into account in
assessing value. The value of the land
and the improvements thereon may—in
these days particularly—be worth very
much more to their owner than the
amount arrived at by the usual computa-
tion of U.C.V. plus value of improve-
ments at replacement cost, less deprecia-
tion on the basis of brick having a life o c
80 years, timber-framed construction a
life of 60 years,
C. M. Collins, advocate in the Land
Valuation Court, says in The Valuation cf
Property, Compensation and Land Tax :
“Hence, if a house is resumed, the owner
who resides therein is entitled to a reason-
able allowance for the removal of his
chattels. If fixtures are taken, their value,
or if not taken any loss on them, must
also be considered in arriving at the
compensation payable for the land.”
That allowance for “disturbance” can
reasonably recompense a dispossessed
owner if he is ably represented at court.
It may well be that it is the only worth-
while aspect of his claim. In the case of
elderly people living in dilapidated
premises, the intrinsic value of the
property may amount to only a couple
of hundred pounds, but to remove those
people and put them into accommodation
no less congenial may cost a couple of
thousand pounds. The difference is the
value of “disturbance.” It is in such
matters that resuming authorities are
utterly heartless, and the court is the only
avenue through which such victims may
secure justice, if they can pay,— Cave
(N.S.W.).
Labor and Profit
Piecework or “incentive payment” does
not worry me, but a paragraph in
“Dragnet Digest” (B. 20/12/’5O) under-
lines one of the reasons for trade-union
opposition to such schemes.
Referring to piecework introduced into
Leicester (England) shoe factories, it says
that production of shoes nearly doubled
as a result. Wages, however, which
averaged £6 Is. 3d. on time were only
£8 ss. Bd. on piecework. Unless the price
of the product is reduced (and that’s very
doubtful these days) the attitude of the
benchworker that double production
should mean double earnings is surely
reasonable?
On the same subject, but from a dif-
ferent angle, a paragraph from the chair-
man’s report to the annual meeting of the
Intercolonial Boring Co. emphasises that
good organisation of factories can
increase profits per cent., and that it is
not right to make sweeping statements
that the output of all workers has
dropped since the war and since the intro-
duction of the 40-hour week. To produce
each £1 of net profit now cost £1 7s. 4d.
against £2 13s. 3d. in 1935, said the
chairman. —No Sirrah (Q.).
Thanks, Soldier!
“No gratuities allowed.”
How often in the old days have you
seen that posted up in pubs, restaurants,
etc.?
What is a gratuity?
Webster’s definition is—well, let it go.
We won’t go into the argument of
whether a soldier in time of war should
get at least the basic wage. We won’t
talk about his privations in or out of the
front line. We’ll get on to this word
“gratuity.”
You walk into the Hotel Australia to
eat. Instead of giving the waiter a tip
you present him with an 1.0. U. It says
“Thanks for the service ; here’s a voucher
for ss. Come and see me in five years’
time and you’ll get it —plus interest.”
If the waiter is a far-seeing man who
can visualise what ss. is going to be worth
in five years’ time he’ll say “Thanks for
nothing.”
You are trapped in a burning building.
A fireman, at great personal risk, saves
your life. When you come to in the
hospital ward and are told about it you
demand to see the gallant fireman so that
you can present him with a voucher. It
says, “Thanks for saving my life. Here’s
a voucher for a quid ; you can collect it
in five years’ time if you apply to my
bank.”
This writer has never accepted a tip in
his life, but this month will be lining up
for his first gratuity—five years late. —
L. S. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 112
Across.
I—Turning1—Turning if Karenin’s spouse is to
flunk in the examination for an
anti-British Irish Society. (6, 4)
s—Spicy predecessor of the rolling-
pin as a domestic symbol. (4)
B—Potential felt the bar backing the
pieces with the relations. (10)
11— Caledonian tax. (4)
12— Where some chickens make their
debut in some headgear, darlings.
(10)
13— Ray asserts that Menzies, though
he may be P.M., can never be
this. (4)
16 —Feed with extreme daintiness on
bees in the Nile. (6)
18—Speech of the duck share with
proportion on its surroundings.
(7)
20 — Scene of the Babylonian Cap-
tivity of the Papacy. (7)
21 — One time after South Carolina
provides a protection. (6)
22 — Part of a church backing Mere-
dith’s Harrington. (4)
23 — Churchgoing mayor is con-
spicuous for this on Sundays.
(3. 7)
26 —Ship in the bay. (4)
27 — Firm European depressed by
much color. (6, 4)
28— Cloth bird to bob down for
nothing. (4)
29 London parish to spoil the end
of Carlyle and part of his skele-
ton. (10)
Down.
1 — Crinoline or cheap beer with re-
mote and underfleshed wind. (11)
2 When I am a meal for mos-
quitoes, I am thus the scope. (5)
3 Whoever joins metals together
with a forte employer. (5)
4 Nothing upset this boy. (3)
6 Ice carton (anagram). (9)
7 Swallow. (3)
9 —lnside Henry, the six-footer is
meant to be inspired. (8)
10—Fisticuffs on the skating-rink?
(3-3)
14 — Pence tail me in this feature of a
fireplace design. (11)
15 — Game taxi upset a jeweller’s
weight. (8)
17—Trinkets and such oddments have
a broken rib before the taxi runs
to an overturned car. (4-1-4)
19 —Electorate to leave color. (6)
24 — Fagged out. (5)
25 — People say this on the telephone,
but it is not to be supposed that
they’re announcing an under-
world number to you. (5)
26 — Bridget heard at an auction. (3)
27 — Mechanical device has 100 before
morning. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 111.


mm
iroMmi
i
N on m do mu
ii no cm cm cm !i
ii cm on cm cm ii
|| OB on ob® I
m
Ii
II f
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary ;
J. G. TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt. P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A I.C.A.
9
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman),
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: I. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
113 King William Street, Adelaide
LOCAL BOARD;
Hon. Frank T. Perry, M.8.E., M.L.C.,
Sir Oscar Isaachsen, K. 8., ,
L. S. Clarkson
Manager; D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Manager; W. Dwyer
THE
Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
TOTAL ASSETS: £20.000,000
Funds are available for investment
in approved securities, viz:
NEW CAPITAL
FOR COMPANIES
AND
REAL PROPERTY
MORTGAGES
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
