

ĵ
1
Send
•
a gift of wine to your friends, relatives
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
M
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box J422H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY; Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 72—No. 3739
Wednesday, October 10, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SCOFFING AT PASSING CENTURIES, MORETON OLD HALL STILL SURVIVES
MORETON OLD HALL, or Little Moreton Hall as it is variously known,
is one qf the chief historical buildings in the County of Cheshire, and
it is considered to be the most perfect example of the half-timbered style in
Britain. For centuries this Tudor manor house has stood reflected in the
quiet waters of the moat, standing among the green fields one mile south of
Astbury and ten miles from Newcastle-under-Lyme. The building is remark-
able for its carved gables and Elizabethan wood and plaster work. Although
the exact year of its erection is not known, a window beam bears the date
1559, and it is presumed that the greater portion of the manor was constructed
at least ten years before that date. The leaning walls and undulating floors
give, from the outside, an impression of decay, but this is due rather to the
unusual and boisterous design of the building.
The Hall has been restored and repaired, but the steel and concrete
supports have been carefully concealed behind its oaken panels, so that its
ancient beauties have not been disturbed. The first records of the Manor of
Moreton date from the reign of Henry 111 (1216-1272), and the property
remained in the Moreton family until 1938, vrhen it was given to the National
Trust. Visitors may cross the moat by its centuries-old stone bridge on the
south side, pass the massive oaken doors of the gate-house into a spectacular
courtyard, and follow the winding passages and stairs which lead to little
secret rooms as well as stately apartments. In one of these, the Long Gallery,
it is alleged that Queen Elizabeth danced on one occasion. The fireplace in
this room is decorated with the royal arms of Elizabeth, quartered with those
of France and England. Other impressive rooms in this feudal manor-house
are the Retiring-room, the Banqueting Hall and the Drawing Room, which
bears the arms of Henry VIII.
The Chapel, where services are still held occasionally, is the oldest part
of the Hall, and a priest’s hiding place is shown from which an underground
passage, beneath the moat, takes one to the outside world.


STAII
ILliki
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— CUT HERE AND MAIL— -
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus’, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.151) Age
The Red Page
ETERNAL ITALY.
Whether it is E. O. Schlunke and Eve
Langley in Australia or D. H. Lawrence
and Eric Linklater by the Mediterranean,
English-speaking writers always seem to
write with special charm about the
Italian peasants. They live close to the
earth, so there is poetry in them ; their
passions are violent and voluble, so they
appear comic. As Alan Moorehead sums
them up in The Villa Diana (Hamish
Hamilton):
In the Villa Diana I find we coast along
in a fairly equitable fashion for ten days
or so—nothing worse happens than two of
the chickens are stolen (despite the fact that
Annunzio has an elaborate system of ropes
and pulleys connecting the door of the hen-
run to the foot of his bed), a mouse has
got into the wine or a bee stings the
Contadino’s Boy; then suddenly presto we
are in the midst of the most hellish
tragedy. A wild ululation comes up from
the kitchen and Santina is discovered in
tears. Her baby Anna Grazia [a bequest
to Italy by a soldier from Yorkshire] is
freezing to death at the convent. She
knows it. She feels it. The child is being
maltreated
And this is the moment when a crash
from the kitchen announces that the cat
has got the Sunday joint, together with four
fine old bowls of Venetian glass; and the
postman is at the door with a telegram
which says that Annunzio’s aunt has suc-
cumbed during the night.
These scenes —and they are often a good
deal more complicated than this—are apt
to strain the nerves at the time; but nor-
mally all is at peace and happiness on the
following day. Provided you can get used
to the sensation of constantly skating on
thin ice—the feeling that every hour may
suddenly project you into Elysian fields or
down into the utmost pit of hell—then
it’s not a bad existence, and certainly you
have the sensation of living life as it really
is, without affectation or boredom. The
key to it all seems to be that you let the
tragedy or the joy come out, immediately,
as soon as it hits you, and the more people
to share it with the better. This is no
field in which the psychoanalyst can work.
An account of his day-to-day life in
the Villa Diana, near Florence, where
he lives, Mr. Moorehead’s book is
inevitably a little more ominous in tone
than the holiday travels that used to be
written between the two World Wars.
On the one hand there are the recollec-
tions of the dark days of battle and
bombing, modified by the reconstruction
that is going on in such places as the
Cassino monastery and by the discovery,
when they were restored in 1946, that
the famous “bronze” doors of the
cathedral in Florence, Ghiberti’s and
Pisano’s work, were really encrusted with
gold ; and on the other hand there is the
menace of Communism.
In one chapter Mr. Moorehead gives
an unusually clear and convincing
account of how the Communists wait for
their chance, and seize it. Togliatti, the
Communist leader, had been shot in
Rome. The Communists declared a
general strike:-
Nothing much happened on the first
night except that the lights went out. The
lights always go out in Italy at the slightest
sign of trouble. Standing on the heights
of Portofino one could watch the electric
current fail for 20 miles along the coast.
First the lights of Chiavari flickered and
went black- Then Rapallo and Santa
Margherita, and so on through all the
fishing hamlets up to Genoa, until there
was nothing left but the car headlights:
and these soon vanished as well, leaving
the whole coast in blackness and pouring
rain.
At ten o’clock the following morning a
dozen Communists cycled into Portofino
from Santa Margherita and peremptorily
ordered all restaurants, hotels and shops
to close, all work to cease... .They were
obeyed because the single policeman in the
village had no power to prevent them and
because Portofino itself contained a little
cell of Communists and the rest of the
people were apathetic.
Weakness of the Government, apathy
of the public, and a handful of fanatics ;
the technique of the Fascists, of the
Nazi stormtroopers, and of the Com-
munists in Czechoslovakia . . . Mr.
Moorehead doesn’t think the Italians
really want to go Communist, but that
“Somehow De Gasperi will have to estab-
lish a little more faith in his Government
before the villagers will bestir themselves
m their own interests.”
Underneath all that the eternal life of
the peasants and the fishermen goes on
and, though the future casts a shadow
over it. The Villa Diana is as delightful
as any other good travel-book about
Italy; a shade journalistic when Mr.
Moorehead is inspecting Florence, Venice
and Rome and remembering that he has
another of his bright and highly-
competent articles to write for the “New
Yorker” ; full of life when he is at home
in his village: with a millionaire digging
a shaft in a cliff and running a lift up and
down it to save the walk to the beach ;
and a Japanese painter who set up his
easel on a hillside and solemnly painted
the interior of a bedroom; and villagers
enchanted at the miracle of the water-
closet ; and a mechanical dove whizzing
out of a cathedral and igniting a
tremendous pagoda of fireworks; and
peasants bumping down the valleys in
their ox-carts and making up rhymes and
songs as they go ; and cows and babies
and spaghetti ...
There is an informative chapter on the
poet Agnolo Ambrogini Poliziano, a tenant
of the Villa Diana in the 15th century,
who was the favorite of Lorenzo the
Magnificent and from whose elegant and
courtly rhymes Botticelli drew the inspira-
tion for his two most famous paintings,
“Primavera” and “The Birth of Venus.”
Another most exciting chapter gives an
account of the late-lamented Sicilian
bandit Salvatore Giuliano, shot down by
Government troops in 1950, whose
character and career followed a pattern
remarkably like Ned Kelly’s.
Commercial Candor .
A rare kind of philosophical-critical
businessman introduces himself to us in
Life Over Again, by C. B. Purdom
(Dent); and a good place to meet him is
on the last page:
tn these pages a design may be traced.
I did not set out to make it, but there it is.
It appears to be a design of loss ; every-
thing has ended in loss.
In 1902 he became junior clerk in the
Garden City Pioneer Development Com-
pany, which was to build the world’s
first garden city, Letchworth ; and rose,
with the town, to be accountant. Bad
eyesight kept him out of the First World
War, and after various efforts to serve
in camps and labor units, acidly
described, he became “finance director”
of Welwyn Garden City, Ebenezer
Howard’s second attempt to demonstrate
how urban values could be imposed upon
virgin soil. Here he had a great deal to
do with setting up the Welwyn Stores, a
department store evidently of some size
and success. Eased out of the Welwyn
jobs by some kind of business intrigue,
he became editor-manager of the Dents’
weekly, “Everyman” ; and, this having
been sold over his head, he took over a
“sports and games” business:
As the company dealt in'novelties, I had
much to do with the inventors of games.
The inventor is a special type, interested
only in inventing... .The truth is that most
inventions are not original, nearly all are
worthless, and the inventor of the excep-
tional thing is next to impossible to deal
with. We made the mistake of having a
works engineer and a works foreman who
were both inventors; and though both were
highly efficient, their inventing gifts made
them as good as useless for their work.
One of the lessons I learned from this
experience was never to have an inventor
on my staff.
In short, he went bankrupt; he then
reorganised a food-manufacturing busi-
ness, managed to prevail against board
meetings being opened, as was their wont,
with prayer, “for I would not have the
business conducted under the cloak of
religion,” and had his contract cancelled
when he got interested in British Equity;
This was a serious error from a financial
point of view, for almost immediately
sugar rationing was intioduced, and, as
the company had a favorable ration, its
products, were in such demand that its
business soared, and large profits were
made.
During his Garden City days Mr.
Purdom had produced amateur theatri-
cals, and evidently gained something of
a name as producer, since he was invited
to produce Dryden’s “Marriage a la
Mode” at the Cambridge Festival Theatre
in 1928 ; he later did a good deal of
dramatic criticism for “Everyman” ; all
of which explains why, in 1938, he was
asked to become general secretary of
British Actors’ Equity:
Actors are bad masters. As acquaint-
ances they are charming, as friends they
can be as true as steel, but in business,
even their own business, and especially in
their own trade-union, they can be the
devil.
The result of open and covert efforts
of higher-ranking theatricals to keep the
theatrical rank-and-file in their places was
that Mr. Purdom was booed by chorus-
girls, and in the rebellion of March,
1940, was dismissed. During the Second
World War he did time in the Ministry
of Food, Ministry of Supply and Ministry
of Information; and later became a
“partner” in John Lewis’s, of Oxford-
street, a huge store, the subject of the
experiment described in Partnership for
All, by John Spedan Lewis—a business
experiment:
He gives an account of an ideal partner-
ship rather than of what exists.... .The
features of the partnership that appealed
to me were first that it was a partnership.
Every worker is described as a partner,
from the least to the greatest. What this
amounts to in practice is not always easy
to see, for no one is a partner in the legal
sense
This summary of a varied career will
give little idea of the book’s quality,
though it should be clear why job after
job leaves him at the end with a sense of
loss; Garden Cities, magazine-editing, a
better deal for actors, partnership for the
workers —his business-life has been a
series of crusades, and no Holy Grail at
the end of them. But his account of how
each venture was foiled is of immense
interest: how business interests gradually
beat the planners of garden cities, until
finally a British Labor Government took
over the main ideas of the movement and
announced them as a new experiment in
socialisation; how a magazine was
bought with the highest motives and
promises of greater capital and turned
almost immediately into a propaganda
sheet for Ramsay MacDonald ; how little
the highest motives can avail to secure a
true partnership of worker and employer.
It is a book which brings to mind
Trollope and Montaigne ; at times, as
when he is writing of the partnership
scheme as it works in Lewis’s, he has
something of the clear ruthlessaess of
Edmund Wilson performing surgery upon
a popular novelist; other places, when
he speaks of his friends or of his two
sons who died, or of the meaning of his
life, he reminds one of the Beethoven of
the last quartets—these are great names
to be reminded of, and no doubt our
author will not be remembered with
them; nevertheless, they have one thing
in common: a transparent philosophic
honesty. . .a rare commodity anywhere.
MacNeice's "Faust."
Goethe’s Faust is so uncertain in char-
acterisation and floundering in construc-
tion that most English readers must have
been tempted to agree with Charles Lamb
—“A scene from Marlowe is worth
Goethe’s whole play.” But of course
Goethe did not spend 60 years on it to
have it dismissed so lightly as that; and,
in fact, dimly through the murk of most
English translations, one can perceive
humor in the jolly doggerel style in which
the bulk of it appears to be written, with
a glimpse of great heights in the gothic
and classical Walpurgisnight scenes.
If you compare Louis MacNeice’s
translation— Goethe’s Faust (Faber); an
abridgment made for the 8.8. C. cele-
bration of Goethe’s centenary—with an
average English version such as Abraham
Hayward’s, published in 1833 and very
well thought of in its day, it is obvious
that MacNeice has done a good deal to
make the poem more approachable for
the modern reader. Here, for instance, is
Hayward’s rendering of one of Margaret’s
songs (which Goethe seems to have
borrowed from Ophelia for the occasion);
My mother, the whore,
That killed me!
My father, the rogue,
That ate me up!
My little sister
Picked up the bones
At a cool place!
There I became a beautiful little wood-bird.
Fly away! Fly away!
And here is MacNeice :
My mother, the whore,
Who took my life!
My father, the rogue,
Who ate my flesh!
My little sister
My bones did lay
In a cool, cool glen;
And there I turned to a pretty little wren;
Fly away! Fly away!
On the other hand, if you compare
MacNeice with the couple of scenes
Shelley translated, you find that he has
not done nearly as much for Goethe as
could be hoped. Here is MacNeice in
part of the first Walpurgisnight scene:
How strangely through the mountain hollows
A sad light gleams as of morning-red
And like a hound upon the scent
Probes the gorges’ deepest bed!
Here fumes arise, there vapors float.
Here veils of mist catch sudden fire
Which creeps along, a flimsy thread,
Then fountains up, a towering spire.
Here a whole stretch it winds its way
With a hundred veins throughout the glen,
And here in the narrow neck of the pass
Is suddenly one strand again.
There, near by, are dancing sparks
Sprinkled around like golden sand.
And here is Shelley;
And strangely through the solid depth below
A melancholy light, like the red dawn,
Shoots from the lowest gorge of the abyss
Of mountains, lightning hitherward: there
rise
Pillars of smoke, here clouds float gently
by;
Here the light bums soft as the enkindled
air,
Or the illumined dust of golden flowers;
And now it glides like tender colors
spreading;
And now bursts forth in fountains from
the earth;
And now it winds, one torrent of broad
light,
Through the far valley with a hundred
veins;
And now once more within that narrow
corner
Masses itself into intensest splendor.
And near us, see, sparks spring out of the
ground,
Like golden sand scatter’d upon the dark-
ness.
MacNeice’s version may well be closer
to Goethe’s actual words and metre than
is Shelley’s radiant reconstruction ; but
surely Shelley is much closer to the spirit
of Goethe; and that is what really
matters in a translation. Literalness is,
indeed, the fault of MacNeice’s trans-
lation: he has never felt free, as he did
so successfully with the Agamemnon of
iEschylus, to use his own style and
language, and instead of having the direct-
ness which is the chief value of most
contemporary versions of the classics his
translation is strangely old-fashioned, full
of inversions and Victorian poeticisms.
But still, not everybody can be
Shelley ; and if it is reasonable to expect
MacNeice to be more like MacNeice than
he has here allowed himself to be, the
translation remains much more readable
than Hayward’s: which, since Hayward’s
is mostly in prose and MacNeice’s all in
verse, says much for it. If he has not
brought out the whole of Goethe, he has
brought out more than we are accustomed
to ; and, particularly in the classical Wa I -
purgisnight—with a kind of submarine
glimmer over the whole of it—there are
many long patches of admirable writing.
The version is some thousands of lines
shorter than the original; but most
readers will find plenty to go on with
in the thousands of lines that remain.
Cricket Books .
The publishers of John Arlott’s Days
at the Cricket (Longmans) declare “John
Arlott’s voice has become a part of the
English summer,” and certainly the Arlott
voice became a welcome part of Aus-
tralian winter when enthusiasts huddled
over a wireless listening to Bradman and
his men stoushing England at Lord’s and
sundry other points in 1948. Even the
acoustic monstrosities of short-wave
transmission could not destroy Arlott’s
glorious Hampshire accent, and it was
worth fighting Morpheus all the way to
stumps to hear Arlott describe an innings
by Fosback, whom he regarded as his
own. special property.
Arlott then measures up as just the
person to convey an impression of what
we can expect when the West Indian
tourists descend upon us this summer, and
this he does extremely well in Days at
the Cricket. Arlott the writer is every
bit as enjoyable as Arlott the wireless
commentator. The accent (“It isn’t an
accent, it’s the really pure King’s English,”
claims Arlott) is absent, but the reader,
flowing along with Arlott’s piquant style,
finds himself automatically supplying the
accent.
The subject-matter, briefly, is an almost
bali-by-bail description of the four West
Indies v. England Tests, full of keen
observation and shrewd deduction, and
detailed pen-pictures and analysis of the
West Indies players. Having read the
book one can face up to the coming tour
with a complete mental picture of what
to expect. And if it’s what Mr. Arlott
himself expects it will be Australian
cricket’s first thorough trouncing since
pie-war days.
A cricket book in somewhat different
category is Catch (Latimer House), which
is credited to the joint authorship of Keith
Miller and R. S. Whitington. It deals
with the last Australian tour of South
Africa and the M.C.C. tour of Australia
One would imagine that a leading par-
ticipant in a cricket series plus a leading
cricket scribe who covered the series from
the pavilion would together amount to
the ideal in cricket authorship, and so, to
an extent, they do. The book is brightly
done and, switching back and forth be-
tween field and pavilion, it does give
one of the best composite pictures of
international cricket yet sighted.
Minor drawbacks are a jarring repe-
tition of such clumsy phrases as “one ot
the joint authors of this book” and a
wearyingly constant reassertion that Miller
the co-author is not to be held responsible
for any comments on Miller the cricketer,
which comments are, of course, highly
laudatory. It might have been a better
notion to devote some of this disclama-
tory space to absolving Miller from re-
sponsibility for the book’s pretty fierce
and (for Miller) potentially embarrassing
criticism of his lords and masters the
selectors and the Board of Control ana
of his skipper Hassett.


3Misi.iH3Aav n; iurm.
jj
new glamour for the bedroom . • •
"Jeldi” Chenille Bedspreads
With gathered flounce, two sides and
base, these tailored ’spreads are
made in the standard sizes of 3ft.
and 4ft. 6in. Length of gathered skirt
is 23 inches.
Style No. 25. Single, £9/1/3; double, £9/3/11.
Curtains to match, up to 6£t. Gin. drop, priced
at £B/11/3 pair.
I*l H Jr '*
', ‘ figs'/'.
r %
A:
mm a
: ' :
■H
Avi
: 4 W' a
AIA \#|
i i;
u ■ \
WA \
»
Sf : “ '
A
111 11;
V ; ■.:. ■. ■
A:
m
" % <**,
Mj-f iff
mm
r ■ // ? \ ■
'A'. ' -
a
MH
: g
A^N
O
m-
ifp
, W'M: >
i
mmmm
iiKii
Wm » :: -
NN.
- " ■ : :
.$» N&! , 1 j
•Jp* % if t M A^JP&Ajm£aßom& 9
**<?£• t
'Ji-Mta ■^ mmm
M
V
HK
/
X , K. /
'm&Z.
W
fe.il •#* «t
> : >l> t % %A»A :
Mwl-
U JL
1
' - ';%* 'tapC
Inky s» -£^
A
a*
s-asss
25
s»»
sSffiSOTK
- A#i^
■,?•'.■ '"w
N^NlO^Sflls
I
IN
- A
ik *■ -
:Ik' * , Hi I
ri?rp *
£% > 4 ' '\ N
mjims
■
jT2
a^a'a.
*v
I::,;
%m
»
-X,
• an
*
m
-■ !
■
A;
sk
X
m
'-X,
::N
mm
ia
m
Mr
>-
mm*
■ f*, rMi
& ■
. 0 I
A -■
MS
iVI
»k v- $ %r
A 1
/:■
'
»tfs
(*««"■
f ; j
■ ■ >..;>«»s ■<■ -gr ™ SSxn#*
it, ''■' -A ' T* #, « ' 4s fe,
? - Air
•\ % < ; m
m
«>»
(&***&'
-S X
AT
M
m
m&:
rm
«
,~~"'1Z.
m
is
. ~ sw»
-
%
Ns
■■
m
99
''' ■
IH
Nil:
AS
m
%
*> <>■...
108
i H ■
-4
m ' m ' < „
A
/
r
s SX
c>
m
immrrS
; ;
Ssm
r
Ml
■-V
SN
24
a
’Spreads from
our new selection . . .
Style No. 108. Single, £B/16/3; double, £B/18/11. Cur-
tains to match, up to 6ft. 6in. drop, at £B/3/- pair.
Style No. 24. Single, £6/15/11; double, £6/18/6. Cur-
tains to match, up to 6ft. 6in. drop, at £6/4/11 pair.
These ’spreads are obtainable in Off-White, Beige
Mushroom, Gold, Blue, Rose and Green.
"Ruffles’ —the Rodless Curtain
Ideal for kitchen, bathroom or any other
window where you wish to give that
finished effect. Made from White plastic,
and gaily trimmed on the edges with
Red, Green or Blue ric-rac braiding with
corresponding colour in cotton fabric
through the centre. Price, 27/11.
Pattern of ’spread
Style No. 99. Single. £B/2/3; double. £B/5/-.
Curtains to match, up to 6ft. 6in. drop, priced
at £7/11/11 pair.
CHENILLE BEDSPREADSi —THIRD FLOOR. M 2401 5 MAIL TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREIGHT EXTRA


Ihe beautiful New
I
l
i
I
I
I
i
TO
f?7r
I
I
I
I
I
i
m
:-y.v\
Mi
>v-N
i
I
.•an
•;<\S
I
1
//!.
<v\ N
K
•:
g *Mt
ÜBes
of ComferftjCapacity,
and Dependability!
Quick to freeze on even the hottest days .. .
First to give nearly six cubic feet of well-
planned, usable storage space ... the biggest
in the field! Best to keep your budget
balanced. . . . Icemaster gives dependable,
trouble-free service at the very minimum
running cost! Choose Icemaster . . .
it’s refrigeration at its finest!
Jr For just a trickle of
kerosene, Icemaster’s new,
improved burner gives con-
stant, economical refrigera-
tion, come storm or heat-
wave ! Its consumption is
actually lower than that of
less reliable, less powerful
refrigerators!
Bennett & Wood Pty. Ltd.,
cnr. Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
Sydney.
BROKEN HILL: Barrier Elec-
trical Appliances Ltd., 253-
255 Argent Street.
.to* of Ke SS\
APPLIANCES L/IMIT E,P, FINSBURY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3739
Wednesday, October 10, 1951
A COMMISSAR IN THE COWYARD.
“Queensland Government (Acting Premier Gair) rushed through an Act ordering producers to sell butter at a loss, under threat of savage penalties."
“If you go on making that sort of row, Commissar Gair ski, there’s nothing surer than old Strawb will go dry."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.O.'), Wellington.
GOLD IN CANBERRA HILLS.
The Prime Minister’s statement on dis-
missals from the Commonwealth Civil
Service showed the astonishing growth of
that service since before World War 11,
but it did not illustrate other disturbing
factors.
In 1939 the total number of persons
employed under the Commonwealth
Public Service Act was 47,043. By June,
1947, the figure had risen to 100,881. It
has jumped to 163,150; and it still seems
to be jumping, in spite of the proposed
cut of 10,000 in departments employing
about 142,000. And this is taking place
at a time when the Department of Labor
and National Service alone has particulars
of 125,000 employment vacancies in
private industry.
Equally as disturbing as the increase
in numbers in the Commonwealth service
—it has been paralleled, of course, in
most State services—is the gradual drift-
ing upwards of civil servants employed.
Not only was the service of 1939 less
than a third the size of the present one
but it was a working service. Now the
ideal seems to be that as many as pos-
sible should “direct” or “inspect.” Words
like “clerk” seem to be avoided as
much as possible in favor of “assistant-
secretary,” “director,” or something else
which sounds imposing.
And, of course, when a man becomes
a director or an assistant-something he
in turn needs an assistant-director or
some other camp-follower, heavenly
bodies being scarcely bodies without
satellites. He also needs a four-figure
salary at least. It would appear from the
estimates that, including Commonwealth
Railways, the A.B.C. and the P.M.G.’s
Department, taxpayers found
£130,000,000 for salaries for regular civil
servants of the Commonwealth this year,
an average wage of about £BOO a year,
cadets, office boys (if any) and typists
included. Under this session’s legislation,
apart from all other civil-service
perquisites, persons in the Commonwealth
service will be entitled to pensions of
62.4 p.c. of salaries under £1248 and
50 p.c. of salaries of £1990 or more.
The increases both in numbers of em-
ployees and in the transformation from a
sober workaday service to a double-
breasted, diamond-studded service are
startling in their implications. And there
is no knowing where it will end. Almost
any Department will serve as an example
of what is happening.
Parliament House is a good place to
begin. The Senate and the House of
Representatives have each the same
number of House officials as in 1946-47,
but their salaries have leaped like bee-
stung bears. Five years ago the Clerk
to each House received £1350 a year,
now £2200. The Clerk Assistant in each
House got £990 in 1946-47, now £1990.
Outside the Clerk no official of either
House had more than £lOOO per annum
five years ago; now every clerk with
specific duties gets more than that and
10 out of 12 get more than £l2OO.
The changes wrought in the subsidiary
branches of the House staff illustrate what
is going on throughout the whole service.
There was, for instance, before the war,
a competent Parliamentary library staff
of 14 headed by a Librarian at £llOO a
year, with an Assistant-Librarian at £730
and a Chief Legislative Reference Officer
at £6lO, The position had changed very
little up to 1946-47, except for a few
additional employees. But within five
years the Librarian’s salary has gone to
£l9OO, there is a Chief Deputy Librarian
at £1742, a Chief Reference Officer at
£1382, a Chief Preparation Officer at the
same figure; and the staff has grown in
the five years from 19 to 37. Similarly
the Principal Parliamentary Reporter has
had an increase from £llOO to £l9OO,
the Second Reporter has been put up
from £932 to £1834, a Third Reporter has
been added to lend dignity to the other
two at £l7lO, and the 14 other reporters
average £1475 each.
What used to be called before the war.
among the miscellaneous employees of
the House, “engineer, £456” has been
exalted to the status of “Chief Engineer,
£1311.” The House’s lone painter has be-
come a “foreman painter.” The Joint
House Committee which used to get along
with a clerk and accountant, salary £435,
in 1946, now functions under a “chief
clerk and accountant” at £ll9l. He
presides over a headquarters staff of
three. The secretary to the Standing
Committee on Public Works has had his
salary bumped up in five years from £752
to £l5OO. He has a staff of one.
In the Departments the Parliamentary
example has been followed. The admini-
strative office of the Prime Minister has
increased in salary costs from £28,500 to
£87,000 —estimate for the present year.
The secretary’s £l4OO in 1946 has become
£3250, one assistant-secretary of 1946
at £952 has become four at an average of
about £l9OO each. A chief economist at
£2366 has been added and the staff gener-
ally has been increased from 62 to 101
—all at nearly doubled salaries by im-
mediate post-war standards.
In 1938-39 the External Affairs Depart-
ment used to get along with a total
administrative vote of £lB,lOO, of which
£14,570 went for salaries. Its total staff,
including two representatives abroad, was
25. Its secretary got £l2OO per annum.
By 1946-47, having begun to blossom
under Dr. Evatt’s lavish hand, it had 216
employees at head-office alone and its
secretary had reached £l4OO in salary.
He had an assistant-secretary (political),
an assistant-secretary (administrative) and
three counsellors, 10 first-secretaries, 11
second-secretaries, 16 third-secretaries, 65
clerks and 51 typists, plus 38 assistants,
13 messengers and Heaven knows what
beside.
Since then the E.A.D. secretary’s salary
has grown to £3OOO, the assistant-secre-
taries’ to the £lBOO range. There are also
59 counsellors and first-, second- and third-
secretaries, 75 clerks, 93 typists and scads
of cadets and supernumeraries. The
modest little office which used to cost
£lB,OOO p.a. in 1938-39 and do nearly as
much really useful work and one-
thousandth of the mischievous meddling
that has become a feature of Australian
diplomacy, as of all small-nation
diplomacy, now costs £1,568,000 a year
to run, including £862,000 for salaries. It
has 19 Ambassadors, Ministers and High
Commissioners abroad, plus whole droves
of counsellors and secretaries.
Ambassadors and Ministers alike get
£2500 and qualify, apparently, by being
dubbed, rather than by experience. They
are appointed on the most curious prin-
ciples. We have, for instance, an Ambas-
sador to Eire, which has a population of
round 3,000,000 and doesn’t export even
politicians to us in these days, but only
a Minister to Italy, which does a booming
shipping trade with us. We have no
diplomatic representatives in Sweden,
Denmark and Norway, with which we
have thriving trade, but we have a
Minister in Israel and an Ambassador in
Indonesia. We have an army of Consuls-
General and Consuls on salaries from
£llOO to £1990, and every Embassy and
Legation is going up rapidly in costs.
The vote for the Embassy in Moscow
in 1946-47 was a mere £27,000; this year
it is £89,000. In Washington the Ambas-
sador in 1946-47 got £2500 plus house,
furniture and a £5OOO allowance. Mr.
Percy Spender gets £3500, plus £14,000
allowance, plus (as with all other diplo-
mats abroad) exchange on his salary;
exchange on Washington salaries alone
will be £34.000 this year
The defence services run with the rest.
In 1938-39, when the R.A.N, had two
heavy cruisers, three medium cruisers and
one light cruiser and adequate small-ship
support in commission, it got along on
the executive side with a rear-admiral, 10
captains, 17 commanders, 104 lieutenant-
commanders and lieutenants and 21 sub-
lieutenants—-total 152. Today, with one
heavy cruiser and one aircraft-carrier and
a few destroyers in commission, apart
from smaller ships, it has provided for
one chief of the Naval Staff, seven rear
admirals, three commodores, 42 captains,
136 commanders, 836 lieutenant-com-
manders and lieutenants, 94 cadet mid-
shipmen, apart from 280 branch officers
—more than one commissioned officer to
every 10 petty officers and ratings.
The Australian Regular Army, which
in 1938-39 managed with one lieutenant-
general, five major-generals (two with
local rank), seven brigadiers, six colonels,
29 lieutenant-colonels and 240 other com-
missioned staff officers, now needs a chief-
of-staff, three lieutenant-generals, 12
major-generals, 23 brigadiers, 36 colonels,
198 lieutenant-colonels, 2514 other
commissioned officers. Last year it
had 10,131 personnel holding the rank
of corporal or above and only 7869 who
could be lumped under the heading “lance-
corporals, privates, gunners, sappers,
drivers, etc.” This year the lower ranks
have it by a whisker —something over
12,250 commissioned and non-commis-
sioned officers above the rank of lance-
corporal and about 14,750-odd below.
The administrative branch of the
Attorney-General’s Office used to be
headed in 1946-47 by a solicitor-general
and Parliamentary draftsman at £2lOO,
with an assistant-secretary and assistant-
Parliamentary-draftsman at £1452, a
second assistant-secretary at £1054, a
principal legal officer at £1252, and a total
staff of 36. It now has a total staff of
86. The Solicitor-General gets £4OOO,
his assistant £1559. A legal division has
been created in charge of a first-assistant-
secretary at £3275, two subsidiary secre-
taries at £2400-odd each, two chief
assistants at roughly £2200 each and 11
principal legal officers getting over £l2OO
a year average. Added to this is a new
Parliamentary draftsman’s division with
a head at £3327, three other officers get-
ting over £2OOO a year and six more
getting an average of over £llOO a year.
Also there is a new Crown Solicitor’s
division with a boss at £3175 and an
offsider at £2388. This has become
typical of the whole service.
There is one branch among many in
the Department of Defence Production
which boasts five general-managers, eight
managers (all in the £2OOO-or-more
bracket), plus 13 assistant-managers, five
assistant-managers (administrative) and
51 other officials getting anything from
over £lOOO to over £l5OO. And the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission has pro-
vided for 152 journalists at an average of
£991 each.
There is gold in Canberra’s hills, with
a vengeance.
Evatt on Finance.
For some time there has been specula-
tion on who would succeed the late Mr.
Chifley as the Socialist Opposition’s
“shadow” Treasurer. Last week Dr.
Evatt decided to try his skill in that part
and opened the Budget debate —his first
speech in Parliament on public finance.
In the process Dr. Evatt airily rejected
—“I entirely dispute” was his phrase —
every budgetary principle laid down in
Mr. Chifley’s last financial speech, made
in a Parliament which, as leader, he had
dominated for years in financial debate.
It would indeed be something to hear
from Dr. Evatt now that Mr. Chifley
knew nothing about the economics of
Treasury administration. Yet that is all
that remains for the new “Labor” leader
to say. Dr. Evatt declaimed against all
the Budget provisions—for a surplus in
time of inflation, for heavier company
taxation, for heavier sales tax on the pro-
ducts of non-essential industries (which
taxes citizens can lighten if they wish by
buying fewer luxuries), for restricting
credit advances by banks and hire-purchase
concerns, for leaving higher butter prices
on the doorstep of the State Premiers,
for a dozen other things. Pausing a
moment on the matter of butter, his
colleague Mr, Pollard could have told
him, as he did the House during the
1950 Budget debate —“It is true that after
the expiration of a year the Chifley Gov-
ernment asked the State prices administra-
tors to pass on to the public an increase
in the cost of production, because it was
considered that a subsidy of nearly Id.
a pound on butter was adequate assist-
ance ”
Thus Dr. Evatt denied every principle
for control of excess-spending that Mr.
Chifley had asserted times without
number. Having declared the Budget a
“conspiracy” between the Treasurer and
Professor Copland and waxed sarcastic
about “modern economic thought,” Dr.
Evatt finally said:
I entirely dispute—as a corollary to the
principle that Governments should provide
spending-power in times of depression—
that in times of excessive demand and
scarcity of labor Governments should draw
away from the public in taxation and
loans more than they spend for current
purposes.
There it is —the downright denuncia-
tion of Mr. Chifley’s own conduct and
last advice to his party on financial
administration. Mr. Chifley’s exhortations
were delivered in Parliament 12 months
ago during the 1950 Budget debate and
on the contemporary Supply Bill. On
the Budget Mr. Chifley said:
My colleagues and I observed a simple
principle of taxation, which was that when
a country is prosperous it should pay its
way and try to put something aside.
Previously, in the supply debate, he spoke
out in more detail, and the extent of Dr.
Evatt’s scorn for his late leader’s prin-
ciples will be easily apparent. Mr.
Chifley said on October 17, 1950:
I shall express the view of the Labor
party and in doing so I shall not be in the
least concerned about what people may
think of it politically. I believe that when
a country is in a prosperous condition It
should pay its way and if possible pro-
vide an additional sum of money for
capital works or for reserves. I make no
bones about the attitude of the Labor
party on that matter. That is the proper
and businesslike method to adopt....
The Labor Government, of which I was
only the agent, considered that the country
should meet its commitments, including the
cost of social services and defence, as far
as it possibly could, from tax receipts, and
should borrow only the minimum amount
to bridge the gap between revenue and ex-
penditure Australia will not win its
struggle against inflation by adopting
piffling measures.
The Labor Government was obliged to
do some most unpopular things. At one
time, because of certain tendencies, we
had to impose an unprecedently high rate
of tax only three or four months before
a general election We are all prone to
human faults and may be tempted to
appease certain sections and to please
other sections of the community... .1 am
really perturbed and indeed alarmed at
the growing spiral of inflation in this
country, and for that matter in other
countries. Neither this Government nor
any other Government can be blamed for
the inflationary elements. I could speak at
length upon measures which I believe
should be taken I believe that every
man in public life who has a sense of
responsibility must give serious considera-
tion to the country’s honor, economy
prestige and standing abroad and to the
heritage of its future citizens....
I hope the Government will do some-
thing to correct the present disturbed
of our economy, irrespective of
whether such action will be popular or
unpopular.
Can Dr. Evatt twist the meaning of
that? Mr. Chifley’s first choice for
grooming as the party’s financial deputy
—Mr. Beazley, of Fremantle—followed
his chief on the same day in 1950 with
full endorsement of Mr. Chifley’s words:
Any person who looks at a Budget from
the standpoint of its being a device to
arrest inflation recognises that in a boom-
time it is sound governmental practice to
budget for a large surplus. Such a pro-
cedure skims off spending-power and holds
it in reserve so that it can be expended
later.
Mr, Beazley must have been sitting on
fishhooks while he listened to Dr. Evatt
calling an exposition by the Menzies
Government of this “sound practice” an
“undermining of the country’s prosperity”
and a base conspiracy between the
Treasurer and the foremost Australian
economist of the day. Mr. Beazley went
on last October to say;
In view of the darkening international
situation,.. .1 think it is wise to start
stockpiling certain vital goods. When I
say that the effect of that policy Is In-
flationary I do not mean to suggest that
it can be escaped [As a result of] the
recent decision of the Arbitration Court
on the basic-wage claim [raising the basic
wage by £l] 1 believe that Governmental
expenditure will be greatly Increased I
doubt whether the higher income-tax re-
turn will make up for the extra cost of
the 310,000 public servants.
Another “Labor” ex-Minister, IV
Pollard, who has evinced some dispositi
to understudy the Treasurer’s part, chid;
the Government during last year’s Bud
debate for doing less than its stern dir
He quoted Professor Copland w
approval on post-war industry in Au
tralia, and admitted that “it is true tl
the production of luxury goods has be
accelerated to the disadvantage of p
auction of basic commodities.” He in
plied that the Government ought to atten
to that tendency, and condemned
for “pandering to selfish motor-cyclis
and pleasure-seekers” by abolishing pet-
rationing.
The exhortations of the late M
Chifley and the still present Mr. Beazk
his disciple, about “sound governmenv
practice” in boom-times apply of
equally to State Governments for whi >l
the Commonwealth Treasurer colle
revenue and raises public loans. But D
Evatt appears to think it is a crime th:
these State Governments, the chief
them incorrigibly spendthrift, should m
be allowed all the money they deman
presumably by way of Treasury bills.
Dr. Evatt knows any other way—but, of
course, he does not —of raising spending
money in these inflation days except b
taxation, he ought to tell Parliamen
about it. Mr. Menzies, in reply, told hin
not unjustly that what “Labor” seem
to want is more inflation than ever.
For anyone who served in Mr. Chifley'
Government and stands in Mr. Chifley
shoes to talk, as Dr. Evatt does, aboi
the direct taxation imposed by th
Budget as ruinous, panicky, destructive c
incentive and heading for nation:
disaster, is sheer contempt of public ii
telligence. So, also, his gross distortic
of one of the Treasurer’s statements. M
Fadden said in words incapable of beii
misunderstood that during the last ye
the national income rose by no less tha
£800,000,000, or 35 per cent., main
from astronomical wool prices. “Th
deluge of additional spending-powt
threatens to overwhelm us. What tl
Government proposes to do is to draw a.
least a part of it off and put it for the
time being where it can do least harm.”
Dr. Evatt twisted this monstrously by
saying that the Treasurer regarded the
taxpayers, large and small, as incapable
of spending their own money wisely and
so proposed to take it from them so that
they could do no harm with it. When a
party leader who is a Privy Councillor
and an ex-Judge of the High Court can
descend to that sort of political mounte-
bankery, what criterion is to be applied
to, say, an ex-seller of green prawns m
the rank-and-file behind him?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Queensland's Dictators.
Queensland “Labor” Government s
attempt to seize absolute control ot
farmers’ produce by an Act rushed
through Parliament in less than 12 hours
is a warning to all Australia on two
things:—
(1) The lengths to which “Labor”-
Socialism can go.
(2) The pass to which official control
of commodities has brought producer and
consumer alike.
In Queensland there are 21 boards con-
trolling butter, cheese, wheat, milk, eggs
(two boards), peanuts, potatoes, cotton,
maize, pigs, tobacco, arrowroot, barley,
millet, ginger, beans, plywood, sugar,
fruit and fish. The new Act empowers
each board to send officials to enter farms,
search for produce, inspect books and
seize goods.
A farmer can be told not only what
he must grow or produce, but exactly
how much, and made to deliver it to a
board ; daily if the board says so. Penal-
ties for disobedience are £100 for persons,
£500 for corporations, and if a grower
sells or even gives away stuff outside the
board he can suffer a penalty of twice
the value of the goods in addition to the
£100.
And if members of the boards, who
are elected by the farmers, don’t like it
they can be sacked and their places filled
by Government men.
All of which amounts to Government
seizure of farms and farm products.
Anybody who believes this was an
attempt by Queensland “Labor” to “get
the people butter” would believe in pie-
bald bunyips. Queenslanders, like their
N.S.W. brethren, could have all the butter
they wanted if their Government, instead
of playing the Evatt-McGirr game of
using butter politically against the
Menzies Government, fell into line with
the other four States and made the price
3s. Ijd. a pound retail, instead of 2s. 8d.
It needs no saying that in both Queens-
land and N.S.W. only the “Labor”
Governments object to the higher price;
the people would willingly pay it.
Abadan Exit.
U.N.O.’s Security Council, as was to be
expected, “deferred consideration” of
Britain’s request that Persia should be
compelled to obey the International
Court. The deferring was for 10 days,
to allow the weeping Dr. Moussadek to
fly to New York.
This Was in face of the fact that it
involved Britons being evacuated from
Abadan in Rersian launches through
sneering Persian crowds and under the
guns of Persian military forces which are
in possession of the refinery and of the
product of an investment of upwards of
£350,000,000 of British capital.
Those forces are there in flagrant
defiance of U.N.O. law, but U.N.O. is a
busybody organisation in which the ones
who do most of the talking are the little-
nation delegates, whose sense of self-
importance is fed by the semblance of
being able to settle the fate of the world,
while the malignant Iron Curtain nations’
delegates are there to destroy amity and
to weaken the Western Powers as much
as possible in the eyes of Asia.
The effect of these humiliating events
may, however, be salutary in the end. It
could mean the finish of the Attlee Gov-
ernment. Every section of the British
Press, even to the academic “Times” and
the “Manchester Guardian,” feels with
Mr. Churchill that the Government’s mis-
handling of the Persian affair is a “melan-
choly story of inadvertence, incompetence,
indecision and final collapse.”
The reversal of the Prime Minister’s
promise that the British technicians should
stay at Abadan was a breach of his word
which his supporters had difficulty in
justifying even to the Labor Conference,
the only company in which it was not
felt that in Persia the Attlees had “fled
the field.”
N.S.W. Transport Collapse.
N.S.W. Transport Department deficits
this year are expected to total about
£15,500,000, and the McGirr crowd
is to levy increased charges on
the public calculated to bring in
£24,000,000 a year of additional revenue.
When that slug fails, as in due course
and very quickly it will, this atrocious
“Government” (if the N.S.W. electors
still stand for it) can only repeat the
process.
The prospect of public resentment is
such that Minister Sheahan announces
Cabinet acceptance of a brand-new idea
of confining Ministerial authority over
the transport system to expenditure only.
and creating an outside tribunal to bear
all the responsibility for “deciding
periodically” what fares and freights
shall be. This tribunal is to consist of a
judge as chairman, and “representatives
of the Transport Department and the
public” as members.
This is an abdication of administrative
responsibility without parallel, and a
confession of sheer incapacity and failure
in the McGirr Ministry. “Labor” could
not tolerate independent Railway Com-
missioners to run the service without
political interference, and, having
enforced “Ministerial control” over the
railways business management and
thereby ruined the service financially and
riddled it with politics, it now proposes
to introduce a third body with statutory
powers to add to the confusion and to
permit Ministerial interference to do its
worst untrammelled by any responsibility
whatever to the taxpayers for the charges
imposed.
As a kick-off to this shocking infliction
on a public whose interests and needs the
State transport system is supposed to
serve, the McGirrs have issued new scales
of heavily increased tram-fares, and rail-
freight charges on goods rising to 200
per cent, over existing rates (exorbitant
as they are already), and estimated to
load commodities carried with an extra
£21,500,000 a year. The Minister’s
attitude is that if the charges prove too
heavy the public and the goods can
simply stay where they are. This is clear
from his remark that he presumes people
will prefer to walk rather than pay the
new scale of city tram-fares!
The Lang regime 20 years ago was
disastrous enough to N. S. Wales. The
McGirr regime is plainly directing the
chief industrial State of the Common-
wealth straight into a condition of
helpless and hopeless ruin compared with
which the Langist failure was a mere
temporary inconvenience.
Mr. Clarrie Martin's Solution.
The Australian Labor party (N. S. Wales
branch) has on sale at its headquarters
in the Sydney Trades Hall a pamphlet
which sets out the recipe for “fighting
Communism the democratic way.”
It is issued by the Fabian Society of
N. S. Wales —16 pages, one shilling, and
it must have cost all of a penny to print.
As it carries an approving preface (with
facsimile signature) by Mr. Clarrie Martin,
M.L.A., N. S. Wales Attorney-General
and president of the Fabian Society, it
seems to express the authoritative view
of the Labor party.
The authors profess to have no illu-
sions about Communism: —
In a modern State, successful revolution
requires the organisation of a tightly-knit,
rigorously-disciplined military party of the
type created in Russia by Renin, and in
other countries by leaders who have imi-
tated his tactics and methods. A party
of that type, if it succeeds, inevitably
turns itself into a dictatorship. To seize
and hold power it suppresses its opponents
and its critics, even critics within the
working class which it professes to repre-
sent. Since it has perfected the weapons
of violence, terror and conspiracy in order
to gain power, it is not likely to lay them
aside once it is in the saddle. It is most
unlikely in our own day that democratic
or popular government would survive a
revolutionary coup; the development of
weapons, of organisation and communica-
tions has made it too easy for a ruthless
and determined party to fasten upon a
whole people its dictatorial rule.
The pamphlet says that Communists,
convinced of the need for revolution,
“show a cynical disregard for established
principles and methods of democracy.’
They show “no respect for democratic
scruples, for honest argument, for the
rights of opponents” and they are “noted
for intrigue, intimidation, falsification, for
suddenly changing their tune when that
is expedient for character assassination.”
Also they “have a drive, efficiency and
determination” which other parties often
lack and have “been particularly success-
ful in trade-union politics” because they
have an “initial advantage” due to their
“irresponsibility”—so for that matter for
the same reason has Dr. Evatt, as the
recent referendum campaign proved.
But the law (says Mr. Martin and his
society) must not suppress an organisa-
tion “simply because, in the opinion of
the Government, it is liable to commit
sabotage, espionage or violence.” To
suppress it would be a “drastic breach
of democratic practice,” and Mr. Martin
and his friends have a remedy, anyhow.
Communism, it appears, could not live
if it were not for the “industrial tensions”
caused by the existence of Capitalism.
Therefore “the only solution,” they say,
is to abolish Capitalism and introduce
Socialism —the objective of Communism.
Mr. Martin seems to have something
there. Burglary is caused by the tensions
due to the existence of property. It can
be cured by abolishing property.
And suppose some gang advocates
stonkering Mr. Martin? Adapting the
phrases of the pamphlet to his case, “we
cannot assert that would-be assassins
forfeit the right to expound their views
merely by preaching the overthrow of
Mr. Martin by force.” It is obvious that
the urge of the plotters against him must
be due to tensions arising out of the
existence of Mr. Clarrie Martin.
The “only solution”? Simple, if Mr.
Martin’s argument is sound. Abolish Mr.
Clarrie Martin.
Britain's Election.
From London: Despite an infectious
buoyancy in Conservative circles and an
apprehension among Socialists that is not
dispelled by formal expressions of confi-
dence from their leaders, there is a re-
luctance to indulge in election forecasts.
Anything may happen to thwart the
expert and disprove the knowing.
Both parties will attract their millions
of votes. In addition to the “regulars,”
the Labor party can still count on the
many who have gained so demonstrably
from the redistribution of income ; and,
just as firmly, the Conservative party
stands to gain from the many who have
suffered.
Labor’s weakness is not the large poll
but the distribution of it. The industrial
constituencies will again return majorities
of 20,000 and more. They will also vex
the party organisers into impotence and
frustration. If only 100,000 or so of
those votes could be “borrowed” and
distributed elsewhere!
Statistically, everything points to a
Conservative “gain” that might be as
much as 120 seats. In 1950, nearly one-
third of the 600-odd constituencies in
Great Britain were “marginal,” returning
majorities of 5000 or less. The following
table shows their disposition: —
Con-
Majority. Labor, servative. Liberal.
500 or less .. 10 14 1
500-1000 ..9 9 1
1000-2000 .. 22 14 3
2000-3000 23 22 1
3000-4000 .. 15 18 —
4000-5000 .. 21 24 —
100 101 6
Thus, an average “swing” of 250 votes
from Left to Right would mean the loss
of about 10 seats to Labor, and an average
“swing” of 2500 a loss of about 100
seats. Moreover, these figures are com-
paratively small in relation to the votes
polled, which averaged 45,000 per con-
stituency. The table, which takes into
account no statistical refinements, is
somewhat rough-and-ready, and no two
elections are alike.
Two important considerations may be
mentioned, neither of which is in Labor’s
favor. One is the natural swing of the
pendulum away from the governing
authority. Labor lost 82 seats in 1950 and
its stock has been steadily falling since.
The other is the effect of the Liberal vote.
Last year, out of 478 Liberal candidates,
319 forfeited their deposit—at a cost to
Lloyd’s underwriters of £30,000. The
number of candidates this time is signi-
ficantly reduced to 170 —meaning, in
effect, that nearly 1,750,000 Liberals will,
if they register their votes, have to choose
between Socialist and Conservative.
Where Opportunity Waits.
Only about a third of the Murray flows
through their State, but South Australians
have proportionately made more of the
river than either Victoria or N. S; Wales.
Though it flows between these for 1200
miles neither has established a totally new
industrial town of 10,000 people in a
desert area by piping Murray water 230
miles overland (incidentally, watering
sundry towns and villages on the way),
as was done at Whyalla, and another,
smaller community of 2000 even further
into the desert, by sending Murray water
to Woomera, 283 miles from the river.
That the Commonwealth has been a
partner in both achievements doesn’t alter
the fact. Adelaide, only about 60 miles
from the Murray, is far more conscious
of the great river than Sydney or Mel-
bourne, the latter 150 miles away at its
closest and the former nearly 400.
Something of what the river and its
great valley mean to our wealth and pro-
gress is indicated by the fact that five
years ago about 20 p.c. of the area of
all Australian crops was in the Murray
valley, 55 p.c. of the nation’s vineyards,
37 p.c, of its orchards and 22 p.c. of its
wheat, oats and lucerne. At that time
the £33 millions-worth of rural produce
in the valley was 10 p.c. of the whole
Australian figure.
And the Murray Valley, from a settle-
ment point of view, has barely been
scratched. The distances between settle-
ments and the idle lands lying in an area
almost the size of Victoria, with the most
assured water-supply in Australia and a
climate as benevolent as any in the world,
has frequently astonished overseas
observers, who can’t understand why Aus-
tralians herd together in Sydney and Mel-
bourne while such a land of promise lies
ignored a few hours’ journey away.
The space, the land and the oppor-
tunity are by no means confined to the
Murray Valley. The voices that cry about
all this are few, there is no vision associated
with it in the Governments, and the people
in the congested cities —the victims of all
sorts of industrial and political abuses
made possible by that congestion—must,
it seems, be brought to the brink of
starvation before they will lift their eyes.
If ever they are brought to realise what
awaits them in their own land, there
could be an exodus greater in numbers
than that from Egypt in the long
ago. That is, if nobody else gets in first.
Queer Kettle of Fish.
A Tweed River (N.S.W. North Coast)
fish-marketing company has been told
that it can’t sell any fish unless it first
sends it to the N.S.W. Government
market at Byron Bay, 60 miles south.
The company holds that under Section
92 of the Commonwealth Constitution —
which provides for freedom of inter-
state trade —it can send fish to Queens-
land without consulting anybody.
Queensland Fish Board says the com-
pany can’t sell its fish in Queensland
unless it sends it to the Fish Board, and
it “may take legal action” against the
company. (Oddly enough, but no more
than an oddity, the company’s manager
was formerly manager of Queensland Fish
Board, whose present manager says the
company is “contributing to maldistri-
bution” of fish.)
The fellows who catch the fish say
they’ll continue to sell the catches to the
company. For its part the company
says it will carry on as it has been doing
and if either of the boards tries to
interfere it will rely on its rights under
Section 92.
When Australians see these repeated
instances of what State boards and Gov-
ernments are prepared to try with Section
92 in the Constitution they must get a
fair idea of what the same outfits would
do and what the country would be like
if that safeguard wasn’t there.
Getting on the Jury.
“Jasby” is sworn-in and deponeth: —
Asked last month how many names were on
the jury list at present in use at Brisbane
Supreme Court (a) when it left the Electoral
Office and ( b) after the police had eliminated
names from it, the Attorney-General replied
(a) 45,572, ( b ) 28,730.
' He said it was not possible to state the
classification of persons whose names had been
removed and that the Police Commissioner had
told him that no callings other than ilf those
exempted by the Act were treated by the police
as unsuitable for jury-service; further, that
eligible jurors were not objected to by the
police because of previous service on a jury
which had decided to acquit on a criminal
charge.
To a further question asking how many
police officers were empowered to eliminate
names from the rolls in respect of the jury
list the Attorney-General replied: —
One detective-senior-sergeant, one ser-
geant first class, five sergeants second class,
one plain-clothes constable and thirty-live
constables, totalling forty-three police
officers.
In New South Wales interest in the past few
years has been directed not so much to the
question of who is empowered to take names
off the jury-list as to who is empowered to
put them on. On several occasions allegations
have been made that persons with known
criminal records were on the list, and there was
one case where a man called for jury-service
drew the court’s attention to the fact that he
was himself on bail at the moment.
In my own case a police officer called at
my house while i was away and told my wife
he wished to see me regarding eligibility for
jury-service. My wife told him when he could
expect to find me home, and he said he would
call again. There was no further visit, but not
long afterwards I received a summons to serve
on the jury. I have been called three times in
just over eighteen months, during which time
only two other persons of my acquaintance
have been called at all, in each case once only.
This may be very flattering evidence of the
Law’s regard for me as a sober and trustworthy
citizen, but although I am by no means a
modest person 1 fed that 1 number among my
friends and acquaintances at least a few who
are as reputable as myself and many more
who are sufficiently close to my own standard
of probity to justify their classification as good
men and true.
On one occasion while a dozen of us were
munching our State-provided luncheon in the
jury-room at Darlinghurst court-house we tried
to arrive at some principle behind the filling of
the jury list. The foreman’s theory seemed the
most likely. “The surest way to get on the
list,” he maintained, “is to build a house or
change your address. The police don’t worry
about hunting up old residents, but they’re on
to newcomers like a shot.” This fitted my case
and those of several other jurymen, and we
reckoned he had found the solution.
One juror wouldn’t hear of it, though.
“That’s not it,” he said. “Look. I’ve lived
in the same house all my life. My dad was on
the jury list for forty years. Three weeks after
he died along came a letter from the Sheriff
telling me to report on Monday morning, f
reckon the thing’s hereditary; it passes on from
father to son.”


◄bp
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
a
4201
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY!
POLITICAL POINTS
Evatt’s challenge to the Government to
submit the Budget to the people at a
referendum is a childish suggestion. The
Doc. well knows that there is no provision
in the Constitution for holding a referen-
dum in such circumstances. Besides,
before a referendum can be held on any
bill it must have been twice rejected by
the Senate. There is no likelihood of
this Budget being rejected.
“Labor’s” deputy-leader, Calwell, also
threw out challenges for a referendum (or
an election) on the Budget. His heart
seems set on that election, although it is
less than six months since the last one
and under two years since the one which
swept his party from office. As soon as
it was clear the Red referendum had been
lost, he called on the Government to
resign. Arthur has apparently revised his
ideas on the duty of a Government when
its referendum proposals are turned down.
There is no record of his advocating the
resignation of the Chifley Government
after its referendum reverses in 1946 and
1948.
Calwell, for all his ranting against the
Budget, is really very happy about it. In
his reckoning it will make the Govern-
ment so unpopular that “Labor” will be
able to creep back to power. To Arthur
anything that can contribute to that end
is a very good thing.
The early whooping of “Labor” that
the Referendum figures showed that the
Government had slipped badly in popular
support since the election weren’t borne
out by later returns. The present strength
of parties in the Reps, is Government,
69 ; “Labor,” 52. In the referendum 68
electorates gave majorities for “Yes” and
53 for “No.” Only in N. S. Wales did
“No” win a majority of electorates; in
South Australia the two sides broke even
and in the other four States “Yes” had
the advantage.
Budgetitis, that strange disease the out-
break of which was first noticed by the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” is, on the
authority of the same paper, on the de-
cline. On Sunday “Granny” reported that
Government members were “less anxious”
over the Budget than it had previously
appeared. “Now,” said “Granny,” “does
this mean that the public is losing its
capacity to protest and influence mem-
bers?” Could be —but it could also mean
that the capacity of “Granny’s” protests
to influence members and the public is
not so great as she thought.
Britain’s Socialists had no sooner taken
office in 1945 than the prophets began
foretelling Attlee’s resignation from the
leadership of the party. They continued
to foretell it right down to the eve of the
last general election. The Labor Prime
Minister has never been an impressive
leader, but he managed somehow to
reconcile the rivalries of warring elements
within the Socialist ranks —till recently,
at any rate —and none of his lieutenants
has shown any promise of doing that
as successfully as he. As a result he has
lasted out as P.M. for more than six
years. He led the Socialists into office and
looks like leading ’em ignominiously
out.
McGrrrrr’s caucus is reported to be
planning another Salary Grab; lowest
jump spoken of is £6 a week, but some
of the more ambitious members are sug-
gesting £l2, which would put them on
the £2OOO-a-year mark. The reason ad-
vanced is the rise in the cost of living
since they took their last increase—£lo
a week —four years ago. That tenner
should have been sufficient to take care
of things for a while, but apparently
members’ suits are getting shiny and
threadbare again.
Since 1947 living costs have certainly
risen steeply, but what extra costs does
a member have over and above those of
his constituents to justify a rise of the
magnitude contemplated? Is his food
dearer? Does he pay more for clothes?
At least two slugs the general public
has suffered lately don’t enter into the
politician’s living costs at all. They are
increased tram- and train-fares and
increased postage rates,
Victoria’s half-Premier McDonald is
expected to reshuffle the Cabinet pack
after the passing of a bill to bring all
Victorian transport under the control of
the Transport Minister. Transport
Minister Hyland will probably be relieved
of prices and decentralisation, with con-
sequent changes. It’s to be hoped the
other half - Premier, “Labor” - leader
Cain, has been consulted.
It couldn’t happen here. London
“Times” announces the expected abandon-
ment of all race meetings on Election
Day.
A lot of balderdash is being published
about the recovery in wool prices. Some
Sydney papers allege it is responsible for
the firming of share prices which, earlier,
they had expected to collapse because of
the Menzies Budget, though the wool rise
didn’t come until a couple of days after
the Budget. Fact is that wool, having
reached a prices peak, slumped, and then
recovered —a normal occurrence on free
and open markets. And, though a lot
of people seem to overlook it, world
demand for wool is still well above pro-
duction figures.
Further evidence of the rotten state
of Victorian politics under the machina-
tions of the minority Country-party
Government came to light in the defeat
of the Greater Melbourne Bill. Hearing
that three Opposition members of the
Leg. Council were ill, McDonald rushed
the bill through the Lower House and
then shot it into the Leg. Council. But
two of the sick were able to attend under
their own steam and a third, “pale and
weak” from a nervous breakdown, was
rushed by car from Geelong and was
assisted into the House in time to make
it 17 to 16 against the bill. Now there’s
talk of an election. How Victorians must
wish for it.
Latest fare-increase makes Sydney tram-
travelling the dearest in Australia. The
standard section has been shortened to
a mile —one section 4d., two sections 6d.
and so on. Chief reason advanced is the
need to catch up with runaway costs. The
public can understand that one, even
though it may question whether costs
couldn’t be brought down to meet fares
half-way, but Transport Minister Billy
Sheahan’s comment on the subject was
fatuous enough to have been suggested
to him by McGrrrrr:
We- hope the increased fares will ease
some of the strain on our overworked
staff and rolling-stock. People will prefer
to walk a few blocks than risk having to
pay a two-section fare of sixpence.
Sheahan had apparently been reading
the Auditor-General’s report which
recorded that the last increase in tram-
and bus-fares —a year ago this week—
meant a decline of 21,569,000 in
passengers carried for the year. It’s
a wonder he doesn’t carry the idea
further. Put the fares up again and fewer
still will travel. Put ’em up high enough
and no-one will travel at all. That will
solve the whole trouble. There’ll be no
need for staff and no need for rolling-
stock.
For the umpteenth time the Queens-
land “Labor” Government has been asked
to consider using the Federal rolls for
State elections and for the umpteenth
time it has replied “No.” That’s why,
whenever it claims to have a mandate
from the people to do this or that, ghostly
voices can be heard scoffing “Yes, a
gerrymandate! ”
Queensland’s retiring Director of Edu-
cation told Brisbane Art of Speech
Association that “political oratory is
quite gone.” Obviously he’s been listen-
ing to the Canberra Parliamentary
broadcasts.
Aneurin Sevan’s Left-wingers scored
a win at the Scarborough conference
when they secured four of the seven
“Constituency Parties” seats on the
national executive. These are the seats
elected by the Labor-party branches, as
distinct from trade-union representatives,
who won the rest of the 27 seats on the
executive. The victory, such as it is, may
well be an empty one. Bevan’s own
Commons seat is about as safe as Arthur
Calwell’s —his majority last year was
over 21,000 —but his three colleagues are
not so happily placed. All three, lan
Mikardo, Tom Driberg and Barbara
Castle, figured in three-cornered fights at
the last election, and the first two got
home by majorities considerably lower
than the number of votes polled by the
deposit-losing Liberals. Mrs. Castle’s
margin was a little better, but not suffi-
ciently so to make her feel happy about
the coming poll. This time the Liberals
are leaving the field to the Conservatives.
How the industrial award system can
go mad was illustrated at a N.S.W. open-
cut coalmine. The manager found that
a bath-house attendant was, with over-
time, pulling down £75 a fortnight, much
more than the manager’s own screw. So,
to cut down overtime, the manager put
another attendant on. He then found
that instead of paying £75 a fortnight to
one man, he was paying £BO a fortnight
to two. When last heard of the manager
was trying to persuade one of the
attendants to swap jobs with him.
It is constantly asserted by “Labor” that
only a “Labor” Government can effec-
tively deal with the Communists. The
Comrades themselves don’t seem to share
this belief; their current appeal is for a
united effort by all workers to get rid
of the Menzies Government.
Jack Lang seems to be heading a one-
man “Back to the A.L.P.” movement.
His last-minute advocacy of the “No”
case must have been worth quite a
number of votes to the Evatt side —at the
Senate election he polled over 60,000 first
prefs.—and the Doc. flattered him by
adopting portion of his argument in the
last week of the campaign. The Big
Fella is now saying in his “Century” very
much the same sort of thing as the rest
of the “Labor” boys about the Budget.
If Jack and his paper should return to
the fold he will probably make one stipu-
lation —that he will still be allowed to
refer to Calwell as “Awful.”
It has been decided to send another
Australian battalion to Korea, and this
will be needed if fighting continues on last
week’s scale. There are at present over
3500 Australians in the forces in Japan
and at the battlefront.
Minister for Development Spooner
went to Blair Athol (Q.) the other day
and there saw a 100 ft. face of solid coal
in the opencut mine. He came away full
of enthusiasm, declaring the deposit to
be a “challenge to Australia.” Strange
how prominent people keep on discover-
ing this enormous field (which was first
found about 50 years ago), but content
themselves with words of wonder.
Lieutenant-General T. W. Bridgeford,
of Eastern Command, takes over 8.C.0.F.
in Japan and becomes the third Australian
to hold the command since 1945. General
Northcott, 1945-46, General Robertson,
1946-51, were the other two.
Newsletter Printery, which prints the
Communist “Tribune” and most of the
Red pamphlets and dodgers that find their
way into letterboxes at the dead of night,
is up for sale by auction towards the
end of this month. The sale was arranged
before the Referendum, but has not been
cancelled. Are the Comrades still expect-
ing to go underground?
What will happen if the new N.S.W.
transport tribunal to “decide periodically”
the level of fares and freights rules
that existing charges are an outrage
and shall be drastically cut? Presum-
ably there would be no money to pay
the employees and the whole decrepit,
politics-riddled show would fold up. Or
will the said tribunal be rigged to provide
automatic increases like those of the
quarterly basic wage?
Premier Playford, speaking on a bill
to continue price-control in South Aus-
tralia for another year, said there was
nothing novel about it, the argument hav-
ing been written into Magna Carta in the
following terms:
The price of bread and ale shall be
according to the price of corn: When a
quarter of wheat is sold for 3s. or 3s. 4d.,
and a quarter of barley for 20d. or 24d.,
and a quarter of oats for 16d., then brewers
in cities ought and may well afford to sell
two gallons of beer or ale for a penny, and
out of cities to sell three or four gallons
for a penny; and out of town they ought
to sell four. Bread shall be weighed by
the middle price of wheat, and the weight
of bread shall not be changed except by
sixpence increasing or decreasing in the sale
of a quarter.
Ah, yes, kind hearts were more than
coronets when beer was a ha’penny a
gallon!
Sydney “Sunday Herald’s” charminf
portrait of Dr, Evatt by its Canbern
political correspondent, commenting o
the narrow “No” majority and “the
elation of ‘Labor’” at the sight of the
Budget: “More restrained, but nonethe-
less just as elated inwardly, Dr. Evatt
accepted the obeisances of his disciples
with becoming modesty.”
According to some recent figures got
together in an “Epidemiological and
Vital Statistics Report,” the world popu-
lation was 545 millions in 1650, 906
millions in 1800, 1552 millions in 1900
and 2378 millions in 1950. Well, the
Socialist planners aren’t dismayed.
They’re confident they can plan the Jives
and fates of the whole darned lot —even
if they have to make them all civil
servants to do it,
A young larrikin in Footscray, Mel-
bourne, got rather a shock when, being
convicted of “illegal use” of a car, he
got from the magistrate sentence to i.
month’s jail. A few more magistrates
like this would do a power of good.
Moscow Radio announced the other
day that in “peace - loving Soviet
Russia 115,000,000 people, every adult in
our beloved fatherland,” has signed the
peace petition launched at Stockholm last
year. Remarkable, especially since Russia
still admits to large blocs of illiteracy,
but perhaps not strange in a country
which announces, to celebrate Coalmining
Day, that “manual labor has now been
completely eliminated” from Russian
coalmines “right up until the coal is in
the railway trucks.” Apparently the stuff
mines itself while the happy workers
play.


0 N FORTUN AT£IY
PIFFSRENrT
gf-AGAOEM&MTS
PggoccoPifcp
SUNPR.V
j
MPMSeRS -
op r h&
Animai—
KINOPCWV •
SOME NOT ON PARADE.
“Parades and other appropriate displays marked October 4 as World Animal Day."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Fairf”; My mentality is not flexible
enough to cope with the intricacies of this
butter-shortage business. In a ham-and-
beef shop I heard a woman ask for butter
and receive the how-long-have-you-
been-in-N.S.W.? stare. However, she was
granted half a pound of table margarine.
Another customer who asked for mar-
garine was told stiffly “We only sell
margarine if the customer buys something
else.” Wanting margarine myself 1
thought quickly and first asked for bread
rolls. “No rolls unless you have some-
thing on them,” was the reply. My
question as to choice brought an amazing
answer: “Cheese, meat or just butter.”
Naturally I planked for butter. Yes, I
got my margarine all right—half a pound
wrapped up, and the rest on the rolls.
* * * *
“Uramao”: There’s likely to be a
private war in Germany at any moment.
Some time ago a German widow in
Munich sent a distress-signal to New
Zealand asking for some single or
widowed bloke to assist her and her
daughter to get out of Germany. Like
Barkis, “she was willin’.” A 64-year-old
goldminer at Murchison inclined his ear
to the appeal and, after correspondence,
packed his gear and hied himself off to
Europe by the Rangitiki, aiming to reach
Munich by October 13. A few days after
the liner sailed a radio message was
delivered to the prospective bridegroom.
It was from a 60-year-old gardener of
Lower Hutt intimating that he, too, was
an aspirant for the hand of the widow
and was leaving by airliner for America,
thence to Frankfurt and on to Munich,
arriving there early in October. The
meeting should be the most interesting
Munich has known since Chamberlain
met Hitler there.
* * * *
“Jasby”: According to statistics the
January/March quarter is the most
popular time of the year for births, but
the manager of the picture-theatre in our
suburb will take a lot of convincing on
the subject. As an attendance-booster he
introduced a birthday-club among his
Saturday-afternoon audiences. The idea
was that the youngsters should put their
names on his birthday roster, then as each
kid’s birthday came around he would
receive a free ticket to the Saturday
matinee nearest to the natal date. He
announced the scheme a fortnight ago
and it was enthusiastically received. On
enrolments so far to hand he estimates
that 80 p.c. of the children in the suburb
were born in October and 19 p.c. in
November. The rest were bom twice —
once in October and once in November.
* * * *
“Pro Artie”: Went home after 12
hours of ear-bashing, from every female
encountered, on the theme of the cruel
tax on cosmetics. Finding the house
deserted and a note on the dresser “Gone
to Auntie Kate’s —home late,” I decided
to confirm my suspicion that women could
cut their expenditure on lipstick, face-
powder and what-have-you by 75 p.c.
and still achieve the schoolgirl com-
plexion. I found, in the sundry places
where my three womenfolk keep such
things, 14 boxes of powder averaging
about one-third full, 27 tubes of lipstick
ranging from new to a still-serviceable
Jin., and a dozen jars and tubes of half-
used creams. My shaving-soap is used
to zero by planting the butt of the old
stick on top of the new ; and I don’t
discard razor blades until they hurt—
from now on until they hurt more.
* V * *
“Casca”: A race crowd at Randwick,
hostile because the favorite did not win,
surged against the saddling-paddock fence
and would have pushed it over but for
police intervention. Perhaps it is more
civilised to vent anger on a fence, but the
old-style free-for-all had its points. The
best I saw occurred at Wau (N.G.) before
the war. It was an Anzac Day race-
meeting and in the main race there were
only two horses. Heavy betting followed
heated argument about the neddies, and
the argument continued during the race.
One horse romped home lengths ahead of
the other, but the jubilation of his backers
was cut short by the discovery that the
winner had lost his lead-bags on the way.
Then the argument started in earnest, and
in very short time the fight was on. A
grand day was had by all, each side
“And after the appendix will you have a go at the corn on my big toe ?”
stubbornly refusing to listen to the
opinion of anyone else, even the opinion
of the judge—which was fortunate, as
otherwise there would have been no fight.
He declared it no race and all bets off,
but that was not known until the crowd
adjourned to the pub after the brawl.
* * * *
“Clooter”; When I was in knicker-
bockers Mildura’s Langtree-avenue was
the night spot of self and companions,
for there stood “Wonderland”—an open-
“ Isn't it dry yet ?”
air picture theatre with a 10ft.-high front
wall and pepper-trees on the kerb
festooned nightly with the clinging forms
of “Clooter” and his mates, having free
entertainment. Called upon to suppress
us the police said we broke no laws ;
invited to make a by-law prohibiting tree-
climbing the council said it couldn’t
reconcile that with the bonus it paid on
sparrow eggs; when the proprietor
threatened to use force he was warned of
the provisions of the Acts against assaults
on minors. He even tried kindliness —he
would wait until the show had begun and
then gruffly tell us to come inside for
nothing, but when word of this got about
kids invaded Mildura from as far away
as Merbein and Nicholls Point and then
the council had to act to protect the trees.
Well, “Wonderland” survived until 1942,
when it became a war casualty and silence
and dust settled over its interior fittings.
The other day the owners, having left
the place locked up for nine years,
decided to reclaim it. They began
pulling down the front wall and then
discovered there wasn’t a thing inside —
bit by bit over the years everything had
been, to use the old Mildura term, “half-
inched.”
♦ * * *
“Bo”: It is Sunday, and, having
reached one of Sydney’s suburban
beaches, you lower yourself down on the
sand and stretch out. Soon the lulling
action of the breakers combines with the
soporific effect of the sun and the warm
sand, and you’re just about to savor to
the full surcease from the week’s mad
rushing and clangor of the city when
the loudspeaker on the surf clubhouse
starts. Your comatose condition is
hammered to death under the fiendish
wailing of the Andrews Sisters, the yawp-
ings of Perry Como and the cacophonies
of Count Basie, all interspersed with the
hideously brazen voice of the disk-jockey
as he tries to “plug” some line, the
manufacturers of which you’d like to see
roasting in hell. Poor consolation that
you make a mental note never to buy
McGlupp’s aftershave lotion, or Fizgig’s
jellies, or Shuffletop’s floor-wax. That
is why I’ve joined the legion of other
peace-pursuers who seek the haven of
some far radio-free beach every Sabbath.
* * * *
“8.M.”: Queer bets! The broth of a
bhoy who a few months ago took up
a challenge to fly from his back-door at
Matamata, North Island, New Zealand,
to the doorstep of his birthplace in Anna-
boo, C. Armagh, North Ireland, won his
bet of a carton of beer. He made the
long hop in five different types of air-
craft and when he completed his last lap
over his brother’s farm in the Auld Sod
there was a crowd of his countrymen to
give him the glad hand. For good
measure he flew back again.
* * * *
“Macnell”: On behalf of 48 Fleet
gunnery-jacks who are gunning for
“Mickerman” (B. 3/10/’5l) for his defini-
tion of “salvo,” I must point out that if
he were in the gunnery-control-director of
a 14in. battleship and ordered “salvos,”
he would not get “everything thrown at
the enemy” ; and while he was wondering
why, the enemy would be hitting him with
“broadsides”—every gun of the main
armament which would bear. Salvos are
not much used in action these days ; when
radar allows a ship to sight, range, fire
and score hits within a few seconds you
have to hit him with everything at once,
not single guns of specified turrets, which
is what the order “salvos” means (as
far as the Navy is concerned). With
the speed of present-day reloading, there
is no need, as there was in sailing-ship
days, to “save” half a broadside for the
bloke coming up on the other side, but
“salvo” still means what it did in Nelson’s
day—a saving of portion of your fire-
power.
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”; Half a century ago
every kanaka on the sugar plantations
around Mackay (Q.) had his jew’s-harp.
At weekends, when the “boys” came to
town, the strains of the instruments c®uld
be heard around all the eating-houses up
Chinatown way. The rag-shops then were
selling, very cheap, red coats, white pith-
helmets and blue trousers —military uni-
forms that had been displaced by khaki
—and one Saturday about 40 dusky
musicians, so dressed, marched up and
down the main street, each playing
a jew’s-harp. Today the kanakas
are no more, Chinatown has disappeared
and so also have the 33 small plantation
sugarmills—replaced by seven large
factories, the most up-to-date of their
kind in the world.
# He * *
“Lou”; It was a tricky job among the
maze of wires and I watched the
mechanic crouch and grope behind the
dashboard, his eyes vacant and face
strained by concentration on his unseen
touch. Presently began the use of a tiny
spanner in his
hidden hand,
concentration
became excru-
ciating, and at
the crisis of
manipulation
his tongue
popped out and
he bit on it
bluntly but
savagely with
each twist of
the spanner. I
have seen
others in simi-
lar circum-
stances let their
mouths gape, or close them fearsomely
tight, or bare their teeth and snarl as
though they would tear the job to pieces.
Others under no manual strain pull the
same shocking faces. Watch people solv-
ing puzzles, adding figures or picking
winners! Do these grimaces signify that
we engage all our mental resources for a
knotty problem or tricky job and have
none left to care for our composure?
* * * *
“Sackville”: A violent storm in a
teacup is abating now that North Sydney
Council has promised a body known as
the Civic Pride Society that an offending
apostrophe in a sign will be corrected.
The sign read: “Childrens’ Pool Only.”
Signwriters have never been noted for
their spelling, spacing or careful placing
of apostrophes. A draper’s awning in
our district has long conveyed a deplor-
able fact: “Men Swear,” I know several
blocks of land in “heigh” positions. A
sign in Parramatta Jail points out that
the cold-water shower-cock must “defi-
nately” be turned on before the hot. And
for years visitors to N.S.W. have been
conducted on tours of the South Coast,
where an official sign on one of the most
beautiful scenic views informs them “Bulli
Lookuot.”
A SPURT FOR BERT.
“Dr. Evatt said in a Six-hour Day message that
the gradual progress of organised ‘Labor’ toward the
shorter working week carried with it a definite chal-
lenge to all sections of the Australian people to
increase production."
Comrades—l mean, fellow-toilers—
Stoke the furnace, bust your boilers;
Work until it hurts!
Curtin found you half-awake;
You wouldn’t work for Chifley’s sake—
Do it now for Bert’s!
“Comrades, I’m a high-class lawyer,
Paid to get decisions faw yer,
And I’m plenty tough;
I find that I can justify
Any silly party cry
If I work enough.
“If economic laws seem crook,
I change them in the Statute Book,
And then I set about
To prove with arguments galore
That working less produces more —
And do, beyond a doubt.
“I was not, I will here admit,
The very first to think of it;
No, that was James McGirr.
And now the rumor’s round the town
The working-class has let him down—
With which I must concur.
“So, when you have the Six-hour Day
(I’ll get it for you, come what may),
I’ll want all men employed
To put the work of twelve hours through
In every Six-hour Day they do,
Or else I’ll be annoyed.
“If you don’t back me, one and all,
The case that I’ve built up may fall,
And leave me on the shelf;
I merely ask you to agree
To work at least as hard for me
As I have done myself.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Shadow-chaser”: For a week Mel-
bourne’s “Show” weather had lived down
to its evil reputation, until Thursday morn-
ing’s “Age” appeared with the weather
chart upside-down. The magical result
was a perfect spring day. No informa-
tion to hand of how Amheim Land
and North Queensland got on as a
result of the “Age” turning the continent
upside-down, but, at least, Melburnians
were happy.
* * * *
“Becks”: Queer things still happen in
London and the people to whom they
happen still write letters to the “Times”
about ’em. One of the latest concerns
a bill a Londoner received from hi!s
tailor, who claimed to have sold him a
“Drab shell.” The customer relates that
he went round to the tailor’s establish-
ment “to discover what I had purchased.”
The assistant couldn’t tell him, but after
making inquiries backstage suggested that
a drab shell might be a raincoat-lining or,
alternatively, a jockey’s cap. The client
had bought neither, so further investiga-
tions were put in train, with the result
that he found the mysterious words were
the trade-name for a grey top hat. Now
he is asking the “Times,” if that be the
maker’s description of an elegant grey
top hat, what must they call the homely
“deerstalker” and the humble “pork pie”?
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: As a change from pie-eating,
oyster-eating and beer-drinking, a man at
Circular Head, Hobart (Tas.), claims the
world’s junket-eating championship —•
three gallons of the stuff in li hours.
The junket, which weighed 33 pounds,
consisted of three gallons of milk, two
pounds of sugar and two tubes of rennet
tablets. Apart from the stupidity of such
contests, one thing puzzles me and that
is a man’s ability to drink many times
more beer than he can water or lemonade.
1 once saw a man drink four bottles of
beer without stopping, yet he was unable
to manage one bottle of lemonade, or a
quart of water.
* * * *
J.0.M.”: Has anyone pulled the train
communication-cord? We did —at least,
my mate did. We had booked our seats
in Melbourne a week beforehand on the
Spirit as far as Albury, and on a special
from there to Cootamundra. We were
due to arrive at Coota at 3.45 am. When
we got to Wagga the ticket-inspector told
us that the train would not stop to let us
off unless we notified the S.M. at Junee.
This we did, and were assured of the
train’s pulling up. When the Coota.
platform sailed past our astonished eyes
the only thing to do was pull the cord,
which my friend promptly did. The
terrific shriek the unsuspecting bell caused
was deafening! People awoke with a
start, heads popped out of windows,
everyone expected the worst. Pulling the
cord caused the brakes to be applied,
regardless of the driver, who, with the
conductor, raced along to see what was
wrong. We were busy negotiating an
Bft. drop to the ground when they
appeared. We got in first with our
“It's an order of the court to return to your wife within twenty-one days!”
reasons for pulling up the train, the main
one being that we didn’t want to wait
round Harden all day for a train to
bring us home. Not one word of reproof
did they utter, but it took 15 minutes to
get steam up again, and a great pall of
smoke, not unlike the shape of the
atomic bomb, hung over Coota. until
midday.
* * * *
“Voter”: On referendum-day a
heated argument took place near a Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) polling-booth, and one
man said what he would do to the other
if he got the chance. Passers-by slowed
down to see what would happen. “Look
here, young
man,” was the
calm answer.
“I’ve got kids
who could
clean up the
likes of you.”
The other
laughed d e>-
risively,
shouted
“Right - oh,
bring your
kids along
now,” and clenched his fist in the
speaker’s face. Out of the listening
crowd stepped a sturdy six-footer. He
grabbed the shoulder of the aggressive one
and spun him round. “Well, I’m one of
his kids. What about it?” The wilted
look of the would-be fighter as he dis-
appeared was one of the highlights of
the day.
# * * *
“Pde.”: My birthday this year brought
me a super-new sports shirt. Enclosed
in the wrapping was a neat card to tell
me “The Tail of a Shirt,” including direc-
tions on washing. With a sketch of my
new shirt pegged to the line next a pair
of dainty, lace-thrilled scanties was the
advice, “Wash as you would your rayon
undies! ”
* * * *
“Eureka”; Proposal to stop the wild
scramble for stumps at the end of a
cricket Test recalls a story of an English
professional who allegedly sold, at fancy
prices, several dozen stumps, each being
sold as one used in the last Test match
of the series. I had my own experience
of “genuine” souvenirs. The day after
a Jap submarine dropped a shell on
Woollahra (Sydney) in 1942 two lads
tried to sell me scraps of metal from
the Japanese shell. I would have given
them the two shillings asked for had I
not seen them filling their pockets with
scraps of iron from a junkyard round
the corner. When I accused one he asked
me to be a sport and keep quiet about it.
He told me he had done good business
all the morning, his greatest difficulty
being, not in finding buyers, but in finding
enough scraps of iron to meet the
demand. Recently an old lady proudly
showed me a piece of the metal from
“the only Japanese shell that ever fell
on Sydney.” I didn’t have the heart to
tell her.
♦ • • •
“Pontius Penwiper”: Some months ago
a contributor recalled in The Bulletin
Whittier’s poem “Barbara Frietsche.”
Here’s a postscript. Whittier finished his
verses with a kindly word for Confederate
General Stonewall Jackson for stopping
his men from firing at the old heroine
who persisted in waving the Stars-and-
stripes flag from her attic window. But
it appears that later Stonewall called the
city heads together and ordered them to
produce 200,000 dollars as a ransom; in
default, the torch would be put to the
entire town. The money was paid; and
the final repayment of the loan advanced
by the banks to meet the ransom was
made on September 29. The U.S. Govern-
ment has persistently turned down re-
quests to take over the liability. Re-
payment has taken just 90 years. Elocu-
tionists, however, will presumably still
declaim “Let a tear Drop for her sake on
Stonewall’s bier.”
* * * *
“Second Proof”: I suppose a letter
addressed simply Ernest Hemingway, New
York, or T. S. Eliot, London, would find
the addressee without much trouble.
James Hackston, a Bulletin writer, isn’t
so well known, still, when a letter properly
addressed to him in the Melbourne suburb
of Armadale came back bearing a heavy
post-office stamp which stated flatly “Post
Town Not Known in Victoria,” the sender
couldn’t have been more astonished had
the same result followed a letter to Bondi
(Sydney), Glenelg (Adelaide), or Bulimba
(Brisbane). Then he realised that Arma-
dale is in Prime Minister Menzies’s
electorate. Now he suspects the post-
office is taking its own revenge for the
axe which fell on it when the 10,000 got
their notices.
* * ♦ *
“Zake”: No Sydney housewife would
believe that this could have happened in
any other city. A long-suffering
suburbanite went into a grocer’s shop
and asked for “a dozen of matches,”
and her eyes almost popped out when
his lordship said “Certainly, madam.”
Then he opened a box and counted a
dozen matches out and said “That’ll be a
ha’penny.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Contrary to general
belief the Australian workman is not foul-
mouthed. On road gangs during the
depression I met as tough a group of
citizens as you’d find in a day’s march,
yet obscenity was not general. The bloke
who cursed continuously was regarded
as insincere, unreliable and not a good
mate —in short, a blowhard. Unnecessary
swearing is usually done to impress.
Justified profanity, of course, comes into
a different category. The bloke who
excels in that is respected, and usually
tough enough.
* * * *
“Irving”: Though, unlike their Papuan
cousins, the Binghi troops of the Torres
Straits Infantry Battalion remained un-
blooded, one performance of theirs will
go not unremembered by a group of
Naval personnel in sick bay at the old
Thursday Island hospital on Christmas
Eve, 1944. Suddenly, from out the tropic
blackness, the rhythmic yet somehow
different tread of Army boots drowned the
mournful beat of rain on the iron roof.
A throaty “Halt!” rang out and a coal-
black corporal, the rain pouring from his
groundsheet, smartly saluted the sister in
charge of the ward, had a few words with
her, saluted again and withdrew. A.
minute later the sonorous rendition of
“Once in Royal David’s City” echoed
through the wards, followed by a succes-
sion of carols uninterrupted by the blind-
ing deluge which enveloped the singers.
A pity the anonymous missionary who
taught the dusky choristers their carols
couldn’t have been there!
♦ * * *
“Roscoe”: Re the murder of the two
“Princes in the Tower” (B. 19/9/’5l). I
find Henry VII not guilty, and confirm
the previous sentence passed on Richard
111. One Dr. James Gairdner, an
authority on Yorkist and Lancastrian
times, has furnished Henry with a com-
plete alibi. In 1933, Prof. William Wright,
an eminent anatomist, with the Dean of
Westminster and several others as
witnesses, opened the urn containing the
bones of the Princes, and spent a week
examining and photographing the remains.
Another inquiry was carried out at the
same time by Lawrence Tanner, Keeper
of the Muniments, The findings of these
two experts were the same as Dr.
Gardner’s—that Richard had definitely
done the deed. Both suspects, of course,
had strong motives.
* * ♦ ♦
“Mullum”: Parochialism in politics.
In a country-town procession, one of the
floats carried the following admonition;
“Cut war expenditure, and build our
new town hall.” Or was it the Comrades
taking advantage of parochialism?
♦ * * ♦
“Bass”: Charged with giving short
weight—he was 25cwt. short in a two-ton
load —a Perth woodman gave a novel
plea and got an unusual answer.
Through his counsel he explained that he
wasn’t a regular wood-merchant; he was
really a market-gardener. “I don’t think
he’s a regular market-gardener cither,”
the Beak opined. “I think he’d make a
better bushranger.”
# * * •
“Art”: Years ago I made a compre-
hensive collection of gramophone records,
but owing to the dispersal of the family
and modern dependence on broadcasting,
they became more or less unused junk.
Recently I advertised them for sale. No
sooner had the newspaper hit the streets
than a broadcasting man rang up to
know if the records were American —the
only type that interested him. Is it that
public taste nowadays demands only
American tunes or is the dollar shortage
responsible for a dearth of American
records?
♦ * ♦ *
“Harold Hardupp”; Beer strikes
usually collapse with the first spell of hot
weather, but one staged at Wonthaggi
(Vic.) years ago ran a different course.
The miners called the strike against the
attempt of the collective Bungs to raise
the prices, and the pubs were empty. The
hotelkeepers decided to offer free beer
in an attempt to break the strike. The
strike committee, seeing a danger of
weaker members succumbing to the
temptation and others following them,
called off the ban for such period as the
beer was free; but the beer was to be-
come “black” again if any price-rise was
attempted. Frustrated, the publicans
gave way, but later gained a price-lift by
adopting the miners’ own tactics. They
threatened that they would sell no more
beer at all unless a higher price was
accepted.
“Oh, to hell with formality — I’m having a spell.”
A POPULAR DISCOVERY.
“Dr. Earl Mcßride, an American orthopedic
specialist, says that standing with one foot on a
hotel bar rail is an excellent corrective posture for
back troubles and for the relief of backaches.
Of all the ills to which .
Mankind’s chassis has been heir
The backache’s been the wondrous money-
spinner.
Some have struck it pretty rich
“Curing” coughs and falling hair,
But the hammer-and-tack’s the most con-
sistent winner.
Whether you cop it through a chill,
Or you rick it in a fall ...
And you seek relief, you’ll end up with the
notion
That by swallowing down a pill,
Even though it’s very small,
Right away you’ll walk with easy, springy
motion.
Centuries ago they sold
(Very profitably, too), .
Magic nostrums like electuaries and
“simples,”
Whose merits were extolled
In the claims that they’d subdue
Aching backs, as well as broken bones and
pimples.
Came the flannel belt, and then
The electric one —to this
Grandpa pinned ms xaith whene’er a back-
ache struck him,
Which confirms but yet again
The old hypothesis
That Man has always other men to pluck
him.
But today we have a cure.
All along it has been here,
Though it’s only just been drawn to our
attention.
It’s as pleasant as it’s sure.
For it’s taken with your beer.
As well as cure, it’s also a prevention.
Simply elevate the hoof
Several inches to the rail,
And those twinges in the spine you’ll soon
be ending.
And for proof that it’s no spoof
Just observe them as they hail
From the pub, their homeward way at last
a-wending.
Tacking courses they may weave,
On all fours perambulate,
But they’ll not have hand on back in such
a manner
As would lead you to believe
They have aches that lacerate
To the point that they would “sell out for
a tanner.”
No! Their backs are right as rain.
That’s what they’ve been “treated” for.
But the category of the brass-rail user
Must be altered, for it’s plain
He’s no drinker any more,
But a patient in the hospital-cum-boozer.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gravelsnatcher”; In Wiluna (W.A.),
where the houses are—or were, when
the town was booming—built in blocks,
with a road or lane on each side of the
blocks, and no fences to the houses, I
once saw a “cockeyed-bob” circle a block
three times.
The first time
round it kept
to the streets,
the second and
third time it
narrowed it s
circuit and
stripped every
house in the
block of its
front veranda, and its outhouse at the
rear. Then it moved out of town. Old
Wilunaites swore the things worked to
a pattern. One would come through and
take every loose piece of paper in the
town. A few days later it would return
and dump them all back. That didn’t
apply at Reedy, on the Murchison, when
I was there in the early ’thirties. One
blow that came through one afternoon
was attacked by a cattle dog which tried
to heel it. It picked him up and he left
the town snapping disgustedly at a pair
of dungarees 60ft. in the air. I was still
there a month later, but although that
cockeyed-bob visited the town several
times during that period that dog never
came back.
* * * *
“Akrabo”: Apparently “Paringa” (B.
26/9/’5l) is more particular about his
choice of words than of pillows, I never
claimed to be a stockman, and have not
"Fall out the man who called out ‘ Bodgie!' to the Brigadier !”
been in the parts he mentioned. But I
have spent many years amongst men who
spent their lives with horses in the out-
back, such as dingo-scalpers, prospectors,
camel-drivers, surveyors, as well as
drovers. These years were spent in
N.Q., N.T. and the nor’-west of W.A.,
with all points between. Many of these
men could handle horses and polysyllabic
words with equal facility, among them
Harry Farber, still remembered in the
north for trips with stock across the
Top End from N.Q. to the Kimberleys.
They carried mosquito-nets for protection
against the mozzies, did not use their
saddles for pillows, and would be vety
careful to avoid being seen walking any-
where with a saddle on their heads, especi-
ally after borrowing a horse. As for the
horse sweat acting as a mosquito-
repellent, hasn’t “Paringa” ever lit a
smudge-fire so his sweaty horses could
avoid the torment of mosquitoes? I
suspect him of writing poems.
“The Missus”; Taught by my husband,
a former Lighthorseman, I’ve used my
saddle to sleep in, and back it
against the ground any
time. I say “in,” not
“on,” for hubby’s method
is this: First dig a hole
to take the pommel so
that the saddle sits
firmly on its tree. Next
throw a groundsheet,
slicker or a sack right
over the lining. Then
sit on the ground and
adjust yourself back-on
to the saddle so that the
flaps more or less fit
around your shoulders
with your head resting
on the back padding. It
may not be inner-spring
or sponge-rubber com-
fort, but it is better than
the supine position on
bare ground even with
holes scooped out for
hip- and shoulder-joints.
* *
“Bo”: “What’s the
idea of this trapdoor
you're makin’ in the
side of your shack,
Ned?” asked Joe the
mailman. “Is it so you
can shoot through if the
cops come in the front door or some-
thing? Old Ned put down the hammer.
“Don’t be silly,” he said. “It’s just that
I ain’t goin’ to get caught like I was
when I had a kipsy at Grogan’s Gully.
Early one mornin’ after we’d had six
days o’ heavy rain, I woke up like as if
thunder is cornin’ from under my bunk.
I get up an’ go to go out the door to
look an there’s a drop of about twenty
feet where the ground under part o’ the
kipsy had collapsed through bein’ under-
mined by all the rain. I had to bash a
way out through the opposite wall to git
free. Well, I ain’t takin’ a risk o’ the
same thing happenin’ here.” “But,” put
in Joe, “the land you’re on here’s as flat
as a pancake—it couldn’t happen.” Ned
gave him a shrewd look. “Dunno so
much about that,” he replied. “I’ve read
where small islands pop up out o’ the
Pacific overnight. How do you know a
hill couldn’t get pushed up by some con-
vulsion o’ Nature right outside me door
one night leavin’ me trapped? It mightn’t
have happened to anyone yet, but there’s
got t' be a first time, hasn’t there ?”
* * * *
“E.”: “I’m going into town t’day.
Mum, then stoppin’ at the far paddock,”
announced the old bloke. “Be away
most o’ the day. Y’ can come if y’
like.” Mum was delighted, and five
minutes later she was hurrying around
in preparation for the rare outing. The
old bloke backed out the truck, tinkered
around, then looked speculatively at the
light tractor. “No sense takin’ a heavy
truck when there ain’t much t’ carry,”
he decided. Back went the truck, and
out came the tractor. He was making
for the house when the dog spotted him,
and scented a trip. It arrived barking
excitedly, and jumping up and down.
“You ain’t cornin’,” came the growl.
The dog looked crestfallen, “Gaw on,
now; get t’ blazes out of it.” The dog
"He's practisin' yodlin' for the amachure hour."
slunk off. In the kitchen Mum had a
! lunch-hamper packed, and was tying the
| strings of her hat. “Y’ can’t come now,
Mum.” “Oh, but ...” “Now don’t
; start arguin’,” growled the old bloke.
: “I’m takin’ the tractor instead, and there
ain’t room for you on that.” Slowly and
sorrowfully Mum untied her hat, while
the tractor ran down to the road. At the
gate a milker and a hack were waiting
the first opportunity to slip through. Dad
tried vainly to coax them off, pondered
a while, then filled two boxes with chaff
and presented them. “Gripes, why didn’t
you throw some rocks at ’em?” asked the
new-hand. “Yair? When you’ve been
at this game as long as I have, me boy,”
said Dad, opening the gate, “y’ll know
cows an’ horses is two things that has t’
be treated decent, or y’ can’t manage
em.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: It was just getting light
when, brittle and beautiful as the air
itself, came the tocsin of the spurwing
plover. Getting out of bed I jumped into
strides and boots and grabbed the shot-
gun. Down the line a spotted mong
looked up from savaging a ewe jammed
against the netting and bolted, while
above him two plover wheeled, shrieked
and dived. The dog entered the rushes
near the river and I lost him, but the
plover hadn’t. Four more joined them
and I was able to follow the brute’s
progress as he weaved through the scrub,
making for the highway near the bridge.
My second barrel toppled the killer as
he momentarily showed himself across a
clearing, the plover still circling over him.
Those birds are on my payroll from
now on.
* * * *
“Edx” discusses a strange fact:
It seems curious that in a country which
counts gold-production among its important
and widespread industries so much myth and
uncertainty should shroud the poisonous proper-
ties of cyanide and, even more curious, that
fatalities due to cyanide-poisoning seldom, if
ever, occur. For over half-a-century toilers in
gold-treatment plants all over Australia have
been surrounded by millions of gallons of
cyanide-solution. For eight hours a day plant-
hands live among enormous tanks and vats of
the stuff, walk along catwalks suspended over
deep tanks full of it, get splashed with it,
immerse cuts and sores in it, eat alongside it,
and even strip and duck-dive into it to recover
tools. It varies in strength from the saturated
solution trickling into the mill circuit to the
weakest, most innocent-looking solution that
barely smells. Solid cyanide lies about the
mill like cream-colored cakes of salt, or as
dark-grey scaly flakes, available for the taking.
Every cupful of those oceans of solution is at
lethal concentration; to eat as much of the
solid as the salt on your sandwich would mean
death, yet in 25 years around cyanide plants
I can’t recall a fatal case of cyanide-poisoning.
Although the lethal action of cyanide is
incredibly rapid with smaller animals, and also,
if administered at the correct strength, with
larger ones (e.g., Goring, Goebbels), _ prompt
action can save a life if the poison is taken
either too weak to kill quickly or so strong that
the stomach refuses it. For this reason the
metallurgists’ office usually has a first-aid box
containing a stomach-pump and also a bottle
of ferrous-hydroxide solution and another of
sodium-carbonate (which, when mixed, form
an antidote). The nearest to a fatality I’ve ever
known occurred one evening years ago on
the Murchison. At crib-time in the mill a new
hand, returning to the trench with a sample
bottle of solution, was observed to clutch at
his throat, stagger, and, gasping and speechless,
begin to turn purple in the face. His two
shift-mates, acting with commendable speed
and decision, bore him, resisting strongly, to
the floor, and after a sharp tussle got about
half the antidote into his hair, eyes and ears
and a quarter of it down his throat. There
followed a grim struggle to insert the stomach-
pump, which feat was achieved only alter
resorting to violence, and then to the convul-
sive shudders and retchings of the poisoned
man they siphoned him dry. After a period
of semi-consciousness the patient recovered
sufficiently to get to his feet and totter away,
glassy-eyed, too weak and shocked to explain
(as he did the following morning when drawing
his time) that what had actually happened was
that a crumb had gone down his windpipe.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: It is usual for Westralia
at this time of year to hold wildflower
shows and get a rush of lamentations
about the alleged devastations of its
native-flora heritage. After having
wandered in these colorful regions in the
spring months for some 50-odd years, I
note today very little diminution of the
rich profusion of wild bloom—only a few
days ago, traversing within 30 miles of
Perth, I came across plenty of kangaroo-
paws, enamel-orchids, spider-orchids, red
kunzias and smoke-bush. Such lavish
provisions by Nature are still very
common in all those regions where the
jarrah, banksia and karri grow. The only
denudation that has happened is where
it might be expected—under the expansion
of urban settlement.
* * * *
“Peter Simple”: “Shadow-chaser” (B.
19/9/’5l) should have included jackasses
in the well-defined “sphere of influence”
within which nesting magpies will not
allow other maggies to enter. For months
I used to feed raw meat to two kookas
which came each afternoon to the lower
branches of a big turpentine about 20
yards from my back door. In late July
two magpies moved into the tree and
began to build their nest, and one
afternoon as Jack was swooping down
for his first morsel a screaming maggie
executed a power-dive from the top of
the tree and struck him as he was about
6ft. from the ground. Jack let out an
almost human squawk and flew off at top
speed. Jack’s mate took the tip
and flew off in another direction. I saw
no more of the kookas for nearly a
week, when they turned up unexpectedly
one morning, apparently hoping to trick
their enemies. But the maggies were on
the watch, and one of them swooped
down the moment Jack dived for his
morsel. That was enough for both
laughers—they flew off and I saw no
more of them for weeks. Peewees seem
to be the only birds which do not fear
the screaming, power-diving tactics of the
magpies, and they play the role of tor-
mentors to both kookas and maggies. I
have no doubt that in a “hand-to-hand”
fight a jackass would clean-up a magpie,
but he lacks the speed of Mag, whose
dive-bombing tactics appear to get on
his nerves.
OLD FORT.
A track across a moat gives access to
The inner secrets of the fortress hill,
Tor who but soldiers, traversing the track.
Can really tell what type of cannon’s there
And whether they will swivel or remain
Fixed, as the one-way guns of Singapore.
Secrets across a moat whose waters were
More dangerous than water: tangled waves
Of wire, barbed to lacerate and tear.
Dungeons beneath the fort? Bomb bays? Who
knows
Who knows but the ex and present khakied
man?
Another secret, born before our time:
Not quite when convicts were expendable
But in the days still fitting to be “old."
Send us no atom-bomb to spray the fort
In clods of steel and earth upon the town;
Leave it remain, the silent curio.
Pretending not to be too antique so
I he men who stand and look in at the gates
Believe its solid stonework indicates
Security, and that its silence hides,
Somewhere inside, a secret army, far
Less sleepy than its buildings in the sun.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


“Old-timer”: Twas Saturday on the
station and Pocketknife was stuck with
a sprained ankle. Wistfully he watched
the hands doing themselves up to go into
town and occasionally commented on this
or that one’s appearance. Little Curl,
always soft-hearted, couldn’t stand it.
“You’ve always bin a good mate t’ me,
Pocketknife,” he declared. “I can stay
home for one Sat’day. I’ll stick with
y’, mate.” “Aw, I wouldn’t want y’ t’
do that,” Pocketknife said. “I’ll be
ribuck here. Sleep most o’ the time, I
will. You get inter town. Curly boy, an’
enjoy y’rself.” “No,” said Curl. “It
wouldn’t be fair dinkum f’r me t’ go flyin’
round an’ leave y’ on your own.”
Pocketknife sat up on his bunk, “Y’re
one o’ the best, Curl, ol’ feller,” he said,
“but I ain’t as selfish as all that. You
get inter town there an’ enjoy yourself
an’ ” “Not me,” cut in Curl in-
exorably. “What’s the good o’ mates if
they ain’t” “You go t’ town,” roared
Pocketknife. “I ruddy well stay here,”
bawled Curl. “Don’t argue the ruddy
point with me,” howled Pocketknife, and
somehow got up on one foot and cuffed
Curl under the ear. Then we had to
separate them, and the boss, hearing the
row, threatened to sack the lot unless we
cleared off the place into town and took
the brawlers with us.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: There was a big work-
ing-bee on at the site of the proposed
Scout Hall. The scrub was falling before
a dozen mattocks, postholes were being
sunk, two flashing tomahawks nicked the
corners off a stack of palings, and four
mortising-axes punched three-by-two
holes through split posts. Suddenly
everything stopped dead. A strike? No ;
the ladies’ committee had arrived with
the refreshments. A cup in his hand,
Old Fred pushed back his straggly ginger
mo. and prepared to spring his stock
joke; “What, is this shamrock tea?” The
self-supplied answer being, as we long-
sufferers knew too well, “Well, it looks
as if it was made with three leaves! ” In
this case the joke fell flat. “I don’t
really know what kind it is,” naively
replied the young miss pouring; “Daddy
brings it home from the camp.” It being
well-known that Daddy was in the Per-
manent Army’s Q.M. store, an under-
standing silence fell —especially amongst
the ex-servicemen.
“Wippegong”: There’s a stranger on
the swamp this week. A spindly little
chap, in size between a dotterel and a
plover, he scoots around the water’s edge
as they do but goes one better —although
not web-footed, he strolls across the
waterweeds and feeds there as comfort-
ably as when his feet are on the land.
Those feet are the answer; they’re fine,
strong and as long as the bird’s body,
and with them he’s as much at home on
the open swamp as are the black ducks
puddling near him. Dark on the back
and mostly white below, as with the
plover and dotterel, he differs unmistak-
ably from them both the moment he flies ;
their wings are white on the under side,
but his are dark—a handy difference
this, for he has a black band across the
chest which could group him with some
of the others, and as he’s a shy little
cuss you mightn’t get close enough to
see the yellow patch on the neck, by
which also he is distinguished. Lotus-
bird the book calls him, or Jacana, and
he has relations in Asia with the same
physique and ways; one decorative
member we glimpsed occasionally in
Burma had a fine curved tail like a game
rooster, but the little yellow people he
lived amongst there could be forgiven for
not knowing another name he gets here
• —the Christ bird. To Queenslanders he’ll
be a commonplace fowl, but he’s steadily
coming south; Cayley named the
Clarence River (N.S.W.) as his southern
boundary, but in recent years he’s been
nesting not far from Sydney. Last
summer a pair had young about 10 miles
further south than the previous limit,
and now a single bird has been spotted
beyond that.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A peppermint-tree recently
removed from in front of a Bussel-
ton (W.A.) hotel had once been
used as a hitching-post. The iron ring
and staple were almost entirely embedded
in the trunk, about sft. from the ground.
Which proves either that the Busselton
pioneers liked their hitching-rails high,
or it reinforces the argument of those
who assert that it grew upward with the
trunk.
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: I’m feeding Norton’s
fowls for him, and it’s my own blasted
fault. I lent him a broody, sold him a
setting and put him on the road to worry.
As the third week ticked by I was
quizzed daily as to feed, water, housing
—every possible query about a chicken
except how to feel its pulse. Came the
day! Was at breakfast when a yell of
“Eight out an’ two chipped!” from a
wildly-excited face at the door sent a
bite of toast down the wrong way, but
the missus was quick. “You race home
and stand by for the others! ” she rapped,
and off he shot. Got the rest of the tale
when Mrs. N. rather apologetically came
to ask me to feed the chicks. Ten came
out, but although the other eggs spent
a good part of the morning pressed into
the capacious Norton ear they gave no
promise of life, so the pioneer decided
to help the belated bird from the shell.
Some other expert had told him that if
you tapped gently round the thick end
the occupant would be more-easily freed.
That proved correct. With his young
wife standing by to observe the wonders
of Nature, Norton gave the egg one
gentle tap on a box and —Bang! They
both went over backwards, but hubby,
being in front and crouched over the
experiment, had gallantly copped the lot.
He hadn’t wanted any tea, and had gone
to bed, she said ; would I mind seeing if
the chicks were all right and N. would
see me in the morning. I know he will,
and he’ll say again that he wishes I’d sold
him the pullets he wanted months ago.
So do I, now.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: As my mate, Paul, tells it:
“We had nearly finished the addition to
the cocky’s homestead and the boss came
across with a couple of bottles of wine.
I distinctly remember taking out my eye
and putting it on the window-sill before
I turned in.” (Paul lost an eye at Bardia.)
“It wasn’t there in the morning. We
searched the hut and the ground outside.
Still missing. Nobody would have
pinched it, except as a joke; twelve hours
“You mean pull myself DOWN to my chin!"
later it hadn’t turned up. That ruled out
the joke. Somebody got an inspiration,
a bird must’ve taken it. Nobody
think of a better explanation, so I had
to try to convince myself that was the
answer. I wrote home for the spare one
I happened to have, and was still wearing
the deputy when we left. That was six
months ago. Yesterday a little parcel
came by post: it contained the eye. A
“ Here's y'r lunch, Charlie."
note from the cocky explained that he’d
found it on a little ledge under the tractor
—and that tractor was used frequently!
Now the puzzle is: Did the bird place
it there six months ago or let it fall on
the ground where the tractor tyres would
whisk it up months later without, by a
miracle, shattering it to pieces? And
what kept it on that ledge under the
tractor?” I can’t answer that last one,
but I’m pondering on the potency of that
plonk and where the celebrator really
was when he thought he was placing the
optic on the window-sill.
* * * *
“Biridja”: The leech as a weather
prophet (B. 19/9/’51)? In the Festival
of Britain they’ve had a replica of Dr.
Merry weather’s “Tempest Prognosticator,
which was shown at London’s Great
Exhibition in August, 1851. Neatly-
made, the machine had on a pedestal a
small bell, and surrounding the base 12
glass bottles each containing water
and a leech. At the mouth and
within each bottle was a button of whale-
bone. Attached to each button was a
chain reaching up to a tiny hammer on
the bell. Dr. Merryweather realised that
atmospheric pressure influenced the
leeches, which when storms were
approaching rose up, moved the whale-
bone button and so rang the bell. He
claimed he could “cause a little leech,
governed by its instinct, to ring St. Paul’s
great bell in London,” and as for feeding
them, one good meal suffices a leech
for a year,
* * * *
“V.”: Young Bob prided himself on
his sheep-dog technique. He d broken in
a couple, with reasonable results, and
now there wasn’t a bad dog in the district
that wouldn’t have been good, nor a
good one that wouldn’t have been better,
if Bob had handled him. When he
spotted the big Border pup creeping on
my sheep he eyed him enthusiastically.
“Beautiful pup, that,” he exclaimed.
“Shapes up well. Where’d you get him.
“From the Topnotch kennels. Paid a big
shot for him. Trouble is he’s ...” “He s
got breeding, all right,” crowed Bob.
“What about letting me break him in?
“Yes, but he’s ...” “It’s all in their
training,” he broke in. “Y’ can spoil em
so easy. You never want to hit a dog.
I’ll make a champ, out of that ’n’. Bet
he’s pedigreed. No, I never hit a dog.
Just growl at him, that’s enough.” Bob
was growling all right, when I saw him
a week later. He had a small bunch of
sheep near a fence, and was going crook
as he watched the pup cut off a sheep
and course it down the paddock. ‘ Sit
down, you mad-headed goat! ’ he
bawled. “Sit down ” The pup chased the
jumbuck over the ridge, looked back at
Bob jumping up and down and throwing
his arms around, and, deciding it was
some new sort of game, charged back
gleefully and joined in the jumping. The
dog-trainer had run out of language and
was threatened with apoplexy when I
left. Not caring to bring the pup back
and admit defeat, Bob had a number of
similar sessions with the good-looking
Border, before he worked out for him-
self that the animal was stone-deaf.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d penetrated into a
comer of Victoria where certain things
w'ere much prized, and about the first
thing we encountered when we put in
for a haymaking job was a demand for
references. “References!” Mat snorted.
“Look, any bloke can get a reference,
but it don’t prove nothin’. Me an’ the
mate here, we got references all over the
country but we don’t carry em about
with us.” The cocky looked mystified.
“It’s the jobs we done,” Mat explained.
“They’re our ruddy references.” “That
might be all right,” the cocky said, “but
I don’t know you an’ I never seen any
of your work. It’s the custom round
here t’ have references. Couldn’t you
send home for one? Surely your minister
would testify to your character.” Mat
looked dumbfounded, then he pulled him-
self together. “Look,” he said, “the only
time the minister ever seen me was on
a Sundee, an’ I never work on Sundees
unless I’m on contract, so how the blazes
would he know anythin’ about it"?” “I
don’t know,” snapped the cocky, “but no
reference, no job, see?” We saw, which
is why we were 40 miles from there before
we slept again.
* * * *
“Hist”: It doesn’t always work. Long
Alec, thirsty and broke, recalled Mat’s
cunning lurk(B. 11/7/’5l), and, five miles
out of town, noted a name on a gate;
Cockaticka—P. Percy. Anticipation
pushed him along, and within an hour
or so he had dumped his gear on the
veranda of the Shearers’ Arms. Three
minutes later he was outside again, still
thirsty. Let me report the conversation;
L.A.: “Mr. Percy leave anythin’ ’ere for
me—Smith’s the name, Alec Smith?”
Bung: “No.” . ...
LA • “Gripes, when I finished this
mornin’ ’e said ’e’d leave me cheque ’ere
to save me goin’ back up to the ouse for
U Bung : “Nothing been left.”
L.A. (scratching back of neck): Cnpes,
’e musta been ’eld up”-bnghtly- Stand
us uo a mug or two while Im waitm ?
Bung (gating thoughtfully out of the
window): working for old Pete
Pe L.A. right, on Cockaticka. Bit
° Bung? “Ah, nobody’ll ever work for Pete
th L ’ow’s that? Too lousy?”
Bung (allowing sardonic smile to
appear): “No, too dead. Poor old blanker
wriggled out about three weeks ago.
“SATYRS AND SUNLIGHT.”
Recall the day
When Hugh McCrae
Wore a waving, wide-brimmed hat *
I could have sworn
A stubby horn
Poked out from where it sat-
He was so tall,
I couldn’t see all,
At least, the top of him;
But songs like bells
—Who knows what else? —
Lurked under that hat’s brim.
Along the grey,
Hard pavement way,
I heard his merry laughter
As it soared high
Up to the sky
And shook this earth’s blue rafter.
I hear it now,
I see that brow,
That ring of bright hair twining,
See a wide lid
That might have hid
Two little horns reclining.
So live and gay,
That Hugh McCrae,
I hear the city quaking,
Gloom put to rout,
Full laughter out,
See Hugh (all over) shaking.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


j
j
ĵ
j
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
U.T.9
It costs less when Experts manage your Estate,.
■EFFICIENT management of an Estate is
dependent on the wisdom and experience of
the Executor or Trustee. In unskilled hands,
wastage and unnecessary expense may cause con-
siderable loss. The relatively small cost involved
in appointing the Union Trustee as your executor
may be more than offset by the careful, economi-
cal management of your Estate.
The specialised knowledge of a group of experts
in every sphere of Estate administration is
permanently available.
Charges, limited by law, are exceedingly moderate.
A confidential interview can be arranged to meet
your convenience.
Phone, call or write for your copy of "Wills,
Executors, Trustees .”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in
333 Collins
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Victoria) (Established 1885)
St., Melbourne: 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
r~ Dividends ,
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’44 257,487 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 35,487 489,877
’45 258,775 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 36,775 526,652
’46 227,312 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 5,312 531,964
Debenture exes., £28,510 .. .. 503,454
’47 269,889 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 47,889 551,343
Contingencies res. disclosed, £140,000 691,343
Less new patents, £11,346 .. .. 679,997
’4B 283,763 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 61,763 741,760
Share premiums, £104,000 ~ .. 845,760
’49 259,147 60,000 7.3 = 177,000 22,147 867,907
Premium on shares, £208,000 .. 1,075 907
’SO 360,861 60,000 7.3 = 232,000 68,861 1,144,768
Share premiums, £440,705 .. .. 1,585,473
’sl 668,978 60,000 8 = 519,500 89,478 1,674,951
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 1,649,951
This big and efficient industrial
organisation supplies most of Aus-
tralia’s paper-board and kraft require-
ments, which it turns out from five mills
Maryvale, Melbourne, Fairfield and
Broadford (Vic.) and Botany (N.S.W.).
The machines are fed partly from the
co.’s own pulping plant and partly from
imported pulp, and are now powered
with their own generating equipment,
while fuel for the boilers comes from the
co.’s own brown-coal deposit at Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.). This means much so far
as continuous running of the plant, out-
put and costs are concerned.
Since war ended demand has run well
ahead of expanding production. During
the last six years more than £6,000,000
has been spent on extending and
modernising plant and over £2,250,000 on
land, buildings, forests, etc. To meet the
outlay and carry more stocks and book
debts £7,595,289 of fresh ord. capital
(£3,592,584), share-premiums (£752,705)
and debenture money (£3,250,000) has
been gathered, and £3,453,900 has been
added to the outside debt.
At June 30 paid capital (it includes
£1,000,000 of 6 p.c. prefs.) stood at
£6,792,584. Early in the term 4,654,106
new £1 ords. were put out at a premium
of 2s. 6d. each, and there was £3,141,522
of the capital and £141,058 of the share
premiums still to come when the books
closed. In front of share capital is the
£3,250,000 (up £250,000) of debentures,
costing a shade under 4 p.c. Direct public
interest is confined to the prefs. and
debentures. The ords., in which the equity
lies, are all owned by Australasian Paper
and Pulp, whose own shares are listed
on ’Change.
As the operating co. called for more
capital, the holding co. asked those on
its own register for like amounts on
similar terms. For the five years to 1940
A.P.M. sent along a trifle over 10 p.c. p.a„
enabling A.P. and P. to pay an all-round
8 p.c. For the next nine years rates
paid on ord. capital of the two cos. were
7.3 p.c. and 6 p.c. respectively. Last
term the operating co. lifted its div. to
approximately 8 p.c., which will enable
A.P. and P. to lift its div. to 7 p.c., as
well as write off underwriting and other
exes, associated with the last new share-
issue. Three years ago the declared
intention of the operating co, was to
distribute enough to enable A.P. and P.
to pay 8 p.c., as soon as earnings and
other circumstances permitted.
As new plant came into operation
A.P.M.’s output stepped along in this way:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
, , Jons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Wood pulp .. 39,430 41,343 40,089 43,283
Paper & board 128,480 130.206 133,126 148,194
Local demand is expected to reach 300,000
tons p.a. by 1955, and the co. has planned
to lift plant capacity to 250,000 tons p.a.
Average price of paper and board sold
last term was £76 ss. (£64 10s. previous
year); similar imported lines averaged
about £llO per ton.
After allowing £808,900 (up £469,300)
for taxation and £466,401 (up £41,609)
for depreciation, net earnings took a leap
of £308,117, reaching £668,978. That
covered the pref. div. and 10.5 p.c. on
ord. capital as it stood at the close of
accounts as against 9.4, 8.2, 10.1
and 9.5 p.c. back to 1947. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was 7.7 p.c.,
so both the pref. and debenture money
are very helpful to the ordis. at the
moment. It is a creditable performance
considering that a lot of the new share
and other money was not fully employed
when the books closed.
The allowance for taxation covered
deferred tax and the increased Budget
rate. In other respects the Budget
isn’t likely to have much effect
upon the co.’s activities or earnings.
During the year £2,344,584 of fresh
capital, £440,705 of share premiums and
£250,000 of debenture money came in,
and £191,164 was added to mortgages,
£420,334 to loans, etc., and £1,480,650
to the amount coming to sundry
creditors:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital— £ £ £ £
Pref. . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.000,000 1,000,000
Ord. .. 2,200,000 2,616,000 3,448,000 5,792,584
Debentures . 2,250,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,250,000
Mortgages.. 60,598 140,392 183,694 374,858
Loans, etc. 221,278 764,336 363,827 784,161
Other cr’tors 454,182 448,612 1,078,589 2,559,239
Tax reserve 440,896 297,771 403,349 1,129,955
Staff funds
Final divs. 111,000 126,000 152,000 373,000
Freehold and
plant .. 2,881,407 3,972,823 6,164,243 9,885,302
Shares other
cos. .. 199,212 250,855 275,074 524,871
Stock . . 2,857,726 3,036,066 2,490,509 3,205,111
Book debts 1,506,673 1,467,802 1,810,724 2,789,719
Cash, etc... 85,983 33,709 36,676 533,744
Net additions to principal assets were
£3,721,059 freeholds and plant, £249,797
shareholdings, £714,602 stocks and
£978,995 book debts. Erection of the new
mill at Petrie, near Brisbane, is well on
the way, and good progress is reported in
planting forest areas (for provision of
long-fibre pulp) in the Gippsland district.
Since the close of accounts nominal
capital has been lifted to £20,000,000 by
creation of 10,000,000 new £1 shares.
Further issues of both shares and deben-
tures are to be made during the next two
years.
At 355. (325. a few weeks ago) A.P.
and P.’s f.-p. pound ords. return 4 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and the 8 p.c. prefs.
at 395. yield 4.1 p.c At 265. (last recorded
sale) A.P.M.’s 6 p.c. prefs. yield 4.6 p.c.
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 149,957 8 p.c. = 138,600 \
Staff fund, £SOOO .. .. ]
6,357 939,655
1945. . 153,258 8 p.c. = 138,600 f
Staff fund, £SOOO .. ..|
9,658 949,313
1946.. 156,026 8 p.c. = 138,600 )
Staff fund, £SOOO .. .. j
12,426 961,739
1947.. 158,973 8 p.c. = 138,600 \
Staff fund, £6OOO .. .. I
15,373 977,112
1948.. 149,164 8 p.c. = 138,600 1
Staff fund, £SOOO .. .. f
5,564 982,676
1949.. 150,107 8 p.c. = 138,600 \
Staff fund, £SOOO .. .. (
6,507 989,183
1950.. 156,879 8 p.c. = 138,600 f
Staff fund, £SOOO .. .. 1
13,279 1,002,462
Share premiums, £99,512 .. ..1,101,974
1951.. 147,994 8 p.c. = 142,065 1
Staff fund, £6OOO .. .. |
929 1,102,903
According to evidence before the Royal
Commission on the liquor trade, of the
present 2028 licensed hotels in N. S.
Wales, Tooths and Tooheys, two biggest
of the half-dozen brewers in the State,
own;
Met- New-
Tooths— ropolitan. castle. Country. Total.
Freeholds .. 332 110 186 ‘ 628
Leaseholds .. 54 5 26 85
Total .. 386 115 212 713
Tooheys—
Freeholds .. 78 32 106 216
Leaseholds .. 23 7 34 64
Total .. 101 39 140 280
For the most part they are all operated
on the “tied-house” system, which is
the form competition takes, there being
no price-cutting in the trade. Rentals
and bonuses vary according to takings
and length of the lease. And, excepting
border areas, inter-State brewers do not
invade each other’s territory to any extent
worth mentioning.
For over a decade steadily expanding
beer consumption, and therefore growth
in brewery turnover, has more than taken
care of the persistent rise in costs of
labor, materials, production and distri-
bution. Though turnover continues to
expand, costs now look like winning the
race. Output of beer in Australia for the
year to June 30 increased by 17 million
gallons (10.9 p.c.), reaching 173 million
gallons, which was over 20 gallons per
head of population. After making
“ample” provision for bad and doubtful
debts, etc., and setting aside £42,709 (down
£558) for depreciation, the spring in
Tooheys’ gross earnings was £285,276
(9.7 p.c.):
1948, 1949. 1950. 1951.
Gross £ ££ £
earnings 2,120,638 2,451,930 2,940,785 3,226,061
Exes. .. 1,971,474 2,301,823 2,783,906 3,078,067
Profit ~ 149,164 150,107 156,879 147,994
Including an unspecified provision for
taxation, exes, took all the gain and
£BBBS besides, thus making off with
95.4 p.c. of gross earnings as against
94.6 p.c. in 1950 and 90.6 p.c. in 1945. The
net result, lowest since 1942, was 8.3 p.c.
on average capital as against 9, 8.6, 8.6,
9.1, 9, 8.8 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1944. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was a shade
under 5 p.c. The div. was maintained at
8 p.c., and has been for the last decade.
The outlook for the trade is a mixed
one. The Budget and economic develop-
ments have introduced new stresses and
strains which will act and react upon the
earnings and outgoings of brewers and
other traders. While external forces might
yet exert a downward pressure on the
national income, internal forces promise
to exert an upward pressure. So there
might be little, if any, shrinkage in total
national income for the current year.
Still, private spending is likely to be less
free, owing to the impact of direct and
indirect taxation and of the high and
rising cost of food, clothing, transport and
other items on family incomes.
On the other hand a strong inflow of
migrants continues, employment promises
to remain at a high level, and further
lifts in the basic wage are pending. But
as the effects of wage-lifts snowball
through the economy the cost of produc-
tion, distribution and everything else
will keep on rising until the last position
becomes worse than the first. Also, in-
creased company taxation will press more
heavily upon net earnings. Obviously
much depends upon how soon the costs
curve flattens out, and, meantime, whether
brewers are granted a further increase in
their proportion of the selling-price of
beer.
The recent lift of 2s. 7d. a gallon in
excise on beer, making a total of 7s. 2d.
a gallon, has been passed on to hotel-
keepers and over the counter to the
public. But the Treasury, not the brewer,
gets the benefit of this rake-off. The
brewer has had to rely mostly upon gains
from expanding turnover to meet the
growth in operating costs.
To help finance bigger trading and the
purchase and remodelling of hotels, etc.,
the co. put out 433,125 new 16s. shares
at a premium of 10s. each early last
term. When the books closed £159,219
of the capital and £99,512 of the share
premiums had been gathered, leaving
£187,281 of capital and £117,050 of
premiums to come:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,891,719
Creditors! 335,798 374,966 400,383 485,605
Loans* .. 804,973 804,453 804,577 816,014
Final div. 69,300 69,300 69,300 72,765
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 2,996,790 2,945,115 2,873,965 2,985,994
Stocks . . 197,174 255,265 237,086 353,354
Book debts 591,764 410,602 732,572 876,853
Cash, etc... 103,742 323,643 129,822 117,028
Shareholdings,
etc. .. 40,777 40,777 40,777 40,777
* Advances by subsidiaries, f Including provision for
taxation, etc.
Net addition to the brewery, hotels, etc..
was £112,029, to stocks £116,268 and to
book debts £144,281.
The market, which believes the board
has consistently stated profits at con-
servative figures, prices the f.-p. 16s. shares
at 35s. (40s, 3d. in June) to return 3.6 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Including un-
called capital, etc,, net tangible cover is
25s. 2d. a share.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
IstPrefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 114,902 12,000 28,000 40,000 )
To staff fund, £5000 .. .. (
510,683
From inner reserves, £272,640 ..
j
From tax provision, £37,100 . . 1
War damage receipts, £3316 .. |
1948.. 210,844fl2,000 28,000 40,000 1
To staff fund, £10,000 .. ..I
To stock reserve, £75,000 .. J
869.583
1949.. 189,790 12,000 28,000 40,0001
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. 1
To staff fund, £10,000 .. .. )
919,373
1950.. 217,928 12,000 28,000 40,000 1
To staff fund, £10,000 .. .. j
1,047,301
From tax reserve, £4458
1,051,759
1951.. 244,887 12,000 28,000 40,0001
To staff fund, £10,000 .. .. }•
To stock reserve, £50,000 . . I
1,156,646
f Leap in net earnings due largely to change in
method of presenting the accounts.
Not since the early post-war demobilisa-
tion boom have retailers enjoyed such
a spate of buying as during the last 12
months The chairman of this big and
fashionable department store succinctly
sums up the position in this way:
An abnormal increase in the volume of
sales during the year materially influenced
the trading results. Due to the disturbed
international position, a sharp increase m
prices, particularly for wool, and some
inflationary influences, an accelerated
demand for goods operated throughout the
year. This inflated volume of trade enabled
a steep increase in expenses to be absorbed,
although the percentage of net profit
recovered from sales declined.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its turnover,
but here are percentage increases in
aggregate sales of 22 Sydney stores com-
pared with the corresponding period of
the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
< K \
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1948- +15.6 +lß.l +16.9 +6.2 +12.7
1949- —4.5 +10.3 +9.1 +9.6 +6.2
1950- +32.9 +16.2 +30.9 +33.0 +27.7
Another interesting feature is that, for
the year to June 30 last, the wholesale
price index showed increases of 12.8 p.c.
for imported goods and of 22.5 p.c. for
home-produced goods, while the retail
index, “C” series, went up by 19.4 p.c.
The board wrote net earnings £26,959
stronger at a record £244,887, which
covered the pref, divs. and 51.2 p.c. on
the £400,000 of ord. capital as against
44.4, 37.4 and 50.2 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., £IO,OOO was sent to the staff fund
and £50,000 to a special stock reserve,
making it £350,000, or 4s. 3d. in the £
of the inventory total, from which the
reserve is deducted in the published
accounts. That left £104,887 (42.8 p.c.
of the profit) to toss into free reserves,
lifting them to £1,156,646, which is
£156,646 higher than paid capital. The
profit was written after allowing £75,980
(up £37,669) for depreciation and £240,000
(up £93,000) for taxation. The last-
mentioned amount is equal to approxi-
mately 10s. in the £ of profit before tax,
and therefore enough to take care of the
extra bleeding called for in the Budget.
The already strong financial position
was further strengthened, visible growth
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£788,433) being £61,593:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. 1,090,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages.. 175,000 350,000 250,000 300,000
Creditors,
etc.* . . 363,039 389,994 238,538 578,680
Tax prov’n 133,500 128,500 147,000 240,000
Staff fund.. 70,600 77,574 76,413 73,721
Final div... 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Freehold and
plant . . 1,248,598 1,304,864 1.320,461 1,368.213
Stockf . . 947,114 1,110,095 864,910 1,276.220
Book debts 305,979 324,773 376,948 576,459
Cash and in-
vestments 130,031 145,702 216,933 148,155
* Includes provision for contingencies,
t After deducting special reserve £300,000 1949
and 1950, £350,000 1951.
To meet net additions of £411,310 to
stocks, £199,511 to book debts and £47,752


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Scotch]
WHITE-
IUCHAKMj?
CON.SCQiuA
From
Scotland —-
every
precious
drop
WOINTtkW
*fsSl
SCOTCH WHISKY
"BLACK & WHITE’
• MCAIIIINTof
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
*COTCM WHISKY DISTILtiAS-
«LAf«Ow ft LONDON.
••"‘•own Mnum.MifiacH.tMtsioc.sooaiM*
COMTIMT* | WINT 6 rtUIO 02 *
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK & WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
to H.M. King George VI
ĵ
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN ELIZABETH LANGTON
late of Manly Vale N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that NORMAN STANLEY LANG-
TON has filed a Petition for Divorce (No.
3401 of 1951) on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Fourteenth day of De-
cember 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ALLEN UTHER & CO., Solicitors, at 350
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LAURENCE GILLESPIE late of In-
verell— I TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
EVELYN GILLESPIE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2341 of 1951 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 14th day
of December 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MAD-
DOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors,
38 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
TODAY'S PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-six years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policies
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
ill
Si
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD
HUNTER AND BIIGH STREET SYDNEY
i 1_
t ZLL
j
FOR EVERY
PAINTING JOB!
j
A portable unit for
oil, water paints,
lacquers quickly
and easily applied
at a pressure up to
30 lbs. Supplied complete
with 1 h.p. Amplion motor
or as 32V. or 100 V. D.C.
model for lighting sets. Three nozzles
fan type, fine spotting type and angle
type for ceilings. Air chuck for tyre
pumping can be supplied.
Also available as electric 240 V. A.C.
model.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty.
Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd
PERTH. W.A.
I. W. EARN SHAW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney-'Phone X 83950
M
\M|
\
'if M
■i Vy
(\W
SUMMER TUXEDOS
There’s cool comfort on summer evenings in
these tropical lightweight Tuxedos of Australian
pure wool Taffeta. In the fashionable fawn
toning, lined with art silk and comfortably cut
in the new drape style, £9/4/-.
DRESS TROUSERS
In Australian black Barathea with side, hip and
fob pockets. Side seams are braided. £5/17/-.
D.B. DINNER SUITS
Authentic in style, and smartly cut from English
black Barathea, the coats have pure silk grosgrain
facings, the trousers have braided side seams,
£26/13/6.
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
285 George Street, Sydney
Opposite Hunter Street
Address mail orders Box 165, G.P.0., Sydney
to freehold and plant, £340,142
was added to the creditors item
(including an overdraft of
£277,276) and £50,000 to
mortgages.
Since the close of accounts
the outlook in the retail trade
has become more than usually
complicated. However, recent
sales by some of the big stores
have been a domestic rather
than an economic development,
dictated mainly by a number of
temporary trade factors. The
impact of higher income-tax and
sales-tax and of the rising cost
of transport and other essentials
upon family budgets can be ex-
pected to produce some degree
of consumer resistance,
especially to luxury-goods and
other high-priced lines. And
there has been talk of Japanese
competition and of receding
prices for cottons and woollens.
Still, for the most part, manu-
facturers and suppliers have not
yet made any substantial cuts in
prices. Although prices for some
raw materials have fallen, the
cost of labor and services is still
on the increase, and the general
price-1 e v e 1 may strengthen
before it weakens. The level of
retail profits shows a marked
dependence on turnover, hence
the need for some degree of
flexibility in controlled profit-
margins.
At 48s. 6d. (555. a month or
so ago) the ords. return a
satisfactory 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. At 255. 9d. and
28s. 6d. the 6 p.c. first and 7 p.c.
second prefs. yield 4.6 p.c. and
4.9 p.c. respectively. Excluding
the stock reserve, net tangible
cover (book-value) is £lO 15s. Bd.
firsts, £4 17s. lOd. seconds and
£3 17s. lOd. ords.
Lennons Hotel, Ltd. (Bris.)
f —Dividends— N To Re- Defi-
Jne., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, eit.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’4B* 20,819 5 7i 15,144 5,675 3,337
Deferred repairs, £IOBB .. 4,425
Res.
’49..38,783 5 8 26,299 12,484 8,059
Less deferred repairs, £97 .. 7,962
Assets written up, £11,277 .. 19,239
’50..44,896 5 10 31,000 13,896 33,135
’51..50.751 5 10 31,000 19,751 52,886
* Seven months, f After deducting good-
will, etc., now £lOl.
The present co. bought the
undertaking (it is Brisbane’s
leading hotel, and one of the
most up-to-date in the Common-
wealth) from City Mutual Life
about 3j years ago for £360,000
—£296,700 freehold and build-
ings, £63,200 plant and £lOl
goodwill. A combination of
boom conditions and good
management has sent net earn-
ings along in fine style since.
And, because demand for first-
class hotel accommodation and
service exceeds the co.’s
capacity, and promises to ex-
pand further, the board has
bought Salisbury Chambers,
an adjoining property at the
corner of George- and Ann-
streets, at a total cost of
£64,056. The intention is to
put up anew building, similar to
the present hotel, as soon as
Capital Issues Control shows the
financial green light, and labor
and materials become available.
When that occurs, shareholders
might be asked for more.
Meanwhile, rents from the
chambers will turn in more than
interest on the bonds sold to
finance the deal.
Last term’s bumper national
income, combined with free
spending, growth of population
and increased tourist traffic,
meant a brisk bar and lounge
trade, high level of guest
occupancy, full dining-rooms
and good takings on account of
the ball- and choral-rooms.
Net earnings were £5855 better
at £50,751, which covered the
pref. div. (£7500) and 18.4 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 15.9
p.c. and 13.2 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. That was after
setting aside £4609 (up £305)
for depreciation and £33,500
(up £8087) for taxation. Appear-
ances are that the new co. tax
rate will call for £4OOO-odd
more than was allowed. Still, a
comfortable margin remains
between net earnings and
current dividend rates.
The property purchase already
referred to shows up in a net
growth of £62,546 in the free-
hold item:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Preference .. 150,000 150,000 150,000
Ordinary .. 235,000 235,000 235,000
Creditors .. 21,730 21,419 29,916
Tax provision.. 20,927 26,617 33,608
Final divs. .. 18,737 17,850 17,850
Freehold, etc... 301,453 318,884 381.430
Plant, etc. .. 70,300 69,572 80,702
Stock .. . . 8,804 15,238 17,237
Debtors .. 5,573 5,652 8,294
Cash and bonds 63,323 74,674 31,596
Intangibles .. 11,378* 101 101
* Included £11,277 preliminary expenses
written off in 1950.
Installation of additional air-
conditioning equipment sent
plant, etc., up by £11,130. Ex-
cluding tax provision, only
£8497 was added to the amount
coming to outsiders.
Although costs, especially on
the catering side, continue to
climb, there is nothing at the
moment to suggest that the
10 p.c. div. is likely to be inter-
fered with. For the ords.,
which sold at 375. a couple of
months ago, buyers recently
offered 365. without attracting
sellers. The return at 365. would
be 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 225. yield 4.5 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £2 18s. 4d.
prefs. and 245. 7d. ords.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
Ltd. (B. 5/9/’sl), which was
registered in London in 1934, is
to call in the English undertaker
and at the same time reincarnate
itself in Victoria as Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie (Aust), Ltd. Those
on the register of the old co.
(paid capital £614,750 in 10s.
stock units) will receive five new
10s. shares in the new Australian
co. for every four shares now
held. The new co. will thus have
a paid capital of £768,437. This
does not amount to an issue of
bonus scrip, but is merely a
book adjustment which accords
with the current rate of exchange
between the two countries. The
mine is the third-largest pro-
ducer on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.), and some £23,000
is presently to be spent on addi-
tional surface and underground
equipment.


PENFOLDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
KNFOIDS
_
liiliP
PSO/S3
fflamfUn
JPORJC TT€ L.
D/D YOU k'/YOW THAT
I wmgzm
0AO77 7 m mjmsif/ifymAooT^mlWI)
W7M 3A/ir<7J/a~ SOASfa SVM <73#3AOO
I 30A/VIS7Q 37/1 t/6/US/?onVM AV9
3/793/7IV SS/79 3 A9 3(7VH7 SVAf <779079
3771W 393/7MAW3709 JO A90IS77737U N7
<731770/17/3771OV (177V <7I<790X<7
a
v
0/0 you KNOW TNAT
MMcarom-M
EVER U/D ABOUT A WINNER.
WAS .50 TO ONE ON, IN 1904 ABOUT
* ROBERT DE DIABIE“ WHO WON AT
UNGFIEID IT IS AISO ON RECORD THAT
THE AGA KHAN'S*NUMTAX NANAI* WON AT
P TO ONE ON AT GOODWOOD (ENG) IN 1923
«>•
Ti
djo you mow wat.
iauecST Smokc
IS ENJOYABLE TO THE LAST PUFF)
WHEN YOU CHOOSE 0M/VPS04 7004000
“PIPE SMOKERS NAVE WE CHOICE OF
M/otfroROAMHMicpr tm i f vour
'‘ROLL YOUR OWN' 8 ’ THERE IS EITHER
FMBCi/rOk'
READY R(/SBED.
.WHICHEVER YOUR
PREFERENCE..^
/}&*t
o
I
•730-7.51
Business.Rollery.Etc.
National Income
The Commonwealth
Treasurer’s summary of national
income and expenditure and its
development since pre-war years
“makes no attempt to allow for
changes in prices and all figures
are expressed in current money
values.”
On that basis the national in-
come increased from
£779,000,000 in 1938-39 to
£3,101,000,000 last year.
“Personal income of residents”
in the same period increased
from £7 1 3,0 0 0,0 0 0 to
£2,916,000,000.
There was only an 11 per cent,
increase in national income in
1948-49, but next year the leap
was 19 per cent., followed by
35 per cent, in 1950-51. The
greatest portion of the leap
forward was produced in 1950-
51 by the jump in the value of
exports by 60 per cent. Export
receipts, which in 1945-46 repre-
sented only one-seventh of the
total, last year represented one-
third of the total. This has not
been due to increase in pro-
duction—which in butter and
wheat is declining—but almost
solely to increase in price. Wool,
for instance, doubled in value by
comparison with the 1949-50
season. Gross fixed capital in-
vestment —i.e., “public-authority
expenditure on new works and
maintenance and gross private
investment in fixed capital equip-
ment”—rose from £185,000,000
in 1938-39 to £876,000,000 last
year.
The main interest in the
figures is in their dissection as
illustrating the changes which
are taking place in the social
structure with the development
of the Welfare State.
It is quite obvious that the
key item which makes the
position possible is the increase
in the value of exports from
£154,000,000 in 1938-39 to
£1,028,000,000 in 1950-51. And
it is clear also where the benefit
of this has been most felt.
Personal Income.
1938- 1946- 1950-
39. 47. 51.
£m. £m. £m.
Wages, salaries, etc. 444 770 1,497
Income of farmers 45 158 757
Unincorporated busi-
ness, professions,
etc 83 137 320
Rent and interest.. 86 110 118
Dividends .. 25 37 80
Cash, social-service
benefits .. .. 30 80 144
These figures broadly give the
returns in terms of cash incomes
to persons. In comparing, some
allowances must be made for
population increase.
Irrespective of the gradual
depreciation of money to its
present real value, and taking
into account the increased
number of buildings which have
been erected since the end of
the war, and which have a con-
stantly increasing individual
rental value according to the
year in which they happen to be
built, rent and interest yield the
investors of today only a third
more than in 1938-39. Dividends
—“paid to resident persons from
Australian and overseas com-
panies”—despite the vast in-
crease in capital investment, the
multiplication of enterprises and
the huge rises in prices, amount
to only £80,000,000 ; little more
than three times the 1938-39
figure.
But while in 1938-39 those
receiving cash social-service
benefits claimed less than three-
eights the amount earned in rents
and interest, the ratio in favor of
pensioners and other social
servicers now is 7-to-4 against
the rent and interest collectors
and nearly the same against
dividends.
In 1942-43 public business
undertakings showed a surplus
of £58,000,000 before payment
of interest. Last year they were
in the red and sinking deeper.
Excluding purchase of dwel-
lings, motor-cars and gifts to
other persons, but taking in
almost every other item, includ-
ing rents and domestic wages,
&« 6S '
“Have you any dirty tricks I can play on my husband ?”
expenditure on personal con-
sumption rose last year from
£1,652,000,000 to £2,128,000,000,
an increase of nearly 30 per
cent. —£266 per head, including
babies in arms.
The progress of Australia
along the lane to luxury is
marked by such facts as that
the private investment in
motor-vehicles increased from
£29,000,000 in 1939 to
£183,000,000 in 1950.
British T.V.
From London: Despite the
double brake of defence
requirements and the 66| p.c.
purchase tax British television
manufacturers’ combined pro-
duction figure of 60,000 sets
monthly during the greater
part of the year is no light
achievement.
There is every incentive for
them, since the 1,250,000 licence-
holders within range of
Alexander Palace (London) and
Sutton Coldfield (Birmingham)
constitute a mere foundation
upon which to build. The
pew station at Holme Moss near
Huddersfield will add a further
13.000. potential listeners,
and more will he added
by the Scottish station
at Kirk O’Shoots. That the
television industry thrives on
densely-populated afeas is self-
evidenj from the fact that the
13.000. are contained within
a radius of only 80 miles from
the station.
The most significant trend, as
evidenced at the recent Radio
Show at Earl’s Court, is towards
a larger screen. The original
9in. and lOin. cathode-tubes are
virtually obsolescent, the present
standard being 12in, This repre-
sents an average cost of £7O-£BO
per set, compared with £6O a
year ago. A dozen new sets
have 15in. and 16in. tubes, and
H.M.V, have produced the
largest-ever direct-vision screen
of 21 in.—at a price of 275gns.
Projection-sets (in which the
original picture occupies a space
only 23-in. in diameter, but has
a brilliance so extreme that it
can be magnified and thrown on
to an 18in screen) are slightly
higher in price but promise to
have an assured future.
Radio exports are increasing;
they amounted to £12,213,000
for the first seven months of this
year, compared to £8,774,000
for the same period in 1950.
The Search For Oil
F. B. Menadue again:
“Petro” (B. 12/9/’5l) states that I
misunderstood his objections to fur-
ther search for oil at Roma. In turn
it would appear that “Petro” has also
misunderstood me. However, the
essential issue now seems clear. No-
where else in Australia has there been
found the high-grade oil as at Roma.
What could be called “ample
funds” have been spent on Roma in
the last 30 years in putting down over
30 bores. This investigation was by
methods used in other parts of the
world in fields often subsequently
found successful, but costly and with
a minimum degree of accuracy and
reliability.
It would have been a grave error
if Roma had not been given the
benefit of the most modern methods
of research such as magnetic, gravi-
metric, seismic, and the Common-
wealth and Queensland Governments
are to be praised for their help in
this matter. In the light of the results
of that research it will be lamentable
if the investigation is not completed
by bores.
It will be agreed that the finding of
oil at Roma in considerably smaller
quantities than at fields such as
Alberta would entirely alter the whole
aspect of oil search in Australia.
Indeed, there is opinion to the effect
that the geology of Roma and the
nature of the oil found there is a
pointer to the possibility that larger
fields could be contiguous to Roma
and actually supplying it by migra-
tion.
From “Kerogen”:
The “packing-up” of Lakes En-
trance (Vic.) and the controversy
between F. B. Menadue and “Petro”
on Roma (B. 12/9/’5l and 19/9/’SI)
reflect the new “low” to which the
search for oil in Australia has
descended.
To one who has been in the van
of this search since the days of the
First World War, from the Nor’-West
to Taranaki (N-Z.) and Albany
(W.A.) to New Caledonia, the results
to date are both depressing and
lamentable, though quite understand-
able in the light of “Petro’s” remarks.
There must be much more behind
the bald statement of E. N. Avery
that his group was abandoning
Queensland than the reasons given,
because Shell, the world over, is
among the most courageous of the
big groups in seeking oil wherever it
has even the slightest chance of dis-
covery, as witness the American
Shell’s extensive plunge into the
Williston “wild-cat” basin of the
North American Rocky Mountain
States, where it has leased some mil-
lions of acres and will spend a fortune
in the next few years to develop it.
This is paralleled by a scheduled pro-
gramme for California to increase its
present small number of wells to 800,
which will also involve prodigious
outlay for equipment, personnel and
prospecting beside which the Queens-
land effort is very insignificant.
In view of the recent trends in
world developments to locate fluid
fuels it is surprising that none of the
big groups has yet considered pros-
pecting here for natural gas as well
as oil, especially when it is borne
in mind that gas today is as good as,
or even better than, oil under certain
conditions. Conversion to oil and
chemicals at will is now established,
at costs comparable with those for
normal refining practice, and very
soon the natural-gas industry will out-
strip that of petroleum.
It does not matter what the com-
position of the gas is or what the
content of CQ2 in it —all can now be
converted. So that the vast gas
areas of Queensland are sure to come
into the picture, as well as the better-
placed Permo-Triassic formations in
N.S.W., such as the Sydney basin,
where prospects for the location of
large supplies in favorable proximity
to the big industrial centres iare
exceptionally good. Success in this
matter would likely do as much for
the development of this country as
gold and wool have done.


Telephones; B 9573, B 6282,
B 6130
Telegraphic Address
Corrientes, Brisbane
CORRIE & CO.
Doaglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Ihe importance of
Planning your Will
Your Estate will not yield its
maximum for the protection of
your dependents unless your Will
has been carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the
complexities of taxation arc two
important problems to be consid-
ered; there arc many others known
to those whose business it is to
administer Estates, but which can
easily be overlooked by those not
so experienced.
B ri
5 Si
E
r b
5r
si r r
•ei'
m
By discussing your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, you will have the
benefit of the Company’s more than 63 years experience
in the administration of Estates to advise you in your
planning.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Executor and Trustee alone or jointly with a
relative or friend you will solve another important
problem; you will ensure that, when your guiding hand
is withdrawn, your Estate will be efficiently and econom-
ically managed in the best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide experience in the handling
of Estates of many different kinds —investment, industrial
and pastoral. It has gained the confidence of the public
to such a degree that it has become the largest Trustee
Company in the Southern Hemisphere.
If you would have further information as to the services
rendered by the Company —ring B 0377 or write and make
an appointment. A Senior Officer will gladly give the
information you desire.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72.000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT IFAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Missing Friend.
TO LEONARD JAMES QUIN, formerly of
19 Ivy Street Prahran in the State of
Victoria Iron Moulder but now of parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
GLADYS EDITH DAISY QUIN of Block
2 Flat 16 4 Wingate Avenue Ascot Vale
in the State of Victoria Married Woman
has filed a Petition for a Divorce against
you which Petition is numbered No. 635
of 1951 on the ground of wilful desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you intend to de-
fend this suit you must enter an appear-
ance at the Office of the Prothonotary
Supreme Court Law Courts Melbourne on
or before the 16th day of November 1951
In default of your failure to do so the
suit will proceed in your absence and you
may be liable to pay the costs of the
Petition A copy of the Petition and Cita-
tion may be obtained by you without
charge upon application to the Petitioner’s
Solicitor whose address is hereunder.—
M. M. GORMAN, LL.B., of 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
-4'S
M
as
r "
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
EDWARD JOHN EYRE
In 1840, Edward John Eyre led an expedition from
Adelaide to try to reach the centre of Australia.
The project was abandoned at Mt. Hopeless in the
Flinders Ranges, and the party moved down to
Fowler’s Bay.
Deciding to attempt to find an overland route
to Albany Eyre, accompanied by Baxter and three
natives, set out from Fowler’s Bay in February, 1841.
Shortage of water proved a serious handicap from
the beginning and Baxter was murdered by two of
the blacks, who plundered the camp and deserted.
Eyre, with Wylie, the remaining native, struggled
on and ’reached a bay in the south-east of Western
Australia. There, he was rescued by a French
whaling ship which, under the command of Captain
Rossiter, chanced to be there. Eyre named the Bay
Rossiter Bay.
After two weeks’ rest, Eyre and Wylie set out
again and reached Albany on 8th July.
On the occasion of the fubilee of the Common-
wealth of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales—
Australia’s pioneer bank, established in 1817
honours the explorers who opened
the way for the development of
this great country.
V ' &
S mrnu
j
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SODTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5II2D
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Branches in all States.
ĵ
'You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture, A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
f
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
j
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel; FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method I
NAME |
ADDRESS j
STATE J
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
A Butter “If”
After 14 years under a dairy-
price guarantee, Maoriland is
now paying its producers a shade
under two and a half times the
original price of 13.880 d. per lb.
fixed in 1937, has a pooled
reserve for the industry of £22
million odd, and is still on the
right side of the ledger so far
as its contract with John Bull is
concerned.
For this result it can thank
J. 8., who has agreed to two rises
of 7* p.c. each (the maximum
allowed under the seven-year
1948-55 contract) in the last six
months, to reach an export peak
of 2925. per cwt. for top-grade
M.L. butter and 161 s. 6d. for
best cheese.
Maorilanders, however, would
like to know whether the market
has anything more in store for
them after this season, because
the margin, though still in their
favor, is now so narrow that the
industry’s budgeted surplus
might be only £750,000 on an
estimated turnover of £6O
million. The guaranteed price
of 33.655 d., based on costs, has
nearly caught up to export
returns, and is a long way ahead
of the retail figure of Is. Bd.
per lb. that Maorilanders pay
for butter. When distribution
costs are added, there’s a gap
of Is. 3d. to be bridged on all
local sales, and this tots up to
a subsidy of £3l million to
£4 million a year. If the rise
in costs can be halted there
shouldn’t be much doubt about
prosperity, but it’s a big if, be-
cause inflation is hitting farmers
as much as anyone.
Inflation Control
When the future of New
Zealand’s sterling-value pound
hung in the balance, Maori-
landers at the polls last
year struck a blow for sounder
money and a halt in the cost of
living. In the renewed mandate,
which gave a bigger majority (to
the National Government), the
electorate gave Mr. Holland and
his team orders to apply the anti-
inflationary brake as firmly as
possible without causing too
much discomfort to sensitive
M.L.
As the team gets down to busi-
ness there’ll be need for skill at
the helm. Trade and industry
will have to be freed from
controls to get goods and pro-
duction moving more smartly,
and there’ll have to be more
freedom in prices and money-
rates, too.
The Socialist controls now
being unloosed had M.L.
half - throttled and honey-
combed with bottlenecks. To-
day imports are two-thirds
decontrolled, but a lot of
goods, most of them clashing
with one or another M.L.
domestic interest, are still under
licence, and price-fixing still has
a good deal of essential trade in
the straitjacket. Price orders
are often out-of-date before
they’re issued, and are far too
rigid, anyhow. Money remains
pegged on a 3 p.c. gilt-edged
basis, which ignores the lop-
sided pull between borrowers
and lenders, and helps to bolster
up inflated values for farms.
homes, shares, stocks, used cars
and everything else that’s out-
side control. As for M.L. s
heavily-defended labor market,
overfull employment has been in
the saddle for years.
Mr. Holland’s navigational
powers will be put to the
test in steering a way out
of the maze and steady-
ing the ship with the one
control —over credit —that the
Socialists wouldn’t, or couldn t,
use. Maorilanders have been
given notice that cheap money
for everyone, for all purposes,
good, bad or indifferent, can t
go on much longer, and Mr.
Holland and his team will be
judged by the way they stop the
drift.
Forestry Divs.
Maoriland’s runner - up to
Forest Products, Ltd., in the pine
and softwoods field, Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd., has had its
best year yet, by netting £90,134,
with a big margin after taking
£50,980 to pay 5 p.c. on prefs.
and ords., and is doing its bit
to prove that commercial
forestry in N.Z. can yield steady
divs. This is the fourth year
since the co. turned the corner,
after the 1947 reorganisation,
when manufacturing and forest
holding were placed in separate
compartments. The long uphill
struggle for nearly a quarter of
a century, before that, is now
only a fading memory. Card-
board output is up in volume, to
17,558 tons, and in value to
£1,225,289, against 14,676 tons
and £978,127, but is a long way
short of M.L. market needs of
25,000 tons, let alone export
demands, so the co. is embark-
ing on a £650,000 expansion
programme to boost production
by 50-60 p.c. Long-range as
well as immediate and short-
term demands must be lined up,
and the co. figures it will need
£3 million capital before it’s
through. It’s issuing a quarter
of a million new prefs. and
229,499 new ords. (at 6d.
premium for the £1 shares), and
will then be half-way towards
the £3 million goal. To help the
flotation, a solid block of
100,000 prefs. is going to an
unnamed leading financial
concern, under a contract that
dates back a couple of years,
and the balance will be parcelled
out among the 10,000 share-
holders on both sides of the
Tasman (with November 20 as
the deadline for applications).
There’s plenty of freedom lin
the issue, with no limit set for
allotments, except a minimum
of 50.
Here’s the trend of results
over seven years:
June Gross Net Depre- Tax pro-
-30 profit, profit, ciation. vision.
£ £ £ £
1945 182,055 11,279 48,790 73,582
1946 116,593 12,339 37,568 22,595
1947 217,425 31,763 52,262 77,514
1948 274,328 57,715 44,030 112,000
1949 245,700 57,741 47,281 79,750
1950 320,785 75,653 48,400 115,750
1951 370,205 90,134 42,965 144,870
With an abundant supply of
raw material at its back-door,
the co. can make good use of
new dollar plant as soon as it
gets it. Until then customers
will be rationed. The biggest
handicaps are price-control and
taxes, which have a stranglehold
on the co., as on Forest Products
and many other M.L. enter-
prises. Maoriland’s Treasury
was years ahead of shareholders
in dividing the spoils, and
insisted on its pound of flesh
when the co. was in the young
and delicate stage.


The Letters of Rachel Henning
[These letters begin in 1853, when Biclclulph, Rachel Henning’s only
brother (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam ciipper Great Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta (“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851) and Amy were thus separated, for
the time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
In August, 1854, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
Tregenna Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six days
later Rachel and Amy went to Appin, in N.S.W., where their brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev, Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
1855, and while Biddulph was establishing a new place on Bull! Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1856.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on February 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulph and
Annie, went to live in North Queensland, which was just being developed.
This is the tenth instalment of the letters.]
Exmoor,
June 29, 1863.
My Dearest Etta,
The parcel you sent out by
Mrs. Tucker has arrived at last
at Exmoor. It has taken nearly
nine months coming, for I see
the date is September 2, 1862,
and the drays arrived at Exmoor
June 20. However, it was all
the more welcome. Thank you
very much, my dear brother and
sister, for the beautiful photo-
graphic album you sent me. It
is exactly what I wanted,
The same drays brought up
Biddulph’s long-lost case. I
think I told you that he rescued
it at Rockhampton just as it was
going to be sold by auction, the
direction having come off. It
contained a teapot and coffee-
pot, etc., a great many pairs of
blankets, a variety of books of
the green novel species, most of
them stupid, which he bought
at a sale, and three beautiful
illustrated volumes of the Vernon
Gallery, which he took a fancy
to in Sydney. They are fit for
a drawing-room table, and too
good for the bush.
Annie and 1 also got a parcel
from Emily Tucker containing
some winter dresses we had sent
for. She has very good taste
and has chosen very pretty ones,
bu t they are a great deal too
good for the bush. They are
made of some material re-
sembling woollen poplin, if
there is such a thing. Mine is
a deep blue and Annie’s green
with a small black stripe, both
beautiful colors, but as to wear-
ing them for morning dresses,
it goes to my heart to think of
it
The drays brought up the
usual amount of flour-bags for
the supply of the station, and
not at all too soon, for we had
come to our last pound, pretty
nearly, besides borrowing from
the neighboring stations. The
drays had been delayed again at
the river and could not cross till
Mr. Devlin went to the rescue ;
constructed a bottle-tree canoe
and ferried the goods over, when
the bullocks swam and dragged
the empty drays through the
water. Now the said drays are
just getting ready to start again
with the last of the wool. Three
drays, with six yokes of bul-
locks in each. I should rather
like to see them at the river or
some of the bad creeks, where
they “double-bank the bullocks,”
as it is called: that is, put the
whole team, thirty yokes per-
"... it was impossible to help laughing ... ”
haps, on to each dray to drag
it over. After these drays
return from the Port I suppose
there will be no more going
down for some time.
I told you when I last wrote
that a detachment of the native
police had been stationed on the
run. Since that we have had a
visit from the commandant of
the district, a Mr. Bligh. Rather
a pleasant, gentlemanly young
man. He was accompanied by
Mr. Marlow, the lieutenant at
Port Denison. They stayed two
days and decided that the place
chosen for the camp was not
central enough, so I suppose the
permanent camp will be formed
about twenty miles from here,
which I am rather glad of, A
sergeant and two troopers only
are left here at present.
A bad accident happened at
the camp not very long ago. The
sergeant came here with one of
the black troopers to ask for
some “plaster” for the latter, as
his carbine had burst and hurt
two of his fingers. Mr, Cressall
took off the coarse rag in which
they had been bound, and found
that the upper joint of the two
fingers had been completely
blown off, leaving the bone
sticking out. He bathed them
in cold water and washed out
the gunpowder, and then very
carefully bound them up in wet
linen rag, telling the man to
keep them always wet. He also
strongly advised the sergeant to
send him to the port to a
surgeon.
He did not do so, however,
and Mr. Cressall dressed his
hand again yesterday. It was
actually getting better under the
cold-water treatment, and the
black said it had not pained
him, though if it heals his fingers
can only be shapeless lumps.
The blacks cannot have the same
susceptibility to pain that the
whites have. When Biddulph
tore his hand in the mill, he had
no sleep for nights with the pain
of it.
We are nearly through the
first month of winter and have
never had a fire yet. Indeed, we
cannot without moving all the
books and the side table, as they
are “located” in the recess
intended for the fireplace. We
have had a few cold mornings,
when we have shivered and
grumbled and condemned the
books to return to their boxes,
but by the time breakfast is over
the sun is shining so warmly
into the veranda, and makes us
so warm, that we forget about
the fire and put it off to a more
convenient season.
June 29. I told you some time
ago that we had a large ship-
ment of crockery by one of the
drays, a very handsome dinner-
set and a pretty white-and-gold
breakfast set. When Tom left
we counted the crockery, and
were quite horrified at the
smash that had taken place.
The dinner set, being strong,
was tolerably entire, but the
breakfast set had nearly all
gone, and, to complete our dis-
comfiture, a week or two ago
John, our Irish servant, was
bringing in the dinner when he
stumbled over a bridle that was
lying in the veranda, let fall the
tray and smashed everything in
it except the milk-jug. I think
we lost seven plates and six cups
and saucers.
We ran out on the veranda,
and it was impossible to help
laughing at the capers John was
cutting. He danced in an agony
and smote his head, first on one
side and then on the other,
though nobody scolded him, as
it was a mere accident. How-
ever, it reduced us to four cups
and saucers, large and small. So
when more than four people are
at the table we have to return
to the pristine pint pot. We have
sent to the Port now for some
strong earthenware cups and
saucers; it is no use to have
china in the bush, servants are so
careless.
We had a very pleasant day
last Saturday, Mr, Hedgeland
wanted to count the flock at the
Ten Mile station, so, as our
horses were up, we thought we
would make an excursion of it.
Annie and I cut a quantity of
sandwiches and we took some
cake and tea and sugar, and at
1 p.m. we all started —Annie,
myself and Mr. Hedgeland and
Mr. Cressall.
We had a most lovely ride.
We forded the Broken River
under “Tent Hill”; such a
beautiful spot it is, the green
slopes and grey rocks almost
hanging over the clear water, and
soon we got on the Ten Mile
Plain and a wide “prairie”
covered with long grass, patches
of bush here and there, and
bounded on all sides by
mountains. The Tent Hill
Range, close to us, the others
very distant.
We followed a bridle track
towards the station, but on the
main road, in the distance, we
saw our wool-drays, which had
left Exmoor the day before ; they
looked so picturesque winding
along the plain. Three drays
with their loads of wool, each
drawn by twelve bullocks.
Further on we saw a solitary
traveller coming along the road
in the opposite direction. Of
course he was a source of great
interest, and Mr. Cressall
galloped across the plain, so as
to intercept him to see if he had
letters for us. He had none,
however, and we went on our
way.
We did not go directly to the
sheep-station, but to a sort of
green sloping meadow on the
banks of the Bowen River, which
is here a broad deep stream,
flowing along between green
banks, fringed with trees. We
unsaddled the horses and let
them feed about and then made
a fire, boiled some “quart-pot
tea,” and sat down under a tree
in the long grass to enjoy our
dinner.
It was one of the cloudless
Australian days, with a bright
sun and just breeze enough to
prevent it from being hot. I
never saw anything prettier than
the sunset by the river. About
sunset Mr. Hedgeland went up
to count the sheep into the yard,
as the shepherds brought them
home from feeding.
There are nearly two thousand
in that flock, so the counting
took some time, and it was
nearly six before we started for
home. We had a lovely moon-
light ride back. I think our
party must have looked quite
picturesque fording that
beautiful Broken River in the
moonlight. We got home be-
tween eight and nine, and were
not sorry for some tea, and my
pet lambs came bleating out to
meet me the moment they heard
my voice. And so ended a very
pleasant day.
We are expecting Biddulph
now any day and every day.
He has been gone more than
two months, and he expected to
be back in seven weeks. We
heard, however, that the man
from whom he had agreed to
buy the sheep had failed. He
wrote to us from Rockhampton
and said he did not know how
much further he might have to
go for them, so we have no way
of calculating when he may be
back. I do not like him to be
away so long, though I don’t
think there is any reason for
being uneasy about him.
We have had no letters from
you since May 17. I know there
is a mail for us at Port E)enison,
but no one had brought it on to
us, it has been there nearly a
month, and it is vexing not to
be able to get the letters. I hear
that the Government have
advertised for tenders to run a
mail from Fort Cowper to Port
Denison, past Exmoor, and a
very good thing it will be, but 1
am afraid it will not be till next
year.
By the last drays that came
up, the Irish family received a
kind of ark, which was supposed
to contain their worldly goods,
but I am sorry to say that it had
been left out in the rain at Port
Denison and nearly all their
clothes spoilt. We were the more
sorry as Mary Anne, our house
servant, is ragged in the extreme
Her jacket is a sight and her
petticoats usually hang in
ribbons. It is no use to give her
our old print dresses, as she splits
them to pieces in no time. I
gave her a cloth jacket which
I thought might keep her whole
for a time, but I saw her washing
in it yesterday. I am trying to
manufacture a dress for Biddy,
the black gin, out of two stout
blue linen shirts which I got out
of the store. I think it will make
her a very strong garment.
I am afraid this letter will
hardly catch the July mail. I
had no opportunity of sending
before, but I shall send it to
Fort Cowper today on the
chance.
My kindest love to the darling
children and with very much to
yourself and Mr. Boyce.
Believe me, dear Etta, your
ever affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning
Exmoor,
July 25, 1863.
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
I have just been reading
over your two letters before
writing to you. You ask
me if I have learned to
tolerate your handwriting? You
do not know how glad I always
am to see it. You tell me so
many little things about Etta
and the children that even she
does not relate.
I am sorry Canon Hall is
failing at last; he is a good old
man, though it might be wished
that his sermons were a little
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1836, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and settled permanently
in Australia in 1861.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.8.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
his married cousin Lindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Later he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bulli Mountain, at 255. an
acre, and built a house there In
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. Bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother’s
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Xregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. WILLIAM
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


as*
ii-usaoer
m
-----
V
1
1
ss-m?.
■
* ■
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
-s-
-%
MAXIM’S EXPERIMENTAL AEROPLANE 1894
Construction-. Tubular steel framework bulk up on wheeled platform tunning on
rails. Fabric-covered octagonal mainplane, with subsidiary biplane wings. Eleva-
tors fore and aft. Dimensions : Wing span 104 ft. Wing area 4,000 sq. ft. Overall
length 120 ft. Wing loading 2 lb. per sq. ft. Weight: All-up weight 8,000 lb.
with three passengers. Power Plant: Two compound steam engines giving 180
h.p. each at 320 lb. p.s.i. and 375 r.p.m. Naphtha fired boiler. Engine and boiler
equivalent to 9 lb. per h.p. Airscrews : Two 18 ft. diameter, 16 ft. pitch two-bladed
propellers giving 2,100 lb. thrust. Performance: Guard rails limited the rise of
the aircraft to 2 ft. 10,000 lb. lift was developed at 40 m.p.h.
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing
fuelling service symbolised by the green
and yellow colours of the )
AN GLO-IRANIAN OIL CO., LTD.
\
X AVIATION
SERVICE^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
shorter and more lively. He
must be very old now.
Etta told me, before your
letter came, that you were very
much interested in the revision
of the Liturgy. Some parts
certainly would be much the
better for revision, but the diffi-
culty seems to me to be “who
is to do it?” There would be
an awful quarrel, possibly a
split, between high and low
church, would there not? But
here in the bush we can judge
very little about it. We should
be very glad to hear the service
in a church in any form.
It is curious how far away
one feels from all the disputes
and controversies of the world.
It is not that we do not feel
interested in them, but they seem
so distant.
But you will be expecting
some Exmoor news, and, first
and foremost, Biddulph is come
back at last. He arrived the
14th of this month in high
health and spirits, bringing with
him some new horses and two
freshly-imported Irish emigrants,
whom he hired from the ship.
He was eleven weeks absent, and
during that time he got through
a good deal of business, bought
seven thousand more sheep, and
he also made extensive purchases
of goods for himself, and 1 am
happy to say bought a quantity
of plants which are coming up
by the drays.
Now that he is come back he
has set to work energetically at
improving the place. The new
store was finished
while he was
away. * The old
store has been
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
floored, and it makes quite a
pleasant room, which we are
inhabiting at present while the
sitting-room proper is being
floored. Our bedroom will come
next and then the veranda, and
very comfortable it will make
the house.
There is a fence being put up
all round the house so as to
form a garden in front. The
fence is of upright posts with
unbarked saplings laced in and
out between them, close to-
gether. They are put close to
keep out the fowls, and it makes
i very pretty fence, especially
vhen we get some vines and
pumpkins growing over it. I
have a small flower-garden
already in front of the house
and some flowers do very well,
but the soil is very hard and
stony. Now Biddulph has
employed the newly - arrived
Irishmen to dig up and trench
it, and they are at present hard
at work upon it. It is also to be
manured from the stockyard.
We are going to plant some
bananas and orange-trees and
vines in it; all the other fruit-
trees are going down in the
kitchen garden, which is at the
foot of the hill by the creek that
supplies us with water.
As soon as the house is
floored the new woolshed is to
be begun, so in another year’s
time the head station will be
very complete.
The two Irishmen work very
well and look the picture of good
temper, but as they have only
just arrived they have the
queerest ideas about Australia.
They amused Biddulph
extremely on the road up ; he
says they were most willing in
helping him, fetching up the
horses, etc., and he taught them
to make very good damper and
“johnny-cakes,” but they had a
great talent for losing their way,
and were most mortally afraid of
blacks, who they thought lined
the road on both sides all ready
to pounce out upon them.
They mentioned that they
thought the beef had a “wild
flavor” in this country, and, hav-
ing passed Mr. Taylor on the
road, who is bringing up the
seven thousand sheep that Bid-
dulph bought, Biddulph over-
heard them conversing by their
own fire at night and expressing
their unmitigated astonishment
that “a gentleman, a ‘rale ? gentle-
man, who had
thousands of
sheep, should be
travelling in this
wild country and sleeping under
trees like a tramp.”
They were also very anxious
to know from him whether, in
case they did not like Australia,
they could get to America with-
out crossing the sea again. They
appear very well satisfied here,
fypt they opine that it is a “very
lonesome place” though, as there
are twp sawyers, two bushmen,
a carpenter and a blacksmith at
work here, besides the family in
the kitchen and the inhabitants
of the house, I should not think
they could suffer very much
from solitude.
You would admire the scenery
round here, I am sure. A few
days ago we went for a beautiful
ride with Biddulph to a place on
the Bowen River, about five
miles from here, which he
thought would make a capital
sheep-washing place. We were
quite a large party, as, besides
“ ... made a fire, boiled some ‘quart-pot tea ’...”
Biddulph, Mr. Hedgeland, Mr.
Cressall and Mr, Palmer were
with us. We had a beautiful
ride over the plains; saw the
Five Mile shepherd with a
flock of very fat sheep, and,
having passed his lonely little
hut among the scrubs, we got
down to the banks of the river.
Such a beautiful spot. I wish
you could have been there to
sketch it. The river is very wide
here, and almost bridged across
in some places by long ridges of
flat, grey rocks with pools of
the clearest water between, and
here and there little waterfalls
down to the lower level; both
above and below the rocks long
reaches of deep, still water:
green sloping banks, covered
with trees and all lighted up by
the sunset. We tied our horses
to trees and all got down and
climbed about the rocks. You
could nearly cross the river by
them in some places.
While Biddulph discussed the
capabilities of a deep pool into
which a small waterfall
descended as a place for wash-
ing sheep, I privately made up
my mind that my pet lambs
should never be terrified by
being put under a waterfall.
As we came up from the river
we found quantities of petrified
wood on the banks, in some
nlaces large trunks of trees, half-
buried in the soil, which retained
so exactly the appearance of
wood that it was only by look-
ing very closely you could see
they were stone. We found one
piece that had evidently been
near the root and all the knots
in it were as distinct as when it
was fresh.
This is a most curious
geological country. I often wish
I knew something about it.
Petrified wood is found almost
everywhere; in one place, by a
creek, they say there is a whole
tree - trunk, roots and ali
petrified. Then we get all sorts
of curious fossils, shells and
plants brought home sometimes.
I wish some good geologist
would pay us a visit and tell us
about them.
I forget whether I told you
when I last wrote to Etta that
Biddulph has just got a large
paddock made round the house.
It is what is called a “dog’s-leg”
fence, made of unbarked
saplings, but crossways, and it
looks quite pretty as it goes up
and down the gullies, across the
creek and far away among the
trees. It is very useful, as now
there are always some of the
horses about the place, instead
of their all being miles away in
the bush.
We have had a good many
visitors here lately, and I sup-
pose we shall get more as the
outside districts get more and
more settled. Sometimes they
are great bores and sometimes
they are pleasant enough. One
of the latter sort was a Mr.
Dalrymple, who spent an after-
noon and night here lately. He
was pleasant and gentlemanly,
and I have not seen anyone who
travelled in such a comfortable
way.
Instead of riding, he had one
of the light American “buggies,”
a thing with four light wheels
and a seat for two, and a pair
of horses, and the whole concern
so light that it goes over the
(Continued on next page.)


INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER - BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
- &
s
f
r?
if
KS
US
i
sa
u
m
/
M
Mechanization Means More
•HPO provide for the needs of a rapidly
increasing population and to maintain
export levels vital to Australia’s economy,
we must produce more food for human
consumption, more feed for livestock and
more wool and other fibres than have been
produced even in our most favourable years.
Greater agricultural production is not only
a question of more acreage, but of wiser
land utilization and increased output from
existing acres.
The solution to this problem, in the midst
of an acute shortage of manpower, lies in
increased mechanization of Australia’s culti-
vated and grazing areas, in the storing
away of more feed reserves for livestock
as insurance against drought periods, and
in the general extension of conservation
farming practices.
Whether for the growing of food, feed or
fibre ... or for the mechanization of farms
measured in tens or in thousands of acres,
International Harvester builds an ever
increasing variety of essential tractors and
farm machines suited to Australia’s widely
diversified agricultural activities. Used in
conjunction with wise conservation farming
methods, these are the tools which turn
shortage into plenty.
International Harvester Company of
Australia Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works; Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
j
1329-24
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Truckl
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Powet
Missing Friend.
WOULD any person knowing
■whereabouts of HOWARD STANLEY
WALTERS, formerly of 131 New Canter-
bury Road, Petersham, Sydney, please
communicate with M. M. GORMAN, Soli-
citor, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne?
the
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. STDNET.
DIRECTORS:
E . r,
Fire, M.rin. and Accident In.or.nce. et .Terr De.criptio».
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
roughest ground without any
danger.
Of the former sort, namely
the bores, were two atrocious
young “overlanders”; first-rate
specimens of the free-and-easy
young Australia. They arrived
on Sunday evening, while we
were all out riding, came up and
shook hands patronisingly with
Biddulph, who had never seen
them before in his life, and it
presently appeared they had
turned out their horses without
“hobbling” them, evidently with
the intention of not finding them
so that they might make them-
selves comfortable here for some
days. I suspect they had been
told down the road that Exmoor
was a very pleasant place to
stay at.
Believe me, yours affec-
tionately,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor ,
August 10, 1 863.
My Dearest Amy,
The house was being floored
when Biddulph returned, but
now he has had the sitting-room
enlarged by taking a bedroom
that used to be behind into it.
It makes it quite a pretty-
shaped room, as it has a recess
on one side where the books are
to be and a sofa; and a low
window is to be cut through to
the back. Then it is going to be
lined and papered and ceiled
with green lining, so it will be
a very pretty room in time. Last
evening the services of the whole
station were pressed in to sew
together the long lengths of
“osnaburg” for the lining over
which the wallpaper is to be
pasted.
Biddulph, Mr. Devlin, Mr.
Hedgeland, Mr. Taylor, Mr.
Julian and Beckford besides
Annie and myself were all hard
at work. They really all man-
aged very well, though of course
they sometimes pinched their
fingers and could not always
manage to thread their needle.
Mr. Taylor did best; he worked
as fast as Annie or I, only he
persisted in pushing the needle
outwards instead of towards him
in the orthodox manner. It was
great fun, and in the course of
the evening half the lining re-
quired for the.room was actually
done.
In the midst of the working
party John came running in to
say that a “lot of rats” had
jumped in his face in the
pantry. Of course a general
rush was made towards the said
pantry, when it was discovered
that it was not rats but a large
“native cat” that had so alarmed
John. Mr. Hedgeland instantly
fetched a long cavalry sword,
Beckford drew a bowie knife,
and Biddulph presented a
revolver, and I got out of the
way for I did not like to see it
killed; it looked such a pretty
cieature curled up behind the
milk-cans. I believe it was
finally transfixed with the sword,
as I saw Mr. Devlin wiping that
instrument. They are pretty
little creatures with soft spotted
fur about the size of a kitten.
The garden, too, is being very
much improved. Biddulph
bought a quantity of bananas,
oranges, figs, vines and pines to
plant in it when he was in
Sydney. The trees have all come
on very well and the kitchen
garden has been trenched and
manured, and they are all
planted. If they thrive we shall
be well off for fruit.
A good space round the house
has also been fenced in for a
flower-garden, and the old
hurdles taken down. We have a
pretty fence now comprised of
posts placed upright in the
ground and unbarked saplings
laced in and out between them
close together so as to keep out
the fowls. I have had some
flowers growing in the front for
some time and 1 hope to have
quite a pretty garden bye-and-
bye. There are some rose-trees,
chrysanthemums and bulbous
roots come up with the fruit-trees
for the flower-garden, also some
watercress, which we are going
to plant in the creek.
We are very well off now for
outdoor labor as Biddulph
brought up with him two work-
men whom he hired from an
immigrant ship at Brisbane. They
are willing and industrious,
though they opine that the place
is lonesome. I suppose they
mean in appearance, for, as
any quantity of bushmen,
sawyers and carpenters and
bullock-drivers are at work here
now, the place looks like a
fair.
We have seen that queer little
Mr. John Stewart again lately.
You know he came up in the
steamer with us and travelled
with us as far as Tooloomba,
where he got disgusted with the
journey and turned back. He
is to come up to Mr. Selheim’s
now with some sheep and he
and Mr. Selheim’s manager
lunched here one day.
The latter gave us a very
funny account of Mr. Stewart’s
uselessness and helplessness in
the bush. How he once lost him
self on Funnell Creek close to
the road and then wrote on two
trees a certain distance from each
other “Search down the creek”
and rode up and down between
them all night. He was afraid to
dismount and light a fire lest the
blacks should attack him. He
found his way back to the camp
in the morning, but he will nevei
hear the last of writing his own
epitaph. He has brought up, or
rather accompanied, some sheep
which Mr. William Stewart has
bought in partnership with Mr.
Selheim, but they all say he will
never do any good in the bush;
he is too old to begin. He must
be nearly 50, and looks 60, in
the thickest and hottest coat I
have seen since I left England,
and it was very warm weather
when he was here.
We have had no winter this
year, only two or three coldish
mornings and evenings. The
weather in general is lovely ; this
is the pleasantest climate I ever
lived in. Far better than that of
N. S. Wales. It is not much
hotter in summer and we do not
get the cold winters.
Nearly all the old party are
assembled here again now, and
we are quite a large party
after being only four for so
long. Mr. Devlin is come
back from Funnell Creek,
where he went to fetch
the load that has been left there
so long. Mr. Taylor and Mr.
Julian have come up with the
sheep, and Beckford is returned
from the Port. Mr. Robertson
is away up the country, and Mr.
Cressall has left for good. He
only came here for a year’s
“colonial experience.” Mr.
Devlin will leave shortly ; I think
he wants to go gold-digging
again, and Biddulph does not
want a superintendent at £2OO a
year now he is settled here him-
self.
The furniture came up much
better than we expected; the
dining-table and sideboard and
looking-glasses are in capital
order; the drawers are dilapi-
dated but can be easily mended.
Biddulph bought a great many
“conveniences” in Sydney a
knife-cleaner, washing-machine,
mangle, pump, etc., besides a
new breakfast set to replace the
one that has been broken since
we came here. It is the same as
the other, very pretty fluted white
and gold, I hope we shall be
more fortunate with this.
The house will be very pretty
and comfortable when it is
finished, though I cannot say
that it has ever been uncomfort-
able in this beautiful climate. I
wish you could come up and see
it, my dear Amy.
August 17. Yesterday I re-
ceived your letter to me dated
July 15. Thank you for it. I
was very glad to hear a tolerable
account of yourself although
1 am afraid you are not very
strong ; you must be much better
than you were. It is not very
long before our visit to Sydney
now, though I would just as soon
stay here except that I want to
see you and also to make a few
purchases, I like the bush and
don’t care for Sydney and now
I must say good-bye.
With kind love to you all,
believe me, dearest Amy,
Your very affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
August 23, 1 863.
My Dearest Etta,
We have been very busy since
I last wrote improving the house
and garden. All the plants that
Biddulph bought in Sydney came
up quite safely. They were
packed in boxes of earth and I
think they are all alive. The
kitchen garden down by the creek
has been trenched and dug up,
and Biddulph has had quite an
orchard planted there —oranges
and lemon-trees, figs, guavas,
vines, bananas, about five dozen
pines, besides quantities of
vegetable-seeds and some English
herbs, mint, thyme, etc. Bid-
dulph actually bought some
watercress also which is being
cultivated in the garden to be
hereafter planted in the creek. I
think I told you when I last
wrote that we had a flower
garden fenced in round the
house.
The lambing season has begun
and is highly prosperous so far,
very different from last year.
There is plenty of good grass and
the lambs are thriving. On
Sunday evening we took a walk
with Biddulph to two of the
lambing flocks and saw pens full
of the pretty little things. I
always long to make pets of
them all, but there is no need this
year as their mothers take to
them, and now that the house
and veranda are floored it would
make a great mess to feed them.
I still have my two last year’s
pets, “Beauty” and “Blacky,” and
very fine lambs they are. They
are shut out of the house and
garden now, but I have a little
house outside where I pen them
at night, and they always go out
walking with me and they gener-
ally lie under the parlor window
where I can talk to them and
feed them with sugar.
I have another pet now in the
shape of a little pointer puppy
which Mr. MacDougall gave
Biddulph as a great prize, the
dog being nearly thoroughbred.
He was handed over to my care:
so I feed him and take him out
walking, but as there is no use
for a pointer in the bush Bid-
dulph talks of educating him as
a sheep-dog.
Lion is still flourishing, but he
is very lazy lately and sleeps in
the sun all day instead of walk-
ing. The native dogs are getting
very numerous and bold; some-
times at night they come up and
howl for hours quite close to the
fence. You never heard a more
dismal sound than their howling.
It is like children screaming and
bewailing. Every now and then
all our dogs are tied up (when
they generally get up. a little
private concert of their own) and,
a piece of bad meat being
dragged for a mile or so round
the station, lumps of poisoned
meat are dropped at intervals
along the “trail.” This gener-
ally clears off a wild dog or two,
but they come back again, or
rather their friends do. It is
almost impossible to extirpate
them in a wild country like this.
By the last drays we had the
“Saturday Review” for the first
time. The four May numbers
came. It seems a very clever
periodical, and there are some
very interesting papers in it. 1
think “Punch” is falling off very
much. The “Illustrated” is
always amusing, and was especi-
ally so about the Prince of
Wales’s marriage. I have been
reading the Heir of Redclyfje*
again lately. I have never read
it since we read it aloud together
at Danehill when it first came
out. It is very interesting, but a
most aggravating story. Ido not
think there is such an objection-
able character in fiction as Philip.
Except the magazines “Corn-
hill ” “London Society” and “All
the Year Round” we have not
had many new books lately.
We have had plenty of rides
since Biddulph came back; either
Annie or I generally go with him
on his expeditions to the distant
stations. I walk regularly every
evening with the lambs and dogs,
but Annie very seldom goes out.
I have also been sketching a
little lately. Yesterday I rode
over the plain where those
beautiful lilies used to grow last
summer. I noticed a poem m
“Bonar’s Hymns” the other day
that so exactly describes the
flowers and their wild place of
growth that I could almost fancy
it was written for them. Do
look at “Desert Lilies” next time
you are reading “Bonar.
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
(To be continued next week.)
* By Charlotte M. Yonge.


Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
j
"BUILD, NC BETTER TYRES"
Application of heat and pressure in this press
vulcanises the tyre, and forms the long-wearing,
sure-gripping Olympic tread pattern.
Olympic
0T56.12.51
ĵ
cHAM> I O N S OF THE ROAD
TILLEY
I Hi IH REGI
*%n\u
fM
&
mm
fji
h
mm
m
mi
m
«
mm
m
i
€
*1
V
‘tlw
a»
TILLEY STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
OUCTS
TVUV.t'f ?fk ° .
I
l\\X
6UR V° seh£
Manufacturer’s Representatives :—
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l. >
STORM LANTERN
“THE GUARDSMAN”
The TILLEY “Guardsman” Storm Lantern
Is built to withstand the roughest treat-
ment in all weathers and is completely
stormproof and utterly reliable in all
conditions and climates. It is economical
in use, burning only l£ pints of Kerosene
to give 300 candle power light for 12
hours. The best Kerosene all-purpose
pressure lamp which can be bought today.
n
t
\
MANUFACTURED SOLELY BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
of
HENDON. ENGLAND
WE KEPT ON
WALKING
by LES ROBINSON
MY friend and companion
William Steggles lived
not far from me in a
seaside suburb, and we
were in the habit of roaming
about it together. We were
home again, usually, though,
before nightfall. The life he led,
year in year out, was, like mine,
monotonous in the extreme.
That perhaps is why, more often
than not, he looked depressed ;
for he seemed unable to become
philosophic about it, and a stoic.
For some reason or other die
best part of a summer went by
without my so much as catching
a glimpse of him. Nor did he
drop me a line either. But that
wasn’t in the least strange, for
he never had much to say at
any time, and our lives were so
uneventful, so dull that there
was nothing at all to write
about. Then, one weekday I
met him walking southward
along the Hume Highway some
twenty-odd miles from the city,
which surprised me, for I had
often heard him say that he
didn’t like the suburbs out that
way at all, and, furthermore, I
had never known him to take
a day off from work. He was
! ways most conscientious.
“Where are you going?" I
ed.
T don't know,” he replied.
‘Where have you been all this
vbile?” I inquired.
I haven’t the least idea,” he
JUiU.
“Do you know who you are?”
“No,” he said, but added, “I
rather fancy we have met some-
where before.”
“Yes,” I said. “Suliman's
Circus. As you leapt towards
me off your trapeze, I, hanging
head downwards from mine,
failed to catch you and there
was no net.”
“I don’t remember,” he said.
: ..
NEVER had I known him to
look so cheerful. Gone,
seemingly, was the boredom I
had done my best always, but in
vain, to alleviate. He looked
younger, somehow, more
sprightly—in fact, like someone
else.
When, however, I handed him
an envelope, after writing his
name and address and where he
worked on the back of it, glum-
ness returned to his countenance.
He became himself again. As
it happened, fortunately, by an
amazing metamorphosis, he, in
a matter of days, became himself
twice. Once more he looked
like someone else. He said he
had lost the envelope.
I am sorry to say that when,
from time to time, he told me
about the predicaments, some of
them merely a nuisance, others
most embarrassing, in which,
due to lapses of memory, often,
apparently, he found himself, I
chuckled, and, indeed, now and
then even laughed heartily.
What could be more repre-
hensible than to derive merri-
ment from another’s misfor-
tunes, I omitted to ask myself.
It indicated, of course, that I
was crude, shallow, callous, and
by no means the kind of person
upon whom friendship should
be lavished, or even —shall we
say—bestowed just occasionally
and only to a slight extent.
Retribution was, however, not
long in overtaking me. Whether
it was because we were so
much, now, together I don’t
know, but, at all events, I began
to find myself after a while doing
all those things that were the
cause to him, perpetually, it
seemed, of bother, discomfort
and chagrin.
Whenever I happened to
mention that I had several times
attempted to sit on chairs that
weren’t there; had sat, while
undressed, on my false teeth in
the bathroom; had broken an
egg into the teapot instead of
into the frying-pan ; had poured
boiling cabbage over the dishes
instead of the water for washing-
up I was heating in another pot;
had set out for town with a
shopping-list in my pocket only
Qn arriving there ,
that, instead of its being Friday,
as j h a( j i ma gi n ed, it was a
Saturday or Sunday instead ; had
slammed the front and only
door, which locks itself, then,
after rummaging in my pockets
when I returned late in the
evening, had realised with con-
sternation that I had left t >
on mV dressing-table ; and been
called upon t 0 keep on coping
o ther misadventures of a
simjlar kindi Steggfes chuck i e d,
, indeed, now and then
heartj|y what cou ld
more reprehensible than to
derive merriment from another’s
misfortunes he evidently omitted
to ask himself. It indicated, of
coursCj that he was crude,
fallow, callous and by no
means the kind of fellow upon
wtlom friendship should be
i av i s hed or even, shall we say,
expenc ied just occasionally and
only to a slight extent,
C ORGETFULNESS is not,
«■ of course, without its
advantages, I reminded myself
one afternoon about five years
later. The possessor of a
memory that is faulty may, it is
true, have forgotten a few things
which might, at times, perhaps,
have been helpful to him ; but
think of the accumulation,
gleaned at random largely by
reading, of fact, fallacy and
fancy, merely cluttering up the
mind, which forgetfulness
enables it to shed! Having for-
gotten past mistakes and mis-
deeds he is enabled furthermore
to retain his self-respect;
whereas, if haunted by them
perpetually, he’d probably have
to continue on his way through
life without a shred of it left.
“Where are we now, do you
think?” Steggles inquired, de-
railing my train of thought.
“Western Australia, I should
imagine,” I replied.
“Why?” he asked.
“Weren’t there a lot of black
swans on that immense lagoon
we waded across the other
day?”
“Were there?” he said.
“And isn’t the black swan the
emblem of Western Australia?”
1 said.
“It doesn’t necessarily follow,
though, that because a bird
happens to be an emblem, it
decides to stay always in the
same place,” he said.
“I have noticed, nevertheless,”
I replied, “that, if a place
meets with its approval, a bird
often does remain there.”
“Then we have crossed the
continent?” said Steggles.
“As yet only partly,” I
replied.
j WOULD have forgotten to
I mention, by the way, if I had
not written it down, that I had
been authorised by a manu-
facturer to prove that the boots
I was wearing were in-
destructible, and that Steggles
had been induced by trousers-
strengtheners to verify their
statement that, if strengthened
by them, one pair of trousers
would last a lifetime.
SEARCH.
Iwknk and look but cannot tell
Wfhat most I love about your ways;
Your voice that chimes a silver bell
Or eyes that open as they praise.
I look—-and suddenly I find
How deep are snared my thought and me
By Beauty of that older kind
Whose light blooms on the poet’s tree.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Under the century-old trees on the lawn
of Bishopscourt, Archbishop J. J, Booth
and Mrs. Booth, with Bishop J. McKie,
received 150 guests at a garden-party.
With her navy suit Mrs. Booth wore a
forward-tilted hat of fine straw, softened
with veiling and trimmed with two cerise
birds. Lady Brooks wore a navy ensemble
and matching hat; her daughter Jeanette
chose primrose silk, her matching hat
being flower-trimmed. Three daughters
assisted the Archbishop and Mrs. Booth
entertain; Pat, in powder-blue crepe frock
and rose-pink velvet beret, Margaret, who
wore with a grey coat and mauve-and-
blue-patterned white chiffon frock a hat
of pale mauve-blue straw, and Joan,
whose carbon-blue suit was contrasted
with a primrose-straw hat. Lady Disney
chose a navy-and-white pin-spot tie-silk
jacket-suit and a small coolie hat of white
fancy crinoline straw. Mrs. John Ink-
ster, the Lady Mayoress, who was with
her father. Lord Mayor O. J. Nilsen,
wore a burgundy hat, gloves and shoes
with her aqua-blue jacket-suit. Mrs. T.
T. Hollway matched her light wine-red
suit with hat and shoes. Lady Angliss
wore a black wool angora suit and wide-
brimmed black hat. Under a black
tailored coat Lady Herring wore a pastel-
blue frock ; her black hat was finished
with touches of blue. Mrs. George Jones
wore navy lace and an aqua-blue felt hat
trimmed with pink and blue flowers.
Birthday greetings for the Governor’s
daughter, Jean Brooks, who celebrated
recently her 22nd anniversary! Celebra-
tions took the form of a dance to which
150 young people were invited. Lady
Brooks received the guests at Government
House wearing a lovely steel-blue satin
. vn, lavishly bead-trimmed. Jean
chose a gown of pale-yellow chiffon-
. iza sprigged with red rosebuds. Betty
Eve ard repeated this color-blending in
deeper shade of old-gold taffeta, caught
at te waist with red roses. Heather
Menzies contrasted her white laces with
a f etunia satin sash, which was brought
from one shoulder, across the bodice and
then formed a graceful “waterfall” at one
side of the skirt. Anne Spraggett’s off-
the-shoulder frock of emerald chiffon had
kirt which was slim-fitting to the knees
d then flared out. Rosslyn Rowell
wore pale-green figured organza over a
matching satin slip.
The Borovansky Ballet hoisted another
artistic triumph with “Swan Lake,”
“Chiaroscuro” and “La Boutique Fan-
tasque.” Among the more attractive of
the audience’s dressing were the steel-blue
satins of Mrs. Eccles McKay worn with
a beaten-silver stole, the black faille which
bared one shoulder of Moira Rankine,
the white crepe gown with its contrasting
emerald-green chiffon scarf worn by
Cecil Tail, the ankle-length sheath of
black sequins of Mrs. Fred Irvine, Mrs.
Simon Warrender’s emerald satin gown
and matching gloves, Mrs. John Mollard’s
pewter-grey faille ballerina frock and Mrs.
Kenneth Hadley’s natural mink stole and
black taffetas.
The racing festival beginning next
Saturday with the Caulfield Guineas will
be marked by several functions, the first
of which is a dinner-dance on October 20
(Caulfield Cup night) at the Delphic. This
will aid the Isobel Henderson Free
Kindergarten funds. Lady Grimwade is
president and members of her commitee
include Lady Snow, Mrs. Lionel Grim-
made, Mrs. Chester Guest and Wyn
Kellow, Bookings may be made with
Mrs. Ross Grey Smith (Windsor 1916). A
week later, on Moonee Valley Cup night,
there is one in the Myer Mural Hall, in
aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital. Mrs, Ray
Buxton is deputy-president and also hon.
organiser, and ticket-secretaries are Lady
Connolly (8J2739) and Mrs. D. Young
(BJ1026). Following this is the
Derby Eve dinner-dance at Earl’s Court,
St. Kilda, on November 2, proceeds of
which will go to the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children funds. Lady Gullett
is president, and Mrs. lan Miller chairman
of the committee. Applications for this
to Mrs. Raife Cowan (8J4497) and Mrs.
Paul Grage (8J4664).
Last is the Lucky Horseshoe affair at
the Delphic on Cup Eve, Nov. 5. Ticket-
secretaries are Nancy Woodrow (JA6380)
and Amanda Grimwade (BJ4488). This
is for Red Cross funds, and Red Cross
voluntary transport-drivers on the com-
mittee are the Governor’s daughter, Jean
Brooks, Jennifer Russell, Anne Yuncken
and Helen Simpson.
Scene; A crowded bus off to the races.
Two women heatedly discussing the
merits and demerits of Fadden’s Budget.
Argument was finished and one of the
women was completely floored when her
companion said “Well, I’ll willingly go
without powder for my face to put powder
in guns to fight the Communists!”
Premiere of “The Lady With the
Lamp,” at the Regent, had many followers
of Florence Nightingale in the audience.
The Matron-in-Chief of the A.A.N.S.,
Miss A. Sage, was there with her deputy.
Miss J. Bowes. So were Matron Grey,
of the Royal Melbourne Hospital, Matron
Adcock, of the Margaret Coles Maternity
Hospital, Matron Johns, of the Eye and
Ear Hospital, Miss P. Chomley, of the
Post-Graduates Nursing Centre, and Miss
Cox, of Stonnington. Col. and Mrs. A.
A. Walker came from Sydney for the
premiere ; she was in a black dinner gown
v/orn under a mink coat. Mrs. George
Griffiths wore a ballerina frock of silver-
grey satin and a blue mink wrap. Mrs.
Leo Guest added a blue mink stole to her
black frock. Others in the audience were
Captain Charles Burge, R.N., and Mrs.
Burge, Mrs. E. Poolman, Mrs. Gilbert
Walsh and Mrs. Alec Finlay.
Here is June Dayton, the American
star of “The Moon Is Blue,” now at the
Comedy. Educated at Mundelin College,
Chicago, she was, while playing in a
Dayton Civic Theatre production, awarded
a scholarship to apprentice at a Wis-
consin theatre (this type of scholarship
is unknown here). Her longest U.S.A.
engagement was two years as Corliss in
“Kiss and Tell.” June is married to Dean
Harens, who is the hero in “The Moon
Is Blue.”
A lovely bouffant gown of white
embroidered Swiss organza which
featured a bustle falling into a short train
was worn by Barbara Joan, only daughter
of Mrs, L. J. Grosser, of Canterbury, and
the late Mr. Grosser, when she was
married at St. Mark’s Church of England,
Camberwell. The three-tiered fingertip
tulle veil was held by a skull-cap of
embroidered tulle, and she carried
gardenias. Pretty attendants Margaret
Kelso and Gwennyth Hughes-Jones wore
white organdie frocks which had green
satin sashes and Juliet caps, and their
bouquets were of white azaleas and
•petticoat-daffodils. The bridegroom,
George McLaren, second son of Mr. and
Mrs. A. M. Speirs, of Bournemouth,
Hampshire (Eng.), had lan Kemp, of
Macedon, as best man and Jim Larwell,
of Trentham, as groomsman. Flowers
from Macedon decorated the reception-
rooms of the bride’s home, where over
100 guests were entertained at a buffet-
dinner. The pair will make their home at
Barwon Heads.
Guests who attended a “Night at
Giro’s” organised in aid of the Deaf and
Dumb Youth Hostel Appeal and the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Almoner
Ambulance Fund were given grand enter-
tainment. First was the mannequin-
parade with dresses by Du Barri, coats
and suits by Stell-Ricks and hats by
William Beale. Then Scottish dancers
displayed a graceful Eightsome Reel,
arranged by Kathleen Lascelles; after
that came the usual Giro’s floor-show.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, the presiding
genius who arranged the night, welcomed
official guests wearing a slim-skirted
gown of gold lame which had an over-
skirt of flame-red tulle and a bodice
draped and finished with shoe-string
shoulder-straps. Committee included
Mrs. A. E. Coates in black brocade, Mrs.
A. G. Warner, her dove-grey satins hav-
ing a sequined bodice, and Mrs. Norman
Strange, whose short dinner-frock was
of midnight-blue-and-silver lame. Ticket-
secretaries were Mrs. J. Pettingall, in
amber-and-blue-satin-striped faille, and
Mrs. S. F. Kroussos, whose strapless
short dinner frock and jacket were of
light-silver French brocade with a leaf
design in darker grey. Among the
dancers were Mrs. Philip Dare, in navy
satin faille, Mrs. Richard Williams, whose
black tulle had opalescent beading, Mrs.
Ralph Bryant, who wore honey-toned
lace over lime satin, Mrs. G. Emerson
Dickson, her crepes turquoise-blue, Mrs.
Frank Marland, in black marquisette
with edgings of white guipure lace.
From Sydney
The weather successfully foiled Sydney’s
attempts to have a fashion-show on
Ladies’ Day at the Spring Meeting. There
was not even a good showing of rain-
wear because in the morning it had been
easier to pick the winners than the
weather. The early birds set out in sun-
shine and silk shantung and caught a cold
for their pains. The latecomers wore last
season’s coats, but many couldn’t resist
putting on the new straw hat, and the
effect was quite ridiculous. Several people
backed Socrates on the grounds that
only a philosopher could endure through
such weather, but he didn’t win.
The big event of Race Week was, of
course, the Black-and-White Ball which
brought 1600 to the Troc. and, it is
expected, many shekels to the help of
the N.S.W. Blind Institution. Nearly
everyone wore white of the downiest,
dewiest type, so that the waltz of the
young girls looked a bit like some new
version of “Les Sylphides,” One pitied
the judges, who, by the way, took the
precaution of remaining anonymous.
Margaret Watt’s “picture” dress of net
and Valenciennes lace won first-prize, and
Lois Gray’s white tulle appliqued with
satin, second. Lois had made this lovely
dress herself. Mrs. Graham Body’s dress
(first-prize for married women) was white
organdie patterned with large black coin-
spots and trimmed with black organdie.
Mme. Giselle Popper’s brocade dress,
second in this section, although beautiful,
had so much gold on it that it hardly
seemed eligible. One of the prettiest
dresses was worn by Elizabeth Northcott,
white organza patterned with large black
squares (or vice versa, perhaps). The
most spectacular was worn by Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere. It was of pleated
organza over a crinoline and featuring a
white faille apron embroidered with pastel
beads. Black was worn by Mrs. Roy
Buckland and Mrs. Roy McCaughey.
Among the young girls floating round and
being Hollwood versions of Parisian
flower-sellers were Sheilagh Stevens, Betty
McDonald and Mrs. Colin Ryrie. A
special little mention should go to the
helpers such as Mrs. Ralph Tompson, who
stood in booths until midnight selling
tickets for “La Tombola,” etc. The
Pellier dress, by the way, was won by
Mrs. W. E. Roberts, of Vaucluse.
Wearer of this dashing little hat is
Ngaere Tweedie, who has recently re-
turned from a sojourn abroad with her
mother, Mrs. Renee Tweedie, of Double
Bay. Their travels, which took them to
England, the Continent, America, Mexico
and Cuba, occupied five years. On her
return to Australia Ngaere announced
her engagement to John Messner, of
Gordon. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Of all the parties in Race Week the
reception at Government House by the
Lieutenant-Governor was the most restful,
but then the very rooms at G.H.
always produce this effect, and people
found it a welcome respite from
hurly-burly. The Lieutenant-Governor
received the guests with his daughter,
Mrs. Jack Fingleton, who wore
turquoise-blue in dress and hat. The
dressing was quite elegant, with wide hats
establishing themselves even more firmly
for cocktail-wear. Mrs. Reg. Moses wore
a charmingly feminine hat of cream straw
swathed with georgette, reminiscent of
1912 days. Mrs. Tim Ashton and Mrs.
Reg. Gaskill looked very smart in the new
wide mushroom-types. Mrs. Tom Bate-
man wore a small hat of gold braid. Mrs.
Phillip Parberry’s hat was black velvet.
There seemed to be a good representation
from the legal brotherhood, with the
Doveys dominating somewhat —the K.C.’s
height would be quite enough, but when
they sight the monocle, too, social
reporters tend to write his name down
several times.
Of the two women potters who held
their exhibition in David Jones’s “Walk”
Gallery during the week, Joan Panting
was formerly a sculptor and Clare Pit-
man an artist. Mrs. Panting’s work has
an essentially Australian quality, with an
emphasis on those weird, straggling de-
signs one sees in rock-carvings. Allied
with the earth-colors she has used and the
harsh surfaces, these give a primitiveness
to her vases, plates, chop-suey dishes,
etc., which is not of workmanship but of
impression. Her plate with emus is a
charming example of the rhythmic har-
mony of structure and decoration. Clare
Pitman’s work has a more sophisticated
appeal, with colors exquisitely conceived
and glaze beautifully applied. All Mrs.
Pitman’s pottery is made by hand, which
accounts for its beauty of finish. Her
designs are somewhat heavy, too large and
cumbersome, but perhaps this is a fault
that pottery itself invites. Those who
love the small and delicate seldom work
in this medium. The exhibition will be
open until October 18.
The Baroness Schroder has written to
say that the title of “famous international
singer” accorded to her in this Letter is
one she would find it impossible to live
up to, and that it should have been
applied only to her friends, the Sinding-
Larsens, who were her fellow-guests-of-
honor at the Queen Victoria Club’s
reception last week. Mr. Sinding-Larsen,
who, with his wife, was to have given a
series of public concerts in Australia, was
prevented from doing so by a throat in-
fection, so that the tour was changed into
a holiday. Mr. Sinding-Larsen has
brought with him a stained-glass portrait
of Princess Margaret at the age of seven
which he has made himself and which he
hopes to exhibit in Sydney. Baroness
Schroder and the Sinding-Larsens will be
in Australia for four or five months, and
have already renewed acquaintance with
several friends whom they met abroad,
including Mr. and Mrs. Frank Rose, of
Mosman.
The Mosman Musical Society’s pro-
duction of “Viktoria and Her Hussar”
adds another success to that society’s long
series. Although the orchestra tends
from time to time to overwhelm the
singing and the chorus to become a little
uncertain of its movements, the standard
reached is almost professional, Betty
Parsons, as Viktoria, has a soaring quality
in her voice which matches well the
lighthearted quality of musical comedy,
although her bearing is a little stolid.
Rhondda Baker showed a gift for comic
character work, with a good deal of style
and vivacity. She does not, however,
enunciate as clearly as the other prin-
cipals when she is singing. The whole
show is lively and gay, and is somewhere
to go for a cheer-up and a laugh.
Beth Nathan and Margaret Salenger
are two of the enthusiastic members of
the newly-formed younger set of the
N.S.W. Crippled Children’s Society. Their
patron is Mrs. Gregory Kater, who has
always been most interested in work for
the crippled children. The next meeting
of the Younger Set will be held at the
Orana on October 15, at 6 p.m.
The P.P.P. is a new association which
is to have its opening meeting on Tuesday,
October 16, at 8 p.m., in the Adyar Hall.
Its full name is “Poetry, Poets, People’
and it was founded on August 13, 1951,
by Grace Stafford. The P.P.P. hopes to
widen the appreciation of poetry, to get
the poets to speak upon their work, the
people to listen in a more friendly atmos-
phere and to join in reading in unison
some poems selected by the poet. The
Minister for Education will open the first
meeting, at which Miss Stafford will
preside. Roland Robinson will speak
of the poets’ response to P.P.P. and will
read some of his poetry. The people s
response will be discussed by Mr. L. r.
Keller and Madame Louise Matters.
When the 20 branches of the Far West
Children’s Health Scheme on the North
Coast and the North-west Districts of
N.S.W. held their annual meetings this
month they saw films showing various
phases of the work of the scheme. Three
of these have been made by the organising
secretary, Mr. Clive Linfoot, who was
the exhibitor. The first film has some
lovely color shots of the children at the
Drummond Home receiving treatment in
the dormitories and at play in the grounds.
Another film shows the clinic at Cobar,
while others show the packing of fruit
at Leeton and scenes of the last Christmas
camp at Manly.


A light and
mellow Port
j
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
It’s just possible that Zelman Cowen,
of Melbourne, might know something of
his new job—he was admitted to the Bar
the other day. In 1938 he got his B.A.
from Melbourne University, with first-
class honors, and won the Dwight scholar-
ship in history and political science
and the Wyselaski scholarship in
English constitutional history. At
19, as tutor in political science in the
University Extension Department, he was
one of the world’s youngest lecturers.
Something of a musician, he’s also
athletic —in hockey, swimming and tennis
—and in 1940, at 20, was Victoria’s
Rhodes Scholar. Hitler prevented his
crossing to Oxford, so he joined the
R.A.N. instead as a sub-lieutenant. Young
Cowen finally got to Oxford, and was
a lecturer in law there when he came
back last year to take up a job in his
Alma Mater —Dean of the Faculty of
Law. He turned 32 last Sunday.
Crookwell, still horse-country, is on the
fringe of the Monaro, where the Man
from Snowy River made his ride ; north
Queensland has kept up the horse tradi-
tion while most of Australia has gone
motor-minded. Recently Tom Willoughby,
a lean, hawk-nosed rider who’s happier
in a pitching saddle than on a Sydney
tram, won the Australian Buckjump
Championship and £lOOO. His mount was
that devil Wombi, a 17-year-old never
ridden before. The riding-time was 10
seconds—Willoughby stuck on for 14. He
hails from Crookwell; he rode at Rock-
hampton, north Queensland.
For the committee to keep an eye on
the Services estimates on mobilisa-
tion requirements in uniforms, munitions
and suchlike, the Federal Government
could hardly have picked three better-
equipped men. George Watt was
secretary to the Treasury before he took
on the chairmanship of T.A.A. and of
BC.P.A. Earlier he had been connected
with Navy accounts, finishing there as
secretary to Sydney’s naval establish-
ments, the providers of the Fleet. Horace
Richardson, head of Cox Brothers, Mel-
bourne, was deputy-chairman of the
Commonwealth Disposals Commission,
selling what he will now account for.
Major-General James Cannan also knows
a bit about stores —he took on the sizeable
responsibility of Quarter-Master-General
soon after Uncle Sam’s legions arrived in
Australia, en route to Tokio. At Gallip.
and in France, he was the youngest lieut.-
colonel to command a battalion on arrival
in Egypt in 1915, and was eight times
“mentioned,” with D.S.O. An inter-
state oarsman and lacrosse player, he
directed U.N.R.R.A.’s ramifications in
the s.-w. Pacific after War 11, and before
it had been an insurance-co. manager.
“N.”: The late Sydney Schofield, re-
ported in B. 3/10/’5l as having operated
transmitter ZLICA, operated, in fact,
ZLICU. ZLICA’s operator is still very
much alive.
“Macnell” farewells a headmaster:
To me (naturally, I suppose, being at the
time a young and therefore insignificant day-
boy at Toowoomba Grammar) G. P. Barbour
had been a tall, study-stooped, craggily august
and grey-haired gentleman whose close acquaint-
ance I had made only once—bent over a chair.
It did me for a long time. I had seen him at
the nets, of course, but only on his death in
Sydney recently did I discover what an athlete
my headmaster had been. First chairman of
the Cricket Board of Control, he represented
N.S.W. at football, tennis and cricket. He was
justifiably proud of the fact that his family
was ultimately able to muster nine inter-State
caps: in addition to his own three —E. P.
Barbour (cricket and football, N.S.W.) and
R. R. P. Barbour (cricket and tennis, Queens-
land; tennis and hockey, S. Australia). On
his 70th birthday G.P. played 18 holes of high-
speed golf in the morning and five sets of
tennis in the afternoon; and he continued to
play golf, still at the gallop, till he was nearly
80. when his eyesight failed. He was, of course,
more than an athlete. A fine classics scholar,
with an unusual gift for teaching Latin and
Greek, he founded and was first editor of
“Hermes,” and was a classics master at Sydney
Grammar till, in 1910, he went north to
Toowoomba Grammar, to retire a quarter of a
century later. The memory of “Old G.P.” will
live long in the Queen City of the Downs.
The other day, probably for the first
time in an Australian warship, the red-
balled flag of the C.-in-C., Far Eastern
Station (Vice-Admiral Sir Guy Russell),
was hoisted in carrier Sydney, off Korea.
Transhipped from the redoubtable Glory
(now heading for Australia, leaving a
flight-deckful of records behind her),
Russell was at Gallipoli and Jutland, in
Hitler’s show commanded battleships
Nelson and Duke of York, and later was
chief-of-staff to Lord Gort at Gibraltar
and Malta. Recreation —shooting.
In Australia as guest of the Common-
wealth Government for the Jubilee
jubilations, Lieutenant-General Sir John
Brown is no stranger to Australian
Diggers—he was an officer of the Terri-
torial Battalion of the Northamptonshire
Regiment on Gallipoli, from Suvla
Bay to the evacuation, and then
on through the Palestine campaign.
The first Territorial officer to reach
lieutenant - generalship, he has for
several years been chairman of the
Empire council of the British Empire
Service League, the body of which the
R.S.L. and similar organisations in other
Dominions and colonies are members.
While in Australia he’ll look into the
welfare of Imperial ex-servicemen living
here. When not in khaki, Sir John
follows his own plans and blueprints,
being an architect in private life.
L. Hoult, recently elected president of
the 4th Light Horse Regiment reunion
in Melbourne, has had a tough trot in life
but he’s still got a smile and a top person-
ality. He lost an arm at Gallipoli, was
later blinded by a bomb explosion and
learned how to live again at St. Dunstan’s.
When France collapsed in 1940 and
Lord Gort and Duff Cooper were
sent to Rabat, French Morocco, to
rally what they could, a 23-year-old Aus-
tralian pilot was chosen to fly them across
in a Sunderland. Here he is, by Coven-
try—Richard Kingsland, now S. Aus-
tralian Director of Civil Aviation. How
Kingsland and his crew got Lord Gort
out of Rabat (the Nazis had beaten them
in) reads like a Deadwood Dick. They
eventually escaped after a hectic gun-
battle in the jail where they and Gort had
been thrown by police who, luckily,
omitted to disarm them. Joining the
AVIATION.
R.A.A.F. in 1935, Kingsland was in Eng-
land, 19, when Hitler gave the word, and
at once joined the famed 10 Squadron
of Sunderlands. He chased subs in the
Atlantic, escorted convoys and in his
spare time flew V.I.Ps. to the Middle East.
Group-captain and Director of R.A.A.F.
Organisation after Hitler got his, Kings-
land later became port-manager at
Mascot, then took to the air again with
T.A.A. before landing in Adelaide. At
34 he’s the youngest regional director of
Civil Aviation in the Commonwealth.
Herewith, James Howard, who landed
in Sydney from England in a windjammer
in 1889, looking for adventure. In be-
tween looking he built up a highly
successful business, starting as a watch-
maker in Rockhampton, and clocking
some fast times as a cycle-rider. His
shop became the mecca for most of the
prominent riders of the north, and gradu-
ally cycles superseded watches. The
business spread to Brisbane, and with the
advent of automobiles Howard rode
again with the times. His agency gave
a good account of itself from the start —
it was the Chevrolet agency which en-
abled it to put on most fat. After
AUTOS.
General Motors took over its own distri-
bution, in 1930, Howard got hold of the
Morris and Studebaker franchises for
Queensland and Northern Rivers of
N.S.W. Now Howards, Ltd., is the
Morris dealer in the northern State, with
a large branch in Toowoomba. Very
careful indeed in his business dealings,
Jimmy worries not about finance where
charities and his staff are concerned. And
his sense of humor, at 85, is still pro-
ductive of good stories, particularly about
his birthplace, that godsend to the music-
halls —Wigan.
Entering cheerfully into a bout of
verbal sparring with Dr. Evatt on the
current Budget, Sir Douglas Copland is
certainly qualified enough—M.A. with
first-class honors in 1915, lecturer in
history and economics at Tassie’s Uni-
versity in 1917, Professor of Economics
at Melbourne University in 1920, Dean of
the Faculty of Economics at that insti-
tution for 20 years from 1924, and now
vice-chancellor of the National University
at Canberra. And if that’s not enough,
it can be added that he got his D.Sc.
for research into currency and finance in
Australia, and is the author of a tidy
row of books —subject, economics.
Berthed at The Bulletin on his way
to looking for another ship to buy.
Captain W. Clough Blair, a Maoriland
ex-serviceman whose present business is
a shining example of what the Digger
spirit can achieve. Going ashore in
Auckland with his master’s ticket in 1946,
after service in the Atlantic and Pacific,
Blair found a year of shore-time was
enough, and hit on the idea of an ex-
servicemen’s co-operative shipping com-
pany. With 13 other Kiwis (an account-
ant, an economist, a solicitor and the rest
Merchant Navy men), he founded the
Tasman Steamship Co., on the basis of
equal shareholding. The co. bought a
discarded minesweeper, refitted her, and
traded to Australia, loading fish out,
citrus fruits and egg-pulp home. With
the help of hard, co-operative work, and
an immense amount of goodwill fostered
by the appeal of what friends thought to
be a hare-brained venture, the little team
prospered. They bought a 700-odd-ton
ship, and prospered further. They also
found, on their first trip in their latest
acquisition, that she had a penchant for
steaming crab-wise, an idiosyncrasy of
apparently many years’ standing. Docking
showed that her twin screws were con-
siderably out of pitch with each other—
the correctly-pitched screws had been
carried on the upper-deck as spaces!
Now Blair’s game little venture has a
vastly increased turnover, he’s looking
for a third ship, the co. is agent for a
large line trading with Japan and the Far
East, and the head-office staff has grown
something like tenfold —all of them ex-
servicemen, with the exception of the
girls and the office boy.
President of the Queensland Law
Society, L. W. H. Butts, 0.8. E., has been
appointed to the vice-presidency of the
Law Council of Australia. He’s a War II
Digger with 5| years’ service and a
“mention.”
Few scholarships in music have pro-
duced such rapid results as in the case of
Stefan Haag, the young actor-singer-
producer whose work with the National
Grand Opera last season earned him a
Victorian Government grant to further
his study in Europe. Engaged as assist-
ant-producer at Covent Garden soon after
his arrival in London, he resigned six
months later to attend music festivals at
Munich, Salzburg and Vienna. The
other day he was offered the big job of
producing Puccini’s “Turandot” ai
Covent Garden, but he had a prior en-
gagement with the National Theatre
Movement in Melbourne, where another
opera season is projected. He was one
of the boys who came out with the
Viennese Boys’ Choir just before Hitler
erupted, and who had to stay in Mel-
bourne. They were “adopted” by local
musiclovers and most of them gravitated
to St. Patrick’s Cathedral choir.
“N.N.”: Harry Edmonds (whose
futuristic novel The Rockets was Red
Paged 22/8/’5l, and has been noticed
nicely in the British Press) is an Old
Digger who went overseas in 1915 and,
with Wilhelm settled, stayed as a staff-
officer in British Naval Intelligence. With
Admiral Sir Reginald Hall, Intelligence
chief, Harry travelled pretty well all over
Europe, on the quiet gathering material
which went into two earlier books, both
of which were remarkably accurate fore-
casts, one of events leading up to Hitler’s
rise and the other of the growth of the
Luftwaffe and Red Air Force. He was
in Germany with Neville Chamberlain,
as British Liaison Officer with the
German Zeppelin Airship Co., in 1936-
38, a hectic time in Hitler’s zenith. One
of his dubious honors at that time
(though he respected the man’s ability)
was to shake hands with Goring.
Into the Silence:
At Bqwral (N.S.W.), at 78, grazier-banker
Peter Tait. Tall, lean, with the self-reliant and
silent manner of the bushman, he knew the
pastoral industry as few men know it, having a
directing interest in large holdings from Central
Queensland to Gundagai. He owned Larras
Lake North, at Molong (N.S.W.). Born and
schooled in Brisbane, he was on the Common-
wealth Bank Board from 1934-39, and the
A.J.C. committee from then on.
In Perth, at 62, Frank Colin Craig, retired
pastoralist, who left the land to fly with the
Royal Flying Corps in War 1, of which he
spent the last two years p.-0.-w. in Germany.
His widow, who came to Westralia as a bride
with him after that war, was Nancy Birdwood,
daughter of the Field-Marshal.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 79, Joseph Akel, a
Lebanese who arrived in M.L. in 1892, hawked
drapery till he built up a business in Wellington,
and went back to start an import-and-export con-
nection between M.L. and Lebanon, then under
Turkish rule. War I caught him, and, having
been a member of an underground movement
hostile to Turkey and a linguist mastering
Arabic, French and English, he volunteered for
service when Allenby entered Palestine, organis-
ing sabotage behind the enemy lines. Later,
with rank of captain, he went to Damascus,
and worked with T. E. Lawrence.
In Adelaide, at 63, Arthur Vernon King,
prominent in the city’s building-business. One-
time lecturer in the School of Mines, he later
took on building and contracting, to become
Federal and State president of the Builders and
Contractors’ Association and a member of the
Housing Trust (which, in Adelaide, really puts
them up). He’d been a widely-liked vice-
president of the S.A. Bowling Association.
In Christchurch (M.L.), John Anderson, a
director of the Christchurch Press. A Cambridge
man, he represented his university against
Oxford in athletics. On Gallipoli and in France,
he came out of that war major, and aide-de-
camp to the commander of the N.Z.E.F.,
General Godley.


toil
*fe
Hi
£s»
Jylwit'
-3.
ap
•i
TOUGH ’mk
j
, . you can't do better than follow the
lead of thousands of operators who have
proved, in actual performance, that Hi-
Milers give the utmost in money-saving,
trouble-free, long mileage.
HI-MILER TRUCK & BUS TYRES
GOODYEAR
■
m
m
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fast hauls
on improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
R e c o m m ended
wherever greater
traction is needed.
.ASK VOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR THE JOB!
IOAI-l*
a
mm
m
k
jhWI
ONVISI
NVWAVH
TirwK wty wvrj.
Wj}V} woy
When it’s shivery in Southern States, there s swimming,
cruising, fishing and sunbathing at Hayman Island, and
from now on the climate touches perfection.
Tariff £3-3-0 per day. Nowhere else is the
holiday-maker given better value for money than at
Hayman. Comfortable sleeping lodges, superb meals, an
excellent bar, and an atmosphere of carefree informality.
Barrier Reef Airways’ giant 4-engined flying boats take
you direct to Hayman Island.
&
mm
mm
j
Bookings at —
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE
Melbourne: MU 6921; Sydney: 8W2921; Adeleide: LA2O7S:
Brisbane: 82291; Hobart: 7470; Launceston: 1760; Cairns: 2570;
Canberra: F 390; Townsville: 1150; Wagga: 2036; Queensland
Govt Tourist Bureaux, and all recognised Travel Agencies.
THE ROVING BIKE
by M.G. VINCENT
THE motor - bike period
marked the transition from
the untrammelled freedom
of football days to the full
acceptance of the yoke of father-
hood. It was bought a few
weeks after the father refereed
his second-last football match.
The father had not realised it
was his second-last match until
the mother heard that Tompkins
was going to tear the father
asunder, limb by limb, for
awarding a free kick to the
other side
“He needs his eyes seen t’,”
Tompkins was heard to say
vociferously. “Says I kicked
that b deliberate. Kin I
help it if me knee slipped? I’ll
pound him to a mash next time
he sets foot on the field. And
you can tell him so from me,”
The mother was so fearful
that she transmitted the appre-
hension to Marian, who hung
around her father crying “Don’t
go and get killed, Daddy,”
morning, noon and night, till at
last the father succumbed. He
made only one condition. He
would referee one more match,
just to show Tompkins he did
not care a fig for his threats.
He was as good as his word,
and although he never admitted
it, he was glad to be relieved of
the burden. The nearest he came
to disclosing this was by saying
that a man in business could not
afford to be mixed up in any-
thing so violently controversial
as football, and all the older
men agre ed. In those days of
timber-getting and railway con-
struction the football field was
nQ pj ace f or t he squeamish
, r or the rnicket on _
f oo £ er 0n ma £ a Saturd
. ~ f ~ *
afternoon the dm from the
Recreation Ground could be
heard almost at the Mountain
To . p ’ four mile , s away - f5 e c ™ p
autumn or winter air holding the
fund within the plateau like
fluld brimming in a bowl.
T was at the third football
match after his retirement that
the father heard of the motor-
bike. “Now, Ray, old chap,”
said the vendor, “you snap her
up, and don’t let your missus
talk you out of it. I hear she’s
stopped you refereeing—well,
she’ll put the kibosh on the bike
if she gets the chance. I know
women. Never content unless
they’ve got you at home all the
time so as they can be sure of
you. Now, take this bike—prac-
tically brand-new, and not a
thing wrong with her. She gets
a bit cranky now and then, but
if you slip a drop or two of
treacle or resin on the belt that’ll
sweeten her up.”
The father said nothing of his
purchase, and when he rode it
home the next day the mother
was too flabbergasted to do more
than open and shut her mouth a
few times. At last her eyes filled
with tears and she hurried in-
side. With sheepish embarrass-
ment the father mumbled “Now
what’s got into that goat of a
mother of yours?”
The three girls peered through
the veranda railings at him as
he sat on the bike at the foot of
the front steps, the climbing
rosebush arched behind him like
a photographer’s scenic arrange-
ment. “Is it really yours,
Daddy?” demanded Marian.
“Yes.”
“Where’re you going to keep
it?” asked Jane.
“Under the house.”
“It makes funny noises,
doesn’t it? It won’t blow up,
will it?”
“Yes, under the house is just
the place for it,” mused the
father, rubbing his chin where a
faint smudge showed that Sun-
day was indeed a rest-day.
A strangled voice came from
the children’s bedroom. “Put it
near the copper and I’ll pour
boiling water over it.”
The children looked very dis-
tressed. “Why’s Mummy so
mad?” one of them inquired,
and the father, grinning
foolishly, said he didn’t know,
and to go inside and get some
old rags so that he could clean
up the bike.
EVERY Sunday morning,
whatever the weather, the
father sallied forth on the bike,
clinging to it as though he were
attempting his first ride on a
snorting, fear-crazed steer. His
pending departure never failed
to draw an impassioned plea
from the distraught mother:
“Ray! Ido wish you’d sell that
silly bike. Oh dear, what is
going to happen to you today!”
“Now, if I knew I’d tell you,”
the father would grunt, earnestly
preparing the bike for its ordeal.
“If you won’t consider me,
then you might at least think of
the children. Now, what would
happen if you had a really
serious accident? How could I
look after four children? And
Jimmy only a baby, too. Really,
it is mean of you. No married
man has a right to endanger his
life, and that’s what you’re doing
every Sunday riding that con-
traption,”
“Well, if I ride it it’s all right.
Falling off is what you’ve got to
worry about. Any rate, I have
to have some relaxation, don’t
I? A man has a right to have
some relaxation.”
“Riding a bike isn’t any re-
laxation the way you do it,” was
the tight-lipped reply,
“Now, then, out of the way !”
came the exultant cry as the
father prepared to push the bike
from under the house.
Generally at this stage one of
the children would plead “Take
me with you, Mr. Daddy? Just
a little ride. Just a weeny teeny
ride.”
“No. No. She can’t go, Ray.
I won’t have it.”
“I’ll hold on real tight. Please,
Mummy.”
“And what use will that be
when your father is more often
off the bike than on it?” de-
manded the mother, darting an
angry glance at the heedless
father.
“Out of the way!” There
would be a scatter and the
father and the bike would gain
the footpath.
At this stage there always
seemed to be a group of boarders
on the Coffee Palace balcony,
and the children felt that this
gathering was assembled for the
sole purpose of swelling the
chorus of farewells which fol-
lowed the father as he ran
valiantly up the road, urging the
slothful bike into action.
“Good old Ray. He’s off
again.”
“You’re a beggar for punish-
ment, Ray.”
“Where’s she taking you today,
old man?”
Above all this the thin piping
of the children kept up a con-
stant refrain. “Goodbye, Daddy.
Goodbye.”
When the father had wavered
out of sight one of the men
would lean over the balcony rail-
ing and call out “Never mind,
Mrs. V. Your old man’ll be
home again. He knows how to
fall.”
Making an effort, the mother’s
reply would come with a laugh,
“Well, he’s had enough practice,
hasn’t he! They say practice
makes perfect.”
The return of the adventurer
was heralded by the put-putting
exhaust, and in an instant the
children would be at the palisad-
ing, their faces alight with an-
ticipation. Their noses jammed
between the palings and their
eyes blinking, they would shout
a welcome which always con-
cluded “How many busters did
you have today, Mr. Daddy?”
,T' HIS went on for almost a
1 year, the father surviving
miraculously. Gravel - rash,
bruises, a dislocated thumb,
flesh torn from limbs; all these
he manfully ignored. It was as
though he were using the bike
as a stopper against the closing
door between youth and maturity
so that ingress to the pursuits of
youth could not be barred. All
the mother’s protests, pleas,
threats he treated with either
jocosity or severity, according to
his prevailing mood.
The mother took all this very
much to heart, and one day she
declared to Amy Perry “He’s
just keeping on with it to spite
me. It must be that. What en-
joyment can he get when he’s
always falling off! It’s a dread-
ful bike. It must be. There
must be something radically
wrong with it.”
“If his lordship would keep
his eye on the road it would be
all right,” stated the robust Amy,
laughing heartily.
“Oh, Amy! Really, don’t you
think he looks where he’s
going?”
“Now, Mrs. V., you know as
well as Ido what he’s like. His
nose is pointing everywhere but
straight ahead. He’s looking at
Jenkins’ poddies, or he’s craning
his neck to see how Thompson’s
corn’s going. Or he’s looking
behind to see who’s coming.
That’s all that’s the matter with
the bike: his lordship. That’s
what’s wrong.”
“Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear,”
trembled the mother. “I’ll have
to sit down. That bike’s making
me sick. Really it is, Amy. And
when he’s out on it I scarcely
o Continued on page 32.)


Missing Friends.
TO ALFRED ERNTSST RAWLINGS for-
merly of Bumie Tasmania but now ot
parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife BARBARA RAWLINGS has com-
menced proceedings against you for a
Divorce on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 22nd
day of November 1951 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to de-
fend the said proceedings you must file
an answer in the said office on or before
the Third day of December 1951. —This
advertisement is inserted by O. M. &.
POWER, of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Public Solicitor, Solicitor for the Peti-
—
TO KENNETH ALLAN FRY formerly of
North Melbourne in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown Boot Repairer.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife IDA
AMELIA ELIZABETH FRY has com-
menced proceedings against you for a
Divorce on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 19th
day of November 1951 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to de-
fend the said proceedings you must file
an answer in the said office on or before
the 29th day of November 1951.- —This
advertisement is inserted by C. M. 8.
POWER, of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Public Solicitor, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
TO LESLIE JOHN WILLIAM MATTHEWS
formerly of Sandringham in the State
of Victoria—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife NANCY MATTHEWS has filed a
Petition in the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria (1951 No. 995) for dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion If
you desire to defend the suit you must
enter an appearance on or before the Six-
teenth day of November 1951 and file an
answer on or before the Twenty-sixth day
of November 1951 at the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne and in default of your so doing the
Petition may be heard in your absence.—
LANDER & ROGERS, of 31 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILFRED GEORGE ROBERTS for-
merly of 99 New South Head Road Edge-
cliff. —TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE
DAPHNE ROBERTS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3455 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
14th day of December 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSIEURS E. R. TRACEY & CO.,
Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney,— j. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Commonwealth
j
of Australia
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAI SERVICE
NOTICE TO MEN ATTUNING THE AGE OF 18 TEARS
BETWEEN Ist AUGUST and 31sl DECEMBER. 1951
Under the National Service Act 1951, all male persons, not
exempt under the Act from liability to register, who are
British subjects and ordinarily resident in Australia and have
attained or will attain the age of 18 years between Ist August,
1951, and 31st December, 1951 (both dates inclusive), ARE
REQUIRED TO REGISTER BY 22nd OCTOBER, 1951.
A person who has arrived and intends to make His home in Australia is
regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
Any person who is requiKxj_Jg_jggister_and_jwho_^an£ j
the penalties presc/jbgd_under_the_Act.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces.
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 1 8 of the Act.
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons
of aboriginal extraction living as aboriginals.
EARLY REGISTRATION
If a male person of 17 years of age has good reason for wishing to
commence his National Service training without waiting until he is required
to register, he may register voluntarily even though he is not 18. hurt
details may be obtained from Commonwealth Employment Service Offices.
lOW TO REGISTER
egistration Forms (Forms N.S.I) are available at all Money Order Post
offices and Commonwealth Employment Service Offices. Addresses
itter offices are in Telephone Directories. Detailed instructions on how
) register are in the Registration Form and the sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Recruiting
Officer."
G e o r g c Farquhar’s “The
Recruiting Officer” has some
historical significance for Aus-
tralians because its presentation
in Sydney on June 4, 1789,. was
the first production of a play in
the Colony, and marks the
beginning of the theatre in this
country. Performed by a convict
company and staged in a barn
the performance was attended
by an audience of 60, including
Governor Phillip and his officers.
They were lit to their places by
a dozen farthing dips stuck in
and about the mud walls. The
footlights were oil-lamps. They
paid no entrance-money because
the colony had very little cash,
but rum, tobacco, wine, poultry,
corn and wheat to the value of
£2O was taken in.
David Collins in his An
Account of the English Colony
in N. S. Wales remarks that the
players “professed no higher
aim than humbly to excite a
smile, and their efforts to please
were not unattended with
applause.” Captain Watkin
Tench in his Settlement at Port
Jackson also noted that “some
of the actors acquitted them-
selves with great spirit and
received the praises of the
audience.”
The Independent Theatre’s
current production at North
Sydney is the first in Australia
since a revival in 1800. For this
neglect of the play nobody need
be blamed, for it is by no means
the most shining example of the
Restoration period, nor is it even
Farquhar at his best. Written
with the satire, frivolity and
sophisticated bawdiness of the
period, it is inclined to be more
moral, and tending more to the
sentimental than other plays of
the time.
Based partly on Farquhar’s
own experiences as a recruiting
officer in Shropshire, the play
satirises the methods used by
Marlborough’s enlisting officers
about the time of Blenheim.
The then rural town of Shrews-
bury is invaded by two rival
recruiting officers, the exuberant
and conceited Captain Brazen
and dashing Captain Plume, the
latter having the assistance of a
wily Captain Kite, an old hand
in the art of persuading unwilling
rustics to accept the Queen’s
shilling.
While Kite spends most of his
time in the taverns sousing his
prospects with liquor, Plume and
Brazen concentrate upon the
ladies of the town irrespective of
their stations. Brazen pursues
Melinda, a young lady of con-
siderable assets, only to be
fobbed off with her designing
maid. Plume courts the lovely
Silvia, the daughter of Justice
Balance, and wins her only by a
stratagem on the girl’s part. The
play is a rollicking piece of
nonsense, punctuated with many
flashes of wit, with frequent
clashes between diverse
characters, and needs to be
played with exaggerated high
spirits and a complete absence
of restraint.
Some of the Independent’s
players are too inclined to bottle
their emotions. Harold Hinton,
who plays the lovesick Mr,
Worthy, a contender for
Melinda’s hand, doesn’t get right
into the part—one gained the
impression that he was more a
spectator of the proceedings
than a participant. On the other
hand Robert Levis as Captain
Brazen steals the show from
Plume. Had the rest of the
players his zest and constant
confidence and his capacity for
acting with a dash and a
flourish, the production would
have lost its stiffness and moved
with greater verve.
Brian Farmer has the appear-
ance and necessary energy as
Captain Plume, but has yet to
master the changing of moods
promptly enough to carry con-
viction. Robert Moore seems
at home as Kite, as does Michael
Hourihan as Justice Balance.
Ray Phillips and Douglas
Morgan make effective appear-
ances as two recruits bewitched
by Plume’s blandishments.
Diana Davidson as Silvia
combines charm and appealing
freshness in her acting ; Cousin
Melinda is played with assurance
by Nancy Warner-Hunt, and
Wendy Blacklock as the little
maidservant takes the audience’s
fancy.
The principals costumes, de-
signed by Desmonde Downing
and executed by Ethel Gabriel,
are pleasant, and the scenery,
also designed by Downing,
stimulating.—W. E. F.
"Ladies' Night in a
Turkish Bath."
Jim Gerald is the main driver
of this buggy-load of farce at
Sydney Empire, with Al Thomas,
Fred Murray, Marie La Varre,
Miriam Lester, Kerry Norton
and Sheila McGuire all aboard
and taking occasional turns at
the reins. Mr. Gerald’s per-
formance is quite a good one in
several ways. In the first act —
wherein is presented a brilliant
young professor of arachnology
(Fred Murray) who, having at
an early and impressionable age
seen a Black Widow devour her
mate, has developed such a com-
plex that the mere sight of a
woman sends him into a huddle
at the other end of the sofa —
it looks very much as though the
horse is going to drop dead in
the shafts.
But when Mr. Gerald and Mr.
Thomas decide that the best
treatment for the professor’s
complex is to set him loose
among a forest of scantily-clad
females, and proceed to do so
by carting him off to one of the
most infamous dives in town,
the moke shows some signs of
animation. And when the dive
is raided by the police and Mr.
Gerald and Mr. Murray, in
fancydress, escape across the
roof-tops into a Turkish bathing
establishment, where, for some
not very apparent reason, Mr.
Gerald’s and Mr. Thomas’s
wives and the young lady who
is angling for the professor are
spending the evening the horse
gets to its feet and starts
moving.
And when Mr. Gerald and
Mr. Murray try to pass them-
selves off as a couple of females
waiting for massage and heat
treatment, etc., and play hide-
and-seek with a scattering of
beauties clad in little except
bath-towels, the animal breaks
into a lively canter. And, finally,
when sundry wives begin look-
ing for explanations and sundry
husbands begin providing them
at a great rate and in contra-
dictory fashion, the horse comes
home at a handsome pace.
To which it need only be
added that credit for the initial
animation, the coaxing, the urg-
ing and the eventual stylish driv-
ing of the neddy belong almost
entirely to Mr. Gerald.
Vic. Artists' Spring
Show.
If the Victorian Artists’
Society’s Spring show lacks any-
thing it is not variety of approach
to subject-matter. Desmond
Norman approaches his “Cab-
bage Field” by way of Van
Gogh, a Gauguinish simplicity
infects the work in lan Arm-
strong’s “Young Woman,” Eric
Smith approaches his reptilian
subject - matter in “Hunting
Crocodiles” by way of Rous-
seau, and, the National Gallery
having lately acquired a
Rouault, an epidemic of
Rouaultitis has attacked the ab-
stractionists, whose rectangles
and circles blaze in a variety of
colors in the isolation-ward
behind the staircase.
If the work of every second
artist is reminiscent of some
other artist, there are a few ex-
amples which are more or less
reminiscent of Nature. Mary
IUrT has a “Sunnv Morn.
Collins-street,” done in a sort of
artistic shorthand, Barbara New-
man has a sympathetic study in
“Cave Hill, Lilydale,” and there
are warm light on the “Mellow
Brick” of R. W. Rowed’s farm-
house and action in David
Eager’s memory sketch of a
group of young men.
Flesh, costume and tree all
have the same texture in Murray
Griffin’s “Malay,” just as the
cliffs and the sea have in
Bertrand Fiven’s “Sunny S?a,
N.S.W.” ; but there is nice, clean
light in the “Veranda, Queens-
land,” of W. Grant, and a feel-
ing for the loneliness of the
desert in H. B. Minchin’s “Land-
scape, S.A.”
In the landscape division
“Misty Sunlight,” by Lesley
Sinclair, stands head and shoul-
ders above the others, though
head and shoulders is scarcely
the right expression, since its
sensitive approach is apt to pass
unnoticed amongst other out-of-
tune attempts at Nature. It is
a lovely view of a calm stretch
of the Yarra with steamers and
wharves suffused with soft light.
Sonia Skipper’s “Ranunculi”
looks fresh among the still-life,
and in Madeleine Jorgensen’s
“Camellias” the qualities of the
plaster Aphrodite, the bowl and
flowers are very finely given.
Music.
Musiclovers had another taste
at the Town Hall of Alceo Gal-
liera, Melbourne’s “permanent”
conductor, when he took the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
through a programme of dis-
tinguished classics seasoned with
a couple of new works. One
of these was “L’Oracion del
Torero,” by Turina, as spectacu-
lar as the other was quiet and
contemplative. “Australian
Scenes” was by Cyril Jenkins,
the English composer who had
made a name for himself before
he came to Melbourne. During
a long residence in that city little
notice was taken of him until
the U.S. suddenly announced
him as a brilliant Australian
composer and Melbourne woke
up to find it had a musician in
its midst. His latest work was
sound, traditional and simple, a
pleasantly-colored bush picture.
Conductor Galliera let himself
go in Beethoven’s Second Sym-
phony, rattling through the
scherzo at top speed, though
without losing definition. Schu-
bert’s “Unfinished” was given
one of the most melodious in-
terpretations it has had in its
many local appearances.
•5* 4* *s*
The Musica Viva players have
rarely achieved a more sympa-
thetic and well-judged collabora-
tion than that which marked
their playing at Sydney Con. in
Haydn’s splendidly-proportioned
“Sunrise” quartet. The slow
movement seemed perfect, the
various contrapuntal devices
built on the principal theme
being clear-cut and of rich tone.
A joyous impetus marked the
working-out of the third move-
ment. Schubert’s String Quartet
in the same key-signature, Op.
168, a flood of melody from
start to finish, and Goldmark’s
Piano Quintet Op. 30—in which
Maureen Jones’s work at the
piano was strongly-marked in
those sections where the writing
for this instrument has a high
coloring—were the other two
works.


tr
MS
I
mwmm/
tr
MSS
mwwm/
mmrn
* ' SW!
'♦ v
?<~ ■
;i«SS
v *
m
MII ffielp
UNIVERSAL tractor
By its ability to operate all widely-used
trailed and fixed implements ... by its
simple convertability on the farm from
a 4-wheel to a 3-wheel unit and vice versa
and by its 6-way power for all needs
in and around the farm, the Nuffield
Universal Tractor has proved itself under
ail kinds of operating conditions,
in every State, as a practical,
powerful, reliable tractor, IDEAL
FOR AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS,
Obtainable in Kerosene and "Cold Start"
Diesel Models.
Nuffield M 4 on 14 x 30
rear tyres, heavy wheel
centres, pulling 2 cu. yd.
Tumbler road scoop.
NT.5.24.51
BUILT AND BACKED BY A
NAME YOU CAN TRUSTI
j
NUFFIELD PRODUCTS ARE SOLD AND SERVICED
BY AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DISTRIBUTORS ANC
DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
DISTRIBUTORS:
MIMED
DEALER
N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited; VICTORIA; Kellow-Falkiner Pty. Ltd.; QUEENSLAND:
Flinders Motors Pty. Ltd.; SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Kingsway Limited; WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Park Lane Motors Pty. Ltd.; TASMANIA: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today** value* are you
properly covered? Now i«
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Circus Doctor
While the animal trainer
calmed the tigress, the circus
vet jammed the needle in her
vein—and prayed.
October Reader’s Digest
brings you a condensation of
the unusual book by J. Y.
Henderson, who for nine years
was veterinary surgeon with
the famous Ringling Brothers
and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
Here’s the story of a man who
in his job of caring for the
health of 700 animals faced
death every other day.
Get your October Reader’s
Digest today. 31 stimulating
articles condensed from lead-
ing magazines and current
books. Unparalleled reading
value at one shilling and six-
pence. All newsagents and
bookstalls.
j
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost- The
''National'’ Rotary Dupli
catox will reproduce
Typing, Writing- Plans.
Music, etc.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRINGING IN GERMANY.
On the steadily mounting
price being asked by Germans
for German co-operation in
Western defence, London
‘Economist” holds that it’s
about time there was some plain
talking to them.
It does some on its own
account. The advantage of using
German manpower and industry
in the common defence, it says,
is too obvious to call for any
re-arguing, but it is not so great
that any price at all can be
exacted for it.
If, it adds, willing German co-
operation is refused or is
offered only on terms too
fantastic to be accepted—then
the alternative is not, as it
might have been two years ago,
that the Western Powers would
wash their hands of Germany
and evacuate their troops; “So
long as the danger of war with
Russia continues, the Allied
troops are obviously going to
remain on the Elbe and start
fighting th e r e —a n y other
proposition is madness. What-
ever happens, Germany is going
to continue to be occupied and
will be involved in a new war
if it comes. The difference is
that, if German co-operation is
refused, Germany will have to
be treated as potentially hostile
territory—a n d the Germans
themselves are in the best
position to know that armies can
fight very effectively even if the
inhabitants of the country they
are fighting in do not want them
to.
“Another consequence would
be that the strategy of the West
would no longer have to include
the defence of Germany against
destruction as one of its
objectives. Clearly, such a state
of affairs would be very much
less desirable to the Western
allies than to have Germany as
a willing ally, equally sharing
the burdens. But it would also
be very much less desirable to
the Germans. Do they realise,
with all their wild talk, that the
alternative to co-operation with
the West is not to find them-
selves in the position of a
neutral, but in no man’s land?”
The Western allies having
finally agreed on the inclusion
of German forces, it is now up
to the Germans. Meanwhile (as
noted by “New York Times”)
the latest report on the rearming
of Eastern Germany by the
Russians, compiled by the British
High Commissioner’s office,
permits no further doubt that
the so-called “alert units” of
the Communist “people’s police”
are in reality military skeleton
cadres that can be quickly filled
up to a strength of more than
400,000 men. Like the North
Korean Army, these units are
being trained and commanded
by senior Russian officers, and
are equipped with Russian arms
and arms from a rapidly-growing
East German war industry.
They are thus not only a formid-
able addition to the Soviet
satellite armies, which are
rapidly expanding in violation
of all treaties and agreements ;
they also represent a domestic
menace to Germany which the
Communists are exploiting to the
limit to terrify the West
Germans.
In contrast, the West German
Republic has at its command
only a few thousand police
equipped with light arms from
—Spain!
“In that sense,” comments
“New York Times,” “Western
Germany is today an even
emptier power vacuum than was
South Korea. For the present
it is being guarded by an increas-
ing number of Allied troops.
But these troops are primarily
there to check Soviet aggression ;
they might find it difficult to
£ow>ev y
Ih.Q of we
3'&oc.w.iyr
|reichs party-
London “News Chronicle.”
“IT ALL REMINDS ME OF SOMETHING .. ."
cope with violent infiltration
from Eastern Germany. Even
as a guard against Soviet aggres-
sion they will remain inadequate
for the foreseeable future with-
out substantial German rein-
forcements. Yet in the matter
of such reinforcements the
Soviets are years ahead of the
West. Unless the West acts soon
to rectify the balance, it may lose
the race.”
Resented Pact.
London “Time and Tide”
remarks on it as curious “that
there should still be so much
lack of understanding and such
resentment” in Britain in con-
nection with the treaty of mutual
defence signed by Australia,
New Zealand and the U.S.
The burden of complaint, it
says, seems to be that Great
Britain was snubbed when not
invited to become a party to this
agreement.
It points out that neither con-
stitutional practice nor the facts
of the case support that view.
“For twenty years and more
the various overseas nations of
the Commonwealth have been
negotiating and signing treaties
with foreign Powers as and
when they saw fit to do so. In
the present instance, the treaty
is designed to strengthen the
defences of the Western world
in one particular area. It is
therefore the primary concern
of countries in that area.
“Both Australia and New
Zealand have for some years
sought an effective guarantee
from the one great Power abut-
ting on that area which can
really render them effective aid
in case of a world conflict. It is
quite unlikely, if another world
war should break out, that Great
Britain, deeply committed as she
must be in Europe, in the Middle
East and on the Atlantic, would
be able to give any more help
in the South Pacific than she did
in the last war. Only the United
States could and would.”
Persians’ Loss.
“World Today” lists some of
the virtues of the Anglo-Iranian
Oil Company:
Technically first-class; yield
for outlay on a level that was
the height of efficiency ; a creator
of social security in industry
with by far the best record of
any commercial concern in the
Middle East; treatment of
workers comparing favorably
with that in many countries in
the West—testified to by a body
as impartial as the International
Labor Office, which reported in
1950 that working and living
conditions of the oil workers
were “an encouraging example
of what could be done with such
resources in such latitudes.”
“At the end of 1950 the com-
pany employed only one Briton
in 30; the rest were Iranian. It
housed 18,000 of 65,000 workers
in houses with water laid on and
free gas for cooking. In the
heat of Abadan, it supplied its
workers with water at a rate of
2,000,000 gallons a day for
drinking; and it supplied this
water ready chilled.
“It supplied medical care not
only for the workers but for
their families. Its superannua-
tion terms were about five times
as good as any of those avail-
able, at least on paper, elsewhere
in Persia. Its wastage-of-staff
figure suggests that its workers
were well content. It had done
much more for its workers than
has its cousin, the Irak Petroleum
Company, because it had been
making profits over a very much
longer period and is a much
larger concern. It also did very
much more for its workers than
the Arabian-American Oil Com-
pany working in Saudi Arabia,
where no facilities are provided
for workers’ families.”
Road-toll Action.
Australian authorities might
well be prompted to act by
France’s recent example.
There the sharp rise in the
accident-rate has led to drastic
Government action. By official
decree (reports London
“Times’s” Paris correspondent)
prefects are authorised to de-
prive drivers of their licences
immediately a summons is
issued by the police for a serious
breach of traffic regulations,
even if no accident has occurred.
The suspension in such a case is
limited to two months.
If a driver is found guilty by
a court of a driving offence, the
prefect is bound by law either
to suspend the licence for a
period not exceeding three years,
or to withdraw it altogether.
This last penalty will be com-
pulsory in all cases involving
drunkenness while driving.
Jap Shipping Boom.
As noted by Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” the Jap merchant
marine, unrestricted by the peace
treaty, is “fast becoming a
serious competitor to the fleets
of other maritime nations.”
Japan’s shipbuilding capacity,
the report adds, is 800,000 tons


Missing Friend,
WOULD SYDNEY SMITH, formerly of
342 Beryl Street, Broken Hill, Miner,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, kindly
communicate with the undersigned ?
Reference: Estate of the late HENRIETTA
MATILDA SMITH, deceased.—E. R.
HUDSON, Solicitor. Broken Hill.
ipll
THE “ENGLISH ELECTRIC” “CANBERRA” BOMBER
HiSTORY WAS MADE WHEN THE FIRST R.A.A.F. CANBERRA JET COMPLETED
ITS RECORD-BREAKING 24-HOUR FLIGHT FROM ENGLAND TO AUSTRALIA
Making history has been among the achievements of The English Electric Company Ltd.
for many years, for as well as designing and manufacturing the outstanding Canberra and
other famous aircraft the Company supplies to Australia thousands of tons of intricate
heavy and light electrical equipment. This equipment has added to the standard of living
of every Australian and embodies the best of modern design and workmanship. The wide
diversity of plant being supplied by the Company to Australia includes:
j
• Over half a million horsepower of hydro-
electric and Diesel generating plant,
including the first hydro-electric unit for the
Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority.
• Nearly a quarter of a million horsepower
of rolling mill motors, some of more than
20,000 horsepower, larger than any others
in Australia. • Over two million kilo-
voltamperes of large transformers, including
the largest single units for this country to
operate at 230,000 volts. • Over 20,000
horsepower of electric and Diesel-electric
rail traction equipment involving more than
125 locomotives.
• The first steam turbo-alternator to operate
here at a pressure of over 1,000 pounds
per square inch. • Over 100,000 kilowatts
of mercury arc rectifier equipment for
electrolytic, traction, and industrial duties.
• Switchgear of all types, • Electric
winders for mines. • Diesel-electric marine
propulsion equipment. • Electric motors,
high rupturing capacity fusegear and
domestic appliances.
The English Electric Co. Ltd. is especially
experienced in the handling of comprehen-
sive contracts for complete power stations
and railway and industrial electrification
projects.
At Rocklea, Brisbane, the Company operates a large works, with another
works at Auburn, Sydney. Also included in the English Electric group of
companies are Marconi’s Wireless Telegraph Company and D. Napier & Son.
ĵ
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
(INCORPORATED
j
IN ENGLAND)
m
ĵ
FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, PERTH, H. M. BAMFORD, HOBART
yearly. Early in the negotiations
with the U.S. on the peace
treaty, “Britain tried to get this
capacity restricted,” but
abandoned the attempt “in face
of United States insistence that
Japan must be made to pay her
way.”
Figures released by the
Japanese Ministry of Transport
reveal that 56 new ships will be
launched in the period June to
December this year. Recently
Japan inaugurated a steamship
route to South Africa, and
another route has been
inaugurated to New York.
“Japan’s current shipbuilding
programme will enlarge her
fleet by 75 vessels. The United
States is providing Japan with
money to construct 31 ocean-
going vessels totalling 225,000
tons and to refit 18 freighters
and eight oil tankers. By 1953,
Japan plans to replenish
1,181,000 tons of ocean-going
shipping.”
New Rifles.
Some points of J. Bull’s new
rifle noted by a London “Spec-
tator” correspondent:
The E.M.2, the 7mm. rifle, is
much lighter and handier than
its predecessor. It is self-loading
where the Lee-Enfield has a
hand-operated bolt action. Its
rate of fire is therefore about
four times as great.
The opportunity has been
taken of designing entirely new
sights which are as foolproof
as anything requiring human
intervention can be.
In spite of its refinements, the
E.M.2 is rugged and simple to
operate. It will not readily jam ;
in this respect it has passed tests
which the American standard
combaj; rifle, the Garand, cannot
pass.
More ammunition will un-
doubtedly be used if the E.M.2
goes into general service. That,
indeed, is part of the idea. But
the ammunition will be lighter.
More can be carried on the man,
and very much more on the
normal establishment of trans-
port of an infantry division.
The “Chicago Tribune,” not
to see Uncle Sam outdone,
claims that the American Army,
also, has developed a new rifle,
the specifications of which are
still secret. It is said to be a
development of the Garand and
to fire a new lightweight, shorter
.30 calibre cartridge,
American ordnance experts,
it says, believe this rifle to be
superior to the Russian Army’s
.30 Takarev, which some
American officers regard as the
best rifle in the world.
Hence it declares that tests to
compare the new British rifle
with the old version of the
Garand are futile: “The new
British gun ought to be tested
against the Russian Takarev and
against the new American rifle.”
Also not to be outdone, the
Belgians have a new one, too —
same calibre as the British. A
demonstration showed that the
new Belgian weapon could
penetrate a British helmet at a
range of 1000 metres, and it
penetrated 1 3-sin. into a
wooden panel at the same range.
The rifle was placed in a sand-
mixer for five minutes, after
which it was still able to fire two
magazines.
Slowed-down Ships.
How successful has been the
Communist-directed campaign
to slow-down shipping is
indicated by a sample of figures
published in the journal of the
London Chamber of Commerce:
One vessel trading to Aus-
tralia before the war used to
make five voyages in two years.
Five post-war voyages, com-
pleted last year, took her three
years and 10 days.
In 1948 the time spent by this
vessel and her sister-ships of the
same line in Australian ports
was twice as long as it was
before the war. Last year it
was nearly three times as long.
Another shipping company
has estimated that if its vessels
could have been “turned round”
in port as quickly as they used
to be before the war its fleet of
37 ships could have put in 1166
more sailing days last year.
Various Voices.
Woodrow Wyatt, Financial
Secretary to the War Office
(addressing a Labor rally):
“When we [the British Govern-
ment] tell you that the need to
rearm is urgent and great this is
no light warning. We are
running into a very dangerous
period. Between now and 1954,
the Russians may be tempted into
thinking that they have a last
chance to defeat the West in
war before the West has built
up its defences. If we were to
relax our defence efforts now
we might be condemning this
country to extinction,”
U.S. Assistant Secretary of
Labor, Mr. Kaiser (in Paris):
“Improving the standard of
living of the people of the under-
developed areas is a definite
strategic objective of United
States foreign policy.”
British T.U.C. General
Council chairman, Alfred
Roberts: “The marshalling of
half a million boys and girls,
many of them tiny children but
the mass of them youths of both
sexes hardly yet out of their
teens, is the most sinister mani-
festation we have yet seen of
the dangers inherent in the
cynical and fraudulent Com-
munist peace campaign.”
Anthony Eden: “If we are to
invite the nations of Western
Europe to resist, as they wish to
do, either insidious or overt
attacks, we must give them sup-
port in arms and men. There
must be effective preparation of
military defence on a scale ade-
quate to give confidence to those
who will have to bear the first
onslaught. Nothing less will
suffice.”
W. Averell Harriman, U.S.
Presidential adviser: “The one
great thing accomplished by our
constant efforts during and since
the war to reach a settlement
with the Soviet Union is that we
have firmly established our
moral position before the world.
Had these efforts not been made,
many people of the free world
would still be wondering whether
we and not the Kremlin were to
blame for the tensions that have
developed.”
U.S. Senator Brian H. Mc-
Mahon: “The textbook makers
use a simple, graphic illustra-
tion to explain how the sun
warms and brightens the earth.
They show a sphere suspended
in space, about one half white
and the other half black, the
shaded part is the areas of dark-
ness: on the white side, the sun
is shining. But the earth rotates
on its axis so that no portion
of the earth is shut off continu-
ally from the light rays of the
sun. The Iron Curtain never
rotates and it never relents. A
vast area of the earth is kept in
perpetual darkness. It is our
duty to penetrate this darkness
and I think we are doing it.”
Sir David Maxwell Fyfe,
K.C. : “The very theory of
Socialism has shut us [in Britain]
in an inflationary concentration
camp. Its barbed-wire, which gets
higher each day, is the cruel
spiral of mounting prices. Its
guard—more threatening than
any S.S. —are the two-yearly
dollar crises 1947-1949-1951,
which are Socialism’s trade
cycle. Its spirit and reason of
existence is the glorification of
the State, which is centralised
bureaucracy through increased
offices and power in Whitehall,
through more nationalisation,
through more State buying and
wasteful schemes.”
Eisenhower (as reported by a
New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent); “When I first
came to Europe I disliked the
whole idea of a European army.
I had enough troubles without
it. However, I’ve decided that
it offers the best chance for
reconciling the French and
German interests and for forging
another link in the chain of
European unity, I realise that
some of my professional
associates are going to think
that I’m completely crazy. But
I tell you that joining Europe
together is the key to the whole
thing. And a European army
will help in that direction.”


O.kU
weather hot
tveather cold
the call is for refreshing
long or short drinks
made with
ACKERS GIN
Good new ideas for long delicious thirst-
quenchers or cheering, warming cocktails . . .
are yours for the asking.
A free copy of Vickers Cocktail Book, containing
over 50 tested recipes for cocktails and long
drinks, will be sent to you on request by The
United Distillers Pty. Ltd., Box 759, G.P.0.,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Yickers Cocktail Book is
more than a collection of
recipes, it’s a complete
guide to cocktail mixing,
gives valuable “profes-
sional” hints, even lists
everything needed to start
a private “Bar”. Write
for your free copy now I
j
VG 51/16
CRONULLA'S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
LB 5923
East
VS
one/
West
»
\
ALL IN
ONE TRIP
Reiax at 3 night stops m
the ali-Coostellatioo Servici
Extra hours of “local" time
mean extra hours for recrea-
tion and enjoyment of
colourful scenes in fascias-
ting Eastern cities —on the
Kangaroo route to London
and Europe. You eryoy 3
restful night stops —see both
Eastern and Western culture
en route —arrive in London
refreshed, and ready Uk
business or pleasure.
Fly De-luxe
0NVT9M3 ONV
the glamorous
“variety" route to
ĵ
<£■ Fly by Constellation «B
the way —no change «
aircraft.
•fa Sec fascinating Singapore,
Cairo and Rome en route.
Break your journey at no
extra fare.
ir Fly across the Continent
—via Rome, Geneva,
Paris to London —at no
extra fare.
De-luxe cabin service
two stewards, one hostess.
No tips, no extras.
* First class hotel accommo-
dation included.
5 services weekly — fly Wo
Calcutta or Colombo.
Consult your travel agent.
KM
OAHTAS-MC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in pe rallel J*j*
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Attlee sounds sallying call.”
—Adelaide “News” heading.
This should be right up
Churchill’s alley.
•F •h
“My husband and I parted because
of my deceit, lies, bad temper, lazi-
ness, spitefulness and unfaithfulness.”
—Letter to Sydney daily.
No doubt, men are fickle
brutes!
+ •5* 4*
“Women will only buy what the
other women are wearing.”
—Fashion article.
Provided it’s “exclusive.”
•j. q. q.
“Those who live alone often try to
exist on scratch meals.”
—Diet article.
Many of those who don’t just
have to.
q. q. q.
“For sale, ladies in good order,
£B.” —Suburban paper.
The figure seems reasonable,
too.
“Champion racehorse Shannon, sold
at auction in Sydney in August, 1947.
for 26,000 guineas, was referred to
in the High Court in an income tax
appeal case as ‘an animal used as a
beast of burden.’ ”
“Boys wanted for tanning.”
— Positions-vacant advt.
Specially recommended for
bodgies.
Domestic Parallel.
“It was quite dark when we got
home, but there was the soap. I wish
we could get everything we want by
riding twenty miles for it.” —“Letters
of Rachel Henning” (2 /11 / 1862).
In spite of small beginnings
grown
Beyond her dreams; in spite of
phone,
T.-p., mail-order, lay-by, train
And ship and motor-truck and
plane
Encompassing our land at
speeds
Unheard of then, to serve my
needs ;
Despite that nigh one hundred
years
Have passed since that brave
pioneer’s
Epistles were indited, I
Repeat this day her self-same
sigh.
MRS. SMITH
Taxation people have no souls
To give this menial appellation
To Shannon, idol of a nation.
And yet, they’re right; a horse
that bowls
At super speed along the track
Can win with grandstands on
his back.
D.H.E.
Making Good Fellows
of Themselves.
“A Sydney milkman, fined for
adding nearly 30 p.c. water to his
milk, said he was only trying to make
the milk go round among his cus-
tomers.”
Pleading guilty at Quarter
Sessions at his trial on charges
of breaking and entering, Bill
Blackjack admitted that he had
taken from the jeweller’s shop
several hundred pounds worth
of diamonds. His object, how-
ever, had not been theft. As
one who had taken an almost-
lifelong interest in the precious-
stones trade, he was aware of
the dangers by which the trade
could be beset if diamonds be-
came too plentiful—their high
cost was due solely to their
rarity. He was also aware that
the jeweller’s shop he had visited
was overstocked in diamonds.
He considered that by removing
some he would be doing the
jeweller a good turn, the reduc-
tion in his stock consequent
upon his [Bill’s] visit making
the remainder of much higher
value.
Thanking accused for his deep
consideration and for giving his
expert knowledge, gratis, for the
jeweller’s benefit, Mr. Justice
Fullbottom observed that, in
handing Bill a sentence of seven
years hard, he did so not as a
punishment, but to give him an
opportunity between scheduled
spells of chopping rocks to
pursue more fully his study of
economics, for which he obvi-
ously had a flair. He would
make a special request to the
appropriate authorities that the
institution to which he would
forthwith be committed should
“Heads y' let me go, tails y' book me."
have a suitably-equipped library
for this purpose.
Answering a charge that, after
drinking eight schooners of beer,
with a chaser of a double-
headed whisky after each one,
he had got into his car and
scorched along the main road on
his wrong side at 65 ra.p.h.,
forcing oncoming traffic right
off it, Samuel Soke, a corset-
maker’s striker, claimed he was
perfectly sober at the time. He
had had a glass of milk before
taking the drinks in question,
which he admitted having, thus
ensuring they would have not the
slightest ill-effect on him.
His object in speeding along
the wrong side of the road had
been purely a road-safety pre-
caution on his part, and he
claimed it was highly successful.
By forcing oncoming cars right
off the road he had saved them
from possible involvement in
collisions, for it was obvious
that a car off the road had far
less chance of being smashed up
than a car on the road. Instead
of a summons he had honestly
anticipated a letter of commen-
dation from the Road Safety
Council.
Prosecuted by the Inspector
of Weights and Measures for
using scales which on being
tested were found to weigh 4oz.
light in every pound, Alf Lair,
an itinerant barrowman,
indignantly denied the magis-
trate’s remark that he was obvi-
ously out to rob the public.
Admitting that he had a quarter-
pound weight stuck with
adhesive-tape to the under
portion of his scale-scoop, de-
fendant claimed he did this only
out of consideration for his
customers. He sold only peas
and Brussels-sprouts, both of
which were, as everyone knew,
windy vegetables. By reducing
the quantity ordered and paid
for by each person by 25 per
cent, he was thereby reducing
the incidence of the flatulence
from which they would suffer in
the same proportion. If any-
thing, thanks were due to him
for helping to preserve the
health of the nation.
Asked if he had anything to
say in his own defence when
charged with having contracted
a bigamous marriage, Plan-
tagenet Mugg said his action had
been one purely of self-abnega-
tion. The fact that he had
deserted his legal wife and six
children had no bearing what-
soever on the case. It was just
that he became convinced that
by marrying the second woman
he would, as it were, take her
out of circulation, and so save
one of his fellow-men from the
trials and tribulations of
conjugal life. It had deeply
shocked him to find that instead
of having been presented with
a suitable reward such as the
George Medal for heroism in
civil life, he had been brutally
haled before a court of justice.
Such a thing couldn’t happen
in a really enlightened com-
munity.
Replying to complaints that
his “Government” had made
unprecedently savage increases
in rail freights immediately after
he had howled at the Federal
Treasurer over his Budget,
N.S.W. Premier “Squealer”
McGirr said this had been done
with only one object in view;
the happiness of the toiling
masses, to represent whom
none was more fitted by his
station in life than he.
By thus substantially boosting
the already skyrocketing cost of
living less money would be left
in the hands of the people to
spend on talkies; this would
lead to fewer arguments be-
tween husbands and wives about
the merits of films they may see.
The special slug he had aimed at
the rail transport of oil-fuel
must inevitably increase its cost,
making it harder for the private
motorist to buy it. This must
in turn lead to a lessening of
domestic friction due to such
concomitants of weekend driv-
ing as back-seat instructions
and rows about where, each
member of the family wanted to
go for the Sunday picnic. He
felt sure the people would
heartily endorse this viewpoint
at the next elections.
Pleading guilty to a charge of
obtaining money by forging his
managing-director’s signature on
company cheques, Orlando Bott
claimed that in doing so the last
thing he had thought of was any
monetary gain to himself. He
had merely taken compassion
on the managing-director after
noticing that he was liable
to get writer’s - cramp after
having written out several
cheques. He therefore became
determined to effect a lessening
of this painful condition by
relieving him of the necessity of
putting his signature to all the
cheques in the book, and to this
commendable end set himself
the laborious task of copying
the m.-d.’s signature until the
two were, he had hoped, indis-
tinguishable. Had he known
his noble aims were to have been
ignobly misconstrued, as they
had been, he might have been
tempted to suppress those
humane impulses which had
promoted his selfless action.
Bo.


ate
c? - zfm*
FACING B PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere , . . the absence of
noise and bustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner"
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent,
THE WENTWORTH
ut
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
■Mi
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ROLEX of Switzerland presents the
“OYSTER PERPETUAL”
World’s first waterproof and self-winding chronometer.
F
\
Mi*
t 3
cP
S 4
o
V
4
3?
m
ss»s
j
j
j
ĵ
&
18.
9s*
Each and every “ROLEX
Oyster Perpetual Chrono-
meter” carries its own indi-
vidual Timing Certificate
issued by a Swiss Government
Testing Station. This official
“pedigree” refers only to the
very chronometer you buy, so
you can rely on your “Oyster
Perpetual” to keep accurate
time always.
As its name implies, the
“Rolex Oyster Perpetual
Chronometer” is hermetically-
sealed, like an oyster, against
water, moisture, perspiration,
powder, dust and dirt. “Rolex
Oysters” have swum the
Channel, flown Mt. Everest,
sweltered in deserts, endured
Arctic cold without a trace
of ill-effect.
The “Rolex Oyster Perpetual
Chronometer” is accurate for
a life-time and never needs
winding. It has been tested
in extreme heat and cold at
various Observatories and
come through with flying
colours. Cased in gold the
“Oyster” has a special paten-
ted crystal that is practically
unbreakable. In its beautiful
presentation box, the “Oyster
Perpetual” is the perfect
answer to any occasion which
demands a gift of superb
quality.
ROLEX
• ? •
f
ROLEX
f
ROLEX
RX13
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
After a propitious beginning the
AJ.C. spring meeting wound up last
week with a couple of days of the
sort of Sydney “spring” weather that
inevitably brings out the latent
humorist in visitors from Melbourne.
Wednesday, the traditional Ladies’
Day, was almost washed out entirely,
and Saturday was miserably bleak.
Still, considering that attendance on
Wednesday fell short of 20,000, total
attendance for the four days was
excellent at 147,392—ab0ut 7000 up
on last year’s meeting. Tote turnover
was £737,324.
Although, as one expects, a swag of
good performances were noted in the
course of the four days, undoubtedly
the equine star of the meeting was
Delta, whose excellent efforts under
both handicap and w.-f.-a. conditions
offered owner A. Basser some com-
pensation for the loss of his good
four-year-old French Cavalier, who
broke a leg when seeming to have the
Epsom in his grasp.
Prior to the present meeting Delta
had never won an open-handicap
event. Round this time last year he
won the Chelmsford Stakes and the
Colin Stephen Stakes (both w.-f.-a.)
and then, heavily supported, failed
abjectly in the Metrop.; back to
w.-f.-a. conditions on the last day
of that meeting he comfortably won
the 2rmiles Randwick Plate. This
year Delta began along the same lines,
taking both the Chelmsford and
the Colin Stephen, but he went
one further by lumping topweight of
9.5 to a good win in the Metropolitan.
Doubles bookies all along had had
Delta at the top of their Metrop.
charts, but understandable doubts as
to his ability under handicap condi-
tions assailed punters on the course,
and, after opening at fives, Delta
drifed, to start at sevens, Aristocrat,
Yeoval and Shanalen being preferred,
with Aristocrat favorite at 9to 2. In
midfield most of the way. Delta began
to move up nicely approaching the
turn, hit the front at the Leger and
ran on strongly to score by half-a-
length from Skystreamer, with Aristo-
crat third, just ahead of Yeoval.
Delta, whose previous successes had
included the Victoria Derby, V.R.C.
St, Leger and the King’s Plate, is a
five-year-old brown horse by Mid-
stream from the Magpie mare Gazza.
Delta certainly chose a high-class
race in which to register his first open-
handicap success —one which will read
very well in his record when he goes
to stud —but it might pay to be a
little cautious about accepting him as
a proved handicapper on the strength
of one win; very good in some ways
as the effort undoubtedly was, it
must be confessed Delta beat a really
pretty poor Metrop. field.
Delta’s toughest and most con-
sistent opposition over the meet-
ing came from another St. Leger
winner in Aristocrat, who took the
A.J.C. classic last year. In the Colin
Stephen Stakes Aristocrat gave Delta
a terrific run for his money before
being beaten by a nose. In the
Metrop. Aristocrat was beaten rather
more decisively, though, nevertheless,
he was finishing-on in great style at
the end. On Saturday, however, it
was Aristocrat’s turn, and, with the
assistance of a brilliant bit of horse-
manship, plus an admitted degree of
luck, he beat the even-money favorite
by a length in the Randwick Plate.
Darby Munro is an absolute dabster
at riding these distance w.-f.-a. races,
and he gave a classic demonstration
in the Plate. Nevertheless, Delta
would almost surely have won but
for a piece of very poor luck. Just
as the favorite commenced a solid
run at the Leger, Shanalen swung out
into him; Delta was turned prac-
tically side on, and the post was too
near when he got going again.
The Randwick Plate carries a pro-
viso that the prizemoney can be
halved if the race is not run in 3.35
or better —a generous-enough condi-
tion considering that Melbourne Cups
were being won in faster time more
than 70 years ago. Delta won the
Plate last year in on a dead
track. On Saturday Aristocrat took
an almost incredible Light,
scattered rain had taken the sting
from the track, but it was by no
stretch of imagination even moderately
heavy, and the prize was duly
chopped.
Apart from those mentioned pre-
viously, w.-f.-a. events in the latter
part of the spring meeting provided
consolation prizes for horses beaten
when strongly fancied in earlier
events. Run on Metrop. day, the
mile George Main Stakes attracted
only four runners, but produced the
best finish of the meeting when Over-
sight, who had finished fourth in the
Epsom, won by a long head from
Grey Boots and San Domenico, who
deadheated for second; Achilles
finished a close fourth. Run then
on the Wednesday, the 10-furlongs
Craven Plate was won very easily by
Hydrogen. Hydrogen’s win, follow-
ing his failure when odds-on favorite
in the Derby, provoked abuse from a
section of the crowd and some un-
thinking, loose talk in other quarters,
but there doesn’t seem to be much
reversal of form involved in a horse
winning at 10 furlongs, faffing at
his first attempt at 12 furlongs, and
then winning again when switched
back to 10 furlongs. It would have
been quite as logical, for that matter,
to hoot the Melbourne visitor Shore-
ham, who had made a considerably
worse showing than Hydrogen in the
Derby, but showed appreciation of a
return to a shorter trip by winning
the mile Members’ Handicap imme-
diately prior to Hydrogen’s bagging
the Craven.
A brief run through some other
highlights of the spring gathering.
The most effortless winner noted was
Cultured, who won the Gimcrack
Stakes by four lengths and gave the
impression she could as easily have
made it a dozen. Evidently one of
those real flying fillies of whom one
or two of varying merit bob up nearly
every year, Cultured is by a new sire
in Newtown Wonder, an imported
son of Fair Trial, who, in England,
was particularly noted as a sire of
early winners. Also on Metrop. day
the three-year-old colt Nitrogen won
the 7-furlongs Reginald Allen Handi-
cap well enough to suggest that had
he been started he would have done
at least as well in the Derby as
Hydrogen, who races in the same
ownership; the country performer
Bonny Romance, a four-year-old
mare who won the Grafton Cup not
long back, demonstrated that she is
well up to metropolitan standard by
winning the mile Kia-Ora Handicap;
and Free Rule, the three-year-old
colt whose ownership has been sub-
ject of considerable civil litigation,
and is still being investigated by the
stewards, won the Shorts (6f.).
On Wednesday, in the mud, or,
rather, amidst great lakes of loose
surface water, Blue’s Sister earned
herself a trip to Melbourne for the
three-year-old fillies’ classics by gamely
defeating Friendly Feeling in the mile
Flight Stakes and Gallant Leader just
pipped the incredibly unlucky Socrates
in the 12-furlongs Sydney Handicap.
A five-year-old son of Valiant
Chief, Socrates finally made amends
on Saturday with a sound win over
favorite Rumyle in the 13-furlongs
Waverley Handicap. It was not before
time; in eight previous recent starts
Socrates had filled four minor plac-
ings and had twice deadheated for
first. Something of an unusual
double was brought off when the
Widden Stakes for two-year-old fillies
went to New Zealand-bred Celebrated,
a full sister to the Epsom winner
Davey Jones. The Canonbury Stakes
for the two-year-old colts went to
Royal Eagle (by English Edition);
the Clibborn Handicap to High Law
(who may now contest the Victoria
Derby); and the Final Handicap
(101.) to that considerably better-than-
useful performer Great World, who,
however, in the light of some recent
efforts, started at 25 to 1, thereby
rounding off in handsomely-appro-
priate fashion a meeting which had
all through very much favored the
books.
* * * *
The severe drought which had beset
Melbourne punters over recent weeks
was broken at Flemington on Satur-
day when, although two of the prin-
cipal events produced unpalatable
upsets, several favorites were suc-
cessful.
Chicquita’s form has been rather
in-and-out this time up, and in Satur-
day’s 12-furlongs Turnbull Stakes it
was very much “out” —so much so
that connections there and then
announced abandonment of Caulfield
and Melbourne Cup plans. Expected
to be, as yet, short of top form,
Morse Code started at 20 to 1 in a
field of six for the Turnbull Stakes,
but the St. Magnus five-year-old
upset calculations by hopping straight
into the lead and staying there. At
the finish it was a length to the
Westralian Jovial Lad, then a head
to Iron Duke and a half-neck to
Chicquita. Morse Code finished third
in the Cup last year, and is now
ruling favorite for this year.
The Cup, of course, now dominates
the racing scene, and at this early
stage the color grey dominates present
observer’s view of the said scene:
Grey Boots and Durham seem names
to toy with.
Best results on Saturday were pro-
vided by races which, on paper,
looked the very ones any wise punter
would firmly avoid. At least adherents
of the “bigger the field the bigger
the certainty” axiom gained support
for their theory. The Maribyrnong
Trial for two-year-old fillies
attracted 24 starters, and the one for
colts and geldings 28 runners; there
were 21 runners in the Edward Mani-
fold Stakes for three-year-old fillies
and 17 in the October Handicap for
three-year-old colts and geldings. The
net result of those four races was
three favorites and one equal-favorite
successful.
Ridden by W. Williamson, Moonlit,
a daughter of Dhoti-Moonbeam,
dominated betting on the Maribyr-
nong for fillies, and proved every bit
the good thing anticipated. Moonlit
won by a couple of lengths from
Golden Circlet and Just Caroline.
Cellar Master, carrying a 71b. penalty
for the two wins he had registered in
as many starts in Adelaide, went out
equal-favorite with Durasta in the
Maribyrnong for colts and geldings,
but with Purtell up Cellar Master was
untroubled to make it three in a row;
he won by a couple of lengths from
Purple Boy and Romany Star, with
Durasta unplaced.
First classic event of the season for
the three-year-old fillies, the mile
Edward Manifold Stakes, saw Carbon
Copy’s half-sister Lady Havers start
a solid favorite and do the job in
good style. Williamson had to drive
Lady Havers along pretty solidly at
the finish, but she won gamely from
Vienna Lass and Hardway. Finishing
first and second, respectively, with
only a half-neck between them, in
the 10-furlongs October Handicap,
Consider and Great Gilbert each
earned entitlement to some considera-
tion for what promises to be a very
open Derby.
SJ« Jfc *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Juvenile Stakes: Celebrated, 1;
Nicoora, 2; Rana’s Choice, 3. Yputh-
ful Stakes: Daily Paper, 1; Kaimur,
2; Blond Val, 3. Novice: Moamac,
1; Lunarian, 2; Hepburn, 3. George
Herdsman Stakes; Carriole, 1; Helio-
fly, 2; Hindostan, 3. City Tattersall’s
Club Gold Cup: Great World, 1;
Bonny Romance, 2; Rinkeno, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Nitrogen,
1; Kerry Song, 2; Heraldry, 3. Club
Welter: Goldak, 1; Ajanni, 2;
Militant, 3.
* * * *
One suspects a spot of Bradman
influence behind by-law intro-
duced by the South Australian Cricket
Association last week. At all events
it’s certainly one that could be univer-
sally adopted. The S.A.C.A. Com-
mittee, under the new law, is em-
powered to take hefty disciplinary
action against teams adjudged guilty
of deliberately wasting time. The
committee can fine the guilty team
any amount it thinks fit, and can also
vary in any way the points awarded
a match. Culprits principally aimed
at are the bowler who contrives to take
10 minutes or so for an over and
batsmen who waste time between the
pavilion and the wicket. One thing
that should be insisted upon, as it
was last season in English county
cricket, is that outgoing and incom-
ing batsmen should pass each other
on the field.
* * * *
An extraordinary item of sporting
intelligence reported with appropriate
astonishment recently by London
“Daily Telegraph”:—
“During the last 32 years cricket
has caused more fatal accidents in
New York City than archery, horse-
racing or ice-hockey.”
It’s difficult to believe, even though
New York does claim to have more
Italians than Rome, more Jews than
Palestine and more Irishmen than
Dublin. Still, the figure may be not
so much an indication of the number
of New Yorkers who play cricket as
a comment on the skill of those who
do.
* * * *
New National Open golf champion
is 22-year-old Peter Thomson, who
added the title to his N.Z. Open at
Melbourne’s Metropolitan course with
283 (68, 75, 70, 70). This was four
better than Von Nida, five better than
Pickworth and one stroke outside
American Sarazen’s 282 record for
the course.
* * * *
Just as fans were beginning to ask
themselves if Australian boxing was
completely dead (it’s parlous close
to that state) there was a sudden
minor flurry of activity last week. In
Sydney former welterweight champion
Tommy Burns made a successful
comeback against Mickey Tollis, in
Melbourne Jack Hassen unsuccess-
fully defended his Australian light-
weight title against the challenge of
Frank Flannery and in Chicago Dave
Sands finally secured a fight and
made a not very inspiring American
debut by beating, on points, Carl
Olson, a notorious spoiler and one
whom Sands had beaten previously.
Principal conclusions to be drawn
from the three fights were that Tollis
should give the game away; Hassen
should have done so some time ago;
and Dave Sands should find himself
a new matchmaker.
The lightweight championship bout
in Melbourne was Hassen’s first
defence of his title since he won it
in September, 1949; so much for the
alleged “rule” of boxing that a title-
holder must defend within six months.
Hassen scaled 9.8| and the 23-year-
old Victorian Flannery was a pound
lighter, according to the official
weights, but the difference looked
greater; Hassen certainly had several
inches advantage in height and reach.
Hassen was on top for a while in
the fourth and fifth rounds, when he
twice dropped Flannery for counts of
“nine,” but thereafter the challenger
outfought, outboxed and absolutely
overwhelmed Hassen, whose comer
tossed in the towel in the ninth round.
They seldom come back, but
Tommy Burns, it must be admitted,
did look very fit when he returned to
the scene at Sydney Stadium, and the
opposition in sight at present is so
poor that Burns may continue to be
around the said scene for some time
—particularly if he has, as he
declares, given up the idea that he is
a potential movie star.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR
. HOME
j
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
j
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sewerage is absorbed
into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
■DISTRIBUTORS :■
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.,
Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
m
ill
ii m %
lIIH
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rales.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra,
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
-METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
ĵj
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses*
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-,
+ Bi% S.T.
j
j
AND SONS
PTY. LTD
If any “Bulletin”
Manager, who
illustration takes your fancy to tb*
will quote you price for the original
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE AT MELBOURNE SHOW.
“Mr.”; Improvement in
numbers and quality in some
of the breeds were marked not-
ably in Aberdeen-Angus and
Herefords among the beeves, and
in Jerseys and Friesians among
the dairy cattle. Standards of
other breeds, notably A.I.S. and
Ayrshire, were maintained, but
numbers were down 10 and 20
per cent, respectively. The drop
in A.I.S. numbers was due
mainly to the absence of some
N.S.W. breeders.
Of beef breeds Aberdeen-
Angus impressed most, and the
popularity of the little blacks
with breeders, and, of course,
with butchers, was reflected in the
figures, up 50 per cent, on last
year’s. In an outspoken tribute
Scottish judge C. McCombie
opined that many of the exhibits
were the equal of Scotia’s best.
Major successes went to Terri-
nallum Pastoral Company, Pura
Pura, which won both male and
female blue ribbons and the
female reserve. Champion bull,
Terrinallum Black Leader, a
nicely-set-up yearling, also won
the male junior championship.
His sire. Black Idol of Mango-
toro (imp. N.Z.), also sired the
female and reserve champions,
Terrinallum Joy and Terrinallum
Tura Fourth. The judge de-
scribed Joy as the finest Aber-
deen-Angus on parade, male or
female. Reserve bull was
Battery Park Esquire, a nice
two-year-old by Battery Park
Rattler Second and bred on the
Mansfield estate of L. J. and
A. L. Graves.
As usual, Golf Hill was out-
standing among the Herefords,
and the McEacherns —M.M. and
R.L. —were prominent. The bull
champion was a magnificent
youngster, Golf Hill Goshawk
(c. 3/5/’5O), by the Golf Hill
sire Coliban Acklam. This
young bull had previously won
the junior championship. En-
tered by R. L. McEachern,
Strathdownie, the reserve bull,
Ardno Royal Ascent, by Ast-
wood Nascent (imp.), was not
far behind in the final summing-
up. Champion cow, Golf Hill
Marinda 108th (another Bid-
dlecombe entry), is also a de-
scendant of Astwood Nascent.
A yearling, she forced M. M.
McEachern’s three-year-old cow,
Corie Lynn Cora Sixth, into re-
serve position.
Polled Herefords put up a
“Better take it with you , too , for gettin' off."
good showing, numbers being up
25 per cent, on 1950. The
champion bull was J. W. Wil-
liamson’s two-year-old Bland-
ford Leander, bred by Mrs. Max
Wright. Reserve bull, K. G.
Luke’s Deepfields Foley, came
from the same class as the cham-
pion. Competition here was par-
ticularly keen and, given an
ounce of luck, any one of the
other three in this class might
have changed places with the
winners. Mrs. Howard Lewis
exhibited the female champion,
Milton Tigress. This well-pro-
portioned four-year-old was
sired by Milton Emblem Fifth,
and bred by Mrs. U. M.
Hordern.
Champion and reserve bull
among the beef Shorthorns came
from C. P. Fairbairn’s Woomar-
garma Estate, Albury. The
champion (c. 3/2/’5O), sired by
Coonong Napoleon, exhibited
some of the best features of
Coonong blood. His team-mate,
Woomargarma President (barely
12 months old), is by Kirkton
Eventide. The female classes
provided an outstanding display,
judge A. Langmore describing
the junior females as among the
best exhibits he had ever seen.
The senior female champion-
ship went to Banool Bud Fourth
(s. Cruggleton Orangeman). Ful-
ham Grace, owned and ex-
hibited by Alberni Bros., Fern-
tree Gully, and sired by Lochin-
ver Gamble, occupied reserve
position.
Dual-purpose Breeds
Red Polls continue to hold
the affections of Victorian
breeders, and the visiting Eng-
lish judge, Mrs. M. L. Griffin,
considered that the parades in
Melbourne showring were well
up to English Red Poll standards.
Woodburn stud (T. E. N. Payne)
was again prominent, represen-
tatives taking the male cham-
pionship and female reserve.
The bull champion, Woodburn
Imp, came from the aged class
and was sired by Woodburn
Monitor. A much younger bull,
the runner-up, Bundaleer Beau
Supreme, sired by Bundaleer
Beauclaire, was bred at Tarana
(N.S.W.) by Perry Bros. Vic-
toria Content, the female cham-
pion, was by Woodburn Peter
Pan and bred and exhibited by
Vic. Department of Agriculture.
Reserve position was filled by
the junior female champion,
Woodburn Rosita, a two-year-
old.
Although Dairy Shorthorn
numbers were down on last year,
the breed put up a creditable ex-
hibition, some of the most
prominent Victorian studs com-
peting. The male blue ribbon
went to the aged Churchill Para-
dox 20th (imp.), a former Mel-
bourne Royal winner. He was
bred by T. A. Rose and ex-
hibited by Atkinson Bros., Swan
Hill. Male reserve went to the
Willowbank-bred Willow Park
Rosy Barrington 77th, exhibited
by J. Isor and Sons, Strathlea.
As in the case of the bulls, both
female champion and runner-up
came from the aged class, a fact
that seems to raise some doubts
as to the future. Willowbank
blood again cropped up in the
cow champion, Yuulong Mabel
Second (s. Willowbank Rosy
Barrington 16th), exhibited by E.
Selwyn Scott, Scotsburn. Kerr
Bros., Bacchus Marsh, paraded
the female reserve, Morven Ruby
68th.
Dairy Cattle
Jerseys predominated among
the dairy breeds, fielding 482
head, almost two-thirds of the
total number of dairy cattle ex-
hibited. The champion bull),
Newlands Gold Standard, a
1 nicely-set-up typical Channel
Islander, just two years old, was
exhibited by the Bittern breeder,
F. P. Myers. Standard was
sired by Wilder Parker Gold-
master and bred by P. A. Wood-
yer. The male reserve went to
Belgonia Peggy IBth’s Aim, a
five-year-old bred by the veteran
Tongala studmaster, P. J.
Maloney. This breeder was also
successful in the female cham-
pionship with his Jersey Island
importation, Popin Daisy (s.
The Right Vintage) R. C.
Broad’s Tolgarth Illusion (imp.
N.Z.), an aged cow by Croydon
Surmise Magnet, was in reserve.
This cow also filled a similar
position in 1949. The judge, J.
Smith, pointed out what he con-
sidered to be the greatest defects
among the Jerseys—a tendency
towards pinched udders and a
lightness in quarters.
There was a drop of 10 per
cent, in A.I.S. exhibits, and the
standard generally was not up to
that of previous years. As with
the Dairy Shorthorns, both male
and female winners came from
the mature and aged classes,
J. M. Newton and Son’s seven-
year-old Parkview Baldwin, by
Parkview Baritone, took the male
championship, with B. and Miss
Y. Sedgwick’s Myrtleville
Premier, from the same class, in
reserve. R. T. Hempel’s Corn-
ville Rosemary, another of Park-
view blood, notched the cow
championship, followed by J. L.
Wilson’s aged Veresdale Lulu.
Glengowrie blood dominated
the Ayrshires, both senior males
and one of the females deriving
from that source. Results were
somewhat disappointing in spite
of the fact that the winners were
magnificent animals ; here again
the obvious tail among the
younger exhibits raise doubts of
the future. Numbers were down
on last year, 213 Ayrshires being
on show against 263 in 1950.
Glengowrie Baron Again re-
peated his success of last year,
taking the male blue ribbon and
further extending the already
formidable string of victories by
the veteran South Australian
breeder, A. Facey. Reserve went
to Glengowrie Flash Baron
Second, exhibited by G. G.
Foletta and Sons, Buxton (Vic.).
This bull was also bred by Facey.
The champion cow, Valley
Promise Third, bred and exl-
- by C. H. Hawkins and
Son, Tatura, is an 11-year-old
sired by Glengowrie Blandford.
The same exhibitor took the
female reserve with the aged
cow, Mona Valley Third.
Friesians were up 25 per cent,
on last year’s entries, providing
further evidence of the interest
taken in the black-and-whites
which, in addition to their milk-
producing ability, have been
prominent in official herd tests in
recent years, proving that they
can produce quality as well as
bulk. The champion bull,
Ravenswood Percy, bred by J.
Wills and Son, was exhibited by
R. A. Smith, Bundoora. Both
champion bull and the reserve,
Hawksmoor Inka Patch (R. W.
Smith and Son), derive from Vic-
torian blood. The cow cham-
pion of the breed, Galaview
Margaret, was bred and ex-
hibited by J. V. Platfuss, Finley
(N.S.W.). The same breeder was
successful also in reserve with
Galaview Rejoy. Both females
own to the one sire—Galaview
Freedom.
Guernseys made an attractive
showing, indicated by the atten-
tive ringside crowd present
during most of the day. A nice
four - year - old bull, Moongi
Morning Star, took the male
championship. This bull, bred by
E. E. Cooke, and exhibited by
R. G. Watson, Frankston, was
sired by Moongi Brightest Boy,
and goes back to May Rose’s
Laddie, a Melbourne champion
of former years. In reserve was
another four-year-old, Dr. F. G.
Stephens’s Vermont Ideal, bred
by the exhibitor. Champion
female Guernsey, Bay View
Daisy, was exhibited by E. J.
Harding, a successful competitor
in three other female classes.
The well-known studmaster,
A. E. T. Payne, Lilydale, gained
six first awards in the female
section and the female reserve
with his cow, Yarraview Rouen,
by the imported bull, Sun Rose
of Maple Lodge.
Saving Garden Space.
“Koo-wee-Rup”: In my half-
acre garden plot I’ve introduced
a system of intercropping which
not only saves soil wastage, but
time and labor as well. A few
examples: Broad-beans may be
sown in the early potato rows,
putting one broad-bean between
every two tubers in each row,
not between the rows. The
beans get away much quicker
than the potatoes and, because
of their habit of growth, will
stand reasonably clear of the


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
NATIONAL ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL", BRISBANE
’JACKSON* 1
o'suujvax
PTCW . y
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
ELECTRIC USAGES
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ĵ
. . but he
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKREKE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARR ERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
46/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
OBBEB FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 10/10/’5l
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
ĵ
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
TREES TUMBLE TO
Mobilco
OHV^hr
v-
fS
V
?Kv
fetts!
Rips/
Cross-Cuts/
-a
ideal in all types of country, Mobilco
Model B is so well balanced and light
it is moved and handled easily by
one man. Shaft drive does away
with dangerous belts. Indexing device
lets you adjust the blade in full
circle to fell from either side, high
or at ground level, or to scarf at an
angle. Blade can be level though
wheels are on uneven ground. Once tree is felled,
a twist of the indexing lever turns blade for cross-
cutting, ripping or trimming tops.
Powered by 7 b.h.p. British air-cooled petrol engine,
mounted on pneumatic tyred ball bearing wheels.
Working parts machined to an accuracy formerly
unknown for this type of equipment.
SAW BENCH ATTACHMENT AVAILABLE
This inexpensive attachment
allows you to turn tops into val-
uable firewood right on the job.
A drag saw attachment for big
timber is also available.
n
also WOOD SPLITTERS, TRAILER SAW BENCHES
BILCO
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Cent. 4799 ;
after hours, WF 3118. Telegrams : “ Mobilco ”, Melbourne.
MC 1224
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
1# ' ' : "t
wgpt
r " - -•>- ■
■ Ji'',... • ,
_». . _ JWw.-i'-’SS
iass*
<••■'*
* *>♦>*>
«•
IP
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING.
ETC
potato haulm. This will pro-
vide a fair crop of beans without
reserving a special bed for them.
Cabbage, lettuce or French
beans may similarly be grown
on the sides of the ridges formed
by digging out the celery
trenches. Don’t grow them on
the ridges themselves ; they get
too dry.
The ground between peas can
be turned to good account by
sowing a row of carrots, parsnips
or turnips between the early
crops, or summer cabbage and
cauliflower between the later
crops. Summer spinach is a
good stopgap between rows of
broad-beans. In fact, there is
no vegetable which can’t be thus
intercropped, provided good
judgment is applied.
Strictly the practice is “succes-
sional” cropping, in which the
growing of a quick-maturing
crop between a principal crop
uses all the ground available, and
practically doubles the yield
over any given period.
A good way to grow a large
quantity of runner beans with-
out space wastage is to set two
rows of 9ft. poles Bft. apart
with a row of 4ft. poles equi-
distant between them. The
shorter poles are connected by
twine to the taller ones. Two
sets can thus be grown, the twine
enabling those at the short poles
to straddle overhead. Lettuce
or turnips can be sown between
the rows.
Poultry and Milk.
“Hortus”: Milk has about
twice the protein value of any
ordinary sample of average-
quality meatmeal for fowls.
What’s more, it contains every-
thing necessary for growth-pro-
motion, egg-production, fertility
and hatchability of eggs. These
facts came out in a lecture by
poultry expert V. Brann at
Rooty Hill (N.S.W.).
Even with butterfat content
removed, 6gal. of skim-milk per
day per 1000 head of poultry
had protein equivalent of 61b.
of meatmeal. A feeding scheme
was suggested as follows: Day-
old chicks are given dry mash,
chicken mixture and full cream.
Greenfeed is added after one
week. When three weeks old,
chicks are fed on skim-milk,
7gal. per 1000 head per day.
This ration is given until birds
are five months old. For green-
feed, crops of clover, oats,
maize and Japanese millet are
grown. These are chaffed and
mixed in wet mash for morning
meal. Dry feed is available all
day in hoppers.
Milk in the food ration is a
control measure for coccidiosis.
Result of the milk in feed is
that four to five months’ old
crossbred pullets are as advanced
as most birds of similar age and
breed at six or seven months.
Hence small-scale dairying and
poultry-raising make a sound
combination.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”; Early October is
a good time to make the first
of successive sowings of dwarf
beans in Victoria. If in high
country defer planting until late
in the month. Beans require a
rising soil temperature to ensure
steady growth. Too cool con-
ditions result in stunted plants,
poor settings and twisted pods.
Heavy soils need some organic
manure lightly forked into the
top-soil to improve friability. In
all soils beans should be planted
shallower than peas—about 2in.
in light soils and lin. in heavier
soils.
“Billjim”: Oaten hay has
many advantages over grass hay,
not the least of which are the
nutrients which help balance the
ration and reduce the incidence
of milk-fever and bloat in cows.
Aim to conserve two tons of
hay for each cow. Give the
cows as much hay as they can
eat without waste.
“Sundowner”: Keep roosters
away from layers. Otherwise
eggs, which keep better infertile,
will be fertilised and loss will
result. A fertilised egg, on being
taken into the house, will go
rotten when cold conditions kill
the life germ.
“W. Court”: Green panic-
grass is proving its worth as a
pasture on the C.Q. coast. It
is a perennial, and one of the
quickest grasses to make good
growth in the spring. It makes
most headway during the warm
weather, and is just as good for
grazing pigs as for cattle. It is
not so particular as to soil, but
perhaps it does best on the
lighter, well-drained soil types.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Based on the cyclical theory, today (Oct. 10) should
see rain develop in s.-e. Queensland and on N.S.W. northern
rivers. Rains should now appear on the Queensland North
Coast and the Northern Territory. About this date there
should begin a slight decline in the rainy tendencies in
southern parts of the continent.
The recent rains confirmed the cycle, with its curious
distribution of 1880—heavy rains on the N.S.W. coast and
lighter rains in Queensland. With the weak sunspots, this
was slightly more pronounced than in 1880.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
EM 14
FONDE EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
■
«#■
ONLY THE
ELDEST SON
COULD MARRY
The Nambutiri Brahmins of Malabar
practised the strange custom of “Henogamy
All mankind, from highly civilised westerner down to the
most primitive savage, has rules governing who may marry
whom. While our rules are very flexible, being governed solely
by eugenics spiced to a greater or lesser degree by racial
prejudice, the more primitive the race, the more complicated
the rules of marriage often become.
The strangest, and, at first sight, the most unfair system
is henogamy, which has nothing to do with fowls. This custom
permits one, and only one, member of a family to marry, or
alternatively one member may be forced to marry under certain
rules which do not apply to the others.
For instance, the Nambutiri Brahmins of Malabar insist
that only the eldest son may marry, for once a man is father
to a son he is free of his debt to his ancestors. Because of
this the eldest son alone is worthy to receive his father’s estate,
and therefore he alone should be entitled to marry. For the
first-born son is regarded as the fulfilment of divine law . . .
all succeeding sons are merely the offspring of desire.
The son, on reaching manhood, is naturally anxious to
have a male heir so that he, in turn, can cast his “debts” (or
sins) on to his son. For this reason, plus the understandable
surplus of women, the marriageable sons often have several
wives. Incidentally, should an eldest son die without begetting
a male offspring, the “debts” reverted to the father, who then
conveniently transferred them on to the shoulders of the second
eldest . . . and so on!
What about the younger sons? They, poor things, can take
their pick of “inferior” Nayar women, but are excluded from
their father’s inheritance!
Behind this rigid, religious aspect of henogamy lies its
down-to-earth and practical side. By recognising only the
offspring of the eldest son of each generation the family
property is kept intact down through the years and not dissi-
pated among countless descendants, as would be the case if
the system were not enforced.
Modern civilisation requires no such cast-iron doctrine.
Thanks to Life Assurance every wise father can provide for
the financial security of all his children until they are able to
provide for themselves, should he die at an early age, while at
the same time providing security for his own retirement. Lite
Assurance is a unique form of saving plus security, and thanks
to the healthy competition between our free and independent
Life Offices, there arc policies to suit every need and every
purse.
know what I’m doing. Last
Sunday I burnt the potatoes to a
cinder, and he was that cranky
he wouldn’t eat them. Not
one.”
ONE day the father set out
about half-past ten, zoom-
ing down the hill to the creek
like a liberated hornet. Lip the
hill, past the Showground he
sailed, sniffing at the fresh
mountain air with carefree de-
light and looking about him at
the undulating paddocks of lush
paspalum with an air almost of
proprietorship, when the bike
skidded in the roadside metal,
and he was catapulted over the
handlebars. The momentum
carried him over the gravel as
though he were on a slippery-
slide, and by the time he came
to a stop there was not a shred
of cloth left to protect his pos-
terior.
Sitting motionless on the
gravel he apprehended this
calamity with horror, and after
a brief exploration muttered
grimly “Well, that’s torn it.”
Gone was the boyish delight with
which he had greeted all his
other accidents, and now he
looked furtively up and down
the road, deciding at last that it
would be safe to move on to
the grass. So, groaning a little,
he got to his feet and hauled
the bike off the road. The noise
of sulky wheels clattering the
junks of blue-metal felled him
to the ground precipitately. He
was sitting in a rigidly upright
position when the Misses Jenni-
ston came around the bend.
They pulled up when they
came abreast of him, which was
really an outstanding honor, as
they were on their way to
church, and unless they were ill
they were always in their pew
with the hymns marked in their
books and their hassocks pre-
cisely arranged at least five
minutes before the final bell
pealed.
“Oh, dear, Mr. Venables!
Now you’ve had another —er —
buster, don’t your children call
it? Dear me. Have you hurt
yourself?”
The elder Miss Jenniston
leaned over the arm-rest to peer
down at him.
The father managed a grimac-
ing smile as an ant did a steady
job of exploration. “I’m having
a spell,” he said hoarsely. He
cleared his throat. “Just a spell,
that’s all. Just admiring the
view. Beautiful morning, isn’t
it? There ...”
“Now, now, Mr. Venables,
you’ve had a —buster,” insisted
the lady archly. Her sister
chittered a little, and craned her
neck extensively so that she
could look behind her sister at
the curiously-upright attitude of
Mr. Venables. “You’re a bad,
wicked, naughty man,” con-
tinued the elder. “The way you
keep on riding that bike. Isn't
he, Sophia? We feel so sorry
for your little wife. Sophia and
I were just saying last night that
motor-bikes are a positive
menace. And now it’s quite a
coincidence, isn’t it? This morn-
ing we find you hurt.” She
handed the reins to her sister and
prepared to descend from the
sulky.
“No, no, I assure you,” cried
the distressed father, flushing
crimson. “There’s absolutely
nothing wrong. Nothing at all.”
An inspiration flashed into his
mind, “As a matter of fact 1 was
just going to have a smoke.” He
pulled out his pipe and tobacco,
carefully so that he would not
disturb what remained of his
garments. “I’ll be on my way
as soon as I’ve had a smoke. I
find I can’t manage to have one
while I’m riding.”
Miss Jenniston, one foot arch-
ing towards the foot-rest, paused
indecisively. “Wel-1-1, if you’re
quite sure you’re all right.”
“Quite sure. Quite. Nothing
wrong. Nothing at all,” stated
the father, with such emphasis
that the marauding ant was
squashed.
1 “Wel-1-1,” wavered Miss Jen-
niston, drawing her foot back
and placing the rug over her
knees again. “I really don’t know
whether to believe you.” Then
as she raised the reins she smiled
and said “You know you really
are a naughty man. You should
be sitting in church, really you
should. I always say if our
leading citizens don’t show an
example, how are we to expect
the children to grow up the way
they should. I am sure the good
Lord did not intend motor-bikes
to be used on a Sunday. Qf
course that is if he intended them
to be used at all. Well, goodbye.
And although you are naughty,
I do hope you enjoy your ride
and get home safely to your dear
family.”
The father was so shaken by
this episode that he sat in a coma
for at least ten minutes. He was
just about to stand up when
another vehicle came round the
bend. It was the Smithers
family on their way to church.
“Curse it,” he muttered. “The
whole countryside’s on the
move.”
FOR the next half-hour he sat
on the grass in as much
comfort as a pole-sitter clings
to his pole, resisting all attempts
to coax him from his perch. At
each encounter his depression
grew, so that at last it was a
trying ordeal to summon a smile
and a jocular response to his
defence when questions were
rained relentlessly on him from
buggies and sulkies. It became
increasingly difficult to assure
the passengers that he was merely
having a rest, enjoying a smoke,
admiring the scenery.
At last, hope flickered in his
disconsolate eyes when he saw
Jim Coniston approach on his
mare. He noted at once that
Jim was wearing a dustcoat, and
he hailed him with heartfelt
enthusiasm. “Just the man I’m
looking for,” he cried. No
castaway could have hailed a
ship more thankfully.
Twenty minutes later he was
home again, clad in the overcoat.
At first the children were too
astonished at his early return to
cry out their usual greetings, but
it was not long before they
became curious about the dust-
coat. Under the house they
gathered around him as he
heaved the bike on to its rests.
“Did you find that coat,
Daddy?” asked Pen slowly. “It’s
very dirty.”
“It’s got blood on it,”
announced Jane with glee.
“Oh, Daddy, have you hurt
yourself really this time?”
Marian demanded.
“Out of my way, while I fix
this blasted bike,” yelled the
father, who, now he was safely
returned to the sanctuary of his
attentive family, felt that he
could relax. He started by
kicking the back wheel of the
erring bike. “Stupid blasted
thing,” he muttered as he limped
towards the back steps. “A
man’s a fool to ride a contrap-
tion like that when it can’t keep
to the road.”
As Marian had to shepherd
Jane up the back steps (there
were twenty-three of them), and
Pen was as usual in no hurry,
the father was safely closeted in
the bedroom by the time they
pattered into the kitchen.
“Where’s Daddy?” cried
Marian apprehensively. She
felt that something was very
wrong indeed.
The mother came hurrying
from the bedroom. “Your father
is quite all right, darlings,” she
said. There was a very happy
look softening her face, and her
eyes were intensely blue.
A dreadful bellow came from
the bedroom. “All right, am I?
I certainly am not all right! I
won’t be able to sit down for a
month. Hurry up with that
water.”
The mother began to smile.
“Oh, Mummy,” chided Marian
in a whisper. “If he’s hurt why
do you look so pleased?” A
memory of a story she had read
made her say “You look just
like a cat licking its chops after
cream.”
“He’s not really hurt,” assured
the mother hastily in a low voice
as she assembled the first-aid
equipment. “It’s just his dignity,
I think. And any rate it’ll prob-
ably stop him riding that silly
bike.”
A FEW days later she said to
Marian with immense satis-
faction “There you are. What
did I tell you? He’s sold the
bike.”
“But why?” cried Marian.
“Oh, that’s dreadful. He loved
the bike. Why did he sell it? He
just had another buster. That’s
nothing. He’s had lots of
busters.” .• •
“All he hurt was his old
trousers,” cried Jane. “And
there’s plenty more of those at
Halliday’s.” "
“And he sat down ail the
time, too,” said Marian. “No
one saw him. Except of
course ...”
“And he’s told everyone,”
interrupted the mother, her eyes
twinkling. She was very pleased
about the whole affair. She had
been careful to tell the father
all the Miss Jennistons had said
when they discovered why he had
been sitting on the roadside, and
just to make sure of his dis-
comfort she had added a little
for good measure.
The children gathered around
her, staring up at her in per-
plexity. They were mystified by
their father’s capitulation and
horrified by their mother’s
elation. Faced by their remorse-
less eyes she knew a moment of
discomfort. She tried to reassure
them. “He really only hurt his
dignity,” she began.
“It wasn’t his dignity, it was
his botty,” Jane said seriously.
The mother tried again. “He’s
really too old to be riding a bike.
He’s —he’s —he should be too
grown-up to ride a bike when
he’s got four little children.
Bikes are dangerous, besides.
So he’s just decided they are and
he won’t ride it any more.”
Jane said “Bill Furness lost all
his trousers when he was playing
football, and he hasn’t given, up
football. He said he didn’t mind
giving the old maids a thrill.
What does ...” .
“Jane! Oh, that dreadful
man! Don’t you let me hear you
repeating ever again anything
that Bill Furness says,” cried the
mother, twisting her lips in dis-
taste. “Don’t you dare compare
your father with Bill Furness!
Your father is a gentleman!
Now get out of the kitchen.
He’s in a very bad mood now
he’s sold the bike, and if tea isn t
ready on time he’ll be worse.”
"T HE children went under the
1 house. They were surprised
to find their father standing by
the copper. He was staring at
the ground ; but when they came
to his side he asked in a vag«e
voice, “What are you stinkers
doing here?” as though there was
nothing unusual in his pre-
occupation.
“What are you looking at,
Daddy?” asked Marian
earnestly. They all gazed up at
him.
“Nothing. I wasn’t looking at
anything,” he said, his eyes going
back to a serrated patch of grease
darkening the red soil.
Jane’s quick eyes focused on
the grease, “Ask him why he s
looking at the grease,” she
whispered to Marian.
“Why are you looking at the
grease?” asked Marian, slipping
her hand into his.
“I was just thinking,” he said
dreamily.
“What about?” demanded
Jane, his docility giving her con-
fidence. She was always a little
frightened of her father. “Were
you thinking about the bike?
“The bike? What! No, of
course not. I was just thinking.
They all stood around the
grease spot, staring at it. At last,
sighing prodigiously, the father
said: “I suppose it’s just as well
it’s gone. Anyhow, it was a cow
of a thing. It wouldn’t stick to
the road.”


CINi
BWKET
j&vrtce
/m
j
ĵ
j
One of a Series
Successful farming with BUUDOuS
j
j
j
ĵ
Mr. Warrick at the wheel of his 12-year-old cost-
cutting Bulldog. On this seat he once won a dis-
trict ploughing championship for the straightest
strike-out. At Right: Son Allan scarifying.
UT OWN a kerosene trac-
-1 tor as well as my
Bulldog,” tells Mr Warrick,
“and some years back I
was working them both side
by side in the same pad-
dock. I was pulling a 17
row combine with the Bull-
dog, and the Kero tractor
was hauling a 13 row com-
bine. Furthermore, the
Kero tractor had the addi-
tional advantage of rubber
tyres, as the Bulldog was
on ‘steels’ at the time.
fa proved smop mm
ffero Tractor Cosh*
' Reports ALF WARRICK
of VECTIS EAST. VIC.
“When we measured the two
tanks at the end of the day,
they had used the same amount
of fuel, and the Bulldog had
covered 30 acres to the kero
tractor’s 21. So, with fuel
costs at that time 6V 2 d. for
crude oil and 10y 2 d. for kero-
sene, my Bulldog Crude Oil
Tractor had completed the day
for just half the cost.
With 400 acres of wheat every
year, besides extensive dam
sinking and contract work, Mr.
Warrick must have saved a pile
of money in 12 years of Bull-
dog ownership not only in
fuel, but in freedom from
breakdowns and costly repairs.
“My only real expense in 12
years of hard work has been 2
crankshaft bearings,” says Mr.
Warrick.
Pulling such implements as
a 19 tyne scarifier, 6 furrow
plough and 10ft. harvester calls
for long tiring hours in the
driving seat. But by compari-
son with kerosene tractors Mr.
Warrick finds: “It’s definitely
more comfortable driving a
Bulldog than a kerosene trac-
tor!” With tons of work still
left in his 12-year-old Bulldog,
Mr. Warrick comments: “If I
ever had to buy another trac-
tor, I wouldn’t give any other
make a thought.”
Unique Portable Bulk Silo
The Moore Brothers of Beulah West, Vic., farm 3300
acres and have built Australia’s largest portable bulk
hopper. Mounted on aircraft wheels, it holds no less
than 300 bags of grain!
The wheat is augered to the large hopper via a small
hopper attached to the header. The truck is then loaded
by auger from the big hopper, and if necessary, from
the small hopper too (see above). Mr Ray Moore reports
that this unique equipment increases harvesting pro-
duction up to 57%! A Bulldog owner of long standing,
Mr Moore says: “ We’ve had a great run with Bulldogs.”
fOoftto
mm
z »
«I N
dustr,
ra lasi an
K. I, °m
Wholesale
TRACTo* e
““•’••aP2^NY SALl:S
v icu
'orian
INTERSTATE REPRESENTATIVES:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Kelly & Lewis Ltd., 349 William St., Perth, W.A.
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27 Currie St., Adelaide, S.A.
K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart, Tas.
K.L. Tractor Sales Company, 121 Brunswick St., The Valley, Brisbane, Q’land.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To bmy books by Joyce Cary other
than The Horse’s Mouth, Herself
Surprised and To Be a Pilgrim.—
5214.
Words of poem by Henry Lawson
written towards the end of his life
about a holiday spent in Gundagai
(N.S.W.).—5215.
Words of poem “The Import
Lunacy” by Randolph Bedford. —
5213.
To buy copy of For the Term of
His Natural Life by Marcus Clarke
and Trooper Peter Halkett of
Mashonaland. —5212.
To. buy copy of English translation
of L’Assommoir by Emile Zola. —
5207.
Name of agent in Australia for the
“Petromax-Rapid” petrol hanging-
lamp.—5208.
Tp buy copy of Up Front by Bill
Mauldin; also The Naked and the
Dead. —5210.
To buy second-hand copy of The
Disenchanted by Budd Schulberg. —
5211.
Words of verse beginning:—
"Let’s take a walk to Allman’s,” said
The hard-faced man from Yass.
‘For it’s there they’re doin’ tallies, and
It's there they’re doin’ brass.”
—5209.
Information Sought.
Where and when was Ambrose
Palmer born, and when did he begin
boxing? From whom did Palmer win
the three Australian championships he
was said to be in possession of when
he retired ?
Ambrose Palmer was born at
Footscray (Vic.), on September 19,
1911. Began boxing as an amateur
in 1927, when he won the Victorian
welterweight championship. Won pro-
fessional middleweight title from Jack
Haines in 1930 and lost it to Fred
Henneberry in 1932. Palmer and Ron
Richards each claimed the light-
heavyweight title, but neither was
officially recognised as champion of
that division. Palmer beat Jack
O’Malley for the heavyweight cham-
pionship on February 6, 1932, and
held that title until he retired iin
1938.
* * * *
A few details concerning the Nan-
keen night-heron?
The attractive Nankeen night-heron
( Nycticorax Caledonians) is fairly
plentiful throughout Australia and
Tasmania, and occurs also in the
Malay Archipelago and New Cale-
donia. The adults are of a beautiful
cinnamon color, with a black patch
on the head and two long, narrow,
pure-white plumes on the back of the
neck; the young birds retain their
immature plumage (mottled-brown
and dirty-white) for two years. These
birds are mainly nocturnal in their
habits, and spend the day roosting
in the trees, so that they often escape
observation.
* ♦ * ♦
Are bloodwoods easily distinguish-
able from other timbers ? What color
is the timber, and what are the prin-
cipal species of bloodwood?
Bloodwoods are easy to identify;
they possess a very open, coarse
grain, much impregnated with kino
in veins known as gum-veins. They
vary in color from deep red (£.
corymbose) through lighter red (£.
intermedia) and pale (£. calophylla)
to almost white (E. exinia) ; all
are durable in the ground, tough,
hard and heavy. The principal
species besides those mentioned are
carbeen (£. tesselaris), £. trachypholia,
E. terminalis and £. albergiana.
■ * * *
How did Rugby League football
originate in Sydney?
Originated in 1907 from a dispute
within the Rugby Union as to the
inadequacy of the allowance for out-
of-pocket expenses. Allowances at
the time to players on tour was 3s.
a day; several popular players de-
manded more, and even suggested
that payment should be made for
matches in the hometown. This
raised the question of professionalism,
md a Rugby League was formed,
ivhich agreed to pay its players 10s.
per day and 7s. 6d. for out-of-pocket
expenses. The Union authorities
thereupon declared all League players
professionals, and expelled them.
♦ * * *
Brief record of the last West Indies
cricket team to visit Australia; also
results of the Tests?
. The West Indians were in Australia
in the season 1930-31. The team was
led by G. C. Grant, and vice-captain
was L. S. Birkett. It included Con-
stantine, whom some critics regarded
as the greatest all-rounder of the day,
and ; Headley, who was then among
me world’s best batsmen. In all they
played 16 matches. Fourteen were
first-class games, of which they won
four, lost eight and drew two. Of
the other two they won one and
drew one. Results of the Tests:
Ist, W. 1., 296, 249; Aus., 376, 0-172
Aus. by 10 wickets. 2nd, Aus., 369;
W. 1., 107, 90 —Aus. by innings and
172 runs. 3rd, Aus., 558; W. 1., 193,
148 —Aus. by innings and 217 runs.
4th, W. 1., 99, 107; Aus., 8-328
(closed) —Aus. by innings and 122
runs. sth, W. 1., 6-350 (closed), 5-124
(closed); Aus., 224, 220—-W.I. by 30
runs.
Brief Answers.
B.O’B.: Name This Child by Eric
Partridge, published by Hamish
Hamilton, London. Can be ordered
through any Sydney bookseller....
H.M.F.: Sheep Dogs—Their Breed-
ing, Maintenance and Training by R.
B. Kelley; it can be purchased from
the Grahame Book Company or
Angus and Robertson, both of Sydney.
R.M.B.: It is suggested that the
animal be well rubbed down after
riding and an application of methy-
lated spirits be applied to the sore
area. This might be followed by
daubing with white lotion. Appro-
priate management, such as the use
of well-fitting saddles, saddle blanket
and girth, neither too loose nor too
tight, will help in the treatment of
gail P.T.L.: T. S. Eliot’s “Murder
j n tbe Cathedral” was produced by
tbe Genesians. Honorary secretary
of the Qenesians is Miss E. Larkin,
9 Marian-street, Killara (N.5.W.)....
W .K.: Write Australian Pyrethrum
Research, 8 Laurel-street, Ashburton
south, Victoria H.S.F.: Tom
Ugly’s Point (N.S.W.) is said to have
been named after a one -legged man
whom the natives called Tom Woogly,
which is believed to mean one-legged.
There is no very dear evidence on
this matter... .C.E.: In the log book
of the Sirius under date February 11,
1788, it is written: “Sent an officer
and party of men to the Garden Island
to clear it for the ship’s company.”
....G.R.: Write the Australian Wine
Producers’ Association of N. S.
Wales, 350 George-street, Sydney
E.G.A.: Finely-woven tape of this
nature is not made in Australia, but
is imported. Information as to manu-
facturers overseas could be obtained
from the British Trade Commissioner,
Prudential Building, 39 Martin-place,
Sydney J.L.K.: While any jute
bags or hessian could be used, chaff-
bags or loose-woven hessian, prefer-
ably “12i0z.,” would be best, as the
open texture permits the wash to
penetrate and cover the bags or
hessian and act as a preserving
agent. The bags or hessian must
be clean, free from oil, grease and
dust. Bags should, of course, be
opened out to single thickness
C.R.S.: Write the Folio Society, 3rd
floor, Collins House, 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne.... W.L.F.: Have
been unable to trace the alleged state-
ment, and feel certain that it was
never made.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of comi-
mumcations insufficiently stamped,
the MS No liability is undertaken
xt contributions voluntarily sub-
milled; and no MS. will be returned
u H es fj l ? C ff? pa ,i, y ' rJf S '
should be addressed to the Editor.
H.L.: It would be better for all
if you wrote that sort of thing in
invisible ink and then posted it to
Iceland... .J.McP. : Its only claim
to originality is its incoherence
S.D.: We began to wonder whether
it was a story written in Latin with
English quotations or vice versa
P.R.A.: It’s a shame that such things
should happen to “one so young and
beautiful” H.8.W.: The plot was
pensioned-off about the time Billy
Hughes first entered Parliament
F.S.: The office-boy requests that you
make your mysteries a little more
mysterious... .N.N.: “A Visit to a
Two-up School” was declared not
authentic by the Religious Editor....
K.W.: You’ve an unhappy knack of
selecting the hoariest of p10t5....
S.McG.: Not very interested in Red
Indian stories.... W.J.J.: Nor in an
account of your local village-idiot....
G. 8.: Even if it were funny it would
stfll be off our beat... .C.McL.:
Bring the matter up at the next meet-
ing 0 f the sewing circle... .P.H.:
Read no further than the page which
revealed that the old skinflint who
held the mort B a B e had a handsome,
phi i an thropic young son... .P.T.R.:
We’ve suffered too many of those
dandy newchums who can tame the
wildest outlaw and, of course, win
any gir r s heart... .8.M.: That
“Bush Wedding” has been done and
done and done G.D.A.: “Please
find enclosed one rather tame short
story.” Rather inclined to agree with
you C.F.: Next time you hear an
abo. say “Yassar, Ah was born out
neah Tibooburra,” catch him and
take him to a museum.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4gd. per line; all others 2«d. per line.
The Dairyfarmer
The butter shortage in N. S. Wales
and Queensland has brought out all the
old charges against the dairyman —his in-
efficiency, his improvidence, his sweating
of workers and so forth
Australian dairyfarmers, like most other
Australians, are improvident. In par-
ticular, they don’t conserve fodder as
they should. But as they can’t get enough
fencing to grow the fodder, machinery
to harvest it, materials for barns, hay-
sheds or silos to store it, or labor to do
the work, let alone money to pay for these
things if they were available, they have
some excuse. Much more than the man
who spends most of his income on beer,
tobacco and horses, and then demands
that the Government take over his respon-
sibilities when he or out of work.
The sweating charge may have been
true once —though the farmer and his
family have generally been sweated, in
their turn, by the consumers —but it is
not so today. Farmers now pay their
employees seven or eight pounds a week,
with comfortable quarters, days off and
other amenities.
Take a nominal gross wage of £7 10s.
for a single man. Out of that the em-
ployer may deduct 255. for full board and
lodging (30s. if washing, ironing and
mending are done for him). Tax stamps
take about 55., leaving £6 a week. If
there is anyone about nowadays who will
work for less than £6 net, apart from a
few oldsters who realise their usefulness
is limited and are too proud to take the
pension, I have yet to meet him. A
junior gets less, but only £1 may be taken
from him for board, lodging and laundry,
though most youths eat more than their
elders. A married man keeps more of his
wages ; a maximum of ss. may be charged
for rent and Is. for firewood. Many
farmers supply their married men with
meat and milk, usually at concession
rates, for the simple reason that there is
no other source of supply available.
Actually those deductions have been
unchanged for about 25 years, and bear
not the slightest relation to present-day
prices. Where in the cities could a man
get board and lodging for 255, or rent
even a decent outhouse for 55.? A wage
of £7 10s. a week for a married farm-
hand is equivalent to £lO 10s. for a city
breadwinner in all respects but one —he
must work much longer hours for it. But
the farmer is not to blame for that.
It is becoming quite the thing now for
wives and children over 14 to take part-
time employment to help the family
budget. In that practice the farm worker
has a decided advantage. His family are
working with him, usually in sight of
home,, and have all their meals at home
together. So the practice has not the
disruptive effect on home life that it has
in the cities.
All in all, the farmhand’s life today is
not a bad one, and it will become .rela-
tively better as the necessities of life dis-
appear from the cities. By shedding
crocodile tears over him, the politicians
are diverting attention from the real
problem, which is that farmers, and not
only dairyfarmers, are becoming fed-up.
Unless they get payable prices for their
produce and better supplies of their
capital requirements, and unless Govern-
ments and mushroom secondary industries
stop vying with each other in attracting
labor to the cities, Australia is in for her
hungriest time since the days of Governor
Phillip.— Magnoon (Q.).
Hydro Power-stations
“Sapper” (B. 26/9/’5l) contrasts the
289,000 kilowatt planned capacity for the
Kiewa (Vic.) hydroelectric power scheme
with the 500,000 kilowatts now used. The
first figure, however, will not be achieved
until the scheme is finished, at which time
it is estimated Victoria’s demand for
electric power will have quadrupled
itself. Kiewa at its best will still provide
the State with only one-tenth its need
despite its £50,520,000 cost.
Overseas experts who have visited
Australia have been most critical of the
hydro works on the mainland. Most
admit that it is a success in Tasmania,
due to the greater rainfall and bigger
catchment areas. But even Tasmania
suffered electricity restrictions this winter
because of lack of water.
Many years ago I roamed the Bogong
high plains where the S.E.C. intends
building tw r o huge dams to collect water.
There had been a drought, and all round
there was dust and dry stubble a
contrast to the good years when it is
damp underfoot and trickles run all
the year round.
Normally in winter Kiewa has been able
to give the necessary pinch of power to
see the S.E.C. over its peak periods. But
had there been a dry summer it would
have been useless. And as the industrial
demands of Victoria grow and the need
for power becomes greater, the demand on
Kiewa too will be greater unless more
work is done in the Latrobe Valley.
After a dry winter and a hot
summer over the catchment area there
will be water around, but not in the
huge quantities needed for regular
power generation.
An electrical generator’s worth is
measured by the amount of money put
into it compared with the power de-
livered. Thermal power-stations would
be leaps ahead of their little brothers up
at Kiewa under that comparison. They
would be cheaper, but most important
of all they would be there every minute
of the day and not dependent on rain.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Communists and Labor
The Bulletin is right in describing
the A.C.T.U. as the “boneless wonder”
—its side-stepping of the incentive wage
question and “fie, fie” reproach of the
Communists are contemptible. The most
“You must be neat , Arthur —you never know who you might come across."
deplorable aspect of this trade-union
executive, however, is that it must be
taken to reflect the views and attitude
of the organised workers in the Common-
wealth today.
It seems that the Australian, whose
physical courage has been proved in two
world wars, to say nothing of hard fight-
ing in athletic fields, is a moral coward, or
mentally lazy, or a mixture of both. It
w r as not always so. The early Labor
party was an honorable and courageous
body, led by men who scorned to truckle ;
the Australian worker then took pride
in his job, was highly efficient and had
no time for the loafer.
When did the rot set in, and why?
Manual workers 40 or 50 years ago were
not well paid compared with the wages
of today ; their hours were long and the
boss held and wielded the big stick.
There were strikes ; many of them —most
of them —justifiable ; there was no stream-
lined arbitration and conciliation
machinery in those days.
With the very substantial improvement
in the material conditions of the people
there has been a marked deterioration in
ethical standards. There is little con-
sideration of service; less sense of obli-
gation to the country which offers so
much. The predominant idea seems to
be to loot while the going is good, and
to hell with the future. The Govern-
ment is regarded not so much as a bene-
volent parent as the holder of a deep
purse from which benefits can be extorted.
Mendicancy is in the natural order of
things.
A percentage of Australian workers
does still take pride in doing a good job
and recognises its obligation to the
employer and the community generally.
It abhors the Communist wrecker who
will hold up urgently-needed supplies by
a demand for cream-puffs with afternoon-
tea and the substitution of pink soap for
blue.
But the non-Communist element does
little or nothing to curb the malign influ-
ence of Reds who have wormed their
way into control of the key-industry
unions. In the political wing leaders who
oppose the Menzies Government’s policy
to outlaw the Communist party declare
that there is sufficient power in the legis-
lation on the statute books ; but in the
rext breath they avow their implacable
hostility to the Crimes Act; the only
legislation which can deal in any way
and inadequately at that —with subversive,
anti-social acts. Knowing they lie, they
say that Menzies is out to destroy trade-
unionism—surely an indication of the
contempt they have for the intelligence
of the average elector.
Until the decent trade-unionists whip
up sufficient courage to come into the
open in opposing Red executives and
condemning loafing and other mal-
practices which lie at the root of infla-
tion the evils will continue and grow.
Where they can act anonymously the
great body of workers express emphati-
cally their opinion of Communism —in
both Federal and State elections nearly
all of the Kremlin nominees lose their
deposits. Yet there is not enough guts
in the movement to boot out the foreign-
born traitors who oppose anything
designed to improve the lot of the indus-
trial workers; who are undisguisedly bent
on destroying the democratic system of
legislation and living in which the over-
whelming majority of Australians believe.
however inadequately they uphold it.
G. Elburg (W.A.).
Shipping
“Cave” (B. 22/8/’5l) is right when he
blames transport chaos for much of our
present inflated costs, but he’s wrong on
almost everything else. What is the
point in suggesting that our “mismanaged”
railways should be placed under the
control of “men who had proved their
worth in private enterprise as managers
and organisers”? Who says, under pre-
vailing conditions, they’re “mismanaged”
and who is the genius who is going to
do anything about them?
Why talk about railways “doing little
else than convey passengers” when every
State railway without exception is hand-
ling record freight tonnages? Why sug-
gest that, if coal is the trouble, “the
Coal Board should not be too proud to
co-operate,” when the complete inability
of Coal Boards or anybody else to supply
them with even imitation coal has resulted
in every State railway moving to oil in
order to keep some semblance of a
system running?
Why talk about “the little ships in the
small ports adjacent to the capitals,”
when we cannot persuade the seamen or
wharfies to let us use normal facilities?
Where do we get these “little ships”
from? What makes “C.” think the Red
gentry would have less control in such
circumstances? And what small ports
adjacent to which capitals?
There’s nothing complicated about our
transport problems except our refusal to
recognise them for what they are. For
two basic reasons —the fact that it is the
easiest target for the Corns and the
fact that it is the only unsubsidised
service—shipping has almost gone from
our coasts.
That’s all, but it has led to the State
railways having to try to take over, and
that’s the first rise in cost. But clearly
these services cannot cope with the job,
so part of the traffic —and it’s inevitably
the best part —has to go to the roads, and
that means wrecked highways and a
further increase in costs. Finally you
reach the ultimate in absurdity where
some traffic has been taken off a coaster
and put in the air. You can’t go further
than that.
“C.” concludes “Governments should
concentrate on making laws.” Rubbish.
If they scrapped nine-tenths of their laws
and enforced the remainder we might be
getting somewhere. Transporticus
(Singapore).
Doing a Job
When the Spanish-American war broke
out in 1898 there were rebels against
Spanish rule hiding in the mountains of
Cuba, nobody knew where. At that stage
the whole island was guarded by Spanish
troops. The Americans wanted a message
taken to the rebels. They called on a
man named Rowan. He accepted the
job, was landed secretly on the coast,
disappeared for three weeks, then re-
appeared, having travelled through hostile
country on foot and delivered the
message.
Rowan apparently thought little of his
achievement. Such men seldom seek
fame or notoriety. Besides, other men
have performed, before and since,
immeasurably more dangerous single-
handed missions, some remembered, most
of them forgotten, as Rowan would
probably have been forgotten had it not
been for a certain Elbert Hubbard.
This Hubbard, who went down with
the Lusitania in 1915, attained a sort of
fame through Rowan. A journalist and
printer, he seized on Rowan’s exploit and
wrote a brief article entitled “A Message
to Garcia” —Garcia being the rebel
leader. It was not a description of
Rowan’s adventures; it drew attention
to the fact that men of Rowan’s stamp,
who accepted duty and responsibility
without question, were all too few.
Before Hubbard’s death 40 million copies
of the article had been printed in a dozen
different languages and Hubbard himself
was quoted all over the world in texts
on the virtues of work, efficiency and
individualism.
In these times, when people look to
officials no more intelligent than them-
selves for advice, when everybody seems
anxious to evade responsibility and the
doing of the simplest task involves all
sorts of time-wasting complications, some
passages from “A Message to Garcia
are worth quoting:
It is not book-learning young men need,
but a stiffening of the vertebra, which wil
cause them to be loyal to a trust, to act
promptly, concentrate their energies; do tne
thing . . .
Slipshod assistance, foolish inattention,
dowdy indifference and half-hearted wort
seem the rule; and no man succeeds un-
less by hook or crook or threat he force
or bribes other men to assist him—iou
are sitting now in your office —six clerks
are within call. Summon any one an
make this request: “Please look in an
encyclopaedia and make a brief memoian-
dum for me concerning the life ot
Correggio.” . „ .
Will the clerk quietly say “Yes, sir, ana
go and do the task?
On your life he will not. He will look at
you out of a fishy eye and ask one or more
of the following questions:
Who was he?
Which encyclopaedia?
Where is the encyclopaedia?
Was I hired for that? . „
What’s the matter with Charlie doing iti
Is there any hurry?
Shan’t I bring you the book and let you
look it up for yourself?
What do you want to know for?
Well, that’s the common attitude in
modern Australia, heaven knows. And
if the boss gets annoyed about it some
union “head” presently appears on his
doorstep, and unless he’s dead careful the
place will be closed up and half th £
nation’s business stopped because of it.
“Nothing,” remarked Hubbard 50-odd
years ago, “is said about the employer
who grows old before his time in a vain
attempt to get frowsy ne’er-do-wells to
do intelligent work ; and his long, patien
striving after ‘help’ that does nothing bu
loaf when his back is turned.”
The man who works with a will, wnj
recognises his responsibility and proud,
accepts it, who can be trusted to do
job without shoving it on to someoff
else —he is no good to the Socialists aj
he is anathema to the Communists, aj
■ both of them will gang up on him aj
i brand him as a threat to “the wflP,
and hard-won working conditions a
■ expel him and howl him down But
i Australia needs him! C.S. (N.S.W.)<


University of Technology
The writer of the article “Great on
Ceremonies” (B. 26/9/’5l), referring to
the N. S. Wales University of Technology,
(suggests that little progress has been made
with the university since the laying of
the foundation-stone on the Kensington
(Sydney) site in 1950.
In fact, since that time, the university
has made rapid progress, though its
operations have been carried out mainly
in premises at Broadway.
Today the University of Technology
has over 3000 students and a large and
well-qualified teaching staff. Degree
courses are in full operation in civil,
mechanical, electrical and mining
engineering, in chemistry, physics,
chemical engineering and wool techno-
logy. Whole-time and part-time courses
have been established in these subjects,
the latter providing a means whereby a
student who must earn his living can
at the same time complete a university
course leading to a degree.
Substantial research schools have been
established in several departments, and
the number of students engaged in post-
graduate work is increasing steadily. The
university’s first graduation ceremony
will take place in 1952, marking the com-
pletion of the establishment of most of
the courses here mentioned.
Although initial progress on the build-
ings at Kensington may have appeared to
be slow (and shortages of materials have
contributed to this), a satisfactory rate of
construction has now been attained, and
it is hoped that the first block to be built
in brick will be completed in 1953. In
the meantime the development of the
university is not being held up.
To facilitate the early establishment of
part of the university at Ken hngton a
number of light frame buildings have
been erected there and it is intended to
transfer the university departments of
chemical engineering and metallurgy to
Kensington in 1952. Other sections of
the university will then follow as accom-
modation becomes available.
It can be fairly claimed that, in spite
of the difficulties that surround any new
development at the present time, the
University of Technology has got away
to a good start, that it is already making
a considerable contribution to the indus-
tries of New South Wales, and that it is
providing, and will continue to provide,
much-needed new facilities for tertiary
education in the fields of science and
technology. — Wallace C. Wurth, presi-
dent (N.S.W.).
The Law and Communism
Because the Government’s request for
additional powers has been refused it is
a mistake to think that there is no way
of dealing with the Communists legally,
or that the majority of Australians do not
favor such action.
Australian law, under the major heads
of sedition and treason, provides the
means of dealing with Communists or
others who are prepared to undermine
the Commonwealth of Australia, or the
British Commonwealth of Nations, in the
interests of a foreign Power,
J. Baalman’s Outlines of Law in Aus-
tralia says:—
The crime which is considered of all
others the most heinous is high treason. It
consists of seeking to compass the death of
the sovereign, or of adhering to his
enemies; or of conspiring with or insti-
gating others to levy war on the King; or
of indulging in various hostile acts against
members of the Royal family; or of
endangering the succession to the throne.
The penalty for treason is death.
Closely related to treason, although not
punished with the same severity, is a group
of crimes which might be described broadly
as seditious activities. It includes sedition,
which is the creation of disaffection, other-
wise than by constitutional means, against
the sovereign or against constituted
authority generally; unlawful drilling, in-
citing members of the armed forces to
, mutiny; forming associations for the pur-
poses of revolution or sabotage; inciting
persons to strike after a state of serious
industrial disturbance has been proclaimed.
Another kindred offence is the assembly
of three or more persons for an unlawful
purpose. Where, having assembled, such
persons commence to act tumultuously, they
commit the more aggravated offence of
rioting. Taking part in an unlawful pro-
cession, even though free from any sugges-
tion of tumult, is punishable criminally.
Those powers are at present in force
in all States; the laws they are designed
to uphold are being broken continually
by Communists, both individually and
through their various organisations and
journals.
The responsibility for enforcing the laws
lies equally upon the Commonwealth
and the States, all of which Governments
are sworn to uphold the sovereignty of
the Crown. At the same time the respon-
sibility for upholding democracy rests
with every individual citizen. One posi-
tive action that could be taken immedi-
ately would be for the Prime Minister
“Well, your round-the-world rocket should be
Well on its Way now, professor."
to call a conference of State Attorney-
Generals to see just how far the present
laws can be enforced.
As for the comrades and their dupes,
it would be well for them to consider
what their position would be in the event
of war with Russia, Our laws against
treason are well defined, and the penalty
for adhering to the King’s enemies is still
death. If they are foolish enough to
persist with their disloyal activities they
could easily find themselves placed in the
same position occupied by the late
William Joyce after the last war. —Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Transport
Something drastic will have to be done
about the Australian land-transport
system, both Inter-State and intra-State.
In Victoria we have diminishing rail
services unable to cope with increasing
transport demands from rural areas, while
there are insufficient heavy-transport
vehicles operating to make up the
deficiency.
This part of western Victoria, 200 miles
from Melbourne, provides an example
which can be repeated in many other
places. Two slow trains each week from
the main branch cannot handle the inward
traffic of fertiliser, farm equipment and
perishables such as fruit and vegetables
or the outward haulage of livestock and
produce.
Then there are the roads. Until main
roads and highways, now fast deteriorat-
ing, are put in better condition to with-
stand 15- and 20-ton loads it seems unwise
to countenance more transport vehicles.
Some roads are in a dangerous state and,
even were men and money available, it
would take the C.R.B. a decade to build
them up to the required standard.
On transport depends the whole
of rural life. Without it produc-
tion falls, communities feel cut off and
dissatisfied, the economy of the entire
nation suffers and the drift from the
land to the cities is accelerated.— Plain
Australian (Vic.).
Queensland Railways
“Transporticus’s” attack on Queens-
land railways (B. 19/9/’5l) falls to the
ground because, far from
scrapping its steam locos,
Queensland is supple-
menting them. Forty-
three new steam loco-
motives were placed in
traffic last year, and a
further 33 have been de-
livered from overseas
and are now being
assembled. Orders have
been placed for another
69—a total of 145 addi-
tional coalburners. So
much for “T.’s” fears
about the “decline” of
coalmining communities
“dependent on the rail-
way market.”
“T.” says that “years
ago” the Queensland
railways were outstanding
-—presumably when an
anti-Labor Government
ran them back in Digby
Denham’s time. But he
ignores the fact that this
“shabby, neglected Cin-
derella service,” on which
he admits millions are
being spent, has achieved
quite remarkable peace-
time records in haulage.
Obviously it is working
efficiently if its percentage
of working expenses is
much lower than those
of Victoria, S.A. and Western Australia.
He also says baldly that Brisbane’s
suburban railway electrification scheme is
'‘futile.” Why, and how?
The statement that Queenslanders are
determined to do nothing about develop-
ing and selling their coal is plain non-
sense. An extensive survey of Queens-
land coalfields has been carried out by
the great English firm of Powell Duffryn,
and planned development is being steadily
followed on the most modern and
scientific lines —not forgetting the new
Callide coalfield railway. But the point
that should be plain to any thinking Aus-
tralian is that large-scale development of
Queensland’s coalfields should be a
national undertaking.
A survey by C. P. Puzey, Director of
the Australian Industries Protection
League, shows that the economic cost of
Australian coal deficiency is at least
£85,000,000 and probably over
£100,000,000 a year. We are importing
annually £50,000,000-worth of steel, coal,
cement and other materials for which
we have the plant capacity and labor,
and which would cost only £30,000,000
locally—-a further penalty of £20,000,000
a year. Little relief can be hoped for
from N. S. Wales —even allowing for a
very favorable improvement in that State’s
output in the next five years we still need
another 6,000,000 tons of coal annually.
The only place where it can be got is in
Queensland. — Clem Lack (Q.).
Japanese Imports
Many manufacturers are voicing con-
cern at the prospect (tney term it a
“threat”) of an influx of Japanese goods
of reasonable quality into this country ;
particularly goods which have been in
short supply since the war and likely,
without serious overseas competition, to
continue in short supply for years to
come.
In this expected revival of Japanese
trade in Australia certain manufacturers
see the end of blackmarketeering, the end
of the iniquitous, tax-evading quota-
system which in many cases has checked
production as effectively as strikes and
kept prices unnecessarily high, and the
end of initiative-destroying, go-slow
policies which, deny it though some will,
has suited the employers’ book equally
as well as the workers’ during the past
few years.
The import of well-made and com-
paratively low-priced goods on the scale
of which Japan is capable should give
the Australian wage-earner cause for
serious thought; it should be just the
dose of medicine his post-war inertia
seems to need. For, granting prohibitive
tariff-walls aren’t raised against Japan,
the Australian worker may be obliged to
prove his salt in the near future.
It would be folly to blame the Govern-
ment —cessation of a state of war or
hostility gives an erstwhile enemy the
right to trade with reasonable freedom.
Jndeed, experts in such matters have
given broad hints that the United Nations’
tardiness in making peace with their
enemies has aggravated the inflationary
trend throughout the world today.
Actually, free-trade favors the worker
in the long run ; his wages are lower but
his needs are correspondingly cheaper
and can be satisfied at the counters
of the smallest hamlet. But the catch
concealed in the unobstructed market
from the point of view of the agitator
and sluggard is that he must earn that
wage. Few of us have done that since
1945. —P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Onions
Storing onions isn’t so easy as it
sounds, nor was the W.A. Onion Board
as remiss as “W.C.C.” thinks (B.
29/ 8/ ’5l). Most of the onions grown in
W.A. are bad keepers—they can be stored
for a few months, but not for a year.
That is due partly to the type of onion—
a particularly, good one, the Spearwood
Globe, named after the district in which
it was established —and partly to the con-
ditions under which it is grown. These
factors can’t be changed with any
advantage, so, on the present set-up,
W.A. must import onions for a few
months of the year.
There’s a solution, but it doesn’t lie
in flying to keep Spearwood onions. Be-
tween the Leeuwin and Wyndham there’s
a range of climate, rainfall and soil
capable of providing the State with suf-
ficient of every type of produce all the
year round. Transport is no longer an
obstacle some Carnarvon growers
recently charted a plane to take four tons
of beans to the Perth markets. From
there or somewhere suitable for growing
out-of-Perth-season produce, it could
easily be onions. Transport costs
don’t make prices excessive.
The board could help, and justify its
existence, by encouraging onion-growing
in the more remote districts. — Kelms
(W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 142
BULLETIN CROSSWORD No. 142
Across.
I—Kissing is common under this fog
on the French digit. (9)
6—Spring bandage is not without
limit. (5)
9—Matter of course not left for a
fairy. (7)
10— Non - republican is forming
branches. (7)
11— Nanky comment of derision. (3)
12— Another matter of course south
to the level part of the Balkans.
< 7 ’ 4 >
14— He may be one of the Irish strike.
(3)
15— “Oh! the oak, and the (???) and
the bonny ivy-tree.” (3)
16— Belch is prepositional. (4)
18—Employ. (3)
21— Epoch. (3)
22 Best actress confuses Hamlet’s
compatriot. (4)
23 — A core in a botanical sheath. (5)
26 —Cut up when expelled from the
club? (11)
28— Boy of 1901 years ago. (3)
29 — A Rio cub animal takes a Central
American nothing but you. (7)
31 —Lee’s cat is thus a musical instru-
ment. (7)
32 — Tendon is backing the novel. (5)
33 — Wood everything beat the gun. (9)
Down.
1 — Mount’s single daughter is to
express it inaccurately. (8)
2 Coffin Sons of the American
Revolution accompany a police-
man and an ugly old woman to
their country. (11)
3 Diary is a muscular twitch regard-
ing military supply and quarter-
ing. (8)
4 Spruced bird has four on a
Neddy. (9)
5 Fairy fish propeller on the
Spanish. (5)
6 Once made a big shot out of
breath. (6)
7 The “Old Country” and I in a
district on N.S.W.’s North Coast.
(3)
8 — Perform a horse, boy, when
hounded. (6)
13—Our part of the world —Alas! It
is surrounded by a part of
Europe. (11)
17—Competitive oarsman who finds
the missing reptile? (4-5)
19 — Craft required when getting out
from Don's jail. (8)
20—Sport to pass the big dance. (8)
24—Decrees. (6)
25—A gesture of grace by Mr. Chifley
in a “Treasure Island” inn. (6)
27^ H ® £ OW r c, by a pretence 0t
strength. (-)
30-Managed our Navy. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 141.


iEMENT Prepared
AGRICULTURAL
October A monthly feature for all those interested In Agriculture
HAND-MILKING OUTED BY
SMALL, PORTABLE MILKERS
This entire page is a PAID A]
DLV.
monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
1961
Tiny Plants With Big Plant
Performance
Recently developed one and two unit portable milkers have brought the
cost of milking machines down to a level where every farmer can afford one
, . . . even if he has only a few cows. If the popularity of these milkers
continues to rise 9 as it has done since their introduction , they could even put
hand-milkers right out of a job .
r T'HESE new machines eliminate com-
plicated gadgets. They boil a milker
down to three main parts . . . the motor
.. . the vacuum pump ... and the control
assembly.
Their simplicity lowers manufacturing
costs, and does not in any way detract
from their performance. Tested under
the hardest working conditions they
have performed just as well as standard
types . . . with the additional advantages
of portability, ease of cleaning and lower
maintenance costs.
Elimination of the overhead milking
tubes and pulsator drives means cutting
out of installation costs. Transport
trolleys, which are supplied as optional
equipment, enable the complete unit to
be wheeled about, from place to place,
for on-the-spot milking.
Minor Milker has Full-rotary Pulsator
One of the new portable milkers, the
Moffat-Virtue Minor Milker, incor-
porates a Full-rotary Pulsator, and
Automatic Vacuum Control, as used on
the standard overhead type, releaser
machine. This important improvement
gives a gentle, “squeeze-release” action
. . . the ideal action for perfect milking.
This Rotary Pulsator, together with
the Automatic Vacuum Control and im-
proved Vacuum Pump makes it possible
for the Minor Milker to be converted to
a two-unit plant for the slight additional
cost of an extra milk-bucket and teat-cup
assembly.
The Minor Milker is fitted with strong,
heavily tinned milk-cans . . . standard
M.V. Adjustable-type Teat-cups, with
non-sag inflations and rounded lips.
The teat-cups and the strong, hard-
wearing claw, are the same as those used
on the Standard M.V. Milking Machines.
Demands Exceed Expectations
This week Mr. W. E. Neville, Manager
of Moffat-Virtue’s Dairy Machinery De-
partment, said sales of the Minor Milker
had exceeded all expectations
.!/■, v-w;,. f
ft?
ITS
m
MHi
P9®V s -'tor.
'■V \w, ■£&/' '
Wm
M
;: v
TWO-UNIT PLANT...
.
The Moffat-Virtue Minor Milker
can be easily changed to a two-unit
plant . . . for faster milking of large
herds. An extra set of teat-cups, a
claw, another milk can, and a few
feet of rubber tubing will double the
capacity of the Minor Milker.
This easily increased capacity is
made possible by the highly efficient
vacuum pump and Villiers engine.
The Moffat-Virtue
Minor Milker . . .
o
0
©
o
Here’s the Moffat-Virtue Minor Milker
. . . a small plant with all the main
features of the standard Moffat-Virtue
Bucket Type Milker. This milker costs
nothing to install . . . and is all set up,
ready for milking as soon as you receive
it.
Four of the main features are:—
1. Full-rotary pulsator, which gives
a gentle, “squeeze-release” action
... for perfect milking.
2. Automatic Vacuum Control which
makes sure that a constant vacuum
is maintained all the time.
3. Long-lasting, smooth-fitting teat-
cups, with rounded lips, that don’t
injure the cow.
4. Visible milking attachment for
showing just when your cow is
completely milked.
The elimination of overhead milk
lines, and other extra parts makes the
Minor Milker very easy to clean. The
total number of parts that would ever
need replacing is so small that repair
and replacement bills have been greatly
reduced.
For full particulars of the Moffat-
Virtue Minor Milker write to anyone of
the Distributors listed at the bottom of
this page. They will be glad to help you.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
* Hobart and Launceston.
