

“THE HOMELAND IN PICTURE AND STORY”
Fifty-two of the illustrations and descriptions which have appeared on this page during
the past twelve months are now available. Write for your free copy to the nearest branch
of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd., and please mark your envelope:—
“MONUMENTS”
Available from any Australian Office of the House of Seppelt
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY'- Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOlTRNE: Box 2831
BRISBANE: Box 852E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.,
88 CANNON ST.. LONDON. E.C.4.
5, G.P.O.
64, P.O.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3748
CHRISTMAS INOMBER
. Wednesday, December 12, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
A Masterpiece of
Military Architecture,
Goodrich Castle
f
STANDING on a wooded hill above the
River Wye, four miles from Ross, is
Goodrich Castle, a medieval fortress
which dominates an ancient crossing
the river used by the Romans en route
from Gloucester to the important military
camp at Caerleon. . It stands upon the site
of an earlier castle known as “Godric’s
Castle,” which is mentioned in a docu-
ment of 1101 as being built by Godric
Mapperstone. The existing castle, how-
ever, dates from the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries, and to its natural defences was
added a moat cut from the rock, which
made it one of the most formidable of
medieval fortresses. In order to dis-
courage spiders and their cobwebs, special
timber was brought from Ireland for use
in building the interior.
Goodrich is by far the largest castle of
its kind in Herefordshire, and is regarded
as an important example of military
architecture. In 1204 King John granted
the castle to the Earl of Pembroke. In
the troublesome reign of Edward II there
was much dispute regarding the posses-
sion of the castle, which finally fell to
Richard Talbot in 1326. The Talbots
were later created Earls of Shrewsbury,
and Goodrich became their principal
residence until the death of Gilbert Talbot
in 1616, when the castle passed to the
Earls of Kent.
During the Civil War Goodrich was
the scene of much fighting, and was the
last in Herefordshire to hold out for the
King (Charles I). After a siege of four
and a half months it was finally taken by
the Parliamentarians. Thereafter it passed
through many hands until 1920, when it
was placed under the care of H.M. Office
of Works and preserved as an ancient
monument.
An interesting feature of the castle is
the. Gate Tower, where a long, dark
passage was guarded by two portcullises
and two strong gates, above which,
through holes in the roof, molten lead or
boiling water could be poured upon the
besiegers below.
It was in the grounds of this great
fortress that the poet, William Words-
worth, in 1798 met the little girl of whom
he wrote in the well-known poem “We
Are Seven.”


aflll
urn
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— C UT here and mail —
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name • •
Address
(5.8.151) Age
THE STONES OF ANTIQUITY
!\ reading of Dickens’s Pictures from
ly —he was so great a novelist that his
lliance as a journalist and travel-writer
too often forgotten —has brought home
me the discovery that the past does
t live for me in bricks and mortar as
parently it did for Dickens.
Was that tremendous gusto with which
ckens visited the remains of antiquity
d the Renaissance genuine, I wonder,
did he pump it up, in deference to the
n-ary proprieties? Of course, as a
iter, he could find material there that
might have made use of; but on the
ot, say, of that gloomy castle where
j Inquisition practised its unmention-
le sadism, did he really feel all that
irror of mentally picturing the scenes
at had once been enacted there :
My blood ran cold as I looked down
into those vaults, where these forgotten
:reatures, with recollections of the world
autside, of wives, friends, children, brothers,
starved to death, and made the stones ring
with their unavailing groans. But the thrill
I felt on seeing the accursed wall below,
decayed and broken through, and the sun
shining through gaping wounds, was like a
sense of victory and triumph. I felt
exalted with the proud delight of living, in
these degenerate times, to see it.. <.
Well, maybe he did feel like that,
ickens had great powers of dramatising
s emotions ; a gift that sometimes sent
m damnably wrong in falsifying senti-
ent in his novels. In the description he
ves of the beheading of a criminal in
ie public square of an Italian town he
rings a sufficiently horrifying spectacle
vidly before my eyes, but I confess that
have looked at the block in the Tower
; London without a spark of emotion,
ist a lump of blackened wood that
/oked no imagery of decapitated heads
id the brutal pageantry of a public
lecution for the delectation of a London
10b . . .
I don’t suppose any period of history
/er took such a strong hold on my
nagination as the past of Greece and
ome. In my ’teens and twenties I read
ieir poets and prose writers, mainly in
ie turgid form of Bohn’s translations,
ad studied with an impassioned interest
of statues, portrait busts
ad architecture. The very word
antiquity” raised in me a nostalgic
inging for a spectacle of life vitalised by
;s poets and sculptors. It stood for all
oble values in life and art. A good pre-
aration, one would think, for making a
ilgrimage to the remains of a Roman
/odd that still litter the soil of Italy.
But the fact is that the actual presence
if those remains left my imagination
mawakened. Of course, walking the
treets of Pompeii, it was easy enough to
aake a mental reconstruction of the life
mce lived there, and find all the data
me needed for a plastic reconstruction of
t, too. But that is purely an intellectual
:xercise, quite detached from any
emotional response to bricks and mortar.
\s such I could extract no more thrill
)ut of them than out of any present-day
•emains of a human habitation.
My last act on leaving Australia was
to slip an edition of The Satyricon into
tny bag, not with any notion of illustra-
ting it, but for reading matter on the
voyage. A visit to Pompeii suggested the
idea of an illustrated edition-de-luxe of
the novel, and I set about filling sketch-
books with background material for it.
But any sense of antiquity as a mental
image evaded me. All I was concerned
for was doing a journeyman’s job of jot-
ting down data for an effort to recon-
struct in pen and ink the immortal antics
of Encolpius, Ascyltos, Giton, Trimalchio,
Eumolpus, Habinnas, Tryphsena, Circe,
and all the other vital creations of that
greatest of novels. They did not walk
the streets of Pompeii for me. How
could they, since they were integral con-
tents of my mind, absorbed from the
nrose of Petronius?
It took a couple of living people to
make the arid city of Pompeii alive for
me, if only for a brief interlude. One
morning while I was sketching a tessel-
lated pavement in one of the roofless
rooms in a by-street a pair of guests from
the Hotel Pompeii happened to stray into
the apartment next to mine.
I had been entertained by watching
that party, for it contained an exhibit of
a type that was even then agitating the
chancelleries of Europe with a threat of
things to come. This was a big, beefy,
thick-necked, pop-eyed, prawn-colored
German with an up-brushed moustache
and an almost tangible emanation of
arrogance and intolerance for all
humanity save that of Germany.. He
wore some sort of order attached to his
shirt-front by a red ribbon, and he always
entered the dining-room first, to stand
and survey with his opaque glare the
slave-rabble feeding there before allow-
ing the head-waiter to escort him to a
special table. His wife followed, a lady
very much younger than him, attended by
a good-looking, very deferential young
man carrying her wrap. I placed him as
a confidential secretary of some sort to
the husband, for that potentate issued
orders to him about the service of dinner
which he in turn conveyed to the waiter.
To the wife, the young man’s deference
was courtly yet distant; to the husband,
it was reverential.
The wife was a handsome creature: tall,
with a mass of glinting bronze hair and
the creamy pallor of skin that goes with
it. Her breasts were full, her waist slim,
her hips wide, in the feminine canon of
the nineteen-hundreds, for the earth was
still safe and women could make an
alluring mystery of their bodies. She,
also, had an emanation, which was one
of bored inattention to the scene about
her —which may or may not have in-
cluded the presence of her husband. Not
that any hint of lese-majeste from a wife
could have penetrated the congealed sub-
stance of national megalomania which
doubtless served him as a substitute for
brains.
Very well, then ; it was the wife and the
deferential secretary who had arrived at
the open-air cubicle next to mine in that
Pompeian by-street. 1 did not detect their
identity at the time, as they had come up
by the other end of the street, and so had
not passed my doorway. All I knew was
that a man and a woman had snatched
at the seeming privacy of the next cubicle
for an amorous interlude charged with
ardent utterance in German, annotated
by the sibilance of prolonged kisses. It
went on for quite a time, and by a con-
spiratorial, keyed-down note of intensity
in their exchanges, I did not doubt that I
was listening to an illicit episode of
passion. Only that could have inspired
the consternation with which they strolled
forth at length to discover me seated there
within a couple of yards of its stage-
setting.
The lady uttered a stifled sound in her
throat, the young man stopped and stared
at me in a state of inarticulate confusion.
A tug from the lady drew him away with
an effect of panic. I saw them stop and
hold an agitated conference, from which
the young man detached himself to bear
down once more on me. Raising his hat,
he said something to me in tone of polite
inquiry, but as it was in German, I could
only shake my head, indicating linguistic
incomprehension. He then tried me in
Italian, at which I said, “Sorry, but I don’t
speak the language.”
“Ah! You are English, yes?”
“Yes.”
“You do not then speak German, no?”
“Not a word of it.”
“Oh, pardon me—a mistake. I thought
possibly”—
He backed off hurriedly, with another
bow, obviously relieved, but no doubt
feeling a bit of a fool, and I heard his
voice in a tone of reassurance to the lady
as they moved off together.
That night at dinner he carefully
avoided meeting my eye. The lady was
as usual quite frozen with unapproach-
ability, while the husband was more
swollen than ever with bumptiousness,
arrogance and the consciousness of
power. It gave me great pleasure to con-
template his fat head decorated by a
majestic pair of horns.
That trifling event is merely an instance
that bricks and mortar require human
drama to make them alive. I was not
conscious at the time that I had already
rejected the ruins as an emotional time-
factor, but my actions clearly prove that
I had done so, for I made hardly any
effort to view notable antiquities starred
in the guide-books. Only at Naples I did
stumble on one exhibit from the past
which aroused a fairly vivid sense of its
reality, but this was a human, not an
architectural, exhibit.
I was sketching about the Castle del
Ovo, which served as a useful bit of
medieval data, when in a crypt I dis-
covered the mummified remains of a
Queen, a Cardinal and an Admiral lying
in open coffins. They were still dressed
in the mouldering fabrics of their period,
which must have been about the sixteenth
century, by the Admiral’s thigh-boots,
long hair, moustache and pointed beard
and the Queen’s paniered dress. She had
been decapitated and the head restored
to her in the coffin. I don’t know what
dramatic crisis they were the creatures of,
but I could have reconstructed their liv-
ing faces from the dark, leathery cuticle
still modelled on their skulls, and that
made them a figment of past reality for
me. But if I wanted evidence that only
an image of life created by art can vitalise
the past I was given it in the Naples
Museum, by a headless, kneeling, statue
of a girl, so exquisitely modelled that
when, by an irresistible impulse, I
smoothed a hand over her lovely
shoulders, I felt the timeless reality of
antiquity under my fingers.
At Rome I did not see the Forum, the
Coliseum or any other Roman remains.
I had left Australia with Bill Dyson and
my sister Ruby, and theirs was a honey-
moon trip as well as a proposal to
establish themselves in England and
English black-and-white journalism. I
had stayed behind at Naples and Pompeii
to collect material for the Satyricon
illustrations, and met them again at
Rome, and my memories of that city are
rather colored by evidences that they
were beginning to be harassed by anxiety
over their London venture. The only
guide-book objective we visited was St.
Peter’s, and that only because a morning
walk brought us to it, and I thought we
might as well have a look at that dis-
articulated piece of gigantesquerie,
Michelangelo’s “Last Judgment,’
which was worse as an original than in its
art-book reproductions. Notre Dame, in
Paris, was another evidence to me that
bricks and mortar have no power to
evoke an image of reality, for I could not
see it, viewed from without, as a setting
for that grimy, sadistic fantasy, The
Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Once in England, all thoughts of
tourist-mongering with antiquities ceased.
I was too much involved with publishers
over a projected edition of Casanova s
Memoirs, for which I had brought a
hundred black-and-white illustrations
with me, and which came to nothing, I’m
glad to say—Casanova had a second-
rate mind, and his Memoirs are merely
a good period-piece ; moreover, I did not
think much of my illustrations, which
were in wash, an inferior medium.
But I arranged with Ralph Strauss
for the edition of Petronius almost
on my arrival in England, and that
work, for which I did a hundred pen-and-
ink drawings, went through without a
hitch, and was sold out within a few days
of its publication.
With that over, I decided to return to
Australia, as I could not stand the
English climate and was feeling done-
up, both physically and mentally. I had
seen enough of the English mentality to
know that it would never accept the sort
of work I wanted to do, or the concept
of life that was then maturing at the back
of my mind. For that matter, the Aus-
tralian mentality was also aroused to
violent antagonism when I began later
to put that concept into pictorial form . . .
but that has nothing to do with the stones
of antiquity.
It was only in the last couple of weeks
before leaving London that I made a
half-hearted effort to dig up some evi-
dence of the two Londons I had brought
there as vivid mental reconstructions;
those of Sam Pepys and Dickens. I might
as well have left them as mental images.
There were a few Restoration' houses, a
tablet on one saying that Sam had once
dwelt there, and a pair of stone gateway
pillars, alleged to be those of the old
Navy Office of his time (now giving en-
trance to a brewery, I think), but bricks
and mortar gave none of the essence of
the immortal Diary.
It was rather worse with the Dickens
London. No midnight pistol-shot could
possibly have startled the respectable
dullness of Mr. Tulkinghorn’s house in
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, and it was fatuous to
suppose that Chancery Lane could have
harbored the satanic figure of old Krook,
or that in such a commonplace little en-
closure as Cooks Court (which is really
Tooks Court) Mr. Snagsby could have
sniffed that awful aroma and diagnosed
it as burnt chops, and not good chops
either.
What bricks and mortar could ever
have built that dingy little upstairs room
where Mr. Guppy and Mr. Jobling waited
for midnight to strike, that old Krook
should hand over the letters incriminating
Lady Dedlock? No present-moment
sensory equipment could respond with
such pungent effect as the mental im-
pressions by which we smell its fusty
atmosphere, feel on our skin its hot, close
night, see its damp blotched walls on
which Mr. Jobling has hung his prints of
society beauties, hear Mr, Guppy’s con-
spiratorial tones quelling Mr. Joblmg’s
peevish complaints at the unseasonable
hour fixed for their vigil, and finally feel
on our fingers the horrified recoil of Mr.
Guppy’s fingers from that filthy, oily stuff
that drips on the window-ledge. For
stark reality, for the sense of being
bodily on the spot in an episode in fiction,
I can recall only one other passage in
prose literature to equal this scene, and
that is the murder of Mr. Verloc in
Conrad’s Secret A gent.
Here, then, must be the answer to that
enigma, “What is reality?” It is an image
of life created by art, thereby becoming
an integral content of the human mind
—once absorbed, an indestructible con-
tent. Indestructible. Bricks and mortar
are the most febrile of chemical con-
stituents, crumbling to dust before our
eyes, and fading with every tick of the
clock into non-existence in that shadow-
play of fantasy we call the past. But no
earthly cataclysm can throw down the
walls of Troy. They are eternal, in-
destructible. There is no need to look
further for a definition of reality.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
The Red Page
Art Under the Stuarts.
Though it is rather too late to make
any effective protest, the present reviewer
has always thought it was a mistake, on
the whole, to have cut off King Charles s
head, and is much strengthened in that
opinion after reading John Woodward’s
Tudor and Stuart Drawings (Faber); for
insofar as any one man could be called
the fountain-head of art in England, that
man was Charles the First: —
Travel and a new connoisseurship brought
in a change of taste, a wave of patronage
and collecting. The credit for this belongs
in the first place to the Earl of Arundel
and to Henry, Prince of Wales, and later to
Charles I, the greatest collector and con-
noisseur of them all, and to the Duke of
Buckingham... .Not only did it mean that
Whitehall became a great picture gallery,
but Charles also persuaded such celebrated
artists as Rubens and Van Dyck to work
for him An art which had hardly even
been apparent —unlike music, architecture,
landscape gardening, and above all litera-
ture —began quite obviously to take shape.
Mr. Woodward is clearly in agreement
with Esme Wingfield-Stratford, who saw
the conflict between the King and the
mercantile forces behind Cromwell as,
in part at least, a conflict between the
artist and the philistine—“Nonesuch
Charles,” wrote one of the Puritan pam-
phleteers, “squandering away millions of
pounds on braveries and vanities, on old
rotten pictures and broken-nosed
marbles.” Had Charles been born in a
humbler station of life, said Wingfield-
Stratford, “it is by no means improbable
that he would have become famous in
some mode or other of artistic creation.
As it was, it is probable that he felt less
shy, and more in his true element, in
the society of those engaged, or interested,
in art, than any other.” He became
“the most expert buyer in Europe” and,
in his patronage of Van Dyck, “strove to
bind that genius to service, and
quickening, of English art.”
There were, of course, English artists
before Charles. There were the unknown
artists who worked with Holbein in the
time of Henry VIII; there was Nicholas
Hilliard, the son of a goldsmith of Exeter,
who became limner and goldsmith to
Queen Elizabeth and afterwards to
James I, and who left ovej" a hundred
miniatures and there is the celebrated
John White who, like Norman Lindsay,
found a fruitful combination in art and
piracy—only White’s piracy was of the
practical kind: he made five voyages to
Virginia, became its first Governor, and
is claimed to be the first English water-
colorist .
But on the whole surprisingly tew
names have survived to be discussed in
Mr. Woodward’s sparkling and scholarly
monograph ; and the reason —in a note on
Tudor England which is not without its
point for Australia today—was stated
with clarity and force by Hilliard when
he recorded the fate of John Bossam,
no painting by whom is now known to
exist: —
Neuertheless, if a man be so indued by
nature and Hue in time of trouble, ana
vnder a sauage gouerment wherm arts be
not esteemed, and himself but of small
meanes, woe be unto him as vnto an
vntimely birth; for of mine owne know-
lege it hath mad poure men poorer, as
among others many, the most rare English
drawer of story works in black and white,
John Bossam, for one of his skill worth to
haue been sergeant painter to any King or
Emperour; whoe, being very poore, and
belyke wanting to buy faier cullors, wrought
therefore for the most part in whit and
black, and growing yet poorer by charge
of children etc. gaue painting clean ouer....
only unfortunate becasse he was English
borne, for euen the strangers would other-
wisse haue set him vpp.
Even under Charles the English artist
was still to some extent regarded,
outside the circle of the Court, as a
{Red Page continued on inside back
cover.)


< c?
•O’* o ***'-
*vsysJr*stA» *$' *.
ZJSLS*I
msmMr, :h
TOP? 1 *
<y : '
'- aV
:
M
Wmsmm&spV
ii
«y
y~~~
HU
M-:
:l "
W&4
?v ,l;:.v '
,
V
-
"■ » &»? Vii J®i ,
f*S®|!S -' K 4
r^^WTTi
!% *"' *■• ■ sjA-- y/.s - y axx‘'-' x ' - - ’•"
SR TSwlwp/ yi
A • ,#3p!f *f n \WW//' t?vsS
jyi
>---lA:
y ? m
SKT
111
-An*.
25
- «
r *.* I
>*■■■'■■
» *M
9» -{. X«?>
*?**<**■
~ .*s•£*
, -
V
wi
M
K2^
•W ■ <>'3
■:H
fey
99
*a
108
£
/
m 2
j
mmm
'SwS
24
D
FD
FD
A new glamour for the bedroom
"Jeldi” Chenille Bedspreads
With gathered flounce, two sides and
base, these tailored ’spreads are
made in the standard sizes of 3ft.
and 4ft. 6in. Length of gathered skirt
is 23 inches.
Style No. 25. Single, £9/18/3 ; double, £lO/0/9.
Curtains to match, up to 6ft. 6in. drop, priced
at £9/5/- pair.
Pattern of ’spread.
Style No. 99. Single, £B/17/3; double, £B/19/11.
Cut tains to match, up to 6ft. 6in. drop, priced
at £B/4/6 pair.
m
9 Spreads from
our mew selection • . •
Style No. 108. Single, £9/14/3; double, £9/16/9. Cur-
tains to match, up to 6ft. 6in. drop, at £9/0/11 pair.
Style No. 24. Single, £7/8/3; double, £7/10/9. Cur-
tains to match, up to 6ft. 6in. drop, at £6/14/9 pair.
These ’spreads are obtainable in Off-White, Beige,
Mushroom, Gold, Blue, Rose and Green.
"Ruffles’ - —the Rodless Curtain
Ideal for kitchen, bathroom or any other
window where you wish to give that
finished effect. Made from White plastic,
and gaily trimmed on the edges with
Red, Green or Blue ric-rac braiding with
corresponding colour in cotton fabric
through the centre. Price, 27/11.
Same idea in organdie material 34j3 s
CHENILLE BEDSPREADS—THIRD FLOOR. M 2401; MAIL TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREIGHT EXTRA


IT’S
A FACT
Feature bty Feature
£et e ttoe Face!
(f
,
y
iiiiiii
*
%
Olla£±*:
W&wttSlS
£
I
S'
J°untrvo Weuers
NOW GET THE
it Capacity? Just on 6 cubic
feet of usable, all-refrigerated
storage (the biggest in the
field!). There’s big below-freez-
ing storage and an ice block
capacity of 63 cubes each
freeze!
Efficiency? Icemaster’s new, improved,
low-cost refrigerating system means full
refrigeration even in the hottest heat-
wave for just a trickle of kerosene.
• Chilling tray for fish and meat cuts
immediately below evaporator • Extra
thick slag-wool insulation on all sides and
door • Improved Bismark white-flame
type burner • Improved lamp design
• Big-capacity evaporator, 3 ice-
trays * Room for frozen food
storage.
*
• •
RL2I
DISTRIBUTORS—N.S.W.: BENNETT & WOOD PTY. LTD., cnr.
Pitt and Bathurst Sts., Sydney. VIC. : KELVINATOR AUSTRALIA
LIMITED, Williamstown Rd., Port Melbourne. Q SLD :
WILLERS & CO. PTY. LTD., 36 Eagle St., Brisbane. CAIRNS:
r MARKHAM. 31c Shields St. S A.: RADIO ELECTRICAL
WHOLESALERS LTD., James Pace, Adelaide. BROKEN HILL:
BARRIER ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES LTD., 253-255 Argent St.
W A ■ WESTERN APPLIANCES LTD., c/o Nicholsons Ltd.,
Barrack St., Perth. TAS.: MAX GEEVES PTY. LTD., Murray
St., Hobart, and Brisbane St., Launceston.
APPLIANCES LIMITED. FINSBURY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3748
Wednesday, December 12, 1951
HOME FOR CHRISTMAS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for tho White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
LIVING ON TICK.
Dr. Evatt and the “Labor” party con-
tinue their weird agitation against the
Government’s decision, obviously neces-
sary for some time past, to put a stop
to post-war excesses in living on credit.
Winding up the Budget debate, the
Treasurer very justly flayed the Opposi-
tion for demanding measures to check
inflation while protesting against every
budgetary action the Government is
undertaking. The warnings from over-
seas of straitened credit resources except
for rearmament and strictly essential
productive programmes make imperative
the tightening of Australian belts also.
Last weekend’s supplementary Loan
Council meeting produced no new argu-
ments for a green light to the States’
spending; and the anxiety aroused by
the drain on Australian bank balances
in London and the effect on this country’s
imports of essential goods compel the
Treasurer’s attendance at the Imperial
finance conference in January. Any
general relaxation of credit restrictions is
not to be looked for till the results of
those negotiations are known.
The “Labor” party chiefs know this,
and the most authoritative of them have
said so plainly enough. The late J. B.
Chifley, in what amounted to his last
political will and testament, declared:
I am really perturbed and indeed
alarmed at the growing spiral of inflation
in this country, and for that matter in
other countries. Neither this [Menzies]
Government nor any other Government can
be blamed for the Inflationary elements
Every man in public life who has a sense
of responsibility must give serious con-
sideration to the country’s honor, economy,
prestige and standing abroad and to the
heritage of its future citizens. I hope the
Government will do something to correct
the present disturbed state of our eco-
nomy, whether such action be popular or
unpopular. (“Hansard,” Oct., 1950.)
He was not alone. Mr. Kim Beazley,
his understudy at the Treasury, followed
him with the exhortation that a budgetary
measure to arrest inflation should include
devices to “skim off spending-power.”
During the same debate Mr. Pollard, one
of the “Labor” ex-Ministers, who shows
no marked signs of worshipping at the
Evatt shrine, quoted Professor Copland
with approval on the point that “the pro-
duction of luxury goods has been
accelerated to the disadvantage of pro-
duction of basic commodities,” and
implied that the Government ought to
attend to that feature in the disequi-
librium of the national economy. Now,
12 months later, the Government is doing
just that.
The new “Labor” leader prefers to
forget these things. But he ought not
to be allowed to forget what president
Ferguson of the Federal A.L.P., whose
executive in the last resort gives Dr.
Evatt and the Parliamentary caucus their
orders, said only a few weeks ago, in an
address delivered to the Fabian Society
but directed to the political rabble which
reveals itself as possessing no longer a
shred of political principle. Mr. Ferguson
wore the appearance rather of Satan
reproving sin, but his words nevertheless
are admissible evidence against the Evatts
and McGirrs. He said:
In certain States [and he wasn’t talking
about the remoter ones] the Labor party
is not the movement we were taught to
understand and respect, but a combination
of individuals burlesquing under the title
of Labor—not believing in Labor prin-
ciples but using the title of “Labor” to
achieve their own ambitions and their own
narrow ends. If, by some accident.
Labor became the Federal Government
overnight, I am afraid it would be obliged
to do much of what the Menzies-Fadden
Government has done.
Dr. Evatt on a recent pleasant Sunday
afternoon said he was receiving letters
from businessmen to the effect that the
Government’s restriction of credit is
“virtually squeezing them out of indus-
tries representing a lifetime of enter-
prise.” He described the Government as
“lungeing out fiercely” at them. Previ-
ously he had demanded the Government
should resign because, by signing the
peace treaty with Japan, it was aiding
Japanese competition to ruin Australian
industry.
If the rosy dreams Mr. Jacky Ferguson
ventured to interpret should come true
and Dr. Evatt should find himself head
of a Government to deal with inflation.
he would, of course, abolish the Com-
monwealth Bank board again and sit at
the feet of Dr. Coombs as banking
dictator. And what would Dr. Coombs
say to him then? Dr. Coombs’s latest-
published comments came out just before
the Fadden Budget, which Mr. Ferguson
says “Labor” would have to imitate. Dr.
Coombs, the late J, B. Chifley’s
intimate financial consultant, referred to
“dangerous elements of instability,”
among which he named “competitive
bidding to divert scarce labor and
materials from basic industries and
developmental projects to consumer-goods
industries.” The “competitive bidding”
has been done on credit. That is being
shown up clearly enough by reactions to
the Government’s present restrictions.
The Menzies Government has denied
both to itself and to the States “Labor’s”
highly inflationary dependence upon
the note-printing method of raising
“credit” and has ordained that the banks
shall curtail overdrafts to customers who
have relied on bank advances to maintain
the tempo of the inflationary boom. Dr.
Evatt, in between howling for inflation
to be checked, declares that this stopping
of universal tick is a sin and a shame
and is “a blueprint for depression,” Does
he ever ask himself by what right and by
what means Australians alone in the
world should be exempted from the
newly-arrived necessity to five within their
incomes?
The “burden on the cost of living”
represented by increased sales-tax levies
is, as Dr. Evatt well knows, one which
every taxpayer can in some measure,
according to his selection, avoid by self-
denial. If it is “deflationary” and
“depression-seeking” for a Government
to refrain from distributing still more
money in free pensions without first
taxing it out of the people, and if it is
intolerable deprivation in the “Welfare
State” that a citizen shall be required to
cut down his expenditure to the limits
of his income, then Dr. Evatt’s indigna-
tion at the abolition of the era of living
on tick is justified. But if he is aiming
at becoming Prime Minister on a policy
of printing enough quids so that every-
body can have them for the asking and
spend without limit, then he is barracking
for an onset of inflation, and a crash at
the end of it, such as nobody in this
country has yet imagined.
The other day the chairman of the
National Bank of Australasia commented
on the situation in words of common-
sense. Mr. Giddy exhorted his
fellow-countrymen to view the present
“national embarrassment” in the right
perspective. Having traced the features
of a phenomenal post-war indus-
trial expansion, he said we should
find ourselves on surer and happier
ground “if we keep in mind that the
inflationary trend is a material part of
the price to be paid for this develop-
ment.” And he went on:
I think it Is true that the economic am-
bitions of Governments and private enter-
prise have for the time being exceeded our
physical capacity to achieve, and that the
toning-down of the speed of our develop-
ment is advisable. But it means a change
in our economic climate. We dare not
treat this change lightly.
Our developmental road looks like being
less smooth in the immediate future, and
our capacity as a rapidly-growing nation
looks like being much more severely tested.
New defence commitments have to be as-
sumed. Industry and commerce are clearly
entering a period which demands a more
cautionary attitude and where continued
monetary success by either employer or
employee will call for much greater
thought and energy on the part of all.
Nothing that any Australian Govern-
ment might do could prevent in the near
future the return of German and Japanese
competition in this market. The effect
upon Australian industries, which have
forgotten what foreign competition means,
is bound to be highly disturbing. The
present anti-inflationary restrictions about
which Dr. Evatt is howling to high
heaven should serve a useful purpose in
helping to acclimatise industry to the
rougher times in store, and inculcate that
“greater thought and energy” which, as
Mr. Giddy says, will be exacted of Aus-
tralian employers and workpeople if their
enterprises are to survive.
"Labor" and the Ironworkers
The election of officers for various
branches of the Federated Ironworkers’
Association has amply proved the
need for the Federal Government’s
legislation to provide for secret ballots,
officially supervised, at union polls. For
once the whole Communist system has
been forced to function in the light of
day, with its chicanery, intimidation
and general impropriety exposed and with
its main weapon of forgery ruled out.
In all its nakedness the management of
this seditious organisation does not make
a pretty picture any more than its history
and associations make a pretty story.
It was captured before the war by the
Communists as part of the plan to
make the munition industry “a fortress
of revolution” with a view to turning the
inevitable “imperialist” war against Hitler
into a civil war in the interests of Soviet
Russia. Its war record was such that it
would have been impossible to imagine
its members keeping its council in office
on a straight vote.
It was all for Hitler in 1939-40, and
when civilisation was threatened by
Nazi attacks on the little countries
of Europe and France its secretary
was reported as saying—and did
not deny saying—that he hoped “the
scabs of Downing-street would be
defeated.” It told its members when war
broke out that war-time was the workers’
opportunity to improve their conditions,
and that they should use their strength
to blackmail higher wages out of the
industries producing arms for defence.
Its attitude to the war effort was one
of resistance in accordance with the
Communist line until Hitler attacked
Russia, when its councillors changed
direction overnight with the rest of the
Communist bodies. In November, 1941,
they held a council meeting which
authorised a special issue- of the “Iron-
worker” to demand aid for the Soviet
Union. The general secretary, Thornton,
was applauded when he declared that
though the workers had been reluctant
to arm the British Commonwealth while
the war was an “imperialist” war they
would enthusiastically build tanks to save
“the workers’ only fatherland,” Soviet
Russia.
In June, 1942, Thornton, as general
secretary, issued a report, approved by
the council, of which the composition
was very much the same as in 1951 (the
same methods of keeping the council
permanently in office being applied as
operate in the Kremlin). In this report he
reviewed the past and adumbrated the
future. He wrote unblushingly of the
early period of the war before the en-
forced entry of Russia had changed its
nature: —
Our union has deliberately and in a
planned way been involved in more strikes
than any other union in the last few years.
These were not just sporadic strikes that
are typical of the coalfields, but planned
strikes, because we made strikes our busi-
ness.
He expressed the view that “Australia
would be at least as good a country as
the Soviet Union, provided it had a
Government of a similar character to that
of the Soviet Government.”
The union leadership consistently
favored the defence of the Soviet Union
in preference to the defence of Aus-
tralia, and its official organ bitterly
attacked those who held that the security
of this country should come first. One
holder of this view it vilified in 1943 as
“alternating between open hostility to
the Soviet Union and attacks on Com-
munists in general and a sickening ‘Aus-
tralia for Australians’ sentiment”
In 1945, by a monstrous proceeding,
Thornton forced himself on the “Labor*
movement as an alternate delegate to the
Paris Conference, and the Federal
“Labor” Government paid his expenses
thither and later to the World Trade
Union Conference in London. From
then onward he spent some of his time
each year abroad brazenly organising with
Moscow agents for the downfall of the
British Commonwealth and its allies.
Eventually, when it seemed certain that
Mr. Menzies intended serious action
against Communist organisations, he felt
it safer to retire to Peking, where he
would be out of reach. He is perhaps a
wise man, and no doubt, in the light of
the revelations of Mr. Justice Dunphy’s
inquiry, there are many other Com-
munists associated with unionism who
wish that they had shown a like discre-
tion.
Communist control is being thrown off
by the Ironworkers at the very first
attempt under the Government’s new
system, and what has come to light
already is enough to justify an all-out
searching inquiry by a royal commission
armed with the widest powers.
Of course, any inquiry into the opera-
tions and finances of all Communist
unions would be opposed by official
“Labor” as an infringement of workers’
rights and of the liberty of the subject.
With a few exceptions, like Messrs.
Calwell and Mullens, who carried
on a war against Comrade Thornton
and his strange balance-sheets even
at a time when he was one of the
Prime Minister’s official advisers on the
conduct of the war, “Labor” has set its
whole weight against interference with
Communist activities.
It was claimed that “Labor ’ can
manage the affairs of its movement and
that it has its own means in the industrial
groups to oust the Reds; but the fact
remains that it has never lifted a finger
to help the industrial groups, has often
(through its Mr. Ferguson and others who
have drifted in from the Communist
party) poured cold water on the efforts
of those groups and vigorously fought
against all attempts to remove the control
of union management from Communist
bosses to the rank-and-file through the
use of the secret ballot.
The first real attempt to introduce the
secret ballot, indeed, made by the Bruce-
Page Government 23 years ago, was one
of the rocks on which that Administration
foundered. Had “Labor” supported the
legislation then brought forward by Mr.
Latham, later Chief Justice of the High
Court, the Communists would never have
obtained control of the unions or been
able to turn them to traitorous uses. But
“Labor’s” attitude was then, as always,
that it is better to have traitors in com-
mand than to subject the bosses of the
movement to worker-control through the
ballot-box. As the official organ of
“Labor,” the “Standard,” put it in June,
1945, “only an innocent or a knave would
try and influence the political ‘Labor’
movement to interfere with internal union
matters,” adding that “it is not the pur-
pose of the ‘Labor’ party to disrupt the
trade-union movement by fighting a
guerrilla war with the Communists for
official positions in the unions. Who
unions appoint to official positions is not
the affair of the ‘Labor’ party.”
No doubt by 1945 the A.L.P. was not
in a position to take any attitude other
than that expressed, for the great indus-
trial trade-union blocs so far controlled
A.L.P. finance, at least in the key State
of N. S. Wales, that they could say
whether or no that body should continue
to exist. In 1928, however, when the
Bruce-Page legislation was introduced,
“Labor” was not in a cleft stick; but it
threw away its chance to keep command
of its own destiny, hurriedly repealing the
amendments to the Arbitration Act intro-
duced by Mr. Bruce, so soon as the Scullin
Government was in office. Mr. Brennan,
the Attorney-General of that time, char-
acterised Section 56, subsections a-g
inclusive (which provided for secret
ballots) as “ineffective,” the “subject of
much controversy and bad feeling,” and
“rightly regarded as an inexcusable inter-
ference with the self-government of
organisations.”
“Labor” cannot have it both ways. It
is either for the continuance of Com-
munist control in the interests of a hostile
foreign Power or it is against it and pre-
pared to co-operate in a national effort to
remove the cancer before it is too late.
Delegation with a Mace.
The ceremony of presenting the new
mace, sent 12,000 miles from the
Commons House of the Mother of Par-
liaments to that of the youngest great
white Dominion, lent a touch of dignity
to an otherwise raucous ending to the
Federal session.
The glittering bauble itself was awe-
inspiring in its magnitude, and there was
something moving to the onlookers about
the whole business. Even the legislator
who, a few moments before the British
delegation entered the chamber, greeted
the arrival of Senators in the upper
gallery with a cry of “Possums in the
roof, Mr. Speaker,” appeared to feel
something of the significance of the
ceremony.
The leader of the British Parliamentary
delegation, the Rt. Hon. Richard Kidston
Law, M.P. for one of the divisions of
ancient Kingston-on-Hull, is tall, dignified
and a polished speaker on the best Par-
liamentary model. In bearing and stature
he resembles his father, Bonar Law, the
first Canadian- or Dominion-born citizen
to hold the great office of Prime Minister
of Britain.
He is a journalist who has served in
England on the old “Morning Post” ; in
the United States the “Herald Tribune”
and the Philadelphia “Public Ledger”—
like Winston Churchill, he married an
American. He is widely travelled. Aus-
tralia is his last continent. He has been
in the Commons for 20 years, elected at
30, has been Financial Secretary to the
War Office, Minister of State for two
critical years which saw the war won, and
Minister for Education in the last year
of the National Government when the
war ended.
To represent Labor the Commons sent
David Rhys Grenfell, M.P. for the Gower
division of Glamorgan, and another
Privy Councillor; he is a sturdy Welsh-
man married to a Victorian wife, to
whom he paid moving tribute in his
address to the House. He has been
to Australia before, in 1940. He
went underground in the mines him-
self at 12 and stayed there till he
was 35. By his own effort he educated
himself and became a qualified colliery-
manager. He was Minister for Mines
in the National Government during
the first two hard years of Mr.
Churchill’s administration. Bred in a


harder school of mining than ever was
seen in Australia, he is no pessimist.
When he spied W. M. Hughes in
King’s Hall in Canberra he rushed up to
him and burst into a torrent of what
among men of Harlech passes for human
speech. And those present drew reverently
apart to leave them to it, wishing that
David Low had been there at last to hear
Mr. Hughes spoken to in Welsh.
Last in the delegation, which is
accompanied by Mr. T. G. B. Cocks,
0.8. E., a senior clerk in the Clerk of the
House’s Department, is Mr. Joseph
Grimond, the youngest member who
represents the Liberals, now reduced
almost to a minority of one. He is 38,
“tall, dark and handsome” in the manner
of the very far-north and M.P. for what
mi£ht be called the last outpost of
Liberalism —the most northerly con-
stituency in the British Empire, Orkney
and Shetland. Scapa Flow is in his elec-
torate, but he was educated at Eton and
Balliol, a college in Oxford once highly
popular with Australians. He took a
brilliant first-class in politics, philosophy
and economics, and in 1937 was called to
the Bar in the Middle Temple, and was
Harmsworth Scholar. In the war he
served with the Fife and Forfar
Yeomanry, and ended it as a major on
the staff of the 53rd Division. After-
wards he was for two years Director of
Personnel in U.N.R.R.A.’s European
office, and then for two years secretary
of the Scottish National Trust. He is not
only a Liberal by conviction but by
association, since he married a Bonham
Carter, a granddaughter of H. H.
Asquith, last of the great Liberals.
The most remarkable feature of the
ceremony in which these visitors were
the leading actors was that though the
members of the company had never
rehearsed together, their rendering of
their act was all of a piece. The Parlia-
mentarianism of R. G. Menzies and A. G.
Cameron, two Scots of Highland ancestry
and Australian birth, and their knowledge
of custom and tradition fitted so
smoothly-with that of the visitors, despite
upbringings hemispheres apart, that no
onlooker from Mars could have doubted
that they were all fruit off the same tree.
MOLONGLO.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Uneasy "Peace."
The Communist party swiftly made
propaganda of Mr. Churchill’s speculation
that the world situation has become more
promising for peace. It was blared round
the world with false implications within
a few hours of its being uttered.
If the position is more hopeful it is
only because of the mounting strength of
the Atlantic Powers and the new element
injected into the international situation by
the defeat of the Attlee Government.
But in Egypt there is spreading terror-
ism. The British forces hold the Suez
Canal only by armed strength. From
the Adriatic to the Sea of Japan across
Asia all is warlike movement in the
north and disruption and chaos in the
south. Yugoslavia during the week issued
a report showing the presence of vast
Iron Curtain forces, built up in defiance
of peace treaties, and menacing the
Danubian borders. Turkey, also with
enemy troops massed on her borders
(which are being cleared for action on
the Russian side), and threatened with
reprisals for her adherence to the Atlantic
Pact, announced the death penalty for
Communist conspirators. Syria is in
revolution. Palestine is politically split
by the Communist and fellow-traveller
bloc.
Persia at the weekend feared
revolution, and 21 editors hurriedly took
refuge in Parliament House at Tehran
against the coming storm. It appears that
they have been “threatened by thugs sup-
porting Dr. Moussadek’s Government,”
who claim that they are in the pay of
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. Burma
is uneasy, and the farcical armistice talks
in Korea are about as successful as the
Four Power talks on disarmament in
Paris. Both are the playthings of the
Communist world-propaganda machine.
The Communists are determined that
neither shall succeed. Australian Chinese
are being blackmailed by the Chinese
Communist Government, which holds
their relatives.
The building-up of military strength
goes on behind the Iron Curtain;
snow falls on the Korean hills. The
situation everywhere is to be summed-up
in the words which Air-Marshal Bladin,
returning to Melbourne after a 17-day
visit to the battle-front, applied to Korea:
“The enemy is increasing in numbers,
and no room exists for complacency.”
The Dunstcm Poison.
Mr. Hollway’s predicament in the
Victorian Assembly is much the same as
that of Mr. Hughes in the Common-
wealth Parliament early in 1923, though
of delayed climax. Like Mr. Hughes, he
has been deposed from the leadership by
his party (National then, Liberal now)
because he could not work in partner-
ship with the Country party. The posi-
tion which was saved from stalemate in
the Commonwealth Parliament in 1923
by the election as leader of Mr. S. M.
Bruce could have taken the same lines as
has the wretched Victorian expedient
during the past 18 months if Mr. Hughes
had gone into Opposition and Dr. Earle
Page had formed a Ministry with a hand-
ful of followers with the support of
“Labor,” and had held on to office by
the simple process of doing what Mat
Charlton, rejected by the electors,
required him to do.
It is frequently complained in Sydney
and Melbourne that the prestige of State
Governments has declined because of the
inroads by the usurping Commonwealth
upon their domain as sovereign Govern-
ments. It is to be observed, however,
that juggling with the rolls or refusing
to clean them up has in latter years
deeply discredited politics in most of the
States.
In Queensland the “Labor” dynasty is
an outrage on democracy. In N.S.W. the
political arena has for so long been
accepted as a bear-garden that nobody
expects anything better ; nevertheless, the
McGirr Government has been guilty of
political atrocities which would have
long before this wrecked any previous
Ministry—even in a community so inured
to political mountebankery as that of
New South Wales. But the present Gov-
ernment in Victoria has surely recorded
an all-time low in the scramble for
political office.
It is not Mr. Hollway’s fault. He is,
like Hamlet, mad only when the wind is
from the nor’-nor’-west: that is, the
Country-party wind. He has some cause.
The Country-party leader shared his
victory originally on an anti-Socialist
policy. It was distinctly a Hollway, not
a McDonald, victory, for even in the
country seats Hollway Liberals made
headway at the expense of the Country
party. The nigger in the mallee-root pile
was the late Albert Dunstan, the most
unscrupulous office-broker among all his
kind in Australian State- politics. He was
unappeasable, and Mr. Hollway’s attempt
to appease him betrayed political inno-
cence.
But Mr. Hollway is not free from
•responsibility for the current burlesque
of Parliamentary government. The
Country party had “got his goat.”
The final step on which he tripped
may have been unavoidable, and
may even have been worthy as an
electoral reform. But whatever else
may be said about it, it undoubtedly re-
vealed him as permanently irreconcilable
with the Country party. He proposed to
reorganise the 65 State electorates by
abolishing them and re-creating 66, two
for each of the 33 Victorian Federal
seats, and this plan (fatal to some sitting
country members in his own party as
well as in the C.P.) he offered to the
“Labor” party as an inducement to them
to desert the McDonald Government and
hasten fresh general elections. Apart
from the hostility aroused in his own
following, it was clear that any future
L.-C.P. Ministry under Mr. Hollway
must win office against both “Labor”
and Country-party opposition at the
polls.
The L.-C.P. meeting, by narrow
margin in the voting, deposed both
Mr. Hollway and his deputy leader and
elected the nominees of the rebels who
saw their seats going under the Hollway
reform plan. The new Opposition-
Leader, Mr. Norman, is the youngest
member of the party—as was Mr.
Hollway himself when he succeeded.
And, like Mr. Hollway in those earlier
days, he announces his devotion to con-
solidation of the anti-Socialist forces. To
that end the C.P. alliance has got to be
remade, which implies the need for new
C.P. leadership also.
N.S.W. Lands Resumption.
From J. B. Renshaw, N.S.W. Minister for
Lands: —
The article by Mrs. K. Faulks (B. 7/11/’5l)
presented a not-very-factual and sentimentally-
colored story of the taking-over of the property
Merriginnie, in the Wakool (N.S.W.) district,
for soldier-settlement.
First of all, Merriginnie, along with many
other properties in the area, was proclaimed in
1939 —not for soldier-settlement, but to reserve
to the State the added value that would be got
from having irrigation-water as a result of
public expenditure on the Wakool Irrigation
Scheme, which doubled or even trebled their
value.
Under the proclamation the owners could
not, naturally, be allowed to sell at auction
and capitalise on this added value, so when
they wanted to dispose of the property and
wind up their father’s estate the Faulks family
offered Merriginnie to the Crown for soldier-
settlement at £5 10s. an acre.
It might be pointed put that, at the time,
this 5500-acre property, with irrigation water
available, had only 100 acres of improved
pasture, and was carrying only 3000 sheep.
Following the offer of the property, negotia-
tions on price were conducted with the trustees
of the estate, who, in July, 1949, accepted an
offer of £4 12s. an acre. An agreement for
resumption at this price, with delivery to be
given and payment made on January 4, 1950,
was completed on August 26, 1949.
The resumption was gazetted early in
November, and preparations made to complete
the transaction on time.
Late in December, 1949, it was discovered
that the owners could not satisfy the Crown
Solicitor’s requirements in connection with the
title —a necessary formality in all such transac-
tions, even between private buyers—and the
taking-over and settlement were deferred.
Meanwhile the owners apparently held a
clearing sale, and about the same time a High
Court decision making the Commonwealth-
State War Service Land Settlement Agreement
ineffective was given.
This necessitated State legislation to remove
any doubt as to the validity of the formal
“Gazette” notification of the resumption in
Merriginnie and other cases.
Action had to be again deferred pending the
hearing of an appeal in the Blink Bonnie
case, and it was eventually not till September,
1950, that the legal position was clarified and
the owners were then asked to give possession
on October 31 that year, which they did, having
had possession and full use of the property
up to that date.
Mrs. Faulks complains that the family still
haven’t been paid for the property. That they
haven’t is no fault of the Crown —in fact, no
one’s fault but their own or their legal rep-
resentatives.
It took 15 months to get a reply to the Crown
Solicitor’s title requisitions, and documents for
execution, as a final prerequisite to settlement
of the transaction, still haven’t been returned
after eight months, even though Mrs. Faulks
says they’ve been signed.
That is the case for the Crown, some
of which Mrs. Faulks may contest. But
what is acknowledged on both sides is
that the Crown “proclaimed” the area
and denied the owners the right of open-
market sale in order to take unto itself
the value added to the property by the
irrigation scheme or any other develop-
ment that might have added monetary
value to the property.
As the Minister puts it: “Under the
proclamation the owners could not,
naturally, be allowed to sell at auction
” That is something which will not
be accepted as “natural” by the majority
of Australians, especially as, under N. S.
Wales law, there was no obligation on
the “proclaiming” authority to pay a
just (or even “natural”) price for the
property.
Politics and Silt.
“Abdul Assiz” : In spite of promises by
politicians and the public organisations
controlled by them, and in spite of a
complete absence of such floods as
were alleged to be the prime cause of
silting, the channels of Newcastle Harbor
continue to fill up more quickly than the
several dredges in operation can move
the mud away.
On the night of November 16 the
B.H.P. steamer Iron Knob ran aground
off Dyke End, between the co.’s wharf
and the Basin. The vessel was drawing
23ft, 4in., and had the advantage of a
4ft. tide in a channel which had 25ft.
of water available, according to the
Minister for Public Works. Shortly after
noon on November 30 the vehicular ferry
Lurgurena, with 36 cars and lorries and
several passengers aboard, was stranded
on a mudbank 100 yards from the Stock-
ton terminal, although there was still
about 3i hours to low tide. The punt
was refloated at 7 p.m.
Other similar instances could be
quoted. For instance, on the morning of
November 29 a ferry carrying an ambu-
lance grounded, and the consequences
might have been serious had it not been
possible to refloat the vessel after half-
an-hour.
The drought has, in fact, introduced
complications in addition to continued
silting, for it is now stated that the
sulphur leached from dumps of “chitter”
rejected from opencut coal workings in
the Singleton-Muswellbrook area is
seriously polluting the Hunter River and
destroying vegetation and river life. The
fishing and prawning value of the Hunter
River is stated, at the lowest estimate, to
amount to £lOO,OOO a year. Furthermore,
cattle dependent on the river for water
lose condition and value very rapidly
when that water is polluted.
The Maritime Services Board and the
Department of Public Health recognise
that the situation is now serious, and are
conducting, jointly, a chemical and bio-
logical survey from the harbor entrance
at Nobby’s to Clarencetown and Mait-
land upstream. This project will occupy
about a year.
Whether these trials and tribulations
were or were not the factors which
decided the nomination by the Parlia-
mentarians of Newcastle’s Chamber of
Commerce president (L. B. Saddington)
to the Legislative Council has still to be
proved, but the fact remains that the
new M.L.C, has always been an out-
spoken critic of any political action which
he considered not to be in Newcastle’s
interest. Even more surprisingly, he has
never been a very active member of the
Liberal party, and a disgruntled critic has
described him as a “half-crown member.”
That humble sum, by the way, refers to
the minimum amount which each sup-
porter is expected to pay, annually, into
the party coffers.
Just an Experiment.
When Clive Evatt, Chief Secretary in the
McGirr Cabinet, was sponsoring a bill
forbidding the use of firearms by lads
under 16, he argued that even if “only
one life is saved the bill would be worth
while.”
It is too late for him to apply the same
criterion to the question of rescinding an
order he made some months ago permit-
ting the sale of liquor to aboriginals.
That order, made in the face of contrary
advice from police and others who have
had more experience with abos than the
Chief Secretary has had with foundation-
stones, was a typical Evattian gesture of
faith in the brotherhood and equality of
man.
Last week a quarter-caste aboriginal
was convicted of manslaughter; after
drinking heavily, he had punched and
kicked a woman—also under the influence
of liquor—who was subsequently found
dead. A police-sergeant from the Single-
ton district, in which the tragedy occurred,
told the trial judge that in his opinion
aborigines were much more affected by
drink than the average white man; once
they had had a couple of drinks they
were not normal. He said that in his
district, on authority given by the Chief
Secretary, “they are being served with
anything.” The judge said he was satisfied
that the man was not a criminal in the
ordinary sense of the word and that he
had no intention of killing the woman;
drink was the cause of the crime.
According to the Crown Prosecutor the
lifting of the ban was an experiment. If
this is so, then it is time the Chief Sec-
retary considered the results of his experi-
ment. A woman is dead who in the
opinion of a Supreme Court judge would
still be alive had the man responsible for
her death not been under the influence of
liquor. If Mr. Evatt considers the pos-
sible (but unprovable) saving of one life
sufficient justification for his firearm-ban
he should surely accept the forfeiture of
one life as evidence that his experiment
is, at the very least, premature. If he
genuinely wants to raise the status of
aboriginals he can surely find better ways.
One way would be to urge Parliament
to grant full civil rights to selected natives
proving themselves capable of accepting
the concomitant responsibilities. This
would give all aboriginals an incentive to
strive for —the goal of citizenship. The
Chief Secretary’s gift of the equality of
the public-house or wine-bar offers them
only an easier path to degradation and a
speedier extinction of their race.
McGirr and the Miners.
The five-weeks strike at the two Stock-
rington collieries over the right of the
management to dismiss an employee for
abusive language to an under-manager—
a right thrice upheld by the local coal
authority and confirmed by the Coal
Tribunal —has finally been settled by an
agreement, also previously resisted by the
miners’ executive, that the man shall be
found work at another mine. Most of the
collieries in the northern field were sub-
jected to one-day-a-week stoppages in the
same cause. It cost about 60,000 tons of
coal.
The strike contained all the ingredients
of the defiant attitude towards arbitration
by the Communist-bossed miners’ execu-
tive evinced before the general coal strike
of 1949, There is a deliberate campaign
cooking against the Coal Tribunal, for
which the miners’ leaders have sought
aid from the McGirr Government in
N.S.W. in objecting to joint legislation
proposed by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment (and already passed by the Com-
monwealth Parliament) to give the Coal
Tribunal power to enforce his awards.
On an unforgettable occasion after the
1949 coal strike the miners’ leaders,
having been jailed for contempt of an
Arbitration Court order, were resum-
moned to the court at their own request
to purge their contempt and apologise,
and gave solemn undertakings that hence-
forth in their conduct of the union they
would observe awards of the court as
(Continued on next page.)


v ' 'r
so*
4202
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specialty lb
pwerit sMettwmk
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m
superior to decisions of the union execu-
tive. The Coal Industry Tribunal is a
special branch of the court set up
originally on the miners’ demand to deal
with disputes in their industry.
In mid-November the miners’ triennial
convention heard the executive deliver an
attack on the tribunal, describing it as
“clearly fitting into the general tactics of
the Menzies-Fadden Government of
getting more and cheaper coal at the
expense of the mineworkers and reducing
mining unionism to impotence.” On this
pretext the Communist-sponsored motion
declared:
Any policy of reliance on the tribunal
to maintain our long-standing rights and
conditions would be suicidal. We ask
members to be prepared to force the issue
of our vital claims with coalowners and
direct that discussions be initiated im-
mediately throughout the federation on
tactics to be adopted to win the demands.
At the compulsory conference called
10 days later by the tribunal on the
Stockrington strike this exchange took
place between the tribunal and the
miners’ representative, Communist
Comerford:
Mr Gallagher: Supposing by agreement
or in some other way I re-heard the case
and reached a decision adverse to the
federation, where would we be? dust
where we are now?
Comerford: That would be the case.
The tribunal told the conference that he
had read the transcript of the hearings
before the local coal authority, and if
the abusive words complained of had
been used (as the local coal authority
found they had) he would not have
ordered reinstatement: “not if every
mine in Australia closed —not if the
Stockringtons did not work for the next
three years.”
The McGirr Government in N.S.W.
is reluctantly introducing comple-
mentary legislation (under Joint Coal
Board arrangements) to that passed by
the Commonwealth. This legislation is
aimed at bringing mining craft-unions
under the miners’ special arbitration
bodies—a provision necessary in replace-
ment of war-time national security regu-
lations, which are being challenged by
Queensland employers in the High Court
—and at giving the Coal Tribunal the
increased powers to make and enforce
awards. The miners’ executive asked the
McGirr Government to object to the
latter provision, and Premier McGirr
dutifully informed the Prime Minister
that the N.S.W. Government “bitterly
Opposed” it and was agreeing tq Jhe
legislation only under protest.
The Communists still dominate
“Labor” when “Labor” is in power, as
in N.S.W. Those on the miners’ execu-
tive have persistently declared that as a
matter of principle they refuse to accept
arbitration for settlement of disputes. It
is now up to Mr. McGirr to say which
policy “Labor,” as represented by him-
self, accepts.
POLITICAL POINTS
Although remarkable unanimity was
shown by N. S. Wales Parliamentarians
on the subject of increasing their own
emoluments the arguments they brought
forward were, to say the least, poorly co-
ordinated. Supporting the bill to increase
Assemblymen’s pensions. Bridges, M.L.C.,
said that if a member engaged in business
or a profession “or in fact any occupation
worthy of his talents” he was likely to
earn more outside Parliament than inside
it. His colleague Concannon, while sup-
porting bigger pensions, was all against
higher contributions because the superan-
nuation fund was really “a provident
fund created by those in employment to
help those who lose their seats.” Accord-
ing to the first gentleman’s argument the
politician who loses his seat is really
better off financially ; he is again free to
take on an occupation “worthy of his
talents.”
Sir George Knox, former Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly, now a member
of the L.-C.P. Opposition, is opposed to
the payroll tax, as applied to State Gov-
ernment wage-bills. He doubts its
legality and cannot see any sense in it
because “we have the King, in one
capacity, paying a tax to the King in
another capacity.” That’s probably why
the royal trousers have always been made
with two pockets.
Rumors that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment was about to sell its interest in
Commonwealth Oil Refineries brought
Billy Hughes up on his hind-legs with
the remark that he wouldn’t be a bit sur-
prised after the sale of A.W.A. and that
“one of these days we may wake up to
find that Sydney has been sold.” The
old warhorse’s pessimism was premature ;
Cabinet decided against the sale of C.O.R.
As far as can be ascertained no offers
have been received for Sydney.
It is quite in keeping with the condition
of topsyturvydom in which foreign
affairs are conducted today that at a time
when British soldiers are being murdered
by Egyptian police and terrorists Anthony
Eden should have to admit in the
Commons that about 50 Egyptian
officers and n.c.os. are at present being
trained in Britain. Eden refused to stop
training members of the Egyptian services,
saying that the Egyptian Army was
among the most friendly elements in
Egypt towards Britain.
All electricity restrictions in N. S.
Wales will be lifted from December 19
to January 14. This presumably means
that during that period blackouts will be
on a catch-as-catch-can basis instead of
an organised roster.
Before the McGrrrrrs rushed home for
Christmas —a tenner a week better off —
they bumped through two bills bumping
up registration fees on motor-vehicles.
New fee on private cars is 3s. 4d. for
every 561 b. weight, increases on goods-
carrying vehicles range from 2s. 6d. for
light panel-vans to 82s. 6d. on two-ton
jobs and more for bigger trucks ; pretty
well all concessions and rebates are wiped
out, and farmers’ exemptions have gone
west. No prizes are offered for anybody
who can guess what increased services
motor-owners get in return ; meantime the
roads continue to fall into ruin and it’s
anybody’s guess as to the effect on living
costs. Still, the McGrrrrrs are not noted
for worrying about the effects of their
legislation on living costs.
One reason why the post-office hasn’t
been able to pay its way this past few
years seems now to be, in part, explained.
They have arrested three P.M.G. “driver-
collectors” in Melbourne who admitted
having stolen pennies from public tele-
phone-boxes for 10 years, two years and
18 months, respectively, two of them
admitting also up to £lO a week and the
third £6 a week. The department’s
methods of checking public calls and
receipts is apparently so slack that it was
ignorant of the loss, and some time may
have to elapse before it is prompted to
investigate whether the same sort of thing
is going on in other postal areas.
An Italian scientist named Alecie
claims to have found a drug to restore
youth. It might be the shot for Italians ;
what Australians need is a drug to restore
sanity.
The general attitude towards the adoles-
cent youths who, affecting strange hair-
dos and stranger garb, style themselves
“bodgies,” and their female counterparts
the “widgies,” has been one of amused
tolerance, but a case which came before
Judge Nield at the Parramatta Quarter
Sessions last week suggests that it is time
for a reappraisal. Sentencing an 18-year-
old lad to 12 months’ hard labor for
carnally knowing a girl of 11 who had
been led to believe that to be initiated as
a “widgie” she would have to be intimate
with seven bodgies, in the presence of ten
others, the judge said;
The bodgie and widgie cult is an anti-
social organisation encouraging an anti-
social outlook and a collapse of sexual
morality. I have noticed that most of these
young people have the opinion that it is
foolish to work for a living.
It would be unfair to assume that every
youngster who adopts a queer hair-style
and an outlandish costume is a menace
to society—adolescents in any generation
will follow the current fad —but as a
result of the judge’s strictures the barbers
may expect a rush of business in the next
week or so, while parents of chick
“widgies” will be flat-out to wean them
away from the cult before they become
fully fledged.
Senator Gorton (Lib., Vic.) puts the
matter clearly:
What is important is not that we are giving
the States £l6O million in £1 notes but that
we are giving them steel, cement, houses and
manpower which, at present prices, cost £l6O
million and that we are denying that steel,
cement and manpower to the population which
would otherwise use them for its own needs.
What is important is not that we are providing
£lBO million in £1 notes for defence require-
ments, but that we are providing steel ingots,
coal and electric power for defence purposes
which would otherwise be used by the people.
It is obvious that if the people are to purchase
a reasonable supply of commodities production
must be increased. The increase in production
is in their own hands.
A sort of “You did!” “I didn’t!”
argument broke out in N.S.W. when, at
the trial of a half-caste for murder,
counsel mentioned that victim and
accused were drunk at the time, and that
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Clive Evatt had
lifted the embargo on liquor to colored
people of native birth. Counsel said he
had been informed that the ban had been
lifted at the request of the R.S.L. Next
day the R.S.L. denied this, saying that
all it had done was request that
aboriginals who had served in the fight-
ing forces, and had a badge to prove it,
should be exempt from the ban.
When the Victorian Liberals tried to
introduce a bill amending the Landlord
and Tenant Act “Labor’’-leader Cain
accused them of acting under pressure
from property-owners; Cain’s party,
while howling inflation and high prices,
insists on pegging rents at 1942 levels.
Tenants control considerably more votes
than owners; Cain acts under pressure
of the tenant-vote and McDonald under
pressure of Cain. Before the Libs made
their attempt to have their bill discussed
“Labor” officials made it clear that if
the Country party even considered it they
would pull the props from McDonald’s
minority Government.
According to a report submitted by
U.N.E.5.C.0., Australasia is the most
literate of the six continents. The finding
was apparently based on newspaper-
“readership” and sales of books. Not,
evidently, on broadcast Parliamentary
debates.
Using the excuse that private motorists
park their cars so that lorry- and van-
drivers can’t pull in to deliver and pick up
goods, Melbourne Transport Workers’
Union has banned delivery of all goods
in Melbourne as from December 17. The
union seems to think this will cause
private motorists to keep out of the city.
It won’t, of course, nor will it achieve
anything else save loss and confusion.
This seems to be the main aim of too
many unions at the moment.
Told that hordes of fruit-bats were
devastating orchards around Sydney and
along the N.S.W. north coast, Premier
McGrrrrr asked Army Minister Francis
to “release 10,000 rounds of ammunition
stored at Victoria Barracks for the de-
struction of flying-foxes.” Does this
mean the Army has stores of 12-gauge
and .410 shotgun cartridges, or does Mr.
McGirr propose to down the pests with
massed musketry-fire using .303 ball
cartridge?
Within 24 hours of Royal assent to a
bill empowering Queensland Fish Board
to acquire all fish in the State, an inspector
seized a consignment of fish from Tweed
Heads (N.S.W.), Within an hour or so
of that the catchers of the fish issued a
High Court writ challenging the State
fish laws on the ground that they infringed
Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution. And once more the legal fight
is on.
In view of the attacks made in the
Soviet Press on the British expedition
that is attempting to conquer Mt. Everest
—the climbers are accused of being “cun-
ning agents of British imperialism” who
are making the climb for “political and
military espionage”—there shouldn’t be
much mystery about the identity of the
“abominable snowman” whose footprints
have been noticed on Everest. Obviously
Uncle Joe’s been there.
In Sydney, where it now costs 6d. to
travel over what was once one section
at 2d., a passenger asked a tram-guard
for “Over the fence.” “What’s that?”
“Well, it’s a sixer at cricket and a slug
on the trams.” And the tram-guard pulled
him a 6d. ticket.
“We fear silence, and we surrender to
the tyranny of meaningless noise” —“We
fear solitude and we become puppets in
a crowd” —“We fear contemplative
thought and we enmesh ourselves in
feverish activity.” Three fears of modern
life according to a London neurologist.
The first explains Canberra and Parlia-
mentary broadcasts, the second the growth
of bureaucracy, and the third the lunch-
hour rush into the centre of any big city.
Haricot Hansard:
Foreigners? (Federal Hansard, p. 2020): —■
Mr. Tom Burke (Lab., Perth): 1 have
difficulty in understanding the honorable
member for Riverina [Mr. Roberton],
Mr. Speaker: Order! The honorable
member for Riverina and I are descended
from a race that does not speak English.
Nothing like a well-dressed statistic (Federal
Hansard, p. 2033): —
Mr. Bruce (Lab., Leichhardt): I suggest
that figures arc not very entertaining unless
they are dressed in crcpe-de-chene or geor-
gette.
Colly’s Comet? (Federal Hansard, p. 2041'): —
Mr. Fairhall (Lib., Paterson): Having
lit a rocket, the honorable member (Mr.
Cal well] expects us to grab it by the tail.
Order of Precedence (Victorian Hansard, p.
160):
The Hon. J. W. Galballv: Under the
vagrancy sections of the Police Offences
Act it is a kind of inverted peerage. We
have rogues and vagabonds, incorrigible
rogues and idle and disorderly persons;
but, like the terms in the Peerage, they are
really meaningless today, and I suggest,
with very great respect to honorable mem-
bers who hold titles, that this kind of
inverted Peerage could be abolished.
“Caparisons are odorous” (S.A . Hansard, p.
1395):
Mr. Quirk (Ind.): The nearest approach
to the rotten smell of pasteurised milk is
the smell of a dead snake which has been
hanging on the fence for a week.


GALLANTRY.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Clooter”: Since I’m now mates with
pretty well everybody I deal with, I’m
sure nobody will mind my pointing out
that though we’re probably the most
matey crowd you could run into, the
thing has its limits. I’m no longer
astonished when an office-boy asks,
“How’s the time, mate?” or when the
most pompous member of our golf club
is asked by a freckle-faced kid, “Want a
caddie, mate?” or even when a traffic-cop
orders me into the kerb and opens pro-
ceedings with “Where do y’ think y’re
going, mate?” Still, it was a distinct
shock when I telephoned “Inquiries” at
the G.P.O. to be greeted with “What can
I do for you, mate?” and another when a
waiter at a Blue Mountains posh hotel
said, “Are you having the ontray, mate?”
Then there was a bus-conductress who
blithely informed me, “This is a mini-
mum-fare bus, mate.” But it fell to a
young friend of mine to encounter the
acme of comradeship when, homing late
from a party, he met a strange lady on
the footpath who said, “Looking for a
girl, mate?”
& ’ .* * * *
“Pat”: Trying to satisfy a middle-aged
female with a new whodunit, the librarian
said: “You’ve read all the English mys-
teries in the shop. Wouldn’t you like to
try an American author for a change?”
“No,” replied the lady decidedly. “I
don’t like the American slang. I don’t
understand it.” “Well,” said the librarian,
“what about an Australian mystery?
There’s a good one here, set in King’s
Cross.” The hard-to-please one was
horrified. “Oh, no,” she refused firmly.
“That wouldn’t suit me at all. I live at
the Cross, and I only read for relaxation.”
* * * *
“Irving”: “Hamer’s” description of
his 1918 Armistice Day (B. 7/11/’5l)
reminds me of the odyssey of Lofty,
our mob’s most-abandoned no-hoper.
Lofty was making his way through the
lines at the
transit camp at
Oonoo m b a,
N.Q., when
news arrived
that Tojo had
thrown it in.
His glance fell
upon a set of
freshly - laun-
dered R.S.M.’s
regimentals on
a bunk in
an unoccupied tent. Lofty’s promotion
was instantaneous. Thus suitably garbed,
he descended upon every sergeants’ mess
within hitchhiking range. The celebra-
tion proper ended in concussion from a
fall down the back stairs of a pub, but
for Lofty it was but the beginning of a
hectic progress through a series of hos-
pitals, in which he received all the
deference due to the exalted rank of
W. 0.1, beside which holders of com-
missions are small potatoes. It was three
months before Lofty’s papers, circulating
through the labyrinth channels of Red
Tape, caught up with him at the Dis-
charge Depot, where, awaiting his decant-
ing into Civvy-street, he was, despite his
concealed status of full-private, doing a
good job as C.S.M. I don’t know how
the brasshats, evidently seized with the
humor of the situation, managed to
wangle it, but Lofty has his papers show-
ing him discharged with the substantive
rank of sergeant, though in his period of
service he never reached lance-jack level.
* * *
“C.A.L.”: Service photographers who
during the war recorded in minute detail
the terrain thousands of feet below while
being carried in planes flying hundreds of
“I must get this slocking finished before Christmas Eve."
miles an hour must have had marvellous
cameras, but they had nothing on a
“shutter-box” owned by a keen amateur
in our shop. His masterpiece is a picture
taken from Bulli Lookout (N.S.W.). It
shows the beach, two miles away and a
thousand feet below. People on the beach
don’t actually stand out in the third
dimension, but one can tell their sex by
noting that the males wear trunks and
the females either the two-piece brassiere-
type or strapless one-piece swimsuits.
When anyone asks to see this photo the
owner’s plea is that it is mislaid for the
present, but when he finds it he’ll be only
too eager to bring it along for the sceptics
to see.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: In Shanghai in the early
days of the Chinese Revolution both sides
augmented their party funds by the simple
process of picking up wealthy merchants
in the International Pale and running
them over the border into China proper.
A letter to relatives would follow,
demanding an enormous ransom, or else.
If the money was not forthcoming the
relatives would receive per post a toe or
“ Regulations , Miss. No dogs allowed on the beach."
finger allegedly belonging to the merchant,
plus a reminder that so long as they didn’t
pay up the old gentleman would gradu-
ally be pared down until they got him
all back. Usually the cash was sent.
Rich Chinese ceased to patronise taxis
for a long time for fear they might take
the wrong turning and land them across
the border, and it was generally asserted
that the system was the financial back-
bone of Chiang’s Kuo-min-tang organisa-
tion. The Chinaman doesn’t change
much, but the boot is on the other foot
now. A number of Chinese market-
agents in Melbourne and Sydney have
received notes from Communist China
demanding ransom for relatives held in
custody.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Life has always
seemed to be just a pain in the neck for
a friend of mine. He had mumps and
diphtheria as a kid and quinsey when he
was adult; if he could not get a pillow
that would exactly fit he woke up with a
stiff neck ; it would crick painfully it he
turned his head suddenly, and it invari-
ably got the worst issue of any sunburn
that caught him. When he didn’t have a
boil on it outside he had a sore throat
inside; and several times he nearly
choked with fish-bones. Last summer
whilst swimming he broke his neck when
he hit the bottom in a dive. Modem
surgery has put him back into circula-
tion with nothing worse than a per-
manently stiff neck. This is the curious
part: since his accident he has had no
more throat troubles, no colds, no boils
and no painful stiffness after sleeping.
The only way he gets it in the neck
nowadays is by the violence of the ties
some of his relatives are sending him for
Christmas presents.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Quite agree with “Irving”
(B. 14/11/’5l) on the antiquity of appen-
dicitis. An interesting treatise on the ills
of primitive peoples by Professor A. S.
Yahouda suggests that, from evidence
revealed in ancient tombs, all that is new
in many diseases is modern nomenclature.
Appendicitis is not listed, but so many
kindred ills are mentioned that it is
reasonable to suppose that it existed.
Ulcers have been traced, so have cancers
in various parts of the body, though, like
T. 8., these were not common. Arthritis,
mastoids, hardening of the arteries and
stone in the bladder have all been encoun-
tered, and the mummy of a priestess of
Amon who died at Thebes about 1000 b.c.
shows the presence of gallstones.
* *
“Uramao”: Described as a laborer,
though it is difficult to see how he fitted
the laboring into the brief periods
between his 54 convictions, a 68-year-old
New Zealander who had spent the gieatei
part of his life in jail had another month
added to the grand total the other day
when he was up before the Beak for theft.
Apparently determined that the grass
should not grow under his feet while free
for a short space, he had entered the
garage of the Commissioner of Police and
pinched a lawnmower.
* * * *
“Mullum”: On my way to a place I
had visited only once previously, I knew
1 would recognise it when I saw it, but
had no idea of the name of the street.
When the conductor came along 1 handed
him a zac and asked for “Six perm orth,
please.” He tore off the ticket and in-
quired, “Shall I wrap it up, or will you
eat it here?”
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Mention of contre-
temps” at launching or dedication cere-
monies (B. 28/11/’5l) sent my mind back
to Raymond Griffiths, a dead-pan actor
of the silent movies, always faultlessly
attired in topper, tails, striped pants and
spats, who got more laughs in a halt-
minute’s mute miming than today s wise-
crackers get in a whole film. In one
production he was cast as an expatriate
prince of a Ruritanian kingdom returning
home after a long stay in New York. His
return was marked with a succession ot
ceremonies at which he performed with
the same wistful expression. His first
function was the launching of a giant
ship which, after the breaking of the
champagne bottle, slid smoothly down the
slipway to Davy Jones’s locker witn
hardly a gurgle. In the second ceremony
a new fire-engine blew up, in his hands,
as it were, when he threw the switch.
A bridge which he opened collapsed when
he cut the ribbon on which it was seem-
ingly dependent for its existence as a
composite structure. The climax was his
wedding ceremony, in which the
magnesium-flare used by a photographei
exploded with a flash which transformed
the prince’s features to those of a blacka-
moor. I have never attended an inaugural
ceremony without an inner quaking pro-
voked by fear of an anticlimax along
the lines of those in which my boyhood
idol starred.
DE GUSSIEBUS NON EST
DISPUTANDUM.
[A Pindaric Ode.]
“Miss (‘Gorgeous’) Gussie Moran, the American
champion tennis-player, who startled Wimbledon with
lace-edged pants, has arrived in Australia to write
about tennis and things, but somewhat disinclined
to discuss The Pants.”
I. i.
When Daphne fled the ardent God of Song
Through somnolent woods and over lichened
stone,
She screamed for form’s sake as she limped along,
Thinking they were alone.
The Fates, amused
At being so ill-used,
Arranged that Mistress Ge should hear
And seize a mother’s chance to interfere.
I. ii.
Yes, Mother Ge, that envious harridan,
Just as the flower was shuddering to the bee,
Snatched her fair daughter from the superman
And changed her to a tree,
Remarked with oily zest
That all was for the best
And, posed as Parenthood that grieves.
Shadowed the smooth limbs in a lace of leaves.
I. iii.
Whence Apollo in his grief
Has decreed the laurel leaf
To the seeker after fame;
And the winner of the race —
The boxer bathed in blood,
The poet burnt with artificial fire,
The twanger of the momentary lyre—
Must bind his brow with leafy lace,
Poor Daphne’s mortifying crown of good,
The empty triumph of a game.
11. i.
In later years, the wreath was given up
When sport invoked the spirit of the learn,
Inurning it in a convivial cup,
The tennis-player’s dream,
Until a maid
Who made the grade
Revived the garland, but as twins,
And draped the Seat of Glory in step-ins.
11. ii.
This modern Daphne has incurred no change;
It is her followers who freeze instead,
Apollos of the tennis-court, whose strange
Swivelling Hydra-head
Has been replaced
By the abased
Stare at one section of the court
Of Rodin’s Thinker, petrified in thought.
11. iii.
Something in Apollo died
When he thus was mummified ;
Gorgeous Gussie’s elegance
Left the male sex incomplete—
The boxer with his clout,
The soldier waving flags of victory,
The husband urging his authority,
Bow to the shame of their defeat
Since all have seen their one advantage out —
For she alone can wear The Pants.
111. i.
Nor was her victory at tennis all
Of Gorgeous Gussie’s triumph over men,
For she went on from racket and from ball
To conquest of the pen
Among the tribes
Of common scribes
Who deal in underwear, it’s true.
But mostly keep their own from public view.
111. ii.
Therefore the glamorous Amazon has earned
The double decoration of the frill,
Which in the street may rarely be discerned
But, we presume, is still
To be found
Hanging round
(Twin circles of the liveliest lace)
Or marching out of step, while keeping pace.
111. iii.
Gorgeous Gussie, hide no more
The filigrees that once you wore,
For all who rise above the norm
Can teach the others to behave,
And you should do so now;
The modesty of authorship, for some,
We authors know, is hard to overcome,
But as you were, you can be, brave,
And wear your double triumph on your brow
That all the world may know your form.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Bo”: In the matter of his dental and
claw equipment the tyke, in comparison
with the cat, was handed a rather raw
deal by Nature when it comes to dealing
with his parasitic pests. Tom is often
able to save his own life by his ability to
hook ticks out of his hide with the claws
he always keeps at needle-sharpness ; and
I have seen him tugging those bloated,
revolting-looking things out with his teeth.
Towser’s claws are ill adapted to the task,
But for good light entertainment there is
nothing better than to watch him using
his otherwise-efficient set of tombstones
on a task for which they were never
intended. Locating one or more fleas on
a limb, he gnaws his way methodically
“What d' yer mean she's like me! That's a five-bob caulie!"
along it with admirable strategy but
pathetic optimism. Pulex irritans merely
has to lie flat along his host’s epidermis
and Towser’s tatts do no more than
administer to him an invigorating
massage, which has the effect of making
him more aggressive. This in turn leads
to greater massage-nibbling activity by
the hound, leading again to even greater
flea-aggression. In short, it is a vicious
spiral very like that of the basic-wage-
increase—price-rise. No wonder there is
such a strong bond of sympathy between
man and his old friend.
“Edx”: Luigi was the star witness at
the coroner’s inquest, and his evidence
was being taken down in longhand by a
clerk who had the task of silent trans-
lation of the witness’s broken English
added to his normal one. Presently
Luigi became confused, began to get
excited and to talk faster, and the faster
he spoke the faster scribbled the clerk.
Luigi rolled his eyes, waved his hands
and shot apprehensive glances with
increasing frequency from the presiding
J.P. to the furiously-writing clerk, whose
face had now assumed a dogged look.
Every time he looked at the speeding pen-
man the more agitated the Italian got
and the faster he talked. At last, unable
to stand the strain any longer, Luigi leant
over and burst out imploring to the
astounded scribe “Puleeza. Notta writa
so fas’. I can’ta keep up wit’ you.”
* * * *
“Becks”; One of the lesser crimes for
which the Red Kremlin must take the
blame is the use of the word “purge” to
describe the execution or punishment of
persons considered to be enemies of the
State. I presume the origin of the usage
is that such people are looked upon as
impurities of which the body politic must
be cleansed. From that came the habit
of speaking of the undesirables themselves
as being purged or —depending on the
point of view—as victims of a purge.
Now the ultimate absurdity has been
reached ; we read that when the Japanese
Peace Treaty is signed Admiral Nomura
“may be depurged.” I feel sure that
medical science, which supplied the word
in the first place, has no precedent for
this.
* * * *
“Hist”: In my lounge a mournful voice
wails of blisses and kisses, of lovers apart
and a broken he-e-art —yes, I know I
could switch off the radio, but one must
allow the young folk some latitude. I
shut doors firmly and seek a chair on
the veranda, where there is a pleasant
warmth in the setting sun. But at once
my left ear is smitten by the self-same
voice through the open window of next-
door on one side, my right ear takes it
in from next door on the other. From
across the street rattle the discords of a
dance band. Then, suddenly, blissfully,
a silence of which the twittering of roost-
ing sparrows, the gentle rustle of leaves,
the chirping of a cricket, are no more
than a fitting part. I know that it will
last for an hour. Who says there’s no
virtue in blackouts?
* * * *
“Cheiros”: I attended Captain Kane,
of the Calliope (B. 28/11 /’5l), many
years after the Apia incident, when he
was Rear-Admiral Sir Henry Kane. He
was suffering from Paralysis agitans when
I first met him on St. Patrick’s day, 1914.
He was a very sick man, and could not
even stand without assistance. In a few
weeks, by means of massage, I had him
out walking in Ashley Gardens, London,
Later I went with him to Tunbridge
Wells, but returned to London when war
was declared and lost touch with him
after I joined up. My treatment merely
gave the admiral a respite. Subsequently
I heard that he had relapsed into his
former condition,
......
“Tarry Rope”: It is just as well
“Macnell,” in recounting the Calliope
story, included “and, incidentally, West-
port coal” among his tributes, otherwise
the N.Z.-west-coast mining town would
have risen bodily and gone gunning for
him. The first thing to strike my eye in
that port was an engraving hung in a
place of honor in a pub. It showed
havoc beating down the other shipping in
Apia and the British man-o’-war steam-
ing out through the maelstrom. Eager
interpreters of the story boasted that only
Westport coal enabled the vessel to make
the comparative safety of the open sea.
Every pub in the place held a copy of
that engraving; there was also a Cal-
“And what are you going to be when you grow up?"
hope Hotel, but the City Fathers forced
a change of the name when they felt
that the conduct of the place did not
conform with the dignity of its title. The
story has become part of the Westport
tradition.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Cunningly snared into “do-
ing the messages” for the wife, I found
with surprise that feminine customers are
rarely addressed as “madam,” these days.
It’s “Fifteen-bob, this leg, lady,” or
“Beans, lady? Yes, two-and-six a pound.”
Obviously the title is neither intended
nor accepted as a vulgarity, and I must
admit that it sounds less stiff than the
formal “madam,” but the noun is already
overburdened with its other commit-
ments. For some mysterious reason the
good, honest Anglo-Saxon word “woman”
is not considered quite the thing if you
can possibly work in “lady.” You can
be on the “men’s committee” at the
local School of Arts, but your spouse
will not be on the women’s ditto —she’ll
speak her piece with the “ladies’ com-
mittee.” I once heard a young husband
announce to his wife that her tardy tennis
companions were arriving: “The tennis
women are coming up the street now.”
“That sounds awful. Jack,” came the
reproach. “Say ‘tennis ladies’.” But
you can carry the thing too far. Yester-
day I was told the grisly details of a
motor accident. “Lady driver, it was,”
the recital finished. “Drunk as Chloe —
and you should’ve heard her abuse the
cop that lumbered her”
* * * ♦
“0.W.W.”: Coming upon a young
mess-orderly who was casually watching
a stream of milk leaking from a camp-
kettle, our sergeant-cook exploded:
“Can’t you see that dixie is leaking?” he
roared. Private Eighteen nodded. “I’m
just waiting till I can get it to go into this
two-quart jug,” he replied.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Somerset”: That Jardine dinner-
service, reputedly forged from the silver
specie found in a treasure trove (B.
14/11 /’5l), was almost certainly destroyed
in the fire which wiped out Frank
Jardine’s home at Nagheer, to which
island he had moved after resigning his
post of Resident-Governor of Somerset.
On Nagheer, where he had started a copra
and shelling enterprise, Jardine maintained
a lot of the atmosphere of the “Resi-
dency” at Somerset until the fire wiped
out the house and with it a lot of the
Jardine plate. Jardine’s daughter, Mrs.
H, G. Vidgen, of Thursday Island, told
me of his anguish at the conflagration,
into which, in a characteristic Jardine
gesture, he hurled the only heirloom, an
historic piece of tableware, which had
been rescued.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Despite publicity
given to one two-up school in Sydney, I
am told that, generally speaking, the
game is having a rough spin at present.
An acquaintance who knows his way
around told me he could name only three
regular schools, all in big industrial
districts outside the city proper, and none
of them an every-night affair. Business
was brisker in former days. What was
known as the “Park-street School” carried
on (with some breaks) for decades in the
heart of the city and was pretty well
continuous, starting in the early afternoon
and lasting until milk-delivery time. For
years an engraver who had his “shop”
in the doorway, actually in Pitt-street,
admitted the day scholars. There was a
good joint in a disused church hall in
Surry Hills; but the strangest school of
my own knowledge had a location in
Bay-street, Glebe. Its sponsor took
advantage of the proximity to call it the
“University Two-up School,” and a card
handed to accepted visitors to pass on to
scholastically inclined friends urged two-
uppers to “Rub shoulders with culture
while enjoying your favorite pastime.” It
had a basis of truth. In one of the raids
a professor and two lecturers were among
those caught.
* * * ♦
“Tummas McN.”: I am disturbed by
the mental perturbation of one Mervyn
Leroy, a motion-picture director, who,
according to the front-page story in my
newspaper, had to cast 1000 extras for
the picture “Quo Vadis,” and had great
trouble to find men with “pretty legs.”
The underpins had to be —er —pretty
because the extras will be required to
wear the short Roman kilt, and it appears
that audiences would be shocked unless
the gents had “shapely knees.” Mr.
Leroy, I am credibly informed, was
“embarrassed” because he had to “ask
the men to take off their pants so that
I could see their legs.” I said I was dis-
turbed—on second thoughts I’m rather
pleased, for I had not thought such
delicacy could exist in a film-studio. I do
hope Mr. Leroy’s picture is “box office,”
or whatever is the correct synonym for
success; it would be dashed annoying if
the public stayed away because of a
bandy-legged Roman soldier.
* * *
“Nakh”: I’m told that the Royal Mint
authorities are sorely puzzled by the
Australian appetite for threepences and
pennies, some 60,000,000 treys and
60,000,000 browns having been put in
circulation in the last 30 months to serve
the needs of 8,000,000 people. Their
explanation is that women are saving
threepences in bottles, and that has me
sorely puzzled. As a trey will only buy
half an egg today, by next week will
probably buy only half of half of one,
who is going to be such an idiot as to
put them in a bottle? As to pennies—
hasn’t the Mint Controller heard of two-
up?
* * * *
“C.A.L.”; Since electric cap-lamps
have been in use in the Westralian gold-
mines, carbon sketches no longer adorn
the walls of underground workings, for
the artists now have no acetylene-lamps.
Drawing with the smoky flame of the
burner, the potential Lindsays used to
decorate in lampblack the flat surfaces
of drives, crosscuts and plats with cari-
catures of their bosses, nude and lewd
studies and even a few scenic touches. A
new man found a mine a source of
interest, with an art gallery on every
level, though none of the work could
be taken away unless a sulphide slab was
chipped from the wall in one piece.
# ♦ » ♦
“X.S.”: When a well-known Mel-
bourne bookie bought a grazing property
a solicitor friend asked him “Do you
find the sheep interesting?” “Not as
interesting as the punters,” said the
pastoralist. “How’s that?” asked the
lawyer. “The sheep only have to be
shorn once a year,” replied McShortodds.
A UNIQUE OCCASION.
“At Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) races several book-
makers had to borrow money to continue betting
utter the fourth race, and many had to ask backers
to postpone settling till the next day. It wag the
worst day fielders had experienced at a provincial
meeting since the war.”
A politician might refuse
To vote himself a salary-rise;
His secret’ry and Billy Hughes
May amicably fraternise,
Or Sydney’s public transport make a proiit.
A Hollywooden actress might
Stay married fully halt a year;
Stalin become an acolyte
Or you could land some bottled beer,
A tax might get a little bit knocked off it.
A woman may be found who boasts
She’s really older than you think,
Field-marshals who’re afraid of ghosts,
Lifers who loudly praise the clink,
A bagpipe-player who sucks instead of
blows it.
The Persian Premier might refrain
From bursting into shaking sobs,
A tennis ace his smile maintain
After he’s missed two sitter lobs,
A typist may remember to “enclose” it.
All the foregoing, you might deem,
Would very much be likelier
(Although the cases are extreme)
than bookies driven to defer
Payment for winnings to the lucky punter.
For mostly at the racing’s end
Mclkey’s bag’s full to the brim,
Currency being, you’ll perpend,
Attracted magnet-like to him
As pies and pasties were to Billy Bunter.
Witness the awful, harrowing scene:
At first the books, laughing at “certs”
The punters picked, their minds serene.
Certain the mugs would “do their shirts,”
While they would celebrate with champagne
suppers.
As favorites won Mclkey did
Some painful, quick arithmetic,
Then jumped upon his pure-felt lid
And gnawed his nails down to the quick,
With visions of himself well on his uppers.
Ah! Spare a furtive, briny tear,
And wring a sympathetic hand
For this calamity severe
Which caused a hard-worked, honest band
To come down to the lowly six-course
dinners!
Whether from paddock or the flat,
They’ll have to wait three days before
They play the game of tit-for-tat
And get back all they lost, and more
By virtue of the customary “skinners.”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wester”: When the parson arrived at
a little church west of Condobolin
(N.S.W.) the other Sunday morning he
found it full of packed sheep, held there
by a kelpie camped on the doorstep.
There was no sign of a drover, so the
parson proceeded to shoo the sheep out.
The dog seemed rather doubtful about
this, but offered no opposition. He took
charge of the sheep and herded them
in a corner of the paddock, holding them
"I’m sure you’ll show the new foreman the same kindness and consideration
that you’ve shown ME.”
there while the congregation assembled.
The service was almost over when the
sheepman appeared in a ute. He was
full of apologies, explaining that the dog
was used to shedding the sheep at home,
and, when left in charge while the owner
went for some petrol, had promptly put
them into the church as the easiest way
to hold them. “Pray don’t apologise,”
the parson said, watching his human con-
gregation disperse. “Maybe the sheep got
more from their visit to the church than
the people did.”
“Harbel”; George is
adamant that it's not going
to rain. A certain, long-
range forecaster may have
predicted floods tor this
month; Government
meteorologists may con-
fidently assert that there
are indications of the dry
spell ending shortly; old
Charlie’s “screws” may give
out their infallible warn-
ing, but George knows it
can’t rain for at least
three weeks. His guaran-
tor is a dove which he
discovered while painting
his house. The bird had
built her slovenly, crazy
nest in the guttering, ngut
over the downpipe opening.
“She knows it’s not going
to rain or she wouldn’t
have built there,” George
told the gang at smoke-
oh. “How could she
know?” demanded
Stumpy. “I dunno how
they know, but they do!”
came the confident reply.
“I’ve watched rabbits in
the back country; they
won’t breed during a
drought, ’cause they know
there’d be no green grass to make milk.
For two or three years you won’t see a
kitten, then all of a sudden they’re every-
where—and you can bet your pants it’ll
be raining within three days.” “But that’s
different,” Old Charlie pointed out.
“They might have some instinct that tells
’em when the weather’s due to break ;
but that dove—how d’ you know she even
realises that she’s sittin’ on a spout?”
George smiled like a sure-thing bettor,
“She knows,” he vowed. And there, at
present, the matter rests. If there is no
rain before the dovelets leave the nest
George’s theory will have some confirma-
tion, no matter how coincidental. But if
the weather does break, then his theory
will be as much up the spout as the nest
will be down it.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Mention in the “Letters
of Rachel Henning” of a conversation
with Morrel, the man who spent some
years with the blacks, suggests that the
lady was unaware of the real history of
that gentleman’s sojourn with the coastal
myalls in the region of Exmoor. Morrel,
who was shipwrecked near Bowen, cer-
tainly did spend years with the blacks,
but, according to the pastoralist-explorer
W. H. Gaden, the sojourn was not
altogether a compulsory one. Gaden
recorded that, near Broken River, his
party was attacked by a native band which
took flight only when its leader, a curi-
ously light-skinned little myall, was
bowled over by a fowling-piece charge
which took him in the shoulder, but
failed to prevent his decamping. Some
years later at a washing-bench in the yard
of a Rockhampton pub, a member of
Gaden’s Broken River party got into
conversation with a small man who
showed a surprising knowledge of that
then-virtually-unexplored region, and
whose bared shoulder bore a livid scar
which could have been the result of a
gunshot wound. A few years before this
meeting Lieut. Powell, of the Rockhamp-
ton detachment of the native police, had,
with apparently inexpert marksmanship,
fired several times at a little light-skinned
man who led the marauding myalls over
a wide range of country in the Port
“We don't play it that way here, chum .”
Denison area. Eventually Morrel
wandered into Bowen and told of his
10-year thraldom with the blacks. After
lengthy hospitalisation in Brisbane he
was solaced with a Government job as
assistant to the harbormaster at
Bowen, which official was none other than
the former Lieut. Powell. There is no
record as to whether or not Powell
recognised in the features of his sub-
ordinate those which he had several times
framed in the sights of his police carbine.
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: That bodgie wool-
presser on the Warrego (B. 8/8/ ’5l) has
nothing on a gun shearer seen at Hume-
burn on the Paroo (W.Q.). Invited by
the owner to have a look at a shearing
team in action, he halted me in front of
one man and said “Take a good look
at this cove.” I had a good look, saw
the fleece peel-
ing off clean
and easy as it
always does in
the hands of a
master at the
game, and
passed on.
“Did you see
it?” asked the
boss. “S e e
w h a t?” I
count ered.
“Why, the
blanky hair-net the coot is wearing to
keep his long hair out of his eyes. It
makes a man sick! ” Out of a clear sky
there was a distant rumbling as of
thunder. Said the boss, “That’s probably
Jacky Howe up aloft expressing his
opinion of shearers in hair-nets!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Y’ know,” I remarked
in one of our discursive moments, “it
seems funny t’ me, but we seem t’ have
the longest noses. Did y’ ever notice
the snoots on blokes from England and
Italy and Dumfries an’ them towns? All
shorter ’n ours; wonder how Aussies got
such long snouts?” Mat thought it over.
“When y’ come t’ think about it,” he
said, “y’re nilly right. Y’ set me thinkin’
about blokes I know, an’ most of ’em
certainly got a fair issue when noses was
handed round.” “Looks t’ me,” I said,
“as if our granddads an’ grannies must
ha’ bin a long-nosed lot; maybe when
they was rakin’ the jails an’ diggin’ up
immigrants an’ pioneers an’ that in the ol’
days they must ha’ picked on all the
long-nosed ones.” Mat pondered this,
then spoke. “Aw, I dunno. Reckon it
might ha’ come from the boardin’-houses.”
“Boardin’-houses?” “Yair. You an
me ha’ bin bitten be as many boardin’-
house bugs as anybody else in this
country, an’ in them old days the place
must ha’ bin full o’ boardin’-houses when
the shiploads was cornin’ in.” “What the
blazes has that got t’ do with long noses?”
“Strike me early, you bin in enough
boardin’-houses t’ know how them
boardin’-housekeepers always stick their
noses inter y’r business ; y’ couldn’t run a
boardin’-house without growin’ a long
nose, not be what I seen of ’em.” He
pulled the blanket over himself, and I
was left to follow out the theory as best
1 could.
* * * *
“Wingella”: It is not only the kanaka
who hates the idea of a cold hell (B.
14/11 /’5l) ; the abos of the Territory
have their version of a debbil-debbil, who
is white, and who lives in the cold and
dark of caves set deep in the hills. At
the “making young man” corroboree,
while the neophytes are being led down
to where the old men await them, huge
white debbil-debbils, armed with forked
sticks, rush out from the bushes and
attempt to seize the boys, so as to prevent
the “making young man” operation from
being performed, and also to drag the
boys to their cold, hidden caves, where
they would remain their slaves for ever.
But the warriors, armed with spears,
surround the boys, and present an un-
broken array of jagged spear-points
wherever the debbil-debbils venture; till
at last, foiled of their prey, the debbil-
debbils, with howls of frustrated rage,
rush away to their own domains, while
the assembled spectators shriek derision
at them. From the very beginning all
abo. children are told of the big white
debbil-debbil who lurks on the confines
of the camp at night, ready to seize any
small piccaninny who leaves the protec-
tion of the camp and goes off wandering
away into the dark. The abo. hell is
cold and dark and lonely. But did not
Dante himself, in his Purgatory, place all
traitors in regions of thick-ribbed ice,
the lowest hell of all?
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Published details of
further discoveries in the way of curious
rock-carvings on the north-west and west
coasts of Tasmania recall a story
told me on Thursday Island about
30 years ago by an official of
the local Japanese Society. The carvings
are done on sandstone, in block for-
mation or on cliff faces, and consist chiefly
of circles, straight lines and triple
parallel rows of indentations. In some
designs the circles are quartered by
diametric lines. They have been ascribed
to the Tasmanian aboriginal; but some
consider them to be of Asian workman-
ship. The story given me by my J apanese
informant was that in the 15th century,
at a time when a strict edict of the
Emperor restricted Japanese voyagers
from travelling beyond certain confines,
a party of adventurous spirits decided to
flout the edict, equip an expedition, and
get away quietly to see what lay to the
south. They made the east coast of
Australia, incidentally leaving some of
their company in graves along the Queens-
land coast, and travelled right down to
Tasmania. There they left record of their
visit in the form of rock-markings and
engravings in various places, doing the
same thing along the Australian coast-
line, and in due course returned to Japan
with a report of their new discoveries.
Instead of being rewarded with generou®
gifts and State honors they had to face
the executioner, since they had by their
act of disobedience dishonored the Son
of Heaven” ; but their exploit was kept
alive in Japanese story, and figured m
the history books used in their schools.
FRUIT BOAT, HAWKESBURY
RIVER.
She is the only sign of commerce here—
An outpost once set up ahead of trade
That somehow missed the way and never
came.
Perhaps no one recalled her. Well, she
stayed.
She works the river still. This winter day
Come slack of morning when the
mountain-side
Shows greenly clear of mist, I see her steal
Out from the wharf upon the making tide,
And head up round the bend for Haycock
Reach.
Mountains on either hand crash greatly
down;
The breathless mangroves, sweating by the
banks,
Stand to the ebb and flow and partly
drown.
She slips between them on a wave of sound
That surges on the vacant air and breaks
In echoes throbbing faintly from the cliffs
Where she has passed. Lightly her funnel
shakes
A wreath, a chain of smoke-rings to the
sky.
Mile upon winding mile the river runs
By green and sunlit orchards spiked with
gold;
Up from the shore a whip-bird thrills and
stuns.
Here’s a man with a job that 1 could
envy—
This river-pirate in his wheelhouse, dream-
ing
Just as his fancy takes him, all the morn-
ing,
With nothing to do but watch the water
creaming
Rinsed and fresh from the bow, the
curving sweep
Of reaches slipping quietly past until
The houses over Wiseman’s swing to sight
(Thrown up or down?) scattered about
the hill.
How pleasant, then, to raid the packing-
sheds
Beyond the town, and hear the graders
stop.
To meet the growers on their tumbling
wharves
And talk the season’s prices and the crop;
Drink tea with them, and yarn, and take
aboard
The bursting orange-cases, row on row,
That rise to shoulder-height above the
deck.
And feel the ship with treasu-e overflow.
A cheerful life ! And best of all the home-
ward
Run for the distant coast, the throbbing
flight.
Urgent and fast down all the sleeping
river,
Magnificently fruitful through the night.
N.S.W.
ALEC BOLTON.


“Old-timer”: They’ve tied the old
Marion up for the last time, and that
means a sort of tie-up of a Murray era.
Newspapers which noted her end re-
marked that she was known to “thou-
sands of Murray trippers,” but before
that she was known up and down the
“Serve you right for Wolf -whistling!”
river for her regular passenger and cargo
service. A paddle-wheel boat like the Gem
and Ruby, the Marion survived her sisters
by a score or more of years ; she knew the
river in days when wool-loaded barges
came down on high water from the
Edward, the ’Bidgee and the Darling,
when old Charlie Hunt’s Invincible was
a maid-of-all-work on the river, when
the steel-hulled J. G. Arnold thrashed
her records out from Mildura to Swan
Hill and the little old Struggler nosed
into forgotten billabongs to lay her nets.
The Marion ran to a tighter schedule
than many a suburban train, and before
the radio and the motor-car, in days
when the telephone was still a mystery,
she brought news and gossip from town
to landing and camp. The Gem, of
course, was the Queen Mary of the river,
and the Ruby and the Marion next to
her (in my time), but the Gem was always
in trouble and the Ruby had her bad
times, whereas the Marion sailed serenely
up and down. She must have been a
wonderful old boat to handle.
* * * *
“W.M.H.”: The length of time a man
can go without water depends on the
rate at which moisture is lost from his
body. Aborigines know this, which is
why they have been able to adapt them-
selves to arid conditions and travel long
distances without water. It is not that
they are better equipped physically than
white men, but, because their natural state
is nomadic, abos. have been forced to
use more intelligence in their fight against
nature. Wherever possible they travel
long distances at night to conserve body
moisture, but before setting out they drink
as much as they can hold. If water is
plentiful they can swill two or three
gallons to keep them going. After travel-
ling all night they make camp at sunrise
and dig a shallow hole in the shade of
a tree, covering their bodies up to the
neck with the cool sand and using small
branches to shade their heads. In this
way they keep their body temperature
below that of the surrounding air. If
forced to travel in the daytime the abo.
makes use of every bit of shade he can
find, but when travelling with white men
under white men’s conditions their en-
durance is not noticeably superior.
* * * *
“Bo”: Judd, a bachelor, had a battered
old box, with both ends open, at his
roadside gate for the mail and the bread.
Each day there would be a race between
him and Nancy, his goat, for the half-
loaf. More often than not Nancy won,
for she got into the habit of cruising
around in the vicinity of the mail-box,
which was low enough for her to reach
when she stood on her hind-legs. After
a run of three breadless days Judd decided
to do something about it. A week later
Stevens, his neighbor, stared at the sight
of Judd, about half an hour before the
baker was due, fixing a dog’s muzzle on
to Nancy. After the struggle was over
and the goat had bounded away, bleating
angrily, Stevens came over. “What’s the
idea, Ned?” he asked. “Hasn’t taken to
biting people, has she?” Judd explained
the bread problem ; this was his method
of solving it. He would remove the
muzzle after the baker had been. “But
why go to the expense of a muzzle when
all y’ had to do was shift the box another
coupler feet up the post?” asked Stevens.
His neighbor frowned. “And give a goat
the satisfaction o’ makin’ a man do a bit
o’ work just because of her?” he asked
in return. “Ain’t y’ ever heard o’ human
dignity?”
* * * *
“Bill C.”: Another reason why skins
should be pegged out well above ground
(B. 14/11 /’5l). I’ve seen dogs who’d
taken not the least notice of the plentiful
wallaby meat lying around start chewing
at freshly-stretched wallaby-skins before
I could turn my back. They’d have ruined
the skins as well as picked up a dose of
arsenic (this is here in N.Q., where
wallabies are destroyed as pests, and
where their skins are usually pegged out
on trees.)
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I can’t support “Nota
Bene” in his contention that it is easier
to hit a moving
target than a still one
with a shotgun (B.
21 /11 / ’5l). But if
he would care to
amend the statement
to: “It is easier to
hit a moving target
at long range than a
still one close at
hand,” I’ll hold his
coat against all-
comers. I know of
only three reasons
that could explain
why “the boss”
missed a squatting
rabbit at 30 yards,
after taking a “care-
ful aim”: (a) It was a badly-filled cart-
ridge ; ( b ) his 12-gauge throws a poor
pattern and bunny was lucky enough to
miss the scattered pellets ; (c) the boss is
just naturally wozzle-eyed. At that range
the first barrel of my gun spreads shot
over a rough circle about 3ft. across;
at the farthest distance a man could throw
his hat it would cover, perhaps, about
6in. or Sin.; so I know which I would
stake the most money on my hitting.
Nevertheless, I once saw a really first-
class “snap-shot” miss a sitting rabbit at
12ft. Generally he “kicked ’em up,” but
on this occasion he was pot-hunting, and
bunny’s squat bordered a jungle of
lantana. The percussion of the charge
seemed to paralyse the little animal; for
a second both man and rabbit looked at
each other in bewilderment; then, with
a glimpse of white tail, bunny was gone,
In his intention to avoid knocking the
carcass about the crackshot had “cut it
too fine.” And that reminds me of my
brother’s combination—a Belgian job,
with one barrel a .410 shotgun, the other
a .22 rifle. The first time I used it I
lined up the rifle-sights at a hare 150
“Like sardines, me foot! When did you see a sardine hanging out of
its can?”
yards away, and pressed the trigger—of
the shotgun side! The shot didn’t carry
far enough to even tickle the ginger
bloke.
* * * *
“Solitude”: I dropped off at the shack
and found Seventyfiver in his usual even-
ing position on the doorstep. “Old man
wants us to go over to Dogtown through
the bush,” 1 reported. “Said we’re to
collect those seventy back-notch bullocks
off Baldy Creek, and take them to
Dan Wellington’s. When’ll we go —to-
morrow?” “Suits me.” “What time?”
Seventyfiver pulled thoughtfully at his
pipe. “Wa-al now, it ain’t a big trip,” he
drawled. “Should make it there and back
in a bit over twenty-four hours.” “A bit
over’s right.” “Yair. Well, there won t
be no need t’ pack camp-gear or nothin’.”
He puffed for a minute or two, then;
“Reckon if we leave at about two in the
mornin’ ’ll be best.” “Gripes,” I squirmed,
“that’s early.” “Yair, but f’r a non-stop
trip like this y’ got t’ get started early,”
he explained solemnly. “Then, don’t y’
see, with any luck we might be back
again be two or three on the mornin’ o'
the next day.” “Or daylight.” “Awright,
well, say even be daylight,” he agreed.
“But it pays t’ start early, even if y’ are
a bit late finishin’. Then y’ get the job
over an’ done with in the day, instead o’
havin’ t’ work all through the flamin’
night.”
« * * *
“Betcha”: A horse must use its eyes
to some purpose when it can distinguish
the different varieties of weeds from some
yards off. This season a greater number
of small thistles than usual have appeared
on the home range, and my brown mare
has taken an active dislike to the species.
Since a prickly experience in a patch of
several acres, she watches, and carefully
skirts even the single specimens that
happen in her path. Dock, fat-hen and
other rubbish of similar thistle-height she
ignores completely, but a small patch of
thistle, yards ahead, starts her dancing on
sight. Riding over a ridge the other day
we came suddenly on a tall horehound
bush which sheep had nibbled into a
resemblance of a thistle. The mare caught
the glimmer of silver-grey, paused with a
snort, eyed the bush suspiciously, then,
recognising it for what it was, went
calmly on. And I’ll swear she said
“Tch!” or something suspiciously like it.
* * * *
“Kros”: Agree with “Gravelsnatcher”
(B. 21 /11 /’5l) that the lemmings prob-
ably think they are merely crossing a
river when they swim out and out, into
the Atlantic, all of them to drown. But
I can’t accept his belief that once only
a river lay between America and Europe
and that they separated when “a huge
piece of the earth’s crust was hurled into
space.” Scientists are divided as to
whether there was such a lump broken
away; those who believe it think the
cast-off piece became the moon, but those
who reject it aver that the moon has
always been a separate entity, a lonely
spatial wanderer until captured by the
earth and made satellite to it. Granted
that the earth did fling off a bit of itself,
the time it happened must have been
when the earth was still a molten ball of
fire, long before the surface had been
shaped (in its cooling process) into the
ridges and corrugations which make up
the various continents and ocean-floors
(and, naturally, there were then no
lemmings, or anything else living). The
earth’s surface has not always been cut
up exactly as it is now; over millions
of years vast changes in the distribution
of laud-masses occur, too slow to be
hardly noticed since recorded history
began. It seems certain that the bed of
the Atlantic was once bone-dry land ; and
perhaps it was thither, across an easily-
swum stream, that the lemmings once
headed in search of food. Their instinct
lemains, though the land has gone.
$ * * *
“Pip Tok”: Some Newstralians are
nothing if not thorough. Two of them
entered the office of the Trayning (W.A.)
Road Board and parked a very angry,
snapping fox on the counter. The alarm
of the nearest typist subsided when it was
seen that the fox was on the end of a
strong rope. The captors wanted the
bonus for the fox’s destruction. After
ironing out many language difficulties it
was explained that the claimants need
not have brought the whole animal, pay-
ment being authorised on the production
of scalp and tail. When this had sunk
in, the new arrivals walked out with their
captive, duly liquidated it, and returned
with dripping, scalp and tail for their
money.
* * * *
“Rooster”: That trick question, the
delight of radio quizmasters, concerning
the rising postures of bovine and equine
creatures, raises a further problem: why
does the horse get up on its forelegs, and
the oxen hindlegs first? There appears
to be no reason for these habits, unless it
is that they are, like most meaningless
habits, vestigial. The ancestry of the
modern horse goes right back to the
Eocene period, when Eohippus, no bigger
than a fox, roamed the vast prairies. Its
sole means of self-preservation was a
keen sense of hearing, but, because of its
diminutiveness, the tall prairie grasses
often obscured the view. It would be
quite natural for Eohippus, under these
conditions, to rise head-foremost at the
slightest hint of an approaching foe. The
ancestors of the ox, on the other hand,
were forest-dwellers, and would naturally
rise on the hindlegs first in order to keep
the head as low as possible to look out
from beneath the branches of the trees.
The preliminary circling of a dog before
settling down for a sleep is an instance
of the powerful influence of ancient
instinct —he smoothes out the imaginary
nest in his prehistoric prairie, a habit
that has survived geological change,
selection, mutation —and domesticity.
WHEN THE OVERLANDERS
CAME.
Way up beyond the Murray where
Our little kipsy stood
Our land was all unfenced and bare,
The kipsy built of wood.
It had no swank foundations, and
Sometimes would rock about
Whene’er the big storms took a hand
At knocking kipsies out.
One day the Overlanders came
Straight from the burning north.
The red dust in the sky like flame,
And round us belching forth;
And when they thundered to our place
The mob began to jam
And there was neither sky nor space
As past the wide sea swam:
A roaring flood of red and brown.
Of waving horns afloat,
A wedge of bullocks flowing down—
And all around us, note:
A swelling wave that crammed and pressed,
With horns that heaved our walls
And then we rose on that wave’s crest
As on Niagara Falls.
On, on we went like a ship at sea,
On past the Crossroads, too,
And when we’d gone a mile, then we
Hailed loud the droving crew;
For we were in a flowing tide,
And God knows where we’d flow—
The fire burning bright inside,
The stew still on the go.
A drover cut his way to us—
I tell you, he was game;
And while we yelled to shake the skies
Another drover came,
Then raced away to turn the mob.
And wheeled ’em left and right,
Each dog and drover on the job—
It was a mighty sight.
Then like a miracle we turned,
The great mob swung around,
And back the red-brown tide now turned,
Retraced the aame old ground,
And high like driftwood in the foam
We floated to the spot
Where once our kipsy stayed at home
But where it now was not.
But fear had fled, the awful doubt
Collapsed in one last rumpus
For when they reached that blessed plot
The mob spread out to dump us.
Back from our kipsy surged the mob,
The sea again flowed on,
Our kettle singing on the hob,
The Overlanders gone.
victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.


F
BOARD OF DIRBCTORSi
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.B.H.i G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson. M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Hetfer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N-S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Have You Made Your W ill ?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor and Trustee under
your Will, you safeguard your Estate and secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered by Special Acts of
Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following: • Advantages of appointing the
Company, either alone or jointly, with some trusted relative or friend ® Moderate and fixed
scale of charges • Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
DF
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
o. r ;» a f (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 6 p.c. ten off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25,000 7,479 3,448,106
5* p.c.
1944.. 290,926 262,500 25,000 8,426 3,451,532
5} p.c.
1945.. 342,362 287,500 50,000 4,862 3,456,394
6 p.c,
1946.. 354,564 300,000 50,000 4,564 3,460,958
1947.. 421,952 351,781 65,000 5,171 3,466,129
Surplus absorption Q.N. Bank,
£893,991 4,360,120
From inner reserves, £806,009 .. 5,166,129
Q.N. p. and 1. balance, £48,366.. 5,214,495
National and Subsidiary.
6* p.c.
1948.. 558,597 437,192 65,000 56,405 5,270,900
7 p.c.
1949.. 540,173 470,822 65,000 4,351 5,275,251
1950.. 594,634 470,822 100,000 23,812 5,299,063
1951.. 623,781 470,822 100,000 52,959 5,352,022
in a comprehensive and balanced survey
of the Australian economy, the National’s
chairman, H. D. Giddy, welcomes our
rapid post-war industrial development as
a decided step towards the goal of
economic security. At the same time he
draws attention to the fact that the
economic ambitions of Governments and
private enterprise have exceeded our
physical capacity to achieve, that the
inflationary rise in prices and costs is a
material part of the price being paid for
our extraordinary development, and urges
a constructive review of the system of
automatic quarterly wage-price adjust-
ments, which he sees as the principal
dynamic factor making for further infla-
tion of prices and costs.
He also pointed out that some of the
conditions that have made the way to
recent successes comparatively easy are
moving away from us, that industry and
commerce are now entering a period
which demands a more cautionary atti-
tude, and that this should not be taken
as a signal for panic action on the part
of the public, especially by those in
possession of sound, long-term assets.
While recognising that reasonable steps
should be taken to damp down spending
under present conditions, he strongly
urges early revision of existing rigid
statutory control of credit, which was
designed originally for use in war-time.
There is much to be said in favor of
giving the private trading banks wider
discretionary powers in granting selective
credit. They are controlled by experi-
enced and prudent men, and are better
equipped than the central bank to judge
the merits and urgency of individual
needs. Continued expansion of the basic
capital equipment of the community is
indispensable to a growing economy, and
the banking system is far better equipped
than in the past to support the internal
credit structure, should the need arise.
The position at the moment is that the
inerease in Government spending for
defence and civil purposes promises to
be greater than the increase in resources,
hence the need for some contraction in
private investment and consumption. On
this issue there are two schools of thought.
One places the emphasis on rationing,
allocation and price-control, the other
upon financial and Budgetary measures —
one seeks to ration supplies* and the other
to restrict demand. Broadly speaking,
the Government has plumped for the
second of these alternatives, and the
Prime Minister has denied Press reports
that Cabinet has decided to ease bank-
credit and capital-issues controls. Still, it
might yet have to give both bankers and
traders a little more elbow-room for
credit and capital expansion, if serious
trouble is to be avoided. Our greatest
danger lies in continued inflation of costs
through pressure of increased money-
wages, which is pushing trade and
industry into a tight corner at the
moment and threatens to destroy our
competitive power.
The enterprising National, third-largest
of the private trading banks, continues
to step along in fine style. Gross earnings
shot up by £980,163 last term:
1950. 1951.
Gross earnings .. .. £4,369,139 £5,349,302
Expenses 3,326,209 4,031,516
Taxation .. . . .. 448,296 694,005
Net profit 594,634 623,781
But net earnings benefited by only £29,147
of the gain. Exes., mainly wages, in-
creased by £705,307 and the tax bill by
£245,709. The business now earns more
for the Government than it does for
shareholders, who own it and shoulder
the risks, and who are bled a second time
through taxation of dividends. The
£623,781 of profit was 9.2 p.c. on capital,
or 5.1 p.c, on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined). The div. was
kept at 7 p.c., and £lOO,OOO was written
off the book-value of premises, making
the total so written off over the last 9 k
years £555,000.
The year’s growth of £34,443,185 in
deposits was largely on account of the
prosperity of primary producers, especi-
ally woolgrowers:
National and Subsidiary.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital ..£6,726,025 £6.726,025 £6,726.025
Notes .. .. 47,491 47,490 47,489
Deposits, etc. 150,086,590 183.442.839 217,886,024
Due other banks 3,296,964 19,660,894 26,534,739
Liquids .. 87,713,523 113,296,090 127,746,406
Advances . . 73,868,556 95,229,749 115,589,(n8
Other assets . . 1,432,813 3,942,977 10,201,527
Premises .. 2,652,839 2,942,906 3,244,758
“Vital Government enterprises” were
prominent in the queue of borrowers,
who sent advances up by £20,359,269.
Liquids (up £14,450,316) include
£95,487,000 (up £16,000,000) frozen on
special account with the Commonwealth
Bank. Since the close of accounts the
appearance of a sizeable overseas trade
deficit, due to a heavy flow of imports,
which cannot continue at the present rate
indefinitely, has slowed down the growth
in deposits and strengthened the demand
for advances. The co., however, is well-
equipped to meet any such development,
its position being an exceptionally strong
one.
On a 7 p.c. div. basis the f.-p. pound
shares at 355. yield 4 p.c. and the 12s. 6d.-
paids at 19s. 9d. return 4.4 p.c. The
slip in the price has been approximately
Is. a share over the last three months.
Net tangible cover is 355. lid. per pound
of paid capital.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 168,976 10 p.c. = 75,000 88,976 1,355,213
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,370,213
1945.. 192,482 10 p.c. = 75,000 117,432 1,487,645
To reserve unexpired risks, £65,000.. 1,552,645
1946.. 177,063 10 p.c. = 75,000 102,003 1,654,708
To reserve unexpired risks, £105,000.. 1,759,708
1947.. 196,429 10 p.c. = 75,000 121,429 1,881,137
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 2,031,187
1948.. 202,505 10 p.c. = 75,000 127,505 2,158,642
To reserve unexpired risks, £lOO,OOO 2,258,642
1949.. 206,903 12* p.c. = 93,750 113,153 2,371,795
To reserve unexpired risks, £120,000.. 2,491,795
1950.. 226,501 12* p.c. = 93,750 132,751 2,624,546
To reserve unexpired risks, £250,000.. 2,874,546
1951.. 250,662 12* p.c. =105,469 145,193 3,019,739
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,004,739
Current and pending changes in the
financial and economic climate have
swung the security-price pendulum the
other way, and the task of the equity
investor has suddenly become, and looks
like remaining, much more difficult than
at any time during the post-war infla-
tionary boom, which has now ceased to
follow its orthodox pattern of expanding
turnovers, profits and capital values.
Among other things, share prices at the
moment are partly the result of a tug-of-
war between two conflicting sets of factors
which have produced a fall in capital
values combined with continuing costs
inflation. It has thus become difficult to
sort out and measure definite trends as
distinct from temporary seasonal and
other diverting influences, including the
“mood” of the market, which has recently
reacted to rumors concerning credit and
capital controls.
In these circumstances, scrip which
offers reasonable prospects of security of
both capital and income, such as that of
a sound, well-established and progressive
insurance office, naturally command a
high premium, and usually suffer less in
a falling market than scrip in, say, the
distributive and manufacturing groups,
though each stock must, of course, be
judged on its individual merits.
This 65-year-old Sydney-controlled
fire, marine and accident office, with
world-wide connections, had reserves of
£3,004,739 (the figure includes £1,350,000
for unexpired risks) to support and assist
its £1,123,072 of share capital at Sept. 30
last. There was then £376,928 still to
come in on a one-for-one par issue in
January last, which will lift paid capital
to £1,500,000. It was the first cash issue
for over 40 years, capital having advanced
from £75,000 in 1910 to £750,000 in 1934
by capitalisation of reserves. Over the
last five years net premium income has
more than doubled the figure reached at
the end of the preceding 60 years. During
the shorter period as much, or more,
weight was put on abroad as in Australia
and New Zealand, considerable develop-
ment being reported from Malaya, Indo-
nesia, Africa and Israel.
Overseas operations contributed
“greatly” to the improvement of £604,136
in last term’s net premium income, and
the co.’s African business is expected to
give overseas profits a further lift in the
near future:—
Net Loss Expense
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1946. 1,041,848 463,208 434,471* 44.4 p.c. 41.7 p.c.
1947. 1,253,003 616,765 446,523* 49.2 „ 35.6 „
1948. 1,524,443 713,832 576,928* 46.8 „ 37.8 „
1949. 1,705,881 829,824 691,039* 48.6 „ 40.6 „
1950. 1,865,334 895,130 763,620* 47.9 „ 40.9 „
1951.2,469,470 1,124,171 993,429* 45.5 „ 40.2 ~
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments,
f Including contributions to staff funds.
Another pleasing feature is the contrac-
tion of 48s. p.c. in the overall loss rate,
despite unsatisfactory results from third-
party and motor-vehicle risks, following
the rising toll of road accidents, heavy
compensation awarded by the courts and
spiralling cost of repairs. Moreover, the
bigger business was written at 14s. p.c.
less cost; considering the stiff rise in
Australian wage-rates, the drop is a
pointer to the importance of the co.’s
overseas connections.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£145,286 stronger at £351,870, of which
£250,000 was sent to the reserve for un-
expired risks, making it £1,350,000, or
54.6 p.c. of net premium income, whereas
40 p.c. is usually considered adequate.
So the net underwriting surplus was con-
servatively stated at £101,870 (up
£15,286). Interest, rents, etc., turned in
£148,792 (up £8875), making the net
return from all sources £250,662 (up
£24,161), or 22.2 p.c, on £1,125,000 of
capital—approximately 9 p.c. from under-
writing and 13.2 p.c. from investments.
In view of the present state of inter-
national tension and change in economic
conditions, the business, especially over-
seas, cannot be expected to keep on ex-
panding at the same pace as last term,
and the loss rate, over which the manage-
ment has little, if any, control, may be-
come less favorable. For these and other
reasons it is doubtful whether anything
better than a 12£ p.c. div. need b© ex-
pected in the near future. Still, the
market is prepared to wait for its benefits,
and prices the f.-p. pound shares at £5,
as against £5 12s. in July and 89s. in
February last. The return at £5 is 2.5 p.c.
on a 12| p.c. distribution. Net tangible
cover is visibly 695. sd. per pound of
paid capital.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect the
growth of the business, as well as the
solid protection for both policyholders
and shareholders:
1950 f " ~ ■■■ 1951 •■x
p.c. p.c.
Qovt. securities.. £2,348,125 39.6 £2,578,725 36.1
Cash, etc. .. 411,770 6.9 575,489 8.1
Shares, etc. ~ 688,394 11.6 933,027 13.1
Mortgages .. 675,097 11.4 780,012 10.9
Book debts .. 763,506 12.8 1,134,209 15.9
Freeholds .. 1,049,103 17.7 1,137,765 15.9
Total assets .. £5,935,995 100.0 £7,189,227 100.0
Liabilities* .. 2,514,574 2,937,822
Net assets ..£3,421,421 £4,201,405
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
The year’s net additions of £230,600 to
Government securities, £244,633 to share-
holdings, etc., and £104,915 to mortgages
augur well for the return from invest-
ments,
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)
t Dividends N
r -*—Pref. N Ord. To Be-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves, serves.
£> £ £ £ £
1945.. 63,882 5984 8012 19,500 35,386 149,212
To staff funds, £lO,OOO .. .. 139,212
Reserves taken in, £l7Bl .. .. 140,993
Unexplained addition res., £12,910.. 153,903
1946.. 76,443 5984 3012 19,500 47,947 201,850
To staff fund, £12,000 .. .. 189,850
Unexplained addition res., £15,983.. 205,833
1947.. 110,054 5984 3012 19,500 81,558 287,891
To staff fund, £15,000 .. ~ 272,391
Assets revaluation res., £70,034 ~ 842,425
Unexplained addition res., £14,828.. 357,253
13* p.c.
1948.. 121,439 5984 3012 26,000 86,443 443,696
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 429,535
Share premiums, £96,176 .. ~ 525,711
Unexplained addition res., £14,775., 540,486
1949.. 124,367 5984 3012 34,999 80,372 620,858
To staff fund, £11,161 .. .. 609,697
Unexplained addition res., £4159 ~ 623.856
15 p.c.
1950. . 185,876 5984 3012 56,185120,695 744,551
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 730,390
Unexplained additions, £24,526 .. 754,916
1951.. 273,968 5984 3012 58,125 206.847 961,763
To staff fund, £15,411 .. .. 946,362
The expanding and very profitable
business of this energetic manufac-
turing, importing and merchandising
organisation is spread throughout the
Commonwealth, Of the £512,500 of share
capital, £192,500 (£130,000 ord. and
£62,500 employee) was gathered, together
with £96,176 of share premiums, since
the close of accounts in 1948. And the
lot now has the support and assistance
of £946,352 of reserves. The £512,500 is
made up of 74,800 8 p.c. and 50,200
6 p.c. cum. prefs., all of £1 each, 250,000
ss. employee redeemable participating
prefs. and 1,300,000 ss. ords. The
employee shares, which rank after the
other prefs. for capital and divs., carry
a guaranteed 3 p.c., and advance with
the ords. beyond that point.
Manufacture, centred chiefly in Mel-
bourne, includes bicycles (the line on
which the business grew up), radios,
refrigerators, vacuum-cleaners, batteries,
machine-tools, etc. On the distributing
side the co. also handles a wide range of
components in the motor, refrigeration
and wireless trades, as well as garage
equipment, washing-machines and other
household electrical goods. The co.’s
own manufactures account for about
20 p.c. of turnover, and motor spares
and equipment—G.M.-H. parts have just
been added to the list —and other agency
lines, together with services, etc., for the
remaining 80 p.c.
Last term turnover shot up by
£1,500,000 (28.5 p.c.), reaching a record
£5,250,000, due partly to rising prices
and partly to increased unit sales. So,
despite a stiff increase in operating costs
and after allowing £79,647 (up £20,105)
for depreciation and £261,000 (up
£113,000) for taxation, the board was
able to write net earnings £88,092 stronger
at £273,968. That was enough to pay the
pref. divs. (£8996) and show a juicy
68.3 p.c. on ord, and employee capital
combined, compared with 47.2, 43.7,
57.6, 50.1 and 34.6 p.c. back to 1946.
That disregards unexplained additions of
£24,526 to reserves, chiefly to provision
for contingencies (£BO,OOO, up £20,000).
The div. was kept at 15 p.c,, and £15,411
was sent to the staff fund, thus leaving
£215,962 (including the unexplained
addition) to plough back into the busi-
ness. Owing to capital and credit restric-
tions, funds for further expansion of the


Missing Friends.
TO IRENE ELSIE ANDERSON formerly
of Brisbane Queensland but now of parts
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band GEORGE ROBERT ANDERSON has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion Un-
less you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the Thirtieth day
of December 1951 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs If you intend to defend this
suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the Fifteenth, day
of January 1952.—J. M. SMITH &
EMMERTON, 480 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Public Notice.
I, KAROLINE FLUSSER, of Austrian
nationality, bom at Vienna, Austria, resi-
dent 2i years in Australia, now residing
at 105 Malabar Road, South Coogee, Syd-
ney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
\et
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
niters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BRIAN TERRENCE DUNN late of
150 Bayview Avenue Earlwood. —TAKE
NOTICE that IRENE EDITH DUNN has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 3753 of
1951 requesting the Court to exercise its
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may file an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 15th of
February 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from LESLIE
RUNDLE, 66 King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KATHERINE MAY WATSON for-
merly KATHERINE MAY MURDOCH
spinster late of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
your husband FRANK HILTON WATSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4234
of 1951 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 25th day of February 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG,
Solicitor, ICO Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON. Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
“Bless you, sir, 1807’s the
one date I do know! That’s
the year McCollum began
blending PERFECTION.
You can reckon there’s
a century-and‘a-half
i whisky wisdom in
\ this bottle.”
I
13 :
• f
T
r, \
m
W
»\
JgfSp
I'M' UUtf
w,
* I ,A>
>iUllf(
(T) c CdUums
Whisky
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
THE EHGLISH SCOTTISH
AHD AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Summary of Position as at 30/6/51
Aggregate Assets: £165,060,398
Australian Currency
CURRENT ASSETS: (N. 8., Figures
Australian Currency)
Cash, Bank Balances, etc £ 19,735,315
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 55,897,000
Bills Receivable .. 12,420,470
Investments •• •• •• 2,882,947
90,935,732
Advances and Other Assets .. •• .. 72,477,651
163,413,383
Deduct—
CURRENT LIABILITIES!
.Deposits, etc., including
Contingencies Re-
serves
Commonwealth Bank—
Special Deposits Ac-
count
Balances due to Other
Banks ...
Provisions for Tax . .
Dividend Payable
138,222.498
13,250,000
5,767.296
696,179
131,644
158,067,617
5.345,766
1,647,015
Shareholders' Funds Australian
Currency £6,992,781
Add-
Premises, etc.
PROFITS
Each £ I of gross profit for year to 30th June,
was used in this way:—
All expenses of management, including
Salaries and Wages of Staff . .
Income and Other Taxes
Payments to Officers’ Provident Fund
Dividends
Reserves .. .. .. .. . * •• ..
1951,
E. G. WILSON.
General Manager in Australia.
undertaking have now to come
largely out of surplus earnings.
The bigger turnover and other
things are further reflected in an
all-round growth of balance-
sheet figures:
1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £
Paid capital £488,088 £512,500 £512,500
Overdraft .. 231,588 370, *l3 713,201
Mortgages .. 181,170 187,2*0 186,3*0
Sundry
creditors,. 436,802 445,520 666,549
Tax pro-
vision . . 131,857 194,792 321,929
Provident
fund .. 6,661 11,161 5,411
Final divs... 39,497 60,683 62,623
Freehold and
leasehold.. 327,784 341,784 449,800
Plant, etc. . . 147,710 167,597 189,350
Stocks . . 1,089,661 1,239,950 1,613,767
Book debts 549,718 754,9261,152,911
Investments
and cash.. 10,487 8,772 9,167
To meet net additions aggregat-
ing £901,571 to freeholds (up
£108,016), plant (up £21,753),
stocks (up £373,817) and book
debts (up £397,985) the co. went
to its bankers for an extra
£342,548 and to sundry credi-
tors for a further £221,029. The
year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£819,702)
was £86,195. The two most vul-
nerable items are stocks and
book debts; the former appears
at cost or under, and the latter
less provision for bad debts. The
addition to freeholds was due
mainly to purchase of a four-
acre block (including buildings)
at Preston (Vic.), to which the
main engineering shop, now in
a’Beckett-street, Melbourne, is
to be transferred, thus making
more space available for mer-
chandising activities in the city.
As for the current term, turn-
over thus far is reported well-
maintained in all sections in all
States, and the co. is negotiating
for “new and valuable” English
and European agencies. From
now on, however, trading condi-
tions look like becoming pro-
gressively more difficult, and the
costs spiral will get a sharp turn
with the next lift in the basic
wage. The market notes the
strong support for capital and
the very wide margin be-
tween earnings and distribu-
tions, and prices the f.-p. ss.
ords. at 19s. 6d. (20s. 3d. three
months back), giving a return
of 3.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
The 6 p.c. prefs. at 255. yield 4.8
p.c. There has been no business
in the firsts for some months.
Net tangible cover is £ll 15s. Bd.
prefs. and 19s. lid. ords.
Mount Lyell (Tas.)
Written
Sept., Profit.* Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
’46.. 87,222 Nil 32,987 1,748,685
Removal o’burden, £9068.. 1,739,617
’47.. 156,791 5 77,500 38,972 1,779,936
Removal o’burden, £33,846.. 1,746,090
’48.. 140,155 5 77,500 34,320 1,774,425
Removal o’burden, £28,931.. 1,745,494
’49.. 127,989 5 77,500 27,570 1,768,413
Share-issue exes., £19,375.. 1,749,038
’50.. 136,964 5 83,958 41,456 1,760,588
’51.. 259,047 6j 145,313 63,221 1,811,101
* Includes allowances for depreciation,
etc., then shown as written off.
A better return from invest-
ments and rise in the locally-
controlled price of copper —
which lags behind world parity
—were the main factors respon-
sible for the heartening improve-
ment in last term’s profit. The
price of the red metal to Aus-
tralian producers was stepped up
from £195 per ton in August,
1950, to £230 in December,
1950, to £260 in June, 1951, and
to £285 in August, 1951, and has
remained steady since. So,
although less blister was pro-
duced, sales brought in an extra
£223,348, and a further £30,637
was received in dividends, chiefly
from fertilizer and metal fabri-
cating cos., making the increase
in total income £253,985:
Income — 1950. 1951.
Copper, etc. .. £1,595,162 £1,818.610
Dividends .. 110,015 1411,652
Total .. .. £1,705,177 £1.959.162
Exes. —
Mining . . . . 807,634 809.226
Refining, smelting 661,456 722,226
Development, de-
preciation .. 41,456 63,221
Admin., etc. .. 99,184 168,660
Total .. ~ £1,609,730 £1,763,333
Net profit . . 95,447 195,829
There was a sharp rise in operat-
ing costs, of course. Still, after
allowing £70,000 (up £68,000)
for taxation and £63,221 (up
£21,765) for depreciation, etc.,
the board was able to show
£100,382 more net profit at
£195,829, equal to 8.4 p.c. on
the £2,325,000 of share capital
as against 5.7, 6.4, 6.8 and
6.8 p.c. back to 1947. The div.
was lifted from 5 p.c. to p.c.
Before allowing for taxation, the
profit from mining was £125,184,
compared with a loss of £12,568
for the previous term.
Since 1944 divs. have come
mainly or wholly out of returns
from investments. The poor
showing from the mine has been
because of the fall in grade of
ore, steep rise in costs, inade-
quate and irregular supplies of
coke for the smelter and delays
in delivery of equipment for
mechanisation of the open-cut
and expansion of the fine-grind-
ing section of the mill.
Last term the first of the new
syd. shovels (three more are on
order) and three additional
Euclid trucks enabled part of
the lag in overburden removal
to be overtaken, and the new
10ft. by 7ft. ballmill and classi-
fier helped recoveries. A total
of 1,515,157 tons (down 1675
tons) ore was treated for 34,219
tons concentrates containing
7944 tons of recoverable copper.
In 229 working days the
smelter handled 29,812 tons of
the concentrates and 107 tons of
precipitates for the following
results:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Blister (tons).. 3,871 8,072 7,044
Contents —
Copper (tons) 3,840 8,009 6,990
Silver (oz.). . 14,089 27,851 22,567
Gold (oz.) .. 2,394 5,326 4,277
In addition 55,625 tons of pyritic
concentrates, assaying 49.35 i p.c.
sulphur, were produced, but
shipping difficulties delayed
deliveries to consumers. When
the books closed there was no
less than 20,398 tons of copper
concentrates, containing 4800 of
recoverable metal, stacked at the
smelter, owing to shortage of
coke. Some of the pile is now
being shipped to Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) for treatment.
The board has planned to lift
output of copper to 10,000 tons
p.a. by 1953. To finance addi-
tional plant, etc., and increase
its shareholding in Metal Manu-
facturers, Ltd., the co. raised
£1,505,000 during the 1950 term
—£750,000 on a five-year loan
at 4 \ p.c. from National Mutual
Life and £755,000 by a par issue
of ords. to shareholders. Last
term £55,961 was added to plant
(£664,809), £21,066 to freeholds,
etc. (£54,160) and £2977 to rail-
wa y s and rolling - stock
(£214,753). The mine and hydro-
electric station remained un-
changed at £520,551 and 180,888
respectively.
The more-or-less liquid surplus
was £31,864 stronger:
1950. 1951.
Metals .. . . £1,110,904 £1,314,407
Book debts .. 89,708 87,012
Stores, etc. .. 568,178 751,617
Shares other cos. 2,540,835 2,540,835
Total .. .. £4,309,625 £4,693,871
Liabilities . . 1,695,236* 2,047,618*
Liquid surplus.. £ 2,614,389 £2,646,253
* Includes a five-year loan of £750,000.
The growth in liabilities was
mainly in the overdraft
(£1,085,906, up £257,307). Share-
holdings are worth a lot more
than their book-value.
Ore reserves at September 30
were put at 30,162,000 tons,
averaging 0.73 p.c. copper,
0.050 z. silver and 0.00840 z.
gold ; of which over 92 p.c. is
in the West Lyell open-cut.
With costs still rising, the
biggest element in profitable
mining operations is the price of
copper. At the moment the
metal is in tight supply the world
over, and likely to remain so
while rearmament continues on
its present scale. Australia is
a net importer of the stuff, and
the Washington International
Materials Conference cut our
import quota by 20 p.c. for the
last quarter of 1951.
The sharemarket, however,
notes the size of the overdraft
and the trend costs and prices
the shares at 235. as against 255.
a month ago. The return at 235.
is 5.4 p.c. on a 6i p.c. div, basis.


m
I . LCmSe*
JHutual Life
Society
completes three-quarters
of a century
ASSETS
£286,000 |
£10,354,000
£78,100,000 mm
Q9®Q
1951
The T. & G. marks the completion of three-quarters of a century’s progress
with yet another year of record achievement, as shown in the
75 th Annual Report.
NEW POLICIES
The popularity of the Society is
indicated by 114,662 new Life
Policies assuring £33,885,683
and 17,204 new Accident and
Sickness Policies assuring
£5,411,760 having been effected
during the year. The whole of
the business was written in
Australia and New Zealand.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
The Assurances in Force in the
Ordinary and Industrial Depart-
ments exceed £234,600,000,
comprising 1,580,000 Policies.
SERVICE
The T, & G. is a Mutual Life
Society and settles all claims
with notable promptness. Pay-
ments to Policyholders last year
exceeded £5,025,000, making a
total of £38,669,000 during the
past ten years.
INCOME
The Income for the year
exceeded £13,500,000, an in-
crease of more than £1,000,000
oyer the previous year’s total.
SECURITY
The Society is in an unassail-
able financial position. The
Assets, held in trust to meet
payments to Policyholders,
increased by £6,200,000, and
now total £78,100,000.
GROUP ASSURANCE
An increasing number of firms
and companies entrusted their
Staff Superannuation and Group
Provident Schemes to the
Society. These schemes are
available on terms most advan-
tageous to both employers and
employees.
The T. k O. is purely mutual ; it has no
shareholders, A Policy with the T. & Cf.
is a Safe and Profitable Investment.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE
The Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. (Ino.
in Victoria, 1876.)
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Share-prices and Industry
Following the biggest slump
in Australian share prices since
the fall of Singapore, there was
a sharp recovery in quotations
for leading stocks last week, but
opportunities still existed for in-
vesting at low prices. The level
of the market generally was still
depressed.
The panic preceding the
steadying was unwholesome, and
showed an almost complete
absence of commonsense among
the sellers. Some forced sales
there undoubtedly were, and in
such cases the seller had little
choice except to sell; but the
weakness in the market in the
first place was created by those
who got jittery as a result of a
false interpretation of the
economic picture of Australia, or
as a result of nothing other than
jitters themselves. Many people
who had previously bought just
because the market was rising
sold in a hurry simply because it
was falling.
A straightout gambling
element always exaggerates a
market trend, and gambling
during the first half of 1951 was
encouraged by the issue of ss.
shares even by finance and in-
surance concerns. This notwith-
standing that the pound itself
reputedly has a value today of
well under 10s. in pre-war
currency.
In general, it was the credit-
restriction policy of the Com-
monwealth Bank which provided
the start-off for the share-slump.
Warehouses in Sydney report
the slowest trading since before
the war, and many manufac-
turers have dispensed with staff.
There has been a great accumu-
lation of imports on the water
and in harbor, and finance has
become a very worrying
problem. But business turn-
overs direct with the public have
not fallen to the extent that trade
between the middlemen has, and
a month or two of running-down
stocks will start turnovers gener-
ally flowing again, even if at a
reduced rate.
In the sharemarket the mark-
ing-down of shares has not been
confined to scrip in concerns
likely to be affected. Even those
enterprises expected, under the
Government’s credit- and
materials-diversion policy, to
benefit from a greater supply of
manpower and raw materials
have been slashed in price.
Notable example has been
B.H.P. The scrip in this co. was
as high as 575. 6d. ex rights this
year. There were sales at
535. 6d. quite recently. But on
the worst day of last week
465. 9d. was accepted in Sydney.
The sell-at-any-price attitude
resulted in 375. being accepted
for Bradford Cotton, 345. 6d.
for Felt and Textiles, £49 15s.
for Colonial Sugar, 15s. 6d. for
F. J. Walker, 295. 3d. for Batons
and Baldwins, 51s, for A.C.1.,
30s. for Tooheys, 38s. for British
Tobacco, 4s. 6d. for Control
Systems “new” ss. shares, 245.
for Thirlwell and McKenzie,
19s. 9d. for Woolworths, 18s. 3d.
for G. J. Coles, 365. 6d. for
David Jones ords., 19s. 6d. for
Sargood Gardiner and 28s. 9d,
for Robert Reid. All woollen-
textile concerns were marked
down because of the losses
shown on wool stocks by Amal-
gamated Textiles and some other
woollen concerns.
But again there should be
more discretion in appraising
share-values even where they are
in a difficult trade. Any con-
cern which values stock at the
lower of cost or market-value
on June 30 or Sept. 30 would
appear to have got over the
worst of the slump in raw wool
prices. Wool has risen since
September.
Batons and Baldwins, for ex-
ample, would seem to have
negotiated this hurdle. Its last
balance-day was April 30, and
stocks were then valued at lower
of cost or market-value, and
were taken in at £3,377,103. For
the half-year to October 31 the
co. reported “steady and satis-
factory business.” That would
appear to indicate that the co.
had weathered the slump in wool
prices satisfactorily. At last
balance-day the co.’s credit posi-
tion was quite easy, outsiders
being owed only £741,412,
though £1,679,016 was owing as a
25-year interest-free loan to
Batons and Baldwins in England.
The only inhibition this loan
placed on the borrowing capa-
city of the Australian company
was that no prior security could
be given without the consent of
the English concern.
Apart from stock-valuation
problems there may be diffi-
culties in the woollen and
worsted trades arising from
buyer-resistance. But there are
strong indications that stocks in
the hands of retailers are de-
clining, and that before very long
a more even flow of trade will
result, equated to consumer
buying-power, and with less
consumer-credit involved than
hitherto.
In the construction and hard-
ware trades there seems to be
little likelihood of long-continued
slackness. The Governments of
Australia themselves are big
buyers of structural materials,
and the housing and city-build-
ing position is still far behind
requirements.
Our export income is likely to
be down this year because of the
fall in wool prices and the dry
season. Imports during the first
five months of the present finan-
cial year have been at a high
HARK I
“If you're going to hum and ha about it I'll offer it to
Russia."
rate. The present restriction of
credit facilities will undoubtedly
bring about a contraction in
orders from Australia for over-
seas goods. Some orders will be
cancelled, where possible, and,
though the lag caused by over-
seas manufacturing and shipping
problems may defer the effects
of the dropping-off of orders
from Australia, the second half
of 1951-52 should reveal a big
cut in imports.
Thus the present adverse
nature of our trade balance may
tend to correct itself, especially
as shipments of wool and other
produce from Australia will be
heavier from now on. It is
probably better that excessive
imports should be curbed by
general financial policy than by
the strict licensing and detailed
control of goods brought in from
the sterling area.
Australian manufacturers, so
long as they are efficient, should
regard the future with more
equanimity than has been
apparent during the past few
weeks. If wool prices fall
further, thus reducing our ex-
port income, it will mean that
imports will fall also, and local
factories will be called upon to
produce more than they have
hitherto been doing in order to
keep our market supplied.
It was the restriction of im-
ports during the depression that
put many Australian industries
firmly on their feet.
Happy Christmas?
Whopping Budget or not,
Maorilanders are being promised
the best Christmas for 14 years
as the post-strike inflow of goods
from abroad fills shops and
department-stores, revives com-
petition and a buyer’s market
where traders had things their
own way for years and years.
{Continued on page 18.)


Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Company Meeting
THE OUTLOOK IN AUSTRALIA
Bank President’s Views
Reviewing business conditions in Australia during the past
year, the President of the Bank of New South Wales, Mr. Martin
Mcllrath, made the following points at the Ordinary General
Meeting*
A Hopeful Future
The immediate national outlook is one of serious difficulty.
The inflationary effects of a policy of rapid economic expan-
sion and defence preparation both here and abroad are far
from spent, although some sectors of business have felt the
draughts of uncertainty and financial stringency. Inevitably
many stresses are bound to occur in unstable world con-
ditions. But however involved and intractable our current
problems may be, we cannot help but feel confidence in the
long-term future of Australia. With a realistic and co-
operative approach to immediate difficulties Australia should
be assured of the underlying strength derived not merely
from the growth of secondary industry but from the further
development of the great primary industries.
FOOD PRODUCTION
The main food producing
industries seem to be reason-
ably assured of strong de-
mand for years ahead. The
spectre of over - production
which was the obsession of
the ’thirties appears to have
been laid through growth in
world population and im-
proved nutritional habits.
Food production has again
become one of the highest
national priorities and one
of the largest fields for new
investment. But its attract-
iveness to enterprise will not
grow until there is a more
realistic attitude towards
pricing, which, through
guaranteed returns and long-
term contracts at fixed prices,
has become the plaything of
bureaucratic decree. Agricul-
tural marketing is unlikely
to return to sanity until more
attention is paid to world
markets than to the chances
of striking bilateral bargains
out of an outworn fear of
instability of demand.
CONTROLS
The tasks of increasing
production and diverting re-
sources to the most urgent
needs are unlikely to be ful-
filled by direct government
controls and legal compul-
sions. Experience in other
countries has shown that
financial policy is more
effective than measures of
allocation, restriction, and
control. It allows the price
mechanism to operate, it per-
vades the whole economy in-
stead of only parts of it, and
it conditions the background
against which such controls
as may be necessary are most
likely to function effectively
within their limited range.
Controls in themselves merely
encourage the arbitrary treat-
ment of symptoms rather
than root causes.
RESTRICTIONS OF BANK
LENDING
The need to pursue a
cautious lending policy in a
period of inflation is fully
recognised, yet the insistence
of the central bank on the
limitation of individual
advances and the rigid segre-
gation of borrowing require-
ments, narrowly defining that
part which the banks may
finance, are creating a system
of split borrowing and are
threatening the traditional
and invaluable flexibility of
Australian banking. More-
over, insistence on a fixed
low interest pattern is quite
inconsistent with a policy of
tight money conditions.
The central bank’s opera-
tion of the powers of control
entrusted to it has narrowed
and diminished the scope of
bank activities. Further
attempts to enforce a greater
degree of rigidity will react
to the serious detriment of
national development in the
widest sense.
If the current season
brings a substantially
diminished export income
and rising imports, while
costs in Australian industry
continue to mount, the de-
mand for advances for essen-
tial production may provoke
a crisis in the central bank ’3
tight money policy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
INCOBPOBATBH IB SOOTH IV ALII WITH LtMITBTT UAWUTJ
A5124A
scohanb
D ©war’s
xiteweff varies
For over one hundred years
.. . the same distinctive
diameter, mellow flavour,
and ridi, heart-warming
qualities . . .
DEWAR’S
"White Icsbel”
SFamxtui. SCOTCH 'lOkaku.
Him
awabi
50ME
> ■
50 Ooli
Prize McsaU
SOGoli
aai
Priit Mtiols
Ur APPOINTMENT
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
a***- 8
***** Mussels amtwWP O'** o
“White Label
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. ,
John Dewar &. Sons
DISTILLERS
**** "“W. Haymarktl. S.WI.
...... NBT CONTENTS I PINT. 6FL OZS. nUl y
_ WHOUV CtSTILLED. MATURED AND BIENOEO »*
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
There is a strong conviction,
in economic and industrial
circles, that the new Govern-
ment will soon have to decide
whether to take immediate and
drastic action to dam the mount-
ing flood of wage-claims or to
resign itself to a situation so
disruptive to the national
economy that it might, if
unchecked, get right out of
hand. The problem is so urgent
that it would seem to have first
call upon the much-harassed
Chancellor of the Exchequer,
In cold figures, a recent settle-
ment of a weekly increase of
11s. and a second week’s paid
holiday in the shipbuilding and
engineering trades has added
£lOO million to the nation’s
wages bill. The railwaymen are
to receive £l4 million and the
miners are negotiating for £35
million. And these are but a
fraction of many large claims
pending.
According to a front-page
article in the “Economist,”
“wage-increases negotiated in
the first nine months of 1951
added more than £2OO million
annually, seven times the increase
in the corresponding period last
year.... and underrate the
increase in actual earnings, which
are swollen by overtime and
bonus payments.” Wages since
November, 1950, have increased
by 10 p.c., compared with 3 p.c.
over the previous 40 months. If
present external and internal
influences prevail, “a runaway
inflation will sooner or later be
inevitable,”
Diagnosis of this condition is
easier than confident prescription
for its cure. A contributory
factor was the defeat of the
platform by the “floor” over the
policy of wage-restraint at the
trade-union conference just over
a year ago. Although the trade-
union leaders had acted con-
scientiously and with some
qualified success, the embarrass-
ing position they were in of hav-
ing collectively to support wage-
restraint while individually
negotiating claims was not an
enduring one.
The “Economist” pinpoints
three possible cures as the best
of a number of ideas represent-
ing both shades of political
opinion. The first has an
actuarial ring and suggests that
the Government announce a
figure available for wage-
increases during the following
year, and then, in consultation
with the unions, apportion it.
The second depends upon the
linking of wage-increases with
measures to increase production.
And the third is “to link all
wage-rates to the cost of living.”
Somewhat unenthusiastically,
this latter is described as “the
least unpromising.”
Political Patches
Mr. Eden’s first speech in the
House of Commons was a com-
prehensive survey of foreign
affairs. He announced no de-
parture in policy and revealed
nothing that was not already
known. Yet how he held the
Chamber by his authority and
personality! It is a long time
since such an atmosphere of
unity and cohesion was felt
within the House. Even the
Bevanites were impressed, or
overawed, into respectful
moderation. Mr, Eden (who in
his way can be demonstrably
firm) did have a brush with
Mrs. Barbara Castle over the
Korea armistice negotiations,
but, except for this one mild
provocation, he was received
with quiet attention. His manner
was considered, sincere and of a
sensibility equal to the gravity
of the occasion. In short, that of
a Foreign Secretary. A welcome
change indeed. He proved his
mastery especially when
expounding upon matters outside
the scope of his prepared speech.
Not every Foreign Secretary of
recent years has given the
impression that he knew what
he was talking about, but here
is one who can give a straight
and knowledgeable answer with-
out having to fall back upon
bluffing or fluffing.
It is surely ironical that a
Government which has suffered
so much harm from malicious
electioneering slurs should prove
to be the very antithesis of the
image so relentlessly provoked
by the party now in opposition.
Mr. Churchill, having chosen
his lieutenants with sedulous
care in order to avoid any
implication of reaction, is also
demonstrating that he believes
amity begins at home. And Mr.
Eden, no less earnestly, is estab-
lishing himself as architect of
peace. While there is nothing
to suggest any change in the
distinctive Socialist line of
propaganda, good deeds must
surely have their effect upon the
public conscience, which has
been so shamefully goaded into
mild fright by warmongering
scares.
One surprise of the Parliament
is the aloofness, so far, of that
most unretiring of men, Mr,
Aneurin Bevan. He studiously
avoids the place in the Opposi-
tion front bench to which he is
entitled, leaves the kind of argu-
ing he so relishes to his hench-
men, and confines his appear-
ances mainly to furtive peeps
from behind the Speaker’s chair.
Such diffidence can surely not
last long.
“South Pacific”
What is there about some
musical plays that causes people
to apply for tickets 12 months
before opening-date, and for
others to start queueing for un-
reserved seats at four o’clock
every cold morning? Is it quest
for romanticism, achievement of
the unattainable or just a matter
of being “the thing”? No
musical play can ever have had
such a fantastic build-up as
“South Pacific,” which promises
to hold down Drury Lane as a
Broadway annexe for many long
months.
The Rodgers - Hammerstein
combination (they are partners
in management as well as in
words and music) and the highly
individual Mary Martin could,
no doubt, add their magical
touches to “CEdipus Rex” or
Ibsen’s “Ghosts” and still have
the public clamoring for seats.
They have certainly brought
about a change of taste in
musical plays. By comparison,
old-timers like “Floradora,”
“The Merry Widow,” “Rose
Marie,” “Bitter Sweet” or
“Glamorous Night” are child-
like in their innocence and
ingenuousness. Once upon a
time a pure-as-snow heroine
romantically came to meet a
brave, handsome hero, no less
blameless in his habits, who
unwittingly and apparently
inextricably became involved in
a misunderstanding at the end
of the first act. An entire second
act, crammed with color,
romance and sentiment and
covering many changes of loca-
tion, inevitably led to the happy
ending.
“South Pacific” reaches a
happy ending, but by a vastly
different way. There is little
dancing and no glamor, apart
from the derring -do of
combatants.
So far as licence applies to
the love interest, whether active
or frustrated, it must be taken
in its literal, and not practical,
sense. The resident Frenchman
won’t leave the American Navy
nurse because he loves her, but
when she learns of his half-caste
children and her color-
consciousness causes her to
throw him over, he then sets
out with the intrepid Lieutenant
of Marines. This latter, after
dangerous enterprise with both
the enemy and a native girl,
meets a nasty end. So, it seems,
does the Frenchman. The nurse
relents, realises her true love
and adopts the half - caste
children. The Frenchman provi-
dentially reappears (might it be
said, as of old?) and all join
hands.
Critics who, after all the
ballyhoo, went with minds
keenly tuned for censure came
away only to praise, if with
qualification. Since the show is
all-American, by and for
Americans, a sense of omission
is perhaps hardly pertinent as
criticism. Such is the skill of its
creators that one readily believes
that the war in the Pacific was
all-American too —until the
illusion is shattered by a casual
reference to New Zealand air-
men who also took part —but, as
it were, off-stage.


General Manager Stresses
Expansion & Development
C.S.R. Co.’s Report
Additions to refineries, installation of
bulk handling and extensions to mills
are all stressed in the recent report to
the Company shareholders by Dr. R. W.
Harman, General Manager of the C.S.R.
Expansion of
Company’s
Raw Sugar Mills
Dr. Harman reported
that the programme for
the expansion of the
Company’s mills is well
up to schedule, despite
considerable, and ever-
increasing difficulty with
building materials.
The work should be
completed by 195?, as
planned.
It includes duplication
of the Company’s Victoria
mill, which will make it
the largest in Australia,
as well as additions to
other mills.
The Company owns
seven of the 35 Austra-
lian sugar mills.
Severe Shipping
Shortage
Supplies of refined
sugar to the public have
frequently been threat-
ened this year by the
acute shortage of ships.
To offset this the Com-
pany, on behalf of the
Queensland Sugar Board,
has been forced to charter
overseas vessels to carry
raw sugar from Queens-
land to the refineries in
other States.
Bulk Handling Will
Increase Efficiency
In the past, slow
turn-round of ships
has been a problem to
the sugar industry. The
bulk handling system,
now under construc-
tion at the Company’s
Pyrmont refinery, will
help to offset this. A
similar unit is being
designed for the Yarra-
ville (Melbourne) re-
finery.
The Company has
also begun an investi-
gation into the prac-
ticability of delivering
bulk raw sugar to the
Brisbane refinery by
rail.
Settlement of New
Ganelands
In December, 1949,
Australian and United
Kingdom delegates, at a
meeting in London,
agreed on an export quota
of 600,000 tons of raw
sugar annually from Aus-
tralia.
As a result of this
agreement, a number of
new farmers have settled
on cane properties and
new canelands are being
opened up.
The C.S.R. is helping
this development, and
Increasing the crushing
capacity of the mills it
operates.
Raw Sugar
Bad weather in the
growing areas reduced
Australian raw sugar
production this year to
740,000 tons 168,000
tons below the average
of the last three years.
The Company’s mills pro-
duced 176,000 tons, com-
pared with 189,000 last
year.
Given normal weather,
Australia’s 1951 crop
would have produced
about 1,000,000 tons.
Bad weather at the
time of planting the cane
crop may also cause a
drop in tonnage in N.S.W.
during 1952. This will
be offset by an anticipated
gain in Queensland.
Refined Sugar
Although sales of the
Company’s products
sugar, golden syrup and
treacle attained the
high figure of 485,000
tons for the year ended
30th September, supplies
were still a little short
of meeting all demands.
During the last six-
months there have been
no prolonged Interrup-
tions to work, and, in
fact, all-time record out-
wmmsm
c- -S of,* 'i ''"
y&sSamMJ^^4* J *ri ?: s^'>VX s
■•:•••■•''■’ ’•
fsmw :
;?• v>
X ' ' <**■
\ .X.
'VVB* <
1% "" - ’ ksm
At Wittenoom, in the Hamersley Ranges of Western
Australia, enterprise, hard work and a considerable
capital outlay are developing an important industry.
In this remote region the C.S.R. is mining asbestos
fibre, an important building material. Pioneer pro-
jects like this are vital to Australia’s development.
The new boiler house at Pyrmont Refinery, part of
the large expansion programme being carried out by
the C.8.R., to keep production capacity well ahead of
Australian demand, and to meet the future require-
ments of the Australian public.
One of Australia’s newest industries, C.B.R, Chemicals
Ltd., will manufacture plastic moulding powder,
essential fine chemicals and cellulose acetate, used
for making rayon. The acetic acid plant is shown
above. These important strategic materials, not
manufactured previously in Australia, will all con-
tribute towards better living in the future —and our
national security.
pat figures have recently
been achieved for both
Sydney and Melbourne.
Last July the Common-
wealth Government
granted a price rise of
lid, per lb. in the retail
price of refined sugar.
The rise benefited whole-
salers and grocers as
well as the raw sugar
industry.
Distillery Products
Less molasses, as a
result of this year's
smaller cane crop, has
reduced industrial spirit
production at the Com-
pany’s two distilleries.
There has, however,
been no lessening of de-
mand, and shortages have
occurred recently.
Building Materials
Cane-ite and Hardboard:
The demand for Cane-ite
and C.S.R. Hardboard
continues to be very
strong. Output, however,
has been stepped up re-
cently by the introduction
of extra shifts to counter-
act zoning losses.
Gyprock Plaster and Wall-
board: Additional supplies
of gypsum from South
Australia have enabled
the Company’s Concord
Plaster mills to maintain
maximum production of
Gyprock wallboard during
the last six months.
Asbestos Sheet: The acute
cement shortage has
affected production of
asbestos cement products
recently.
Floor Tiles: Demand is
growing for C.S.R, Floor
Tiles, and during the last
six months additional dis-
tributors have been ap-
pointed.
Though sales of build-
ing materials were a
record, lag in obtaining
price increases made the
financial return unreason-
ably low. The Company
works on low profit mar-
gins, and rising costs of
materials, wages and
freight soon turn moderate
profits into high losses.
C.S.R. Chemicals Ltd.
Raw material supplies
limited our output of
Cellulose Acetic Moulding
Powder, for which de-
mand far exceeded pro-
duction.
Sales of Ascorbic Acid
and Sorbitol have in-
creased recently.
Copies of the full report are available on
request to the Company at 1 O’Connell
St., Sydney.
and helps to restore a little of its
lost value to the N.Z. pound.
Most imports are now de-
controlled for purchases from
soft-currency sources, and the
rank-and-file are beginning to
feel the benefit of the more
liberal policy of the Board of
Trade, which writes “paid” to
costly, halting Socialist ration-
ing. Although diehard Socialists,
now a diminutive group in Par-
liament, still harp on need for
controls, they are now only a
voice in the wilderness.
After this spending spree,
Maoriland should be able to
ease off a bit next year and
might have to, because defence
demands, estimated at £IOO
million-odd for the three years
ending 1954, will put a strain on
exchange funds. These aren’t
overplentiful, after a fall of
around £35 million to under £9O
million, since they touched a
mid-year peak of £123 million.
Business leaders, looking ahead,
are uneasy over the trend of
public spending, which has
swelled tax demands to £96 a
head for the current year, in
spite of tax cuts of £3 3s. a head.
and S. W. Peterson, president of
the Associated Chambers of
Commerce, has called for closer
screening of funds for depart-
ments.
Says Peterson: “Taxation
relief for industry and commerce
is the forgotten factor.” The
weakest spot, from the business
viewpoint, is the inflated social-
security system, now taking a
record £55 million yearly, with
no actuarial basis and no
reserves.
Expansion and Dislocation
Comments by the National
Bank’s chairman on a post-war
phenomenon:
What additions to national equip-
ment have flowed from the general
economic effort made by Australia
since 1945; what additions to the
comfort capital of the people have
been made; what general improve-
ment in average standards of life?
We have added about a quarter
of a million houses, exclusive of other
living accommodation. We have 50
p.c. more telephones, nearly double
the number of motor-vehicles, and we
are using over 60 p.c. more electricity;
we have three-quarters of a million
more refrigerators, over four times
the number of passenger- and freight-
aeroplanes in use, more ships, far
mor buses in daily operation, well
over 45 p.c. more radio-sets on the
register.
We have made a start upon easily
the largest single scheme of national
development in the southern hemi-
sphere—the Snowy Riversschemae —a
vast irrigation and hydroelectric
power project in some ways exceed-
ing in conception and audacity the
famed Tennessee Valley Authority
scheme in the United States of
America, and which, it is estimated,
will bring irrigation benefits to an
additional 3,500,000 acres. A huge
plan for the development of the
brown-coal resources of the Latrobe
Valley in south-eastern Victoria is
well under way, and a number of
other major developmental projects
embracing water-conservation, hydro-
electric power and the like are in
progress.
Recently the first high-speed main-
line diesel-electric locomotive has
been fabricated and is in use on the
Commonwealth Transcontinental Rail-
way ; the various State railway sys-
tems are being equipped with new,
powerful steam locomotives, and a
steady, if slow, improvement in the
quantity and quality of rolling-stock
on the continent’s main railways is
in progress.
The national income reached
£3,100,000,000 last financial year,
easily a record, and nearly four times
that of the pre-war fiscal year 1938-39.
Even when full allowance is made
for the inflationary trend in prices
and the increase in population,
national income per head was about
£175 in 1950-51 as against only around
£ll2 in 1938-39, a rise of over 50 p.c.
Over the post-war years we have
exported nearly £A3OOO-million worth
of commodities, and imported about
£A2350-million worth of goods.
The general standard of living of
the community has advanced quite
markedly, on the average, over the
post-war years, though the standards
of some sections have improved more
rapidly than others. General evidence
is provided by the fact that personal
consumption per head of mean popu-
lation, if corrected for the average
rise in prices, was a little over 30 p.c.
higher in 1950-51 than in either
1945-46 or 1938-39.
Piecing all this evidence together,
it will be readily agreed that Aus-
tralian development over the past five
years has proceeded at a speed un-
heard of in our history. Everyone
with the long-range interest of Aus-
tralia at heart will welcome this surge
of development, though its very speed
has caused a wake of disturbed con-
ditions and brought problems affect-
ing all classes of the community.
Many of these difficulties can be
traced to the very factors which we
must welcome as most desirable to
the continued expansion of our
economy—rapidly increasing popula-
tion, high prices for our export com-
modities, heavy domestic investment
of capital and general business ex-
pansion, and a large inward flow of
investment capital from abroad. All
most desirable; but the speed at which
they are occurring has created prob-
lems of disequilibrium in our
economy and has widened the gap
between the supply of money and the
supply of goods.
In the last six years our total outlay
on capital investment of all kinds has
amounted to around £3500 million,
of which sum at least 75 p.c. has been
on behalf of private enterprise or
individuals. Coming hard on the
heels of the industrial turmoil of the
war years, this huge investment essay
has thrown a severe strain upon our
basic resources of men and available
materials. Parallel with it has gone,
naturally enough, a struggle by the
public at large to buy more and more
consumption goods and services in
spending monetary incomes which,
for a large portion of the population,
have constantly increased.
It could only be expected that there
would result a substantial amount of
basic and structural disturbance
within our industrial system such as,
for example, dislocation in the flow
of materials, sudden shortages, bottle-
necks on the supply side, breakdowns
in fuel and power, and resort to
makeshift arrangements in the use of
both materials and processes.
In these conditions, too, it has been
possible for a certain amount of
frivolous industrial and commercial
enterprise to spring to life and to
flourish. To some extent such enter-
prise has made inroads into the
supplies of labor and materials and
capital. Following on six war years
such an outbreak is not without
explanation, and is probably an ex-
perience common to most of the
democratic nations.


FD
Born 1820—
ttlll going tfrong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.iMB.IS
No
50c
i
48/6
No
32/6
r
For
gift
for
self
Choose from fhe big, brightly coloured
range of Ono/o pens, ball pens, pencils or
sets,
Onoto
PENS AND SETS
Pens from 23/6 to 160/-, Sets from 39/6 to £l3/10/-
Thomos De la Rue & Co. Ltd., London
Distributors: NORMAN BAKER AND LONCHURST PTY. LTD., Sydney S Melbourne
CHRISTMAS SURPRISES
by B. HARRIS
THERE are men round about
forty who, because they
were children while aero-
nautics was in its infancy,
and while the pioneers of each
developmental stage were per-
forming remarkable feats, the
last of which generally proved
fatal, are scared of flying. They
see the latest super-liner as a big
brother of Ross Smith’s maze of
ironmongery; and they will
never feel safe except on the
ground. This fear is by no
means a modern phenomenon,
for every generation has had its
bogy. When I was a boy I
knew a well-to-do farmer who
felt as safe as houses in a sulky
but would never ride in a motor-
car because he was of the motor-
car-bogy generation. He never
travelled in a car during his
whole life. When he was about
seventy-seven he was one day
riding in his dray, when the
vehicle ran over a small log,
throwing him to the ground and
breaking his neck.
This fear of aircraft is not
wholly irrational even nowa-
days, for examination of trans-
port statistics will show that air-
travel is the safest kind of travel
for the pedestrian. Most men
who have this fear make no
secret of it; but occasionally
there is one who is ashamed of
it and covers it with bravado,
and such a one Mai Carmichael
appeared to be.
Mai was a loquacious adminis-
trative officer, with a mighty, ill-
concealed contempt for air-crew,
most of whom he apparently
regarded as little better than un-
lettered larrikins; but when a
flip was in the offing, he was up
to his ears in paper-work, for
Mai evidently had a horror of
flying, and obviously a greater
horror of showing it. When
anyone invited him for a spin
he was frightfully busy —over-
worked ; and he went into great
detail to prove it. It was unfair,
really, that he had always to
forgo the pleasure because of his
exacting office-duties. Needless
to say, he could complain of no
lack of invitations; but he
always managed to decline with
honor.
THEN came the day when
Bennetts, our C. 0., desired
to try out one of his brain-
children, a device for dropping
packages from an Anson. Now,
nobody has ever satisfactorily
explained to me why in 1944 we
took Ansons to Bougainville. The
Anson was then many years out
of date ; she was quite unfitted
for bomb- or freight-carrying;
she was too slow for photo-
graphy and most kinds of recon-
naissance ; but she was easily
handled and she was ridiculously
safe.
But Bennetts was determined
that, since the Ansons were there,
he would find means of using
them, if he had to pull them
apart and reassemble them back
to front to do it. Now, parcels
were dropped to forward areas
from the wings of Wirraways
and Beauforts, and Bennetts was
determined that the Ansons
would do this too, not dropping
just little packages, but quite big
ones. There is no means of
throwing a bulky object from an
Anson, although, if necessary,
Bennetts would have made a
hole big enough for the purpose.
But, instead, he had a better
plan. He had the bomb-doors
removed and the boxes thrust up
into the bomb-bay. So far, so
good. But the next problem was
this: how to secure the packages
so that they could be readily
released from inside at the drop-
ping-site.
After much thought Bennetts
decided that this could be most
easily effected by securing the
parcel with one end of a rope,
passing the other end up into the
cabin, and tying it scientifically
to a stanchion. The rope was
turned twice round the stanchion
and then secured by a slipknot
with a wooden peg inserted in
the noose. The method of
release was, to say the least,
somewhat unscientific, being:
The withdrawal of the peg, the
removal of which allowed the
knot to unravel, leaving the rope
free to be pulled away from
round the stanchion by the
weight of its load, a ripcord
attached to a metal member in
the bomb-bay pulling open the
parachute pack as the parcel fell.
The aim was, therefore, rather
by guess, but the fact that the
release was made at a hundred
feet reduced the margin of inac-
curacy to a happy minimum. To
avoid premature dropping by the
inadvertent removal of the peg,
Bennetts tied the rope in about
ten mixed knots on the stanchion
above the slipknot, advising that
these knots were to be somehow
undone just prior to the actual
drop; how prior he did not
specify, but to look at them one
would say considerably.
Now, it so happened that on
this particular occasion Bennetts,
who was always so preoccupied
with some brainwave or other
that he had apparently never
noted the color of Mai Car-
michael’s hair, much less his
obvious aversion to flying, con-
sidered it fitting that Mai should
have the opportunity of seeing
the trial of this ingenious device.
Bennetts didn’t order Mai to go ;
he just simply said he thought
Mai would like it, and generously
gave him a couple of hours off
from the office-work.
Not content with that, Ben-
netts promptly detailed as pilot
Ron Graham, who was notorious
for his dislike of Mai and all
Mai’s works. Ron and Mai
could never meet but they spat
at each other, for Ron was
plainly a real guttersnipe who,
by sheer determination, had
overcome all the obstacles in the
way of his promotion to pilot
and officer. Mai seemingly
looked down on him, and Ron
knew it too well. What Mai
Carmichael thought of Bennetts
that day nobody will ever know,
but it must have been hard to
think it with a straight face.
Anyway, Mai was trapped ; he
just had to go,
OUR two packages of Christ-
mas parcels we had to drop
to a forward patrol near the
Kotin trail, and, besides, we had
a welter of pidgin propaganda
leaflets to scatter around an area
in south-west Bougainville into
which our troops were about to
move ; so that our flight would
be quite a long one, much too
long for Mai.
You may be sure that by the
time the boys had loaded Mai
up with helmet, goggles, para-
chute-harness, earphones, life-
preserver and everything they
could bestow on him without
embarrassment to themselves, he
had the appearance of an
intrepid polar explorer. And so,
with Ron visibly licking his lips
in anticipation, Mai bravely
waving to the multitude of well-
wishers which had mysteriously
gathered to see us off, and myself
rather shamefacedly fiddling
with the radio, we prepared to
depart.
But luck was apparently not
with Mai. The Anson, which
had been so carefully loaded up
for us, even to fancy love-knots
on the ropes holding the heavy
stuff, did not behave well during
Ron’s cockpit drill, and was
promptly U.S.’d, so that all the
gear had to be dragged out of it
and hastily transferred to —and,
naturally, not so scientifically
stowed into —another Anson,
while Bennetts furiously super-
vised the removal of the bomb-
doors and Ron and I checked
the substitute plane and its acces-
sories for serviceability. Hastily
changing aircraft is not a good
nerve-soother, and I almost
pitied Mai as he waited, hot in
his paraphernalia, yet, I imag-
ined, shivering. Bennetts was in
a lather of sweat as he finally
tied the pretty bows in the locks
of his child, saying all over
again:
“Now, Bert, all you have to
do is undo this, and, as soon as
Ron gives the signal, pull out
this, and, if the rope shows signs
of catching-up, yank this.” For
Ron was to be pilot and bomb-
aimer, while I, way back in the
bowels of the aircraft, concen-
trating on the fancy release, was
to be bomb-dropper.
Finally we were ready, and,
amid loud cheers and waves, we
taxied bravely to the end of the
strip, some of the boys following
us in jeeps ; and soon, with some
proper sense of the importance
and pioneering nature of our
mission (for our drop was to be
the first of its kind from an
Anson there, too) we rattled
frantically along the steel strip-
matting, the boys again cheering
and gesticulating as we passed
our operations area, and proudly
took the air.
NOW, Ron was a young chap,
with good, solid ideals and
principles, I think ; but he had
not yet arrived at a full realisa-
tion of the significance of Chris-
tian charity. Besides, he felt that
a lesson would do Mai good.
And so I knew that Mai was in
for the time of his life.
Ron lost no time in beginning
Mai’s air-education, for, in the
take-off, he climbed above four
hundred feet, then suddenly
raised his flaps and allowed his
aircraft to fall away badly, so
that Mai was meant to ex-
perience the horrible sensation
of trying to continue climbing
by himself while the plane sank
from under him. That sensation
would be a good beginning, per-
haps, for it might have the effect
of taking some of the edge off
Mai’s courage, but it actually
was momentary and insignifi-
cant, something a newcomer to
flying would very soon scarcely
notice. But it was something to
do Mai until our parcels were
dropped, for Ron would take
no great liberties with those
dangling from under his aircraft.
Almost immediately my trans-
mitter packed up, and, however
hard I tried to discover the fault,
the set remained on ice, as thaw-
less as the Antarctic Barrier. The
fact that the job was a local one
lessened the hazard of being out
of touch with base, but Ron
took pains to point out to Mai
the peril of going on with the
transmitter out of commission.
Next, before we had gone far,
the instruments (or perhaps
Ron’s sadistic eye) registered a
drastic drop in oil-pressure,
which should have turned us
back; but Ron, after carefully
instructing Mai as to the dire
significance of this, merely
punched the perspex oil-gauge
dial, muttered something to the
effect that the gauge mustn’t be
reading properly, and steadily
pursued his course.
I judged that Mai was now in
a state, for he appeared to be
sitting very tight and white-faced
in the seat beside Ron, studying
the instrument-panel carefully.
So we proceeded up the Kotin
trail to our dropping-site, where
the fourth exasperation occurred.
Macpherson, the leader of the
party to which we were drop-
ping, had taken up a position at
the summit of a flat-topped hill
in a valley, with what appeared
to be sheer cliffs dropping down
into impenetrable gorges on
every hand. How he got there
I wouldn’t know, but our intelli-
gence-officer had told us he was
there, and there we expected to
find him ; but we flew about
o Continued on next page.)


ostentatiously for perhaps fifteen
minutes, seeing neither hair nor
hide of him. And I felt certain
that Mai would be extremely
sorry at this new delay.
You see, as soon as he was
aware of our presence, and was
assured that we were not a
Dinah in disguise, Macpherson
should have taken immediate
steps to mark for us our drop-
ping-site, a patch of ground
which he had previously cleared
of scrub, by spreading on it a
huge T and another letter made
of yellow cloth, which the party
carefully carried about rolled-up
in a bundle. The T showed us
the wind-direction on the ground
and the other letter identified the
party.
But we stooged about for what
seemed to be hours, not hovering
over Macpherson’s supposed
position, for that would be tell-
ing tales to any Japs who might
be in the vicinity, but covering a
wide sweep of jungle, trying to
give to a watcher the impression,
accentuated by Ron’s fantastic
manoeuvres (designed to tell
Macpherson remarkably lurid
things, and also to scare the day-
lights out of Mai), that we were
one old, eccentric lady out for
an airing ; but Macpherson made
no move.
Many reasons could account
for this; for some reason Mac-
pherson might suddenly have
shifted camp, and perhaps, even
while we circled, base was trying
to tell us of the fact by radio,
although how Macpherson could
have shifted suddenly from that
place, short of jumping to his
death, was beyond my under-
standing. A superior enemy
party in his vicinity might be
compelling him to lie doggo.
Perhaps Macpherson was weak
at aircraft-recognition and had
a suspicion that we were a new
Jap jet super-bomber, ready to
discharge a myriad rockets at
his first move . . .
WOU can imagine how im-
-1 patient I was at this delay,
and I could scarcely keep my
hands off that famous machinery
known colloquially as Bennetts’s
Anson Bombo Release Unit,
Mark I, Star, as distinct from
his previous effort called Ben-
netts’s Beaufort Performing
Bomb Door, Mark 111. Round
and about we flew, Ron sitting
quite still, as he always did in
flight, except when, at odd
moments in a sluggish plane, he
would thrash his seat with an
imaginary whip to show at once
his disgust and his good humor ;
until, quite suddenly it seemed,
the ground signal appeared from
nowhere.
So, taking good stock of the
exact site, we made north for
some miles, turned on to a
course which would take us over
the spot, and dropped down
almost ter deck level; for it
would be giving away poor old
Macpherson’s lair if we just
dived on to it, dropped out
load and immediately climbed
away. And here came our
fourth difficulty, for at tree-top
height we were well down in
the gorge, and hundreds of feet
below the mountains surround-
ing Macpherson’s little plateau,
so that it became apparent that
Ron would have to exercise ex-
ceptional control of his aircraft
or we would end up like cuckoos
in some bird’s eyrie on the sheer
rocky cliffs which loomed up
above us as we flew towards
them, rapidly losing height.
As I sat expectantly by the
Bombo Release Unit, with the
release stake at hand, having
already undone the king holding-
knot on the starboard parcel,
Ron signalled me that the drop
was scrubbed on this run. He
veered to the left, passing the
dropping-site, turned steeply to
clear the skirting hills, climbed
out of the gorge, and ran in
from the opposite direction, only
to find that to reach the required
height over the site we would
have to approach it in an almost
vertical dive. Approach from
either side, owing to the narrow-
ness of the gorge, was out of the
question, so that our first track
up the valley—or one near it —
was the only feasible one.
I had momentarily forgotten
all about Mai; but now, as Ron
tracked round for the start of
his run in, I studied him care-
fully. He was sitting very still,
gazing down at the jungle—
frozen stiff with fright, 1 had no
doubt. We were well into enemy
territory, and while we had
loitered about waiting for Mac-
pherson’s signal Ron had regaled
Mai with all the terrible things
that might happen to a plane
stooging round low over the
Japs. The fact was that all the
time our Ansons chugged about
the Solomons and New Guinea
very few of the tens of thou-
sands of Japs there, as far as
we knew, threw so much as a
rock at u‘s, glad enough, perhaps,
that we dropped nothing more
lethal than paper, and content
to leave us well alone lest, in
reprisal for an attack on us, we
bring out and drop a case of
empty beer-bottles and annihilate
their entire force at a blow. But
Ron laid it on so thick, throwing
in whole squadrons of Zeros for
good measure, that I really began
to pity Mai.
Impatiently. I waited with the
release stake in my hand as Ron
began his long run on to Mac-
pherson’s kn'oll. He was hugging
the right-hand side of the gorge,
his starboard wing almost touch-
ing a scrub-laden ledge, so that
he wbuld have
more room to turn
when the drop was
made.
But even the
drop we could not
do successfully on
this unhappy day,
for, when Ron
gave the signal
and I tugged the
stake free, the rope
still clung firmly
to the stanchion.
I grasped the rope’s
end and tossed
it round the post,
but the rope was
unwinding too
slowly; so I
snatched the
hatchet from its
place on the rear
bulkhead and
severed it at a
blow, almost sever-
ing the stanchion into the
bargain. But even as I did this
I knew that, although perhaps
barely two seconds had elapsed
since I had pulled the stake, we
had dropped too late, for even
an Anson doesn’t remain in one
place for two seconds; and,
sure enough, as Ron turned
sharply in the towering cul-de-
sac ahead of us, I watched
that parachute, supporting fifty
Christmas hampers sent to cheer
each of fifty lonely souls, with
two cakes of questionable soap,
one packet of rusty razor-blades,
some rust- and smut-growing
cigarettes, gooey chocolate, a
pair of hand-knitted socks with
knots strategically placed to
blister your heels, a large mil-
dewed Christmas cake and other
comforts —I watched all this miss
the dropping - site, miss the
plateau itself and float down
mockingly into the unbelievable
depths of the wild chasm, where
it surely lies to this day, a priie
for any explorer with the initia-
tive and daring to retrieve it.
p\ISCONSOLATELY we
climbed again for another
run in, not blaming ourselves,
for once the drop had begun we
were powerless to stop it, and
could do nothing of any value
beyond hastening it, but quietly
eyeing with a gaze of mild
reproach the contrivance
officially known as Bennetts’s
Bombo Release Unit, Mark I,
Star.
In came Ron again, and you
may be sure that this time I
made no mistake, making cer-
tain that the second packet was
hurtled into our slipstream
almost immediately when Ron
dropped his hand and that it
landed fair apd square in the
middle of the site. But Ron,
perhaps too intent on his bomb-
aiming, or perhaps out to add
to Mai’s nervousness, delayed his
turn till almost too late, so that
he had to execute the steepest of
steep turns ; and even so, banked
as we were almost at right-
angles to the horizontal, we
seemed to drive round the cliff
on our wheels, which, in an
Anson, always slightly protrude
when retracted, like the dare-
devil cyclist on the Wall of
Death at the Royal Show.
Nothing but an Anson could
have come out of that predica-
ment. Another plane would have
bumped, or stalled, or whart-
notted, to put us in; but Aggie
presently emerged on to an even
keel into the clear as if nothing
had happened, so I settled
myself comfortably in my seat,
for I knew thjft shortly Ron
would start to throw that old
kite about as she had never been
thrown before.
DON had promised Mai a
1 close-up of the volcano, so
we made directly for it, climbing
hard, and, as we touched the
edge of its smoke Mai, who fbr
months had perhaps idly glanced
now and then at the belching
mass, looked up in surprise, and
opened his mouth for the first
time on the flight.
“Why,” he cried excitedly
over the intercomm., “it smells
strongly of sulphur.”
Sudden inspiration came to me.
m “Best be careful, Ron,” I said.
“The fumes might overcome
“What’s it like in, Reggie?”
you. I’ve never handled a plane.
Can you fly one, Mai? It
wouldn’t help, though, I suppose,
because we’d never haul Ron out
of his seat in time to take over.”
“Don’t worry,” declared Ron
emphatically. “I’ll feel myself
going in time, and if I do pass
right out I’ll come to as soon as
we clear the smoke—before we
hit the ground.”
And Ron headed into a dense
patch of smoke. As far as I
could ascertain, Mai’s speaking
potential seemed to have receded
beyond zero ; nor was he likely
to recover at once, for just as I
said, “Do you think the fumes
might affect our motors?” Ron
suddenly chopped his starboard
motor and showed no hurry to
trim the aircraft adequately, so
that she abruptly assumed a most
extraordinary gait, like a sulky
with one egg-shaped wheel.
I pointed agitatedly to the
belabored airscrew; and Mai,
whose sight was not yet affected,
seemed to go even whiter than
he was already. But Ron had
only just begun. Restarting his
motor, he put her nose up
gradually, without advancing his
throttles, and the aircraft’s speed
dropped off until, just before she
stalled, she appeared to stand
still, and shuddered violently
from stem to stern.
We had placbd Mai strategi-
cally next to Ron so that he
could get a good view, and now
he suddenly looked across at
Ron’s face, which was in no way
calculated to reassure him, for
both it and Ron’s actions
showed extreme panic, as the
aircraft suddenly stalled, ducked
her nose and dropped as if the
bottorh had fallen out of the air.
I imagine the most sickening
sensation in the whole world is
that felt by a man in his first
welt-manipulated aircraft stall,
and I hardly thought that any-
one in the whole world could
have been unhappier than Mai
at that moment.
But we were just warming up.
As Ron gained speed in his dive
he made three violent, tight
turns, then suddenly pulled his
nose up sharply, jerking Mai’s
head on to his chest, and then
threw his motors out of syn-
chronisation, so that we began
to vibrate all over, like a Bondi
tram off the rails, at the same
time calling loudly: “You’ll have
to jump, Bert!”
I sprang up, grabbed my pack
and slammed it over the hooks
on my chest. Mai’s pack was
close to his hand, but he made
no move, apparently so over-
come by a number of over-
whelming emotions that he was
incapable of movement.
The fact that he was likely to
interpret our miming literally
might suggest that Mai was slow
of comprehension, but actually,
on the ground, he was very quick
on the uptake; the point was
that, like most novice passengers,
he could be expected to become
so bewildered by a number of
new factors of experience that he
would be likely, temporarily, to
lose his equilibridin. I have
known even old hands lose their
sense df proportion to a remark-
able degree when some new air
experience was afforded them.
So Mai sat still, seemingly
beyond fear and beyond despair ;
and 1 was pleased when Ron
righted his aircraft and called:
“She’s come good, Bert. Settle
down for a longer life. Now we
can start our job, for we’ve had
enough sightseeing for a while.”
Mai should have had enough
for a lifetime, but, just as I was
wondering how I could tell Ron
to break it up now, without let-
ting Mai hear, the latter startled
me by saying; “Ron, you’ve
been jazzing this aircraft about
in a most inexpert manner since
we took off, and I can only sur-
mise that you’re ill or something.
Would you like a spell ?”
f WAS dumbfounded, not so
* much by the import of the
words as by the fact that the
voice did not sound at all like
that of a terrified man. Ron did
not answer immediately. He
glanced sharply across at Mai
and then back to his windshield.
I felt that he was as mystified
as myself, and that he was trying
to think rapidly.
“Can you fly it, Mai?” he
asked quickly.
“If I couldn’t give a better
exhibition than yours I certainly
wouldn’t be able to,” Mai
answered.
Immediately Ron began to
climb out of his seat, and, as
Mai juggled himself into the
pilots seat, it was my turn to
have that sinking feeling. I
knew that in the circumstances
Ron would have called the bluff
of an armless moron, and to
prove his point would rather see
us plunge into the trees than
spoil the show by lifting a finger
to stop it. I began to have goose-
flesh at the base of the skull.
But, after the bumping attendant
on the change of seats, the air-
craft seemed to behave much as
it had before, with Ron at the
wheel; perhaps a trifle better.
I Wreathed again, and my heart
resumed its normal beat. Mai
seemed to be doing well, but, of
course, he was only flying
straight and level, and even a
mug could do that no hands.
“Where do we go with these
leaflets?” asked Mai.
I instructed him, and he
expertly descended to two thou-
sand feet at the pin-point and
turned on to his course. As soon
as he turned I knew he was no
beginner, for the beginner will
never turn without climbing or
descending too much or side-
slipping. You don’t have to be
an expert to make a good turn,
but you have to know a bit, and
how to apply it, too. Then, in
the course of our lefleat-drop he
executed some tight turns and
other manoeuvres to such per-
fection that Ron sat back sheep-
ishly, as if he would go to sleep.
The leaflets, designed to en-
courage the boongs to aid us
where possible, and to warn
them not to oppose us, were tied
in bundles, which were un-
wrapped and dropped through
the flare-chute or the window at
about two thousand feet, scatter-
ing to the four winds as they
fell. Later we dropped many
leaflets in Japanese to demoralise
enemy troops in the path of our
army’s advance; but I always
considered this in one sense a
waste of petrol, paper and time,
for I gathered that a Jap’s
approach to our lines, even if he
were unarmed and naked, with a
white flag in one hand and a
bundle of surrender leaflets in
the other and an olive branch
behind his ear, was for him a
shorter cut to his heaven than a
series of sharp gashes across his
abdomen. However, the army
did give us instances of the effec-
tive results of our leaflet drops,
even among the Japanese.
Presently Mai began to play
about, diving back through the
leaflets fluttering down, and
twice he pulled out so close to
the treetops that Ron sat up out
of his doze and took notice.
Then, the dropping over, on the
way home Mai began to cut
capers that had Ron and me
hanging on grimly in suspense
for a solid hour —rushing madly
along the beaches, blowing the
sand and suddenly banking, so
that it appeared certain to one
not watching the altimeter that
the mainplane would never fit
into the space between the fuse-
lage and the ground, but must
be snapped off half-way; play-
ing leapfrog with the breakers;
tearing across a bay at a small
cape as if he would rip straight
into the foliage thereon, only
somehow to slip one wingtip
between the overhanging trees
and a shelf of rock on the shore ;
and a hundred like breathtaking
pranks.
I was suddenly very happy
when it was all over and Mai
climbed to two thousand and
struggled out of the pilot’s seat,
for I feared that, however good
a pilot he was, he was taking
fearful liberties with his aircraft.
Ron, who had not spoken
throughout the nightmare jour-
ney, silently resumed his seat
and sedately landed the aircraft
at Piva.
From that day on I never
knew Mai and Ron to spit at
each other.
Bennetts was anxiously
awaiting us to hear about
the behavior of his Bombo Re-
lease Unit, but when I decently
could change the subject I asked
Bennetts:
“Has Mai ever flown aircraft,
do you know?”
Bennetts fixed me with his
childlike, innocent eyes as he
said:
“He flew for three years in
operational bomber squadrons
in England, the Middle East and
Burma ; but he was boarded out
last year because he was found
to be diabetic. He was three
times mentioned in dispatches
and he has a D.F.’C.-and-bar.
But he never wears his wings or
his gongs, and he won’t even
look at an aircraft if he can help
it, for his scrubbing was the
tragedy of his life. He should
have a flutter occasionally, I
think.”


THE PATTERN OF PROGRESS
* ■
H I
4
■
tM -.
A
k M
Ky Im.
t.m *
I • ; , #.■ /
pa
' *V- <«• v'
•&WW -^gga^^
V:
[\
• ; * ■-, < ' * 1 •%&*!
■i.' , »m • ■ : _
rf#jahJS> • -» .
m&tsmm&....-..s
• MMi mBMtT'
E
■
.. -4 .. : . •. : :;
#*&
BMW
si
r
:l„ •
I H| I
;;;:?< ,
;•■ ';
SBggk ’»<;><>-;•.•:• jw;
'JSiiliiiMi
$ ”^®® 8886888^: #6«
&Bss&fSs
t 4 ....
kjM
. ■
» , XBSB
11 InBMiM
• ■■■.'•■*::■’ .
:V"\. ■,<
IB
' * v . ,
mmm '
SJ
Throughout Australia today vast
plans for the development of our
natural resources are taking
shape.
Mighty machines, crawler trac-
tors, scrapers, excavators, rock
crushing plant and all the para-
phernalia of modern construction
allied to International Power and
ranged against the forces of
nature to keep faith with the
steady development begun by
our forebears 150 years ago.
We of ISAS are justly proud of
our association with this massive
array of equipment which, during
this year of Jubilee, is contribut-
ing to this pattern of progress.
INTERNATIONAL
Industrial power
Hii
w ■
'•
'Uhl
yb
* *
' * m
SOLD AND SERVICED BY
international
HARVESTER
AO7O
umiiiiiiiu
mn
THROUGHOUT RUSTRRLIR
£5
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVONEV MELBOURNE HOBART RDEIRIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FDR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRY POWER


The Letters of Rachel Henning
[These letters bagan in 1853, when Biddulph, Rachel Henning’s only
brother (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
K achel and her sisters Henrietta ("Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce In August, 1861) and Amy were thus separated, for
time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
August, 1854, Bachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
Tregenna Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six days
if 4 ®* , Rachel and An, y went to Appin, in N.S.W., where their brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Bev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
1800, and while Biddulph was establishing a new place on Bulli Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1856.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulph and
Annie, went to live on Exmoor station in North Queensland, which was
just being developed. She stayed there until 1865, when she became
engaged to Deighton Taylor, her brother’s sheep overseer. She was
married to him in Sydney on March 3, 1866. They went to live on the
Myall River and later to Stroud (N.S.W.)
This is the eighteenth instalment of the letters.]
“The Peach Trees,”
July 1, 1870.
My Dearest Etta,
It was pleasant to hear from
you of the English spring. How
I used to love it when the first
fine mild days came, and prim-
roses and violets and cowslips
were out! Just now we are
enjoying just the same kind of
weather here, only we do not
have such cold winds ; this is a
lovely winter day, warm and
bright in the sun, though rather
cold where you get in the way
of the west wind.
Mr. Taylor is busy in
the orchard that is to be,
and I have been busy ever
since breakfast making a cake
and afterwards making up some
butter, which I churned yester-
day, to say nothing of watering
geraniums and feeding dogs;
and now, when it is nearly
dinner-time, I have to begin
English letters. It is a mystery
to me where the time goes, but
the days always seem past before
there is half the day’s work
done.
We have only just come home
from a visit to Stroud. We went
in on Saturday afternoon, stayed
over Sunday and Monday, and
returned on Tuesday morning.
We both rather enjoyed our
visit, and while there we rode
over with Mr. and Mrs. Shaw to
Booral, a place about five miles
from Stroud, to call upon some
people who have a nice garden
which we wanted to see.
I rather pity Mrs. Shaw today,
for the Governor, Lord Belmore,
with his brother and his aide-de-
camp, are coming to Stroud, and
Mr. Shaw asked them to lodge
at the Parsonage instead of at
the inn, which is a very indif-
ferent one. It is only for one
night, but still it entails a dinner
and breakfast and great turning-
out of rooms for their accom-
modation. The Shaws asked no
one to meet them, as to do so
would have necessitated asking
a great many, and it does not do
for the clergyman to offend
people under the voluntary
system. The Governor is mak-
ing a tour up the country to
Gloucester, Dungog, Maitland,
etc.
We are looking forward to
our visit to Sydney in August
next. We always enjoy staying
with Biddulph and Annie, and
we always take the opportunity
of supplying ourselves with
stores, clothes, etc., for the year.
Mr. Taylor wants some things,
but I shall not get much in the
way of garments this time as I
got Annie to send me up some
mourning when the news came
of Mrs. Taylor’s death. This
reminds me to thank you for
the notice from the “Athenaeum”
which you sent in your last
letter.
I am writing a most stupid
letter, but I have nothing new to
tell you. We are remarkably
jolly, but it is in a quiet way
that gives nothing to write about,
and though the garden and the
new orchard and the trees that
are coming up from Sydney for
it, and the dairy and how the
butter grieved my soul by taking
an hour and a half to “come”
this morning, and how the calves
got out of the calf-paddock last
night and so we had no milk
today, etc., are all highly
interesting events to me and my
“old man,” as he is generally
called in private life, I cannot
expect such items to be amusing
when they are filtered through
fifteen thousand miles.
Annie and Amy and Biddulph
tell their own histories, I
suppose ; the first and last are
capital correspondents. Amy
does not write to me so often.
I am going out to garden now.
Mr. Taylor and I are planting a
new bed of flowering shrubs,
and it is such a lovely afternoon,
though it is mid-winter, and
there are still lots of white roses
in the garden.
Ever, dearest Etta', your most
affectionate sister,
RACHEL TAYLOR.
“The Peach Trees,”
i November 1, 1870.
My Dearest Etta,
Now we are at home again,
and you will be surprised to hear
that we persuaded Annie to bring
Teddy and come up with us for
a month. Biddulph was away at
Bathurst and Mr. Hedgeland
away all the day, only coming
home in the evening, and there
are good trustworthy servants at
“Green Mount,”* so she could
not have a better opportunity for
leaving home.
The weather was so bad the
week we had fixed for going
home that Annie was afraid to
venture with Teddy, so Mr.
Taylor went up before us and
I remained to escort the
“infant.” We got up about four
o’clock last Monday morning to
finish packing and get breakfast,
and started by the steamer at
seven o’clock. We had a toler-
ably calm passage up, but
Annie was sick and Teddy rather
so, but he went to sleep and was
not much trouble. We reached
Raymond Terrace at five. Mr.
Taylor had taken rooms for us
at the inn, and we were very
comfortable there. The next
morning at ten we set off by the
mail buggy for Stroud, a distance
of thirty-two miles. Teddy was
very good and went to sleep part
of the way. It was a beautiful
day when we started, only rather
hot, but it clouded over after-
wards.
Mr. Taylor came on horseback
as far as the river, to meet us
and see us safely over. The
water was rather deep owing to
the recent rains. It was very
nearly over the buggy floor, but
not quite. Just as we reached
the other side, about six miles
from Stroud, a tremendous
thunderstorm came on. Annie
wrapped Teddy up in a water-
proof and managed to keep him
dry, but all the rest of us got
rather wet. Mr. Taylor, who
was on horseback, was nearly
wet through.
We reached the Parsonage at
last, where Mrs. Shaw very
kindly took us all in for the
night, and we were soon dry and
comfortable.
The next morning David, our
present factotum, came in with
quite a drove of horses, and after
breakfast we started in proces-
sion for the Peach Trees, to the
great edification of the
Stroudites. Mr. Taylor rode old
Charley, who is the quietest
horse we have and warranted to
carry double, and on a small
pillow in front of the saddle he
carried Teddy, who was quite
delighted with his ride and
laughed and chattered the whole
way. Annie and I rode by him,
and David brought up the rear,
leading a packhorse, with such
of our property as we
immediately wanted.
We had quite a pleasant ride,
and reached the Peach Trees in
time for dinner. Charlotte, the
servant we had left behind in
care of the house, had every-
thing ready for us, the house
beautifully clean, and everything
taken care of.
In the afternoon we unpacked
and took a survey of the
premises. The plants had grown
wonderfully and the garden is
very gay, but I am sorry to say
“We are all very pleased with his choice.”
the weeds have grown as fast as
the flowers, and it is a perfect
jungle. All the animals were
well taken care of ; the dogs are
in good order, the horses ditto,
and two pretty calves have been
added to the herd of cattle.
It was fortunate we came up
when we did, or we should not
have got here yet, as it has
rained ever since we came home.
I do not think there ever was
such a season for wet, and the
worst of it is that the damp has
given Teddy a cold, and one
night he had a slight attack of
croup, to our great terror.
Neither Annie nor I had ever
seen the croup before, and we
were eight miles from a doctor,
but Charlotte, who was sum-
moned to the rescue, said that
one of her little brothers often
had it and did not seem to think
much of it. Mr. Taylor lighted
a great lire in the sitting-room,
and we soon had a hot bath
into which we put Teddy and
dosed him with honey and
vinegar; and in a short time he
got better. It was not a severe
attack, but we were much
frightened at first. I never saw
anyone so quiet and self-
possessed as Annie, considering
it was her only child who was at
stake, and that we were all alone
in the bush.
The next day Mr. Taylor went
into Stroud and got some
medicine and directions from the
doctor, and Teddy is pretty well
again, though we keep him
indoors and out of the damp as
much as possible. He is a very
pretty child, with golden curls
all round his head, and for an
only child who has hardly ever
* “Green Mount” was a house at
Kirribilli Point, Sydney, jointly occu-
pied by Biddulph Henning and Annie
and George Hedgeland after Exmoor
station was sold m 1868.
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
BACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia In 1864, returned to England
in 1856, and came back to Australia
in 1861. She went to Exmoor (Q.)
in 1862, returning to Sydney In
1865, and married D eight on Taylor
in 1866.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Bev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained In England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph,
and went with him to Queensland
in 1862. Married George Hedge-
land in 1866.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Bachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
his married cousin Llndon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Bev. Sparling
at Appin. Eater he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Blxon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 265. an
acre, and built a bouse there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. In conjunction with the
Tuckers he bought Marlborongh
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO In November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him. In
1864 he took up an additional hold-
ing (Lara), which stretched from
Alick’s Creek to the junction of
the Cloncurry River, a tributary
of the Plinders, and comprised
eight blocks of 25 square miles.
Although the country was good
it did not pay because of trans-
port difficulties,
[The foregoing were the children
of the Bev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died In 1840, his wife In
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TBB-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother’s
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Blddulphs. They were
interested, with Biddulph Henning,
In Queensland station properties.
WILLIAM TUCKER was founder
of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES
TUCKER was his brother.


DF
D
C 0 ”*’ for "f*
What a pair
to have and
hold! A Swan
pen, matched by
a Fyne-Poynt Pen-
/ cil, both made with
/ fine-watch precision.
/ Obviously, the perfect
/ gift that will keep grati-
tude warm for a lifetime!
Presentation sets in black and
colours. At all jewellers,
stationers and stores.
SWAM PEN
with Fyne-Poynt Pencil
HABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 255 a GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
' 54.62.1
FD
F
DF
D
F
DF
No home should
he without it...
*
tSTA BLISH6O 185
SPECIAL HOSPr
’’Wfcriir,. ' * »®*» T| UtO AND BOTTUO U
Sn*S£S! * niVt - St PITHS. *OCU*L
TftUK« SCOTT 4 Toiur.
M.t.W. DISTRIBUTORS!
TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
TST.IB.U
“The ceilings require a great many coats of whitewash.”
been contradicted he is really
very good. I could not believe
he would be so little trouble as
he was on the journey.
!t is very pleasant to have
Annie here. I hardly hoped we
should ever get her to come so
far, for it is a formidable
journey to take with a little
child. I hope she will stay a
month or more ; it is not worth
while to come so far for a
shorter time.
Kindest love to yourself and
to the children,
RACHEL TAYLOR.
“Green Mount,”
November 30, 1 870.
My Dearest Etta,
I wrote to you last on
November 1, shortly after we
had returned to the Peach Trees,
taking Annie and Teddy with
us. It was very pleasant having
them, but their visit was not such
a prosperous one as we hoped
it would be, owing to the
dreadful weather. Such a
season as the past autumn,
winter and spring has not been
known in Australia in the
memory of the oldest inhabitant,
and while Annie was at the
Peach Trees the rain was almost
incessant, so that we could not
get any nice rides and walks,
such as we had calculated upon.
Then I stayed out too late
gardening one evening and
caught cold. Annie and Mr.
Taylor were the very kindest of
nurses, but I was so vexed that
her visit should be taken up in
that way. However, thanks to
their care, I got better in about
a week, and then as it was time
for Annie to go home, and I had
still a very bad cough, Mr.
Taylor insisted on my returning
to Sydney with her for a change
of air, and also to get some
advice, I was exceedingly un-
willing to come, as I did not
like leaving home again, and it
was so dreadfully dull for Mr.
Taylor to be left alone in the
bush. However, I was overruled
and had to come, so here I am.
It was fortunate, in one way,
for we had a very rough passage
down, and Annie was dreadfully
ill, so if I had not been there
there would have been no one
to look after poor little Teddy,
who was ill also. We arrived at
Sydney last Saturday, and I
hope to get home again next
week if all goes well. I think
I have written enough about
Number One.
Although she had such bad
weather for her visit, everyone
says that Annie looks better for
the change, and Teddy is the
picture of health. Biddulph is
still away. You know he went
on a country tour before Annie
left Sydney for the Peach Trees.
He is expected home at the end
of this week, so I shall just see
him for a few days before I
return again to the bush.
Green Mount is looking as
pretty as ever. It certainly is a
lovely place. The garden is full
of flowers, but rather wild with
the wet weather. It is a most
extraordinary season, although
it is less than a month to
Christmas, the mornings and
evenings are so cold that we are
glad of a fire, and this in Aus-
tralia. If it would only get
really warm I know I should
soon be quite well.
I have not yet thanked you
for your letter of September 1.
It did not arrive till after I had
written my last letter to you.
Thank you also for Aunt’s and
Rose’s letters enclosed. The
latter writes nicely and kindly
of poor Rachel; I am so very
sorry for her. She must be living
so miserably.
I was very much interested
by your account of Walton and
all our old haunts about
Clevedon. Ido not think that
being happy in the present makes
one care less about the old times
and places. It would be a great
pleasure to me to visit all the
old scenes, and I always look
back on the Backwell era as the
happiest part of my unmarried
life.
As you conjecture we were
rather relieved when Thunder-
bolt was removed from the
scenes of his depredations. He
was not hung. One of the
mounted police got on his tracks
and gallantly followed him
alone for miles, till Thunder-
bolt’s horse knocked up, and he
dismounted and stood at bay in
a creek. He refused to sur-
render, and after a desperate
hand -to - hand fight with
revolvers, the trooper shot him
dead.
About the same time, another
noted bushranger was tracked to
his lair and shot by another
party of police, - and at present
New South Wales is relieved
from their presence. Walker, the
man who shot Thunderbolt, was
promoted and a subscription
made for him, which he
deserved, for a more dangerous
service than he performed could
hardly be.
It is no use to write about this
dreadful war, as your news is so
much later than ours. The last
account that reached us was that
Paris was surrounded and the
bombardment to begin in two
days. You know the results long
ere this, and we have to wait
another three weeks for further
news. I hope it may be peace.
The suffering and loss of life
must be frightful. One is rather
sorry for the French now, but
there is no forgetting that they
began the war.
My kindest love to Mr. Boyce,
yourself and the children,
Ever your affectionate sister,
RACHEL TAYLOR.
“The Peach Trees,”
January 16, 1871.
My Dearest Etta,
We have had what the Sydney
newspapers call an unusual
quantity of the “pluvial element.”
In plain English, it has done no-
thing but* rain for the last nine
months, and the oldest inhabit-
anf never remembers such
weather. The rivers and creeks
have been up and the mails have
been stopped about every other
week, and this catastrophe hap-
pened just when I ought to have
written to you last.
I wrote to you last from
Sydney during my second visit
there. I was very unwilling to
go, both on account of the ex-
pense and of leaving my hus-
band. I stayed only a fortnight,
and then came home.
Whilst in Sydney staying at
Green Mount Biddulph told me
what Biddulph Pinchard had
told him about the Shrapnell
Ghost in Taunton, Somerset. It
is interesting, so I will write it
as our brother Biddulph told me.
He said Biddulph Pinchard dis-
liked speaking of it, and he said
he had failed to even account
for the disturbances.
The worst time they had was
a little before Christmas, For
three days and nights then the
hammering and rapping was
almost incessant and so loud that
sometimes you could hardly
hear yourself speak. He had
four policemen in the house at
the time, to try to discover if
anyone were playing tricks, but
they could make nothing of it.
You might open the door of a
room where the knocking seemed
to come from and
there was nothing
to be seen inside. I
believe the police-
men were awfully alarmed, as
was no wonder.
He also told me that locked
doors were always being opened.
This was constantly happening.
Directly after the three days’
uproar Biddulph had to take his
wife and two boys away, as they
were all ill with fright, and I
think, excepting a day or two,
they have never slept in the
house since.
Another thing Biddulph told
me was that after they had all
left, and the house was closed
up, one of the Miss Alfreds,
happening to pass the house,
heard music. As she knew they
were all away, she went into the
garden and went all round the
house. Every door and window
was fastened and the music still
went on. She described the
music as wonderfully sweet;
quite heavenly. Another lady
heard the music at another time.
Biddulph Pinchard himself is
not the least nervous and wpuld
have remained in the house if
his wife and boys could have
lived there. He says he did his
utmost to discover the cause of
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
the disturbance and completely
failed. He is sure the servants
had nothing to do with it; he
had only two women servants
in the house, and they were as
much frightened as the others.
The housemaid is still with
them.
The present tenants, a doctor
and his wife, have not been dis-
turbed, excepting that they find
the doors opened unaccountably,
and this they do not seem to
mind. The doctor’s wife has had
a baby bora since she has been
in the house. They must cer-
tainly be brave ever to have
gone there.
That is Biddulph’s account.
I came home by the morning
boat, and when I arrived at New-
castle (which is the termination
of the sea voyage, before going
up the river to Raymond
Terrace) you may fancy how
delighted I was to see Mr. Taylor
come on board. I did not the
least expect him, as I had
written to beg him not to come
down for me, but he had, and I
am sorry to say, had been wait-
ing two days while I was detained
in Sydney by the everlasting
rain.
I had quite a pleasant journey
after that. We reached Ray-
mond Terrace that evening, slept
there at a very comfortable inn.
and the next day
went on to
Stroud, I by the
mail buggy and
Deighton rode. We got to
Stroud that day, slept at the
Parsonage, and the next morn-
ing rode home to the Peach Trees,
which I hope I shall have no
occasion to leave again till next
spring, when we look forward
to our usual visit to Sydney—
that is, if the Russians and
Yankees have not battered it
down in the meantime.
David came home yesterday
aghast with the news that Paris
was destroyed and England had
gone to war with Russia and
America, and that an army of
two hundred men had enlisted
at Newcastle to defend Australia,
and that he supposed he should
be wanted.
I do not know of any way
in which the real news could
have come yet, so I suppose
somebody invented it, but I am
afraid there is probability in
some of it. Ido not know what
will become of Sydney in case of
war; the town is defenceless,
except a few ill-placed batteries.
They have never been able to
agree upon the best means of
o Continued on page 39.)


/
Solid Gold 17 Jewelled Precision
ROLEX Classically styled.
10 ct. Solid Gold 17 Jewelled Precision
ROLEX De Luxe dial.
10 ct. White Gold 17 Jewelled Precision
ROLEX —Da Luxe dial.
*
RXI 1
If time is important to you buy
a Swiss ROLEX
/
It’s accurately yours for always.
X
Although Rolex is the highest quality watch you can
buy, it is also the most economical because it lasts
a lifetime.
The Rolex models you see pictured above tiny,
beautiful and so accurate are gifts she will treasure
for always.
Rolex watches can never be mass produced. Each
model is the result of high level craftsmanship known
only to the heart of the watch-making industry in
Switzerland. Because it is tested and re-tested, the
very Rolex watch you buy has a guaranteed quality
which makes Rolex one of the most respected names
in watch-making.
Tudor watches are another branch of the Rolex family.
Ask to see the Rolex and Tudor watches at leading jewellers.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PEACE HOPERS STILL HOPING.
This year 1951, like most
others since the late war, is going
to be written down as a year of
scares, alarms and forebodings.
But along with the fears still
runs something perhaps harder
to justify—the hope of the
hopers for peace.
They’re in a minority—but
not a diminishing one. Mainly
they pin their hope to the belief
voiced by London “News
Chronicle’s” veteran analyser of
the world scene, Vernon Bartlett,
that, although the Russians could
still win the battle of Europe,
they could no longer hope to
win a world war. “And,” con-
cludes Bartlett, “the uncer-
tainties of their policy suggest
that they know it.”
A staunch member of the
hopefuls, London “Observer,”
looking at the West’s progress in
becoming “strong enough to
make peace secure,” marks no
evidence that Russia will launch
preventive war to block this.
The danger of war, it feels, will
continue into next year, but
from now on should grow
steadily less. In fact, “The time
is not very far distant when it
would be clearly suicidal for the
Kremlin to commit aggression
against the West.” Also this
confident assertion:
“The encouraging fact that
this particular [i.e., Soviet-
launched preventive] war danger
has begun to recede may not yet
be generally realised, but we
believe it to be true.”
NEW CONFIDENCE
The “Observer” insists that the
time when the Red Army could
have marched to the Channel
and the Atlantic virtually un-
resisted “has certainly passed.”
In support it points to the
fact that a month or so back,
for the first time since 1945,
Allied field forces, amounting to
between 300,000 and 400,000
men, engaged in realistic
exercises between the Elbe and
the Rhine, particularly high
expert praise being earned by
the new French divisions:
“There is now a feeling in
military circles that the French
Army has definitely overcome
the ‘1940 complex,’ and that
France’s contribution to Euro-
pean defence is again up to her
brilliant military traditions.”
Also to be numbered among
the hopers, a leading New York
“Herald Tribune” staff writer,
lately revisiting Europe, weighs-
in with the following:
“The most surprising thing
about Western Europe today is
that its people have suddenly
begun to think seriously about
defending it. Even the sceptical
French are beginning to talk as
though the defence of their
country, which seemed to them
visionary to the point of silliness
only a few months ago, might
quite soon become a practical
possibility.”
This new confidence he credits
to the fact that Eisenhower
“honestly and deeply believes
that Western Europe can be de-
fended.” And, he comments,
“It is nonsense to doubt that it
can be done. It is nonsense to
doubt that American industrial
might, combined with the sort of
spirit in Europe this reporter
observed growing among the
French troops, can match the
power of the Slave State. And
if only the job is done, and done
fast, as Eisenhower also likes to
tell visitors, then we can really
begin to breathe again.”
RED REVERSES
In a London “Times” report
Lord Samuel joins the hopers
with the statements that he be-
FISH TALES.
“Stockholms-Tidningen,” Sweden.
lieves the danger of a third
world war is “not likely to prove
permanent,” and “Taking a
broad view, there is no ground
for pessimism.”
No precise reasons are given
for that finding. A London
“Spectator” writer at least has
a reason of sorts —that, though
the U.S.S.R., being a totalitarian
State, has rulers who could start
a war if they wished, “the power
of public opinion even in
Russia is often underestimated,
and the people want peace.”
London “Time and Tide's”
reason for some measure of
hope is that “the initiative, in
the whole issue of peace and
war, is being wrested from the
U.S.S.R.” It holds that Soviet
diplomacy “is meeting a crush-
ing sequence of reverses”;
“This,” it insists, “is not to be
complacent: it is an effort to see
the world landscape in perspec-
tive. Soviet energy, cunning and
capacity to make mischief are
by no means exhausted; but
slowly and steadily the ring is
being pegged-out round aggres-
sion. Slowly, steadily and often
painfully, a world-wide system
of security is being built up.”
YEAR AGO AND NOW
Pinning his share of hope to
that same build-up, “Manchester
Guardian’s” military cor-
respondent tallies this year’s
achievements.
A year ago, he points out,
seven Allied army divisions were
stationed in Western Germany;
before this year is out there
should be 18. A year ago the
West’s supply ports were
Hamburg and Bremen, both in
front of most of its troops;
today Antwerp and Bordeaux
are coming into use and could
take over in an emergency. A
year ago the West had not a
single cprps or army head-
quarters capable of commanding
a mobile battle ; today there are
at least three corps and three
army headquarters. A year ago
Eisenhower was presiding at
Columbia University: today he
commands S.H.A.P.E., where
officers of 12 nations act as one.
Giving these facts as “the
measure of a year’s progress,”
the “Manchester Guardian’s”
military writer declares that the
balance of forces in Germany
is not far from being righted.
The Russian Army in
Germany and Western Poland,
he further states, is reckoned at
24 to 26 divisions. The equation
of 18 Allied divisions (before
this year’s end) against 26 “is
more nearly even than it looks,
because the American divisions
are larger —in cannon as well as
cameramen —than any others.
In general terms he puts the
Allied ground forces as prob-
ably about one-fifth weaker than
the Russian: “That applies, of
course, only to the forces in or
near Germany. Farther back
the Red Army can call on a
reserve of 100 or more active
divisions: the Allied reserve does
not reach 10. But the import-
ance of the year’s progress is
this: The Russians cannot now
count on being able to march
straight to the Channel coast
whenever they wish.”
TIDE HAS TURNED
A London “Twentieth
Century” writer, reporting from
Germany, is another to find
reason for hope in the West's
build-up of security. “The first
year of Western rearmament,”
he asserts, “has achieved a re-
markable change in the balance
of world power,” with the
definite result that the political
atmosphere in Western Europe
has been transformed: “Gone
is the near-panic of last winter,
when large sections of the West
German and French population
were in a constant state of ‘pre-
occupation.’ Fear of immediate
Russian attack has largely
disappeared.”
There are, he admits, obvious
shortcomings in the West’s
member-countries other than
Britain and the U.S.: “Even
so, the extent to which the
potential strength of the West
has been converted into actual
strength during this single year
has been sufficient to produce a
general feeling that the tide has
turned.”
The “change in the balance of
power” the same close watcher
sees reflected in “a number of
remarkable symptoms of in-
decision among the top policy-
makers in the Kremlin.” Instead
of disguising an inscrutably
devious “master - plan,” the
“latest Russian zig-zags” may
well, he believes, be “symptoms
of genuinely divided counsel in
high places.”
And, summing it all up, he
reaches the certainly hopeful
view that the day may not be far
off “when a clear offer of real
concessions will be made by the
Russians in order to relax a
tension which by now does more
harm to them than to the West.”
Copland Prescription.
London “Economist’s” warn-
ing on the Copland suggestion
that, since sterling convertibility
into dollars is not in sight, Aus-
tralia ought to take autonomous
responsibility for its dollar
accounts and should build them
up with the object of making the
Australian pound convertible
into dollars as soon as possible:
“He seeks to develop closer
direct relationships with the
United States, in the hope of
promoting therefrom a sub-
stantial flow of capital to Aus-
tralia —capital that he believes
Britain will be unable to
provide.
“There is no reason yet to
suppose that the Commonwealth
Government feels as strongly on
these issues as Sir Douglas does ,
but if Britain hopes to secure


Established 1863
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
tif-
JACKSOMT
O'SUIXIVAK
i nxva
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants.
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“pROTECTa” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUI”, BRISBANE
The Case of fhe
Third Twin
Mme. Joye loved her twin
boys though they were oddly
unalike. Mme. Valter loved
her son—who looked more a
Joye than a Valter.
December Reader’s Digest
brings you the fantastic but
true story of a maternity hospital
mix-up—discovered only after
the boys had lived with the
wrong mothers for seven
years. The mistake might
never have been discovered
but for the curious twist of
tate that sent the lads to the
same school. A poignant drama
of real life and how it worked
out.
Get your Reader’s Digest
today. 31 articles of lasting
Interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
New Mirror Handcraft Book
TINY'S TROUSSEAU
is now on sale
Eighteen designs. Knitting and
Crochet for Baby and Toddler
Two Shillings, Post Free
! /
\
/
/
\
>7/7
*,7*.
Vsg
rn;=
Bflßt
H
m
Nl.I
jah-;
RTJ
c#\
•■ r r.A
iK
*«
atrsst
i.V>V
r>
.*$U
cH?
#
jfou
&C2I
£
ss
i^3
• JLrf*«->v *
} S
Mi'. \
SIX-20 KODAK “A” CAMERA
A superb camera—a "super" gift.
Two models available. 8 pictures
2i" x 3i". £23; £25/12/6.
KODAK “DUAFLEX” CAMERA
A truly smart and modern
gift. 12 pictures 2f x 2f.
£5/19/6.
BROWNIE REFLEX
CAMERA
The gift
that "pro-
views" the
picture. 12
pictu res
Ifx If.
£4/1/-.
SIX-20 FOLDING
BROWNIE CAMERA
An exciting
camera for
Christmas giving.
8 pictures 2\"
x 3±". £7/2/6.
KODAK
KODAK DEALERS
EVERYWHERE
KODAK
(A/asia)
PTY. LTD.
PHOTOGRAPHY SERVES THE NATION
• X-Rays that check up the people’s health.
• Motion pictures—the people’s entertainment,
• Commercial illustrations for instructional handbooks
• The Photostat for speedy copying of documents
plans t etc.
D
promises of renewed economy
in dollar expenditure, without at
the same time giving firm pledges
a ™ b fi tter fl °r ° f Bntlsl ? B ° ods
nainftfl it ifLlwnTS tw
not PV n A ll- 'n T
acauies C it ” USlfalia W ' DC
q ei *
"Pacific Girdle."
Events in the Far East and
America’s participation in them
have moved farther than is
generally realised.
Quoting close diplomatic
observers as his authorities for
that finding, a Paris “Le Monde”
Tokyo correspondent explains:
“American policy seems
explicable on the assumption
first of all that the timetable of
the international crisis leaves a
smaller margin than is generally
supposed before the critical
point of equilibrium is reached,
and secondly by the belief that
there is still a good chance of
being ready in time provided
everyone ‘treads on the
accelerator.’ It is indeed sup-
posed that this is the only chance
of avoiding a conflict, whereas
hesitation and delay can only
make it more certain.
“All observable facts in the
Far East tend to confirm that
this is the hypothesis that
inspires American policy.
Indeed, there is a strong impres-
sion that the observable facts
are still only one part of the real
facts, and that if these became
public it would be possible to
see that American plans for
strengthening the ‘Pacific girdle’
for holding up Soviet expansion
m this part of the world are very
far advanced.”
Writers' Exchange.
In an editorial note on H. M.
Green’s Australian Literature,
“Manchester Guardian” com-
ments that Britain's younger
writers could do with some of
the Australians’ “vigor,” while
their Australian counterparts
“Nebelspalter,” Switzerland.
TO PROTECT THE PEACE.
would benefit from “the greater
intellectual discipline” that they
might expect to find in Britain:
“But few English writers can
afford even a single ticket to
Australia. An exchange plan of,
say, half-a-dozen novelists and
half-a-dozen poets, working in
each other’s country for a year
or two with some sort of modest
grant, might do wonders. In the
meantime we can only hope
that, just now and again, a book
parcel may get itself smuggled
in among the food parcels.”
Various Voices.
Lord Samuel: “There is a
general impression abroad that
this is a scientific age, that
science has undermined religion,
and that this generation wanders
bewildered lost. I believe
that this twentieth century may
rise out of its intellectual con-
fusion, cast off its pessimism, and,
in a union of religion, science
and philosophy, not conflicting
with one another, but joining in
harmony, may find a finer faith
and firmer hope.”
Former Hitler Minister and
one-time president of the Reichs-
bank, Dr. Schacht: “The urge
to unite is strong in Germany,
but the Russians and the
American occupation authorities
will never let them become one
nation again ; instead Germany
is being used as a cockpit for the
testing of strength.”
British Parliamentary Secretary
Nugent (addressing farmers):
“We [British] are going to be
short of food indefinitely. We
have to buy half our food now
in a hungry, competitive world.”
Canadian Professor Arthur
Phelps {in a broadcast after the
Royal tour): “As generating
force back of the interest and
excitement, there was, I think,
the feeling that here at least is
something the Americans have
not got. Almost universally
Canadians feel that Americans
are always one gadget ahead of
them. Here the Canadians had
Royalty, and it was their own,
and the Americans had not got
it.”
One of Mr. Churchill’s ablest
advisers {quoted by a “New
York Times” interviewer): “For
your [America’s] sake as well as
our [Britain’s] own we cannot
proceed from crisis to crisis. We
cannot expect our people to
suffer continual hardship or your
people to bail us out. Between
us we possess a great framework
of power, and brains enough, I
hope, to develop a relationship
in which each of us will carry
our own weight.”
British Foreign Minister,
Anthony Eden (on the Paris
four-Powers’ conference shap-
ing Germany’s future): “The
aim is [not to conclude a peace
settlement with Germany, but]
to establish with that part of
Germany with which we can
deal, relations which approach
as nearly as possible the normal
peace-time relations. The object
is to replace the existing occupa-
tion of Germany by a new rela-
tionship based on equal partner-
ship.’*
German Chancellor Adenauer
(j on the Paris four-Powers’ con-
ference decisions) : “As soon as
the Bundestag has ratified the
treaties the Federal Republic
will stand with the West and
regard itself as bound to the
West. All ideas of attracting
the Federal Republic elsewhere
are disposed of. The three
Western Powers are arming, and
are subjecting their peoples to
great sacrifices to uphold the
freedom of the Western world,
to which we belong. It is only
right and proper that we should
say that we also are ready to
make our contribution so that
peace is preserved.”
Lady Astor {at the launching
of the world-wide appeal for a
G. B. Shaw memorial fund of
£250,000 ); “Shaw got the idea
of leaving his house to the nation
when he visited Tolstoy’s house,
which is the ugliest in the
world.”
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, R. A. Butler {also at
the Shaw appeal ); “Shaw was
one of the greatest literary
figures of our time, and a great
national character. He was a
sceptic in religious matters, but
always had a Bible by his side ;
he was the vocal exponent of
extreme Left views, yet he built
up a large fortune, guarding it
closely, and grumbled vigorously
about the burden of taxation ; he
was aloof and fearful of pub-
licity, yet he was determined to
appear in the limelight, even in
extreme old age; he was often
difficult and resentful if people
tried to call on him, yet he took
the closest interest in the day-to-
day problems of the villagers
who lived around him. This was
the great and contradictory
character who was born in
Dublin in 1856 and who lived
most of his life in England.”
Eisenhower: “Progress in
Europe has not been one rosy
picture of encouraging develop-
ment, but great progress has been
made. There can be no giving
way to discouragement and say-
ing it can’t be done. Of course,
it can be done. The Western
world can do anything it sets its
mind to do. The free world
must produce a collective
security through co-operation or
our way of life is going to
undergo a drastic change, and I
mean drastic.”
Lord Halifax {in New York):
“So long as our present partner-
ship endures, with all it can
muster of moral and military
power, of human and natural
resources, I believe we have a
much better than even chance of
keeping the peace. But the
opposite is true, too So long
as we remain at one on the basic
questions, those that really
matter, those that are vital to
the common cause, and so long
as we retain our confidence in
each other’s integrity, differences
about methods, procedure,
emphasis, or even about the
exact policy to be pursued at any
given time, need not trouble us
too much.”


B.
■mt.
m
# k
m
m
i
I
Alwo ia tHift
turn {j&i gmu
HAYMAN
ISLAND
(u»€uCa(|!
When it’s shivery in Southern States, there’s swimming,
cruising, fishing and sunbathing at Hayman Island, and
from now on the climate touches perfection.
Tariff £3-3-0 per day. Nowhere else is the
holiday-maker given better value for money than at
Hayman. Comfortable sleeping lodges, superb meals, an
excellent bar, and an atmosphere of carefree informality.
Barrier Reef Airways’ giant 4-engined flying boats take
you direct to Hayman Island.
F
D
FD
F
DF
Bookings at
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE
Melbourne: MU 6921; Sydney: 8W2921; Adelaide: LA2075;
Brisbane: 82291; Hobart: 7470; Launceston: 1760; Cairns: 2570;
Canberra: F 390; Townsville: 1150; Wagga: 2036; Queensland
Govt. Tourist Bureaux, and all recognised Travel Agencies.
l/Ului
onulttM a-
H
S) m'-v.
vttrHl'?,
strut
'i ) V, ’’,*•/• *I 'ji;s jS'jl
a 17
■/SC
if
Set No. 53
•‘Aristocrat Junior”
ONE-PIECE razor
with smart 10-blade
Dispenser. 21/-
Other Gillette Sets
from as low as 6/3
G *e tte
2*4. e
In selecting a gift for a man
you can’t go wrong if you
choose Gillette. Star of the
Gillette Christmas range is the
ONE-PIECE “Aristocrat Junior ’
-—designed to give a lifetime of
easier, faster, more comfortable
shaving. And for the smaller
gift there is the convenient Gil-
lette Dispenser now in attrac-
tive Christmas wrapping.
Whichever you choose, you can
be sure that your Gillette gift
will be gratefully remembered
every morning of the year.
Gillette Dijpenser
Contains 20 Blue Gil-
lette Blades, deals them
out at a flick of the
thumb. In an attractive
Christmas box. 9/-
Gillette'
10/141 a
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“His Honor said that petitioner had
been a good wife, without question.”
—Court report.
That’s the sort of wife to
have!
4* •f'
“A medical authority says that
keeping a dog in a small flat should
be regarded as an offence.”
Out, damned Spot! as
Shakspeare said.
•ir 4*
“In our atomic age almost every-
body is a neurotic.”
. —Science broadcast.
What a nerve!
4* 4*
“I’d rather have ghosts than girls
any day,” said this teenager film
patron.”— Sydney “Daily Telegraph-'”
Still, there are frights among
the latter.
“Mjss Aarons believes that a
sculptor could beautify our city with
metal trees.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Ironbarks, for example.
•b
“Generally women don’t work well
together. Every woman is an indi-
vidualist.” — Visiting psychologist.
Yet they all aim to get into
double-harness.
Blooming Nuisance.
“A garden needs more than luck.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
A sturdy back, a shed of tools,
Advice of experts {and of fools),
A knowledge what and when to
sow
You need to make, a garden
grow.
A penchant for the great
outdoors,
A i.est for crawling on all-fours,
A lot of patience, pride and
pluck
And fertiliser, lime and luck.
No selfish exercise of will
When choosing things to plant—
just skill
At liking those the wife endorses.
On Saturday, no sports or
horses;
No sleeping-in till ten on
Sunday ;
But, brother, don’t you brag on
Monday !
P. O. M. C.
Everything’s Teed Up.
“A ‘Voice of America’ spokesman,
warning the Amateur Athletic Union
to beware of Russian tricks at the
Helsinki Olympic Games, said that in
a Central Asia Soccer game the Soviet
referee ruled that the opposing team
would have to put the ball twice
between the Soviet goalposts for it
to count as a goal.”
The finalists to battle it out
for the Iron Curtain Golf Cup
—actually the world title, the
Western nations’ standard of
play being so low no Russian or
Russian-satellite players would
compete with them were
Gregor Chizzeloff, of the
U.S.S.R., and the Polish
champion, Ignace Pcxzskpnz.
While the players were having
a few practice swings at the first
tee the Russian referee, who had
been specially appointed by the
Kremlin to supervise the match,
ordered the Pole to change into
ordinary leather-soled shoes.
When Ignace pointed to the
studded shoes of his opponent
and protested that it would
mean he would be at a grave
disadvantage, the referee gave a
signal to two grim-faced M.V.D.
guards, who came up and tapped
their tommy-guns significantly.
The Pole immediately changed
his shoes.
Just as Ignace took up his
No. 1 wood another Soviet
official came forward with a
pair of boxing - gloves and
ordered him to wear them
throughout the match, saying it
was by Stalin’s express orders so
that the Pole wouldn’t risk being
bitten by malarial mosquitoes,
Despite these handicaps Pcxz-
skpnz managed a 150-yarder
straight down the middle of the
fairway. The Russian heavily
sliced his, which disappeared
deep into the rough.
A swarm of Soviet officials
immediately moved off quickly
ahead of the players. As the
players came up one official
pointed to a ball on the edge of
the fairway to the right, indi-
eating it was the Russian’s ball,
The Pole bent down to look at
it, then said “That isn’t Comrade
Chizzeloff s ball —his was a Vul-
tureflite with three red stars—
“As the man in the street , what is your opinion , sir?”
that one’s a Dunlopov Sixty-five
with two blue dots. Anyway, his
went at least forty yards into
the rough.”
“Comrade,” said the referee,
“at least ten trusted Soviet
officials saw it bounce off a tuft
of grass and come out on to the
fairway. Do you know the
penalty for questioning the deci-
sion of a Soviet official? Gregor
will now play his ball.”
The Pole’s ball was found
almost buried in the fairway.
“A spectator accidentally
jumped on it. Comrade,”
explained the referee. “A Soviet
rule, made only yesterday, is
quite clear —it is an allowable
hazard. You’ll have to play it
as it is.”
The Pole made a good re-
covery, his ball finishing at the
edge of the green and within a
few feet of a bunker. The
Russian’s second shot was still
100yds. short of the green.
Again the swarm of officials
moved quickly ahead of the
players. The Russian’s third
stroke —the ball was discovered
only 20yds. from the green —
went through. The Pole’s ball
was found in the bunker, well up
under the bank. Angrily Ignace
claimed he saw it come to rest
at least 2ft. from the bunker.
“A puff of wind got it, Com-
rade, and carried it in,” said
the referee stolidly.
“But it’s a still day,” protested
the Pole.
“I said a puff of wind got it,”
repeated the Soviet referee in a
steely voice. “Or would you
insist. Comrade, that it is a still
day and contemplate an ex-
tended holiday down a uranium-
mine?”
The Pole shrugged and was
pulling his No. 8 iron from his
bag—caddies weren’t allowed,
caddying being regarded in the
workers’ paradise, where all are
equal, as being an example of
Western plutocratic decadence —
when the referee took it from
him and handed him his putter.
“A new Soviet rule, Comrade,”
he said. “All foreign players
playing against Soviet citizens
must now use a putter to
explode out of a bunker. It’s
so as not to give an unfair ad-
vantage to Soviet players, who
are still handicapped by having
to use a Number Eight.”
The Russian won the hole.
At the short 140 yd. second
the Pole’s high shot landed
almost dead Sin. from the pin.
The Russian’s finished at the
back of the green 30ft. from it.
By the time the players got there
a workman was busy moving
the cup over to within 12in. of
the Russian’s ball.
The Pole’s vehement protest
was met with a stern order for
silence. The cup, it had only just
been discovered, had been put
down in the wrong place.
Chizzeloff won the hole with a
birdie.
At the next, a long dog-leg,
the Russian hooked his iron
into a lake. He was allowed to
pick out as casual water. His
next shot was out of bounds, but
the herd of officials shifted the
boundary-pegs further out, thus
saving Chizzeloff “loss of dis-
tance.” When the Pole went to
play his short approach to the
green he found that the ball indi-
cated for him to play was an
old, elliptical-shaped one lying
in a deep dent that could have
been made by a heavy military
FD
boot-heel. The ball had no
marks on it. He protested that
his had been a new Lowflite with
green dots.
“You must have knocked all
the marks off it when you hit it,
Comrade,” said the referee,
“and also knocked it out of
shape. A new Soviet rule for-
bids a player to change a ball
until the match is over.” It took
Ignace seven putts to put it
down.
The match ended at the tenth,
the Russian having won ten and
eight.
In an editorial the next day
“Depravda,” hailing the “new
world champion,” said that the
win now made the Soviet the
world’s premier sporting nation,
it already being the undis-
puted tennis, football, base-
ball and basketball nation,
holder of every world swim-
ming, running, hurdling, sculling
and cycling record, with its
boxers so good no American
dared come to Moscow to chal-
lenge them. “But above all,”
concluded the editorial, “the
match was notable for the spirit
of pure and happy sportsman-
ship in which it was played—a
spirit which is completely un-
known among the nations of
Western capitalism, where ruth-
less determination to win com-
pels them to use every shady
trick imaginable.”
Bo.
Swan-song.
“Too many people lack the courage
to call modern art sheer effrontery.
It is the greatest leg-pull of the age.”
— Major-General F. Kingsley Norris.
“Brother,” said the modern
painter
To the sculptor hacking stone,
“Hopes of fame are growing
fainter.
Must we live and die
unknown ?
“We have not the skill that’s
needed.
To produce a masterpiece.
All our work shall pass
unheeded.
Tossed away on our decease.”
“Courage!” said the sculptor
gamely.
Pausing in his efforts rude ;
“Though our Muses falter lamely
Well win through if we are
shrewd.
“Bid farewell to this vile hovel,
I’ve a way to change our luck ;
Give the people something novel,
Pull their legs—and sling ’em
muck !”
BERT.


A PAGE OF VERSE
NUMBER IN FAMILY.
Some think their duty’s done
When they have one;
Some take a wider view
And have two;
Most of us call a halt when we
Reach three;
Not quite so many ask for more
And aim at four;
Bolder spirits will arrive
Even at five;
Braver still are they who fix
Their hopes on six;
Let lusty cheers to those be given
Who long for seven;
Yet richer plaudits must await
The mother of eight;
Dauntless souls are those who pine
If short of nine;
Truly heroic are the men
Who father ten;
Thrice welcome will they be in
heaven
Who reach eleven;
Who earn more glory for themselves
Than the twelves?
Yet the Victorians, full of beans,
Ran to teens;
But only fools will not cry “Plenty’
Before twenty.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
PROLOGUE TO A LIFE.
Great-grandfather’s portrait hangs on
the wall
Under the light along the hall.
Such big white whiskers, and, O my!
There was a twinkle in his eye.
He wore his collars back to front
And no one said to him: You can’t.
He sailed the Islands in his launch;
Cannibals almost got him, once.
Taking his Bible in his hand
He d teach them, and they’d under-
stand.
I can sit in his tortoise shell
And ride the rolling carpet’s swell.
He had thirty-four great-grandchildren
And one of them was me. Amen.
N.S.W.
ROGER CHALLIS BROWN.
WINDY GAP.
As I was going through Windy Gap
A hawk and a cloud hung over the map.
The land lay bare and the wind blew
loud
And the hawk cried out from the heart
of the cloud.
Before 1 fold my wings in sleep
I 11 pick the bones of your travelling
sheep,
For the leaves blow back and the
wintry sun
Shows the tree’s white skeleton.”
A magpie sat in the tree’s high top
Singing a song on Windy Gap
That streamed far down to the plain
below
Like a shaft of light from a high window.
From the bending tree he sang aloud,
And the sun shone out of the heart of
the cloud
And it seemed to me as we travelled
through
That my sheep were the notes that
trumpet blew.
And so I sing this song of praise
For travelling sheep and blowing days.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
THE SHEEP.
They totter with an inane care among
the skewbald stones.
Plead each other’s prison names in grey
bewildered tones,
And trust their faces—powdered pale,
and bilious with unease—
Against the wires of the fence, like
haunted internees:
“Here and here, man, m-a-a-n.”
From off the withers of the slopes the
traitor clouds have fled
Guerrilla wind’s philippic and the sun’s
assault of red;
The mincing, gelded, godless tribe bleats
anguish in a haze
Of sacrificial tulles of dust and rings of
feckless days:
“Here and here, man, m-a-a-n.”
Disquieted, illusionless, from garments
stuck with twigs,
The visors carved by grieving leer be-
neath judicial wigs;
Upon their brows in horny pride the
Doric headdress coils,
While eyes, opaque with hankering,
roll in their timid oils:
“Here and here, man, m-a-a-n.”
About them die the sun-scarred miles,
the dams of muddy milk,
The fences sutured on mirage, the
ranges ripped from silk;
Before them, from the gravel road, their
murderer assesses,
Their thief examines haughty teeth and
parts the clumsy dresses:
“Here and here, man, m-a-a-n.”
Tasmania.
HAL PORTER.
THE CROW.
Woe . . . Woe , . . Woe!
Cries the lone black crow
In the hot blue sky.
—And with that beak
Still reeking foul
From the old cast ewe
Would you dare to pluck
The day’s gold eye
From the cloud’s white wool?
—Aye. If I can. Aye.
n.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
ROCK-LILY.
The rock-lily’s pale spray,
like sunlight, halts my way
up through the unpierced hush
of bird-less, blue-grey bush.
The rocks crouch on their knees
in earth; torsos of trees
and limb-boughs lead up where
the cliff face scales the air.
Out from you, rock, my friend,
I lean and, reaching, bend
the scentless, pale spray back
to me and see the black
spots in each orchid flower.
O, my love, what power
keeps you, curled and bound?
Tormented, the earth’s round
begins again. What rock
holds you where you lock
yourself from me? Alone
this spray breaks from the stone.
n.s.w.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
YOUNG MAN’S FANCY.
Come tomorrow night,
or don’t come ever.
The moon will give light
enough for a lover.
I’ll stand in the deep dark
of a gum-tree’s shadow,
but you’ll find me all right
if you really want to.
But I won’t wait long,
you must come if you’re coming.
Without talk of wrong,
or breakfast at morning.
If they find out
just say you were walking
to see if the night
could stop a head aching.
And don’t mention me.
Because I don’t own you.
We just happen to meet;
I don’t really know you.
Yes, I want you to come,
with the moon in your hair.
And the moon in your eyes,
as you look for me there.
Yes, 1 want you to come,
but I’ll promise you nothing.
And if you’re not game
then I still won’t be crying.
But come tomorrow night,
or don't come ever:
I won’t spend two nights
waiting for a lover.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
LEGERDEMAIN.
Ah me the hand upon the body
the whorled speech
that sings from fingertips a wordless
melody
mounting with the delicate increasing
touch
to a long cry in the mind can never
reach
the end of the search.
Night has a thousand IOUs
signed with sighs
shaken out of the blood that floods
imperious
the flesh touched delicately and by day
these
flutter unhonored along habitual byways
past averted eyes.
Or perhaps one that said “Tomorrow”
is redeemed
by accident on the stair or in the mirror
where eyes look curiously into eyes
doomed
for ever to look back curiously or
dimmed
by what they dreamed.
For not eyes but hands only can see
in night’s alley
that leads from nowhere nowhere and
keeps busy
the shuddering direction-finder love’s
ally
pointing a staggering track to melan-
choly
through heaven’s valley.
Ah me the seeing skin reports
certain replies
signalling a hasty offering of transports
and through the dark viaduct the eye-
less music plays
with drums diminishing and frantic
pleas
“Keep moving, please.”
The hand upon the body dies instead
of reason dying
though for some moments conscious-
ness insisted
reason had died in the divine undoing
of ties with earth.
Sense now steadying
hears spirit crying.
n.s.w.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
AN APOLOGY.
Call me a simple man. 1 make no
claimsi—
One of the humblest of the monastery,
The people of the village hereabouts
Extolled me, but their eager piety
Made them—how shall I say—clip fast,
hang on
To any vestiges of holiness
That they could reach for. In the open
street
They ran to touch the fringes of my
dress
Said they received a blessing, but 1
know
The virtue that went out was theirs, not
mine.
I raised a child from sleeping—this they
took
To be a wonder and a certain sign.
Their painter set me where you see me
now,
One of themselves, a simple soul whose
heart
Could never quite divine his fingers’
skill,
Whose understanding lagged behind his
art.
He, for his fellows, in one painting
showed
My life, my miracle, and my ascent
Borne upwards at the last by heavenly
hosts
To waiting angels in the firmament.
And I must go the way that he has
shown,
My feet so firmly guided by his paint,
Perform the miracle, and at the end,
Be ready to be raised to heaven, a saint.
1 speak that you who gaze may under-
stand
This irony, that one who sought no
crown
Should live to wondering centuries a
saint
Because Ignotus chanced to set it down.
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
RAUREKA.
She pointed with her finger and
shrieked with laughter,
pushing back the tangle of hair from
her eyes.
“How blunt your tools are,*’ she said,
and we
past-masters at breaking to a brave
edgel
Had she not been what she was—mad
and tapu, she could not have wandered
alone,
curious and idle, to watch men working,
least of all a stranger, and tribeless.
And there perhaps matters might have
rested
had we not in anger and with aching
back
straightened up and shouted at her,
asking if she knew of any stone better,
then stepped ominously towards her,
thumbing the edge
of our good adzes. We could have
crushed her skull
there and then, and were all of a mind
to, but she laughed
that kaka-shriek again and suddenly
spilled
into my hand a heap of dull green chips
so hard and sharp our eyes lit up and
we spoke:
“Where, where did you get this precious
stuff?
Did you bring it with you over the
mountains?”
She laughed once more, and then went
silent. The result
is this most tedious journey, leaving our
fires
and the friendly sound of the sea, taking
food with us,
and baskets, blankets and weapons.
Who knows what lies on the other side
of the great spine of mountains?
Strange
how the summits sink as we approach,
filing up the river-bed as it narrows
in the gorge where the stones grow
larger and more cruel,
where the cold wind whets its blade on
the naked skin
and the river water bites with fangs of
ice.
And when we talk of trees she shrieks
again,
holding her arms outstretched as if to
embrace
the whole of earth and sky. And so this
journey
with Raureka, the mad woman, as our
guide,
to seek the boulders from whence these
green flakes come,
and the river where they lie
in the land of the men of Ngati
Wairangi.
We trust our clubs if blunt will prove
too swift
for the skulls of men who light their
fires in peace.
n.z.
W. HART-SMITH.
WILLY-WAG AND SPARROW.
S.A.
Willy-wag and sparrow
sat on a stone.
Said Willy, It’s cold
when the sun is gone,
but my heart beats hot
in my white silk breast;
time enough later
for me to rest.
Said Sparrow, It’s dark
in the great willow
and the Cat may lurk
in the s>hade below.
He fluffed his feathers
and shook his head:
By now the others
are safe in bed.
Said Willy, The sky
is full of light
and a juicy fly
is quickly caught.
I'll flirt my fan
awhile in the cold
and I won’t go in
till the moon is gold.
Said Sparrow, The tree
is full by now,
and I’m off to my perch
on the topmost bough.
But Willy said. Whether
it’s dark or light,
if I feel like singing,
I’ll sing all night.
NANCY CATO.
OLD HOUSE.
Where now outside the weary house the
pepperina,
that great broken tree, gropes with its
blind hands
and sings a moment in the magpie’s
voice, there he stood once,
that redhaired man my great-great-
grandfather,
his long face sharp and amiable as an
animal’s,
and thought of vines and horses.
He moved in that mindless country like
a red ant
running tireless in the summer heat
among the trees,
the nameless trees, the sleeping soil,
the original river,
and said that the eastern slopes would
do for a vineyard.
In the camp by the river they made up
songs about him,
songs about the wagons, songs about
the cattle,
songs about the horses and the children
and the woman.
They were a dream, some thing strayed
out of a dream.
They would vanish down the river, but
the river would flow on,
under the river-oaks the river would
flow on.
Summer and winter would burn the
grass white
and red like the red of the pale man’s
hair.
In the camp by the river they made up
those songs
and my great-great-grandfather heard
them with one part of his mind.
And in those days
there was one of him and a thousand
of them.
And in these days none are left,
neither a pale man with kangaroo-grass
hair
nor a camp of dark singers mocking by
the river.
And the trees and the creatures, all of
them are gone.
But the sad river, the silted river,
under its dark banks the river flows on;
and wind still blows and the river still
flows.
And the great broken tree, the dying
pepperina,
clutches in its hands the fragments of a
song.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
F
DRESSING CASES
Handsome gift in best English
leather with chrome plated fittings,
ebony back brushes, zipp fasteners.
£6/13/-, £B, £9/13/6.
PIPES
Silver Link Briar Pipes 18/6,
Civic 28/6, Lowe & Co. 88/6,
Comoy’s “Tradition” 44/3,
Comoy’s “Grand Slam” 49/3.
D
FD
CIGARS
Mono pale Cigars: 4’s, 4/-; 10’s,
11/4; 25’s, 24/10.
Grosvenor Club: 4’s, 7/4; 25’s,
45/-.
Due George: Made in Holland.
Deliciosa 25’s, 25/-; Victorie 25’s,
27/-; First Class 25’s, 31/3.
Laras: Made in Jamaica. Laras shorts box of 25, 58/4 ;
Laras 25, 64/6 ; Petit Corona 25, 68/9.
WALLETS AND CASES
Wallets of finest English leather.
Pigskin 50/-. Brown Morocco 45/6.
Black Persian 42/6, 38/6. Brindle
Pigskin 39/6.
Note Cases of quality English
leather. Brown Willow Calf 46/6,
Brown Morocco 36/6, Brown Persian 31/6, Brindle
Pigskin 33/6, Navy Hide 30/-.
mm
LADIES’ ENGLISH NYLON HOSE
Made by I. & R. Morley in the newest summer shades
Sizes Bi-10, 30 Denier 11/9, 15 Denier 13/9.
PEAPES PTY. LIMITED
285 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Hunter Street)
Address Mail Orders Box 165, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
m
■
i
H
■
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILDA CATHRINE STENNINO late
of Oaks Avenue Neutral Bay North Syd-
ney—TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE
THOMAS STENNING has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3013 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion by you without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the 25th day of February
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CLIFTON R. PENNY
and DAVIES, Solicitors, 81 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN - THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALLACE BRUCE JOHNSON !it<
of Sydney—TAKE NOTICE that JESSIE
MARGARET JOHNSON has filed a Peti
tion for Divorce No. 3044 of 1951 on th<
grounds of desertion without just caus'
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearanc.
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 15th day o
February, 1952, and obtain a copy of th
Petition without charge from MERVYN
FINLAY & COMPANY, Solicitors, of New
lands House, 141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
125 Humorous Sketches
by “The Bulletin's”
Ted Scorfield.
AHoTmiz
Mixed
CmLL
F
of
Now on sale at the offices of The
Bulletin—2s2 George St., Sydney;
Newspaper House, Collins St.,
Melbourne; 239 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 33 Barrack St., Perth.
Price, 3/6.
Or by post from Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney. Postage, 2£d. in
Australasia; 6d. overseas.
touch i° ugh 1
poll
cutting
wear.
n ds in the tt.—
and
give
extra mileage.
slow,
e.en
Built of
‘TST**- ,p
your
tOUOHESI
job
DF
HI-MILER RlB—For lone,
fast hauls on Improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER ALL-WEATHER—
Recommended wherever
greater traction Is needed.
HI-MILER
TRUCK and BUS TYRES
BY
i;ood/year
Performance records of Hi-Milers have proved to
thousands of truck and bus operators all over Aus-
tralia that these famous Goodyear Tyres give most
for the money in mileage and trouble-free service.
Let these to ugh Hi-Milers keep your vehicles moving,
reduce delays and cut your tyre costs to a minimum.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR YOUR JOB!
lOA2-I*
SUNDRY SHOWS
Mixed Paintings.
A very mixed Christmas
Exhibition at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries ranges from the
amiable doodlings of lan Fair-
weather and the child-art of
Michael Kmit up to a gigantic
Drysdale portrait of a Greek or
Italian outback shopkeeper,
possibly the gentleman he called
“Joe” in a previous half-length
study.
The clearest evidences of
quality, apart from the Drysdale,
are in Douglas Annand’s
“Hockey in the Snow,” full of
curving rhythms and wintry
atmosphere, and Enid Cam-
bridge’s “Gordon Railway
Station” —two watercolors in
which the lightness of approach
that characterises so many of
the paintings hasn’t degenerated
into frivolousness but remains a
light and slender grace.
Perhaps the same could be
said of Sali Herman’s “Honey-
suckle Cottage,” a bush shack
with a lightly romantic charm ;
but Mr. Herman should never
attempt to paint a horse until he
can control its hindquarters.
Furthermore, one must have
reservations about orange
kookaburras.
There is a chunky Wakelin
landscape, “Summer Afternoon,
Hobart,” in which the light looks
attractive in contrast with the
opaque Lloyd Rees beside it; a
coarse, bold “Careel Head” by
John D. Moore ; some Margaret
Preston wildflowers; a clever,
stylised view of Tilba Tilba by
Elaine Haxton ; a typical bit of
sunlit bush-road by Grace
Cossington Smith ; a Whistlerish
nocturne by J. Carington Smith ;
and one of those flowerpieces in
which the flowers aren’t flowers
but smudges of color —set on a
pleasing green windowsill by
Francis Lymburner: all paint-
ings worth looking at, if none
exactly takes the breath away.
The landscapes by Douglas
Watson and Alice Danciger are
cumbrous, and Justin O’Brien’s
red and blue bottles don’t seem
to say anything except that
bottles, like saints and carpets,
will always be red and blue when
Justin O’Brien paints them.
The Drysdale is by far the
most impressive painting; large
enough, striking enough, and
with enough of Drysdale’s
tendency towards the monstrous
—the taint of the age in his work
—to cause a controversy. Some
will find the large stomach and
hands “monumental” ; some will
find them grotesque: they just
don’t look very interesting to the
present commentator, but the
head is full of character and
vitality and excellently painted.
"King Lear."
There was nothing mediocre
about the start of John Alden’s
Shakspearian season at the
Comedy, Melbourne. Everything
was excessive. It was excessive
of Mr. Alden to begin a season
with the greatest and most diffi-
cult play of Shakspeaie. It was
wise, however. It made a great
impression, and nobody could
come along and say that he had
seen So-and-so do it better, be-
cause Lear hasn t been acted
professionally in Melbourne
since the ’twenties, when Allan
Wilkie braved it. _
Excessiveness was the chief
characteristic of Mr. Alden’s
acting, but, then, Lear was an
excessive individual. He was an
excessive fool when he handed
over his kingdom to his
daughters, and his subsequent
remorse, his monumental self-
pity and his blaming through
four acts and 20 scenes of every-
thing except his own ignorance
of human nature are all of a
piece with his excessive nature.
It was necessary for him to go
mad in order to hide from him-
self his own inadequacy as a
king and a father. Mr. Alden
went mad with intense abandon.
Everything in Shakspeare’s
drama happens at a furious
tempo. Lear, flouted by his un-
grateful daughters, wanders off
with his Fool; Gloucester, be-
trayed by his bastard Edmund,
has his eyes plucked out and
wanders off, too; Edgar, the
good son, simulates madness in
order to go with him ! Regan’s
husband is killed, Gonerii
poisons her sister in order to
acquire her lover, Gonerii dies by
her own hand, Edmund arranges
the hanging of Cordelia, and
Lear is attainted and struck
down and admits his intention,
but too late; Cordelia’s mad
father comes in carrying her
body and adds himself to the
mound of corpses. The form of
the play is insensate melodrama ;
it isn’t realistic, and nobody
could really feel it; what is
calm and lovely in it is the pro-
found thoughts a great observer
of human nature put into the
mouths of the actors in it, which
we can feel.
But at one point Mr. Alden
made it unbearably realistic.
Cornwall plucks out one of the
eyes of old Gloucester and
crunches his foot on the “vile
jelly.” Then he runs his sword
through a protesting servant,
whose stomach is too weak for
this sanguinary operation, and
plucks out the other. Eliza-
bethan audiences must have
liked this sort of thing or they
would not have got so much of
it; now we only like it on the
movies. The Comedy audiences
heard the crunch and got a shock
of horror. It got a laugh later.
Lear says to Gloucester: “Get
thee glass eyes and like a scurvy
politician, seem to see the things
thou dost not.” The audience
understood that.
Besides the magnificently
nervous performance of Mr.
Alden there was good acting,
though not always good speak-
ing, from Nancye Stewart, Neva
Carr-Glynn, Mavis Turner, Max
Oldaker, James Workman,
Barret Fleming, Alistair Roberts
and others.
Art and Christmas.
The approach of Christmas
has much the same effect on
Melbourne art as the Royal
Show has on the emporia of
fashions. The exhibitions go, so
to speak, all Christmas-cardy.
In a Christmas-card nobody
wants anything provocative or
controversial, and there is noth-
ing of that nature in the prevail-
ing shows.
The Sedon Galleries is show-
ing its customary collection of
traditionally well-known artists,
and Louis Kahan, a Frenchman
who has been four years in Aus-
tralia, is showing quick impres-
sions of Melbourne at George’s.
Mr. Kahan has a nervous line
which is sometimes expressive
and sometimes merely energetic,
but by and large his own
description of them —portraits
of streets and people—is a
correct one. He has portraits of
Alfred Hill the composer, con-
ductor Galliera, Edmund Kurtz,
and artists Quinn and Meldrum.
They are clever. In all he has
got likeness but not lifelikeness.
His amiable street-scenes are of
the same order. He has an eye
for picturesqueness.
The Australian Academy of
Art, now defunct and un-
lamented, died an unnatural
death before it could add the
dignity of Royal to its three
A’s. The Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Artists, another organisa-
tion, is now holding its Jubilee-
year exhibition at Tye’s Gal-
lery. There is nothing of the
modern “idiom” about it—it is
as traditionally Australian as
they make ’em. Howard Ashton
has seen his “Cloud Over the
Valley” well and simply, Rex
Battarbee has a sombre view of
the Finke River Valley, which
has more feeling in it than the
“Mt. Zeil, Central Australia,” of
his pupil Namatjira. William
Dargie has a slick sketch of a
ballet dancer, and John Elder-
shaw toys with his subject in a
Noah’s Ark tree and a mountain.
In his “Boats From Alburfura,
Spain,” H. A. Hanke is pene-
trating deeper, and Douglas
Pratt has a nice sketch in
“Autumn Morning, Binalong.”
In “Vintage,” a luscious col-
lection of grapes and other
primary products, C. Salis Lloyd
is trying to do something the
old Flemish painters did much
better —you can admire his in-
tention without admiring the
picture or wanting to pick the
grapes. In her “Flowerpiece,”
Violet Mclnness seems to be
tending towards the jam-tin
label.
Max Ragless, though rough
and a trifle careless, makes you
want to go and see the bridge,
the river, the old houses and the
mountains in “Campbell Town,
Tas.”
Paint is the first thing thought
of in “The Provocative Tea-
tree” of Dick Ovenden, but in
the river landscape of Eileen
Dent it is the subject. This is
possibly the most deeply-felt
picture in the exhibition. There
is a similar quality in the late
James Quinn’s portrait of an
old lady, and a swaggering
blatancy about Ernest Buck-
master’s large “Autumn on the
River.”
Grahame King, showing oils
and tempera at the Stanley Coe
Gallery, Melbourne, is another
Australian artist who, previously


D
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
* and PERTH
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILDA ETHEL LYNCH late of Matra-
ville.—TAKE NOTICE that WALTER
NICHOLAS LYNCH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4483 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three (3) years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
20th day of February 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HAROLD RICH, Solicitor, 188
George Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE EDWARD FREDERICK
HAYES late of Hydro-Majestic Hotel,
Medlow Bath.—TAKE NOTICE that
GLADYS WINFIELD HAYES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4183 of 1951 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
15th February 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MES-
SIEURS H. D. McLACHLAN CHILTON &
CO., Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO ALBERT FREDERICK LEE formerly
of Frankford and Westbury in Tasmania
and of No. 76 Canning Street Launceston
in Tasmania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Peti-
tion has been filed in this Court endorsed
with a Notice to you to appear and answer
the charge in the Petition of your wife
LAURA ISOBEL LEE of Westbury in
Tasmania praying for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of your
desertion IN DEFAULT of you so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed
to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid within thirty days after
the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered either at the Laun-
ceston District Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania at Cameron Street
Launceston aforesaid or at the Principal
Registry of the said Supreme Court at
Macquarie Street Hobart in the State of
Tasmania.—D. W. SHIELDS, District
Registrar. N. 8.: Friends of the above-
named Albert Frederick Lee who may see
this advertisement are requested to bring
it to his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OSWALD GEORGE MADIGAN for-
merly of Armidale and Newcastle in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that SARAH AMELIA MADIGAN
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 3932 of
1951 on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 15th day of February 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition free of
charge from MESSRS. DAVID S. DIND
& CO., Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO MOIRA SYLVEEN MILLAR formerly
of Lismore New South Wales but now of
(address unknown) Married Woman. —
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
DONALD FERQUSSON MILLAR has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground that you have been
guilty of desertion of the Plaintiff for
a continuous period of three years IF
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within THIRTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 19th day of October, 1951. —
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. MAXWELL
& LALOR, Solicitors, 23 Barrack Street,
Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
LOOKING FOR A XMAS OR WEDDING GIFT ?
The NEW ALL-METAL ENGLISH
“PILLAR” Ironing Table
F
DF
DF
•I
S#s
mmm
The “Pillar” incorporates
every gadget and aid to
give better ironing in greater
comfort thick felt pad
under fabric overlay—rigid construction —30%
more ironing surface (32in. by 13in.) —asbestos lined
iron well —‘foldaway’ sleeve board —ventilated top to
prevent excessive dampness—legs adjustable to your
height folds compactly for easy rift / 10/
storage —finished in chrome and enamel, El 0/ I
T. S. NETTLEFOLD & SONS Pty. Ltd.
189 King: Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
60 Elizabeth Street,
Bedfern, N.S.W.
222 Pultney Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
1032 Hay Street,
Perth, S.A.
I Please forward one “Pillar” Ironing
I Table. Cheque enclosed for
1 £lO/19/-.
1 NAME
j ADDRESS
B. 12-12
painting more or less tradi-
tionally, has taken the trip to
Europe and picked up the local
accent. His “Ritual Mask,”
“Forest Fantasy,” “Italian
Composition,” “Homage to
Padua” and “Romanesque
Apostles” are arrangements of
flat color with little reference to
their subject, but a great deal of
reference to the prevailing
fashion. Inge King, his wife,
shows figures in oak, boxwood,
alabaster, marble, partridge-
wood and red sandstone highly
polished and shaped into curves
and convolutions in the manner
of Henry Moore, but in most of
them she fails to give as much
variety as there would be in the
material in a state of nature.
The shrilling of a billion
cicadas was a giant metronome
to the performance of “The
Barber” at the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens at the last of
the 1951 Music for the People
concerts. The day was hot, at
least 100,000 citizens poured in
from all directions, a cast of out-
standing singers sang Rossini’s
gay tunes, a group of radio per-
formers hung around the micro-
phone and spoke the lines,
and a complicated battery of
acoustical aids to hearing carried
the music and the words with
surprising clarity to every part of
the gardens. The cicadas put
forth a greater effort, but all
their noise did was to raise the
zero of silence a trifle and
smother the extraneous noises
made by the ducks on the lake
and the feet crunching on the
gravel. Margaret Nisbett sup-
plied Rosina with a coloratura
soprano of the purest quality and
Robert Simmonds gave Figaro
a baritone of great robustness.
+ 4* +
The programme selected by
pianist Igor Hmelnitsky and
tenor Justus Bonn at their joint
Sydney Con. recital was one
which submitted both to a
searching test of their respective
capacities.
Hmelnitsky’s pianism has
always leaned to the dynamic
rather than the delicate, and in
both ends of the “Pathetique”
Sonata he certainly let dynam-
ism have its head. This was ex-
cellent in the left hand, but in
the upper reaches he was handi-
capped by a piano which in-
sisted on simulating jangling
bells. The middle section was a
nice flow of lyricism. It was a
highly masculine and musicianly
interpretation. In a Poeme and
three Studies of Scriabin he
moved with authority into the
subdued manner, then wound up
his night’s work with the tre-
mendously difficult “Islamay” of
Balakirev —this was Hmelnitsky
at his scintillating best.
Justus Bonn used his big voice
and undoubted interpretative
strength in 10 capital songs by
Hugo Wolf, These—most of
them rarely heard here —cover
the widest gamut of mood. And
whilst these songs, like those of
Schubert, call for special treat-
ment from the piano, the writing
for which is of almost equal im-
FD
“Proceed to the little shop on THAT corner and get me two
ham sandwiches with mustard."
portance to the voice, Hmelnit-
sky, who had turned accompan-
ist, treated them rather too much
like solo pieces, so that at times
Bonn was forced to a volume
not called for by the score to
get above the instrument. In
“Message,” “Self Confession”
and “Farewell,” however, the
accompaniments were unexcep-
tionable. Three operatic arias
were delivered in the true
Italianate style, Othello’s air
being a great upsurge of passion,
finely sung.
"The Eternal Lovers."
As his farewell shot at His
Majesty’s Theatre, Edouard
Borovansky gave Melbourne an
entirely new version of the
Romeo and Juliet story called
“The Eternal Lovers.” The
book and the choreography
came from the fertile mind of
Paul Grinwis, who in another
ballet on the same programme,
“L’Amour Ridicule,” story and
choreography by Mr. Boro-
vansky, gave a magnificent ex-
position of another kind of
lover. In his ballet Mr. Grinwis
carries Shakspeare’s story
further.
The greatest lovers in history
have been united in holy matri-
mony, but before they can test
the thing out in some Italian
suburbia or other the Bard con-
siderately lets them finish them-
selves off by their own hands.
Thus he left the world a mag-
nificent romantic picture, though
had they lived there is no rea-
son to believe that the pair
would have made a better fist
of marriage than a million
others. Juliet might have got a
grouch against her husband and
gone home to her parents, or
she might have stayed with him
and he might have attained to
boredom and got a gastric ulcer.
There is an infinite number of
possibilities in any situation;
but Mr. Grinwis’s conception is
incurably romantic. He lets the
Spirit of Love wake the lovers
up, and they promptly resume
their interrupted love life. The
Spirit of Death then tries to
separate them, and a bitter fight
is waged between the two con-
tending forces. Death is eventu-
ally defeated and Love achieves
their union.
The audience is left with the
comforting conviction that
Romeo (Paul Grinwis) and
Juliet (Kathleen Gorham) will
go on dancing pas de seals for
ever and ever. From the point
of view of ballet the opus was
eminently successful, though
there was overmuch attitudinis-
ing in it. The Servants of Death
were black and grim and terri-
fying, and the decor of William
Constable, intelligently lighted,
carried the eye into the eternity
envisaged by the story. A
lovelier Juliet than Kathleen
Gorham couldn’t have been
imagined.
A new production of
“Scheherazade” was distinguished
by the brilliant dancing of Olga
Purves as Zobeide and Bruce
Morrow as the slave whose brief
enjoyment of freedom is inter-
rupted by the return of his
master. Mr. Morrow’s final
flurry was terrific.
“Capriccio Italien,” another
original Borovansky ballet, had
the benefit of a backcloth by
William Dargie. It was an
Italian landscape on a huge
piece of canvas. If Mr. Dargie
had been Velazquez, Rembrandt,
Titian and Michelangelo all
boiled into one he couldn’t have
covered it and remained true to
his first impression inside a life-
time.
Rabelais.
Not quite knowing where
Francis Broadhurst’s illustra-
tions to Rabelais for the recent
Angus and Robertson edition
were located at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery, this com-
mentator walked roundabout to
them by way of the black-and-
white court, past Lionel Lind-
say’s bird woodcuts and Spanish
etchings and a conflagration of
those astounding huge pen draw-
ings of Norman Lindsay’s in
which while satyrs, scoundrels
and lovely ladies crackle with
humor and vitality the technique
itself, the mere stroke of the
black ink on the white paper,
mysteriously and magnificently
blazes with light.
If you had come to Mr.
Broadhurst’s drawings by
another route they might have
seemed well enough. It is
always pleasant to see somebody
trying to keep Rabelais alive;
and sometimes Mr. Broadhurst
gets a good effect —a girl with
a touch of charm in “And then
he gave his cap to one of the
lasses”; a giant who looks rea-
sonably gigantic in “How the
queen passed her time after
dinner” ; two bold buccaneering
heads, with rather a Hollywood
look about them, in “Swash-
buckler, Durtaille and Small-
trash.”
But compared with excellence,
in Dr. Johnson’s phrase—and
of course after Pape and Dore,
as well as after Norman and
Lionel Lindsay, illustrations to
Rabelais must be so compared
—Mr, Broadhurst’s drawings
hardly exist, and the National
Gallery seems no place for
them; women made of cloth
and wood and cardboard, no
vitality of characterisation, no
decorative quality, no indi-
viduality let alone distinction of
style, but merely a variety of
facile mannerisms picked up
from commercial art and con-
temporary magazine illustra-
tions. It all looks like a well-
meant effort; but not like
Rabelais.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The Lady Mayoress looked very
charming at the final meeting of her
relief fund committee when cheques were
handed out to the seven charities
nominated by the committee and the two
which she herself has the right to name.
Those who received £275 from the com-
mittee’s efforts during the year were the
Ladies’ Home Mission, the Salvation
Army, the City Mission, the Presbyterian
Church, St. Vincent de Paul, the Red
Cross and the Benevolent Society. St.
Lucy’s School for the Blind and the Anti-
T.B. Association each received £135 10s.
The spirit of giving seemed to pervade
this particular meeting, for, as well as
presenting the Lady Mayoress with a
silver coffee-service as a mark of
appreciation, the committee made a
presentation of glassware to Miss Wed-
lock and Miss Buckingham and a special
gift of thanks to the Town Hall orderly,
Mr. Simpson, whose “never fear, Simp-
son’s here,” it was said was enough to
reduce panic on the most worrying
occasions.
Strella Wilson cut the cake at the Christ-
mas party of the Australian-American
Association, which was also held as a
farewell party to her before she leaves
for England, where she is to be official
hostess at Australia House. “Christmas in
Other Lands” was the subject of the talk
given by Clement Hosking (bard of the
Gorsedd, by the way), whilst Miss Marie
Stephanie sang specially selected items in
costume. Always a lively and well-
dressed gathering, this party seemed up
to standard in vivacity this year, but one
missed the carol singers and the candle-lit
Christmassy feeling that the blackout
inspired last year.
Christmas suggestion for those who
pay eight to 12 guineas for their Christ-
mas presents: the charming little “nine
by fives” on exhibition at the Grosvenor
Galleries at present. An original oil
painting at this price is something in
the nature of a “good buy,” and at any
rate it looks as if the fashion for having
small groups of these will develop.
Mentioned by Dr. John Hughes at the
annual meeting of the Queen Victoria
Homes was Dymphna Cusack’s new book
Say No to Death, just published in Lon-
don. It concerns the experiences of a
young couple confronted with the prob-
lem of dealing with tuberculosis, and is
based on Dymphna’s own experiences.
It’s very controversial, and, according
to Dr. Hughes, will do a lot of good in
arousing public interest in the manner in
which T.B. sufferers are treated in Aus-
tralia. He said also that in its pathos it
reminded him of Farewell to Anns.
There were gardenias piled high and
flowing over at the annual meeting and
Christmas party of the Garden Club. Some
of them came from the home of Mrs.
Arthur Davis, president of the club, and
hundreds (it seemed) were grown by
Zillah and Felix Mendelsohn at their
Lane Cove home. General Berryman and
Mrs. Berryman were guests-of-honor, the
general making a most entertaining speech
on his experiences in England and recol-
lections of Buckingham Palace. A high-
light of the decorations was the mock
birthday-cake, which was a small hatbox
completely covered with gardenias and
sporting one large red candle (the club is
but one year old). Among club members
at the party were Mrs. Allan Williams,
the Norman Jenkyns and Mrs. Persia
Porter.
Next Saturday night J. Lyndon Jones
will conduct at the Town Hall in the first
of the season’s “Messiah” performances.
He will have Marjorie Conley (soprano),
Florence Taylor (contralto), Ronald Dowd
(tenor) and Noel Melvin (bass) as
soloists, the combined choirs being the
St. George and the Central Methodist
Mission.
The grounds of Victoria Barracks
were decorated with fairy lights for a
Christmas party during the week, and
tables were set on the wide veranda for
the guests, all of which made an attrac-
tive setting for the girls’ party dresses
and the men’s dress-uniforms. General
Berryman received the official guests with
his usual geniality. Mrs. Berryman was
wearing a graceful white dress on Grecian
lines with a stole of black gauze shot
with gold which had been made from an
Indian sari. Furs were requisitioned by
most of the dancers as the evening wore
on, for the southerly chose that night to
cool things off, and, in the manner of
southerlies, cooled them off a bit too
much. Among the dancers one noticed
Primrose Anderson Stuart, recently re-
turned from abroad and looking very
gracious in an organdie dress and chan-
delier earrings. Mrs. John Wailes wore
orchid faille and Mrs. Charles McDonald
a short evening-dress.
The modern trend for young folk, even
while they’re still at school, to give parties
“assisted by their parents” is a quaint
and growing one. In the past parents
gave parties for their children and re-
ceived the guests; now they seem to
hover round in the background merely
“lending a hand” (apart, of course, from
providing the house and the wherewithal).
Still, there seems to be plenty of evi-
dence about this time of the year that
the younger set can put on a very good
party when they set their minds to it.
The Golden Ball, organised in aid of the
T.B. Soldiers, Sailors and Airforcemen’s
Association, by a youthful committee
headed by Anne McCauley, gathered
together at the A.C.I. Ballroom about as
gay, beauteous and well-dressed a group
of dancers as Sydney can provide. The
competition for the “Golden Girl” (who
doesn’t have to be a blonde, and who
doesn’t have to wear a yellow dress) was
won by Margaret Tarrent in an old-
world dress of orchid net. (Her prize
was a golden swimsuit by Scamp.) The
guessing competition was based on a map
of a treasure island which had been
beautifully drawn by Christine Wincott,
whose white dress was given an angelic
touch by a long floating stole. Last year’s
“Golden Girl,” Jacqueline Graves, again
set a high standard in a dress with a
white pique top and a pale-pink organdie
skirt. Robin McFadyen came along with
Glory boy Lieutenant Lindsay. Robin
Brockhoff, accompanied by Dick Nunn,
wore a creamy gold-beaded dress with a
dramatic green velvet cloak. Jill Lamone
wore mauve organdie ; Shirley Workman,
from Dungog, blue broderie Anglaise. A
striking dress of green was worn by
Josephine Roche. Among the other
dancers were Pam Allsop, Gai Cowper,
Sheilagh Stevens, Mercia and Catherine
Fingleton, Marcia Moses, Lorna Russell
(with fiancee Peter Triggs), Joan Lennartz
and Beth Midleton. Mrs. Bruce Trenerry,
whose picture by Falk lightens up the
page this week, was ticket-secretary for
the ball and dispatched 400 in all.
No matter how much one pays for a
ready-made hat or dress there seems to
be no guarantee these days that it is a
model, and that one won’t meet oneself
at the races or a party. The same hazard
arises when bridesmaids who belong to
the same set (as they normally do) try
to get “a wear” out of their beautiful
dresses, and also when inter-State visitors
save up a special dress for a convention
only to find that what was exclusive in
Adelaide has been repeated by the manu-
facturers in Sydney. Even hats which
cost 20 guineas are copied several times,
and dresses at 30 and 40 guineas are not
“exclusive.” One Sydney woman, how-
ever, takes a philosophical view of this
and says that if she sees a copy of some-
thing expensive she has bought at least
she knows that someone else is aware of
how expensive it was.
The Roland Litchfields’ cocktail-party
at their charming Darling Point home was
fairly representative of the film and
advertising world, with members of the
Press conspicuous by their presence.
Petite actress Kerry Norton, who was
celebrating her birthday, wore a very
dashing-looking embroidered Chinese
coat. Mrs. Deke Coleman’s frock was
voluminous black organza. Winifred
Willmore’s transparent plastic bag (which
disclosed its contents for one and all to
see) was a model of elegance and order.
The W. C. Wentworths were there, also
the Bill Durhams. Clare Stevenson
exchanged what seemed like knowledge-
able conversation about naval archi-
tecture with the R, L. Wardells, and
Harry Woolf, whose wife was clad in
airy nylon, gave the advertising industry
a few pats on the back. The Litchfield
house is a delightful one for a party,
with the veranda overlooking the bay,
an ideal place to spend a couple of hours
at the Christmas season conversing with
one’s friends.
From Melbourne
Lady Angliss, president of the
Children’s Welfare Association, was
hostess at a luncheon at which Parlia-
mentarians and executive officers of the
association were guests. This was held
at the William Angliss Food Trades
School, and Lady Angliss was assisted
by her niece, May Angliss. Mrs. Guy
Bakewell wore a blue silk frock patterned
with burgundy flowers to match her wide-
brimmed hat. Mrs. B. E. Prowse and
Mrs. F. Latchford were in navy-and-
white ensembles. Mrs. J. G. Norris,
president of the National Council of
Women, wore a brown-and-black-printed
silk frock with her wide-brimmed black
hat. Mrs. J, G. Forbes topped her black
frock with an American-beauty cloche
hat. Dove-grey with black accessories
was the choice of Mrs. J. C. Westhoven.
Miss Egan, who represented the Catholic
Kindergartens, wore a black ensemble.
Margaret Kelly’s floral printed frock was
worn with a white straw hat. Mr. E. M.
Derrick, who recently returned from
abroad, spoke briefly on the associa-
tion’s findings on problems dealing with
child welfare.
Over the years the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital has
done splendid work, and at the final
meeting of the year, held at the Aus-
tralia, centre of interest was the Christmas
stocking, proudly displayed by Mrs. Earl
Daum, president of the auxiliary. The
stocking was a sample of those being
made and filled with specially-selected
toys for children in the ward at the
hospital, which has been adopted by the
auxiliary. The toys are very varied, and
include a seesaw which makes the cow
jump over the moon, and a train-engine
with a squeaky balloon for the whistle.
New members Mrs. R. Denbo and Mrs.
J. Murray were welcomed, and special
guests were Thelma Passo, new director
of the U.S. Information Library, Mrs.
J. Bolton, Mrs. J. Clarke, sen., and Mrs.
C. Johnson. Also present to discuss
plans for the 1952 ball were Mesdames
R. Ramey, R. Macklin, W. W. Killough,
F. Gillespie and T. Blarney. Mrs. D.
Cheadle and Mrs. H. Klestadt were
appointed organisers.
One of Melbourne’s smart racegoers is
Mrs. A, G. Silk, of Toorak, who shares
her husband’s love for racing (he owns
Carbon Copy), for with Mrs. Lionel
Newton she owns the Oaks winner, Lady
Havers. During the war Mrs. Silk was
on several war committees which raised
big sums of money. She has two
daughters, Joan (Mrs. Peter Kiernan) and
Judith, and one son, Kevin, who has just
announced his engagement. Mrs. Silk
recently returned from a tour which
included the U.S.A.
As fine a gift Sydney has yet given this
city is the John Alden company, which
delighted a large first-night audience at
the Comedy with “King Lear.” The
brilliant color on stage was repeated in
a small measure by dressing of the
audience. Notable color-scheme was
chosen by producer Irene Mitchell, whose
cherry-red satin gown, cut on flowing
lines, was topped with a flaring Chinese
jacket in emerald brocade. Dorothy
O’Keefe wore a lamplight-blue taffeta
sheath gown under a matching cape which
featured the new batwing sleeves. With
her black taffeta ballerina frock Mrs.
Frank Tait wore rhinestone clips and ear-
rings. Mrs. Olive Thring covered her
black silver-embroidered gown with a
silver tulle stole. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
wore with her white gown a turquoise-
blue tulle stole. Beverley Buxton, who
has returned from a trip overseas, wore
a gunmetal taffeta ballerina frock and
black Shetland wool shawl. Over her
pencil-slim black cocktail frock Joyce
Grahame, who is arranging the dances
for the John Alden production of “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” wore a jet-
embroidered black chenille stole. Sydney
visitor Mrs. W. Kingham was in black-
and-red-shot taffeta. A floral ankle-
length frock was the choice of Moira
Rankine. Mrs. Norman Spry’s white
faille cocktail frock had a deep shawl
collar.
At the luncheon-party Mrs. Charles
Burge gave at her Brighton home, Mrs.
Henry E, Stebbins, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, and Mrs. L. J. Goslings,
wife of the Dutch Naval Attache, were
guests-of-honor present. Another was
there in the spirit: Mrs. Burge’s
mother, who was celebrating her
birthday in Holland. Mrs. Burge,
who wore a junior-blue-and-white-
patterned frock, was assisted by her cousin
(just arrived from Rotterdam), Mies
Hoogendoorn, whose navy frock had
white hailspot muslin collar and cuffs.
Among the guests were Lady Murdoch,
whose dove-grey, white-patterned silk
frock had side floating-panels on the
skirt; Lady Knox, in pleated frock of
grey-and-white chiffon and large grey
straw hat; Mrs. lan Connell, her black
silk shantung frock having a bolero;
Mrs. Philip Hudson, wearing white straw
hat and grey-and-white silk jacket-suit;
Mrs. Douglas Stephens, whose frock of
American-beauty silk featured a short
shoulder-cape lined with turquoise-blue
to match the lining of the side drape on
the skirt; Mrs. H. J. Buchanan, who
matched her pink-and-white floral frock
with a pink straw hat; and Mrs. Leo
Quick, in slim-fitting grey tailored frock
and small black hat.
When Dulcie Lorraine, only daughter
of Mrs. E. King, of St. Kilda-road, was
married at Christ Church, South Yarra,
she wore a lovely bouffant gown of white
Chantilly lace over tulle. The bodice,
which was long-sleeved, had the scooped-
out neckline embroidered with pearls to
match the tiny Juliet cap from which fell
the fingertip tulle veil. Her bridal
bouquet was of Christmas-lilies and
frangipani. Mrs. Bruce Hasty was
matron-of-honor and Eileen Bowes,
cousin of the bride, was bridesmaid.
Their gowns were of cream marquisette
over pale-citron satin, and their tiny caps
were trimmed with frangipani to match
their bouquets. The bridegroom, Jeffrey,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. C. Wills, of
Middle Park, had as best man Bruce
Wills, and John Layton was groomsman.
At the reception at Glendower,
Queen’s-road, Mrs. King received
the guests in a cinnamon faille frock
and wide-brimmed black straw hat.
The bridegroom’s mother wore a
junior-navy dressmaker-suit with a
hyacinth-blue hat. Among the guests
were Dulcie Fraser, whose draped frock
of black crepe was worn with a large
Leghorn hat finished with chenille spotted
veiling; Mrs. Andrew Swan, her black
frock topped with a black tulle hat;
Mrs. E. Cleminger, of Sydney, also in a
black ensemble ; Mrs. Harley Ward, who
wore a small black osprey-trimmed hat
with her black shantung suit; and Mrs.
E. Smith, who wore a navy-and-pink
ensemble.
Colored fairy lights twinkled in the
gardens of the St. Kilda-road R.A.A.F.
headquarters mess when officers enter-
tained at their traditionally bright and
informal pre-Christmas cocktail- and
buffet-dinner-party. Bowls of multi-
colored gladioli were set in the reception-
rooms, and on the tables tall vases of
pale-pink carnations and white blossom
stood in the midst of amusing table decor
which included large lobsters drawing a
truck-load of appetising savories. Air-
Marshal George Jones and Mrs. Jones,
assisted by Mrs. lan Rose, received the
300 guests. Mrs. Jones wore a black
ensemble, and Mrs. Rose topped her
white linen frock with a wide black hat
edged with white lace. Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins and Lady Collins were
there, she dainty in a mushroom-pink-
and-white-patterned silk frock and small
white grosgrain cloche. Secretary of the
mess was Flight-Lieut. R. L. Harvey,
whose wife (it was her magic touch on
the decorations) wore mustard-toned
crepe and large picture hat. With Air-
Vice-Marshal E. C. Wackett was his wife
in dove-grey-pleated frock and black hat.
Among admirable hot-weather ensembles
were the navy-and-lace frock with paste -
pink accessories worn by Mrs. R- K
Ellerton, the pink-and-white-patterne
frock worn with a black hat by Mrs. u
Charlton, Mrs. Bruce Rose’s slate-grey
tailored shantung frock, Mrs. 1
McLaughlin’s pink-and-black-patter
silks and wide-brimmed black straw, ■ ’
the black faille duster-coat and beig
satin cloche of Mrs. J. M. Davi
and Mrs. G. Marshall’s dove-grey fame*


"The Greatest Name
in the
Battery World"
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
EX3.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Leslie G. Norman, the dark, thin,
intent Digger who has ousted ex-Premier
Hollway from the leadership of the Vic-
torian Liberal party, learnt his politics
in prison. Herded into Changi, he took
a course of study in the form of debates
with Selwyn Kent Hughes, the poet-
politician, Thomas Walter Mitchell and
William Watt Leggatt. Kent Hughes be-
came Minister for Transport, and Leggatt
Minister for Lands under Hollway, and
Mitchell Attorney-General under Mc-
Donald. Now Norman, after only four
years as a member and seven days as an
honorary Minister, is in the running for
the next Premiership of Victoria. Thirty-
eight, he is M.L.A. for Glen Iris. Son
of a tram-conductor, he’s by profession
an accountant. At Changi he had the
highly dangerous job of keeping the secret
records of the Bth Division and later
helped to form the Changi Union, which
organised the bringing of British ex-
p.-0.-w. to Australia.
Adrian Ashton (son of artist Will and
grandson of James, whose art-pupils
included such notables as Hans Heysen,
Gustave Barnes and Will Ashton) turned
his artistic streak to applied art, becom-
ing one of the leading figures in domestic
architecture in N.S.W., as many fine
homes in Sydney testify. Foundation
president of a national trust formed after
War II to preserve historic buildings and
places of natural beauty, he’s belonged to
most architectural associations in N.S.W.,
and added, the other day, another set of
initials to his already sizeable list —a
Fellowship of the Royal Institute of
British Architecture.
Daddy of all black-and-white de-
lineators of dogs and Diggers, Ted Scor-
field has brought out a mate to his first
Mixed Grill. The pick of his joke-blocks,
a guaranteed diaphragm-dilater, the book’s
available at 3s. 6d. from Bulletin offices
in capital cities.
Editor of the Auckland “New Zealand
Herald” since 1942, Leslie Knox Munro
was trained as a barrister, and was on
the council of the New Zealand Law
Society before he shifted to newspaper-
ing. Political interest took in a couple of
War II years on the executive of Sidney
Holland’s National party. He’s just been
appointed Ambassador to the United
States.
An admiral retires:
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Fraser, of North
Cape, who retires this month after three years
as First Sea Lord and Chief of the Royal Naval
Staff, is a stocky officer (even though an inch
or two above the redoubtable Rhoderick
McGrigor) who commanded his fleet-carriers in
the North Sea during most of the operations
which earned him his Barony of North Cape.
Fraser’s main outward characteristics when he
commanded the Pacific Fleet —the greatest fleet
ever sent across the world by the R.N. —in
1945, with headquarters at Sydney, were a sun-
bleached head of blonde hair which hung over
one eye in moments of stress, a deceptively
winning smile which distracted attention from
a jaw like an outsize junk of granite, and a
sense of humor which some of his staff attributed
to the fact that he was a bachelor. He began
World War II as a very junior rear-admiral,
unknown to the public, who was acting as
C.O.S. to the Mediterranean Fleet. Within a
few months he was a vice-admiral and Third
Lord Controller. By 1943, his flag in Duke
of York, he was in command of the Home
Fleet, with all its immense responsibilities of
the Russian convoys and the details subsidiary
to preparations for the Normandy landing on
his hands. His rule was one long, laughing
deception of the Germans, as the sinking
Scharnhorst’s commanders learnt to their bitter
cost. Then, when the naval war faded in the
Atlantic, he took over command of the Eastern
Fleet, which cleared the western approaches to
Singapore, ending the war as head of the
immense and growing Pacific Fleet, in which
carrier Glorious, now in Sydney, and on whose
deck the surrender of the South-west Pacific
Japanese Armies was taken at Rabaul, was a
small unit. She had been the C.-in-C.’s first
important command less than a decade before.
Fraser’s most noted flair was for narrow escapes
in battle. A correspondent was killed while
talking to him in the Lingayen Gulf battle,
and his aircraft almost foundered with all hands
off N. Queensland towards the end of the war.
He has one other distinction: he is the only
naval commander-in-chief to appear at a review
on Portsmouth Hard mounted on a white horse!
Packed up his old kitbag for the last
time, at Hove, Sussex, and leaving all
his troubles behind, George Henry
Powell, author of the British Army’s
song in World War I, which still endures
at ex-servicemen’s reunions throughout
the British Commonwealth. Like
Kipling’s “Recessional,” Powell’s “Pack
Up Your Troubles” (written in 1915) was
thrown aside, although it had been set
to music by his brother Felix; but not
long afterwards they entered the jingle
for a competition, and were surprised to
find themselves on the road to making a
fortune.
Taking-off for Malaya, C.O. of No. 90
Wing (under whose wing operate the Aus-
tralian Lincoln heavy-bomber and
Dakota transport squadrons), Wing-Com-
mander Redmond Green, D. 5.0., was
till recently the R.A.A.F.’s Director of
Operations. In Air Force blue since 1937,
the new C.O. had No. 4 Fighter Sector
at Moresby in the New Guinea business,
shifted across to Milne Bay, and in 1943
came south to Cairns, in charge of the
hard-working No. 11 Catalina Squadron.
Recco experience there gave him the
necessary for his next job—boss of a
reconnaissance school at Bairnsdale, in
Victoria. Since the war he has held
several high administrative commands in
the R.A.A.F, In his latest he’ll leave be-
hind his favorite recreational weapons
—skis.
Recent accession to New Zealand’s
Supreme Court, A. K. North, K.C., of
Auckland. Born 51 years ago in Christ-
church, he was educated and hung out his
shingle there, later removing to Taranaki,
then to Auckland, where he came to
anchor with the firm of Earl, Kent,
Massey and North. He took silk in 1947.
Raymond Douglas Huish gets a
mention this week for a brace of reasons
—the year coming to its close marks his
majority in the presidency of the Queens-
land R.S.L., and, a few days ago, marked
his 53rd birthday, Huish qualified for
League membership by four years’ service
with the sth Australian Light Horse
Regiment, and collected a wound in 1916,
His qualifications for looking after
Queensland Diggers’ interests for the
past 21 years stem from a solid personal
appeal, able business capabilities and a
genius for organisation. On the business
side he is directorially connected with
IN FOR TWENTY-ONE.
almost a dozen concerns, their interests
ranging from finance and picture-theatres
to oil and motor-cars. As for organising,
he built up the Queensland R.S.L.
Volunteer Defence Corps in War 11,
chaired the State recruiting committee,
and had a productive finger in comforts
and patriotic fund-appeals in his State.
Born in Bristol (Eng.), educated in
England and the U.S., he was created
C.B.E. in 1937, the same year he received
the gold badge of life-membership of his
league. Likeness by Lambart.
The main characteristic of Clive Barry,
Dubois’s victim, is a pair of snappily
alert optics—which helps to explain the
perceptive observation of scene and char-
acter in the short stories Barry has been
writing for The Bulletin from Europe.
Back in Sydney after acting as education-
officer on five migrant ships out from
Naples, and four from Bremen, Barry
was with the A.B.C. (office-boy) before,
at 17, he donned khaki. Shipping to the
Middle East with the 2/13th Battalion
(Albert Chowne, later to win V.C. in
New Guinea, was in his section), Barry
IN FROM BREMEN.
was captured by Rommel’s henchmen at
Benghazi and shipped up to north Italy.
From Capua p.-0,-w. camp, as a 21st-
birthday present to himself, he escaped,
and walked to France, living off the
country. His walk broke into a very
smart run when, on the French frontier,
a German patrol challenged him. Barry
got into Switzerland with a bullet in his
shoulder, had it removed there and stayed
in neutral territory running a sort of
community buying-centre for the thou-
sands of refugees Switzerland was harbor-
ing. He also kept, on toilet paper, a diary
of his long walk, from which humble
source have come some of the characters
in his brilliant, highly-finished stories.
Repatriated after the cease-fire, with his
knowledge of Italian and other languages
polished at Sydney University, Barry was
a natural for his migrant-ship job. An-
other of his yarns appears in this issue.
Old Digger H. N, Harvey has called
it a day from a fine job of superintending
soldier-settlement in S. Australia. He’s
had 30 years of it.
Vacating the Chair of Prosthesis in
Melbourne’s Dental School, Professor
William John Tuckfield has had 37 years
of lecturing and professoring and almost
as long editing the Australian Journal of
Dentistry. At one time or other he’s been
on the executive of just about every fang-
farrier formation in the country, includ-
ing a War II presidency of the Australian
Dental Association. Author of an
accepted textbook on his subject, he was
much sought after as a clinical lecturer
throughout Australia. Fellows of his
profession will present him with his por-
trait, by William Dargie, before the
dentist takes to cutting cavities on his
favorite fairways. He also fishes.
Queensland heavy-engineering lost one
of its most dynamic pioneers when
Colonel Daniel Edward Evans passed on
in Brisbane recently. Co-founder of the
big shipbuilding firm of Evans, Deakin,
the colonel packed diverse interests into
his 66 years, beginning in a Bundaberg
(Q.) foundry and ending chairman of
directors of a £650,000 company. In
between, he assisted at the building of
Adelaide’s Outer Harbor, took on deep-
sea cable-laying round Malaya (junior-
engineer, at 19, of cableship Restorer),
and at the turn of the century was boss
of engineering-construction on what was
to become a giant U.S. base in the Pacific
—Midway Island. A hankering for salt
took him off again, to become, at 22, a
chief-engineer with the Adelaide Steam-
ship Co. Three years of that, then he
settled ashore, to team up with young
Arthur Deakin and found, first on the
site of the present Kyogle (N.S.W.)
railway-station, their joint huge concern.
Evans’s War I service with the Australian
Engineers brought him his majority, and
D.S.O. and “mention”; in War II his
yards on Brisbane’s Kangaroo Point
turned out 14 warships, corvettes among
them, a floating-dock and four 10,000-ton
merchantmen. Always meticulous, Evans
personally conducted the trials of every
ship he built.
Knight Robert Garran was 30 when he
wrote the Commonwealth Constitution.
Now 84, in this Jubilee-celebration year
he has had added to his three scholastic
degrees an honorary Doctorate of Laws
from the Canberra National University.
It is the first degree awarded by the
institution.
“M”: Corvettes and frigates in the
battle of the stormy Atlantic may have
stood on their noses, tails, ears and all
else of their anatomy—but none of ’em
rolled over. They may have poised on a
wave amidships so that hundreds of tons
of stem or stern hung unsupported either
end; or slammed their flares into an
advancing green mountain of apparent
liquidity which belted them with the force
of a trip-hammer—but none of ’em
buckled. Nor—by sailors who have an
unquestioning and well-placed faith in
naval designers—were they expected to.
One of the reasons why comes to Adelaide
University in the shape of F. B. Bull,
who, at the height of that savage struggle
against the Atlantic and U-boat packs,
joined the Admiralty’s Scientific Research
Department, head of the engineers, physi-
cists and naval architects concerned with
the stresses in ship’s structures. Bull
went to the Admiralty from Dorman
Long’s, armored with several years’
experience in designing structural steel-
work for such substantial permanencies
as power-stations, hangars, bridges and
storied buildings. He comes to Adelaide
University from Cambridge—researching
in the engineering laboratories of the
latter —to occupy the Chair of Civil
Engineering.
Into the Silence:
At 77, in Melbourne, Captain Evan Evans,
who got his master’s ticket in windjammers
and for 40 years coursed across Bass Strait for
the Union Steam Ship Co., commanding Oonah,
Loongana and Taroona. He brought the last-
named ship from Scotland in 1934—she became
well known to New Guinea Diggers. For the
last 10 years Captain Evans was ashore, practis-
ing as a marine surveyor.
In Perth, at 75, Joseph Parsons, retired school-
inspector and for 29 years headmaster of Perth
Modern School, the first high school established
by the Westralian Education Department.
Taught to teach at the Sydney Teachers’ Train-
ing College and Fort Street, he was an M.A.
of Sydney University and went to Westralia
at the end of last century. Many men now
prominent in State public life passed through
his hands, among them Dr. T. L. Robertson,
present head of the Westralian department.
At 59, in Hobart, Bruce Maitland Carruthers,
Tasmania’s Director of Health since 1945, with
the department since 1936. A Sydney University
product, born in Maitland (N.S.W.), he was
with the R.A.M.C. in both world wars.
In Hawaii, at 71, Sir Peter Buck (or, to give
him his Maori patronymic, Te Rangi Hiroa),
one of New Zealand’s most distinguished scien-
tists and director of the famed Bishop Museum
in Honolulu. He gained his Doctorate of
Medicine from Otago University in 1910, and
a few months ago was awarded a Doctorate
of Science by Yale University—he was already
Professor of Anthropology at Yale. Medical-
officer of the Ist Maori Contingent on Gallipoli,
he later won D.S.O. in France. Not generally
known was his first-class athletic record—at
one time he held the New Zealand amateur
long-jump championship.
At 51, at Edenhope (Vic.), Walter Burton
Gordon Laidlaw, a station-owner who became
almost a legend in the township for public
spirit, generosity and love of flowers. By
importing plants from pretty well all over the
world he turned the Edenhope racecourse into
a superb botanic gardens. He left £2OOO to the
Edenhope Racing Club, with instructions to
scatter his ashes over the racecourse.


■
:
a
mm
:
i
HM '
11 :
WA
m
m
'■V
; v ;.
i
■ '
wm
m
THE ONLY THING TO
REPLACE lUPOWK!
BHVMG if more—
LUDOWICI
LIFETIME
0
p
FD
ON INITIAL COSTS
F
ON MAINTENANCE
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
features:-
• “WET-FRAMED" STRETCHED
• UNIFORM QUALITY
• “DEEP WELD" ADHESIVE
• SUPERIOR CO-EFFICIENT
OF FRICTION
• LONG LIFE.
No belling has more proved, practical applications than
PIONEER BELTING, a name famous in Australia for 92
years.
Pioneer Belting often saves money on "initial costs" and
keeps saving it by providing continuous years of trouble-
free transmission.
The only replacement for Pioneer Belting is more Pioneer
Belting.
D
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. 20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST„ STH. MELBOURNE, VIC.
OTHER LUDOWICI LINES OF EQUIPMENT INCLUDE:— Rubber Belting, Conveyor and Elevator Belting Round Leather
Belting. Textile Leathers, Belting Accessories, Leather Packings, High-Speed Grinder Belts, V Belt Drives, Industrial
Clutches, Plain Bearings, Anti-Friction Bearings, Steel Shafting, Shafting Couplings, Shafting Hangers, Microid Bearing
Metals, Porous Bronze Bushes, Gears, Pulleys. Wall Brackets, Variable-Speed Drives, Ludowici Pivot Drives Fla-Seal Oil
Retainers, Composition Packings, Lutex Industrial Plastics, Industrial Gloves, Rubber Hose, Lemcol Trucks, wheels, Castors,
etc., Perry Chain Drives.
BORROWED BRAID
by MACNELL
f\ SKED to write his own
ticket in biography,
| Bugs Bunton might have
delivered himself of
something like this: Joined up
1935, joined first ship Malta
1936, was the favorite name on
the drafting-officer’s list in
Flinders and joined just
about every ship in
Hitler’s war, had least
leave of any other man
afloat, and did even more
sea-time after the war than
during it. Unrevealed gaps
in the record —Bugs being a
modest type —included failed in
his first A.B.’s seamanship
exam.; made leading-seaman
mainly because of an uncanny
knack in getting men to do the
most cheerless jobs cheerfully ;
awarded the Conspicuous Gal-
lantry Medal for a breathless
minute when, over the side on a
line, the quarter-deck cleared,
he freed a mine which his
corvette’s sweeping-gear had
dragged to within two feet of her
stern; a Fleet-wide reputation
as an incorrigible joker—a good
small-ship man; promotion to
petty-officer and posting as chief
bosun’s mate to a frigate which
found itself in company with
three British destroyers at
Manus after the war ; and, while
there, the escapade which made
his name ring round the Fleet,
and would have wrung his Ser-
vice neck had it been performed
on any other than Christmas Day.
For tradition is hoary in the
Service, and on that day the first
shall be last and the last shall
be first, the mighty fall, and any-
thing goes.
IT dawned warm, clear and
1 fine, that Christmas Day in
Manus, as it had dawned some
360 days of the year preceding
it. Bugs awoke, performed his
daily mental exercise by com-
puting how much longer he had
to go in the Service, swung out
of his hammock with a deftness
arising from long practice,
missed planting his foot on the
face of the gunner’s mate dream-
ing on the mess-table below him,
sluiced his face and fingertips in
the bathroom, came back, fell
over a fanny-full of knives and
forks, woke the rest of the mess,
pulled on his khaki shorts and
sandals, and, dressed, was ready
to meet the day.
“You great clumsy bollard-
head oaf,” said the gunner’s
mate pleasantly. “Don’t you
know it’s Christmas Day?”
“The one day,” supple-
mented the cox’n, sitting up in his
hammock and instantly clutching
his head of the night before,
“when poor sailors can sleep in?”
Bugs reached up his fathom
or so of detestable early-morning
geniality and hung his bearded
dial over the cox’n’s hammock.
“By the look of you, cox, I’m
right for your grog today?”
“Like hell you are!” returned
the cox’n vehemently. “And take
that flea-fungus out of my eye!”
Bugs was not hurt. When each
day brings its compliments, of
which being likened to the
Wandering Jew is one of the
least inspired, one is not
offended by a chance remark
anent one’s harboring members
of the animal kingdom. And
Bugs, albeit secretly, believed his
beard made him look noble.
True it is that it could do noth-
ing but improve his homely ap-
pearance.
“Come on, shake a leg.
Sooner we start, sooner we
secure. And I want to see the
Old Man up before his own de-
faulter’s table. That I won’t
miss! ”
“Hell, yes,” enthused the
gunner’s mate, sitting up sud-
denly from his laid-out ham-
mock on the table and clouting
the cox’n’s kidneys above him —
but the mutual curses died
quickly this morning. “I only
hope Shorty Black does it
justice.”
“I shouldn’t worry,” the cox’n
assured him. “The Old Man gave
Shorty five days’ leave-stoppage
last month. And even Shorty
can remember back that far.”
The mess bustled cheerfully.
This would be something to see.
Christmas Day, the captain
dressed as a sailor, up before his
own defaulter’s table, in front
of the shortest man in the ship,
dressed in the captain’s uniform,
telescope and all.
AN hour later Bugs, now fully
dressed (he had his cap on),
called the hands to attention and
saluted the First Lieutenant.
“Thank you, Buffer. Quick
sweep-down. Square off the
upper-deck. Then secure.” .The
Buffer still hesitated before him.
“Yes?”
“Beer issue, sir?”
The Jimmy grinned. “Oh, yes.
Cooks of messes muster outside
the wardroom pantry at ten-
thirty. After that they can draw
the normal issue.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
“And Buffer.”
“Sir?”
“Bring a couple of your mess-
mates to my cabin soon as you
secure. Captain has a Christmas
present for the petty-officers’
mess —case-full.”
“Yes, sir!”
The Jimmy turned and leant
on the guard-rail, smiling across
the vast harbor to where three
newly-arrived British destroyers
were smelling the wind. Great
thing, Christmas in the Navy.
Offer any of those independent
and well-paid petty-officers, the
backbone of your crew, a bottle
of beer ashore and your name
would stink to high heaven. If
you didn’t, aboard on Christmas
Day, the smell would reach
higher.
The crew went happily about
their jobs. In addition to the
usual tropical beer issue, the
wardroom would provide an
extra bottle per man for the
whole ship’s company. It wasn't
the quantity so much as the
nov e 11 y —the psychological
effect of freedom, for one glori-
ous day, from rigid discipline.
And, short of plain stupidity or
wilful damage to the ship, that
freedom was complete. Any-
thing went.
T HE Old Man is best
I described as being a suc-
cessful small-ship captain. And
it had best be mentioned now
that, in build, he was the same
size as his chief bosun’s mate,
though his chin was guiltless
of that which had prompted
certain coarser elements on the
lower-deck to christen its owner
The Black Horror.
The captain looked at
Number One, heaved his length
up from the wardroom chair
and grunted:
“All right, you needn’t look
so damned innocent about it.
It’s time, isn’t it?”
“What was that I read some-
where about the ‘burden and
privilege of command’ —Conrad,
I think,” the Jimmy murmured
grinning. “Yes, sir—it’s time. I
have Able Seaman Black’s
clobber in my cabin.”
The captain eyed his 2/i.c.
speculatively. “Y* know, only
for the sanctity of these blasted


A
CHANGE
FOR THE
BETTER
%
V/OM
m
mm®
mmi
m
CrtOHae
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
F
.World's favorite spark plug for
ore than a quarter of a century
Aiding Australia’s Advance
w
z
f '*tnsH
engines (a/asia) ptt
on
BOEAUST*
keeping pace with Australia’s
Industrial Development
Since 1934 BOEAUST (then
known as Mirrless, Bickerton &
Day Pty. Ltd.) has been providing
Power for Australian Industry.
To-day, as part of the Associated
British Oil Engines Group, it
offers the resources of the world’s
largest producers of industrial
Diesel engines.
Each year, and to an ever-
increasing extent, industrial con-
cerns, both large and small, are
drawing upon this specialised tech-
nical knowledge and experience.
Priority arrangements with its
Manufacturing Companies in Bri-
tain ensure early deliveries of
Diesel engines from b.h.p. to
2,500 b.h.p. and Diesel-alternator
sets from 3KVA to 2,000 KVA.
RECENT BOEAUST INSTALLATIONS
Aladdin Industries Pty. Ltd.
Babcock & Wilcox
of Aust. Pty. Ltd.
Bushells Ltd.
Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd.
Caesar Fabrics Ltd.
W. T. Carmichael Ltd.
Davies, Coop (N.S.W.) Ltd.
D. Hardy & Sons Ltd.
Nestle’s Pood Specialties
(Australia) Ltd.
Pelaco Ltd.
H. Small & Co. Ltd.
Standard Telephones &
Cables Pty. Ltd.
Streets Ice Cream Ltd.
Vesta Battery Co. Ltd.
John Vicars & Co. Ltd.
Wunderlich Ltd.
Sydney Morning Herald
Sydney Daily Telegraph
Truth & Sportsman (all States)
Sydney Daily Mirror
Melbourne Herald
Sun News-Pictorial
Adelaide Advertiser
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY, LTD.
66 Clarence St., Sydney - 368 Collins St., Melbourne - Distributors in all States
DF
SMSa:
(national
D
FD
*Part of the Associated British Oil Engines Group—now producing
the largest number of industrial Diesel engines in the world
Customs of the Service, Fd de-
tail you off!”
“It would p r o b a b 1 y,”
answered the Jimmy, “be the
first time in the history of our
glorious Fleet that men have
mutinied because of the popu-
larity of their captain. No, sir
—the privilege is yours. Alone.”
They stopped outside the
Jimmy’s cabin.
“My God! ” the Old Man
ejaculated, pointing to the
trousers, jumper, collar and
dickey-front laid out on the
bunk. “It’s just hit me. You
said Able Seaman Black!”
“Black is right, sir.”
“You know his height—or
depth?”
“Yes, sir.”
“And you know that I’m ex-
pected to climb into his gear?”
“Yes, sir.”
“And that his strides might
reach my knees?”
“Yes, sir.”
“And you bloody well think
I will?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You !” said the captain
unprofessionally.
THEY hung from the sea-
boat’s davits, from the rear
end of the bridge, from the lip
of the funnel, and crowded in
the space round the engine-
room skylights on the upper-
deck. And a great, joyous roar
lifted to the tropical heavens as
they spied the Old Man, ap-
parently in knickerbockers, and
with Shorty’s cap perched on
his head like (as the gunner’s
mate disrespectfully decided) a
pimple on a bull’s bilges, come
out of his cabin under the
bridge and climb down through
the grins to the upper-deck.
The captain was escorted by
the cox’n, the ship’s disciplinary
chief, policeman in effect. The
cox’n looked as though he’d
had a plate of str a wherry-jam
pushed in his face—probably
because he had. The luckless
couple came up to the de-
faulter’s table, to where Shorty
Black leaned on its green baize.
Now that the first shock of
ridicule was over —that first
sticking of his white legs in
Shorty’s pants out his cabin
door was something the Old
Man would never forget—he
was beginning to enjoy the farce.
So much so that he could spare
time to notice, with relief, that
Shorty had tucked up his white
drill trousers enough to keep
them from dragging on the deck.
THEN suddenly the captain’s
years of training received a
jolt; probably because they
were so many—when he had
given the orders.
“About - turn! ” snarled
Shorty. “Where do you think
you are —George-street?”
The mob howled at the ex-
pression oft-used by authority.
“Back to the bridge. And this
time double up to the table! ”
Oh, well done, Shorty! They
had not anticipated such bril-
liant power of command.
Shorty perked round at the
hilarious crowd, a grin athwart
his dial. Then he took a swig
from the bottle on the table and
snarled:
“Move, I said! Good Gawd,
Number One! Don’t these men
get any exercise? On their
suckers all day? Halt there!
About-turn! Now — fly !”
Captain and cox’n flew.
Shorty leered up at them, his
fingers splayed on the table in
approved Inquisitorial style:
“What d’ y’ mean cornin’ to
the table with your cap on
straight? An’ you”—stabbing a
black-nailed finger at the cox’n
—“I ain’t never seen a scruffier
specimen. WhatTe y’ tryin’ to
ook like —a chief bosun’s mate?”
The mob was helpless. Hell’s
bells, they’d fill Shorty with
grog for this.
“Accordin’ to King’s Rules
and Admiralty— stand straight,
will y’? And keep y’r knees to-
gether, if they’ll reach
accordin’ to K.R. and A.I. an’
every other regulation you
orter be keel-hauled for this. I
never seen such a list o’ crimes.
Take a gander at it!”
Shorty held up a fathom or so
of toilet-paper before his
squirming defaulters.
“But in view ’v this bein’
Christmas Day—and remember-
in’ me own blameless record,
past an’ to come [he grinned
impishly in the Old Man’s face]
I’ll let y’ off light.”
He drew himself up to the
captain’s shoulder.
“Ten minutes in the cells!”
Prisoner and escort marched
off. The laughing audience
drifted below to the serious busi-
ness of beer and dinner.
AN hour and several bottles
of beer later Bugs zigzagged
to the mess door in answer to a
knock.
“Here y’ are, Buffer,” Shorty,
now recognisable as an able
seaman, held out a bundle. “The
Old Man’s clobber. 1 don’t
think I’d better deliver it meself
—not yet awhile.”
“Sure, sure,” said Bugs. “Un-
derstand. Bloody good show,
Shorty. I’ll fix this. Everything
O.K. forrard?”
“With bells on, Buffer.”
“All ri’. Keep it clean. I’ll
fix this.”
With the captain’s white drill
suit over his left arm Bugs care-
fully climbed the steep ladder
to the captain’s sea-cabin in the
bridge structure. He passed the
bosun’s mate on his way round
the ship on a routine pipe.
“Bosun’s mate. Where’s the
captain—wardroom ? ”
“No, Buffer. He’s ashore.
Couple of Yank officers col-
lected him. He’s probably like
they were by now. Half his
luck.”
The bosun’s mate, being on
duty, was beerless. He passed
on his way, piping shrilly, and
Bugs stepped carefully over the
door-coaming into the captain’s
cabin.
It was (as much as Bugs’s
natural penchant for jokes) the
physical association of his sur-
roundings which caused the
Great Idea to form, flicker, fade
(on reflection), and then, under
the stimulus of divers beers, to
leap again into clear resolve. He
saw the captain’s neat bunk, his
sword, his open wardrobe glit-
tering with gold braid, and felt
the uniform on his arm. He saw,
through the porthole, a newly-
arrived (and, therefore, strange)
British destroyer muzzling her
buoy; he saw, mentally, her
happily-filled wardroom. And
he’d read, somewhere, the com-
forting assurance that clothes
make the man. A slow, wide
grin opened up his face; his
teeth, white against the black
face-fungus, showed like pearls
in a bed of seaweed.
AN American destroyer’s
motor-boat, returning from
inshore, was drawing level with
the Australian frigate’s boat-
boom abreast the bridge when a
resplendent figure in white and
gold, startling contrast to the
black mat between shoulder-
straps and cap, stepped unstead-
ily from the alley-way leading to
the captain's sea-cabin and,
pointing an arm to the boom,
hailed the boat in a stentorian
bellow.
“Boat ahoy! Come alongside
the boom!”
The cox’n at once stopped
engines and hailed back.
“The boom, sir? Or the
gangway?”
“The boom, man, the boom.
I’m coming aboard!”
The cox’n grinned at his bow-
man. “Say, that guy ain’t no
Limey.”
The other representative of a
great democracy lifted his boat-
hook. “Sure he ain’t, you
crumb. This is an Aussie ship.”
Bugs took a quick look aft at
the deserted quarter - deck,
stepped over the guard-rail,
moved along the boom with
practised ease and swung down
the swinging ladder into the
American boat. He almost lost
his cap overboard, but it was
rescued by the cox’n.
“Where to, sir?” he grinned
as he handed back the cap. You
could afford to grin, even at a
captain, when he’s obviously
more than a couple of happy
sheets in the wind.
From the security of the
stern-sheets Bugs called forrard.
“British deshtroyer other side.
Mind? And smack it about,
will you?”
Thus admonished, the boat
showed her paces. She swept
round the frigate’s bows, clear of
possible complications from the
quarter-deck, and in a minute or
two had surged alongside the
British destroyer’s gangway.
Bugs leapt out, caught his toe
on the gangway grating and
pulled himself out of an awk-
ward position by grasping a
handy open porthole in the
ship’s side. It opened into the
wardroom. Almost at once a
startled face appeared above his
fingers.
“What the devil! Oh,
sorry, sir. That damned gang-
way. Must get it fixed. Come
aboard, won’t you?”
BUGS stepped from the gang-
way to the quarter-deck and
returned the quartermaster’s
salute with magnificent nonchal-
ance —considering it was the first
time he’d ever been saluted in
his life. The officer he had met
through the porthole received
him at the wardroom hatch.
“Good afternoon, sir.”
“Afternoon, sub. I’m from !
the Australian frigate [wave of
the hand to starb’d]. Captain
aboard?”
“In the wardroom, sir. Won’t
you come down?”
“Lead on, my boy!”
At the foot of the ladder the
sub. respectfully removed the
visitor’s hand from round his
neck, where it had ended after
its owner had fallen the last two
steps, and queried politely
“What name, sir?”
“Bunton, my boy, Bunton.”
Just the right touch of
geniality, Bugs, me lad. After
all, small ship, Christmas Day.
Better mind me old g’s and h’s,
though.
The laughter in the wardroom
was stilled as the sub-lieutenant
(Continued on page 36.)


Give'Devil Dandruff
the'brash-off
with
k%-
fjiCmC
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing —
has a high quality Laaolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down” look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It's handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
D
FD
F
DF
5. v-5
■
Sold at all
Chemists & Stores
The ALL-BRITISH
{onuttui^teuKut
'/neSt
Ornd, ike
GreaieM
~kakie
N?5B
57/6
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
25/-
TO
70/-
\
i
Ca
VOS
0 L oN
Jke Ten, with,
the Vta/wett&ruA Hihf
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY, MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
HAMBURG REUNION
By C. S. BARRY
Hamburg shipyards
were operating again
after post-war inactivity
dictated by Allied
Command. Workers gladly
resumed work. To earn money
few trusted. German currency
had shocked its worshippers too
often over the last two genera-
tions, so now shipyard slaves
wanted to exchange the
Deutschemark for other things.
Almost any other things.
Black businessmen infested
dockside alleys.
Pedlars, pimps and currency
artists congested street-corners.
And owners of drab, dreary
dance-dives flaunted a galaxy of
entertainment experts. That’s
why freaks like me found work
in übiquitous Sankt Pauli clip-
joints, spieling for the floor-
show. The job I got because of
war service and because I know
English. English I learnt as a
deserted seaman in Australia
during depression years.
Depression years were high
spots compared with the present
period in glacial Grossefreiheit-
strasse imbued with the melan-
choly of dying autumn.
Overseas customers visited our
show often. British tourists,
C.C.G. personnel, occupation
army officers, international
charity hounds. Vainly seeking
vertiginous vim among
indigenous dockers.
Every time the front-door
opened I got a blast of dust-dry
snow.
Every time I sold a ticket I
slid through the curtain behind
and retrieved it. . I signalled the
waiter whether to use the
embossed leather menu-card
with the Hawaiian illuminations,
or the typewritten pasteboard.
When tables needed bodies I
stood in the street pointing the
way inside. And when seats
were occupied I helped with
cabaret stuff.
I kept in fairly good spirits.
Like a goanna in a bottle.
Handing out tickets, retrieving
them for resale, encouraging the
drunks, having a smoke
occasionally and thinking of the
multitude whose fate was worse
than mine.
AN old friend came in. Old
friends can be inconvenient.
I wanted time to think this one
over, brother. But reflexes were
flaccid. And I forgot to think.
Only felt. And the feeling was
deep yellow. Like a Murrum-
bidgee moon.
The old friend’s partner was
drunk. High as Kase Roquefort.
She was an unsteady filly.
Snuffling, snorting, trampling her
own feet and supporting herself
against the old friend.
His fist came out for the
handshake with the alacrity of
a right - cross. Pleasurable
astonishment aggravated the
lines of his ugly face.
“Golly, Charlie!” he declared
happily. “This is no place for a
Woolloomooloo yokel.”
Pleasure evaporated as
thought - processes effervesced
leaving wonderment which be-
came saturated with worry as
seconds flew like minutes.
He withdrew the outstretched
hand.
“What you doin’ here,
Charlie?”
Questions are part of my pro-
fession. Ask me an answer and
I’ll tell you the question. Buy
some funny money? Or
smuggled scent? Postcards of
the Reeperbahn? Canadian
whisky? Heroin? What about
the local lasses’ co-op. concern?
What was I doin’ here?
I was a Belgian bankrupt
undergoing honorable expia-
tion .. . Business exigencies
included riding the Nord-Express
weekly from Gare du Nord to
Liege arrayed as a Parisienne
matron whose corpulence and
opulence depended mostly on
foundation webbing packed with
perfume containers. An impor-
tunate haymaker from a
carriage-door liquidated business
and the splintered phials almost
liquidated me as I fled across
moonlit railroad tracks emanat-
ing fragrant fumes for the
station gendarmes to follow.
The old friend poked a
cockatoo-beak at me. My turn
to speak. He thought he ’.new
me. Maybe he was mistaken.
“Tanz-Restaurant der Nacht,”
I babbled. “Bietet Ihnen
alle Annehmlichkeiten eines
modernen behaglichen
H a u s e s . . . Ochsenschwanz-
suppe . . . Kartoffelsalat . . .
Schdnheit-Tanzerin ...”
His partner stamped and
champed spiritedly. She plucked
petulantly at his sleeve.
“Let’s get inside quick. It’s
warmer.”
They went inside past the out-
of-bounds notice, the garrulous
unattached females, the Gum-
mischutz slot-machines, the
watery-eyed waiter who was
often paid twice, the G.I.
prostrate on the floor, the
smoked-out nabob who was my
boss.
I let them keep their tickets.
Leben und leben lassen was
the establishment’s policy.
The dive was distinguished for
the lack of excitement,
THE orchestra oozed into
Liszt’s Liebestraum. Annita-
Conchita gyrated mechanically
in the steel-blue spotlight, dis-
playing naked nipples in a
repertoire of postures. Some
drinkers evinced polite interest.
I slithered into the sweat-
soaked Shirt, the dance-shoes
rimed with salt, the napkin-
neckerchief and crimson sur-
cingle, embroidered panta-
loons. Thirty seconds to
change from turgid con-
cierge to torrid Caballero.
Tempo switched and I went
on to the floor opposite Annita-
Conchita. She was swirling the
perfumed skirt of her purple
Abendkleid in dreamy rumbas.
The orchestral rhythm beat a
crazy counterpoint to my own
thumping heart.
The two newcomers were sit-
ting at the rococo ringside.
“A din of inequity,” said the
old friend to his partner.
It went over her head.
I caught sight of a fright-
white haggard face in a mirror.
It was my own.
The joint was stuffed with
torpid bodies waiting a chance
to skate about the postage-stamp
dance-floor. No one smiled.
Surf-club Saturday night offers
more fizz and elan than the
German night-box. No one
supersedes the Deutsche for
studied sadness in pleasure.
The old friend watched me in
amazement. In the mirror I saw
my face turning red like a green
blackberry. I strained to catch
what he was saying to his
partner, when I should have
strained to catch Annita-
Conchita. His partner wasn’t
listening to him. Her main
concern was wrapping fleshy
flashy fingers around a globular
glass of woomffph.
Her type was common.
English secretaries whose recrea-
tion consisted of sambas and
schnapps along the Reeperbahn.
Jitterbugging in American
Whistlestops. Gazing lolly-eyed
at bare-breasted floor-shows.
The orchestra crashed into the
crescendo. Loud as strawberry
socks at a church bazaar. I was
half a bar too late in arresting
Annita-Conchita’s finale flourish,
so I scraped myself off the floor
and tried again.
A magician with silver hoops
and chiffon hankies displaced
us in the spotlight.
Annita-Conchita was mouth-
ing verbal scraping gleaned from
the gutters of the Kurfursten-
damm. Female flesh bruises
easily and she pointed to her
white legs stippled with purple
patches. Autumn tints on a
winter landscape.
“You’re worse than usual to-
night,” she said among other
things.
“Just met an old friend,” I
said.
“And?”
“And I don’t know yet.”
j T was midnight, and my lunch-
-1 hour. I generally swallowed
a Spiegeleier mit Schinken and
slept a little in the Wartsaal of
the Hauptbahnhof. But this
time I put a heavy horse-blanket
coat over the Spanish get-up ;
walked thoughtfully up
Monckerbergstrasse, along
Kirchenallee, across the
Lombardsbriicke and around by
Jungfernstieg.
I wondered whether I ought
to leave Hamburg.
I came to where the monu-
ment says: “Forty thousand sons
of the city lost their lives for
you.” I cursed my imprudence
in belonging to the side that lost
the war.
Narrow-minded people are
apt to vilify a man for backing
the wrong horse. Narrow-
minded people must be avoided.
Like the malicious old friend
back at the Trocadero,
HAMBURG streets were
black because of the coal
shortage. Pavement puddles
iced over thin made walking
difficult. Snowflakes big as fists
feathered past in the brisk wind.
A shadowy painter was lettering
on the jig-sawed wall of a bomb-
blasted building: Ami Go Home
Tomi Leave Germany.
Yes, I wanted them to go
home.
I wanted to go home with
them. Continental winters grew
oppressive, the Rooshens more
ominous.
AUSTRALIA had been com-
fortable for a runaway sea-
man even in the early ’thirties.
Friends were easy to make.
Money came easy once I joined


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
,1. K, WILLIAMS, General Manager.
D
[ARTS
Circular Charts for ail types
of Recording Instruments
for any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
sxamwso'siiiu\\stoiiu.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
.RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
• NEURITIS
can be yours with
Emzm
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
tfk Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work —thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
ToTciT 1
Helpful and informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box JSS2, G.P.0., Sydney.
Af' sM
ii
HE UW
tica
SCl''
jßm s
I
PAGO
tUn>
lljiji
.Vs
no** 1 *
fO r: *
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
,2/121,
! :iS
M I
m ■
■
mm
Wli
1 3'6 m
sWli sirup
mmm
mm
V*"
30'-
-
m
m
mi
msw
56'6
SL
2'
GEM
s
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
There’s a
GEM
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined
chrome set, complete with stropper,
or a less pretentious set, you are
assured of the same keen shave. The
super-keen Gem blades of surgical
steel and the automatic shaving angle
of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with
automatic stropper, as illustrated above,
complete with 8 Gem Double Life
Blades, in ivory plastic gift case 56/6.
O Gem chromium-plated streamline model
in handsome case of ivory plastic with
5 Gem Double Life Blades, 30/-.
9 Gem nickel-plated Razor with two Gem
Double Life Blades in serviceable plastic
case, 2/-.
® Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated,
13/6 each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of
sturdy, surgical steel last longer, shave
keener, 2/4.
Obtainable at all Stores , Jewellers, Tobacco-
nists and Chemists.
the society for Nordic com-
patriots. X wondered why more
Australians didn’t join. The
society attended to members’
well-being. Supplied official
documents and found work for
me as an Army driver when war
came.
Even in the Western Desert
the Cairo branch of the corn-
patriotic society checked up on
my welfare. They had repre-
sentatives in useful places.
Spring came. I was trans-
porting a gun-team to an
escarpment position.
I coasted down the Benina
road to Benghazi and parked the
ten-tonner under the protective
muzzle of a German tank. The
Staffel - Kapitan awaited me.
Benevolently.
The Australian gun-team
loafing in the back of my truck
were amazed. They slept off
shock on the chat-riddled straw
of the municipal clink.
The gun-team sergeant was my
old friend of tonight.
Along the desert drive to
Rommel’s El Aquila base the
Teutonic display of armored
might and aerial extravagance
convinced me that the war was
almost over. At divisional
headquarters I marked maps
with desert dispositions and dis-
pensed advice. From Derna to
Mersa Matruh I stood at
strategic points directing Allied
traffic along detours lined with
swastika tanks.
I mixed with cockeyed
prisoners still blackfaced and
blistered from mangled guns and
burnt-out Bren-carriers, and I
recorded their stories for
reference. In Sabratha cage
behind Tripoli I suppressed mass
escapes and insane riots almost
before they were planned.
I got a plane trip back to
Berlin, a smile from the Reichs-
marschal, promotion to
Oberstleutnant and an Eichen-
laub zum Ritterkreuz des
Eisemen Kreuzes.
“War years were good years,”
I decided.
MY nocturnal lunch-hour was
used up. Too late to walk
back. Even over shortcut bomb-
rubble catwalks.
I jumped into a taxi outside
the Rathaus.
“Trocadero, my good fellow,”
I ordered. “And fast.”
“You work there?”
“That’s right.”
“I’ll go slow.”
Smooth black cobblestones
make artistic roadways, but they
are treacherous when wet,
which is most always.
I was fatigue-drunk when I
returned to work. Fresh air is
a bit strong for heads like mine.
A few lungfuls of fetid atmos-
phere and I felt better. I looked
round for the old friend. He
was quick-stepping among the
squirming mass of dancers. His
partner was fit for the ant-heap.
He saw me and came across.
Solemnly. He spoke German
with the metallic precision of a
Niirnberg interpreter.
“Have a drink with us?”
My boss was listening-in.
“Have a drink with your
friends,” he directed.
“M’mm,” I said. Eloquently.
“Was mochten Sie?” asked
the waiter.
“Kirschwasser,” said the
somnolent lady.
“Gin and vermouth,” said the
old friend.
“Apfelsaft,” I said.
Cosy, that set-up ; with an icy
gale shaking the shutters outside,
soft light streaming through
silky lampshades and the dance
orchestra thrumming in the
background.
“These people are trouble,” I
mumbled to the waiter. “Pour
plenty in their drinks.”
“Don’t give me orders,” said
the waiter.
The lady smoked a tired old
cigarette. The ash burned neon-
yellow instead of the usual
technicolor-red. A striptease act
unwound jerkily on the dance-
floor.
“We spent our weekends to-
gether in Tel Aviv,” said the old
friend.
“You’re drunk,” I said.
“How’d the war treat you,
Charlie?”
“The war’s over and my name
is Janos.”
“How’d the war treat you,
Charlie?”
“I worked a Hungarian cargo
tramp on the Danube.”
The drinks came. The lady
clasped hers effusively.
“Didn’t you work for Ger-
many, Charlie?”
“Most Europeans worked for
Germany.”
“I spent the war in a concen-
tration cage.”
“Better than a battlefield.”
“I reckon I was lucky,” he
said.
“You were lucky,” I said.
Never short of an inspiration.
HE emptied his glass in my
face. Carefully. Not to
waste a drop. His suggestible
partner followed suit. Reck-
lessly. Then whimpered over the
wasted woomffph. She was flap-
ping like a hooked kingfish.
I looked round for the
bouncer, then remembered I had
the job.
“You must go,” I said.
“I never forget mates,” he
said.
“Sentimental,” I said.
“I used to worry what had
happened to you.”
My sopping neckerchief was
dribbling color down the clown-
ish shirt. “You’re bleeding,”
said the lady.
“Use my handkerchief,” said
the old friend.
“Thanks,” I said.
He swung a heavy arm and I
lay back on the floor. Few
people noticed. Fewer cared.
My boss came over and
straightened the furniture. No
attempt to straighten me.
The waiter waited on. The
orchestra didn’t miss a beat. The
stripette went on stripping. The
old friend’s partner chuckled un-
healthily.
Annita-Conchita shook me
feverishly.
“Ten minutes,” she said.
I slouched upstairs, bled into
the dish-towel and came down
for the next act.
Noise from the orchestra
turned to flames and flashes in
my head. I tried to focus Annita-
Conchita as she flickered
through the worn-out routine. I
caught her gallantly whenever
she seemed to need it. I rattled
the castanets. Moronically. I
wriggled my cummerbund. The
old friend threw his glass
appreciatively and I ground the
fragments underfoot.
All right. He reviled me ; but
I had only done war-time duty,
same as any other Hamburg
citizen. Shearing lousy sheep
west of blazing Bourke doesn’t
encourage a man to sunport Aus-
tralia. Anyway, if I hadn’t fol-
lowed orders the compatriotic
society would have dismissed
me. Dismissed members die
pretty promptly.
War-time duties were venal
and dangerous. Supporting Ger-
many carried no blame. Many
former war criminals are now
pardoned as heroes who opposed
the Russians.
The melody subsided and a
trick-cyclist relieved us on the
dance-floor.
OU won the war,” I told
* the old friend. “Why not
leave me in peace?”
“You’re my mate,” he assured
me.
Old-fashioned. That custom
of fostering friendship.
“You’ll make trouble with
Besatzungsnacht police.”
“I never forget pals.”
He trod on my ankle and
stood up so that his shoulder
hooked my head back with a
click. He turned away, and his
elbow sent me rolling on the
dance-floor. The trick-cyclist
printed the tread of one tyre
across my neck and hoopla-ed
the other tyre over my knees. It
seemed seconds before the
cyclist gravitated sufficiently to
sit on my skull.
The house cheered as we un-
tangled.
I shook my skull. Hoping the
eyeballs would loosen and let
the pupils roll as a team. My
boss gave me a facial expression
I’m not going to describe.
“Your friends have left,” he
told me. “You better pay their
bill.”
A NNITA-CONCHITA wa s
** good enough to see her sick
old companion home. Af\er a
quinine tablet, an aspirin tablet,
a glass of chemical lemon, a nib-
down with balsam. Wie senti-
mental diese deutschen Frauen
sind.
“Who was he?” she asked.
“An old friend.”
“Must be careful with
foreigners,” she advised. “Never
trust them.”
1 N daylight I left the city and
' wandered along the Autobahn
until a Liibeck-bound truck-
trailer gave me a lift. The
future seemed hopeless. No
matter where I went, I would
still be within haunting distance
of old friends, unless . . .
Unless I transferred to the
Eastern Zone where old friends
are either forbidden or incarcer-
ated. Yes: there’s a combina-
tion. Not only would I win a
measure of protection, but also
they would probably hail me as
a proselyte.


Safeguarding your
family’s future
A way to avoid much
future care amd worry
By the appointment
of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as
your Executor and
Trustee, you will ensure
the maximum protec-
tion for your
dependents.
The Company has a
wide knowledge of in-
dustrial, investment
and pastoral problems.
By efficient manage-
ment and courteoul
friendly service, it has grown to be the
largest Trustee Company in the Southern
Hemisphere.
An ever-increasing number of profes-
sional and business men, realizing the need
to provide the maximum protection for their
dependents, are following the example of
men with larger Estates who have appointed
the Company as their Executor.
// you would have further information
as to the services rendered by the Com-
pany ring B 0377 or write and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will gladly
give the information you desire.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND]
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director
A. O. ARMTTAGE. Manager
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £72,000,000.
3 3-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH AND ORANGE
BNNjj Wm
rumrrniTunmmm < iwiiT,
lrrrrrrrrrrcrn
zlia us /jf tsi
r f |'3 iW IS IS Ji
i tts ists c-rJfi
&M3M
.rtzrvt^A
%fefrf]lT^l(hndl
33 HOURS I N
m
mm
mm
m
mm
4^
'
*m
mm
jf/p- ■/' ;.....■. • ....
a " idian P *dfic
3tCd '» cIS/'Wted -
-
When you fly Canadian Pacific'
To NORTH AMERICA and U.K.
★ Pressurized Canadair aircraft
ir “Loungaire” reclining chairs
★ Stop-overs at Fiji (11 hours) and Honolulu
(33 hours)
★ First class hotel room and meals at both
points free for passengers travelling via
Canada to North America and the U.K.
•jfc- Enjoy unexcelled service and comfort
★ Superb food aloft champagne and cock-
tails
h No dollars required.
TRAVEL RELAXED ARRIVE REFRESHED
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union Steam Ship Co,
(General Agents) at 247 George St~ Sydney, and 59 William St;
Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency, will be glad to
offer you full information.
stepped in over the coaming. He
caught the eye of a short-
barrelled officer with three gold
bars on his shoulders and
patches of hair on his cheeks
and called:
“Lieutenant - Commander
Bunton, sir. Captain of the A.us-
tralian frigate.”
The barrelled one came for-
ward beaming, his hand preced-
ing him like a ram.
“By George, old boy—jolly
glad you came across. Come on
in. Beer?”
Bugs gripped the hand just in
time to prevent himself saluting,
He felt the respectful geniality
of the wardroom envelop him in
a warm wave of well-being.
Enough to make a man go for
his commission...
“Thank you, yes. Really
mustn’t stay long, you know. My
own lads are expecting me for
a noggin in the wardroom,
Christmas and all that....”
As he watched the captain
turn to relieve a steward of two
foaming tankards, Bugs had time
for a brief thought of his own
“lads”—the cox’n and gunner’s
mate, in shorts and sandals,
blearily playing mahjong on the
scrubbed white of their wooden
mess-table. Hold on—leave the
lower-deck where it is. Might
make a man slip up.
Two tankards clinked with the
dullness of fullness and two cap-
tains drank deep. “Ah,”
smacked Bugs, getting a second
taste from his strainer. “I
needed that!”
“What?” the host-captain ex-
claimed in horror. “The first
today? Great Scott—steward!”
Bugs rocked back on his heels
and surveyed the wardroom as
though he and its appointments
were strangers—as indeed they
were,
“Nice little hole you have
here.”
“Oh, yes, we do all right,
'Thank you, steward. By the
way, your company O.K. for
beer? We can lend you a few
dozen.”
“Not at all. Gave ’em the
usual bottle per from the ward-
room. With their normal ration,
of course. No, they’re all right.”
“Good. I say—you on a diet?
Come on, then—you’ve a lot of
leeway to make up. Steward!”
Oh, glory! What a Christ-
mas! Bugs buried his beard in
his fifth tankard, then leaned
forward in response to the
captain’s crooked finger.
“Had a spot of strife this
morning.” The confidential
whisper made Bugs frown in
receptive and absorbed attention,
“Couple of youngsters got a
skinful—don’t know where.”
Bugs cast a swift and careful
glance round at the junior gold
braid.
“Funny thing, had the same
trouble myself. Petty-officers.
Pretty good bunch normally.
But you’ve got to be cruel to
be kind, eh?”
“Quite so. Quite so. Though
I always handle ’em carefully,
Subtly, of course. But—as you
know—a man’d be b d with-
out ’em.”
“I quite agree! Backbone of
a command, I say. Always said
so. Now take my petty”
But the captain seemed to
have lost interest in the fascinat-
ing topic of petty-officers.
“Yes, yes. By jove, you’re
dry again. Steward!”
INSIDE an hour, added to
what he’d already taken in-
side, Bugs was hilariously,
exultingly tight. He had not
won his reputation for dit-spin-
ning through his good looks,
and the British wardroom was
soon enchanted with him. As
the first-lieutenant confided, be-
tween guffaws, to the engineer:
“He seems to know more about
the messdecks than Jack him-
self. I’d hate to be up before
him with a why-I-was-adrift-
from-leave story.”
And such is the weakness of
human nature in taking objects
at their face—or uniform —
value, that not the slightest
glimmer of suspicion entered to
spoil the jollity of that Christ-
mas party. Until the captain,
more hard-headed than his dis-
cipline-free juniors, and free of
the natural awe which colored
his juniors’ impressions of a
visiting captain, detected a
loosening in the diction of his
guest, interspersed with a more
frequent application of the great
Australian adjective. Yet even
that he excused, or accounted
for, by the liquid cargo in the
dit-spinner’s holds.
And even when his guest com-
pleted a saucy story about a
stoker with the excuse for the
stoker’s downfall that he lived
in conditions vile enough to
make an angel break out on the
loose ; and even when his guest,
with remarkable knowledge of
his subject, enlarged on the
theme of the stokers’ quarters
and the discomfort of messdecks
in general compared with
officers’ quarters aft to such an
extent that even the sub-lieu-
tenant ceased to laugh; even
then the captain’s thoughts
could not be simplified by label-
ling them as outright suspicious.
Not outright.
But when, gazing quizzically
at the rampant Bugs, the captain
heard him declaim “The Old
Man did the mesh-deck rouns
thish mornin’. Oh yesh, every-
thin’ nice an’ clean an’ ship-
shape. Then ! He shoulda seen
’em battened down, swillin’ with
half the Pashific Oshun —by
Gawd I could tell the captin a.
thing or two about mesh-decks.”
Then he stepped forward, a
horrible certainty in his face,
and tapped Bugs on the shoulder.
Bugs lurched round to face
him, mouth gaping.
“Excuse me a moment,” the
captain said, and the wardroom
stilled. “I understand you to
be the captain of H.M.A.S.
Burnett.”
The twin of the horrible cer-
tainty on the captain’s face
spread itself over Bugs’s. He
hastily picked up a half-full
tankard from the table beside
him (being a quick thinker) and
downed it before he replied;
“Captain? Me?” He jabbed
a marlinspike finger in the cap-
tain’s chest. “Me? No, I ain’t
the captain. I’m Bugs Bunton,
buffer of the Burnett!”
DESTROYERMEN, by virtue
of the power-packed hull
they are required to handle, are,
by training, fast thinkers, and
trained to act on their thoughts.
All eyes were on the captain.
They saw the initial frown of
displeasure, and they saw the
gradual dawn of recognition of
a job nobly done. Then they
saw the smile. It was the cue.
They acted. Bugs was almost
out the door when they caught
him.
They manhandled him ; they
pummelled him ; they got fistfuls
of beard, and only the strength
Nature had imparted to hirsute
anchorages prevented their leav-
ing handfuls of gaps. But
neither was Bugs a member of
the inter-services Rugby fifteen
through his good looks alone.
He heaved and strove and
struggled. The sub-lieutenant
crashed into a four-inch brass
cylinder half-full of fag-ends and
cascaded the lot over the
doctor’s drills. The doctor bent
to scrape a half-inch layer of
ash off his knees and straightened
up on the end of Bugs’s boot.
But numbers told. Finally they
had him, gasping and mouthing,
spreadeagled on the carpet.
It was the sub-lieutenant,
panting into Bugs’s bearded
dial, who was inspired by
memory of the experience he
had once undergone himself in
the gun-room of a cruiser when
he had tried to grow a beard.
He craned his head to look up
at the captain.
“Glue, sir—the stuff the ship-
wrights use. You know the
dope.”
The captain looked down at
the sprawled but defiant figure
on the fag-starred carpet.
“ Don't know that those plastic plus-fours Were a good idea
for his Christmas present .”
“My God —not that!” Then
he seemed to remember some-
thing—perhaps the confidences
about petty-officers. He nodded
grimly. “All right, sub—-get it.”
The sub was back in a trice,
an odoriferous pot in his hand.
He bent over Bugs. The im-
postor heaved and strove, but
they held him fast. With
fiendish deliberation the sub
slowly tilted the evil-smelling
glue-pot over Bugs’s beard. The
captain shuddered and turned
away.
TEN minutes later a de-
stroyer’s motor-boat surged
alongside the frigate’s gangway.
From its sternsheets a horrific
figure stumbled up the gang-
way and, clutching its face in
both hands, lurched past the
officer-of-the-day and forrard to
the mess-decks. The duty officer,
wide-eyed, turned to the gang-
way as the boat cox’n saluted
and handed him a signal. Be-
mused, he read:
From Commanding Officer
Searcher To Commanding
Officer Burnett.
Reference your signal re-
questing loan of lead-line.
Herewith one chief bosun's
mate and one lead-line. Please
return lead-line.
The officer-of-the-day grunted
acknowledgment to the cox’n
and, swinging the lead-line,
made to start for the mess-deck.
He checked himself. It wa*
Christmas Day.


CINZANO
3 SWtEland DRY
'f
Lv*sr
II
gjyggjj
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LAURENCE NADINA MONT-
SERRAT late of Turramurra N.S.W, —
TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS JEAN MONT-
SERRAT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4166 of 1951 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend the suit you may enter an appear-
ance on or before the 6th day of Feb-
ruary 1952 at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney A
copy of the petition may be had without
charge from J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, 115
Pitt Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friends.
TO PHILIP LAWRENCE MUIR formerly
of Rutherglen in the State of Victoria
Agent but whose occupation and present
whereabouts are unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife BESSIE ELAINE MUIR of
Rutherglen in the State of Victoria has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the grounds that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards Should
you desire to defend this suit you must
ENTER an APPEARANCE in the office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
of the State of Victoria at the Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the State of
Victoria on or before the Thirty-first day
of December 1951 and also FILE an
ANSWER in the said office on or before the
10th day of January 1952 otherwise the
case may be heard in your absence. —
LYNCH & MACDONALD, 360 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Agents for W. M.
STRONG & SON, Solicitors, Rutherglen.
■
Bn
*
ini
M
ra :
■
m
H
ii
■I
MW
:: •
.
: r;
i m
mr
m mm
r«v ■
'S
an
■■
iii
B
mg
- ; :
i# #
f <t
, *,*••.*V|»’
_ • • * 0 m #/• »
ji... ♦ *_•
“ You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes , Sir 5
There are certain pleasurable occasions—out of the
ordinary, and above the everyday—which deserve and
command tributes only of the best; it is for these that
BENSONmdHEDGES have thoughtfully provided
their Super Virginia cigarettes.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
H, M. KING GEORGE VI
C (W/ie/i
FD
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON •
W. t
tnul
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
What is a saraband?
Of Moorish origin, it is a Spanish
dance for a single performer, who
accompanies himself with castanets.
The music is in three-quarter time,
but the dance is slow and stately,
with strong accent on the second bar.
Originally it was accompanied with
singing. The saraband was often used
as a movement by Bach, Handel and
Scarlatti in their suites for the harpsi-
chord and clavichord, the sequence
usually being: Prelude, Allemande,
Courante, Saraband and Gigue.
* * * *
What form of music is a galliard,
and how did it derive?
A very old dance form known as
the “cinque pas” because it consisted
of groups of five steps, though written
in common time. Shakspeare refers
to it in “Much Ado About Nothing"
and in “Twelfth Night.” It seems
originally to have been a dreary, dirge-
like sort of tune, but developed into
something much brisker and more
sprightly in triple measure.
* * * *
To whom does the Randwick race-
course belong, and on what terms
does the A.J.C. hold it?
Randwick racecourse comprises land
dedicated under the provisions of the
Crown Lands Act and granted by
deed to certain persons as trustees.
By the Australian Jockey Club Act,
1873, the trustees are empowered to
lease the land to the Australian
Jockey Club, and by the same act
the committee of the club is authorised
to make by-laws regulating admission
to the land and the rates or charges
to be paid for admission.
* * * *
What are the standard points for
judging sweet-peas at shows ?
The Royal Horticultural Society of
N.S.W. sets the points down as fol-
lows : Form of flower, one point;
freshness (including correctness of
color of the individual variety and
absence of blemishes), one point; size
of blooms, one point; arrangement of
flowers on stems, one point; number
of flowers on stems, \ point; length
and proportion of stems, j point.
(There should be not fewer than three
flowers on a stem, and they should
be placed alternately down the stem
at approximately equal intervals.)
* *
Cause and cure of talking in sleep ?
Talking during sleep is sometimes
a sign of nervous irritability, and is
apt to occur in imaginative, highly-
strung persons of all ages past
infancy, and in both sexes. Treat-
ment depends on the cause; in
children, search must be made for
intestinal worms, errors of digestion,
nose and throat affections or worry
over schoolwork; in adults, business
and domestic upsets are important
lactors in susceptible people. Fatients
in whom the trouble is exaggerated
should undergo a complete physical
overhaul and consult a psychiatrist if
necessary, in mild cases the habit Is
of no importance.
* * * *
(1) How are the dates of the moon’s
phases reckoned for calendars ? (2)
Do the phases affect plant growth ?
(1) They are calculated by the
difference in the celestial longitude
of the sun and moon. When this
difference is Odeg. the moon is new,
when 90deg. first quarter, ISOdeg. full.
270 deg. third quarter. (2) Since heat
is one of the primary factors of plant
growth and the heat derived from the
moon is infinitesimal, astronomers can
find no reason why the moon should
have any effect on plants.
* # * *
What is the ethic dative in
grammar ?
In Latin and Greek a person
indirectly or vaguely concerned in the
matter stated, etc., is sometimes intro-
duced into the sentence in the dative;
thus in Quid mihi Celsus agit? the
word mihi (literally, “to me” or “for
me”) amounts to a parenthetic "1
wonder.” Me in Elizabethan English
was often so used, as:
See how this river comes me cranking in
And cuts me from the best of all my land
A huge half-moon, a monstrous cattle out
# * V w
(1) Of the convicts transported to
Australia, what proportion was sent
out for serious crimes and what pro-
portion for minor offences? (2) Is the
picture of convict life as given by
Marcus Clarke’s “For the Term of
His Natural Life” true to fact?
(1) Impossible to give the exact
figures. All told over 100,000 con-
victs were transported. Ernest Scott’s
A Short History of Australia says:
“Very many had been transported
under a penal law which was harsh
in comparison with criminal codes of
other civilised countries, and the sen-
tences inflicted would by a milder age
be considered excessively severe. How
many were the victims of poverty it
is impossible to calculate. Political
offenders were not very numerous....
The mass were rascals and ruffians,
a large proportion of whom were of
desperately bad types, whom no
terrors could tame, no system reform.”
(2) Conditions at Port Arthur and
on Norfolk Island, both isolated
settlements for supposedly hardened
criminals, seem to have been brutal
and inhuman. Governor Arthur
testified that he knew of convicts at
Port Arthur who had committed
crimes “to get themselves hanged.”
But, according to the Australian
Encyclopa:dia, the horrors depicted
by Marcus Clarke were not typical of
Australian conditions generally.
Brief Answers.
M.F.: The Gunpowder Plot by
Hugh Ross Williamson (215.), pub-
lished by Faber and Faber, Ltd., 24
Russell-square, London RJ.: A
wash of cement mortar is made up
to the consistency of paint. To this
mixture is then added, slowly and
with constant stirring, boiled linseed-
oil in the proportion of not more
than \ pint of oil to each gallon of
the wash. This should be applied
immediately with a fairly heavy brush
similar to that employed for a lime
wash R.A.8.: Under the N.S.W.
Lotteries and Art Union Act a paper
published in N.S.W. is prohibited
from publishing the particulars re-
quired T.A.: If the president and
vice-presidents are absent, the mem-
bers present should select a chairman
from their number. The secretary
may accept a motion to that effect
and put it, if necessary, to the meet-
ing. Without being absolutely pro-
hibited from election, it would be
undesirable for the secretary to accept
office, as he has no power personally
to delegate his duties as secretary to
the other members M.G.: Not
necessarily immediately, but you could
read the will after its lodgment with
the Registrar of Probates, Supreme
Court Buildings, Sydney, for probate,
and, on payment of a small fee,
obtain a copy... .F.R.H.: Attunga,
meaning “a high place”; Bibbenluke,
“big lookout”; Cobbadah, “place on
a hill”; or Coolamatong, “water near
a hill” A.E.: Bonedust is usually
made from bones that have been
boiled under pressure to remove the
fat and soften the bone. Green bone
is more difficult to grind, and, owing
to its fat content, decomposes slowly
in most 50i15....T.5.: Woods used
for violin-making are pine, known in
the trade as Swiss pine, for tops
or fronts; European maple for backs,
ribs and scroll; willow for blocks and
linings; and ebony for finger-board,
nut and saddle L.P.: Issued for
the centenary of Lincoln in 1909, the
cent was designed and engraved by
Victor David Brenner, who included
his initials on the first issues. After-
wards the initials were discontinued.
Collector value about 6d. if in mint
condition 8.C.: The owner of an
adjoining block may by written notice
require his neighbor to erect or repair
a dividing fence. Should the neighbor
refuse, or neglect to comply with this
notice within six months of receiving
it, the owner of the adjoining land
may go on with the work at his own
expense and recover in court half the
costs from the neighbor C.A.D.:
Campbell Fields was the name of
Dr. Redfern’s property at Minto. It
was an 800-acre grant from Governor
Macquarie, and was named by Dr.
Redfern in honor of Mrs. Macquarie’s
family (Campbell). The house is still
standing R.K.J.: Write Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney A.S.W.: The Common-
wealth Electoral Act provides that
every elector shall record his vote at
each election, but where, in the
opinion of the electoral authorities,
the reason furnished for failure to
vote is deemed a sufficient one, no
penalty is imposed E.S.: Marl-
borough’s Danish Self Taught and
Dutch Self Taught, Hugo’s How to
Speak Danish in Three Months and
Hugo’s Dutch Simplified S.P.:
Porridge is no food for dogs, and
milk is inadequate unless fortified
with yolks of eggs.


FD
\ j ;
55
"C*
53%'
y
; f ;
•• • because he 9 s a member
of Australia 9 s largest family!
Policyholders in the A.M.P. can afford to relax,
happy in the knowledge that as a member of Aus-
tralia’s largest family, their financial future is
secure. Constant concern for its members’ welfare
has raised the A.M.P. to its present leading position.
Yet, despite its great size, the A.M.P. remains a
friendly family institution. It is run by policy-
holders, for policyholders. There are no share-
holders.
YOUR A.M.P. AGENT will advise you
with skill on your family finance
so as to obtain the maximum value of
protection for you and your family.
His background and training make
him the ideal person to assist you.
The A.M.P. Agent is a “Sure Friend
in Uncertain Times.”
Australian
Mutual Provident Society
GENERAL MANAGER; M. C. BUTTFIELD
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND AND IN
LONDON. THE A.M.P. IS THE LARGEST MUTUAL LIFE ASURANCE
IN THE EMPIRE
S/201
F
"3
WM
SMIOR.
LDIER
AIRMAN
DF
D
the finest career of all
In bearing, in character and in pride in the
traditions of their famous fighting Services,
Australian sailors, soldiers and airmen are
second to none in the world today. Member-
ship of the Navy, the Army or the Air Force
gives a man a standing that has no equal in
civilian life.
Most recruits find themselves better off in the
Services than ever before. Service pay plus
“extras” enables a man to live well and make
regular savings. At 18 a single Serviceman,
after his basic recruit training (normally 3
to 6 months), draws over £9/3/- a week in
cash and, in addition, gets free food, clothing,
accommodation, dental and medical attention
and a pension or gratuity on retirement.
A recruit enlisting today can look forward
to excellent opportunities for advancement in
one of the hundred or more Service careers
open to men with different types of ability.
Get full details now.
FD
the
JOIN
NAVY,the ARMY or the AIR FORCE
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane; Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide: Richards Building, 99 Currie
Street; In Perth: 34 King Street: In Hobart: Franklin Square}
In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in anv of the above cities.
Issued by the Director-General o/ Recruiting . PF7.112.XU
A Man and
His Shack
By David Rowbotham
IN the gully behind the
hospital, not far from the
sawmill, stands a tumble-
down shack dangerously
leaning to the inclination of the
ground it occupies. Iron-roofed
and thin-walled, it is incredibly
small and smokes amiably all
day long through a tin chimney.
From the criss-cross shuttered
windows, Harvey, when he is
home, looks out on to the
vegetable-garden or the tumid
mess that is his dump.
Harvey is a scavenger and a
hawker. He scours the neighbor-
hood for empty bottles,
abandoned tins, cloth and wood,
which he carts in a sugar-bag
black with dirt to the inevita-
bility of the pile in his gully
domain, and there allows them
to dissolve into one another
until the result is indis-
tinguishable and odorous.
Some despondent morning
when his cash has run out he
may be seen mechanically
poking the pile with a stick. He
is making a “selection.” Having
made it, he sits on a stump near
the back-door and belts a jam-
tin into a billy-can, or breaks a
bottle to the shape of a vase or
an ash-tray, or rends a few pieces
of cloth into a doormat, slaps
paint about, flourishes a few
stitches, juggles with random
lengths of wire and goes and
has a wash.
Then he sets out to start the
housewives’ tongues wagging all
over again. For the wives don’t
like him. They consider that
his dented bowler-hat, his slop*-
ping sandshoes, his heel-less
socks, his mouldy Army coat,
his dark, deeply-set eyes and his
grubby swag are a blot on the
respectable name of the suburb.
Besides, he keeps a preposterous
and untidy retinue of women
with him in the gully, and the
drinking and the swearing and
the what-have-you that go on
down there are simply nobody’s
business.
Nevertheless, the older
wives make it their business
to report him to the local police
every time he steps out to assert
his existence and the disrepu-
tability of the shack near the
mill. The police receive the
reports with deference, and,
whenever they chance to run
into Harvey shuffling, Chinese-
fashion, along the street or
through the park, bid him the
time of day. He raises his
bowler, swerves a little under the
weight of his swag at the stress
of the courtesy and continues
on his way. And the wives,
badgered either by his dark look
or his notoriety, despite them-
selves consistently buy from
him.
His women feed him well
while the money lasts, so he is
sturdy enough of body ; but his
habit of halting in his necessitous
hikes and backing up to a fence
or a post, thereon to lay the
burden of the swag, belies his
apparent good health. And
through his grizzling speech he
pants and coughs a great deal.
He has brothers, so he says,
on prosperous cane-farms in
Queensland, and emphasises
their success as somehow de-
pendent upon his survival. He
hates “the bosses” who have, all
their life and all his, crushed
him “under,” and he has, it’s
understood, known better days
and better women. He grizzles
and huffs and reminisces, and,
when it rains, runs as if the
devil himself were finally after
him.
Showing some cosmopoli-
tanism of mind, he does not
restrict his hawking or his
scavenging to the one suburb,
but travels up and down “the
line,” at the expense of the
railway, who never ask him for
his fare. While in the train he
lurches from carriage to carriage
salvaging newspapers, cigarette-
packets and other odds and
ends, and never takes a seat —
which might credit him with
having a sense of obligation
towards the railway for their
kindness, or neglect. The real
fact is that he is in such a deuce
of a hurry to scavenge and sell.
Those sporadic suburban excur-
sions annoy him as much as they
offend the old wives. He dearly
covets the leisure, peace and
past-time of the shack.
NOBODY knows, quite, how
he began, or, exactly, how
innocuous his kind of life might
be. He is a familiar figure at
the sawmill, whose floors, twice
a week, he sweeps clean of shav-
ings with one enfolding, pincer-
like motion of tattered arms.
It is assumed, somehow, that
he is an old soldier and that he
will never die; which causes a
modicum of unease among the
old wives, for they feel that they
owe something to a man who
once fought’ for them and gave
on their behalf some part of his
sanity or sobriety in the process.
And, too, in the security and
dull content of their daily
routine, they bridle at being
reminded of wars.
Now and then one of the
women passes by, her hair mop-
like, her dress awry, her finger-
nails and uncommunicative face
painted and her legs
unstockinged and varicose-
veined. Since she is too repre-
sentative of what woman in
general is capable of becoming
if she has misfortune enough to
exercise her free will in the less-
travelled direction, the old wives
are even more censorious of her
than of Harvey.
How he manages to support
himself and the rest of the
shack’s residents is what the
local rector, one gossipy Sunday,
pedantically termed a “Brob-
dingnagian poser” ; for Harvey’s
only means are his vegetables,
his sugar-bag wares, and his
pension. Since he and his
women maintain themselves in
a fleshy, if somewhat reproach-
able, condition, it is suspected
that he indulges, as one old wife
put it, in “a bit of lifting.”
Another wife stage-whispered to
her neighbor as the bowlered
figure with the coal-like eyes
shuffled past one morning that
“people like ’im gen’rally live
on the smell of an hoily rag,
hanyway.” Which is untrue, if
pleasantly malicious, and accept-
able as a solution to the mystery.
Parochial philosophy is very
often difficult to discount
altogether.
J F Harvey has any philosophy
I it is probably the one he
lives —a kind of unremonstrative
existentialism. He is never
bellicose and, for that matter,
never humble or ashamed. He
has chosen, and has stood by,
his belief, or his vocation, or his
avocation —whatever it may best
be specified as. He seldom “eats
out”; but when he does he
relieves the cafe “up the line” of
as much embarrassment as he
is able to by placing on the
table as soon as he slides into
his alcove all that is in his
trouser-pocket: a clasp-knife, a
bent nail or two, invariably a
hairpin, a disk with letters on it
(possibly his initials —although
it is hard to associate him with
initials, for initials so summarily
declare a full name, a vote and
a conventional identity), and
coins clinking vagrancy but
authenticity, and paucity but
sufficiency. He is there to be
served and to pay.
He wanders the suburb like a
sooty question-mark with an
outsize hump on its back, and
at the end of each sallying-forth
retires irrepressibly to the under-
standing of his “house,” where
he is obviously known and,
furthermore, master.
From the edge of the road
protecting the hospital from the
precincts of the gully the
tumbledown shack may be seen
any day smoking and leaning,
virtually with legs crossed on
the slope, so human it seems. It
will one day fall down, no
doubt, right across the stump
and the vegetable-garden, right
across Harvey and his women,
if he hasn’t by that time
answered the retreat and his
ghost hasn’t disbanded all the
varicosed widows. But, until it
does, it emanates from its
smoking chimney, its shutter-
windows, its vegetable-garden
and its dump a colorful quality
of tramp-time. And Harvey,
like a patch of honest delinqency
in the streets and in the park,
when he steps out, unconsciously
saves the soul of the suburb
from too much hope of heaven.


FD
'MAGNIFICENT*
All this for onlu
£12.7 6
:
%
2
3s
r
%
%
%
%
a*
a
4s
R
:
<2
%
&
a
'A
&
%
%
%
a
*/
5a
Pa
&
/>
**
r
54/
s*/
ivee
?^OAto
wn/fe
w**antbe
designedfor\
U.S. ARMY X
rhe foresight of John Hay in shipping early brings you
this amazing watch at this amazing price.
with an\
expanding
stainless steel
band, 19/6 extra
MAIL
ORDERS
F
REGISTERED
POST FREE
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING ST.. SYDNEY; j
Please forward by registered mail, a Felca "Magnifi- \
cent" for which I enclose. I
NAME . J
ADDRESS |
- Bul. |
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
m
m
mm
pStti?
m
UW
C
' / " w
Norman Von Nid a,
Australian Champion,
wearing:, of course. Stamina
Self - Supporting Trousers.
CLOTHES
CrusabcrCloth
A GOOD SPORT
Whatever you play, you will do
belter if your clothes fit and are
comfortable.
STAMINA Trousers not only look
well and wear well, they give you
something extra in comfort that
you have a right to expect.
Follow the advice of the Cham-
pions— wear STAMINA Self-
Supporting Trousers, made from
a specially selected pure wool
Crusader Cloth.
ASK FOR
Stamina*
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
defence and meantime have
none. Melbourne is better off,
as she has just got an iron-clad
sent out.
I found everything in good
order at home, and Charlotte
had done her best to make Mr.
Taylor comfortable while I was
away. The garden was looking
beautiful. I had not seen so
many flowers since I left, though
they have a pretty garden at
Green Mount, too. We had
some hot weather for a few days,
and then down came the rain
again.
Christmas Day was the
climax. It blew a gale of wind
with very heavy rain and was so
cold we were glad of a good
fire, by which we sat all day.
We were to have gone into
Stroud to spend the day with the
Shaws, but, of course, the
weather prevented anyone going
out, and I think we enjoyed our-
selves at home just as much.
The Shaws were to have come
here on Boxing Day to spend
it with us, but all visiting was
put an end to.
It is fine again now, and we
are just in the middle of a great
mess, as the sitting-room is being
boarded and whitewashed, pre-
paratory to being repapered. It
was formerly papered over
canvas, which did not answer,
as in damp weather it all
“bagged” out. So now the
whole room has been lined with
sawn boards, which will look
well when papered over.
The ceiling requires a great
many coats of whitewash, and
this causes the present state of
mess. The piano and sofa are
covered with old canvas
wrappers, the floor is a mass of
whitewash, in the midst of
which I am sitting like Captain
Cuttle on his island.
I hope the last coat of white-
wash will go on this evening, and
tomorrow Mr. Taylor and I will
be able to paper. We shall look
quite respectable again then, for
it is a very pretty room when
the paper is clean.
There are two long French
windows opening on the east
veranda and two casement
windows, one on each side the
fireplace, opening on the north
veranda, and when these are
hung with green moreen curtains
and you see a vision of flowers
and trees and wooded hills from
every one of them, you do not
mind the floor being carpetless
and some of the furniture being
of home manufacture. It is not
that we could not afford a piece
of India matting or a cheap
carpet, but they are such a
dreadful harbor for insects in
the bush that we prefer having
the floors scrubbed every week
and contenting ourselves with a
hearth-rug. But this is enough
of home matters, you will think.
We have quite a farm now.
We are milking three cows and
make all the butter we use, be-
sides having plenty of milk. I
have been churning this morn-
ing. 1 always do that myself;
I do not like the butter handled,
and Charlotte has plenty to do
besides. She is washing today;
washing-day has been a move-
able feast lately, owing to the
constant rain, and sometimes the
clothes have hung on the line
for days before they would dry.
They are dried in the little
paddock at the back of the
kitchen out of sight of the house.
Sometimes the calves eat a few
socks, but that is a trifle. Mr.
Taylor is at work in the kitchen
garden with David, ploughing
up a piece of ground for
potatoes; he is exceedingly
fond of his kitchen garden, and
with reason ; it supplies us with
abundance of vegetables all the
year, and we give away a great
many besides.
I must say good-bye now.
Give my love to Mr. Boyce and
the children, and all good wishes
for a very happy New Year to
all of you, with much love to
yourself,
Your very affectionate sister,
RACHEL TAYLOR.
“The Peach Trees,”
October 3, 1871.
My Dearest Etta,'
I was so sorry I could not
write to you by the September
mail to thank you for the very
pretty song you sent me, but I
was just starting for Sydney
when it came, and really had
not a moment to write.
You will probably hear from
Biddulph by this mail, and will
read in his own hand of the
great event that is at present
the talk of the family. Namely,
that he has at last chosen him-
self a wife! We are all very
much pleased at his choice, too.
Annie and I always used to say
we wished he would marry
Emily Tucker. However, when
I went down to stay at Canter-
bury House at the beginning of
this month, Annie invited Emily
out there at the same time, and
Biddulph used to take us drives
before breakfast, and rides in the
evening after he came home
from business. We played
croquet on the lawn, and walks
in the grounds, and so it all
ended in an engagement.
She is the eldest daughter of
Mr, William Tucker, Her father
has a beautiful place called
Clifton on the North Shore, and
is very well off, Emily was
educated in England, and very
well, too. She is a fine, stylish-
looking girl, with a splendid
figure, and dresses exceedingly
well, having abundant means
thereunto. I think there is every
prospect of their being very
happy.
But I must tell you about my
visit to Sydney. I went down
by myself this time, as no per-
suasions could induce Mr.
Taylor to accompany me. it
has been a very dry spring and
we are surrounded by long
grass and dead timber, and he
was afraid of bushfires, and of
finding the little homestead burnt
on our return. So, as I wanted ’
to see them all at Sydney, and
to do some shopping, I actually
made up my mind to go down
for three weeks alone. Deighton
rode down to Raymond Terrace
with me, and saw me on board
the steamer, and the same even-
ing I reached Canterbury House.
It is about the most charming
country house I ever saw even
in England. About half a mile
from the Ashfield station you
come to a white gate which
brings you into a drive through
what would be called an open
wood in England, and is called
open bush here. The drive is
planted with firs at the sides,
and well gravelled and kept, in
half a mile more there is an
iron gate, and the road goes
on through beautiful flowering
shrubs, turns round a bed of
perfectly dazzling azaleas and
camellias, and there is the house.
A very pretty house it is, raised
on a slope of green turf, with
a double row of white steps lead-
ing to the balcony and door. In-
side it is very comfortable —a
dining-room, drawing-room, and
billiard-room and another little
room, and, upstairs, five large
bedrooms. The kitchen, ser-
vants’ hall and servants’ rooms
are all at the back. There is
also a laundry, dairy, etc,, in a
stone court, then up some steps
you come to a back paddock,
round which are built the
coachhouse, stables, cow-houses,
milking bail, pig-sties and fowl-
houses, these last covered in with
wire-netting.
There is a large kitchen
garden, vineyard, etc., and any
amount of lawn and flower-
garden. I never saw such quan-
tities of flowers anywhere. Just
in front of the house the drive
goes round an immense bed of
azaleas, camellias and rhododen-
drons. There are, besides, roses
and camellias and geraniums
everywhere. The azaleas were
in full bloom when I left. A
mass of white, purple and red.
As you will easily believe, I
enjoyed my visit exceedingly,
and if Mr. Taylor could only
have come, too, I should have
liked to spend six weeks there
instead of three, but I did not
like being away from him longer.
We got through a good deal
of shopping and visiting, though
both were rather under difficul-
ties, as, besides, the walk or drive
to Ashfield station, there were
five miles of railroad to be
travelled to get to Sydney.
I went to the opera twice, and
then we had to sleep in Sydney.
There is a very good Italian
company performing there now.
I saw “Lucia de Lammermoor”
and “Norma,” and should have
liked to go oftener, but it is an
expensive amusement.
Before I left we were all in-
vited to a dinner at Clifton to
celebrate Biddulph and Emily’s
engagement, which all parties
seem delighted at. It was
prettily arranged, a la russe, a
style which suits this land of
flowers and sunshine.
Mr. Tucker makes a good
“heavy father.” Mrs. Tucker is
very handsome still. Neither
of her daughters has such good
features. Alice, the second of
them, is married to a Dr.
Dansey. Fanny, the youngest, is
a pretty little bright girl.
Emily has great depth of char-
acter, and energy and home
qualities. I got to know Emily
well while we were both at
Canterbury House, and the
more I knew of her the more I
liked her.
I left Sydney on Thursday
last. Harry Hirst saw me on
board the steamer, which sails at
II at night. I reached Raymond
Terrace at 8 next morning, and
found my dear husband waiting
for me.
Ever your affectionate sister.
RACHEL TAYLOR.
{To be continued next week.)


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
Vic- €ai ■ (h.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
DF
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated;
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw. Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12i% Sales Tax
D
AND SONS
PTY LTD.
THE HIPPO
mete straw**
ANDRSMOeR
•TOUGH ENOUGH/
FOR ANY WIRE . . .
• SMALL ENOUGH FOR
THE HIP POCKET...
HIPPO —the mighty
midget that will break
8-gauge fencing wire, can
strain indefinitely, strains
imperfect wire, does not
bite. Weighs only 21bs., folds
to fit in hip pocket. Case
hardened steel shaft, mighty
leverage, simple to use, nothing
to wear out.
PRICE CCL PLUS
m POSTAGE
s*
ft
I \
*4*3?-
LOOP WIRE I
USUAL WAV
INSERT I'M SLOT
OF HIPPO
TURM CLOCKWISE
UNTIL TIGHT ENOUGH
TO RELEASE
turn back
SLIGHTLY AND
REMOVE HIPPO
%, KEY WAY
Xs
CUT AND KEY OFF
Obtainable from:
ba Castlereagli
BW 6030.
MANNING & OSBORNE
St., Sydney. Phones BW 7405, BW 9076,
Telegrams: “Manstocks,” Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fodder Conservation.
“Agric”: The Texas district,
on the Queensland - N.S.W.
border, is now producing some
of the finest lucerne and wheat
grown in southern Queensland.
Amazing results are being
obtained from new ground
opened up in the last two or
three years. Early in November
a special 116-ton special hay
train left Texas, while farmers
were lining up baled hay for
another train.
E. Christiansen (Holmwood),
a Hereford breeder who sold 90
10 - months’ - old weaners at
£l4/15/- per head recently, has
about 190 acres under lucerne,
grown under dry farming condi-
tions, a 10-acre plot of which
produced an average of half a
ton an acre from its second cut.
Holmwood has grown wheat for
two years, and this year the yield
is estimated at a 12-bag average.
K. Harrison, of Cloverdale,
who had experience in fat-lamb
production in the Coonamble
(N.S.W.) district, runs crossbred
lambs, using Border Leicester
rams on Corriedale - Merino
cross ewes. He expects to mar-
ket 400 to 500 lambs at Christ-
mas-time. These lambs were put
on portion of 200 acres of
lucerne which was established
last year and returned just on a
ton to the acre. Harrison main-
tains that a closer sowing on this
class of country would help to
keep the stalk down, and he is
experimenting with a rate of
151 b. to 181 b. of seed per acre
on light soil where Mexican
poppy is a legacy from the last
flood season.
On Gibraltar, estate of the
late W. H. C. Mayne, has been
established 160 acres of lucerne.
Gib. has already stacked 100
tons of baled hay for use in
connection with a feeding plan
for the estate’s cattle on Gull
station, Dirranbandi. Gibraltar
has 270 acres under wheat.
Queensland Lands Minister
Foley in Parliament alleged that
food-production was falling,
while population increased, be-
cause farmers and graziers
would not grow crops to save
stock during droughts. The
Texas district graziers are prov-
ing the Minister misinformed so
far as their district is con-
cerned. In fact, in most districts
where rainfall and other climatic
conditions are favorable, graziers
have for a long time been
interested in fodder-conserva-
tion, but in the main sheep- and
catte-producing areas it has not
been proved an economic
proposition.
Dealing with this phase of the
pastoral industry, the report of
the Royal Commission on Pas-
toral Lands Settlement in
Queensland stated: “Bearing in
mind the various contributing
factors.... .the commission has
come to the conclusion that
crop-feeding in areas such as the
"Tim-ber-rr!”
Central Highlands (in which the
Queensland-British Food Cor-
poration farms are situated) is
still in the experimental stage,
and that the economics have not
as yet been adequately tested.”
Dairy Economics.
“Micawber’s Ghost”: The
dairyfarm is ever and anon in
the news, but it is not such an
abstruse problem to make a
close approximation of the value
of a property. There are three
main bases of consideration,
namely the type of soil, the
specific locality and the human
element.
The one thing standard is the
price of butter, and we have a
yardstick of sorts for the pro-
duction per cow. The Victorian
Agricultural Department re-
cently published its latest test
figures, and roughly 29,000 cows
of a total of 130,000 produced
3001 b. or more of butter-fat per
head in 273 days.
With butter-fat at 45., a herd
of 17 cows averaging 3001 b. will
bring in £lOOO in, say, 10
months, and by-products can
bring in another £5OO.
Taking 17 cows as a dairy
unit, we can say a useful farm
of two units, or 34 cows, can
bring in £3OOO per year.
By and large, dairyfarm soils
are either alluvial or volcanic,
their localities are in regions of
40in. rainfall or in irrigation
areas, so the principal varying
factor is in management. Given
the right management, £l5OO per
unit is readily obtainable, and
the farm assessed on that figure.
With poor management and
cows averaging around 2001 b.,
the result is penury and
drudgery, and the farm has only
a walk-off value.
Our Agricultural Departments
can be of real help by convert-
ing their minions from dairy
inspectors to dairy advisers.
From our schooldays we
abominate the inspector, but we
could cherish an adviser.
Preventing Wilt.
“W. Court”: Queensland
Agricultural Department points
out that fusarium wilt of the
tomato cannot be cured but may
often be prevented.
Rutgers, Sioux and Grosse
Lisse are resistant varieties, or
the grower may procure certified
seed of improved strains of the
above types under such names
as Q 4, Q 1 and Q 2.
Tomatoes growing on light
soils appear more susceptible to
wilt diseases than those on
heavy soils. An acid soil
reaction helps the diseases along.
Crop rotation is advisable,
and plants past their prime or
showing signs of disease should
be rooted out and burned. Do
not move diseased plants far
from the spot before burning or
you’ll broadcast the fungus
spores.
Pyrethrum Doubts.
“A.L.”: Like some others,
“C.S.” (B. 31/10/’5l) is behind
the times in advocating the
growing of pyrethrum. The facts
are that the use of pyrethrum is
declining as a component of
insecticides because the active
principle, pyrethrin, is merely a
“knock-down” agent, not a
killer like D.D.T.
Secondly, it is very hard to
determine the insect-knocking
quality of a crop. For manu-
facturing purposes the only way
is by a biological survey of the
crop: by experimentally deter-
mining how many insects arc
knocked per gramme of care-
fully-selected crop-flowers. The
crops are very tricky ; what may
seem to be a good one for insect-
killing could be a washout for
the purpose.
Thirdly, chemists in the
U.S.A. have succeeded in pro-
ducing the agent synthetically. It
is called neopyrethrin, and is on
the market in the U.S.A. in
packets to suit all needs, and is
apparently competing with the
natural product.
All of which rather suggests
that pyrethrum-growing isn’t the
glowing proposition some people
believe it to be.
Protecting Linseed.
“C.S.”: Boris Janes, a
biologist with the Taubman
people, denies that D.D.T. has
failed to kill heliothis-grub in
linseed crops.
Janes said that the few failures
were due to faulty methods of
application. He added that
application methods should be
controlled as carefully as the
compounding of the chemical
itself.
In every case where grubs
from infected areas were
laboratory-tested it was proved
that D.D.T. knocked them.
This confirmed field-tests made
on various linseed properties.
Further tests were made with
a number of compounds, includ-
ing E 605, chlordane, toxaphene,
methoxychlor, barium fluosi-
licate and phenothiazine. None
approached the efficiency of
D.D.T. when it was used as a
25 p.c. emulsion.
Systemic insecticides are
dangerous to the user, and may
leave a residual poison in linseed
poultry and stock foods. The
tests confirmed Department of
Agriculture recommendations
that 11b, of D.D.T. should be
used to an acre of linseed ; two
sprayings being sometimes
necessary.
Legumes for W.A.
“Nodule”: The loss of
nitrogen from W.A.’s wheatbelt
—reckoned at something like
the equivalent of 200,000 tons
of sulphate of ammonia yearly—
is worrying agricultural scientists
in the big State. They’re looking
to legumes to rectify the fault.
Legumes act as hosts to bacteria
which live in the plant’s roots
and “fix” the free nitrogen,
which is in the air between the
soil particles, making it available
as plant food. Thus legumes
enrich the nitrogen content of
the soil simply by growing in it.
Sub.-clover, one of the best
of the imported legumes, has
already been established in the
over-14in. rainfall areas. What
is wanted now is a suitable
legume for the drier areas. The
researchers think they'll find one
among the numerous endemic
legumes. They include the
wattles, native vetches and one
particularly interesting type, the
pretty scarlet-runner.
This runner grows in the
south-west, but it is also found
around Merredin, in the under-
pin. belt. It’s palatable to
stock and seeds heavily. Another
legume, the native vetch, is also
under consideration.
What scientists aim to find out
is whether their nitrogen-fixing
action is sufficiently pronounced
and whether they stand up to
heavy grazing. There’s another
minor point. Many native
legume seeds, notably wattles,
germinate only after a bushfire
has cracked their hard shells.
Will these plants require similar
treatment?
Care of the Mare.
“Shadow - chaser”: Most
mares seek a secluded spot in
which to foal. I have known a
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The immediate sunspot condition does not look very
hopeful for the dry areas, as the sun has now hardly any
spots and the reactions of the last southern spot were made
very irregular by the impact of the longer Uranian cycle,
which causes the season of 1887-68 to be the main control.
The hope now is that a strong sunspot outbreak may restore
some of the weakened rain points, but its advent cannot be
predicted as yet.
Another trouble with the Uranian cycle is that data for
it are very poor. They show some moderate but rather
below-normal falls in south-east Queensland and along the
N.S.W. coast, with some rather better falls in southern
Victoria, and round Hobart, with generally low falls over
South Australia. For what it is worth the holiday weather
for Christmas seems to be mainly fine.


CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
liß 5923
Under Entirely New Management.
For Sale
IRRIGATION FARM
171 acs. Freehold. Part heavy dark loam
soil and part deep loose sandy loam on
river bank. Unlimited irrigation water-
from Fitzroy River. 25 acs. cleared for
plough. Land suitable for lucerne, potatoes,
tomatoes, cucumbers, milo, maize, etc.
9-h.p. diesel engine, 24in. centrif. pump,
22 chns. irrigation piping. Tractor, plough,
saw bench, 3-ton truck. 30 Jersey cattle.
House 44 x 44 ft. Machinery shed. Milk-
ing shed. 20 m. Rockhampton. £6,500.
THE FARM EXCHANGE
(Harding & Webb), Farm Specialists,
19 Denham Street, Rockhampton.
Phone 3768, after hrs. 3199, 2161.
me cs I olei
FACING»PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
£
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
FD
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm, Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
F
BOONOKE
POLLED BOONOEE
WANGANELLA ESTATE
This Is the blood
that will make
YOUR FLOCK FAMOUS
*
for full particulars write
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Boonoke North, Widgiewa, N.S.W.
" Phenovis’ ' Worm Remedy
I
X. &
«, *£
rx '*mr
r
i
* *>Ms
waif-for
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
PHE.7.X.18
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
m
u
'wßPs ’
“V
rw w
Vi
HN
"4^
m
mm*
v*r
V
DF
'JVHE rapid growth of population and con-
tinued expansion of industry has brought
increased dependence on road transport for
reliable and efficient handling of goods on
Australia’s half-million miles of roads.
The flexibility of the motor truck has made
it one of the most important tools of
modern transportation. Whether for the
haulage of primary products for tranship-
ment by rail, sea or air, or for the delivery
of manufactured goods from producer to
consumer, the motor truck is the vital link
between all the transport services. Today,
even wider application of motor transport
with Australian agriculture, commerce and
industry, is essential to our national
development and security.
From the first International Auto Wagon
of 1909 to the handsome heavy-duty
engineered models of today, International
trucks have served the Australian trans-
port industry faithfully and economically.
Increased local manufacture brings the
assurance that International trucks will
make an even greater contribution to the
Commonwealth’s future transport needs.
International Harvester Company of
Australia Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
D
1*332*24
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Powoa
mare jump a 4ft, post-and-rail
fence, go bush and foal safely.
A sheltered paddock with no
dangerously-deep waterhole or
river is best. The mare should
be accustomed to the paddock
for some weeks prior to foaling,
and unless of a very-timid
nature, should be alone. Light
work up to within a month of
foaling is beneficial. Exercise
with a light diet is preferable to
no work and lots of feed.
Although the gestation period
for mares is usually 11 months
some may go a month longer.
Young mares run fairly true to
time, but the older the mare the
longer the period as a rule.
Keep the mare under sur-
veillance in case of trouble. A
little assistance at the beginning
of labor or the early detection
of mispresentation will save life
and ease the birth. In difficult
births see that any mispresenta-
tion is corrected before using
force, then have the mare turned
on her back with her head down-
hill. In that position you may
use force within reason whilst
awaiting the vet.
Sheep-yard’s.
“Billjim”: When planning
sheep-yards site them in a central
position on the farm, away from
the woolshed if possible. It pays
to have smaller yards at con-
venient points so that small
routine tasks can be dealt with
without disturbing the flock.
Provision of shelter and water
is necessary in or at the yards.
As sheep work better uphill
have the drafting-race running
up a gentle slope. Avoid steep
slopes. Drafting is usually easier
if sheep run towards the light
behind the man at the gate. Pre-
vailing wind should cross sheep,
not follow them.
Yards should be big enough to
hold all the sheep at once.
Area per sheep will vary with
type —3 sq. ft. for small
Merinos and 5 sq. ft. for large
crossbreds. Allow ample room
for ewes and lambs to avoid
crushing.
The holding-yard space should
be about twice the size required
to accommodate the largest
flock to be drafted. Usefulness
of small yards can be greatly
increased if there is a number
of small holding-paddocks close
by.
Lastly, hang the gates with
strong and convenient latches.
Put in gates wherever they are
likely to be convenient; handy
gates save time and money.
Aerial Dingo Baits.
“Will C.”: Some graziers
have benefited from Queensland
Lands Department aerial dingo-
baiting scheme. One man re-
ported finding 30 dead dogs on
his property after a campaign,
and in another instance more
than a dozen dogs were poisoned
when a case of baits fell from
a lorry taking them to a plane
for dropping. This appears to
refute charges that the titbits are
not poisonous enough.
Planes are used for distribut-
ing strychnine baits over frozen
lakes in British Columbia
(Canada) as a deterrent to the
huge timber-wolves of the coun-
try. The brutes are also
attacked by ground hunters
using the liver, fat and meat
baits so familiar in Australia.
The wolves seem to be able to
detect the steel traps by their
odor of rusting metal, and few
wolves are ever shot.
The aerial-poisoning scheme
is opposed by many because it
must kill off, besides dingoes, a
large number of less cunning
native animals and birds. Car-
cass baits do the same thing,
and they go on killing while
there is any flesh left on the
bones for creatures to pick at.
Small baits, on the other hand,
quickly rot away or are eaten by
ants.
Aged Bull in the Money.
“Frank H.”: Coon o n g
Napoleon established an Aus-
tralian Shorthorn record price
at 2000gns. in 1944, and at
Woomargama the other day,
though nine years old, brought
3000gns. from James White, of
the Gulf Cattle Co. Nap. goes
to the Brunette Downs stud at
Edinglassie, Muswellbrook.
Coonong Napoleon was sired
by Coonong K.C.8., and came
from a family of dams of the
Secret line. His dam was sired
by Calrossie Mascot; his second
dam by Glastullich Barnone;
his third dam by Millhill’s Rosi-
crucian ; while his fourth dam
was the imported Bapton Secret
2nd. Coonong Napoleon was
one of the thickest, lowest-set
and best-headed youngsters ever
seen in Sydney to his day.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”; Animal
manure is valuable fertiliser and
humus-forming material for
fruit-trees. If sheep droppings
are used, two bags per tree will
be sufficient; if fowl manure,
one bag. The straw sometimes
found in these manures is useful.
“C.A.A.”; Cockroaches may
be dealt with by D.D.T. powder
(10 p.c.) or sodium fluoride
mixed with an equal proportion
of an attractive substance such
as powdered sugar. Keep food
away from these substances, as
both are poisonous. Blow into
cracks or wherever it is thought
the pests might be.
“Myrrhee”: When less than
two gallons of separated milk is
available for each growing or
fattening pig or dry sow, or less
than four gallons for a sow and
litter, some lime in the diet is
essential. Its absence will retard
the growth of young stock and
result in a sow giving birth to
small, weak progeny, many of
which will die at or soon after
birth. The mineral is best fed in
the form of ground limestone,
loz. per head daily to growing
and fattening pigs and dry sows
and 2oz. daily to sows suckling
litters.
“Broomstick”; When flooring
a veranda, run the floorboards
parallel with the house wall, not
from wall to veranda-edge.
When a veranda-edge rots and
breaks away only the two outer
boards need replacing on a
parallel floor. On the other kind
most of the floor has to be
replaced.
“R.A.S.”: Closing date for
all horse entries at next Sydney
Show, except those for trotting
classes, is December 22. Trotting
nominations close on Thursday,
February 21, 1952.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Teachers and Life
So “Gulliver” (B. 7/11/’5l) wants a
return to the old school days of chalk
and talk and plenty of stick, holding that
was the way to produce properly taught
youngsters.
Well, the world of today is a product
of the efforts of men who, as children,
were “earbashed and bottom-bashed”
until they absorbed and gave back set
quotas of sterile facts and abilities. Is
this global picture around us such a
pretty one? May not a newer approach
produce better leaders?
“Gulliver’s” statements about low
standards in the skills are true in too
many cases. If literacy were the be-all
and end-all of education, I would not
Write this. But teacher-training and the
principles of educational psychology,
philosophy and methodology have a more
enlightened, wider core and goal. Drill
is now wedded with motivation. Interest
is all important. In a cockeyed society
of give-away shows and high-pressure
advertising, the teacher (as, too, the clergy-
man) must deign to sell his goods. Force
and coercion have never been much good
for teacher, priest or salesman. The
recipient must be led to want to receive.
The curriculum of both trainee-teacher
and child has been broadened in parallel.
To read and write is valuable, but in an
era of universal suffrage the ability to
ask pertinent questions, seek out,
marshal and evaluate facts from reput-
able sources and discard bias in the
formulation of judgments and solutions is
fundamental. So, too, is the need for
appreciating that society is basically a
question of morals as well as economics,
and that the society of tomorrow will be
the product of the present-day teachers’
and children’s own endeavors and senti-
ments.
The “project” despised by “Gulliver” is
an experiment in learning to live demo-
cracy at a child’s level of understanding.
Projects entail working as a team, for
the sheer disinterested fun of the thing.
Three factors contribute to the short-
comings cited by “Gulliver”:
(1) There are too few teachers with
too few school buildings teaching too-
large classes, ever-increasingly including
many New Australians who, unless
they receive a disproportionate amount
of individual attention, will be a major
assimilation problem.
(2) There is a lamentable adult attitude
(which gets across to the youngsters) that
the “dinkum” thing to do is to despise
and thwart leadership and authority and
earn the approval of mates by going slow.
(3) There is too frequently an implicit
“class antipathy” towards “intellectuals”
and against those who emphasise non-
material values which are in distinct
variance with the values held by many
of the parents. — Rural Head Teacher
(W.A.).
Dead-end Jobs
N. S. Wales Minister for Education
Heffron, one of the architects of the 40-
hour week, and a believer in the theory
that you can reduce hours without de-
creasing production, is now advising
parents of the danger of putting their
children into dead-end jobs. He wants
them apprenticed, or kept at school to
fit themselves for the higher vocations.
A little while ago tradesmen could be
turned out by the C.R.T.S. course in a
few months at a technical school to 40
per cent, efficiency and first-class trades-
men in a couple of years, with a bene-
volent Government making up their
wages. Serving an apprenticeship does
not offer good prospects if these classes
should start again.
The other point is that someone must
do the dead-end job, otherwise industry
and social life would collapse. In these
times it seems that big money can be
earned by dead-enders, while the place is
stuffed with young people learning trades
and professions—in other words, dead-
end labor is at a premium.
A proper balance has to be kept be-
tween unskilled, skilled, clerical workers
and professional men. The reason big
money can be earned by the unskilled is
because of the demand for their services.
Jobs are not made to suit applicants;
applicants have to take jobs that are open.
Even if all of us attended the university
some would still have to do hard manual
work and menial jobs.— Chips (N.S.W.).
Road Safety
The present campaign for road safety,
coupled with Press and radio “horror”
advertisements, will no doubt have the
desired effect on the majority of our
drivers for the time being; but the cam-
paign will prove utterly useless unless
developed into a long-term plan and the
services of educational and other organi-
sations in the community enlisted.
Alderman O’Dea and fellow-conveners
of Sydney’s public meeting on road
safety would do well to follow the plan
devised by the Omaha Safety Council.
Over a quarter of a million people
in the city of Omaha, Nebraska (U.S.A.),
lived together for 196 days (more than
six months) last year without the tragedy
of a death from automobile accidents.
This record was made at a time when
other American cities were fighting against
all-time highs in accident deaths.
Basing their plan on the three “E’s”
(Engineering, Education and Enforce-
ment), the Omaha Safety Council as
leader of the effort incorporated the aid of
police, newspapers, radios and organisa-
tions of every description; in short, the
council took the responsibility for organis-
\ms I
w (I
0W
S4W
“Says he's never seen anything like it in his life."
ing the public and private agencies and the
citizens themselves, so that the safety
programme would be universally sup-
ported.
The city’s traffic code was rewritten,
the passage of necessary laws secured,
including one which requires the
biannual inspection of all motor-vehicles
whose owners reside in the city.
Arrests for traffic breaches in the first
year the plan was in operation (1941)
totalled 22,192, but already the traffic
deaths had dropped to below half the
previous year’s. Omaha’s arrests and
accidents are now a record for American
cities of comparable population.
Surely Australian cities, with their ever-
mounting fatalities due to automobile
accidents, would do well to follow this
plan; cast aside the “road-safety” cam-
paigns, and adopt Omaha’s recipe:
hard work —day after day, month after
month, year after year. — Aramack
(S.A.).
Child Labor
It is still being exploited, judging by
events in Kingsborough district (Tas.).
Applications were before the local council
(which operates as a local School Board
of Advice) for exemption from school
to allow children to be employed at
picking berry fruits. Several councillors
roundly condemned the applications, and
the assertion that the harvesting of a
£1,000,000 industry was dependent on
child labor was stamped as a disgrace.
Previously exemptions had been refused
for children to knock back school in
order to help with the scallop and hop
industries. There are loud cries about
the berry-fruit industries being ruined if
the youngsters are not allowed to do
the picking, but the council is standing
fast. Meanwhile ’Varsity students from
the mainland and others who’ll be
holiday-tripping are expecting to make
some spare pocketmoney in the orchards.
—O’Johnno (Tas.).
Recruiting
Instead of emphasis being laid on the
monetary reward, worth of the clothing
outfit, comfortable quarters, etc., let the
authorities try emulating Garibaldi. That
patriot, when seeking volunteers, said:
“I offer neither pay, nor quarters, nor
provisions; I offer hunger, thirst, forced
marches, battles and death.” That’s the
Churchill touch. Perhaps we need not
be quite so drastic and Spartan, for, after
all, it would be a pity not to let Sir
Fadden spend some of the money he has
budgeted for.
The response to Garibaldi’s appeal
came all right, and young Australians
likewise might respond to it better than
they have to all the coaxing, enticing and
alluring posters with which they have
been bombarded. The base of the recruit-
ing appeal should be the heroic angle.—
Ceg (Vic.).
Road Transport
It was inferred (B. 24/10/’5l) that
Queensland road-transport men get no-
thing for the money they pay in taxes,
etc., while their N. S. Wales counter-
parts are, or will be, repaid by having
—perhaps—their contributions applied to
road repairs.
In actual fact, the Queensland operator
gets security of tenure, is encouraged to
instal new and efficient units in his fleets
and knows that he can put capital into
terminals and depots with the certainty
that he will be able to earn an honest
crust after providing for all expenses, de-
preciation and interest on outlay. All
that, of course, provided he plays the
game with the Transport Commissioner.
Above all, he gets consideration, en-
couragement and courtesy from the
Transport Department from the
Minister himself right-down to the most
junior clerk.
In N. S. Wales the road-haulier is
only used by the Government when other
transport methods break down. He
has no encouragement to build a good
type of business or to set up decent
depots and terminals; he knows that if
and when the railways can handle the
job, he will be taxed off the road.
Of course it is likely that the N. S.
Wales railways will never get out of the
mess they’re-in, but it’s also likely that
the weakness and ineptitude of the N. S.
Wales Government will finally reduce the
commerce of that State to the stage where
there will be so little to move that even
the broken-down railway system will be
able to handle it.
Then, when the people of Sydney have
no milk, butter, meat, potatoes, building
materials or anything else produced out-
side the city, they can pack light swags
and struggle up to Queensland to see how
that State’s road-transport companies do
their job.
In Brisbane you can lodge, goods to-
night and have them delivered in places
as far out as Surat, Texas, Dalby, Goon-
diwindi, Gympie, the border, etc., be-
fore breakfast next morning. They are
delivered in vehicles which are regularly
inspected, maintained to an approved
standard, and carrying payable loads
without being overloaded like the N. S.
Wales road-smashers. Of course the
N. S. Wales chaps have to overload —
they can’t pay the taxes otherwise.
Only an absolute genius in muddle and
mismanagement could enjoy the monopoly
of passenger transport in Sydney and lose
millions —at present he protects his in-
efficient railways by ruining his roads.
Before 1948 the Queensland system
was similar to the N. S. Wales set-up,
but a new Transport Act was passed, and
some of the best brains and personalities
in the Public Service picked to administer
it. Then, with the February-March-April
rail strike of 1948, road transport showed
what it could do when wisely controlled.
If ever the N. S. Wales authorities
realise what a price the State and people
of N. S. Wales pay for the mismanage-
ment and inefficiency of their transport
system, they might invite any one of half
a dozen Queensland officials to show
them the way out of the mess. But such
a simple and obvious solution would
probably never occur to them. — Angus
Morgan (Q.).
On the Trans
If “Transporticus” (B, 21 /11 / ’5l) made
a trip by train in 1941, leaving Port Pirie
after lunch on Monday and reaching
Kalgoorlie after lunch on Tuesday, it
must have been a very special trip. For
some years up to the advent of the new
diesel-electric locomotives a month or so
ago, the timetable listed the departure
of the Transcontinental express as:
Departure, Port Pirie, 5.5 p.m. Mondays;
arrival, Kalgoorlie, 11.10 a.m. Wednes-
day.
Arrival of the new diesel-electric loco-
motives does mean an important step
forward in the operation of our Aus-
tralian railways. The new speed of
59.25 miles per hour, overall average, is
not just a special-trip speed, but a
scheduled rate which has to be main-
tained day in and day out, under all
conditions. It compares well with,
say, the Sydney-Melbourne express
average overall speed of 36.8 m.p.h.
I am gratified to note the con-
sistent support given to standardisa-
tion of the gauge by “Transporticus” in
his numerous letters. I thoroughly agree
with him that only gauge-standardisation
would give us any worth-while benefits
on railways between Perth and Mel-
bourne and, I believe more important
still, Perth and Sydney.
A relatively minor piece of gauge-con-
version would give Australia a direct
transcontinental railway of standard
gauge as far as Kalgoorlie, and would
play just as big a part in Australian trans-
port as the Union Pacific did in the
U.S.A. in 1869.
Conversion of the present 3ft. 6in. rail-
link from Port Pirie to Broken Hill
(255 miles) to standard gauge, and con-
version of the narrow-gauge section from
Kalgoorlie to Perth, would, besides speed
benefits, give a great increase of goods-
carrying capacity.
On the authority of James K. Knudson,
Defence Transport Administrator,
U.S.A., it is stated that any of the
western railroads in U.S.A. can carry
72,000 gross tons daily. The Trans-
Siberian Railway, an inferior line, can
carry 40,000 gross tons daily in one
direction only. We have a long way to
go to catch up.
As showing the value in time or
war of a developed standard-gauge trans-
continental line. Commonwealth Trans-
port Department estimated in 1946 that
with multiple gauges it would take 36
days to transport from the west coast to
the east coast of Australia one infantry
division, with full equipment and baggage
by railway. With standardisation of the
gauge, the same could be done in 11 to
12 days. —G. B. (N.S.W.),
Exchange of Art
It’s alleged that the conference of
National Gallery directors in Perth con-
sidered requests from France and Italy
for the loan of collections of contempo-
rary Australian art on a reciprocal basis
a great tribute to Australian art 1
don’t. If the Italian and French con-
temporary pictures aren’t exactly like our
own it will be surprising, since our
“contemporaries” have been studying
Italian and French art magazines tor
years and their pictures, with one or two
exceptions like Dobell’s, won’t seem to
the French and Italians any difierent
from their own.
Send a collection of Australian con-
temporary pictures by all means, but asK
in return for a loan of some of the great
works of the Old Masters. This would
be of some value to art students. l fte
other would be of as much value as an
exchange of women’s headgear, r.o.
(Vic.).


DYMOCK’S
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
Our Christmas Catalogue is now ready—specially printed for you.
Your Christmas Gifts can be chosen more carefully when you buy in the
peace and quiet of your own home—in fact, it is quite a pleasure to shop
from our Christmas Catalogue.
Send for your copy today free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone: 8L3611.
Now available
LADIES WON’T WAIT
By PETER CHEYNEY 12s. Od.
A novel in the best CKeyney tradition
At all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
NEW NOVELS
THE WITCH’S THORN,
by Ruth Park.
A New Zealand story as warm and
vital as ‘‘The Harp in the South.
15/- (post 9d.)
THE VALLEYS BEYOND,
by E. V. Timms.
A brilliantly-written drama of Aus-
tralian settlement in 1841.
I 5/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh SI., Sydney.
66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
ESCAPE from this dull world tonight
Invite LIONEL BARRYMORE
to your home
Take Lionel Barrymore’s fascinating new book We Barry-
mores. home with you tonight. It’s the fabulous life story
of the “Royal family” of the American Theatre. You 1!
meet famous people; you’ll laugh, you 11 be charmed, and
you’ll re-tell scores of Lionel’s witty anecdotes. At all
bookshops.
PETER DAVIES LTD.
FD
negligible, if not' a suspicious, person ;
he could study and copy Rubens and
work with Van Dyck, but was hardly
expected to set up as an artist on his
own account. But the names, in the
favorable atmosphere of patronage, began
to flourish: William Dobson, “un-
doubtedly his [Van Dyck’s] most talented
English contemporary,” who was admired
by Charles and followed the Court to
Oxford ; Isaac Fuller, who has left at
Oxford an over-live-size “Self Portrait
When Drunk” in which he was holding
up a drawing of two naked children;
and poor Robert Walker who, though
he had a good reputation in his day, “can
now only be credited with a single draw-
ing, and that so bad that it seems almost
harsh to persist in doing so.”
Though Mr. Woodward writes of “a
deterioration of taste” that followed the
Civil War, the movement did not die out
under Cromwell —Richard Gaywood, as
well as his topographical drawings, did
some engravings of Titian’s “Venus and
the Organ Player” in that stem period —
and by the time Charles the Second has
revived the tradition of Court patronage
the names have become a galaxy: Lely ;
Inigo Jones, with his sets for Ben
Jonson’s masques; Barlow, “the first
English sporting artist” and possibly the
first genuine landscapist, who was to influ-
ence Landseer; Mary Beale, whose red-
chalk portraits Mr. Woodward finds
“boringly competent” ; Henry Tilson, who
drew the head of the great Dr. Busby,
headmaster of Winchester, and who after-
wards “through a melancholy Habit of
Body contracted by her unkindness, and
a sedentary life” shot himself for love of
his mistress; that earlier Toulouse-
Lautrec, Richard Gibson, the dwarf, who
became miniature-painter and drawing-
instructor to the future Queens, Mary
and Anne, but who is perhaps equally
notable for having married a lady the
same height as himself, 3ft. lOin., with
whose assistance he begot nine normal-
sized children; these and many other
artists, culminating in Kneller, whom
Horace. Walpole accused of potboiling,
and James Thornhill, who carries the
story into the 18th century with its
triumphs of landscape and portraiture.
Mr. Woodward’s monograph is always
lively and entertaining in its biographical
notes ; admirable in its criticism, with a
long-overdue reassessment of Lely, who
has generally been classed merely as a
“fashionable” painter but in whom he
finds fine qualities of modelling, charac-
terisation and color. The black-and-
white reproductions are as pleasing
aesthetically as they are historically in-
formative, with some very good Lely
portraits, a cat and kittens by Barlow,
lavish pastel portraits of John Aubrey
by William Faithorn and an unknown
man (who looks remarkably like
Mr. R. G. Menzies in a periwig) by
Edmund Ashfield ; and the head of a
boy by Isaac Oliver which Mr. Woodward
rightly describes as “one of the most
charming portrait heads by any artist
working in England during the 17th
century.” Altogether Tudor and Stuart
Drawings is easily the most delightful
volume yet published in the current
Faber series.
A companion volume is The Drawings
of Richard Wilson, edited, with commen-
tary, by Richard Ford, containing the
pencil-sketches made by the landscape-
painter. A few, like the “Temple of
Minerva Medica” and “A Bridge and
Building,” delicate and atmospheric
drawings, are attractive in themselves;
but most are too thin and vague to interest
anyone except the student of landscape.
Russian Musician.
The names of Diaghilev, Stravinsky,
Prokofiev, Massine, Derain, Nijinsky,
etc., have been for thirty or forty years
tossed on the bubbles of theatrical and
scandalous biographies, and ballet and
music criticism; but Nicolas Nabokov
manages to jump them about again to
some purpose in his Old Friends and New
Music (Hamish Hamilton), largely be-
cause he was one of Diaghilev’s string of
composers, knew all these people, and
writes as a musician and not a critic of
music—that is a great difference.
His big moment is the chapter on the
production of his ballet, “Ode.” As a
child he used to play chamber-music with
some small relatives of Diaghiley’s in
Russia ; later his mother got him intro-
duced to Diaghilev in Paris; we are
shown the impresario, with extra-
ordinary musical knowledge, alternately
encouraging him and knocking him
back; —
I have the. impression that it was
Stravinsky’s liking my music that decided
Diaghilev in favor of “Ode,” for it was
shortly after my first encounter with
Stravinsky, when I played him my piece,
that Diaghilev told Valicha Nouvel to draw
up a contract. The meeting with Stravinsky
was, of course, arranged by Diaghilev, and
was part of a carefully planned and slightly
feudal ritual. I felt that I was following
in the footprints of many a young com-
poser whom Diaghilev had “discovered”
before me. First the “foundling” was
tested for several months by the closest
members of his Majesty’s household
Then he was to meet the great ones;
Stravinsky, Picasso. Next came the influential
friends and patrons of Diaghilev: Princess
de Polignac (Singer sewing-machines), Lord
Rothermere (“Daily Mail”), Coco Chanel
{haute couture ), and Missia Sert, the clever,
warm and attractive friend of Diaghilev
and of two generations of famous painters
and musicians. The ritual also included
drawing up a list of people the foundling
was advised not to see. At my time the
list was headed by Jean Cocteau, with
whom Diaghilev had quarrelled, and Ida
Rubenstein, the dancer who, with the help
of Mr. Guinness’s money (stout), was start-
ing a rival ballet season at the Paris Opera.
Only after these preliminaries would
the foundling’s name be announced to the
outer world. He would be presented as a
new Diaghilev find, a young man who
merited extraordinary attention by virtue of
the great future Diaghilev held in store for
him. And then the ballyhoo would begin;
the foundling would immediately become
the object of everybody’s attention; he
would have five lunches and three dinners
per day to choose from, his name and
photograph would appear in magazines and
newspapers. He would be asked on every
possible and impossible occasion to play
his ballet music, and Parisian artistic circles
would heatedly discuss the merits and
defects of his score.
But then the inescapable problems of
ballet presented themselves: the com-
poser, the choreographer, the producer
and the artist had each a different idea ;
Diaghilev saw it as a grand Elizabethan
period-piece, Tchelitchev wanted a
modern, surrealist experiment in decor,
Massine wanted to design cold, angular
movements for it, and Nabokov thought
of it as “tender, gentle, and lyrical . , .
with the warm and suave beauty of the
Italian vocal line.”
His account of the attempts to knock
the ballet into shape at Monte Carlo is a
wonderful picture of the company at
work, and his description of how, in the
last three days, when everything seemed
lost, Diaghilev worked day and night, un-
shaven, hectoring choirs, persuading fire-
departments to allow the use of neon on
stage, to pull the production together for
its successful Paris premiere, is a real
tribute to the powers of that extra-
ordinary man. On the night, Diaghilev
appeared at the theatre immaculate, and
Nabokov ventured to hope all would go
we ll ; —
‘‘Well . . .” answered Diaghilev man-
chalantly, his face changing to a charming
and affectionate smile, “it’s up to you” ;
and he opened his arms and moved them
backwards in the suave and deliberate
gesture of the virtuoso conductors, by which
in apparent modesty they raise the orchestra
musicians to their feet and make them
acknowledge the public’s applause.
A bad and brilliant man. There are
some stories of how he organised an
exhibition of 3000 Russian portraits; of
how he asked Gounod what Adam and
Eve would wear in the master’s projected
opera—“l haven’t thought of that detail,”
Gounod replied ; and of how he hauled
Nijinsky out from the asylum to see Lifar
dancing
A full chapter is devoted to Prokofiev
and his music; we are shown a forth-
right and very likeable extrovert, and
some effort is made to explain why
Prokofiev went back to Soviet Russia,
Another chapter attempts to assess Shos-
takovitch. But the most successful of
these musical portraits is the chapter
“Christmas with Stravinsky”; the invita-
tion to Stravinsky’s home in California
was written in black ink and red and blue
pencil, with boxes, underlinings, and one
sentence upside down—“the whole little
sheet gave the impression of compact and
calculated orderliness and with its several
co lors looked like a gay and nervous
, • „ . ..mmispd ■
drawing and promis .
“You will sleep on the sofa on whicn
slept Nadia Boulanger, Olsen, Auden and
others Huxley was too long (What is
your height?).”
He insists on the orderly mind of
Stravinsky, the unblemished perfection of
his musical manuscripts ; and gives a
picture of him explaining points from
his score of “Orpheus.” Another chapter
is of a visit to Koussevitsky in America ;
and in the final chapter we see Mr.
Nabokov reassuring an American
General in occupied Germany who is
protesting that the portnyal ° f
Lieutenant Pinkerton in Madame Butter-
fly,” in deserting a girl, was arranged by
the Berlin authorities as a deliberate
slight to the American army ; and finally
we see Mr. Nabokov, alone at night in
a Russian official car with a Russian
colonel, refusing the colonel s suave m-
vitation to return to Russia.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 151
Across.
I—Highly seasoned angel that has
fallen was in the van. (8)
4—Capers badly for 19.2 trillion
miles. (6)
8— Commonsense if Yankeeland sud-
denly vanished. (4)
9 Back horseman who puts things
into fresh order. (10)
12— This may be eaten both by strict
vegetarians and strict carnivores.
(5)
13 — when tidal waves inundated
Alabama and such places? (4, 5)
14— Such creatures suggest samples
used in the varsity course in
chiropody. (8)
15 — The forenoon to exist in an
ancient device for fixing dis-
located shoulders. (4)
18 — Schubert production imitated
Munchausen. (4)
19 — Prostration of the firm fifties part
of a church. (8)
21—Again forming a coalition of
genuine fork-tongued art. (9)
23 —Place to get plonk; or plonk is
always heard when Esther Wil-
liams does them. (5)
25 — You can’t do without these dis-
orderly ten lassies. (10)
26 — Uncle Remus’s brother. (4)
27 Noise made by some drums on
many a seaman’s chest. (6)
28— Vacillating perm by telephone.
(8)
Down.
1— Bradman like Spanish noble-
women. (5)
2 Entertainers introduce Virginia
and you to Satan and upset a
garden pest. (13)
3 The finish of Mrs. Andre Gide is
making corrections. (8)
5 Neddy before noon is to accumu-
late. (5)
6 Care about a Norse god’s
draught. (4-5)
7 Red Indian brook. (5)
10 — American soldier to employ the
pianissimo always before Diana
finishes off a composer. (8, 5)
11 — Go! Or how a mendicant might
get a meal. (6)
14—Submitted to a French river in
Australia. (9)
16 — Illness for two women, one of
them a relative. (6)
17 — Among oil hidden in Asia. (8)
20 —Drop for two crotchets. (5)
22—Nothing up, but leave the tongue.
(5)
24—Lock a wheel journal dedicated
to racecourse prices. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 150.


II fti)
H
a 11,11
nil II
[flaw
nut®
.1' •
nuDuflcfliflnil .11
ii mtmcm UD nli II
inunDnnnnnii n
‘TOOTIILII
Klill
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
•
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
I LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O'Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.I.C.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.LC.A.
#
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
I 1 3 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:,
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
Ivan Holyman
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C, H. Merry
Manager: W. Dwyer
Select
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society United
C lncorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
I | §
■
mm
mi
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
REQUIREMENTS
Policies Issued to Suit
Every Individual Need
POLICIES CONTAIN
SPECIAL ACCIDENT
BENEFITS
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
