

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3717
Wednesday, May 9, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Where the Ulster
Flower of Oratory Blooms
■pIVE miles from Belfast, in spacious
Stormont Park, stands the magnificent
Northern Ireland Parliament Buildings,
built in the Greek Classical tradition.
This modern edifice was designed by Sir
Arnold Thornely, of Liverpool, and
building was commenced in 1928, com-
pleted in 193.1 and opened by the Prince
of Wales in 1932.
The exterior of the building, which is
365 feet long, 164 feet in depth and 92
feet high, is faced with Portland stone
on a plinth of granite from the Mourne
Mountains. The beauty of the structure
was achieved by the use of simple and
well-proportioned masses - the only
elaboration being in the centre of the
main facade, which is surmounted by a
group of statuary representing Ulster’s
loyalty to Great Britain and the Empire.
The Parliament Buildings consist of
four main floors, and has been planned
to accommodate the Upper and Lower
Houses, along lines similar to those of
the Houses of Parliament at Westminster.
In addition there are 157 rooms devoted
to various administrative departments.
Northern Ireland’s Parliament is modelled
on the lines of the British Parliament,
and consists of The Sovereign, repre-
sented by the Governor ; the Senate and
the House of Commons. The latter
consists of fifty-two Members elected by
universal franchise, while the Senate, or
Upper House, consisting of twenty-four
Members, are elected by the House of
Commons. Ministeries have been estab-
lished to deal with home affair's, finance,
education, labour and insurance, com-
merce, agriculture, health and local
government.
Also situated in the 300-acre estate is
Stormont Castle, the official residence of
the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland,
and the Lodge, in which resides the
Speaker of the House of Commons.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Available at all booksellers
OPENING NIGHT
NGAIO MARSH
(21st Birthday Choice of the Crime Club)
Miss Ngaio Marsh, one of our most distinguished thriller writers,
was recently described by the well-known critic Ivor Brown as
“the empress of the who-dunnit.“
COLLINS
BRING THE BOOKSHOP
INTO YOUR HOME!
By receiving Dymock’s catalogue of new and recent
books every month. Includes books for the whole family.
• An Excellent Guide to the Latest and Best Books
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List.
Mail Orders promptly attended to.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE 8L3611.
OF AUSTRALIAN INTEREST
THE CALL OF THE KIM-
BERLEYS,
By Irene Shackcloth.
The stirring story of the establish-
ment of the Kimberley’s first cattle
station. 15/- (post 9d.)
PIONEER DOCTOR,
By Mary Kent Hughes.
The vivid personal story of a medical
and social welfare pioneer in early
Melbourne.
10/6 (post 7d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Swni Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-—— CUT HERE AND MAIL —
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.251) A S e
The Red Page
THEATRE TALK.
Mr. Kenneth Tynan, surveying recent
British theatre in He That Plays the King
(Longmans), has the good sense —or, un-
wittingly, the tact —to agree with the
present reviewer on almost every occasion
where it is possible to compare notes;
which, human nature being what it is,
inevitably suggests to the reviewer that
Mr. Tynan must be a pretty good critic.
Mr. Tynan, at 23, is a rising star among
the outstanding British producers.
Among other feats, he took his produc-
tion of “Winterset” in 1948 from the
Oxford Union to the Comddie des
Champs-Elysees in Paris. As Orson
Welles says in a delightful introduction,
he is inclined to be wayward, over-
emphatic. In his review of Olivier’s
“Lear” he says, “George Relph dragged
himself plaintively through the endless
triteness of Gloucester, surely the most
tiresome long part in Shakspeare” ; and
this is wickedness —it is never really wise
to be rude to Shakspeare, and Mr. Tynan
should have seen Athol Fleming in John
Alden’s “Lear” in Sydney to learn how
profoundly and touchingly human
Gloucester’s role can be in the midst of
all the monstrosity of the tragedy.
But you could hardly hope to write
253 pages of dramatic criticism, especially
when you believe in roaring away with
the heavy artillery as Mr. Tynan does,
without going wrong somewhere. And
here, surely admirably, is Mr. Tynan on
Olivier’s “Richard III” ;
In this Richard was enshrined Blake’s
conception of active, energetic evil, in all its
wicked richness. A lithe performance, black
at heart and most astutely mellow in
appearance, it is full of baffling, irrational
subtleties which will please while they
puzzle me as long as I go to theatres. I
remember the deep concern, as of a bustling
spinster, with which Olivier grips his brother
George and says, with sardonic, effeminate
intentness; “We are not safe, Clarence,
we are not safe”; while, even as he speaks,
the plot is laid which will kill the man
With what icy disdain he slights his too-
ambitious minion Buckingham: “I am not
in the giving vein today”: the words fall,
like drops of frozen dew.
And here again—Mr. Tynan thinks,
probably rightly, that Olivier is great in
active roles, uneasy with passive or con-
templative characters—is an excellent
criticism of the film of “Hamlet”;
This obstinate, dead-marching, middle-of-
the road, metronomically monotonous,
definitive Denham Hamlet is Shakspeare
with a millstone around his neck The
camera slides slothfully through a castle in
which nobody ever laughed or ate a capon,
leaving no stone unturned and no avenue
unexplored The tedium of watching him
spinning out to nearly three hours on the
screen a script which would have run less
than two on the stage ...
There is a good point made about the
end of “Macbeth,” that it is bound to be
unsatisfactory because “Tragic heroes do
not die offstage in battle.” And there is
a comment on Anthony Quayle’s produc-
tion of “Macbeth” which can also be
applied to Quayle’s rather too robust per-
formance in the production seen in
Sydney, when he seemed to be playing
in a Norse saga rather than in Shak-
speare ;
In “Macbeth” he employs the same ener-
getic heartiness, but perhaps suffers from
what the American Army Air Corps used
to call “over-identification with personnel”;
that is to say, he seems unable to stand
apart from his actors or be ruthlessly
impersonal in perfecting a production.
Comedy is his forte, and the very greatest
directors are never quite at home in
comedy: such is Quayle’s temperament that
good humor keeps flooding in.
Finally, one would like to quote Mr.
Tynan’s opinions on the importance of
tragedy and the heroic gesture in art,
which is his special concern throughout
the book:
One of my unarguable postulates about
aesthetics is that lire mimics art, not art
1ife....1f lachrymose movies are made,
men and women will tend to make love
more tearfully. The books written by
Aldous Huxley in the ’twenties produced a
special race of Oxford undergraduates in
the ’thirties; someone called them Huxley’s
puppet-theatre. If light plays, small and
mean, are written and acted, fashions and
manners will tend to ape them; it is now
the business of drama to burst once more
into the real lustres of tragedy. If heroic
plays take the stage, life may produce, in
honest rivalry, its own poor heroes of flesh
and b100d... .1 mean simply that we might
call back a departed spaciousness to our
pattern of living, and see a great many
thrilling and important things in sharper
silhouette against a more cavernous horizon.
All theatre is Mr, Tynan’s meat. He
discusses a great many notable recent
productions ; the leading actors ; the lead-
ing producers ; comedians such as Danny
Kaye; and even has an excited chapter
about his Australian friend Stanley
Parker, journalist and caricaturist, whose
conversations seem to have enlivened
Oxford in the ’thirties much as Gogarty
enlivened Yeats’s Dublin.
Ustinov's Plays .
Peter Ustinov’s Plays About People
(Faber) always remind you of someone
else’s plays; but they are lively and com-
petent stuff, and he has a wit, if not a
distinguishing viewpoint, of his own—
the old musician in “Blow Your Own
Trumpet” says: —
Life has many ups and downs , . . for
me—I began life at the bottom of the
ladder . . . and have been gradually falling
from that position ever since.
“Blow Your Own Trumpet” is a comi-
tragedy of everyday people, their dreams,
their defeats and their valor, set in a
London restaurant during the blitz. There
is an old Jew who is heartbroken because
his son wants to go dirt-track-racing
instead of learning music, very much like
the old Italian in Odets’s “Golden Boy”
who is heartbroken because his son wants
to be a boxer instead of a violinist; and
the general atmosphere of the play, its
emotional excitement, reminds you—as
also does the title —of Saroyan’s “The
Time of Your Life.”
“The Tragedy of Good Intentions,” in
a totally different style, is a play about
Peter the Hermit and the celebrated
Children’s Crusade. Peter, though he
might be playable, is very palely por-
trayed ; he is given fanatical words to
say, but you never feel that there is any
fanatical feeling underlying them. As in
James Bridie’s Biblical plays, on which
it appears to be modelled, there is no
serious attempt to create period atmos-
phere. The life of the piece is in the
cynical political manoeuvres that sur-
round the Crusade.
The third play, “The Indifferent Shep-
herd,” is different again in style, a straight-
forward discussion of moral prob-
lems mixed up with a couple of “tri-
angles,” more orthodox in construction
than the other plays; something that
might have come from Emlyn Williams
or Priestley. It is about a quiet, gentle,
unworldly clergyman and his shrewish
and vulgar wife; with a pushful
“modern” clergyman, a golfing amorist,
a youthful conscientious-objector and a
servant-girl who gets into trouble. The
old clergyman is nicely handled ; hut one
misses the subtlety and politeness of
Trollope, and the happy-ending, in which
the shrew and her husband are recon-
ciled, lacks the plausibility as well as the
ruthless drama of the v death of Mrs.
Proudie.
“The Tragedy of Good Intentions”
and “Blow Your Own Trumpet” were
first produced by the Old Vic. company
in Liverpool, “The Indifferent Shepherd”
by Norman Marshall at the Criterion in
London.
Lightning Tour.
Robert Hale, the publishers, have made
a large, profusely illustrated book of
Flight of Fancy, a diary kept by James
Riddell of a trip from England to Aus-
tralia and back in a monoplane with
Nevil Shute, The photographs are excel-
lent, especially of the Bali girls . . .
Whether Mr. Riddell’s very truly fleet-
ing observations deserve this lush presen-
tation is another matter. Of his Aus-
tralian observations one might observe,
without rancor, that they are more im-
pressionistic than scientific: —
There is a Symphony Orchestra at present
visiting Brisbane.
To have considered the Brisbane Sym-
phony Orchestra a visitation may have
been unintentionally censorious ; although
in Sydney Mr. Riddell showed himself
willing enough to speak his mind: —
Back in Sydney again, I got involved in
the stuffiest party of all time —out at
Neutral Bay. It consisted of rows of
women sitting on sofas —packed hip to hip
and quite speechless—women of all sizes
,and shapes except the right ones.
He stayed for a while with friends at
Epping, and then moved into “one of the
earliest hotels in Sydney,” “a strange,
old-fashioned place”; —
Last night I was going to sleep when I
heard loud banging on the door opposite,
and a voice saying, “Open the Door,” very
loudly... .After a long period the door was
opened and the voice said, “Come on. Get
that woman out of here!”
He was pleased by Dorothy Auchter-
lonie’s comment on the Bridge looking
like a coat-hanger, and saw it thus ever
afterwards; liked Melbourne better than
Sydney, especially the Melbourne Club,
“still living around 1890.”
The trip began at Portsmouth on
September 22, 1948, and ended at Brin-
disi, March 17, 1949. In that time they
stopped long enough for Mr. Riddell
to reflect and observe and be entertained
at Rome, Athens, Cyprus, Beirut, Bagh-
dad, Bahrein, Sharjah, Karachi, Ahmeda-
bad, Bhopal, Calcutta, Akyab, Rangoon,
Bangkok, Penang, Kuala Lumpur, Singa-
pore, Palembang, Batavia, Sourabaya,
Bali, Koepang, Wyndham, Darwin, Daly
Waters, Cloncurry, Townsville, Cairns,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Oodnadatta, Alice Springs, Katherine,
Dilli—-and so back.
The book is thus a new comment upon
what one can see these days in a short
time. Complete with maps of the tour
and a great deal of pleasant enough chit-
chat about dreams, religion, hypnotic
dancing in Bali, etc., and opinions one
has often heard on various national
characteristics.
Murder in the Marshes.
Colonel J, K. Stanford wrote one
admirably amusing little book, The
Twelfth, about a grouse-shooting colonel
who got miraculously changed into a
grouse, but his Bledgrave Hall (Faber)
won’t do at all.
A short-story of about the same size
as The Twelfth padded out into an ele-
gant little book with illustrations by A.
M. Hughes, it tells of a retired army
officer who takes up an old estate in the
salt marshes of Norfolk and settles down
to watching the birds. The rare avocets,
a snow-white wading bird which had not
nested in England for 100 years, make
a nest on an island in his mudflats.
Into this paradise sneaks a dreadful
person who collects eggs. He has beady
eyes like a rat’s ; he is a “kleptomaniac” ;
he is known to have retained his egg-col-
lecting fieldglasses when everybody else
gave their glasses to the army during the
war; he never takes only one egg from
the nest, but loots the lot. Quite rightly,
he has been kicked from one end of
England to the other:
Mr. Percy Warier had in the course of
his career been ducked in a very cold loch
in Invernesshire when after a golden eagle’s
eyrie, he had been beaten up by an
infuriated peeper j n the middle of Gunner-
side Moor, and he had been kicked by
none other than The McDiarmid all down
a remote corrie in the Cairngorms.
Undeterred by all this ardent bashing,
the kleptomaniac aims his beady eyes at
Derick Gioyne’s avocets. So Derick,
after chasing him about in the marshes
by night, deliberately allows him to
wander into a war-time minefield, still
“undeloused” on the estate; and that is
the end of him.
Now, egg-collectors, doubtless, are very
villainous fellows ; by all means let them
be kicked, drowned, bashed, chased and
long as Colonel Stanford
does it amusingly. But here he is begin-
ning to take himself seriously, in a
realistic story such as might be written by
H. E. Bates ; and in a realistic story even
beady-eyed egg-collectors must not be so
lightly done to death. Three pages of
straightforward bird-watching at the end,
telling the true story of how Colonel
Stanford saw the avocets breed in Suf-
folk in 1947, are worth far more than
this attempt at fiction.
Reviewed Briefly.
These Men and Women: Sydney
Horler (Museum Press). Mr. Horler’s
thrillers were reasonable enough when
he stuck to the lower and middle classes;
but this effort, about Lord Pentminster
and Lady Farthingale, and how they con-
spired to separate Derek Kinnoul from
his wife, goes back to the days of Marie
Coreiii. The funniest thing in the book is
the statement on the dust-cover about
the characters: “One can believe in
them.”
* * * *
The Red Beret: Hilary St. George
Saunders (Michael Joseph). Mr. Saunders
has followed his authoritative history of
the Commandos (The Green Beret ) by
an equally authoritative one of the para-
troops. With a handwritten foreword by
Montgomery, this book is based on the
actual stories of the men themselves and
of their commanders. Simply told with-
out embellishment or underlining, the
narrative covers five years, from Mr.
Churchill’s far-sighted order to form the
corps in the summer of 1940 to the in-
evitable drop of a whole division into
Germany in March, 1945.
•jf * * *
Inside Buchmanism : Geoffrey William-
son (W. H. Allen). In July, 1949, Mr.
Williamson, on holiday from his London
newspaper in Switzerland, found a World
Assembly of Moral Rearmament going
on at Caux, presided over by Dr.
Buchman himself and attended by over
2000 delegates from 52 countries, includ-
ing a delegation from the U.S. House of
Representatives, Japan’s first post-war
Premier, a Dutch Minister for Social
Affairs and the Speaker of the Ceylon
Parliament, to the support of which
Canada had provided five tons of flour,
France 500 knives and 600 dusters and
Australia two gross of glass tumblers.
So Mr. Williamson, on returning to
London, asked his editor if he could go
back and find out what Buchmanism was
all about; and did; and records his
findings in this frank, critical, rather
puzzled, interesting and unpretentiously
journalistic survey.


f*?'
■-
..
II #
; -- -■:';
&
i
: ;■:• > ■
• s
m
-~
• —.
m
'■' ;
• Lightweight
• Strongly woven
Raffia Cane Shopping Baskets, 42/- Each
Save Mum the unnecessary trouble of carrying those awkward parcels around
in her arms while she’s shopping with a Raffia cane shopping Basket. Strongly
lined with plastic. Has large carrying capacity and lightness combined. 42/-.
Attractive knitting or handy bag in brown, blue or black plastic. Strongly
lined, zipp. fastener pocket two open pockets inside. Price 53/6.
A delightful useful gift for any Mother any age. with
attractive, neat etched pattern on lid. Reasonably priced at 24/3 each.
Ban
IN ADVERTISIN'!
Horderns
nthony
Make the house telephone book look neat with
an attractive wooden cover that fits easily over
the outside. Poker-worked designs. Price, 13/6.
What Mum needs! Crumb tray and brush, 10/6.
Something novel then?
Pair of salt and pepper
shakers in pretty bird
designs. Price only 8/u.
P/C
-'<r
dsf
Convenient Bed Tray
Fitted with collapsible folding legs.
Strongly made from masonite in
pastel shades of blue, green or
cream. Price 33/6.
*V /*■
%
r*
Wli'
The perfect gift
for YOUR Mother
Imported Sewing Baskets
The perfect gift to satisfy your Mother. A lovely sewing
basket specially imported from Overseas. In attractive
colours and with strong satin lining forming a padded
lid (unfitted). Reasonably priced at only 68/6 each.
A neat hairbrush of British make with very strong nylon bristles and
delightful, colourful petite point pattern on back. Priced at 35/3 each.
"Yardley” London gift set in attractive presentation box. Containing
Lavender water, and two cakes of scented soap. Price 24/6 the set.
:
mi
!*
o
k' •»•'•■••.::$
m^faiLAL-AAt— j»sS&t
JVTo W* \
'•S':
9
«s
*
FANCY GOODS—CHEMISTRY—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. M 2401.
MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA.


AERIAL AMAZONS
by
HENRY G.
LAMOND
THE rains of the wet season
in Western Queensland
came late in January. That
rain swept the earth clean,
trickled gullies and creeks,
merged them in a laughing
flood, and swept them on to
join the rumbling giant, the
main river, which took them in
its embrace.
The earth came to life over-
night. Trees and grasses rustled
with delight, spilt their perfumes
in the air, danced to the winds
as they reflected shooting rays
of light from the sun. Birds
swept through the air, danced
on waxed floors of wind, and
they shrieked their pleasures as
they played with miles. Every
drop of rain might have been
an egg—after it hit the ground it
seemed to hatch into an insect
of some sort: flies, mosquitoes,
sandflies, and grasshoppers in
their myriad millions. They
throbbed the air with the buzz-
ing of their wings ; they clicked
in agitated spasms with their
hind-legs. The world was full
of life.
The spiders came in their
thousands—in their tens of
thousands, in millions. They
were the common grey spiders
which spun their webs in the
gidyea-trees. They lived luxuri-
antly on the swarms of insects
which became entangled in the
mesh of their webs. They ate
till they could eat no more, and
the hosts on which they dined
seemed as plentiful as before.
Those were harmless spiders,
without even the ability to in-
convenience man by the slight
nip which they gave. They
varied in size from half a split-
pea to about as big as a man’s
thumbnail. Their webs varied
from the span of a man’s hand
to the area of a giant cart-
wheel. Those webs swayed on
guy-ropes between gidyea-trees;
they glistened in the sun ; they
collected and crystallised over-
night what little moisture there
was in the air, and in the morn-
ing they shone as bejewelled
things of beauty.
Ground spiders ran over the
earth. They spun horizontal
webs between stalks of grass.
They found the living good and
plenteous. The deadly red-back
skulked in dark corners. Its
untidy webs were matted masses
under dried bark, beneath rotten
logs. It was no bigger than a
dried pea, black as original sin,
with red markings on its back
—from which it got its name.
Stock which grazed through
the timbered country were
festooned with webs. Cattle had
them draped about their horns,
woven to a texture of fine
cheesecloth, stained with ugly
blotches where the moisture of
their breaths defiled them.
Horses had webs entangled in
their forelocks, twisted in their
manes, clinging in strands
wherever the horse had brushed
against them.
I N March, after the wet season
” had ended, when all insect-
life was drawing to its maturity,
when the urge among them was
to make provision for the per-
petuation of the species, a pass-
ing cloud tipped its few points
of rain over a scattered area
of a square mile or more as it
hurried away with the night.
Next morning the webs in the
trees were decked with jewels.
They were strung with necklaces
of diamonds, with strings of
pearls about the hems of their
skirts, where drops of water
shimmered in the sun. Those
webs, beautiful in their sym-
mefry, were clothed in miniature
rainbows when the sun slanted
on them.
One hen spider sat in the
middle of her huge web. She
had no eye for beauty. She was
big, bloated, and the refuse heap
where she cast her rejected food
showed her web had served its
purpose. She was not hungry
—that was evident. Yet she
was discontented. She shook
her web in her impatience, and
little sparklets of diamonds re-
fleeted rainbows as they were
tossed free and fell to the
ground. The ogress shook again
-shook in fury.
Another spider, of the same
species, smaller, more drab even
than the web-spmner, picked up
the vibrations of that web on a
private radar of his own. He
came to one of the guy-ropes of
the web. He tested it with his
front legs Perhaps he sent a
message along that taut strand,
The lady spider received that
message, or sensed the vibra-
tion of the guy-rope: she
snapped round and faced in the
direction ftom which the tremor
came. The ma e-and he was
no knight in shining armor—
crouched lower and waited for
an invitation.
lt came. She may have sent
some quiver along the strand;
she turned and paid no further
attention to the wooer, who
came sneaking hand-over-hand
like a cat-burglar in the dead
of night. The gallant came
closer He advanced a feeler
and stroked her-he did it
nervously, diffldendy, timidly,
ready to jump back and escape
at any moment. The lady
snapped to it as if jerked by a
switch in a blur of action she
had reversed her position’and
was farimr top intnirW
was facmg the intruder
The two spiders gazed at each
other, as if to read hfes mean-
| n g m the other s eyes. The
lady began to sway. She rocked
from side to side. She swung
her web with the impetus of her
action. As the tempo of that
mesmeric dance increased, the
male was caught by it and
swung in unison with the lady,
There was an action so quick
that one seemed to be the
culmination of the other: the
dance step had not concluded
when a shutter may have
clicked, a simultaneous stutter
may have affected a stride, and
both spiders were closed in a
writhing tangle of legs.
And that tangle had not com-
menced before it had ended!
The little fellow, the male,
wriggled free; did not stop to
ask questions, and he was flee-
ing for his Mfe-literaUy, he was
fleeing for his life.
Behind him, taking three steps
to his one, covering three times
the distance in each stride, the
bride pursued her groom!
it was a hopeless flight.
Perhaps the spider knew it. He
was seized. He made no resist-
ance. His legs crumpled like
the faded petals of a tired
flower ; his body went-bmp ; he
was powerless to resist as the
Suf they
° ™ca ch and tear hJ
J" ia Jr? 1 ca . , and *® ar b ®r
. • ’ a + , _ JJ n iJ Ira f ged
-
Great settled herself her
weddinc breakfast and her
W oom g mav have been the
tlfree tiered cake She itfted toe
shrunken bodv free when toe
sucked the san from h• toe
danded it for a momSto then
she dronned it tHhe Liind
where it Wt a stem of
bounced ro ed over to comf to
rest beside the shrivelled Xdv
of had been a IS
husblnd h d b P
nuioanu '
t- H E ladv snider snrawled
iili Jauy spmer sprawiea
* m the middle of her web;
she may have combed her
whiskers and meditated on the
beauty of her life; she shrunk
closer as she appeared to doze
in satisfaction.
She had no more than a cat-
nap when a tremor on one of
the main wires of her elaborate
telephone-system wakened her.
She knew which wire had
brought the message as surely as
a man knows on the instant
which finger might be jammed
in a cog-wheel.
That something which dis-
turbed the spider looked like a
splinter of dried bark. It was
about four inches long, in three
parts, seemingly jointed with
two swivels. It hung by one
long arm to a strand of web;
it jerked itself up like a string-
pulled marionette; it dislocated
a couple of ball-and-socket
joints; it sat erect and glared
about. That thing was a
mantis —a praying-mantis.
The spider may have
recognised the vibrations which
came along the web. It was
part of her education to make
immediate recognition. She de-
cided without hesitation that
those vibrations were hostile:
she picked her steps with care
as she retired, swiftly and
without haste, to a far corner
of her web.
The mantis —and it also a
female —scratched its ribs. At
least, it .raked the part of its
body where its ribs should have
been, and it used the whole fore-
arm for the job. The hooks, or
barbs, on that fore-arm ripped
clinging strands of web which
had been attached; it lifted
them free, shook them off, and
let them float away in the
wind. Then it started to stalk
the spider.
It walked carefully; it strode
with something of the elaborate
action of a man on stilts wading
through light bog; it followed
the spider, traced her by some
means known only to itself. It
was as sure in its methods as if
it followed a main road.
The spider may have been a
cannibal; she may also have
been a murderess. That was her
code of life. It did not worry
her. Though she was lacking in
what human beings might have
called some virtues, she was not
short of pluck: she came out of
hiding to meet her foe.
"Hie spider swung into
action; she spread her legs
wide, took a good hold of the
web, and jerked with all her
power—she throbbed that web
with the intensity of her passion.
She jerked in an effort to shake
her intruder free.
\X/ITH its hind-legs buckled,
with its front paws waving,
and with its grotesque knob of
a head swaying in an absurd
fashion, the mantis gripped
tight.
The spider raced in a circle,
at a radius of about three inches
from the mantis, using her as
the centre on which to spin.
She held one hind-leg high (the
one nearer the mantis) and she
spun silk as she raced—she slid
it through the feelers on the end
of her claw and held it high
enough to lasso the mantis.
"Hie mantis was casual in her
actions: she reached down,
raked with a combing action,
and ripped free the strand with
which the spider would bind
her. She shook her arm, and
that web was picked up by the
wind and carried away.
The spider may have been
following a set routine. By all
her laws, perhaps, the mantis
should be bound and helpless.
She did no more than trip in
the sweep of one dizzy circle;
in the next flick of a second
she had closed with her enemy
—she dived in from her circle
and grappled.
The two opponents were
locked in combat. Their legs
twined about each other; jthey
rolled over as they fought; they
doubtless struck and parried at
breathless speed and with light-
ning precision. It was all too
fast for a human eye to follow;
it was too quick to put into
words. The death-dance of
whirling bodies tore strands of
web as they fought.
Something—a hard little
round ball of something—fell
from those warring bodies in the
web. It hit the ground with the
faintest “tap!” as it bounced
and rolled away to be hidden
under a tussock of grass. But
as that something rolled from
sight an opalescent gleam of
hatred came from the glazed
eye in what had been the
spider’s head.
THE lady mantis left the body
of the spider hanging de-
jectedly by one leg. There were
foods, evidently, which she de-
clined to eat unless she was
particularly hungry. It would
seem she had waged war for the
fun of fighting, or perhaps in
response to an age-old feud.
She stalked majestically in a
somewhat mechanical fashion
till she came to the outer strand
of the web. She clung by one
arm. She dropped to earth with
her stubby wings outspread to
ease her fall. She ignored the
body of the spider, which fell
beside her and rolled to a place
beside her defunct husband’s.
As soon as she hit the ground
that mantis became another
swaying stem of grass as her
body undulated and her arms
waved rhythmically with the
grass about her.
VARIOUS VERSE
THE SUNFLOWERS.
Bring me a long sharp knife for we are in danger;
I see a tall man standing in the foggy corn
And his tall, shadowy companions.”—"But that is no
stranger,
That is your company of sunflowers; and at night they turn
Their dark heads crowned with gold to the earth and the dew
So that indeed at daybreak, shrouded and silent.
Filled with a quietness such as we never knew.
They look like invaders down from another planet.
And now at the touch of light from the sun they love”
“Give me the knife. They move.”
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
GENESIS.
Perhaps one Sunday afternoon,
Unravelling threads of dust and rain
Upon his tower’s window-pane.
He saw a pattern form within
The runnels; watched it slowly win
Explicit meaning, so that soon
There grew within that silent room
A shadow-whole that he could mate
With elements so disparate
As fear and loneliness, desire.
A muddy pool, a tongue of fire—
The newest cloth from Time’s old loom.
And fancy's slipknot, hanging loose.
Was tightened to its latest catch—
This dream of beauty without match,
This gift from the unfathomed deep—-
That he might for a moment keep
Mankind within his poet’s noose.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRWIN.
THE MOMENT.
It is the reaching out into the dark
Where Youth’s planetary flame revolves in a flow
Of light and days. It is the looking up
When even the most familiar sounds break
And the looking down when smallest voices speak.
It is man listening like a tree and loving
With an open-hearted love. It is the growing
Toward that mature moment of joy when all
That pleases may become an elixir
Of some forgotten wonder, now remembered.
And the wonder is ours and the quality of Always.
It is the rose out of the snow and the bird
Out of the bough
When the world is known not to be green forever.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
THE DEPARTED.
The train is slow and truculent leaving the station;
Eddies the smoke above us threatening thunder.
A miniature storm is gathering darkly under
The rainbow of the overbridge; and all motion
Hangs heavily. Unreal our parting devotion.
This is like death to the lovers. Thus it may prove:
Dying is not far removed from saying good-bye.
And when the train disappears like a cloud in the sky.
What can the lovers do, but dumbly love
Somebody past and forgotten, not really alive?
From the vast numbers of distance, time gathers its pace.
Interchangeable space and time now wear
Like the infatigable waters of ocean and air.
Eroding and ageing for ever her delicate face;
Till the moon that I watch tonight is my lover in space.
QUEENSLAND,
JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol 72—No. 3717
Wednesday, May 9, 1951
KOREAN
Urn
w-m
FOR THE FALLEN.
“While Anzac Day was being celebrated in Australia, the Third Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, in Korea suffered its heaviest casualties of the war. Eighty-five
men were reported killed, missing or wounded in action.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O ). Wellington.
FULL SPEED AHEAD.
The elections were in many ways a
personal victory for Mr. Menzies. He con-
ducted an admirable campaign, not always
helped by his associates. He has won
his objective, which is command of the
Senate, with a loss of seats in the House
of Representatives negligible in the cir-
cumstances, for they were held by narrow
margins.
Mr. Menzies has now to vindicate his
strategy and justify the overwhelming
vote of confidence with which the people
have renewed their mandate of 17 months
ago and endorsed his plea that in the late
Parliament he did not have “a fair go.”
They have given him the best Parlia-
mentary equipment he could reasonably
expect with representation in the Senate,
distorted as the Senate is from the original
design of a States’ House to being merely
an echo of the Lower House vote.
It is now up to him to destroy the
Communist conspiracy against the nation’s
economic development, and to prepare
this country for the war threatened by
the Communist power-bloc overseas. It
will not be done without great temporary
strain on the industrial system which has
grown up under a “Labor” Government’s
toleration of Communist brigandage in
the unions over 10 difficult years ; but
the Australian public must be presumed
to have had its eyes opened, and the
Government’s job is to go ahead without
delay. There has been far too much
costly delay already.
For the bills mangled, or obstructed
altogether, by the Socialist rump in the
Senate during the late Parliament, and
fully debated in Parliament and on the
public platform, there should be short
shrift in the new Parliament, The Gov-
ernment cannot afford to waste time now
over irrelevant arguments against legisla-
tion concerning secret ballots in trade-
union elections and proposed political
strikes. More than one referendum
question may have to be submitted before
the way for action can be cleared.
Mr. Menzies’s defence proposal is thus
expressed in his 1951 policy speech, as an
addendum to his 1949 policy;
In the new Parliament we will bring
down a Defence Preparations BUI to in-
stitute such needed controls as may toe
thought to be within the limits of the Con-
stitution. We do not propose to rush
into controls; we have an Instinctive dis-
like of them.... They will be adopted only
if emergency renders them necessary for
the protection of our people.
That there will have to be some controls
over labor, investments and consumers’
commodities with the foreshadowed
recommendations by the National Re-
sources Board seems likely. Again,
referring to the Communist-party Disso-
lution Act, declared invalid by the Court
as exceeding the Government’s defence
powers, the Prime Minister said:
Our advisers are closely studying the
judgments and will advise us what new
power is needed. W© will then promptly
decide whether to seek that power by
asking the States to refer it to us under
the Constitution, or by seeking a straight-
out Constitutional amendment. Upon the
latter course the Importance of speed wIU
be obvious.
One way or another it looks as though
a referendum for some limited Common-
wealth control over (among other things)
prices is inevitable. “Labor” had no
proposals for governing without at least a
favorable referendum on price-control,
dealing with only part of the problem
and applying itself to only a fraction of
the national task. Mr. Chifley minimised
the problem so much as to say—“ The sug-
gestion that we cannot control prices
without pegging wages is a fallacy.” In
the next breath he declared his confidence
in the A.C.T.U.’s pledge on behalf of
unions to “co-operate with a ‘Labor’
Government in achieving economic
stability” (i.e., to peg wages voluntarily) ;
then he finished up by stating that the
A.C.T.U. would not so co-operate with
any Government but “Labor”; and
right after the elections the A.C.T.U.
president threw the whole pretence away
by stating that it “had never intimated
to any political party that it was pre-
pared to agree to wage-pegging.”
If neither the unions nor the State
Governments (on specific request) will
co-operate with a Commonwealth Gov-
ernment doubly-charged as is the Menzies
Goverament to remove the obstacles to
higher production, the worst causes of
inflated prices, and the hindrances to the
nation’s need to prepare against a threat-
ened war, then the job the Government
is pledged to carry out is going to be
harder and less pleasant for everybody.
Even under “Labor’s” own proposals
(said Mr. Chifley) “unpopular measures
would be necessary.” If anybody should
support Mr. Menzies now it should be
Mr. Chifley, who, advocating just before
the elections, “a bold policy” for his
party, declared:
Yon can’t organise this nation In an
emergency unless matters that have a
national application are nationally con-
trolled.
That production must be stepped up
has been admitted by every party and
the root of the problem lies in raising
coal output. “Coal will not be solved,”
says Mr. Menzies, “until Communist mis-
leadership has been ended,” and the same
is true of the crippling stagnation on the
wharves and the never-ending power
restrictions. Those power blackouts in
our chief cities and industrial centres
which are fomenting mass resentment and
protest are the cumulative effect of Com-
munist sabotage and are designed to
paralyse Australia’s capacity for re-
sistance if war comes.
Mr. Menzies has been charged by his
opponents with exaggerating the pressure
of the emergency. If anything, his refer-
ences to it have been an understatement.
He has talked about measures necessary
if emergency compels them. The truth is
that the more the effects are studied of
the calamitous denial of coal to the nation,
and the strangulation of its shipping,
the plainer becomes the need for the
Government to possess the power to pro-
claim a state of emergency with all speed.
It has already been necessary in New
Zealand and the United States, and has
only just been avoided so far in Britain.
Only the wholehearted co-operation of
the entire community can pull the country
through its crisis, and whether or not it
is to get that co-operation is a question
the Government must put to the test in the
shortest possible time.
Warning From Maoriland.
Though in the Canberra Upper House
“Labor” will be in a narrow minority,
it can be taken for granted that the
disciplinary powers of the A.L.P. Execu-
tive will be used to the limit to see that
“Labor” always has its neck in the collar
when the class-war is on. What can be
done in exhausting a marginal majority
has been well demonstrated in the House
of Commons.
The immediate period ahead holds the
prospect of the continuance and intensi-
fication of the “class-war.” “Labor”
knows that it is now fighting for its life,
and its secret juntas will leave nothing
undone in order to win. Neither will the
Communists fail to help them to win,
since they know that a decisive victory
for Chifley-Evatt “Labor” would be half
their own victory.
Events in New Zealand, with their
reactions here, show the lengths to which
those Red trade-union leaders who are
trying to snatch the government out of
the hands of the country are likely to go
as the pressure is put on them and the
Government’s plans for rooting out Com-
munist leadership mature.
There the Communist-led Waterside
Workers struck on February 12, in a
singular unanimity of action with the
Australian watersiders, against a Govern-
ment order that overtime must be worked
whenever required. (The Australian
watersiders had declared overtime black
on February 5. They have, on the admis-
sion of their general secretary, Mr. J.
Healy, remitted £5OOO to the New Zealand
union, and Comrade Napier, the N.Z.
union’s leader, has made a secretive visit
to Australia during the struggle.) Other
Communist-led unions joined in in N.Z.,
threatening to produce chaos. Mr.
Holland, meeting the threat by deregister-
ing the bodies which refused to obey the
law, went a step further than was the case
with unions deregistered in Australia
during the past year. He authorised the
formation of new unions in obdurate
cases.
From this very serious civil disloca-
tion has developed. The head of the
new waterside union has been slashed
with a bicycle-chain and bashed into in-
sensibility. An attempt was made to
blow up a train carrying loyal workers.
Threats, violence, incitement have been
the order amongst those who are trying
to force the Government’s hands; and
they have received the full support
of Australian Communist unions.
The Maoriland Government has been
compelled to enlist a civilian defence
corps. The Seamen’s Union here has
declared Maoriland black, and the docu-
ment issued by the H.Q. of the union in
Sydney makes it all too clear that what
is happening in New Zealand is another
Moscow move. It is alleged in it that
the N.Z. Government is aiming at “the
complete annihilation of the trade-union
movement in preparation for another
war”—jargon out of the lexicon of
Losovky and Comrade Dmitrov, erst-
while of the Cdfcnintern.
In Australia, Mr. Menzies’s Govern-
ment will need to use, inside and outside
Parliament, every man of its membership
to prove to the workers where their real
interests and the interests of the Com-
monwealth fie, and it will need to show
strength and fortitude in enforcing the
existing law and framing new legislation
to deal with the fifth-column threat
irrespective of political expediency.
Hitherto, as in the discussion of the
Communist Dissolution Bill, the Gov-
ernment has exhibited reluctance to
assume a linkage between the Com-
munist-led unions and the Federal Par-
liamentary Labor party. That reluctance
must disappear (as it began to do before
the poll), and so must the tendency evi-
dent in Mr. Holt’s administration to take
every industrial “Labor” leader who says
he is a “moderate” at his face-value and
to assume that what the “Labor” leaders
say will be resisted to the death by the
rank-and-file of trade-unionists will be
so resisted.
Now the time has come for all-out
discipline of the extremists of the “Labor”
party without respect of persons, and
every resource must be used to' assure
the country that the Government
can govern, that it intends to
govern, that it is using all its ability
to govern and that it is to the advantage
of trade-unionists to be on the side of the
law and not on that of the agents of a
foreign enemy, who, by blackmail and
violence, seek to obtain for them
ephemeral advantages in wage-increases
and in the right to loaf.
And the Labor party itself should be
forced to decide whether it is on the side
of Australia or of the Soviet Union. At
present it professes one allegiance and
behaves often as if its loyalty belonged
to the other.
Too Old at 65?
“Laetitia” : A decade ago the custom-
demanded retirement at 65 spelt personal
tragedy for those who felt themselves
capable of carrying on. In these days of
a starved labor market and desperate
need for increased production such com-
pulsory mass-retirements spell, in their
aggregate, national calamity.
More than half of those reaching 65
feel themselves no less physically or
mentally efficient than they were five, or
even ten, years earlier. Six years ago a
British Royal Commission, whose terms
of reference included the employability
of the older-age groups, found that more
than half those reaching 65 could be
profitably employed for at least another
five years, whilst 25 per cent, could give
satisfactory service for a further ten
years.
The “65-retirement” practice is a relic
of the era before medical science added
a minimum of 15 years to the average
life-span, and, later, the days of labor
surplus. In those days the U.S.A. took
the lead in consigning to the industrial
scrap the 60-65 age-groupers.
It is significant that today in the
U.S.A., where labor shortages are not so
acute as in Australia, the American
Geriatrics Society, substantially backed
by private enterprise generally, this year
commenced a large-scale programme of
research into the employability of the
older-age group. A few weeks ago, also,
an unofficial but representative body
formed in Melbourne with the object of
promoting the welfare of elderly persons
received a £5OOO research grant from the
Myer Institute.
There need be no sentiment in the
hiring of the over-65 group. The services
of a recently-retired man may be im-
mediately more costly than those of a
youngster, but in the long run the oldster
may be a better proposition. The
juvenile, or a succession of juveniles, is,
under the magnet of competitive em-
ployer bids of a man’s wages at 17, apt
to desert at short notice. And labor
turnover is costly. The oldster, by very
reason of his age and settled tempera-
ment, is likely to stay put.
The 1942-45 stage of the Pacific war
produced a call for the older-age-groupers
to emerge from retirement. Thousands
answered the call and performed credit-
ably in Government factories and private
enterprise. Their ten-years-later counter-
parts would do just as well at a time
when the need for increased production
is scarcely less urgent than in the darkest
days of 1942.
Our very living standards are tied up
in the matter, since these must be regu-
lated by our national output, which is but
another term for production. Any sane
thinker must view with alarm the swel-
ling proportion of pensioners in the com-
munity, brought about in large part by a
combination of a lengthened fife-span
and the falling birth-rate of the ’thirties.
Over any significant period we can con-
sume no more than we produce, and each
retirement at 65 means one more depen-
dent non-producer and one less productive
member of the community. A lowered
living standard is automatic.
There is substantial reservoir of un-
tapped labor resources in retired tinkers,
tailors, process-workers, engineers, ware-
housemen, insurance-officers, shop-
assistants, bankers and public servants
who are pathetically eager to work. The
ignoring of the pool is economic short-
sightedness, verging on criminality, in this
phase of the cold war.
The Man Who Burst the Atom.
Amid the general advertisement of
jockeys, swabbed horses and Hollywood
divorces the Australian Press has found
no space to mention the memorial fund
which is being raised to commemorate
Lord Rutherford, perhaps the greatest of
Antipodeans, first of Australasian Nobel-
prize-winners, and a man whose impact
on science ranks with that of Newton.
He first put forward and established
the theory of the disintegration of the
atom with the liberation of energy—was
‘the father, in fact, of the atomic age. As
the most recent issue of “Endeavour,” the
journal of Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries, remarks, “Rutherford’s name will
certainly live as long as our present
civilisation, and may outlast.it.”
Born in New Zealand, at Nelson,
educated primarily at that town’s great
public school, Rutherford went to England
from New Zealand University in 1894 on
an 1851 Exhibition Science Scholarship to
work at Cambridge under Professor J. I.
Thompson, who soon acknowledged the
strength and originality of his intellect
and gave him every opportunity to do
his own research. At 30 he was known
to physicists throughout the world, and,
lecturing at Columbia University, New
York, wrote afterwards: “I gave two
papers which were p’retty well received,
as I am the only worker in the field of
excited radioactivity in the English-
speaking world.”
His first professorship was at Montreal,
his last the great Cavendish Professor-
ship of Physics at Cambridge with
charge of the laboratory in which not
merely the primary work that made the
atom-age possible was done but, after his
time, also a great deal of the work which
developed penicillin into a large-scale
reality in medicine.
Science owes him the more because he
was not a lone worker. He was no Ray-
leigh or Einstein immuring himself from
contact with others. He loved to collabo-
rate, especially with young students. He
was a good and eager talker, with an
unselfish desire to spread his knowledge
and give others a chance to develop his
lines of thought irrespective of whether
this procured for them some credit which
he himself might have earned. He was
also a great traveller, loved to mix with
men, and was as free and simple with
the casual stranger met in a train as with
his students, who soon were spread
through the research centres of the world.
And he never forgot either his native
Dominion or Australia, for which he had
a strong affection —he was one of the
first men to envisage a national research
university in this country.
The memorial scheme has been
launched fittingly by the Royal Society, of
which Newton was once president, and of
which he himself held the presidency for
five years. The committee organising it
is headed by Sir Henry Tizard, chief of
the United Kingdom’s Scientific Defence
Advisory Committee, one of his old
friends and one of the world’s greatest
scientists in the aeronautic field —he was
in Australia in 1949.
The plan has two branches. One is
for Rutherford Scholarships for post-
graduate students of the British Common-
wealth. They would be tenable at any
university in the British Commonwealth,
at the choice of the winning student,
except, of course, his own home one. The
second branch envisages the foundation
of a Rutherford Memorial Lecture, which
would be given at intervals by some lead-
ing man of science, the venue being moved
round the British Commonwealth Uni-
versities. .
No scheme could have been conceived
which would have been likely to better
please Rutherford himself were he alive,
and it should be possible, with the wood
full of money to bum, to collect suffi-
cient funds to give the plan substance on
a scale worthy of its object


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Substantial Gains."
On April 30 Mr. McGirr said that
“Labor” had “made substantial gains
throughout Australia,” and that its
advance was “particularly noteworthy
in view of the widespread mis-
representation and sabotage of the
‘Labor’ cause.” Sabotage, of course,
can only occur from within the party —
unless, of course, Mr, McGirr accepts the
Communist concept that only one party
has any right to exist.
If “Labor” has many more such “sub-
stantial gains” it will cease to exist. Even
Mr. Alan Fraser, the oracle of Eden-
Monaro, admitted when the final figures
were nearly complete that “Labor” had
“made up none of its lost ground” and
that its isolated gains had been due to
“local factors.”
“Labor” won Hume not because the
electorate as a whole preferred Mr. Fuller,
a statesman who is on about the same
level as Mr. Dan Curtin, the chosen of
Watson in succession to Mr. Maxie Fal-
stein, but because a surly section of wool-
growers resented the bluff and soldierly
straight-talking of Mr. Anderson, the only
V.C, in the campaign, on the subject of
the wool-tax. This lost Mr. Anderson
the few hundred votes that‘made the
difference; but he is a man who would
prefer keeping his self-respect to his seat.
“Labor” won Kingston in S. Australia,
but that was because of the addition of
a large industrial vote since last election.
It may win Leichhardt (Q.), and it seems
likely to retain Perth, but only because of
Communist-party preferences. And that
should be hard even for Mr. Burke to
swallow.
Apart from this, if there are any other
“substantial gains,” nobody but Mr. Mc-
Girr has heard of them. In the Senate-
at the weekend the Liberal-C.P. had
polled 2,133,408 primaries against
“Labor’s” 1,994,229 —a majority in every
State except Victoria, apart, apparently,
from breaking the Senate deadlock. In
the House of Representatives there was a
drift against the A.L.P. in most States,
not excluding N. S. Wales.
Of the Ministers who served under Mr.
Chifley, Messrs. Dedman, Lemmon and
Frost were defeated for the second time.
“Labor’s” Deputy-Prime Minister flopped
over the tape, the winner by a
moulting tail-feather. Mr. Ward’s
majority of 7000 over his Liberal oppo-
ment at the last election was cut to 3600.
And that was generally the order of
things in industrial Sydney. Even that
monument of sacrifice, Mr. Mulcahy, who
sold his shares in 2HD at half-price just
before nomination-day, had no large mar-
gin to play with in Lang.
It is only to be hoped that Mr. McGirr
makes as substantial gains when some-
body succeeds in dragging him by the
hair to the country to answer for his
political sins.
Red Arrogance.
As soon as the election campaign was
over the coalfields started falling idle
again. The excuse was found in the
refusal of an electrical-fitter to do a job
a week earlier, because “only mechanical-
fitters should do it.” The A.E.U. then
declared work black, and most of the
northern mines were closed at a cost of
about 70,000 tons of gas-coal. After the
Coal Tribunal called a compulsory con-
ference, the A.E.U. members resumed
work on reaching an agreement with the
owners about turners’ duties.
Last week also Coal Tribunal offended
the miners’ executive by reaffirming the
award of bonus-payments (an extra shift)
for a full fortnight’s shifts (10) worked,
removing at the same time all cavil
against the proposal by protecting the
bonus-payment in the event of absence
for reasons outside the individual’s voli-
tion. “The decision,” said Communist
boss Williams (he can say it in his sleep),
“is most unsatisfactory.” The original
award was the excuse for the weekly one-
day strikes, costing hundreds of
thousands of tons of coal, which con-
tinued up to the time of the Federal
elections.
Then the Wanganella arrived from
N.Z., its crew struck in political sym-
pathy with the Communist wharfies’
rebellion across the Tasman, and the
Australian Commupist-bossed Seamen’s
Union, taking the cue, declared all N.Z.
ports “black.” As the N.Z. Prime
Minister declared over the radio, “there
is not the slightest doubt that the Com-
munists are pursuing a common policy
of conspiracy and destruction in both
Australia and New Zealand.”
The situation looked ripe for the Aus-
tralian Government to swing into action
on the principle that authority acts twice
as effectually where it acts quickly. To
the N.Z. Government Canberra surely
owes no less help than one Commo gang
does to another, and the public would
have responded with acclamation if the
R.A.N, had sent a crew promptly on
board the Wanganella and taken her to
Wellington on schedule. If there is any
such proposal under consideration the
Ministry was apparently unready to
operate, for it was in throes of recon-
struction after the elections.
Flynn of the Inland.
Few men have deserved better of their
countries than John Flynn of the Inland,
dead last week at 71. More than any
other man he can be said to have placed
knowledge of the interior of the continent
in perspective and to have brought its
real problems into focus.
He was about the last person in the
world who, on a casual glance, would
have been associated with the work which
he did. He looked —and was —a man
in whom the fire of the love of adventure
did not bum naturally. His ideal of
life would probably have envisaged a
quiet manse, a pleasant garden, a happy
congregation and a library full of books.
His lot during the best of his working
years was cast among blinding heat,
desert cold, loneliness, sandy-blight,
camels, rough men, arduous personal
physical toil and human suffering. All
“POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY”: ACT II.
these he took in his stride after they had
stirred him till his task became a mission.
He never tired of well-doing. When
he had founded his medical services and
had seen his A.I.M. hospitals, each with
their couple of nurses and their curious
assortment of patients, running on smooth
wheels, he set himself the task of provid-
ing them with the necessary adjunct of
aerial transport, built at first in conjunc-
tion with Qantas, and pedal wireless,
developed under his drive by Mr. Tregear
and now an even more familiar feature
of inland life than the A.I.M. hostels
which dot the country.
Pedal-wireless is a daily part of the
lives of the people of the Northern Terri-
tory, the medium they employ to hold
their morning conversations in which
isolated groups, men, women and children,
on stations hundreds of miles from each
other take a regular part, swapping news
and gossip and doing business. During
those sessions this week John Flynn will
be gratefully remembered.
Persian Oil.
“Petro”: Whether the fact that it was
50 years, almost to a day, after the grant-
ing of the still-unexpired oil concession
from the Persian Government to W. K.
D’Arcy on May 28, 1901, or whether it
was sheer greed or political expediency
which led to the precipitate decision to
nationalise the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. re-
mains to be seen.
In either case the resolution is not
merely foolish but is likely to be
disastrous, not only to Persia but to the
world at large. Nationalisation of oil has
never been known to turn out to the
advantage of the country involved —
witness Mexico, which was once second
only to U.S.A. as an exporter of crude
oil until the oilfields were taken over by
its Government.
It was not until 1903 that commercial
oil was struck in the northern area of
Kasr-i-Shirin, and that field was
abandoned in 1905 “on account of the
absolute fruitlessness of the work,”
Exploration in the south continued, and
it, too, would have been abandoned but
for the unexpected coming-in of a well
on the Masjid-i-Sulaiman field in 1908,
just as the decision to pull out had been
made in London.
In 1909 the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. was
formed to take over the D’Arcy con-
cession, and refining was being done in
1912. The production for that year was
only 43,084 tons ; in 1925 it had risen to
25 million tons, and last year the Anglo-
Iranian Oil Co. (the name was changed
to accommodate national susceptibilities
in 1935) produced 31 million tons of crude
oil.
Even a fraction of this production
would certainly not have been achieved
under anything but private enterprise,
and now this prodigious output, which
promises, in a few years, to dominate the
petroleum requirements of the whole
world, requires all the vast and very
specialised experience which the com-
pany has accumulated over 50 years to
keep it from deteriorating.
The British Government holds 55 per
cent, of the £2O million capital, but, very
wisely, does not interfere in any way
with the technical side of the work.
The outlook now is a sorry one not
only for Persia itself but for all the
countries which draw petroleum supplies
from it. Australia is deeply affected, and
is particularly vulnerable.
Everybody Is In the Fight.
Years ago, when our poets had visions
of the future Australia, one or other
wrote something about a day when this
land would be great and “a thousand
ships running to her quays.” The reality
is that ships are running away from our
quays, not only because shipowners are
tired of having them lie idle for months,
but also because, as a British line
announced the other day, their crews be-
come infected with the deadly poison of
the Australian waterfronts.
The American Matson line is the latest
to take ships off the Pacific run. It
refused to send two freighters loaded
with badly-needed Oregon timber to Port
Adelaide because, though scheduled on
their last voyages to be back in America
in February and March respectively, they
were still on the Australian coast at the
end of April.
This the Matson line told a San Fran-
cisco trading company, who’d sent the
letter on to Adelaide timber merchants
in explanation of why their orders
couldn’t be fulfilled. The letter referred
to
Disastrous experience with the Alameda,
which had to wait a fortnight for a berth
at Port Adelaide after very bad delays in
New Zealand, Sydney and Melbourne. The
Ventura (which left Adelaide last week)
should easily have been back at San Fran-
cisco last month for loading, but it now
appears it cannot load at San Francisco
before June, if then.
Bad though that was, there was more:
There are no vessels in position whose
owners will entertain sending them to
Australia at any price.
The General Steamship Corporation is
no longer booking any timber cargoes for
Australia.
Stating what everybody knows, that the
main reason was that watersiders’ rate of
working ships had fallen by half com-
pared with 1939, S.A. Timber Mer-
chants’ Association told Adelaide “Ad-
vertiser” that American quotations for
landed cost of timber at Port Adelaide
had risen from $149 per 1000 super, feet
in January to $166 and then to $175.
This inspired the president of Adelaide
Chamber of Commerce to remark that
idleness of the eight or ten ships await-
ing berths at Port Adelaide last week
cost anything up to £7OO a day for each
ship, which had to go on to the cost of
their cargoes ; and he invited anybody to
work out how this sort of thing increased
all-round living costs.
What is happening at Port Adelaide is
repeated, often to much greater extent,
in ports all round the coast from Cairns
to Fremantle. All sorts of reasons are
given for it, but the main reasons are,
first, that the waterfront and seamen’s
unions are Communist-controlled and
Communist policy is to hold up and, if
possible, wreck industry and transport;
and, second, that no serious effort has
been made by a Federal Government in
the past decade to take this thing by the
throat and shake some sense into it.
The Menzies Government took initial
steps to throw the Communists out of
power, and was blocked by a “Labor”-
controlled Senate and a High Court de-
cision. Now re-elected with a Senate
majority, that Government knows it has
the people behind it, and the people will
expect action.
That, however, is not enough. Because
of high income from exports, overfull
employment, inflated wages, a comfort-
able climate and generally plentiful food
and other things, the people are too prone
to leave things to their Governments. The
Communists, as is being demonstrated in
New Zealand, won’t give up power with-
out a fight. If Australia is to win that
fight the people must prepare to get right
into it with Menzies, not cheer him from
the sidelines. That applies to employers
as strongly as it does to employees.
The Fat and the Lean.
Sydney’s milk is severely rationed be-
cause, as a Milk Board official put it,
there’s a dry spell in the “supply zone”
(autumn is usually dry in those parts) and
fodder is dear. A pastoral company’s
man came back from a tour of the sheep
country with substantially the same com-
plaint, adding something about the
graziers’ “desperate position.” Butter
exports are being restricted from some
States.
Well, last spring and summer fodder
was hip-high in the milk zone and you
couldn’t see the sheep for grass further
out. What became of it? Did anybody
cut and store it? Was silage made or
oats or maize grown and stored as grain
reserves?
Not on your life! The fence-high
grass was allowed to wither and blow
away; the paddocks that should have
grown oats and maize lay idle. Mean-
time the cow-cockies yell for higher
milk prices and graziers moan because
the Federal Government imposes what
amounts to a provisional tax on their sky-
high wool incomes. We seem to be a
feckless lot, whether we live in suburbs
or out where the pavement ends. And
too many landmen are more feckless than
the rest of us, though they live close
to nature, and nature has shown them for
centuries that lean years always follow
fat ones.
Figuring-out the Senate.
Although it is considered almost certain
that the Senate voting in Queensland will
, return six Government and four “Labor”
Senators, and that the result in the other
five States will be five Government and
five “Labor,” the official figures for the
final count won’t be available for some
time. The reason is simple if the explana-
tion isn't.
Under the system of proportional-
representation now in use in Senate
elections the primary count (which is still
in progress) is merely a kind of pre-
liminary sorting necessary to provide the
raw material for the real count. When
the returning-officers are satisfied that
all the valid ballot-papers have been
classified in accordance with their
No. 1 preferences the real job begins.
Candidates who have obtained a
“quota” in the primary count are auto-
matically elected. The quota is arrived
at by adding one to the quotient
obtained by dividing the total number of
valid ballot-papers by the number of
Senators required, plus one — e.g., valid
ballot-papers, 600,000; Senators re
quired, 10;
quota = 600,000
+ l
11
= 54,546
Naturally the quota varies for each
(Continued on next page.)


For election comment in this issue Dan
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
'
m
1 4202
CRAVEN ~Ai
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specialty w
.
m
i
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION TOR QUALITY
State. In the current election 14,000
votes will be sufficient to elect a Tas-
manian Senator, but in N. S. Wales the
quota will be more like 160,000. After a
candidate has obtained his quota, his
surplus votes are split up among the rest
of the field in accordance with the
second preferences on his ballot-papers.
This is done by apportioning the surplus
votes of the successful candidates among
the “continuing” candidates.
If the distribution of surplus votes
doesn’t result in the election of the re-
quired number of Senators, the candidate
with the lowest number of votes at that
stage is excluded and his second prefer-
ences apportioned. This process is con-
tinued until the 10 vacancies have been
filled.
The system is claimed to be
mathematically sound, though criticism
has been levelled at the method of de-
ciding which of an elected man’s ballot-
papers shall be transferred as “surplus”
and which regarded as “finally dealt
with.” This is done on the instructions
of the Commonwealth Electoral Officer,
by the several divisional returning-
officers, each of whom must take, in re-
spect of each continuing candidate
at random, from the parcel containing the
ballot-papers of the elected candidate which
bear the next available preference for that
continuing candidate, the number of ballot-
papers directed by the Commonwealth
Returning Officer and transfer those ballot-
papers to the continuing candidate.
The criticism is that the papers so
transferred form the basis for the rest of
the count, and the composition of one
parcel taken at random may differ con-
siderably from that of another and from
the general composition of the whole
bundle.
When Dr. Evatt explained the system
to the House in 1948 he quoted the
opinion of the Proportional Representa-
tion Society of England on this point;
“Whenever a considerable number of
votes is in play the element of chance is
so small as to be negligible.”
Tasmania has been using p.r. for its
State elections for over 40 years. It does
not employ the “random” system; all
votes of an elected candidate are ap-
portioned at a “transfer value” equal to
the proportion his surplus votes bear to
his total. Otherwise the principle is the
same. The final decision in some Tas-
manian divisions has been known to
wait on more than 200 counts. That s to
elect six members; for the Senate each
State requires ten.
POLITICAL POINTS
Resolute action by the New Zealand
Government is having its effect on the
Dominion’s waterfront. On Monday new
unions were operating at most of the
smaller ports, as well as in Auckland;
servicemen were still on the wharves in
Wellington. The enrolling of a Civil
Emergency Corps put a stop to the
threatened outbreak of bashings, and the
general mass of sober trade-unionists
seems to be accepting the Government’s
measures as necessary to the defeat of
the Red wreckers.
The Australian Seamen’s Union makes
no secret of the fact that it and other
Red-controlled unions have sent “some
thousands of pounds” across the Tasman
to aid a strike which is not supported by
the governing body of the New Zealand
Labor movement, and, according to one
of the strikers quoted in the “Tribune,”
“the thing that strengthened us more
than any other was the response of Aus-
tralian watersiders.” As. Mr. Holland
has said, “there is not the slightest doubt
that the Communists are pursuing a com-
mon policy of conspiracy and destruc-
tion in both Australia and New Zealand.”
The so-called Democratic Rights Coun-
cil, of Melbourne, cabled to New Zea-
land protesting against the Govern-
ment’s waterfront policy, which they
described as an “outrage to democracy.”
These people seem to be able to work
themselves into white-hot passion when
the “democratic rights” of their Com-
munist friends are in question. There’s
no record of the D.R.C. wiring a protest
to the thugs who beat up the president
of the new Auckland watersiders’ union.
His democratic rights don’t count.
Nancy Wake’s friends will be sorry she
didn’t win Barton. So will some of the
Doc’s caucus friends.
A few weeks ago Clarrie Martin, Mc-
Girr’s Attorney-General, took full credit
for having persuaded Dr. Burton to re-
sign as High Commissioner to Ceylon to
try his luck as a “Labor” candidate for
Lowe. Burton finished up 6000 votes be-
hind Liberal member McMahon. Next
move seems to be up to Clarrie.
The Lang plan to save Australia by
breaking the Senate deadlock didn’t come
off, but the Big Fella’s one-man campaign
brought him a tidy number of votes —
over 60,000, which is several thousands
more than the Communist team polled,
despite their advantage of first position
on the card. Lang’s name was tucked
away at the end among a batch of un-
grouped candidates. Still, 60,000 is a
long way short of the N. S. Wales quota,
which will be more like 160,000.
Bundaberg Barnes, taking a leaf out of
Lang’s book, offered himself to the
Queensland electors as the solution to
the Senate riddle. In fact, he not only
offered himself ; he proved, by newspaper
advertisement, that he simply could not
fail to be elected. His ad. was more com-
plicated than the Senate counting system.
It reproduced a Senate ballot-paper
with, of course, numbers one and two
placed opposite the names of Barnes and
his team-mate, Banko. Numbers three
to eight were placed against the Govern-
ment team and numbers nine to 14
against the “Labor” candidates; another
column showed nine to 14 opposite Gov-
ernment names and three to eight oppo-
site “Labor.” Electors were asked to
cross out the column that didn’t suit their
taste and then use the ad. as a how-to-
vote card. Communist candidates were
given numbers 15 to 20. Other figures
alongside the names were supposed to
prove Barnes’s contention that he must
be among the chosen. He estimated the
number of votes each candidate would
receive, then proceeded by progressive
steps to prove that he would be either
the third or tenth Senator elected. The
only thing wrong with his argument is
that the electors didn’t play their part.
He gave himself 69,000 votes ; the elec-
tors gave him fewer than 7000. In the
case of a difference like that the electors
always win.
Moscow Radio reported on May 6 that
May Day had been celebrated by millions
of people throughout the world in great
demonstrations under the slogans “for a
peace pact,” “for the liquidation of the
imperialist warmongering policy of
Britain, France and the United States”
and for a peaceful settlement of the prob-
lems of Germany and Japan. The word
“peace” was uttered 43 times in a quarter-
hour session—always attached to a sen-
tence conveying hate of everything and
everybody except Soviet Russia, its
satellites and its fifth-columns. The head
of the Russian “peace” delegation which
went to Prague last week to celebrate
Czechoslovakia’s sixth anniversary as a
“liberated” State was that great pacifist
Marshal Koniev.
Isn’t it time the A.L.P. washed its
hands of this silly May Day stunt?
Most States have a Labor Day (or Eight-
Hour or Six-Hour Day) on which trade-
union processions and sports are held.
Why worry about the Moscow crawl?
Cosgrove, “Labor” Premier of Tas-
mania, cut clean across A.C.T.U. policy
as soon as he knew the Federal election
result:
The Commonwealth Government can
depend on the full co-operation of the
Tasmanian Government in the difficult
policy it will be called upon to discharge
in the immediate future.
The A.C.T.U. announced before the
election that it would strive for industrial
peace and general progress only “if a
‘Labor’ Government is elected.”
Victoria’s Chief Secretary Dodgshun
announced last week that all anyone need-
ing cement to finish a home had to do was
apply to the Building Materials Procure-
ment Directorate (what names they give
these outfits!) and get it. Then shoals of
people rushed upon the 8.M.P.D., but
there was no cement. Somebody dis-
covered that the B.M.P.D. had no power
to control it, Dodgshun explained that
what he “meant” to say was that appli-
cants might get cement, muttered some-
thing about overseas supplies arriving
soon and hurriedly changed the subject.
These Spring-street farmers would be
better employed growing spuds.
New wharves over half a mile long,
and costing at least £1,500,000, are to be
built on the Brisbane waterfront at Hamil-
ton. Won’t it be lovely if they can get
someone to work on them?
News item in a Sydney paper:
Inquiries in New South Wales about the
Bureau of Mineral Resources of the Depart-
ment of National Development, which were
previously referred to the Department of
Supply, should now be directed to the
Division of Industrial Development, 119
Phillip-street, Sydney.
Bureaucracy in flower!
Governments have crashed on smaller
issues than that rousing the citizens’ ire
in Melbourne, shortage of winter fire-
wood. The McDonald Government
having fallen down on the job (carried
over from war-time) of making up de-
ficiency in private traders’ supplies, its
Minister for Forests declared it was time
traders took over the whole responsi-
bility. The “Labor” party, by whose sup-
port the Government lives, says it won’t
permit the Government to get out of the
fuel business. The retailers say their
association has asked no more of the
Government than that it should provide
sufficient railway trucks to enable pri-
vate enterprise to get the wood to the
city.
N. S. Wales Transport Minister
Sheahan told Parliament last week that
a Sydney firm which had contracted to
supply large quantities of rolling-stock
for the N. S. Wales railways was a long
way behind in its orders and had given
priority to deliveries for other States. He
claimed that contracts had been let with-
out any provision for penalties for undue
delays. This, he said, showed negligence
on the part of officials somewhere.
Sheahan’s predecessor in the transport
job, Mr. O’Sullivan, protested that the
allegation was a reflection on his adminis-
tration. Sheahan replied that he was not
suggesting that O’Sullivan was respon-
sible :
I have not cast reflections on anybody at
the moment, because the investigations are
not complete, but the facts are there, and
they are stark facts.
As a popular radio star used to say, “I’m
not incineratin’, just remarkin’.”
There appears to be a strong effort
from within N. S. Wales Cabinet to
embarrass Railways Commissioner Gar-
side. So far nothing has been ventilated
that doesn’t reflect more strongly upon
the McGirrs, the Sheahans and the
Cahills who introduced the 40-hour week.
While Sheahan was spouting mud in
all directions he failed to state that the
Commonwealth Engineering Co. (named)
is more than half-owned by the Com-
monwealth Government.
Crown rents of sheep leasehold country
in Queensland will go up by as much as
s|d, an acre for some holdings and £6
a square mile on another when they be-
come due for assessment. This is because
the Government considers value of the
land has increased. In N.S.W. the Gov-
ernment has other ideas; it forcibly
acquires grazing land for soldier-settle-
ment and compensates the owner at 1942
values, sometimes giving him a small
extra amount out of the goodness of its
socialistic heart.
Disputed elections. Last week, as a
result of the preliminary hearing of
charges that Queensland’s Chief Electoral
Officer, B. J. Maguire, had forged ballot-
papers in the Bulimba State election last
year, Maguire was committed for trial.
On Monday the Court of Disputed Re-
turns was still considering allegations of
improper practice in connection with the
Nash seat at the same election, and in
Sydney a similar court commenced hear-
ing evidence of alleged irregularities in
the polling for the Darlinghurst seat in
the N. S. Wales Assembly, won by
Minister for Labor and Industry F. J.
Finnan at the 1950 election.
Reported in London that Colonel
Shaposhnikov, son of the Red Army’s
Chief of Staff during World War 11, has
escaped to the West carrying the plans
for Russia’s invasion of the West
Credible, seeing that (1) the elder Shaposh-
nikov was a field officer in the Tsarist
armies, reputed to have no sympathy with
the Communists, but a lot with his coun-
try ; (2) that the plans which his son is
alleged to have “revealed” had been
pieced together in the West years ago.
In most States Government supporters
voted the party ticket for the Senate, so
that the first candidate in the L.-C.P.
group polled the lion’s share of the votes.
It wasn’t so in Tasmania. There,
Chamberlain, first on the list, scored
22,000; Wright, last on the list, 25,000.
The reason is not hard to find—-north-
south rivalry. Apparently Liberal voters
around the Derwent didn’t see why they
should give their No. 1 vote to a
man from the top of the island when
Hobart citizen Wright was in the team.
In the “Labor” group a similar trend
is seen, but the disparity between the
scores of northerner Morrow and
southerner McKenna is too big for it to
be the only factor—McKenna polled
twice as many votes as Morrow. The
inference is that loyal Laborites sheered
off Morrow because of his Communist
associations. With seven men in the
“Labor” team the final split-up should
be interesting.
Melbourne shipping interests report that
police counter-action on the Melbourne
waterfront has checked cargo-pilfering to
the extent of halving the losses as com-
pared with two years ago. Last year 2243
prosecutions were launched, and Mel-
bourne is now declared to be a safer
place for cargo than it has ever been.


'bee, you pont understanp
Australian conpitions I"
OLD AUSTRALIAN WAYS.
“The general secretary of the Plumbers’ Union has complained to Canberra Trade, and Labor Council that Austrian workmen didn’t know the meaning of
smoke-oh, would not come in when it was raining, and, when the whistle blew, continued to work for many minutes to finish a job in hand. They know nothing
of our hard-won condition,' he added."


m
lii
m
■
ESTABLISHED 1844
KUV mom SAFE!
SANDER!
Correspondence. Invoice*,
statement*. etc., filed In the
"Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
(he end of each month m
any other period.
:
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
MRTtt
W C. F«of old A C» Pty. Lid.
* Sormaß Bros Pty. Lid.
Vardan A Eon* Lid.
0 OtcEei Book C* (Aug
I
. . each secure in the
knowledge that radio’s in-
visible lifelines link with the shore.
A decade before domestic broadcasting
began, A.W.A. commenced the research
and industry which have contributed so
vitally to the increased safety of life at
jea.
To-day modem marine radio installa-
tions, meeting the rigid standards of
International Regulations, are built,
maintained and operated for the
Australian Mercantile Marine by
A.W.A.—pioneers of Australian
Wireless —Makers of the finest
in Radio.
Si
r—
W.
V\
O
U* vK ! aw**
K
W.
Business. Rollery. etc.
Five-shilling Shares
Though the Australian pound
has, on the admission of all
authorities, sunk to below 10s.
in purchasing-power since 1939,
the depreciation has not been
reflected in an increase to £2 in
the par value of the general run
of new share issues. On the
contrary, the “five-bob” share
has become more of a habit
than ever.
Sometimes there may be a
good reason for the issue of
shares in ss. denominations, A
private company, for instance,
seeking to convert into a public
company for taxation purposes
may be handicapped from the
start by the fact that it has only
a small capital—say £lOO,OOO,
To offer £20,000 or £30,000 in
£1 shares to the public might not
result in a wide enough spread
of the shares to satisfy the direc-
tors. Investors and speculators
being what they are, it might be
easier for a sharebroker to
satisfy a client by letting him
have 400 ss. shares than by
allotting him 100 £1 shares. And
smaller fry can be given 100 ss.
shares, whereas 25 £1 shares
would be too awkward for the
company’s secretary to handle,
and a “broken parcel” from the
Stock Exchange point of view.
In such cases the five-shilling
share is of considerable value. It
serves an obvious, helpful pur-
pose from the company-adminis-
tration point of view. But the
same can hardly be said of the
conversion from £1 to 5s .shares
in the case of Coles or Wool-
worths, to name but two very
large public companies which
have been listed on ’Change for
20 years or thereabouts.
The conversion in these two
cases seems to have been
prompted by the fact that the £1
shares were so much appreci-
ated by the market that they
were rising to very high prices.
Thus Coles ss. shares, now
quoted at 285., are the equiva-
lent, on the market, of £5 J2s.
for a £1 share, with Wool-
worths on a similar basis.
It is certain that shares in
these cos, at £5 or over would
dfds
“We demand they spend the maternity bonus on better
nappies instead o’ lottery tickets!”
not be so readily negotiable as
they are at around 285,, and the
tendency would have been for
them to gravitate into fewer and
wealthier hands, and at a pro-
portionately lower price than
that quoted today.
Several of the Broken Hill
mines have for the same reason
been forced to convert into low-
par-value shares.
The reason for issuing ss.
shares in many cases other than
examples quoted is less justifi-
able or obvious. Why, for ex-
ample, did Mainguard, a new
finance co. floated as a public
concern from the start, issue
4,000,000 ss. ords. in order to
raise £1,000,000? Or Australian
Foundation Investment Co, a
similar number for a similar
amount?
Apparently both these con-
cerns, being investment
specialists, were from the outset
interested in the marketability
of their scrip. It is definitely a
function of investment com-
panies and the like to bring in-
vestments generally within the
reach of the small man. By
making 100 shares available, at
flotation, for £25 they have no
doubt helped to do this.
Whilst these ss. shares are
bought on the market at prices
in accord with the income re-
ceived from them they perform
the function credited to them in
a satisfactory way. But where
they are bought as market
speculators they usually result in
the genuine investor, buying on
the open market, in having to
pay too high a price for the in-
come he seeks to obtain.
It would be plainly absurd for
a share of ss. par-value to yield
4 p.c. while a £1 share of simi-
lar earning-power, div. and
other merits returned 5 p.c. But
there is undoubtedly a tendency
for this sort of thing to happen
—not so much amongst finance
cos, perhaps as amongst indus-
trial stocks.
The increased gambling factor
attached to ss. shares is perhaps
best illustrated when the “slag-
ging” of new issues begins. A
ss. share placed at 7s. 6d. will
often rise within a few days to
15s. But a £1 share put on the
market at 30s. rarely leaps in a
few days to 60s. It often takes
months in such a case for a £1
share to reach its maximum
price. Which is indicative of the
investor’s (or speculator’s)
reaction to the two classes of
shares.
Hardware Companies
Malleys, Ltd., is the latest
N. S. Wales builders’ hardware
concern to announce a bonus
issue. It will hand out one new
free share for every two, provid-
ing the wherewithal from share-
premiums reserve and assets-
revaluation. Swans, Ltd., made
a similar issue in March from
similar sources, and Frederic
Ash, Ltd., made a four-for-five
issue prior to the public issue
a few weeks ago. Ash’s bonus
shares were mostly placed with
the public at 375. 6d. each. G.
E. Crane and Sons, Ltd,, with the
highest ord.-share earning ratio,
has so far made no recent bonus
issue, but last year 43,238 £1
ords. (one for four) were offered
at par, and pref. capital was
doubled. Capital, etc., details
of the four cos.:
Ord.
Earn- Ord.
Capital.* ings,f Div.,
p.c. p.c.
Malleys:
Ord £637,500 12.1 10
Pref. (9 p.c.) 30,000
Swans:
Ord 301,065 14.4 15
Pref. (6 p.c.) 25,000
F. Ash:
Ord 270,000 19.2 10
G. E. Crane:
Ord 216,188 31.1 12£
Pref. (5 p.c.) 200,000
* Allowing for bonus issue, f Ratio
of last profit to increased capital.
Last week Malleys’ ords., cum
rights, were at 595., Swans’ {ex
issue) at 625., Frederic Ash’s at
48s. 6d. and Cranes’ at 87s. 6d.
Earning-rates and divs. in the
foregoing table are based on
trading results up to mid-1950,
with ratios to present or pro-
posed capital. Earnings in all
cases are likely to increase
during the current term. James
Sandy Industries (B. 7/3/’5l), a
recent listing, in 1950 earned 10
p.c, on its present £270,000 of
paid capital. Its ss. shares are
at 10s. on ’Change.
F. J. Walker, Ltd.
The parent co., F, J. Walker
Pty., was formed in Sydney in
1920 to take over the meat-
export business of the firm of
F. J. Walker and Co., estab-
lished in 1910. Since then the
parent has acquired the shares in
Australian Chilling and Freezing
Co., Australian Wool and Produce
Co., Australian Natural Gut Mfg.
Co., Commercial Freezing Co., Hunter
River Meat Preserving Co., Metro-
politan Meat Co., Sydney Meat Pre-
serving Co., Walker Trading Co. and
Waterside Cold Stores Pty.
An offer of 450,000 ord. stock
units of 10s. each is being made
through Melbourne broker J. T.
Vinton Smith at 13s. lOd. each.
Total capital is £1,000,000 in
10s. ord. stock units.
Preceding this issue there was
a revaluation of assets, elimina-
tion of goodwill from the
books, and a bonus-share issue.
Net tangible assets on present
book-values amount to 12s. 9d.
for each 10s. stock unit. At
valuers’ full figures they “ex-
ceed the issue price of 13s. lOd.”
Average net profits for the
past seven years amount to 9.13
p.c. on capital. In 1950 the rate
was 15.3 p.c.
“Assuming a dividend of
p.c. for the year ending June 30,
1951,” says the memorandum,
“the net cost of each stock-unit,
allowing for charges and ac-
crued dividend, is approxi-
mately 13s. Bd. On this basis
the yield is 5£ p.c.”
Wool prices have had some-
thing to do with recent higher
profits, but the average over the
past seven years justifies pros-
pects of at least a p.c. div.
Tax-free reserves now existing
would be enough to pay half
such a div. tax-free for five
years.
* * ♦ ♦
Thirlwell and McKenzie
rights moved off steadily last
week at 11s. to 11s. 3d. The
“old” shares were sold at 325.,
to return 3.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. Last year’s earnings were
equal to 10 p.c. on average capi-
tal for the period. There has
been an increase in paid capital
since, and now a further issue
is being made. When all the
new money is in the share-
register total will be £681,000,
all but £6OOO of it in ord. capi-
tal. The co. has extensive en-
gineering interests in Port
Kembla and Wollongong. Its
finances are handled conserva-
tively, and it may take two or
three years for the capital to be
ploughed into the business in a
fully remunerative way. Once
the expansion is consolidated,
however, the waiting should be
worth while.


f GOODYEAR
' TYRES
HAVE CHANGED
TOO!
wmm
1915
fds
In the development of motor trans-
portation, tyres have played an 1951
important part and none more
than Goodyear Tyres. Out of Goodyear’s unparalleled
experience in building tyres have comfe many historic
improvements resulting in greater tyre safety, longer
mileage and comfort. Goodyear Tyres today are dramatic
evidence of Goodyear’s ability to give you the finest tyres
it is possible to build.
Again in 1951 . . . as in every year for the last 36
years, more people, the world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
GOODYEAR
H.M
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
. ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £BOO,OOO.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
KMI4
FONDE
EN 1724
RE MY
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
rw*
a my Gtn
in crepe-de-chine,
A joy-ride in a limousine,
A "throw” of Cupid’s loaded dice,
A plunge for pearls-at-any-price;
A sudden sneeze, a parting pair,
A chill caught in the wintery air,
An anxious ma, a maid demure,
A dose of Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure.
Telephone:
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F.E
. De groot
Dealer in Antiques and Worhj of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
QUIZH
DO YOU
KNOW THE
ANSWERS
Hi
&
YOU
how
k ‘TACKI3T'
Q. Is insulation of homes in Australia really
necessary?
A. Most certainly. Homes that are Insulated show
average drops in Summer temperatures up to 15 .
In Winter, warmth Is kept INSIDE the home and
does not escape through walls and roof* Insulation
saves up to 40% 1“ fuel.
O. Can old homes, as well as new ones
be insulated without trouble and expense.
A. Yes. There's no trouble or extra expense to
Insulate homes already built.
Q. Does home insulation add greatly to the cost
of building a home?
4. No! It's relatively cheap. The average cost of
home Insulation is approx, £3 per square.
9.
4.
9-
4.
Is home insulation a
necessary part in the
in U.S.A.?
■•must" as a vitally
building of every home
Yes. Home Insulation Is a "MUST" In U.5.A.
keeps the home livable, healthy and saves money
fuel.
It
la
Do Australian architects and builders favour
home insulation?
Yesl The foremost architects and builders consider
home Insulation a "must" and recommend It!
HOME
fds
INSULATION
Please send this FREE BOOKLET
BRADFORD INSULATION (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
66-72 RESERVOIR STREET. SYDNEY
TEL: MA9311
NAM E
ADDRESS.
y
mat do
yo»
about
HomelßSttlai«»4
b m
John Vicars & Co.
The business was founded in
Sydney by John Vicars in 1873.
In 1895 the factory was shifted
to its present site at Marrick-
ville, on 8| acres of ground.
Here greasy wool is converted
into finished cloth by 1050
hands. There are freehold
branch factories at Bulli and
Oatley, and a leasehold at St,
Mary’s. The branches employ
340 people. The co. also owns
Merino House, York-street,
Sydney, as well as the majority
of the shares in Dundas Wool-
len Mills Pty. and Camden
Worsted Mills Pty. These two
subsidiaries employ 180 hands
between them.
John Vicars and Co. also
holds a 48 p.c. interest in Syd-
ney Woollen Mills, Parramatta.
In 1948 it sold a 51 p.c. interest
in this co. to Carpet Manufac-
turers, Ltd.
Vicars last week offered
254,403 new £1 ords. at a
premium of 10s. to a highly-
receptive market. The new issue
will carry paid capital up to
£1,350,000, of which £300,000 is
in 4| p.c. cum. prefs.
The co. and its subsidiaries at
July 31 had current assets of
£1,604,347 (stocks, £1,229,157),
fixed assets with a book-value of
£790,387, investments in the
books at £102,370, liabilities, tax
reserve and provisions for divi-
dends of £894,464.
Net tangible assets on this
basis amounted (allowing for
new capital and share premiums)
to 31s. 7d. per ord. share. But
on recent independent valuation
of freeholds and investments net
tangibles amount to 425. 4d. per
ord. share.
Net. profits for 1946, allowing
for pref. divs., were the equiva-
lent of 7.3 p.c. on present ord,
capital; 8 p.c. in 1947, 7.8 p.c.
in 1948, 11 p.c. in 1949 and 17.8
p.c. in 1950, Ord. divs. have
been 5£ p.c. for the past three
years, part tax-free (last year 1
p.c. tax-free).
The prospectus says that the
“present intention is to pay
ordinary dividends at a rate of
5 p.c. p.a. (after consideration of
profits earned) wholly from tax-
free profits.” (Tax-free reserves
total £374,565.) Obviously the
management is very conservative.
Perhaps it has an eye to wool
stocks and prices. It was edu-
cated in the business when times
were much tougher than today.
New Zealand Newsprint
Maorilanders blinked and
rubbed their eyes when £l4 mil-
lion sterling was chalked up in
April as the cost of founding a
Government - sponsored inte-
grated sawmill, pulp-mill and
newsprint-mill at Murupara to
convert long-fibre softwood from
the great Kaingaroa State
forest, in the heart of the North
Island, into new sources of
wealth for New Zealand. In
scale the venture will dwarf all
other N.Z. industrial enterprises
and forge the key to profitable
export markets. Along with
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
Maoriland’s £7 million timber
combine, the new concern will
share in founding a great new
industry. But there’s a vast pro-
gramme of spending ahead be-
fore the day of achievement
dawns.
This £l4 million, it should be
noted, is less than half the total
projected outlay, for another
£l4 million will have to be sunk
in national assets, railways, a
new deep-water port, roads,
hydroelectric facilities, rolling-
stock and equipment, which the
State will have to build before
private enterprise will be in a
position to cash-in. This makes
£2B million. Then there’s nearly
a further £5 million that Forest
Products will have to find for its
mills and plant, on top of the
fortune it has had to pour out
already in the long, slow grind
to get into harness. There’s a
grand total of £33 million.
Private enterprise isn’t con-
cerned with the cost of the
national assets —that’s up to the
Government —but when it comes
to industry the Government will
take a back seat. The idea is
that it should be ready to find
up to 15 p.c. of the share capi-
tal, appoint one director and
leave the rest to private effort.
Judging by the announcement,
half the capital for the £l4 mil-
lion co. will be in shares and
the balance in debentures. The
planners figure out that Maori-
landers should be able to take
up 15 p.c. of the shares, equal
to their Government’s invest-
ment, and that the lion’s share,
around 70 p.c., will be placed
abroad. This means that M.L, is
counting on overseas investors
for close on £5 million of share
funds, apart from debenture
moneys, of which it is figured
the bulk will also come from
outside.
An annual output of 50,000
tons of newsprint and 70 mil-
lion board-feet of sawn timber
is aimed at.
For the thousands of Aus-
tralians who have an interest in
Forest Products the main com-
parison is the size of the news-
print mills. F.P. expects to turn
out 60,000 tons annually, which
will give it a slight lead, and
holds a contract to ship 12,500
tons of pulp a year to Australian
Newsprint Mills, to give the Tas-
manian mills a proportion of 80
p.c. hardwood pulp and 20 p.c.
N.Z. long-fibre material.
Adding the estimated output
of the two mills together, total
N.Z. newsprint production
should be 110,000 tons yearly.
Most of this will be shipped for
export, with Australia as the
chief buyer, and, if everything
works out according to plan,
trans - Tasman trade, today
heavily against N.Z., should be
tilted back sharply towards a
balance. Outsize dollar savings
will be among the gains.
In operation there should be
plenty of scope for co-operation
between public and private
enterprise, what with the State,
as owner of the main forest, con-
trolling the source for the raw
material, guaranteeing the power
to run the mills, and, finally, at
the marketing end, controlling
the transport network.
The only estimates of profits
so far attempted set a range be-
tween seven and ten per cent.,
after tax, according to the trend
of costs and the extent to which
unforeseen obstacles are met
with.
Construction bottlenecks in
Maoriland’s tight labor market
don’t help costs these days, and
there’s a scramble for scarce
materials, too, with national-
development projects bidding
strongly for men and everything
else, and, although it can be
taken for granted that news-
print, pulp and timber will rank
high in demands ahead, this
won’t give them a free run when
every major undertaking in hand
is of first-rate importance. More
population is the answer to
quicken the tempo of indus-
trialisation, but N.Z. took a long
time in following Australia’s
lead in this direction.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Clooter”: Be careful! If you have
a horse or a wife or any other domestic
creature with a propensity for leaping
over hedges at passers-by, and that pro-
pensity is known to you, then you may
well be under a duty to keep the wife
or the horse or whatever it is tethered.
I sound this warning because of a case
in England, wherein a motor-cyclist was
riding along a road “when a mare
jumped over a hedge bordering the high-
way, descended on the motor-bicycle and
injured the plaintiff.” Plaintiff failed in
a claim for damages because he could not
prove that the owner was aware of any
such “propensities” on the part of the
mare. This came to my knowledge by
courtesy of the Queensland Cane
Growers’ Council, which has circulated
all sugargrowers with the information,
and the only conclusion I can come to
is that the council suspects some of its
members may have horses, wives or other
domestic creatures which, “though not
savage, may be dangerous because of
frolicksome behavior” and may choose
to jump a hedge just when the moment is
inopportune for all parties save the legal
gentlemen. It seems to be a matter for
the Road Safety Council.
♦ * * ♦
“Ceg”: In these days of ball-point pens
and fountain-pens a nice point can easily
arise in the little matter of witnessing
wills. When the signatures of the testator
and the witnesses appear in inks of
different color, the Registrar of Probates
sometimes calls for affidavits that the
three signatures were made as required
by law, i.e., signed by the testator in the
presence of the two witnesses who must
sign in the presence of the testator and
each other. Apparently the official mind
cannot envisage that each of the three
parties could possibly be possessed of a
pen each, instead of a penny bottle of
ink and steel nib, to be shared and used
by all of them. As a matter of further
interest, when there are pinholes in the
sheet of paper on which the will is written,
the Registrar is accustomed to call for
an explanation as to what document was
pinned to the will and the facts surround-
ing its removal.
* * * *
“Gerard”: Reading of the Hotel
Kosciusko fire, my ’teenage daughter re-
marked “I wonder what became of the
trout?” While staying at the hotel the
trout, enclosed in a glass case, attracted
her attention because of the inscription
“killed by ” instead of “caught by
She was told by a rather super-
cilious doctor from overseas, “My dear,
game is always killed, and trout is game.”
Anyway, whether or not the trout was
killed or caught, it must now be cooked.
♦ * * *
“Sackville”: Novelist Hall Caine once
made what could have been a far-reaching
blunder with a name (B. 4/4/’5l). Seek-
ing a suitable name for the principle
character in his book The Deemster, his
aim was to use a monicker that implied
the qualities expected in a judge. Many
were carefully considered, and rejected;
but finally he invented a surname which,
it seemed to him, suggested the character
of a deemster. Years later Caine revisited
the scenes of his boyhood days on the
“But We couldn't possibly miss our serials.”
Isle of Man. He found the old cemetery
in which he used to play, and even recog-
nised an old weather-worn tombstone
that, with a kid’s lack of respect, he had
used as a vaulting-horse. It was while
looking at this he realised with a shock
that he had done the very thing all writers
strive to avoid. The lettering identified
dle deceased as an ex-deemster—and he
had borne the same name as Caine’s
character! Memory must have uncon-
“Locked out!”
sciously supplied the name which the
novelist thought he invented.
* * * *
“El Verdugo” on election-eggs:
The great streamer-headings under which the
Sydney Press purveyed the news that somebody
had thrown a badly-aimed egg at Mr. Menzies,
and that a man had actually been frogmarched
out of one of his meetings, shows what a sissy
lot our electors have become in the last thirty
years. I have seen eggs in showers hit a plat-
form under which I have crawled with the
candidate. I have seen bluemetal hurled through
a train window at Billy Hughes. I saw, at
Kelvin Grove in Brisbane, four Ministers driven
to take shelter from about two hundredweight
of metal screenings. I remember a meeting in
Townsville after which the hiring committee had
to fork out £2OO to replace damaged chairs, and
I remember another from which I returned with
T, J. Ryan, the only Australian to hold seats
in two Parliaments at the same time —Victoria
and South Australia —at Enoggera Terrace
(Brisbane), where he had been challenged by
Jqck Fihelly (“England is the land of cant,
humbug and hypocrisy”) to speak at his peril.
Ryan went down to the back of the hall and
spoke from there, where, he said, “he was
inside their sights, and they couldn’t aim at
him.” When we left they loaded one vehicle
with enough eggs and tomatoes to bring down
the price in the Sydney markets, the parting
shot, which hit the driver, consisting of some-
thing that looked like the entrails of a
myxomatosised rabbit wrapped up in a National-
(Liberal-) party poster. Queensland is losing its
punch; Spring Hill has gone decadent.
* * * #
“Patterpuss”: Propaganda, “Dol-
metcher” (B. 18/4/’5l), wasn’t confined
to war-time. We left England in 1938
for Germany, our ears ringing with
friends’ warnings that we’d never get
enough to eat. Fleet-street abetted this
view with articles on the German short-
age of food. In a Bavarian roadside
guesthouse three of us ordered lamb. The
innkeeper put an entire lamb on the
table, a tureen of soup (about three gal-
lons) and a few armfuls of sundries I
can’t recall. “Eat as much as you like,”
he said. It cost us Is. 6d. each. In
restaurants sandwiches, the good old
Continental variety piled about 6in. high
on your plate, cost 6d. We ate in Ger-
man homes, too, and the food consump-
tion was enormous. When we got back
to England we had a restaurant meal —a
microscopic piece of tough beef, two
small pieces of potato and some cab-
bage. Price, Is. 6d. A billboard across
the street said “German Food Crisis.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: Probably few Australians of
today know what a five-corner tastes
like; it once was the most popular of
the bush fruits. Housewives used to
make a jam-jelly from it; lots of people
liked its woody flavor. Light, a green-
grocer, who did a big business in Oxford-
street, Paddington (N.S.W.), used to buy
all the small boys could bring him; as a
special incentive he offered a prize of
10s. for the lad who brought in the largest
quantity in the season. Most of the
gathering was done in the wild bush that
spread over Bellevue Hill 50 years ago.
Two years running the prize was won
by a young Yid who offered other boys
a farthing a pound more for their gather-
ings than did Light; against the combined
tallies, when he put them in, other com-
petitors had no chance. The young
exploiter became a doctor with a big
reputation ; he’d have made a fortune in
“pizziness.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: Those who demand the han-
ning of foreign speech in public places
and have objected to New Australians of
Czech nationality publishing their own
paper unless it is in English might take
a lesson from the stationmaster of the
Richmond (Vic.) railway-station. Having
four N.As. detailed to his staff presented
a problem. He couldn’t speak their
languages and they didn’t know English,
so he set out to learn German. That set
them learning English, and now they can
all converse together in either language.
Richmond has a high reputation for
friendly service.
* # ♦ •
“Melb’n”: A couple of large round
objects fell off a truck in St. Kilda-road
and the traffic stopped like magic. A
dozen car-doors opened and the undigni-
fied spectacle was presented of gents and
ladies of all classes racing to be first in
on the booty—cauliflowers, now higher-
priced than orchids.
* * * *
“Terence L.”: Persuaded by the
missus, I slipped into the bargain
enclosure of the cash-and-carry to pick
up a tube or so of toothpaste which the
store was—according to my wife and a
newspaper notice
—unloading at a
dreadful loss to
its shareholders.
Obviously there
were others of my
wife’s persuasion,
for my mission
was fruitless.
Empty - handed
and trailing my
brief-case, I
breasted the
ohecker-out- cum-
cashier’s window and told her that I had
nothing to declare. The lady craned her
swan-like neck in the direction of my
brief-case. Her eyes met mine in a kind
of challenge. At that precise moment a
large tin of processed fish escaped the
over-laden dilly-bag of a portly matron
immediately behind me, and fell clattering
to the floor. As I made my undignified
escape from the suspicious gaze of the
alert cashier I could not escape the
fantastic feeling that she felt I had
panicked and dropped the accusing
burden. In future my wife hunts her
own bargains.
“Kali”; With chops at 4s, a pound I
decided to buy a rabbit. “You’re lucky,”
said the butcher. “Only one left.” As
he put it on the scales and whispered
“Two-bob,” the bunny slipped and went
into the sawdust on file floor. “Sorry,”
he said. “Now only good for dogs’-
meat,” ostentatiously throwing the
cadaver into the scrap-tin. I bought
chops, after all, and they looked as if
they had been cut from an N.T, buffalo.
Three minutes later I passed the shop
again. The proprietor was disappearing
out the back door carrying a sawdust-
covered body. I stuck around, and in
another minute there was again a rabbit
for sale. Thinking it over, perhaps u
was very good salesmanship*
ZONING.
“For example: You have found in the past that
you are blacked-out when it is announced that power
will be interrupted in St. Peters. Refer to the
zoning-list. St. Peters is in Zone B. You now know
that, although St. Peters may not necessarily be your
postal address, you are in Zone B.” — Advertisement
of Sydney County Council Electricity Undertaking.
“Officially Zone A was to have carried the blackout
burden from 7 a.m. until 9 p.m.; but in practice
every one of the five zones was affected.”
■—“S.M.H”
The Sydney voice was brisk in tone
“I’ll now proceed to find my zone.
“Take Sydney Council’s heaven-sent
Electrical advertisement,
In which, perhaps, my suburb may
Be entered under Column A.
If not, look under Column B,
And if not there, look under C,
And D —ah, there! I’m under E.
“And now a short confabulation
Upon the weekly tabulation —
Yes, here it is, in Monday’s row — ,
Zone E—no; that’s a month from now —
Zone E —ah, there it is—next Friday . . .
“The light’s gone out —this isn’t my day!
Here, light a candle. Look again—
This paragraph should make it plain:
“ ‘lf blackouts come when not expected,
Don’t sit around and look dejected-
The place you think you’re hailing from
May well not be your current home:
When you’re blacked-out, then you’ll begin
To understand what zone you’re in.’
“Ah, that’s where I was led astray,
I’m not Zone E; I’m in Zone A:
My home’s in Darling Point, that’s true,
But, oh, my heat’s in Waterloo!
It seems I lead a double life —
I hope nobody tells my wife . . .
“Are those the evening papers, dear?
Why, 100k —see what they’re saying here:
The council’s energetic toilers
Worked so hard they burst their boilers,
Exchanging Sydney’s zoned rigidity
For zones of equalised frigidity:
It’s just a blackout. I’m resigned-
I feared it was the mental kind.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A Solicitor to draw
your WILL . . .
.
\
w
%
\\
■
\\
a Trustee
to safeguard your Estate
Only an experienced person can hope to
contend with the complicated problems
and other aspects of a Will and the
administration of an Estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, your obligations
to your family or other beneficiaries can
be honoured only by your care now.
The Permanent Trustee Company offers
you the sage counsel of over sixty years’
experience as Executors and Trustees;
offers you the stability and protection of
over £1,000,000 in uncalled capital and
assets.
Avoid unnecessary risks; enjoy peace of
mind and ensure security of your
interests now and always. Appoint the
Permanent Trustee Company as your
Executor and Trustee.
For full details, call in and interview one
of our Executive Officers in confidence
and without obligation; or write for our
free booklet—" Trust Estates and Their
Management,”
BOARD OF Wmi tiWIWJ
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
C. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM., F.RA.CS,
J. R, FavieU. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
COMPANY OF N.S.W. MMTTED
23-25 O’Connell St.. Sydney
pt.m.is
“C. 8.”: There were two widely differ-
ing examples of desecration on Anzac
Day in Melbourne in the vicinity of the
Shrine, which bears the inscription “Let
all men know that this is holy ground.”
A girl in slacks followed the procession
into the building, to be politely but firmly
told that slacks were barred, and a boy
was induced by a sozzled spectator to
dive into the Pool of Reflection for a
£1 bet. He got his £1 and a reprimand
from a Shrine guard and tempter and
tempted walked off crestfallen, the boy
having offered to put his booty into the
Shrine collection-box.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Changing trains at Granville
(N.S.W.) one morning in 1943, I was
approached by toe blackest negro I ever
saw, in American Army uniform.
“Pordon me,” he drawled. “Kin yo tell
me where Ah gets the train to War-wick
Farm? Ah’s been since two a.m. this
mornin’ tryin’ to get to War-wick Farm,
and Ah’s been every else place but!”
I managed to hide my grin, “Oh, you’ll
have to catch a Liverpool train,” I in-
formed him. The black face wrinkled in
comical perplexity. “Ah doan’ know,”
he said, scratching his kinky head. “They
all looks the same to me.” I got the
impression he thought a Liverpool train
was some special type. Pointing to toe
indicator-board I told him hurriedly:
“When you see ‘Liverpool’ up there the
train is yours,” and jumped on my train
as it was starting. I was half-way to
Parramatta before toe thought struck me:
perhaps that was the poor devil’s trouble
—he couldn’t read!
* sH * *
“Willpar”; For several years a friend
had been requesting his landlord to carry
out long-overdue repairs to his house,
but without success. The limit was
reached when toe floor of the upstairs
bathroom fell into the kitchen. My friend
“Try to restrain yourself until you've paid for it, dear."
called in the health-inspector, who, being
suitably shocked, assured him of immedi-
ate action. So atomic was the council’s
action that, after some months had passed,
the injured party corncluded that this
strategy also had failed. There was only
one solution; his bank rallied round
and he bought the place. Within a
week of toe purchase it arrived —a letter
instructing the new owner to affect certain
listed repairs within a certain period or
be subject to prosecution.
* * « *
“A.L.D.”: The regimes that the makers
of United Italy overthrew had a far
greater degree of support than is popu-
larly supposed (B. 18/4/’5l). The
Risorgimento was really the work of a
minority, headed by the House of Savoy
and enjoying the moral support of Eng-
“ Whacko! Wall-to-Wall carpets and a new Jaguar !”
land and the practical assistance of
France. The “blacks,” as adherents of
toe old regimes were called, never became
devoted to the House of Savoy, though
they were natural supporters of a
monarchial system. Sir Charles Petrie,
an English historian who knows Italy
well, considers that in toe plebiscite held
after World War II many “blacks” voted
for a republic through their lingering dis-
like of the House of Savoy. As an ex-
ample of the endurance of feeling in
favor of the dispossessed regime he cites
in Chapters of Life the experience of a
friend of his during World War 11. On
entering a Sicilian town with advancing
Allied troops he found the Fascist
slogans that formerly had adorned it had
been replaced with Viva 111 Borbone —
toe old dynasty which the House of
Savoy had replaced.
* * * *
“Findy”: Thirty-odd years ago a school
text-book, Arnold’s Shilling Composition,
published among other examples of
toe common misuse of words a
sentence taken from a newspaper:
“Electors should ponder over this ques-
tion before entering the ballot-box.” It
pointed out that what the writer meant
to say was “before entering the polling-
booth,” Whoever wrote the election
advertisements for the Liberal party in
New South Wales this year obviously
never read Arnold’s. One of his efforts
included a “How to Vote” card, with the
instructions “Cut it out....take it to
the ballot-box and copy it faithfully.”
“Lao-dah”: I see that, like Mecca,
Rome, Lourdes and other holy places,
India’s most sacred shrine is falling to
the march of progress. It is on the slopes
of Badrinath, a 23,190 ft. peak in the
Himalayas. Almost half-way up, clinging
to the precipitous sides of toe mountain,
is a venerated temple to Vishnu, second
of toe Hindu triad. This kindly, genial
patron of the wealthy classes is painted
black and has four arms; he rides the
Garuda, half-man and half-bird, and his
rites are free from bloodshed. Thou-
sands of pilgrims climb to his shrine
every year. Soon, thanks to the Indian
Ministry of Communications, they will
be able to ring up their wives when they
get there, cables having been laid across
the snow-clad ranges to link up Bad-
rinath by long-distance phone with the
rest of Hindustan; and the route there
will be lit by electric-light so that fierce
rakshashas won’t snatch away the faithful.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Some months ago, during
the phony “peace” campaign, Mel-
bourne City Council refused use of the
Town Hall for a “peace” meeting, where-
upon the Communist-led builders’ union
“pulled” all its men off City Council jobs
and kept them off, thereby holding up
vital works. Now the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers, whose Melbourne branch
is plentifully sprinkled with Reds and
fellow-travellers, has been refused use of
the same hall for “a meeting to discuss
the difficulties under which Australian
writers have to work today.” Melbourne
may now presumably expect to see all
members of the F.A.W. “pulled” out and
will thereby go short of the mental
stimulus served up by the “number of
distinguished Australian writers” who
wanted, according to Frank I. Hardy, to
hold the meeting. Still, as the blow will
fall —if at all —in the first month of the
football season, I doubt if Melbourne will
worry,
* * * *
“Rann”: Our O.C, troop-train was a
martinet, and when we pulled into a
small North Queensland station for the
lunch stop he posted provosts on all the
station exits and
refused to allow
anyone to make a
dash for the local
pub. A couple of
hard - headed
veterans who
managed to dodge
the guards re-
ported on their
return that Bung
had suffer e d
worse than we
had. In anticipa-
tion of the rush
that he had experienced from a train the
day before, when the troops had been
given open slather, he had lined up
dozens of bottles of beer on the counter,
all with the tops off. We never learned
what happened to that beer, but I often
have visions of the whole town enjoy-
ing one glorious binge.
* * * *
“Tulip” (Holland): Tell “Bo” (B.
31/17*51) he should come to the Hague
if he wants to see natty dustbins. Here
they have a standardised dustbin specially
designed for use with a fully-enclosed
dust-cart. The full tin is stood on a small
platform at the back of the truck and,
on pulling a lever, it is upended, auto-
matically emptying its contents as the
lid is raised. The trucks have facilities
for three at a time, and when the back
part of the truck is full the whole body
is tilted in the air to move the contents
to the front part. It’s an ingenious idea,
and - there is very little mess. For this
reason the dustbins don’t seem to get
the drastic bashing customary back home.
Si! * * *
“Also”: I respected the O.C. of our
supply detachment in Syria for his con-
scientiousness, but there were times I felt
he was too regimental. I came across a
two-gallon jar of S.R.D. not shown on
the stock-sheets. With an appalling lack
of initiative I mentioned it to the 0.C.,
together with several excellent sug-
gestions for its disposal. He immediately
ordered it to be written on to stock. The
remarks of the rest of the detachment,
with particular reference to my lack of
foresight, were unprintable.
A HAZARD.
“It has never yet been psychologically explained
why, generally speaking, the well-nourished political
candidate is more popular than the thin one.
—Radio speaker. j
You can be an arrant skiter ,
Or an evil-tempered “biter,”
A boring sort of blighter
Roaring any kind of rant,
A wretched “speechifier” 1
And a bold and barefaced liar;
A spiritless replier,
A peddler, too, of cant.
Your contentions may have looseness,
Not to mention plain obtuseness,
Be delivered with djffuseness
And a minimum of gump-
Tion. All this may be forgiven
If you don’t seem overdriven;
If you look as if you’ve thriven
And are comfortably plump.
There’s a deeply-held suspicion
That the skinny politician
Might develop an ambition
Of a rather fiery brand;
That, from being a legislator
He’d become a confiscator
Of your rights, a true dictator,
Keen to show the master-hand.
Such have energy to spur them
And a restlessness to stir them;
So constituents will prefer them
(Whether from office or from farm)
To be fat and soporific
And in consequence pacific
Of ideas not too prolific—
Thus they’ll do the lesser harm.
Who else but a beginner
Would select to have his dinner
Where the waiters all were thinner
Than the downpipe on the wall?
Well, isn’t it so much fitter
That a Treasury-benches sitter
Be an opulent-looking “critter”
Smacking of the banquet-hall,
For his swelling corporation
(Though bespeaking some inflation)
Seems a true symbolisation—
And you’ll see the parallel—
Of the public-purse condition
That there’s never a suspicion
That it’s lacking in nutrition.
And, in short, that ail is swell.
There may be a fascination.
Too, in watching the pulsation
Of his bulk, the perspiration
As he waves a frenzied fin
At the mob around him gawking.
At the swaying, while he’s walking,
Or at amplifier talking
Of his double-double chin.
Still, there is another reason
Why the fat cove they will seize on
During any open season.
You will hear it then, I beg:
Won’t the pear-shaped street-debater
Make a target for the greater
For the virulent spectator
Who may hurl the ancient egg?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“J. Want”: That innocent, wide-eyed
old lady who signs herself “Granny” on
the front page of “S. M. Herald” is
puzzled how a rabbit could appear at
Glenfield (N.S.W-), just beyond Liverpool,
obviously diseased with myxomatosis
when the nearest point at which inocu-
lations have been made is Moss Vale, more
than 50 miles away. For the information
of “Granny” rabbits have —if one may
mention such indelicate objects to the
heirs to the Fairfax proprieties—
legs which on occasion they can use
with remarkable effectiveness and en-
durance, even when sick and tired. It
seemed to be no trouble at all to Bunny
to walk to Central Australia in the
drought years of the early ’twenties, and
he kept on walking even when he was
reduced to eating the bark off the local
mulga, which is as tough and dry as a
ss. Pitt-street steak. I remember well see-
ing an optical illusion in the middle of
the Barkly Tablelands, miles from a tree
and standing up on a bare cattle camp,
in the mirage like a lion for size. Seizing
our .303 we set out after the fearsome
animal only to find that the clear, dry
light which often makes a crow in the
distance look eagle-sized had invested a
forlorn bunny with a magnitude that did
him all too much credit. He was a mere
bag of bones, apparently hundreds of
miles out of his own bailiwick, but still
waltzing Matilda. He had the unique ex-
perience of travelling to green pastures
by car.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: I wonder if “Billy S.” (B.
18/4/,’51), before relaxing in the lounge
of the Grand on Chowringhee, had taken
a shower at the Anzac Club in Short-
street, drunk a cup of tea as he munched
one of the buns Tony Lamaro (ex-Sydney)
used to send round, caught a rickshaw at
the gate, and wandered awhile through
Hogg’s Bazaar before settling down for
his long gin-and-lime? Then after a
session listening to Yanks, pukka sahibs
(in Bombay bloomers and slouched hats
stuck square on the skull), page-boys,
those variously dusky ladies affecting
accents to suit the temporary host, the
burr of the Black Watch or the Seaforths,
or just the drawled yarns of his own
cobbers —after clearing his throat in that
company, did he emerge and turn right
to have a prawn-salad at Firpo’s, or left
to dawdle through a delectable menu at
Charlie’s Cathay Cafe? And after that
did he go to the pictures —that being the
only air-conditioned place available at
that hour —or just go to bunk and sweat,
and next morning leave again to rejoin
his unit, calling at the mess on the way
to Dum Dum to see if any of our blokes
were there? I’d like to have a noggin
with “Billy S.”—maybe I have already—
but if he’s in Sydney any Anzac Day he
can watch out for a sawn-off, somewhat
worn cove near the Chinthi banner away
at the tail of the R.A.A.F., chewing pan
and wearing in his lapel a sliver of peeled
cucumber well studded with flies —
symbolic of the glamor of the East
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We took on a small
fencing job for a little nervous sort of
bloke running a bit of a farm somewhere
between Cootamundra and Gol Gol. We
ate at the farmstead, which was presided
over by a quiet woman who was a good
cook and a neat housekeeper. “I dunno
what makes him so nervous,” Mat said
one day. “Y’d think he was scared of
somethin’.” One night we overheard
them having a barney of some sort, and
distinctly through the darkness came the
wife’s voice, “Well, if you don’t look
out, I’ll write to George, see!” Where-
upon a silence fell. Came the end of
“You're very cold today, Dave."
“ Yes—I left me singlet off.”
the contract and there was a small dis-
pute over five-bob. “You’ll pay it,” Mat
remarked humorously, “or I’ll write to
George, see!” It rocked the little bloke
so badly that Mat was repentant. “Sorry,
old man,” he said. “I didn’t mean any
harm. Who’s George, anyhow?” The
little cove looked nervously towards the
kitchen. “Her husband,” he muttered.
“I got her away from him nilly twenty
year ago, but she’s always threatenin’ t’
write t’ him.” “Where is he?” “That’s
the blinded trouble,” he confessed
miserably. “I don’t ruddy well know.
But she does, an’ she’s got the wood on
me.” In deep thought we departed
thence for fresh fields.
* * * •
“H.C.8.”: The young fellow was
energetic, if not skilful with a mattock,
and the tea-tree scrub was gradually being
cleared off the site of the proposed new
cottage. Suddenly he leapt back, stood
transfixed for a moment, then, grasping
"Well, what do you fancy today?”
the mattock by the extreme end of the
handle, stretched forward as though
standing on the edge of a precipice and
brought the implement down violently,
axe-end first, on something in the scrub
ahead. When we drew abreast he had
a very long stick and was raking two
short, wildly-threshing pieces of reptile
on to a cleared spot. A big-game hunter
with his first lion could not have looked
prouder than the lanky young bloke as
he saw us watching. Old Mike, my
cobber, solemnly anchored the bucking
head-end with two twigs and examined
the stretched-out body, “A young tiger-
snake,” he said gravely. I stared at him.
The reptile’s back was brown with pretty
little black dots running in two lines
down the back. Mike’s left eyelid flicked
once as he turned the subject over, expos-
ing the pinkish belly. Along the side,
about 6in. from the head, his hornlike
fingernail lifted a “fin” less than |in. long,
then passed on quickly. When we had
walked on I tucked in to the old chap:
“What d’ you want to have him on for
—he wasn’t a bad young joker?” “You’ve
got no soul,” Mike grinned. “You’d have
gone and told him it was only a slow-
worm —and robbed him of the greatest
thrill of his life!”
♦ * * *
“Aestur”; “Salmon Gums” is up a
gum when he says (B. 18/4/’5l) that the
eels at Parramatta (N.S.W.) could have
been mating. Eels mate once only ; for
this unique occasion they dress in silver
and travel to a part of the ocean off New
Caledonia —the Pacific ones, that is; on
the other side of the world they hold
the ceremony near Bermuda. After
mating they die; the young hatch out
and make their miraculous way back to
the lakes and streams where their parents
lived ; about 10 years later they go back
to their birthplace, to mate and die in
their turn.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: The strongest man I ever
knew was a hard-working, hard-drinking,
hard-swearing big hod-carrier; but be-
neath it all was a streak of delicacy.
When appendicitis laid him low Big
Charlie quailed visibly at the thought of
an operation. He was obviously ill at
ease when I called in to see him at the
hospital. “You’re not worried about it,
are you, Charlie?” I asked. “Why, with
your constitution you’ll be right as”
“It’s not that I’m thinking of,” the big
bloke confided. “But I was thinkin’—
I’m a pretty plain-speakin’ feller, and they
reckon you don’t know what you’re sayin’
as you come out of the anaesthetic. And
if I get thinking I’m havin’ a bit of a
barney with a brick-carter —well, these
young nurses.” He stopped, blushing at
the thought. “Don’t believe it,” I lied.
“You’ll know what you’re saying, and
where you are; so you’ve got nothing to
worry about.” He was on the road to
recovery when I dropped in again.
‘‘You’re a beaut, you are!” he accused.
“Fancy telling a man he’d know what he
was saying. These nurses have been on
me back ever since.” “What did you
say?” I inquired. Charlie grinned
lugubriously. “I must’ve thought 1 was
back at school,” he growled. “They
reckon I was reciting; ‘Wake me early,
mother, dear; for I’m to be Queen of
the May.”
* * * *
“K.A.”: For some time I have sus-
pected “Mat’s Mate” is not entirely
truthful in recounting their adventures.
In “The Case of the Occupied Bed” (B.
11/4//51) he stated that the publican and
he transferred all clobber into the other
room. So I would like an explanation
regarding the ownership of the pyjamas
Mat donned when he entered the original
room—or am I merely spoiling a good
story?
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: The abos of Bathurst
and Melville islands seem to display a
little more “nous” than their cousins of
the mainland, this being apparent in the
disposal of the dead. While the mainland
abos are not particular which mode of
disposal is used with their dead—tree-
burial, pushed in an anthill or even just
left for the dingoes—the Bathurst- and
Melville-islanders religiously bury their
dead and even place something that
resembles totem-poles over the graves.
Previous to interment the cadaver is
rolled in paperbark and then the women
get busy in song that commemorates the
laudable properties of the dead man;
these put the spirit of the departed in a
highly good humor. Another song
appeals to his spirit, asking it to lie quietly
and not wander around the tribal ground,
for should this happen and their children
see the spirit they would certainly die.
Great efforts are consequently made to
see that the dead man lies comfortably—
pillows of teased coconut-fibre are placed
at the bottom of the grave and rolls of
paperbark placed tightly around the
corpse to prevent its coming into actual
contact with the earth. Should, however,
any member of the deceased’s family be-
come troubled with sleeplessness or
develop any persistent sickness, the cause
is usually attributed to the dead man’s
complaining that his earthly remains are
uncomfortable. Although it requires
great strength of will and courage, a
member of the family then opens up the
grave and endeavors to lay the corpse in
a more comfortable position.
* * *
“M.U.R.”: Wish somebody would
teach these A.B.C. announcers to pro-
nounce locality names correctly. The
other night one of them told of rice-
crops in “the Griffith, Leeton and Wayc’l
areas.” There’s an old rhyme of the
rivers that would help him:
The beer along the Wakool
Wouldn’t keep y’r ruddy jaw cool,
If y’re trampin’ from Conargo in the heat.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: It isn’t only a mountain
thunderstorm which will make the bush
go still (B. 18/4/’5l). I’ve seen the same
thing happen before a bad electrical
storm. As the great slate-black clouds
crept across the sky and the growl of
the thunder came nearer, an eerie hush
seemed to fall over the hills. The
strangest thing of the lot, however, is
to have that same cessation of all sounds
fall upon bird, animal and insect life in
the middle of a fine day. It happened
once while I was examining a bed of
fossils, and for about 20 seconds I
wondered what had happened ; I knew I
hadn’t gone deaf suddenly, for in that
strange silence I could hear my watch
ticking. Then it came —an earth tremor
which made the ground heave underfoot
and bits of rock clatter down the creek-
bank. During 1945 in New Britain,
where earth tremors are of almost daily
occurrence, some of our chaps became
quite expert in predicting an earthquake
simply by noting that sudden quiet which
fell over the bush a few seconds before
it was felt. I’ve sometimes had time to
find a log to sit on, out of range o L
falling coconuts, before the ground began
to wobble, the water in pools on the hack
started to swish from side to side and
the trees started to rustle and creak in
a dead calm. The queerest experience of
the lot is to see a tremor approaching.
I was on a mountain at the time, admiring
the view out over Jacquinot Bay, and 1
saw the forest below rippling like a corn-
field in the wind. Then I felt the old
familiar shiver and shake. There was a
bad panic at a picture-show one night
when some American negroes felt their
first quake; they rushed madly mto the
jungle, trampling anyone who was un-
lucky enough to trip and fall. Ne
will I forget the contempt with which a
sergeant in the native constabulary spoke
of the “Kanaka bilong Menca as h
watched the coons boltings
SUNDAY.
This is the day of bells and smokeless sky
When holy glee lights up the choir-boy’s eye
But others think, alas, of hills and beach
And mountains blue within man’s easy reach;
While twenty miles from town, and free from
fear,
The roadside pubs prepare to flow with beer.
Now struts the pigeon in the city street.
Lord of the tramline —his Sunday-morning
beat —
And, at this early hour, shop windows rest
Save for lost-looking souls who, without zest,
Hands clasped behind the back, and bored of
eye,
Stare, unconcerned, at things they’ll never buy.
See! Busy sparrows fossick pave and strand;
The silent city buildings tomb-like stand,
And, strange, a city rooster’s heard to crow.
Caretakers’ cats upon the pavement show,
And in a quiet lane, bare to the day,
Lie dead-marines and bits of crimson cray.
In gardens wide, when afternoon is set,
Odd walking-sticks their weekly outing get,
Creases in pants their rigid lines disclose
And spotless handkerchiefs await the nose—
Superiority, one glove in hand,
Now stalks, so common blokes will understand.
In trams the kids bunch up in gawky bands,
The men roll tram-checks up with horny hands.
Late afternoon, “friends of the family”
Set off most solemnly to go to tea;
Cold meat, cut thin, sits lonely on each plate
Where regiments of cakes predominate.
Along the roads the dazzling headlights play
As family cars now thread their homeward way;
The jolting trains bring Sunday trippers back,
Odd bags and ferrets, rabbits in the rack.
And so, this early night to bed and sleep
While hospitals the weekend vigil keep.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


Ms
BY APPOINTMENT TO
. KINO GEORGE VI.
ORD CUTLERS
ABLISHED 1772
for fte dm lew lover -
WILKINSON SWORD STEEL TOOLS
FOR PRUNING AND CUTTING
Since 1890, the Wilkinson Sword Company
has been manufacturing fine garden tools
with skill and craftsmanship not to be com-
Sared anywhere in the world. To-day, as then,
ie Wilkinson Trade Mark is your guarantee
of all that is finest and best in quality garden-
cutting and pruning Implements.
W. 411. Hedge Shear, with special pruning
notch.
W. 42. Pocket PtuHer, slips easily into the
pocket.
W. 418. Long-handled Lawn Shear, flat cutting,
particularly useful for banks and places
inaccessible for the mower;
W. 32. Rose Pruner, finest cut for rose work.
m
\v/
f 4 W. 411
w. 42 y
418
y W. 32
AVAILABLE ALL HARDWARE AND DEPARTMENTAL STORES
Wltpi'l§|>E4
SWORDi
MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS
WILKINSON RAZOR
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Manufacturers of:
“Jaxul” "Window Face Envelopes
Blueplex Envelopes
Cartons, Labels and Wrappers
Counter Check Books
Recording Graphs and Charts
For Gas, Steam, Water and
Electric Usages
High Grade Catalogues
Illuminated Addresses
Jackson and
O’Sullivan
Pit. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
Trie An OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUI”, BRISBANE
JACKSON $
OSIILLIVAN
&ss eiosST y
All this for only
6
£12.7
MAGNIPICENT*
%
X
a
: :
iA
&
r\V
%
&
;a
a
<r
%
4fe
%
%
a
V
%
TO
%
a
-
£
*6
4t
o*
m
z°i
*
%
r
i*?
**
*>&
55%
z*sp
wee
s J£ono
ham
Written
DESIGNED FOR \
U.S.ARMY /
f
Pitted ,
with an,
®hc foresight of John Hay in shipping early brings yon
thjig amazing watch at this amazing price*
r
MAIL
ORDERS
mmmmmmmmmm
REGISTERED
POST FREE
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING S'
OR TOWN HALL STATION,
Please forward by registered mail, a
cent” for which I enclose. —
NAME —I
ADDRESS ** I
r-.T—m—. BqL I
r., SYDNEY;
SYDNEY.
Felca "Magntfl-
dsf
“H.A.L.”; The friend with whom I
spent a holiday was sorry he had no
cartridges for his breech-loader, but told
me that there was a very good old muzzle-
loader “If I knew how to use one.” 1
assured him that until I was 15 I hardly
knew what a breech-loader was like.
When I got out with that old gun, how-
ever, I found I’d forgotten all about the
business. At one time I could measure
out a charge of powder in the dark,
simply by the feel of the heap on the
palm of my hand; now I was doubtful
about the quantity when I could see it
in daylight, I rammed down balls of
paper for wads before I remembered that
in the old days we used to cut wads
merely by ramming the muzzles against
the green bark of a gum-tree. I’d for-
gotten how much shot to use, and I
rammed the shot down hard Wore I
remembered that you should merely give
it a push with the ramrod. When I
spotted a couple of rabbits 1 bowled one
over with the right barrel, but the running
shot with the left barrel which I had
planned didn’t come off because I had
forgotten that the view would be blocked
by a cloud of blue smoke. I had also
failed to remember a somewhat startling
belch of flame. But when the smell of
that smoke drifted across my nose, time
rolled back and once more I was a bare-
footed kid with a dog named Tiger at his
heels sneaking through a swamp hoping
to get a pair of black ducks to take home
to Mum. Kipling was certainly right
when he said that “Smells are surer than
sights or sounds to make your heart-
strings crack.”
“P.0.M.C.”: I’m sure Irene Gough’s
outback child will remember “spring-
bright hills and counting the crimson
fruit under the quandong-tree” (B.
25/4/’5l). Having spent my early child-
hood on the fringe of the goldfields and
about bushland suburbs outside Perth
(W.A.), the word “quandong” never fails
to impel a flash of nostalgic memory to
those halcyon days. A child who has
learned to count with quandong-stones
or -nuts would never forget the fascinat-
ing feel of them ; or the tree in full crop
in its usually wild-flowered surroundings.
As schoolboys we made finger-rings of
the nuts by grinding them to their largest
diameter on a file or flat stone.
“ What a marksman !”
“Bad Australian”: Reported that a
“callop” weighing 421 b. has been taken
from the Murrumbidgee near Wagga
(NJS.W.) and another from the Kow
Swamp (Vic.) which turned the scale at
541 b. These large fish, described as
perch, appear to be fairly numerous in
some localities. I have fished the Murray
and a number of its tributaries, but the
only large perch I have seen were
“ydlowbellies” or golden perch, which
rarely exceed 71b. in weight. Judged by
its size and habit of frequenting swamps
as well as running streams, the callop
appears to be identical with Oligorus
mitchelli, the smaller of the two species
of Murray cod. The general color of this
fish is a livid grey almost entirely
covered with small round obscure spots ,
it is sometimes called Murray perch to
distinguish it from its more bullcy
relative, which attains a weight of 1001 b,
or more.
* * * *
“E.”: Yesterday I watched a rabbit
beat a wedgetail eagle in a run of about
200 yd. The country was only lightly
timbered, poorly grassed, but in one
place carried an irregular strip of coarse
tussock. Seeing the wedgie descending
with intent, I gained a vantage-point, and
soon spotted Brer. That bunny was
awake-un. he was streaking hell-bent for
the tussocks. He gained them, dodged,
and crouched flat against a butt at the
exact second the eagle dropped for the
pick-up. The bird missed. As it rose the
rabbit took off again, changing direction
every few yards, dodging, feinting and
turning, and dropping flat each time the
eagle swooped with talons at the ready
Again and again the wedgie tried to
snatch him up, but the bunny turned on
every trick known to rabbithood, and a
few more he thought up for the occasion.
It was a first-class contest, the rabbit re-
fusing to be panicked out of the tussock-
strip, and the wedgie following him all
the way at a height of five or six feet. In
all, the eagle must have dropped for
him 10 or 12 times before, with a
masterly piece of strategy and perfect
timing, the rabbit gained a hole under a
tree a split-second before the wedgie’s
claws got there.
« » • •
“Old-timer”: Cinnamon is back from
the bush. “She ain’t what she used t’
be,” he mourned. “You remember how
you could sit on the kerb in a place like
Narromine an’ before long some bloke
was dead certain t’ ask y’t’ have a drink.
No good now. The kerb’s lined with
these here new motor-cars the wool
money’s brought in, an’ if y’ sit there
they park ’em on y’r feet. Went out t’
Peak Hill thinkin’ I’d have a yarn with
old Charlie Mansfield. Used t’ have the
barber’s shop. Shop’s still there. But
y’ got no charnce of a yarn; it’s full o’
young sheilas gettin’ their hair set.
Gripes, y’ got t’ watch y’r language, I
can tell y’. Then I reckoned I’d make
for Forbes an’ stay at Flannery’s pub
an’ see anybody I knew. Gripes, about
a dozen of them Lachlan cockies dis-
covered I was doin’ nothin’ an’ I had t
barricade me room. They’re outside in
the passage offerin’ me anythin’ up t’
fifteen notes an’ keep t’ work for em,
an’ I wasn’t even game t’ go down t’
the bar an’ get a drink. No, she ain’t
what she used t’ be, boy.” And Cinna-
mon sadly downed his beer and headed
for his suburban home. i
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: After having been
the undisputed territory of two cranes
and their progeny throughout last winter,
the swamp, as I reported at the time,
was visited one spring afternoon by a
large flock of cranes which, after an
elaborate display of aerobatics, departed
in pairs. Since then two cranes which I
have taken to be the original owners have
paid infrequent visits. This year we have
had exceptionally heavy April rains, and
the swamp has filled early. The other
evening a flock of cranes, similar to the
last visitation, arrived and repeated the
aerial display, departing as before, pre-
sumably to neighboring swamps. Now a
pair are once again in possession, and
no doubt they’ll soon be building again
in the big trees a few hundred yards
from the water. But what was the purpose
of the visits? Did the first one herald
a migration to some not-very-distant
locality, and the second one the return?
In some Westralian birds, particularly the
sou’-westera crow, or raven, these short
migratory movements can be traced, and
I know that the stilts, with their curious
barking-note, will be absent until next
summer. But cranes, I’ve thought, are
always with us.
* * * ♦
“8.A.K.”: Some years ago a silver-
grey possum discovered that my shed is
more weatherproof than a hollow in a
tree. He has been a squatter ever since,
has grown tame enough to accept favors
—if not liberties —and has drawn my
attention to the superior manners of
“wild” animals contrasted with
domesticated creatures. The chooks can
be obviously enjoying their tucker, but
the moment a fresh handful is flung in
another spot, away they dash on the off-
chance that the new stuff will be a bit
better. My hound will drop a thing half-
eaten if there is
something being
brought towards
him that looks as
if it might taste
as nice. But
Silver doesn’t do
such things.
Although he is
very cautious
about accepting a
titbit, a crust
proffered is always eaten before a scrap
laid on the rafter; and what he has he’ll
hold: not even banana —which he loves
—could tempt him to drop the substance
for the shadow. He likes bread; the
mong detests it. But when there is
nothing in the nature of dog-food it’s
a simple matter to stop the canine howls
of emptiness. Some day the jealous
hound will wake up to the fact that,
when I’m pretending to offer half a loaf
of stale bread to the possum, I know he’ll
snatch it out of my hand and nearly
choke himself in his hurry to wolf it
before the marsupial is properly awake.
WHEAT COUNTRY.
Let the great tides in tumbling snow and thunder
Beat out the mighty measures of the sea,
Music and color, mystery and wonder:
It’s here that I would be —
Beside these billows patterned like a cloth
Of gold, these waves that follow the wind’s will,
Like some enchanted river that can run both
Down and uphill;
These undulating acres onward rolling
To overlap the wide horizon’s edge,
Untenanted save for some lone hawk’s patrolling
Some wayside ridge;
White wheeling cockatoos that screech and settle
Again, like floating seagulls on the shore.
While the affronted silence shudders a little,
Then slumbers as before;
Till all the world is nothing else but wheat,
Till down the dusty miles the harvesters sway
Where sweating men and horses bear the heat
And burden of the day;
On to the time the trampling and the stir,
The whirring wheels, the harvest fret and toil
Are ended, leaving only the gossamer
Of autumn on the soil —
Only the rusty stubble, stiff and stippled,
The flickering heat-haze, silence following strife,
Brooding above the place where lately rippled
The brittle staff of life.
Dear solid brown earth, for which in me abides
A love no sea-born solitudes can impart.
No moon bedevilled motion of the tides:
Mine is an inland heart.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


frussoee
rusa
CLOT
•uh
m
ill
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OP SHRINK
GIFFARD MK. I DIRIGIBLE 1852 Construction :
Strengthened longitudinal main spar suspended
from cigar-shaped gas bag. Open framework type
car carrying power unit and crew hung from
mainspar.
Dimensions: Length 143 ft.; max. diameter 39
ft. Capacity of gas 88,000 cu. ft.
Power Plant: Vertical single cylinder, 3 h.p.
steam engine. Weight 117 lbs. per H.P.
Airscrew: Two blade lift. diam. fixed pitch.
Tip speed 32 ft. per sec. Control: Vertical tri-
angular fin on mainspar. Performance: Max.
air speed 6 m.p.h. Recommended cruising speed
5.5 m.p.h. Maximum lift 4,900 lbs. Maximum
range in service, 17 miles.
TODAY: great airlines rely on the unfailing
ground service symbolised by the green and
yellow colours of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company Ltd.
HfITION
SERVICE
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd., All States.
Telegraphic Address “Airbeepee” Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MacARTHUR COMMENTS.
London "Economist ” : “Mac-
Arthur the statesman misjudged
Chinese intentions in October,
but it is not yet certain that he
was wrong in believing that
Korea is the test case for the
free world’s ability to deter
aggression in future by defeat-
ing and punishing the aggressor
now.”
The same: “Because the Com-
munists feared he might be
right they called him a war-
monger ; because most Euro-
peans and many Americans
feared he might be wrong they
called him dangerous and irre-
sponsible.”
"New York Times”: “The
jubilation over MacArthur’s
dismissal on the part of some
nations which have distinguished
themselves in the Korean effort
by doing least is a little hard to
take.”
London "Daily Express":
“The Scripps-Howard [Ameri-
can] newspaper chain discerns
an effort ‘to appease the yapping
Yahoos’ of British Socialism.
The American man-in-the-street
....takes the sacking as proof
that President Truman and Mr.
Acheson are in the pockets of
the British.”
London "Daily Mail” (quot-
ing statements by Shinwell,
Younger and the leader of the
House of Commons, Chuter
Ede); “We may be accustomed
to wild talk from our Ministers,
but the Americans are not.
Small wonder, then, that some
of MacArthur’s friends are say-
ing bitterly that Britain is largely
responsible for the fall of their
hero.”
The same: “His personal de-
fects contributed to his down-
fall. One colleague has said of
him: ‘He was arrogant from the
age of eight.’ This arrogance
led to pronouncements which
could not be tolerated by demo-
cratic Governments.”
"Manchester Guardian”: “The
[British] Government might in-
deed consider again, at this
crucial time, whether it is not
possible to add something to our
forces in Korea, wherever it may
be drawn from. That is the
clearest, though not the only,
way of showing that there is no
thought of appeasement in our
relief at the change of com-
manders.”
New York "Herald Tribune”
London correspondent (com-
menting that “a majority of the
British people dislike General
Douglas MacArthur”): “From
accusing General MacArthur of
aiming for a war with China,
and possibly World War 111, it
is not a very great step to con-
cluding that American policy in
general is the real culprit.”
New York "Herald Tribune”
staff writer: “The Communist
party [in Japan] will be en-
couraged, for it was General
MacArthur who really held it in
check,”
Washington "Star” : “The
U.N. commander was asked to
work completely in the dark as
to what he was supposed to
achieve. No other soldier in
history has been placed in such
a position.”
Detroit “News”: “A bad
sense of discipline is a bad
enough fault in a recruit. When
a high commander is possessed
of it the results can be fatal.”
Persian Revolt.
In one or two British Press
quarters —notably the plain-
speaking “Manchester Guardian”
(already quoted) and London
“Economist” — the current
Persian disturbance is given a
different slant from that noted
in cable accounts.
An “Economist” corres-
pondent insists, for instance,
that direct Soviet propaganda
has had little to do with it: —
“Persians do not so easily
dance to tunes piped by the
Soviet Union; they do not like
the Russians. If they join, or
sympathise with, the Tudeh
party, they do so not for love
of Moscow but for a chance
that they are beginning to think
is otherwise unobtainable —the
chance to rid the country of a
situation in which 200 or so
wealthy families live off a
penurious population of peasants
and workers. (There is no
Persian bourgeoisie; even civil
servants are so badly paid that
they have to find other means
of livelihood—for instance, to
compose slander on foreigners
for opposition newspapers—with
which to make some money in
the afternoons.) The basic fear
in any Persian mind is that of
pressure along the 2500 kilo-
metres of frontier exposed to the
Soviet Union. It is safe to
affirm, therefore, that had Soviet
pressure in favor of nationalisa-
tion of the southern oil been
exercised it would have checked
the impulse which caused so
many responsible men to vote
for ousting the British oil com-
pany. The Russians, though not
—London “News Chronicle.”
LADY GODIVA —1951 ?
(Artist Vicky’s comment on British election prospects, based on Festival
Pageant-master Leonard Turner’s explanation regarding the legendary lady
that “She was chosen for her dignity, poise, restraint, good appearance,
maturity and ability to portray the determination of a woman ready to save
her people from taxes.”)
direct instigators of the out-
break, are, however, benefiting
immensely from it.”
Airlifted Wounded.
American civilian doctors who
visited Korea to see for them-
selves how U.N.O. casualties
were faring reported on their
return that upwards of 120,000
had been evacuated by air (be-
fore the latest Red counter-
offensive) without a single death
due to an aircraft accident.
Much of the airlifting has
been done by the R.A.F., a
singular feature being the variety
of troops its planes carry away
wounded —Turks, French, Dutch
and British, all cared for by
Canadian nurses.
Similarly, U.S. planes have
ferried more than 22,000 Ameri-
can wounded back home across
the Pacific.
The civilian doctors reported
the evacuation airlift as being
“one of the primary reasons”
why the Korean campaign has
had, on the U.N.O. side, the
“lowest death-rate in the history
of warfare.” General Mac-
Arthur, for his part, has stated
that U.N.O. troops have had
“better medical attention than
received by soldiers in any previ-
ous war.”
“Air evacuation,” said one of
the doctors, “is the greatest thing
that has come out of the Korean
incident from the standpoint of
saving lives.” He added that
wounded troops can be flown to
hospitals in Japan in three
hours.
Another of the specialists re-
ported that about 50 per cent,
of the blood now being used to
treat wounded men in Japan is
donated by Japanese citizens.
Sentenced Spies.
From New York “Herald
Tribune,” typical American
Press support for the imposing
of the death sentence on the
Communist spies Julius and
Ethel Rosenberg:-
“The consequences of their
espionage have already seriously
affected not only the fate but
the daily lives of millions of
their countrymen, and may yet
quite possibly lead to the mass
slaughter of untold hosts.
“Communist conspirapy and
betrayal are not, as they so
often seem to those who get
entangled in them, a parlor-game
or innocent intellectual exercise.
They are meant to be and they
are a deadly instrument for the
murder of free societies and the
destruction of peoples. They
have flourished on their own
ceaseless pretence that treason is
not treasonable, that slavery is
liberty, that betrayal is patriot-
ism, that conspiracy and espion-
age are a service to democracy.
This pretence must be destroyed ;
the truth must be brought home
that secretly to undermine and
betray the State in the interests
of a bloody foreign imperialism
is a crime and an extremely
serious crime.
“In this instance the proof is
plain; here cause —the theft of
a deadly knowledge—is linked
directly with effect —a world of
fear and tension, of battle death
and suffering. If the death
penalty comes with a shock it is
a salutary shock. The terrible
egotism of the traitor is a thing
of incalculable potential danger,
beyond condoning or excuse.”
Dragnet Digest.
“Made in Japan.” —Tokio examples
of the new cheap Jap goods, quoted
by a London “Daily Mail” corres-
pondent: “You can buy a seemingly
perfect imitation of one of the world’s
finest cigarette-lighters. It will cost
you about 4s. 3d. In London the
original sells for around 2gns. At
the next bamboo-and-canvas stall you
are offered an apparently faultless
copy of one of the world’s super-
fountain-pens at approximately 6s.
Price of the true product at home is
over £6.”
He * * *
Elegant Obstetrics • —British Minister
for Works Stokes, addressing work-
men at the Festival Building, Herbert
Morrison’s “baby”: “I am the mid-
wife for Herbert’s baby. I am going
to try to bring it into the world. And,
mind this, we’re having no mis-
carriages in this house This
exhibition must be finished. We’re
out to prove there is b well life
in the old dog.” (Applause.)
* * * #
Inflation Benefit. —“N e w York
Times” staff writer Arthur Krock
finds at least a possible morsel of
comfort: “Economic inflation, which
the Korean war stimulated, has also
moved aggression into an inflated
market where the Russians also must
do their shopping. A few military
authorities among the North Atlantic
nations thus account for the fact that
the Soviet satellites were not sent
Into action against Yugoslavia some
time ago.”
* * * *
Albanian Titoism. —The signs that
Moscow might not find its satellites
the most reliable keep breaking
through the Iron Curtain, the latest
coming from Albania. Almost every
week, a “Manchester Guardian” cor-
respondent reports, some Albanian
refugees cross the frontier into Greece.
Quoting instances of Albanians also
jumping from ships into the Bos-
phorus, he adds: “It is significant
that they were all young men in their
early twenties, and not old ‘reaction-
aries’ pining for the good old days.”
v * * *
Schuman Plan. —The present posi-
tion of the Schuman Plan is that the
Continental Governments concerned
have initialled the treaty, which now
awaits ratification by their Parlia-
ments. Strong German opposition to
it continues to be expressed, on
which the “Frankfurter Rundschau”
comments: “If the Schuman plan is
not recognised, it will be the equiva-
lent of signing Europe’s death sen-
tence. The Continent will be finally
split and the painfully-acquired con-
fidence in the Federal [West German]
Republic will be lost. Germany can-
not win allies in the West without
confidence. The attitude for or against
the Schuman Plan has become a
criterion of political confidence in
Germany by the Western world.”
* * * *
Overcrowded Outpost. —A London
“New Statesman” Far East corres-
pondent’s report on the present
“appalling problem of overcrowding”
in Hong Kong: “There are tenement
blocks where 200 people live in one
story, with whole families crowded
into cubicles 6ft. by Bft., using the
beds as dining tables and stacking
pots and pans on tiny floors. People
sleep in wooden bunks under tar-
paulins in backyards or ‘squat’ in
bomb-ruins under sacking spread
across stones picked out of debris.
As might be expected, the tuberculosis
death-rate, which is already about
three times that of Western Europe,
is going up, and one-third of Hong
Kong’s deaths are of infants under
one year of age.”


tymenlv
The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb. turkey with
ease . . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
And no basting of the meat.
5-V.
S3 5
Grills are extra-rapid ... and
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
gives life-long service and
guaranteed fuel economy.
cl:
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,
cooler... easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious: so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
With AGA you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action!
by
the
MI
COOKER
w,v
gijji
'tit
Kg
10
yuts
Sij ARANTF
•ms
°9o<nsf
Wo r t
On
o/p
6u;/f
'ast
We
«me/
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING ’AGA*
or write for full particulars to;—-
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. H 3 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents A. G. WEBSTER
& SONS LID., HOBART. WA Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
Al/160
More and more people
are flying to England
via AMERICA
with BCPA^x
1
o»
Ct
I
rarrrr
nr
m
jp
BC A. 100.24
Here are
the reasons
why!
9 It's the glamour route to England! You see America's fascin-
ating cities and fabulous tourist resorts ... as well as lovely
Pacific islands.
9 Break your journey anywhere—no extra fare. Choice of dozens
of different air routes crossing U.S.A. and Canada.
9 London in days by express service,
9 All the way you travel in luxury—lncluding BCPAs DC-6 sleeper
service, the ONLY service to North America providing a free
sleeper to every passenger.
9 BCPA provides
through passengers with
a special dollar allow-
ance to cover in-transit
expenses.
BCPA
* DEPARTURES every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Full particulars from your local travel agent or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents: trans-Australia
Airlines. BCPA Head Office: 53 Martin Place, Sydney.
•Phone BW 2741.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER • Immedial. wnaectioM ta 6JC. «k «U4L W Canfa
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Dog in cafe kitchen; fined.”
—Sydney “Sun” heading.
On a further charge of being
in possession of a quantity of
bones reasonably suspected of
having been stolen, he was
placed on a £2O bond to be of
good behavior for three years.
“Social nights had proved to be
very popular, and had given members
an opportunity to entertain their
wives and sweethearts.”
—Redcliffe “Herald."
But not on the same night,
surely!
4* 4*
“S.-c. flat or rooms, urgently, by
businesswoman and quiet 18 years
student sons. Refs.”
—“Great Northern” (N.S.W.).
Wouldn’t you think they’d
know enough to call themselves
“New Australians” by now?
4* 4*
“You never know what goes on
in the public service.”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail."
It’s hard to get the whole thing
taped. ,
4* HE* 4*
“Everyone should note the address
of a good little milliner.”
—Advice in women’s paper.
But keep it under your hat.
A Nice Distinction.
“There’s no such thing as a nice
politician.”
— V.S. gambler Frank Costello.
Let us be realists and face the
fact
That politicians must be made
of stuff
That will not weaken when they
have to act
With firm decision when the go-
ing’s tough.
There is no room for namby-
pamby types
With bitter, hard-fought battles
in debates
And always some constituent
who gripes
About his private grievances or
hates.
A man must cast his nicer part
away
And learn to cultivate a bitter
tongue
If he’d survive until election-day
Or rise to be the kind whose
fame is sung.
But there are some exceptions to
the rule.
Or one at least that you can call
a cert ;
For who would claim unless he
were a fool
That Dr. Evatt isn’t nice to Bert ?
D. H. E.
Gardening Terms Explained
for the Amateur.
Transplanting: The art of
taking up a seedling from the
comfortable position it has
occupied since it was a seed and
putting it in a bed across which
the pup gallops several times an
hour, and which is a noted
rendezvous for nocturnal cats and
a popular champing-ground for
snails, slugs, slaters and cut-
worms. A favored time to per-
form this operation is immedi-
ately after the Meteorological
Department has predicted a heat-
wave, when it may reasonably
be expected to be cool and
showery. When The Bolter’s
chance turns up and the mercury
does hit the century the gardener
can always take comfort from
the thought that he’d probably
have lost them, anyway, as he’d
have forgotten to water them in
their old home.
Weeding: The art of pulling
handfuls of the thick mat of
vegetation which was your seed-
bed, carefully sorting out the
seedlings from the weedlings and
putting the latter back in the be-
lief, or hope, that they are the
former.
Watering: A lengthy job that
one is due to complete approxi-
mately half an hour before the
clear sky begins to become over-
cast, the prelude to two days of
heavy rain,
Thrip: A type of sucker
much larger than the one who
so kindly provides food and
shelter for it. Its continued ex-
cellent health and freedom from
worry can be assured by spray-
ing it at intervals with one of
“ Courtney! Stop being childish !”
the more expensive insecticides.
Such thrip as may be too shy
to appear at the sound of the
spray to line up and get their
free issue of Vitamin A can be
induced to show themselves if
the gardener makes a noise like
a thrippess.
Tup: An insect rather smaller
than the thrip. It is so micro-
scopic, in fact, that it cannot be
seen by the naked eye. This
necessitates the gardener’s hav-
ing to spray them from memory.
White, or Indian Wax, Scale :
These are white blobs which
appear on citrus- and pittos-
porurmtrees, and which the
shrewd gardener refrains from
attempting to remove. Not only
does he thus save the purchase
of white-oil and washing-soda.
but he may thus acquire a guide
which will save him from walk-
ing into the trees on a dark
night.
Brown Scale: A smaller in-
festation, and one that can be
rightly ignored by the gardener
who is prepared to draw the
color-line.
Tilth: Soil-consistency. Should
the soil break up under the mat-
tock into lumps about 201 b. in
weight it can be taken that it is
not quite of the desired tilth.
This may easily be remedied by
borrowing a Clydesdale and
exercising it for an hour or so
over the bed in question. Any
lumps that are left can then be
hammered through a sieve.
Having got the tilth, it is then a
comparatively easy matter to
restore it to its former condi-
tion. Just forget about it for a
few months, and, above all,
don’t add to it any humus.
Humus: The product of the
compost-pit. Such things as
sardine-tins, cotton-reels, dress-
material trimmings, burnt por-
ridge, dead matches, broken
bobby-pins, bottle-tops, etc.,
which the gardener’s wife will
from time to time consign to the
compost-pit may, for the pur-
poses of these hints, be deemed
to be humus, which is decom-
posed vegetable-matter. After
all, it is possible that a bottle-
top, or part of it, was once
vegetable in origin, and may, in
the course of time, if dug in,
return to its natural state. The
same may correctly be said of
cotton-reels.
Pruning: The lopping-off of
most of next season’s crop-bear-
ing branches in the case of fruit-
trees, and the cutting, in the case
of roses, so that die-back will be
made more probable. Where
climbing roses abound, especially
those of very vigorous growth
—and what other kind are
there? —pruning can be classi-
fied among such virile he-men
sports as mountain-climbing and
death-adder-teasing. The usual
tools are a rip-saw (the only sort
you have) and a pair of blunt
secateurs. Most suitable garb
for this work is a pair of shorts
and a thin singlet. One of the
gardener’s children may be co-
opted for duty as a cane-
unwinder.
Top - dressing: This is
specially-selected weed-free top-
soil put over the lawn in such
a manner as will ensure that
after it has eventually disap-
peared into the lawn the hollows
will still be where they were, but
the bumps will be slightly higher
than formerly. The resultant
crop of weeds may be removed
later when they are big enough
to lever out singly with the
hand-fork.
Tying Up: The job you are
reminded you should have done
weeks ago when you notice the
dahlias running along the ground
and you have to burrow under
the surrounding chickweed when
searching for tomatoes to pick.
Liquid Manure: The stuff you
put as close to the back fence
as you can get it in an area the
rest of the family avoids as the
plague. It can be used either
too weak to be effective, or so
strong it will burn up the seed-
lings it is used on.
Air-slaked Garden-lime: A
lighter-than-air lime which when
broadcast over a bed assures
that at most 25 p.c. of it will
reach the soil; the other 75 p.c.
will be blown over Nextdoor’s
garden.
BO.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
BQ-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i TEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
CINZANO!
IWMI CK DRY
j&vnce
t im
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBIBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28C), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
out of
choose
Vickers
gin
The greatest name in Gin . • *
from Australia's greatest distillery «
VG44/I6
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR EDWARD COOMBS for-
merly of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
BLANCHE COOMBS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 530 of 1951 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 11th
July 1951 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from E. H. TEBBUTT
& SONS, Solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ROBERT JAMES GRANGE
formerly of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
LUCY GRANGE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2750 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st August 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE JULIAN late of Korora Goffs
Harbour New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that THELMA MAY JULIAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 556
of 1961 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 6th day of July 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. C. RICKARD & CO.,
Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
BOOK NOW FOR THE
WINTER SEASON
V/HtTS
QgEAT
eA Kfiien
NOW is the time to book for your
Royal Hayman holiday NOW, when
the climate reaches perfection
NOW, when every moment is sheer
delight! The Royal Hayman Hotel
offers you an incomparable
holiday thrill amid the riotous colour
and romance of the Barrier Reef.
m
mg
:• , :• •
m
wBSm
saS*
THE FINEST
RESORT SOUTH
of the EQUATOR
Enjoy the sophisticated
charm, superb accom-
modation, service and
marvellous cuisine of a
great hotel, in the glamorous setting of Australia’s loveliest
isle, with swimming, cruising, fishing, fascinating coral reefs.
ALL INCLUSIVE ACCOMMODATION TARIFF
at the Royal Hayman during the winter season is 28 gns. per
week and covers all accommodation and splendid table
d’Hote menus.
FLY DIRECT to HAYMAN ISLAND by giant four-
engined flying boats and see the Barrier Reef from the air,
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE
Melbourne; MU6921; Sydney: 8W2921; Adelaide;
Cen. 2514; Brisbane: 82291; Hobart; 7470; Laun-
ceston; 1760; Cairns: 2570; Canberra: F 390;
Townsville; 1150; Wagga: 2036; and all recognised
Travel Agencies.
Don't Forget that Birthday!
the Ideal Gift is a
TAVIXA WATCH
From a wide selection of Swiss
masterpieces, choose one of
these 17-jewelled watches
with the non-magnetic
escapement, to give
years of useful
service. A Lavina
looks as good as it is.
It represents 100%
quality in every part.
Sz
I AVINA
Swiss Masterpieces
Lavina —Choice of Millions
ms&
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Copies of magazines containing
criticisms of the writings of Henry
Lawson, Henry Handel Richardson,
Louis Esson, A. G. Stephens and
Judith Wright.—so 39.
War widow, Sydney, wants small
furnished flat or cottage.—so4o.
To buy copy of Norman Lindsay’s
Magic Pudding. —so 32.
To buy copy of Vierecke and
Eldridge’s My First 2000 Years. —
5031.
To buy copy of Brereton’s Land-
lopers.—so37.
To buy copy of Withers’s History
of Ballaarat. —so27,
To buy copy of Fitzpatrick’s Those
Were the Days. —so2B.
To buy copy of Bennett’s How to
Live on 24 Hours a Day. —so 29.
To buy Spencer and Gillen’s Native
Tribes of Central Australia, The
Arunta: A Study of a Stone Age
People, and The Native Tribes of the
Northern Territory of Australia. —
5030.
Bulletin staff man wants to rent
small furnished flat or cottage, Sydney
North Shore suburb. —5038.
To buy copy of Sulman’s Wild
Flowers of N. S. Wales. —5033.
To buy copy of Arthur Mee’s
Children’s Encyclopedia. —so 34.
To buy copy of Will Lawson’s Ben
Boyd’s Day. —so3s.
To buy copy of Daisy Bates’s The
Passing of the Australian Aborigines.
—5036.
To buy copy of Wardens of the Sea
by E. J, Brady.—so 26.
Information Sought.
What constitutional provisions are
there in the case of disagreement
between the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly and the Legislative Council ?
In respect of money bills, the con-
stitutional provisions of 1933 preserve
the traditional right of the Assembly
to control the purse. Bills relating
to appropriations for annual services
may be presented for Royal Assent,
with or without any amendment sug-
gested by the Council, and may
become Acts notwithstanding the
failure of the Upper House to agree
to them; but any provisions in any
such Act dealing with any matter
other than the appropriation shall be
of no effect. To overcome disagree-
ments in regard to bills (other than
such appropriation bills) passed by
the Assembly it is provided that the
Assembly may pass the bill again
after an interval of three months. If
the Council rejects it again (or makes
amendments unacceptable to the
Assembly) and if a conference of
managers appointed by the two
Houses and a joint sitting of the two
Houses fails to attain agreement the
Assembly may direct that the bill be
submitted to a referendum of the
electors. If approved by a majority
of electors the bill becomes law.
* * * *
Were boxers Billy Murphy and Tim
Murphy brothers? Did either ever
win any championships?
Billy and Tim Murphy were
brothers, born in Auckland, N.Z.,
Billy on November 3, 1863, and Tim
on May 18, 1873. Billy won the
world featherweight championship by
knocking-out Ike O’Neill Weir in
round 14 at San Francisco on January
13, 1890. Griffo then took the title
from Murphy at Sydney Skating Rink
in 1891, but overseas authority
refused to recognise Griffo as world
champion. Tim Murphy won the
Australian heavyweight championship
from Billy McCall in 1905 and lost
it to Bill Squires in 1906.
* * * *
Ruling price of copra in the
Solomon Islands?
The British Solomon Islands Pro-
tectorate Copra Board has announced
that the 1951 price for copra at the
main shipping ports of Honiara and
Yandina wifi be £5l (Australian
currency) per ton. Negotiations are
still in progress to obtain a premium
for better-quality copra, and the
Copra Board has emphasised that the
price of £5l at main ports may be
varied later in the year, when the
question of different prices for dif-
ferent grades of copra has been
considered. Most 8.5.1. P. copra is
still smoke-dried, and in the post-war
effort to get back to maximum pro-
duction some poor-quality copra has
been shipped. Extra attention is now
being paid to grading and to the
general quality of shipments.
* * * *
(1) For what amounts are Australian
and Imperial coins legal tender in
Australia? (2) Where are branches of
the Royal Mint situated in Australia?
(3) Standard finenesses of gold, silver
and copper Australian coins?
(1) Gold for the payment of any
amount, silver up to forty shillings
and bronze up to one shilling.
Imperial coins also are legal tender
for these amounts, except silver coins
minted since March 31, 1920, but few
Imperial coins are in circulation in
Australia. Australian notes, which
have replaced gold coins as units of
internal currency, are legal tender for
any amount. (2) In Melbourne and
Perth. (3) The standard fineness of
gold coins, as fixed by the Coinage
Act, is 11/12 fine gold, 1/12 alloy;
thus standard or sovereign gold has a
fineness of 22 carats, and the standard
weight of a sovereign is 123.27447
grains. For silver coins the standard
fineness was fixed at 37/40 fine silver,
3/40 alloy, until July 8, 1947, when
it was altered to one-half fine silver
and one-half alloy. Bronze coins are
of mixed metal —copper, tin and zinc,
and since 1943 the issue of bronze
coins containing copper and zinc only
has been permitted.
Brief Answers.
S.G.: Write to the secretary, Incor-
porated Law Institute of New South
Wales, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
giving him full particulars of your
complaint C.K.: Subject to age
and residential qualifications it would
appear that a pension at a reduced
rate would be payable E.M.: It
would be difficult to even hazard a
guess as to the identity of the spider
concerned. The common black house
spider, Ixeuticus robustus, which often
spins a funnel-like web in crevioes
in windows and walls, and outdoors in
holes in tree-trunks, is somewhat larger
than that described M.G.: The
tree gets its name from early Syrian
martyrs (details unknown) known as
the Forty Martyrs. A number of
shrines have been dedicated to them,
and on Mt. Carmel, Palestine, there is
a splendid grove of evergreen oaks
known as the trees of the forty.
There are traces of an ancient altar
under the trees. It is believed in the
district that the spirits of the saints
hold an annual festival there, but
the date is a secret S.K.: Com-
mercial letterings by linen weavers
usually yield to brisk rubbing in hot
soapy water. Art linen tracings are
regarded as fixed, and are usually
covered by embroidery stitches; try
dabbing these marks with methylated
spirit, then washing in hot soapy water
containing a dash of cloudy ammonia.
R.K.D.: Write Miss M. Gartrell,
hon. secretary, Sydney Writers’ Club,
Ist Floor, 175 Pitt-street, Sydney
P.M.: Queensland has an area of
670,500 square miles, and at Decem-
ber 31, 1949, had a population of
1,160,300....L.N.: The salaries of
the N.S.W. Ministry, including allow-
ances as Members of the Legislative
Assembly, are: Premier, £2945
(and entertainment allowance, £500);
Attorney-General, £2595; Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council (and
leader of the Government in the
Legislative Council), £2445; thirteen
other Ministers, £29,340 M.L.H.:
(1) The Jolimont (Vic.) railway-station
was opened for traffic on October 21,
1901, when the line from Prince’s
Bridge to Collingwood was completed.
Hitherto passengers for Collingwood
and beyond were served by a line
from North Melbourne, which ran
via Royal Park. (2) On April 19,
1917, a train from Healesville (Vic.)
collided with an engine near the
Prince’s Bridge station, several pas-
sengers suffering from shock.


An established writer will teach YOU
to write stories that
*• ■'ilfmumu/llMiuifi*
Mr. William Lynch (above;
ia Director of Studies of The
Savoy School. He began ia
1939 writing para, for the
Sydney “Bulletin.” He haa
since published over 600
short stories, 400 radio plays,
countless articles and several
books. His work haa been
featured in acme of the
world’s leading magazines.
A SPARE-TIME CAREER FOR YOU
Students trained by William Lynch have
sold over 4000 stories in the past five
years. One student won a National (£200)
prize for a short story; another earned
£Bl/10/0 In SIX WEEKS OF SPARE-
TIME WRITING; a third student (see
below) earned £350 In one year of SPARE-
TIME writing. It is possible for you,
too, to add to your Income by writing at
home In your spare time.
EARNED EXTRA £350 in ONE YEAR
Mr. J.A., of Sydney, who studied for one year
at The Savoy School, writes: “I feel I owe you
this letter of appreciation for what your tuition
has done for me. 1 have earned over £B6O in
the last twelve months by writing in my spare
time. I am firmly convinced that any person
of average intelligence can earn £7 per week
or more hy writing at home in spare time. I
have sold to over 60 local and oversea journals,
and your training was the major factor in my
success. Your marketing services have helped
me sell the same story over and over again.
You may quote this letter.”
EARN EXTRA MONEY FREELANCING
There Is neither magic nor mystery about writing. Any person of average
intelligence and imagination can be taught to writs. The Savoy School studies
are simple and interesting and there is no wasted time. You start writing
stories from the first day you begin studying. Make extra money by utilising
some of your spare time.
For Those Who Want to Write But Can’t Get Started
No matter what your age or station in life you can begin a career NOW
writing stories and articles for the Press. The William Lynch Home-study
Tutorial System is designed particularly for those who have never written a
line for publication. You are shown all the << tricks of the trade” in a series
of interesting and educational lessons, compiled personally by William Lynch.
WRITING FOR PROFIT.
William Lynch has published a brochure entitled “Writing for Profit.” This
informative booklet is FREE to you cm application. It explains in detail
just how YOU may get started on a lucrative spare-time writing career.
Complete the below coupon and mail it right away.
1 I
} Mr. William Lynch,
| The Savoy School of Authorship, 39 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Please send me your free brochure “Writing for Profit,” I enclose 6d. in I
• stamps to cover part of the postage.
J NAME |
} ADDRESS
How to live with
your nerves
Did you inherit a quick
temper, a tendency to worry?
Know what Indecision —or com-
plaining—does to your nerves?
Or are you abusing your nerves
by smoking and drinking too
much?
In May Reader’s Digest, Dr.
Walter Alvarez, of the famous
Mayo Foundation, tells how —
though you can’t get rid of
nerves—you can learn to live
with them better. How to save
yourself nervous strain the
right way to tackle unpleasant
tasks to make decisions
quickly, and make them stick.
This is just one of 32 stimula-
ting articles in May Reader’s
Digest. Read and enjoy it today.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced S/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 2»/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL OKDEB DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 17. Valley F. 0., Brisbane.
Missing Friend.
WOULD anyone knowing the present
whereabouts of JAMES FINUOANE, also
known as JAMBS DREW, whose parents
were JOHN FINUCANB and MARGARET
PINUCANE, nte ROACH, please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY WELLS late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET WELLS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4470
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 11th day of July 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. W. H. HILL &
WEIR, Solicitors, 10 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND ERIC PYNE formerly of
Medina Hall 26 Kings Cross Road Darling-
hurst N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHILOMENA CAROLINE PYNE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 913 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before
the 13th of July 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from A. D.
McKENZIE, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THOMAS JAMES PAR-
NELL formerly of Hargrave Street Pad-
dington N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY PATRICIA PARNELL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4232 of 1948
on the ground of desertion without just
cause for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 13th
of July 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. D.
McKENZIE, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ADULTS ONLY.
MEMORISE
Pass exams.. Speak without
Notes, Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Write for free book, postage 3d.
REV. W. ROWLANDS
12a Younger Ave., S. Caulfield, Vic.
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not
revised your Will to
meet to-day’s condi-
tions, the conse-
quences may be seri-
ous for someone
who depends on you.
Your responsibility
to that someone is
too important to
justify delaying until
some to-morrow that
may never come.
M
fe!sir
E
E^irr
cc
311
Why not have a confidential talk
with one of our Senior Officers on the
subject of the appointment of the Com-
pany as your Executor and Trustee—
alone or jointly with a relative or
friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step
of having your Solicitor redraw your
Will, should then be a simple matter.
If you would have particulars of the
services offered by the Company write
(or, ring B 0377) and make an
appointment.
| TRUST FUNDS TO LEND |
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH & ORANGE.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Marjorie Lawrence's
"Elektra."
It was easy to see, at the con-
cert performance of Richard
Strauss’s opera at Melbourne
Town Hall, why Beecham found
Marjorie Lawrence the greatest
dramatic soprano living. She
was Elektra. She seemed to feel
the music, every bar of it, not
only her own part, and she
muttered and glared at the tenor
who had murdered her father
Agamemnon as if she would like
to bite his ear off.
From her stationary position
on the dais wheeled in by her
husband, she dominated the
whole opera and was the focal
point in the tempest of fury and
hate and vengeance that raged
around her so that, absorbed in
Miss Lawrence, the audience
nearly jumped out of its soul-
case when it heard the scream
of her mother Klytemnestra,
more animal than human,
coming from some instrument
or other when she is being done
to death in her palace with a
hatchet by her son Orestes.
Hugo von Hofmannsthal’s
version of the Sophoclean drama
is a horrible business. It is all
on the negative side, like
Tolstoy’s “Kreutzer Sonata.”
Strauss, who hadn’t much
melody in him but was a magni-
ficent musical tone-painter, made
a great thing of it with his
myriads of motives snarling and
crawling around the characters
of the guilty queen and her
wormlike lover, the gentle
daughter who is wanting
married happiness and a hus-
band and children, and her
ferocious sister who is so de-
termined by grandma’s values
that all she can think of is death
and destruction because the
ancient Greek code said that
children were under a moral
obligation to avenge a father.
Miss Lawrence, who ought to
have been exhausted by her pre-
vious tantrums, rose to her
greatest height in Elektra’s
dance to death which is the
crown point of the opera. The
beautiful color of her voice
wasn’t lost even in the midst of
her half-demented frenzy.
Soloists were nearly all from
Sydney. Heather Kinnaird
(Klytemnestra), Frank Lisle
(Orestes) and Phyllis Rogers,
Allan Ferris, Lorraine Davis
and Keith Neilson were moder-
ately transported, and the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra set
its teeth and let itself go as it
hasn’t done for a long time,
under Eugene Goossens’s baton.
"Faust."
Concert versions of operas
can be mighty dull affairs, and
can be saved only by first-rate
singing. And it was just this
factor that made the presenta-
tion of “Faust” by the Queens-
land State and Municipal Choir,
accompanied by the Queensland
Symphony Orchestra, and rein-
forced by soloists from southern
States, such a success. As Faust,
Ronald Dowd sang his aria “All
hail, thou dwelling pure and
lowly,” with lovely tone and
pleasing personality. Molly
Grouse’s interpretation of
Marguerite emphasised the
pathetic side of the hapless girl,
but it was Alan Eddy’s sardonic
portrayal of Mephistopheles
that will be most remembered.
Choir and orchestra were con-
trolled by the masterly hands of
Joseph Post.
The Borovanskys.
There were so many fauns
skipping about under the gum-
trees in minor Australian poetry
20 years ago that criticism de-
clared them prohibited immi-
grants ; but now there aren’t
any at all; and Borovansky
might get a very good .effect by
transferring “L’Apres Midi d’un
Faun” to an Australian setting:
the hot golden light of our
afternoon filtering through the
green gum-trees would really
suit Debussy’s music and Mal-
larmd’s poem much better than
the cold, stark choreography de-
vised by Paul Grinwis for the
current programme at Sydney
Empire.
The nymphs, too, could be
warmer. When, as in the present
production, they are bleak and
sculptural priestesses, the faun
seems to have no right at all to
be wooing the veil one of them
has dropped; and everyone
should have the right to think
about pretty nymphs in the
bush. But that—an Australian,
or at any rate a warmer, more
poetic ballet—is one kind of in-
terpretation, and that of Paul
Grinwis was another: and ex-
cellent, too, in its cold, stark,
stamping, goatish way: a pre-
cise and vivid picture of tor-
mented and outlawed lust.
There was certainly no lack
of color in the rest of the pro-
gramme that included “Fa?ade,”
“Scheherazade” and “Aurora’s
Wedding.” William Constable’s
superb and towering decor
rolled and glittered like a rain-
bow, like an ocean of rainbows,
above the dancers.
Because there is as yet no per-
former of equal magnificence in
the company they were almost
overwhelmed in the splendor of
the decor; but certain clear and
valiant moments of delight
manifested themselves: John
Auld and Kathleen Gorham as
the Spanish couple in “Facade” ;
Paul Grinwis’s cold “Faun” in
its entirety; Dorothy Stevenson
as the sultan’s favorite wife,
wicked and spangled, in
“Scheherazade,” and the
dramatic return of the sultan
like Ulysses coming home to
slaughter the suitors of Pene-
lope ; Colleen Campbell and
Jack Manuel as Red Riding
Hood and a wolf from King’s
Cross in “Aurora’s Wedding,”
also Kathleen Gorham’s charm-
ing and vivacious Bluebird . . .
the odd flashes of brilliance
amongst the general professional
polish that distinguishes Boro-
vansky’s productions.
Holes and Lumps.
Danila Vassilieff, who is show-
ing bits of Lilydale stone from
the Mitchell quarries at the
Stanley Coe Gallery, Melbourne,
seems to have given a literal
interpretation to Rodin’s dictum
that sculpture is the art of the
hole and the lump.. What Rodin
meant by his statement is ex-
emplified in his sculpture, and
can be seen by anybody who
goes up to the National Gallery
and looks at the Minerva sans
casque, whose surface seems to
palpitate like flesh, though it is
only holes and lumps in marble.
Rodin transcends his material
with his skill as a modeller or
carver. Mr. Vassilieff doesn’t
transcend his material, however,
and in “Superman,” “Hollywood
Star” and “Yankee Cresar” you
think of stone first and the thing
represented second. Unlike
Rodin’s, Mr.. Vassilieff’s shapes
are unusual, and you are apt to
be arrested by the spectacle of
a lady’s left breast protruding
from her stomach.
That is aesthetically of no im-
portance. Mr. Vassilieff may
have taken for his subject-
matter images seen in night-
mares, and there is no reason
why he shouldn’t if he likes to.
The important thing is how well
he does it, and if he takes a bit
of stone, which has all the in-
finite variety of nature, and
carves and polishes all the
variety out of it until hair, flesh
and everything else look like
lino you have to conclude he has
gone in a wrong direction —just
as if Melba had used her voice
to reproduce the sound of a loco-
motive whistle.
There is, however, an element
of humorous suggestion in some
of the sculptor’s carving. His
“Bloke Pointing” makes you
laugh; so does “Conventional
Madonna.”
oQi
Not even when William
Dobell wins an Archibald Prize
has an art exhibition in Sydney
attracted such crowds as the dis-
play of “Three Centuries of
Painting in Italy” at David
Jones’s. And whether this is be-
cause the pictures are mainly re-
ligious, or because documentary
films are being shown with
them, or because everybody is
anxious to join with the Italian
Legation in forgetting Mussolini
and remembering Botticelli, a
lot of people are certainly look-
ing at art; which is always pleas-
ing. It is not proposed here to
sum up three centuries of
splendor in a paragraph; but it
might be worth remarking how
the jewelled and delicate luxuri-
ance of Benozzo Gozzoli lingers
in the mind; along with the re-
gret that, however attractive and
informative all these prints may
be, there are no originals on
view. Surely a few could have
been found in Sydney if none
could be loaned from overseas.


m
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
U.T.9
It costs less when Experts manage your Estate. ..
■EFFICIENT management of an Estate is
dependent on the wisdom and experience of
the Executor or Trustee. In unskilled hands,
wastage and unnecessary expense may cause con-
siderable loss. The relatively small cost involved
in appointing the Union Trustee as your executor
may be more than offset by the careful, economi-
cal management of your Estate.
The specialised knowledge of a group of experts
in every sphere of Estate administration is
permanently available.
Charges, limited by law, are exceedingly moderate.
A confidential interview can be arranged to meet
your convenience.
Phone, call or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees .”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD. , ooi?x
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St M Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Aibury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
r- 1 Dividends To Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 128,709 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 13,709 1,364,372
Added reserve subsidiaries, £5492 1,369,864
Written off colliery, £13,395 .. 1,356,469
1945.. 123,716 6 p.c. 4ip.c. 105,000 18,715 1,375,185
Added reserves subsids., £34,121.. 1,409,306
Written off colliery, £23,991 .. 1,385,315
1946.. 163,934 6 p.c. 4Jp.c. 105,000 58,934 1,444,249
Profit sale shares, £lOO,OOO .. 1,544,249
Added reserves subsids., £70,195.. 1,614,444
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,936 1,627,380
Written off colliery, £9024 .. 1,618,356
1947.. 163,037 6 p e. 4sp.c. 105,000 68,037 1,676,393
Reduction res. subsids., £3802.. 1,672,591
Unexplained to genl. res., £35,985 1,708,576
Written off colliery, £9212 .. 1,699,364
1948.. 167,912 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 52,912 1,752,276
Unexplained to genl. res., £670 .. 1,752,946
Added reserves subsids., £34,044 .. 1,786,990
1949.. 125,674 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 1,777,664
Net unexplained reduction, £10.328 1,767,336
Written off colliery, £32,271 .. 1,735,065
1950.. 200,089 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 65,089 1,800.154
* After deducting outside interests.
Investors in Howard Smith’s scrip own
a widespread equity in Australian in-
dustry through the co.’s large and varied
shareholdings. And earnings from this
source are supplemented by the co.’s own
merchandising activities and its income
as manager and/or agent for subsidiary
and other undertakings. Of the parent
co.’s £4,512,509 of assets at December
31, 1950, shares in subsidiary and other
cos. accounted for £3,141,427, stocks
£103,311, book debts £569,513, Govern-
ment securities, cash, etc., £406,405, free-
holds £259,406 and plant £32,447.
Principal shareholdings are:
Subscribed H.S.’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar . . 207,912 155,708
Caledonian Collieries..
f 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
( 1,023,599 ord. 869,539 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,821
B.H.P. . . . . 16,970,545 472,240
Southern Port. Cement
S 210,004 pref. 96,809 pref.
( 639,885 ord. 250,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
A. Goninan & Co. . . 199,180* 39,510*
* Excludes bonus issue March, 1951.
First four on the list are subsidiaries,
whose figures (not published separately)
are incorporated in the consolidated
accounts summarised in the introductory
table. The improvement of £74,415 in
last year’s total profit of the group
appears to have come largely from ship-
ping, thanks to lifts in controlled freight-
rates, and from the parent’s own mer-
chandising and other activities.
Caledonian Collieries, which made a
loss in 1949, showed a profit of £28,108
for 1950, of which £23,215 (it will benefit
H.S.’s 1951 accounts) was handed to the
prefs. Their divs. are still £325,006 in
arrears, which makes the outlook for the
ords. a bleak one. Mechanisation of In-
vincible Colliery, which paid its last div.
(2i p.c.) in 1947, is now almost complete.
Southern Portland Cement lifted its ord.
div. from 5 p.c. p.a. to 8 p.c. p.a. last
year. A. Goninan paid 15 p.c. as against
10 p.c. for the previous year, and made
a one-for-four bonus share-issue at end
March last. B.H.P. continued to pay a
steady 8J p.c. H.S. didn’t take up its
proportion of B.H.P.’s last one-for-three
new share-issue, but sold the rights
thereto, which fetched from 18s. to
225. 6d. in the market.
A feature of the accounts over the last
half-dozen years is the inclusion of profits
earned in prior periods, being largely sub-
sidies in connection with shipping and
coal. Here are the figures as the pub-
lished documents show them:
, P roflt
Claimed Previous
for Years. Years. Total.
1945 .. .. £73,830 £49,886 £123,716
1946 .. .. 116,725 47,209 168,934
1947 .. . . 132,091 30,946 163,037
1948 . . ~ 86,144 81,768 167,912
1949 . . .. 115,208 10,466 125,674
1950 . . . . 171,179 28,910 . 200,089
After paying the pref. div. (£15,000)
enough remained of last year’s total profit
to show 9.2 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of ord.
capital as against 5.5, 7.6, 7.6 and 7.6
p.c. back to 1946. That leaves out of
the figuring a net unexplained reduction
of £10,328 in reserves and £32,271
written off on account of mine recondi-
tioning in the Caledonian co. The board,
which has always pursued a cautious
financial policy, kept the div. at 6 p.c.
Finances are comfortable;
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £260,000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital* .. 467,825 456,074 455,086
Deposits .. .. 10,116 8,929 12,067
Sundry creditors . . 729,239 610,648 826,947
Workers’ compensation 42,502 28,039 28,524
Tax provision .. 135,890 64,963 67,030
Final divs. .. 60,000 83,750 83,750
Freeholds, etc. .. 404,185 481,631 520,289
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. .. 2,048,637 2,041,914 2,074,212
Shares other cos... 947,309 1,054,453 1,143,999
Stocks, etc. .. 252,662 271,854 396,575
Debtors .. ~ 606,203 415,496 617,309
Public securities and
cash. etc. .. 1,200,446 1,014,719 771,224
* Including proportion of reserves.
Buoyant trade and rising prices are
reflected in growths of £201,813 in
debtors’ balances and £124,721 in stocks.
The net addition to fixed assets was
£70,906 and to shareholdings (mainly in
respect of B.H.P. scrip) £89,546. To
meet the outlay public securities and cash
were drawn upon for £243,495 and
£216,299 was added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors.
The market for the f.-p. pound ords.,
which advanced from 275. a year ago to
335. at end March last, strengthened to
355. 6d. following publication of the
accounts. The immediate return at
355. 6d. is 3.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis ;
so the investor who looks for 4.5 p.c. on
his money counts on an 8 p.c. distribu-
tion. The prefs. at 28s. 6d. yield 4.1 p.c.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is
£l6 4s. prefs. and 38s. ords.
Wunderlich; Ltd.
, Dividends <
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary serves, serves, t
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 22,488 128,743
To staff partners, £14,600 .. ..114,143
1945.. 64,386 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 12.386 126,529
To staff partners, £11,750 .. .. 114,779
1946.. 60,826 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 18,826 133,305
To staff partners, £9400 .. .. 124,205
1947.. 63,744 11,200 7 p.c. =30,807 21,787 145,942
To staff partners, £lO,BOO .. .. 135,142
1948.. 88,988 11,200 9J p.c. =41,838 35,950 171,092
To staff partners, £10,600 .. .. 160,492
1949.. 95,569 11,200 9% p.c. =41,857 42,512 203,004
To staff partners, £12,750 ~ .. 190,254
Share premiums, £53,268 .. .. 243,522
1950.. 98,652 11,200 10 p.c.=46,213 41,239 284,761
To staff partners, £13,600 .. .. 271,161
Share premiums, £4B .. .. .. 271,209
1951. .127,557 11,200 10 p.c.=54,763 61,594 332,803
To staff partners, £19,900 .. .. 312,903
* After payment divs. on staff-partnership certifi-
cates (£6367, 1951). f After deducting goodwill
( £73,888).
Under the double pressure of a starved
market and tight supplies almost all the
indices of raw-material and end-product
prices are pointing upwards. This is par-
ticularly so in the building and ancillary
trades, where the lag in production is
not likely to be overtaken for years,
especially, if the population keeps on
growing at the rate of about a million
in three years. Combined with inflation,
it has all bumped up both the earnings
and capital requirements of Wunder-
lichs, which feeds the trade with
terra-cotta roofing tiles, architectural
facings, asbestos-cement (durabestos)
sheets, showcases, shop fronts and pressed-
steel partitions, etc., turned out from
factories in all States of the Common-
wealth.
The co. is committed to a programme
of expansion, including the erection of
new factories and extension and moderni-
sation of old ones, that will call for “a
very large capital outlay.” With things
as they are the board decided that the
most economical method of financing the
expenditure was by mortgage, and a loan
of £500,000 from a leading life office has
been arranged accordingly, the money to
bo drawn as required. And, since the
board’s policy is safety-first, the directors
cannot prudently recommend a rate of
dividend higher than 10 p.c., the chair-
man says.
Despite rising costs and controlled
selling-prices, shortages of materials and
of labor and power blackouts, the in-
crease in turnover last term enabled the
board to write profit £28,905 stronger at
a record £127,557, That was after allow-
ing for depreciation (£72,349, up £8972),
taxation (amount unstated) and the div.
(£6367) on staff partners’ certificates. The
£127,557 was enough to pay the pref.
divs. (£11,200) and show 21.2 p.c, on ord.
capital as against 18.9, 19.1, 17.6, 11.9
and 12.2 p.c. back to 1946. Of the £61,594
(over 48 p.c. of the year’s net earnings)
that remained, £19,900 was allotted to
the staff-partners’ funds (now £130,900),
which is non-contributory and on which
a 5 p.c. div. was paid. The other £41,694
lifted reserves £312,903 in excess of good-
will (£73,888).
The co. increased its overdraft
(£293,109) by £246,853 and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. (£619,495)
by £134,082:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital £600,400 £600,600 £707,335 £707,633
Creditors, etc. 285,467 (
Tax reserve.. 199,325 )
500,527* 571,457* 951,953*
Staff funds.. 93,550 104,500 115,400 130,900
Freeholds .. 365,701 355,132 376,218 401,667
Plant, etc... 204,417 217,442 242,038 306,255
Stocks .. 419,824 424,380 616,560 913,989
Book debts.. 176,221 192,993 235,007 264,877
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 209,156 210,340 195,530 216,601
* Including tax provision and final divs.
The net addition to stocks was £297,429,
due partly to price rises and partly to
stockpiling of scarce materials. The
growth of £25,449 in freeholds and of
£64,217 in plant was mainly on account
of the new tileworks at Northgate, near
Brisbane, now nearing production. Book
debts rose by £29,870 and cash and in-
vestments by £21,071, The new mort-
gage money wifi relieve the pressure of
current liabilities.
Turnover has continued to advance
since the close of accounts, but materials
and labor remain short of requirements,
and production costs are soaring. At the
moment the co.’s worst trouble is
electric-power blackouts, as a result of
which it lost 151 hours of ordinary work-
ing time at its tileworks alone last term.
The production loss of roofing tiles would
have covered 300 cottages. Emergency
power-plant is being installed to help
overcome the difficulty; but operating
costs will increase.
The market prices the f.-p. pound ords.
at 665. (535. 3d. a year ago), giving an
immediate return of only 3 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. At 31s. the first, second and
third prefs. all yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is £25 10s. 3d. firsts,
£24 10s. 3d. seconds, £ll 15s. Id. thirds
and 31s. sd. ords.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 58,243 p.c. = 46,875 11,368 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217.. 334,673
1944.. 112,589 8} p.c. = 65,625 |
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 3
86,964 371,637
Unexplained addition, £126,512 .. 498,149
1945. . 96,732 8f p.c. = 65,625 \„„ IQ7 524 ,256
To staff fund, £5,000 .. J ’
Unexplained addition, £152,594 .. 676,850
1946.. 80,401 SJp.c. = 65,625 14,776 691,626
Unexplained addition, £636 .. 692,262
1947.. 89,086 8| p.c. = 65,625 23,461 715,723
Unexplained addition, £4109 .. 719,832
1948.. 97,079 8J p.c. = 65,625 31,454 751,286
Unexplained addition, £48,469 .. 799,755
1949.. 94,018 8J p.c. = 65,625 28,393 828,148
Unexplained reduction, £953 .. 827,195
1950.. 96,702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Unexplained addition, £44,111 .. 893,008
1951.. 99,573 10 p.c. = 76,000 24,578 917.581
This co.’s f.-p. pound shares satisfy the
requirements of a sound industrial
equity. On Sydney ’Change, their price,
which has followed the mood of the
market, fluctuated between 51s. and 575.
over the last 16 months. At last week’s
figure of 545. the immediate return is 4.1
p.c., after allowing for exchange at the
current rate, which makes 10 p.c. (Fiji)
equal to 11.1 p.c. in Australian currency.
Net tangible backing is visibly 445. sd.
(Fijian currency).
At the end of January last there were
reserves with a book-value of £917,581 —
£547,695 net came from undisclosed
sources over the last eight years—to sup-
port and assist the £750,000 of share
capital, which has remained unchanged
since 1920, when the big parent organisa-
tion (Burns Philp) passed the South
Pacific section of its business to the co.
for £500,000 in scrip. The policy
throughout has been to keep the div.
moderate and finance expansion out of
earnings, thus strengthening the value of
shareholders’ equity in the business.
For the 20 years to the close of accounts
in 1940 divs. averaged 6.1 p.c. followed
by an average of 8.1 p.c. for the 11 years
to the close of last accounts.
Since World War II the inflation of
commodity prices has given island trad-
ing an extraordinary boost, the co. has
strengthened its inter-island fleet and
has handed over its assets in the New
Hebrides to a new subsidiary, which
hasn’t yet paid a div., but which “never-
theless continues to operate successfully.”
Last year there was a ready market for
all island produce at increased prices.
Fijian copra, taken by the British Gov-
ernment under a nine-year contract from
beginning of 1949 at a price to be fixed
annually, averaged £FS3 14s. 3d. per ton
for 1950 as against £F49 10s. 6d. for
1949 ; the figure for 1951 is £FSS ss.
The price of sugar, also sold to Britain
on an eight-year contract, increased, too.
Improvement in the co.’s gross earn-
ings was £33,673:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Gross profit .. . . £344,825 £331,665 £365.338
Working exes.* . . 206,033 205,442 225,001
Depreciation .. .. 40,172 36,146 28,909
Bad debts, etc. .. 4,602 3,375 11,855
Net profit . . . . 94,018 96,702 99,573
* Includes unspecified provision for taxation, and
contributions to staff fund.
Exes, and allowances took all but £2871
of the gain. The declared net result at
£99,573 was 13.3 p.c. on capital as
against 12.9, 12.5, 12.9, 11.8 and 10.9 p.c.
back to 1946. That leaves out of the
reckoning an unexplained addition of
£44.111 to “general, equalisation and re-
habilitation reserve, insurance fund and
sundry reserves,” which are lumped at
£547,695. So maintenance of the 10 p.c.
div. was a comfortable matter.
Finances are snug, and movements in
balance-sheet figures, combined with the
general outlook, augur well for the cur-
rent year’s trading:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £760.000
Liabilities .. 210,032 182,744 170,001 161,755
Pinal div. .. 37,500 37,500 87,500 3(,500
Properties, ship- „
ping, etc... 174,709 196,167 182.882 214,242
Investments . . 11,500 15,016 107,084 107.-99
Shares subsid. 130,500 130,500 304.500 314.960
Stocks, etc. . . 794,908 1,045,346 975,140 984,108
Book debts.. 99,270 112,992 100.232 165,-44
Owing by sub- ~ . onn
sidiary .. 517,114 179.849 11,344 4,390
Cash .. .. 80,817 118,522 125,214 75,593
Last term £31,360 was added to the
book-value of properties, etc., £65,512 to
debtors’ balances and £10,460 to the
holding in the subsidiary —a 5 p.c. div.
from the subsidiary would be equal to
2.1 p.c. on the parent co.’s capital.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
, Dividends \ Be-
Dec. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
1943 .. 6,703 *8 *5 4,691 1|,579
1944 . . 7,616 8 5 4,691 18,504
Profit on sale of freehold, £145 .. 1»,64.
iQifi 8 645 8 6 5,228 22,066
.Recovered' loss of subsidiary, £1539 23,605
Expenses of share issue, etc., £733
1946 .. 9,299 8 6 5,948 26.223
Expenses of share issue, £905 • •
1947 .. 12,951 8 6 7.742 30.527
Expenses of share issue, £1702 •• “8,82 d
1948 30,267 8 9 14,124 44,968
1949 .. 41,523 8 10 17,908 68,538
Revaluation reserve, £84,000 . • •
Share premiums, £5OOO • • • • * 7 ’ 708
1950 .. 52,737 8 10 22,567 187.-08
• Subject to £4878 goodwill.
Boom, the addition of some well-known
agency lines to the list of the co. s own
manufactures, and modernisation of the
factory to the benefit of costs, are the


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
"SIRIUS”
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
im
maa
m
df
AND SONS
PTY. LTD
Write for
Illustrated Brochure.
Tel. BW 8631
w2T W
MfcG
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE*
INSULATION
I
'l*lo
dsf
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
HOB 6
mi
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALPHONSUS CYRIL BUCHBACK
late of 160 Hastings Parade Bondi.—
TAKE NOTICE that MAYME OLIVE
BUCHBACK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1622 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 15th day of
June 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from H. WIL-
SHIRE WEBB, Solicitor, of 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE EDWARD DODDS late of
173 Lawson Street Redfern.—T AK E
NOTICE that ANNIE MARGUERITE
DODDS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3814 of 1950 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th June 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BRIAN MULLEN, Solicitor,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. IV. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S, White; A. 0. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
•as*
G$
m^k
IS
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN mSTIIXEHS
TO H.M. KINO GEOEGB V|
Xtnqueray Card on and Co. Um
suopiog
WHERE |JCM
:aiatCM MOVE MERCHANDISE moves
This Otis escalator Installation at Anthony
Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney, invites cus-
tomers to see and buy goods on other floors.
Offering convenient, constant and immediate
transport, escalators step up traffic volume
. . . distribute a greater flow of customers
'liiickly and easily to all merchandising areas
. . . and permit maximum sales to be
realised. Otis will be glad to survey your
store and report on the facts discovered.
rwo
Post
■*BB
-
v
|p|
li
.
:
if
...
» in®;*
H
■
-••••■"•
i
m*
>-'V 3
mm
rr-:
m
6
■
mm
•> *
■
B
of "fen
■ War Design Otis Escalators Installed at
iYDNCY* Anthony Hordern
& Sons Ltd. ...... 10
David Jones Ltd, .... 6
Mark Fay’s Ltd 6
viGLBOUBNEt Myer Emporium Ltd. . 12
Manton & Sons Ltd. .. 4
VDELAIOEt Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd 4
miSBANK* McWhirters Ltd 6
erth. Boons Ltd. 6
Anthony Hordern & Sons
m
r/fSf
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD*
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
main factors behind the brisk
advance of profits and lifts in
the div. oyer the last four years.
The factory at Rosebery, near
Sydney, turns out sheep-shear-
ing and milking machines and
petrol and diesel engines, etc.
The agencies include Electrolux
refrigerators, Hawkins pressure-
cookers and Beatty washing-
machines. Last term a tractor
franchise was added to the list,
and “a satisfactory additional
profit during the current year” is
anticipated. The small Queens-
land offshoot (paid capital
£15,000), which looks after sales
in the northern State, is making
rapid progress.
To lighten the outside debt
and provide more working funds,
£92,267 of fresh capital was
gathered last term —shareholders
put up £79,767 of it at par. and
the balance, which brought in
£5OOO of share premiums, was
taken by Elder Smith and Co.
All-round expansion of turn-
over, together with £4552 (noth-
ing in the previous term) from
the Queensland subsidiary, sent
gross earnings (£341,193) up by
£80,345. Including provision
for depreciation (£11,979, up
£1546) and taxation (£31,000, up
£4500), exes. (£288,456) took all
but £11,214 of the gain. The
£52,737 of profit covered the
pref. div. (£2000) and 24.6 p.c.
on average ord. capital as
against 24.7, 23, 12.4 and 13.5
p.c. back to 1946. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., leaving £30,170
(57.2 p.c.) of the year’s net earn-
ings to plough back into the
business. Reserves also benefited
by the share premiums already
referred to, and by a book entry
of £84,000 following revaluation
of the co.’s freeholds, lifting the
lay-by to £187,708, subject to
£4878 of intangibles:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £184,532 £184,532 £276,799
Mortgages .. 38,802 70,000 77,500
Overdraft .. 24,845
Creditors, etc.* 154,488 269,487 167,421
Pinal div. . . 9,774 9,774 13,590
Freehold .. 76,337 85,799 170,000
Plant . . 50.871 55,404 61,968
Shares subsid. 15,000 15,000 15,000
Stock . . 182,795 285,211 286,209
Book debts .. 99,160 152,102 209,808
Cash . . .. 3.522 3,936
Goodwill . . 4,878 4,878 4,878
* Includes provision for taxation.
The new capital, and more be-
sides, was used mainly to lop
£102,066 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., and to
carry an extra £57,706 in book
debts. The growth in the free-
hold item (up £84,201) was due
almost entirely to the revalua-
tion abovementioned. The
year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£212,661,
excluding shares in the sub-
sidiary) was £120,673.
The immediate outlook for
the economy as a whole is ex-
pansionary, with the costs (in-
cluding taxation), materials and
manpower problems becoming
increasingly prominent. The
market prices the f.-p. 12s. 6d.
shares at 28s. (21s. 3d. a year
ago), giving a return of 4.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 31s. yield 5.1
p.c. Net tangible cover is
£lB 7s. Bd. prefs. and 21s. 7d,
ords.
The Prospector
Small gold-producers on the
Tennant Creek field (N.T.) are
up in arms, and rightly so,
against the new charges for
crushing by Government bat-
teries. Hitherto the tariff was
at the flat rate of 12s. 6d, per
ton, and 2.2dwt. per ton, less 10
p.c. for shrinkage, for cyanid-
ing the sands. The new scale
is a graduated one, rising from
12s. 6d. per ton for 7-10dwt. ore
to 455. per ton for stuff assaying
up to 20z., with a penalty of up
to £1 a ton for ore down to
4dwt., and the customer is to be
bled for the cost of labor for
feeding the cracker, say, three
men for 24 hours or more.
Westralian Government bat-
teries still charge only 10s, 6d.
per ton for crushing and provide
the labor, and the Treasury pays
a subsidy on carting. The effect
of the new charges in the Terri-
tory is to discourage small pro-
ducers and prospectors, a short-
sighted policy for any Govern-
ment to pursue.
The function of the pros-
pector, who is usually not
fitted by education or experi-
ence to solve mining, metal-
lurgical and milling problems
properly, is to discover and
demonstrate by shallow work-
ings the existence of ore in
quantity and quality sufficient to
attract capital. He has a differ-
ent object in view from a min-
ing co.; he expects to profit
from sale of his discovery,
whereas the mining co. looks for
its gain from development of
the prospect and reduction and
sale of the ore. The prospector
is the forerunner of the mining
co. He is indispensable to the
discovery and development of
any field, and it is essential in
the interests of mining generally
that his importance should be
recognised at Government level.
* * * *
“Cowhide Kibble”; The news
that shareholders of Meeka-
tharra Sands Treatment and
Mining N.L. (W.A.) are to meet
to decide the co.’s future, be-
cause operations ceased follow-
ing major plant breakdowns, is
a reminder that the modern
mining investor has to face a
hazard almost unknown in the
industry 50 years ago. In those
days it was customary to install
heavy, slow-moving machinery,
looked after by men who took
a personal pride in their jobs,
with the result that breakdowns
were rare and soon repaired,
Nowadays the practice is to
install expensive, high-speed low-
weight machines requiring ex-
pert alignment during construc-
tion an( j s ki]f u i attention during
their running lives. Careless-
ness? laziness, lack of knowledge
or luck ca n threaten the
ver y existence of a co. A major
breakdown in the main power
un jt at Blue Spec in May, 1948,
was followed by reconstruction
0 f the co. in 1949. The remedy
se ems to lie in securing the right
men f or the job, which is no
eaS y task these days.


Missing Friend.
TO JOHN HARPER PERRY formerly of 1 Green
Street South Melbourne in the State of Victoria and
547 Old South Head Road Rose Bay in the State of
New South Wales but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife EDNA JOY PERRY has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the Sixth day of
June One thousand nine hundred and fifty-one the
rase may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.—NORMAN LANDAU, 415
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Sunshine, shows, conferences, balls,
colds in the head and blackouts made
Sydney a place of delight and despair
this week, with delight winning-out on
the whole.
The Troc. turned itself into a small
league of nations when the International
Ball was held there during the week.
The pageant, in which about 16 countries
displayed examples of national costume,
singing and dancing, ran along very
smoothly except for some difficulties with
the lighting, which blackout-broken
Sydneyites naturally (but wrongly) took
for an electricity failure. The Dutch
showed how lightfooted one can be even
in clogs; the French, Chinese and
Pakistan folk how luscious a costume
can get. The Italians were represented
by song delivered richly and impressively,
but rather too lengthily. Madame
Klingenberg, clad in a striking Norwegian
costume, let us see how gracefully a
Consul-General’s wife can dance.
The A. D. Stewarts and Lady Anderson
received the guests. The Consul-General
for Greece was there with Madame
Vrisakis, Dr. and Madame Regala (the
clever lady who organised the pageant),
the James Marjoribanks, General and
Mrs. Bridgeford, the Lord Mayor and
Mrs. O’Dea, the J. P. J. Macaulays, the
American Donald Smiths, Dr. and Mrs.
C. M. Guiney, Lady Braddon, the Begum
Flaroon (in a fabulous gown of white
silk gauze and beaten silver), the Martin
Wangs, the James Oongs and the C. T.
Lorenzes. In the younger set were John
and Marion Croft, Pamela Chauncey,
Janet Bardsley, Meredith Roberts (who
was the Sleeping Beauty of the pageant),
her sister Liska in a billowy 1870 dress,
Gordon Stewart and Tom Reynolds.
The C.W.A. conference was opened
af the Town Hall by the Governor, who
spoke kindly words of encouragement
and advice. State president Mrs. G. L.
Brooks’s report got a very hearty round
of applause from the nine hundred
delegates present, who affirmed her state-
ment that the full impact of their work
would not be felt until every woman
living in the country is a member of the
C.W.A.
Mrs. Raymond Sayre, president of the
Associated Country Women of the
World, and principal speaker of the
afternoon, won the conference over by
first talking in humorous and friendly
vein about herself, as she said that the
first ten minutes is always spent in
“looking the speaker over,” Mrs. Sayre
is a fine sport, who takes in good part
what well-meaning but blunt reporters
say about her, and even gets a laugh out
of it. When she came to her main mes-
sage, that we should all “think inter-
nationally,” she proved herself a forceful
and moving orator. Her challenging
question to all country women was “Are
you doing all you can to create public
opinion for peace?” A world peace can
only come about by our trying to under-
stand other peoples of the world, for
this is the only way in which we can
learn to love our neighbour in the biblical
sense of the word “love.”
A piece of advice of a more frivolous
nature given by Mrs. Sayre to other
women speakers is to concentrate on hats.
“You get stuck behind tables and micro-
phones,” she said, “and all the audience
sees is the hat.” At the opening of the
conference Mrs. Sayre wore a small black
hat trimmed with soft grey feathers like
wings.
The spontaneous generosity of coun-
try delegates was shown when £954 was
subscribed in one afternoon towards the
administrative costs of the C.W.A., with
promises of more later. Most members
seemed to feel that the vital resolutions
of the conference were those relating to
education. The association will try to
get residences for two-teacher schools in
the country and to have the requisite
average attendance reduced from nine to
seven. A request for more hostels will
be made, and tax remissions for parents
whose children are still students after
they reach the age of 16.
The conference closed with a garden-
party at Elaine, the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Vincent Fairfax, when about 600
guests were welcomed by the president
of the association, Mrs. J, M. Gordon,
charming in navy suit and green orchids.
It’s not a very good time of the year for
gardens, but Sydney turned on one of
its loveliest sunny days, so that the green
lawns and the sparkling harbor were a
happy setting for a friendly gathering.
Present were Mrs. S. P. Swinson, Mrs.
J. M, Campbell, Mrs. Noel Thomson.
Couldn’t help noticing how many of the
guests wore roses on their coats and
smiles on their faces. Mrs. C. Berriman,
from Belmont, who was with Mrs. W.
Brown, wore a handsome grey turnout.
Mrs. G. Miller, from Gerringong, looked
very smart in black with a primrose hat.
Three thousand packets of tree-seeds
were taken back to various parts of the
State by delegates to the C.W.A. Con-
ference so that the countryside may
blossom and bloom again. The scheme
was presented by Judith Cassels of the
Forestry Advisory Council, and met with
an enthusiastic response. The seeds have
been carefully zoned for different locali-
ties, and each packet was accompanied
by instructions and advice for planting
and care. If the "enthusiasm continues,
Old-man Soil-erosion will have to take
cover as the little forests start to grow up
all over the State.
“The Devil’s Disciple,” which opened
at the Palace during the week, has a rather
disquieting message for us girls, for in
it G. B. Shaw points out that men do not
perform noble deeds for the love of
women, but because of some inexplicable
heroism within themselves, which will
come out, love or no love. Really, what
heresy! It may not be true, of course.
On the opening night the director,
Ngaio (pronounced Nyo) Marsh, who
writes all those detective stories, said that
this was the very first performance of the
British Commonwealth Theatre Company,
which plans a very long tour. For the
information of those who like to know
what authors look like, Ngaio is a very
tall woman with a voice wondrous deep
and mellow.
The amount of tulle that can go into
one dress begins to pass comprehension.
There were 140 yards in the wedding
gown Betty Lovelock (in our picture)
wore for her marriage to Michael
Boggs at St. Mary’s Cathedral,
and this didn’t include the bodice,
which was Chantilly lace embroi-
dered with pearls. With it she wore
diamond-and-pearl earrings, heirlooms
of the Mark Foy family which were
given to her on her wedding morning by
Michael’s mother. Her attendants were
in rose velvet, with caps made of pearl-
embroidered grey leaves, and grey gloves.
Betty is the daughter of Mrs. Ellen Love-
lock, of Bellevue Hill. Michael is the
son of Mrs. C. Boggs, of Vaucluse.
How badly the Conservatorium does
need the touch of a woman’s hand! At
Harold Blair’s recital last Wednesday the
stage looked like the waiting-room in a
welfare clinic, except for the battered
piano in the centre of it. The pianist,
Henri Penn, had to sit on a low chair
and an untidy pile of music. There
wasn’t a flower in sight. It needed all
Harold Blair’s warmth of personality to
remove the cold and cranky atmosphere.
By the way, this singer showed an almost
perfect German accent in the Schumann
songs, as well as his beautiful English-
speaking voice,
The Royal Empire Society has arranged
a lecture for tomorrow night about the
expedition which the boys of Knox
Grammar made to the interior of Aus-
tralia last year. The speaker will be A.
C. Brown, senior geography master at
the school, who will illustrate his talk
with a film in color. On May 16 there
will be a ladies’ “At Home” in the
society’s rooms at 2.30 p.m., at which the
hostesses will be Mrs. J. C. Windeyer and
Mrs. D. Lindsay. Films to be
shown at this meeting include “Trooping
the Color,” “Queen Mary’s Carpet” and
films about Kew Gardens and a typical
Saturday afternoon in England,
From Melbourne
Three hundred guests attended the
Coral Sea luncheon in the lower Town
Hall. From the walls gold eagles, em-
blem of the U.S.A., looked down on the
uniforms of the three services, the flags
of Australia and America, the red, white
and blue flowers which were the floral
motif of the table decorations and the
massed miniature flags of the two nations
which decked the official table. R. G.
Casey, patron of the Australian-Ameri-
can Association, which sponsored the
luncheon, presided and introduced the
guest-speaker. Admiral Thomas C. Kin-
kaid, who came from America at the
invitation of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. He was accompanied by Mrs.
Kinkaid. Official guests represented the
three services, civilian and legal life.
Representing the Government was
Minister for the Army J. Francis. K. L.
Dodgshun represented the Premier, who
was away chasing the elusive coal. The
Lord Mayor, Sir James Disney, was
accompanied by Lady Disney. Sir Ed-
mund and Lady Herring, Sir Charles and
Lady Lowe and Sir John Latham were
also in the official party. Admiral Sir
John Collins, who was with Lady Col-
lins, represented the R.A.N. Lieut.-
General S. F. Rowell, the Army’s repre-
sentative, was accompanied by Mrs.
Rowell. Air-Marshal George Jones, with
Mrs. Jones, was there to see that the
R. was not forgotten. Prominent
in the official party were S. J. Fletcher,
Consul-General for the U.S., and Mrs.
Fletcher, Col. R. S. Ramey, U.S. Mili-
tary Attache, and Mrs. Ramey, Com-
mander A. Perry, U.S. Naval Attache,
and Mrs. Perry and Col, Frank Gillespie,
U.S. Army Air Force Attache, and Mrs.
Gillespie. Mrs. W. W. Killough, a mem-
ber of the American colony in this city,
attracted attention with her unusual suit.
Of navy wool, the jacket had a deep
sailor collar which was beaded round the
edge in white ; on one sleeve was em-
broidered the national emblem of her
country. Other American nationals
present included Mrs. Harold Rabling
and Mrs. H. E. Battle.
The Coral Sea Ball at St. Kilda Town
Hall was a brilliant climax to the week’s
festivities. The spectacular tropical
decorations included a large mermaid,
“The Spirit of the Coral Sea,” reclining
on the stage before a backdrop which
represented an island scene. On each side
of the stage was a vividly-painted 20ft-
high bird-of-paradise. On each table was
a smaller hand-painted bird-of-paradise,
whilst trails of ivy mingled with scarlet
hibiscus. On the walls were murals of
tropical birds, and from the balconies
hung flags and bunting. The official en-
closure was outlined with a low, white-
picket fence over which trailed bougain-
villea.
Sir Keith Murdoch, president of the
Australian-American Association, Lady
Murdoch and Mrs. Rupert Downes, presi-
dent of the Women’s Group, received the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, Lady Brooks
and their daughter Jeanette and members
of the official party. Lady Brooks wore
a gown of ice-blue taffeta, in the strap-
less bodice of which were diamond clips.
A full-skirted white georgette gown with
pastel roses scattered among the three
frills which finished the hem of the skirt
was worn by Jeanette. Pink roses were
pinned at the waist of the dove-grey
chiffon gown chosen by Mrs. Rupert
Downes. Lady Murdoch’s pale-mush-
room-pink lace gown was made from a
shawl bought in Spain before the war;
she also wore a matching mantilla. Mrs.
Pete Jarman, wife of the U.S. Ambassa-
dor, chose a pearl-grey sheer crepe gown,
the low-cut neckline edged with matching
lace; one large purple orchid gave taste-
ful contrast. Mrs. Kinkaid, wife of the
visiting Admiral, wore black taffeta. Mrs.
S. J. Fletcher’s gown of ice-blue satin
had the bodice ornamented in matching
rhinestones. Black chiffon, the skirt
knife-pleated, the bodice massed with
black sequins, was worn by Lady Disney
with a black stole lined with scarlet crepe,
St. Peter’s Church, Eastern Hill, was
the setting for the marriage of Mary
Elizabeth, eldest daughter of Mr, and
Mrs. W. J. Robertson, of Moonee Ponds,
and Randal Henry, eldest son of Mr.
and Mrs. G. Ingram, also of Moonee
Ponds. The bride’s lovely magnolia satin
gown had a full skirt and a bodice the
wide Chantilly lace collar of which ended
in peaks. Orange-blossom fashioned
a halo from which fell a long
filmy tulle veil, and she carried a
deep mauve orchid. Attending the
bride was her sister, Mrs, M. Ballan-
tyne, whose bouffant gown of gold-
spotted cream net had an upstanding
fichu collar and short sleeves. Her wide-
brimmed hat was of similar material;
the bouquet was cream and gold roses.
Tiny Cheryl Richards was flower-girl,
and she was a replica in miniature of
the matron-of-honor, even to the hat. The
reception was held at The Palms, Henley
Lawns. Mrs. Robertson received the
guests in a dove-grey pleated chiffon
frock and a matching straw hat finished
with ospreys. Mrs. Ingram, who had just
returned from the U.S.A., contrasted her
pale-lilac crepe with a parma-violet
cloche hat.
Here is Mrs. T. R. Spensley, popular
secretary of the women’s group of the
Austral ian-American Association. Affec-
tionately known as Ticki, she is a trained
nurse. For six years before the Japs
struck she lived in New Guinea. Evacu-
ated in 1941, she travelled to Australia
via Hong Kong, Saigon and Borneo. A
war widow with two children, Mrs.
Spensley became secretary of the associa-
tion last year. Photo from Allan Studio.
Lady Disney, wife of the Lord Mayor,
has always been keenly interested in the
welfare of children, and for this reason
readily accepted the position of patroness
of the Sutherland Homes for Children
Auxiliary. For the same reason she was
delighted when, at the small informal
morning-party she gave in her reception-
rooms, she accepted a cheque for almost
£7OO from Mrs. Norman Lynch. Helen
McDougall, president of the auxiliary, in
introducing Mrs. Lynch to Lady Disney,
explained that the handsome sum to be
presented was the result of a dinner-party
in March. Mrs. Lynch, with Mesdames
C. Curtain, R. Honeyman and Sadie
Kaufman, had organised the party. The
generous gift of Norman Lynch in not
only donating Eton Hall, where the party
was held, but also the four-course dinner
served, was stressed by the president.
Lady Disney, in checked suit and brown
beret, said she hoped the money, with
the consent of the auxiliary, would
be used to pay for an electric stove
and renovations to the kitchens at
the Greensborough homes. Mrs.
Lynch wore a beige coat which had
a deep collar of lynx-fur and a small
flower-trimmed hat. Mrs. R. Honeyman
wore kolinsky furs with her brown suit
and matching hat. Mrs. C. Curtain con-
trasted her hunter’s-green suit with a mink
stole and small brown hat. Sadie Kauf-
man’s choice was a jacket of black
Persian-lamb and a black hat.
Proceeds of the theatre-party at the
Princess sponsored by the Australian-
Americah Association were divided
between the Spastic Children’s Centre and
the association’s patriotic fund. The Gov-
ernor, Sir Dallas Brooks, who was with
Lady Brooks and their daughter Jeanette,
were received by the president of the
association, Sir Keith Murdoch, and Lady
Murdoch. The gown worn by Lady
Brooks was of pastel-toned floral satin.
Jeanette chose deep-wine-toned taffeta-
Lady Murdoch was in a slightly-trained
gown of dove-grey crepe. The Lady
Mayoress’s white crepes were embellished
with silver-bead trimming. Mrs. Rupert
Downes, president of the women’s group
of the association, wore pale-lilac satin
with a short matching cape. Mrs. T. T.
Hollway’s caramel-toned tulle was over
brown satin. Lady McConnan’s gown of
ice-blue crepe had moonlight bead-
trimmings. Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of
the U.S, Consul-General, wore American-
beauty crepe. Mrs, Ned Holland, who
presented flowers to Lady Brooks, wore
an ankle-length pale-rose satin dinner-
frock.


The PERFECT Port
at the POPULAR price
ds
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Admittance to the Distinguished Service
Order is generally taken by military men
as an admission, by both the awarding
authorities and the recipient, of the fight-
ing worth of every man in the unit. Bear-
ing this out was the recent award of
D.S.O. to Lieut.-Colonel lan Ferguson,
leader of the Australian Royals in their
glorious and symbolic stand in Korea
last Anzac Day.
“M.”: It was back in 1934 when,
aboard cruiser Australia’s then unblooded
length lying in Malta, the maintop mess-
deck was preparing for tea. On the night-
orders notice-board the commander had
delivered himself of a revolutionary
decree —“1100. Ordinary-seamen’s choir
to practise in the regulating-office flat.”
Old Bollardhead Johnson, three badges
up (there were few A.Bs. then who
didn’t rate two badges, alias eight years’
undetected crime), jabbed a marline-
spike finger at the notice-board and
slammed the mess-fanny on the table.
PSYCHOLOGIST.
“Ordinary-seamen’s choir!” he snorted.
“All we went in this b girls’ navy is
one of them sychiologist blokes and the
b—- guns and boats’d fire and hoist
their b selves!” “That,” grinned
Bungy Williams as he reached for the
tinned milk, “will definitely be the day!”
Well, as vouched for by artist Woolcott,
the day has arrived —with the arrival,
as senior psychologist, of Leo Parker in
the R.A.N. Born in the West of a
pastoral family, Parker taught science
there before joining the R.A.A.F. in
1941, first as educational officer, later as
senior vocational-guidance officer for
Victoria. A benign, cheerful cove, his
present action-station is taking the I.Q.
of every recruit at Flinders Naval Depot.
The troops call him the “trick cyclist.’’
Veteran poet Bernard O’Dowd is to
have his biography written while he is
still in the land he has always passion-
ately barracked for. O’Dowd, who was
writing verse for The Bulletin as far
back as 1894, never settled the struggle
between his literary and legal natures ;
all through his life they have run side
by side, though the legal life has now
ended. Practical mystic, theologian,
secularist, jurist, philosopher and scientist
in turns, he was every one of them
together often; and at 85 he is
just as active in all of them. His
biographer, poet Victor Kennedy, is
also an old Bulletin contributor (“Travel
Stain,” “Lugger’s Mate,” “NTmporte,”
“Pack Saddle” and other pen-names).
Kennedy has written another biography
(of A. J, Draper, of N.Q.) among his half-
dozen books of prose and verse. His last
volume of poems, Cyclone, has just had
a good run with the critics. They are old
friends, he and O’Dowd.
' Announced from London that the king
i has approved the award of the Patron’s
: Medal of the Royal Geographical Society
to Dr. Donald Thomson, 0.8. E., of Mel-
bourne, for his exploration and scientific
work among the Arnhem Land abos. Dr.
, Thomson lived among them for four
years, some of the time under Govern-
ment appointment as administrator for a.
territory as large as Tasmania. The
British Council has invited him to the
■ U.K. to lecture.
Closed his account in Sydney last week,
knight Oscar Isaachsen, one of S. Aus-
tralia’s leading bankers. Joining the Bank
of Adelaide in 1905, he was chief clerk
at head-office in 1924, succeeded “Big Bill”
Masson as g.-m. in 1939, held the post 11
years, and became chairman of directors
shortly before he was knighted. Sixty-
six at the Last Entry, Sir Oscar had
always taken a farsighted view of his
bank’s responsibility in developing
primary and secondary industries, and
had studied world economics deeply.
The battle-wise military triumvirate
recently appointed to be responsible for
Britain’s defence in the event of war
comprises Admiral Sir Arthur Power,
General Sir Miles Dempsey and Air
Marshal Sir Basil Embry. The sailor
commanded the Alma Mater of Naval
turreteers, Whale Island (Portsmouth), and
the much-sunk Ark Royal, the 15th
Cruiser Squadron and Malta’s naval
defence in the Mediterranean, and
finished Hitler’s war C.-in-C. of the East
Indies Station. The soldier’s most famous
command was the British Second Army,
in its drive from Normandy in 1944. He
also heads the Corps of Royal Military
Police and the Racecourse Betting Control
Board. The flier has been busy collect-
ing decorations since, in 1922, he won
A.F.C. in Irak. Fighter Command’s
C.-in-C., he now rates C. 8., D.F.C.,
K.B.E. and three bars to his D. 5.0., all
won in War 11. At 49 he’s the youngest
of the trio.
The Royal Australian Chemical Insti-
tute’s annual award of the H. G. Smith
Memorial Medal for stout work in
chemical science goes, for 1950, to Dr.
G. M. Badger and Professor N. S. Bayliss.
Badger is the Adelaide University’s senior
lecturer in chemistry. Bayliss, Professor
of Chemistry in Westralia, born in Bris-
bane, was Victoria’s Rhodes Scholar for
1927. From Oxford he went to the Uni-
versity of California, taking B.A. with
him, and bringing Ph.D. back to Mel-
bourne. In Hitler’s war he was
Westralia’s Chief Warden. Both chemists
are Melbourne University men.
lan Hassall, showing pictures of
Dromana and Port Phillip at the Mel-
bourne Book Club Gallery, seems to
have inherited the illustrative talents of
his father, the “Hassall” of many
“Punch” cartoons and one of the noted
English caricaturists of his generation.
Gassed in War I, lan sought health as a
lumberman in Canada and later returned
to London to art-instruct at the
celebrated Tate Gallery. Unable to get
shore accommodation, he bought an
80-foot Thames spritsail barge for a few
pounds, fitted it out and moored it off
the Thames Embankment opposite the
gallery. An expert seaman, with his wife
as crew he took his craft on ocean
voyages on occasion. In War 11, as mate
under Sir Alan Herbert, he served in a
ship of the Thames River Patrol, parting
with the “Punch” humorist at Dunkirk.
English author Nevil Shute, who
opened his show in Melbourne, was an-
other shipmate. Hassall came to Mel-
bourne a few years ago and settled with
his wife at Dromana, where they built
their own house. He got many of his
unusual angle pictures of the limpid
waters of Port Phillip, with dolphins
diving through waves, on fishing expedi-
tions. Some of his drawings have ap-
peared in The Bulletin.
Norman Strange has been a “hello”-
man most of his working career (seeing
the hellos get through), since, over 20
years ago, he became assistant-superin-
tendent of telephones in Victoria. His
trip up the line thereafter was marked
by the posts of superintendent (1943),
chief inspector of phones throughout
Australia the following year, then, till
last week. Federal superintendent of the
whole shebang. Now, shifting his venue
slightly, he’s Victorian Director of Posts
and Telegraphs.
“Ek Dum”: Command of the British Com-
monwealth Division which has been formed for
Korea —British Brigade, Canadian Brigade and
Anzacs in the main—goes to Major-General
Archibald James Halkett Cassels, C. 8., C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., who is the senior British liaison officer
in Australia and whose family connection with the
British Army is long and intimate. His father, Sir
Robert Cassels (still living), was a distinguished
general, a member of the Executive Council of
India, Indian C.-in-C. in 1935-41. An ancestral
Halkett commanded one of Wellington’s divi-
sions in the final phases of the defeat of
Napoleon. The new Korean G.O.C. is
44, was commissioned in the Seaforth in 1926,
and was gazetted temporarily as Major-General
in 1945, at 38, his rank becoming substantive
not long after he passed his 40th milestone.
He commanded the famous 51st Highland
Division, of which the original edition, under
the inimitable Victor Fortune, was taken
prisoner after a grim, historic and fighting
retreat across France at the time of Dunkirk.
The Scots immediately raised a new 51st,
built with savage pride, and when General
Cassels took it over in the second centenary
year of Bonny Prince Charlie’s rebellion it had
its share in the victory of Alamein, where it
had been the flank of Australia’s 9th Division,
and in the invasion of North Europe, where it
wreaked just revenge on the Germans for the
events of 1940, From this General Cassels suc-
ceeded to command of the 6th Airborne Division,
and prior to coming to Australia was United
Kingdom Director of Land-Air Warfare in
1948-49. His new division will find him a
tough, original and determined leader, but one
who will look after the interests of his men to
the last gasp.
Celebrating his 94th birthday in Mel-
bourne, J. Hewlett Ross, F.S.S., elocu-
tionist, editor and author, who knew A.
L. Gordon and 63 years ago published
his biography of the poet, Laureate of
the Centaurs. Still lecturing, his melli-
fluous voice helped to open broadcasting
in Australia. Ross is probably the only
man living who knew John Pascoe
Fawkner, the co-founder of Melbourne,
The figure here presented by Prior
with eyes coyly closed is, in reality, about
as shy as a 21-gun salute —as Tobruk
Rats who fought under him will readily
vouch. Back in Sydney (Concord Repat.
Hospital) for a spot of bedtime before
shifting back to Ceylon, where he’s Aus-
tralian Trade Commissioner, Major-
General John Murray initials himself
D.S.O. (twice) and M.C., was first com-
missioned in 1912, came out of the
SOLDIER.
Kaiser’s show with his majority, and went
into Hitler’s with command of the 20th
Infantry Brigade, to win his Bar at
Tobruk. Later he commanded both the
10th and 4th Divisions. A big and genial
general with a penchant for yarn-spinning
—not the after-port-colonel type at all —
Murray, after the war, was trade-com-
missioning in New Zealand for three
years; before the war he bossed a big
transport firm in N.S.W., before accept-
ing the chairmanship of the State’s Trans-
port Advisory Committee. Recreation —
motoring.
Caught in characteristic pose by
Dubois, Don Salvador de Madariaga, ex-
pounding on favorite subjects—freedom
of the Press (“the keynote to liberty”)
and Russian and Spanish negation of it.
Hawknosed, silver-pated, concise and
volatile, the distinguished lecturer and
essayist, here under the aegis of the Aus-
tralian Institute of International Affairs,
listens craned forward to a question, leans
SENOR.
back, shoots his cuff, leans forward,
clasps his hands and hoes in with his
answer. Democratic Europe is fed up
with war; in five years both sides will
have enough atom-bombs to preclude
their advantageous use; Franco’s foot is
on the mouth of Spain ; U.N.O. has no
moral value —formed to stop aggression,
it has a ruthless aggressor as one of its
most powerful partners —in an association
of vegetarians you can’t have a butcher ;
U.N.O.’s founded on a lie —and I don’t
mean the secretary-general. More of
which, presented, after a moment’s
thought, with clear, craftsmanlike logic,
impresses the interviewer that here is one
of the finest brains to come to Australia,
a classicist not so remote that he does not
realise that what’s in the heart of an
infantryman alone will win wars, and a
scholar of sufficient physical awareness
to wonder, with hands upflung, why we
should export what should be one of our
most jealously kept heritages—Australian
wines.
Queensland’s newest K.C., T. C.
O’Hagan, takes silk after nine months on
the Supreme Court Bench. Born at
Charters Towers (Q.) 48 years ago, he’d
been a barrister for 19 years. Among
his recent headline cases were the Royal
Commission on Golden Caskets and the
Archbishop Duhig cathedral claim.
Into the Silence:
In Fremantle (W.A.), at 74, Thomas Fox,
who had represented South Fremantle in the
Westralian Assembly since 1935. The gangway
to Parliament was provided by the Fremantle
branch of the Waterside Workers’ Federation,
which he joined in 1918, becoming president in
1924 and secretary four years later, remaining
secretary until elected to Parliament. A con-
scientious, hard-working man of quiet manner
and consistent amiability, he was liked by all
parties.
At 84, in Melbourne, James Watts, former
well-known architect and yachtsman. He was
one of the founders of the Royal Freshwater
Bay Yacht Club, Perth, and was the last living
foundation-member of the Royal Brighton.
At Frankston (Vic.), Old Digger Lt.-Colonel
J. S. Lazarus, among Victoria’s top-flight civil-
engineers. North Melbourne’s city-engineer
when he shifted to private practice in Ballarat,
he became there C.O. of the 70th Infantry
Battalion, president of the R.S.L. and a
judge of the widely-known South-street band
contests. Except for some years in Bendigo
(secretary to the Country party), he had been,
since 1921, shire-engineer to bayside Frankston
and Hastings. One-time president of the
Institute of Municipal Engineers,
At Griffith (N.S.W.), at 70, Joseph Langtry,
old teamster, wheatfarmer, publican, and, for
nine years from 1940, Federal Labor member
for Riverina. C.P. man Roberton took the
seat the election before last.
At 62, in Brisbane, James Francis Fitz Gerald,
solicitor of note in that city. One-time president
of the Law Society, he had also held the vice-
presidency of the Queensland Employers’
Federation, and, out of office, presidency of
the Royal Queensland Golf Club.
In Melbourne, at 67, Charles V. Robertson,
chairman and governing-director of the Heming-
way Robertson Institute. With H. Hemingway
he established the Australasia-wide chain of
schools for teaching business subjects.


EVERY
EN DIP
FOR 100& DIPPIHG OF YOUR FLOCK USE
TAUBMANS RU-GAIM B.H.C. SHEEP DIP
1 PINT MAKES 200 GALLONS OF DIP
SHEEP
r
A PRODUCT OF. TAUBMANS LIMITED. CHEMICAL DIVISION. SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. ADE L AI D E._P£R_TH^
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Quality.
“C.S.”: According to the
“Wool Digest,” J.O. valuers
made an analysis of the quality
of 3,360,706 bales sold at the
1949-50 auctions. Total sales
were 3,597,940, so the analysis
is a fair picture of the whole.
The “Digest” puts it this way:
Quality count: Sales of fine
wool (60-58’s and finer) were
2,532,170 bales (including odd-
ments), an increase of 277,000
bales over 1948-49. Sales of
coarser wools (58-60’s and
coarser) increased by 43,000
bales to 828,536 bales. The
swing back towards a clip with
a greater proportion of Merino-
type wool was therefore con-
tinued, although less markedly
than in previous seasons. Fine
wools made up 75.3 p.c. of the
total compared with 74.2 p.c. in
1948-49, 72.6 p.c. in 1947-48,
69.1 p.c. in 1946-47 and 81.3 p.c.
in 1942-43. Within the Merino
group the biggest gain was in
60’s, 60-64’s and 64-70’s, which
made up 34.8 p.c. of the total
compared with 32.2 p.c. in
1948-49. The 64’s held their
relative place, but 64-70’s and
finer declined from 21.1 p.c. to
19.3 p.c.
Style: Of the total 75 p.c. was
classed as “noble combing
wools,” 10 p.c. as “French
combing” and 15 p.c. as “card-
ing wools.” Further tables in
the analysis show the quantities
of spinners and topmaking wools
within the combing groups and
the quantities of lambs, locks,
crutchings, etc., within the card-
ing group.
Fault: Of the total, 45 p.c.
was classed as “free or nearly
free,” 30 p.c. as “containing
light burr and/or seed,” 10 p.c.
“medium burr and/or seed,” 41
p.c. “heavy burr and/or seed,”
and 101 P-c. as “requiring car-
bonising.” “Medium and heavy
burry” wools made up 1 p.c.
more of the clip in 1949-50 than
in 1948-49, at the expense of
“free or light burry” types.
Training the Allies.
“Shadow-chaser”: A horse
that will stand once the reins
are thrown over his head and
allowed to trail and a dog that
will catch and hold a sheep with-
out injuring it are invaluable to
anyone, but particularly to an
elderly man attending to lambing
ewes.
When first haltered the horse
should be allowed to trail a
halter in a secure yard. The
shank of the halter should be
long, so the horse can stand on
it with hind- and fore-feet. After
a few lessons he will learn the
futility of resistance, and may
be tied up without fear of him
pulling back.
Next sink a stout post within
a few inches of ground-level in
the middle of the yard. Pass a
chain, with a swivel and ring on
one end, round the stump so
that the ring is on top of the
stump about the middle. Tie the
horse to this ring for a couple
of hours daily for six or eight
days and he will become
obsessed with the idea that he
must remain at his post even
though the rope is not secured
thereto.
It is important that the trail-
ing rope, or bridle-rein, is long
enough to reach the hind-feet.
A cunning horse will learn to
trail a short rope without stand-
ing on it. A short length of
rope attached to the bridle-reins
will do. A horse properly
broken may stray round graz-
ing, but will never clear out
when approached.
Never try to teach a good
sheep-dog to catch and hold a
sheep. That will spoil him. A
cattle-dog or a cross between
same and a collie will do the job.
Select a well-wooled flock of
weaners. Shorn sheep or fully-
grown sheep are too difficult for
the novice. Cut one out from
the flock and endeavor to have
your dog bring the sheep to-
wards you and away from the
flock. The lesson is best con-
ducted along the fence of a small
paddock.
Usually the sheep will bail up
and face the dog after a few
attempts to regain the mob. Im-
mediately you approach, the
sheep will try to escape. Have
the dog bring it back to you re-
peatedly. Eventually the sheep
will sulk and you may approach
and capture it without difficulty.
Always take hold of the sheep
by neck and head, holding it on
its feet. Call the dog close to
you the while.
When rested the sheep will
again try to escape. Have the
dog prevent this. The average
dog will lose patience and grab
the sheep by the leg. Scold him
severely for this, wring his ears
if he persists, but never thrash
him with anything harder than
your tongue. Once he grasps
the sheep by the neck call “hold
him” and praise and pet him.
Censure him when he does
wrong, but don’t lose your
temper.
Remember you are dealing
with one whose intelligence is
lower than your own. Praise
him when he does right, all dogs
are gluttons for approval. So
praise and blame judiciously
applied will teach, but it all takes
patience and time. Once the dog
masters the job he takes a de-
light in it, and will catch and
hold without injury.
Lice in Poultry.
“Rooster”: Intense irritation
caused by “creeping” and inces-
sant gnawing at the skin mad-
dens the birds, and results in
decreased egg-production, loss of
weight and, with brooders, in-
terrupted incubation. Indif-
ferent hygiene and overcrowding
encourage lice.
Best agent for destruction is
commercial sodium fluoride.
“Then I'll say—'Sorry, but We're fixed for wood
this winter.'"
Generally, dipping is quicker
and more economical for large
numbers of birds, using loz. of
sodium fluoride to each gallon
of water. Up to 200 birds can
be treated with lib. of the
chemical in solution by this
methbd.
Hold the birds securely by the
wings, plunge into the solution,
at the same time ruffling the
feathers with the hands. Duck
the head under once or twice.
Dipping should be done only on
warm days, when the birds have
a better chance of drying before
sunset.
Where numbers are few, or
young chickens require treat-
ment, administer the sodium
fluoride whole by “pinches,”
applying next to the skin under
the feathers, particularly under
the head, neck, on the back,
breast and below the tail and
vent. By using three parts of
sifted flour to one of sodium
fluoride a dusting-powder can
be freely applied by means of
a shaker.
To prevent lice it’s as well to
give a slight twist to an ancient
saw—“an ounce of hygiene is
worth a ton of cure.”
Mitchell-grass Hay.
“Outback”: The Queensland
Government Botanist (S. L.
Everist) told the Royal Commis-
sion on pastoral land settlement
in Queensland that, generally
speaking, it was not an eco-
nomic proposition to cut
Mitchell-grass for hay because
the cutting season is extremely
short; at the time best suited for
cutting other work on the
property was usually pressing,
and labor costs were prohibitive.
Even if conditions generally
were favorable, it was practically
impossible to cut enough in the
short time available to be of any
use in tiding flock sheep over a
dry period of any considerable
duration.
Most good samples of
Mitchell-grass hay, said Everist,
had a crude protein content of
4.5 to 5.5 per cent., and were
thus at the best only one-third
as good as lucerne-hay. In
good Mitchell-grass country the
yield of hay in a favorable sea-
son rarely exceeded lOcwt. per
acre, even when annual grasses,
such as Flinders and Button,
were plentiful between the
tussocks.
From the point of view of pre-
serving Mitchell - grass, said
Everist, the most important fac-
tor was that it was particularly
vulnerable in the growing stages,
and should not be heavily grazed
for at least four weeks after
growth began. This had im-
portant implications in determin-
ing land-settlement policy, par-
ticularly in districts where
Mitchell-grass constituted almost
the only pasture-type—notably
in the Julia Creek, Richmond,
Kynuna and Winton areas.
Holdings should be large
enough to allow reserve stock-
ing, which could be achieved
either by allowing sheep free
range and reducing numbers to,
say, about 80 per cent, of the
number the country could be ex-
pected to carry, or, alternatively,
by rotational grazing, approxi-
mately 20 per cent, of the coun-
try being reserved each summer.
The 80 per cent, should be based
on the carrying capacity of the
land during a dry period. Rain-
fall was so erratic that no regu-
lar system of rotation could be
followed, and much had to de-
pend upon judgment in assess-
ing the amount of forage
actually available to the stock.
The continuous - grazing
method was more common on
the larger holdings. When other
plants were plentiful sheep did
not graze Mitchell-grass severely,
and if areas were sufficiently
large, watering-places properly
distributed and sheep numbers
not excessive the practice of con-
tinuous stocking had little or no
detrimental effect on pasture.
Continuous grazing of smaller
areas, however, often had a
deleterious effect on Mitchell-
grass pasture. Mitchell-grass was
not rich in protein, and much
of the protein needed for graz-
ing animals in Mitchell-grass
country was provided by the
plants which grew between the
Mitchell-grass tussocks. These
gave variety to the diet. Young
Mitchell-grass, generally, should
be lightly stocked until it had
been growing for two summers,
said Everist.
Broom-millet.
“Mooney Mick”: Manufac-
turers are offering to guarantee
£125 a ton for supplies from the
next harvest. The crop is sown
generally during October,
November and December. On
the northern N.S.W. rivers excel-
lent yields are obtained by sow-
ing up to the end of January.
Any land producing 40 or
more bushels of maize to the
acre will yield profitable millet.
Best results come from the deep,
rich, well-drained alluvial lands
of our rivers. However, any
well-drained soil will fill the bill.
Sow in drills 4in. or Sin. deep.
An ordinary maize seed-drill
with a sorghum plate is the best
to use. It sows and covers the
seed in one operation; lewt. of
super, per acre is a help.
There’s an art in thinning out
broom-millet plants. When
plants are 6in. high thin out to
6in. apart. Remember the
quality of the brush is affected
to a very large extent by the
manner of thinning-out. If too
much space is given plants grow
very strongly and produce a
coarse brush. This is unsuitable
for market. As broom-millet is
a slow-grower, use the cultiva-
tor every now and again to keep
the surface-soil loose and friable.
The best-colored and finest-
textured brush is obtained from
the heads when seed is imma-
ture. Some growers wait, how-
ever, until the seed firms. The
result is not so good as far as
the brush is concerned. The
seed is valuable as poultry food.
According to Hadlington the
easiest way is to grind it to a
meal and mix it in the morning
mash.
Pig-housing.
“Inver”: Depressing sights
on many farms are pig-yards
where all vegetation has been
eaten or trodden out, soil is
eroded, filthy bog-holes have
been made by the pigs and fences
are in ruin.
There are two satisfactory
kinds of accommodation for
pigs. One is the paddock pig-
gery, with paddocks big enough
and numerous enough to be
grazed and rested or cropped in
rotation so they will not become
“pig sick.” Their size will vary
according to conditions, but
never less, and usually more,
than half an acre is needed for
each breed sow and her progeny
up to bacon weight.
The other system consists of
a number of intensive pens with
well-drained floors of hard
material, such as concrete. In-
tensive pens, because of their
cost, are kept as small as prac-
ticable, and sanitation in and
around them is maintained by
draining and cleansing.
Successful pig-raisers usually
combine both methods.
Thinning-out.
“Bill C.”; Where root-crops
have been row-sown, thinned-
out seedlings may be easily
transplanted if the weather is
right.
Swede-turnips and kohl-rabi
are the most tolerant of re-
moval ; round red-beet likes it
less and should be small when
lifted. The long red-beet,
Obelisk, is harder still to trans-
plant.
The ground should be moist
and loose before transplanting,
and a small sprinkle of meat-
works fertiliser in each hole will
facilitate rooting. Shade the
plants with leafy twigs for a few
days, and then stir the soil
around them to stop packing.
A Wool-tax Complaint.
“Peter B.”: Here’s my experi-
ence of wool tax. Two hundred
sheep shorn in August gave six
bales of wool, which when sold
in October brought £BOO gross.
The 20 p.c. wool tax was £160;
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The sun has now developed a good deal of southern
sunspot activity. There are three southern groups now
visible: the first is nearly at its active position (29/4/’SI),
and consequent rains should be falling as this report appears.
This group has maintained its rainy aspect to some extent,
though not as much as it seemed to promise. It is being
followed by another large group, much nearer the sun’s
equator, which should bring some relief to dry, tropical
areas and recovery to the burnt grass. Southern States
should get some fairly good rains, though possibly just
below normal, except in West Australia and coastal areas.
Inland the prospect for rain does not seem very bright.


dV-
iLati
» FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Syclney’i
keeling Hotels. Hut different to
every otHer In many things. The
Wentworth, for instance. Has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
Hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
<~>uL
r*7
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORBEB EOBM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 9/5/’5l
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
CRONULLA
"Westella"
Guest House,
Kingsway, Cronulla, N.B.W.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW
MANAGEMENT
Our aim Is a first class Service
for Visitors. Accommodation for
80. It’s warmer by the sea.
Resident Proprietor, G. H. Lloyd.
In ANT WEATHER
tod eon safely mark with
EUSTRATOR
r The
/ft ackbH Method
3QVUX QD3M
wurasra
C4STR4TOR JAILER
. , (ol .
L tombs & colves A
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR <AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St., Melbourne.
ELIS
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. a GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
rnenovis Worm Remedy
yOs*9 timg ,S .
P.*nvis time!
V Ol " 5
KEEP IT
HANDY.
THE NEW
IMPROVED
%
/
67'a
//s/^/.
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
fds
fds
FROM STORES. MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
with
sTfen
The only shearing equipment
with all these advantages:
O Robust friction wheel with extra
thick working face, machined on
the back to ensure perfect
balance and true running.
©Heavy duty dirt-proof, self-
aligning, ball-bearing plummer
block for smoother running and
longer life.
©"Rolling Roger" the most
dependable and conveniently
operated in-and-out gear-—lOO%
positive.
Spring tension engagement be-
A tween cone and friction wheel,
with one-point readily accessible
adjustment for simpler, smoother
shearing.
©Ball-bearings above and below
the friction cone for equalised
pressure transmission to the
handpiece.
SUPER-DUPLEX
': ■
SHA. 16.108
Ct
Produced In the world'* most modem
shearing gear factory and oraliable for
prompt delivery from * *
Distributed in Australia by
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Danger, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND;
Winchcombe Carson Limited
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street. BRISBANE.
VICTORIA:
Gippsland & Northern Co-op. Co. Ltd..
613 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
A. W. Sandford & Co. Ltd.,
75 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA:
All British Separator Service,
Wilmot Street, BURN lE.
Agents, LAUNCESTON, HOBART distrietsi
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited.
7| p.c. wool-stabilisation levy,
£6O; agents’ commission, etc.,
£4O; shearing £l2 10s.; wool
packs, £5; total expenses,
£277 10s., leaving net £522 10s.
Out of this must come 12 months’
work looking after the sheep,
with fly, footrot and worms.
[But surely there was not 12
months’ work devoted entirely to
200 sheep! The wool tax isn’t
lost, being credited against
“Peter B.’s” ordinary taxation
dues. This wool tax is a make-
shift arrangement—a reduced
exchange-rate would have been
preferable—but its incidence is
not often understood or properly
represented.]
The First Eggs.
“African”: The first eggs will
put a strain on a pullet, but a
healthy, well-grown bird should
not be unduly troubled. The
eggs will be a little over loz. in
weight, at the most Hoz., and
shorter than a normal egg. They
should not be round; if they
are, cull her out.
Shells indicate whether or not
the birds are receiving the right
rations. If the shell is at all in-
clined to be soft it shows bad
feeding and mineral deficiency.
Increase the daily ration and im-
prove the supply of shell-grit.
Bloodstains on egg-shells,
commencing at the larger end,
are normal. They are the result
of small blood-vessels breaking
in the vent passage, and should
disappear after the first week.
Brown eggs from the red-lobed
fowls will be a rich brown at
first but will gradually lighten.
Hints for the Farm.
“Peter B.”: Using Dorset
Horn rams and full-mouthed
crossbred ewes in this Riverina
district, I have two lambings
per year. I take the rams out
when the ewes start to lamb and
put them back when I have
marked the lambs. By this
method I have averaged 175 per
cent, of lambs two years run-
ning. The only catch is to watch
your stocking numbers and not
be short of grass when the
lambs arrive and to use 3 per
cent, of rams. I always put my
wether killers with the ewes and
find it helps the rams a lot.
“Big Billy”; Following five
years of trials on black and red
Wimmera soils the Vic. Depart-
ment of Agriculture recommends
these wheat varieties: For sow-
ing on red land and fringe soils,
Quadrat, Pinnacle, Diadem, In-
signia, Bencubbin; for black
land. Pinnacle, Quadrat, Magnet.
Test sowings with a Baldmin-
Quadrat crossbred produced a
white-chaffed selection which was
the highest-yielding in two in-
stances and second in three
others.
“Taswegian”: The home-
gardener should be ruthless in
thinning out. Take care not to
sow seed too thickly—except
things like parsnip and parsley,
which are chancy in germina-
tion —then thin out early, as
soon as the plants are large
enough to handle. Most vege-
tables can be transplanted, but
don’t leave those that can’t,
such as radishes and white
turnips, overcrowded —it’s false
economy, for they will grow
spindly and tough instead of
crisp and juicy.
“A-Jay”: To control poultry
lice a fine trickle of 40 per cent,
nicotine sulphate should be run
along the perches on a cool night
before the birds go to roost.
Two or three treatments should
be given at weekly intervals.
“Big Billy”: Harvest onions
when the foliage has lost its
green color. Drying-off can be
assisted by bending the tops
when they appear to have
reached maximum growth.
After careful removal lay the
bunches with roots exposed to the
sun. Take indoors at night and
in showery weather. Frequent
turning will aid ripening. Store
in a dry, airy, frost-free build-
ing. A good storing method is
to tie them and suspend from
rafters or ceiling.


FIY mo spccDßm Room
BOM
ABOUND WE WORLD
l&p.
a. ,o
fl
London
Only 8.0.A.C. offers you the
choice of 1000 routes around the
world—to 165 cities or towns in
51 different countries. You can
book all-the-way to wherever
you wish and your fare includes
transport, hotels, and meals at all
scheduled ports of call. Stop-
over wherever you like, as often
as you like, at no extra fare.
Your 8.0.A.C. appointed agent will help you plan
/our trip in advance —at no charge.
mm
New York
,fC> ‘
Rio de Janiero
&
&
South Africa
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA
HONG KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON * INDIA
PAKISTAN • AFRICA • ITALY • GREAT
BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
o-i
jjn
K
Tokyo
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire
Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents
in Australia), at Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Darwin or from travel agents
in all cities and towns.
A2I/AU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
WANT TO GET OUT
OF A GRO
The Navy , Army or Air
Force is your
opportunity
Life in the Navy, Army or Air Force to-day offers a wide
choice of interesting careers for recruits of varying ability,
with excellent prospects of advancement as Australia builds up
her three vital Defence Forces. In addition to remuneration
under the new increased pay codes, the Serviceman benefits by
provision for uniforms, special allowances, food and accom-
modation, social amenities and facilities for sport, and a
system of pensions and gratuities that ensures his security.
His individual well-being is planned and provided for on
modern lines. He enjoys the comradeship of the finest type
of Australian, and shares in the traditions of a great and
honourable Service.
Minimum age: Army and Navy 17 years. Air Force 18 years.
Enquire without obligation at the
Defence Forces
Information Bureau
Corner Martin Place and Phillip Street, Sydney
Hours: Mondays to Fridays 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays 9 a.m. to 5 p.tn.;
Sundays and Holidays 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. OR AT the COMBINED SERVICES
RECRUITING DEPOT, Beach Rd., Edgecliff, Mondays to Saturdays —9 a.m. to
5 p.m. (closed Sundays).
IF UNABLE TO CALL SEND THIS COUPON ~
The Deputy Director of Recruiting,
G.P.O. Box XYZ, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation,
full details of enlistment and service
with (indicate which desired) —
□ NAVY O ARMY Q AIR FORCE
O ALL 3 SERVICES
□ Full Time O Part Time
NAME
ADDRESS.
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
D 516.33.21
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Although he has periodically suffered
some pretty severe reverses, Mel-
bourne owner O. R. Porter, in the
comparatively few years he has been
associated with the Turf, has cer-
tainly earned fair entitlement to the
sobriquet “Lucky” Porter. By the
same token, while luck is a very
essential ingredient in the recipe for
Turf success, the sustained consistency
with which Porter leads in winners
bespeaks a solid measure of sound
judgment as well.
At the end of the 1944-45 racing
season Porter made a rather modest
appearance well down on the list of
winning owners of the season with
two winners, who had bagged him
4) races and some £3600 in stakes.
One of the winners was St. Fairy.
The following season St. Fairy won
the Caulfield Cup and several other
good races, and Porter shot right to
the top of the winning owners’ list
with six winners of 21. races and
nearly £21,000 in stakes. Porter had
struck the winning vein which as yet
shows no sign of petering out. The
following season he won 35 races
and £19,670 in stakes; the season
after 34 races and £22,180 in stakes.
Last week Porter became leading
owner for the current season, with
some £25,000 stakes won, when his
four-year-old Prince o’ Fairies won
the £12,000 Brisbane Cup at Eagle
Farm.
While he does patronise the yearling
sales, Porter, as a rule, prefers to pay
big prices for tried and proven older
horses rather than to risk money on
the very chancy matter of untried
yearlings. To this policy he un-
doubtedly owes much of his success.
Prince o’ Fairies is an exception.
Porter bought the Prince as a yearling
for 3600 guineas. Sentiment played
a large part in the purchase, for the
Prince is a full-brother to St. Fairy,
who gave Porter his first considerable
successes as an owner, and, not for
the first time in the history of the
game, the admixture of a spot of
sentiment with the hard-headed busi-
ness of racing paid a handsome divi-
dend. From 32 starts Prince o’
Fairies has won 10 races and £22,000-
odd in stakes.
fiddeu by G. Bougoure, and giving
trainer Theo Lewis his second Bris-
bane Cup success (the other Sanctus),
Prince o’ Fairies started third in the
betting at sevens, and won in the
fashion of a real stayer. With the
pace slow in the early stages, Prince
o’ Fairies was far back in the held.
When the pace grew more lively; with
half the journey covered, the Prince
was still among the last two or three.
From the half-mile, however, he
improved his position very rapidly.
The favorite, Bankstream, had turned
for home with what looked a winning
lead, but the Prince challenged at
the distance, and, over the final fur-
long, gradually wore down his year-
younger opponent to score by three-
parts of a length,
* * * *
The most noteworthy feature of
Saturday’s racing at Randwick—a
Tattersall’s Club meeting—was the
fact that for the third time iri a very
short space a field of allegedly the
best of local sprinters was cleaned up
by an imported horse. This time the
debunker of current Sydney sprint
form was S. Wootton’s four-year-old
Tesmic, who, like his predecessors
Donegal and The Pilot, comes from
the highly successful McCarten stable.
Although the weather on Saturday
was perfect, the track was a mite
heavy, and time of 1.15 J was good
enough to see Tesmic a clear winner
of the 6-furlongs Flying. Jockey A.
Mulley gave Tesmic plenty of time
to settle down; he was ahead of only
two other runners at the turn, but
the field, actually, was very tightly
bunched, and, given his head in the
straight, Tesmic quickly hit the front,
going on to win by more than a
length from Flesdin and Poitiers.
Evidently punters simply didn’t
believe the excellent form shown by
the Talking gelding Blue Ocean when
he led all the way to win over 12
furlongs at Randwick the previous
week. For Saturday’s James Barnes
Plate, over the shorter trip of 10
furlongs, Blue Ocean (H. Hanley) was
allowed to start sixth in the betting
in a field of nine runners. He made
child’s play of it, again leading all
the way to down Mona’s Choice and
Beau China .by almost three lengths.
Blue Ocean’s win kicked-off a
reasonable double to the credit of
this page’s pre-acceptance selections.
Second leg was the Katanga four-
year-old Golden Tan (J. Tinson), who
won the Welter at 25 to 1. Best of
other winners were the two-year-olds
Gilmara (D. Munro), who beat a
field of fillies over 6 furlongs, and
Whirl (B. Smith), who downed his
brethren over 7 furlongs.
* * * *
Profits of Saturday’s Moonee Valley
meeting were to go to the Women’s
Hospital. It is to be hoped that the
worthy cause showed as handsome a
result on the day as the bookmaking
fraternity must have done by the time
Tiercel (J. Kennedy) had won the
Trial Hurdle at 66 to 1, Grand
Monarch (T. Unkovich) the Aber-
feldie Handicap at 25 to 1 and Prince
D’Armour (G. Bougoure) the first
Coburg Highweight at 16 to 1. As
well, favorites were beaten in all
“Now will you stop poking your nose into other
people's business!"
other events, with the partial excep-
tion of the Ardmillan Handicap for
three-year-old fillies, which went to
Moderniste (F. Treen), who was one
of three equal favorites.
Tiercel, a maiden performer, scored
his success at the expense of the
odds-on favorite Cornwall; the mar-
gin was a trifling matter of eight
lengths. In winning the 10-furlongs
Aberfeldie Handicap the former Syd-
ney galloper Grand Monarch rele-
gated to the minor places the equal
favorites Savoy and True Course. In
both cases tote dividends made the
bookies’ prices look pretty sick.
Tiercel returned £32 4s. and Grand
Monarch £ll 17s.
Easiest of other winners was
Sydney-owned Baal (E. Clarke) in
the Puckle Handicap. Baal scarcely
exceeded a canter in downing favorite
Inprose by four lengths. The Hobart
Cup winner Tarcombe (S. Ralph) had
too much stamina for the stayers in
the 13-furlongs Belinda Handicap, and
Tania (F. Treen) scraped home an
exceedingly narrow winner of the
second Coburg Highweight.
* ♦ ♦
For Rand wick (before accept-
ances): —
Canberra Handicap: Eagle Prince,
1; Divulge, 2; Gilmara, 3. Edmund
Barton Corinthian Handicap: Regal
Speed, 1; Golden Tan, 2; Sodium, 3.
Henry Parkes Handicap: Grand
Archer, 1; Thunder God, 2; Grand
Union, 3. Hopetoun Handicap;
Poitiers, 1; Ananzi, 2; Coniston, 3.
Jubilee Cup: Scottish Custom, 1;
Aristocrat, 2; Mona’s Choice, 3.
Foundation Handicap: The Duchess,
1; Pyramid, 2; Belle Amber, 3.
Federal Encourage Handicap: Bland-
stream, 1; Amico, 2; Ben Hero, 3.
♦ * * *
Shrieks and general uproar emanat-
ing from Melbourne’s usually sedate
suburb of Hawthorn on Saturday
night told the V.F.L. world that
Hawthorn had won a game—the first
since 1949. They won it well, too,
taking the lead from St. Kilda in the
second quarter and racing home by
12.15 to 9.10. This occurred in the
third round of 1951 games, when it
seems some of the stars of yesteryear
have had it; Melbourne and North
Melbourne haven’t won a game yet,
and the Dons, 1950 premiers, were
downed by the unpredictable Soutn
Melbourne. Footscray is three up,
with Collingwood and Fitzroy-
Collingwood (14.18-7.8 against Gee-
long) have started with a brilliant
team, and from across Smith-street
the rejuvenated Fitzroy is linking its
chops after downing Melbourne,
12.12- South beat Eraendon,
14.20-14.7; Richmond belted Carlton,
16.12- and Footscray ran all
over North Melbourne, 10.9-5.13. So
130,000 barrackers don’t know whe-
ther Footscray v. Fitzroy or Essen-
don v. ’Wood will be, for them, next
Saturday’s match of the day.
« * ♦ •
“Pass-it”: Last Saturday’s annual
Rugby Union match between North
of the Harbor and South of the
Harbor resulted in a 19-all draw. For
three-parts of the match the strongly-
fancied South team dominated the
play, and coasted along to a comfort-
able lead with uninspiring football.
Three snap tries by the North team,
however, left the South players in the
desperate position of being three
points behind with only minutes to
play, and only a fine penalty goal by
winger Knibbs saved them from
defeat. Honors of the match must
be awarded the North forwards, who
overshadowed their heavier and more
experienced opponents in the loose
play by sheer keenness and en-
thusiasm, qualities noticeably lacking
in the play of the South forwards.
The selection of the N.S.W. team
to play Queensland today provided no
shocks; some of the players, however,
can consider themselves lucky that in
choosing the teams the State selectors
took more into consideration than
last Saturday’s form.
* * * *
Rowed at Brisbane on Saturday,
the King’s Cup was won comfortably
by the New South Wales eight, which
may now be chosen to represent at
the Helsinki Olympic Games next
year. New South Wales has now
won the Cup four years in succession,
thereby equalling its own record for
consecutive wins. Merv Wood re-
tained his Australian sculling title by
something like a furlong.
• ♦ ♦ •
Though he lost very narrowly on
points, Melbourne bantamweight Rod
Cutter made an excellent impression
in his scrap with Johnny Gleeson at
Leichhardt last week. Gleeson was
the more aggressive, and his forceful
fighting probably quite rightly gained
him the decision, but Cutter’s much
cleaner punching piled up so many
points that a draw would have been
a generally satisfactory verdict. Both
boys were declared to scale 8.3, but
Gleeson looked pounds the heavier.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2id. per line.
Danger Ahead
It is most disconcerting to see so many
farmers who went in for wheat, fat lambs,
cattle and dairying turning to wool-
production. The reason —wool grows
with little trouble to anyone except
the sheep, and is worth its weight in
gold. Fat lambs require much more
attention, wheat is an uncertain crop
and dairying means just plain hard work.
Compared with the incomes derived from
wool, the incomes produced by these
other sources are chickenfeed.
The cocky is entitled to change to the
more remunerative if he can. What of
the consumer—the housewife who relies
upon the wheatgrower for her daily
bread, who looks to the cow-cocky for
milk, cheese and butter, and whose meat
comes from the back-country?
The problem of feeding the nation is
the responsibility of the farmers, just as
much as the mine-owners and the miners
are responsible for ensuring a continuity
of power-supply to industry. Because
one section of primary production is
booming out of all proportion, the partici-
pants in the other sections are hardly
justified in hopping in for their cut re-
gardless of the effect on the national
economy. In bad times the taxpayers
kept sheep- and wheatfarmers on their
farms, while price-stabilisation schemes
have for years prevented eggs and butter
from feeling the full effects of seasonal
ebb and flow in production and price.
The plain fact is that the production
of foodstuffs is failing short of require-
ments. Potatoes and onions are included
in this, shortage, which is telling on pen-
sioners and persons of limited income.
The situation could develop to the point
where the country was faced with famine
in foodstuffs, just as it is experiencing a
famine in basic raw materials and power.
Much of the trouble has been
caused by Government interference with
sources of production the Potato
Board, the Egg Board, the Milk Board,
the Apple and Pear Board, the Dried
Fruits Marketing Board all contribute to
high prices and scarcity of the items they
purport to control. The Government
may have to take steps to restore the
proper balance if the farmers themselves
will not do so.
The easiest method of effecting such a
restoration is likely to be found in the
old idea of subsidies—taxation of wool
exports to provide finance for subsidis-
ing other sections of primary industry.
Any other exportable product which is
gaining at the expense of the home-
consumer must be dealt with the same
way.
The first duty of producers—primary
or secondary—is to satisfy the demands
of the home market. Obviously the
people who produce the goods, who
supply the labor, whose taxes provide the
railways and roads and general facilities
without which the land would be isolated,
have the right to the first fruits. What
is left —and in the case of Australia
there’s a very large exportable surplus-
should be available to the highest bidder.
—Cave (N.S.W.).
Housing Problems
Around Perth there are hundreds of
large houses occupied by old couples for
whom the unnecessary rooms merely
mean more work, now that their families
are married and in homes of their own.
Many of those couples would be quite
happy in smaller houses, while their large
residences would accommodate the larger
families of younger couples.
But there are good reasons for the old
folk hanging on to their homes. Many
of them are pensioners. Since their
houses are obviously more valuable than
cottages half the size, they would expect
a cash adjustment in any exchange; and
in most cases that extra cash would affect
their pensions, so that they would gain
nothing, while their actual assets would
be less.
There’s an opportunity for the Housing
Commission to do something. A scheme
could be instituted and advertised.
“Want this? It'll make bonser compost.”
whereby an old couple prepared to
exchange for a smaller house could
notify the commission, which would also
have lists of prospective builders and of
families living under cramped conditions.
Arrangements could even be made for
small cottages to be built, on sites selected
by the oldsters, for which they would
agree to exchange their homes.
The negotiations could be completed
free pf cost by the Housing Commission ;
the Taxation Department could forgo its
cut on the deal; and the amount by
which any pensioners might gain could be
held not to affect their pensions.— Bass
(W.A.).
Council Difficulties
Finance and other difficulties facing
municipal councils in Victoria are under-
lined by the experience of one of the
largest shires in the western part of the
State. Although this shire will seek
£84,000 from the Government for road
works the money will mean only nine
more miles of sealed road in its area in
the next 12 months.
Costs of labor, materials and equipment
are rising so steeply that municipalities,
despite maximum rating, are finding it
next to impossible to finance road con-
struction and meet the greater main-
tenance demands caused by increased and
heavier forms of traffic. Then there are
scarcities. Gravel supplies are exhausted
in some municipalities and have to be
carried miles from other districts.
The current cement shortage is another
headache, for it means delays in tackling
the bridge-building and repair programme
accentuated by lack of maintenance during
the war and by flood damage in 1945.
Add to all this the delays of months in
obtaining deliveries of heavy road-making
equipment and you have some idea of
the problems facing the shire councillors
and their engineers.
The solution? Many suggestions have
been made but none so far acted upon,
and meanwhile, with roads deteriorating
at a rate faster than they can be con-
structed and maintained, the problem gets
worse. The suggested amalgamation of
shires would ease some of the difficulties,
but that is likely to be opposed by the
smaller municipalities, which fear that,
with the loss of separate identity, many of
their urgent local problems would be
forgotten. Then there is the proposed
pooling of heavy road-making equipment
by a number of regional shires, which,
working under the aegis of the C.R.8.,
would tackle main-roads construction on
a broad and priority basis. It is doubtful,
however, if that plan would receive the
blessing of the board.
But, failing adoption of some overall
scheme, it seems certain that muni-
cipalities will sink deeper into the financial
morass and get further behind in their
road schedules—N. A. (Vic.).
More Federal Powers
Australia needs a constitutional con-
vention to review and strengthen the
Federal Constitution. There is no doubt
that, with the growth of Australia in the
last half-century, the powers of the cen-
tral Government are woefully inadequate
to deal with the problems which have
arisen since 1900.
Inadequacy of these powers has been
demonstrated by the national emergencies
created by two world wars. Then there
are the striking anomalies of divorce
laws. But the most important power
lacked at Canberra is in the field of indus-
trial relations. When the Constitution
was framed 50 years ago Australia was
largely a primary-producing country. In
1951 it has become heavily industrialised,
and that process is likely to be intensified
as the years go on.
Industrial relations and how to im-
prove them form one of our most com-
plex problems, and yet to deal with them
we have an unwieldy and antiquated
arbitration system. The Arbitration
Court was originally conceived only to
conciliate in disputes which could not
be settled by the States, or which ex-
tended beyond the boundaries of one
State.
We have also the spectacle today of
the court having become the agency to
determine, through the fixing of wages
and margins, the standard of living of
85 per cent, of the population. As Chief
Judge Drake Brockman declared in his
40-hour week judgment in 1947, it is a
matter of striking comment in a de-
mocracy that so much responsibility and
legislative power should be imposed on
three men appointed for life and beyond
the reach of the popular will.
Another pertinent example of inade-
quate Federal power is furnished in the
attempt to unify rail gauges. With
limited Federal power this matter was
passed to the States, but has fallen into
discard because S.A. was the only State
prepared to implement the scheme. And
yet such uniformity was once regarded
as essential to the effective defence of
this country.
Surely the development of Australia
along broad national lines can only be
accomplished with an enlarged and
strengthened Constitution for the Federal
Parliament. — Plain Australian (Vic.).
The “Red” Bill
The most satisfactory feature of the
High Court’s judgment on the “Red” Bill
is the demonstration of the impartiality
of our legal system.
The members of the High Court made
their decision strictly in accordance with
the legal principles involved; a good
thing, even though the Kremlinites are
probably chuckling over our naivetd.
It is not so long since the
■local Comrades were extreme in
their abuse of the High Court.
Its decision on Chifley’s Banking Bill,
they said, was political. The judges were
old fogies who should have been retired
long since ; the existence of a High Court
that had power to prevent duly-elected
politicians from wrecking private enter-
prise was undemocratic.
Would the same “Labor” members say
now that the High Court was political?
The court’s decision has one very valu-
able lesson for Australians. Our legal
system, inherited from Britain and fought
for by the most distinguished British
patriots for more than 700 years, is our
most valuable inheritance. It is the great
impartial umpire that, in the final
analysis, stands free of political faction,
or outside influence of any kind.
By the skin of their teeth Com-
munists have escaped the fate that awaits
those who set themselves up against their
country. Before they cheer they might
do well to ponder that the respite is only
temporary, and that the same legal
system that has nullified the “Red” Bill
has within its powers means of dealing
with them even more stringently as
traitors.—l. M. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 120
Across.
I—Give1 —Give the fifties and ring Bradman
and a Swiss patriot with nothing
but a great sculptor. (9)
s—Roy Rene and the whelp com-
plete a military operation. (3, 2)
B—Flower of a foppish carnivore? (9)
10— Notes are mislaid during the
assault. (5)
11— -Play upon words and a feature
measure to ring the hunchback
in a puppet-show. (11)
13—The spark from a magneto in
internal-combustion engines. (8)
15—Epoch. (3)
17 —Rest the downy substance on
cloth. (3)
20— Bill might become this in Can-
berra or thereabouts. (3)
21— Wicked parts of a variety show
are taken by people with heart
trouble and suchlike. (3, 5)
24 Cable misread by Scott’s Baulder-
stone. (5)
25 A horse and a sheep are a device
often used in these puzzles. (7)
26 -Pop by way of a city in Lom-
bardy. (5)
27 -Bird records the cost of flirta-
tion? (9)
29 — Darts back for a musical instru-
ment. (5)
30 — Roast feet (anagram). (9)
Down.
1— Place in U.S.A. describes Sydney
motorists who travel from
Hornsby to Sutherland via Parra-
matta, or Melbourne motorists
who travel from Box Hill to
Footscray via Coburg. (5, 4)
2 Game feature of five people, one
of them one-legged. (8)
3 Even result around many a neck.
(3)
4 50 and 8 on an English actress
or an artistic Lord taking Vivien
by weight. (9)
5 Comedian on a vessel used for
loading and unloading a smug-
gler- (II) . .
6 Yore or a person engaged in
clerical work. (6)
7 Your 3.14159 is first and it is
terse and pointed. (5)
9 —Nothing but an incomplete com-
pass. (4)
12 —Anything but frozen water to get
on a place for posting announce-
ments. (6, 5)
14 —Capture. (3)
16 —Sydney suburb othersie upset the
locale of “Carmen” and “The
Marriage of Figaro.” (9)
18 — Pop the sheep with our sweetheart. (8)
19 — Conductors and the like have tries about a
couple of thousand. (8)
22 — Fodder permits 100 to meet a sweetie. (6)
23 — Cries like the dogs of horses. (4)
24 Century imitates apparel. (5)
28 —Negative weight up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 119


.
A
' :■
WS : SSS
m
igiiliiis
■
k
iwil
• :
iiii
Hi
■
MM
v '*s ■*s
- ■"
ssssSs
m
® A* ' t - -
k>< ; ' Mp ■ *
»
mmm
■
m
.
Uliusfrafed above}: Self-contained
generating set. A.E.C.
125 O.H.V. Industrial Oil
Engine, coupled to a 415 volt, 3
phase, 59 cycle, 75 K.V.A. Alternator.
The advantages of the A.E.C.
engines over other forms of
power production and electricity
generation, apart from their cheap-
ness in Operation, are manifest. For
instance, it is practicable to obtain a very,
compact engine of clean design, with a high
degree of ail-round mechanical efficiency.
Only minimum floor space is required and no
heavy foundations, expensive engine rooms and
overhead equipment are needed. Its ease of opera-
tion makes specialised Diesel operators unnecessary.
Standard equipment includes:
® INSTANT push-button storting.
• 32 s " x 24" instrument ponel.
• Voltmeter. ® Ammeters.
• Frequency meter. ® Main fuses.
@ Triple fold main switch.
• Rheostat field current control.
• Exciter 'held switch.
• Special voltage regulator.
% Main wiring copper bus bar.
EARLY DELIVERY
■ ' . ■ ■ • ■ ■ f
Two A.E.C. lighting sets are installed in Port Jackson Steamship
Co.’s ferry, ’’Bellubora," and have had 16 years’ continuous operation.
Also, two are being installed in the company’s new ferry, ’’North
Head."
fI.E.C. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Owned by
fd
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street Sydney. Crawn Street Cnr.
Phone M 0412 (33 Sines)
AEC-125
