

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3714
Wednesday, April 18, 19S1
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ITS WARS FORGOTTEN, MOATED BODIAM IS ALL SERENITY NOW
THE picturesque ruins of Bodiam Castle stand in the heart of the Sussex
hop country, and it is regarded as one of the most romantic castles
in Britain, Its massive walls rise forty-one feet above the surrounding
moat formed by the River Rother, in which grow a profusion of white
and yellow waterlilies.
The site upon which the castle stands was originally occupied by a
timbered manor house which, at the time of the Norman Conquest in
the eleventh century, was occupied by Osbert de Bodeham. In 1250 the
manor passed to the de Wardeux family and a century later it came into
the possession of Sir Edward Dalyngrigge, a knight of the French wars
Owing to the threatened invasion of the French, who had destroyed the
nearby ports of Rye and Winchelsea, Dalyngrigge obtained a special licence
in 1385 to build Bodiam Castle to protect the Rother Valley. It was the
last great military castle to be built in England, and its walls, which are
seven feet thick, are m a remarkably fine state of preservation. The
-fortress is rectangular in plan with a drum lower, 29 feet in diameter,
at each corner and a square tower on each flank.
Its main entrance on the north side, approached by a causeway, consists
of two massive towers joined by a machicolated parapet, and has been
described as one of the noblest examples of medieval military architecture
in Britain. An unusual feature of the gateway is a system of three portcullises,
one of which still remains in position. Water was provided by a well which
was sunk four feet below the bottom of the moat, where it was fed by a
spring. The ruined interior is now a green lawn, but the dungeon, spiral
staircases and tiled fireplaces, of which there were originally over thirty,
are still to be seen.
Bodiam Castle was attacked and taken by the forces of Richard 111
during the Wars of the Roses, dismantled about 1645 during the Civil War,
and is now preserved as a national monument.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON K.Ci4


Leant
11
Stem Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- ——- — -CUT HERE AND
To STOTT’S; Please send tour Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.251) Age
The Red Page
The Red Page
If it was to show itself alive, alert, and
busy about one of its major functions,
which is to describe contemporary
manners, Australian fiction could not
afford to miss so rich and bizarre a
spectacle as the American invasion of
King’s Cross during the war: wherefore
Come in. Spinner by Dymphna Cusack
and Florence James (Heinemann), which
handles that subject in a lively and com-
petent style, may be taken as a welcome
proof of vitality in our literature as a
whole.
There is no doubt about the truth of
the picture. Anybody who remembers
those days when the taxi-drivers sailed
past you with their heads in the air and
their eagle eyes searching the pavements
for the next Yank to fleece, when
soldiers and sailors staggered past you
with sacks of the beer you couldn’t buy,
and when the streets suddenly blossomed
with wild little teen-age girls with frangi-
pani or orchids in their hair—where are
the snows of yesteryear?—will be
astonished to see how vividly Dymphna
Cusack and Florence James have re-
created that corrupt and hectic carnival:
The shop windows were brilliant; some
were piled with exotic fruit, others gleamed
with sparkling silver and gaudy jewellery.
The ham-and-beef shops were still open,
' and filled with all sorts of foods she had
never seen before. Spotlighted dummies
displayed hats and frocks behind plate-
glass, and there were windows full of
flowers. Every girl, it seemed, wore flowers;
shoulder sprays, single blossoms in their
elaborately piled hair, even little floral hats,
enchanting as a dream, and the air was full
of the heavy sweet perfume of frangipani.
Floating over everything was the sound of
high-pitched laughter, like the chirruping
of birds at sunset A police car cruised
slowly past, its occupants all eyes in the
darkened interior, its loudspeakers blaring
out a disembodied warning On the
comer of a side-street an Air Force boy
was playing a mandolin, and girls and
sailors danced on the footpath with skirts
whirling and legs outflung, their wild yells
punctuating the gay strumming.
There were regions of King’s Cross
which the present reviewer, then in-
trepidly serving his country with a tin
helmet, a whistle and a rattle to fend off
problematical bombs, failed to explore;
or saw only in surprising glimpses. But
from those glimpses it appears that
Dymphna Cusack and Florence James
are again as reliable as they are colorful
when they move away from Darling-
hurst-road and Macleay-street into those
dark, dirty and sometimes dangerous
back-lanes of the Cross: where a
soldier is kicked to death (as a man
actually was kicked to death in William-
street), where there are white girls enter-
taining negroes, where a boss-racketeer
discusses booze and prostitution with a
smooth and vicious Madam, and where
one of the central figures of the novel, a
teen-age heroine, is shanghaied into a
brothel.
Come in, Spinner is by no means flaw-
less as a novel; by no means, disregard-
ing its flaws, great. It opens with too
much bad temper, too much whining and
grouching, too much backstage squalor
and disenchantment in the beauty-parlor
scenes. It is a little loaded, as are so
many Australian novels in the plebeian
tradition, against anybody who dares to
be rich and socially prominent, especially
anybody who wears a hyphenated name
-—a sure test of villainy in the Australian
novel. It is marred by two painful comic
figures, a charlady and a liftman, who
might be well enough as stock characters
in one of Dymphna Cusack’s plays, but
who, mixed with realistic people in a
novel, seem utterly unreal; and not even
an Australian fantasy but a ghost of the
comic Cockneys in the Herbert Jenkins
“Bindle” books.
The teen-age heroine, whose story
holds the novel together more interest-
ingly than the half-dozen other love-
affairs which blend into the plot, is
hardly more than a lay-figure; her real
feelings about her experiences, in which
an appalled fascination might well have
been mixed with the conventional horror
—Shelley’s theme in “The Cenci” —are
hardly adequately brought out. The
Americans are convincingly drawn,
humorously and sympathetically, but not
very deeply; none is a memorable
creation.
For greatness in drama the whole thing
needs carrying to a further extreme —
possibly the total destruction Of the teen-
ager ; possibly a murder by the soldier
whose wife deserts him for the rich
bachelor. And for greatness in the
muckraker category it needs a great deal
more expert knowledge about the war-
time rackets than Dymphna Cusack and
Florence James possess, however well
they have sketched-in what they do
know.
But you do not ask for a Dostoievsky,
or even a Dreiser, in every competent
novelist who comes along. And within
its limits, as a sociological novel, realistic
and satirical, Come in, Spinner is really
very good indeed. ■ Dymphna Cusack
showed a long time ago, in one of her
plays about a girls’ school, that She was
an expert, almost a brilliant portrayer of
certain types of women —bright; hard,
sophisticated, intensely modern —and
there are half-a-dozen such portraits in
this novel, all remarkably well done. In
a story of a courtship like a sparring-
match, the authors turn the same
observant eyes on an Australian airman.
And then, partly because of this
accuracy of portraiture, partly because of
the equally accurate description of city
scenes, and essentially because of the
completely modern outlook of the two
authors. Come in. Spinner is not only a
novel about the Americans at King’s
Cross but one of the best descriptions of
Sydney as a whole this reviewer has seen.
The focal-point of the story is in a
beauty-parlor attached to a mythical
fashionable hotel in Macquarie-street;
and from there you go not only to the
Cross, but all round the city night-clubs,
hotels, baccarat-schools, theatres and
restaurants; and out to the suburbs for
war-time family troubles and tragedies ;
and to Palm Beach for surfing week-
ends ; and to the near-Sydney country-
side for orange-growing and more family
troubles; with some pleasing remi-
niscences of South Coast scenery and
fishing thrown in to complete the back-
ground.
The Critical Mind.
George Orwell, one of the finest of
recent English critics, was one of the
uncomfortable kind who are given to
cross-questioning themselves upon their
feelings about life and literature, and
never seeming satisfied with the
answers—-which, of course, would be
fatal: the one thing the critic knows is
that he never can know everything; or,
as William Empson puts it in another
context: ~
Man, as the prying housemaid of the soul,
May know her happiness by eye to hole:
He’s safe; the key is lost; he knows
Door will not open, nor hole close.
Thus, in the collection Shooting an
Elephant and Other Essays (Seeker and
Warburg), Orwell imparts his discomfort
of mind over having to shoot a mad
elephant when he was a policeman in
Burma, and over witnessing the hanging
of an Indian, and over the way in which
the poor die in hospitals. He decides that
he has “an aesthetic distaste” for Gandhi,
and while wondering whether Gandhi
was a saint demands to know
to what extent was Gandhi moved by
vanity—by the consciousness of himself as
a humble, naked old man, sitting on a
praying-mat and shaking empires by sheer
spiritual power—and to what extent did he
compromise his own principles by entering
politics, which of their own nature are
inseparable from coercion and fraud?
There is some refuge from these self-
tortures and perplexities in such well-
rounded essays as that on Tolstoy’s
criticism of “King Lear,” which sets out
to demonstrate that Tolstoy’s strong dis-
like of Shakspeare arose from Lear being
a fairly accurate portrait of Tolstoy, or
the essay on Gulliver’s Travels, which
argues that Swift was a political reac-
tionary , . .
like Sir Alan Herbert, Professor G. M.
Young, Lord Elton, the Tory Reform Com-
mittee people who specialise in cracking
neat jokes at the expense of whatever is
modem and progressive, and whose
opinions are often all the more extreme
because they know they cannot influence
the actual drift of events....
Himself, Orwell stood pretty far to the
Left; but as will be seen from the essays,
“The Prevention of Literature” and
“Second Thoughts on James Burnham,”
he had no truck with Fascist or Com-
munist ideas, and went considerably out
of his way to denounce such bright
literary boys as coo over Communism
with the idea that Communism would
recognise their true social and monetary
value: —
At present we know only that the
imagination, like certain wild animals, will
not breed in captivity. Any writer or
journalist who denies that fact —and nearly
all the current praise of the Soviet Union
contains or implies such a denial —is, in
effect, demanding his own destruction;
The James Burnham essay is even
more interesting; a considered and care-
ful study of the theory that this is to be
an age of managers and technicians, who
will take over from the politicians.
Orwell seems to be toning down a pre-
vious enthusiasm ; he has found Burnham
equating the methods of Fascism and the
managerial State: —
The immediate cause of the German
defeat was the unheard-of folly of attack-
ing the U.S.S.R. while Britain was still
undefeated and America was manifestly
getting ready to fight. Mistakes of this
magnitude can only be made, or at any
rate they are. most likely to he made, in
countries where public opinion has no
power... .That a man of Burnham’s gifts
should have been able for a while to think
of Nazism as something rather admirable,
something that could and probably would
build up a workable and durable social
order, shows what damage is done to the
sense of reality by the cultivation of what
is now called “realism.”
The section, “I Write as I Please,” is a
set of selections from his column in the
London “Tribune,” Stafford Cripps’s old
paper, and concerns for the most part
Orwell’s specialty, the discussion of
writings of wide popular appeal, seldom
considered in solemn review pages. There
are some excellent remarks on “Good
Bad Books,” notably that books like
If Winter Comes have “an indefinable
quality, a sort of literary' vitamin,” which
is absent from such books as Tan by
Wyndham Lewis, though this has “enough
talent to set up dozens of ordinary
writers.” Again, he brings to fond
memory a book one had thought the
world had forgotten: Helen’s Babies by
John Habberton, a world-beater in its
day; and he has a few regretful words
on the “Decline of the English Murder”:
murders since World War II, he finds,
notably the Cleft Chin Murder, lack the
“dramatic and even tragic qualities’ 5
which made previous murders “memor-
able, and excite pity for both victim and
murderer,”
Gilded Browning,
Frances Winwar’s The Immortal
Lovers; Elizabeth Barrett and Robert
Browning (Hamish Hamilton) is more in
the nature of a romantic novel than a
serious contribution to Browning bio
graphy. A touch of sentimental, exaggera-
tion is everywhere apparent.
Thus Papa Barrett, who is, of course,
cast for the role of villain, is hardly
allowed the mitigating moments of
humanity which even the worst villains
commonly display in real life—-when he
plays cricket with his children it is a kind
of cunning plot revealing that “he knew
when to relax his authority” ; and, on
the other hand, when he allows Elizabeth
to read Hume, Tom Paine, Voltaire and
Rousseau (books from his own library)
that is interpreted as a proof of his
stupidity, and he is living in “the fool’s
paradise of his ignorance.”
And if Papa Barrett thus lives a little
beneath the earth, Browning and Eliza-
beth, being cast for hero and heroine,
always live a little above it —Elizabeth’s
love-letters are full of “matchless” phrases
that “burst to sudden flower in her
writing” ; and, caught up in this romantic
atmosphere, Browning’s parents, when
they offer no objection to the marriage,
display not ordinary but “sublime”
understanding.
All this is a little too sublime for the
present reviewer, who, having an immense
respect for Browning’s poetry, is much
less moved by Miss Winwar’s excited
adjectives than by such plain facts as that
Browning struggled with “Bordello" for
seven years, that he wrote “Childe
Roland” in a day and that Christmas-
Eve and Easter-Day sold only 200 copies.
And, from a biographical point of view,
one plain fact about the characters—such
as that when Browning, returning to
London, wrote to Papa Barrett seeking a
reconciliation, the old man sent him a
packet containing, unopened, every letter
his daughter had written him in the five
years in Italy since her marriage—is worth
a great deal more than all the comment
that may be written on it.
But it must be admitted that this
domineering and morbid parent,
refusing to allow any of his children to
marry, qualifies very well for the role of
villain ; as do Browning and Elizabeth
for hero and heroine and their drama of
elopement and devotion for a romantic
love-story. And if everything takes place
in a kind of rose-pink haze there is a
lot of solid fact and colorful life of the
period in the middle of it: Elizabeth’s
staunch support of poor Haydon, who,
when he committed suicide, made her his
literary executrix; Dommett wandering
out of Browning’s life to become Prime
Minister of New Zealand and to write
the almost-forgotten epic of Ranolf and
Amohia; Browning quarrelling with
Macready, who didn’t like his plays as
much as the author hoped he would ; the
ridiculous Forster, Dickens’s friend and
biographer, objecting to Browning’s
choice of subject-matter with “We
abominate his tastes as much as we
respect his genius” ; Browning acting as
keeper to Landor when that roaring lion
became almost ungovernable in his old
age; Leigh Hunt with his peculiar relics,*
Shelley’s heart in a little silken sack, a
piece of his jawbone rescued from the
pyre, and a lock of Milton’s hair . . .
The biography continues after Eliza-
beth’s death, so that there is the story
of Browning’s continued reverence for
her memory—his proposals to other ladies
were always somewhat marred by his
assurances that he really only wanted a
wife to help him look after his son Pen
and that his heart was “buried in
Florence” ; also the story of Pen, who
comes out of Miss Winwar’s cloud-
cuckoo-land to get himself into some
extremely practical amorous complications
before he is 19 ; and also a good account
of how Browning wrote his masterpiece,
The Ring and the Book.
Displaced Persons.
Marjorie Banks and Edward Ward in
Europe on Record (Wingate) inspect
the Mad Continent for the B.B.C.,
travelling in a small car.
As an example of the nonsense you get
in all travel-books because the authors
rely so much on gossip and half-truths,
these explorers met in Vienna the Aus-
tralian wife of a Viennese journalist who,
though she was troubled because her hus-
band earned only the equivalent of
£3 10s. a week, “had great faith in the
Socialist regime of her adopted country,
la Australia,’ she said, .‘my sister has
just had a baby and it cost her £300 to
have it. Here the City Council does
everything possible for us free.’ ”
For all that, the book seems rea-
sonably reliable on Europe, if not
on Australia. Mostly concerned with
Displaced Persons, particularly children,
the authors went round talking to people
and recording their frightful stories of
misery and terror until finally they see
Europe as something like Chekhov's
Cherry Orchard, “a Cherry Orchard that
has survived a few years longer and
rotted a little more.” The West may save
it; the East may enslave it; but “Too
many of them are crying, like Mike
Palladino, ‘Let’s go some place. It may
be China, may be anywhere in the
world -but let’s go some place.’ ”
Reviewed Briefly.
Marise : Stephen Lister (Davies).
Making quite a name for himself as a
lightly-malicious commentator on the
follies of the contemporary rich, Mr.
Lister sets the hero of this book in the
French Riviera: apart from the world,
communing with the peasantry and Father
Delorme and his sister, using his small
capital to build himself a cottage in which
he can contemplate life from afar. And
then someone leaves a baby upon his
doorstep ; and much to his own surprise
he sets out to bring her up. The book
is like its setting: nothing exciting
happens, but life floats by evenly and
amusingly as a long succession of sunny
days.
* * * ♦
Bonza the Bull: Dora Birtles (Shak-
speare Head). The high moment of this
agreeably circumstantial story, of how
two country boys, Chris and his black
friend, Nobby, brought a thorough bred
bull down to the Royal Sydney Show, is
Uncle Charley’s stabbing poor old Bonza
with a trocar to let out the wind with
which green lucerne, fed him by a stable-
boy who was no better than he ought
to be, had bloated him. Train-journey,
showground, parade, judging and final
triumphant auctioning are so carefully
detailed as to make one think Miss
Birtles went over the entire route in
person, and the village postmistress seems
to have been done with especial enthu-
siasm. One reads that the story is being
filmed from puppets.
* * * *
The Sword of the Spirit : A meditative
and devotional anthology compiled by
Walter Oakeshott (Faber). The authors
drawn on, prose-writers and poets, range
from King Alfred to T. S. Eliot, James
Joyce and Stephen Spender and include—
besides the many quotations from the
Bible —Donne, George Herbert, Sir
Francis Drake and Gerard Manley Hop-
kins. Mr. Oakeshott is headmaster of
Winchester and the book is primarily in-
tended for schoolboys about to be con-
firmed ; but it is of much wider religious
interest and may also be read for its fine
literary quality.


"TRUTH,
N ADVERTISING
fg
All shoes are stocked in black calf and tan willow in full and half sizes.
.i>
er«
'X
tm-s
/
•7} -Kj^/
c?.v*A •
'
%£sr
JK»
.. ,7^v.:
Jp&X'S * ■ v ‘ £/ ■
■■
;t}£ -;>' v ■;,
'’*•*. » 1
#«JI «s, -, .* ***
psSK^r*
S*- saSwgf
■F
SMART LOOKS . . ALL DAY COMFORT
Marshall custom built shoes from ss/s
. . in this finer men’s footwear, handsomely crafted in six styles from choice leather to give superlative style and comfort. The richness
of quality in every detail goes a long way with value-wise men. Left. The “Balfour,” wide fitting. Price 59/6.
Middle. The “English,” medium swing toe in “D &E” fittings. Price 39/6. Right. The “Byron” with long
extended last square toe. Priced at 59/6.
Below. The “King EE, a sturdily-built shoe in good quality leather
.
and with medium fitting and square toe. Price 59/6.
W i
m
'M
•S ' t\
i
•v: ■
m
H
I
■rS.t ’ : " > ■,
3
I i ’ - rv v r %
l ' • «/ f ; 5
\ ' s % ; l,
—■•••■■••■•" v ■ -■• - - - f ■••■ ■■
..... -r
m
9b.
■
■
ifc
!-> : ■. :.:...■ ;;-■ v »■ ■■:.* ~, >. ■'
■ SS • * / •
/
Left. The “Leighton,” a finishing touch to your
dress. A very light-built shoe in black glace
kid. Priced at 65/6.
“Leighton” for comfortable long-wearing
Comfortable, sturdy Golf shoes. Well wearing
golf shoes in light brown only. In Derby style
with non-slip rubber heels. Priced at 59/6.
ARE YOU ON OUR MAILING LIST FOR OUR
1951 MAIL ORDER CATALOGUE?
For one of our catalogues please forward your
name and address and it will be a pleasure
to send you one as soon as possible after May Ist.
MEN’S SHOES—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET—PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT), MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


POWER ODD UN DEPEND DN I
■
. .
m
■
n
i- :
-f*s
i .
; ♦; 4
- ;*.r-
-.* i
■- y. .
:>
■
i
i?ml-“ AT, ONAI
p OIVEB
Pumping
Sawing
Winching
Lighting
Crushing
~
International
Thats what you want in an engine—and thats
what you’ll get when you install INTERNATIONAL —
THE POWER THAT PAYS.
Each unit is designed to supply a reliable, money
making source of dependable power readily adaptable to
your particular application.
Whether your business embraces pumping, sawing,
winching, crushing or whether you need power for
lighting or power for emergency you wilt find an
INTERNATIONAL to satisfy your requirements.
/
A
/
/
y ' /
V
/
"SS///A
WMZ
A 069
mvm
\
imiiiimiii
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HOBART ADELAIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3714
Wednesday, April 18, 1951
INTO HISTORY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PURE CHIFLEYISM.
It is not necessary for Mr. Chifley’s poli-
tical opponents to construct the argu-
ment that he is making things easy for
the Soviet’s fifth-column in Australia.
He is himself producing all the evidence.
Between what he calls “pure Com-
munism” and “capitalist countries such
as the United States,” Mr, Chifley leaves
no doubt about where he would place
his party’s sympathies. His description
of American leadership of the free world
in this crisis as “capitalist” settles that;
and, since he has for years made it plain
that “pure Communism” is in his regard
a legitimate and harmless political
philosophy, his whole tone implies that,
in his view, American persistence in
organising the defence of the democracies
is no less “provocative” than the Menzies
Government’s efforts to destroy the
hostile Communist influence in Australia.
The “purists” in Moscow agree.
The Socialist leader evades any discus-
sion at this critical juncture of the threats
of a new world war overhanging all
Europe and Asia. That threat is, he pre-
tends, an invention of the Menzies
Ministry, and the Korean campaign h)
the United Nations forces (including
Australian units) is a mere excuse by the
Government for keeping a “foreign war”
going.
Any objective the U.N. had there,
he says, has been attained; aggression
has been “stopped” ; we should “get out,”
scuttle, throw overboard any principles
we had in going there, purify ourselves
and leave any active support of U.N.O. to
somebody else. Not only should Aus-
tralia go into isolation from this inter-
national challenge to the British Com-
monwealth, among others, but we should
abandon compulsory military training
and leave the keeping-up of an army to
those volunteers in the community who
care to take it on. For the recruiting of
even a volunteer overseas army Mr.
Chifley and all his party will not lift a
finger or utter a word of persuasion. The
same goes for the Air Force and the
Navy.
The Chifley crowd is not only indif-
ferent about the. Commonwealth’s fight-
ing services; they are positively against
them. Mr. Chifley said at Rockhampton;
Australia cannot afford to send men all
over the world to take part in some
war. The greatest defence of Australia
is to develop its resources and build up its
population....
—and preferably a population of cold-
footers.
The “pure Communists” of Moscow
must have nodded their full approval.
Mr. Chifley agrees that it was right
and proper for Australian troops to join
the U.N. forces in defence of South
Korea against the machinations of the
Communists in Moscow and those impure
puppets in China and North Korea who
practised the aggression which the “pure”
ones merely preach. But he holds it repre-
hensible to provoke the pure and the
impure alike by pressing home a victory
in Korea with the object of enforcing
peace, the only means of making peace
a victorious commander possesses. How
free elections could be expected to follow
a scuttle from South Korea by the United
Nations’ forces Mr. Chifley does not
divulge.
Thinking out his party’s tactics is
said to be his long suit, but he has not
thought out this one far enough to see
that a scuttle from Korea would be the
end of U.N.O. (which could hardly sur-
vive the ridicule), and would either
transfer the war to Japan or, after an-
other scuttle, leave Japan to be first sub-
jugated and then rearmed by the purists
in Moscow. In that day, Mr. Chifley
would presumably have to fulfil his
promise to the electors to “firmly oppose
the proposal for the rearmament of
Japan.”
Australia is already weakened, mili-
tarily and diplomatically, as a result of
the virtual abolition of her land and air
forces under the late “Labor” Govern-
ment. If the rebuilding of the Army
under the Menzies Government’s plans
were to be reversed (as it would be) under
another Chifley Government, Australia
would be unable to “firmly oppose” any
treaty arrangement by anybody. The
Chifleyan election-picture of a disarmed
Socialist Australia preventing rearmament
by any Asiatic nation is a fitting com-
panion to that other one illustrating the
business of “fighting Communism” (how-
ever “pure”) at home by handing over
the keys to the citadel.
In these chancy times the business of
any responsible Government is to equip
this country to defend itself in arms
against a threat of general war. The
preparations to meet that threat in the
United States and Britain —Mr. Chifley
can be left to choose which of them is
the less objectionable on that account —
must carry conviction to any Australian
adult able to see beyond his nose. Even
Mr. Chifley’s deputy-leader has identified
himself with the advocacy of a Pacific
Pact, analogous to the Atlantic Pact, for
mutual aid against an aggressor by the
peace-seeking nations in this ocean. The
notion that an Australia which plumed
herself on having her young men of 18
to 25 completely ignorant of military
training could take part in such a pact,
or have any voice in its making, would
not get a moment’s consideration any-
where outside Mr. Chifley’s fuddled
caucus.
Besides, a “Labor” Government which
would scuttle out of Australia’s U.N.
commitments in Korea would scuttle out
of any Pacific Pact at the first call to
provide armed support of its pact-
partners. Mr, Chifley has said so quite
plainly; “Australia cannot afford to send
men to take part in some war” —
especially if she has not trained any men
to fight. No, the best contribution we
can make, he says, is to develop our
economy and build up our population.
“The nation cannot dissipate its resources
in foreign ventures.”
How would a Chifley Government “get
out of Korea,” anyway? By what argu-
ment would it procure the abandonment
by other U.N. forces of 20 millions of
South Koreans to massacre by the in-
vading purists? If its argument did not
prevail, would it withdraw the Aus-
tralian military and air units and expose
them to the jeering of Turks, Siamese and
Filipinos, to say nothing of the British
and New Zealand units with which they
are brigaded? Either Mr. Chifley’s
electioneering is pure eyewash, or else
he is proposing to make Australia’s name
stink everywhere in the free world. And
where does the policy of scuttle end?
If to scuttle is to assure peace, then a
Chifley Government must urge scuttle out
of West Germany, scuttle out of Malaya,
scuttle out of Suez, scuttle out of Papua
if Mr. Nehru’s Javanese friend Soekamo
marches with Moscow-like purity into
Dutch New Guinea and starts making
fighting noises at us across not a 38th
parallel, but a 138th meridian of east
longitude.
At no time in the history of Federal
politics have Australians been presented
with such a spectacle of sordid, un-
truthful and thoroughly dubious political
campaigning as Mr. Chifley and Dr.
Evatt are now providing for them. The
kindest thing that can be said about Mr.
Chifley and his “pure Communism” is
that in trying to scramble the brains of
the electors over a long period he has
finished up by completely scrambling his
own..
Comrades.
circumstances surrounding the issue
Q £ tbe British Budget show how unreal
and bow out Q f tradition are the political
manceuvres Q f the Australian “Labor”
par t y Whatever happens in Britain,
finance and foreign affairs are always
conducted in a national atmosphere in
cr j s j s On an y other basis British types
constitution will not work for long.
ijss
solvency and the need for security. In
A,'rapom
° £ G wh those mM * s h J om
Ssuef the nation unites, and any, party
w*>ich attempted to .ntroduce the pnncrp e
of the chand toshouttbatoriy
La b° r . mus ‘ >* iffi )wed 10 goVem
woll ' t * £lave short shnft.
Thus we find at a moment when the
harried British people were beginning to
hope their 10-year sacrifice was nearly
over that they were ready to come
unitedly behind tne Chancellor of the
Exchequer in an Administration whose
race is nearly run, and praise his non-
political approach” to the financing of
security measures which have been made
necessary by the threat of Communist
attack.
The British people this year will face
an income-tax increase of 6d. in the £l,
distributed-profits tax increased from 30
per cent, to 50 per cent., sales tax on
motor-vehicles, radio, television sets and
household cooking and lighting appliances
of 66f per cent, against 33| per cent last
year. Petrol-tax will go up by 4£d. a
gallon, bringing the basic price to 3s. 6d.
Car-purchase tax will be doubled to 66|
per cent. Entertainment-tax will rise
substantially. Dividend-tax will increase,
and the only new “benefits” represent
merely expansions in payments to help
offset the depreciation in the value of
money paid to old-age and other pen-
sioners and relief to taxpayers on low
income levels who could not continue to
five without some concession.
Method in the Budget will be criticised,
as it already has been by Mr. Churchill,
who inveighed against “Socialist mis-
management of finances telling almost
the same tale as mismanagement of
defence.” But there is no disagreement
about the necessity for the most drastic
steps to produce defence resources, no
denial of the Government’s right to
decide security needs.
The same can be said of Canada, the
other great white Dominion of the
Empire ; the same of New Zealand, where
a Liberal Government and moderate
trade-unions are working amicably
together in a substantive effort to break
the Communist grip on the waterfront
and on industry in general.
Not so in Australia. There has never
been a more shameful spectacle than that
presented at the moment on “Labor”
platforms. Cowardice, opportunism and
subservience to the Communist bodies
are the outstanding characteristics of
“Labor” campaigning.
Ten years ago in Australian Com-
munism’s primary textbook, the Founda-
tions of Leninism, the United States and
its methods were being praised
“Leninism is the harmonious union of
Russian revolutionary inspiration and the
practical spirit of the American.” Today
the Communist line is that the Americans
are “warmongering” imperialists bent on
world conquest; that the Korean war is
an imperialist venture directed at Russia
and China, and that therefore United
Nations’ troops must be withdrawn to
enable Korea to become another Russian
satellite.
Messrs. Chifley and Evatt also are for
withdrawal from Korea at a point which
would leave Russia and China in com-
plete command of the situation. They
and the Communists have become “pro-
British” as the Communist-guided union
policy of Australia has become anti-
American with a view to splitting the
Anglo-American alliance.
Dr. Evatt, in the full bloom of his
diplomatic rampages in the United
Nations Assembly, allied himself with
Cuba, Persia, San Salvador or any small
Power which was ready to take a kick
at Old England. He was to be found at
times on the side of Moscow against the
United Kingdom and on the side of
Asiatics against the white races of the
British Commonwealth ; but now he is
wholeheartedly for British unity.
No more championing of the right of
the Indians to swamp South Africa for
Doctor Evatt. This week a startled
country heard him and his shadow, the
twittering Dr. Burton, in the role of
Empire men and urging closer liaison
with the British people at a period when
the Communist party also is eager to
rescue Britain from American “domina-
tion.” And since Mr. Chifley ruled out
of order in caucus all resolutions which
contradict the orders of the A.L.P. Execu-
tive and Triennial conference it is now
almost possible to see the ring in his
nose.
Never has a Labor “leader” or any
other leader (with the possible exception
of Comrade Ward, of the Brisbane Lie)
descended to such depths of cowardice on
a public platform, to such miserable poli-
tical expediency as did Mr. Chifley last
week:
I do not believe you will have war
It was nonsense for Australia to concen-
trate on defence policy beyond her capa-
city in order to meet a threat from hun-
dreds of millions of people north of Aus-
tralia Australia had a population of
eight million, while there was a total
of between 1200 and 1300 million in areas
north of Australia....
Could anyone, he asked, tell him “that
by diverting our efforts and crippling our
economy, instead of building up our
population from Holland and Italy and
other places to the maximum, we are
protecting Australia?”
Nothing could be more unreal, cowardly
or defeatist than this outburst. The im-
plications of it are staggering, It is in
line with the Communist party’s policy
that defence is an incitement to war and
that defence expenditure should be
transferred to produce wage-increases.
On April 5 the “Tribune” urged its
readers that Mr. Chifley’s policy speech
“deserved close and critical examination
by all.” It praised his general outlook
—which is strange, seeing that Mr
Chifley declares that Labor is the foe ol
Communism and that it has its own
candidates in the field as “expressing the
policy of the whole party”:
Many improvements in social services
and benefits were promised by the A.L..P.
leader. United action by all workinsr
people wiU be needed to win fulfilment of
these promises. On the other hand, it will
be needed to defeat the opposition to those
proposals of the Liberal reactionaries.
The official Communist programme
issued on March 21 included
Defeat of the repressive legislation
brought forward by the Menzles Govern-
ment.
Immediate reduction of armaments pro-
gramme, thus causing a diversion of men
and materials to useful production, intro-
duction of an effective system of price-
control... .abolition of the special wool
tax.... an Immediate increase in child en-
dowment .... Socialist Australia.
“Labor’s” accord with the Communists
in economic and defence matters is one of
the most vital facts to be noticed by
electors before they vote on April 28.
While professing a united British Com-
monwealth policy, Chifley-Evatt Labor is
out of step with every other party (in-
cluding the British Socialist party) within
the British Commonwealth on defence
and security and general economic prin-
ciples.
Under the skin the Australian “Labor”
and Communist parties are comrades and
relations, in whose veins the same blood
flows —the Red blood of Communist-
union leadership and of a common
Socialist objective.
Communism In England.
From London: Neither of the two
important books on Communism that
were published last year went more than
half-way towards explaining how it works
at what might be called street-door level.
A third book, published by Heine-
mann, has been something of a sensa-
tion in Britain because it exposes, in the
form of an autobiography, what has been
happening on our own doorstep over the
past 20 years, I Believed, by Douglas
Hyde (who was until lately news-editor
of the “Daily Worker”), outlines his
intellectual writhings and extravagances
from uneasy youth in a strict Noncon-
formist home to the militant relentless-
ness of the “steel-hardened cadre” who
form the C.P. executive, and, finally, his
conversion to Roman Catholicism.
Despite his undoubted professional
ability as a journalist and astuteness as
a fountain-head of “agit-prop.,” tur-
bulent emotionalism rather than quiet
understanding appears to have determined
his frantic mental processes, giving yet
another support to the axiom that no
Communist ever had a normal, balanced
mind. (One other factor may be men-
tioned: his wife, also a fervent party-
member, wanted the felicity and security
of a “bourgeois” home, and feared for
the future morals of her young, good-
looking daughter if brought up among
aggressively free-loving Comrades.)
The less autobiographical part of the
book is by far the most illuminating, for
it shows how Communism works and
how the party “line” is put across in
Britain, where Communists are few in
number.
Mr, Hyde writes with terse and objec-
tive frankness about his considerable
experience of carrying out the Kremlin
directives. As a youth among Bristol
unemployed he was an open, visible and
vocal Comrade, Moved to rural North
Wales, where there wasn’t a Communist
within 50 miles, he joined the local
Labor party, became its chief organiser
and indoctrinated its best workers. This
same tactic he later repeated in Surrey
with such effect that he virtually
liquidated the local Socialists.
Ultimately he became chief sub-editor
for the “Worker,” and, when it was
banned, organised secret presses for the
dissemination of propaganda. On
instructions received, he later gave to
understand that he had “ratted* and
opened a newsagency in Fleet-street with
the innocent title of Industrial and
General Information. This had three
main functions: to get the party-line ex-
pressed in the national daily papers, to
distribute a cyclostyled bulletin to the
Press and to C.P. officials, and to keep
the “Worker Correspondents” organised.
The book illustrates, by example, how
the C.P. secures control of trade-unions,
how it gets information from Govern-
ment offices, and the callous unconcern
of its “men of special mould” for any-
thing but the will of the Fatherland and
themselves.
Altogether a candid and frightening
book, Slowing the damage that one man
can do by harnessing his skill and ex-
perience to an organisation which, he
affirms, has a “vested interest in disaster.”
If the other craftsmen he mentions, such
as doctors, scientists, lawyers, teachers,
civil servants, trade-unionists, co-
operators, peace-advocates and fellow-
traveller M.Ps., were to follow his
example and tell us about their mutual
sideline, the composite picture would be
anything but agreeable.


PLAIN ENGLISH
General MacArthur.
While President Truman’s recall of
General MacArthur is unfortunate at a
time like the present, it has been inevitable
ever since it became apparent that the
general not only disagreed with his Gov-
ernment and Commander-in-Chief, who
is also President of the United States, but
that he was prepared to argue his dif-
ferences in public before the world, and
even to indulge in correspondence with
the minority-leader in the Senate, thus
preparing to ally himself with a political
party which does not hold the electors’
authority to govern.
Whoever is right and whoever is wrong
about what course should be followed,
the essential fact is that General Mac-
Arthur is not the maker of policy. He
is, like any other commanding general
and political agent, subject to the execu-
tive head of the Government from which
he derives his authority, and must either
carry out its policy and remain loyal to
it or give way to somebody who will.
The U.N.O. allies are faced in the Far
East with a Chinese army stated in an
official Peking paper only a month ago
to number 10,500,000. This is backed
by a huge Red army in Siberia, and sup-
ported by still greater forces in mid-
Asia above the Persian and Indian
borders ready to form a pincer in an
Asian war.
In the world war which is inevitable
unless Russia changes her world-revo-
lutionary plans, nothing would please the
Russians more than for the forces of
the Western Allies to be committed in
China to an extent which would leave
Europe, the crucial area, undefended.
In the past few months it has seemed
that Russia has been eagerly seeking pre-
texts to enable the Kremlin to say that
aggression has been committed by
U.N.O. forces in the Far East in a way
which would justify all-out attack on the
Allied forces and the occupation of
Japan. The British, American and French
Governments have been straining them-
selves to the utmost to give the Russians
no excuse to say that they have made the
first aggressive move —a move which
would have a tremendous influence on the
attitude of countries such as India and
Indonesia. General MacArthur, however,
has been concerned only as a general
with securing every possible advantage
and assistance to win the Korean war.
He may be right as a general in this
attitude, but wrong to carry his differ-
ences to the point of what the New York
“Times” calls “insubordination.” And
his continued resistance to U.S. policy
left President Truman no alternative.
Australians will ever have a kindly
feeling for General MacArthur. He
arrived in Australia at a time when Can-
berra was rather like a henhouse in which
a fox was loose. His very presence
calmed the panic of the flabby, shabby
“Labor” Government of the day. This
country will always gratefully remember
him.
His rule of Japan was an achievement
much greater than his military accom-
plishments, which do not rank with the
greatest of World War ll—with those of
Alexander and Montgomery in Africa or
of Eisenhower in Europe. He had a long
association with Orientals, beginning with
service as U.S. Military Attache with
the Japanese armies in the Russo-
Japanese war of 1904. His five years in
Tokyo will assure his place in Pacific
and Japanese history.
His reputation ranks so high at the
end of this period of rule that it is to
be hoped he will not be drawn
into sordid political controversies on a
party level, an eventuality which would
serve to help split the world at a perilous
juncture, and destroy any further chance
of his being of service to his country and
to civilisation. Further argument about
the rights and wrongs of his viewpoint
conducted in a party-political atmosphere
can only help the enemy.
The Cure Is a Secret Ballot.
“Ex-Unionist” : One reason why great
numbers of trade-unionists voted Liberal
in 1949, and will do so again at the end
of this month, is because only the secret
ballot allows them to hit back at the
intimidation and standover tactics prac-
tised against them in many unions.
Especially in the Communist-led unions
this intimidation is part of the process by
which the Communists keep control The
introduction of the secret ballot as a com-
pulsory feature of union elections and all
other domestic voting would revolutionise
the way of life in many unions.
The minefields, the wharves, the metal
trades —to mention only some regions—
are notorious for this sort of oppression
of the individual where the vote is by
show of hands, or more usually the “Ayes-
to-the-right—scabs-to-the-left” technique.
But there is worse than that. The stand-
over men in the interest of the Com-
munist union-boss warn the undecided
ones at union meetings—“ Hold your
hand up or look out for your kids at
school” or “we know where we’ll find
your wife.” The men who try to stem
the rot within their own organisations,
without any help from the Pharisaical
“Labor” party, live under the penalty of
having their wives and families treated
like pariahs, and are lucky if they are not
bashed on dark nights as well. The
punishment of non-Communists through
their families is, of course, after the best
Hitlerite and Stalinite models.
The same horrible union tyranny is
stalking the idle N.Z. waterfront. Last
week Prime Minister Holland issued a
warning that the Government had
evidence of intimidation on a wide scale
against workers who want to return to
work, and would act without mercy
against anyone caught in this cowardly
business.
These are the people that Australian
“Labor” says it would convert by sweet-
reasonableness.
The Fallacy of Price-control.
If Mr. Chifley’s disciples haven’t had their
outlook warped by years of strange
worship they must be asking themselves
now whether or not this promised panacea
of price-control is all it’s cracked up to
be. They ought also to be asking them-
selves whether, on the leader’s own words,
the panacea won’t be more painful than
the pain.
Greater Socialists than Mr, Chifley
have discovered that price-control, like
patriotism, isn’t enough. Britain’s
Socialist Prime Minister, Mr. Attlee, put
it this way:
Our Government is deeply concerned by
the rise in the cost of living, and I should
be false to my trust if I pretended there
is any short-cut to reducing it. There isn’t.
Any politician who tells you that he can
miraculously bring the cost of living down
is deceiving both himself and you.
And the new Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, Mr. Gaitskell, introducing a
Budget which, because of defence re-
quirements, “must reduce the British
standard of living,” answered Mr. Chifley
this way;
While a sufficiently tough Budget, by its
effect on total expenditure, would prevent
prices being pushed up by excessive
demands, it could not, though it were made
even tougher, do much to prevent a rise
in prices when these were caused by a
higher level of costs. The limitations of the
Budget are much the same as those of
price-control.
The italics are there for Mr. Chifley’s
benefit. He now holds that it is “falla-
cious” to say he would not be able to
control prices without wage-pegging, and
invites the practical Australian people to
believe that he “would endeavor to seek
the co-operation of the great industrial
organisations to assist us in stabilising the
economy.”
Who, other than this naive Mr. Chifley,
will believe that the “great industrial
organisations” (the A.C.T.U.) would
invite unionists to accept pegged or re-
duced wages on a Chifley promise to cut
prices?
People searching through Mr. Chifley’s
election speeches to find out how he would
control prices need go no further than
a talk to Pressmen in Perth:
If a referendum gave us power to control
prices the Labor party would increase sub-
sidies on essential commodities. These
would include tea, butter, textiles and many
other goods.
“Many other goods” is right—a few
being petrol, footwear, bricks, cement,
milk, meat and—“with the co-operation
of the great industrial organisations”—
beer and tobacco. At Rockhampton he
guardedly dropped a hint of what this
would mean:
Inflation will not be tackled by half
measures. The people will have to give the
Commonwealth [under Labor] the power
to handle the problem, and unpopular
measures would be necessary if inflation is
to be controlled.
Since no Government can recklessly
pay subsidies right and left to keep prices
down, “unpopular measures” obviously
means rationing. That would begin with
petrol and spread rapidly. Back would
come the coupon-books, back the queues,
the shortages, the almost-forgotten “one-
to-each-customer” cry in shops, black-
markets, hoarding, preference of supply
to strong “Labor” electorates —in short,
all the old, rotten business of controls
which “Labor” was forced to relinquish,
though it fought to the last to hold it.
This, then, is the future Mr. Chifley
offers this country ; this is his cure-all for
inflation. Those who know this “Labor”
party for what it is wondered how long
it would take the truth to emerge from
all the twaddle about the “Menzies
pound,” the wool-tax, “get out of Korea,”
“Labor will cut prices,” and the rest of it.
It couldn’t help but emerge, for
“Labor” is still committed to Socialism,
and rationing and controls constitute the
first big step in socialisation. 'Hie real
“Labor” policy for April 28 is “Give
Chifley price-control and help us socialise
Australia.”
Canadian Visitors.
Only an ostrich or a Chifley would decry
the present-day need for preparedness
and Empire unity—cruiser Ontario’s
berthing in Sydney harbor indicates that
the sister Dominion across-Pacific doesn’t
qualify as either bird. Ostensibly here
for the Jubilee junketings, Ontario
brought plenty of practice ammo with her,
some tonnage of which her nine triple-
turreted six-inchers have already de-
livered at targets towed by Australian
frigate Condamine. And she has done
valuable anti-submarine work with the
brace of British subs based on Sydney.
But, then, Canada’s Navy knows quite
a bit about that —most of the clean-
limbed cruiser’s key personnel (she’s a
training-ship) were on active service for
years in the austerer servitude of the war-
time Atlantic, escorting, patrolling, hunt-
ing Hitler’s U-boat packs. Some were
in support-groups —composed of those
hardy destroyer and frigate teams which,
once submarine contact was established,
allowed the normal convoy-escort to pro-
ceed with its sheep, then hounded the
contact, for days if necessary, till it was
finally destroyed.
Ontario’s company, as indicated by
their captain in a recent broadcast, are
quietly and wholeheartedly pro-British,
with, of course, a natural leaning towards
the U.S. dictated by geography and a
kinship somewhat further removed. The
ship has fitted into the routine of the
Australian Fleet effortlessly. Its fighting
order, signals, radar-procedure and so on
are practically identical with ours —as
ours is, of course, with the Mother Navy.
Many of her “men” are youths, on
their first (and truly wonderful) training
cruise. They will return to base at
Esquimault, after further exercises with
the Australian Fleet, a well shaken-down
company, impressed by the ease with
which their ship has fitted into the local
squadron, and by an awareness that only
the close and wise integration of the
Commonwealth navies in the past has
made it possible.
McGirr's Monument.
It has been reported that N.S.W.
Premier McGirr contemplates resigning
shortly after the Federal elections. It
will also be shortly after the introduction
of State-made unemployment in N.S.W.
through the power-zoning scheme which
will reduce the working week in one
region or another to four days and, once
a month or so, to three. No power at all
for those days and nights.
And still there will be blackouts in
between.
This will be the appropriate monument
to the worst Premier N.S.W. ever had,
the man who began his reign by declaring
that his Government would not tolerate
any electric-power blackouts —that was
four years ago—and has since watched
Sydney declining for lack of power to
some Hottentot status of existence. As
recently as last Christmas this incredible
head of a State didn’t even know what
was happening, for he congratulated the
community on the unexampled pros-
perity of its living conditions, for which
he said he wanted to claim some credit
for his Government. He can have it all.
It is time he went —somehow, anyhow,
without waiting on the order of his going.
He has made the working week in N.S.W.
a farce and its industry a shambles. When
Mr. McKell left for Yarralumla, Mr.
McGirr’s rival (by seniority, that is) for
the Premiership was his runner-up also
for bone-headed inertia, Mr. Badly; and
Mr. Badly was compensated with the
appointment of Director of State Coal-
mines. Coal has been disappearing from
the market ever since. The unions’ easy-
going motions following the McGirr five-
day week hit every industry, but especially
coal, on which all others depend; the
community is now reduced to a four-
day week, and the McGirrites have
actually had to admit private enterprise
to one of Mr, Badly’s State coalmines
in order to get enough coal to keep
Bunnerong going at all.
The power-zoning will be brought into
action directly after the Federal elections
are over. It was kept so secret that Mr.
McGirr didn’t even dare consult the
Trades Hall about its working. The
electors must not be allowed to discover
from this latest disaster exactly to what
depths a “Labor” Government can
reduce the once-flourishing State of
N.S.W. “Labor” is afraid the electors
might connect it with Communist control
of the coalfields.
Arthur Wade, Geologist.
The death of Dr. Arthur Wade, who
collapsed and died whilst surfing off
Mermaid Beach, Brisbane, at the age of
72, marks the passing of the first
specialist in oil geology to be brought
from England by the Commonwealth
Government to guide the search for oil
in Australian territory.
Wade was a graduate in geology of the
Royal College of Science and obtained
his doctorate in science of London
University from that college as an
internal student. During his long career
he joined most of the better-known
institutes connected with petroleum; he
served on the council of some of them,
and wrote prolifically on oil. His real
metier, however, was work in the bush.
Wade was in Papua for nine months
during 1913-14, in Tasmania in 1915,
and on the Australian mainland until
1919 and again in 1924-25 and 1933-36.
Later he was chairman of the Common-
wealth Oil Advisory Committee until its
dissolution in 1940. From that time he
was employed as geological adviser to
Shell’s Queensland subsidiary (S.Q.D.),
and, as such, was partly responsible for
the location of the recently-abandoned
test-well at Morelia; its failure to strike
011 must have been a great disappoint-
ment to him.
Mentally and physically far more
active than his age would suggest, and
with wide geological and oilfield lore, he
was, like most geologists with similar ex-
perience, alive to the futility of using
Government funds to bolster the search
for oil by small companies lacking both
adequate finance and technical know-
ledge. His forthright advice on this
question made him many political
enemies, and was, doubtless, one cause of
the shortsighted dissolution of the Oil
Advisory Committee.
He will be mourned by his colleagues
as a candid critic, a jovial companion,
a trusty friend and an unfailing source
of information on all varieties of
subjects.
What's Donald Grant Got?
Since the announcement of the “Labor”
Senate ticket for New South Wales —
order of candidates decided by the
executive, not by ballot —others besides
Senator Large have been wondering why
he is placed sixth on the card, thereby
virtually writing finis to his Parliamentary
career, while Donald Grant, with number
four, gets a place on the box-seat and
another term at Canberra. They’re
wondering what Donald’s got, in the eyes
or hearts of the A.L.P. executive, that
Bill hasn’t. On the “Labor” principle
of “last on, first off,” it should have been
the other way around —Large has been
a Senator since 1941; Grant didn’t reach
Canberra till 1944,
It cannot have been age that disquali-
fied Large, although he did have his 73rd
birthday the day the A.L.P. junta gave
him the brush-off. “Fixer” Ashley is not
many years his junior, and Donald
Cameron, first on “Labor’s” Senate list
in Victoria, was a lusty infant of 10
weeks when little Large uttered his first
cry. Besides, if age comes into it, why
has Large, although chairman of the
party’s electoral council in Barton —Dr.
Evatt’s electorate—been sent on a
strenuous country campaign, while Grant,
12 years his junior, gets a comfortable
city beat?
Perhaps the union records of the two
men were taken into consideration. Large
has been a member of the A.E.U, for
over 40 years, he was awarded its certi-
ficate of merit for having given his
services for 30 years in unpaid office ; he
has been tradesman, union delegate and
shop-inspector. Presumably Donald be-
longs to a union, but if he has ever done
any work that didn’t consist of at least
90 per cent, talking there’s no record of
it. That includes the time he spent hawk-
ing “Bulldog Salve” and spruiking
1.W.W.-ism, though an exception might
be made of the time spent qualifying for
authorship of Through Six Jails.
No, it’s hard to see Grant beating Large
in the role of hardworking trade-unionist.
That can’t be it.
Yet Donald must have done something
to merit selection. It would scarcely be
because after World War II he was lectur-
ing for the Communist party and warn-
ing that it was necessary for the revo-
lutionists “to co-operate, if need be, with
the reactionary Labor parties which had
betrayed the workers in the past.” And
it couldn’t be because in 1924 he said
(Continued on next page.)


For election comment in this issue David
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
1
m
CRAVE N A
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
Ti
-
C*Mi
Cdh
V'
6748-B
CARRERAS LTD—OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
“I agree that members of the Communist
party should be allowed into membership”
of the A.L.P. That’s unthinkable ; the
party no longer admits Communists—
we have its word for that. And it
couldn’t be because he was a member of
the Socialisation Committee of 1930 and
shortly afterwards told a “Labor” con-
ference that “the only way to get a
people’s Government is by mass insur-
rection,” Socialisation is a word that
“Labor” just isn’t mentioning in this cam-
paign. .
With all these possibilities seemingly
exhausted, the only likely explanation
appears to be that Donald Grant is to
retain his seat in the Senate as a tribute
to his knowledge of the poems of Bobbie
Bums—unless, of course, he’s there to
kindle the fire that supplies Chifley’s light
on the hill.
POLITICAL POINTS
Of the Big Four who started out to
lead the Socialist Welfare State in Britain
two are now out —Bevin just dead, and
Cripps grievously sick in Switzerland.
Attlee and Morrison remain. History
may yet declare the greatest of them to
have been Bevin.
“The dockers’ K.C.,” as Bevin was
called, came up the hard way, and his
life-work was the creation of the Trans-
port and General Workers’ Union, by
repute the largest in the world. He was,
wrote one of his admirers a few years
ago, “one of the greatest trade-union
leaders of all time.” But he was also a
great Englishman, and in him the John
Bull of Britain lived again. His great
value to the British “Labor” party was
his practical commonsense, his inability to
tolerate the half-hearted when the job
to be done was plain to be seen—as
witness his attack which drove the futile
Lansbury from leadership of the party —
and his insistence on loyalty and dis-
cipline in those he worked to serve.
Bevin might never have entered the
House of Commons—be tried, without
success, before the war —if Churchill had
not asked him, in 1940, to join the War
Cabinet as Minister for Labor. His great
war-time work in that post is his chief
monument.
With 10 days’ talking time left most
of the candidates have said all they have
to say on the election issues; but
they’ll continue saying it right up till
polling-day.
The L.C.L. in South Australia has not
had much luck in its Senate draw till
this election, but this time it has it all.
Liberal-C.P. voters merely have to mark
their ballot-papers straight across from
one to 15 to vote the party ticket.
At the time of the Coogee, Kogarah
and Concord by-elections a couple of
years back “Labor” politicians accused
“Liberal members of the Sydney County
Council” of deliberately staging black-
outs in those suburbs so as to antagonise
the electors against “Labor.” Since then
McGirr’s State Electricity Authority has
taken control of all power undertakings
—and consequently of all blackouts —so
the Sydney County Council can no longer
be made the Aunt Sally. This doesn’t
deter Clive Evatt. He regards it as signi-
ficant that “on the very day that the
election date was announced, Sydney had
one of its most severe sessions of black-
outs.” He issued a dark warning to
powerhouse employees “to watch for
acts of sabotage by anti-Laborites.”
Clive is opposed to power-zoning. He
should keep an eye on his Cabinet col-
leagues, who agreed to bring it in. There
might be some “anti-Laborites” among
’em.
“Yesterday one grazier personally
handed me a cheque for £lOO for the
party,” said Sepator Ashley, Straight-
out or both ways?
Ward says that if Menzies is returned
there’ll be an industrial collapse, “fol-
lowed by an attack on the living standards
of the people.” Evatt talks in similar
strain —unless his mob gets back to power
there’ll be another depression. Well,
their mob was in power when the last
depression hit us, and Ward’s section of
it wrecked the Scullin section which had
appointed Evatt to the High Court. Aus-
tralia weathered that depression, but it
was small thanks to “Labor” that she did.
Evatt’s remedy for our economic ills:
“ ‘Labor’ will control rising costs by Aus-
tralia-wide price- and profit-control.” No
mention of wage-control. Harcourt may
have been right when he said the Doc
learnt his economics from Jock Garden.
Sydney “Labor” leaders who make a
point of marching in the May Day pro-
cession must thank the Government for
holding the election on April 28. The
march this year appears to be almost
entirely a Commo show, though its organ-
ising office is in the Trades Hall, home of
“moderate” unionism. Its secretary is
Stan Moran, one of the best-known Com-
munist officials in the Commonwealth,
Brisbane’s May Day Mooch is to be
a dual affair. The Labor Day Celebra-
tions Committee is arranging a procession
(with permit); the Red Trades and Labor
Council threatens to hold another (with-
out permit). The general public is equally
apathetic about both.
Faced with expected losses of £8
million on its trains, trams and buses
the McGirr crowd has been anxiously
assuring “the workers” that they needn’t
fear further increased fares. But the
transport bosses are talking about reduc-
ing length of sections. What’s that but
an increase in fares?
The McDonald crowd has “acquired”
5500 acres at windswept Broadmeadows,
on the fringe of Essendon, for a Hous-
ing Commission settlement, and in the
process will dispossess those who already
own blocks, homes and farms on the
area. Swinburne, the Housing Minister,
is talking about 12,000 homes with all
mod. cons, and “gas, electricity, water,
sewerage and drainage to be installed
in the next two years.” The gentleman
can have 100 to one against that coming
off.
The Cominform’s Bucharest official
organ “For a Lasting Peace” reports that
this year’s 21.3 p.c. of Russia’s 1951
“peace” Budget devoted to “defence”
shows a marked reduction on its “32.5
p.c. in pre-war 1940.” That was the year
in which Hitler invaded France and the
Low Countries, and made a treaty of
mutual alliance with Stalin, whose fifth-
column agents throughout the world de-
manded that the “warmongering” British
and French imperialists should lay down
their arms and make peace with the Nazis
under Stalin’s aegis. Evidently the 32.5 p.c.
of the 1940 U.S.S.R. Budget was not
spent on arms to be used against
Comrades Hitler, Ribbentrop and
Goebbels. The only Russian expenditure
related to those gentry in 1939-40 was for
drinks to entertain them and their
emissaries while junketing in the Kremlin
with Uncle Joe.
“Lunatic in the Senate” was a heading
in the “Sunday Herald.” Readers’
guesses as to the identity of the Senator
probably covered half the field, but they
were all wrong. The item referred to the
Ohio Senate.
Chifley in vehement mood:
I don’t pretend the Labor Government
was always right in its decisions, but, by
hell, we made decisions.
And, by hell, they came to heel when
the A.L.P. executive made the decisions
for them!
Hanlon “Labor” gained a seat as a
result of Saturday’s by-election for Bruce
Pie’s seat, Kedron. Postal and absent
votes still to be counted are not ex-
pected to affect the lead of E. Lloyd,
former secretary to Premier Hanlon, who
is 363 ahead of J. Robertson, the Liberal
candidate. Chif. considers the win
“augurs well for ‘Labor’ on April 28,”
but actually “Labor” has very little cause
for rejoicing. After the last redistribution
of Assembly electorates Bruce Pie’s friends
considered it would be impossible for
him to win Kedron. He thought differ-
ently and relied on his personal vote
to bring him victory. It did —by 439
votes. With Pie out of the picture,
“Labor” has won back some of the
votes his lively personality lured away
from it.
In the other Queensland by-election,
Bulimba, postal votes will decide the issue.
Position at the weekend; Gardner (Lab.),
4106; Hamilton (Lib.), 4018; Marriott
(Ind.), 2811. There were about 1000
postal votes to come. At last year’s
general election the same three candi-
dates finished in the same order. Gardner
had a majority of 42, but the election
was declared void through ballot irregu-
larities. On Saturday Gardner and
Hamilton both improved slightly on last
year’s figures; Marriott slipped back.
Final series of Australian trials of
Japanese war criminals, held at Los
Negros, Manus, finished on April 9, Ex-
tending over 10 months, there were 26
trials, involving 91 suspects on 113
charges, and 32 were acquitted. There
were 14 death sentences (two of them
for one man) and 15 lifers (including one
commuted death sentence). Other jail
terms were from six months upwards. A
senior prosecutor said the Jap defence
counsel ought to think themselves lucky,
since they had admitted that in their
own country an average of 5 per cent,
acquittals in civil trials was high. The
Jap lawyers reckoned they were well
satisfied with both conduct of trials and
results.
R. W. Booth, president of the very
vocal Australian Primary Producers’
Union, holds that low prices for hides is
forcing more graziers into sheepgrowing.
“Cheap shoes,” says he, “can only mean
dear beef, and it is to be remembered
that the public consumes far more beef
than shoes.” Still, the consumption of
old shoes is likely to increase if meat
prices keep going up.
Reported that after his Queensland
tour Chifley sent out an S.O.S. for more
“Labor” speakers to be sent north. His
memory must be rather short; in the
1949 election eight “Labor” Ministers
spoke in Queensland, yet the party won
only three seats out of 18,
Communists are claiming loudly that
Security Police are investigating their new
Anti-Conscription Campaign. So the
Security Police should. Before World
War II the Comrades began a similar
campaign, planned in Moscow and
adopted here:
Our task is to stimulate such mass opposi-
tion that it will manifest itself not merely
as an “anti-conscription opposition”....
but as opposition to imperialist war,...out
of which will grow a larger and more class-
conscious movement determined to wage
civil-war rather than be conscripted... .and
eventually as a guarantee that the workers
shall hold what we take, to the establish-
ment of our dictatorship. {Thesis of the
Ninth Congress of the Australian Com-
munist party.)
“Only a Federal ‘Labor’ Government
would fix a home-consumption price for
wool,” says Queensland Premier Hanlon,
Another reason why woolgrowers won’t
vote “Labor.”
A Queensland magistrate, fining a
cheese-maker for carrying cheese by
road after being refused a permit by the
State transport strangulation board, heard
evidence on the effect on perishable
goods of carriage by rail and road. He
remarked, “It is not my function to say
which form of transport would be best.”
It wouldn’t matter if it was, and he did ;
Queensland roads can’t be used by any-
body unless the State railways say so,
though it may take cheese weeks to reach
market by rail, against hours by road.
On May 7 the Court of Disputed
Returns will commence an inquiry into
allegations of irregularities in the Darling-
hurst poll at the last N. S. Wales general
election. Darlinghurst was won by Prices
Minister Finnan, by 732 votes, from
Paget, the Liberal candidate, after the
preferences of Adam Ogston (Communist)
had been distributed. The allegations
include charges of plural voting and of
votes being cast in the names of deceased
or non-existent persons,
N.S.W. motorists greeted with howls of
justified rage Transport Minister
Sheahan’s idea of increasing State motor
taxation in order to raise more money
for road works. Sheahan reckons it
would take another £2,000,000 a year for
15 years to put the roads in order. Well,
his department collects over £500,000 a
year in load and passenger tax on road
transport, and it’s all paid to the
bankrupt railways instead of being used
for road repairs.
Extract from a “Labor” election
advertisement:
What Labor Promises Labor Will Do.
Extract from “Labor” official platform:
Amend Crimes Act by repealing sections
relating to political or industrial offences.
Chifley, by signing a pledge to carry out
the principles of the party’s platform, has
promised to amend the Crimes Act, yet
in Perth last week he said that if returned
he would use the Crimes Act against the
Communists, When “Labor” promises
two things, diametrically opposed, which
promise, if any, does “Labor” keep?
McGirr’s Parliament, in recess since
November 16, meets today and immedi-
ately adjourns until after the Federal
elections. McGirr’s reasoning seems to
be that if he can stay in recess long
enough he’ll stay in office the full three
years.
Victorian Acting-Premier Dodgshun
told Melbourne papers at the weekend
that Tasmania and N.S.W. had “banned”
export of cement from their States to his
State, and his Government had been com-
pelled to “place big orders” in England,
Belgium and Japan. If Dodgshun can
prove his story he has a case against
Tassie and New South for breach of
Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution, but then Victoria breaches it
so often that Dodgshun would be
ashamed to bring such a case.
Coal report: Loss through strikes for
week ended April 7 was 69,490 tons,
making total so lost for 12 weeks of the
current year 744,560 tons. To corres-
ponding date last year loss was 456,753
tons.


fdg
Th£R£ IS IMPERIALISTIC COMMUNISM A
AMP PURE COMMUNISM
vv O '/
OR 12 IT POLANP f
O //
OR, MALAYA C
o
OR. 6UU3ARIA <
•
* ft
SUCH AS IS PRACTISE IN SPAIM
*
OR CZECHOSLOVAKIA r
o
jjyt'y 7 Y
ANYWAY, (TS PRACTISE? SOM&WH6R6.
“TO THE PURE....”
“Mr. Chifley, after being reported at his Perth meeting as saying that ‘pure Communism as practised in Russia’ was bound to be in strong conflict with capitalist
countries such as the United States, explained to the Press that by ‘pure Communism’ he meant Communism as practised in parts of Spain—not ‘imperialistic Communism
which seeks territorial aggrandisement.’”


a«
&
1
ja/imeymj/t
Blue Gillette
Smart appearance is a tradition in the
services, which applies not only to
uniform, but also to personal groom-
ing. That’s why you will find that to
get a close, smooth, comfortable shave
the majority of servicemen, like men in
other walks of life, use Blue Gillette
blades. Experience has shown them, too,
that Blue Gillette blades provide more
economical shaving because they stay
sharper longer.
Gillette razors and blades
are made for each other .
5 for 1/8; 10 for 3/4
20 for 6/8 (in plastic dispenser;
‘GOOD MORNINGS’ BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
m
Missing Friend.
TO WALTER SCOTT Respondent late of
State Electricity Commission Western
Camp Yallourn Victoria. —A Petition tor
Divorce has been filed against you Upon
an application by letter to The Registrar
Divorce Registry Ingersoll House 9 Kings-
way London England a copy of the Peti-
tion will be sent If within three months
hereafter no application has been made
nor appearance entered the Court may hear
the Petition and pronounce judgment.—
H. A. de 0. PEREIRA, Registrar.
PROSPECTING
■
9' . •«.
V\\ \
V*
'\
\iW
\\
X'
w
\
srsa
«\\»
\v
IN THEIR SEARCH for gold,
early prospectors used only a double-headed pick,
a shovel and dish. By patiently washing a dish
of selected earth, prospectors would remove all clay
and stones, finally arriving at a small residue
which settled in the rim of the dish
and contained any gold in the sample.
Many modern methods of gold separation similarly
rely upon the fact that gold, being so heavy,
can readily be separated by washing
from the lighter materials in which it occurs.
Established in 1835, many years before
the discovery of gold in this country,
the Bank of Australasia has so
developed and extended its service
until today it covers Australia and
New Zealand and provides customers
with contacts throughout the world.
m
ip
BAM OF AUSTRALASIA
Brandts throughout Australia, New Zealand and in London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
OBAI3-16X
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Wool and Shares
One of the interesting features
of the past fortnight has been
the buying of wool, at current
reduced prices, by city business-
men. Some have been advised
that by the time Brisbane sales
open there will be full recovery.
That as it may be, some of these
city speculators are now con-
cerned as to whether they will
have to pay the wool levy when
they resell. Their less specu-
lative friends are enjoying their
uncertainty.
Wool prices certainly have
been embarrassingly high for
the past 18 months. But, in pro-
portion to pre-war prices, cotton
has also gone to a. multiplication
of its pre-war price, though not
as high as wool.
In January raw cotton was
seven times its 1939 price in
London, fine wool 10 times.
Jute yvas seven times, sisal 12
times. Slightly more wool is
being produced than before the
war, but consumption has
exceeded production. Cotton
output remains lower than be-
fore the war, and considerably
below consumption.
After a hesitant period early
last week, share prices recovered
a good deal of their lost ground
later, though pastoral stocks
generally were down. Golds-
brough shares fell from 635. to
595., and Winchcombe from 60s.
to 575. Support for woollen
textile cos. weakened also.
Wilcox Mofflin, which deals in
wool and other rural products,
was only slightly lower at
11s. 3d. The ss. shares have
been remarkably stable over the
past 18 months.
Yields from all soundly estab-
lished industrials remain low.
Best returns from older concerns
are to be got from the motor-
and furniture-finance concerns.
But they offer no protection
from inflation.
Textile Fibres
How Government planning
can gum things up is shown in
the world’s cotton position. Be-
cause a “considerable surplus”
of cotton was “anticipated” for
1950-51, the U.S.A. “restricted”
the area and the U.S.A. crop,
which normally is half world
production, dropped from 16
million bales to below 10 mil-
lion bales and “exports are at
present [l2/2/’sl] restricted on
a quota basis,”
The Empire Economic Com-
mittee, in a review of industrial
fibres, reports this, and says the
extent to which prices by
November, 1950, had risen
above pre-war levels could be
seen from the index-numbers of
United Kingdom prices (1934-38
= 100): cotton, 709; Merino
wool, 842; crossbred wool,
1092; jute, 612; sisal, 845 ;
rayon, 177. Since that date all
fibres, the committee comments,
have shown further sharp price
increases (see column 1).
Wool production continued
to rise in 1949-50. Output in
most of the producing countries
(with the notable exception of
the United States) was greater
than in 1948-49. Nevertheless
consumption in 1949-50 was
10 p.c. above production.
Rayon production is still
rising, about 42 p.c. above 1938
in 1950. In 1949 it was almost
500 million pounds greater than
world wool production. Rayon
production, like wool, is well
below demand, and a shortage of
sulphur is not helping matters.
Though world trade in indus-
trial fibres rose in 1949-50, it is
still below pre-war figures.
Japan, for instance, imported
only one-third of her pre-war
fibres.
Stott and Underwood, Ltd.
For taxation and Stock
Exchange listing purposes, share-
holders in Stott and Underwood,
of Sydney, are offering 120,000
ss. stock units at 7s. 6d. each.
There are 360,000 ss. stock units
issued, paid capital being
£90,000.
The business had its begin-
nings in Melbourne in 1884,
when Sydney Stott sold the first
typewriters in Australia, founded
"Phone, sir — long-distance .”
the first business college and
introduced shorthand to the law-
courts. Associated companies in
each State sprang up ; the N. S.
Wales co. commenced handling
Underwood products in 1908
and Muitigraph machines in
1909; the Addressograph-Multi-
graph agency was added in
1935. The present co. was
formed in 1926. It has other
office-equipment agencies be-
sides those mentioned, and de-
mand at present exceeds
supplies.
According to the memor-
andum of share-sale, the co.
“enjoys a substantial U.S. dollar
quota, in addition to which a
large proportion of Addresso-
graph - Multigraph equipment,
previously procurable only from
the U.S.A., is now obtained for
sterling currency from the
British factory.” The Under-
wood Corp. also recently estab-
lished a factory at Brighton, in
England.
Two subsidiaries of Stott and
Underwood (Precision Parts
iMfg. Co. and professional Copy-
ing Service) supply machine
parts and operate typewriting,
duplicating and offset-printing
services respectively.
Freehold premises and plant
were recently valued at £84,000,
showing a* surplus on book-
values of £41,199. Out of this a
bonus issue absorbing £19,211
was made. Allowing for this
revaluation and issue, net tan-
gible assets amount to 7s. lid.
per ss. stock unit.
Profits to May 31, 1950, were
equal to 17 p.c. on present
capital. Average for the five
years to that date was 10.7 p.c.
At 7s. 6d. per ss. unit, and
allowing for brokerage, the yield
to the investor would be 5.2 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div, basis, or 6.5
p.c. if a 10 p.c. distribution is
made.
On the board are S. A. Stott
(chairman and managing), J. W.
Austin, M. W. Cross, S. G. Stott
and F. W. Wilson (general
manager). Brokers for the issue
are Hordern, Utz and Bode.
Hohoro
“Lemon”: The report by the
Australasian Petroleum Co. that
No. 2 test-well at Hohoro has
been deepened 2262 ft. during
March and has reached a depth
of 4220 ft. shows that the anti-
cipated sub-surface conditions,
less complex than those
encountered in No. 1 bore (B,
28/8/’5O), have been struck.
The No, 1 well was started in
March, 1949, and took a year,
with several interruptions be-
cause of difficulties caused by
heaving shale, to reach the depth
of 4721 ft., at which drilling was
later abandoned.
No. 2 bore was spudded-in
early in February of this year,
and, in less than two months,
has attained a depth of 4220 ft.
Whether the new site has com-
mercial oil potentialities or not
remains to be proved by the
drill, but there can be no ques-
tion that the test is fully justified.
The good progress made to
date should be heartening to the
shareholders in the venture, and
indicates that the possibilities of
the intriguing and geologically-
difficult structure at Hohoro will
be adequately investigated.
The passing of its interim div.
by Ansett Transport raises a
number of questions. ~t The co.
has been expanding rapidly —it
has a present capital of
£1,762,250—and it is doubtful
whether all the airways, motor-
transport and hotel assets are
yet fully pulling their weight.
Last term the co. paid an 8 p.c.
ord. div. out of profits disclosed
at 12.3 p.c. on ord. capital. Its
reserves are slender even after
14 years’ operations (part of the
time as Ansett Airways). It is
likely that the cost of replacing
aircraft as time goes by will be
very heavy indeed. The effect of
“capital erosion” caused by in-
flation and inadequate taxation
concessions in respect of depre-
ciation allowances should show
up fairly rapidly in a company
operating airlines and bus
services. Last week’s price of
18s. for the ords. compares with
a highest quote of 225. 6d. this
year and 255. 6d. last year.
* * # *
Opening quotations for
Frederick Ash shares should be
watched with, interest in Sydney.
This Newcastle concern is
strongly established, and any-
thing under 50s. for the shares
would represent attractive buy-
ing. (The scrip was placed at
375. 6d.) At least 10 p.c. seems
indicated; last year’s earnings
were 19.2 p.c. on capital.
* * * *
The issue of 70,000 10s. ords.
by H. H. Halls, Ltd. (N.S.W.),
at a premium of Bs. each, should
be well received. Buyers at 18s.
will have to apply for one new
10s. share for every two old ones
taken up, making the average
price 15s. sd. Average profits
for five years have been equal
to 16.5 p.c. on the proposed
increased capital, which should
permit “a minimum dividend of
10 p.c.,” according to the co.’s
directors. The co. is in the
wholesale jewellery business, and
has the agency for well-known
Swiss watches, cigarette-lighters,
etc., among its many other lines.
Net tangibles, on book-values,
are equal to 11s. lOd. for each
of the 300,000 10s. shares that
will comprise paid capital after
the new issue.


k\
V* *7
n o
%
WH£N you
ARt Courting
love leads you a dance.
When you get married you take a grim
chance,
"Take her for better or take her for worse,”
That is according to the chapter and verse.
If it’s for better you swank and look glad,
If it’s for worse your whole life will be
sad,
But there’s no need, cough or cold to
endure —
Take Woods 9 Great Peppermint
Cure.
'6
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
. . . INSURANCES EFFECTED AT LLOYD’S
EDWARD LOMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. B 0538
And all other States
HMi
y
kfcirfl
//Ail HI
ST
m
a
111;
•w
n
GUAR ANTEEO: NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
ADULTS ONLY.
MEMORISE
Pass exams., Speak without
Notes, Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Write for free hook, postage Sd,
REV. W. ROWLANDS
12a Younger Ave., S. Caulfield, Vic.
Are p
Va
Sfifi
I'l
Lrfci:©
IM
a
a>
MOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against H EAT and COLD
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for all
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs too! Even if your home is com-
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modem
insulator —B. /. SLAGWOOL
fdg
fdg
m
'LL
*
TELEPHONES; SYDNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE. MU3506
BRISBANE, 83604 • ADELAIDE, C 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
Have you looked over
your will lately?
4
B
in
IF you have not
revised your Will to
meet to-day’s condi-
tions, the conse-
quences may be seri-
ous for someone
who depends on you.
Your responsibility
to that someone is
too important to
justify delaying until
some to-morrow that
may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk
with one of our Senior Officers on the
subject of the appointment of the Com-
pany as your Executor and Trustee—
alone or jointly with a relative or
friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step
of having your Solicitor redraw your
Will, should then be a simple matter.
If you would have particulars of the
services offered by the Company write
(or, ring B 0377) and make an
appointment.
| TRUST FUNDS TO LEND |
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £ 70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA. TAMWORTH & ORANGE.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Posterity inevitably takes a
two-sided view of great writers.
Their works may grow or wane
in favor, but at least they are
static. Not so their lives and
legends. Posterity already seems
to be dealing a little unkindly
with G. 8.5., whose will, though
disclosing a fortune as consider-
able as was expected, has a wild-
cat touch about it. The English
alphabet may be imperfect and
may hinder rather than assist the
many who try to learn the
language. But its revision, like
replacing the decimal system by
the duodecimal, is more desir-
able than practicable. The
phonetic alphabet was Shaw’s
hobby-horse. If his idea is
carried out, by endowment, it
will surely become Shaw’s Folly.
Miss Blanche Patch’s book
was anything but laudatory, and
proves, if little else, that G.B.S.
was no hero to his secretary.
Now Ayot St. Lawrence is tak-
ing up arms against becoming a
Cheyne Row or a little Stratford-
on - Avon. Working darkly,
villagers are reported to have
torn down signs directing
visitors to Shaw’s Corner.
A pity, if only because G.B.S.
can hardly have foreseen these
happenings. Otherwise he might
have turned them into an excel-
lent play.
Unto the Breach
The big guns of the Prime
Minister’s recent party-political
broadcast discharged nothing
new into the political theatre of
war. Their barrels have been
rerifled and the shells slightly
modified in design ; but the basic
ammunition is unchanged.
“Unemployment; fear of . . .”
would seem to be the main
item in the armory catalogue.
Every Labor speaker has long
used this depressing and
irrelevant theme ad nauseam.
It is not the ace of trumps, but
the Whole suit. Depressing be-
cause of its political dishonesty
(before the general election of
1945 an all-party commission
drew up plans to safeguard
employment), and irrelevant
because the present-day trouble
is over-full employment, replies
are easier to find to the argu-
ment than to the technique.
Mr. Attlee, whose period in
hospital has given him time to
read, quoted from Arthur
Bryant’s Age of Elegance, and
painted a grim picture (yet not
so grim as in the book) of con-
ditions in England “under a
Tory Government” after
Waterloo. He might go further
and read the same author’s
English Saga for terrible
accounts of life during the
Industrial Revolution; and no
doubt he could find distress and
unemployment in The Canter-
bury Tales.
Yet how very different in
Good Clem Attlee’s Golden
Days! No Black Death, no
ague, no plague, no West
Indies garrisons scourged by
prickly-heat and dysentery, no
insanitary streets, no drunken
excesses and so on. Imagina-
tion glows when it runs amuck,
but a fair picture is much harder
to outline.
All may be fair in love and
war and politics, but it is surely
a sign of weakness when the
Prime Minister, who enjoys a
wider margin of respect than
most of his colleagues, has to
fall back upon this scarifying
and negative device.
One other weapon, this time
fairly new, was brought out. It
may be styled “Churchill, power-
seeker, frontal attack on,” and
has been used both inside and
outside the House. “He’s out
to get back to power by hook
or by crook,” said Mr. Attlee.
An allegation is the stronger for
being partially true. Mr.
Churchill is not Leader of the
Opposition for the fun he gets
out of it. But might he not feel
a sense of duty, of patriotism,
to take the wayward helm before
his body becomes too frail for
the task?
Double Trouble
The Old Vic.’s fourth essay in
repertory is nothing if not
extremist. Classic Greek tragedy
fills the first half of the bill and
post-nuptial farce the second.
Unfortunately, the result is not
nearly as good as the intention ;
the farce (Chekhov’s “The
Wedding”), so far from giving
comic relief, is a tedious
piece of amateurish writing
that also exposes the limi-
tations of the Old Vic. players.
By happy contrast, Sophocles’s
“Electra” (in J. T. Sheppard’s
translation) does the reverse and
shows them at their best. There
are degrees even in tragedy, and,
after the grim topicalities of the
“Consul,” the seasoned theatre-
goer is hardly likely to be jerked
out of his seat by the familial
death-quarrels of a Grecian
Elsinore. Clytemnestra has con-
nived at her husband’s murder
and married AEgisthus, his
murderer. She has no sympathy
for her daughter, the mourning
and embittered Electra (who,
though, undoubtedly has a
great deal of sympathy for
herself). Orestes, a rene-
gade son since childhood,
is roused to vengeance. After
spreading false news of his own
death to disguise his reappear-
ance at the court, he slays
Clytemnestra, who, only a few
minutes before, had been grief-
stricken at the tidings of his
demise. Orestes then produces
her corpse, which he passes off
as his own. He prompts
AEgisthus to lift the shroud,
Aigisthus does and has a nasty
shock when he sees the face of
his own wife —almost his last
shock, for Orestes quickly draws
a sword and dispatches him.
It is all good, clean, straight-
forward drama, with the deaths
even occurring off-stage. Pro-
ducer Michel Saint-Denis makes
the most of it, allows the actors
to give their lines full weight
and cleverly jockeys them in
turn into that upstage position
which is the tragedian’s delight.
Catherine Lacey is a swag-
gering, repulsive, brazen Clytem-
nestra, Leo McKern a dynamic
Old Man with a voice like
thunder and Paul Rogers a flesh-
potty tyrant. Peggy Ashcroft
(plectra) is rarely off the stage,
She moans, writhes, com-
miserates with herself, tears
her hair, beats her breast,
goes into hysterics and runs
the gamut of the darker
emotions with a naturalness that
suggests that she has never
known any others. That this is
taken as a matter of course is
the penalty—or reward—of a
high and long-established reputa-
tion. A first London appearance
would have caused an overnight
sensation, with half the world
flocking to the Waterloo-road
to see her.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ben Ari”: The film was portraying
the exploits of Captain Blood; but the
gory deeds enacted on the screen did
nothing to disturb a slumbering family
man whose head leaned heavily on his
spouse’s shoulder. Came the time when
father began to snore and mother had to
bring him to with a sharp nudge. “Sorry,
m’dear,” he mumbled and gazed owlishly
at the screen, trying hard to subdue the
sleepy feeling. A few more snores and
a few more nudges, the last of them so
severe that it forced hubby out of his
mental cocoon. Blood and Co., rushing
wildly across the screen, boarded a wal-
lowing West Indiaman, and forced the
surrendering crew to pile their consider-
able stock of muskets. For a number of
seconds the camera was focused on the
fast-growing deposit of ancient iron-
mongery, The audience sat enraptured—
until the once-snoring one, sore at being
awakened to witness such inconsequential
nonsense, roared through the nerve-tensed
silence “What about Army Disposals?”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: For some reason best
known only to the trade, the empty soft-
drink bottle is of far greater value than
the empty beer-bottle, though the cost of
manufacture would be approximately the
same. If I buy a bottle of lemonade I
have to pay threepence deposit on the
bottle; but if lam lucky enough to buy
a bottle of beer there is no deposit on
the bottle, and the empty is practically
valueless —indeed, some bottle-ohs charge
to cart them away. A vinegar-bottle
looks much the same as a beer-bottle, and
I reckon the cost of manufacture would
be about the same, yet it has no resale
value whatever unless a boy-scout gets
it in one of their bottle-drives. Bottle-
dealers have been paying boy-scouts
eightpence a dozen for beer-bottles, yet the
bottle-oh who used to be a familiar figure
in all suburbs is almost extinct. In a
radio interview recently it was stated that
a milk-bottle costs fourpence to produce,
yet you will find hundreds of them in
gutters, on garbage-tips and in private
yards. Try to sell one and you’ll face
an impossible task. Perhaps there’s some
commonsense in it all, but it’s beyond
me.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: The railway platform was
crowded with passengers who had just
alighted from a train. A man, undecided
for the moment which way to go, stood
still, right up against several items of
luggage. In a rush a female tripped over
the bags and
turned on the
man a torrent of
abuse. He
listened quite
calmly till she
paused for breath,
then said,
“Madam, if you
wait while I find
the owner of these
bags you can
deliver that speech
all over again to
him.” Without another word she darted
off in confusion, to stumble over another
heap of luggage a few feet further on.
This time she didn’t stop to argue,
* * * *
“Jehu”: Old Sabbatarian penal statutes
still operate in Tasmania; the other day
a man in a country district was fined for
carting firewood on Sunday, in contra-
vention of the Sunday Observance Act.
However, vehicles carrying sand, stone
and building materials, as well as other
things, career more or less merrily along
the roads to the sites where operations
may be in progress in full view of the
public, but generally get a “pass-friend”
from law-guardians, unless some long-
faced Sabbatarian happens to word the
police. In Hobart’s early days a man
was fined for “profaning the Sabbath Day
by driving a cart and bullocks loaded
with sawn timber through the streets” ;
and a proclamation of 1822 prohibited
the movements of carriers, drovers and
wagoners on that day; it also disallowed
killing by butchers and baking by bakers,
and forbade the milko to cry his
fluid between 9 o’clock in the morning
and 4 o’clock in the afternoon. One
regulation compelled convict servants to
attend church on Sunday—the alternative
might be three days in the dark cells and
a dose of the cat —but the employers,
though they displayed strange solicitude
for the “sanctity of the Sabbath,”
abstained from churchgoing,
* * * *
“Becks”: The close proximity of
American and Japanese forces on
Bougainville during the period when the
Yanks were content to hold a perimeter
and the Nips to sit down just beyond it
(B. 4/4/’5l) produced many good yarns.
There were tales, probably apocryphal,
of Japs lining up, unnoticed, in American
niunger-queues or sneaking into Yank
picture-shows. The “New Yorker” pub-
lished a good joke-block on the latter
theme. It depicted two Japanese soldiers
up a coconut-palm, one of them with his
rifle trained on a Yankee camp in the
distance, the most prominent feature of
which was a large white screen. Gazing
through his telescopic sights he said to
the other Nip: “If Elizabeth Bergner
“It’s quarantine for you and all contcts, Slocum!”
doesn’t get an Academy Award for this.
I don’t know my films.”
* * * *
“Roscoe”: Allow me to clear up for
“Bo” the mystery of why “hordes of
heated Dagoes” should riot when it was
proposed to stage the premiere of Verdi’s
“The Masked Ball” at Naples in 1858
(B. 11/4/’5l). Italy at that time still
consisted of many small kingdoms, but
there was a strong movement for national
unity, with Victor Emmanuel, king of
Sardinia, as sole ruler. Nowhere was this
desire for unity stronger than in Naples,
“I bought it for his birthday, but he's not mechanically minded”
then under the autocratic sway of a
Bourbon dynasty. Gladstone, after a
visit to Naples in 1850, stigmatised the
rule of the Bourbons as “the negation of
God erected into a system of govern-
ment.” As the libretto of the opera in-
cluded the murder of a king, the
authorities banned it, doubtless fearing it
might inspire a home-grown regicide,
particularly as only a few months earlier
Orsini had made an attempt on the life
of the French emperor Napoleon 111,
whom he regarded as the greatest
obstacle to Italian unity. The attempted
assassination, according to the Encyc.
Brit., “greatly impressed” Napoleon, and
from then on he assisted Victor towards
his goal. The Bourbon rulers of Naples
were finally driven out by Victor’s
henchman, Garibaldi, who was welcomed
with great enthusiasm by the Neapolitans.
There was also another possible reason
why the projected premiere caused riot-
ing. The composer’s surname was an
acrostic of “Victor Emmanuele re
d’ltalia!’’ and the crowds who ranged the
streets shouting “Viva Verdi!” were (as
the Naples Government well knew) not
so much honoring the composer as taking
advantage of a unique opportunity of
showing their wish for a new sovereign
and a united Italy.
* * * •
“W.H.E.”: Former Naval types will
regret a recent Admiralty decision abolish-
ing wavy stripes of Royal Naval Volun-
teer Reserve and Royal Naval Reserve.
During the war the R.N.V.R. contained
many thousands of officers who were not
strictly “volunteers” ; war-time commis-
sions from the lower deck were given in
the R.N.V.R. and the legions
of specialists required in
modern warfare were simi-
larly commissioned. The
genuine pre-war volunteer,
who undertook valuable
training in his spare-time to
equip himself for an emer-
gency, can perhaps be excused
for deploring this obvious
anomaly. The official view
on the abolition is that the
differentiation is “no longer
expedient or in keeping with
the times.” This is prob-
ably correct, as both reserves helped
to man the ships that the Pukka Navy
looks after, between wars. A former.
C.-in-C., Portsmouth, speaking in honor
of the R.N.V.R., recalled a message which
deserves recording. The minesweepers,
manned largely by R.N.V.R. men, were
ordered to clear a channel for some
capital ships about to put to sea. Upon
completion of this task, the sweepers
signalled “Channel swept —all clear now
for straight-stripers.”
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: As comparatively
low prices are charged at the beauty-
salon recently started by a lady friend in
my suburb, it seemed safe to joke with
her about the folly of women who allow
themselves to be “had” by the high
charges in some of the places which the
sex mentions only in reverent whispers.
But she didn’t see it my way. She was
pretty good herself, but her assistants
were just average; their handiwork was
good enough for the local women, but
she herself went to one of those places
where the charge runs into guineas merely
to look at a chair, let alone sit in one.
She seemed indignant that I should think
she had her hair done in her own estab-
lishment.
BLUNDERDERRY AIR.
“ ‘Labor’ is broadcasting' a series of records by a
supposedly disaffected Liberal, ‘Disillusioned Dan.’
‘Granny,’ of Sydney ‘Herald,’ denies that this is Mr.
Dan Mulcahy, whose nomination for a ‘Labor’ seat
was held up while some radio shares he owned were
transferred to his party ; besides, there is a more
likely possibility, for during last election Mr. Chifley
was often introduced to us as Abraham Lincoln
and Will Rogers.”
Oh, Danny Boy, you “disillusioned Liberal,”
We hear your weary voice from glen to glen,
A mouthside mutter, like a septic waterfall—
Is “Danny Boy” another name for Ben?
For last time, Ben appeared to us as
“Abraham,”
And when he wasn’t “Abie” he was “Will”;
But, whether Ben, “Abe,” “Will,” “Joe,”
“Clem,” “Karl,” “Uncle Sam,”
Or “Danny Boy,” we do not like him still.
Oh, Danny Boy, the art of being Laborite
Is taking everything except the blame:
Your cash, goods, freedom, vanish overnight,
And, when there’s nothing left to take, your
name.
And last time, we told Ben, in need of christen-
ing.
We thought the name, “Bob Menzies,” rather
nice;
And now at last it seems that he was listening,
And, Danny Boy, he’s partly taken —our
advice.
Yes, Danny Boy, Ben’s now commenced Fiffh-
Columnist,
As Liberal Fellow-Traveller, no doubt,
The kind that hangs around with an extended
fist
And talks about a Liberal Handout;
But what a shock to Ben, that great magician,
To find that work is all the Liberals plan—
Yes, that would turn a “Labor” politician,
Oh, Danny Boy, to “Disillusioned Dan”!
RONALD McCUAIG
252 George-street, Sydney.
# Jfc # 5fS
AN AVIAN ADDITION.
Crown Prosecutor: “And everyone was having a good
time at this party?”
Witness: “Oh, yes. It was ‘extra grouse.’”
— From, a court report.
Was ever a tongue so flexible, so rich
In the vernacular, as this, our own?
Its depth and charm philologist? bewitch
As o’er the words they chew, as dog on bone.
Foreigners, though, find many a hidden ditch.
Wouldn’t a New Australian give a groan
If, asking was it, say, a “ver’ goot” house,
Someone replied; “You bet —it’s ‘extra grouse’! ”
You’d think we had enough—and some to
spare—
Of words synonymous with excellence
Already to our tongue. F6r if you care
To search for them with any diligence
You’ll come upon them, common ones and rare,
Some transients, those of some permanence.
A vast and varied coinage, this of ours,
Designed to season our descriptive powers.
“Bonzer” and “snifter,” “bosker” and “nifty”
—say,
They’re words you’ll find still much tossed
about.
“Snodger” was popular but yesterday;
“Ribuck” was minted long ago. No doubt
“Jonick” and “clinker,” “slashing” and
“corker” may
With “beaut” and “scrumptious” soon be
passing out.
“Humdinger’s” one for which we must give
thanks
To those bright fashioners of slang the Yanks.
Just as brocaded weskits are no more,
And in the discard garters have been heaved;
The old “straw biscuit” years ago you wore,
The motoring veil —their passing never
grieved—
And other queer habiliments of yore,
So modes of phrases, you will have perceived.
Swing to the changes, for they mustn’t lag.
It’s “ Tempora mutantur” —that’s the tag.
The Gaul so voluble will kiss his hand
And murmur “Ravissement I” in manner
droll,
But unmistakably you’ll understand
(Look at his hands) he’s meaning to extol.
The Johnny, though, who strolls along the
Strand
Describes the ne plus ultra as “Top hole! ”
Both, you’ll admit, are but enfeebled praise
Beside the “Extra grouse” here nowadays.
Whence came its derivation? From what source
The meaning of it? It is far from sure
The curve-billed, succulent fowl that haunts the
gorse,
That short-legged flier of the Scottish moor,
Supplied it —as it does a tasty course.
For mine, its origin may stay obscure.
But as a phrase, it is, I think, a thing
That one delights in shooting on the wing.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


foR TOUGIfr lo
-
. J
*&
omXOV&WuMh
i^MK ad
HI-MILER TRUCK & BUS TYRES
GOODYEAR
j , , you can't do bettor than follow the
lead of thousands of operators who have
proved, in actual performance, that Hi-
Milers give the utmost in money-saving,
trouble-free, long mileage.
;■
m
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fast hauls
on improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
Recommended
wherever greater
traction is needed.
.ASK VOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE R/GHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR THE JOB!
IOAt-je
Sendee life
mayfcja*
the lift ftryou!
Do YOU get £B-2-9 clear spending money each week?
Men with an active tem-
perament who find them-
selves in dead-end civilian
jobs take readily to life in
the Navy, Army or Air
Force. They serve along-
side the finest types of
Australian; opportunities
occur for travel and ad-
venture; they have scope
for their existing ability
and develop new skills.
A sailor, soldier or airman
is well paid, with in
relation to costs of living, various
extra allowances, and free food,
accommodation, and special privileges.
£
&
m
His future is secured by
opportunities for advance-
ment and a pension or
gratuity on retirement. As
well as being fully kept,
an Army Private with 6
months’ service has a clear
personal income of £B/2/9
weekly; a Sergeant
£ll/11/-. Equivalent
ranks in the Navy or Air
Force are paid at similar
rates.
Vacancies exist for men of a hundred
different types. For full details of
Service life, inquire without obligation
at the addresses below.
Note: The pay shown above is subject to the addition of the recent cost of living increase*
Information Bureaux
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or
at the following addresses
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets: In Sydney: Cnr. Martin Place
and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 12T Eagle Street; In Adelaide.
Richards Building, 99 Currie Street; In Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart. Franklin
Square; In Launceston: Totvn Hall, St. John Street.
NOdnOD SIHI QN3S 11 VO Ol 318VNfl dl
The Deputy Director of Recruiting,
G.P.O. Box XYZ, in any of the
above cities.
Please send me, without obligation,
full details of enlistment and service.
Q NAVY Q ARMY Q AIR FORCE
!□ ALL 3 SERVICES
O Full Time O Part Time
NAME
ADDRESS
'issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
DU27.83.31
“Mullum”: This notice appears in
large, white letters on Brisbane suburban
railway-stations; “Order your seasons
now.” If only we could!
♦ * # ♦
“Hamer”; Prodigious air-drops (B.
4/4/’5l) have blown out the long-held
theory that people who fell from any
great height were dead from suffocation,
or at least unconscious, before they hit the
ground. One of my kid prizes was a book
by an American journalist who had
visited Arizona, then little known to the
world at large—he called it The
Marvellous Country. A whole chapter,
“I Fall 600 Feet,” was devoted to the
author’s slip over the side of a canyon,
to be held by some bushes from which
he was rescued. According to the foot-
notes this adventure had created a sensa-
tion in New York papers when reported.
Today it is fully established that the
suicide who christened the Sydney G.P.O.
clock-tower the day after it was officially
opened, by jumping from it, and those
who have followed his example from
other high places newly available, such
as the Harbor Bridge, were quite wrong
in any comfortable idea they held that
they would not feel the impact; in the
discovery they must have suffered long-
drawn-out seconds of agony.
* * * *
“Sack”: A trade-war has been raging
out our way. With the return of the
swallows came an ice-cream man. His
hooded cart was not only resplendent—
it also bore his slogan and introduction:
“I’m Stan, Stan the ice-cream man.”
Soon every kid in the locality was chant-
ing the catchcry. Then came Lawson’s
aversion: “The man who comes behind.”
The newcomer flaunted his ensign: “I’m
Ronnie the ice-cream Johnnie.” Loud
acclaim demonstrated juvenile impar-
tiality. Till well after Christmas it was
anybody’s fight, with no holds barred
and all comers cut, as Stan and Johnnie
tried to beat each other to the more
lucrative halting-places. Then another
competitor entered the ring. His vehicle
was no thing of glittering yellow—it was
merely a shabby old jeep; his armament
of bells was no heavier than that of the
other two, and he sported no slogan at
all. Odds were very much against his
chance of lasting four rounds. But he
did! Moreover, Stan and Johnnie could
whip up their chariots in vain if the
unnamed was dimly visible in the
distance. At Easter Stan and Johnnie
evacuated ; no doubt to try to fathom
out why child psychology plus an adver-
tising campaign was defeated by a man
who obviously knew nothing about such
modern methods. I, too, was puzzled,
till three kids gave me the answer in
v VWA4-
* Vi
-V-M/
v^vtiW^O^
\^
ft '
“Now you'll have to go back and dot all the I's."
unison: “Aw, he gives you bigger ice-
creams.”
* * * *
“Villefair”: Biographers of film-stars
resort to fantastic fabrications in order to
work up interest, but a splurge I read
the other day was literally eyewash. The
exotic heroine was alleged to have sud-
denly broken off in the midst of her
beauty ritual to scream: “I’m
blind!” She was rushed to hospital,
where the doctors discovered that,
although temporarily unable to see, she
was not blind. There had been a slight
mix-up in the lady’s chemicals —she had
sprayed her throat with eyewash, and
washed her eyes with a lotion intended
as balm for laryngitis. As the lotion
contained cocaine, temporary blindness
had been caused. Somebody’s trying to
pull someone’s leg, I once had both eyes
cocained while a surgeon performed an
operation on them. It was an amazing
experience to be able to see the instru-
ments being used on the eye that was
watching them.
# * * *
“Dolmetcher”: Propaganda? Re-
member the spate of articles in 1939 and
1940 about Germany’s inability to carry
on a long war because she lacked benzine?
I believed some of it early in the war.
My awakening happened about three
hours after I was captured. Our Jerry
paratrooper captors took advantage of
a quiet spell in proceedings to catch up
on their laundry. While a couple of
them stood over my mate and myself
with pistols, the other two did the squad’s
washing by the simple expedient of turf-
ing 20 or so gallons of benzine into a
trough and swilling their shirts round in
it. A couple of minutes in the Greek
sunlight and washday was over. It wasn’t
captured benzine, either. My shattered
faith in Allied journalists was partly
restored when their officer came by
and barked most impressively, but it
collapsed again when I discovered that
he only wanted his shirt washed, too —
and the troopers tipped out the benzine
and used fresh stuff for the officer’s
garments,
* ♦ * *
“Russ”: A novel form of advertising
has been adopted by a Melbourne bank
in its search for staff. The advertise-
ment appears in a Melbourne daily in
shorthand and invites junior typists to
apply to the staff inspector. Its
novelty merits success.
* * ♦ ♦
“K”: “Pip Tok” (B. 4/4/’5l) is right about
Abjornsen of the 32nd Battalion being made
an honorary corporal in the Chasseurs Alpins.
But he left out a few facts. A division of the
Chasseurs and the sth Australian Division were
both quartered in and about Solre-le-Chateau,
south of Mauberge. On the day after the rifle
match the French commander decorated an
officer of the 6th Battalion Chasseurs Alpins
with the Legion of Honor, and the crack head-
quarters platoon (composite) of the sth Divvy
offered to take part in the ceremony. The
French were so delighted with the Australians’
parade performance that their C.O. forrrially
notified sth Divvy that they wished to make
the platoon-officer (Lieut. Abjornsen) an
honorary corporal of their battalion. The
ceremony which followed, on a fine, frosty winter
morning, was one in which the French excel.
The C.A. company lined two sides of the town
square, the Australian platoon a third side, and
the Chasseurs’ band the fourth. Immediately
facing the Australians was the Chasseurs’ battle-
flag. Trumpets greeted the arrival of General
Hobbs and the French battahon-commander,
then came the two National Anthems, then the
order conferring the honor was read out, and
the French colonel pinned corporal’s chevrons
on Abjornsen’s sleeves and placed the red
cordon around his left shoulder. All men of
the battalion wore this cordon, signifying that
the Legion of Honor had been conferred on
the whole unit for a brilliant action in 1917.
The French colonel presented the Australian
honorary corporal to each man in his squad,
and the squad was then and there named for
all-time “the Australian Squad of the M.-G.
Company of the 6th Battalion, Chasseurs
Alpins.” Probably even today ex-members of
“Tiwy’s Chocs” would be good for a drink
in the Chasseurs’ mess at Nice.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Vet”: Those folk who claim that the
bush is never still should have been with
me the other day in the back ranges.
Mid-afternoon brought one of the worst
thunderstorms I have encountered. No
rain beyond a few drops, but in the deep
gully beneath overhanging granite peaks
the lightning and thunder were simul-
taneous, with crashes in every direction
that threatened to blast the eardrums.
They cracked, rolled and reverberated
through the gullies in a continuous roar,
till even the air seemed to be quivering.
Then it passed, and the stillness was
appalling. Not a leaf moved. I rubbed
my ears, gulped a few times and listened.
Tiere was nothing. No faintest rustle of
insect, no sound of a bird anywhere, no
frog or cricket, and the cicadas were still.
I moved forward in the eeriness and
looked for sign of life, but I might have
been alone in a dead world. Even the
fish, which before had been biting well,
had vanished and left no trace, and the
ghostly atmosphere of the place was
enough to give one the creeps. The ex-
planation? The electrical storm had sent
everything but me to cover, and if it left
them too scared to risk a rustle for some
time afterwards, I certainly don’t blame
’em.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Tie tide was out and
bait-hunters were spreading over the
rocks. Some of the fellows caught rock-
crabs by impaling them on spears made
from fencing-wire. Others groped under
the ledges with a similar instrument, but
didn’t hesitate to grab with their hands
when the crushes sidled into view. The
bloke with the
bodgie haircut,
however, scorned
such tactics. To a
chorus of femi-
nine simperings at
hi s fearlessness
he shoved his
hand in a pool
and swished it
along, grabbing at
anything he felt
moving in the seaweed or under the
ledges. “But aren’t you afraid that there
might be something awful under there?”
gurgled a lass in well-named shorts.
Bodgie inflated his chest. “What could
there be?” he demanded, courage posi-
tively oozing out of him. “Ooh, crabs
or octopuses or something horrible like
that,” suggested Miss Shorts. “They’re
what I’m after!” scoffed the hero —and
plunged his hand under a white-sprayed
crevice. His howl of anguish echoed
after he had vanished in search of first-
aid for his bleeding finger. Skite doesn’t
get you far when you start groping under
a ledge that an eel calls home,
“Nailil”: Though I’ll admit Binghi is
frequently moved to mirth (B. 28/3/’5l)
I’ll not concede him a sense of humor.
It takes little by way of incident or
anecdote to make him grin, and the same
wheeze, repeated a second later, will pro-
voke equal or even greater glee if the per-
former or narrator renders it more skil-
fully, though he must be careful to
add no new slant to it —any departure
from the original rendition will
bring either blank stares or visible
resentment. The reason is, of course,
that the Binghi psychology knows
not monotony, which explains the
ceaseless repetition in his songs and
“And then, as my elephant lumbered forward, the lion prepared to
spring ”
dances. I recall an .occasion when a
member of the entourage of a Queens-
land politician touring the Torres Straits
islands sent an entire village into hysterics
by performing grotesque manoeuvres with
his false teeth. Some years later another
visiting politician, who had been told of
the rousing receptions tendered his pre-
decessor, was mystified at the apathy with
which he was received. His fatal short-
coming was the absence from his party
of any member blessed with a set of
ersatz dice.
♦ * ♦ *
“Sackville”; The argument started
when the tall bloke said he was going to
eat the small shark he’d caught.
Immediately the knowall butted in: “Eat
a shark? You’d come at anything!”
The retort came back: “Would you eat
flathead in a cafe?” Knowall would.
“Then you’ll eat shark,” the angler de-
clared. “Fish-cafe blokes rush the
trawlers for gummy-shark; they buy it
for fourpence a pound and make a couple
of bob a pound on the deal; it tastes
just the same as flathead when it’s
cooked.” “But that’s not gummy—it’s
got teeth! ” the knowall pointed out.
“What odds—gummy- or dog-shark?”
demanded Lanky. “It’s not a dog-shark ;
it’s a young grey-nurse, and they’re man-
eaters,” the wise bloke insisted. Lanky
was adamant. He declared that the
2ft. 6in. shark was fully-grown; he drew
attention to the deep cavities that looked
like empty eye-sockets but were really
nostrils ; he showed the real eyes—well
below the nostrils and so deep-set they
were almost invisible and apparently
focused only to the sides; but the know-
all was not convinced. He was still argu-
ing when the long bloke gutted the
subject. Eight eggs about the size of
billiard-balls, the yellow yolks covered
with grey, soft skin, seemed to clinch the
argument. “Told you it was full-grown,”
grunted Lanky. The knowall had a sav-
ing sense of humor. “Aw, I dunno,” he
grinned. “I s’pose there’s delinquent
grey-nurses just the same as anythin’
else.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: In response to “Old-
timer’s” appeal for help (B. 4/4/’5l) I
hasten to assure him that yabbies do not
“sing, grunt, chirrup or chuckle,” but
they do sometimes emit a sound like that
attributed to them by Tom Collins. I
have heard them on crabhole plains when
the first autumn rains have filled the
holes and shallow depressions which
indicate their presence, but I have never
heard the peculiar murmuring sound
emanating from streams or deep water.
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: We had our lines in the
Goulburn near Nagambie (Vic.) one
drowsy afternoon. The sky was blue, the
sun warm, our stomachs full, and in a
hollow in a gum nestled one bottle of
beer. Presently we were joined by a quiet
cove who asked how the fish were, was
told, threw in and sat down near by. An
hour passed. Then the cove drew a bottle
from his bag, knocked the top off and
invited us to drink. A half-hour passed.
Then Mat arose, caught my eye, winked,
and began to look from tree to tree. “It
was somewhere abput here,” he said. The
cove looked at him and said “What?”
Mat said “Me an’ the mate knock around
here a good bit. When we got beer we
sometimes hung a bottle in a tree an’
leave it till we come again. Wasn’t we
about here sometime last Easter, Baldy?”
I woke up. “Yair,” I said. Then to the
cove, “Give us a hand. It’ll be in a
hollow somewhere here.” The three of
us searched around and, of course, the
cove found the hollow and the bottle.
“Strike me fat,” he said, “I never heard
of no one doin’ that before. Ain’t y’
scared someone else’ll find ’em?” “Aw,
we lost one or two,” Mat said carelessly,
“but they was just accidents. We nilly
always pick a holler nobody’d look in.”
Eighteen months later we ran into Red
Mayne up in Mildura, and he was telling
us about a bloke he’d struck at Echuca
who’d never pass a hollow without look-
ing in it. “Bit touched, he was,” said
Red. “Used t’ reckon he knew two
blokes went round hidin’ bottled beer in
hollers. Funny, the way some blokes
get.”
* * * *
“M.S.”: It takes time to collect enough
material for a book, but steadily they
come, the items for my great Farmers'
Handbook that will disgrace the shelves
of the future. The collection on my file
dates back some years. Down a bit you’ll
find one about sheepmen who never use
dogs, but gallop to earth on horseback
each individual sheep needing attention.
Then there’s the par. from a bloke who
hotly declares wild-ducks cannot light in
trees because of their webbed feet. Any-
body remember? Next to that is the
information that sheep have no teeth at
all on the lower jaw, so need soft feed.
"Ah! just as I thought—sinus trouble."
It is followed by a learned description of
the way jumbucks invariably head into
the teeth of a storm, and, lashed by a
snow-laden northerly, will be found
frozen to death only on the northern
boundary. Further, there’s a clipping
that hints I’m no bushman, and another
telling me a carpet of grass is useless
against erosion, and grazing paddocks
need a forest of trees above the grass.
A varied assortment; and still they come.
This week (B. 21/3/’5l) brings me a
useful hint whereby one man can upend
a strainer- post into its hole, merely by
shoving a sin. rail under its near middle.
Admitted there are strainers and
strainers, but round these East Gipps-
land parts they’re 7ft. 4in. dry greybox,
many with a diameter appoximating 18in.
at the small end. My file is almost full
now. I’m just waiting for someone to
announce that the bridle should always
be strapped on the tail-end of a nag,
then I’ll ride Pitcher backwards down to
the sanatorium, where, safe from tax
officials and the need to earn a living, I
will start on a work of art that will
revolutionise the cocky’s world.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Tasmania has been experi-
menting with the fast-growing Japanese
oyster, which is a good canning variety,
and finds results so satisfactory that
further shipments of spat from Japan
are being sought. The colder waters of
southern Tasmania, which are incapable
of growing the Sydney “rocks,” seem to
be the most suitable for the venture. The
Fisheries Division of C.5.1.R.0., in an
intensive study of basic conditions affect-
ing the growth of the Japanese variety,
finds that phosphates in the estuarine mud
play a major role in the oyster’s food-
supply ; and it is now possible to ascertain
by chemical analyses which portions of
estuaries are suitable for breeding, and
which most suitable for growing and
maturing the bivalves.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”; When the district
inspector made his unheralded descent on
the Mulgaville State school he found the
kids engrossed in big- and little-ring
under the shade of the pepperinas, but
no sign of Wilson, who at that hour
should have been driving the three Rs
into the barefooted bunch. Of the biggest
boy he inquired the whereabouts of the
teacher. The lad traced an intricate
design with a calloused big toe in the
sand before replying knowingly “I reckon
he’s out at Mrs. Jersey’s place.” Shocked
at the precocity, the inspector inquired
directions and set out post-haste. At the
front gate of the Jersey farmstead he was
halted by a lanky grass-chewing bloke
with the advice “You can’t go in there,
Mister.” “I’m the school inspector,” said
the other sternly. “I have reason to be-
lieve that Mr. Wilson, the Mulgaville
teacher, is visiting Mrs. Jersey.” The
lanky one took a few more chews before
answering. “I’m Bill Jersey. I know
he’s in there. Been in a long time, too.
I don’t like the look o’ things much. He
oughter be out be now.” “Well, what
do you intend doing about it when he
comes out?” asked the inspector curi-
ously. “Well, I s’pose there’s nothin’ I
can do,” answered the stolid agriculturist.
“But I hope to get square somehow.” In
renewed respect for the grass-chewing one
the inspector waited 20 minutes before
the front door opened and the missing
teacher emerged, carrying a lustily-
squalling bundle which he handed to
Jersey with the remark “I guess this be-
longs to you, Bill.” “Good on y’, mate,”
said Jersey, accepting his 10-minutes-old
hopeful. Then, turning to the inspector,
he said, “Gripes, I hope y’ ain’t goin’ to
get him shifted —this is the fourth time
he’s fixed things up for me, and the next
bloke might be a dud at the game!”
GIPPSLAND SPRING.
The roofs of home tonight are sprinkled with
stars;
There’s pagan chanting in frosty telephone-
wires.
Come from the hills of Doomburrim the light
of cars,
The steady redness of dairymen’s clearing fires,
And tethered calves, pale-faced to the planet
Mars,
Sleep through the rocketing challenge of
warring sires.
The blood of the pine-tree mounts in its dim,
dark veins;
Jonquils are yellow and sweet in the chickyard
bare,
A young girl’s nose is flat to the window-panes.
And trapper’s legs are big in the lantern's glare.
Down in the township a mouth-organ’s gusty
strains
Sound like beetles thrashing the fugitive air.
How the old spaniel tears at his bed and
groans!
The small grey house-dog stirs and barks in
his sleep,
Dreaming of strange marauders stealing the
bones
His provident care had given the earth to keep.
Snails are writing in silver on frosted stones
And restless ewes are crying out on the steep.
A messmate log burns through on its raddled
hobs;
The lamp-wick drinks not again from its oily
store.
Blurred are the doors, grooveless, with shadowy
knobs;
A book, bethumbed and beloved, slides to the
floor.
Though sap of the year through the pulse of
this land quick throbs,
Till the rooster crow it shall trouble my heart
no more.
VICTORIA.
BETTY MARIYN


The “NIMROD THREE” from Andrew M C GEE
1 "Nimrod" Ready-to-Roll
■ Cigarette Tobacco
Made from
extra high-
grade leaf.
m
o' v
Exclusive to
Andrew McGee.
2 oz. pack 3/3 J.
26/4 per lb.
Please add post-
age, 1/10 per lb.
N.S.W., 2/9 per
lb. other States.
Pipe Repairs
2. "NIMROD" DRYSMOKER ENGLISH BRIAR PIPE
Featuring the famous hygienic filter which ensures a
milder, cleaner, cooler smoke, (See cutaway
illustration.)
28 shapes to
choose from.
J
PRICE
27/6
Each
PIiUS POSTAGE
Write for general price list.
Andrew M C GEE
70 PITT STREET or 1 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
3 "NIMROD"
■WINDPROOF LIGHTER
The lighter
with a 12
months’
guarantee.
Chrome-
plated,
44/-
Gold-
plated,
84/-
Plus postage
IMRQD
K mhmbe
Lighter Repairs
“Sarina”: Graziers in inland Queens-
land grieve about the scarcity of possums,
regarding them as valuable helpers against
the sawfly pest, and suckers and seedlings
in rin g b a rked
country. Shooters
in bygone years
are accused of
exterminating the
possum. Just as
much possum.-
shooting and
-poisoning was
done in coastal
districts as in the
outback in those days, but the possums,
far from being a memory, are thicker
than ever on the coast. They didn’t
disappear from the west because they
were shot out or overstocked out. They
shifted because they got tired of a diet
of sawflies, tree-seedlings and mistletoe
when there was plenty of better fodder
—vegetable crops, sugar-cane and fruits—
to be had on the littoral.
* * * *
“Solitude”: “Bloke down at the pub
reckons he knows you,” I told Seventy-
fiver, as I stood my saddle in the corner
and chucked bridle and hat on top.
“Worked with you forty-odd years ago.
Name of Lister —Bill Lister.” “Aw,
him!” Seventyfiver sounded as though
I’d dug up a centipede. “Bet he never
said nothin’ about me scissors,” he
growled. “Only pair o’ scissors I ever
owned; an’ I tell y’ they was damn’
handy f’r lots o’ things.” “No, but he
said to ask if you remember the time you
both got trapped in the mine-tunnel for
two days,” X went on. “And after digging
out, you climbed down the face of a high
precipice and brought help.” Seventy-
fiver looked vague. “Might ’ve,” he
grunted, “But I know he was alwus
borrowin’ me scissors. Not that 1
minded, only the cow needn’t ’ve
sharpened ’em.” He chucked my pan-
nikin into a corner, and absentmindedly
handed me a dingo-trap. “And Lister
said one of you busted a leg one time,”
I mentioned, retrieving the pannikin.
“And the other had to hump him in from
the bush, about a dozen miles. Some
trip, all right.” Seventyfiver turned an
ear and grunted indifferently. “Maybe.
But he can’t say I never told ’im about
them scissors,” he smouldered. “That it
weren’t like sharpenin’ a knife. But
cripes, y’ can’t tell some blokes nothin’.
Ruined, they was, clean ruined. Just
wouldn’t cut nothing after that.”
* * * ♦
“Amdee”: It could be that the bore
of “Rumberg’s” Borneo blowgun (B.
21/3/’5l) was not drilled out. His de-
scription of the timber from which it
was made —“dark, heavy and close-
grained”—makes it appear similar to the
Limbom palm, which is used by N.G.
natives for spears and bows. This wood,
though almost as hard as bone, is easily
split into straight lengths. Two pieces of
matching timber are scraped on slabs of
fiat sandstone until a perfectly-fitting
face-joint is effected along the entire
length of the gun-to-be. The faces are
then hollowed out by scraping with
suitably-shaped stone tools and the two
lalves of timber glued together with resin
or gum. By charring, scraping and
polishing, plus years of use, the join
would become invisible. Two or more
native craftsmen would need to work on
• each half simultaneously to get a perfect
face-joint on the finished gun, but as
such a weapon would ensure the tribe
most of their food for generations, the
extra work entailed would be counted as
well worth it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Smithy stuck his axe in
a stump, hung his coat on it, and went
down to the landing to meet the river-
boat and help its crew load firewood. On
board was Billy Mac, cashed-up and
travelling down to Wentworth for a
bender. Smithy and Billy M. were old
mates ; they got to yarning, and when the
boat pulled out Smithy went with it. For
the next fortnight Wentworth was mildly
entertained by Billy Mac, well-dressed,
and Smithy, in shirt-sleeves, on the bust.
They sang in the Royal, the Commercial,
the Crown and the Wentworth, fought the
police on the streets, went to jail, were
released and sang and drank and fought
some more. When Billy’s last quid was
spent Smithy gravely shook hands with
him and walked out into the bush.
Shortly after noon four days later he
walked to his coat, took it from the axe,
“Ignore the cad!”
hung it on a branch and resumed wood-
cutting. He’d come roughly 70 miles on
foot through practically uninhabitec
country. Yes, they were men in the old
days.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve known an
albatross to take off from a ship (B
21 / 3/’5l). One of them followed a troop-
ship I was on for so long that I grew
suspicious, and one night I watched. Soon
after dark it alighted on some part of
the mast for which sailors have a name.
In the morning it was gliding along be-
hind us, and the mob, who’d heard that
they never alight on ships, added another
night’s flight to its record. I knew better,
but I wasn't believed. Perhaps I won’t
be now.
* * ♦ ♦
"Emjai”: Above the roar of the storm
outside the sound of crashing glass and
commotion upstairs brought the family
on the run. The bedroom was chaos. A
pair of very wet, large grey possums,
with junior on Mum’s back, had sought
refuge through an open window and
were careering over everything. Efforts
to expel them added to the wreckage of
curtains and breakables. Eventually the
old man broke back through the door
and down the stairs, but Mum, with
junior, went aloft. Via the curtains she
reached the picture-rail and sidled along
it uptil she was hanging over the stair-
well with a drop of about 20ft. From
there she took off and came down the
wall slantwise, landing about half-way
down. Contact with the wall was
evidently a brake, for her youngster
wasn’t dislodged, and she left a perfect
set of muddy tracks right down the white
plaster wall from rail to stair. They are
still there, causing many mystified com-
ments: “Good gracious! However
could a cat climb up that wall?”
$
“Salmon Gums” : Those eels that con-
gregated in the Parramatta (B. 21/3/’5l)
could have been mating—or preparing to.
I’ve seen cobblers acting similarly in the
Swan. They crowd together in a heap on
the river-bed, and it takes more than
mere noise to disturb them. Once saw a
group of them about 2ft. thick and 6ft.
or 7ft. in diameter under a jetty at the
foot of Barrack-street. There was a
steady tramp of feet above them and a
few feet away the ferry propeller churned
the water to foam. I thought of the nor’-
west turtles. During the mating season
you’ll find them in pairs on top of the
ocean, and nothing short of a direct hit
by a coastal steamer will interrupt the
honeymoon. Their complete oblivion to
danger at such times should indicate the
extinction of their species, but there are
still plenty of cobblers in the Swan, anc
you should see a nor’-Westralian beach on
turtle-hatching day.
V * * *
“Blime”; Wrightie was standing, axe
in hand, surveying the gum in his road-
side cultivation as I came along. “Which
way’ll it fall?” he called. I looked at the
gum. “South,” I replied, pointing in a
running line along the ground, “Don't
you think so?” I continued, as he scoffed
noisily. “No; she’ll fall east,” he said.
“An’ north-east a bit at that.” “But
look at the heavy head,” I pointed out.
“Nearly all on the south side. And no
lean on the trunk.” “Aw, the head’s not
that heavy,” he persisted. “She’ll fall
east. Most of ’em do round here. I been
falling trees a long time, an’ / oughter
know.” The argument lasted several
minutes; then, as Wrightie showed signs
of getting hot under the collar, I left him
to it. Two days later, coming back past
there, I noticed the tree was down. It
was lying slightly north of east. On the
north-east side, the butt showed an
enormous scarf, the saw-cut going in
opposite. South-west of the stump was a
big pile of wedges, and near by a
borrowed tractor was still tethered to the
gum with a wire rope. But Wrightie was
happy. His l-told-you-so manner posi-
tively glittered, as I remarked on the
weather and passed on with all the non-
chalance I could muster.
* * * *
“Juggling Jack”: “Bo” (B. 4/4/’5l
might tell us how old Fred “contemplatec
a leak in the bottom rung” of an ok
square ship’s tank. Such tanks are o
flat sheet-iron and not corrugated. Have
used them in most parts of Australia, bu
the queerest place I’ve seen one wa
450 ft. underground, where one cut in
half was used to provide (a) a “cril
corner” and (b) a repository for fracteur
fuse, etc. Location, near Southern Cross
(W.A.).
* ♦ * ♦
“Shadow-chaser”: Pelicans put all they
have, wings, bills and brains, into theii
fishing excursions. I watched a flock of
17 co-operating in a backwater of the
Goulburn River. Swimming six or seven
yards apart, their line extended from
bank to bank of the lagoon, which was
about 100 yd. wide, running to a dead-
end of shallow water. Nearing the dead-
end the birds used their wings as beaters
to stampede their prey right up to the
water’s edge, where they filled their
“bags” almost as rapidly as a bookie
could before the last race at Flemington.
The catch mostly comprised young mud-
turtles. After a siesta in the sun the flock
took off again to organise another drive.
* * * ♦
“Billy S.”: Feel I must pick up my
pen, mix well my metaphors, and rise
(not for the first time) to “Billy T.’s”
bait (B. 21/3/’5l) when he asks “Where
have you heard that before?” in connec-
tion with dark females beginning to look
whiter and whiter. Calcutta was one spot
I heard the expression, and I liked the
story, which has for its setting the Grand
Hotel situated on Calcutta’s famous
Chowringhee. The Grand Hotel manage-
ment, largely owing to the persuasiveness
of the Yanks (not forgetting their well-
filled wallets), had at last allowed Anglo-
Indian females of varying shades to pat-
ronise the lounge. The yarn goes that one
lunch-time a Yank just in from Dum Dum
airfield strode in and sat down at a table
occupied by a lone pukka sahib who was
having a “gin before din.” The Yank
surveyed the sunburnt beauties and then
said, “Say, when do these dark women
begin to look white?” The pukka sahib
raised his grizzled eyebrows, contemplated
the crowded lounge through his watery
blue eyes (“Don’t drown it, old boy, just
a splash”) and then said “Which dark
women?”
* * * ♦
“Anthrop”; “Chuck’s” story (B.
21/3/’5l) of the policeman loth to make
an arrest requested by a publican recalls
another reluctant country cop. Tormented
one sweltering after-
noon by the noisy
perversities of a
truculent drunk.
Bung made repeated
phone pleas to the
constable. Obviously
averse to the walk
in uniform, and com-
fortably shirt-sleeved
in the coolness of
his lounge-room, the
John, with one ex-
cuse and another, fobbed him off. Shortly
afterwards the rioting reveller crowned
his earlier iniquities when, infuriated after
lack of success with the pub’s poker-
machine, he staggered to the door with
it and rolled it into the street. The dis-
penser of giggle-juice flew again to the
phone and viciously informed the Law
of this latest exploit. We were puzzled
by the celerity with which the cop, puffing
vengefully, answered this last summons—
until we learned that the violated machine
was operated in the joint ownership of
Bung and the cop.
DEAD HEART.
This is the last long stretch; here where the
dead sand breaks,
And the ancient, waterless creekbeds first were
born.
Here all the stones are dumb; only the agony
Of the tortured, strangled trees breaks through
the silence,
So deep, so old, that visible things are audible.
This land is neither cruel nor kind; but for
the trees
Which Nature flung down, ages since, in
vagrant jest,
Or surly punishment, there is no life, no death;
No being but the irresistible silence.
In such a lonely land as this a man’s own soul
Might grapple- fiercely in his throat and force
its way V
To ultimate, final, everlasting nothingness.
Or, seeing all at last, a man might kneel and
pray.
N.S.W.
IAIN McDOUGALL.


m
ESTABLISHED 1858
SPECIAL MS
«•«!
OISTIUtD
"‘ISON STREET. St F
MS
ton* rotter. sc£>
DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH it CO. LIMITED
Your guests
will know
you serve
the best
T5T.18.12
Jv 'a
0 0 0
\v
Every parent should keep handy a tin
of the new Waterproof Elastoplast
plastic First Aid Dressings. There’s
no fear of water, grease or oil
getting to cuts protected by these
dressings. Waterproof Elastoplast
is firmly adhesive and does not ruck
up; its smooth, non-catch surface
always washes clean. It’s so
comfortable, too —stretching with
every movement. Ask at your
Chemist for Waterproof Elastoplast.
IS
-
I a
FABRIC ELASTOPLASI
is still available. These
popular dressings aro
exactly what you need
when protection from
liquids is not specifically
called for.
NOW
...2 KINDS OF ELASTOPLAST
...Fabric & Waterproof
82/120
Products’ 'of T. J. SMITH; & NEPHEW LTD;,. Hull,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HONG KONG FEARS.
The notion that all’s well in
Hong Kong fostered by
various visiting newspaper cor-
respondents—gets no support
from a “Baltimore Sun”
(U.S.A.) representative who has
been taking a close-up view of
that surviving British outpost in
Asia.
The “Baltimore Sun” man,
Philip Potter, reports consider-
able fear there in every quarter,
except perhaps that occupied by
the representatives of British-
recognised Communist China.
His finding is that Hong Kong
faces the loss of both its busi-
ness and its freedom:
“The British possession,
existing by sufferance of the
Chinese Communists, who find
it a useful place to get goods
from the West, looks north to
Korea, where British troops are
ranged with Americans in bitter
war with Chinese Communists.
It looks south to Malaya, where
British troops are fighting a grim
jungle war with other Com-
munists.
“No one knows better than
the residents of this British,
Oriental and international city
the anomaly of Hong Kong’s
position as a place of peaceful
contact between two warring
worlds. Once the West tightens
the now loose controls on trade
with Communist China the city’s
reason for existence will have
vanished and Hong Kong can
expect to be engulfed,
“This is known on the cricket
fields where British executives
of banks and brokerage houses
find relaxation after the day’s
work. It is known to the Chinese
clerks who refresh themselves in
less strenuous fashion in the tea-
shops. The booming Hong
Kong foreign trade, one-third of
it with Communist China, may
decline into a depression with
the imposition of new restric-
tions on the West’s exports to
Communist China.
“It will be regarded as a
mirade, indeed, if the Peking
Government does not then move
in on Hong Kong, ending its
existence not only as a trade
entrepot, but as a haven of gold-
smugglers and political refugees.
espionage centre and listening-
post. Few have any hope that
it would take the Chinese longer
to swarm through the New
Territories and Kowloon and
across the harbor to the island
of Hong Kong than it took the
Japanese in 1941.”
J. Bull’s Two Policies.
Mild compared to much recent
American criticism of Britain
(they have, of course, been
calling Uncle Sam names in
Britain, too), this is from a New
York “Herald Tribune” edi-
torial:
“ ‘There is only one will inside
the Iron Curtain,’ said Mr.
Attlee, in London. ‘There are
still many ambiguities in the
present attitude of the Peking
Government,’ said Sir Gladwyn
Jebb at Lake Success. Surely
there was no ambiguity about
the bullets which killed British
commandos in the retreat from
Northern Korea —they were
typical and bitter manifestations
of that one will which rules from
the Elbe to the Han. The
ambiguity lies in a policy which
seeks to reconcile the irrecon-
cilable ; to warn against a peril
in the West and to explain that
peril away when it appears in
the East.”
Appeasing China.
Whereas to the British war
with China seems an endless,
aimless and hopeless undertak-
ing, a “bottomless pit,” to many
Americans (reports a London
“Observer” correspondent) it is
the appeasement of Communist
China which has that aspect.
The Americans, “do not be-
lieve that any concession will
ever turn the Communist Gov-
ernment of China into a friend,
or even into a good neighbor
and correct world citizen. They
are convinced that if a few years
of truce are now bought by
‘appeasement,’ Mao will turn
them to account by indoctrinat-
ing the Chinese people with
hatred, strengthening China for
future and bigger aggressions,
intriguing and intervening in
every part of Asia.”
This prospect, says the corres-
pondent, gives the Americans
“the same feeling of dull hope-
lessness which the prospect of an
ideological crusade against Com-
munist China tends to induce in
Britain.”
Persian Drift.
Describing Persia (in a
London “Observer” article) as
“the weakest frontier” from the
West’s point of view, Philip
Toynbee reports that “Russia
has lately been able to achieve
great, though undramatic,”
4o&
\
Q °u -
fcc^/ Ty^
New York “Herald Tribune.”
THE SAD CASE OF THE FIRST MATE.
progress there, with Persia’s
drift from the Western side still
going on and “Communist
fanatics eagerly mobilising their
fifth-column.”
Four years ago, Toynbee re-
calls, Communism was not only
proscribed in Persia but was
also thoroughly discredited.
Since then the general internal
state of the country has “drifted
sluggishly from bad to worse,”
with the following as some of
the causes:
“Absentee landlords have
continued to make a farce of
democracy from the padded
Parliamentary seats of the
Majlis; the vaunted Seven-Year
Economic Plan has been
swaddled out of sight in cor-
ruption and incompetence;
relations with the West have
deteriorated partly because of
Persia’s inability to persuade
America that a loan would go
anywhere except into the bulg-
ing pockets of a few politicians,
partly because no Persian Gov-
ernment has yet been able to
ratify the generous supplemental
oil agreement offered by the
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company.
“Forty million pounds is due
from the company to any Gov-
ernment which will ratify the
agreement, but since every poli-
tical group in the country would
like to receive this money into
its own hands, all have com-
bined to ensure that the group
in power shall be deprived of
it.”
A Tehran correspondent of
the “Manchester Guardian”
gives an explanation represent-
ing the Persian viewpoint, and
rather less complimentary to the
West:
“To put it bluntly, the
Persians simply do not trust the
Western policeman overmuch,
and they certainly do not love
him. Nor can you altogether
blame them. For after all if
you look at history through
Persian eyes you might easily
come to the conclusion that he
is only another burglar tem-
porarily gone straight and
parading as a policeman so as
to keep his rival in the North
from muscling in on what he
considers his territory.
“Remember what happened
in 1907 and again in 1941.
Every time the two rival
imperialisms called a truce so
as to be able to make a common
front against a third—Germany
—they had no scruples in divid-
ing the Persian swag. Thus the
division of Persia between a
British and a Russian sphere of
influence in 1907. Thus again
the joint occupation in 1941.
Thus the treaty of 1919.
“Add to these bitter memories
the fact that Britain still con-
tinues to control the country’s
greatest natural asset —however
legitimately she may have
obtained it —and it becomes
understandable why the Western
policeman inspires those feelings
of jealousy, resentment and dis-
trust which rule out any heartfelt
solidarity of the ‘for better or for
worse’ type. In so far as Persia
is prepared to walk out with the
West it is strictly ‘for better’
only.”
Dragnet Digest.
Showdown Issue— As summed-up
by American foreign affairs writer
Walter Lippmann, the paramount
question between Russia and the West
which “must be settled by agreement
or by war” is: “How much of
Europe beyond the frontiers of the
Soviet Union is to continue to be
occupied by the Red Army? That
is the question on which there is
going to be a showdown.”
* * * ♦
Eisenhower on the “Bomb.” —“If»”
General Eisenhower has stated,
felt that the material destruction I
was going to accomplish was not
equal to some moral or great reaction
otherwise to this act [i.e., using the
atom-bomb], then I would abstain.”
He, however, further stated that he
regarded the bomb as a deterrent to
wars of conquest, but that it could
only serve that function if Russia
knew that it will be used if neces-
sary. With these qualifications, he
would “use it instantly.”
* # * #
Overestimated Tito. Suggesting
that Washington, Paris and London
are overestimating Tito, Rome “II
Tempo” (which can be described as
conservative) bluntly declares: “The
Cominform elements are numerous
and active inside Yugoslavia. The
liberal anti-Communist elements are
tired of dictation and the real Titoist
element would not last very long
when the first test came. Tito’s
army, a collection of former parti-
sans, is in urgent need of modernisa-
tion.”
* * * *
Trading with Russia. —Quoting U.S.
Department of Commerce figures, a
“New York Times” report states that
the non-Communist countries of the
world delivered to the Soviet Union
approximately $70,000,000-worth of
goods more than thejl bought from
it last year. The exports to the Soviet
Union included substantial quantities
of vital raw materials, as well as
appreciable quantities of machinery.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
Where Corns Do Their Work.—
“The best measure of the strength of
Communism in any Western country/
comments London “Economist,” “is
the extent of workers’ support of
Communist policies, not the much-
publicised soul-searchings of intellec-
tuals. It is for this obvious reason
that, while every propaganda advan-
tage is taken of such intellectuals, the
real work of Communists is done in
the factory canteen and the dockside
public house.”
♦ * * ♦
Gyppo Appeasement. —J. Bull’s
recent “agreement” with Egypt, as
assessed by London “Financial
Times”: “The first thing that must
be said about the [Attlee] Govern-
ment’s miserable capitulation to the
Egyptians is how greatly standards of
public life have fallen. Our Socialist
Ministers have now flagrantly broken
their word. Far from ‘substantially
scaling down’ the Egyptian balances,
the Government have made enormous
concessions to that country at a time
when it is refusing, in contempt of
treaty obligations, to allow British
tankers to use the Suez Canal. How
happy King Farouk must be to force
the British Government to abandon
their promises. Of his Majesty, it
may be said that he did everything
in his power to embarrass the British
during the last war. Under his rule
Egypt is seething with discontent and
corruption. Having succeeded in
fleecing the British Treasury, King
Farouk may now be expected to
repeat his impudent demand that the
British should clear out of the
Sudan.”


LOOK YOUR BEST !
mmm
mm
.
iVi&ci&mt
STYLE °
Everywhere you hear men praising
the superb quality, style and smart
appearance of Akubra Hats.
Made from the finest of pure fur,
your Akubra retains its “New Look”
and colour throughout its long, all-
weather life.
F,or comfort, style and quality, wear
Akubra the choice of all well-
dressed men.
AKUBRA
ttT&vllelxm..
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months £1 16 0
6 18 6
3„ 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
mm
S
.0-?-
m
tion
n> s °
ofs°
less
y/.re
ttS '
Sot' 00
arol" 3
A u
HOl7
gfd
. . . each secure in the
knowledge that radio’s in-
visible lifelines link with the shore.
A decade before domestic broadcasting
began, A.W.A. commenced the research
and industry which have contributed so
vitally to the increased safety of life at
sea.
To-day modem marine radio installa-
tions, meeting the rigid standards of
International Regulations, are built,
maintained and operated for the
Australian Mercantile Marine by
A.W.A.—pioneers of Australian
Wireless —Makers of the finest
in Radio.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
T Vr i
“There are dozens of different Aus-
tralian accents, and all are abominable
laziness.”
—Elocution judge Frank Clewlow.
But none of them stops a man
from rising to be a Senator.
•i* *b *i*
The sweater-girl is on her way
out, according to a Hollywood
fashion expert.”
Her career is obviously busted.
•j* •}• •{*
“It stands to reason that it would
be a better proposition to put the
feed into young birds’ wood.”
—Poultry journal.
And chop the blocks off the
old ones.
“Gardening will keep your figure
supple and youthful.”
— Women’s magazine.
And your husband will never
have a weed about the place.
4* 4*
“Wanted: parrot, with cage, if pos-
sible; also table-tennis table.”
—Suburban paper.
Cocky about his ping-pong,
eh?
In Bad Odor.
“A device which fits on to a front
porch and sprays perfumed germicide
over visitors when the door is opened
will be a feature of this year’s British
Industries Fair.”
A really useful new device
And one that any cheerful soul
Would like to own at any price
And turn against the chaps whose
role
Makes them more welcome once
than twice;
The gasman who presents his
bill.
The debt-collector and his ilk,
The postman with his whistle
shrill.
The milkman who spills half my
milk.
And social bores who yap their
fill—
All these and more I fain would
spray
As to my menage door they
slunk ;
But how I wish I could some
day
Deodorise the Comma skunk
Who scribbles slogans out our
way !
BERT.
Cart before the Horse.
“ ‘The steeplechaser doesn’t fall so
hard today,’ says a sporting writer.”
This message should, I’m sure,
allay
Doubts of the R.S.P.C.A.,
But, though well-meant, such
sympathy
Seems very much misplaced to
me.
For, after all, what price the
blokes
Who place their simple faith in
mokes
From two-year-olds to timber-
toppers —
Don’t they still come some
painful croppers?
PERCIVAL.
De Trop.
“One knew a gentleman in the old
days because he always tied his own
bow-tie, and never, under any cir-
cumstances, used a made-up tie.”
I suspected the Count de
Riskay was a cad the moment I
copped his pansy bow-tie;
besides, I didn’t like the way he
kept giving my girl-friend
Hermione swigs of o.p. rum
straight from the bottle.
I was gently imbibing and
throwing the odd bon mot into
the sophisticated whirl of gay
repartee at the Duchess of
Dash’s King’s Cross party, when
a succession of shrieks issued
from the conservatory. Pausing
only to down a couple of
schooners and a plate of hot-
dogs I rushed out to find
Hermione struggling weakly in
the count’s arms.
“Unhand that woman!” I
cried, advancing menacingly.
The wretch merely guffawed
and renewed his unseemly over-
tures.
“You cad, sir!” I yelled.
“You’re no gentleman!” He
swayed to his feet, dropping
Hermione in the fish-pond, and
with a deft whisk and a flick of
his wrist untied his bow-tie
and flung it in my face! Hastily
apologising, I left for Zagreb,
unclipping my tie as I went.
JONAS DILL.
Simple Explanations.
"No need to start being possessive ALREADY, Edna."
“Electricity zoning in N.S.W., an-
nounced to commence on April 30, two
days after the Federal elections, will mean
that home blackouts will become much
more severe than they are at present. In
addition, industrial loss will be in-
creased.”
“I would,” said Jimmy, the
Pride of Hargrave Park,
“have liked to order my Elec-
tricity Commissioner —I am far
too modest to do it myself—to
announce that the commencing
date of this popular scheme we
have evolved to put blackouts on
a more permanent basis would
coincide with the opening of the
Federal election campaign, be-
cause I firmly believe that the
boldness, courage, initiative,
resource and imagination we
showed in thus ending the chaos
of several years would have been
worth at least two hundred thou-
sand votes to my illustrious
fellow-‘Labor’ leader, Mr.
Chifley,
“However, as we had
only about seven months to
come to a decision —coming on
top of three years of the furious
thinking we put into making up
our minds as to whether we’d
sacrifice Wren’s Sydney Stadium
to make way for a railway— most
fair-minded people will agree it
would have been impossible,
without the danger of being un-
duly rash and precipitate, to
have made an earlier announce-
ment.”
When asked for his views,
Jimmy’s Minister for Threaten-
ing Housewives raised his eye-
brows in astonishment.
“Dear me,” he said. “Now
isn’t that a coincidence! I hadn’t
realised it - before. We were
really concerned not to start on
May the first, as it might have
annoyed some of the Left-wing
unions, who on that day will be
celebrating on Moscow’s orders.
The day before was selected be-
cause Libra and Sagittarius are
in conjunction that day, and it
should thus augur well for the
scheme’s success.”
“I’m resignin’ meself,” com-
mented the Bathurst Burr, “with
as much of the non-political
type of philosophy as I can
muster, to the advantage that
the Tories’ll get out of this. If
the zonin’ had been in operation
before the elections the women
would’ve knocked the pollin’-
booth officials off their stools in
the rush to give all their votes to
us in gratitude for what Jimmy
has been doin’ for ’em. Why,
what could possibly please a
housewife more than to be able
to go out an’ enjoy herself
window-shoppin’ when one o’
Jim’s day-long blackouts frees
her from the job o’ standin’ over
a hot iron by the hour or runnin’
the vacuum-cleaner around an’
knockin’ herself out? Menzies
always did have all the luck
about the place.”
Barnacle Bert, the Barton
Wizard, and in palmier days
known as the Second Flying Pie-
man, looked up from studying
the latest brief he’d received to
defend a top Communist.
“Some carping critics,” he
said, “reckon I always have three
times more to say than my
leader. To show how entirely
wrong they are, on this ques-
tion I am only going to say
about twice as much. Our party
stands solidly for the Four Free
doms guaranteed under the
Charter of the United Nations
and which the Menzies Govern
ment, under orders from the big
capitalists—some of whom own
as many as three homes—has
tried to throw overboard.
“It is under one of those
Freedoms that Mr. McGirr is
exercising his perfectly legaJ
rights and as an eminent
constitutional lawyer 7 should
know better than anyone
else to fix a date for the
commencement of his zoning
scheme. His is a foresighted
measure designed to bring pros-
perity and full employment to
Australia’s chief State, as well
as increased leisure for cultural
pursuits to which every worker
is entitled as the fruits of his
labor.
“Now, had only Churchill
and Roosevelt the breadth of
vision to have co-opted the
brilliant services of one great
statesman and World Figure who
was at their disposal at the
time” Here Bert indicated
an enormous photo, of himself
on the wall —“he could by his
persuasive eloquence have pre-
vailed upon them to incorporate
into the Atlantic Charter several
more Freedoms, including one
which would have guaranteed
complete immunity from being
harassed by savagely repressive
legislation for those whose only
sin is that they preach a harm-
less political philosophy. Now
you’ll excuse me —I’m busy cal-
culating whether I’ll win Barton
this time by twenty- or twenty-
five-thousand votes.”
A spokesman for the Com-
munist party said; “Why are
they pickin’ on our pals Bert
and Ben and Jimmy? They’re
doin’ a good job, especially for
us. Any time Jim wants bigger
and better blackouts we’re only
too willin’ to oblige, just the
same as we will be givin’ ’em our
first-preferences.”
S. W. KEOUGH.
252 George-street, Sydney.


We forced
this Election...
BECAUSE
§ Communism must be
wiped out!
9 The Trade Unions must be
freed!
§ Production must be increased
0 Australia must be protected!
The Labor Party —Chifley and Evatt —are the friends
and protectors of the Communists. Our efforts to deal
effectively with these wreckers have been frustrated by
Labor at every turn.
The trade unions want the secret ballot to restore
decent and effective self-management. Remember: the
Labor Party has opposed this measure.
Labor wants inflation —Chifley and Evatt believe that
rising prices will improve their election chances. Your
welfare is entirely disregarded in their selfish bid for
power.
BREAK THE SENATE DEADLOCK!
1
LIBERAL
Authorised by J. L. Garrick, 30 Ash Street, Sydney. FG.109.44
Missing Friend.
TO EDWARD SARGENT formerly of
Carlton Victoria and believed to be of
Rocklea or Gympie or parts adjacent in
the State of Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife EVA MAY SARGENT
of 120 Stawell Street Burnley Victoria
has instituted proceedings against you
r'or Divorce on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne
on or before the Ist June 1951 and hie an
answer in the said office on or before the
11th day of June 1951 the case may pro-
ceed your absence notwithstanding and
you may be ordered to pay costs, W. H•
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 215
Nicholson Street, Footscray.
Divorce Notice.
Xi, "xjlK SUPREME COURT oF~NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO LYALL GORDON STANLEY late of
Glen Innes. —TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE
EVELYN STANLEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4030 of 1950 on i
ground of desertion without just cause
Sr excuse for 3 years and upwards and «
asking for the exercise of tlw. Courts
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
Matrimonial Causes Act 1 899 fj
wish to defend you may enter an appeal
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 25th_ day
June 1951 and obtain a copy of the PeC
tion without charge from N. C. RO wl
t. TOWNSHEND, Solicitors, 92
Leet? DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Bulletin staff man wants furnished
flat or small cottage, Sydney waterside
suburb. —5008.
To buy copy of A Curate in
Bohemia by Norman Lindsay. —5007.
Information Sought.
Some points about the Scottish
terrier ?
It is a very popular dog, with great
intelligence and pluck, and a keen
sporting animal. The head is long,
slightly domed, and covered with
short, hard hair; the muzzle is power-
ful, tapering towards the nose. The
eyes are dark-brown, the prick ears
small, neck short and strongly set on
sloping shoulders, the body somewhat
long, the legs short, the forelegs
straight and well set on under the
body, tail carried high, with a slight
bend, and never docked, and coat
about 2in. in length, hard, wiry and
dense. The color is steel-grey, brindle
and black.
* * * *
Where is the island of Sark ? Some
details concerning it, and was it occu-
pied by the Germans during World
War II ?
It is one of the English Channel
islands, 6| miles east of Guernsey,
and has an area of about 1300 acres.
It comprises two peninsulas, Great
and Little Sark, joined by the Coupee,
a narrow, natural and elevated cause-
way. A new harbor was opened on
June 23, 1949. There is an abun-
dance of fish and sea-fowl and some
agriculture. Its striking caves and
cliffs attract a number of visitors.
Sark has its own Constitution, and
has a Seigneur. Motor-cars are not
permitted on the island. Declared
demilitarised in 1940, Sark was occu-
pied by the Germans on July 1. The
Seigneur of Sark and some of the
population were deported to Ger-
many. There was a commando raid
on the island on the night of October
3-4, 1942, and liberation was achieved
on May 9, 1945, military government
existing until August 25. Population
is 570.
* * * *
Some particulars about the cricket-
career of Ranjitsinhji, the Indian
prince ?
He represented Cambridge Univer-
sity at cricket, and on joining the
Sussex Cricket Club in 1895 was head
of the county’s averages for that year
and until 1902. In 1896 he was hea lof
the batting averages for England
(aggregate runs 2780, average 57), and
again in 1900 (aggregate 2563, average
83). In 1897 he accompanied Stod-
dart’s team to Australia. His batting
was remarkable for its extreme grace
and ease, whilst the excellence of his
leg-glide has never been surpassed.
* * * *
Why is Norway called “The Land
of the Midnight Sun” ?
At the summer solstice, about June
21, the sun does not set, but sinks
to the north point of the horizon at
midnight at the Arctic circle. At
North Cape in Norway it is visible
at midnight from May 12 to June 29.
This phenomenon is called the Mid-
night Sun, and the north-west coast
of Norway “The Land of the Midnight
Sun.” Owing to the inclination of
the rotational axis of the earth from
the normal to the orbit, the sun is
constantly visible during the summer
at and within the Arctic and Antarctic
circles for a period of 48 hours to
six months, according to distance
from the poles.
* * * •
Meaning of the word Noncon-
formist as applied to a person’s
religion ?
Nonconformist is a term denoting
historically (a) those persons who at
the beginning of the 17th century
refused to conform to certain prac-
tices, e.g., the wearing of the surplice,
kneeling at the reception of the
Sacrament, etc., of the Church of
England; (fe) those who, after the
passing of the Act of Uniformity,
1662, refused to conform to that Act,
and ceased to be members of the
Church. In current usage the term
“Nonconformist” is applied in Great
Britain to any member of a Church
not conforming to the ceremonies,
worship and doctrines of the Church
of England, but is generally used of
a member of the so-called Free
Churches, or Protestant Dissenters,
and is not usually applied to Roman
Catholics.
* * * *
What are adobe soils?
A term used in the western United
States, particularly in California, to
designate the structural quality or
various clay soils, referring usually
to the characteristic breakage of
such soil material into small angular
blocks when it dries. These soils are
very heavy in texture, being com-
posed of extremely fine-grained
material, a large part of which is
colloidal. Sands and loose sandy
loams, for example, never display an
adobe soil structure. By many, how-
ever, adobe soils are often thought
of as constituting the material from
which adobe or sun-dried bricks are
made; but, as in the case of ordinary
brick, adobe building materials are
derived from a great variety of clayey
soils. Under proper conditions of
moisture soils of adobe structure are
readily worked, but when too dry
their hardness and coherence make
tillage extremely difficult. When
placed under irrigation soils of this
type usually display great fertility.
* * * *
What is meant when it is said that
a person is suffering from a psychosis ?
Strictly speaking the term psychosis
means a state of mind, a concrete
psychical process or a mental act;
but is now generally used to signify
an abnormal state of mind. This
definition needs qualification, how-
ever, since the technical use of the
term in psychiatry is confined to
certain forms of mental disorder
which can be distinguished from
states of congenital mental deficiency
on the one hand and from “border-
land” conditions or neuroses on the
other, A distinction should be made
between “psychosis” and “insanity,”
which in popular and legal language
signifies that an individual, owing to
ms state of mind, is unable to
manage himself or his affairs, is m
need of care and control and is not
to be held accountable to society for
his actions. Psychosis, on the con-
trary, is a strictly medical term; it
refers to a type of mental illness with
certain intrinsic characteristics, assum-
ing various forms, and due to a
variety of causes, ft does not neces-
sarily lead to serious disturbances of
behavior, and there are many
individuals who, though not insane
in a legal sense, are nevertheless the
subjects of a psychosis.
Brief Answers.
E.A.S.: The verse “The Ballad of
Stuttering Jim” was written by Samuel
Cliali White, and appeared in The
Bulletin Reciter. A copy has been
posted V.M.F.: The Knight of
the Motor Launch by Arthur H.
Adams originally appeared in “The
Lone Hand” as a serial, and was pub-
lished in book form by the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Sydney... .F.L.A.:
You could try applications of gamma-
wash or similar new preparation for
this kind of disease, but from your
description the dog seems to be
afflicted with an almost incurable
type of mange or similar skin com-
plaint, and a veterinary surgeon
should be consulted... .F.L.A.: Write
hon. secretary, New Zealand P.E.N.
Club, Box 2, Post Office, Te Aro,
Wellington (N.Z.)... .T.H.S.: The
Cruise of the Amaryllis by G. H. P.
Mulhauser and Fourteen Men: Story
of the Australian Antarctic Expedition
to Heard Island by W. A. Scholes.
W.G.G.: Australia’s Frontier
Province by- C. L. A. Abbott, pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney; price 16s. 9d T.N.G.:
Vaughan’s Modern Bookbinding (365.
6d.), Groneman’s General Bookbind-
ing (10s. 9d.), Kay’s Bookbinding for
Beginners (35.), obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .L.T.S.:
Although “lag,” a convict under sen-
tence of transportation, was originally
an English cant word, the use of “old
lag” seems to have been an Aus-
tralian development to describe an
ex-convict or ticket-of-leave man
W.M.A.; (1) The Constitutional
Association of N. S. Wales, Wingello
House, Angel-place, Sydney. (2) The
Australian Institute of Political
Science, 34 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
... .A.C.McM.: The play “A Street-
car Named Desire” was written by
Tennessee Williams... .T.V.: The
Research Magnificent was a novel
by H. G. Wells (1915), narrating
the life of William Benham and his
search for the worthwhile in life.
F.E.F.: It is Latin for “a closed
sea.” It is a sea that is closed by a
certain political Power or certain
political Powers to the unrestricted
trade of other nations, as the Black
Sea; the free and open sea is called
mare liberum .... K.A.; Susan Nipper
is a character in Dickens’s Dombey
and Son, generally called “Spitfire,”
from her snappish disposition. She
is the nurse of Florence Dombey,
to whom she is much attached.
Susan Nipper marries Mr. Toots
after he has got over his attachment
for Florence W.K.P.: The verses,
the titles and authors of which are
unknown to you, are (1) “The Aus-
tralian” by Arthur H. Adams, (2)
“The House of the Commonwealth ”
by Rdderic Quinn, (3) “England Yet"
by Henry Lawson, and “Australia”
by Bernard O’Dowd... .H.A.E.T.:
(1) Yes, on application to the Regis-
trar in Divorce, Supreme Court,
King-street, Sydney. (2) Arrange-
ments can be made to secure the
attendance of witnesses L.H.W.:
Write general secretary, Australian
Journalists’ Association, 145 Collins-
street, Melbourne... .W.W.N.: Entry
forms may be obtained from the
offices of State directors for the
Jubilee celebrations in all States, the
head office of the Australian Broad-
casting Commission, 264 Pitt-street.
Sydney, or the A.B.C. offices in all
States of the Commonwealth
C.D.: Write Mrs. Phyllis Aylward,
hon. secretary, Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers, 38 Clarence-street,
Sydney... .R.J.F.: Imminent Summer
by Nancy Keesing, published by Lyre-
bird Writers, care Roland Robinson,
14 Manion-avenue, Rose Bay, N.S.W-,
price ss.


111 11
WOLFES
seeiFFi
OSTIUSO IN AUSTRALIA
mm wim Mffiui Founu
AROMATIC ALCOHOLIC
SfcrsSsSr
«/ -r
sta'sssilii j
5n
L MT!
: 1 PINT I f L OZS,
3M^
W6.tßS.fl.
V
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The moderate
use of Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been
recognised for
generations as a
he alth-giving
stimulant.
How fo give your
child security
Are you an overindulgent
Parent? Do you give your boy
an allowance or does he earn
it? Do you shield him from
situations where he might feel
“inferior"?
In April Reader's Digest,
Henry C. Link, leading Ameri-
can psychologist who has
advised thousands of perplexed
parents, challenges modern
theories and states basic rules
for developing character, self-
reliance. Explains how the
continuous problem for parents
is to teach their children the
things they should do —whether
they like them or not
Get your Reader's Digest
today. 33 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO LYLE CEDRIC SMITH formerly of
Albury.—TAKE NOTICE that NANCYE
MARGARET SMITH has filed a Petition
in Divorce No. 869 of 1951 against you
and is applying for dissolution of mar*
riage on the grounds of habitual drunken-
ness and cruelty for three years and up-
wards AND is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section (19)
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend the suit you
may enter an appearance on or before
the Twenty-second day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty-one at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney A copy of the Petition may
be had without charge from MESSRS.
McKENZIE, McHARG & MORAN, Sol/-
citors, of Dean Street, Albury, or their
City Agents, MESSRS. MURPHY <£
MOLONEY, Solicitors, of 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO NICHOLAS EDWARD DELANEY
formerly of Neutral Bay.—TAKE
NOTICE that DORIS MARY JENNIE
DELANEY has filed a Petition No. 4686
of 1960 for divorce on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th June 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. W. REILLY, Solicitor,
of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE EDWARD SIMPSON
late of Kogarah.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDNA MAY SIMPSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2667 of 1960 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 19th
day of June 1961 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MADDOCKS,
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Ih tfiat Ingrams face again.
•»
s:
m
W V
.. v V..V.S
#*2 /' ' V-
-1111 * p 4;
'-HowCrk'torv
Like Cupid's arrow, an Ingrams face goes straight
to the heart of feminine appreciation.
You're right on the target with a smooth Ingrams face.
A Jar of Ingrams shaving cream is a promise of cool,
smooth, easy shaving. Get one from your Chemist
today.
A Product of Bristol Myen
4
tfngramd
SHAVING CHAM
IS-23
.V ' *\
SttWW?
m
SUNDRY SHOWS
ART.
“O.F.”: George Lawrence’s
oils are the outstanding paint-
ings in the Contemporary
Group’s 24th annual exhibition
at Farmers’ Blaxland Gallerie
Sydney. Dark, but full of ligh
and rich, glowing colors, the
are undistorted and complete] r
artistic reports on nature. When
in fact, one considers the calm
sure competence with whici
Lawrence achieves his effects i
his landscapes — “Marshallin
Yards, Murrurundi,” “Kiama,
“Balmain” and “Stormy After
noon”—one realises that he ha
already achieved the depth and
drama for which Lloyd Rees
with his swirling, sweeping ex
aggerations of line and color anc
shade, is still striving in such
moderately effective paintings as
“Grey Landscape,” “The Village
on the Hillside” and “The Store-
keeper’s Cottage, North Ryde.’
George Duncan has severa
landscapes reduced to pleasing
patterns of light and ‘ color
Thea Proctor has three very
light paintings—“The Coleus,”
“Veranda Light” and “Flowers”
—which are so alike in subject
and method that the titles could
be interchanged without making
any difference. Helen Stewart’s
‘The White House” has a quick
flash of charm in its natural
light falling across its white and
greens and greys, and there is a
bright, airy burst of sunshine and
color about Enid Cambridge’s
“Bush Track.” G. Cossington-
Smith’s pale Sussex landscapes
move a little further from reality
because of their tapestry-like
effect, but J. Carrington-Smith
has an effective record of heat
and haze and dust in his
“Summer Hillside.” Sali Her-
man’s “The Immigrant” appears
to be fashioned from concrete,
but his “Old Stable” radiates
light and color and is quite
charming. Michael Kmifs “Self-
Portrait” presents a countenance
of remarkable blue and extraor-
dinary nobbliness, and Paul Hae-
fliger’s “Card Players” looks like
a pale, sketchy design for sur-
realist clothes-pegs.
“0.F.”: The first reaction to
Sali Herman’s exhibition at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney,
is what a pleasantly entertaining
fellow the artist can be with his
smooth painting, his skilfu
placing of bright color, hi
rendering of the textures o:
brick, stone and wood, and wit
the light that reflects from mos
of his paintings— not altogethe
Australian light, perhaps, bu
still a clear, bright light tha
seems to fall naturally across hi
subject-matter. And even though
the artist has a predilection fo
such city subjects as “Th
Broken Window,” “Stree
Corner,” “Paddington Scene,
“Reconstruction” (a devastated
slum area), and, often, for such
country subjects as back-lanes
backyards and any odd scene ol
dilapidation, he does transform
those scenes, for the most part
into agreeable paintings. In the
matter of art, the transformation
may not be altogether accurate
and the original scenes are
probably as unpleasant to look
at as Herman’s pictures are
pleasant. But there is in Her-
man’s paintings, as well as color
and light, philosophy, humor anc
an entertaining viewpoint. In
fact, one might almost succumb
to the artist’s blandishments
completely—and go away con-
vinced instead of pleasantly
entertained —if one did not,
while contemplating the cows
and fence and light in “Corral,”
suddenly remember what
Gruner did with cows and fence
and light in “Spring Frosts.”
And then, of course, one thinks
of the present-day landscapes of
artists like Lance Solomon and
George Lawrence and realises
that, beside that kind of solid
faithful work, Mr. Herman’s
paintings, delightful as they may
be, are only candy and cake.
*!■ 4"
“0.F.”; Most of Louis
Kahan’s oils at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, look like
multicolored explosions the
eruption of his complete paint-
box, or skyrockets against a
dark sky. Explosions and sky-
rockets are jolly things, but the
joyous spirit doesn’t pervade
Mr. Kahan’s paintings—they
have an air of gloom, are heavy
with paint and the light, con-
sidered casualness of the artist’s
drawings does not extend to his
oils. Even where the subject-
matter is still more-or-less in one
piece—“ Portrait of Max Mel-
drum,” “The Pianist” and “Por-
trait of A Dancer”—there is not
much satisfaction in the scatter of
all the colors of the spectrum,
unless, of course, you like living
with skyrockets.
•i* 4* 4*
In the Australian Watercolor
Institute’s Melbourne exhibition
at the Stanley Coe Gallery G. K.
Townshend applies his smooth
formula to “Landscape near
Dee Why” and “Coastal Road,
N.5.W.,” Eric Thake a surrealist
technique to “Shy Sister,” a study
of what looks like a Digger’s
overcoat with what looks like a
sanitary-roll for a head, Lorna
Nimmo a topographical view of
hills in winter and Rah Fizelle
the ghost of a nude called
“Seated Figure.” J. F. E.
Monckton gives some firm draw-
ing to “Cheltenham, England.”
The quality of nature appears
most in two sketches by R.
Malcolm Warner, “Williams-
town” and “The Brown Road.”
Music.
Bernard Heinze opened the
first of the 1951 subscription
concerts at Melbourne Town
Hall with a tough one for the
hosts of new subscribers whg had
presumably been educated up to
adult listening standard at Youth
sessions by the professor’s ex-
planations. This was Bela
Bartok’s Concerto for Orchestra,
and everybody knows what a
concerto is. There must be a
virtuoso in it with a fiddle or a
piano or a ’cello or something.
None such was provided, and the
composer explains why. He has
treated single instruments or
groups in the orchestral ensemble
in a soloistic manner, and a
spectral virtuoso had to be
imagined hopping about between
the w r oodwind, the strings and
the brasses in the course of the
performance. The second half
of the programme was easier to
follow. It was Rachmaninoff’s
Pianoforte Concerto No. 3 in
D Minor, which wasn’t anything
like as complex, and had Isador
Goodman sitting at the piano.
The South African musician,
who has spent 20 years in Aus-
tralia, gave it a sensitive inter-
pretation.
Between string quartets by
Haydn and Schubert—both
readings of superb craftsman-
ship and loving care—the
Griller ensemble at its third
Sydney recital sandwiched Bela
Bartok’s Second String Quartet.
There will be those, of course,
who profess to see in this work
great keenness of wit and other
abstruse attributes. But in
chamber music there is no
chance for a composer to co-opt
“color” to hide the poverty of
melodic invention. A certain
superficial cleverness rides the
frenetical cavortings, but the
whole work goes along like Luna
Park’s Big Dipper. It was a pity
that the four players had to ex-
pend such Trojan efforts on
such wretched material.
4 1 4*
The Griller Quartet uttered the
loveliest sound heard for many
a year in Brisbane. For two
hours the quartet performed
Mozart, Beethoven, Bax and
Haydn impeccably. In th
minuet and trio of the Mozar
Quartet No. 15 in D Minor and
in the Haydn Serenade the
players gave new meaning to
pizzicato, and in the vast City
Hall, notorious for its acoustics
they found no trouble in making
clearly audible the delicate
whisper of sound that the
glorious, muted movement of the
Bax work requires. The dry
analytical programme notes gave
no clue of the fragile loveliness
and poignancy this movement
held in store —a beauty which
somehow dimmed the lustre ol
the radiant Mozart and tem-
pestuous Beethoven heard earlier
in the recital.
4* *i* 4*
It was pleasantly surprising
that Sydney’s St. George Choral
Society and the Sydney Male
Choir, both under the direction
of J. Lyndon Jones, reached such
a high standard in interpreting
the beauty which can be
wrought from Edward Elgar’s
part-songs. The St. George
Choir achieved a fine balance,
with delicate nuances, in “My
Love Must Dwell in a Northern
Land,” while the Sydney Male
Choir gave a good weight and
precision to “The Herald” and
“The Wanderer.” Another sur-
prise was the big improvement
demonstrated by the Phyllis
MacDonald Chamber Orchestra
in pieces by Byrd, Purcell and
Vivaldi.


dfg
BOARD OF DIRECTORS t
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) 5 Sir Lennon Rawa,
C B B.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.j G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Managers W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
~.,1 r Ritchie. M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
FRACP* (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sit Leslie
Morshead, K.CB? K.8.E., C.M.G.. D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Managers C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Jkre you going
B®
Before going abroad it is well to consider the advantages that accrue from the appointment
of The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited as your Attorney or Agent. It
supervises business affairs and interests, remits income regularly, collects rents, dividends
and interest, prepares Land and Income Tax Returns, attends to the investment of moneys,
the payment of rates and taxes, and performs all similar services. t
Ample security is offered for the proper fulfilment of all such obligations* An interview can
be arranged to suit your convenience.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker. Ltd.
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.!
, Dividends— ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 103,911 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 2,144,041
Unexplained addition, £61,379 ..2,205,420
1945. . 149,901 30,000 12 p.e.= 90,000 29,901 2,235,321
Unexplained addition, £17,574 .. 2,252,895
1946. .188,572 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 18,5722,271,467
Subsidy adjustment, £7169 .. .. 2,278,636
Unexplained addition, £63,181 ..2,341,817
1947. 30,000 12 p.e.= 90,000 1614 2,343,431
Subsidy adjustment, £24,794 .. ~2,368,225
Unexplained reductions, £84,808 .. 2,283,417
1948. .140,315 30,000 11 p.c.=82,500 27,815 2,311,232
Unexplained additions, etc., £87,391 2,398,623
Added res. subsidiaries, £159,700 2,558,323
1949. 30,000 11 p.c.=82,500 5,133 2,563,456
Unexplained reduction, £28,104 .. 2,535,352
1950. .130,009 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 10,009 2,545,361
! After eliminating outsiders’ equity in profits and
reserves.
The co. has more invested outside the
troubled shipping industry than in it;
and of recent years it has been the outside
investments that have provided most
of the profit. The figures for the last
couple of years are arrived at in this
way;
1949. 1950.
Trading profit* .. .. £70,178 £72,441
Income from investments.. 125,859 120,306
Total £196,037 £192,747
Deduct—
Directors’ fees .. .. 1,750 1.600
Tax allowance .. .. 26,345 51,747
Contingency allowance .. 50,000 8,020
Outside interests .. .. 309 1.371
Net profit 117,633 130,009
♦After allowing for depreciation, £44,477, 1948,
£65,544, 1949, and £95,194, 1950.
The board wrote the latest profit from
trading after allowing an extra £29,650
for depreciation (£95,194) and dropping
£20,000 (nil previous term) into the in-
surance reserve. Appearances are, there-
fore, that the fleet turned in more than
was claimed for it, thanks to lifts in
controlled freight and passenger rates,
which were forced up by the steep and
continued rise in operating and other
costs. The £130,009 of profit claimed
was enough to pay the pref. div. (£30,000)
and show 13.3 p.c, on the £750,000 of
ord. capital as against 11.7, 14.7, 12.2
and 14.5 p.c. back to 1946.
Taking into the reckoning transfers to
the insurance and contingency reserves,
some of which might be genuine profit,
last year’s net result was £158,029 (down
£9604). So the lift in the div. from 11 p.c.
to 12 p.c. was probably a more com-
fortable matter than it appeared. It
should be remembered, however, that
there are reserves of £2,545,361 support-
ing and assisting the £1,250,000 of share
capital. On the two combined (share-
holders’ funds) the £158,029 was only
4.1 p.c. and the £130,009 a mere 3.4 p.c.,
both meagre returns considering the risks
involved.
The fleet consists of two passenger
vessels —Wanganella and Westralia —and
half a dozen freighters. The Wanganella
is on the trans-Tasman run, and the
Westralia this month enters the Australian
coastal trade again—she has been on
charter to the Government ferrying
troops, etc., to and from Japan, Three
of the freighters are over 30-years-old
and due for replacement, and a new 6000-
ton cargo vessel, on order from the Gov-
ernment, is being built at Brisbane. Since
the Federal Shipping Board is itself look-
ing for tonnage abroad, the co. also ex-
pects to receive permission to buy from
British yards, where capital cost per ton
is lower than in Australia. However,
there is now a shortage of shipping the
world over, and chances of an early re-
duction in the demand for tonnage are
not bright.
Drastic warnings continue to be issued
by shipping authorities as to what will
happen unless there is a substantial im-
provement in the handling of cargoes in
Australian ports. Constant stoppages and
slow working on the waterfront have so
delayed the turnround of ships that it
now takes three vessels to do the work
that two did pre-war; and now, with a
shortage of ships, the possibility of having
to ration cargoes is being spoken of. A
quicker turnround would make more
tonnage available ; it would also ease the
pressure on freight-rates (up again in
January last), which are an element of
both costs and selling-prices.
The co.’s outside investments comprise
£1,252,280 (unchanged) in Government
securities —which is the item that
catches the investor’s eye and
£1,382,718 (up £25,651) in shares and
debentures in other cos., which in-
clude Hebburn, Metropolitan and J. and
A. Brown and Abermain-Seaham, all in
the distraught coal trade, and Melbourne
Steam, Tasmanian Steamers, A.W.A. and
A.N.A.
Finances are comfortable:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* .. 428,200 53,876 54,253
Sundry creditors! 642,778 758,844 815,059
Inter-co. balances! 21,886 676
Final divs. .. 60,000 60,000 67,500
Freehold & leasehold 517,312 535,822 543,911
Ships, plant, etc. 595,583 564,681 532,190
Government bonds 1,459,270 1,252,280 1,252,280
Shares, etc. .. 1,161,811 1,357,067 1,382,718
Stores .. .. 121,718 131,220 182,355
Sundry debtors .. 855,522 843,202 822,247
Cash .. .. 2.880 2,080 1.930
Inter-co. balance! 14,542
* Includes proportion undivided profits, f Including
taxation. { Due to variation in balancing dates.
The amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., was more than covered by book
debts alone, leaving the big wad of Gov-
ernment paper (which exceeds paid
capital) available for expansion of the
co.’s interests, or for such other purpose
as the board might decide.
At 645. (58s. 9d. a year ago) the £1
ords. return 3.7 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div.
basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 28s. 9d. yield
4.1 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £7 Us. lOd. prefs. and 87s. lOd. ords.
Thirlwell and McKenzie, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends.* serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1947.. 6,709 8 p.c. = 4,508 2,201 2,201
Share exes, w/off, £1331 .. .. 870
Share premiums, £10,312 .. .. 11,182
1948.. 10,092 8 p.c. = 7,810. 2,282 13,464
Share exes, w/off, £760 .. .. 12,704
Share premiums, £18,885 .. .. 31,589
1949.. 21,595 6 p.c. = 12,247 9,348 40.937
Share exes, w/off, £4796 .. .. 36.141
1950.. 34,086 6 p.c. = 17,909 16,177 62,318
Share exes, w/off, £l5OO .. .. 50,818
* Includes divs. on £6OOO of 6 p.c. cumulative
participating prefs.
This marine- and general-engineering
and boilermaking business, which recently
branched out into the timber-and-joinery
and builders’-hardware trade, and is
interested in the distribution of Vanguard
cars, is going ahead by leaps and bounds.
Its engineering shop is on the waterfront
at Port Kembla, where it was first set up
by A. D. Thirlwell in 1928. He was
joined in 1943 by R. D. McKenzie (now
chairman and general manager), who used
to manage the Bega Electric Supply
undertaking.
First war and then the rapid industrial
expansion of the Kembla-Wollongong
area, which isn’t likely to stop growing
for some time yet, provided fresh oppor-
tunities. So, in November, 1946, the busi-
ness was converted into a public co., the
timber-and-joinery works of Waters,
Parsons and Co. having just been acquired.
Later Elweld Pty., a small building and
construction concern, was taken over, and
then another subsidiary, Iliawarra Distri-
butors, was formed to handle builders’
hardware, etc. The co. also holds a con-
trolling interest in Overall and McCray
Pty., makers of boring equipment.
Strong connections with the heavy in-
dustries at the Port, where shipping
activity is becoming livelier, too, have
ensured growth of the engineering side,
while the housing shortage has kept the
timber and building section of the busi-
ness fully occupied. So, despite sharply-
rising costs, the growth has been profit-
able as well as rapid. Including £6OOO
of 6 p.c. cum. par, prefs. (they advance
with the ords, in any distribution beyond
6 p.c.), paid capital shot up from
£80,550 at June 30, 1947, to £433,369 at
the close of last accounts, when there was
£22,631 still to come on a par issue of
150,000 £1 ords, in May, 1950.
To finance further all-round expansion,
those on the ord. register at April 20
are to be offered 225,000 new £1 ords.,
one for two, at par. When fully paid
the issue will lift capital to £681,000, on
which 6 p.c. will call for only £6774 more
profit than was claimed last term, and there
will be 50 p.c. more ord. capital at work.
The ords., which had dropped to 255. 6d.
in the market in 1950, fetched 38s. 6d.
last week. After exercising the rights to
the new issue and allowing for brokerage,
the net price at 38s. 6d. is 325. 6d., giving
an immediate return of 3.7 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. Theoretical value of
the rights is 12s. 6d. Net tangible cover
is 21s. 6d. The market expects further
issues of new scrip in the future and/or
a lift in the div., both of which are possi-
bilities.
Last term’s £34,086 (up £12,491) of
profit was equal to 11.4 p.c. on average
capital (pref, and ord. combined), as
against 10.6 p.c. and 10.3 p.c. for the
two preceding years. The board, which
is pursuing a cautious financial policy,
dropped the div. from 8 p.c. for the two
years to 1948 to 6 p.c. for the two years
to the close of last accounts, and an
interim at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. has been
paid for the current term. The £50,818
of reserves isn’t a very stout prop for
capital; but the co. hasn’t yet had a
chance to accumulate much fat.
The co. is trading well within its own
resources, and expansion of its activities
appears to be well balanced;
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £80,550 £135,913 £283,175 £433,369
Overdraft .. 10,000 16,455 15,271 6.509
Creditors, etc. 6,687 9,741 26,657 40.005
Pinal div. .. 3,128 4,340 7,358 9.180
Land & bldgs. 10,566 48,446 71,751 89.415
Plant, etc. .. 21,054 88,876 69,083 114.781
Shares subsids. 8,300 3,300 19,967 28.807
Stocks .. 40,090 49,842 112,639 187.526
Book debts .. 24,706 38,689 65,162 119.352
Cash, etc. .. 1,519 31,280 30,000
Last term’s £150,194 of fresh capital,
together with an extra £13,348 from
creditors, etc., and more besides, went
into land and buildings (up £17,664),
plant, etc. (up £45,698), shares in sub-
sidiaries (up £8840), stocks (up £74,887)
and book debts (up £54,190). The im-
provement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£279,991) was £101,509.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 11,533 2.80 p.c. = 10,815 718 59,826
1942.. 22,129 4.70 „ „ 18,024 4,105 63,931
1943.. 25,788 6.02 „ „ 23,431 2,357 66,288
1944.. 26,215 6.02 „ „ 23,431 2,784 69,072
From bad debts provision, £55,932 .. 125,004
1945.. 23,907 6.02 p.c. = 23,431 476 125,480
Profit on property resumed, £2992 .. 128,472
1946.. 35,307 8.80 p.c. = 34,246 1,061 129,533
1947.. 63,454 11.10 43,258 I lg 6 184>729
To cont cies prov’n, £15,000 )
1948 52,781 11.10 p c. = 43,258 1 2 „ 628 164)252
From cont’c’s prov’n, £20,000 )
1949.. 55,661 11.1 p.c. = 43,258 12,403 176,655
1950.. 77,437 11.1 „ ~48,672 28,765 205,420
To doubtful debts, £6757 .. .. 198,663
Announcement of simultaneous bonus
and cash share-issues to those on the
register at April 28 surprised the market,
and the price of the f.-p. 18s. shares,
which had advanced from 30s. 9d. a year
ago to 365. early in March, rose sharply
to 41s. 9d. First a bonus dividend of 2s.
a share is to be applied to raising the
paid-up value of the scrip to 20s. per
share. Then 103,845 bonus shares of £1
each are to be handed out, one for five,
and at the same time a like number of
new £1 shares are to be offered, one for
five, at par. So, after exercising the rights
to both issues and allowing for brokerage,
the net price at 41s. 9d. is 325. lOd.
The question now arises as to what rate
of dividend will be paid on the increased
capital. On the basis of last published
figures, appearances are that the 2s. per
share (11.1 p.c. on the old 18s.-paid scrip,
or 10 p.c. on the new £1 shares) can be
maintained with a reasonable margin.
And 10 p.c. would be equal to 12.7 p.c.
on the increased capital less the bonus
element. The return at 325. lOd. would
be 6.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, and,
again on last published figures, net tan-
gible cover would be 21s. per £1 share.
At Oct. 31, 1950, paid capital stood
at £461,108 in 512,342 shares of 18s.
each. The bonus div. (£51,234), bonus
shares (£103,845) and cash issue
(£103,845), together with scrip (£6883)
issued, or to be issued, in exchange for
the remaining shares on G. J. Grice, Ltd.,
will lift paid capital to £726,915. On that
figure 10 p.c. would call for £72,691, or
£10,239 less than the combined net earn-
ings of the Paling and Grice businesses
(£82,930, after reserving £8507 for pro-
tection of h.-p. accounts). And the fresh
cash-paid capital can be expected to con-
tribute its quota to the pool, too.
The co., which also sells refrigerators,
vacuum-cleaners and radios, is one of the
oldest music houses in Australia, the
foundations being laid by W. H. Paling
nearly a century ago ; and some attractive
returns were won before the advent of
sound-films and the wireless. For four
years after the public became interested
in 1934 divs. averaged 3.8 p.c. The next
three years, a period of reorganisation,
were dry ones, which were followed by
divs. averaging 5.7 p.c. for the six years
to 1946, and then a regular 11.1 p.c. for
the four years to the close of last accounts.
The large cash balance, etc., accumulated
during the half-dormant conditions which
war brought to the trade, enabled the
management to take prompt advantage
of the inflationary post-war revival and
the coming of “live” music into its own
again.
During the year the co. bought out its
Queensland competitor, G. J. Grice, Ltd.
(net tangibles £78,761) for £78,770 (in
scrip), of which £6883 remained to be
paid when the books closed. Grice’s
nrofit for the year to June 30, 1950, was
£14,000 (17.7 p.c. on purchase-price), of
which £1750 was reserves against h.-p.
contingencies and £11,038 was paid in
divs. to old shareholders. The balance
was carried forward. Paling’s own p.
and 1. figures received no benefit from
the Grice deal, but should do so at next
balance.
Paling’s profit was £21,776 stronger at
£77,437 (including £6757 reserved against
h.-p. balances), thanks to all-round
expansion of business, especially in
Queensland, where the co. has four
branches as against five in N. S. Wales.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a buoyant turnover, but costs
remain on the up-grade and th * tax
burden is likely to increase.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the livelier
trading as well as the Grice deal:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1«0.
Paid capital.. £389,321 £389,321 £389,321 £461,108
Overdraft .. iiiraq
Creditors .. 78.420 82,468 89,597 111.809
Tax provision 66,497 37,729 39,289 oc’ecm
Final div. .. 43.258 43,258 43,258 26.690
Freeholds .. 133,599 133,599 136,735 136.735
Plant . . 15.784 16,310 20,878 20.450
Stocks . . 119.140 188,397 240,548 390,384
Debtors - . 153,931 181,944 238,739 282.176
Shares subsid.* 502 502 502 73.048
Cash, bonds,
etc. .. 289,261 196,276 100,718 13.719
* Includes advance £489, 1950.
To carry an extra £149,836 of stocks
(overseas supplies came forward in better
volume) and add £43,437 to debtors
balances the co. went to its bankers for
£66,422, increased the amount coming
to sundry creditors by £22,212 and drew
upon cash, etc., for £86,999. Debtors
balances are mainly h.-p. accounts, and
are shown after deducting a reserve of
£25,000 for doubtful debts.


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
fg
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices}
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
df
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camper clown, Sydney, N.S.W.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
01
2£
For Sale.
COUNTRY PROPERTIES.
FINE HISTORIC BEACH
PROPERTY FOR SALE.
Historic Twofold Bay.
mi. private beach frontage, 600 ac.
(400 timbered), right on main Princes
Highway; ideally suited for tourist, guest
or hotel business, or institution: beautiful
beach, boating, shooting and holiday at-
tractions. Main bldg. (34r.) has 10 self-
contained flats with bedrooms upstairs,
all furnished; S separate sr. solid (new)
cottages ; tennis court, orchard, car ramp,
teleph. exch.; ample tank and well water
supply; own el. lighting plant; visited
daily by tourist buses, handy to reg. sup-
plies from Eden and Bega.
Details and order to view—
L. C. COOKE, 395 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Tender*.
TENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
Shortland Islands Plantations Ltd., Box
543, G.P.0., Sydney, are invited and will
be received up to Noon, Tuesday, July 3,
1951, for the purchase of—
LOFUNG COCONUT PLANTATION.
Situated in the Shortland Islands (British
Sc/ 'non Islands).
An..-approximately 1753 acres.
Tenure —Freehold.
This property sustained some damage
during the late war, but the pre-war
planted area of 1063 acres yielded an
average of 450 tons.
VIRGIN LAND—SHORTLAND
ISLANDS.
Situated in the Shortland Islands (British
Solomon Islands).
Area —approximately 12,500 acres.
Tenure—Freehold.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Terms with suitable guarantee
will be considered. Transfers subject to
approval of Resident Commissioner.
Further particulars will be made available
on application.
TENDERS addressed to the Liquidator,
Solomon Islands Development Co. Ltd. (In
Liq.), Box 543, Q.P.0., Sydney, are invited
and will be received up to Noon, Tuesday,
July 3, 1951, for the purchase of the
following coconut plantation properties
situated in the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate; —
BERANDE.
Situated on the North Coast of Guadal-
canal.
Area —approximately 2000 acres.
Tenure —Freehold.
The pre-war output from the developed
area of about 845 acres was about 250
tons per annum, and 122 acres were
planted with rubber.
MANNING STRAITS.
Situated on a number of Islands between
Ysabel and Choiseul Islands.
Area —approximately 5000 acres.
Tenuye—Leasehold—99 years from
1/6/1904.
The pre-war output from the development
area of approximately 1248 acres was
about 180 tons per annum.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Terms with suitable guarantee
will be considered. Transfers subject to
approval of Resident Commissioner.
Further particulars will be made avail-
able on application.
Tenders.
TENDERS addressed to Burns, Philo &
CO., Ltd., South Sea Department, 7 Bridge
Street, Sydney, are invited and will be re-
ceived up to Noon, Tuesday, July 3, 1951,
for the purchase of the following coco-
nut plantation properties situated in the
British Solomon Islands Protectorate: —
KEPIAI.
Situated about 2 miles west of Faisi on
Shortland Island.
Comprises 640 acres Freehold and 325
acres Leasehold—99 years from 1/1/1913.
The pre-war output from the developed
area of about 540 acres was about 80
tons per annum.
KINDAB.
Situated at Hathom Sound at end nearest
Diamond Narrows.
Comprises 1680 acres Freehold, including
the small Island of Baraki.
The pre-war output from the developed
area of about 769 acres was about 125
tons per annum.
SIMBIEANDF.
Situated on the Island of Vella Lavella,
Comprises 547 acres Freehold, partly de-
veloped.
The pre-war output from this property was
about 20 tons per annum.
KIAE POINT.
Situated on the Island of Gononga.
Comprises two Crown Leases each 640
acres—99 years from 1912.
One lease partly developed, the pre-war
output from which was about 70 tons.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Terms with suitable guarantee
will be considered. Transfers subject to
approval of Resident Commissioner.
Further particulars will be made avail-
able on application.
&
m
p
Achievements of an Industry
Genius for Invention is inherent in the English
P eople. In a previous series of announce-
ments—“ Ancestors of an Industry ” —1.C.1.
told the story of Britains’ Scientific pioneers
from A.D. 1144. The present series is designed
to describe some recent British chemical
achievements, many of which have been the
the genesis of new products and processes
which have given fresh vigour to the nation’s
industry.
Such achievements have been sometimes the
brilliant discoveries of inspired individuals,
but are more often the work of teams of
research chemists co-operating on a given task
and working to a set plan. The announce-
ments in this series are proof if proof
were needed—that the British
spirit of initiative and enterprise
is still alive.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
iei
■U-A-U'
Let these owners
tell you about
VAUXHALL
Read the extracts below
from just a few of the
letters from enthusiastic
Vauxhall owners. These
actual experiences compare
more than favourably with
our Vauxhall advertising
claims.
gdf
Top speed
Petrol consumption
. ... Velox
Petrol consumption
L Wyvern
op gear performance
Cruising speed
Reliability
Mr. J. D. Brown, Dunleath, S.A. says “ . , .
travelling sometimes at over 80 m.p.h.... just as
easy to handle as at lower speeds.”
(We claimed that the Velox has a top speed of
75 m.pj i.)
Mr. R. F. Tilley, Glen Iris, Vic., says **... I had
my wife . . . three boys . . . luggage ... at 40
m.p.h. ... I got 31 m.p.g.”
(We claimed that Velox will give 28 m.p.g . ot
around 30 m.p.h.)
Rev. K. F. Evans, Murwillumbah, N.S.W., says
“ . . . tour of over 1,000 miles in my Vauxhall
Sedan which averaged 41.9 m.p.g.”
(We said Wyvern will give 33-35 m.p.g. at around
30 m.p.h.)
Mr. F. J. Cooke, Wollongong, N.S.W., says
“ —I .. . have negotiated Bulli Pass on top
gear ... a grade of one in six ...”
(We said that Velox is a true top-gear car.)
Mr. V. R. Wallin, North Arm, Q’ld., says “ —five
of us did a trip of 300 miles ... most of the way
at between 45 to SO m.p.h.”
(We claimed that Wyvern will cruise all day at
50 m.p.h.)
Mr. M. C. Johnson, Bundaberg, Q’ld., says
“ —covered 85,000 miles . . . run covers 123
miles daily... 100 stops and starts...”
(We stressed Vauxhall reliability.)
WYVERN
12 h.p. f 4 cyl. O.H.V.
Lowest priced 12 h.p.
car fa Australia,
VELOX
18 h.p. 6 cyl. O.H.V.
Lowest priced 6 cyl. Sal-
oon or Tourer In Australia
Enquire about the “Air Chief” built-for-Vauxhall radio
also the convenient G.M.A.C. Purchase Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE . SYDNEY - MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE - PERTH
or buy from your local authorised dealer
m
■
Tableland Tin Dredging, Ltd.
The co., whose Return Creek
leases (N.Q.) will be worked out
about 18 months hence, has
taken over a new area on Smith’s
Creek, some six miles away,
from Alluvial Prospectors, Ltd.,
on a profit-sharing basis. The
first £50,000 of each year’s profit
from the new area is to be re-
tained by Tableland, which also
takes 85 p.c. of the remaining
profit; the other 15 p.c. is to go
to Alluvial Prospectors. The new
area, bored and check-bored,
contains 50,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing 11.460 z. t.o. per yard, and
it is expected to recover 80 p.c.
of bore values. When it has
finished with the Return Creek
area,, the dredge is to be dis-
mantled and transferred to the
new ground, to which electric-
power and water are to be re-
ticulated.
For the year to June 30,
1950, the co. treated 4,487,000
c.y. of 4.70 z. ground at an
average working cost of 8,96 d.
per yard. Profit for the year
was £72,070, of which an all-
round 8 p.c. div. took £35,200.
The locally-controlled price of
tin was increased from Ills, to
131 s. per unit in Jan., 1950, and
was further increased to 148 s. in
Sept, and to 168 s. in Dec, last.
Paid capital is £326,000 in
80,000 8 p.c. cum. par. prefs.
and 240,000 ords., all of £1 each,
and 120,000 Is. deferred shares.
The market prices the prefs. at
255. and the ords. at par, or
thereabouts.
“Cowhide Kibble”: Because
of a breakdown, Blue Spec’s
mill (W.A.) ran only eight days
during February, resulting in
a working loss of £lBl6 for
the month. Milling re-
sumed on March 6, the
net loss of time being nearly a
month. The breakdown, follow-
ing on previous unfortunate hap-
penings, has about put the lid on
shareholders’ patience, and it is
expected that there will be keen
discussion at the next meeting.
There is a strong feeling that if
antimony really is a defence
metal instead of being a metal-
lurgical nuisance, then the
conduct of affairs should, by
special arrangement, be placed
in the hands of one of the three
big Broken Hill cos. or Western
Mining Corp. These cos. are not
only Australia-minded but are
equipped with trained man-
power and spare plant, and have
a reputation for seeing a job
through. There is a growing
fear that history on the Blue
Spec will repeat itself, unless the
causes of the previous financial
disasters are countered in time.
The least that shareholders are
likely to ask is that an officer of
one of these cos. report to them
on the whole position,
* * * ♦
Lake View and Star (W.A.)
has taken over Wiluna Gold
Mines’ one-third interest in the
Porphyry goldmine at an un-
stated figure, making its total
interest two-thirds, the remaining
third being held by Moonlight
Wiluna. The Porphyry is about
90 miles n.-e. of Kalgoorlie, on
the North Coolgardie field, and
drilling has disclosed a flat-
lying ore-body conservatively
estimated to contain 750,000
tons of ore, averaging 4dwt. gold
per ton. Owing to difficulty in
obtaining labor, the property is
on a care-and-maintenance basis
at the moment. Because rising
costs. Lake View’s f.-p. 4s.
shares have eased from 295. to
275. in the Adelaide market over
the last three months.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
A new co., jointly owned by
8.H.P., Cresco Fertiliser,
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertiliser
and Adelaide Chemical and
Fertiliser, is to be formed with
a nominal capital of £200,000 to
work the big pyrite deposit at
Naime, Mt. Barker district (S.
Aus.), An annual throughput
of 360,000 tons ore, mined by
open-cut and concentrated to
about 40 p.c. sulphur content, is
expected to yield approximately
30,000 tons sulphur.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The grounds of the Victorian School
for Deaf Children, St. Kilda-road, was
the setting for the All Nations Fair,
organised by the International Club.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, president of the
club, introduced Sir John Latham. The
Minister of Immigration, Harold Holt,
was on hand to give a vote of thanks.
This was the first fair ever held by the
club, and people of 18 nations arranged
stalls fof the sale of products and foods
of their former countries. National
costumes added color to the scene. At the
Polish stall unusual herring-salad served
with dressing was prepared for buyers
as they waited. The French stall was
of course notable for the food it served,
whilst nationals from Rumania made a
barbecue, which was a replica of a street-
corner in a Rumanian town. Sweets and
savory dishes were dispensed at the stall
staffed by Czechoslovakians, and they
also sold attractive dolls dressed in
national costume. In the evening Mr.
Nicos Dimitracopoulos, who recently
produced “Antigone” in modern Greek
at the Union Theatre, presented “Aus-
tralian Saga,” in which 150 players took
part. Proceeds from the fair will aid the
International Club of Victoria to further
its work among New Australians. A
donation will also help along the work
of the Victorian School for Deaf
Children.
Fifty years of married life was cele-
brated by Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Rigby
at a late-afternoon
party to which
they invited 500
guests. Masses of
flowers and
greenery filled the
foyer of the Haw-
thorn Town Hall,
while around the
walls of the ball-
room hung many
pictures of Aus-
tralian artists. The
bridesmaid and
groomsman who
attended Mr. and
Mrs. Rigby at
their wedding,
Mrs. Ada Rowed
and Mr. W. H.
Whiting, sister and
brother of Mrs.
Rigby, were in
attendance and
helped to receive
guests. Mr.
Rigby is a well-known lawyer, and was
a member of the Law Institute Council
for 50 years, is a lay canon of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, a position he has held for 35
years, and was a former vice-chairman
of the A.B.C. He was also three times
Mayor of Hawthorn. His wife has also
had a long career in charity work. She
is a life-governor of the Alfred, the
Women’s and Children’s Hospitals, and
in 1914 founded the Hawthorn branch
of the Red Cross. For many years Mrs.
Rigby was a member of the Red Cross
Central Council; and the Seamen’s
Mission and the Ministering Children’s
League are among the other charities she
has assisted.
Receiving her guests, Mrs. Rigby
wore a platinum - and - lilac shot-
silk gown with Swiss lace collar and
cuffs, and a matching velour-and-velvet
hat. The guest-list was an imposing one.
The Chief Justice of the High Court,
Sir John Latham (who proposed the toast
of Mr. and Mrs. Rigby), and Lady
Latham were present, also the Lord
Mayor, Sir James Disney. The president
of the Legislative Council, Sir Clifden
Eager, was accompanied by Lady Eager.
With Archbishop J. J. Booth was Mrs.
Booth, whilst Mrs, Archie Michaelis
accompanied her husband, the Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly.
Among other guests who extended their
good wishes were Prof, and Mrs. W. Agar,
the latter wearing a beige jacket-suit and
a matching straw hat trimmed with beige-
and-blue satin ribbon; Mrs. Guy Bake-
well, in beige suit and hat worn with a
leopardskin stole and matching muff;
Sir George and Lady Wales, she in dyed-
ermine coat, black frock and small black
hat; Mrs. E. Billson, whose French-blue
wool-crepe frock was worn with a match-
ing satin hat finished with a pearl-
trimmed veil; Mrs. A. Adams, wearing
a beige fox bolero over a deep-henna
suit; Mrs. Stanley Langdon, her black-
crepe-and-lace ensemble topped with a
tiny black cloche hat; and Mrs. Andrew
Lyell, whose frock was of emerald-green
corded velvet, her beret brown.
Newly-engaged and planning to marry
during the year are Elizabeth Syme and
Graham Mclntosh. Elizabeth is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Dennis,
of Nambrok, Graham the only son of
the James M. Mclntoshes, of Boorganna,
Nar-Nar-Goon.
When the French-Australian Associa-
tion, with the Alliance Fran?aise and
French Chamber of Commerce, gave a
party to farewell M. R. Loubere, the
French community was well represented.
M. Loubere is returning shortly to
France. The party was given at the
rooms of the Business and Professional
Women’s Club in McEwan House.
At her marriage to Mr. John Ernest
Hosken, which was celebrated at St.
Mark’s Church of England, Camberwell,
Joyce Pedley wore a pearl slipper-satin
dress with a pearl-tinted tulle veil cascad-
ing from a Juliet cap. The bride, who is
an English girl, was attended by June
Hosken and Rosemary Hosken. The
bridegroom is the elder son of Cr. and
Mrs. C. E, Hosken, of Merlynston.
With the decision of Dora and
Gerhardt Willner to settle in Melbourne
this country acquired a man-and-wife
musical team of high international stand-
ing. Dora is a gifted lyric soprano whose
lieder work puts her in the same class as
Lotte Lehmann. Studying in her native
Vienna, she first appeared as soloist in
that city under the conductorship of
Bruno Walter, after which she did exten-
sive concert work throughout Central
Europe. When Hitler’s Anschluss came she
and her husband, a fine Schnabel-trained
pianist who includes in his repertoire the
32 Beethoven sonatas, decided to go, and
made their home for the next 14 years
in Cairo. There and throughout the
Middle East during the war they gave
over 400 concerts for British troops,
which earned them British nationality.
After a highly-successful tour of N.Z.
they came to Australia ; lecture recitals
at the Adelaide Conservatorium and at
the Queensland Summer School of
Music followed. It was Nancy Weir,
whom they met in Cairo, who first got
them interested in Australia, and they
have taken to it, its people and its
customs like ducks to water. In addi-
tion to the giving of joint recitals, some
devoted entirely to the works of one com-
poser (often Schubert, a favorite with
both), and broadcasting work, the pair
are now passing on to young Australians
the high art that is theirs.
Mrs. Frank Tait convened a meeting in
the foyer of the Comedy Theatre, at
which it was decided to hold a Mother’s
Day gala concert on May 19, all proceeds
from which will be donated to the
Women’s Hospital appeal. The urgent
need for the success of the appeal was
stressed by both the president of the
hospital, Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot, and the
chairman of the appeal, Lieut.-Col. F. G.
Sutton. Among famous theatrical names
which Mrs. Tait hopes to see on the pro-
gramme are Madge Elliott and Cyril
Ritchard and Evelyn Laye, British star
of stage and screen. Madge and Cyril
will be on a private visit to Sydney, and
Mrs. Tait hopes to persuade them to fly
over for the performance. Mrs. Tait
announced to the meeting that artists
already approached had promised their
support. These include Franquin, who
will come from Adelaide, Gladys
Moncrieff, Jack Davey and members of
the “Brigadoon” cast. The concert will
be at the Melbourne Town Hall, and
entrance will be by donation. Duties of
secretary and treasurer were accepted by
Messrs. Tom Mitchell and M. Greig, of
J. C. Williamson’s. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
agreed to deal with the front-of-the-house
arrangements. Invitations may be
obtained through Mrs, lan Potter
(Win. 2134), Mrs. J. Francis (WA3296)
and Mrs. Bruce Rose (LA9762).
From Sydney
Seeing off people who are leaving for
the Continent has been one of the chief
occupations of the week, the seers-off
being mostly dejected that they weren’t
going, too. Apparently the shows and
the sunshine in town at present are not
enough to compensate for the blackouts.
The C. M. Crofts (Mr. Croft, Canadian
Trade Counsellor, is also at present
Acting High Commissioner) gave a large
party to introduce Commodore Pullen
and officers of H.M.C.S. Ontario to the
Canadian community in Sydney and
other citizens on Tuesday evening of last
week, The 250 guests spread over the
Crofts’ Elizabeth Bay lawn ; the evening
was balmy, and it was a pleasant adven-
ture finding one’s friends in the dusk.
The Roy Millers, the Bruce Rankins (ex-
Navy himself, Bruce is at present one
of the walking wounded with a broken
big-toe, received in a badminton game),
and the Roy McMorrans helped the
Crofts in introducing the visitors.
Diplomats and Ministers were fully repre-
sentative. As is usual at 36 Billyard-
avenue, it was a most enjoyable party.
It is very pleasant to spend an evening
with Sydney’s Canadians.
The cruiser returned the hospitality it
has been receiving with a reception on
Thursday evening. One felt really
important as one stepped aboard to a
welcome of stiff salutes. The quarter-
deck was crowded with guests, the band
played, and a very cosy atmosphere soon
developed in spite of the chilly wind
blowing down the harbor. Officers and
men say they have been given a
marvellous time in Sydney, which is good
to hear. One much-travelled commander
—he hails from Saskatoon —expressed
the view that in Australia he had dis-
covered a new kind of people.
Although it is gratifying that the Inde-
pendent Theatre chose a play about a
distinguished woman for their Jubilee
effort, one couldn’t help feeling on the
opening night that the subject, Caroline
Chisholm, hadn’t been given as much care
and thought as she deserved. As in most
productions about the Victorian era, the
characters all spoke with a stilted, prim
diction, sounding every consonant pre-
cisely, accenting every auxiliary verb.
Actually, the early Victorians spoke with
a slight drawl and it was fashionable to
slur syllables together. Thus “Caroline”
was pronounced “Cahline,” carriage was
“carge,” baron was “barn,” etc. In this
matter, as much as in the management of
their crinolines, the players were woefully
at sea.
Caroline Chisholm, who worked on
behalf of immigrant girls, was an unusual
product for early-Victorian times, when
it was written by Miss Mary Clarke (a
friend of F. Nightingale’s in her youth)
“I can’t abide women. Why don’t they
talk about interesting things? Why don’t
they use their brains? My dear, they
have no manners. I can’t abide them in
my drawing-room. What with their shy-
ness and their inability to hold their
tongues, they ain’t fit for decent society.”
Perhaps it was this very attitude that
caused Florence Nightingale and Caroline
Chisholm to revolt.
Mrs. Raymond Sayre, president of the
Associated Country Women of the
World (an organisation that has 6,000,000
members), arrived in Sydney on Saturday
night and took wing again for Tasmania
on Sunday morning. Before she returns
to Our Town for the conference on
May 1 she will have visited South Aus-
tralia and Perth. Mrs. Sayre, who could
rightly be addressed as “Doctor,” for
she has an honorary degree in law from
the Simpson College, lowa, is of short,
square build and has the alert, keen
countenance of the best type of American
committeewoman. She must have been
tired out after her trip on Saturday night,
yet she answered all questions at the
Press conference with precision and
courtesy. Although she was not brought
up in the country, she says she “married
the farm in lowa where they raise corn
and hogs and Hereford cattle.” In her
work for the country women of the world
she has travelled more miles than she
cares to count up (always by plane). On
this trip she is the guest of the C.W.A.
and the Commonwealth Government.
Mrs. Sayre has many messages for the
country women of Australia, the chief of
which is that all women must learn to
think internationally. There is no easy
road to peace, she says. We must get at
the causes of things, recognise the prob-
lems of people all over the world, realise
that their welfare is linked with ours and
train leaders to help raise the standard of
living, not only in our own country but
everywhere.
Both the Musical Association and the
Arts Council gave parties for the Griller
Quartet during the week. At the M.A.
Mr. Griller—who is a very lively con-
versationalist, by the way—said that never
in their 23 years of touring had they
had things “laid on” so well for them as
they have had in Australia. “If we
behave ourselves,” he went on, “there
seems no reason why this shouldn’t con-
tinue.” At the Arts Council party they
were welcomed by Miss Dorothy Helm-
rich and by about 60 guests, who included
Lady Anderson, Sir Angus Gillan, Mr.
Justice Nicholas, Mrs. Charles Moses and
Miss Kathleen Dempsey.
This Quartet has given Sydney music-
lovers some exquisite music to listen to,
and some which was —well, interesting.
The person who started clapping so
vigorously before the last note of the
Bartok Quartet in A Minor had died
away must have known all about it, but
to the more untutored ear of this Letter
it sounded like concentration-camp music,
transporting one, not to a seventh heaven,
but to Siberia,
It is interesting to see how many paint-
ings by women there are in the Con-
temporary Group’s exhibition at Farmer’s
Blaxland Galleries. When Mr. P. C.
Spender opened the show last vyeek lots
of them came along, including Alison
Rehfisch, Enid Cambridge, Treania Smith
and Thea Proctor, who is still one of
Sydney’s most distinguished - looking
women. The gathering was very well-
dressed on the whole ; apparently the day
of the Bohemian artists, of the slacks and
smocks and sloppy-joes has gone. Many
people came on from Sali Herman’s ex-
hibition. This had been opened at David
Jones’ Gallery by Mrs. Pierre Mann. The
retail stores are certainly doing their share
in showing works of art these days, which
proves either that they are very civic-
minded, or that there is enough interest
in art to make it worth their while. Either
way it seems to be a good thing.
When you see the name “T. F. Kirkby”
on the Senate voting-paper, recognise it
as Mrs. Thelma Kirkby, whose picture
this is. Mrs. Kirkby, a woman of vigor,
intelligence and vitality, has been en-
dorsed by the Country party, for whom
she contested the Dubbo seat in the 1947
State elections. She holds that the defeat
of Communism should be the chief of
women’s interests today, for Communism
threatens all that women are most
interested in, that is most important to
them —the standard of HVing, the family
life. Thus, she says, the anti-
communists on the Senate must be strong
and numerous, so that her election, along
with others of the Country party, is essen-
tial to the breaking of the deadlock which
existed in the last Parliament. N.S.W.
has never had a woman Senator before,
so if Mrs. Kirkby is elected she will make
history. Photo by Audio Visual.
The Anzac Eve Festival is being revived
this year after a silence of 10 years. It
will be held in the Great Hall of the
University on the 24th of this month
when Faunce Allman will conduct the
University Music Society in the Bach
Cantata “The Lord Is a Sun and Shield,
and Dorothy Dowley’s “Anzac
Threnody” (the winning song entry) will
be sung. Doris Fitton will produce the
one-act play “Dawn Service,” and there
will be several other appropriate numbers,
including verse.-speaking by school-
children. The tickets are ss. and 3s. cox
plan at Paling’s.
Soprano Joan Sutherland, who leaves
shortly for further study overseas, will
be the feature artist at a concert at the
Town Hall next Friday. Joan won both
the Sun Aria contest and the Mobil Quest
last year, and critics say that she may
well become one of Australia s r ?\ os
famous singers. The concert on Friday
night is for her benefit, and there will
numerous assisting artists.


m
sss
GP
ed
stopP
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1888.
y
♦
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY., ltd..
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
John Field seems to be followin
closely in the footsteps of John Monas
Like that great Australian, a schola
engineer and soldier, he was appointee
to the State Electricity Commission :
Victoria (1946). Now he has been give
the important post of general-superin
tendent at Yalloum, where the commi
sion’s biggest developmental projects ar
in progress—they were started by Joh
Monash. His job will be enormous, bi
he had big jobs in the war. His wor
as an administrator gained him a C.8.l
and D. 5.0., and when hostilities stopper
he was made Co-ordinator of Demobili
ation. Before the war Field worked wit
Thompson’s of Castlemaine, and later wa
a member of the science and engineerin
faculty at the University of Tasmania.
Successor to G. P, N. Watt as secretary
to the Commonwealth Treasury, Rolanc
Wilson was Commonwealth Statistician a
32, and, besides being a surprise to thos
who thought statistical beings came onl
in long beards, was a Tasmanian Rhode
Scholar in 1925. He left the U.S. in 1930
Doctor of Philosophy of both Oxforc
and Chicago, to lecture at Tassie’s Uni
versity before joining the Commonwealt]
service, economist to the Department o
Statistics. In 1936 he followed McPhee
(also a Taswegian) as statistician. Wa
II made him the first secretary of th
Department of Labor and Nationa
Service ; out of office he likes hammerinj
nails and making metal castings.
tt Jo hn L. Spooner, the author of the
Spooner” house, who has just signed
£4,000,000 contract to deliver 2000
prefabs to Australia, didn’t even blink
when Premier McDonald dropped his
bombshell anent Melbourne’s 1956
Olympic Games. He promptly said he
was prepared to build a complete Olympic
village within two years, and would ship
out materials and men to do it, without
affecting Australia’s home-building one
iota. After the sportsmen had departec
the village could remain, like many he
has built in England, as eventide homes
for the aged. Sport is one of Spooner’s
other interests. He is president of the
North British Boxing Association, anc
he refereed at the last Olympic Games
in London.
Another British medico who has
migrated to Australia because he resents
the regimentation of socialised medicine
is Dr. W. Hutchinson, a Scot, who worked
his passage as assistant-surgeon of the
Otranto. He has practised under
variety of Administrations since he lefi
the medical school at Edinburgh Uni-
versity. He served in Sarawak and Siam
and was 12 years with the Indian Army.
“Exdig”: Judge B. V. Stacey, now
adorning the N.S.W. Bench, was Von
Stacey or simply “Von” to Great War
Diggers of the Ist Battalion, which he
commanded in 1917. Vandeleur is his
real second-name; the Von was intended
as a compliment to his punctiliousness
and has bandbox appearance. Von never
failed to visit his front-line strong-points :
his appearance at an advanced possie
when the fur was flying was often start-
ling to Diggers who wondered how he
came through the death-laden murk
unhurt. His runners were not particularly
happy about his contempt for chance
shells and machine-gun bursts or his habit
of staying above a trench position to ask
his questions instead of “hopping in for
cover” ; they had to share the exposure
with him. But Von got a shock himself
one night. We had been suffering a
match shortage following the loss of
canteens and Red Cross depots in the
German breakthrough. Reaching our
post. Von was challenged by the sentry,
and when he had given the password
was staggered by the sentry’s “Advance,
friend, and give us a match.” Demanding
the reason for this departure from
routine, Von learnt about the intensity
of our shortage. Two boxes of matches
arrived with the next rations.
The expression of tense concentration
caught here by Dubois is typical, whether
at rehearsal or on the concert-platform,
of Sidney Griller, leader of the String
Quartet which bears his name, and which
is now under the A.B.C. banner, giving
Australian audiences a taste of its
quality. With his three companions—
Jack O’Brien, second fiddle; Philip
Burton, violist; and Colin Hampton,
’cellist —Griller formed the quartet back
in 1930. Making their home in an
abandoned railway carriage at an English
STRINGS.
south-coast beach, they rehearsed all day
and half the night. By the time they’d
battled their way out of the depresh they
had established a reputation, toured
Europe and the U.S.A.; thereafter they
never looked back. Still together after
21 years, the ensemble makes music all
over the world. When war began, still
as a group, they joined the R.A.F.,
became its official string quartet and
thereafter almost played themselves into
the ground in camps all over England—
they even got as far as Potsdam for the
big conference, where the music they dis-
pensed even soothed, it is claimed, Joe’s
savage breast. The four are collectors
of instruments —Amatis, Strads and
Guarnieriuses are laid on —but only two
became collectors of wives (one each):
Sid Griller and Colin Hampton; each
has a brace in the quiver.
Retiring as Director of the Speck’s
three R’s, C. E. B. Fletcher. Born in
Brisbane and educated in N.S.W., he
taught for 13 years in the Ma State
before his appointment in 1918 as in-
spector of Tasmanian high schools. He
became Secretary of Education in 1940
and Director in 1945. During his term
area schools jumped from 13 to 27, and
school-leaving age was raised from 14 to
16. In 1936 Fletcher inspected American
and Canadian schools by invitation from
the Carnegie Trust, and last year he
represented Australia at the U.N.E.S.C.O.
conference at Florence. Keeps his body
in trim with bowls and his brain with
chess.
“Doric”: In London a short time ago
I saw “The King’s Rhapsody,” the
current hit of Ivor Novello, who recently
died at the height of its success. In-
cluded in the cast were Zena and Phyllis
Dare, whom I remember as picture-
postcard beauties when I was a kid. They
all gave excellent performances, and the
theatre was booked out for months
ahead, notwithstanding some reference to
it as “The Has-Beens Opera.” If that is
the standard, London is running plenty
of other shows in which the starring roles
are taken by younger people who come
under the heading of “Never-Will-Bes.”
Simon Barere’s exit from life was as
dramatic as could have been invented by
a novelist —while playing the Grieg
Concerto with the Philadelphia Orchestra
at New York’s Carnegie Hall he keeled
over and died. The pianist, who was 56,
toured Australia four years ago. De-
clining to be temperamental or vulgarly
spectacular, or to adopt cheap publicity
stunts such as changing his entire raiment
at the interval, he drew poor houses
where pianists of lesser merit stacked
them in, yet his was the very rare in-
stance of an artist living up to his im-
presario’s claims. With the exception of
Schnabel, Barere was probably the
greatest pianist Australia has heard in
the past 30 years. Those who heard him
will recall the combination of bell-like
clarity and tremendous speed with which
he played Balakirev’s “Islamay,” perhaps
the most difficult work ever written for
the keyboard, and which only the
greatest players attempt. Short and
rotund, Barere had hands the very
antithesis of the popular conception of
the virtuoso’s —they were podgy, with the
fingers short and thick, and seemingly
barely able to span an octave. Holding
the view that being a top-ranking pianist
was a drudgery—entailing a terrific
struggle against fierce competition, not
only to get to the top, but to stay there —
he tried to persuade his son not to follow
in his footsteps. The son is how well on
his way up.
Arrived in Melbourne Dr. Walter
Muller, co-inventor of the Geiger radio-
activity counter. A world authority on
industrial electronics. Dr. Muller dis-
covered a means by which radioactive
materials could be maintained in, and
even steered through, the human body;
he is also the author of an X-ray process
for examining hitherto inaccessible
weldings. He has come here to join
the Ministry of National Development,
and his services will be available to
private industry by application to the
department.
Presented herewith, the experienced
face of 70-year-old James McCann, the
one - time commercial - traveller who
founded the North Australian Rubber
Mills in Brisbane —the trade-name
“Narm” would mean more to tennis-
players and suchlike who use rubber on
their feet. Born in Scotland, young Mc-
Cann tried Natal, thought he’d do better
in New Zealand, flitted over to Brisbane
in 1909 and has stayed there since. Just
about every club or business committee
in the northern capital has had his name
RUBBER.
on its membership list, among them the
Queensland Chamber of Manufactures
and the Employers’ Federation, of which
bodies he’s been president. Bowling’s his
solace.
John Greig Latham, 74 next
August, retains still the chatty, almost under-
graduate sense of humor that has always sur-
prised those who have not been close enough
to him to realise the human qualities behind
what used in his political days to be regarded
as an iceberg exterior. Latham has that unusual
thing, a creative legal brain. Two of his inven-
tions were the classification of mandates after
World War I —he was at Versailles as secretary
to “Joe” Cook —and the licensing of water-
siders in the ’twenties (“You can’t kick a man
out of a club if he is not a member. You have
to elect him first, then you can expel him”).
As a pure draftsman he is brilliant. At the
time of the Lang crisis Latham was in Europe
for the Disarmament Conference. The Govern-
ment consulted him by cable while he was in
Paris attending the funeral of assassinat
President Doumer. Without reference-boo
he drafted a bill in the plane flying back
London, passing it slip by slip to his secreta
for coding, so that it was almost ready for t
cable when they touched down in London,
elder son Dick had academic brilliance th
took him to Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarsh
to the peak of a fellowship of All Souls. 1
left a cushy job in the Foreign Office to tra
as an air-gunner in the R.A.A.F. and died in
raid off Norway, doing the thing he had want
to do. The younger son is a major serving
Japan; the only daughter, a hospital almone
has sometimes acted as her father’s associat
Latham’s great off-duty love has always be
trout-fishing. With Tom Bavin and others
was a founder of the Waterfall Farm Fishin
Club at Khancoban. Searchers of Melbourn
newspaper files of 20 years ago may com
across a sentimental, gracefully-written artic
describing a day’s fishing. The initials a
J.G.L.
One-b'ook-a-year authors, Australian
among them, would like to know th
secret of John Creasey, visiting thes
parts with his family on a world tou
The gentleman who has gained th
cognomen of “Creasey for Crime” run
off about 15 a year, all of them bes
sellers. Turning to “mysteries” in 1933
after finding that his “better stuff” die
not sell, the jovial-looking writer, wh
bears a surface facial resemblance t
H. G. Wells, has churned out 26
volumes, sold 6,000,000 copies in Britai
alone, and has had many of them trans
lated into more than a dozen differem
lingoes. Still, he hasn’t approached th
record of Dumas, Fere, who averager
60 novels a year and put his name to
over 1000 —of many of which it is saic
that the only person in France who neve
read them was himself.
Youthful Patrick Neill O’Donnell
assistant-medical-superintendent of the
Royal Melbourne Hospital, goes to
Dunedin (N.Z.) in June to take over th
job of medical-superintendent o
Dunedin Public Hospital on the retire
ment of Dr. James Thomson. During
his three-and-a-half years as a Japanese
prisoner O’Donnell carried on his medica
skill in the camps. On repatriation he
returned to the Royal in 1946.
Went up for his B.A. degree at Mel
bourne University’s annual commence
ment, John Elliott, schoolteacher a
Lower Ferntree Gully, and one of the
few exceptions to the general rule tha
an Army recruit must have four sound
limbs. Elliott had ’em all right, but one
was an artificial leg—he’d lost its original
at 14. With the 6th Div. Sigs he saw
action in the North African and Greek
campaigns, missed the bus at the evacua-
tion of Greece, but got away in an open
boat, only to be bombed by the Luftwaffe
Diving overboard, he swam for severa
hours until picked up by a Greek sea-
man. His artificial leg gained the
sympathy of the Germans who found him
after his rescuer had hidden him in a
cave ; they thought he had lost the leg
in action and couldn’t believe that a
one-legged man could get into the A.I.F.
The Jerries fixed him up with a new ersatz
leg. He’s still got it at home.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 63, John Adam Hunter, M.A.,
8.D., former Moderator of the Presbyterian
Assembly in Queensland, lecturer in Church
history at Sydney Uni., and, for the past 17
years, pastor at Haberfield, Sydney. Brisbane-
born, he was educated at Brisbane Grammar,
Glasgow and London Universities, and entered
the Church in 1917.
In Fremantle (W.A.), at 81, Captain Andrew
Mills, who spent a lifetime in the service of the
W.A. Steam Navigation Line on the Fremantle-
Singapore run. Master of Australind at
27, he later skippered Minilya, Paroo, Minderoo
and Gascoyne.
At Bonchurch, Isle of Wight, at 88, Henry
de Vere Stacpoole. Best known as the author
of The Blue Lagoon, he published, in addition
to a swag of novels, several books of verse, a
biography of Francois Villon and translations
of the works of Villon and Sappho.
In Brisbane, at 66, John Hamilton Crawford,
M.D., one of a small band of doctors who
started medical work under primitive conditions
in remote areas of Western Queensland before
World War I. Since 1927 he had practised on
Wickham Terrace, Brisbane.
At Dunedin (N.Z.), at 90, Peter Barr, past-
president of the Otago branch of the Institute
of Accountants and first president of the NiZ.
Institute —he held the job from 1909 to 1912.
Back in 1889 he represented the N.Z. Chambers
of Commerce at the Philadelphia Commercial
Congress, and in 1910 attended the Empire
conference in Sydney in the same capacity.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-*-recomniended for shearing-shed work.
V
■
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
"SIRIUS”
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigatioD
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
£4O/12/6
g
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
Write for
Illustrated Brochure.
Tel. BW 8631
Safer Castration
of Calves with
EUSTMTOR
D
/
ELASTRATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
TAILER
&
CASTRATQR
tor
coives
lambs
&
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A
PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St., Melbourne.
ELIS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Zebu Crosses on S<how.
“Oxo”: Townsville (N.Q.)
show society is providing for
Zebu crosses at its July show.
The cross must be quarter, half
or three-quarters Zebu blood
crossed with any British breed.
R. L. Atkinson, Mungalla
stud, Ingham, is showing a bull
and two heifers, and it is hoped
that four or five breeders will
compete. Atkinson is attempt-
ing to fix a type which will breed
true to color, conformation and
polledness, containing a quarter
Zebu and three-quarters Poll
Shorthorn blood.
He considers his half-bred
calf, Mungalla Master, which
will be shown at Townsville, an
outstanding youngster, and he
intends to use him on Poll Short-
horn cows; if the calves are
good he will line-breed to him.
The quarter-bred heifers will
be put to a quarter-bred bull,
and the resulting quarter-breds
are expected to show a little
more Zebu characteristic.
Quarter-breds on the property,
by Poll Shorthorns out of half-
Zebu cows, seem to throw very
much to the Poll Shorthorn. To
fix a type he considers Zebu
blood is needed on both sides.
The young bull Mungalla
Master is by Texas Ranger, a
pure-bred Zebu of the Guzerat
strain. Texas Ranger was by
Texas out of Donna Jeremias,
one of the original imported
cows from U.S.A. bred by Hud-
gins. The bull Texas was by
Jake, an imported bull also out
of Donna Jeremias, now a very
old cow in Atkinson’s pure-
bred stud.
Our Meat in U.S.A.
“Agric.”: An executive of a
large U.S.A. meat company, who
was recently in Brisbane, con-
tends that even without the
British meat trade Australia
would have no difficulty in find-
ing markets and substantial sales
in America.
Early this year, when the ban
on sales of Mexican meat in the
U.S.A. was lifted, owing to the
clearing-up of foot-and-mouth
disease, his company bought 12
million pounds of salted meat
from Mexico, and in the Ameri-
can meat trade this was regarded
as quite a small order,
There was a big demand in
America for boneless cow beef,
he said, which today realised
50d, per pound compared with
B.Bd. per pound paid for the
same class of meat under the
Australian-U.K. contract. He
recommends sending this class
of beef to America, as there are
so many avenues through which
it can be sold. The price paid
in America for this class of meat
is the same as that paid for first-
grade carcass beef.
The higher standard of living
enjoyed in many countries today
was one reason for the shortage
of meat in the world, he said,
and as an instance quoted one
South American country where
his firm had been established for
50 years, but from which it had
not exported one pound of meat
for the last five years, although
it is now killing 8000 cattle there
weekly.
The rumors going the rounds
in Australia that the auctioning
of meat quotas from Australia
had caused consternation among
U.S.A. cattlemen refer appa-
rently to the first shipment, which
he described as being marketed
under “Rafferty’s rules.” The
second shipment was organised
by the Australian Meat Board,
and was sold in America through
Australian Trade Commissioners.
This was a complete success,
and it is considered that this
business, which is mostly lamb
from Victoria and South Aus-
tralia, is now on a sound and
permanent basis.
The Shearer’s Side.
“Master Bevel”; Despite
“J.R.D.’s” remarks (B. 21/3/’5l)
the fact is that since the forma-
tion of the A.W.U. there has
been little or no trouble in any
industry where its members are
engaged. The union is respon-
sible for the shearing of over
100 million sheep in Australia
and has been congratulated by
the Graziers’ Association and
the Arbitration Court on its
conduct. As for those “outrage-
ous” claims, well, at the moment
the new award fixes the shear-
ing-rate even higher than the
rate “J.R.D.” is moaning about.
If any grazier cannot afford
to pay a man £7 10s. to shear off
at least £lOOO-worth of wool, he
should sell out and try his hand
at shearing.
There is no moral reason why
a shearer should not be as well
off financially as a grazier if he
can manage it, but I have yet
to meet one who, like the grazier,
can afford to work 20 hours a
week or not work at all.
The shearer knows only too
well that he must get the big
money now because he won’t
get it when wool prices fall. The
average grazier does not volun-
tarily raise anyone’s wages,
whatever the wool price or
whatever his standard of work.
“J.R.D.” would do well to re-
member that the shearing-rate,
which is based on the wool
value, is, of necessity, always
one season behind all wool-price
rises. The present rate is based
on an average of 130 d. per
pound. Present wool - price
average (3/4//51) is nearer 230 d.
Hiving a Swarm.
“Soc”: A cluster of bees can
be hived in anything from a
butter-box to a beer-barrel, but
there is nothing to say they’ll
stay there. Sometimes their
natural cussedness makes them
leave a neatly decked-out box,
with combs and all ready, and
light out for the bush, where
they crawl into a knot-hole and
work like beavers for a week
before they can turn round and
set some honey.
One or two factors help some-
times to keep them where you
want them. First, it is best to
set them down on sheets of
foundation because they left
home with the intention of draw-
ing comb and the more you can
work in with their ideas the
more likely they are to stay.
Secondly—though this isn’t
infallible—set a comb of young
brood from another colony in
the centre of the box. The idea
behind this is to encourage the
maternal instinct of adoption.
Thirdly, when the swarm is
boxed, pick it up and get it to
a shady spot right away from
the place where they were
clustered. If you leave it, the
scouts come back after finding
the next camp, go into the box
and lead the mob out —not be-
cause the tree, the stump or the
rabbit-burrow is going to make
a better home, but because
they’ve just got to do it that way.
Fourthly, as soon as you
reckon you can find the queen,
do so and clip one wing. This
is the one sure way of keeping
the swarm but it’s the most im-
practicable, for by the time you
can find the queen (when they
have drawn one or two sheets of
"Y're lookin' pale around the gills , pal—hope y' ain't
catchin' this myxo thing off 'em."
foundation and got some sort of
order going) they intend to stay
anyway.
Don’t think they’ll stay if you
smear the box with honey or set
them down on combs just out of
the extractor. They won’t —
there is nothing that’ll drive
them out quicker.
The Landman’s Allies.
“Hortus”: Never has the
work of the scientist been so
helpful to the farmer as now.
Rust - resistant and drought-
resistant wheats are being pro-
duced, the old potato favorites
are being ousted by new varieties
and other potato types are being
introduced from overseas.
Outstanding expansion is that
of linseed culture in N.S.W. In
1947-48 the area was only 500
acres. In 1950 20,000 acres were
under linseed, mainly due to the
department’s importation from
the U.S.A. of the rust-resistant
variety, Walsh,
Hybrid maize is accounting
for an acre-yield increase of
20 per cent. Adding copper to
soil which lacked it has caused
an increase in animal-weight
and milk-yield, unheard of
before, in Westralia.
The new hormone spray
2,4,5-T is doing wonders in
blackberry eradication every-
where, and myxomatosis,
brought from South America by
the C.5.1.R.0., seems to have
revolutionised rabbit-control.
The farmer can thank the De-
partments of Agriculture, the
C.5.1.R.0. and the various
scientific departments of our
universities for most of these
valuable introductions.
Lucerne in the Mallee.
“Mr.”: Sow under wheat or
oats on a fallowed seedbed after
the first autumn rains, using a
dryland strain; this stands up
to Mallee conditions better than
seed produced on irrigation
country. Sow at the rate of
21b. to 31b., with a dressing of
501 b. of super., to the acre.
For the cover-crop use a
lighter seeding, about three parts
of that normally used for a
cereal crop. First drill in the
cereal in the normal way, then
sow the small lucerne seed
shallowly by depositing it on the
surface and covering with a
brush or light harrows. Make
the two sowings at right-angles
to reduce competition between
cereal and lucerne.
Managed with care under
Mallee conditions the stand will
survive for years; biggest
dangers to a prolonged life are
a temptation to overgraze in
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Some time ago, by the addition of a southern group
of sunspots in line with a large northern group, it seemed
that strong action would occur, but soon afterwards the
southern spots weakened and faded. A fortnight ago a
southern spot became prominent again and seemed likely
to give rise to disturbed weather, but this happened in an
erratic manner, though it was strong enough to support the
cycle sufficiently to change the unfavorable phase over the
southern areas. It then became so weak that the rains
it should engender during mid-April are not likely to have
the general nature that the cycles seem to indicate and
they are, I think, only being delayed by these frequent
spot-fadings.
After this early cyclical rain April has nothing very
important till the last rain point, when rain should be fairly
heavy if it works out normally. According to the cyclical
chart this rain is very close to election day and may fall
on that day in many localities.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jacks om
dsuiuvAx , /
mwo. . XJ
Printers and Publishers
of Fine Editions
Creators of Distinctive
Advertising Matter
Commercial Artists
Printers by Photo Lithography
of Fine Labels for Foodstuffs
Designers and Printers of
Outstanding Cartons
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
JACKSON AND
O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
For the treatment of
RHEUMATIC
DISORDERS
Dolcln has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic dis-
orders in America, Canada and
England. Now it Is made available
for you. Dolcln Tablets give prompt
relief from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrosltis, Lumbago and Gout.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheumatism,
including people who had given up
hope of ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work—thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcln
Tablets have brought them.
DOLCIN Is Non-Toxic and
has no harmful effects
on the heart or any other
organ.
DOLCIN has been approv-
ed in clinical tests and is
prescribed by the Medical
profession.
DOLCIN Is easy to take
In Tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from
your Chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/4
7-40
dfg
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
"CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb,
"PACIFIC” Pine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
"WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's rood.
Write; MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box 17, Valley P. 0.. Brisbane.
STOPyour Rupture
Worries!
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), S> Martin Place, Sydney.
dfg
Don’t Forget that Birthday!
the Ideal Gift is a
LAVINA WAT€li
R
m
l.
I AVI HA
Swiss Masterpieces
Lavina —Choice of Millions
From a wide selection of Swiss
masterpieces, choose one of
these 17-jewelled watches
with the nori-magnetic
escapement, to give
years of useful
service. A Lavina
looks as good as it is.
It represents 100%
quality in every part.
LW15.57
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
'Why not
goto LISTER?
w m
m
#&•../ A Jk**
m
mi
m
m
w
i
I
mi
m
mms
ms
m
m
m
. i
A faulty engine can break a fisherman’s business and break
a clubman’s heart . . . Lister Marine Diesels are engineered
to prevent both these unpleasant possibilities. They are just as
dependable, just as economical in a strong-ribbed trawler as they
are in a sleek cruiser. Before building or refitting your craft, be
iure to enquire about a Lister.
9 m
m
FOR PLEASURE OR PROFIT...
MARINE DIESEL ENGINES
FROM 8-60 H.P. for Propulsion and Auxiliary Purposes
Distributed in Australia by:
N.S.W. : Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney; Marine
Workshops, Careening Cove.
VIC. & S.A.; Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., 12-36 Cross Street, West Footscray,
Victoria.
Q’LAND: Wincheombe Carson Limited (Incorporated in N.S.W.), 99-101 Eagle
Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Malloch Bros. Ltd., 50-54 William Street, Perth.
TAS.; A. G, Webster & Sons Limited, Hobart, Launceston, Devonport and
Burnie.
- ME3&
33
a Si
summer when it’s the only
greenstuff on the farm and rabbit
attack.
At Walpeup Research Station
tests with wheat and oats as
cover-crops showed wheat as
more successful. The cover-crop
is best cut in early spring for
silage or hay before it is given
a chance to exhaust soil
moisture. The stubble will
provide the young stand with
welcome shelter during its first
summer.
Oiling the Mower.
“A-Jay”: Lubrication, or lack
of it, is one of the chief
shorteners of life of a mower.
The wrist-pin bearing on the
crankwheel should be freely
lubricated while working. It is
worth-while stopping to grease
it every one and a half hours.
The gearbox should be filled
to the level of the crankshaft
with gear-oil, and see that no
water enters it. The oil should
be drained and replaced at least
once a season.
All other lubrication-points
should receive daily attention,
but on mowers with V-belt
drives no oil should get near the
belts. A drop of oil applied to
all the points in the usual com-
plicated system of levers which
raise and lower the cutter-bar
will make for easier operation
and reduce wear. The hinge-
pins should also be oiled.
Miracle Wanted.
“Kenwood”: In his list of
flowering - gums why does
“W.C.” (B. 28/2/’5l) speak of
Eucalyptus ficifolia as the “well-
known red flowering-gum”?
When by a miracle one does get
one that will flower red, it may
be crimson, winey puce, or a
hard bricky scarlet. When the
miracle doesn’t happen, the
flowers may be white, cream,
pale-pink and a varied assort-
ment of shades of “lolly-pink.”
Sydney has been trying to
grow the tree for 40 years or
more, and one does not need the
fingers of one hand to count the
passably well-grown, shapely
specimens with red flowers, or
any other color for that matter.
Every municipal council has had
a go at them, but the genera
opinion is they are hopeless in
Sydney.
A suburban golf-club in Mel-
bourne possesses the famous
specimen with crimson flowers
that has been illustrated on
countless thousands of
calendars. But Melbourne has
never succeeded in producing
another tree within cooee of ii;
for size and shapeliness.
It is the publication' of the
picture of this tree in color that
leads people to hope for a repeat
performance of this miracle, and
gives rise to the common name
“red flowering-gum.”
But E. ficifolia is no more a
red-flowering tree than any of
the other colors mentioned. One
man I knew planted four in his
suburban footpath; three of
them flowered white, the other a
wishy-washy pink. The chance
of producing a crimson
flowering-gum that won’t grow
like a corkscrew, won’t die of
“borers” or of “wet feet” and
won’t blow over when half-
grown is as slim as my chance
of winning a lottery.
Hints for the Farm.
“W.C.Q.”: Keep the ground
clear of tall grass near the farm
beehives. The working life of a
bee is short enough without be-
ing shortened by the workers
wearing their wings out getting
through thick grass into the
hive.
“Malvern”: If pigs froth at
the mouth, pant, and sip at the
drinking water, they are victims
of salt-poisoning. It often comes
from the whey supplied by milk-
factories. Act at once. Small
doses of whisky in warm water
(equal parts) may be effective in
mild cases. Advanced cases are
usually fatal.
“Myrr”: To make greenhide,
first deflesh the hide and put it
into a solution of 31b. of quick-
lime to lOgal. of water. Soak
for six to seven days, when the
hair can be scraped off easily.
If it’s been salted the hide will
need a preliminary soaking for
five to six hours, and washing
before going into the limed
water. When the hair’s off it,
stretch the hide on a frame
where it can dry out slowly.
While still moist, but not wet,
rub into the hide on both sides
tallow and neatsfoot oil. Give
several workings of this as it
dries, at the same time working
it over a blunt edge to make it
supple (a wooden rail will do).
Store in a cool shed and keep
soft with occasional dressings of
fat or oil.
“Sundowner”: Beds for
cabbage for spring use should be
in a sunny position but pro-
tected from boisterous weather.
Ground cleared of peas, onions
or potatoes can be used for
cabbage after manuring.
“Big Billy”: Lettuce may be
transplanted from autumn sow-
ings for winter use. As winter
growth is slow and it is essential
for a tender product to have
quick growth broadcast £lb. of
blood-and-bone to each square
yard. If growth is still slow
when hearting is taking place,
apply weekly applications of
fowl or liquid manure or nitrate
of soda, loz. to a square yard.
“Whit”: When, at the height
of the season, a hen suddenly
stops laying, get rid of her.
Prolapsus or fowl paralysis may
be the cause. If the latter is
suspected, burn the carcass.


//
A 1
V-
A f ■*/
■’n' / ? •'
:*A
X/j
A
T-
iOw tins “ 20
* 3/3
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
BENSONcmdMEBGES
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
WO 1
Not every day, but now and
then, comes an occasion which
rises far above the ordinary
and demands a fitting tribute
of nothing but the best.
Benson & Hedges cigarettes are
made with precise care,
appropriate for just such times as
these—when the merely good must
be left for other people—when
for you, only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HI? MAJESTY THE KINO
Divorce Notice.
In the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JEAN LAWLER late of Malabar. —
TAKE NOTICE that VALERIE ALICE
WEEDON has filed a Petition No. 689 of
1949 praying for a Divorce from ALEX-
ANDER CLIVE WEEDON on the ground
of his adultery with you You may apply
to the Court to be allowed to defend A
copy of the Petition may be obtained
without charge from MADDOCKS, COHEN
1 & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The
nib
that
won’t
wear out
Many people even go to tha
trouble to write and tell us that
they have been using a Swan pen
with the same nib for twenty or,
in some cases, thirty years.
That’s the way it is with Swan
nibs. They are made to last
a lifetime. And with the price
of everything going up, it
is surely worthwhile to buy
a pen that will not need
its nib replaced in a few
months or even a few
years. You’ll find Swan
side-lever and leverless
pens in a variety of
colours at all better
jewellers, stationers
and stores. Prices
as low as 43/-.
WRITE '
FOR LIFE
WITH A
Sm
UfHIM
MABIE, TODD & CO
, (aust) pty. ltd.,
\ SYDNEY J
2/I2IA
df
-
SEND FOR
BLLCSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
TH ,
DUPLI
LICATOR
Has all the finest features
ci high-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost, the
"National'’ Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BalU .milfly If Austral" by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Jualhoiiui Jttau—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C PenfoK) A Co- TIT- Lt%-
Norman Bro». Pl>- Ltd.
Vardon A Son* Ltd.
* Docket Book Co- <An»t.J
mm
For inflamed Eyes Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE _
h a Rose &. Co.Pty. ltd.Kßtfl St.Sydng
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Subsequent to Even Flow winning
at Randwick recently a swab taken
was reported positive. The filly was
from the top-ranking McCarten
stable and owned by V.A.T.C. chair-
man N. Robinson; it was the second
time the stable had been in a dope
case. The outcome of the inquiry was
that the “parties” were “exonerated,
the stewards “could not attach blame
to any particular person.” Even How
was not “sent out” —as was Frontal
Attack, to name one. The filly
merely lost placing in the race; Lady
Rosetta was placed first. Bets, of
course, not affected.
In view of this and other fairly
recent findings, any uninformed <pn-
looker might be excused for thinking
the earlier dope decisions peremptory
and harsh. There would be a posi-
tive swab, and penalties sweeping and
severe would follow. The authorities
would seem to have got more careful
on the punitive side.
A careful review of all past doping
cases, in public, would help to im-
prove confidence. Failing that,
something should be done to safe-
guard things henceforth, and this
cleanskin case would seem a good
place to begin. Every horse, say,
should have to be at the course by a
certain time, and should then pass
into the hands of course officials till
saddled up and mounted—the authori-
ties taking all responsibility for this
period and the person or persons
previously in charge of the horse
having the earlier responsibility. Cer-
tainly the whole matter calls for a
serious overhaul.
Melbourne authorities either feel
that all hands in their parish are in
the class of Cresar’s wife, or—what is
more likely, and sensible of them —
they feel that the old adage about
fools and angels is still sound on the
doping issue. So they have no doping
cases. Even so, the case in which
trainer P. Fergus, apprentice B.
Eames and the mare Hanorah were
first outed for two years for allegedly
not trying, and then, on appeal, all
exonerated, has the point that the
difference between two-years outing
and nothing hardly inspires confidence
in any infallibility of racing authori-
ties. And the more anyone looks
into the whole record of Sydney
doping cases the less he is likely to
feel such confidence.
For rather an “off” meeting, Caul-
field saw a capital afternoon’s racing
on a somewhat holding track on
Saturday. J. Purtell, in grand form,
raised his season’s wins to the easy-
leading total of 56 with a double
which was a repeat performance of
heady horsemanship and also a sort
of plagiarism of A. Breasley’s most
successful method. That is, on both
Panghat in the 7-furlongs Two-year-
old and Star Port in the 7-furlongs
Welter, Purtell waited behind the
leaders for a run through, and lo!
on each occasion the way was clear.
Panghat, a nice sort of chestnut
filly by Dhoti, easily beat the too-
unlucky Demos, second at his last
three starts, but still well behind
Thurten, who made it six seconds in
a row when Battle Craze beat him
CAUTION
&00&S
“Mind if I do this last letter before you push on?”
in the Trial. The trouble, as always,
is that the honestly consistent
getter keeps on picking up weight.
E. Preston also landed a double,
taking the 2-mile St. Kilda Handicap
on its winner of last year, Peerless
Fox, who easily beat Saxonian and
Canace, and the second division of
the 6-furlongs Maiden Two-year-old
on the Great Britain colt National
Hope, who beat the oddly-named
Baal in a second-and-a-half faster
time than the Prince Sion filly Prin-
cess Lorraine occupied in easily
downing Longden and Inprose in the
first division. Tanakee —and weight
—beat Faunus in the Steeple, with the
unusual addition of the winner’s
brother, Bronze Laddie, being third.
* * * *
Over 130 neddies contested the
eight races on the card at Rosehill
on Saturday, and mote than half the
130 were maiden performers! The
S.T.C., which has earned a name for
originality, could cap everything with
an All Maidens’ Day—say, as a
benefit to the Girl Guides.
The couple of Maiden
Two-year-old Handicaps and the 7+-
furlongs Maiden Stakes (at w.f.a.!)
on the card were respectively bagged
by the Lawrence-Little Maud filly
Cle d’Or (S. Cassidy), the Midstream-
Suffragette colt Militant (J. Thomp-
son), and the Helios-Money Spider
three-year-colt Ananzi (A. Ward).
One thing, these events made good
races —Ananzi, for instance, beating
Follow On only a nose, Galahad
another short head away third.
Militant provides an example this
page would like to see more widely
followed. A costly colt (5100 guineas,
topping last year’s yearling sales), he
has been allowed to keep on with
his growing, and was turned out a
well-developed colt fit for racing.
He drew wide out —a serious handi-
cap over furlongs at Rosehill.
Also, he ran about a lot, yet his
time was only a second-and-a-half
worse than that of Buzmark (W.
Briscoe) in beating Salamanca and
San Domenico in the Flying. San
Domenico carried too much weight
for Buzmark’s win to be called really
good; still, it looked like a return
to form.
For the first time within the
memory of the oldest horse racing
there was no distance handicap. The
S.T.C. is not to be blamed —the
response of connections has been
notoriously discouraging. The 9-
furlongs Welter, which substituted as
second leg of the main double, was
well won by Wiranya (W. Hogg),
beating hot favorite Beau China and
Alabama King. Mixed Stakes events
went to Blue Ocean (H. Hanley), a
very easy and promising middle-
distance win; Sunny Marsh (A.
Eaves), surviving a protest on behalf
of the useful country galloper
Perisher; and Valley Forge (R.
Selkrig).
* + * ♦
’One of Australia’s greatest jockeys.
Jack Toohey, has passed on at 50.
He was at his top in the ’twenties,
when his great riding included four
Doncasters in a row. Incidentally,
present Sydney horsemanship is hold-
ing the standard set by Toohey and
others. Though two of the best. Cook
and Sellwood, are in England, pretty
well every Saturday sees at least one
striking example. Cook’s riding at
Randwick just before he left was in
the class of the very best perfor-
mances. D. Munro has never ridden
better than he’s riding now. J.
Thompson rode at his top, too, on
Fengari when he downed Darby on
Sol Rex at Randwick, and on Satur-
day at Rosehill Thompson gave a
capital display of colt management
on Militant.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) : —•
Two-year-old: Alkanna, 1; Mer-
cury, 2; Blue’s Sister, 3. Parramatta
Mixed: Video, 1; Iroquois, 2;
Perisher, 3. Auburn Mixed; Campus,
1; Ben Hero, 2; Traveller, 3. Flying:
Hesdin, 1; Buzmark, 2; Blue Flag, 3.
Rosehill Handicap; Poitiers, 1;
Wiranya, 2; Persist, 3. Welter:
Amoroso, 1; Valiant Lee, 2; Beau
China, 3.
♦ * * *
In conditions on the Nepean which
left all the beaten without the crab
of an excuse, Shore splendidly won
this year’s Head of the River from
Joey’s and Kings. The well-coached
winners simply dominated all the rest,
leading for two-thirds of the mile-
and-a-half and winning at ease. Shore
also won the Second Fours, Newing-
ton taking the First and Riverview
the Third and Fourth.
Two good little men, evenly
matched, with fight in ’em —maybe
it’s the best recipe for a scrap there
is. Sydney Stadjumites had a clink-
ing sample of it, too, when Elley
Bennett added the fedder title to his
bantam championship by sinking Ray
Coleman for the count in the last
round of their 15-rounder. In a
word, the winner won and the loser
fought a grand fight.
Jack De Belin (10.55, pride o’
Balmain, added to his unbeaten
record by outpointing Tommy Barber
(10.61) at Leichhardt, and De B. is
being hailed as Australian welter con-
tender. Barber’s speed won three of
the first four rounds, and when a
right to the chin knocked De Belin
back to the ropes in round five Barber
seemed a certain winner. De B.’s
straight lefts, however, piled up the
points.
* * * *
“Pass-it” on a Rugby rule;
Talk of a return to international
rules in Rugby Union brings the
kick-into-touch back to prominence.
A local dispensation restricts kick-
ing out “on the full”: When outside
his own twenty-five a player must
bounce the ball out, in default of
which the lineout is brought back
along the touchline to a position in
line with the spot from which the
ball was kicked.
Main contentions of proponents of
the local rule —an overwhelming
majority of Rugby men in this
country—are, firstly, that kicking out
“on the full” is dull and uninterest-
ing ; secondly, that the local rule
encourages more skilful kicking.
Most will agree that, except when
a player gains a temporary respite
for his hard-pressed team, such kick-
ing is dull and uninteresting; that a
team which resorts to kicking out
“on the full” when in a position to
attack with the ball is lacking in
imagination and poorly equipped with
attacking ideas. As an attempt to elimi-
nate such play the local rule has merit,
but it has defeated its own purpose.
In practice, instead of encouraging
players to develop their latent quali-
ties and plan moves for attacking
with the ball, it has done the very
opposite.
The player who kicks downfield
for his colleagues to charge and force
the opposing fullback to kick into
touch “on the full” is often
applauded, yet he has done no more
than if, under the international rules,
he had kicked straight into touch.
He has used the kick to gain ground,
and he can gain more ground under
the rules as they are than he could
under the international rules, where
to gain lengthy distances by kicking
requires considerable skill, and a mis-
kick into the hands of the opposing
fullback can bring the play right
back to where it started from. Thus,
the rule has failed as an attempt to
eliminate unimaginative kicking; in
fact, it offers greater rewards for such
play, while at the same time cloaking
it .from criticism.
The British Isles team showed us
what can be done by a team seeking
to attack with the ball at every oppor-
tunity; only in hard-pressed positions
did they resort to kicking. And their
matches were played under the inter-
national rules.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first i* paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Our Masters
Anyone looking for entertainment, as
well as leadership and enlightenment,
from the elected elite of Parliament
should be grateful for those pleasantries
that often enliven “Hansard.” When
Marcellus exclaimed “Something’s rotten
in the State of Denmark,” he wasn’t
referring to odors or individuals, but then
he wasn’t speaking under Parliamentary
privilege, where one may, with immunity,
call another a stinker, and in a manner
varying with the talents and training of
the speaker. Consider Queensland
“Hansard” No. 25, pages 1772 and 1831:
Mr. A.: They are both trying to make
political capital out of something that stinks
to high heaven.
Mr. C.: Like you.
Mr. A.: You are the man who walked
into a room where a putrid old billygoat
was tied up, and the goat fainted. That
is how much you stink.
Mr. Speaker: Order!
And again;
Mr. C.: You are standing alone.
Mr. A,: If I am standing alone then I
prefer to do so, because I prefer to get as
far away from the hon. member as 1 can,
as I believe him to be the most odoriferous
thing in this State;
Mr. Speaker again interrupted the
exchange of com] iments. Later in the
debate a medico showed how it is done
with a little refinement:
Dr. D.: Let us refer briefly to the hon.
member for Mi, who merits only brief
reference. He has been on occasions
likened to the phenomenon which people
when in a state of unpreparedness fear, but
tonight he is only a gaseous outburst.
It is understood that the hoh. member
for M. subsequently had it explained to
him. —Woody (Q.).
Liberals’ Chance
One can hardly imagine the Menzies
Government failing to secure endorse-
ment at the coming election in view of
the enthusiasm with which the electors in
1949 heaved out the Labor-Socialist-
Communists who had spent so many
merry years wrecking the country’s
economy. However, there are many
people who believe that the new Govern-
ment made a poor showing, even allow-
ing for the hostile attitude of the Senate
to all its legislation. .
The approach to the growing infla-
tionary trends and the problems associ-
ated with them was conditioned far too
much by sectional interests. Countrymen
had only one thought in mind—the raking-
in of the shekels pouring off their sheep-’s
backs —and industrialists interested in
production of valuable exportable com-
modities failed to notice the need of the
home market. Perhaps the din of indus-
trial strife drowned the thud of the wool-
brokers’ hammers and the rattle and
banging of lead, zinc and hides falling into
cargo-holds at the ports.
Whatever the cause, the people will
look to the Government they elect on
April 28 to see that the national economy
isn’t tossed to the wolf-like sectional in-
terests —of whom the miners, wharfies,
seamen and engineers are but a few. If
Menzies cannot arrest the drift towards
inflation and produce some stability in
prices, production costs and wages, then
it may well be that the class of Govern-
ment he represents will disappear from
our way of life.
The Labor party at its last major con-
ference made it clear that the electors are
important only as far as their votes are
concerned. Once into office, those Labor
politicians—-like the judge on the bench—
cannot see the unwigged advocates. Their
orders come from Conference, to whom
their entire responsibility lies. National
interests, emergencies and the common
needs of the people do not matter. The
spokesmen for the party have made this
very plain over the past few weeks.
This means that an elected Labor Gov-
ernment could easily turn the country
over to a dictatorship and dispense with
the wishes of the electors as a guide to
policy.
In any case, any prolongation of the
uncertainty, lawlessness and chaos of the
past year must inevitably weaken the case
for constitutional government and pre-
pare the way for its ultimate usurpation
by some minority movement. That has
“Dad promised me a bike if I got to the head of the class. Miss Wilmont."
already happened in many countries in
the Old World over the last 30 years.
Labor policy naturally softens-up and
conditions a country, sapping its vitality,
despoiling its strength until it is ready
for the removal of governmental powers
from the people. Ineptness on the part
of anti-Labor Governments debilitates
the country until it eventually is ripe for
complete despoliation. —V. Collins,
34 Pyramid-avenue, Padstow, N.S.W.
Australian Wines
“Vino del Pais” (B. 21/2/’5l) is judg-
ing the whole of Australia by one wine-
growing district —the Hunter River. In
referring to the produce of this district
alone he is taking a very extreme case-
there is a great difference between certain
1948 and 1950 Hunter River wines, but
that only proves my claim that skilful
blending of wines from all Australia can
produce a fairly consistent quality.
The Hunter River has had more than
its share of misfortune lately, but some
of its recent production has been used
to great advantage in blending.
The art of blending has been com-
mended by no less a world authority than
M. Andre Simon, who has written in his
Dictionary of Wine:
Blending: A perfectly legitimate way
of improving the quality of different wines,
not being perfect individually; also of
averaging their cost, by “vatting” or
mixing them together in order to secure a
more harmonious whole.
From personal experience abroad, I
found that it was a most arduous mental
exercise to try to memorise the important
vintage years applying to champagne,
burgundy, claret, hock or port, and
although the connoisseur would not find
this too great an undertaking, the main
body of consumers wish to avoid that
trouble.
For that reason most winemakers prefer
to market the best they can offer at the
time, irrespective of the year of vintage.
—Kenneth Hardy, Chairman, Australian
Wine Board.
No. 24 Squadron
The Government’s decision to form
No. 24 Squadron as a Citizen Air Force
Mustang Fighter Squadron in S.A. com-
pletes the ring of “City” squadrons
around the coast of Australia —
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth
already have their C.A.F. squadrons,
fighter units whose main duty is to
provide home defence —in war-time, of
course, they could move into the battle
area overseas after war-time training.
No. 24 Squadron had a gallant record
in the last war. Oh January 20, 1941,
when the Japanese sent 120 aircraft to
soften-up Rabaul for invasion, four
Wirraways were airborne at the time on
patrol and three more joined them at
once. One pilot who lived to fight on
with No. 24 Squadron in later years was
an Adelaide man, Sergeant W. O. K.
Hewett, now squadron-leader command-
ing No. 23 Squadron in Brisbane. He
crash-landed at Vunakanau strip, shot
through both legs. While he made his
landing Zeros swooped on him, and sent
Jap bullets ripping through the earth
about him as he rolled to safety in a slit-
trench.
When the Jap invasion fleet arrived
three days later, No. 24 had one Hudson
and one Wirraway and this order: “Use
all available aircraft to strike at the
enemy.’ 1 Johnny Lerew, now an official
on the International Civil Aviation
Organisation at Montreal, signalled Air
Board, “Morituri te salutamus: We who
are about to die salute you.”
In 1943 the squadron was reformed at
Townsville and Bankstown, with Vultee
Vengeance dive-bombers. That Sep-
tember it was in action again to help the
A.l.F’s 9th Division in the drive along
the Huon Peninsula. They made their
first sorties five days after arriving in
New Guinea. At Kiriwina, they fought
fo jr four months, attacking Salamaua and
Finschhafen, bombing and straffing.
In 1944 No. 24 Squadron was again
reformed as the first Liberator heavy-
bomber squadron of the R.A.A.F. —at
Darwin. In the campaigns against Java
and the Celebes and the invasion of
Balikpapan, No. 24’s Liberators were
prominent. For the first time, R.A.A.F.
airmen had heavy-bombers in the Pacific
to attack the Japs,
In 1946, No. 24 Squadron was dis-
banded and for five years it has been
only a name in R.A.A.F. history. Now
it will be the City of Adelaide’s squadron,
armed, at first, with Mustangs, to be
replaced later with jet fighters, probably
the Australian-made De Havilland Vam-
pire.
Until now C.A.F. squadrons have had
a very strong Permanent Air Force
element, but the new No. 24 will, in
fact, be 80 per cent. C.A.F. That means
that Adelaide’s young men will have to
provide many more C.A.F. recruits for
No. 24 than, for instance, Melbourne
provides for No. 21 Squadron or Sydney
for No. 22 Squadron. They cannot all
be pilots—the squadron needs fitters,
electricians, mechanics of various types
and clerks. Adelaide has a much bigger
job to do on No. 24 Squadron than any
of the other capital cities have had with
their “city” C.A.F. squadrons. The
R.A.A.F. is intensely interested to see the
result. — Wings (Vic.). *
Social Studies
I can’t join “Wilken,” “Hebridean”
and “R.W.” in deploring the fact thai less
history is being taught in N. S. Wales
secondary schools. There may be less
taught in some secondary schools, but in
those which have introduced “social
studies” more and better history and
geography are being taught than ever
before.
“Social studies” is not, and never has
been, a hotchpotch of anything. That
term, coined in ignorance and used
parrot-fashion by those who dislike any-
thing progressive, apparently refers to
the successful attempts by social-studies
teachers to break down the artificial
barriers erected between history,
geography, civics and economics.
The amazing response of children to
social studies is the best answer to ill-
informed criticism. History, geography,
economics and civics have been changed
to living, warm, colorful realities, and
whatever the critics may say, kids will
always prefer life, warmth and color to a
corpse, no matter how distinguished by
age and reputation.
The time is not far distant when
genuine lovers of history will bless the
day social studies entered the curriculum.
In one point “R.W.” was right. Social
studies still needs much revision. That
is being done, and will continue to be*
done as long as new problems arise to be
studied and solved. —D. McG. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 117
Across.
I —Dog finds mother not at all
supple. (7)
4_The French I bite when joking. (7)
7 —English bowler rags everything.
(10)
9—Let it stand in an irregular test. (4)
10—East has ten’s Caxton, for in-
stance, and a one-time runner.
(2-8)
12— It is not true to say that this
British historian of India couldn’t
be more altered. (4)
14— King-emperor swallowed by a
nuisance for one who is engaged
in clerical work. (6)
15_Bee takes you to Aunt Sally like
a shrub. (5) . .
]g—Disorderly siren to dip into clear
water. (5)
■ 9 —Spoil the spirit around the page.
(6)
02 —Towards one French preposition.
(4)
23 Flings hardwood food from the
butcher. (5-5)
24 Wrapping material used in fenc-
ing. (4). A U
25 —Miller vice, if minced, can be
eaten. (10)
27 — Sportive proboscis in a bunch of
flowers. (7)
28— Gift town we install. (7)
Down.
1— Roy Rene joins the blushing
when cared for in a maternal
way. (8)
2 Drunkard. (3)
3 Speed the stronghold fixity. (8)
4 Thrown over when Jack is re-
placed by another boy in the
famous hill-climbing partnership.
(6)
5 Bury coppers and small silver
coins? (11)
6 Whoever disembowels the drain.
(6)
B—The very first to arrive for a
nobleman that is a saint. (8)
11—Steep his football scores for such
glib and specious arguments. (11)
13—Language barrel and little
Augustus, I see. (8)
16 — Cancers of a rising Abyssinian
vizier and deep stupors. (8)
17 — Platypus to evade the account. (8)
20 — A bird to blow in. (6)
21 — Bluff and hearty in humor and
manner. (6)
26—What George Washington didn’t
tell Trygve. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 116.


MARS
Covers ike Industrial Frontwith
1
sv* j
■■••■ V *
,*fti
n,
« *:rr,*
; M» Vf V’4 1
••..>. *; *' •>. »"it >fNsf
k iW;.
«&! ■:"
.
:
t-4
:m-:p
f.X ••
* ’* " " '*
5- :
|V
M ' V
...4
-W*
#* ’:‘‘
** j;.
MARS
MACHINE
TOOLS
Built under Guarantee, are unsurpassed
for their wide operational capacity.
Smooth running is ensured by Machine
Grinding all main working surfaces and
by Generating all gear teeth.
Illustrated at left are:
No. 4 Universal Miller —Immediate
Delivery.
No. 2 Plain Miller —Immediate Delivery.
All Geared Head Lathe —Almost
Immediate Delivery,
and below
siin. “Hercules” New Model Lathe-
Early Delivery.
Also available for Early Delivery:
Sin. to 15in. Lathes—Radial Drills —
Planers Shapers Universal Dividing
Heads—Paper-cutting Guillotines —Car-
ton folding and Gluing Machines.
MARS
DIES ELS
Illustrated are 8 h.p. and 3 h.p. Engines,
Also available in 10 h.p. and 5 h.p.
Marine and Stationary. Almost vibra-
tion-free.
Dynamically balanced —Detachable cylin-
ders. Replaceable liners —Economical
Fuel Consumption.
MARS
WOODWORKING
MACHINERY
Illustrated at right is our Triple Drum
Sander.
Also available are Combined Over and
Under Planer and 1 hicKhesser—Spindle
Mouldeis—Crosscut Saws—Bank Saws—
Chain and Hollow Chisel Moruces—
Planing and Reoatmg Saw Benches.
ffig
t'm k
: ... >
•vjs
f .. -.1
A ?
ME
.
**A * 5 v*.»» si
£ :
? i
■y*-v f iv
* t'£*\ \ %i
JS
8
fs
‘■v*
■ :
... BP*
7 f
?V -<i£
WWHffgS*
‘ - -^^ktsßias
L_
r.r>
Ss)
!• ! "
.; i
■ ! >V‘; .<
■;
MEEHANITEdtosdTrado
All castings are produced in the Mars Foundry, under
the supervision of highly trained metallurgical and
laboratory staff. We manufacture 21 grades ot
MEEHANITE IRONS.
Distributing Agents:—
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.,-Perth ; S.A.—W. H.
Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth St., Adelaide; VIC. —Herbert
Osbome Pty. Ltd., 5t57-9 Little Bourke St , Melbourne;
QLD. —Mars Machine Tool Manfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.; INDIA—
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co.. Alii Chambers.
Fort, Bombay; PHILIPPINES; The Earnshaws Dock and
Honolulu Iron Works, Manila; SALES REPRESENTATIVE—
0. Evans, C/o Bank of N.S.W.. Port Moresby, Papua.
ass*
SPECIAL NOTICE
The Machine Tool supply position shows no
signs of improvement but rather a deterioration
due to material shortages, stockpiling and the
world situation generally. Procrastination is,
and always was, a costly business —we would
welcome your immediate enquiries.
3fcb!#
<
£
31
ten
OUR MACHINE TOOLS OPERATE IN EVERY STATE IN AUSTRALIA
AND EIGHT COUNTRIES OVERSEAS
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANF&CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY “ BRISBANE
I. & O'S. AJvcrl-
