

\
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relotives or
business associates in Britoin, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and ail celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House ot Seppclt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT €r SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY; Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3745
Wednesday, November 21, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Noble Gateway
to the Royal Castle
of Lancaster
ON the south bank of the estuary of the River
Lune is the historic city of Lancaster, the
county town of Lancashire, which has played an
important part in English history. Owing to its
strategic position across main lines of communi-
cation to Scotland in the north and to the
Pennines in the east, the Romans established a
fortress there and also a temple of justice in
the second and third centuries. Many relics of
their occupation are to be seen in Lancaster
Museum.
In a.d. 410 all Roman troops were withdrawn
from Britain to'defend Rome against the Goths.
The departure of the Romans was quickly
followed by the arrival of the Angles and Saxons
under whom the settlement was known as
Lunecaster. In 1066 the Saxons were defeated
at Senlac by the invading Normans under
William the Conqueror, who lavished rewards
upon his followers. Roger de Poictou was given
all the territory between the Rivers Mersey and
Ribble, and he soon acquired the settlement or
town of Lancaster. There, on the heights above
the town, he built in 1094- the great fortress
which, through succeeding centuries, was viewed
with admiration, but often with fear and despair,
as a symbol of strength and implacability by
those confined in its dungeons.
In 1206 King John held his court in the
citadel and gave the town its first Royal Charter,
and in 1362 King Edward III, at the request
of his son John o’ Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster,
granted a charter to Lancaster under which
Assizes are still held there. He is commemorated
by a statue erected over the Castle Gateway,
which bears his name and which is shown in
the accompanying illustration. This famous
Gateway tower served as John o’ Gaunt’s
palace, and is one of the finest medieval gate-
houses in existence.
Lancaster Castle is still a royal, fortress, and
the title “Duke of Lancaster’’ belongs to the
Kipg; one of his Ministers bears the title of
“Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.” The
Castle contains a court room in which Assizes,
Quarter Sessions and County Court are held. A
museum in Hadrian's Tower bouses a collection
of instruments of torture and a Roman altar.


q
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL •
To STOTT'S: Please send your Literary
prospectus, tree and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.151)
The Red Page
AUSTRALIA FOR CHILDREN.
The Australian Junior Encyclopaedia,
edited by Charles Barrett for Georgian
House, is so full of informative and enter-
taining material that it is certain to have
a wide popular appeal ; but for all that
there is something rather journalistic and
hasty about it in many places.
Among the best of the articles is that
by James S. MacDonald on Australian
art, yet even here one wishes that Mr;
MacDonald had taken time to shape,
select and enrich his survey. Streeton is
admirably handled ; Norman Lindsay is
properly appreciated both as an etcher
and a painter ; but Gruner disappears into
a general tabulation of N. S. Wales
artists, as also does Hilder.
Perhaps by foregoing his favorite
diversions of revaluing Longstaff at the
expense of Lambert and of knocking “art
reporters” on the head, Mr. MacDonald
could have given Gruner and Hilder at
least a line or two to themselves, and so
have avoided the confusion of values
that must come when great talent is in-
discriminately mixed with minor. How-
ever, Mr. MacDonald, one of the most
knowledgeable of all writers on art in
Australia today, has managed to define—
by its vitality and by its handling of clear
light—the “Australian School” of paint-
ing which most “art-reporters” of the day
like to pretend does not exist; and the
young reader who follows his criticism
will learn much and seldom be led
astray: nor is he likely to be deterred by
a certain pugilistic quality in the writing.
Rex Ingamells on Australian literature
is sound enough when it comes to review-
ing the established classics of the past,
narrow and much inclined to overrate
the importance of his Jindyworobak
movement when he comes to the
more difficult problem of recent
times. The Jindyworobak anthologies,
“Meanjin Papers” and Flexmore
Hudson’s trivial “Poetry” are men-
tioned in his “The Present Day” section
but not “Southerly,” Angus and Robert-
son’s Australian Poetry or The Bulletin ;
and from the entire field of the contehi-
porary short-story as it has been repre-
sented in Coast to Coast (itself not men-
tioned) the four names selected for
notice are Vance Palmer, Henrietta
Drake-Brockman, Gavin Casey and Peter
Cowan.
In some of the articles one cannot
escape the impression that the editor has
been too prone to gather his material
from the first available source rather than
to search for the best in a particular field.
Government officials and spokesmen for
particular industries, while probably
thoroughlv conversant with their subjects,
are not noted for the attractiveness of
their prose. Another fault is that
many of the articles, while they are
admirably suitable for the magazine
pages of a daily newspaper, are not quite
good enough for inclusion in an
encyclopaedia.
The chapters on Cities and Government
and History could have been brighter.
The latter, which should have been one
of the most vivid and colorful in the
encyclopaedia, is not much superior to
the average school history book, though
Tom Dunbabin makes old times live
again in his three articles “Whaling in
Southern Seas,” “The Old Sealing Days”
and “The Bushrangers.”
Eighteen articles make up the section
devoted to Primary Industry; all com-
petently done, but in an agricultural
gazette style of writing. There is a brief
hut informative article about sheep-dogs
which should please bush youngsters.
The Coal, Power and Metals and the
Transport and Communications chapters
are adequate rather than exciting. A. A.
Rosenblum's article on “Australian
Postage Stamps” would have had more
appeal if the illustration on page 611 had
been in color. Will Lawson, who has
written several stirring books and
hundreds of articles about railways,
sailing-ships and steamers, and the old
coaching days, should have been com-
missioned to write at least one article in
this section.
This reviewer is disposed, too, to
question the arrangement of the encyclo-
paedia, in the grouping of allied subjects.
A dictionary alphabetical arrangement
with ample cross-references is to be pre-
ferred, being generally more satisfactory
than other arrangements and making, in
the experience of this writer, for quicker
reference.
However, Professor Murdoch says in
his introduction “I think, if I
were a castaway on a desert island, and
a. fairy promised me three books I wanted
most, 1 should choose after much ponder-
ing the Bible, Shakspeare and The Aus-
tralian Junior Encyclopedia ,” and there
is much to be said for this handsome
and —at first glance —surprising tribute.
It appears that Professor Murdoch, while
travelling overseas some years ago, was
called upon everywhere he went to
answer innumerable questions about
Australia, and, because of his ignorance
of his native land, sometimes felt that his
questioners wondered whether he was
really an Australian or a new species of
confidence-man. “I could give these
inquirers plenty of vague generalisations,
but what they wanted was not generalities
—nor romance nor patriotic sentiment—
but frozen facts.”
Besides its value for schools
and all other places where the young
of the species congregate, the encyclo-
paedia will be a boon to parents
whose children are moved, as children so
often are, suddenly to demand enlighten-
ment on the habits of sea-cucumbers, the
marital state of jumping spiders or the
exploits of Dirck Hartog , . . Questions
about blackfellows’ bread, the pade-
melon. potch and megass and ked; the
holey dollar, the thorny devil, the
“inverted” swan and the Thylacoleo;
Kerr’s Hundredweight, the Lightning
Brothers, Ben Boyd and Aaron Sherritt.
The encyclopaedia is a two-volumes
compendium of 150 articles on all aspects
of Australian life, divided into 14
chapters: Astronomy and Geology, The
Aborigines, Geography, Cities and Gov-
ernment, History, The Defence of Aus-
tralia, Primary Industry, Coal, Power
and Metals, Transport and Communica-
tion, Cultural Life, Botany, Natural
History, Sport and Recreation, with a
short biographical dictionary of famous
people in Australian history.
One admirable article is Donald F.
Thomson’s fascinating story of the Aus-
tralian aborigines. Written with a sympa-
thetic regard for the blackfellow and with
a deep knowledge of his history, customs
and way of living the article should be
a delight to its young readers. The sub-
sidiary articles by Leonhard Adam,
Charles Barrett and R. A. Keble in this
chapter are excellent supplementaries to
Dr. Thomson’s article.
In the Astronomy and Geology chapter
P. Crosbie Morrison writes about the sun
and the moon, the constellations, comets,
shooting-stars and eclipses, and H. O.
Fletcher introduces his young readers to
the giant kangaroos of the past, marsupial
lions, ancient bird-life, armored fishes,
fossil insects and Australian dinosaurs.
lon L. Idriess takes his readers to Light-
ning Ridge, White Cliffs and the under-
ground inhabitants at Coober Pedy, and
tells of the romance of opal-mining.
Sylvia Whineup dwells on diamonds,
sapphire and ruby, emerald and aqua-
marine, garnets and other gem minerals.
The Geography section has some dis-
tinguished names among its contributors.
T. Griffith Taylor writes with his usual
lucidity about the Australian climate and
weather, A. Grenfell Price gives tire
Murray River its due, C. T, Madigan
makes an exciting journey to the central
regions—to the Simpson Desert, the Mac-
Donnell Ranges and Alice Springs—and
G. L. Wood speaks of “Australia and
the New Pacific.” There are other articles
on the Northern Territory, the Great
Barrier Reef, Arnhem Land and
Antarctica. Lewis Lett could have been
more up-to-date in his article on New
Guinea, and A. F. Basset Hull was
cramped, for space in his story of Norfolk
Island and Lord Howe Island.
The eucalypts, wattles, Australian
orchids, ferns and plants of the sea are
well covered in the Botany chapter. The
Natural History section, which occupies
the major portion of the second volume,
is a generous display of nearly 50 articles
ranging from earthworms to seals. Keith
C. McKeown, A. Musgrave, .T. R, King-
horn, W J. Dakin, Ellis Troughton,
Joyce Allan, Tom Iredale, T. C. Rougbley
and G. P. Whitley are not only recognised
authorities in their particular subjects,
but can write entertainingly.
The three articles in “The Defence of
Australia” section attain a high standard.
C. E. W. Bean, whose authority is unim-
peachable in his field and who writes a
fine and moving prose, gives a gripping
account of the deeds of the A.I.F. in two
World Wars. Naval historians Geoffrey
Rawson and G. Hermon Gill have little
to say about the R.A.N. in World War I,
but spread themselves on the splendid
achievements of the Australian Navy in
the 1939-45 war. T. W. White, an officer
himself in the first Australian Flying
Corps, who wrote a thrilling book about
his experiences as a prisoner-of-war in
Turkey during World War I, was an
ideal choice for the Royal Australian
Air Force.
The two volumes are copiously illus-
trated with more than 1000 photographs
and drawings and 24 colored plates. They
range from the Lightning, one of the
most famous of the clipper-ships, to a
burrowing clam embedded in coral, show
aborigines at work and at play, Nellie
Melba in her furs, the Murray lobster.
honeyeaters and the Papuan constabulary
on parade. The color-plates reveal the
beauty of a coral pool, and show sped-
mens of aboriginal art, orchids, beetles,
butterflies, spiders, snakes, birds, wild-
flowers, shells and fish ; also Streeton’s
“Purple Noon’s Transparent Might” and
E. Phillips Fox’s “The Landing of
Captain Cook.”
W. E. F.
Four Love Lyrics...
PALLID-CUCKOO.
The croon of summer flies
Through a warm, sunlit room,
Are tapping on the panes
Loud as you wake. The curtain
Stirs, while skin-soft wind
Blows coolness through your hair.
Whispering on your hack.
And sweet the cuckoo’s stream
Like liquid through the heat
Gleaming, laughs and weeps—
O tragic summer dream 1
TASMANIA.
ANTHONY WREN.
DECEMBER.
Face to the glass, before the whitehot
garden
And the dreaming trees, she probed with
an idle matchstick
To find ih the window a dry armored
beetle--
Light and empty a* the shell of an old
summer
And, laying it on the sill, intimately
observed
Its precise articulation: the crooked nail-
head
The rough-grained wood, and the faint
warmth of the curtain.
While she stood no leaf stirred on the trees.
So, with the letter in hand, without sur-
prisc ~
Thought “What has he to do with me) ;
saw in the glass
A faint incomplete ghost watching: and
with the match-stick
Divided the dry carcass; facing the silent
garden.
Even the sill was warm and smelt of
summer-
ACT.
J. R. ROWLAND.
A DEFINITION OF LOVE.
Love is as round as an apple
and as full as a dream isn’t must;
love knows no designing
of death's uncovered dust.
Love is as fine as a peacock
and as broad as a hope isn’t lost;
love knows no repining
for comes unfathomed most.
Love is as long as a barge pole
and as high as a wish isn’t gone;
love is as mad as morning
and wide as an afternoon sun.
Love is as sure a a a seaswell
and as smooth as the moon isn't
un-:
love knows songs as shining
and as everything as one.
N.S.W.
KEVIN J. PIPER.
OUTSIDE THE PLOVER’S LAND.
We piled the fire that lit the pool
With deadwood falling floods left high
And heard the plover's climbing call
Beat out the twilight from the sky.
There was then a flash in the pool's grey
And living wood crackled in the air
And under the bird that darkened day
Were the will and hiding light of here.
We lay as strangers before we loved
And did not know these tiding things,
Aware only our bodies moved
And that in our hearts were plovers wings.
But the arched earth also moved and
reared
Its graver circle to apprehend.
For how otherwise should we have dared
To meet outside our plover's land?
When we lie down again in the night,
Will our segment of perfect loving keep
With the plover's pool first fires as great
And the first wild bird as wild asleep?
ENGLAND-
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
"Adam in Ochre."
Colin Simpson’s Adam in Ochre
(Angus and Robertson) is really three
books in one; a report on the Arnhem
Land expedition of 1948 which Mr.
Simpson attended to make “features” for
the A.B.C.—and splendid features they
must have been, with their buffalo-hunts,
rain-making ceremonies and corroborees ;
then a long short-story describing con-
tacts between some of the primitive
northern aborigines and the white men
around 1900; then a report on Bathurst
and Melville Islands, 50 miles north of
Darwin, which Mr. Simpson also in-
spected for the A.B.C.
The three parts don’t fit very easily
together. The Arnhem Land story is a
little marred by too much radio shop-talk
and by Mr. Simpson’s modestly playing
the perfect reporter and letting his
scientists talk in their own words, where-
upon they frequently express themselves
in portentous clichds, not their own words
at all, because they are talking to a micro-
phone. The -long short-story, though a
vivid recreation of aboriginal life and a
good magazine yarn as well, is too loaded
with sentiment to stand with complete
conviction, as Mr. Simpson obviously
intends it to, as an epitome of the white
man’s destruction of the aborigines—the
gin who sells herself to the buffalo-hunter
for two sticks of tobacco has such an»
exceptionally good excuse for it, and
Mr. Simpson finds it convenient not to
stress the point that her good excuse in-
volves, besides saving the life of her un-
born child, her intention to murder a
suspected sorceress.
But, taking it all round, with the
excellent description of Bathurst and
Melville Islands, the book does roughly
hold together as a picture of the northern
landscape and the northern aborigines,
and everywhere it is so full of colorful
and authentic travel-writing that one
would have no hesitation in picking and
recommending it as Angus and
Robertson’s Christmas best-seller. The
publishers, describing it as “an adult
book for the mature, not for the
school child,” seem to think that it is
necessary to warn the public that Mr.
Simpson occasionally describes aboriginal
sexual customs ; and perhaps the warn-
ing is advisable. However, the present
reviewer managed to read it without
alarm, and Mr. Simpson’s viewpoint is
certainly not salacious but scientific.
One thing the book makes abundantly
clear is how admirably, through such
travel-writers as Mr. Simpson and George
Farwell, the A.B.C. has “documented’
Australia and the near-by islands for the
listening public. Mr. Simpson packs ms
previous assignments into the astonish-
ing paragraph:
Sometimes I like to look back on the
cavalcade of people 1 have seen carrying
A.B.C. recording gear. I see the recorder-
box and the label-gaudy Globite cases ol
mikes and vibrators and wires and spare-
parts being passed from an Indian taxi-
driver in Singapore to *a Dusun or a Murat
carrier in North Borneo who puts some ol
it in a round bark basket called a boon gen
and hoists it on his back. Then it is lar
from the jungle and Australian copper-
miners are helping us lug the gear tnrougn
the deep tunnels of Mount Lyell m Western
Tasmania. A Torres Strait Islands native
is picking it off a lugger out of I nursaay
Island and rowing it towards the palmy
shore of Badu. Two crocodile-shooters and
a technician named Lou Robson and myselt
are sweating up dry creek-banks with it in
the Gulf Country. Malays have it again
on a pearling lugger off Broome. Cowled
Spanish monks are giving a hand with it
at the New Norcia monastery that is sucn
a strange little part of Western Australia.
Another taxi-driver is helping us unload it
on the tobacco-farm of a Yugoslav at
Mareeba in North Queensland..-.
In Arnhem Land he sees aborigines at
Oenpelli playing the drum they call a
halnooknook or banagaga and dancing a
kangaroo corroboree. He roosts up a
paperbark with his microphone and
watches a buffalo-hunt (describing,
incidentally, a barbarous cruelty which
apparently he played some part in end-
ing—the hunters used to paralyse the
buffaloes by shooting them in the base oi
the spine, then leave them alive all night
so that the meat would be fresh for skin-
ning in the morning). One of his scientists,
the American ichthyologist Dr. Robert
Miller, describes for him the 4 leat-
mimicker” fish, which floats along the
river perfectly flat, like an autumn i eat
Margaret McArthur, the only woman
{Red Page continued on inside back
cover.)


THE basic tenet about
hats being worn in
the Summertime has long
since passed the “Shall I?”
or Shan’t I?” stage.
Definitely a man looks
better in a hat.
So, with the season of
fevered brows upon us
consider these choices for
hot weather headwear . . .
T
r »
-
■
m
t\
V,
m
m
% \
K \
# '
up
Simmer
. . . in style and comfort
“Henderson” Royal Standard quality. Fur Felt Hat in Grey, Fawn, Brown and Blue. Priced at 37/6.
"Fayrefield” Blue Ribbon quality. Pure Fur Felt Hats. Satin lined. In shades of Light or Medium Grey, Blue/Grey, Medium or
Dark Brown. Price, 46/6.
"Akubra” Superfine quality high-grade. In medium or wider brim. Light or Medium Grey, Blue/Grey, Fawn or Brown. 41/-.
I
r
Sombrero Hats in two styles, high crown, wide
brim (as Ulus.) . Also in smaller style with blocked
crown. Medium Fawn or Black, plaited leather
bands. Price, 52/6.
Country Hats, fur felt with three-inch brim. In
Medium Grey or Fawn tonings. Henderson
Riverina, 33/6; Fayrefield Melolite, 36/-; Akubra
high quality, 34/6.
q
q
. ..
K
MEN’S HATS —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. TELEPHONE; M 2401; MAIL TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA.


POWER VDU CAN DEPEND DN /
■m
m
u
n
Bn
q
Pumping
Sawing
Winching
Lighting
pushing
\v\AvisW
'aHHHfy
Thats what you want in an engine—and thats
what you’ll get when you install INTERNATIONAL—
THE POWER THAT PAYS.
Each unit is designed to supply a reliable, money
making source of dependable power readily adaptable to
your particular application.
Whether your business embraces pumping, sawing,
winching, crushing or whether you need power for
lighting or power for emergency you will find an
INTERNATIONAL to satisfy your requirements.
r~
/
/
7/
7
A 069
2MNP
/
q
q
q
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HDBDRT RDELRIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FDR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3745
Wednesday, November 21, 1951
“BE IN IT!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
KOREA'S WARNING.
The war in Korea is not only a large-
scale war fought with modern equipment
and with further Communist operations
in view against Japan and Malaya at the
appropriate time. It has all the aspects
of the opening of a world war entered
into by the Russian aggressors who are
directing it and munitioning it. It is
backed by commitments of men and
material sufficient to extend it to Europe
if a moment appears opportune to its
barbarous Asiatic organisers.
Everything General Robertson, on his
return from Korea, has said about the
huge hitting-power and air equality and
artillery strength and intensity of the
enemy effort in Korea has been a com-
monplace to Americans and to the
British for a long time. It excites in
both those countries greater interest be-
cause every one of their citizens of fight-
ing age is liable to be called up
and sent there or to the Middle
East or anywhere else where a section
of the world war may break into flame
at the will of the Kremlin. In Britain
they have even restored the Home Guard.
This fact gives these countries and
others like France and Turkey a sense
of urgency which Australia doesn’t have.
And urgency is magnified right through-
out Europe by the knowledge that the
Russians are within bombing-distance of
every capital, closer to London than
Berlin and Hamburg, which were torn to
bits even by the bombing armadas of
World War 11, now outdated. The Turks
are threatened by their ominous neighbor
and asked to explain even the fact that
they are taking joint steps to defend them-
selves against a threat which has been
openly advertised in the last three months
by the Russians having cleared the
Turkish borders in the Armenian and
Black Sea region and having moved in
bodies of troops both there and on the
Bulgar-Rumanian side.
The sense of danger in the United
States and Britain will be intensified by
the newest advertisement of the nature of
the Russo-Chinese war in Korea. This
is the announcement by the Judge-
Advocate of U.N.O.’s Bth Army that the
North Koreans have murdered 5500
American and 7000 South Korean war
prisoners and 130 other U.N. troops —
10 British, five Belgians, 40 Turkish and
75 others.
When Hitler ordered 50 escaping air-
men prisoners to be shot a shudder ran
through the civilised world. But this
is a war in which, on the enemy side,
there are no Geneva conventions, no
inhibitions. The foe is as ruthless and
free of scruple as any Nigerian gorilla
who has a human in his hands, for it is
a tenet of Communism, strangely little
realised in view of the openness with
which it is taught and practised in “the
Workers’ Only Fatherland” and its satel-
lite States, that no adversary of Moscow’s
creeds has a right to live.
It would surely seem now that Aus-
tralia, with the advent of the Middle
Eastern Command (to which, as Mr.
Casey said in Paris, we should become
party), must now come to a full realisa-
tion of the dangers threatening her from
both sides, and perhaps from her very
doorstep, since the Soekarno Government
holds its power only by a whisker, and
all the forces of dormant Communism
explosively hidden in trade-union move-
ments might burst out atomically at any
moment in the case of extension of the
carnage to southern Asia and the
Moslem world.
There is little sign, however, that the
Australian people knows what it is
facing. What time the public mind can
spare from its devotion to the horses and
the dogs and the lotteries and the bathing
beauties it gives to the task of reducing
the cost of its subsistence and pleasure
without working for the reduction. It
lets its Communists go on calmly cunning
the unions without any upsurge of public
opinion. It is facing a recruiting cam-
paign which should not be necessary,
since the whole Commonwealth should
be shaking down to a unified general
defence plan to condition it to the neces-
sity of universal compulsory service—
for men and women of all ages—when
the need arises.
But there is no unity. The States still
fight for their parish-pump vote-buying
development schemes at the expense of
defence reserves which should be build-
ing up. The newspapers fight their little
battles with the Speaker of the House
of Representatives. Members of various
Parliaments are considering an increase in
their salaries, the Federal body hurriedly
adjourning after a session which has done
little but gag through huge estimates
for a ballooning civil service in debates
which have been carried on at the lowest
possible level of you-did-you-didn’t
objurgation and with a minimum of con-
structive speeches.
So far from there being a united Parlia-
ment or nation concentrating on the main
and vital issue of security which en-
grosses the rest of the Western world,
there is not even a united party of any
sort in Canberra, and if various sections
of “Labor,” in particular, had not the
common bond of hatred for the Govern-
ment they would not hang together for 10
minutes. As it is, “Labor” behaves like
two prowling rival groups of bandits who
have been ambushed in a common lair by
a band of greater bulk and armament.
It is staggering to think that, in a
country within bombing distance from
Asia, with only 8,000,000 people and with
its main resources for continued existence
in war huddled round half a dozen over-
fed and loafing cities, the day that heard
General Robertson’s summary of the
Korean situation, the week that heard
Vishinsky’s speeches and Moscow’s
threats to Turkey and that saw British
troops pouring into the Suez area and
the Middle East Command being formed,
a “Labor”-party Senator proposed to
recommend to the House of Representa-
tives the dropping of an increase of 10
per cent, in income tax as “unnecessary.”
And at the same time the Leader of the
Opposition in the House of Representa-
tives, Dr. Evatt —a leader who has been
president of U.N.O. and should know
the world situation perfectly well —
declared that “if sales tax were abolished
the Budget could still be balanced.”
When Dr. Evatt reaches Elysium he
will suffer a great injustice if Nero is
not sent to the gate to surrender his
crown and hand over his fiddle. One
would have thought that having only
two months before the Japanese invasion
of Pearl Harbor in 1941 laughed to scorn
the idea of war in the Pacific, the learned
doctor would have had his lesson:
but his mind appears to be unable to rise
above party politics and the class-war.
And in that he is far from being alone.
The Commonwealth owns to having
legions like him.
Churchill Takes a Hand.
External Affairs Minister Casey
uttered no profound thought in his com-
mentary upon the Russian Vishinsky’s
latest torpedoing of peace proposals at
U.N.O.’s meeting when he said it “had
diminished the potential usefulness of
the U.N, machinery for world peace.”
The tribe of officials drawing enormous
untaxed dollar salaries has moved for the
World Parliament’s latest slanging-match
from New York to Paris, with a longer
agenda than ever of intractable subjects
for “settlement” —atomic arms-race, dis-
armament-control, Korea, Libya, Eritrea,
Palestine, China, Morocco, Kashmir,
Persia, Suez Canal, Sudan, Austria and
free elections for Germany.
In all these matters the Soviet delegate’s
attitude for public information is that he
was not prepared to negotiate on any-
thing and that he goes to U.N.O. to laugh
at what he calls the whole “spurious,
trifling babble.” Experienced U.N.O.
diplomats are reported to believe that Mr.
Vishinsky’s outburst of contemptuous
abuse is that gentleman’s way of saying
that a Big Three meeting might be a
good idea. Foreign Secretary Eden, of
Britain, replying to him, might have done
better than the defensive retort that the
West was rearming only because it wanted
to negotiate from strength. Obviously
Moscow is intent on maintaining a posi-
tion in which negotiation from strength is
a privilege reserved for the Soviet. To
suppose that a general settlement is being,
or can be, postponed until both sides
are armed to the utmost —with U.N.O.
looking on and keeping its fingers crossed
—would be a strain on anybody’s
credulity.
The first question is—lf the Big Three
meeting is to take place (Prague is being
canvassed as the scene of it), from what
strength will the West, represented by Mr.
Churchill and President Truman, be able
to negotiate with Stalin? That must be
a prime consideration in the Churchill-
Truman conversations scheduled for
January next. The next question is—
Supposing the Big Three meeting comes
to pass and they can make any agreement
at all, how is performance to be guaran-
teed? So infected is world opinion,
however, with enthusiasm for the fetishes
and fatuities of U.N.O. as a substitute
for old-fashioned, balance-of-power
diplomacy that this latter question is too
far out of sight to bother the parties as
yet.
Mr. Churchill can be trusted to bring
some new energy to bear. Already a
change in the situation is beginning to
appear with his return to the scene. His
election appeal to his own people to give
him a chance to see if he personally could
not release the log-jam, after which if he
could succeed he would be happy, was
clearly a point of confidence upon which
his Government was returned —though
with a majority slight enough to suggest
that the British people did not expect too
much by way of results. But Mr.
Churchill has ever found incentive, not
discouragement, from any challenge to
his capacity to ride affairs, and he is
definitely under challenge now. Nobody
in Moscow can wish him victory in that
matter, for his failure would brighten
hopes of restoration among the spineless
Socialists who made the Soviet’s game
only too easy. Mr. Churchill enters the
poker-game as it approaches the critical
stage of the bidding with a hand that
looked poor enough before he took
it over, Vishinsky, sitting pretty for some
time past, jeers at him that he is holding
nothing of any value ; but Vishinsky is
not pitted against any Attlee or Morrison
now.
The first sign of new firmness observ-
able is the announcement that the Western
leaders and Turkey will proceed with
the establishment of a joint Middle East
Command based on British occupation
of the Suez Canal, whether Egypt and the
Arab States —and Russia —like it or not.
This is a radical change from the Attlee
Government’s bleating about its reso-
lution to defend British interests in the
Canal Zone. Also, the possum-faced Dr.
Moussadek, of Persia, has dropped out
of the limelight, thanks considerably to
the triumphal North American tour of
the young British Royal couple. Mr.
Churchill’s poker-hand should improve
if between now and January Persia and
Egypt can be brought to see the
advantages, political and economic, of
listening to reason. Indeed, if Britain
is to negotiate from strength some re-
covery of authority in the Middle East
is essential. Both the Persian and the
Egyptian Governments are likely to want
help—and money—soon in controlling
insurgence in their own populations.
There is also a firmer front being
shown by the American pro-armistice
delegation in Korea. A returning
R.A.A.F. group-captain has ventured to
renew the prophecy —on which General
MacArthur fell down last year—that
“there will be a cease-fire in Korea be-
fore Christmas.” This is as may be;
but it remains true that Korea is a test
case on which, for public exhibition, the
Soviet’s bluff may be called at the psycho-
logical moment. Moscow can stop the
Korean conflict at the drop of a hat, and
to date the Korean war, being a Com-
munist-bloc defiance of U.N.0., is a
supreme proof that U.N.O. cannot stop
any aggressive hostilities, even when em-
ploying a U.N.O. military force. The
Russian charge at the Paris meetings is
that the Atlantic Pact is “incompatible
with the U.N. principles and charter.”
But if Moscow will not allow validity to
U.N.O. intervention against a breach of
the peace, and even aids and encourages
an aggressor against which U.N.O.
authorises military action, then the only
hope for the Western democracies is their
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, and
the Russian argument and professions are
exposed as worthless.
Fortunately the hopes of averting war
do not depend entirely upon such “un-
screwing of the inscrutable,” in the one
and only Billy Hughes’s phrase, as the
canvassing of the appearance at a meet-
ing with Stalin of some rabbit-like
peace-formula out of a hat. The solid
ground on which Mr. Churchill is seeking
to manoeuvre is his own familiar territory
—the Atlantic Pact. He and the late
President Roosevelt first chose it and
built upon it in war emergency their
Atlantic Charter and the first and only
United Nations which commanded con-
fidence ; and it was to that Charter and
effective working alliance that the U.N.O
charter and the post-war “United”
Nations —a travesty of the original—
owed all its inspiration. Inevitably the
Churchill-Truman conversations will turn
back to those firm beginnings and the
hopes that sprang therefrom for a new
world of human freedom and respect for
international law. The chances of peace
depend upon the close and continuous
collaboration of these leaders of the free
world rather than on any parley in
Moscow. That is the one clear certainty
among all the mirage of current debate ;
and if the strength of an English-speaking
world alliance, along with that con-
tributed by other Atlantic signatories,
cannot prevail through diplomacy to dis-
courage Russian schemes for world-
conquest, then the democracies must pre-
pare for the worst.
The Atlantic Pact is indeed, as the
Russians say, incompatible with U.N.0.,
in the sense that it represents a com-
munity of nations determined to put
through the job on which U.N.O. has
fallen down. Mr. Churchill’s Govern-
ment can inspire a vigor in the British
Commonwealth as a world Power and in
the vital Anglo-American partnership far
beyond the late Attlee Socialist Govern-
ment’s capacity or conception. The
welfare of the peoples in every land, even
of those within the Iron Curtain, depends
upon it rather than upon the Babel which
calls itself a World Government, which
functions in a glass-house, and which is
only nominally engaged in Korea.
Give It a Name.
As, technically, Australia is not at war
with Russia, China or even North Korea,
it is rather difficult to define the status
of an Australian who throws in his lot
with the people who are killing his
fellow-countrymen on Korean battle-
fields ; so it is probably not possible to
say definitely whether Wilfred Burchett,
now reporting the Korean war for the
Paris Communist paper “Ce Soir,” is
still to be regarded as a loyal Australian
citizen or whether he has classed himself
in the company of William Joyce and
John Arnery.
For some months now Burchett’s dis-
patches have been appearing regularly in
the Sydney Communist “Tribune,”
presented as cables from Kaesong, though
just what route the “cables” follow would
probably be a poser for the Postmaster-
General. The essence of all Burchett’s
reports is that the United Nations troops
are aggressors and the Communists high-
souled patriots “sprung from the common
people and defending the gains that
People’s Democracy has given them.”
This explains why “the Americans and
their allies have been defeated by the
superior morale of infantry supported by
an entire population fighting a just war.”
If this doesn’t mean that Burchett’s
fellow-Australians are aggressors in an
unjust war, then the English language isn’t
as simple as it used to be.
A few weeks ago an American
journalist who knew Burchett when he
was in Berlin for the London “Daily
Express” and who claimed to have met
him again in Kaesong reported in the
New York “Herald-Tribune” a conversa-
tion with Burchett. The American asked
him whether he had deliberately identified
himself with the Communist world.
Burchett replied “Yes. It’s a decision
that had to be made, and now I’m at
peace with myself.” He said he had been
influenced in his decision by his con-
viction that powerful groups in the
Western world were deliberately aiming
at world war. His experiences in Bulgaria
had shown him that Communism had
improved the lot of the common man,
and six months in China had made him
feel he had chosen rightly.
The correspondent asked him about
mass executions in China. Burchett re-
plied that “public executions are pre-
ceded by proper trials, and that only
those who had committed provable crimes
against the State were affected.” He
did not give any details of what consti-
tuted a crime against the State, so it is
not possible to say with absolute certainty
what would be the fate of a Red Chinese
journalist who wrote articles condemning
the Communist cause in Korea and laud-
ing the troops of the United Nations.
According to the “Herald-Tribune”
reporter, Burchett lives with the Chinese
truce delegation at Kaesong, and identi-
fies himself completely with Mao
Tse-tung’s cause. For instance, in reply
to a question on Formosa, he replied,
“There can be no real peace as long as
Chiang Kai-shek stays in Formosa and
sends over his agents to harass us on
the mainland.” Again, with reference to
rumors that U.N. forces might use atomic
weapons—“ Naturally we took our pre-
cautions.”
If Australia were engaged in a declared
war in Korea, instead of in whatever it is
that has been going on there for the past
18 months, there would be little doubt
as to the appropriate label for Wilfred
Burchett if he went on doing as he is do-
ing now. If for want of precedents the
experts of the Commonwealth legal
service don’t know what to call him, it
is time the Attorney-General set them to
work to find out.


PLAIN ENGLISH
M.Ps.' Salaries.
It is taken for granted in Canberra that
there will be an increase in Parliamentary
salaries from the present £l5OO a year,
even if there is some protest from the
public.
In real terms remuneration of M.Ps.
is more like £2OOO a year. They have
subsidised superannuation which no
private citizen can buy for the money
for a matter of £3 a week paid for a
minimum of eight years they receive
pensions at 45 or over of £8 a week for
life and £5 a week for their wives for
life after their deaths. It is possible for
a modern King O’Malley or Hughes to
enter Parliament at 37, draw £l5OO a
year, plus £8 a month stamp-allowance,
plus considerable free travel for his wife
and almost unlimited free travel for him-
self within the Commonwealth, includ-
ing a trip to New Guinea, Norfolk
Island or the Territory once in the three
years, and after eight years’ service retire
with another 45 years or so to go at
£4OO a year. In other words, it is possible
for him, for an outlay of £l2OO, to receive
in return £lB,OOO, plus anything that goes
to his surviving wife.
His income tax is scaled down on the
assumption that a proportion of his salary
goes in expenses in his business as a
Parliamentarian. He has 365. a day living
expenses while he is in Canberra. And
though he makes a song about his sub-
scriptions to public bodies and charities,
no member ever says anything about
what sporting and public bodies do for
him in the way of free tickets and
honorary membership and free or cheap
meals. A gold pass is not by any means
limited to railway travel, otherwise there
would not be so regular a roll-up of
M.Ps. at race-meetings and the like.
As the same time it is proper that
members should be well paid, though
there are now probably more men than
ever before in the Federal House
completely independent of their Parlia-
mentary salaries. Even on the “Labor”
side £l5OO a year is mere chickenfeed
to men like Dan Mulcahy and Dan
Minogue, owners of liquor fortunes
made out of the workers’ beer, and Dr.
Evatt,
A point of more importance than what
members are paid is whether they are
worth the money. A very large propor-
tion in both Federal and State Houses
are not, judged by their private earning
capacity. The idea that Mr. Dan Curtin
is worth £2OOO a year would be laughed
to scorn even in the prawn trade which
he adorns. And there is one “Labor”
Minister in N. S. Wales paid about
£3OOO a year and entrusted with the
expenditure of millions a year in avenues
of great importance who was reduced to
taking tickets at a turnstile at the Cricket
Ground during a period of temporary
exile from Parliament.
Britain Ahead Again.
While Moscow has been shouting that
the British are a lot of bloodthirsty war-
mongers and a very large section of the
American and Australian Press have sub-
scribed to the conviction that the harassed
little country with half the world’s
burdens on its shoulders is on its way
to bankruptcy and eclipse, it is announced
that once more its supposedly slow,
stodgy and old-fashioned methods have
beaten the world.
As it produced superlative fighter and
other aircraft engines and radar (which
did more to win World War II than
any other single factor) against the com-
petition of the hugely equipped and well-
advertised American industry, so it came
out of the mire of the carnage, abused as
Imperialist, stripped by world opinion
of most of its Empire and represented
as something that could live only by
grace of United States genius, and threw
into the ring a dozen vital novelties
calculated to do more for human welfare
than any of the patronising newer coun-
tries can promise to do with their in-
ventions. Penicillin was one. Jet-
engines was another; and the develop-
ment of these in the commercial sphere,
as in the defence sphere, has proved it to
be years ahead of any other nation on
the practical side.
Lastly comes the use of atomic power
for industry, which has been achieved
ahead of any other country. The credit
for the original development of atomic
energy has almost all been assumed by
the United States. But the fact is that
the atom was originally split by the
Maorilander head of the Cavendish
Laboratories at Cambridge, Lord Ruther-
ford, and that the practical developments
which made the atom-bomb possible were
mainly the work of British scientists,
notably Professor Cockcroft, whose name
is associated with the new and revo-
lutionary pilot plant which has been
established in London to make the first
practical industrial use of atomic power.
It is a little plant, to cost £15,000.
It weighs only eight tons, but it is as
important to the world as the first
practical railway engine or industrial
steam-engine. It is equally important as
a demonstration of the capacity of the
British to think along commonsense lines,
for it can be said with certainty that the
possession of the ability to harness con-
siderable atomic power resources to in-
dustry would be more important in a
world war than possession of consider-
able quantities of the atomic-bomb.
Atomic power would take a huge
burden off shipping and transport and
result in unbelievable economies in space
in relation to power output. It would
also be possible to concentrate huge
power output in such small spaces as to
make them infinitely more defendable
against modern bombing than any other
kind of generation plant.
A couple of lines about the economics
of the pioneer project should be of par-
ticular interest to the Australian Miners’
Federation. This £15,000 heating plant
will save the British Ministry of Supply
1000 tons of coal a year.
A.B.C. News Costs.
From M. F. Dixon, formerly of the
A.8.C.:
The arrangement between Reuters, Ltd., and
the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the
supply of overseas news will have run its five-
year course at the end of this year, and negotia-
tions for its renewal have probably begun. The
present service costs £lO,OOO a year, and the
figure at which it is to be renewed, if at all,
is a matter of concern to Australian listeners,
who recently had their licence fees doubled.
Originally the A.B.C. had contracts also with
Associated Press (£4OOO a year), British United
Press (£2000) and Exchange Telegraph (£1000).
The Associated Press contract was allowed to
run out in 1948; the B.U.P. contract expires
on the same date as Reuters.
Before the A.B.C. opened negotiations with
Reuters in 1946 it brought its London news-
editor (E. H. Jackson) specially to Australia for
consultation. Jackson assessed the value of
Reuters at £5OOO a year; and shortly before
the deal was clinched I urged that in no circum-
stances should the commission pay more than
£BOOO for it. But Reuters’ general-manager,
C. J. Chancellor (now Sir Christopher Chan-
cellor), was a shrewd negotiator —he sent his
editor to tell A.B.C. general-manager Moses
that he (Chancellor) never bargained about price
and the figure he intended to quote would be
his first and last word. Moses accepted the
figure, and an exchange of letters clinched the
deal. This casual arrangement was in marked
contrast with the negotiations with Associated
Press and 8.U.P., which extended over many
weeks and during which the A.B.C. negotiators
always held the initiative. When a figure was
finally arrived at the legal people were called
in to reduce it all to a hard-and-fast contract.
Incidentally, it was the willingness of British
United Press to sign a contract with the A.B.C.
which broke the ban on the selling of cable
news direct to broadcasting stations and brought
Reuters to the point where it, also, was willing
to do business. The original B.U.P. contract
provided that the A.B.C. should pay to British
United Press a percentage of the fees it collected
from the sale of news to commercial stations.
In some extraordinary way this was altered in
the second contract to provide for a minimum
payment of £lOOO a year in respect of such
fees, irrespective of how small the A.B.C.
collections might be. At that time it was receiv-
ing only a matter of a few hundred pounds a
year from the re-sale of news.
Costs of news-gathering have soared in the
last five years, and if the Reuter service was
worth £lO,OOO a year in 1946 probably £15,000
will be asked for it now. The question is: Is it
worth that figure, or even the amount the A.B.C.
is now paying for it?
Out of the hundreds of thousands of words
which flow into the A.B.C.’s London office
daily, an average of about 2000 a day are
cabled to Australia; and in the editing process
here the wordage is probably reduced to 1000.
It is an open secret that the A.B.C. records a
large number of 8.8. C. news-broadcasts each
day and makes extensive use of the material
thus garnered. This lessens the demand on its
own cabled material. The severely restricted
usage of matter from its costly cable services
is due largely to the A.B.C.’s limitation of its
bulletins to 15 minutes. A greatly expanded
and therefore more informative service could be
supplied to listeners for the small additional cost
of cabling; and there would be no difficulty in
building up the Australian side of the service
from the copy which is “spiked” each day.
The A.B.C. stubbornly refuses to budge from
the attitude that listeners cannot sit through
more than 15 minutes of speech. And yet it
regularly broadcasts features requiring intense
concentration, such as plays, running to an
hour. Admittedly speech programmes overseas
seldom exceed 15 minutes, but in a wide read-
ing of broadcasting literature I have never seen
it suggested that this is the limit of listeners’
endurance. Rather is such a policy dictated by
advertisers, many of whom would find it
impracticable to meet the cost of a half-hour,
or longer, sponsored programme.
The A.B.C. has the material and staff to
provide longer news-bulletins and thus get
greater value for the large amount it now pays
for cable services. The present cost of the
independent service must be well over £200,000
a year; and this cannot be justified while
existing limitations apply.
Idea for Youth Movement.
Every year there is concern in the
Murray irrigation lands about the
difficulty of obtaining seasonal labor for
the fruit-harvesting, and last week the
Minister was asked in Parliament why
more New Australians could not be
directed to the work. From his answer it
appeared they were not available. In
former days the stone-fruit and grape-
harvest season attracted numbers of
University students from Melbourne and
Adelaide to the river, and doubtless some
of them still put in the year-end holidays
very pleasantly in this way and find
house-room with growers whose sons and
daughters are often University students
themselves.
There is a very practical scheme at
work in England for tackling a similar
problem, and it embraces the wider
motive of re-education of German youth
in the interests of international goodwill
and understanding. During the recent
autumn season in England 750 German
university students were, under the
auspices of an organisation called the
German Educational Reconstruction
Society, in co-operation with the British
Ministry of Agriculture, enlisted for
holiday work in gathering the English
potato and sugar-beet crops. Many of
them were quartered in volunteer agri-
cultural camps, but the people behind the
scheme were interested in more than the
harvest itself, and a large number were
given the hospitality of British farm-
homes in order that these young Germans
might see something of the British way
of life and that both British and German
young people might, by forming friend-
ships under these conditions, lead the way
for the oncoming generations to know
and understand each other as Europeans
of a common civilisation. The scheme
began last year as an experiment and was
so successful that it is to be expanded.
Why, in these days when air-transport
has reduced distances, should not some-
thing of the same sort be tried between
Europe and Australia for the Murray fruit
harvest? There is scope, too, for re-
ciprocity in such a scheme and return-
visits by Australian university students to
Europe on similar working engagements.
It is eminently something for the uni-
versities to canvass, and university con-
tacts with established growers in the older
Murray fruit-settlements should present
no difficulties whatever. Governments
and their agencies can help, but should
be excluded as much as possible from any
control or responsibility. This is—as it
is worked out in the English example—
first and foremost an experiment by
private enterprise which depends on
personal relationships and mutual
personal benefits. It could greatly develop
cultural education among the youth of
alien peoples, than which there can be no
more enduring foundation for friendly
international relations.
Anyway, Australian universities seem to
want some stimulus for the enriching of
their own way of life, and especially of
their associations with the activities of
universities overseas.
Hospital Benefits.
Federal Health Minister Earle Page
seems to be on firm ground with his
Hospital Benefits Bill, which he describes
as designed in part to restore to State
Governments, which, under the Consti-
tution, have the primary responsibility
for health, the control of public-hospital
administration and policy.
Six years ago the Chifley Government
proposed to the States that, in return for
a Commonwealth subsidy of 6s. a day
for each patient in hospital, the States
should make all beds in public hospitals
free, irrespective of the financial position
of the patients —previously fees had been
collected from those patients who could
Pay-
State Premiers protested Vehemently
against the proposal, the “Labor”
Premiers of New South Wales, Queens-
land and West Australia being particularly
opposed to the plan which they rightly
prophesied would result in the hospitals
losing revenue from voluntary contribu-
tions and in excessive demands being
made upon the already overtaxed accom-
modation of the hospitals. Nevertheless
they accepted it.
Sir Earle now estimates that the
hospitals have lost at least £6 million a
year since the inception of the scheme.
Before 1945 hospital income from outside
sources was always more than 50 per
cent, of the total hospital expenditure;
last year it was down to 20 per cent.
The Federal Government’s intention is
to encourage an extension of hospital-
insurance schemes under which “a con-
tribution of pence a week when well will
provide pounds a week when sick.” Non-
profit organisations working on this
principle have been in operation for many
years, and the Government will encourage
them by subsidising the benefits. As an
example, a contribution of 3d. a week
will secure a single man 6s. a day hospital
insurance, plus 12s. a day Federal Gov-
eminent subsidy. Additional cover is, of
course, a matter of higher contributions.
It is the hope of the Minister for
Health that an extension of the principle
of hospital-insurance will result in a
building-up of hospital revenues from
this source and in a restoration of a sense
of personal responsibility which the
system in force for the last few years has
tended to destroy, to the detriment of
hospitals and public alike.
Wages and Output.
“Cayenne”: Malthus, “the father of
political economy,” never heard of the
Australian basic-wage system, but would
have been horrified if he had—for he
exposed the fundamental flaw in it a
few years after Phillip landed with our
enchained founding fathers,
Malthus was riding to London, puzzling
over rises in the price of corn, and his
conclusions have startling validity here,
now that a £lO basic wage has hit us.
He published his analysis as an anony-
mous pamphlet in 1800. Prime Minister
Pitt was said to have been much im-
pressed, and the late Lord Keynes called
it “the beginning of systematic economic
thinking.”
Few copies of the pamphlet, entitled
“An Investigation of the Cause of the
Present High Price of Provisions,” have
survived, and it does not appear to have
ever been reprinted in full. Which is
a pity, for our industrial lawmakers might
benefit by studying it.
“I am most strongly inclined to
suspect,” Malthus wrote, “that the
attempt in most parts of the kingdom to
increase the parish allowances in pro-
portion to the price of corn, combined
with the riches of the country, which
have enabled it to proceed as far as it
has done in this attempt, is, comparatively
speaking, the sole cause which has
occasioned the price of provisions in this
country to rise so much higher than the
degree of scarcity would seem to warrant,
so much higher than it would do in any
other country where this cause did not
operate....
“Let us suppose a commodity in great
request by 50 people, but of which, from
some failure in its production, there is
only sufficient to supply 40. If the 40th
man from the top has two shillings
which he can spend in this commodity,
and the 39 above him, more, in various
proportions, and the 10 below, all less,
the actual price of the article, according
to the genuine principles of trade, will
be two shillings
“Let us suppose, now, that somebody
gives the 10 poor men, who were ex-
cluded, Is. apiece. The whole 50 can
now offer 25., the price which was before
asked. According to every genuine
principle of fair trading, the commodity
must immediately rise.
“If it do not, I would ask, upon
what principle are 10, out of the 50 who
are able to offer 25., to be rejected?
If we interfere to prevent the commodity
from rising out of the reach of the
poorest 10, whoever they may be, we
must toss up, draw lots, raffle or fight to
determine who are to be excluded.”
One hundred and fifty years later we
are still trying to solve the problem by
stuffing more money into pay envelopes
instead of producing enough for 50.
Socialism at Work.
Two peculiar instances of Socialism at
work appear in this week’s news—one
from Canberra, one from Yorkshire.
Canberra’s Kurrajong Hotel, where
Mr. Chifley used to live and where the
present Speaker and ex-Speaker and the
Minister for the Interior (Colonel Kent-
Hughes) abide when in the capital, has a
veranda which is under the control of the
Department of Verandas, or whatever the
Government board, authority, council or
panjandrum is called that is responsible
for such facilities. The veranda is
abutted by pot-plants, and these are under
the control of the Department of Parks
and Gardens. Both are under the juris-
diction of the Minister for the Interior.
The Department of Verandas (or
what-have-you) has a myrmidon to
wash down the verandas, but it
would be more than his life is
worth for him to turn the hose on the
pot-plants, which don’t belong to his
department. And the Parks and Gardens
Department apparently could not water
the veranda if it came to water its
pot-plants; if it did, in process of
attending to its vegetables, chance to spill
one drop on the floor, its officer would
no doubt be contravening Regulation
347/A 29.674, apart from causing a grave
breach of the union rules dividing the
profession of veranda-waterers from that
of pot-plant waterers. Then, probably, no
authority short of the Full Federal
{Continued on next page.)


.
'■ ' ■ «S£3
c lm? -
4204
craven#
~7£ey Tteveb Utfy/
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
q
Arbitration Court could settle the sub-
sequent shindy, and it would not be out
of keeping with the history of modern
Australian unionism if such an incident
led to a general strike in Canberra.
However, the Minister for the Interior
is a sensible man, one who has labored
in Jap prison camps and not proud like
some Ministers, and he settles the whole
difficulty by going out and watering the
pot-plants himself.
The British example of Socialism-at-
play has a grimmer note, and the late
Socialist Government can excuse its de-
velopment because it seems to have been
initiated by a dastardly Conservative who
began asking awkward questions until
some action was mandatory.
The great county of Yorkshire has an
Electricity Board, headed at £5OOO a year
by a certain Colonel Tapper, and this
board, among other services to Socialism,
was authorised to spend £32,000 of the
ratepayers’ and taxpayers’ money to
extend its already “luxurious” head-
quarters and make them worthy of the
Welfare State in which ordinary citizens
are rationed to Is. 2d.-worth of meat a
week, and whose export balances are on
the wrong side by hundreds of millions a
quarter.
Instead of £32,000, the board spent
£72,217, and, according to the Lord
Chief Justice, the Ministry of Fuel
and Power (which controls such enter-
prises) was “curiously casual” about the
whole “lamentable, miserable story.”
The board —that is, the taxpayers or
ratepayers of the Welfare State —was
fined £20,000, which, of course, goes to
the Government which is so curiously
casual in supervision. The Socialist chair-
man was sent to jail for six months, he
explaining that he did not know what was
going on because his Socialist job at
£5OOO Australian p.a. in the interests of
equality and fraternity was only one of
many, many duties, and he was “engaged
in so many national and international
organisations.”
The chairman must have wished, as he
left to serve his sentence, that British law
did not take its Socialism so seriously and
that he had chosen Australia instead of
England for his operations. Here if the
relevant authorities had deigned to take
notice of a mere overexpenditure of
£40,000 on so important a national under-
taking as the extension of a luxury head-
quarters they would probably have given
everybody concerned a medal for being
so moderate.
POLITICAL POINTS
With a sense for the fitness of things
those responsible for Victoria’s big Kiewa
electricity scheme arranged it so that the
two tunnelling parties which have been
boring towards each other for five years
should “hole through” and meet on the
State’s Centenary day, November 13.
Calwell hasn’t forgotten his dream of
becoming Thought Controller. When the
Broadcasting Bill came up last week —
it increases listeners’ licence fees from £1
to £2 —he seized the opportunity of sug-
gesting the abolition of the A.B.C. and
the appointment of a Minister for Broad-
casting. He claimed that such a move
would mean that Parliament would have
more direct control of expenditure. It
would also mean that the Minister would
have more direct control of what was
broadcast —and in a “Labor” Govern-
ment who would be more likely to get
the post than former Minister for Infor-
mation, Arthur Calwell?
Fixer Ashley is still perturbed about
“The Call.” He now sees an anti-Semitic
streak in it. So does the Communist
“Tribune.” Evidence adduced is that no
rabbi was asked to sign and that Paul
McGuire knows Douglas Reed.
N. S. Wales coalminers have had it put
plainly to them that the time has come
for them to revise their attitude on the
mechanical extraction of pillar-coal.
Joint Coal Board chairman Cochrane told
the miners’ convention that their only
hope of improved returns from the in-
dustry was by striving for its mechanisa-
tion. He considered the country needed
a 50 per cent, increase in coal output in
the next five years.
At the same convention N.S.W, Mines
Minister Arthur urged the miners not to
reject plans for mechanical extraction of
pillars. He asked them to trust the
Mines Department inspectors, whose
major concern was the safety of the men.
Appealing to commonsense, the Minister
said he did not believe any owner would
want to see men injured or costly
machines damaged by falls. Even if the
miners don’t want to accept the first part
of this proposition, the second should
surely make sense to them.
Getting out that pillar-coal is the
quickest and simplest way of meeting the
increased demands of industry for coal.
Communist-inspired talk of danger has
been the main obstacle in the past, despite
unanimous expert opinion that mechanical
extraction is both feasible and safe. The
question was scheduled for discussion by
die miners on Monday with the Reds
working hard for a continuance of the
ban.
“Labor’s” new financial expert —
Evatt’s the name —has discovered that
sales tax is no longer necessary. Is he
prepared to give an undertaking that his
party will abolish it if returned to power?
At the royal commission on liquor:
Mr. Dovey (to Alastair Simpson, licensee of
the Bells Hotel, Woolloomooloo): You did not
tell the truth to the Licensing Court?
Simpson: No.
Mr. Dovey: That was done deliberately?
Simpson: Yes. To comply with the Liquor
Act.
Maxwell, J.: I do not know of any pro-
vision in the Liquor Act which compels people
to tell untruths.
Clive Evatt’s ban on lighting fires in
the open doesn’t appeal to his opposite-
number in Brisbane, Lands Minister
Foley, who says that bushfires will never
be stopped that way. His recipe for
bushfire-control is to train men to get
’em under control before they spread.
Lead-bonus for employees in Broken
Hill mines will drop £2 7s. 6d. a week
next month. Looks like a black Christmas
for Broken Hill; at the new figure the
bonus will be only a fiver more than the
basic wage.
Question-time one day last week found
Dan Mulcahy inquiring about the sale
of shares in Macquarie network radio-
stations. Rather a strange reversal of
form; it isn’t so long since questions
were being asked about a story that the
A.L.P. executive was trying to force Dan
to sell to it, at considerably below market
value, his shares in 2HD. As far as
can be recollected the story had a happy
ending—for the executive.
“Melbn”: A daily-paper correspondent
in Melbourne, signing himself “Aus-
tralian,” asks if he should consider him-
self a ratbag for objecting to losing a
day’s wages for Melbourne Cup day. He
might have asked the same question
about the compulsory observance of the
Tuesday Centenary celebration. An
answer in each case could be that he was
not so much a ratbag as a chump for
not getting another job for the day at
double rates.
From Molongloside:
One thing which the Press gallery has been
unconsciously doing in its war with the Speaker
is to set itself an examination paper and earn
a dunce’s cap. The principal reporter of one
metropolitan daily, for example, wrote: “Of
Parliament and its precincts Mr. Cameron is
feudal lord, subject only to the vote of Parlia-
ment.” He isn’t, except in the precincts of the
Reps. The Speaker is not even chairman of the
Joint House Committee, and he has no standing
in Senate affairs. Again, it is written that Mr.
Cameron holds there is nothing in the Constitu-
tion or elsewhere to permit the appointment of
Parliamentary secretaries, but that “Mr. Menzies
is able to reply that there is nothing in the
Constitution establishing the position of Parlia-
mentary Whips —yet they exist —and there is
nothing in the Constitution establishing the Joint
House Committee. The oracle apparently
forgets that a Whip holds an unofficial posi-
tion, is appointed and controlled by his party
and is not responsible to the Crown, while a
Parliamentary secretary is a responsible Minis-
terial deputy holding an office under the Crown
responsible to Parliament which must be consti-
tutionally provided for—and is not. And the
Constitution (Sections 49 and 50) does empower
the Parliament to appoint the Joint House Com-
mittee and any others necessary to its manage-
ment, and provides for it under the Standing
Orders. This week Mr. Menzies announced at
a Press conference that he knew nothing of his
supposed proposal, universally noticed in the
Press, to reduce the powers of the president of
the Senate and Speaker and give the Govern-
ment control of Parliament House. But at the
moment, of his denial 95 per cent, of the
reporters present seemed to have gone deaf.
The Victorian Cabinet has decided to
reconstitute the Egg Board, which blew
up recently like a bad egg, on the basis
proposed by the Parliamentary Select
Committee. The new board of five
members will comprise a Government
nominee experienced in business and
marketing, an officer of the Department
of Agriculture, two qualified producers
elected by a poll of producers and a full-
time egg-producer selected by the Minister
for Agriculture. There will be no con-
sumers. The only point at issue now
is whether the “full-time egg-producer”
will be a Buff Orpington or a White Leg-
horn.
Motorists who wince—or winge—every
time they put their hands in their pockets
for money for the Sydney Harbor Bridge
toll should take comfort from the news
that the toll on Tom Ugly’s Bridge over
the George’s River, south of Sydney, will
be abolished at the end of next March,
its cost having been covered by the tolls
collected in the 22 years of its life. At
any rate, this proves that bridges can be
paid off, so there is hope that the youngest
motorist now using the Big Coathanger
may live to see the day when he can
drive across it toll-free. After all, there’s
only about £6 million left to pay off.
Not an epitaph on an unlicensed owner
of a Sydney pub. Just a thought from
Pope’s “Ode on Solitude”:
Thus let me live, unseen, unknown,
Thus unlamented let me die;
Steal from the world, and not a stone,
Tell where I lie.
Having failed in his attempt to get
Menzies to sign a blank cheque for
Olympic Games expenses, Victorian
Premier McDonald has now reconciled
himself to the Melbourne Cricket Ground
site for the event. The decision involves
providing seating for 62,000 more than
the ground’s present capacity—BB,ooo—
the transfer of two acres of Yarra
Park to the M.C.G. trustees.
When is an ironworker not an iron-
worker? At the Arbitration Court hear-
ing of the claim of L. Short to have the
1949 and 1950 ballots of the Ironworkers’
Association upset on the grounds of
irregularity a list of members was pro-
duced ; it included the names of Mrs.
Jessie Street, J. Miles and James Healy.
An official of the union explained that:
(1) Mrs. Street had worked in an industry
covered by the association during the war,
and had retained her membership.
(2) The James Healy on the union register
had the same address as James Healy, sec-
retary of the Watersiders’ Federation, but
he thought the entry referred to that Healy’s
son. He did not think Healy senior would
be a member of two unions.
(3) He knew that J. B. Miles was a
former secretary of the Communist party,
but was not, to his knowledge, an iron-
worker. “Possibly he had worked as an
ironworker.”
Criticism of the Coal Board’s decision
to sell £9 million-worth of equipment to
mining companies seems to be based on
the assumption that mines which hire the
equipment use it, but that mines which
buy it won’t. Presumably the expectation
is that they will buy it (1) for ornamental
purposes, (2) to stop someone else buy-
ing it, and (3) to stop the Coal Board
from hiring it out to them.
In the course of his criticism of the
sale of Coal Board equipment, the Doc.
harked back to the sale by the Govern-
ment of its shares in Amalgamated Wire-
less, saying that in that transaction “pro-
perty held in trust for the people was
disposed of without any real mandate to
do so.” At the time of the sale it was
alleged that big oversea interests would
be the main beneficiaries. This is not
borne out by the annual report of A.W.A.,
just issued, which shows that the shares
formerly held by the Government are
now divided among more than 4000 new
shareholders.
Last year the Society of Carpenters and
Joiners, in Melbourne, decided to break
away from and challenge the Commo-
run Building Trades Federation. Finding,
as usual, that minorities get a poor run
in “the movement,” the A.L.P. industrial-
group members, organisers of the revolt,
set about collecting reinforcements and
have now launched at Melbourne Trades
Hall the Building Trades A.L.P, Group
to include members of the painters,
builders, laborers, plumbers, bricklayers,
plasterers and electricians. The A.L.P.
executive is expected to give the new
anti-Commo federation its blessing, and
the barrackers for it at Melbourne Trades
Hall are reported to be aiming at doing
the same thing for the rank-and-file of
the metal-trades unions.
A Westralian man says there is strong
feeling there for a new State inside a
line from Augusta up to Narrogin and
across to Esperance, with Albany as the
capital and chief port. It’s the old cry
of wanting to get away from the domin-
ance of the existing capital—apparently
as strong in W.A. as in eastern States
Although Senator McLeay’s announce-
ment that big shipments of South African
and Indian coal will shortly be reaching
Victorian and South Australian ports
means that coal consumers in those two
States will be relieved from hand-to-
mouth dependence on New South Wales
coal, there is no reason for the country
as a whole to congratulate itself on the
news. The distance from Durban and
Calcutta to Adelaide is five times that
of the Newcastle-Adelaide haul and 10
times the Newcastle-Melbourne run.
Viewed logically, that fact alone should
rule out such imports, but under Red-
union control logic long ago disappeared
from the New South Wales coalfields,
with the result that Australia is today the
only country with sizeable coal deposits
that finds it necessary to import coal.
A beautiful vision appeared for a brief
period in N.S.W. Assembly when Bondi's
Abe Landa tabled a motion that the
Potato Board should be abolished. Theie
are lots to follow.


V £fle FEBU, yfe THAT
OU& PAY SHOUUP BE (fMCRBASBP
TO PROV(pe
x?ir*t monay
SOSSE, <§®CM®gD®Rl
-stanch AAONey
Fatigue money -, ——
SROAPCASTING MONEY
HOM MONaV
y/
AMP PANGER. MOME'/.
PENALTY RATES.
"A committee headed by Mr. Justice Nicholas has invited members of the public and Parliamentarians to offer their views on the proposal to
increase Federal members' salaries.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Kelms”: They’re telling it of the
mayor of a Westralian city. At a civic
reception a visitor remarked that he was
surprised at the profusion of garden
flowers in the park, as the soil seemed to
be pure sand. The mayor explained that
the city had been fortunate in its choice
of a gardener, who had built up the
gardens by suitable applications of horse-
manure, cow-manure and fowl-manure.
"To save you calling again. Doc., couldn't I meet you somewhere?”
After his speech, the wife of one of the
councillors suggested to her spouse that,
in. view of the impending Royal visit, it
might be as well to prime up the mayor
to speak of fertiliser instead of manure.
“No time,” he replied. “It’s taken us two
years to get him to call it manure.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: A Melbourne consultant
who has made a deep study of insomnia
was asked by the “Argus” to draft a table
of sleep needs. His scale started with 19
hours for babies and ended with 12 hours
at night and one hour’s rest in the after-
noon for persons over 60. As I come
into last-named class and haven’t managed
more than four hours at night for years
past and feel pone the worse for it, I
doubt the validity of his diagnosis. I
would certainly not object to a bit of a
siesta, but as the man in the office next
to mine needs to whistle when he is work-
ing, and he has an extraordinarily pene-
trating whistle, my need has had to suc-
cumb to his need. I don’t think of my
four hours instead of 12 as a symptom
of insomnia, I had insomnia back in the
days when I thought I needed at least
eight hours’ sleep and got into a panic
when I didn’t get it. Probably my
insomnia was Nature’s way of telling me
that I ought to have been thinking, not
sleeping. Even on four hours’ sleep a
night and 15 hours’ hard work, both
manual and intellectual, or allegedly
intellectual, in the daytime, I seldom feel
as sleepy as a young friend of mine, a
subscriber to the A.B.C. concerts, who
sinks into a profound slumber the instant
the orchestra strikes up the opening bars
of a symphony.
* * * *
“Jasby”: When the magistrate in an
English court found that the man before
him, charged under the name Sir
Frederick Smith was not a knight, the
“Sir” being merely a name bestowed on
him in baptism, he was surprised. Like
him, I hadn’t heard of this Christian name
before, though in America, the home of
democracy, parents think nothing of
labelling their youngsters Earl, Duke or
even Lord. At the same time the title
“Sir” comes in for a lot of work in my
home, though it is never addressed to
me. My middling-sized son is the
culprit. At nine, he is in the throes of
teacher-hero-worship, in consequence of
which his meal-time conversation is one
long succession of “Sir said this,” “Sir
did so-and-so,” “I asked Sir” and “Sir
doesn’t do it like that.” At first I thought
this familiar use of the honorific was
peculiar to my lad, but I’ve found that
all the small boys of his acquaintance use
it in the same way. My own schooldays
were spent in South Australia, where the
teacher, when not referred to as Old
Man Martin, Smithy or Barrelguts, was
plain Mr. Jones. The use of the third-
person “Sir” seems to be purely a New
South Wales idiom. Anyone want to
argue on that?
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: One of the most
curious sidelights on the current inflation
was the revelation that it was cost-
ing the mint more than a penny to make
a penny. It raises all sorts of interesting
angles. If the price of copper continues
to rise, the penny may become more
valuable than the trey-bit. Imagine a
blackmarket in pennies—greengrocers
selling potatoes insisting on payment in
coppers, the latest American cars (book-
makers’ models) selling for 720,000
pennies instead of £3OOO. It would be
nice to see the cherished old coin of our
youth—what it would buy then! —come
into its own again.
* * * *
“Soc”: Most of the multifarious
tobacco-brand names I’m prepared to
“Double time for night Work, too, don't forget."
ascribe to the inspiration, however far-
fetched, of associations of ideas. Sailors
are (or were) industrious chewers of the
plug, soldiers have long been notable as
suckers (i.e. of cheroots, pipes, etc.); so
we get all the brands connected with these
sea and land heroes. Then there are all
the associations and derivatives of sports,
and of such qualities as “mildness,”
“sweetness,” “aroma” and the like which
evidently have a fascination for addicts.
But one brand at present on display in
the street window of a leading Sydney
men’s emporium not a thousand miles
from Wynyard Station seems to suggest
either a pure fluke or an instance of what
might perhaps best be called fundamental
poetic inspiration. For by what ordinary
process of derivation or association of
ideas could the tobacco-makers possibly
have hit on such a truly surpassing name
as Baby’s Bottom?
* * * *
“Villefair”; With regret I have to
report that Rachel Henning has been
holding out on us. She has made no
mention of pirates on the Queensland
coast, let alone recorded that they habitu-
ally raided “sheep ranches.” Yet such
things were taking place around about
the time she went to live at Exmoor!
My information is beyond question; a
film that proves it is going the rounds
in Sydney. Perhaps Miss Henning might
be forgiven for not having known that,
within a couple of days’ sail in a small
boat, was an island inhabited by dinosaurs
and similar beasties; but even allowing
for her affection for Biddulph, she had
no right to cover-up his failings as she
obviously has done. It doesn’t need a
very avid reader of whodunits to piece
together Biddulph’s frequent and pro-
longed absences with the fact that the
pirate captain in the film is an obvious
gentleman—surely nobody but a man of
breeding would lead his men on a forag-
ing expedition clad in a belltopper and
Count Dracula cloak!
* * * *
“Uramao”: Recent pars about elon-
gated loaves of bread remind me of my
visit to Genoa’s Campo Santo, the most
beautiful cemetery in the world. There
I admired the Monumento Campodonico,
depicting an old bread-seller with a long
loaf wound round her arm and looking
very proud of it. The inscription reads:
“By selling my wares at the sanctuaries
of Aquasanta, Garbo, and St. Cipriana,
defying wind, sun and rain, in order to
provide an honest life for my old age,
I have also put by enough to have my-
self placed later on within this monu-
ment, which I, Caterina Campodonico,
called ‘The Peasant,’ have erected while
still alive.” There is a story behind the
old bread-seller’s monument. When she
had appeared to have passed away her
relatives commenced disputing over her
estate. Caterina heard it all, came to life
again, dismissed all her relatives and spent
her 80,000 lire on the monument. The
grin on the old girl’s face is probably
intended for her discomfited relations.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: History might have been
made in a Sydney suburban court when,
contrary to custom, a long fight was
promised in a “drunk and disorderly”
charge case, the defendant announcing
that he had half a dozen witnesses present
to prove that, though he had had a few
drinks, he was far from being sozzled.
As the magistrate sighed wearily at the
prospect, the prosecuting sergeant said,
drily, that he would be prepared to amend
the charge to “ ‘half-drunk and disorderly.’
It is the disorderly charge we rely upon;
the man was making himself a nuisance.”
That was a point the argumentative
defendant had overlooked ; the magistrate
made the penalty a little more severe be-
cause the defendant lacked the excuse of
full insobriety for his silly pranks. “Half-
drunk and disorderly,” however, might
have created a precedent. It is at the
half-drunk stage that the boozed nuisance
is usually at his worst.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melba was an inveterate
joker. On one occasion she asked Tom
Burke, a London caricaturist, to attend a
concert at the Albert Hall and tell her
what he thought of her singing because
she couldn’t trust the critics. Sir Langdon
Ronald, then plain Langdon, was her
accompanist, and Burke made a sketch
of him. When the applause for one item
was at its height, he stepped up to the
platform and handed his drawing to the
diva. She slipped it on to the music-
stand just as the accompanist was lifting
his fingers to play the first bars of the
encore. He was so completely staggered
that it was some time before he could
begin the accompaniment.
* * * *
“Hist”: A sceptic where the super-
natural is concerned, I would like a
material explanation of this. I frequently
ride through a patch of timber on my
way to the outer paddocks, and nearly
always at a certain spot my mare shows
symptoms of nervousness, either sidling
or occasionally shying quite violently.
She’s a five-year-old, bred and reared 60
miles away, and it is at least 10 years
since we shot a horse with a broken leg
at that spot. Moreover, the carcass was
not buried there ; it was dragged a couple
of hundred yards away, and burned.
* * * *
“Vingter”: Adoption by the Army as
an Officers’ Training School of the Vic-
torian quarantine station at Portsea
closes a rough century of existence which
began when the Yankee windjammer
Ticonderoga, three months out from New
York, swept into Port Phillip Bay wear-
ing the yellow flag of fever. Overnight
the Portsea depot was organised to receive
the typhus-scourged ship’s company,
mostly immigrants. Ninety-six had
already died and another 86 filled the
first graves at the Portsea station. The
now-disused portion of the cemetery on
Stradbroke Island in Moreton Bay (Q.)
contains 70-odd graves which are re-
minders of the similar circumstances in
which the Immigrant Queen made Bris-
bane nearly 70 years ago. Under the
plan for the taking-over of Portsea,
arrangements have been made for its
quittance by the Army in less than 12
hours in the event of emergency.
PASTORAL.
“Professor Sir Douglas Copland suggested that the
single wage-earner should be compelled to save.”
Daphnis :
Widgie, widgie, fancy-free,
Minding machines in the factory,
When your work is over
Let me be your lover—
Come to the dance-hall, and dance with me!
Chloe :
Bodgie, Bodgie, I will do
Any old thing you want me to;
You may pitch your wooin’,
But never be my ruin—
Never, never ask me to marry you!
Daphnis ;
What! Give up my single life
And share my wages with a wife?
You needn’t be afraid,
My pretty, pretty maid—
I’d sooner cut my throat with a carving-knife!
Chloe :
Nor will I change my lovely frocks
For half-pay housewives’ bargain smocks,
My model hats
For squalling brats,
Or orchids for suburban stocks!
Duet:
But we’ll both work throughout the day
So that each of us can pay
Portion of the exes.
For the union of the sexes
Meeting in the moonlight to dance and play.
Sir Douglas Copland.
i burn, young folk, I burn, I burn
To see you spending all you earn!
The State should have
A means to save
Your money for you, until you learn!
Daphnis :
What’s the matter? What’s the matter?
Who’s this economic satyr?
Chloe:
Save me, bodgie,
From this stodgy
Preaching professorial hatter!
Sir Douglas Copland.
Come, my bureaucratic elves,
Come in dozens, come in twelves!
Make your rounds,
Impound their pounds—
Save these children from themselves!
Chloe:
Out, accurs’d and darkling sprite!
If you’re looking for a fight,
I and Daph
Will have the last laff,
For I will marry him out of spite!
Trio:
Now the blood and senses tingle,
Now the cash and churchbells jingle,
j For the old s t U pid
\ 1 m not a
Economic Cupid
(Won’t get a penn’orth of change from the
i single! , ~ ,
| I’ve landed a double by changing the single!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


THE AUSTRALASIAN PAPER & PULP COMPANY, LIMITED
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Held at Manufacturers’ Buildings, 312 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
Monday, November 12, 1951.
Chairman’s Address in Moving the Adoption of the Directors’ Report,
Balance Sheet and Accounts.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is my pleasure to move the adoption of the
Directors’ Report and Accounts for the year
ended September 30, 1951. In addition to these
Statements you have also received copies of
the 1951 Annual Report of your Operating
Company—Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited. These two Reports present a picture
of achievement of which, 1 am sure you will
agree, the Operating Company is to be con-
gratulated. ...... ,
During the year A.P.M. has achieved a record
production which is in large measure due to
the active and willing co operation of the Staff
and Employees at all levels. From your point
of view this has meant in turn that dividends
have been received from your shareholding in
A.P.M. of an order whnch has made it possible
for your Directors to recommend to you today
a Pinal Dividend of 4 p.c. on Ordinary Shares,
which makes a total of 7 p.c. for the year. We
all hope that at long last we are approaching
the return to an 8 p.c. Dividend which obtained
for so many years pre-war.
Over and above this A.P.M. was also able
to pay an amount which has made it possible
for us to write off the whole of the 1950
Issue expenses.
I would like to take this opportunity of
expressing on behalf of my Board our appre-
ciation and thanks to the Managing Director
of A.P.M., Mr. Charles Booth, to his two
Assistant Managing Directors, Messrs. G. W.
Ellis and J, G. Wilson, and to all the Staff
and Employees for the loyal and excellent
manner in which they united in their efforts
on behalf of your Company.
Later in this Meeting you are to have sub-
mitted to you a Resolution for increasing the
Nominal Capital of the Company. This is a
formal but necessary preliminary to new share
issues which will have to be made in further-
ance of A.P.M.’s expansion programme. As to
the scope of this and progress to date there is
no necessity for me to add to what appears in
the A.P.M. 1951 Annual Report.
We are now one of Australia’s largest com-
panies with a total of over 9,200,000 Shares
issued. If we add to this the Preference Issue
and Debentures of A.P.M. we have a total in-
vestment by the public of some £13,500,000.
We are a basic industry both primary and
secondary. We have a responsibility with our
rapidly growing population and the needs of
Defence to play our part in our field in cater-
ing for these requirements. The Industry is
highly mechanised and therefore highly
capitalised.
In spite of our size we are, like other large
companies, essentially of the people. We have
14,000 shareholders which gives an average
shareholding of under 660 overall. Even in
looking at this relatively small figure we can
remember that many single shareholders are
such institutions as the Life Companies which
invest Life Insurance Premiums received from
the people in basic industries such as ours.
Thus the returns from industry go back in
tliis wav indirectly to the people. If we omit
these larger institutional investments then the
average shareholding is about 550. In all
UOO.OOO shares have been subscribed for by stall
and employees of A.P.M. T
There are one or two phases of what i
have just said on which I would like to en-
large. I have mentioned the rapid increase in
population. Quite apart from natural increase,
which is at a high level, we have immigration
taking place at a rate which, relatively, the
United States of America found difficult jt not
impossible to absorb at the peak of its immi-
gration. Because of the war there was a tre-
mendous lag in satisfying the civilian require-
ments of the community. We now have super-
imposed the supply of the basic needs of the
immigrants and their continuing requirements
which must be satisfied before, on balance,
they can add to the productive capacity of the
country. Such is one of the major problems
facing Australia today.
I have mentioned Defence. Every basic in-
dustry such as ours has a material part to play
in the Defence Programme. There must be no
halt called to those basic industries whose
expansion is a fundamental requirement of
Defence. It is to the basic industries such as
Steel, Building Materials and our own Cellulose
that the Defence Planners must turn for the
physical requirements. Cellulose provides the
paper and cardboard necessary for packing
the foodstuffs of the people and its mer-
chandise as a whole. Cellulose provides the
special paper which is used by Munitions for
the manufacture of explosives. is re-
quired for the dissolving pulps used in the
manufacture of Rayon and in particular of
Tyre Yarn, which is an essential component of
pneumatic tyres and so on.
We are all apt, perhaps of necessity, to think
in our minds solely in terms of money, but it
is goods that really matter, and money must
be the servant of the production of goods.
When it comes to a matter of Defence it is
vital that the basic industries should so plan
and carry out, and be allowed to carry out,
their duties that they may have the good*
available to satisfy Peace-time needs and the
Defence requirements of Australia.
I have emphasised the point that basic in-
dustries must be allowed to carry out their
duties. The Loan Council has decided on
severe limitation of public borrowings for the
Capital Works of the Commonwealth and
States. This has caused grave and under-
standable anxiety as to the future. In a
similar way we are given to understand that
the Capital Issues Board has had directions
from the Federal Government to apply a re-
duced and limited rate at which it may permit
new capital to be raised by Industry. There
are doubts as to whether this rate will meet
even the needs of basic industries. We under-
stand that the Government, in reaching its
decisions, has the advice of economists who
must in our present problem be propounding
theories rather than experience.
I and others qualified to know hold the view
that the capital funds for the basic industries
which are soundly founded are available to the
limit required over and above governmental
needs. There is every indication that Aus-
tralia’s National Income in the coming year
will be at least as great as it was in the past
year. The share market in Australia is far
from being depressed. The present price of
shares of leading companies is high. This shows
confidence on the part of the share investor.
I urge that at no time was Australia faced
more with the need for a bold and courageous
policy. We have our Defence requirements to
satisfy and we have the requirements of a
population growing at an enormous rate ahead
of us. Basic industry must expand. The
efforts of the Government must be directed to
the achieving of greater production from the
basic industries and towards seeing that
money as a medium of exchange is the servant
and not the master of expansion.
“Teeperce”: It all started with the
discovery, at our training camp in
Palestine, of a piece of paper bearing a
message in German which, as decoded by
Intelligence, read: “Watch out for the
tall man in the white coat and black hat
carrying a little brown bag.” The air was
thick with theories, the
most popular conjecture
assigning the author-
ship to Lord Haw Haw,
who, according to the
canteen cognoscenti,
was actually a British
agent. Camp Command
excluded all civilians
from the area and,
deciding that the
picture-show would be
the most likely object
of the attention of the
rather conspicuously-
garbed saboteur, strung
a double guard around
the building. After an uneventful night,
a request was made for any troops with
a knowledge of German to report at the
orderly-room. Only one bloke came for-
ward, and he apologised that his German
did not extend beyond the student stage.
Still, he gave a translation identical with
that of the Intelligence wallahs. Then
he startled the heads by saying he was
certain of the authorship of the mystery
message. It had, he explained, been com-
piled by himself as a study exercise.
* * * *
“Massa”: Most bewildered punter at
Delta’s Melbourne Cup was the well-
dressed gentleman who paraded the
members’ enclosure in correct Ascot
attire, complete with topper and monocle.
The cause of his bewilderment was the
wave of laughter that followed him
around the hallowed lawns. Some cad
had tied an “Admit to Birdcage” ticket
to the tail of his coat.
* * * #
“Kal”: For years the P.M.G. has
used the slogan postmark “Prevent Bush-
fires.” It is brief, but that’s about all
that can be said for it. New Zealand is
a bit more enthusiastic—“ Keep New
Zealand Green. Prevent Bushfires” —
while in the United States the personal
touch is introduced: “Remember only
you can Prevent Bushfires.” Accompany-
ing that is the picture of a burnt tree.
A sign in a forest in California en-
courages caution, with; “Chaperone Your
Cigarette, Don’t Let It Go Out Alone,”
and in the Pennsylvania forests the picture
of a huge match on another sign says:
“But I told you I Wanted STRAWBERRY!”
“This Is the Forest Prime Evil.” The
neatest warning against forest fires is also
seen in California. It reads: “One tree
can make a million matches, but one
match can destroy a million trees.”
* * * *
“Mullum”: My daily paper informs
me that U.S. Army recruiting-officers
would not believe the lad who gave his
name as Tonsillitis Jones. However, his
birth-certificate proved the lad truthful,
and he admitted that his four brothers
were similarly named. Tonsillitis, I sup-
pose, could be shortened to Tony, and
Laryngitis would be called Larry. School-
mates would probably call Appendicitis
’Appy, but I’m blowed if I know how
Meningitis and Peritonitis would get on.
% * *
“Hamer”; Dunedin (N.Z.) is the last
city in this part of the world to get rid
of its cable-trams; the service to
Mornington and the one to Merryhill are
still running, but the shadow of the end
is over them. The closing of the line
from the foot of Rattray-street to Roslyn
was almost a carnival for Dunedin.
Established in 1881, the line was the most
spectacular of all, for the steepness of the
ascent would have justified a rack-tram-
way rather than a cable. The three oldest
gripmen were given charge on the final
run of the cars, and Dunedians hanging
onto the sides of the cars rushed the
chance of being on the last trips. The
passing was made a sort of festival; and
No. 1 car is to join Dunedin’s most
ancient locomotive, Josephine, in the
Early Settlers’ Museum. Trolly-buses
are taking up the running.
»1» *i*
“Pawang”; Latest “new” science from
U.S.A. is dianetics. Brainchild of Dr.
L. Ron Hubbard, of Wichita (Kan.), it
sounds like kanned Freud to me, though
its inventor emphatically denies it. He
claims that when dianetics is properly
understood and applied drunkenness and
most sicknesses will vanish, along with
divorce, mental asylums, crime, vice,
wars and traffic accidents, and humanity
will live happily in perfect health. The
simple recipe is “Know thyself,” the
advice the Delphic oracle gave to
Socrates 2000-odd years ago, but the
difficulty is to know how to do it, and this
is where Dr. Hubbard comes in. He
believes that human behavior is deter-
mined by past experiences buried in the
unconscious, and by questioning the
patient he digs up the particular experi-
ence and, once the patient is aware of the
cause, he can rid himself of his habit —
if he wants to. Hubbard’s book is an
American bestseller, and already dianetics
practitioners have sprung up all over the
country. There is one in Melbourne who
cured his wife of a headache she got after
Guy Fawkes Day by dredging up the
memory of a fright she got on Armistice
night in London when fireworks were let
off. But what caused her to be frightened?
Other people weren’t. We can never get
back to first causes, but Dr, Hubbard
thinks that everything can be cleared up
out of the unconscious. If it could there
would be nothing to motivate our be-
havior. Mr. Churchill, he says, is a
partial “clear.” If he had been a com-
plete clear, where would he have got the
unconscious motive that turned him into
a fighter?
V
“Billy S.”; You can have your Gallup
polls and those door-to-door canvassers
who try to find out what the man-in-the-
street is thinking. Just give me the used
lottery application-forms to browse
through and I’ll be able to form a pretty
fair idea of current public opinion. In
among the usual “Here’s Hoping,”
“Black Cat,” “Chinaman’s Luck” and the
inevitable ticket named after the roughie
that won last week’s Flying Handicap
you’ll find man’s innermost thoughts ex-
pressed —no inhibitions, little restraint.
For instance, a week or two ago a pal
of mine dropped into the local newsagent
to pick up his passport to a pecuniary
paradise. The purveyor of papers and
other periodicals asked him for the
syndicate name. When my friend replied
“Fed up,” the newsagent laughed and
said “Have a look at this little lot.” Of
about a hundred tickets, almost half
were branded “Fed up.”
* * * *
“Lennoc”: Longest boob period
earned, to my knowledge, by what started
out to be an ordinary binge was that of
Rusty, one of our 17th Brigade mob.
Becoming alcoholically incapacitated
while legitimately on a day’s leave in
Alexandria, he was picked up by Tommy
M.Ps. who ’were busy rounding up
stragglers for the Greek show then about
to start. Unable to give any coherent in-
formation as to his status, Rusty was
jammed in a Gyppo civilian boob and
forgotten. It was several days before a
Gyppo official, overawed by Rusty’s
claim to blood relationship with the
British Royal Family, agreed to com-
municate with the Australian Army
heads. The result was Rusty’s handing
over to M.Ps. of the 18th Brigade, which
also was about to leave for Athens.
Rusty’s claim that his absence from his
own brigade, already in action in Greece,
was no fault of his own was disbelieved,
and he drew a term of field punishment
and sailed with the 18th Brigade. The
unit to which he was sent was encircled
by Jerry almost on disembarkation and
Rusty was among those who became
p.-0.-w. —which meant that it was another
four years before his boob period came to
an end.
* * ♦ •
“Hattie Hop”: Sign-writing (B.
7/11 /’51)? In a country town I saw
painted across the front of the church
hall platform, “Let Us Press Onward to
Our Gaol.” In a shop window of the
same town, “Bargians” were advertised.
« * * *
“Hoppy”: Some weeks ago Stony was
hot under the collar over Jap toys being
allowed into the country when his
memories as p.-0.-w. were so fresh. “I’d
sooner give up the grog than let my kids
have any of those cheapjack things made
by Nips,” he gave forth as we waited at
the gate for the knock-off whistle. I don’t
think. Stony comes to the local now, but
I’m looking forward to getting him in for
a spot of interrogation about the extra
room he’s adding to his house. I’d like to
get a beer into him and ask how he
arranged with his conscience to buy the
two bags of Jap cement
* * * *
“Ceg”: Historic wireless-signals (B.
17/10/’51)? Between Queenscliff and
Point Lonsdale (Vic.), just inside Port
Phillip Heads, stands a granite obelisk
marking the spot from which the first
overseas wireless messages were sent from
Australia. The date: July 12, 1906.
Vandals have removed or mutilated the
raised metal letters of the inscription, but
it can still be deciphered that messages
were sent by Governor-General Lord
Northcote, Sir R. Talbot, Governor of
Victoria, and Alfred Deakin, Prime
Minister. The names of the other nota-
bilities present on the occasion are
obliterated. Dr. Cyril Garbett, Arch-
bishop of York, who is now visiting Aus-
tralia, has stated that on a walk-
ing tour in Cornwall about 50 years ago,
he came across a hut on the coast and the
local inhabitants told him a “mad Italian”
with a name like Macaroni was trying
to send messages across the Atlantia
without the use of cables.
THE NEW TECHNIQUE.
“Nowadays the formal proposal is rare. Most
young people simply ‘arrange’ a marriage in ordinary
conversation. The seeking of parental permission is
often regarded as a joke.”
— Woman’s paper.
Recall the stuffed-shirt method of the lover
In old romantic novels that you read:
The first few of his violent tremblings over.
His mind a whirl of rosy hope and dread,
Her hand he’d grasp in fervor of emotion,
Then tell in vibrant accents —why, how
quaint!—
That his was a superlative devotion,
As deep (and quite as lasting) as the ocean.
Sometimes she’d faint,
But only to recover very quickly
(For fainting was quite maidenly, you see).
She really wasn’t feeling very sickly;
Though certainly she would have been, had he
Not asked, as she had duly calculated,
That she’d become his loving little wife.
Not being, as girls are now, sophisticated,
She gave no hint she’d just negotiated
Free meals for life.
That didn’t mean that all was “hunky dory,”
That he was, as it were, well home and hosed.
He’d still to tell her old man quite a story,
Not like the one he used when he proposed.
And so to drawing-room he’d soon be trudging,
Where Dad, who’d be suppressing his delight
At “one more off his hands,” to Mother’s
nudging
Would give consent, appearing rather grudging.
All would be right.
O tempora mutantur! And what changes
In old Romance so lately have been wrought!
The present casual courtship very strange is
To those who by the old ways had been
taught.
The fears and hopes they’re now eliminating
The “asking for the hand” has been well
ditched.
As like as not he’ll mention, while they’re
skating,
Or as the throttle he’s accelerating,
That they’ll get hitched.
And, as for seeking the consent parental,
That’s out. If mention of it’s made at all
It can be taken that it’s incidental
To putting nips in for the wherewithal
The wedding to finance. Ah, well! Though
courting
Has lost the old-world flavor (and the risk
Of heavy fathers all their dreams a-thwarting),
Dan Cupid, mechanised, is still reporting
That biz is brisk.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Shadow-chaser”: When weaned, a
lamb promptly forgets its dam, and she
returns the compliment a few days later.
He needs only a memory to guide him to
water and shade, or, if very indolent, not
even that, as he can, and does, just follow
the lead willy-nilly. Shearers find that
sheep shorn before struggle less than
first-up lambs, and wrongly attribute
their pacifist attitude to their memory. A
year’s handling, dipping, crutching, wig-
ging, dosing and treatment for fly-strike
has taught them the futility of resistance.
A lamb reared as a pet develops an in-
telligence and physique far beyond his
kith and kin, learns to open gates and
doors, scale fences, to act the goat, and
get yours. One that I made the error
of rearing on the bottle became such a
round-the-clock pest that at shearing-
time I not only shore him, but unsexed,
earmarked and branded him, and then
drove him out of my life to a secure back
paddock with his brethren, gladly for-
getting him, and hoped he would do as
much for me. Some months later I
noticed a few' of this flock had been
“struck,” so put the dog round the mob,
and, armed with a bottle of fly-repellant,
prepared to treat the victims. Suddenly
something tackled me low, bringing me
down heavily. The fallen bottle was
immediately seized by my attacker, who
elevated it, bottom-up, like a veteran.
Luckily the cork was secure. It was my
ex-pet, with memory of the milk-bottle
still strong in him.
♦ * * *
“Kelms”: I spoke of the Westralian
caves (B. 31/10/’5l), but I forgot to
mention the big caves —really big ones —■
a few miles south of Geraldton. I don’t
think they’ve ever been fully explored,
and there are some into which I wouldn’t
venture unless I was one of a big party.
When you’re underground it’s hard to
estimate your depth below the surface,
but some of them seem deep, and there’s
a feeling that the ceiling might drop at
any minute. That feeling is intensified
when you stand among the ruins of a
collapsed cave and see the big pillars —
about 10ft. through—which had once
supported it. I once stood on such a
ruin and had to fight the panic that surged
in me. It was frightening, and the feel-
ing returned, and increased, when I went
underground. All the same, I’d like to
explore the area thoroughly—there’s a
wonderful lure in a newly-found cave.
* * * *
“Boomerang”: The pelican’s menu is
generally regarded as being limited to fish
and salt- and fresh-water crustaceans.
But the solemn-looking hypocrite is not at
all averse to having young wild duck as
dessert. In the capture of the ducklings
this clown amongst our waterfowl shows
amazing skill in manoeuvring the panic-
stricken innocents within re#ch of his
cruel beak. Beating the water with his
wings, and frustrating all attempts to
escape until the victims are within strik-
ing distance in shallow water, he settles
them with one rapier-like thrust of his
ungainly bill, and bolts them down like
an alderman guzzling oysters at a civic
dinner. ; '
* * * ♦
“W.J.W.”; The old prospectors who
founded Hall’s Creek, the centre of the
Kimberley goldfield, were concerned with
gold and water, and they built their
towns with those two things in mind.
They’re still mighty important factors,
but in the development of the north a
new consideration has arisen—the need
for level ground. This commodity is
pretty scarce around Hall’s Creek, so the
town’s aerodrome was built about 10
miles out. Lately the need for a big
“Get out of the Way , Kenneth, and I'll run the damned thing over!"
centre for the district has arisen, so
Hall’s Creek is to be rebuilt, W.A.’s
State Government is erecting a boarding
school, hostel and hospital at a cost of
some £50,000, the Federal crowd are
putting up a post-office, the road board is
building offices and residences for its
staff, and there’s a store going up. It
should be a busy little place when it’s
completed in about 12 months’ time. But
the ghosts of old-time prospectors won’t
be disturbed. They’ll see little difference
at the old place. The new town is going
up near the aerodrome.
* * * *
“Nota Bene”; The boss took a careful
sight on the rabbit squatting some 30
yards away. His city visitors held their
breaths as he squeezed the trigger, then
broke into derisive guffaws as bunny
hopped leisurely out of sight behind some
fallen timber. “I’ll bet you couldn’t hit
a cow in the rear with a handful of
wheat,” laughed Bert. “No?” yelled
the boss,
coloring with
mortification,
“Just you
chuck your
hat in the
air and I’ll
show you
what I can
do. Go on,
you’re not
game !”
Slightly taken
aback by the
c h a 1 lenge,
Bert hesi-
tated, but.
goaded by the boss’s sneer and the sup-
pressed titters of the ladies, snatched off
his brand-new pearl-grey super-felt and
with a “Right, up she goes ” tossed the
cady high in the air. Came a roar from
the old 12-gauge. We never found the
crown of that hat, and Bert doesn’t visit
the farm any more; but he is one who
has learned the hard way that it is easier
with a shotgun to hit a moving object
than a stationary one.
* * * •
“Kros”: I hope the sailor who Is
heading for Cocos Island (the one in the
Pacific) to look for buried treasure (B.
31/10/’5l) has more success than most
of his predecessors —or he’ll come back,
like them, empty-handed. Vast hoards
of silver and gold are said to be hidden
on uninhabited Cocos, buried around
1820, when South America was in the
turmoil of “liberation” by, among others,
N.S.W. Attorney-General Clarrie Martin’s
friend and namesake, San Martin, A
Spanish pirate, Benito Bonito, and an
Englishman named Thompson are both
said to have interred vast quantities of
doubloons and dollars at that time.
Since then admirals, lords, newspaper-
men, businessmen and others have ran-
sacked the island. Plenty of charts exist;
but only one man, a Newfoundland
sailor, has for certain recovered any of
the gold, and that over 100 years ago.
(He refused to tell even his wife the exact
location of his find.) One optimist lived
20 years on the island and became its
“Governor.” All he found was a heap
of rusty arms and pots, some human
bones, one gold coin, steps leading to an
empty cave, an indecipherable message
carved on a rock and quite a few rum-
bottles (empty). This lastnamed item
adds proof conclusive that pirates did
visit the island, so it seems there is
treasure somewhere there. In these
inflationary days it would be worth
finding.
*‘o. K. Lee”: Devices of the kind
which “Billy T.” (B. 31/10/’5l) conjee-
tures the Indian fakirs would apply to
his pet foxie were the ghoulish realities
as practised by many “civilised” Euro-
pean showmen as recently as a couple of
decades ago. A feature of English and
Continental fairs was the dancing-geese
troupe, whose turn was performed to
music. The birds, however, were not
stimulated by the appeal to their sense
of rhythm. As part of their training
the stage on which they performed was
electrically heated at the same time as the
music commenced playing. Gradually
they came to associate the music with the
commencement of the heat torture and
eventually they commenced their agonised
shuffling without the aid of the thermal
stimulus. This meant that they were
fully trained for their act. When the
recollection of the torture began to wear
thin and they became dilatory in com-
mencing their act, a short refresher course
was sufficient to make them again good
troupers.
♦ * * *
“Bass”: The Ceylon crow is getting its
share of publicity in W.A., and it’s
spreading rapidly, if eyewitnesses’ reports
can be believed. But can they? The
new marauder has been “seen” at enough
widely-separated points to suggest that it
has become established throughout the
south-west and the wheatbelt. When the
birds have been shot and forwarded for
identification the evidence is plain, but
I’m puzzled to know how it can be dis-
tinguished from the local crow in the
air, or even stationary. It has a grey
band on the neck, but it isn’t very notice-
ably grey even at arm’s-length, and at
20 paces I, for one, wouldn’t detect it.
There are other distinguishing features,
all too small to be detected even at close
range, The beak is slightly larger and
more vicious, and the talons are, I think,
smaller. The bird’s call may give it away
—a caw with a shrill ending—but crows
are good mimics, and I wouldn’t condemn
one on a strange call. I’ve seen these
birds in Ceylon, and when I first heard
they were in W.A. I reckoned I could
pick them. I was wrong.
* * * *
“Nika”: I have heard it claimed that
cockatoos outwit the egg-hunting goanna
by stripping the bark for feet down
below their nests. Anyone who has seen
one of the ugly brutes climb a dead
eucalypt corkscrew-fashion, circling the
hard, bare trunk up to the top, will agree
that that strategy would be useless. Any-
way, a nesting cockatoo can rout a
goanna. Working among Murray red-
gum one hot day and hearing a shindy
coming from a patch of timber, I went
over and soon saw the cause of the row.
Fifty feet up a big gum a white cockatoo
was buffeting with her wings and diving
in behind the ugly, snapping head of a
big go. Again and again she came in
and the unwieldy brute, swiping with its
claws and roaring like a blacksmith’s
bellows, tried to meet the onslaught.
Finally, heaving his body round too far,
he iost his grip, slipped and plunged down
to the hard-baked earth. After lying
flattened for a few seconds he got to his
feet and lurched off into the scrub, while
the cockatoo still shrieked defiance above.
# * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Mass suicide of
lemmings only a legend (B. 24/10/’51)?
That will be news to those scientists who
have devoted time and energy to the
study of this phenomenon. It is
true that the mass movement of
these rodents is because of a food
shortage, following their increased
numbers; but what causes that in-
crease, and what maintains it in the
face of identical increases in the ranks of
their enemies? The answer to that is:
increased breeding. The number of breed-
ing seasons per year is doubled and the
period of gestation may even be re-
duced. Which raises another question:
What causes the increased breeding?
Obviously it is something they ate, and
just as obviously that something is a
vitamin. “W.M.H.” doesn’t dispose of
that argument by reiterating the accepted
fact that “the cycle rise and fall in rodent
populations is not uncommon.” Neither
is it uncommon in other species, notably
locusts. Here again the evidence points
to an overdose of a vitamin. As to the
lemmings’ alleged “foolishness” in swim-
ming out to sea, this may be an instinct
passed down from a time when the earth’s
land masses were distributed differently
from their present arrangement.
Wagener’s Theory of Continental Drift
considers that the Europe-Asia-Africa
land mass and the two American con-
tinents were once joined, but became
separated when a huge piece of the earth’s
crust was hurled into space. A com-
parison of the east coast of the Americas
and the west coast of Europe and Africa
shows how the pieces of this big jigsaw
puzzle could fit remarkably well.
Wagener maintained that a crack
developed along a line corresponding with
the present coast-lines and that the two
masses drifted apart to restore balance
to the earth’s crust, and cited as proof
of his theory the migration of eels west-
ward from Europe and eastward from
America to a common meeting-point near
the Bermudas —a spot which, he claimed,
grew yearly more distant from each coast
until balance was achieved. The eels
continued to journey to that spot and
still do, although the distance has now
made annual migration impossible.
Lemmings may be acting similarly. These
mass suicides occur not only in Norway,
but also in Canada —on the eastern coast.
The rodents can, and do, swim rivers.
Their swimming out to sea may be in-
stinctive of the time when only a river—
quite passable to them —separated them
from another land mass.
LITANY.
Sun, lovelier
Even than my desire,
I turn with your slow disk
And hum in your fierce fire.
In my Egyptian head
Brain suddenly grown wise
Observes lost ritual
Through Western eyes.
I truly call you Sun!
I call your name aloud,
My voice rolls on the sea
My voice is the yellow cloud
On the horizon;
That vapor through which Sun
Blazes a path on the water.
I am alone. I am one.
How long is time enough
To be unsure?
This is the first sunrise
Symmetrical and pure.
No heat can be too great
To burn a mind aware
To obscured rhythms of
First morning’s prayer,
And all the golden banners
So long close furled
Blaze a terrible glory over
Re-created world.
n.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.


ouy him a
Gift he#
Choose far
himself...
£
to-
*
M
//(
Smart to give, smart to own, “Nimrod” smoker’s accessories are the
practical and economical answer to the gift problem. Men choose
“Nimrod,” exclusive to Andrew McGee, because they give dependable
year-round satisfaction.
ANDREW M C GEE
"Nimrod’ 1
Windproof Lighter
The lighter with 12 months’
guarantee. Sturdy quality.
Attractively styled in mirror
finish chrome, 44/-. Or rich
gold, 84/-.
1/
m
it "Nimrod" Drysmoker Pipes
q
1 CASTLEREAGH ST.
70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Famous British-made Briar
incorporating the amaz-
ingly efficient hygienic
filter for cooler, cleaner
smoking. Nimrod Pipes
are outstanding gift value
at 27/6, with 29 shapes
to choose from. Gold
mounted, 40/-.
★ SMOKE KENTUCKY CLUB
"Nimrod 11 Pouch
A “personal” gift that is always
prized by a man. Long wearing
quality, solid craftsmanship in
every detail. Choose from the finest
Pig, Seal or Crocodile Skin. 47/6
to 92/-.
MAIL
ORDERS
“8.A.K.”: Marvellous how many
bricks some blokes can lay—in a pub;
and how much beer they can drink—on
the job! Long Tom, the brickies’
laborer, and Happy, the chippy, were
slightly different: the way those two
fellows could play billiards—with the
nearest table 50 miles away! It became
a serial; breaks made over the smoke-oh
billycan were continued over the tea-time
stew. Walter Lindrum’s records began
to sound like the efforts of a small boy
with a “bottle-oh” and a copper-stick.
The whole
camp began
to take sides
in the cam-
paign—not as
to which was
the better
player, but
which one
was the
worse. 11
wasn’t until
the job was
finished and
the gang
homeward bound that an opportunity
occurred to stage the test. Contestants
and supporters filed into that wayside
billiard saloon and the championship was
on. Long Tom made a break of 22, then
Happy took over. At 50 he just seemed
to be getting into his stride. When 70
came up he was settling down nicely.
Eighty found him properly set. The
long ’un waited until 98 was reached,
then bolted for the door. Before he’d
reached it the marker caught up with him.
“You haven’t paid,” pointed out the cue-
valet. “Paid? What for?” demanded
Long Tom. “Your game of billiards,
o’ course,” came back the sharp answer.
“Ask that other bloke,” snapped Tom
bitterly. “He’s playin’—l ain’t.”
* * * *
“Bo”; The consensus of opinion among
the mob at the camp was that the
dampers turned out by the new cook
would beat even the digestive processes
of an ostrich. Invariably the middle of
them was a soggy mess. Then one day,
when he was half-shot, he got the quan-
tities of his ingredients mixed up and
turned out a trimmer, light as a feather,
and of a beautiful texture. But the
chorus of praise for this admirable effort
was interrupted by the sour voice of Long
Bill. “What went wrong with it?” he
demanded of the bab. “It’s all full of
air-'oles. I liked the ones you useter turn
out —they was just like plum-duff without
the fruit.”
* * * *
“Sack”: The subject had wandered
around to that ancient one about the
boundary-rider who got his arm caught
"I had to counterbalance him after he lost his tail.”
in the hollow in the tree, etc. It
developed into an argument. Charlie
knew a bloke who knew a fellow who
found the body ; the tragedy occurred out
from Mudinyeri, or some such place.
Jumb didn’t believe a word of it—it was
longer ago than that. His father was
working on a neighboring station when
it happened. And it was west of Stink-
inotandri. Lofty didn’t think it had ever
happened. The three-cornered argument
was growing heated when Old Ted com-
mented : “Reminds me of the time Beaky
Haines got into the argument with Big
Harry.” The voices subsided a little.
“Why?” asked Lofty. “Well, Beaky had
got a few drinks in and he wouldn’t let
the thing drop,” related Ted. “It was
gettin’ on everybody’s tripe; Big Harry
was willin’ to call it a draw, but Beaky
kept harpin’ on it. At last Harry gets
wild and picks up Beaky and pelts him
out on to the veranda. Beaky can’t take
a hint; he rushes straight in again. Big
Harry grabs him again, chucks him out
and slams the door in his face. Beaky
screams and hollers and kicks at the
door, but Harry just says: ‘When he
calms down I’ll let him in.’ For a long
time the racket keeps up, then the kickin’
starts to ease up. When it stops altogether
Harry opens the door, and in falls Beaky
—out cold!” Charlie, anxious to return
to the argument, asked, “And where did
Big Harry reckon it happened?” “Aw,
the argument wasn’t about that at all,”
Old Ted grinned, “What reminded me
of it was Beaky had had his nose jammed
in the door all that time.”
* * * *
Will Lawson; There is evidence point-
ing to the possibility that the Maoris
who reached the North Queensland coast
in their canoes took abo. women away
with them. Long ago, in Taranaki, white
men noticed Maoris with decided abo.
characteristics; they could have been
descendants of these women. In view of
the claims by the Kon-Tiki expedition that
Polynesians originally came from Peru,
this is interesting. But they might have
been related to Morioris, who occupied
New Zealand before the Polynesians
came, and who also had distinct abo.
ways and features. For instance, they
built no huts, being content to dig a hole
on a hillside, with a ditch above it to
catch the water, and thick branches laid
over it —rather like a modified gunyah.
The last of the Morioris were located at
Chatham Islands, till a Maori chief and
his men chartered a brig, the Rodney,
and went to the Chathams and wiped out
the Morioris, whom they ate. As the
chief said afterwards, “We couldn’t help
eating them, they were such fat, jolly
fellows.” As to a suggestion made that
the surf of the Barrier Reef would daunt
Maori canoemen, Maori canoes could
always beat pakeha whaleboats in negoti-
ating heavy coastal surf. And they could
lie-to under a cape, with a sea-anchor
made of a mast and paddles streaming
out ahead. Crossing Cook’s Strait in
a gale was child’s play to those stout-
hearted seamen whose big double canoes
sailed to windward under fore-and-aft
rig at the time when Captain Cook still
used square-rig.
* * * *
“Kuna Sarta”: About this time of year
aboriginal tribes from the Kimberleys
will, if they still do what they did, pay
ceremonial visits to tribes on the coast
within a 30-mile radius of Derby (W.A.).
When I was in those parts the great cor-
roborees held at the reunion had a dual
purpose: one was the marriages arranged
between the Koories (marriageable girls)
of both parties with the Wombas (eligible
young men). The greatest care was taken
to prevent inbreeding, so individual tastes
were not considered —each young man
took his appointed girl as his number
came up. He had the right to use on
her the kujarra, a flattened bat-like
weapon, should she show any sign of
revolt. The song of welcome chanted to
the visiting tribe was a long poem which
went something like “Windi biii, cookie
cookie, iatchim yowdah”—in other words,
“Welcome, and sit down with us.” After
the marriages had been arranged, and
everything put in order by tribal rites, an
incantation to the moon followed, the
tribes dancing together, in supplication to
her Celestial Highness to endow the tribal
hunters and fishermen with skill and good
fortune. The ceremonies ended in a few
days and farewells were chanted to some
really fine ballet movements by the newly-
married couples. The brides always went
to the territory of the husbands.
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”; I’m working on the
Paroo (W. Q’land), about 60 miles up
from Eulo, when it’s noised around there’s
a sports-meeting coming up. An off-
black bloke on the station has the repu-
tation of breaking evens, and is holder
of the local hop-step-and-jump record.
The flutter doesn’t interest me, but there’s
a case of mixed grog attached to the
h.-s.-and-j., and I go into secret training.
I watch the bounding boong in his trials
and I know I can put him in the bag.
When I tell the boss I want to go into
the sports he froths at the teeth, so I
walk out on him. I borrow a bike from
the fencing contractor’s camp and pedal
off along the dry creek-bed they call the
Paroo. I’ve got about 15 miles to go
when I reckon riding on the rims is a bit
rough on the bike, the owner and me,
so I jog-trot the rest of the way and
finish barefooted. When I nominate for
the h.-s.-and-j. the head-serang of the
show, who turns out to be my ex-boss,
rejects the entry on account of my having
nothing to jump in. I locate the store-
keeper, get a pair of romeos and put in
the entry fee. The half-caste, all done
up in knickers and spiked shoes, is
favorite. The bookie told me I could
write my own ticket, but I’m only in-
terested in the trophy. There’s a big
field, one start, and the boong is well
ahead with 37ft. 4in. I was last starter,
and there’s a bit of a cheer when I came
out and they’re still cheering when I
finish the jump at 41ft. dead. I landed
so fast the impact tore the heels and
soles off the romeos. I trotted across to
the head-serang to collect my case of
assorted snake-juice and find 1 am dis-
qualified. “Not correctly attired,” said
the trump, pointing to my wrecked
trilbies,
* * * *
“Ben Ari”: New to the land and par-
ticularly to the raising of poultry, she
got the knowhow from an “informative”
article in a magazine whose scope for
helpful prescriptions knew no limit. So
the cellar was prepared
with a setting of hen-
eggs, which were poked
away in the darkest
corner. Next she
borrowed a turkey-
gobbler, dosed him
liberally with sherry
and bore him down-
stairs to his post. So
gratifying was the manner in which the
gay old bachelor settled himself among
the cluster that the new poultry-raiser
rushed pridefully up to let the family
see it, Down the cellar-steps they rushed
to witness the miracle, bowling over in
their hurry a bleary-eyed gobbler seek-
ing escape. The setting was no more.
An overgenerous measure of wine had de-
feated the intention of a drowsy egg-
sitter and created, instead, a fighting
drunk.
THE BAREBACK KID.
The squatter looked at the boy who sat
Astride the old bay mare.
No saddle he had, but a folded sack
To save him from riding bare.
And the reins he held in a freckled fist
Were a loop of hempen rope ;
But the look on the eager, boyish face
Was a mixture of longing and hope.
“What! Run the Glen Mona scrubbers in!
Was that what I heard you say?
Well, many’s the brushman has tried that mob
And been forced to yield the day,
For the wattle scrubs of Laane-Coorie
Put the best of mounts to the test.
Still, run them, lad, if you think you can,
And off you go with the best.
“But watch that seven-mile stretch of scrub,
And the flat with the melon-holes;
They’ll make from there to the timbered ridge
With the hornies crowding the polls.
And the last two miles to the Holdfast yards
Will test your mare to the full,
To force the tailers up to the lead,
And keep with that cock-horned bull.”
Well, he struck the mob as the sun hung high,
They were off hke a flash of light,
And the chase was on through the wattle scrub
As he rode as a bush kid might.
And the dust-cloud rang with the drumming
hooves
And the bark of his faithful dogs
As he chased and harried the racing herd
O’er rocks and fallen logs.
And the bay mare held to the cock-horned bull
As they crossed the melon flat,
And out of the dust we saw them come,
With the rider waving his hat.
Then he swung them into the Holdfast yards
As his white dog turned the end,
And the cock-homed bull and his scrubber
mates
Were well and properly penned.
The bush kid climbed from his weary mare
And rubbed her foam-flecked nose,
Then walked to the noisy cattleyards
Where the meaten bellows rose.
And a saddle and bridle and full rig-out
Were his now the job was done,
For the boss had promised a man’s reward
When the Glen Mona scrubbers were run.
QUEENSLAND.
HUGH SAWREY.


X-
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
U.T.10
These Services can Save your Estate
■EXPERIENCED management of an Estate can
frequently save more than the moderate
charges made for specialist service. Expert
knowledge of Probate and legal problems, taxa-
tion, investments, and property values, safeguards
against needless expense and loss which an inex-
perienced Executor or Trustee may unwittingly
incur.
more than they cost . . .
By appointing The Union Trustee you are assured
of permanent, efficient and impartial attention to
your affairs —at moderate cost. The Company’s
services are fully explained in the booklet, “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
Write or phone for your copy now —or call for a
confidential discussion.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury. Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1945. .106,483 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 83,374 23,109 288,732
1946. .100,659 6 „ 10 „ 88,374 17,285 306,017
1947. .114,492 6 „ 10 „ 89,079 25,413 331,430
1948. .116,791 6 „ 10 „ 94,085 22,706 354,136
Share premiums, £282,435 .. .. 636,571
Removal exes., £43,554 .. .. 593,017
1949. .145,858 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 125,840 20,018 613,035
Share premiums, £84,729 ~ .. 697,764
Removal exes., etc., £73,691 .. .. 624,073
Freeholds written up, £514,283 .. 1,138,356
1950. .187,018 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 173,565 13,453 1,151,809
Share premiums, £66,001 .. .. 1,217,810
Removal exes., etc., £58,884 ..1,158,926
1951. .368,424 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 186,144 182,280 1,341,206
* Excluding outside interests, f After deducting in-
tangibles ( £2863), and excluding depreciation re-
serve (now £930,196).
In quarter of a century this undertaking
has grown from a small concern with
only 10 names on the payroll and £B5OO
of shareholders’ funds into the biggest
cotton-spinning, -weaving, -dyeing and
-finishing organisation in the Common-
wealth, with approximately 3000 names
on the pay-sheet and shareholders’ funds
now totalling £4,396,647, including the
new share-issue in July last. Moreover,
since the public became interested in
1935, shareholders have never failed to
receive a div., the average being 10.7 p.c.
—highest 15 p.c. and lowest 10 p.c.
The group consists of parent and nine
subsidiaries—five in N. S. Wales and four
in Victoria —which spin cotton yarns and
manufacture all kinds of cotton drills,
tweeds, denims, ducks and motor-tyre
cords, and also dye, waterproof, rotproof,
finish and sanforise the products. And
the board “looks forward confidently to
prosperous years ahead.” While the long-
term outlook for Australia is one of
growth, it remains to be seen what ills
may befall the economy meantime.
Features of the co.’s development over
the last couple of years have been the
transfer (now complete) of the main
weaving and dyeing mills from Sydney
to Rutherford (near Maitland), and the
setting-up of three new cotton-spinning
subsidiaries—one at Rutherford, another
at Newcastle and the third at Bendigo-
all of which came into production early
last term. Also, the older mills have
been modernised, and the New Zealand
offshoot wound up, and the plant trans-
ferred to Rutherford, without overall
loss, following appreciation of the £N.Z.
to par with sterling and admission of
ducks and canvas into the Dominion duty
free. All this was done without serious
interruption to either production or
earning-power—a commendable achieve-
ment considering that a lot of money was
also represented by assets which had little
or no opportunity of contribution to the
pool.
Turnover of the group (amount not
stated) more than doubled last term, due
partly to bigger output and partly to
higher prices. The profit claimed nearly
doubled, too, reaching £368,424 (up
£181,406). That was after allowing
£181,307 (up £85,211) for depreciation,
which includes the Treasury’s special
40 p.c. allowance (withdrawn as from
June 30 last) for depreciation on new
capital expenditure, and £82,778 (up
£30,523) for taxation. Since the latter
did not make provision for deferred tax
that will ultimately have to be paid on
the 40 p.c. allowance, the board ear-
marked £lOO,OOO of the profit claimed
for this purpose. Allowing for this, the
actual profit was £268,424 (up £81,406),
or enough to pay the pref. divs. (£9186)
and show 14.6 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 10.8, 11.7, 12.6, 13.2 and
12.3 p.c. back to 1946. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., and, provided costs don’t
get out of hand, looks like remaining
there for the present.
To meet a combined net outlay of
£3,055,436 on fixed assets (up £557,657),
stocks (up £2,173,762) and book debts (up
£324,017) the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£2,575,186) was increased by
£1,881,395 and the overdraft (£1,519,207)
by £822,556:
Consolidated Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,569,109 £1,855,184 £1,920,192
Depreciation reserve 734,935 802,475 930,196
Outside interests.. 12,658 12,658 12,503
Mortgage loan . . 1,200,000 1,175,000
Creditors . . 1,383,008 1,390,442 4,094,393
Staff fund .. 10,000 9,080 9,080
Tax reserve . . 74,977 78,266 115,051
Final divs. .. 69,307 89,752 93,190
Freeholds .. 582,059 1,424,491 1,591,303
Leaseholds .. 48,566 48,403 61,152
Plant, etc. .. 2,443,708 3,224,889 3,002,985
Stock, etc. .. 1,081,079 1,372,841 3,546,003
Book debts . . 253,041 514,424 838,441
Cash, etc. .. 57,986 4,623 50,332
Intangibles .. 2,863 2,863 2,863
Stocks, largest and most vulnerable of
the assets, appear at cost or fair market
value, whichever is the lower. Since the
close of accounts there has been a sharp
fall in the price of raw cotton in both
soft- and hard-currency areas. However,
the co.’s selling-prices are controlled, and,
so far as raw cotton is concerned, appear
to be adjusted on the basis of average
cost.
To ease the pressure of the debt and
provide for further expansion, 756,835
new £1 ords. were issued at a premium of
10s. each, two for five, to those on the
register at July 5. The issue will lift
paid capital to £2,677,027 in 60,000 first
and 93,104 second prefs., both 6 p.c.
cumulative, and 2,523,923 ords. The pref.
divs. and 10 p.c, to ords. will then call
for £261,578, or £6846 less than last
term’s actual net profit.
At 435. (48s. at July 31) the f.-p. ords.
return £4 13s. p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The second prefs. at 255, yield
4.8 p.c. The firsts seldom appear on the
market. Including the new issue, net
tangible cover is £73 ss. 4d. firsts,
£46 11s. sd. seconds and 335. 7d. ords.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1944.. 365,455 35 p.c. = 245,000 120,455 3.884,016
1945.. 327,410 35 „ „ 245,000 82,410 3,966,426
1946.. 536,898 55 „ „ 385,000 151,898 4,118,324
1947. .1,209,813130 „ „ 910,000 299,813 4,418,137
1948. .1,008,667100 „ „ 700,000 308,667 4,726,804
1949. .7,787,451150 1,050,000 737.451 5,464.255
1950. .1,578,738120 „ „ 840,000 738,738 6,202,992
1951. .2,549,740170 „ 1,190.0001,859.740 7,562,732
It was the rise in metal prices, and treat-
ment of an extra 18,761 tons of high-
grade ore, that took care of the steep
rise in operating and other costs (includ-
ing the lead bonus) and hoisted last term’s
profit figure to a record level. London
(sterling) average prices per ton for the
two metals moved in this way;
Year. Lead. Zinc.
June 30, 1950 .. £S9S 16 4 £SB6 12 4
June 80, 1951 .. 135 18 0 148 13 11
July, 1951 . . 173 6 4 177 16 6
August, 1951 .. 181 10 0 190 0 0
October, 1951 .. 176 10 0 190 0 0
And the Australian fixed price per ton
for lead and zinc was lifted from £A3S
and £A4O respectively to £A6S each on
Sept. 18, 1950.
The millfeed and its assay values
compare as follows:
Ore ( Assay N
Treated, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1948 .. .. 316,290 13.0 6.6 10.7
1949 .. .. 329,990 13.7 7.2 11.1
1950 .. .. 332.305 13.8 7.1 11.0
1951 .. .. 351,066 13.5 7.1 10.8
More high-grade concentrates were pro-
duced, and the very high recoveries—
-97.2 p.c. lead, 92.4 p.c. silver and 87.4 p.c.
zinc—were a feather in the cap of the
metallurgical staff. The lead concen-
trates are smelted at Port Pirie, and
nearly a quarter of the metal is sold
locally at the officially fixed price and the
balance overseas, mainly to Britain. The
zinc concentrates are taken mainly by
Electrolytic Zinc on a sliding scale, based
on local and overseas prices and the pro-
portion of metal taken by the home
market.
The leap in revenue was £3,351,958, all
but £8674 of which was on account of
mine products:
Revenue— 1950. 1951.
Mine products.. £4,427,134 £7,770,418
Investments .. 287,554 296,228
£4.714,688 £8,066,646
Expenditure—
Mine .. .. 2,431,791 3.859,417
P. and 1. items.. 803,664 2,266,476
£3.235,455 £5,615,898
;
Net profit .. £1,479,233 £2,460.753
Rising wage-rates, including the lead
bonus, and higher prices for stores, etc.,
account for most of the growth of
£927,626 in mine expenditure. The out-
lay on development and plant was
£761,217 (up £177,060). Increased pro-
vision for taxes and royalty (£2,084,000,
up £1,422,600) was responsible for the
leap in p, and 1. items. The £2,450,753
(up £971,520) of profit claimed was equal
to 17s. 6d. per ss. share, or 350 p.c. on
capital as against 211 p.c. and 244 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. The div.
was lifted from 150 p.c. to 170 p.c., and
more than was distributed remained in
the business to help finance the big and
expensive programme of shaft-sinking
and development now in hand. The
profit in the introductory table includes
provision for depreciation (£100,000) and
allows for a small unexplained reduction
(£1013) in reserves.
Deep developments at the northern end
of the properties have disclosed what
virtually amounts to a new mine. To
handle ore from this area economically
a new haulage shaft (No. 3) and a new
ventilating shaft (concrete-lined and 16ft.
in diameter) are being sunk. To June 30
last the co. had spent £1,200,000 on this
work, and expects to spend a further
£2,300,000 before the programme is
brought to completion three or four years
hence. Should it then be decided to
build a new administrative and metal-
lurgical block at the new location, an-
other £BOO,OOO will be required. The
outlay will, of course, be a limiting factor
so far as dividends are concerned.
Measured ore reserves at last three
balancing dates were:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Section— Tons. Tons. Tons.
North . . 4,620,000 4,517,000 4,413,000
British .. 204,000 184,000 167,000
Junction.. 247,000 221,000 237,000
Block 14.. 80,000 83,000 66,000
Total . . 5,151,000 5,005,000 4,888,000
The figures do not include the large prob-
able tonnage disclosed by drilling, etc.,
at the northern end of the property. The
co. is also jointly interested with B.H.
South in opening up the Oceana mine at
Zeehan (Tas.), where “satisfactory” con-
tinuity of the lodes for 300 ft. along the
strike and to a depth of 500 ft. is re-
ported, with a probable northern exten-
sion of the ore-bodies for 600 ft.
Finances are robust:
1950. 1951.
Shares in other cos. £2,632,923 £2,723,689
Stores .. . . 364,498 458,734
Concentrates on hand 43,008 244,773
Debtors .. . . 1,014,323 1,815,207
Cash, etc. .. 1,402,346 1,751,403
Liquid assets .. £5,457,098 £6,988,806
Less liabilities* .. 2,013,467 4,081,169
Liquid surplus .. £3,443,631 £2,907,637
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
The big holding of cash, etc., was
strengthened by £349,057. Transport
difficulties are reflected in the rise in
concentrates on hand (up £201,765).
The lead and silver in these concentrates
are valued in the books at only £l2 10s.
per ton and Is. Bd. an ounce respectively.
Shareholdings (up £90,766) are mainly
in allied and associated undertakings.
The mine figures at £482,195, and plant,
etc., at £4,263,218. Paid capital is
£700,000 in ss. shares.
Of the many cross-currents likely to
affect earnings and dividends, the two
big imponderables are metal prices and
costs. Metal prices, with which the lead
bonus paid to employees goes up and
down, promises to be the more important
of the two ; wage-rates and the cost of
materials, etc., which are still rising, have
always been comparatively stubborn
items. For the base-metal group as a
whole the short-run outlook is one of
strong prices. The main factor now influ-
encing prospects appears to be not so
much stockpiling as the general level of
business and rearmament activity in the
U.S. and elsewhere.
The market for the co.’s shares has, in
the main, followed the market for the
metals. Over the last 12 months the price
has fluctuated between 88s. and 101 s. At
last week’s figure of 925. the immediate
return is 9.2 p.c. on a 170 p.c. div. basis.
The market thus values the whole under-
taking at £12,880,000, or £9,972,363 more
than the more-or-less liquid surplus at
June 30 last,
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends
Ist 2nd Nominal
Prefs. Frets. Ords. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 64 p.c. 4 p.c. Off. serves-t
£ £ £ £ £ £,
1944.. 63,682 18,000 19,300 16,198 8,094 67,854
5 p.c.
1945. , 68,660 18,000 19,300 20,247 6,578 72,329
6 p.c.
1946.. 80,382 18,000 19,360 24,290 7,161 83,904
Capital profit, £13,817 .. .. 97,721
1947.. 86,692 18,000 19,360 24,296 8,733 114,024
Capital profit, £5711 119,735
July,
1948.. 90,287 18,000 19,860 24,296 6,525 141,841
1949.. 80,718 18,000 19,360 24,296 6,960 153,943
Capital profit, £56,760 ~ .. .. 210,703
Shareholdings written up, £25,228 .. 258,981
1950.. 88,938 18,000 19,360 24,296 8,897 254.816
Capital profit, £86,457 .. .. .. 289,778
7 p.c.
1951. .101,630 18,000 19,360 28,846 10,479 315,118
t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Like many other traders, Marcus
Clark’s post-war expansion has called
for introduction of a lot of fresh money
into the business, mainly as working
capital. Most of it has been provided
by the bank and trade creditors, etc., who
together have put up an extra £815,181
since 1945. Here is what has happened
as the published accounts show it:
1945. 1949. 1950. 1951.
£££ ' £
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Secured
credits .. 291,680 627,050 608,428 779,562
Other
creditors* 163,410 193,040 258,966 490,719
Final divs. 20,247 42,976 42,976 47,026
Freeholds, etc. 700,071 697,515 655,491 680,546
Plant, etc. 34,591 52,836 82,830 113,588
Stocks .. 293,687 444,117 398,971 616,822
Book debts 262,922 546,491 608,906 766,000
Shares, etc. 173,643 189.931 334,179 862,298
Cash, etc... 82,840 16,527 14,717 23.567
Goodwill .. 72,378 72,378 72,378 72,878
* Includes provision tor taxation.
To meet last term’s total net outlay of
£458,877 on fixed assets (up £55,813),
stocks (up £217,851), book debts (up
£157,094) and shareholdings (up £28,119)
the co. went outside for £408,877, in-
creasing the amount coming to secured
creditors by £171,124 and to other (trade)
creditors, etc., by £231,753. When the
books last closed there was thus 19s. 3d.
of outside money in the business for
every pound belonging to shareholders.
According to the canons of orthodox
finance, the position clearly calls for in-
troduction of more share and/or other
fixed capital.
The board has not been unmindful of
the position, nor dilatory in its efforts to
correct it, but has been balked by
Capital Issues Control. Here is what the
board itself says:
The Federal Government has on two
occasions refused the co. the right to
borrow money which had already been
agreed to by the lender, and has further
refused to consent to the co. issuing addi-
tional shares to its shareholders. Its right
to refuse consent has been challenged in
the High Court.
And there the matter stands for the
present. If the co.’s challenge succeeds,
one of the main props to the Govern-
ment’s economic policy will be removed.
Meanwhile, on December 3, shareholders
are to be asked to increase nominal
capital from £1,298,924 to £2,000,000,
and it is proposed to issue 401,114 new
10s. ords. (terms not stated) if, and when,


Warburton, Frank!, Ltd.
This 45-year-old Sydney elec-
trical engineering and merchan-
dising business, which has selling-
oranches at Newcastle and
Wollongong and is interested in
two prosperous associates (one
at Brisbane and the other at
Melbourne), turns out electric
motors, generators, switch-gear,
household meters and a wide
range of other electrical equip-
ment. And manufacturing
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Meetings.
Permanent Trustee Company of
New South Wales Limited
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE SIXTY-FOURTH ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING OF
SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Company’s Offices,
23-25 O’CONNELL ST.. SYDNEY, on
Tuesday, 27th November, 1951,
at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors' Report and
Balance Sheet to 30th September, 1951.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors. Mr. Francis
Harmsworth Way and Dr. George Mon-
erieff Barron retire in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but are eligible
smd offer themselves for re-election.
To elect a Director in place of Mr. Gregory
Blaxland Kater (appointed to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of the late
Mr. Francis William Hixson), who offers
himself for re-election (in terms of
Article 81).
To appoint Auditors and fix their re-
muneration. Messrs. R. W. Nelson,
Wheeler and Barton, Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment and offer
themselves accordingly.
To consider any other business of which
due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
N. L. SHAW, Manager.
14th November, 1951.
For Sale.
THE well-known Forget-me-not Wolfram
Mine of 13 acres lease, Chillagoe Field,
with jackhammer plant complete and bat-
tery capable of handling large quantities
of wolfram on the spot. This mine has
good wolfram showing and will stand in-
spection. Bona fide enquirers will be
given all opportunities for inspection and
testing values. Reason for selling is that
owner is developing another lease and
cannot handle both. Price of mine, plant
and battery £15,000. —J. J. BOYLE,
Commission Agent, Herberton, N.Q.
COMPANY MEETING
FOUNDATIONS FIRMLY LAID
says Mainguard Chairman
Sir Alfred Davidson’s Address
“Scarcely a year has passed since the public was invited to subscribe capital for the
formation of our Company—the first merchant banking institution in Australia’s
history. In that somewhat limited period the foundations have been firmly laid, our
operations have been more than profitable, and I meet you today as the head of a strong
and growing business that is here to stay.” This was stated by Sir Alfred Davidson
addressing shareholders at the Annual Meeting of Mainguard (Australia) Ltd. held in
Sydney on November 14th.
Sir Alfred said: “It was not to be expected that the advent of Mainguard would please
everyone. No new and vigorous competition ever does. Our newness may be wearing
off, but our vigor—l hope it never will.”
OBLIGATIONS AS BANKERS
“Mainguard, I should think, is now
well known, thanks to the indefatig-
able efforts of a section of the Press.
They demand to know more and more
about us. It is not easy to decide
how much we are at liberty to tell
them. We certainly do not intend to
depart from the banker’s obligation
to keep secret the affairs of customers,
and we have some responsibility to
certain people with whom we have
had special business transactions.
“Within these limits, however, I
shall do my best to amplify the posi-
tion as revealed in the directors’ report
and statement of accounts, which you
have had for som£ time.
£50,000 MAIDEN DIVIDEND
AFTER 36 WEEKS TRADING
“Mainguard, you will have noted,
is paying its maiden dividend of
£50,000 (5%), putting aside £41,000 as
provision for taxation, and keeping in
hand £65,002 from realised profits of
£156,002. The provision for taxation
was decided on the best accountancy
advice.
“The result was satisfactory, 1
should have thought, after 36 weeks
of trading, and the treatment of profit
conforms to sound standards of
prudence. Moreover, I would remind
you that the balance sheet shows only
the cost price of investments which
are worth considerably more.
“Naturally, your Directors hope to
improve on this result now that the
settling down period is over; and
revenue is flowing in from investments
and from the four main divisions of
the Company. Incidentally, a part of
the current year’s revenue is coming
from transactions that were initiated
before last June.
“Without making promises, I will
say that there is even the prospect of
other profit items in the current
accounting period that may be
described by observant critics, in due
course, as “Non-recurring.” I will be
disappointed if such non-recurring
items, though different in kind, do not
go on recurring from year to year.
PURCHASE OF MAINGUARD
BUILDING
“Now I will explain how Main-
guard secured its nome in the fine
premises at 126 Phillip Street. I make
this statement in the interest of share-
holders because of false and damag-
ing innuendoes that have been pub-
lished.
“Shareholders of National Press
Pty. Ltd., proprietors of the ‘Smith’s
Weekly’ newspaper, sold to Mainguard
64,775 shares of the total issued
capital of 65,000 shares in the com-
pany.
“As the balance sheet shows, Main-
guard outlayed £94,069 in payments
to these shareholders and including
an amount of approximately £lOOO
for legal expenses, stamp duty, etc.
Apart from the latter item, all this
money was paid direct to shareholders
of National Press Pty. Ltd., and we
hold receipts for the payments. No
director benefited; and no one, 1
assert, could have bought the business
for less than we paid for it.
“We accepted an offer by John
Fairfax & Sons Pty. Ltd., proprietors
of the ‘Sydney Morning Herald,’ to
buy the company’s stocks of news-
print, sundry stocks and sundries, and
the right to publish ‘Smith’s Weekly.’
“Two issues of the paper were pub-
lished by National Press Pty. Ltd. on
behalf of and under the supervision
of the ‘Sydney Morning Herald,’ after
which they discontinued publication.
“Following protracted negotiations
a final settlement from John Fairfax
& Sons Pty. Ltd. was agreed to.
“This transaction, I admit, realised
a good surplus over book values for
Mainguard. But I have every reason
to believe it was also profitable for
the ‘Sydney Morning Herald,’ con-
sidering the subsequent rise in the
price of newsprint.
“After that, Mainguard sold the
plant and machinery, chiefly to an
overseas purchaser, for a price which
again showed a considerable surplus
over book values.
“Then we were left with a building
which was far too big for Mainguard
alone. So a company was formed —
Maplegrove Pty. Ltd. —to purchase
the premises at a reasonable figure of
£95,000, after obtaining independent
expert valuation. Suitable owner-
occupiers in Palgrave Corporation
Ltd. and Grocery & General Mer-
chants Ltd., agreed to share the cost
and office space.
“With rentals from other tenants,
this arrangement is resulting in con-
siderable economies and the most
efficient use of the building. Renova-
tion and fitting out are well under
way, so that it is becoming a greatly
improved asset to Mainguard and its
co-owners.
NATIONAL PRESS DIVIDEND
“Following all these transactions,
our taxation consultants advised that
the most advantageous method of
transferring the profit was for
National Press Pty. Ltd. to declare
dividends.
“A first dividend of 18/- per share
on 64,775 shares held by Mainguard
was received, is ‘rebateable’ and so
practically free of further company
tax in Mainguard’s hands. The
amount thus received was £58,297 in
the period ended June.
“Furthermore, a substantial credit
balance remains in the profit and loss
account of National Press Pty. Ltd. —
after payment of the foregoing divi-
dend and allowing for, but not agree-
ing with, the higher of two differing
expert opinions about tax liability on
necessarily unusual transactions.
“The amount carried forward in the
Profit and Loss Account of National
Press Pty, Ltd., after paying the 18/-
dividend and providing for all taxes,
exceeds any contribution by Main-
guard through retaining its one-third
share in the building. These are real
gains.
“National Press Pty. Ltd. was never
intended to be a subsidiary in the
ordinary sense of the word. To over-
come certain obstacles, however, your
directors have had to work through it,
and they have been achieving the best
possible results for shareholders.
MAINGUARD RAISES OVER
£6,000,000 CAPITAL
“It will interest you to know some-
thing of the magnitude of Main-
guard’s business operations in the
comparatively short period it has
operated.
“Mainguard so far has underwritten
and sub-underwritten the raising of
£6,468,000 of capital. This includes
the large proportion of £2,898,000 in
loans of public utilities; £1,110,000
by way of public company deben-
tures; and £2,460,000 by share issues
in public companies.
“Turnover in our commodity
finance division is achieving respect-
able proportions. Transactions total-
ling £2,635,435 have been arranged,
and of these the amount of £1,862,985
already has been completed.
“The Industrial Finance Division is
one of our most active departments,
advising and financing many small
companies. Its work during the past
year will soon begin to be seen in
the public flotation of proved going
concerns.
“The Projects Division is engaged
on long-term developments of basic
national value that ultimately will
prove profitable.
LORD HARDWICKE
APPOINTED CHAIRMAN
OF LONDON BOARD
“A London Office has been estab-
lished at 12 Whitehall. The Rt. Hon.
Sir Alfred Davidson,
Chairman of Directors of
Mainguard (.Australia ) Ltd.
— Australia’s first merchant
bank.
the Earl of Hardwicke, who is at
present in Australia, has consented
to become Chairman of our London
Board.
“His ability, influence, and wide
business interests, we fed sure, will
be of inestimable value to the Com-
pany. He has important engagements
in Canberra today; otherwise he
would have been with us.
INTERNATIONAL BANKING
ARRANGEMENTS MADE
“We have made arrangements for
co-operating with two substantial
merchant banking houses overseas —
Hambros Bank Ltd. and the Inter-
national Bank Incorporated.
“Hambros, with its headquarters in
London, has been a household name
among bankers for more than a cen-
tury. Certain transactions with it
are m progress.
“The International Bank, with head-
quarters in Washington, is a private
organisation controlled by some of
the leading businessmen of America,
including Henry Ford II and Nicholas
du Pont.
CO-OPERATION WITH
BANKS AND BROKERS
“In conclusion, I should hke to
express our appreciation to the
trading banks, not forgetting the
Commonwealth Bank’s trading divi-
sions, for support and co-operat-on
in carrying out various phases of our
business.
“We are pleased with the cordial
relations existing between Mainguard
and the Sydney Stock Exchange. On
our part, we have made every effort
to co-operate with brokers, and the
latter in turn have reciprocated.
“Finally, I commend to you the
efforts of our splendid staff for your
appreciation.
“I now have pleasure in presenting
to you the directors’ report and
accounts as submitted to this meeting
and formally move that they be
adopted.”
Mr. Philip Pring of Pring, Dean &
Co., members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, moved a vote of thanks on
behalf of the shareholders congratu-
lating the board for the excellent
progress that the company had made
since its formation.
1 Carried unanimously.
Treasury consent is received, or
is no longer required.
The £1,002,786 of paid capital
is in 300,000 £1 6 p.c. and
297,848 £1 6£ p.c. cum, prefs.
and 809,876 ords. of 10s. each.
Headquarters are at Central
Square (Sydney), there are
branches at Newcastle, Wol-
longong and Dubbo, and the
trade is in drapery, clothing,
furniture, furnishings, crockery,
sporting goods, etc., part of it
on a t.-p. basis. The co. also
owns the £125,000 (up £25,000)
of ord. capital in Bon Marche,
drapers (Sydney), and most of
the £170,000 (up £65,000) of ord.
capital in Miller Anderson,
drapers (Adelaide). Each co.
increased its ord. capital by
the amount shown in parenthesis
a year or so ago, and last term
the first-named paid p.c. (up
H p.c.) and the last-named
8 p.c. (up 1 p.c.).
During the year the parent
sold a city freehold at a profit
of £35,457, which was placed to
capital reserve. The growth of
turnover more than took care
of ever-mounting costs. After
allowing £10,479 (up £1582) for
depreciation and something for
taxation and other contingencies,
the net result was £ll,OlO
stronger at £91,051. That was
enough to pay the pref. divs.
and show 13.2 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 10.5, 9, 11.4,
10 and 8.8 p.c. back to 1946.
The div. was raised from 6 p.c.
to 7 p.c., and the £10,479 that
remained lifted reserves to
£315,118, subject to £72,378 of
goodwill.
The outlook for the current
term is one of still-mounting
costs, and there is evidence of
growing consumer resistance.
However, employment remains
at a high level, which means
much so far as book debts are
concerned. The market sums up
the position by pricing the ords.
at 11s. 2d., returning 6.3 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. At 21s. and
20s. 9d. the 6 p.c. and 6% p.c.
prefs. yield 5.7 p.c. and 6.2 p.c.
respectively. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £4 3s. 6 percents,
£3 3s. 6d. 6i percents and
15s. lOd. ords.
activities are supplemented by
a number of profitable agency
lines, which include Philips
lamps, fluorescent-lighting and
radio-players, as well as General
Motors refrigeration units and
Black and Decker’s electrical
tools, etc. To date production
has been hampered by shortages
of raw materials and skilled
labor, but as supplies on both
sides of the business increased,
so did output and turnover, the
gains from which have out-
stripped the growth in costs.
Last term turnover continued
to expand, due largely to rising
prices, and gross margins were
narrower. Higher costs were
absorbed through greater effi-
ciency, the chairman says.
After allowing £13,181 (up
£1637) for depreciation and
£55,000 (up £10,000) for taxa-
tion, the net result benefited by
£3179, reaching £70,414. That
was a juicy 30.3 p.c. on average
capital (pref. and ord. combined)
as against 35.2, 34, 17.7, 14.2
and 11.9 p.c. back to 1946. So
the all-round \l\ p.c. to share-
holders, of which 5 p.c. is
labelled bonus, remained a com-
fortable matter. The 20,000 £1
7 p.c. cum. prefs. advance with
the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate, and share in
surplus assets.
The financial position
improved:
1949 1950. 1951
Paid capital £175,000 £200,000 £250,000
Overdraft . . 83,408 98,299 108,841
Creditors, etc. 100,067 140,137 182,476
Staff fund . . 3,000 4,000 6,000
Final divs... 19,687 22,500 28,125
Fixed assets 91,979 118,966 121,640
Shares subsids. 58,155 68,155 58,165
Stocks, etc. 179,294 218,952 299,011
Book debts.. 145,803 187,043 244,555
Cash, etc... 305 315 355
Last term £50,000 of fresh
capital was gathered, £10,542
was added to the overdraft and
£42,339 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc. The
money, and more besides, went
mainly into stocks (up £80,059)
and book debts (up £51,512).
Overall appearances are that
the period of rapid expansion
is now tapering off, which means
that demand for the co.’s house-
hold electrical goods may lose
some of its strength. On the
heavy-electrical side demand,
still in excess of factory output,
seems likely to be sustained.
The market prices both prefs,
and ords. at 735. 6d. each, giving
a return of 4.7 p.c. on a \l\ p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover
is 31s. lOd.
Renison Associated Tin
Shareholders in Renison
Associated Tin Mines, N.L.,
on the Renison Bell field between
Rosebery and Zeehan (Tas.),
have been asked by a majority
of the board to agree to sell the
mine for £250,000 cash, plus a
1 p.c. royalty on production, or
alternatively one-eighth of the
shares in a new £1,000,000 co.
to be formed to work the
deposits on a large scale.
Two of the directors (O. T.
Lempriere and M. R. McKeown)
say the proposed agreement
amounts to a 12 months’ option,
not a straightout offer to
purchase. They urge that the co.
itself should drill two large
masses of pyrrhotite (with
which tin-oxide on this is invari-
ably associated) which have been
indicated within the scope of
opencut mining.
They further contend that
should the option be granted,
and good values disclosed, it
would be exercised to the
advantage of those interested
and to the disadvantage of share-
holders. If results were unfavor-
able the option would not be
exercised, and the co. would be
in the same position as at
present.
Dr. Loftus Hills, long and
intimately associated with
geological work on the Tas. west
coast, is negotiating for the pur-
chasers. Renison has a paid
capital of £75,463 in f.-p. 4s.
shares, on which a 4d. div. is to
be paid next month. The cash
offer amounts to 13s. 3d. a share,
priced at 11s., or thereabouts, in
the market. What shareholders
have to decide is whether they
are prepared to put up the money
needed for an extensive prospect-
ing and drilling campaign, or
whether to allow others to
finance this campaign, with
prospects of a reasonable reward
if results lead to the option being
exercised.


q
q
q
q
q
Business. Rollery. etc.
THE SLUMP IN SHARES.
Pronounced weakness in the
sharemarkets continues. Almost
all stocks have gone lower.
And though, at their depressed
levels, B.H.P. returns only
3.3 p.c., A.C.I. 3.3 p.c.. Burns
Philp 3.3 p.c., Bank of N.S.W.
3.9 p.c.. Drug Houses 3.5 p.c.,
1.C.1. 1.9 p.c., John Vicars
2.8 p.c., Kandos Cement 3.3 p.c..
Tooth 3.4 p.c., Woolworths
3.6 p.c. and G. J. Coles 3.1 p.c.,
some better-class industrials and
merchants are being bought to
yield as much as 5 p.c. or more.
Among the latter are Swans
(5.1 p.c.), Frederic Ash (6 p.c.),
Brose, Valves (5.3 p.c.). Carpet
Manufacturers (5 p.c.), Cyclops
and Lines Bros. (5.7 p.c.), David
Jones (5 p.c.), F. J. Walker
(5.3 p.c.), Goldsbrough Mort
(5.8 p.c.), A. Hall (6.3 p.c.),
Hipsleys (5.2 p.c.), J. C.
Ludowici (5.9 p.c.), John
Mcllwraith (5.3 p.c.), Malleys
(5.1 p.c.), Moffat-Virtue (5.3 p.c.),
Mort’s Dock (6.2 p.c.), Bearing
Services (5.3 p.c.), Brookes,
Robinson (5.8 p.c.), Brown and
Dureau (6.6 p.c.). Die Casters
(5.4 p.c.), Felt and Textiles
(5.8 p.c.), Foy and Gibson
(5.2 p.c.), George Pizzey (6.6 p.c.),
Kelly and Lewis (6.2 p.c.),
Lincoln Mills (5.6 p.c.), Pioneer
Holdings (6.3 p.c.). Pioneer
Springs (6 p.c.), Pyrox (5.3 p.c.),
Robert Reid (7.7 p.c.), Sargood
Gardiner (5.8 p.c.), Thompsons
Engineering (5.6 p.c.), R. H.
Gordon (5.4 p.c.), Samuel Allen
(5.2 p.c.), Saunders (5.2 p.c.).
Swift and Co. (5.4 p.c.), Vander-
field and Reid (6.9 p.c.), W.
Brash MacArthur (5.6 p.c.),
W. C. Penfold (5 p.c.), W. E.
Bird (6.6 p.c.), Westcott, Hazell
(5.7 p.c.), W. H. Hole (5.5 p.c.)
and W. Nevill (5.1 p.c.).
With the woollen textile
concerns, because of the
uncertainty about the price
of wool and the financing of
stocks, and also because of some
consumer resistance, the yields
generally are much higher still,
Amalgamated Textiles, for
instance, may be bought at the
moment to yield 8,1 p.c. on the
basis of last year’s div.
(15.4 p.c,).
Market Factors
T .
In attempting to interpret the
sharemarket position full con-
slder,ation must be given to
P urel Y market factors. For
P an Y months prior to the peak
m investment values reached
earl Y this Y ear there was an
upward surge in share-prices
based largely on optimism
created by a previous upward
surge 5 and now that share-prices
have turned down as a result of
the fall m WOol > rise in
costs and interest-rates and the
restriction of credit there has
been an acceleration of the
d owntrend simply because of
fear s of further share-price falls.
Among the newcomers to
Stock Exchange dealings undis-
criminating pessimism often
follows undiscriminating
optimism. Gambling on what is
in the other fellow’s mind is
always a risky business among
stocks and shares. It is far better
to invest on the basis of invest-
ment merits, including yields.
Unfortunately, for a long period
yields have generally been too
low, and the tendency was for
stocks to go too high on a yield
basis alone. Recent fairly wide-
spread improvement in dividends
was to some extent offset by the
rise in the gilt-edged-security
rate.
Few things are more likely
than that, before the present
slide in share-prices is over, the
market will have gone too low.
But it is just as difficult to pick
the bottom of the market as it
is to pick the top. The main
thing to guide an investor at
present is his own requirements,
"Not so fast , young fella — I Want a quote first.”
If he has money to invest,
desires an investment income
and can see an opportunity of
getting a reasonably safe 5 p.c.
to 6 p.c. from progressive
industrial issues he should be
well satisfied, and won’t go far
wrong, in the long run, in buying
now.
But any investor at present
will be wise to insist upon
income - yielding stocks in
preference to new ventures. A
regular income does much to
offset any market depreciation
that may occur in the price of an
investment for the time being.
And in times of economic re-
adjustment nerve - racking
economic and political interludes
are not unusual, and they affect
the non-div.-payers more than
the others. They may even
prevent a new concern from
raising the capital necessary to
put it in a position to earn profits
at all.
Adding to the prevailing con-
fusion and weakness in the
market is the number of new
issues listed on all Stock
Exchanges, but mainly Sydney
and Melbourne. In many cases
it is only the investors and
brokers who were interested in
the original float who know the
merits or otherwise of such
stocks, and new listings are not
being sought by outsiders so
much as well-known stocks are.
Industry and the Economy
Behind the movements and
reactions, reasonable and un-
reasonable, in the sharemarket
today are a number of real
economic and financial factors.
First is the threatened shrinkage
in our export (and national)
income as a result of the drop
in the price of wool. Second is
the national fiscal policy designed
to check inflation, expedite
defence preparations and help in
the construction of essential
public works, such as the Snowy
River scheme. (This policy
involves higher interest-rates,
higher taxation, control of some
raw materials, and restriction
and control of credit.) Third is
the persistent rise of the basic
wage as a result of inflationary
factors (including the method of
calculating wages themselves).
Fourth is the continuing diffi-
culty in increasing production in
essential industries to a reason-
able level and the partial break-
down of our transport services.
Credit Restriction
Of all these factors, probably
the one to have the most
immediate effect has been that
relating to credit-control. In
the building trade the restriction
of credit to home-builders has
had an almost devastating effect,
and the market for already-built
houses has fallen considerably,
Home-building costs as yet
may have dropped very little,
partly by reason of the latest
heavy increase in wage-rates,
But applications to builders for
the putting-up of new homes
have fallen sharply, and in
Sydney it is now possible to get
immediate delivery of common
bricks from some yards. But
most other building materials,
including tiles and piping, are
still very scarce.
Restriction of credit to
importers and retailers has also
resulted in a squeeze that is
prompting reductions in profit-
margins and a cancellation of
orders. There is also increasing
buyer-resistance for clothing
and non-essentials. But the
demand for furniture, house-
furnishings, refrigerators, etc.,
is still high, though orders for
motor-cars, both new and
second-hand, have fallen con-
siderably.
After nearly 12 years of easy
credit conditions and a seller’s
market the sharp change in the
economic weather has been a
shock to many people. For
some time it is likely that there
will be confusion and uncertainty
in many types of business. But,
in the end, consumer demand
(related more to consumer buy-
ing-power than hitherto) will
determine the tone of business
conditions. And consumer
demand should revive before
many months are past.
Industry Over-busy
It should be remembered at
all times that the aim of Govern-
ment policy is not to reduce the
production of essential goods.
On the contrary, the aim is to
increase production, especially
from concerns engaged in basic
industries, such as steel, metals,
engineering, fuel, power and
transport, and not forgetting, of
course, food. Though it is prob-
ably intended to curb output of
refrigerators and some other
domestic appliances, including
radios, it is not the general policy
to stop home-building, but to
restrict, for the time being, build-
ing to those with the money to
pay for their home. Over-easy
credit to home-builders and
-purchasers for the past five or
six years has helped the great
inflation in housing costs and
land values.
Essential industries should
remain very busy. Provided it
can get more coal, output from
B.H.P. should increase instead of
decrease. And that applies to
most industrial enterprises
regardless of whether their
output is to be taken for use in
public works or bought by the
general public.
Already it is easier for
essential industries to get staff.
And the general economic policy


CINZANO
SWEETandDRY
m
Mr#*
q
q
q
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
q
. , .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAKREEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION TO.
(Dept. 2e), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Telephones: B 9573, B 6232,
B 6130
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrle, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
LANGLEY’S “AERODROME” 1903.
Construction : Tandem monoplane of tubular steel construction, fabric covered.
Cambered wings with pronounced dihedral. Dimensions : Span 50 ft., chord lift.
Wing area 1,040 sq. ft. Weight : All-up weight 730 lb. Power Plant: Radial
5-cylindcr petrol engine producing 53 h.p. at 950 r.p.m. Weight 3.6 lb. per h.p-
launching : Launched from spring-impelled carrier. Performance : Quarter-size
models were flown successfully. There were two trials with the full-sized aircraft.
Both failed through launching difficulties.
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing
ground service symbolised by the green
and yellow colours of the
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY, LTD.
1
X AVIATION IIPjSERVICE^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
WITH WHICH IS UNITED
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED
Registered Office: 271-279 Collins St., Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30 th SEPTEMBER, 1951
LIABILITIES
£
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—
-10,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each 10,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL—
-3,726,025 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, fully paid 3,726,025
4,800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each. i2/6d. paid .. 4,800,000
8,526,025
Paid-Up Capital 6,726,025
Reserve Fund (used in the business)... 5,000,000
Final Dividend Proposed 235,411
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 258,383
Total Shareholders’ Funds 12,219,819
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities (including Provisions for
Contingencies) 214,548,611
Notes In Circulation 47,489
Balances due to Other Banks ... 26,534,738
The Queensland National Bank
Limited (in Voluntary Liquidation) 2,952,801
256,303,458
Liab-lities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange
Contracts, etc 31,756,693
£238,060,151
ASSETS
t
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers 7,004,501
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 6,212,548
Balances with and due from Other
Banks 949,310
Public Securities (at or under market
value)
(i) Australian Govt. Securities 4,954,377
(i ) Other Government Securities 1,461,378
(iii) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities* Securities ... 392,355
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Austral.a ... 95,487,000
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit 11,285,944
127,747,413
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful) 115,107,777
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(of cost less amounts written off) ... 3,244,758
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost) (The Company
has made neither profit or loss) ... 2,000
All Other Assets 10.101,510
256,303,458
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc^—os per contra 31,756,693
£238,060,151
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER,
To Expenses— Head Office, 637
Branches and Receiving Offices
(including Directors’ Fees £9,009) ... 4,028,165
„ Income, Land and other Taxes 693,837
~ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down 609,081
£5,331,083
To Amounts written off Bank
Premises 100,000
~ Dividends—
Interim paid 30th May, 1951... 235,411
Final proposed—payable 28th
November, 1951 235,411
„ Balance Carried Forward ... 258,383
£829,205
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions and
other income, after deducting
interest paid and accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills current
at balance date and appropria-
tions to the credit of Contin-
gencies Accounts (out of which
accounts provisions for all bad and
doubtful debts l ave been made) ... 5,331,083
£5,331,083
By Net Balance—brought forward
from 30th September, 1950 ... 220,124
„ Net Profit for the year ... 609,081
£829,205
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Figures are stated in Australian Currency)
To tho Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and
Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs and of the results of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of
our information and the explanations given to us and-as shown by the books of the Company.
J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. (AUSTJ
Melbourne. 25th October. 1951. SHERRARD WARNOCK, F.C.A. (AUST.)/^* 11 * 0 "*
is intended to restrict the ever-
increasing wages-inflation.
Although, in any scheme of
economic adjustment such as
that which Australia is under-
going at the moment, there are
likely to be casualties and
friction, the long-term view of
industrial prospects in Australia
is one of great expansion. It is
also true that public works have
been grossly neglected, largely
because of State and Federal
Government policy which in the
past has tended to encourage
production of consumer goods
and increase consumer spending
rather than investment. The
completion of some large public
works may restrict expansion by
some sections of private enter-
prise for the time being, but in
the long run it should increase
the potential of all industry.
Investment Prospects
There is still a great deal of
idle money in Australia.
Though there has been a shrink-
age in bank deposits of all kinds
since May this year, notably in
current accounts, the total of
bank deposits is still consider-
ably higher than it was a year
ago. And bank advances in
September this year were 20 p.c.
higher than they were 12
months earlier.
It should pay many investors
in the long-run to ‘Tide out” the
present share-slump. It cannot
be stressed too much that recent
Government credit and Budget
policy has been formulated to
influence a national industrial
machine that has too much
work to do at present produc-
tion rates, not too little.
Mainguard (Australia), Ltd.
Formed in September, 1950,
mainly through the energies of
Paul Cullen, of the well-known
Cohen family, Sydney, this
underwriting and finance concern
got away briskly to a profitable
start by the acquisition of the
majority of the shares in
National Press Pty., up till that
time publishers of “Smith’s
Weekly.”
“Smith’s” was knocked on the
head with almost indecent haste,
but a large capital profit was
made out of the realisation of
the paper stocks and other news-
paper assets of National Press,
including the Phillip-street free-
hold. It has been stated
officially that this freehold alone
was sold for £95,000, while the
cost of the 64,775 (out of
65,000) National Press shares
to Mainguard appears in its
books at £94,069. At the annual
meeting last week Mr. Cullen
told shareholders that Main-
guard had made “from £50,000
to £100,000” out of the National
Press deal. A dividend of
£58,297 has been actually
received from National Press.
Mainguard also established an
underwriting division, an indus-
trial finance division, a com-
modity finance division and a
“projects” division. Each
division is said to be “function-
ing smoothly.” Linked with
Mainguard through its direc-
torate are Vanguard Insurance,
Clyde Industries, Palgrave Cor-
poration, Grocery and General
Merchants and other concerns.
Apart from its interest in
National Press, at lune 30 last
Mainguard held “shares in other
companies—at cost, £540,864,”
and the directors reported that
investments “show a very con-
siderable appreciation in excess
of cost price.” The nature of
the investment portfolio was not,
however, disclosed. Mainguard
figured in a number of under-
writing transactions during its
first 36 weeks’ operations and
others after the close of
accounts, when the market was
not nearly so responsive to new
issues. Total was £6,468,000.
Including the dividend from
National Press, a profit of
£115,002 was claimed for
the period, after charging
£41,000 for taxation and
£2250 directors’ fees. A
5 p.c. dividend on the £1,000,000
ord. capital (in ss. shares) took
£50,000, and £65,002 remained
for reserves. Intangible assets
on the other side of the balance-
sheet total £24,416.
Following on some Press
prodding, the annual meeting
last week was a noisy affair.
Questions were asked about the
capital (and possibly non-
recurring) nature of much of
last year’s profit, about the sale
of the “Smith’s Weekly” build-
ing, about a difference in the
price paid to the old shareholders
in National Press for their hold-
ings, and about the omission of
a consolidated balance-sheet
(thus excluding details of the
National Press accounts) from
the annual report.
It was explained that the free-
hold was sold to Maplegrove
Pty., Ltd., and in this concern
Mainguard, Palgrave and G.
and G. each had an interest.
Some shareholders in National
Press received 255. for their
shares ; others 325. 6d. This fact
appeared to be resented by C. H.
Smith, a Sydney sharebroker
who raised the original capital
for National Press and who him-
self is still a shareholder,
and G. Wells, a solicitor. Mr.
Cullen said that the Sydney Stock
Exchange was satisfied about the
absence of the consolidated
balance-sheet. He added that
“we have bought a lot of shares
and are trying to sell them,” and
recommended that shareholders
accept the balance-sheet of
Mainguard as it stood, “because
that is in the best interest of
Mainguard.”
To avoid possible criticism the
board of Mainguard would be
well advised to keep inter-
company dealings down to a
minimum. Whilst some such
dealings may have been neces-
sary in the past, there should be
less reason for them in the
future.
The co.’s ss. shares have been
as high as 10s. this year. Last
week they sank as low as par,
recovering later to ss. lOd. For
the time being, taking the div.-
rate and the state of the share-
market into consideration, they
don’t appear to be worth a
great deal more.
Worsteds and Woollens
The sacking of hands from
several Victorian woollen mills
was a sign of the present state
of the woollen textile trade.
There has been a sharp cut in
the buying-orders of wholesalers
and retailers —perhaps a sharper
cut than in the buying of the
consumer public.
Merchants are concerned
about future prices, and more
immediately concerned about
overdraft finance. There is a
squeeze on in business circles
generally for the present, and
very disconcerting it is for many
enterprises, especially those
interested in clothing. Woollen
mills (making knitted goods,
blankets, rugs, etc.) are likely to
be more affected than worsted
mills (making suitings, etc.,
from tightly-spun yarn). That
is why Yarra Falls, for example,
has always been a more stable
investment than the numerous
provincial woollen mills in
Victoria.
Both woollen mills and
worsted mills are naturally con-
cerned about the price of wool.
Some mills may have bought
stocks at prices higher than those
at present prevailing, and again
the effect would be most adverse
in woollen mills, where a higher
proportion of the cost of the
finished article is represented by
the price of raw wool. However,
the price of the staple has been
steadier now for several weeks,
and that problem should be a
smaller one than it was.
Buyer resistance is unlikely
to endure indefinitely under
present conditions of general
employment. Though shoppers
may be keener and profit-
margins cut a bit lower, the pre-
vailing uncertainty is likely to
pass during the next few months.
A large volume of production
from worsted mills will still be
required, especially if the
strength of the armed services is
expanded.


The Letters og Rachel Henning
[These letters begin In 1853, when Biddulpb, Rachel Henning’s only
rotner (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23)
ed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
ana aer sisters Henrietta (“Etta” of the letters, who had married
me Kev. T. W. Boyce In August, 1851) and Amy were thus separated, for
the tin ?« being, from Biddulpb and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulpb and
Annie In Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulpb and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
_ August, 1854, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
MiK enßa Biddulpb, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six days
Rachel and Amy went to Appin, in N.S.W., where their brother
Biddulpb had leased a farm from the Rev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
®'°ii°wing Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
1800, and while Biddulpb was establishing a new place on Bulli Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1856.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoaihaveu, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on February 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulpb and
Annie, went to live on Exmoor station in North Queensland, which was
just being developed. She stayed there until 1865, when she became
engaged to Heighten Taylor, her brother’s sheep overseer.
This is the fifteenth instalment of the letters.]
Exmoor,
June 24, 1865.
My Dearest Etta,
I am afraid you were rather
astounded by the announcement
contained in my last letter that
Mr. Taylor and I are engaged,
but you will have tolerably
digested it by the time this one
reaches you and have probably
settled down resignedly with the
original conclusion that “there
is no fool like an old one,” for
I am now thirty-seven. Mr.
Taylor is still staying at
Sonoma, about thirty miles
from here. I expect he will be
here in a few days on his way
down south to seek his fortune.
I am afraid all this makes the
prospect of seeing you again
more hazy than ever, but where
everything is so uncertain it is
impossible to say, and it is just
as likely as not that in a year or
two the respectable Miss Henning
may appear in the list of pas-
sengers by some homeward-
bound ship. I do not like to
think of the possibility of not
seeing you and yours again; in
fact, I am sure I shall come
home sooner or later, perhaps, as
an old lady with grey hair whom
you will not recognise and the
children will scream at.
You are just in the middle of
summer now, and how lovely
June is in England! I can fancy
all the thorn-trees out on the
downs and the children picking
flowers in Leigh Woods and the
bouquets in the shop-windows
and the flower-beds in the Zoo-
logical Gardens and the summer
costumes on the green. It is
fine and warm and sunshiny
here, with just a cool breeze to
remind us that it is winter.
We have had some rain, too ;
two days and two nights of
steady downpour about three
weeks ago, and the country is
beginning to look quite green
after it, though at this time of
year the grass does not grow at
such a marvellous rate as it does
in summer. It has greatly im-
proved the prospects of the
lambing, however, and I do hope
we shall have a good one this
year.
We are likely to have some
agreeable neighbors on the next
station, about 30 miles down the
road. A Mr. Lansborough and
his family have just come there.
He is brother to Mr. Lans-
borough, the explorer. Bid-
dulph knew them at Raglan,
their last station, and like every-
one, is loud in praise of Mrs.
Lansborough. The girls were
children when he saw them, but
Miss Lansborough is now seven-
teen and, I hear, very pretty.
They are too far off for us to
see very much of them, but
Biddulph is often going up and
down the road. He is going to
start for Port Denison on Mon-
day nex t on some business. He
is going to drive down in the
buggy and will call on the Lans-
boroughs on his way, so we shall
hear his report of them.
As usual, he will have any
uumber of commissions. Annie
* s clamorous for onions and
washing-soda, and I for boots
anc * a crupper for my saddle. As
ar as anything in life, and
especially in bush life, can be
certain, I think we are pretty
sure really to go to Sydney in
September. Annie and I have
ma( le up our minds to go down
with Biddulph to Rockhampton
on to Sydney.
Ido n °t myself look forward
with any particular pleasure to
the visit, but I want to buy some
clothes and see Amy, and I
dare sa Y a change is good for
one > e^se I would rather stay
here. I know the pet sheep will
run aw ay, and my two beautiful
dogs be lost or stolen during
m y absence,
I suppose Annie will come
back as Mrs. Hedgeland, but I
do not think their plans are quite
settled. Some bushmen are at
present employed in cutting
slabs for their future residence,
so that looks like business, but
I daresay Annie has told you
all about it.
We seem fated to have quarrel-
some servants. Our former ones,
Tom and Emma, used to wage
war which generally ended by
Emma running away into the
bush. Our present ones reverse
the matter, and on Tuesday
morning the husband suddenly
appeared in the parlor and men-
tioned that he could not live
with his wife any longer, she had
such a temper, and he was go-
ing to leave the house instantly.
So off he went. Biddulph was
out at the time. Next morning
at breakfast Sarah was missing,
having started off at daylight to
look for him, and we were be-
wailing the prospect of an inter-
lude with black Biddy washing
and the blacksmith cooking, but
in the evening Sarah returned,
having walked about twenty
miles and then thought better of
it. She mentioned that her
husband had often run away
before, but generally came back
in a few days.
Accordingly, yesterday evening
Alick met him lurking about in
the bush, and he sent a message
to Sarah to meet him in the
woolshed at dark. He was afraid
to come home lest Biddulph
should exercise his right of
taking him up and giving him
three months in jail as a runaway
servant. Biddulph was not likely
to take that trouble, and this
morning he came back, peni-
tent, having had very little to
eat and having lost his way in
the bush.
Biddulph scolded him for his
folly, and now I hope they will
keep the peace. I suppose both
were in fault as usual in such
cases.
I have been busy several
mornings pruning the passion-
vines which grow over the
veranda. It took me some time ;
they were grown in such a mat,
but they look all the better and
will bear all the better for it.
The passion-fruit is very nice.
It looks like a large purple plum
when ripe, but has a sort of hard
shell and you eat the inside.
The vines are different from the
English, with large evergreen
leaves and a smaller blossom.
They are bringing in lunch.
“Biddulph scolded him for his folly.
and I am at the end of my paper.
Kindest love to yourself and Mr.
Boyce and the darling children.
I hope we shall get some later
news of you before next mail.
It seems so stupid to write, with
no letters to answer,
Believe me, ever and always
your affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
July 22, 1865,
My Dearest Etta,
I received your letter of
March 25 by the last mail (July
6); there is another English
mail in now, but we shall not
get the letters for another fort-
night, I am afraid. We are
having such a cold winter here.
At least we consider it cold. We
have had quite sharp white frosts
early in the morning and then
a brilliant sunny day but with a
sting in the air, as dear old Mr.
Ball used to say. One morning
the pump was actually frozen!
It is warmer again now, and
I hope we have done with the
frosts. Strangely enough, lam
perfectly well when the ther-
mometer stands at ninety in the
shade, but I have never been
free from colds since the winter
began. lam probably the only
person in Queensland that wishes
the summer back again. One
morning it was so cold that we
were fairly driven out of doors.
There was sharp south-west wind
blowing hard, and a very credit-
able imitation it is, for a colony,
of an English north-easter. It
came into the house at every
point, made the fire smoke and
chilled the marrow of our bones.
So as there were rations to go
to the Ten Mile we got our
horses and packed up some
dinner and started with Mr.
Hedgeland. The wind was be-
hind us, fortunately, and a good
canter soon warmed us. Of
course the sun was shining; it
always does shine here. When
we got to the Ten Mile we found
a sunny sheltered spot on the
bank of the Broken River where
we made a fire and had our
dinner, and said what a beautiful
day it had turned out; then I
rambled down into the bed of
the river and looked into the
deep pools in hopes of seeing
an alligator, as their tracks have
been seen there and they have
sometimes taken a shepherd’s
dog; but they did not show up,
and I only found some pretty
little white water-lilies instead.
When the sheep were counted
we set off towards home about
sundown. The wind had gone
down, but it was rather a cold,
frosty evening. However, there
was a good fire when we came
back, and we had a very pleasant
day.
Biddulph went down to the
Port the week before last to
arrange about the sale of
Lara, which he did satisfactorily,
having sold a half-share in it to
Mr. Morriset for £sooo—£3ooo
in cash and the rest in bills. Mr.
Morriset is going out there
almost immediately to take
charge of the station, and it will
be a great save of worry and
anxiety to Biddulph,
It is very troublesome to man-
age a station so far off and diffi-
cult to find a good superinten-
dent. Biddulph offered the post
to Mr. Taylor at two different
times, but he objected to going
so far from Exmoor. Biddulph
will sell the other half of Lara
if he can get a good offer for it,
I think. Of course he has given
up all idea of selling Exmoor
and is improving it instead. It
would certainly be a thousand
pities to leave this beautiful
country and comfortable house
and station just as everything is
getting into nice order. I am
very fond of the place and should
be very sorry to leave it,
I do not at all look forward
to our trip to Sydney. I think
it will be a great expense and a
great bore, but I suppose a
change is good for one after
three years in the tropics, and I
certainly want some garments,
and I expect I shall put on and
wear new dresses with great satis-
faction. I think the wide waist-
bands they are said to wear now
must be hideous. Have you
altered the way of wearing your
hair yet? Emily writes word
that nets are quite gone out and
that most people cut their hair
off pretty short and then friz it
out with their hands! I think
I see myself!
Emily does not mention
whether she has adopted this
elegant style. She also says they
make their own bonnets in
Sydney. I should rather like to
see a bonnet again, though not
to make one. Except my old
sun-bonnet I have not beheld one
for three years. We shall be
taken for aborigines, I expect,
when we present ourselves in the
town.
Biddulph saw our new neigh-
bors when he went to the Port.
1 do not suppose we shall see
much of them, as they live thirty
miles off. Another of the neigh-
boring squatters, Mr. Selheim, is
juSt married to a sister of Mr.
Morriset’s, Biddulph’s new
partner. She is very handsome,
I believe, but they live a long
way from us.
Your most affectionate sister.
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
July 23, 1865.
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
Many thanks for your letter
of March 24. I have just been
reading it through again, and
thinking how kind it is of you to
sit down and write me such nice
long, talking letters. They are
not thrown away, I assure you,
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and came back to Australia
in 1861. She went to Exmoor (Q.)
in 1862.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph,
and went with him to Queensland
in 1862.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
bis married cousin Llndon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. SparUng
at Appin. Later be bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 255. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. In conjunction with the
Tuckers he bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him. In
186-i he took up an additional bold-
ing (Lara), which stretched from
Alick’s Creek to the Junction of
the Cloncurry River, a tributary
of the Flinders, and comprised
eight blocks of 25 square miles.
Although the country was good
It did not pay because of trans-
port difficulties.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wausborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
UNDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalbaven district of
N. S. Wales,
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. They were
interested, with Biddulph Henning,
in Queensland station properties.
WILLIAM TUCKER was founder
of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES
TUCKER was his brother.


q
You can't ask
forajiner
whisky -
this is
PERFECTION
itself
ys
fl7 c Calliuns
Whisky
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
q
q
q
q
“We set off to reconnoitre the town with Mr. Hedgeland.”
if they are intended to give
pleasure in this far country.
Next month (August) you will
probably receive my letter to
you and Etta, giving you a good
reason why I am not likely to
come home just at present. There
is nothing I should like better,
and at one time I did turn over
in my mind whether I would not,
after Annie was married, just
fly home for a visit while
Deighton (Mr. Taylor) was
making researches after a posi-
tion, but the expense would be
too great. I do not think it
would be right to spend two or
three hundred pounds now, and
then there would be a terrible
parting again, so I gave up all
idea of it, though it was very
tempting. I can only hope that
something may turn up in the
far future to enable me to see
you again, for I never even
venture to look the thought in
the face that it may never be in
this world.
What you say about the
Flinders is very true. It would
have been dullish there, though
I should not have objected to
going there, and I should have
liked the journey out, but, as
I have been telling Etta, there is
now no fear of that change,
Biddulph has just sold a half-
share of the Flinders station for
£5OOO, and he sometime ago
withdrew Exmoor from the
market. He was disgusted with
the dry season last year, but this
year we are having a very good
season. The sheep are as fat
as sheep can be, and both yester-
day and today we have had a
steady pouring rain, succeeding
the frost, which will just make
young grass grow in time for
the lambing, which commences
in about a fortnight.
You were asking me about
the value of runs in your letter.
A block of land is supposed to
contain twenty-five square miles,
i.e., it measures five miles each
way. In general, there is about
half as much again in a block,
as of course, the squatters go to
the utmost limit in taking up
country, and the Government
allow so much for “unavailable
land,” that is, scrubs and dense
forest where sheep cannot feed.
There are eight blocks on Ex-
moor, and Biddulph offered it
for £20,000, so you see the value
of land is very small here com-
pared to what it is in England.
The rent paid to Government for
runs is 10s. per square mile the
first four years, and £1 to £2 per
square mile the next five years.
Lara is a larger run than Ex-
moor, but, being outside and in
an unsettled district, he offered
it for £lO,OOO, which is less than
its value, but it has been an in-
cessant worry to him; it is so
far off. I think he will sell the
other half as soon as he can,
and settle down on beautiful
Exmoor.
How I wish you could all
come out here and see us! How
I should like to show you my
favorite walks, and see you draw
the brilliant coloring of the
woods and mountains. That re-
minds me of your kind present
of drawings and books and tele-
scope sent us with my watch.
The parcel is safe in the hands
of Miss Tucker, and in about
two months I hope it will be in
mine. I would not have it sent
on here on account of the perils
of the way. Don’t you envy
me? I shall have two boxes
from home to open when I get
to Sydney.
I do not think there is any-
thing so beautiful out here as
the Downs, and the Avon, and
the Leigh Woods and rocks, but
this country has a wild un-
civilised grandeur of its own. We
have been taking a good many
drives lately. You would be
astonished in England at the
precipices almost which we
composedly ride up and down
in the buggy. We have a pair
of horses now that pull like
steam-engines, and I believe
would take a buggy up Spring
Hill.
Biddulph has given me a new
horse lately. A very pretty
creature she is, bright bay with
black mane and tail, stands
rather high with a very pretty
thoroughbred-looking head. She
is quite quiet, and at the same
time spirited, and very fast. She
will not let anything pass her,
but she has not run away with
me yet. “Her name is Cora and
she lives at Exmoor.”
We have got the April tele-
grams, and very lamentable they
are as to the American War. We
are all so sorry that the Con-
federates are beaten. They have
made the most gallant struggle
of modern times, except perhaps
England versus Europe in
Napoleon’s time, and it seems
such a shame they should be just
overpowered by numbers. But
I can’t help them, and I have
got to the'end of my paper.
With kindest love to yourself
and Etta, believe me, my dear
brother,
Ever yours affectionately,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
August 19, 1865.
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
I have received two letters
from you since I wrote last
month, one dated April 24, and
the other May 18, both of which
are lying on my desk. I see in
the former one you ask me some-
thing about the value of stations,
which 1 think I partly answered
in my last letter. It was quite
true what I told you, that two
years ago (1863), Biddulph re-
fused £25,000 for Exmoor, with
10,000 sheep on it. A man who
came up from Melbourne offered
it him.
There had just been a splendid
lambing season, and the northern
stations were high in the market.
Then came the drought of 1864,
and Biddulph, in disgust at the
brown appearance of every-
thing and the disappearance of
the lambs, advertised Exmoor
for sale, and fixed
£20,000 as the
reserve price. He
had, however.
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
sent out 3000 more sheep
to Lara, so only 7000 were left.
That was when we thought of
going out to Lara to live. How-
ever, it soon appeared that the
dry season extended over the
entire north, and instead of being
worse we were better off than
most of our neighbors. At the
same time, Lara was offered for
£lO,OOO with 8000 sheep on it.
This seems very disproportion-
ate to Exmoor, but an “outside”
station, 500 miles from its port,
and with no buildings but a few
huts, is worth far less than an
“inside” one with all the im-
provements ready—house, store,
woolsbed, stockyard and men’s
huts, and only 100 miles from
the Port. A few months ago
Biddulph sold a half-share of
Lara for £5OOO. As I told you,
it was very cheap, but it was an
awful bore to look after such a
distant station, and he would be
glad to sell the remaining half
for £5OOO more. The purchaser
is gone out to take charge, so
I hope Biddulph will not have
much more trouble with it.
Exmoor has long been with-
drawn from the market, and I
do not think Biddulph has any
idea of selling it. He seems
quite settled on it as a residence,
and a very pleasant one it is,
The present fine season will,
however, send up the value of
these stations again. There has
been rain all through the winter
at intervals, and there is plenty
of grass for the sheep, so we are
expecting a 95 per cent, lambing,
instead of the 30 per cent, of last
year.
There is one comfort as to
the climate. Morrell (the man
who lived seventeen years among
the blacks) says that he has
known far worse floods than
those of 1863, but never such a
drought as 1864. This is small
consolation for the low-lying
stations, but much for us.
Floods do us no harm, but
droughts do. Another thing in
favor of the northern squatters
is that wages are coming down.
When we first came here the
shepherds all got 255., 30s. and
even 355. per week, and you had
to put up with perhaps imper-
tinence besides for fear of hav-
ing a flock of 1500 sheep driven
into the station and left on your
hands.
Now, owing to the failure of
the Peak Downs diggings and
the tide of emi-
grants, the masters
have their turn.
Biddulph never
gives more than 20s. a week,
and dismisses every man who
does not please him. One old
shepherd who has been here
ever since the station was formed
gets 255., but then he takes the
heaviest flock of all, 2200
weaners. This season, too, the
Bowen squatters have com-
bined to put down the shearing
wages. In past years they were
ss. 3d., 55., 4s. 9d. a score of
sheep. Mr. Selheim, of Strath-
moor, always shears the earliest,
and this year he refused to give
more than 45., and sent to all
his neighbors to support him.
C Continued on next page.)


Your If amity shares your
mm
mm.
m
-Tn
in Prefect
f.
7
\
ZZ~v ;
A
/ 9 <? S 1
ssp
ss?
3pc>
G
ENGLANC
in y&uA, -own.
if
ca/i.
US
IPV/i Ford’s “ Visit Britain'' plan you
may step into your own Prefect, Consul
or Anglia in London .. . insurance,
V registration etc. arranged, and your
car shipped home for you when
leaving. Your Ford dealer
has full information.
6e4t fay m /OA./j. Seefant
With Prefect, you have at your fingertips all the power and depen-
dability of the famous Ford 10 h.p. engine. All around you are
comfort and convenience . . . from the carefully tailored upholstery
to the smart instrument panel with its clock. All this and safety,
too . . . the safety of big, internal expanding 4-wheel brakes . . .
the silky softness of synchromesh gear change . . . crystal-clear
road vision and all such features that have put Prefect on top.
Prefect
AUSTRALIA’S LOWEST-PRICED 10 H.P. 4 DOOR SEDAN
fMil-W
PLACE YOUR ORDER WITH YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR C OMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LT D .
The gang of shearers stood out
for 4s. 6d. and left him, but
were astonished to find that the
next station was not more liberal,
nor the next. Finally they re-
turned to Mr, Selheim and took
what he offered.
Biddulph thinks it better to
shear late, and never begins till
October. When a station is in
working order, the improve-
ments, etc., done, the price of
the wool is supposed to pay all
the expenses, and the increase
of the sheep is the squatter’s
profit. This is the regular
formula, of course. Therefore,
a bad lambing destroys his profit.
Kindest love to yourself and
Etta, my dear brother.
Ever yours affectionately,
Rachel Henning.
S.S. “Rangatira/”
October 17, 1865.
My Dearest Etta,
Once more I write to you
from on board one of what
Annie calls “those dreadful
steamers,” though this time she
really has not much to complain
of, as we are having a splendid
passage.
But to take up my parable
from the beginning. I think I
told you in my last letter that,
seeing that Annie had no other
chance of getting to Sydney in
time to have two or three
months to prepare her garments
and see her friends before her
marriage, I one morning in a
misguided fit of philanthropy
undertook to go with her. You
see the difficulty was that,
lambing being hardly over, and
shearing just beginning, Bid-
dulph could not possibly spare
a week or ten days to take her
to the Port, and Mrs. Grundy’s
feelings would have been hurt
if she had gone with Mr. Hedge-
land unless I was there also.
You will hardly believe how
sorry I was to leave Exmoor.
However, I could not draw
back, for Annie was rejoiced to
go. So I took a farewell of my
favorite walks in the scrub, put
collars with conspicuous red
streamers on the pet sheep and
exhorted everyone on the
station, from Biddulph to the
blackboys, on the subject of
their welfare, took an affection-
ate leave of my great kangaroo-
dog and white cat, and about
ten o’clock on the eighth we left
the dear old station where I cer-
tainly have spent three very
happy years.
Biddulph drove us in the
buggy to Mr. Paterson’s, the
first stage of the journey. Mr,
Hedgeland rode, driving before
him our saddle-horses and an
extra pair for the buggy. Bid-
dulph likes to drive very fast,
and therefore always changes
horses in the middle of the day.
We stopped at the river about
20 miles from home, turned out
all the horses to drink and feed,
lighted a fire, boiled some coffee
and had lunch and enjoyed our-
selves very much for about two
hours, then we started again,
and after a beautiful drive
reached Mr. Paterson’s about
sundown.
There is an immense party of
them at Sonoma Station. Mr.
Paterson, Mr. and Mrs. Lans-
borough, three Miss Lans-
boroughs and some small fry,
and though they were very kind,
I have not spent such an uncom-
fortable evening for three years.
Didn’t I wish myself back with
the lambs and the dogs when
we were all sitting up in a great
circle trying to make talk! I
thought bedtime would never
come, but it did at last, and we
also got away next morning,
Biddulph driving us half that
day’s stage.
We went through more beauti-
ful country, and through plains
so covered with flowers that they
looked like the Flowery Prairie
we read of. We stopped at a
bush inn about 20 miles on the
road, where we had lunch and
put on our riding-habits and
packed our property on a stout
pack-horse, then we said good-
bye to dear Biddulph, and he
started on his return to Sonoma,
which he would reach that even-
ing, and get back to Exmoor
next day, so as to be only from
home three days.
I was so sorry to see him
drive away; it seemed as if we
were really away from home.
However, we mounted our
horses and started on our
journey and about dark got to
the Bogie River, about twenty
miles, and put up at a very good
inn for the bush. We met the
postman there, got fcmr mail-
bag and took out our letters.
One from you of July 25th and
from Mr. Boyce of July 26th
from London.
Next morning we set off
again early, and rode through
very dull country, except the
Bogie Range, where there is
some very fine scenery, five or
six miles through beautiful
wooded mountains. We camped
as usual by a creek in the middle
of the day, under the shade of
some gigantic aloes. They do
not grow about Exmoor —
curious tropical-looking plants
they are. We turned out the
horses to feed and boiled the
unfailing tea. You catjnot think
how pleasant these campings are
on a journey, and the horses
seem to enjoy their dinner just
as much as you do.
We got to the Don that even-
ing, 35 miles, where there is the
best inn on the road. From
thence it is only about 15 miles
to Port Denison, so we got in
quite early. When we got within
a few miles of the town there
was an immense deal of racing
and chasing of horses and
buggies, and it turned out that
the Governor was expected to
land the next day. We got very
good rooms at Wills’, the best
hotel in the town, with a
pleasant sitting-room opening
into the balcony. We got some
dinner and then, having made
ourselves look as civilised as
might be under the circum-
stances, we set off to do some
shopping and reconnoitre the
town with Mr. Hedgeland.
Of course the town itself is
nothing, but the bay is most
beautiful. Landlocked all round
except one narrow channel, the
clearest and bluest of water, the
green mangrove swamps in some
places growing actually in the
sea. We sat down on the beach
and watched the tide come in. It
was so pleasant to see the sea
again.
In the evening several people
called who knew Biddulph, and
we were asked to meet the
Governor at a sort of public
lunch at Mr. Macleod’s, and on
board the Diamantina, to see the
regatta, and to a ball which was
to be given in the evening, but
we declined all these civilities.
I think Annie would have liked
to go, but she had no dress. I
could have got a dress, as your
case was at Biddulph’s agents at
Port Denison, but I cannot
think of any earthly inducement
that would make me voluntarily
present myself among 150 or
200 people.
The steamer was to have sailed
Thursday, but was delayed on
account of the Governor’s visit,
so we saw all the sights that
could be seen from the balcony
of Wills’, for we did not go out.
There was a triumphal arch
right across the street, which, by
the way, my mare strongly ob-
jected to passing when we came
in the day before. She is very
easily startled, and as unused to
streets as her mistress is now.
The Governor landed at ten,
heard several dull speeches at the
pier, and then a very irregular
procession conducted him into
the town, where just in front of
our windows he proceeded to
plant the first telegraph-post;
then he went to the luncheon on
board the Diamantina for the
regatta, and then to the ball.
It was a very hot day, and
how tired he must have been of
it all. The only part I should
have liked would have been the
regatta, but Annie objected to
going on board a steamer before
it was necessary as strongly as
I did going to the lunch and ball.
The Rangatira did not sail
till daybreak on Saturday, but
we went on board on Friday
night. She was lying nearly a
mile and a half from the jetty.
Mr. Hedgeland went on board
with us, but returned again in
the boat. I don’t know what
Annie thought, but I would have
given the world to go home with
him —to ride pretty Cora over
those beautiful plains back
again, and see the old vine-
covered veranda, and Biddulph,
and the lambs, and the old easy
life instead of that tiresome
Sydney,
However, there was nothing
for it but to make the best of
the closest and smallest “ladies’
cabin” I have seen, though the
Rangatira is a fine large boat.
By a quick dive therein before
any other women could find the
dark stairs, I secured the two
top berths under the portholes
for myself and Annie. No light
matter when you have a week’s
voyage before you. The weather
has been beautiful ever since we
OBVERSE.
Man and axe, with two-edged
curse,
Hew a landscape in obverse:
These ring-barked ruptured
arteries
Seem nerve-white roots of unseen
trees—
Trees of a honey underland
(Leaves like a parrot’s wing out-
fanned)
Where wine-dark boughs are
always weighed
By fruits of wine and fans of
shade.
Butterflies spin nervous mesh
Over mosses deep as flesh
Whose fibres, up, are calcined
weeds—
A waste wind-shot by shrapnel
seeds.
Hills that furnace fever shakes
Brim, reversed, with ice-green
lakes,
Green with the green corroded
hopes
Of fissured, charred and bare-
back slopes.
Leather man with hare-lean thighs
Seeks like crow, with summer
eyes.
Rosewater rain and creeks of love
Lost from Medusa-land above.
TASMANIA.
HAL PORTER.


SEASIDE HOME for sale AT CRONULLA
Eight-roomed house, large verandahs, ultra-modem Kitchen, Bathroom and
Laundry. Land 82ft x 164 ft.; attractive gardens and lawns. Central position
5 minutes station, shopping centre, main beaches and Gunnamatta Bay. This
be arranged residence 18 to be sold - for £9Bs ° or walk-in walk-out basis can
Inspection by appointment.
Phone LB 5449. Owner, 5 Waratah Street, Cronulla, N.S.W.
Knitting and Crochet Designs
for Baby and Toddler will be
found in
TINY'S TROUSSEAU
New Mirror Handcraft Book
Two Shillings, Post Free
HANDYMAN
HOUSEWIFE
JUNIOR
FARMER
THE XMAS GIFT FOR EVERYONE
For every home, household, farm or workshop
“Bob” Is indispensable
UNIVERSAL TOOL
FOR EVERYBODY
“BOB"
THE MULTI-PUKPOSE STAFFING TOOL
Staples, drives nails, books, tacks. Ideal for
fencing', etc.
AMAZING VALUE!
Complete with 2 locking; levers,
magnet and 1000 assorted stain-
less staples in an attractive
wooden box as pictured.
29/6
SEND ORDER TODAY TO
DOMEX TRADING CO.,
(Dept. 228), 243 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Domex Trading: Co. (Dept. 228),
243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Please send me one “Bob,” complete in wooden
box, for which I enclose 29/6 (add postage 2/-).
NAME
ADDRESS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
S=3
-S3
B
m
British
THE ENGINE THAT LASTS/
TUB
mm
BEHIND THE
AUSTRALIAN SCENE
World-famous Lister engines
are available in a variety of
types and horsepowers (2 to
40 h.p.) for petrol, kerosene
and diesel fuel.
The Lister illustrated above is
a 4-5 h.p. hopper-cooled petrol
engine.
it Full defails from
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dongor, Gedye & Mailoeh Ltd..
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
60-54 William Street. PERTH.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited,
12-36 Cross Street. WEST FOOTSCRAY.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe Carson Limited
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Norwood Bagshaw Limited,
78 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
sailed, the sea calm and the
north-east trade-wind to keep
the ship steady.
Annie dreaded the voyage
very much, but she has not been
seasick, only sometimes qual-
mish and uncomfortable, and
has generally been able to come
into meals. There is a lady (?)
also in the cabin with a very
pretty but most squalling baby
and an enormous good-tempered
and untidy Irish girl as nurse,
and an unmitigated nuisance the
trio are, especially the baby.
Decidedly people ought not to
bring such articles to sea, or else
to take a private cabin if
possible.
A Mr. Gilliat is on board
whom we knew at Exmoor, and
who at one time had charge of
the Flinders Station for Bid-
dulph. He is a pleasant gentle-
manly man, and I like the stout,
comfortable - looking captain,
but I cannot say much for the
other passengers.
The passage from Port Deni-
son to Gladstone is most beauti-
ful. They keep inside and
among the islands, and I think
it must be like the Grecian
Archipelago, the bluest of seas
and islands large and small in
every direction from fifteen
miles long to mere rocks, all
more or less mountainous, some
of them wooded ranges, with
little strips of yellow beach,
some rounded green hills with
trees growing only in the hol-
lows and gullies and tempting
little bays on their shores.
Others have precipices rising
sharp from the water’s edge, I
believe they are nearly all in-
habited by blacks. On one rocky
point we saw a mob of them
spearing fish.
We anchored off Gladstone on
Monday morning, and a very
pretty-looking place it is from
the sea, for we did not land. We
only stayed a few hours and
then steamed off again, and
after a few more islands went
out to sea out of sight of land,
except now and then a misty
headland came in sight. They
say we shall reach Sydney
Thursday evening or Friday
morning, and much Annie will
rejoice. For myself I rather like
being on the sea.
October 18. Your birthday,
my dearest Etta, and I wish you
many happy returns of it. I
wonder if we shall ever spend it
together again? I hope so, but
it looks very uncertain just at
present. We are bewailing a
head-wind today, which makes
the steamer roll, and as Amy
said of the great sea-horse,
“impedes our course.” I am
writing in the saloon, which is
at present a sort of temple of
A:olus. Annie is reposing on a
sofa rather disgusted at the pro-
ceedings of the ship, and most
of the other people are on deck,
except one man who is cough-
ing over a strong dose of
brandy, wherewith he is trying
to fortify his sinking nerves or
stomach.
I have just been reading your
letter of July twenty-sixth. How
I should like to hear Leighton
read the “Queen of the May”!
I can hardly fancy those babies
as they were when I left grow-
ing up to understand and like
Tennyson. In spite of all efforts
I still fancy them as they were
four years ago. Now, I will put
this away till we reach Sydney
tomorrow or next day, when I
hope to get your August letters,
which must have arrived by this
time. We telegraphed from
Gladstone, and I only hope we
have been in time to prevent our
whole correspondence from
being forwarded to Exmoor. If
it is we shall not get it back for
six or eight weeks.
October 21, Sydney. I
boasted too soon of our calm
passage, for on the afternoon
of the eighteenth a southerly
gale got up and lasted us all the
next day, tumbled us about to
the great discomfiture of the
seasick and delayed us at least
a day. However, we got to Syd-
ney about eleven on Friday
morning, found Mr. Hirst, Cap-
tain Treloar and Mr. Ebsworth
waiting for us on the wharf, and
drove out to Mr. Hirst’s house,
where we found Caroline and
Emily, and very kind they were
and glad to see us. Our first
inquiring was for letters, you may
be sure, and our telegram had
been just in time to save them
from being shipped off to Port
Denison.
You will imagine I read your
letter with great interest in
answer to the astounding
announcement I made to you. I
have no doubt Biddulph told you
Mr. Taylor’s father was a lieu-
tenant in the Navy, his mother
the daughter of a clergyman,
the rector of Woolsingham, in
Durham. She must have had
some wonderful talent for
mathematics, for when her hus-
band left the sea (he has been
dead for years) she established a
school for preparing midship-
men to pass the examination in
navigation and mathematics,
and published the Nautical
Almanac, Mr. Scott, that young
sailor who was staying with us
some time ago, had studied with
her. In connection with these
she established a shop for the
manufacture and sale of all
sorts of nautical instruments.
They had a most extensive busi-
ness at one time and furnished
half the ships leaving London
with instruments.
Mr. Taylor used to go down
the Channel sometimes with new
ships to adjust them to their
instruments, as it is called, and
this way became half a sailor
himself. There is a good deal
of the sailor about him. Mrs.
Taylor has a pension from the
Government now. Mr. Taylor
was at a classical school, as his
mother intended him for the
church, but he did not like that,
and wanted to make music his
profession.
The whole family are wild
after music. He studied the
violin for two years, then
worked at the instrument trade
and adjusting, and finally came
to Australia, where for about
six months he was on a station of
Mr. Towns’s ; ever since, namely
for five years, he has been
with Biddulph. The consequence
of all this is that he has a most
curious collection of knowledge
of things Biddulph never
dreamed of, though he doesn’t
like Tennyson and Biddulph
does.
From his trade he knows
a great deal about chemistry and
metals and astronomy. I think
our acquaintance began with my
learning the names of the
Southern Constellations. He
sings beautifully, as I think I
told you before, and when Bid-
dulph wanted to sell Exmoor,
and wished for a map of the run,
he set off and climbed the hills
and took the different bearings
and measured distances and
mapped it out without any diffi-
culty. You may depend upon
it, I should never like anyone
who was without intellectual
taste or knowledge, although I
don’t mind the line of their intel-
lect being different from that of
mine.
Next to the letters on which I
have, I am sure, commented gd
nauseam, I inquired for your
parcel, and it was duly handed
over by Emily and unpacked
with great delight by me. I dis-
interred first the watch, which
I have not yet been able to get
opened, but which I shall be
very glad of when I get it, and
next “Enoch Arden,” for which I
am very much obliged to you,
my dearest Etta. I have read
the poem some time ago, but
only once, and that is very dif-
ferent from having it myself. I
like it much, and some of the
shorter pieces better still.
Annie is very much pleased
with Jean Ingelow’s poems.
They were lent us once for a
short time, and we liked them
greatly. She tells me to thank
you, and she will write herself
next week, but she is only this
moment come in from a shop-
ping expedition. She has had
her hair made more fashion-
able, arranged in curls in front
and a plait behind, as of old
days, and looks quite nice. Our
nets and rolls are quite old-
fashioned, but X have not
changed yet.
Tell dear little Constance I
am very much obliged for her
kettle-holder. I think it is very
nicely worked, and we will use
it at Exmoor, where we always
have a kettle for tea. I have not
yet got my box of dresses up
from the wharf, so as the post
closes this evening, I shall not
be able to tell you about them
in this letter as I hoped, but it
is quite long enough as it is.
Goodbye, my dearest Etta, and
believe me.
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
(To be continued next week.)


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
opened Parliament in a ceremony which
commemorated the opening of the first
Victorian Parliament 100 years ago. At
midday his daughter Jeanette crowned
pretty Marion Thompson Princess of
Spring, and this was followed by a pro-
cession of wonderfully decorated floats
through the city. The Master Drapers’
float carried off first prize ; it depicted
famous queens down the ages and it was
alive with pretty girls and attendants.
This was the work of Fred Asmussen.
At Flemington, the V.R.C. held a special
meeting and named the races after such
stalwarts as Edward Henty, Sir William
Stawell and William Charles Haines.
Not forgotten was the Separation Handi-
cap which celebrated the division of this
State from N.S.W. The race of the day
was the Centenary Cup, and the
Governor and Lady Brooks, with a large
party, were present.
Lady Brooks wore a junior-navy suit
under a mink jacket; her close-fitting
white straw hat featured an upstanding
feather-mount. A black suit and scarlet
feather-cap were the choice of Mrs. T, C.
Manifold, wife of the chairman of the
V.R.C. With her light-brown suit Mrs.
A. G. Silk wore a heart-shaped hat of
gold straw and black velvet. Mrs. Lionel
Newton was in a grey suit and softly-
veiled violet straw beret, Mrs. Len Voss
Smith’s bolero suit of scarlet wool had
for company a blue-and-white-spotted
blouse and a white hat. Mrs. Ivor Man-
ton’s frock was of beige shantung, her
tent-coat of tomato-red wool.
Among first-nighters at His Majesty’s
for the ballets “Giselle,” “The Black
Swan” and “L’Apres-Midi d’un Faune”
was Jeanette Scott, who has just returned
from a trip abroad. Her wide-skirted
ballerina frock was of black flower-
embroidered net. She was with Mrs.
Tom Carlyon, whose black crepe skirt
was allied to a strapless bodice of white
guipure lace. Mrs, Frank Tait, who has
also just returned from England and
America with her husband, wore a stun-
ning short evening gown of deep Parma-
violet satin ; it had gold accessories. Under
a wrap of platina-fox Mrs. Ross Grey
Smith wore a slim black velvet gown; a
draped gown of beige French crepe was
Jill Daveron’s choice.
Centenary celebrations ended with a
garden-party at Parliament House on a
day which made the wearing of summery
frocks impossible, although a few intrepid
women braved the elements in picture
hats and silks. Guests were received by
the Premier and Mrs. McDonald, presi-
dent of the Legislative Council, Sir
Clifden Eager, and Lady Eager, and the
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly,
Archie Michaelis, and Mrs. Michaelis.
Guests were kept stormbound in the
Queen’s Hall and library for a while, but
a few minutes after the arrival of the
Governor and Lady Brooks the sun
came out and guests drifted out on to the
soggy lawns. Lady Brooks wore a frock
of Alice-blue silk faille and a navy
picture hat matched by her accessories.
Under her navy faille coat Jeanette
Brooks wore a pale-yellow dress; her
large picture hat was filmy navy crinoline
straw. The Premier’s wife chose a grey
ensemble. Lady Eager contrasted her
black frock and dyed-ermine jacket with
a corn-gold hat. Mrs. Michaelis’s frock
and hat were junior-blue. Mrs. Trevor
Oldham’s large black tulle hat was worn
vvith a wool dress in soft yellow tonings.
The wife of the Chinese Consul,
Madame Liu, wore a black faille duster-
coat over a national dress of royal-blue-
and-gold brocade, and topped it with a
small white straw coolie hat. With Sir
Leslie McConnan was his wife, whose
black suit was worn with a white
tasselled black straw coolie hat. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan wore navy blue with a small white
pillbox beret. Lady Hay’s coat was of
black faille, her tiny hat of black
feathers. Mrs. A. G. Warner wore a
silver-blue mink cape-stole over her
black frock ; a gold jewelled veil finished
her small black hat. Diana Barrymore
was in black faille duster-coat, black-
and-white silk frock and white coolie hat.
Douglas Cox presented an interesting
collection of holiday and autumn clothes,
with special emphasis on ensembles for
the proposed Royal Tour next year. For
the young girl contemplating a holiday,
this fashion house offers a group of five
garments: two holiday cotton frocks, a
wool dress and coat and a ballerina-length
cocktail frock. In this pageantry parade
frocks were made of cotton from various
parts of the world. For the 18th century
there was a charming cotton showing
the landing of Captain Cook, and for the
20th century one called Colombo-Ceylon.
Coats and dresses were made of new
fabrics and in new colors. The new
silhouette in coats features the Eliza-
bethan collar, which varies in shape and
converts into a shawl collar, and from
which the line of the coat continues in
one way or another to the hem. Sleeve-
and back-treatments have been designed
to balance the fronts of the coats. The
new “detour” button line was featured
on a number of the coats which were
made in cobblestone coating, facecloth,
worsteds, flannels and velours, plain and
checked. Newest fabrics for day frocks
are pic-and-pic (a new English wool
crepe), angora, wool-jersey, wool-crepe,
worsted, hound’s-tooth checks and im-
ported spotted-wool crepe and check-
jersey ; for evening wear Swiss organdies,
embroidered cottons, lace, velveteen,
velvet, satins, figured brocades, faille and
French ottomans and novelty crepes. The
new colors are charcoal-grey, coral-pink.
Ark Royal, blondine, ripe-gold, Oxford-
brown, Dolores-grey, Grenadier-red,
butterscotch, vivid-Kelly, Spanish-moss,
dark-forest, peacock-blue and harbor-
tint.
Dresses have the dropped waistline, a
modified bell skirt, cinched waists, in-
verted pleats opening to show a panel
of accordion pleating and the new split
pleat. Black velvet was lavishly used to
trim tailored and dressmaker suits, and
many frocks had very large black saucer-
buttons and patent-leather belts. Unusual
was a stone-colored gaberdine frock with
a high neckline and welted tuck extend-
ing down the front to finish in a slight
pleat. Slotted through the neckline was
a navy leather “dog” collar which
matched the navy belt. Other attractive
frocks were a junior-blue-and-white
hound’s-tooth check frock with scarlet
velvet collar and cuffs ; a blondine crepe
frock with a diagonally-pleated bodice
and with a skirt featuring two tucked
inserted panels; a full-skirted ball gown
of heavy champagne satin with a wide
upstanding fichu collar which could be
worn off the shoulders. Very lovely was
a white Swiss organdie ballerina strapless
frock, appliqued with white butterflies.
Another ball gown of champagne satin
was strapless and featured graduated tucks
from waist to hemline.
Only a few weeks ago the pretty girl
pictured here arrived home with her
parents from a holiday in France. She
is Fran<?oise, third daughter of M, and
Madame Douez, of East St. Kilda, and
now she has become engaged to Kevin,
only son of Mr. and Mrs, A. G. Silk,
of Toorak, Franfoise left Genazzano
Convent just before she went off to
France, and Kevin, who was educated at
Xavier College, is now doing his Law
finals. The ring is a solitaire diamond,
When the Governor and Lady Brooks
attend the Highland Ball organised by
the Victorian Scottish Regiment in St.
Kilda Town Hall on November 29 they
w ifi be piped into the ballroom, will see
their daughter Jeanette dance Scottish
re els and will receive sprigs of heather,
flown specially from Scotland and picked
by me n of the parent body, the Gordon
Highlanders. Kilts and scarlet mess-
dress will be worn by officers, and women
dancers will wear tartan sashes. Proceeds
will be devoted to purchasing various
articles of Highland dress for the
members of the regiment. This informa-
tion was garnered at a late-afternoon
party given by Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Smith at Scott’s Hotel, Mrs. Smith re-
ceived guests wearing a pastel-blue crepe
frock and a black straw picture hat. Guests
were mostly officers of the Victorian
Scottish Regiment and their wives.
From Sydney
First with the Christmas carols was the
party held by the music circle of the
English-Speaking Union, when the guests
filled the reception-room of the Women’s
Club to overflowing. Mrs. Harry
Twigden was organiser and hostess along
with Mrs. Alec Keeling, Miss Vi. Hambly
and Mrs. Persia Porter, who was also
one of the carol-singers. A presentation
was made to Mrs. Rutherford by the
hostesses in recognition of her services to
the club. Amsng those present were
Mrs. James Anderson, wife of the Mayor
of Manly, Mrs. Simpson Lee, who enter-
tained Madame Martin Wang, wife of
the Consul-General for China, Madame
Garn, Madame Woo, Madame Mar and
Madame Chang, all of whom have re-
presented China in Australia and other
lands. Visitors from Salisbury, England,
were Miss Hogg and Miss Eva Manning.
As well as the carols, a delightful musical
programme was provided by Megan
Evans and Alan Ferris.
This is Nora McDougall, the noted
interior decorator who is giving a series
of lectures under the title of “The Art
of Making Your House a Home” at
David Jones’s George-street store this
week. Miss McDougall is a graduate of
the New York School of Fine and Applied
Arts and has spent seven years studying in
Europe and America. She has some
interesting ideas on color combinations
for the home, with an emphasis on the
wisdom of following the proportions and
harmonies to be found in Nature. The
lectures will be held twice daily at
1.15 p.m. and 3 p.m.
There were some nice bits of millinery
seen at the cocktail-party held at the
Blind Institution, when the president of
the Black and White Ball committee,
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, handed over to
the president of the institution, Mr.
Justice Maxwell, a cheque for £5805, the
proceeds of the ball. Mrs. Lennox
Bode wore one of those large swathed
mushroom hats most successfully.
Mrs. Ernest Watt’s hat was wide, droopy
and reminiscent of Greta Garbo. Mrs.
Dekyvere’s sailor shape, wide-ish and
black, was neat, smart, trig, ship-shape
and Bristol-fashion. The little-hat brigade
included Mrs. Roy Buckland, who wore
a diamente-studded veil, and Mrs. Chic
Bouvet, who looked elegant and cool in
an oyster-white shantung suit with a lily-
of-the-valley spray and a black toque.
To confine the activities, scenery and
resources of a whole country to the
limited space of David Jones’ Walk
Gallery proved yet another injustice to
Ireland, when a Photographic Survey was
presented last week by the Department of
External Affairs, Dublin. Those who
hoped to see nostalgic views of Erin’s
green valleys were disappointed, for there
were no color photographs, and the
education, industry, hospitals, etc.,
seemed over-large and over-much for the
space in which they were shown.
A praiseworthy attempt to clear up
any little doubts the uninformed public
may have about modern art was made
during the week by the Contemporary
Art Society when it held its Art Quiz
with a panel of experts on painting,
sculpture and architecture. The dis-
tortion in modern paintings, for instance,
was explained by Weaver Hawkins as
merely an attempt by the painter to
achieve a unity in his picture. If, it
seems, a sitter’s arm is too short for the
harmony and balance of the picture, the
artist has the right to make it longer,
since he is not the slave of nature, but its
master. Some inquirers, troubled by the
roughness and unfinished quality or
modern art, were assured by Desidenus
Orban that this was necessary for any
true artist who faced the fact that we live
in a rough, unfinished age. Those who
paint in a polished, elegant way are
escapists, he said, who cannot face reality.
This, apparently, doesn’t apply to
Salvador Dali, who paints in a polished,
elegant way just to show that he can.
Altogether the quiz was quite stimulating
and enlightening. It could have been a
little more lighthearted, however, with
perhaps more fieriness in the exchange of
views. In any case it was very sweet of
the artists to explain to us what they are
doing. Artists generally expect the public
to know this and become impatient if it
doesn’t.
The Bush Book Club received about
2500 books and magazines on their
annual collection day during the week
which will be distributed to country
centres. The secretary of the club, Mrs.
K. Raymond, said that children’s books
are most in demand as many members
depend on the books for filling up the
children’s Christmas stockings. Those
who were “readers” as children have
only to recall the intense delight books
gave them when they were little to search
through their shelves for donations to
this club. The more affluent will also be
prompted, no doubt, to buy new books
for presentation as the members pass the
copies on to others in the district, so that
10s. 6d. expended on a book can give
countless pounds’-worth of pleasure.
There is a new gadget on the market
for cleaning silver which, for 25., pro-
vides the whole family with entertainment.
It’s a metal sheet about 4in. square which
is put in a dish of warm water containing
some washing-soda. The silver is placed
on this and “before your very eyes” all
the stains disappear. The men in the
house generally crowd round to watch
this miracle and go into transports of
explanation on how it’s done —nuclear
energy, electrical charges, logarithms,
chemical formulae, all seem to come into
it But the reaction of the women is
quite different. They cry “Why, isn't it
wonderful —just like magic!” and rush
off to get all the cleanable metal things
in the house.
Attracting a good deal of attention
round town these days is visitor Mrs.
H. P. Juda, whose husband is editor and
proprietor of the British textile magazine
“The Ambassador.” Mrs. Juda, who is
small, dark and vital, is his fashion photo-
grapher and is quite famous for her work.
The most catchy story told about her is
that although she works all day with her
husband she slips home about an hour
before he does, changes into a negligee
and greets him at the door with “Did you
have a tiring day, dear?” Otherwise she
says they would never get away from the
office atmosphere. Mrs. Juda’s clothes
are quite striking, too. At the cocktail-
party that she and her husband gave last
Friday for members of the wholesale and
retail trade she wore a gunmetal sleeveless
cocktail dress of silk tweed from West
Cumberland Mills, unadorned in itself
but worn with a brilliant diamente neck-
let with the new asymmetric line.
It is reported from Melbourne that
milk will one day be thrown over the
front-fence in a plastic bag, and the
chairman of the British Xylonite Com-
pany is quoted as saying that that day is
not far distant. This will be hard to get
used to if no more care is taken with the
milk than is at present taken with the
paper. One can imagine looking for it
behind the broken dahlia, in the letter-
box, beside the gas-box, in the branches
of the tree or anywhere the deliverer’s
mood may prompt. It might also be flung
with violence against the front-door, wak-
ing one, not with the sharp thud the paper
makes, but with a sickening squelch. But
maybe these fears are groundless, and a
regulation will be made that every bag
be printed with the words “Please throw
with care.”
There is apparently a good deal of
interest in pottery in Sydney. During the
first two days of the ceramics exhibition
held at 183 Castlereagh-street 1200 people
came to see the Chinese pottery and
porcelain on display. The Ceramics
Society, which is holding the exhibition
(it can*be seen until next Saturday), in-
tends to follow this up with exhibitions at
intervals, each dealing with wares from a
particular country or pottery centre. Two
of the rarest pieces shown came from the
collection of Mrs. F. Penfold Hyland,
one a figure s*in. high from the Mmg
dynasty, the other a hawk standing on a
rocky base painted in famille rose
enamels. One of the most interesting
pieces was a porcelain “cricket cage” dat-
ing back to the days when the Chinese
trained crickets for fighting.
Next Saturday the second annual Helen
Keller Hostel Fete will be held in the
hostel grounds, Waimea-avenue, Wool-
lahra, when attractions for the children
will include a visit from Father Christmas,
a clown, Punch and Judy show, and a
merry-go-round. The Pipe Band of the
30th Battalion, N.S.W. Scottish Regi-
ment, will be there (a fete is not a fete
without a pipe band these days), and the
Lieutenant-Governor will speak the
words to open festivities at 2.30 p.m.


Invitation
"READY MAID" QUICK
FROZEN FOODS LTD.
Official Opening
of the Bathurst Factory of the
abovenamed Company on Monday,
November 26th, 1951, by;
THE HON. WILLIAM EDWARD
DICKSON, M.L.C.,
Minister for Secondary Industries and
Minister for Building Materials.
The Board of Directors cordially invite all Shareholders and
interested Members of the General Public to attend the Opening
Ceremony at 11.30 o’clock in the morning and a complete
demonstration of the processing of Foods at 2.30 o’clock in the
afternoon.
Factory address: Munitions Buildings, Blayney Road, Bathurst.
Registered Office: 54 Oxford Street, Sydney. Phone FA7948.
GEORGE H. PROUDMAN, F.I.C.S.
Joint Secretary.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
84 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
q
q
q
PERSONAL ITEMS
Oswald Pryor, many of whose “Cousin
Jack” Cornish joke-blocks have appeared
in The Bulletin, was made by proxy
the other day (Oswald lives in S. Aus-
tralia) a Bard of Cornwall, at the annual
Gorsedd held at Padstow, in Cornwall.
The degree of bard is conferred “either
as a result of examination of proficiency
in the Cornish language or as a tribute
to those who have shown outstanding zeal
in the promotion and recording of the
spirit of Cornwall in any of its mani-
festations.” Possibly the only other Aus-
tralian bard was Sir Langdon Bonython,
who was honored some years ago. The
recent ceremony was televised —as Cousin
Jack would say: “Purty carr’in’s on,
m’son.”
In England for the past couple of
years, corresponding for Melbourne
“Herald” and other papers, as well as
broadcasting on the Far East for the
8.8. C., Rohan Rivett comes back to Aus-
tralia, editor-in-c hi e f of Adelaide
“News.” A tidy effort for a 34-year-old
—but then Rivett backs his ability with
considerable experience. Covering the
Malayan campaign for Melbourne
“Argus,” broadcasting as well, he was
one of three volunteers who stayed to
keep their station on the air till it went
up in the air, as it did when Singapore
fell. Rivett made a precarious voyage to
Sumatra, then got to Java, where the
Japs got him. A prisoner for over three
years, he was allowed to broadcast from
Batavia, and managed, while detailing
some adventurous escape-stories, to get
word to anxious relatives back in Aus-
tralia on the safety (comparative) of their
kin in Jap hands. He’s written two books
—Siam in Near North, and, of course.
Behind Bamboo.
Commander John Plunkett-Cole com-
missioned destroyer Napier in the U.K. in
1940. From then on —successively captain
of Vendetta, Nepal and Norman —he re-
mained in destroyers, with the exception
of a brief break in cruiser Canberra,
which ended when that ship got hers off
Savo Island. Last year, after a spot of
shore-time in command of the R.A.N.
College, he stood-by the building of, and
later captained, our new Battle-class
destroyer Anzac, which young cruiser he’s
just brought home from Korea. The other
day he stepped up to command of the
10th Destroyer Flotilla. At 45 he still
has some of the whippiness which made
him a redoubtable lightweight and Rugby
captain in his day.
To look after the needs of its tanker-
fleet running to Australia, Standard-
Vacuum brings out an assistant-marine-
superintendent with a solid war record
in Commander R. E. Brett, R.N.R. At
sea for close on 30 years, the last 17 in
tankers, Brett, in 1939, took 75 tons of
Polish gold in his tanker from Constanza,
in Rumania, to Istanbul for safe-keeping.
Shortly afterwards he shifted from one
sort of dynamite to another —being given
command of H.M.S. Seaham, a fleet-
minesweeper (alias corvette) which packed
only one 4in. gun and a few machine-
guns, but plenty of punch in her depth-
charges aft. Built to reap subs as well
as mines, Seaham harvested an Itie sub-
mersible at the Sicily invasion (D.S.O.
for skipper Brett), and, for her work
clearing minefields between Sardinia and
Corsica, he added D.S.C. The little ship
was also in the Tobruk, Benghazi and
Tripoli junketings, helping support the
Eighth Army, and was one of the first
ships to reach Nomiandy. Back to
tankers after the war, Brett had the
Stanvac Karachi (well known in Aus-
tralian waters) on her maiden voyage from
Baltimore (U.S.) to the Philippines. He’ll
care for his babies from Melbourne.
Young Edward Henzell, of Roma (Q.),
has struck oil—the Queensland Rhodes
Scholarship for 1952. Son of a grazier
in the district, Henzell learnt his pothooks
by correspondence, went on to Brisbane
Grammar (he’s the third consecutive
Rhodes Scholar from that fine school),
and entered Queensland University on an
open scholarship in 1948. There he’s in
the throes of studying for his final exams
for an Agricultural Science degree. At
Oxford he hopes to continue on the
scientific side of farming, studying the
chemistry of plants and animals. On the
sporting side he footballs and rows ; he
captained the University B-grade Rugby
Union team in 1949.
Died at 62, in Melbourne, Jeremiah
O’Keefe, former inspecting superintendent
of police, acting-commissioner after the
retirement of Blarney, and responsible
for unravelling 25 murders and scores of
other major crimes. He came into pro-
minence when he solved the Sodemann
killings of 1936 —in 1935 he had been
presented with the Royal Victoria Medal
by the Duke of Gloucester. In his early
career as a detective O’Keefe performed
one of the most impressive feats seen in
a witness-box in Melbourne. The sub-
ject was the baffling murder of a girl
which had agitated Melbourne for
weeks; his evidence was a mass of times
and dates connected with scores of inter-
views he had had while he raced at top
speed from one clue to another. He
spoke without notes in an impersonal
voice for an hour and 40 minutes and
never hesitated over a word or a figure
—a remarkable piece of memorisation.
William Tucker, portrayed herewith,
gives up the assistant-managership of the
Commercial Bank of Australia’s principal
N.S.W. office to become a sub-inspector
attached to head-office in Melbourne. He
came to Sydney from Orange and before
that managed important branches, in-
cluding Ipswich (Q.). Banking is in his
blood —his family were pioneers in
COFFERS.
N. S. Wales finance— l and he is himself
a studious, quiet and conscientious
banker, armored by a versatile experience
both in Australia and overseas. Also he’s
a sound citizen whose unobtrusive
interest in local charities and public affairs
makes his departure mourned in every
district he leaves. A student of history
and economics, a keen debater, he will be
specially missed in his residential suburb
of Cammeray, particularly for his un-
remitting work in Toe H.
Presented hereunder by Gordon,
J, E. C. Strachan has had long associa-
tion with the Queensland motor-car in-
dustry—his father having been with Jas.
Howard in the early days of Howards,
Ltd., and Strachan himself having started
with that co. in 1923. He’s now manag-
ing-director of Metropolitan Motors, Bris-
bane. Recently returned from having a
look at what the U.K., U.S. and Canada
are doing in the motor-car line, Strachan
CARS.
has driving interests in other directions —
being captain of the Royal Queensland
Golf Club.
Kept the Last Trick in Calcutta, Capt.
Gilbert A. Paterson, master mariner of
South Perth (W.A.). A blue-water man
who crowded a full cargo of adventure
into his life, Paterson knew the Asiatic
trade-routes, especially those along the
China coasts, as well as his own bridge.
He hit the headlines not long ago when,
in command of the British freighter
Cloverlock, he was held up by a Chinese
Nationalist destroyer while running the
blockade between Hong Kong and Amoy.
The Cloverlock was shelled and hit 11
times before Paterson hove-to. The
Chinese prize-crew looted the vessel, tak-
ing the personal effects of the three
British officers and pinching the skipper’s
sextant, with which he’d shot the sun for
41 years. While ashore in his home port
in the early days of War 11, Paterson in-
structed Perth yachtsmen for their
R.A.N.V.R, commissions. He came
ashore towards the end of last year, but
packed his dunnage again for another
trick of seafaring in command of a 6000-
ton steamer for the Holly Line, trading
between Hong Kong and India. He was
61.
The übiquitous Australian again.
Recent cables report the temporary
closing-down, because of current tension,
of Gordon College in Khartoum. The
college principal since 1947, Lewis
Wilcher hails from Middle Swan (W.A.),
graduated from Adelaide University in
1929, B.A. and with first-class honors in
history, and was S. Australia’s Rhodes
Scholar for the following year. Sticking
to history, he returned to lecture in
British and general history at Melbourne
University, becoming, in time, Dean of
Trinity College at that institution.
Andrew Garran, who won an honor-
able mention in the Victorian Literary
Competition for a poem called “Sheep,”
is following the paternal footsteps. Fifty
years ago, as secretary of the Drafting
Committee, Sir Robert Garran wrote the
Commonwealth Constitution, and, subse-
quently, an Australian National Hymn
with the same pen. It has just been pub-
lished in the Anglican Hymnal. The son
is Victorian Parliamentary draftsman.
Resigned from the A.8.C., after
stalwart service to orchestral music in
Australia, Percy Code has been with
the concern from its beginnings. One-
time baton-wielder of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, he had several years
with the San Francisco Orchestra, coming
from there to start his long association
with the A.B.C.
Group-Captain Dick Cresswell has
earned his temporary grounding as the
new R.AA.F. Director of Operations.
His War II service took in Darwin and
New Guinea, flying just about everything
in the way of lethal birds from Kitty-
hawks and Spitfires to Thunderbolts and
Lightnings. In 1942 in Perth he formed
No. 77 Squadron, took it to Darwin and
shot down the first Jap night-bomber to
be interrupted in its egg-laying over that
town. His squadron is still very much
in being, and Cresswell recently returned
from commanding it again, this time in
Korea, where he was the first Australian
to fly an American Sabre-jet in action. A
product of Randwick (N.S.W.) High
School, now 32, the new director is well-
rigged to tackle the jet-fighter training
which the R.A.A.F.’s coming equipment
with Sabres will necessitate.
“Spokeshave”: Some day a statue
ought to be made of Phil O’Brien, of
Melbourne, and set up among the other
great reformers in the Australian
Pantheon. His activities have helped to
clean up dirty city cafes, fill potholes in
the roadways, stopped radio-announcers
using a certain coarse expression, restored
medical expenses and life-insurance pre-
miums as straightout income-tax deduc-
tions and scared the publicans who defy
the Licensing Act with regard to pro-
viding food and accommodation. At
least, so he says. A persistent letter-
writer, he claims 20,000 of his effusions
published in the local dailies. Of course,
it doesn’t follow that the letters caused
the reforms any more than the rooster’s
crowing the sun’s rising—but still, a tidy
effort.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, two staunch high-office holders
in the State R.S.L.: Wilfrid Sharland, one-time
president of the league, was a major and M.C.-
winner with the old 10th Battalion iin France.
Chairman of the State Soldiers’ and Sailors’
Distress Fund, he did as much as any man for
needy Diggers. James Dowling, for years the
League’s secretary, served in France in War i
and in New Guinea in the next, and won 0.8. E.
for his R.S.L. service. Both Diggers will lie in
the A.I.F. cemetery at West Terrace.
In Perth, at 73, Charles Edwin Jones, dis-
coverer of the Bullfinch (W.A.) mine in 1909.
Born near Ballarat, he prospected in Victoria
before leaving with a Victorian contingent for
the Boer War. On his way home he stepped
off at Albany to seek gold in Westralia,
prospecting near Cue and Mt. Magnet before
taking up the Digger’s Dam lease. Shortage
of water forced him to give up the lease after
two years’ hard work, but his luck turned
when he uncovered the rich Bullfinch reef near
Mt. Magnet. A well-known footballer in Vic-
toria in his day, he was, as well, one of
Westralia’s leading rifle-shots.
At Goulbum (N.S.W.), Mrs. R. P. McKell,
four days after her son, the Governor-General,
received the accolade in London. Born at
Marulan, near Goulburn, Mrs. McKell was the
daughter of English migrants, married a master-
butcher and moved to Pambula, on the N.S.W.
south coast. There the Governor-General was
born.
At 77, in Melbourne, Edward Alexander
Mann, for six years from 1922 member for
Perth in the Federal House and for 27 years
chief-inspector of explosives, Government
analyst and agricultural chemist for Westralia.
An expert on poison plants and explosive gases
in mines, he was best known for his radio
commentating—for many years, as “The Watch-
man,” he was principal commentator for the
A.B.C.
At Deewhy (N.S.W.), at 75, C. H, Willmott,
one of the best-knoWn advertising men in
Sydney. Willmott’s Advertising Agency was
established in the same year as the Common-
wealth of Australia, and in the 50 years since
C.H. had held just about every office in State
and Commonwealth advertising organisations.
Born in England, he came to Australia as a
lad, to be educated at Geelong College.


A CALENDAR
ON YOUR WRIST
The amazing Breitling “DATORA” is not
only a precision watch of split-second
accuracy that tells exact time in
seconds minutes hours
but also a perpetual calendar that shows
the day the date the month
The “day of the week” and the “date”
change automatically. Once a month you
press a button to change the “month.”
In addition, the “DATORA” has two stop-
watch dials; one records elapsed time up to
30 minutes, the other up to 12 hours.
Watches for Connoisseurs
Breitling Wrist Chronographs are of many types,
including the famous Chronomat, the Telemeter-
Pulsometer, the 12-hour Recorder, the Breitling
Waterproof.
Each Breitling watch carries the maker’s
original guarantee; expert service is
permanently available in Australia.
Ask your jeweller to show you
8.2
"tin nfatck/ikatliaAiti^
cmdmU.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Segal & Co. (Est. 1890), Sydney & Melbourne
m
q
q
No industry is more closely related to the
realms of pure science than the radio industry.
No industry is more dependent on the findings
of the physicist and the research engineer for the
refinement of its existing products or the
development of its new.
A.W.A. pioneered radio research in Australia
and today possesses the largest and best equipped
commercial radio research laboratory in Aus-
tralasia.
Backed by research of this order A.W.A.
products include : the renowned Radiola re-
ceiver, Broadcast, Radio Communications and
Navigation Stations, and all ancillary equipment
for use on land, sea and in the air.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney (N.S.W.), Melbourne (Vic.), Wellington (N.Z.), London, New York.
BIGGEST STATION IN
The WORLD
by DAL STIVENS
Hurricane Hender-
son was born five
months early, with all his
teeth. He weighed
twenty-four pounds. On the
second day he climbed out of
his cot and went for a run round
the room. Later he may have
learned to walk, but no one ever
saw him. When he was a month
old he could ride, and he never
cantered if he could gallop.
Hurricane Henderson was the
man who selected Spec Waa, the
biggest sheep-station in the
world.
Hurricane didn’t talk until he
was three, when his first words
were “How am I doing, Mum?
I’ve got a thousand acres and a
thousand sheep.”
“Not bad,” said his mother.
“But why didn’t you speak
before, son?”
“There was nothing to talk
about until I got to four figures,”
said Hurricane.
He didn’t speak again until
he was twenty-one. By then he
was six feet high, had to lean
twice to throw a shadow and
was as brown as an old penny.
“How am I doing?” he asked
his old mother, hopping from
one foot to another. “I’ve got
a hundred thousand acres and
a hundred thousand sheep.”
“Not bad,” said his old
mother, “but now you’re a man
you should have more land.”
1 “By hang, you’re right,” cried
Hurricane Henderson, and he
put on his best moleskin
| trousers, his best white silk shirt
and his best cabbage-tree hat
1 and went off at a full gallop to
see the Governor.
“Well, Hurricane,” said the
Governor, “what can I do for
you?”
“You can give me some more
land,” said Hurricane. “I don’t
want none of your backyard
plots, but a decent bit to keep a
man of my calibre busy.”
“You’re a likely lad, Hurri-
cane,” said the Governor.
“We’ve just found a nice bit of
new land in the outback. You
can have as much as you can
run down in a day on horse-
back.”
J_J URRICANE pelted off and
1 * bought forty blood horses.
Ten were black, ten bay, ten
chestnut and ten grey. He rode
the ten blacks, the ten bays, the
ten chestnuts and the ten greys
in turn and reached the outback
in a couple of days. He marked
out a great square and left a
horse each ten miles. The
Governor fired his gold pistol at
sun-up, and Hurricane jumped
away east on the first of the
blacks. His whip arm went like
a flail, his spurred heels beat like
drumsticks, and at the end of the
ten miles the black horse was
pink from foam and blood
mixed. And each of the other
nine black horses was pink when
Hurricane finished his eastward
ride of one hundred miles.
Hurricane headed north on
one of the bays. His whip arm
went like a windmill-blade, and
his spurred heels beat like
mallets, and each of the bay
horses was pink from foam and
blood mixed by the time Hurri-
cane had ended his northward
ride of one hundred miles.
He cut away west on one of
the chestnuts. His whip arm
went like a reaper-and-binder,
and his spurred heels beat like
hammers and each of the chest-
nut horses was pink from foam
and blood mixed when Hurri-
cane had completed his westward
ride of one hundred miles.
He went at a full gallop south
on one of the greys. His whip
arm went like a piston, and his
spurred heels beat like sledge-
hammers, and each of the grey
horses was pink from foam and
blood mixed when Hurricane
had completed his southward
ride of one hundred miles.
The sun was giving its last
wink when Hurricane got back
from running down ten thousand
square miles with twenty fine
straight rivers.
Hurricane stocked Spee Waa
with six and a half million
sheep, and he rounded up
forty thousand jackeroos and
boundary-riders to work for
him. Their huts covered fifty
acres, and the cookhouse was so
big it took ten minutes to ride
round it. The stove ate up ten
mountain-ash trees, each two
hundred feet, every hour.
Although the cooks complained
Hurricane wouldn’t let them
chop down any of the really big
trees. They cooked most things
on the stove, but when they
made damper they used the
crater of an extinct volcano.
The cookhouse chimney was so
tall that after a time the men
complained about the continuous
rain. Hurricane had to have a
collapsible one made so as to
let the clouds pass. Looking
after the chimney kept ten men
busy, except in dry seasons,
when Hurricane let it stay up all
the time. At first the cooks used
to mix the mustard with long-
handled shovels, but they
couldn’t keep enough of it up,
so Hurricane invented the great-
grandfather of the present-day
concrete-mixers.
"P HE soil on Spee Waa was
* rich. Hurricane’s six and a
half million sheep each grew
twenty pounds of wool. He and
his men built a five-mile long
shearing-shed.
“How am I doing?” he asked
his old mother after the first
year’s shearing. “I’ve got more
wool than the King of England
or anyone else.”
“Not bad, son,” said his old
mother. “But it’s a pity your
sheep aren’t bigger.”
“By hang, you’re right,” cried
Hurricane, pelting off on one of
his grey bloodhorses. He rode
the ten greys, the ten blacks, the
ten bays and the ten chestnuts
in turn, and in a week he was
back with a hundred thousand
he-llamas. The shamas they
bred were three times as big as
a full-sized Merino and grew
four times as much wool. But,
try as he could, Hurricane
wasn’t able to breed out the
llama habit of spitting, and he
and his forty thousand men, one
hundred and twenty thousand
dogs and forty bloodhorses had
to wear helmets as they went
about Spee Waa. Still, the
shamas had their uses. In the
year of the big bushfires they
spat one out after everyone else
had given it best.
During the second year’s
shearing, the first two rabbits
moved into Spec Waa. Hurri-
cane and his men were too busy
to see what was happening. By
the time shearing was over there
were as many rabbits as there
were shamas on Spec Waa.
“How am I doing?” Hurri-
cane asked his old mother,
wheeling about on one of the
blacks. “I’ve got six and a half
million acres with twenty fine
straight rivers. I’ve got six and
a half million shamas that shear
eighty pounds of wool.”
“Not bad, son,” said his old
mother, “but you’ve six and a
half million rabbits, and if you
had more flats on those twenty
fine too-straight rivers you could
graze twice as many shamas.”
“By hang, you’re right,” cried
Hurricane Henderson, bounding
away on one of the blacks. “I'll
fix die rivers first.” He rode the
ten blacks, the ten bays, the ten
chestnuts and the ten greys in
turn and reached the north coast
in four days.
“I want the thousand most
cursingful, most swearingest
bullockies on the north coast,”
said Hurricane Henderson. “I
want the twenty thousand most
strongest, most pullingest bul-
locks on the face of the earth.
And I’m the man that can pay.”
And Hurricane tinkled a
thousand bags of gold
sovereigns.
U/HEN they heard the coins
* ■ talking the thousand most
cursingful, most swearingest
bullockies on the north coast got
up out of their drunken slumbers
and cracked a thousand whips
and uttered a hundred thousand
oaths and headed across country
to Spec Waa. And as they went
the ants in front of them got to
moving their nests to higher
ground, and the water-rats built
higher up the banks, reckoning
a storm was moving in from the
north coast.
“I want twenty thousand
kinks in my twenty fine too
straight rivers. Hop to it!” cried
Hurricane Henderson, galloping
round the teams in two-mile
circles before racing off to Spec
Waa to build a thousand huts
and a cookhouse for the
bullockies.
The thousand most cursingful,
most swearingest bullockies
made the twenty biggest
strongest chains, and the twenty
biggest strongest stakes, they
could forge in the cookhouse
stove. The smallest chain had
links as small as a Clydesdale’s
thigh, and the smallest stake had
a diameter of a two-hundred-
foot mountain - ash. The
thousand bullockies drove the
twenty stakes into the bed of the
first of the fine too-straight
rivers, and to each they hooked
a team of a thousand bullocks.
The eight million rabbits now
on Spec Waa came and squatted
on the banks to watch the fun.
Then the thousand bullockies
all started appealing to their
bullocks together, and making
thunder with their whips. And
the twenty biggest strongest
chains went tight and sang like
violins. The thousand bullockies
went on imploring, and the
bullocks pulled harder and the
twenty chains sang like flutes.
Then the twenty chains, one after
the other, pulled free and the
twenty bullock-teams, of a
thousand bullocks each, fell on
their noses, one after the other.
And the eight million rabbits
rocked on their haunches, and
the does giggled and the bucks
snickered.
And the thousand bullockies
prayed and started all over
again. And fifty times that day
the twenty chains sang first like
violins and then like flutes, and
fifty times the stakes pulled free
and the twenty bullock-teams,
of a thousand bullocks
(Continued on page 32.)


q
q
c/tfiV*
6
WATERPROOF
plastic skin to protect
injuries from water,
grease and oil.
Me*
FABRIC
on all other occasions.
In red tins at your chemist
(Waterproof tins have a
white band).
■'wvsSxV'S
These two kinds
of Elastoplast give you
comfortable, medically-
sure protection.
Use the one best suited
to your needs. Both are
adhesive and elastic,
stretching comfortably
with the skin, have a
medicated pad which
greatly assists healing,
and are flesh-coloured
and inconspicuous.
'EI/121
QzzlZelim.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months £1 16 0
6 18 6
3„ 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
XMAS COMES ONCE A MONTH!
BRITISH BOOK of the MONTH CLUB
Every month a gift ... a best-selling book to read and
enjoy. A subscription to the BRITISH BOOK OP THE
MONTH CLUB makes Xmas last through the year.
Each month the BRITISH BOOK OF THE MONTH CLUB
publishes a special edition of a recent first-class book and
posts it direct to members at much below normal price—
£s/15/- worth of books for £2/5/-. Books for the next
(5 months are
THE KON-TIKI EXPEDITION Heyerdahl
THE YOUNG LIONS Shaw
THROUGH THE VALLEY Henriques
THE BIG FISHERMAN Douglas
ELEPHANT BILL Williams
A TOWN LIKE ALICE Shnte
There are optional choices. List forwarded on request.
For gift subscriptions, the first book will be posted with a
suitable greeting card, in good time for Xmas.
POST THIS FORM . . . WITH REMITTANCE.
WHEN YOU GIVE
A SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
i
The British Book of the Month Club,
G.P.O. Box 4657, Sydney.
C months’ subscription at £2/5/- f
12 months’ subscription at £4/10/- lo
Please send a
NAME
ADDRESS
From
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Othello."
Admirable indeed has been
the enterprise which has marked
the selection of operas presented
by the Sydney Conservatorium
Student Opera School under the
direction of Eugene Goossens —
for the most part those rarely
heard in the professional
repertoire. Its latest offering,
Verdi’s “Othello,” shows a
marked improvement both in
general production and on the
histrionic side.
This music drama, a master-
piece with which Verdi
astonished the world at 74 after
haying been silent since his
“Aida” 16 years before, has the
benefit of possibly the greatest
libretto ever written —by that
fine scholar Arrigo Boito. With
the exception of a few interpola-
tions, notably in the “Credo” of
lago, which is a free adaptation
of the last speech to Cassio in
Act 11, Boito’s text follows
closely the Shakspeare tragedy.
It is in such a production as
this, however, that the in-
adequacy of the Conserva-
torium’s stage becomes apparent.
Thus in the opening scene of the
opera, the rollicking Brindisi
chorus, against the background
of which lago hatches his plot
with Roderigo, can be sung only
by a limited chorus. When more
than 30 soldiery and citizenry
get on to the stage the principals
are almost compelled to squeeze
in sidewise. The chorus, despite
the cramped conditions and
limitation of numbers, was given
with full-blooded zest.
Othello and his ensign lago
were played respectively by John
Francks and Neil Easton.
Francks’s powerful tenor proved
an adequate vehicle for the
Moor’s passionate denunciation
of his wife in his outbursts of
jealous mania, though he was not
quite so happy in mezzo vPce
passages in the low register.
Easton completely captured the
sardonic and evil lago, and he
sang with good resonance his
Credo, in which he reveals his
cynical outlook on life and
death, his vanity, his subtlety,
his weaknesses.
In the splendid duet at the
close of Act 11, in which they
both swear on the sword an oath
never to pause until the “guilty”
Desdemona and Cassio are
punished, the voices blended
finely.
Margaret Moore’s Desdemona
was cast in the traditional gentle
mould, a mixture of fatalistic
resignation and bewilderment at
the change in her husband. Her
singing of the haunting Willow
Song and the beautiful “Ave
Maria” which follows it in the
final act was of high standard.
Robert O’Donnell’s Cassio
lacked sufficient animation, and
his manner was too self-effacing
—after all, he is Othello's
lieutenant and his successor in
the Governorship of Cyprus.
Jacqueline Talbot was the
faithful Emilia.
William Constable’s sets were
imaginative and convincing, and
Mina Shelley’s production
excellent.
"Light Up the Sky."
This cheerful skit on stage-
life by Moss Hart was put on
at the Melbourne Princess.
Sidney Black is an entrepreneur
who is risking 300,000 dollars
of his and his wife’s money on
a first play by Peter Sloan, an
idealistic young playwright.
The play is a complete flop, and
producer and hams, male and
female, rush off the stage into
the living-room of Irene Living-
stone’s Ritz-Carlton Hotel suite,
thoroughly disillusioned, and
vent their rage on the young
playwright.
The incipient Shakspeare
accepts the audience’s verdict,
skies his towel and sets off
demoralised to return to his
hometown. Then the Press
notices start coming in, and the
actors learn to their surprise that
they have been taking part in the
launching of a potential genius
of the drama, the critics being
unanimous about it.
The actors’ feelings change
towards the playwright, he is
kidnapped and forcibly brought
back, made to read what the
critics say about him, is con-
vinced of his genius in his turn
and the show goes on and every-
body is happy.
Mr. Moss’s play is strongly
suspected of being partly auto-
biographical, and his satire is
unforced, easy and inconse-
quential. Some of his wit was
lost in the laughter on the first
night and more in the American
accent.
Although Diana Barrymore,
daughter of the late John and
niece of Ethel and Lionel, of the
so-called Royal family of Broad-
way, was presumably the
“If he cracks that whip again I'll drop on him."
managerial justification for the
production, she had the small
part of the entrepreneur’s alleged
helpmate. She gave it a bluff,
amiable, grotesque interpreta-
tion, which was as rough as bags
but had a sort of inverted
humanity about it. Robert
Wilcox drew a rabid caricature
of the producer, June Clyne
parodied a hard-boiled American
momma and Daphne Winslow
was funny as a stage star. John
Lee gave some serious emotion
to the playwright.
Rex Battarbee.
Down from the Alice, Rex
Battarbee is holding another
show on Centralian landscapes
at Melbourne Athenaeum. There
are the same ghost-gums, stark
ranges, hot color and trees in
whose shapes nature seems to
have gone all modern.
There is a quality of hardness
in many of them which may or
may not be in the subject. On
the other hand, it may be in
Mr. Battarbee’s inability to
escape his National Gallery
training. There is a startling
stereoscopic effect in some,
notably “Finke River Gum.”
One might conclude that the
Never-Never is never, never
soft, if it were not for “Evening
Clouds, Alice Springs,” “Morn-
ing Light, Mt. Gillen” and
“Evening Light, Macdonnell
Ranges.” In these the artist has
let himself go and painted less
topographically than atmospheri-
cally.
TTiere is also feeling in a study
of Otto Pareroultja squatting on
his hams painting a distant
landscape; but “Simpson’s Gap,
Macdonnell Ranges,” might
have been painted by Namatjira.
That worthy is depicted in a
portrait looking like King Lear
when he was turned out by his
daughters. It was painted just
after Australia’s first aboriginal
artist, had received official noti-
fication that he couldn’t build a
house in Alice.
“A Desert Pool” is a pleasant
piece of color, but “Finke River
Pool” doesn’t explain itself. The
water, if it is water, appears to
be defying the laws of
gravitation.
"Advertising Art."
Since the retail trade delights
in capturing our poets, artists
and social register, it is not alto-
gether surprising, however un-
fitting, that an exhibition of
commercial art, arranged by the
Australian Association of Adver-
tising Agencies, should have
found its way into the N. S.
Wales National Gallery,
In an attempt to conceal the
cuckoo’s plumage, the exhibi-
tion has been designated an
“exhibition of fine and com-
mercial art,” each artist being
represented by an example of his
“bread-and-butter” work along-
side a sample of his more serious
inclinations. That may prove
something—for instance, that
the public doesn’t give artists
enough support for them to
live on, or that the artists are
not good enough to make a
living in “pure” art—but it does
not escape a note of vulgarity,
emphasised by the silent time-
less beauty of the Gruners,
Streetons, Hilders, Robertses,
Lindsays, Solomons and the rest
in the other courts of the
gallery.
Possibly that note of vulgarity
clouds the vision slightly, but
there seems to be little, “adver-
tising” or “fine,” to command
attention in the exhibition. As
far as the commercial side of
the business is concerned there
is nothing that appealed to this
commentator’s aesthetic or
economic senses as much as the
sign in Park-street which
announces “10,000 men’s suits
reduced 25 per cent,”
In the department of “fine
art” George Lawrence’s lovely
“Autumn Morning, Hyde Park,”
is the outstanding exhibit.
R. Malcolm Warner’s water-
color, Frank McNamara’s
“Newcastle Steel Worker,” Nell
Wilson’s “Cockney Child,” John
Santry’s “The Viaduct” and
William Constable’s setting for
the ballet “Corroboree” stand
out in the company they keep.
Hector Crawford’s 200th con-
cert in Melbourne’s Botanic
Gardens was given in perfect
weather. Approximately 75,000
people crunched the gravel of
the drives, sat on the lawns and
trampled on the flowerbeds,
while the ducks on the lake took
an intelligent interest in the
activities of the Australian
Symphony Orchestra on the plat-
form. Either because of the
stillness, or the excellence of
their performance, soloists
carried their message further
than on previous occasions.
Flautist John Amadio and
soprano Glenda Raymond got
prolonged applause for their
rendering of the “Message of
Love” from Gounod’s
“Mirielle.”
The work of Margaret Suther-
land, doyen of Victorian com-
posers, was given an airing at the
Assembly Hall, Melbourne, as
one of the Jubilee recitals. It
was probably the most important
contribution to the Jubilee cele-
brations. The composer was
fortunate in her executants —
Elsa Haas for the vocal items,
bassonist Wightman, Paul Mc-
Dermott and that admirable
flautist, Tom White.' “The
Orange Tree,” sung by Miss
Haas with Miss Sutherland at
the piano, was a lovely piece of
writing. “Concerto for Strings”
was broad, strong and even, and
“Trio for Strings” displayed fine
discrimination. Miss Suther-
land’s music was more often
abstract than illustrative and
there was nothing common-
place about it.


8.0.A.C. SPEEDBIRD SERVICES
TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
A
You can book to almost
anywhere in the world by
8.0.A.C. Service on one
ticket ail the way. Your
8.0.A.C. Agent makes no
charge for expert advice
and trip planning help.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN • CEYLON . INDIA
PAKISTAN ‘ AFRICA . ITALY . GREAT
BRITAIN ' AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A. . CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA . BERMUDA
Information Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all
cities and towns.
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FLY-BOH
Specify 8.0.A.C. "Air Cargo" for your ovortoat shipment*l
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LIMITED, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
.Al7/AU2
CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
Xiß 5922
Under Entirely New Management.
S 3
m
One bottle
ol Vickers makes
many delicious drinks
.With Vickers Gin in the house,
you’re never at a loss when
friends “drop in”. There are
Vickers recipes for every taste
easy to mix and certain to
please. Vickers Gin is so
economical, too.
\/ICKERS
» GIN
Write for a free post-free
Vickers Cocktail Book to The
United Distillers Pty. Ltd.,
Box 759 G, Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
VG 49/14
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA’S CHOICE NOW.
The West’s concerted call for
a showdown on peace and dis-
armament finds Russia in the
position of comparative
diminishing strength noted by a
London “Observer” writer:
“With American rearmament
advancing into the mass-produc-
tion stage, British and French
rearmament gathering speed,
and Japan and Germany about
to be added to the Western
Grand Alliance, Russia faces the
certainty that her expansionist
career will be at an end by 1953,
or 1954 at the latest.”
In the same writer’s view,
Russia now has a choice of
policy under three heads:
(1) Make “preventive” war
while her superior mobilised
strength gives her a chance of
great initial conquests.
(2) Refrain from war, but
accept an armaments race,
maintain a bold hostile front,
and rely on the frictions inherent
in coalitions and on her own
diplomacy to disrupt the Western
alliance.
(3) Recognise that she has
overplayed her hand, and seek
an accommodation and a settle-
ment by renouncing her post-war
conquests in Europe and accept-
ing her true status as a Great
Power of the second-class.
The writer holds that so far
there is no indication that
Russia is willing to make pre-
ventive war, and that the time
for this is fast running out —if
Western rearmament continues
at the present rate this danger
should have passed by the end
of 1952 ; if there is a “burst of
speed,” the danger may even
have passed in 1952 before the
chief annual danger period of
August-September, when the
harvest is in and the European
campaigning season not yet
over;—
“It is obvious that Russia will
renounce her imperialist career
and her illusion of equality with
America as a world Power only
most reluctantly. But it is far
too widely taken for granted
that she is able—or even con-
siders herself able—to engage in
a real all-out arms race with
America, let alone with America
plus Britain plus France plus
Germany plus Japan, She starts
from a far narrower economic
basis, a far lower living standard,
and an already far greater strain
on her economy caused by her
maintained post-war armaments.
If there is an all-out arms race
between Russia and the present
American-led coalition, all will
certainly sweat and pant; but
Russia will crack.
“Russia’s whole post - war
policy was a gamble on the un-
willingness of the West to
mobilise its infinitely superior
resources in peace-time. If the
Kremlin clearly sees that this
game is up, it may, however un-
willingly and reluctantly, resign
itself to the facts of the balance
of power, cut its losses, accept
its true status, and seek a settle-
ment.”
Chinese as Soldiers.
Extensively surveying for
“Foreign Affairs” China’s recent
emergence and performances as
a military Power, “New York
Times’s” noted military writer
Hanson W. Baldwin sets down
as “conclusions which cannot be
gainsaid”:
(1) The Chinese Army, little
regarded in the past, is now a
major political factor in the
Orient.
(2) The Chinese soldier has
demonstrated his will to fight.
The ability of the same
soldier, as at present trained and
equipped, and the way he fights
are, however, another story;
“The Chinese soldier is
fatalistic, with little regard for
human life. In the opinion of
men who have fought them both
he is like a Japanese soldier but
less effective. His ‘extremely
strong sense of blind obedience,’
which makes him attempt any
mission, no matter how
hazardous, is a formidable
combat quality, but it is coupled
with a general lack of individual
initiative and —like the Japanese
—a sometimes blind adherence
to plan or orders.
“Sometimes in Korea this iron
discipline—stupid automatism,
from one point of view—was
responsible for huge casualties.
Night after night the enemy
would attack over the same well-
defended ground in reckless
wave assaults, only to be beaten
back, when a slight alteration of
his axis of attack might well
have exploited one of our weak
points and might have resulted
in a break-through.
“On some occasions both
pilots and ground troops noted
how enemy troops marching
along a road would preserve
road discipline even under fire.
Strafing planes would riddle the
ranks, yet the Chinese marched
on, stepping over the bodies of
their slain.
“In another instance, in the
Changjin (Choshin) Reservoir
fighting, the Marines took a
body of marching Chinese under
machine-gun fire at point-blank
range. A Chinese officer blew
a whistle ; the survivors jumped
into ditches alongside the road.
When the fire lifted, the whistle
blew again ; the men re-formed
and marched on. Again they
were brought under fire and the
same performance was repeated.
This continued —blindly—until
there were only a handful of
survivors.”
Shaky Middle East.
The combination of Britain-
U.S.-France-Turkey in a Middle
East command has been hailed
in overseas Press comment both
as the stopping of a gap and as
evidence of the West’s steadily
increasing strength.
The whole Middle East (as
London “Daily Telegraph”
summed it up) had been, in
terms of global strategy, an area
of appalling vulnerability, rent
with internal dissensions, eco-
nomically bankrupt, politically
unstable and militarily defence-
less, the Arab League largely
a figment, and Israel pre-
occupied with mounting infla-
tion and worsening food
shortages.
The Arabs’ non-co-operation
is set down as understandable
enough. “In the eyes of the
Arabs and Egyptians,” London
“Times” has commented, “the
creation of Israel was an act of
aggression condoned and even
supported by the Western
Powers. The failure of the
United States Government to
appreciate this is not the least
cause of the present trouble. The
United States, which has had a
strong and constructive policy in
Europe and a strong policy in
the Far East, has until recently
had no policy in the Middle
East at all.”
In London “Economist’s” view
there will be no valuable Arab
military co-operation until more
has been done to pacify the
Middle East, and the U.S. and
Britain will need to work much
harder than they have done to
bring about a settlement between
Arabs and Jews and to honoi
the United Nations’ obligation
to the homeless refugees of the
Palestine war. “If Egyptian be-
havior has shown lately a deep
contempt for the code and
authority of the United Nations,
that body’s failure to exert its
authority for Arab-J ewi s h
armistice arrangements is partly
to blame. And if Anglo-
American policy is to set its face
firmly against what is illegal and
outrageous in the Egyptian case,
it should also recognise that the
main motive behind the Arab
League’s support for Cairo will
be its deep grievances against
Israel, the merits of which have
been persistently underrated in
the United States.”
In further comment, the
“Times” has said that, while an
understanding of the feelings
and wishes of the Arab peoples
is essential, “it should not lead
to sentimentality,” and in the
meantime the free world could
not wait:
“No matter what the Arabs
may feel, they are as yet unable
to defend this vital area or even
to carry out the reforms
necessary to improve their own
standard of living. The Western
Powers cannot possibly allow
the precarious system of States
in the Middle East to become
weaker than it is already. This
would be true even if the Soviet
Union had no far-reaching plans
for spreading Communism, for
history shows that any great
Power will overflow into the
territories next to it unless some
barrier is placed in the way.”
In a “Times” letter, war
correspondent and historian
B. H. Liddell Hart, supporting
Air - Marshal Sir Victor
Goddard’s contention that in the
Middle East position Britain had
“become strategically stronger as
a result of the amputation of our
Achilles heel” (i.e., by getting
out of Persia), added: “As he
[Air-Marshal Goddard] pointed
out, we have paid very heavily
in two wars for attempting what
‘was impossible,’ and again
courted defeat so long as we re-
mained ‘dependent upon what
cannot be defended.’ In the case
of war the chances of a direct
defence of Persia and the oil-
field area would have been
slight. There is more hope of its
indirect defence from a strong
flanking position—where we
could develop a real threat to
the flank and rear of any
Russian advance southward.”
Seeing that attended to by the
new Middle East command,
Hart further commented :
“Strategically, Persia was bad
ground on which to make a
stand —and risk a fight. To
commit our limited forces there
would have been gambling on a
bluff —a bluff that we could not
back up adequately if it came
to a fight. We might have en-
tangled ourselves in a second
‘Korea,’ and have gravely in-
creased the danger of bringing
on another war in a weak situa-
tion, basically disadvantageous.
It is not surprising that the
United States was reluctant to
support us in action there.”
Egypt, the same writer views
as quite another matter —
Britain’s position strong and the
action vital. On this, London
“Observer” insists that Britain’s
stand cannot even be exclusively
based on the treaty with Egypt,
due to expire in 1956 (and in any
case torn up by the Egyptians),
because that would mean
Britain implicitly committed to
move out of the Suez in four
years’ time: “In truth we
[Britain] cannot give up the
Suez Canal either now or in
1956, unless we want to put an
end to the British Common-
wealth. The Suez Canal is the
main artery of the Common-
wealth... .There is no alterna-
tive to it. The coherence of the
Commonwealth depends on the
certainty that Britain can use the
Suez Canal route undisturbed in
peace and can defend it against
all-comers in war. If the peace-
time use of this vital route comes
to depend on Egypt’s sufferance,


On the average . • •
one family
in three relies
on the A. m 3§'Pt
YOU DON’T EARN THE TRUST OF THOUSANDS
BY CHANCE.
One in three Australian families, on the average,
rely on the A.M.P. The A.M.P. has earned this
trust by service; service given in full measure for
over a century because the A.M.P. is, and always
has been, a wholly mutual society. There are no
shareholders, and all surplus earned is returned in
full to policyholders. Perhaps that is one of the
reasons why the Australian Mutual Provident
Society, in just over a century, has grown to be
the largest Mutual Life Assurance Office in the
British Commonwealth, and the firm friend of
countless thousands of Australians.
Your A.M.P. Agent will advise you with
skill on your family finance so as to obtain the
maximum value In protection for you and your
family. His background and training make him
the ideal person to assist you. The A.M.P. Agent
Is a “Sure Friend in Uncertain Times”.
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
General Manager:
M. C. Buttfield
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches through-
out Australia,
New Zealand, and
Great Britain.
The A.fA.P. is the
largest TAutual Life
Assurance Office
in the Empire.
A 1.201
and its war-time security on
Egypt’s willingness and power to
defend it, the Commonwealth is
bound to disintegrate. As long
as we want the Commonwealth
to continue in existence we must
maintain our control of the Suez
Canal; at any cost.”
Presidential Picks.
In America they’re already
well into their stride for the
Presidential stakes, not due to
be run for another 12 months —
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) “Tribune.”
“ QUESTION: IS MR. TRUMAN GOING TO RUN?”
in fact, the barrier went up
months ago.
At this stage easily the main
magnet of interest is Eisenhower.
As cabled, his recall by
Truman “for consultation” was
instantly and widely accepted as
having to do with the Presi-
dency. That sort of assumption
will be certain about almost any-
thing from now on, but in this
case Arthur Krock, who re-
ported that Truman had offered
“Ike” the Democratic nomina-
tion, is no mere guesser, but one
of the soundest and most respon-
sible of all Washington cor-
respondents.
Krock’s report would seem to
indicate that on purely American
domestic issues “Ike” is Repub-
lican, and judged by an
exchange between ex-candidate
Mr. Dewey and reporters the
Republicans Dewey represents
believe they have the General in
the bag—barring war. The
exchange ran on these lines:
Reporter: What if General
Eisenhower is too busy to run?
Dewey: We don’t contem-
plate such possibilities.
Reporter; Do you think he
will be nominated?
Dewey; Yes. I’ve said so
many times.
However, the most pushing
Republican prospect at the
moment is undoubtedly Taft,
who, as they say over there,
openly threw his hat into the
ring as early in the fight as more
than a month ago—the first
candidate formally to take the
field. In thus making the pace
now Mr. Taft and his supporters
(as one summing-up puts it) may
be acting on one of three sup-
positions: that the General will
not run in any event; that he
would, if he ran, be beaten in
the party convention by Mr.
Taft; or that he is so deep in
North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion business now that he cannot
declare himself until Mr. Taft
has established too long a lead
for him to overhaul.
More “isolationist” than any
other known prospective candi-
date, Taft has, in his early move,
stirred up an early enemy, the
Republican - supporting New
York “Herald Tribune.” It is all
for “Ike,” saying of him in a
leader headed “The Time and
the Man”:
“By deed and word General
Eisenhower has shown himself a
keeper of the great liberties to
which Republicanism is dedi-
cated. He knows that free indi-
viduals are responsible for every
good and lasting accomplishment
of our nation. He knows that
the indiscriminate extension of
State power spells death. He is
Republican by temper and dis-
position. He is Republican by
every avowal of faith and
solemn declaration of purpose.
“The world, in this crisis,
looks to America All that
is required now is leadership—
leadership that discerns the
whole task, knows our whole
strength, musters our whole
endeavor. For such leadership,
political and moral, Dwight D.
Eisenhower is needed. This
newspaper affirms its faith in the
man. It asks from him no word
or promise at this time; it has
received none. But it will work
for his nomination on the Re-
publican ticket and his election
to the Presidency of the United
States.”
As for the Democrats, “New
York Times” (before Eisen-
hower’s recall and the Krock
report) said that “most observers
think President Truman will
probably run again.”
“War We Don’t Want.”
“Collier’s,” American weekly,
claims for a recent special
number; “We believe it is the
most important single issue of
any magazine ever published.”
At all events it adds some-
thing specially odd to the
curiosities of journalism—the
entire issue of this largish pub-
lication given to the single
subject: “Russia’s Defeat and
Occupation, 1952-60. A Preview
of the War We Don’t Want.”
Many leading writers contri-
buting to build up the picture,
the “war” starts with an
attempted assassination of Tito
on May 10, 1952. A Cominform
uprising follows in Yugoslavia.
Troops from Bulgaria, Rumania
and Hungary, with Red Army
backing, cross the borders. The
United States declares war and
is joined by its Allies.
London, New York, Wash-
ington and Moscow are atom-
bombed before the war ends in
1955.
Eventually Stalin disappears.
Beria, chief of the Secret Police,
takes over just as Himmler tried
to take over from Hitler, The
U.N. forces cross the Soviet
border. The U.S.S.R. falls into
chaos.
The stated object of “Collier’s”
is: “An appeal to the reason of
Joseph Stalin and the men
around him is the ultimate pur-
pose of this issue We
earnestly pray its effect will be
to help establish and maintain
enduring peace.”
U.S. Persian Case.
While London “Economist,”
as already noted here, made no
bones about hitting Uncle Sam
hard for failure to co-operate
with John Bull in the Middle
East, it has also run “the sad
story of Persia, as seen from
Washington”:
“The only policy which
London [meaning the late Attlee
Government] seemed to have
was to wait for the fall of Dr.
Moussadek, an eventuality
which, rightly as it appears, the
American Government con-
sidered unlikely.
“The [U.S.] State Department
thinks it did what it could. It
removed Mr. Grady because the
British did not think he was
helpful, but nobody removed Sir
Francis Shepherd. It warned
American companies not to try
to step into Anglo-Iranian’s
shoes, though it had no authority
to do so, but nothing was done
to make Anglo-Iranian, as an
organisation, more palatable to
the Persians. The directors, who
are believed to have a large share
of responsibility for the debacle,
are still running the company.
“Mr. Harriman worked his
hardest to bring the Persian
Government to the point where
negotiations could begin again,
but when he thought he had
succeeded, the British [Attlee
Government] rejected the Note
of September 20 against his
advice and, not for the first
time, in the view of Washington,
gave the British public a mis-
leading explanation.
“For any number of reasons
the American public was never
more than half-hearted in its
support of the British position.
For these and many more
reasons, chief among which was
the British Government’s own
irresolution, the American Gov-
ernment, desperately as it wanted
to find a solution, was never able
to be more than half-hearted in
its support of the British tactics.”
Dragnet Digest.
Waltzing Matilda, Russianised. —
From the journal of the Soviet
Ministry of Agriculture, explaining
stock-target failures; “Substantial
losses due to the private appropria-
tion of communal livestock, particu-
larly of sheep, have been revealed.”
* ♦ ♦ *
Gyppos as Warriors. —An American
assessment (by London “Economist’s”
Washington correspondent): “The
Egyptian Ambassador’s contention, at
an ill-fated Press conference which
he had the temerity to call, that the
Egyptian army would, after a year
or two’s training, be able to defend
the Suez Canal is not believed to
accord with the latest estimates of the
[U.S.] Defence Department. Egypt
would not be able to defend the canal,
it is generally thought, against the
Brooklyn Dodgers, a baseball team
which has not covered itself with
glory this year.”
* * ♦ *
“Nationalism'''. —London “Econo-
mist,” saying “what should be said”:
“Nationalism is not always and every-
where right. Sometimes it can be the
refuge of scoundrels.”
* * * *
Crowded Egypt. —Putting Egypt’s
case, a “World Review” writer em-
phasises the pressure of population as
“scarcely credible”: Of its 388,000
square miles, Egypt has only 13,000
square miles, the area of Belgium,
cultivable. Most of the 20,000,000
inhabitants are pathetically poor tillers
of the soil. The density per square
mile for the land is 1172, compared
with 172 in Scotland, 750 in well-
organised England and Wales, and
39 in rich, industrially ahead, Sweden.
* * * *
Playing With Dynamite. —London
“Financial Times” comment on cer-
tain American interests doing every-
thing in their power to beat down the
prices of rubber and tin: “Quite
apart from the loss to the sterling
bloc, which in the long run is of no
advantage to America, since it merely
aggravates the balance-of-payments
problem which she must help to
solve, this action is jeopardising the
free world’s fight against Communism
in Asia. The Americans should realise
that they are not dealing with an
ordinary market. Politically they are
playing with dynamite.”
* * * *
Moussadek. Far from agreeing
with the cabled finding that the Per-
sian Prime Minister “couldn’t run a
sweetshop,” an Edinburgh “Scots-
man” correspondent, after several
interviews, made this assessment:
“He has a captivating and natural
courtesy, great personal charm, a sly
and self-appreciative sense of humor
and an ability to present his case
lucidly and convincingly. He is cer-
tainly neither wicked nor con-
temptible. And I believe that one of
the principal reasons for the tragic
failure of Britain’s Persian policy
during the last six months has been
our disastrous underestimation of Dr.
Moussadek’s character, abilities and
political power.”
* * * *
U.S. Bars a Scientist.— According
to a London “Daily Express” corres-
pondent, when Sir John Cockcroft,
chief of Britain’s Harwell atom-
research station, on a recent visit to
America arrived at Harwell’s counter-
part, the Argonne laboratory sited in
a forest clearing near Chicago, he was
rigidly excluded from every depart-
i ment working on secret weapons:
“The scientists who met him had been
ordered to show him no secret docu-
ments.”
♦ * * *
It’s Up To Joe. —“World disarma-
ment,” points out “New York Tiines,”
“could begin tomorrow if the
Russians would honestly co-operate.
The free nations would gladly divest
themselves of the hideously expensive
power to defend if the Communists
would give up the power to attack.”
* * * *
Soviet Strength. —While many draw
what comfort they can from the
West’s being stronger (or potentially
stronger) than Russia, a London
“Sunday Times” letter-writer makes
a more steadying sort of comparison:
“Russia today is in every industrial
respect absolutely stronger than was
Germany in 1939. She has more
steel, oil, aluminium, copper and
synthetic rubber; her power of indus-
trial expansion, particularly in her
Asiatic territories, is far greater than
Hitler’s ever was, even taking into
account his area of conquests during
the war.”
* * * *
Undeclared War 111. As Lord
Vansittart sees it in a London “Daily
Telegraph” letter, theories that Com-
munism is not a conspiracy and that
the way to beat it is by a better
ideology might be tenable if we had
decades of peace ahead of us, but we
have not: “The Third World War,”
he adds, “is not inevitable, but
probable; indeed, an event is the
more probable when it has already
happened. It exists in three parts of
the Far East; and has already broken
out once in Europe. Next time it
may be nearer home than Greece.
Again not inevitable, but odds-on
rather than against.”
* * * *
Price of Victory. Assessed by
Dayton (U.S.A.) “Daily News”:
“The Red Army will not be stopped
by blueprints. It will be stopped by
armies, navies, air forces and arma-
merits in being. The Communist
political conspiracy will not be
stopped by blueprints, or even by
guns. It will be stopped by sound
economies and Governments willing
to put those economies to work for
objectives that satisfy the aspirations
of men and women, their aspirations
for bread, for dignity, for justice, for
freedom. Without zeal, without con-
stancy, without willingness to pay the
price of victory there will be no vic-
tory in the fight to stave off war and
to preserve freedom.”
* * * *
Hedgehog Society. —A new button-
hole adornment, a hedgehog emblem,
is reported in “Manchester Guardian”
to have cropped up in Denmark. It’s
worn by members of an anti-Com-
munist organisation formed by
Danish newspapermen. The hedgehog
was chosen as a symbol because it is
a gentle animal which, when attacked,
has a formidable defence.
* * * *
Russian Mystery. “Manchester
Guardian,” hopefully: “Even more
than in the early years of the war,
Russian policy is ‘an enigma wrapped
in a mystery.’ Sometimes the ex-
planation behind such a mystery is
anxiety and indecision. That was
the explanation before 1941: it may
be so again.”
* * * *
Share-out of Commands. —London
“Daily Telegraph’s” military corres-
pondent, Lieut.-Gen. H. G. Martin,
on the distribution of Western
defence commands: “Until the stress
of actual war comes to still them
the voices of the peoples concerned
can, and usually do, demand in no
uncertain terms what each regards as
its fair share of the commands that
are going. On grounds of national
prestige the Governments of the Free
World cannot ignore such popular
demands. Thus, to an ever-increasing
degree, the share-out of commands
tends to be decided by political hard-
bargaining.”


igSsSta
OWMi*
■-
-w
•»»•//«»
r"/ 7
W////
9w
sali •
to fo
*
In selecting a gift for a man
you can’t go wrong if you
choose Gillette. Star of the
Gillette Christmas range is the
ONE-PIECE “Aristocrat Junior”
—designed to give a lifetime of
easier, faster, more comfortable
shaving. And for the smaller
gift there is the convenient Gil-
lette Dispenser now in attrac-
tive Christmas wrapping.
Whichever you choose, you can
be sure that your Gillette gift
will be gratefully remembered
every morning of the year.
Gillette
IQ/lilo
Set No. 53
"Aristocrat Junior”
ONE-PIECE rarer
with smart 10-blade
Dispenser. 21/-
Other Gillette Seta
from as lon as 6/3
Gillette Dispenser
Contains 20 Blue Gil-
lette Blades, deals them
out at a flick of the
thumb. In an attractive
Christmas box. 9/-
When tyres are short —
it pays to buy the best...
GOODYEAR
The increasing preference for Goodyear Tyres means you
can’t always get the tyres you want when you want them.
This shortage of good tyres seems likely to continue until
production expansion enables Goodyear to overtake the lag
caused by the greatly increased demand. Now, more than
ever before, it is important to buy the best tyres you can
get —that means Goodyear Tyres. They’ll last longer, give
you greater safety and extra comfort. See your Goodyear
Dealer—make him your “tyre service headquarters. He
will help you get all the safe mileage built into your Good-
year Tyres. Plan ahead with him for the time when you
will need new Tyres—and be sure you get Goodyear.
WVW'W'
Here's how to mote
5 tyres last as long os
• Hare tyres iespeett* trejoee y
* Sleets repaired early.
•ss-r-ss*"!
, Ha ,e .Heels W"" 1 " 1 a, ‘
aligned.
84>ie
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Young girls of today are not germ-
minded, says a visiting feminist.”
Kissing, for instance, doesn’t
frighten them.
+ + 4*
“One man bought an old armchair
and found the seat stuffed with gold
coins.” — Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Now he is sitting pretty.
4* 4* 4*
“When the House cannot muster a
quorum the billiard-room and the bar
can usually supply a respectable
quota.”— Sydney ‘‘Sun.”
Ah, well! Members could be
worse engaged than in potting
the Red!
4* 4* 4*
“A middy is supposed to be 10oz.,
not 9.”— Sydney ‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
The discrepancy makes many
a man froth at the mouth.
4* 4* 4*
“An extra tax on bachelors would
be fair.”
Why single them out?
4* 4* 4*
Fruit and vegetable racketeers
will probably forestall any
attempts to clean up Sydney’s
Municipal Markets.
4* 4* 4*
Bread Rises at the Door.
—Brisbane ‘‘Courier-Mail” heading.
But not sufficiently to stop
ingress, surely!
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, capable, reliable help,
Monday to Friday, prepare and cook
business lady.”— Suburban paper.
Pretty tough, that.
The Non-rising Generation.
“The average Australian’s spiritual
home is nearer to King’s Cross than
to the silences of the native bush.”
— A.B.C. chairman R. J. F. Boyer.
There was movement by
Madeay -street for the
word had passed around
That the trams were packed to
standing at the Bay.
And the crowds came swarming
Cross-wards with a rush
that shook the ground.
As young and old assembled
to the fray.
Folk of half a score of nations
poured from fiats both
near and far
To stream down roads and
alleys left and right,
Converging like a whirlwind on
each overloaded car
Till the ancient rattletrap was
lost to sight.
And one was there, a stripling
with a bodgie mop of
hair.
He was something like a
jockey undersized,
His weird habiliments proclaimed
just what he was —a
“lair”
Such as would be by a
feckless widgie prized.
But when the tramcar s lurching
threw old women from
their feet
And mites in mothers’ arms
with terror cried.
The King’s Cross cavalier never
shifted in his seat —
It was great to see that local
half-axe ride.
And up in King’s Cross canyons
where the towering build-
ings raise
Their cramped and narrow
block of flats on high
Where the air smells ripe with
garlic and the bright-
lights fairly blaze
Till midnight in the murky
city sky.
And where the widgies gather
round to hear the juke-
box play
And suits are cut to make the
shoulders wide,
The lad who never gave his
seat’s a household word
today.
And bodgies tell the story of
his ride.
D. H. E.
Headlines.
“If you don’t have a haircut
shortly,” said Agapanthus,
“people will be wondering why
you aren’t carrying around a
violin-case or a book of poetry.
You’d better get one on your
way home from work. We’re
going to the Blairs tonight for
bridge, and you can’t go there
looking as if you’ve been on a
desert island for three months.”
“Now, listen,” I said firmly.
“I’m not paying three and three-
pence for a trim-up—that’s the
new price—which he can do in
five minutes. Do you realise,
“Those boys take a risk!"
woman, that means being paid
at the rate of thirty-nine bob an
hour, or just on eighty quid for
a forty-hour week, or around
four thousand a year—-for a
barber! I’ll see him in Hades
first.”
“But you can’t keep letting
your hair grow till it reaches
your shoulders.”
“Why not?” I countered.
“D’Artagnan and his crowd
wore it that length, and look
what everyone thought of them.
They weren’t regarded as
pansies.”
“But it’s ridiculous!”
“Well, I’m not paying three
and three. I can cut it myself
with the aid of a mirror. We’ve
got those clippers your grand-
father used to use.”
“But that was up in the bush.”
“What’s the diff? Say no
more. I’ll get them out and oil
them.”
“You’d only make a botch
job of it trying to do it your-
self,” said Agapanthus. “You’d
be going crooked. I'll cut it.”
Observe, brothers, how easily
a married man can talk himself
into a trap.
So it was that that afternoon
I sat with a towel around my
shoulders while Agapanthus,
clippers in hand, stood behind
me making a preliminary survey
of my skull, much as a general
studies a map of the battlefield
—the simile is not without
appositeness.
“Now take it easily,” I said
uneasily. “Just start from the
nape and don’t take it above the
lobe of my ears. You can”
“Bend your head forward: I
can’t get at it while you’re hold-
ing it up. I wish I’d have
thought of this before —with
what we’d save in a year I could
get a pair of skin gloves and a
few pairs of nylons.”
I felt the cold of the steel on
my neck and then the upward
surge of the clippers.
“Mind—you’re going up a bit
far,” I said anxiously.
“Don’t be silly! With your
funny-shaped head you’ve got
to go up a good way or you
wouldn’t see what’s been taken
off.”
As she started going across
my head with them I leaned
forward suddenly to effect dis-
connection before she could do
any further despoliation. I
nearly lost a square inch of
scalp.
“There! That’s what you get
for bobbing about,” said Aga-
panthus. “Now you’ll blame me
if it isn’t just as you want it.”
“But you don’t go across with
the clippers,” I protested.
“Well, I did,” she said
triumphantly. “And it came off
better than going up the head—
it’s not going against the grain,”
“Well, stick to the upward
movement,” I replied. “You’re
working on hair, not Oregon,”
At her next sortie she collected
a hidden wart, and then got the
clippers bogged in a thick patch.
The only way she could release
them was by cutting around
them with the scissors.
Sternly I ordered her to
abandon the clippers and finish
the job with scissors and comb.
Her technique with these seemed
to be based on something be-
tween opening oysters and carv-
ing a joint. There would be a
feather-light snip followed by a
crunching sound as the scissors
went deep. To make certain
she didn’t de-lug me she ran the
scissor-points in a half-circle a
couple of inches beyond the
perimeter of my ears.
After she stepped back and
expressed satisfaction she insisted
on singeing it “to stop the
follicles from bleeding.”
As I got up and looked in the
mirror I reeled back. Short
burnt tufts stood here and there
amid starkly bare patches, while
on one side there was still left
some hair of the original length.
I could have achieved the same
effect by walking through a
bushfire.
“Look at it!” I bellowed. “It
looks as if I’ve got the mange.”
“Don’t be so silly!” said
Agapanthus. “Only dogs get
that.”
“Well, I’m not going over to
the Blairs tonight looking like
this.”
“You’ll have to go—you can’t
turn people down at the last
minute.”
As, later, she came out into
the hall putting on her hat she
caught sight of me and fell
back, startled. “Whatever have
you done!” she gasped.
I made the final adjustment to
the all-over head-bandage I had
put on. “I’m keeping this on,”
I said grimly, “until what you’ve
left of my hair gets a trot on
again. And, remember, I got
this when I donged my head as
I slipped in the shower-recess.”
It was my host who opened
the door to us. For several
seconds we exchanged stares.
His head was covered with a
bandage. Handing Agapanthus
over to his wife for the hat-
removing ceremony, he silently
steered me to the kitchen. Hoist-
a bottle from the fridge he
poured out two glasses of the
best and handed one over.
“Well, what was it, you liar?”
he grinned. “Did you slip while
you were having a shower, or
were you run-over by a pair of
clippers?”
Bo.
Reflection.
“It pays to be ‘bad.’ ”
— ‘‘S. M. Herald” film review.
New films or plays where virtue
pays
Are few and far between.
Knavery prospers nowadays
On radio and screen.
It's very sad to think that cad
And rogue the fans applaud,
That artistry in being “bad”
Makes vice its own reward..
P. O. M. C.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
. -rum
SE*
ik cm
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
<S.
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Public Notice.
I, EDELGARD MARIA BROWNING, of
German nationality, born at Dresden,
Saxony, resident li years in Australia, now
residing at 4 Gladstone Avenue, Ryde,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
9/9 S
■/Ot
sa
ill
9/tl
JSSW
g «a
pGE*J
2-
GEM
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
$. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
There’s a
GEM
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined
chrome set, complete with stropper,
or a less pretentious set, you are
assured of the same keen shave. The
super-keen Gem blades of surgical
steel and the automatic shaving angle
of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with
automatic stropper, as illustrated above,
complete with 8 Gem Double Life
Blades, in ivory plastic gift case 56/6.
• Gem chromium-plated streamline model
in handsome case of ivory plastic with
5 Gem Double Life Blades, 30/-.
• Gem nickel-plated Razor with two Gem
Double Life Blades in serviceable plastic
case, 2/-.
• Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated,
13/6 each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of
sturdy, surgical steel last longer, shave
keener, 2/4.
Obtainable at all Stores , Jewellers , Tobacco-
nists and Chemists.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Williamstown Cup has long
enjoyed a reputation as a Melbourne
Cup consolation prize, having been
won on some dozen occasions by
minor placegetters in the big race.
At Caulfield on Saturday, however,
the Williamstown was seen in the
new guise of Derby consolation prize
when it was won by the Victoria
Derby runner-up Shoreham. With
some weeks of heavy racing under-
gone by then, the top-class three-
year-olds seldom tackle the Willjams-
town; the last three-year-old to win
the race was John Wilkes in 1937.
In 1935 Garrio won the Williamstown
after being placed third in the Derby,
and, going back a fair step then,
Richmond Main won the double in
1919.
Hailed after the race as “an
absolute certainty beaten,” Saturday’s
Cup favorite, Grey Boots, did seem
to justify, for once, that oft-used, but
seldom accurate, phrase. Grey Boots,
whose luck has been altogether out
this time up, suffered an atrocious
passage over Saturday’s 12-furlongs.
He was buffeted from go to whoa.
Shoreham, on the other hand, had
absolutely the run of the race, and by
the time Grey Boots did eventually
burst through to come with a mighty
run at the finish, Shoreham had just a
shade too great an advantage. Grey
Boots failed by a head. Iron Duke,
who had looked the likely winner
when he went clear shortly after
entering the straight, was fairly out-
stayed, and finished a neck behind
Grey Boots.
Unaccustomed as they have become
in recent weeks to seeing a local horse
come out on top in competition with
the topnotchers from other States,
Melbourne racegoers waxed very
enthusiastic anent Shoreham’s win.
However, the somewhat sobering fact
is that the colt was bred at Lionel
Israel’s Segenhoe Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.). He was purchased at the
1950 Sydney yearling sales for 450
guineas, at which he looks now a rare
good bargain. Shoreham is a par-
ticularly attractively-bred colt by Sea
Tonic, an imported son of the Derby
winner Cameronian, out of Hero
Glad, a full-sister (by Heroic from
Gladioli) to the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, Derby and St. Leger winner
Hua.
System punters whose system is the
elementary one of backing favorites
had a remarkably good day at Caul-
field; until the next time they will
now undoubtedly be convinced that
their system is infallible. Grey Boots,
of course, let them down by the
barest whisker, but there was ample
consolation in the due success of
the proclaimed good things in every
other event.
Even-money at barrier-rise after
drifting from a point or two of odds-
on, the Dhoti colt Sopra, in the
Rawdon Stakes, was quite the hottest
favorite of the day, and proved every
bit as good as anticipated. Sopra
(S. Ralph) showed a clean pair of
heels all the way, and, scoring com-
fortably from Eriskay and Flo’s
Choice, cut out the five furlongs in
60|sec.
Next-shortest favorite was the
Kinderscout five-year-old Kintail (N.
McGrowdie), starting at 7 to 4 in
the Strand Handicap (7f.). Kintail
had run up minor placings and a win
in previous recent starts, but made
no mistake about the job on Satur-
day ; tackling the erstwhile leaders
three from home, Kintail was in front
at the turn, and cleared right away
from them in the run home to win
by six lengths.
Desert Warrior (N. Coombe) was
one of a number of horses solidly
supported in the mile Heatherton
Handicap, but he was a shade shorter
than the others at the end of betting
and a substantial shade too good for
them at the end of the race. The
High Peak four-year-old Matterhorn,
who can be good on his day (which
isn’t every day), came home very
well indeed for second money, and
he was followed by Grand Gift.
Other winners, in brief, were
Aromatic at threes for the mile Cap-
tain Robinson Handicap (three-year-
olds) and Woodlark, who, desperately
ridden by B, R. Smith, just barely
managed to justify his 2-to-l favorit-
ism in the Sandown Hurdle.
* * * *
Somewhat oddly, in view of the
complete superiority evinced by Syd-
ney and other visiting horses through-
out the Melbourne spring racing,
at Randwick on Saturday three of
the seven races, including the two
principal events, were won by horses
bred and owned in Victoria. How-
ever, another phenomenon of the
spring racing, both in Melbourne and
Sydney, was again well and truly in
evidence at Randwick —the remarkable
run of success being enjoyed by the
McCarten stable and its No. 1 rider,
Sellwood. The combination landed
a treble on Saturday.
The three Victorian winners were
Kaimur, Chitral and Heliofly, all bred
at E. A. Underwood’s Warlaby Stud,
Oaklands Junction. Kaimur and
Chitral represented a double for
owner-breeder Underwood, for his
successful sire Dhoti, for trainer
McCarten and for jockey Sellwood.
Kaimur (Dhoti-Narada) ran out a
very easy winner of the Junior Stakes
for two-year-old colts and geldings.
He scored by nearly three lengths
from the humorously-named British
Justice (Fair’s Fair-Fairplay). Chitral,
an unpredictable customer who has
disappointed repeatedly when con-
fidently backed, consented to do his
best in the 10-furlongs Milperra
Handicap; he hung on gamely to win
by three-parts of a length from the
rather unlucky imported mare Jan.
Heliofly, who is raced by O. R.
Porter, scored a not-altogether-popular
win in the 6-furlongs Horsley Handi-
cap. Ridden by K. Barratt, he had
failed badly at Canterbury at his
previous start. However, with J.
Thompson up. Heliofly finished-on
too well for favorite Hesdin in the
Horsley. Hesdin had looked home
and hosed, but inside the distance he
suddenly shifted ground, and was
beaten by three-parts of a length.
Interesting winner of the Kinder-
garten Stakes for two-year-old fillies,
and another winner for the McCarten-
Sellwood combination, was S. Wool-
lon's Magic Wonder. Bred by
Wootton, Magic Wonder comes from
the first crop of imported Newtown
Wonder, a son of Fair Trial, who
was premier sire in England last sea-
son. Magic Wonder’s dam was the
imported mare Conveyor. Magic
Wonder showed commendable game-
ness in winning; she hit the front at
the top of the straight, was later
headed by Brunadene, but came again
to .beat that filly by a half-length.
Seven of the 13 runners in the
mile Leumeah Handicap were fairly
solidly backed, or at least the books
had them at prices which would sug-
gest they were. Winner of the
Leumeah was the Sea Tonic four-
year-old Old Jamaica (A. Podmore),
who seemed a shade lucky to defeat
Lady Shuna. Old Jamaica started at
nines, at which he was the longest-
priced winner of the day.
Punters were pretty close to the
mark throughout the programme at
Randwick. Only one of the 21 place-
getters produced by seven races started
at double-figure odds. The lone
“rough ’un” was Outcrop, starting at
twelves to finish a good second to
Wayside Bloom (R. Selkrig) in the
13-furlongs Novice Handicap. A son
of Felcrag and the Constant Son
mare Karngilla, Outcrop looked about
ripe to win a similar event in the near
future.
JUBHLEE
vetegam’s
•M WOk&p
"He told ME he'd run stiff —said he had rheumatism."
Already credited with the winners
of the 1951 AJ.C. Derby, Victoria
Derby, Metrop. and Melbourne Cup,
Kia-Ora Stud (N.S.W.) notched up
another classic victory on Saturday
when Forest Beau (G. Moore) won
the Queensland Derby at Eagle Farm.
Forest Beau races in the same owner-
ship as the Victoria Derby winner
Hydrogen, and like that colt is a son
of Kia Ora’s new sire Delville Wood;
his dam was the Agincourt mare Best
Wishes. Forest Beau, who cost 2100
guineas as a yearling, won the Queens-
land classic by a short neck from
Heelaman, a son of the A.J.C. Derby
winner Laureate. The only filly in
the race, Khazana, a daughter of
Dhoti, was an impressive third.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances); —
Maltine Stakes: Unburden, 1;
Whirl On,. 2; Celebrated, 3. Farm
Encourage; Outcrop, 1; Fresteem, 2;
Franjohn, 3. Hoxton Park Juvenile:
Kaimur, 1; Hamad, 2; Tamahere, 3.
Bankstown Handicap: Neat Andrew,
1; Mercury, 2; Fetch, 3. Camden
Handicap: Quarter Deck, 1; Zetland,
2; Bankbrook, 3. Warwick November
Handicap: Buonarroti Boy, 1; Boat-
man, 2; Thracian Lad, 3. Welter:
Silverjax, 1; Lady Shuna, 2: Thunder
God, 3.
* * * *
Goddard, the West Indies skipper,
seems to be even more lucky with the
toss than Hassett. Indeed, the fates
that control such matters are going
to be in a quandary every time
Hassett and Goddard come into con-
flict. Meeting N.S.W. at S.C.G. on
Friday, Goddard won his fourth toss
from five attempts this tour, and sent
the ’Waters in to bat first on a wicket
showing a good deal of grass.
Early dismissal of a string of the
star N.S.W. bats showed that God-
dard’s judgment had not been astray.
Barnes went for a duck, Morris for
four and Moroney for another duck.
Miller, as one has come to expect,
stayed the rot for a while as he
knocked up 30, but it was not until
Flockton and Benaud got together
(with seven down then for 96) and
knocked up a century partnership that
N.S.W. really emerged from the
woods. Flockton scored a total of
85, Benaud 43, and, with Walker con-
tributing a useful 21, N.S.W. was
finished at 239.
Retaliating then in quick order, the
’Walers, having failed to get among
the runs, at least got among the
wickets. Three West Indies wickets
fell for 38 before stumps on Friday,
and on Saturday the rot continued.
Worrell top-scored with 49; Walcott
made 40 and Rae was the only other
to enter double figures, which he did
with the bare 10. The tourists were
dismissed for a total of 134, and the
locals, leading by 105 on the first
innings, had lost two for 97 at stumps
on Saturday.
* * ♦ *
In progress as this went to the
printer, the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis
Championships are of exceptional
interest this year, with strong teams
from the world’s three top tennis
countries among the contestants. The
first of the topliners to fall by the
wayside were members of the Swedish
team, which was not surprising. They
had arrived by plane only a couple
of days before the tournament com-
menced, and none of them had played
on grass for ages—one of them had
not previously seen a lawn court. The
top Australians and Americans and
the Swedish champion Bergelin all got
through their early matches without
trouble. The championships continue
throughout this week, with the finals
down for Saturday.
* * * «
Plagued throughout by bad manage-
ment, bad matchmaking and bad luck,
Dave Sands wound up a disastrous
overseas tour when he was defeated
by Yolande Pompee of Trinidad in
London last week. On what terms
they met is not quite clear —no official
weights were issued, which seems an
extraordinary thing, though pretty
typical of the way Sands has been
treated throughout his trip. At all
events Sands is a legitimate middle-
weight, while Pompee is known as a
fully-fledged light-heavyweight. It was
a light-heavyweight, in American
Tommy Yarosz, who beat Sands in
his first London fight in April, 1949.
Pompee was pretty close to tossing
it in with a badly cut lip in the sixtn
round, but Sands’s eyebrow was laid
open in the same session, and Pompee,
deciding to persevere, concentrated on
Dave’s injury until the ref. declared
finis.


LJ
K
TO PUT AUSTRALIA'S SHEET STEEL
THROUGH THE MILL
This is the motor that will
drive the largest Cold
Reduction Sheet Steel Mill
south of the Equator.
Should the need arise, the
tremendous output of this
Mill would contribute on an,
unpredictable scale to de-|
fence requirements. In the
meantime, the new plant
will be hailed by manufac-
turers of motor car and
truck bodies, refrigerators,
washing machines, ranges
and countless other domestic
appliances. With adequate
supplies of suitable raw
steel available, it will help
step-up the flow of these
commodities to the waiting
public.
a
a
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT’S
WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited General Sales
Agents. SYDNEY: 33 Mac-
quarie Place. MELBOURNE:
70-84 Clarendon Street, South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE:
307-31 1 Queen Street.
FREMANTLE: Corner of
Short and Pakenham Streets.
WELLINGTON, NX: John
Lysaght’* Bristol Works
Limited.
CR3A-51
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
q
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose jrom.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw. Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12*% Sales Tax
q
q
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
BBSSBBSaBSsa
SUPER NU-METAI
Saves Engine Re-Bores, New Rings
Just deposit RE-NU Super NU-METAL through ping h«>"- Sup
NU-METAL will recondition your motor while you drive. p ®™anen
fills pits and scores. End piston slap and lost e°“PJ« ss, °«;, ®" a Supcr
good up to 15,000 miles and harmless to flnes *
NU-METAL has been proved and tested by over 250,000 users s
1934. Super NU-METAL comes to you in a separate tube for each
cylinder, thus eliminating guesswork. Fleet owncrs. Enginecrs, etc.,
use Super NU-METAL. Treatment costs for 1 Cyl., 10/6, 4 Cyls., ow/ ,
6 Cyls., 45/-; 8 Cyls., 60/-. vq/fi
NU-METAL No. 2 for Bearings, Noisy and Diffs. Price 29/.
Call, write or phone. Mail orders please add 1/6 “
o/_ Interstate for packing and postage. Sorry, no t.uo-
ORDER FORivi
Please forward me by return Super NU-METAL to treat a
Cylinder Engine. I enclose Cheque, M. 0., P.N., for— -----
Or send me an Illustrated Folder describing the action of Super NU-MEIAJ.-
NAME (Block Letters).
ADDRESS.
B. 21/11/’5l
BRISTOL TIiAHMG CO.
u. FLOOR, B*.|TOt HO..SF,
SYDNEY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle Colors.
“Frank H.”; In Shorthorn
cattle there is a pair of factors
responsible for the color of the
hair. One of these factors tends
to make an animal red in color,
while the other tends to produce
white offspring.
Remembering that these fac-
tors are always present in the
animal in pairs, it can be taken
as certain that any animal with
two factors for red is dominant
for red, and an animal with two
factors for white is dominant
for white. An animal which has
one factor for red and one for
white is distinguished by its
intermediate color, roan.
Since the red animal trans-
mits only factors for red and the
white animal only factors for
white, the mating of red to red
will always produce red pro-
geny ; and white to white will
always produce white progeny.
However, when a red animal is
mated with a white animal the
germ-cells of the resulting off-
spring will contain one factor for
white and one for red. Its color
will be roan —a mixture of red
and white.
The roan animal is mixed in
inheritance, and when it is old
enough to produce it will pro-
duce two kinds of germ-cells.
One will contain a factor for
white and the other a factor for
red. The laws governing the
process are such that equal
numbers of the two kinds of
germ-cells are produced. Thus
if a roan animal is bred back
to a roan one one-half of the off-
spring will be red, the other half
will be roan. Likewise, a roan
animal bred back to a white one
will produce approximately
equal numbers of roan and
white calves.
The various possible combina-
tions occur at random, and the
numbers of offspring will be
equal only when relatively large
numbers are concerned, This is
governed by the laws of chance
and operated in just the same
manner as the results obtained
by the tossing of a coin. It is
well known that if a penny is
tossed enough times the number
of heads and tails will come out
about even. Yet in four tosses
there could be four heads —or
four tails —or three heads and
one tail. Thus it is possible to
get four white calves in a row
when two white and two roan
were expected. This is due to
the unpredictability of the pair-
ing when fertilisation takes
place.
Should a roan calf result from
what was believed to be a red-
to-red mating it can be taken as
certain that one of the parents
was actually a red-roan and,
however well concealed, white
hair was carried in its coat, or
perhaps in its tail.
Sheep-dog Training
“Ngaduri”: Despite all argu-
ments to the contrary, I’ve
always allowed sheep-dog pups
to work as soon as they show
keenness and a willingness for
the job—the pup usually deter-
mines the age himself by begin-
ning on the farm chickens. I’ve
toed and maintained a breed—
best described as “curly-coated
collies”—which make their first
attempts at working at about
four months old.
The time to start teaching a
puppy is from the day he is
weaned. With a small piece of
meat as a reward each time he
does it properly, the little pup
should be made to “Come here”
or “Come behind” as soon as
possible. He Will learn that
very effectively at three months.
First attach a long string to his
collar and pull it in as the order
is given, rewarding him
(although he probably resisted
strongly) when he nears you.
The string will soon become
unnecessary.
Then comes the most difficult
thing—making a dog observe
rigid discipline, which he cannot
be expected to do if he becomes
bored with the business. Some-
where, varying with every pup,
is an artistic balance.
Having learnt to come behind,
the pup must be taught to sit or
lie down. Place a hand across
his loins and squeeze as his
quarters are pushed to the
ground. He cannot resist, but
must be rewarded every time to
convince him that he has done
the thing voluntarily. Very soon,
if the order has always preceded
the action, he will do it volun-
tarily and should receive an
extra piece of meat.
Having achieved the “sit,” he
must be made to sit until he gets
another order. This is difficult,
as it is hard to know how long
a pup can remain in one place,
but he should never be asked to
sit for more than a few seconds
at first and a few minutes at the
end of, say, a month’s training.
When the pup will come
behind and sit at a word, he
may be taken for walks on a
long string. By pulling the
string when he tries to get away
it is easy to impress on him that
he will be required always to
remain in a position about 3ft.
behind your left boot, provided
that he is not working.
Then, with the string
lengthened and a piece of meat
tossed out with either left or
right arm extended, the pup
should be ordered to “go back”
—or whatever order you
customarily use. When the meat
is picked up he should be told
again to “come behind.” The
pup will thus leam to keep one
eye cocked for your movements
all the time, as well as learning
the signals and orders for his
cast.
Whatever the age, when the
pup has learned implicit obedi-
ence to the orders to sit, come
behind and to cast out, he is
ready to be introduced to the
flock, since he can be managed
and will not run wild. Whistled
signals can gradually be sub-
stituted for spoken orders.
In the first year of work the
pup should not be trusted in the
yards since he will become too
excited, nor should he be asked
to work sheep at great distances
from the trainer. At all costs
he must be kept well in hand,
and he should not be asked to
do what you are too lazy to do
yourself.
Wax-moth Control.
“Drone B”: Even a moderate
infestation of wax-moths in
stored combs can mean con-
siderable loss to the apiarist, and
a small outlay for adequate pro-
tection is well worth-while.
The best insurance is to main-
tain strong colonies of bees
housed in sound hives. They
can guard the hive against
invaders, and will rid the combs
of any odd wax-moth larvae
which may gain entrance. Sound
materials, free from splits,
cracks, etc., also deprive the
female of a place to lay her
eggs from which emerging
larvae may later get into the hive.
Fumigation with carbon
bisulphide has been a common
and effective means of control —
combs are stacked five boxes
high and the joins sealed off; a
small tin lid is then filled with
the fumigant and placed on the
top set of combs; the stack is
then covered and sealed.
Carbon bisulphide, however, is
very inflammable —a piece of hot
metal will ignite the vapor—
and highly-explosive when mixed
with air. It is also poisonous
and scarce.
Paradichlorbenzene (P.D.8.)
moth-exterminator is a less
dangerous substance. The combs
are stacked as before, P.D.B.
sprinkled on a sheet of card
“I like the middle cut."
placed on the top layer, and the
stack covered and sealed.
Renew the fumigant regularly.
P.D.B. —relatively non-inflam-
mable, non-explosive and non-
poisonous—is readily obtainable.
Grain-sorghum.
“Hortus”: There is now, and
will continue to be, a strong
demand for it. Most suitable
soils are deep, sweet loams or
alluvials. On these, of course,
little manuring is necessary.
Sorghum can be grown on
much poorer soil than is
required for maize. It does
quite well on sandy country and
on poor, stiff clay soils.
At Yanco Experiment Farm
(N.S.W.) the Plainsman variety
easily topped the yields in a
five-year series of variety trials.
The figures: (mean yield per
acre) 127.5 bushels, 99.4 bushels,
100.2 bushels, 100.6 bushels and
five years (1947-51) 96.4 bushels.
Another good variety is
Caprock, whose figures over a
four-year period were: 120.4,
94.7, 100.8 and 103.5 bushels.
Wheatland and Kalo also did
well.
At Leeton Experiment Farm
it was proved that the fertiliser
most suitable was 561 b.
sulphate ammonia, plus 561 b. or
1121 b. super, per acre,
Those who dislike this crop
because of prussic-acid content
can rest assured that the danger
gradually lessens as the plants
get old, and entirely disappears
by the time seed is formed.
Minor Soil Elements.
“Springvale”: Alkaline soils
in the warmer areas may often
lack necessary traces of zinc, a
deficiency which affects both
citrus and deciduous trees,
eventually causing loss of pro-
ductivity.
In some districts mottled trees
have been found heavily infested
with citrus nematodes, parasitic
organisms which cluster around
roots systems and choke back the
growth of fine hair roots.
Remedy is a zinc - sulphate
spray: Zinc sulphate, 101 b.;
hydrated lime, 51b.; water 100
gallons. Blood albumen (6oz. to
8oz.) may be used as spreader.
That is enough for 25 trees.
Apply just before one of the
growing periods—early spring
or late autumn —but not just be-
fore picking, as sulphate leaves
a white residue on the skin.
Lack of boron is most
commonly apparent in apples.
It also contributes to “hen-and-
chicken” trouble in some grape
varieties, and sometimes to
deficient growth in vegetable
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The present progress of a southern sunspot group gives
reasonable hope for the end of adverse conditions in dry
areas. The last sunspot group seemed rather promising
first, but it straightened out, thus losing its complexity
(which is more or less essential to good rain results), and
then faded very much. It, therefore, gave only partial
results in the rains on the Darling Downs. The revival of
the longer Uranian cycle has also been unfavorable, although
in the end it will make the winter of 1952 better.


9
EYE LOTION
Iw Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H.Roie & C<x, Pkij_ Ud_ King Street. Sydney.
RENOVATIONS
EXTENSIONS ALTERATIONS
PAINTING AND DECORATION
MODERNISATION OF HOMES
IMMEDIATE SERVICE
COUNTRY WORK A SPECIALTY
W. E. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
284 Whitehorse Road, Balwyn,
Victoria. WF 4551.
After hours XB 6524
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON*
OSMIXIVAN
fi xvm
MNIS
VItAOC MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
For Sale
IRRIGATION FARM
617 aca. with a frontage to running creek.
Permanent irrigation water. 100 acs. light
to heavy loam on the creek bank cleared
for plough; portion suitable lucerne,
potatoes, etc. ; 9-h.p. diesel portable irri-
gation plant with 4in. piping capable of
irrigating any part of the 100 acres. 120
head of Jersey cattle with 4-unit milking
plant, pumping separated milk to pig
yards, concrete cattle dip, John Deere
Model B tractor, with plough, tandem disc
harrow, combine, mowing machine, rake,
chaff cutter and bagger, saw bench, farm
truck and misc. tools. Large house, with
modern bathroom, septic, hot water system,
32V. electricity and telephone, furnished.
Situated 5 mis. from N.O. Railway, on
Bruce Highway, 71 mis. Rockhampton.
The farmland has not been cultivated for
some time. The land, water, machinery
and cattle are definitely good. Exception-
ally good value, £B5OO. Details from
FARM EXCHANGE, 19 Denham Street,
Rockhampton, Central Queensland. ’Phone,
8708, after hrs. 3199, 2161.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
q
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
q
NO
EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
——... DISTRIBUTORS 111
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.,
Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
FASTER FENCING
ai,h Mobilco
ONE MAN POST HOLE. DIGGER
With this machine, one man sinks fifty post holes an hour. Avail-
able with 10 in. or 12 in. Auger to dig and clear holes to 2 ft. 8 in.
deep. Moves on pneumatic tyred ball-bearing wheels. Light and
well-balanced—one man easily wheels it about and works it
even in hilly country. Reliable 7 b.h.p. Petrol engine Powers
tough steel Auger. Digs difficult ground with no effort because
weight of engine and chassis are used to drive it into the ground
Tows to the job behind car, truck or tractor. Like all Mobilco
products, the One Man Post Hole Digger is precision engineered
to higher standards than
similar machinery. It is
a firm favourite with
Fencing Contractors be-
cause with a Mobilco,
they do much more per
working day.
One machine does many jobs . . .
Bore fence posts at the same time. Add the
Mobilco-Electro Power Generator and Mobilco-Sher
Power Drill. Fast, vibrationless drill drives f in. bit through hardwood posts
in a flash. Generator 32 volt, 500 watt, can also be used to drive one man
shearing plant and for field or shed lighting. Centrifugal pump can be attached
direct to Post Hole Digger, handles 300 gallons a minute at a 50 ft. head.
q
Write now for details
ICO
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
252 Swanston St.. Melbourne. Central 4799, after hours
WF3IIB. Telegrams: “Mobile©,** Melbourne.
£=s^l=ll
crops. It causes internal cork in
apples.
Borax is the corrective,
quantities for apples, based
mainly on N. S. Wales experi-
ments, being: under 15 years,
! lb. a tree; 15-20 years, fib.;
over 20 years, fib. The borax
is simply broadcast beneath the
tree over the area covered by the
overhead spread. Apply between
harvest and up to three weeks
before blossoming in following
spring.
Citrus-leaves showing dark
areas around the veins, or gum-
spotting of veins, indicate short-
age of manganese. Spray with
manganese sulphate, 51b., and
slaked lime, 51b., to 100
gallons of water, just before a
growth period. An excess of
manganese can also occur in
soils needing lime—indicated by
yellowing leaves. Remedy:
heavy liming.
Lack of iron—often in vine-
yards, for instance —is usually
evidenced by yellowing of young
leaves. It is induced by excess
lime. Spray with 5 per cent,
sulphate of iron. A Bordeaux
6-4-40 spray is effective against
axanthema (copper deficiency).
Linseed Meal.
“M.”: The high - protein
content and digestibility of
linseed-meal make it one of the
best by-product fodders. Its
food-value (starch equivalent) is
higher than that of most grains,
but its relatively high cost
narrows down its use to high
producers and show animals.
As a gruel it’s a good food for
calves, making an excellent sub-
stitute for butterfat when fed
with skim-milk. It’s not a satis-
factory food for pigs, however,
producing an oily lard which
quickly goes rancid. In the form
of “nuts,” the meal helps balance
the ration of sheep on dry,
fibrous, protein - deficient
herbage.
Hens on Free Range.
“E. and 0.E.”; I am a hen-
keeper, but having only a
garden in which to keep them, it
is impossible to allow them to
run loose (B. 17/10/’5l). I over-
come this by a movable pen,
nothing more than a length of
wire-netting, staked at intervals,
which can be fitted on any
vacant patch of ground and
expanded or contracted as de-
sired. Though the garden is
large, the soil is poor, sandy and
completely lacking in humus.
During the war it was impos-
sible to get manure and impos-
sible to grow anything in such
soil without it. So six hens were
imported, kept in the movable
pen, sheltering at night in an
also movable house, and put
wherever the soil seemed
poorest or the weeds were worst.
Sorrel was in command when the
hens arrived, but now we have
hardly any. They have also
cleaned-up patches of twitch.
The hens follow after crops,
when they eat insects and
various residues We find the
most important part of mixed
hen - garden culture lies in
stirring up the surface of the pen
daily ; this need not be deep, but
must be done regularly to keep
flies and smell in abeyance. We
also give them quantities of
things like straw, seaweed or
bracken in the pen, which they
scratch to pieces (affording them
valuable exercise) before it is
incorporated in the soil in the
daily digging.
The difference in the color
and texture of the soil where the
hens have been is most remark-
able ; so, too, is the improve-
ment in all crops, whether vege-
tables, flowers or fruit. Sun-
flowers are grown for beauty in
the summer and as a supplement
to the winter food. The hens’
food is varied according to what
is attainable seasonally, with a
regular evening feed of wheat.
They also get lots of green-stuff,
which they help to produce,
plenty of grit and fresh water,
and we always try to provide
some shade in addition to sunny
patches for dust-baths.
In numbers they have ranged
from four to 12 birds, which
does not sound many, but for
this year we have so far col-
lected 1183 eggs, while at the
same time enriching the soil.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Unless excessive
fatness is the cause, a sow which
doesn’t come in season should
be given a mineral mixture such
as boneflour, charcoal and ashes.
Skim-milk should be added to
the ration. Young, healthy sows
sometimes fail to get in pig be-
cause of overfatness. Reduce
ration and condition by running
on an open plot and remove
boar.
“C.A.A.”: Mechanical post-
hole diggers certainly reduce the
labor involved in tree-planting,
but the hole must be broken up
by a spade before the tree is set
in. The digger on its own leaves
a hole with glazed sides which
are almost impervious to water.
“M,” : Break down the soil to
a fine tilth or much of the seed
will be wasted, especially in
cloddy ground. Further waste
can be avoided by sowing neither
too deeply nor too thickly.
When small seeds are used apply
a light covering of soil or a
mulch of compost. In hot
weather a strip of hessian laid
over the rows, or a light cover-
ing of lawn clippings, aids
germination.
“Ethel M.”: As a cure for
broodiness try putting a piece
of corrugated galvanised-iron on
the bottom of the nest the fowl
persists in sitting in. The hen
will not sit on the iron for any
length of time because it is cool
or cold, neither will it move
about much because the noise of
its claws on the corrugation
alarms it. Few broodies can
stand this treatment for more
than 48 hours.
“My”: For codiin-moth on
apples, pears and quinces, spray
with a mixture of lead arsenate
powder, 20z., and 3 fluid oz.
D.D.T., 20 p.c. emulsion (or
Hoz. 50 p.c. D.D.T. powder) in
four gal. of water. The D.D.T.
alone will knock codlin, and the
lead arsenate takes care of the
light-brown apple moth which,
for a time after D.D.T. came
into general use and lead arsen-
ate was omitted, built up to
formidable numbers. In Vic-
toria, spray in early November,
early December, mid-January
and late February.
“Wirra”: Several hives of
bees kept in the paddocks will
help establishment of a pasture
by pollinating the clover. If the
owner does not know enough
about the business to handle the
bees himself, it is not usually
hard to find an apiarist who will
do the Job for half the honey.
As a rule he will also advise on
management of the hives.
“E.M.R.”; The best policy
for safety in breeding fowls lies
in selecting females between
minimum and maximum body
size. Then one is always able
to retain size in strain and to
fall back on well-grown progeny
if necessary.
“Billjim”: To cut down snails
and slugs clear the garden out
once a year of all but cultivated
plants. Keep the soil clean be-
tween growing plants, trim
hedges and remove, bury or bum
all unnecessary materials such
as boards, bags and dead plants.
If the pests persist apply D.D.T.
liquid, D.D.T. emulsion or
D.D.T. wetta powder using con-
centrations of 16 p.c., 20 p.c.
and 25 p.c. respectively. Dilute
to 0.2 p.c., applying 2gal. to the
square yard. Any of the poison
baits such as metaldehyde,
sodium arsenate or Paris green
will help.


'tfes*
O'*'
DisT,u .vcvr'
•JS
s"r
KiftM
.-A
fttfj
\)W
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
6 f4ia/uv '
q
q
q
q
q
q
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
O 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in aU Country Centres
each, fell on their noses, one
after the other. And the eight
million rabbits giggled and
snickered,
“What we need is holes under
the river-beds,” said Hurricane
Henderson, looking hard at the
bucks and does, before racing
away on one of the bay
thoroughbreds. He rode the ten
bays, the ten chestnuts, the ten
greys and the ten blacks in turn,
and in two days he was back
with a million ferrets. Before
the bucks and the does could
reach the eight-and-a-half-million
mark Hurricane and the bul-
lockies had caught them all.
The bucks they put on the one
bank of each of the twenty fine
too-straight rivers, and the does
they put on the other bank.
D EFORE the bullockies could
utter their surprise the
bucks and does had started bur-
rowing under the river to meet
each other. Their paws went like
shovels, their tails waved like
banners, and in no time the
bucks and does were out of sight
and great jets of soil were spurt-
ing out of a million holes. Some
of the rabbits in the rear got
knocked off their feet, and
Hurricane and the bullockies
had to step smartly so it didn’t
happen to them. Before long
the air got so thick with dirt
that Hurricane and the bul-
lockies had to light their
lanterns, and in Bourke they
looked at the sky and said
another big dust-storm was
coming, and some of the bucks
and does now tunnelled through
the air and met half-way across
the river.
When the bucks and does were
finished there was three feet of
topsoil all over Spee Waa, and
the bullockies had all the holes
they needed. They could hook
fast to the river-beds, and in
less than a week each of the
twenty fine rivers was as crooked
as racing. The holes the bul-
lockies didn’t want, Hurricane
and his men blocked up, so get-
ting rid of most of the rabbits.
Those that tunnelled through the
air were drowned when the dirt
settled, and the rest of the
rabbits Hurricane caught with
the ferrets.
“How am I doing?” Hurricane
asked his old mother. “I’ve got
four thousand miles of river-
flats and the richest soil in Aus-
tralia now. I can graze thirteen
million shamas now.”
“Not bad, son,” said his old
mother, “but it’s a shame to see
all those holes going to waste.”
“By hang, you’re right,” cried
Hurricane Henderson, rushing
away on one of the chestnuts.
He rode the ten chestnuts, the
ten greys, the ten blacks, the ten
bays in turn, and rounded up his
men to cut the holes into four-
foot lengths to use as postholes
on Spee Waa.
VARIOUS VERSE
TALK.
Incessantly, in buses, streets and trains.
In shops, at matinee intervals, we talk.
Over back fences, knitting on the veranda
Or wheeling out the baby for a walk.
—And over sherry glasses at a party,
And if we share a room we talk in bed:
Our ears may atrophy for all we listen,
The important thing is the saying, not what is said.
And I have thought of this.
I have grown a little weary of the clatter
Of women's voices, so preoccupied
With women’s thoughts, so usually sober
Monotonous, and fearfully unterrified.
And I have come away and left no telephone number.
And yet I think the reason for the noise
Is fear. Time’s curious capriciousness
Induces old women to spatter as many words
As they can between themselves and emptiness,
And tricks the young by seeming to rush fast
To fear the hours will subtly steal away
(Before their tongues have uttered one perfect sound)
Some marvel they may grow too old to say.
So, this most amazing of man’s attributes
—Speech, means of contact, thought, song, curse, instruc-
tion,
Symbology of sound—itself turns symbol
Of beauty’s end, decay, terror, destruction.
And the first night of my return you must all come round
I have such a lot to tell you.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
WINTERSET.
After the howling storm the sudden peace.
And snow’s lithe understatement of the day
Delivering a soundless amnesty.
Each leaf in this white autumn hugs the ground,
Slim Desdemonas dying without sound.
We watch their arched and swallow-curving fall
To earth build up a softly-gleaming pall
For life once startled into summer’s surge
Of warm fertility. Now to the verge
Of white oblivion lost ripeness blends—
There where the daylight starts and whiteness ends—
And we this sudden winter amnesty
Receive in wonder, stumbling with the day
Into the yearned-for, not-remembered peace.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.
BOY LISTENING.
The little boy sits in the doorway onto the street.
There is rhythm he hears; difficult rhythm to beat
With a stick, to retain the orderly metrical sense
Of a metronome, or boy pianist on a picket fence.
But a child out of bed, with his parents at the pictures,
Doesn’t sit fast for metre, or tight verse strictures.
It’s pleasing to listen to footsteps, and the beat
Is there just the same, the rhythm of the street.
“Rhyme me a matinee rush,” this waif’s heart would beg
Of the feet, like corpuscles dancing. “I must sit on a leg,
Like a toy left out, dropped on the hardwood steps
In the sultry doorway.” What is it on his lips
Inclines him to mimic the measures of the feet?
Poet shall he then be? To his ears this is sweet
Poetry: the metre, barbarous, wild.
But what is barbarous, yet, to the ears of the child?
The rhythm lives in the feet of the crowd (the athlete.
The cripple, the dancer, and soldier) with beauty replete.
No sweet declension of reason s, but a rhythm we know.
The feet, unconscious of marching, like corpuscles flow.
The blood that washes the world, in waves passes.
He hears the gathering surge, the flood rises.
Not merely footsteps, he hears, not dancing, but the beat
Of the poetry of the heart possessing the feet.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


Missing Friend.
WILL THOMAS JOHN SAUL, formerly
of Boyce Road, Maroubra, or anyone with
information as to his whereabouts, com-
municate with STEPHEN JAQUES &
STEPHEN, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney?
for every type of basinet* It record©
•II Sale©. Credit©. Payout* etc. Strongly bnlll,
pleating in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
GUARD
PROTECTA
SUnL-SfUHtgiliL
ml
J
3
5
/z
si
£asy on the
pecfa/s
Putting your foot down sends tyre bills up! Fierce
acceleration, heavy braking, fast cornering all
mean extra strain and wear on your tyres. The simple
rule to follow is be gentle on the pedal —and your
tyres will pay off in longer life and increased mileage.
* M
k, '
BRAKING: -When gou
brake heavity the tyres tty to'
skid or scrape along the road.
This strains casing,]
wears out tread.’
CORNERING:
Tests prove tyres
wear eight times
more on curves:
corner gentlg and
gou save tyre
mileagel'
acceleration : ‘Fierce
acceleration Imposes strain
and friction on tyres go
lightly on the pedal and you
save in tyre
miles.*
rav-
1 .
• • *
DUNLOP
CAR & TRUCK TYRES
SUPER
Em
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Inc. In Vlcl (MOW
‘TO D
YOU’LL USE A DUNLOP PRODUCT.’
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words and music of old song “Oh!
Chide Not My Heart.”—s24l.
To buy copy of On Our Selection
by Steele Rudd.—s 242.
To buy copy of No. 2 “Parade”
magazine.—5243.
To buy copy of Old Colonial Archi-
tecture by Hardy Wi150n.—5244.
Information Sought.
Is former world heavyweight cham-
pion Tommy Burns still alive? If so,
what happened to him after he
retired? What did he do? Where
is he now?
Tommy Burns (real name Noah
Brusso) is still living. After losing
the world heavyweight championship
to Jack Johnson at Sydney Stadium
on Boxing Day, 1908, Burns fought
Bill Lang, Bill Rickard, Arthur
Pelkey, and Joe Beckett k.o.’d him
(round 7) in his last contest (1913).
On retiring from the ring Burns
became a boxing promoter, then hotel
proprietor, health instructor, and
manager and developer of boxers. At
present he is an evangelist in Cali-
fornia.
♦ * * «
How to rid a fernery of mice?
For a couple of nights throw pieces
of bread about the fernery, miss a
night and on the fourth place baits
of pollard and arsenic in similar spots.
A few drops of aniseed mixed with
the pollard is an excellent lure. The
corpses should be burnt.
♦ * * *
Why does “magazine” mean both
storehouse and newspaper periodical?
“Magazine” is derived from the
Arabic makhazin, plural of makhzan,
a warehouse. In that sense it is used
to mean a storehouse, the repository
for military stores, the powder-room
of a ship or fortress and similar
storage-spaces, such as the “maga-
zine” of a rifle. First introduced into
the language by 16th-century travel-
lers, the word was used figuratively
by Ben Jonson to signify an intellec-
tual treasury. In 1731 was printed
the first issue of the “Gentleman’s
Magazine,” which described itself as
“a monthly collection to treasure up,
as in a magazine, the most remark-
able pieces on the subjects above-
mentioned.” Since then many periodi-
cals have used the word in their titles.
* * * *
A few facts about Ur ?
An ancient Sumerian city, the
prosperous capital of a vast and
powerful empire, it flourished from
about 3500 to 1900 B.c. Most of
what we know of Ur comes from
archaeological excavation, particularly
by Sir Leonard Woolley. Ur was
situated on the lower Euphrates; the
river, however, has since changed its
course, and does not now flow past
the site. Many richly-stocked tombs,
believed to be royal tombs, have been
discovered. Woolley’s finds give a
fairly complete picture of the way of
life of those days. The work of Ur’s
goldsmiths and other tradesmen was
of a high order. The ziggurat of Ur,
which still stands, is a masterpiece;
a solid mass of brickwork, it is 200 ft.
long, 150 ft. wide and 70ft. high. (A
ziggurat is an artificial mountain, on
top of which was placed a shrine to
a god.) Little is known of Ur’s
history, though one or two names of
kings are known. Ur was the birth-
place of Abraham.
♦ * * *
Some particulars about George
Lansbury, the British Labor leader ?
Born in 1859, son of a railway
timekeeper, he migrated to Queens-
land in 1884, working as a laborer
around Brisbane, but returned to
England in 1885. In 1910 he was
elected to Parliament as M.P. for
Bow and Bromley. A strong sup-
porter of women’s suffrage, he
resigned his seat in 1912 to test
opinions on the subject, but failed to
secure re-election. He was editor of
the “Daily Herald” from 1912 to
1922, when he was re-elected M.P.
for Bow, which seat he retained till
his death in 1940. He was First
Commissioner of Works from 1929 to
1931 (introducing measures designed
to popularise London parks and open
spaces), and was Leader of the
Opposition, 1931-35. In 1937 he
visited Hitler and Mussolini to try
to persuade them to adopt peaceful
policies. His integrity and idealism
were widely respected. He wrote four
books; a biography of him, written
by his son, was published in 1934.
Brief Answers.
K. 8.: The International Who's
Who, published by Europa Publica-
tions, Ltd., 56 Bloomsbury-street,
London... .K.D.C.: Write Director-
General, Department of Civil Avia-
tion, Almora House, 522 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic
T.L.: From Gaston C. Renard,
Antiquarian Bookseller, Box 529588,
Post Office, Melbourne, Vic
H.S.W.: Write Chapman and Hall,
37 Essex-street, Strand, London,
W.C.2... .F.R.R.: From the sec-
retary, the After Care Association of
N- S. Wales, 350 George-street, Syd-
ney J.H.: Write secretary, Billiards
Club Union of N. S. Wales, 140
Hawthorn-parade, Haberfield (N.S.W.).
. ...F.A.P.: The Duke of Gloucester
visited Australia before he became
Governor-General—he came here in
1934 as the King’s representative to
the Victorian centenary celebrations.
. ...F.M.: Try Mitchell Library,
Sydney... .W.D.8.: Passionfruit do
not mature immediately they are fully
developed. They rapidly attain a
large size after blossoming, but from
three to four months must elapse
(depending on temperatures) from
blossom-time to maturity J.P.L.:
The Bank of N. S. Wales has never
had to close its doors H.G.S.:
Place the job in the hands of a com-
petent mechanic N.R.W.: Trans-
lation of the line from Horace is
“Death is the final goal of things.”
. ...W.M.: Try second-hand depart-
ments of Angus and Robertson’s or
Dymock’s F.C.: Does not appear
to be a case in which assistance could
be obtained through the Legal Service
Bureau A.R.N.: There would be
no liability under the N.S.W. Workers’
Compensation Act to effect a policy
of insurance or indemnity covering
the case cited C.L.: A married
woman applying to the court for the
adoption of a child is required to
have the written consent of her hus-
band to the adoption J.P.M.: A
savings bank will not permit the
opening of an account under an
assumed name if aware of the deposi-
tor’s correct name.... J.E.: A pawn
reaching the opponent’s back row
must be converted at once into a
major piece 8.D.T.: Removal of
lens by operation is the only avail-
able treatment. In skilled hands
danger is very slight K.L.:
Bringen Brong is a Vic. abo. place-
name meaning “a bottomless water-
hole” L.F.G.: Write District Naval
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-road,
Edgecliff, Sydney K.W.: Batsman
is not out... .N.C.R.: Particulars for-
warded J.N.A.: The Eiffel Tower
is 1000 ft. high; the Great Pyramid is
480 ft. and St. Peter’s 448 ft J. 8.:
Evidently a deficiency in the food.
Give the birds chopped-up green food
and cod-liver oil mixed with pollard.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
M.H.: "How hard Is it for an enter-
prising young journalist to get on The
Bulletin staff?” At the moment,
particularly hard. The sketch is nice,
but the best parts would boil down to
a “Society” paragraph for us G.E.:
True, but we knew H.W.:
“Raynor’s Folly” very thin M.F.:
The Polite Essay will soon be a
collectors’ piece—yours must be only
the second we have seen in three
years—but that time has not yet
arrived R.H.: Cavewomen and
idiots make poor subjects R.C.:
Slight I.McD.: Very good indeed,
but for us, too close to the event
W.W.: We enjoyed the part where
the Hold-up Man said to the Victim:
“Bail up, mister —I want your role!”
evidently in prose, as in Hollywood,
characters object to being unsympa-
thetically typed T. 0.: Well, that
was in Africa; besides, they didn’t
die H.S.: Let’s hope, in your
Utopia, they will write better short
stories H.W.: “Early Land”
didn’t produce much of a crop
0.K.: Terrible to have to stand by
and watch you moving heaven and
earth, conjuring up a bushfire, making
poor old father sick, so that your
mechanical story may clank onwards
to its conclusion where the boy kisses
the girl J.T.: Heavens! M.W.:
Sorry, not quite our style... .1.P.:
Longer than we could use 8.M.:
Pavement-artist story rubbed 0ut....
J.M.: Too squalid for our taste.
W.M.F.: Next time you write a
story drop that incomprehensible
dialect... .H.G.: Priceless rubies
could be stolen every day from every
temple in the East, and we would still
be unmoved... .1.F.: You were so
busy describing the scenery that you
forgot the story W.S.M.: Arm-
chair philosophers in the fiction field
went out of date half-a-century ago.
C.D.: Glad to note that the
newest nursing-trainee nabbed the
physician, to the chagrin of the
vinegary matron G.W.: That
racing yarn makes an appearance
every Melbourne Cup time J.L.:
Bush girl who makes good in the city
meets city youth who makes good in
the bush —a perfect match... .L.C.L.:
Couldn’t get excited about the woes
of your zookeeper P.C.C.: Boil
it down to a paragraph R.L.: It
looks as if summer is here. Yours
is the first of the annual crop of
bushfire stories to arrive H.S.:
Stock subject handled in a mediocre
fashion A. 8.: Hopeless H.H.:
It fell down badly after an interesting
opening T. 8.5.: A commendable
first effort; now write about some-
thing within your own experience and
observation P.T.L.: A noble idea,
brother, but a feeble performance....
K.G.: “If this fails, I hope for better
luck next time.” We hope that there
will not be a next time.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
A.B.C. Programmes
Now that the fee for a listener’s
licence_ has been doubled the public will
be asking, more than ever, whether any-
thing like value is being given for the
money.
Dick Bentley is returning to England
by the Orcades, and the daily papers
lately carried photographs of his two
script-writers, with their respective wives,
boarding planes to fly back to London.
The season for the comedian was limited
to 10 weeks, and as the sessions were for
half-hour each, it means that the listeners
were rocked in their seats or laid on the
floor laughing for five hours.
I’ve no idea what salaries were paid to
these people or what their travelling ex-
penses amounted to, but I’d hazard a
guess that the cost of the show was very
considerable. Some may think they had
value, but to my way of thinking the
whole business is a perfect illustration of
one way in which the axe could be used
with advantage and the licence fee kept
at the old figure
If the Treasurer’s remarks about the
Budget and inflation mean anything,
surely it is that this sort of waste can be
cut out. Tuning-in to the A.B.C.’s pro-
grammes for October 31 at 8.15 p.m. we
were given the alternative of listening to
Parliament at Canberra or a talk entitled
“Your own milk from goats.” Dealers
in secondhand radio-sets should enjoy a
“buyer’s market” with such superlative
offerings.
When we find the Speaker of the House
rebuking members for their very small
attendances during debate, it is hard to
realise why the public at large should
have one of the commission’s pro-
grammes entirely devoted to broadcasting
such debates. At one stage, on November
1, only 15 members were in the House. —
Ceg (Vic.).
Waterfront Roster
The roster system now prevailing on
the waterfront (B. 24/10/’5l) was not
enforced by the Waterside Workers’
Federation, but was introduced by the
Federal Government as a war measure
to use manpower to the best advantage.
There was bitter opposition at the time,
and it appeared that those who wanted
free selection were in the majority, but
they were told by the general secretary
that they would have to accept whether
they liked it or not. After a secret ballot
was ordered the roster system was carried
by about 100 votes.
The “decasualising” of the waterfront
was advocated by no less an authority
than Judge Footer some years ago. James
Healy, secretary of the W.W.F., went
further and put it into effect at the New-
castle and Hunter River S.S. Co. Today,
under the roster system, if a member
misses his call for two days he has to
stand down the next day, and if consist-
ently absent suffers more drastic
penalties. I can’t see anything casual
about that.
If free selection were completely
enforced, however, many shipping firms
would be hard pressed for labor, since
the law of supply and demand is now
working in favor of the employee.
For instance, how many would
voluntarily step forward to work such
obnoxious cargoes as lampblack, which,
despite bathing facilities, takes about a
fortnight to work out from under the
skin? And then there are copra—full of
bugs, small flies and mites —soda-ash,
bulk wheat, glue pieces, sulphur, paint
pigments, cement, coke and wheat- and
flour-lumping.
The roster system is as good a one as
we can get today.—G. M. (N.S.W.).
The Trans
For months it’s been impossible to go
through a bunch of Australian papers
without being told about the Trans rail-
way. At one time or another practically
every paper has repeated the story about
how the time for the trip is to be cut in
half by the use of American equipment.
The latest report tells how the three-day
trip from Port Pirie to Kalgoorlie is to
be halved, while a semi-technical article
talks of “best time for a steam train of
44 hours 25 minutes being cut to a
bare 20.”
Back in 1929 I did my first trip over
the Trans. We left Port Augusta soon
after dark on Sunday and reached Kal-
goorlie Tuesday morning—a slow trip,
45 m.p.h. maximum, and a lot of killing-
time.
My next trip was 12 years later in
early 1941 and there was no comparison.
A sleeper from Melbourne took me right
to Port Pirie without change, reaching
there about noon after a very smart run
from Adelaide. Left there after lunch
Monday and arrived Kalgoorlie after
lunch Tuesday in plenty of time to
connect with the Perth express. That
trip, run without effort by a rather poor
type of locomotive, took just over a day.
Not three days or 44 hours or 40 hours,
but about 26-28, and that timing, which
nobody is going to halve, is what we
should be using as a standard of com-
parison.
Despite the clamor over the “fast”
diesels, the only thing that would make
any worth-while difference to the
Melbourne-Perth timing would be gauge
standardisation; without it any great
improvement on that 1941 result is
impossible,— Transporticus (Singapore).
Queensland Railways
The report of the Queensland Railways
Commissioner for the year ended June
30, 1951, just tabled in Parliament, will
not make very comforting reading for
Clem Lack (B. 10/10/’5l). It states:
“The gross earnings of £19,191,817 were
“Mislaire Mackenzie take reins—Missus Mackenzie be back-seat driver ,
yes?"
the highest ever recorded, but working
expenses also reached the record figure
of £18,974,547,” or £3,506,051 in excess
of last year’s figure.
The report points out that, to meet
interest on capital (of which millions
have been written off), 21.37 d. in every
£ earned was required, and in 1950-51
only 2.73 d. was available in every £ to
meet such interest.
With regard to “C.L.’s” “efficient work-
ing,” the report states that, on the Cook-
town railway, percentage of working
expenses to gross earnings was 796.98
(965.21 the year before). On the Cairns
railway the percentage was 159.25, on
the Normanton line 206.52, and on the
Innisfail and Mourilyan tramways 109.40.
On the southern division the percentage
was 98.90, on the central division 96.46,
and on the great northern railway 92.26.
In the southern division, losses were
shown on the Brisbane to Gympie and
Helidon lines and branches and the south-
coast line, the Warwick to Dirranbandi
and Wallangarra lines and branches, the
Roma to Injune and Cunnamulla lines,
and Westgate to Quilpie. In the central
division heavy losses were shown on the
Emerald to Winton line and branch-lines
and on the Yaraka line.
There is scarcely a meeting of graziers
at which adverse comment is not passed
on some aspect of Queensland railway
service, and the comment of most farmers
and graziers on the spending of millions
of pounds on the electrification of the
Brisbane suburban services is unprintable.
For many years graziers have been fight-
ing for the construction of a rail link
between Charleville and Blackall, and
there is no doubt that such a link would
be of great benefit to the State, particu-
larly in dry times. But the political
“pull” of Rockhampton interests has
always been too strong for the voice of
the countryman.
Some local authorities and graziers’
organisations have lately renewed agita-
tion for this rail link, pointing out that,
if millions can be found for the electri-
fication of suburban railways, it should
be possible to find the money required
for the building of a link between the
State’s central and southern railway
systems. Only rarely (1902 was the last
time) is the whole of the State —and Aus-
tralia —drought-stricken, and the quick
movement of sheep and cattle between
north and south, or vice versa, would be
of incalculable benefit to Australia. —
Oxo (Q.).
Better Farming Needed
In some countries, such as Australia,
too many people certainly have left the
land and thus contributed to the fall in
food-production (B. 31 /10/’5l), but,
remarkably, in some parts of the world
—Asia in particular—the opposite process
is the cause of loss of production.
F. Le Gros Clark, editor of the British
“Nutrition Bulletin” of the Central
Council for Health Education, points out
in Feeding the Human Family that “Part
of the trouble [the poverty and squalid
misery of Asian countries] is that rela-
tively little of the population has been
drawn off into industry. The result is
that the farming land of the East has
become desperately congested.” He adds
that growth of secondary industry in
Asia would provide needed mechanisation
and fertilisers, and relieve that pressure
on the land which keeps the population
poor and prevents scientific advance.
Suggested ways of improving Asian
food-production, apart from taking some
of the people off the land, are mechanised
farming, which would bring into culti-
vation land at present too difficult for
primitive ploughs; greater use of
fertilisers; development of irrigation
systems; and use of improved varieties
of plants and more efficient methods of
farming practice.
Such development of Asiatic countries
would undoubtedly react to the benefit
of the world in general and Australia
in particular. It would contribute to the
establishment of world peace, avert the
threat of Communism in Asia and should
provide a new and lucrative market for
Australian exports.—K. R. (N.S.W.).
Dairymen
Dairymen may be more prosperous
than ever before (B. 11/7/’5l), but we
are not all enjoying the luxuries “Mag-
noon” mentions. Certainly we have
passed the era of “slab-and-bark huts,
sleeping on com husks, etc.,” but so has
the city laborer passed from the time
when he slaved every hour of daylight
to earn a few shillings.
Agreed that “15 years ago dairymen
thought they were on top of the world
when they could afford a secondhand
utility,” but where are all those farms
worth £15,000 to £20,000?
In this district (Tweed River) there is
no one farm worth anything like that
sum. The average here would be 150 to
200 acres, many smaller. Mine is 130
acres. If anyone offered me £6OOO, and
if I took it, my conscience would
trouble me for the rest of my life!
There are many beautiful cars in the
district, most of them paid for, too, but
hot-water systems and paid employees
at £7 and £8 a week seem to be missing.
Anyone comfortably off has worked
very hard for what he has, and, what is
more, so have his jwife and children. Un-
fortunately, many of the young ones have
had enough, and farms are often being
sold “because Joe doesn’t like farming,
so it’s no use keeping on.”
The tragedy of it! The endless toil the
parents have gone through for so many
years “so Joe will have something when
he grows up,” only to find that Joe does
not want it.
It would have to be a mighty price
rise to entice Joe back. The only hope is
that, sooner or later, Joe will compare
the peace and freedom of country life to
the hurry and scurry of the city and then
change his mind again.— Dairyfarmer
(N.S.W.).
The Economist
My dictionary defines “economist”
(B. 24/10/’5l) as “manager, user (of time,
money, etc.), thrifty person, writer or
teacher of political economy.” Thus most
of us may claim to be economists under
the first categories, but it is the pro-
fessional economist who is the subject of
criticism.
Bernard Shaw once made an unkind
remark to the effect that people who
knew how to do things went and did
them, and that those who did not know
how to do anything were obliged to earn
a living by teaching. That stricture may
not be just, but it carries a particle of
truth.
Economics is not an exact science-
many students have been taught to pass
an examination in the subject, of which
they have very little understanding—and
economists are only groping in the dark
to find out how the State should be run.
They may get an idea, but when it is put
into practice the reaction of the people
on whom it is imposed may be very
different from what was expected. It is
very difficult to make full allowance for
human weaknesses.
Most men find it a lifetime’s job to
master the economics of their particular
industry, let alone those of a whole
nation. Our economic ills cannot be
cured by simply juggling with the
currency. Those who try to plan our
economy usually wind up -by control-
ling the actions of human beings to fit in
with their plan—which is the last thing
most of us desire. — Chips (N.S.W.).
The Averaging System
From July, 1946, to June, 1950, the
averaging system gained a tax advantage
of £50,000,000 for woolgrowers. On their
incomes for 1950-51 they stood to gain a
further £62,000,000. If the averaging
system were retained, as “J.S.L.”
advocates (B. 24/10/’5l), then over the
years as incomes declined averaging
would cause woolgrowers to pay
£112,000,000 more in tax than would be
paid by other taxpayers on equivalent
incomes. That is the way the averaging
system works. It requires farmers to pay
less than normal rates of tax when
incomes are rising, and it obliges them to
pay higher than normal rates when
incomes are declining.
On current rates the grazier with a
taxable income of £2OOO and an average
income of £lOOO would pay £270 in tax,
compared with £468 7s. by a grocer on a
similar income. But if their respective
incomes declined to £lOOO and the grazier
had an average income of £2OOO, he
would pay £234 3s. in tax while the
grocer paid only £135.
The averaging system has put wool-
growers under a moral obligation to the
rest of the community to pay over the
coming years an additional £112,000,000
into the public purse. The Federal
Treasurer is now saying to them “If you
pay £50,000,000 of the sum involved you
can keep the rest.” Those who say the
Government is not giving woolgrowers a
munificent gift by allowing them to with-
draw from the averaging system don’t
know what they are talking about. —
Tax Agent (N.S.W.).
Can N.S.W. Railways Pay?
An answer is to be found in repair
and maintenance workshops throughout
the State. Here are some facts from one
who worked in several shops—not to find
out anything—though he found out just
the same:
In the tender-repair section they work
on the quota system. They must turn
out one tender a week —no matter how
big or small. In this section there are
roughly 300 men employed; each receiv-
ing about £lO a week. If a tender needs,
say, £lOO spent on its repair, the job will
probably take 10 men half a day. The
rest trot off to a quiet spot for a game
of cards, or to the pub for a “session.”
That’s the week’s work done! Tomorrow
the 10 men who did the job trot off, too.
Another example is electric trains.
Their windows get dirty after rain; but
it takes weeks to clean them —doing about
one window every couple of days. There's
close on 150 windows to the average
electric train.
If a foreman is approached by a mao
who has finished a job and wants some
more work (yes, it does happen occa-
sionally!) the main idea is to get rid ot
the chap as quickly as possible so that
he won’t disturb the peace of the place
Multiply any of the foregoing incidents
by the number of shops (Clyde, Chullora,
Eveleigh and the rest), then by the number
of departments in each, and you begin to
get an idea of the loss. —R. B. (N.S.W-)'


UNUSUAL BOOKS
CANNIBAL CARAVAN
By Charles "Cannibal” Miller
A danger-crarhmed journey into
Dutch New Guinea. Illustrated.
18/9 (post lid.)
UNWEDDED BLISS
By Konelrn Foss
Thirty short, candid biographies on
famous folk who did not marry.
12/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 66*68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Available from all Booksellers
TWO OUTSTANDING NOVELS
THE HOUSES IN BETWEEN,
by Howard Spring
A "wonderful panorama of English life in
the last hundred years, not concentrating on
the high peaks of history, but rather giving
us the “feel” and atmosphere of successive
generations of English folk, splendidly told
by a great writer.
I6A
CHILDREN OF THE ARCHBISHOP,
by Norman Collins
Here is a new novel worthy of the author of
“London Belongs to Me.” The scene is a well-
known London orphanage, the Archbishop
Bodkin Hospital; the period 1920-1938; the
characters —everyone concerned with the hos-
pital.
16/-
COLLINS
GRAHAM GREENE
The End of the Affair
A story of love and hate, written with a power that only Graham
Greene could bring to such a theme. It is vibrant with the lives
of those who, even unto death, are enmeshed in the eternal issues:
the struggle between good and evil. “The finest novel Greene has
written.”—John Betjeman: Daily Telegraph.
"A potion blended by a master hand.”—L. P. Hartley; Observer.
At All Booksellers HEINEMANN
LIBRARIES AND SMALLER
COLLECTIONS OF BOOKS
We shall be grateful at any time for information regarding the opportunity to inspect
complete libraries of books, or even smaller lots, with a view to making an offer to
purchase them as a collection.
Just get in touch with our Secondhand Department, where arrangements can be made.
Dymock’s for Books New and Secondhand.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE BE 3611.
scientist with the expedition, describes a
three-year-old aboriginal boy singeing,
gutting and cooking a baby wallaby,
taken from its mother’s pouch, just as he
had seen his parents do with full-grown
specimens. A lone American strolls in,
having walked 160 miles from Cape Don
down the trackless coast of Van Diemen
lUr • • „t
with c- P Mountford , yarns with BUI
Harney and discusses Harney's transla-
lions oC aboriginal songs (but not his
much more effective bush ballads, which
are occasionally printed in The
Bulled) , and, m one ot his best pieces
of descriptive writing, he wades > nto a
lagoon to drive the birds towards the
A.B.C, s ever-attentive microphone;
All the pied geese in front of me and on
either side had their necks up where they
stood among the shallow banks of reeds,
and they were all talking about the
intruder; the sound never ceased. As I
waded nearer they would stop fishing down
into the water and stay motionless, until
one or two could bear it no longer and
took off. The rest would rise with a whirr
of wings, and trailing silver water from
their feet that streaked the surface as they
rose with a great crying and honking, to
settle again further up the lagoon. The
little downy ducks were the most fearless
or had the slowest instinct oi peril. They
I S? fmm r ,h a e r °Wol fIS *c£
towards me, low enough for me to see the
delicate curve of their beaks and hear the
soft passage of their grey-tipped wings. I
feeling o something' ite Trl.Xh whe™ tht
flight wavered and wheeled round and flew
hack towards the reaches where we had the
hide. A fleet of pelicans came sailing out
yards aAvayf.!^ 6 reeds less than a hundred
T , . _ .. „
n en . S* l ™? s , 6 . °*
Bathurst and Melville with an aboriginal
w man wading out towards the launch
an wailing as she came—her son who
ad worked on the vessel, had been killed
man accident in Darwin and this was her
customary ceremonial tribute. Then
some of the remarkable Voi corroborees
for which the MelvtUe Islanders are justly
ce ebrated, including an unexpected
i T IS ,m^ ol . u 5 a MacAiiniir yoi which
oo s like the result of war-time propa-
gan a slulfully Ranted in the native
mind ; and the traditional style of/‘shark
. m , w b lc h a man is caught by a
s ark, dances his struggle and is avenged
by his feUow-tnbesmen who rush in and
kill the shark with invisible spears: a
perfect example of how all art, whether
pictorial or dramatic, whatever those who
original i? magic may say,
° b ™“ s i, y kegms in mimicry as Aristotle
KSm K " .t sharkyol ,
if < , eSSe T
structure that
„ Clvlhsat ! on developed into
. ./ , , , , ,
As well as thus recoidmp what he has
seen on his travels, Mr. Simpson makes
f *u°° k if ea tor etter , understanding
of the aborigines, and gives some im-
pressiye evidence in support of his faith
m their future: as to their mental ability,
he ingenuity some ot the Melville
Islanders showed m their capture of a
Japanese pilot during the war, and also
—by no means a negligible point in a
race of which it has been said “The
difficulty, or impossibility, of making a
native comprehend the idea of arranging
spotted cards in numerical sequences is a
further instance pf the lack of ability to
formulate propositions of a generalised
nature”—their skill at poker ; and as to
their ability to survive, “The number of
full-bloodcd aborigines in Australia
according to the 1947 census was 46,638.
This is a decrease of only 376 on the
1944 figure of 47,014. Over the same
period in the Northern Territory the full-
blood figures show an increase of nearly
600... .1 am predicting that the figures
for 1953 will show an increase in the
number of full-blooded aborigines
The total of full-bloods and half-bloods
showed an increase [between 1944 and
1947] from 71,895 to 73,817 ”
Reviewed Briefly.
Latest addition to the Notable British
Trials series is The Trial of Frederick
Bywaters and Edith Thompson (Hodge),
edited by Filson Young. The pair were
jointly convicted of the murder of Percy
Thompson, the woman’s husband.
* * * V
Cities: Rupert Croft-Cooke and Noel
Barber (Wingate). Brief prose-snapshots
of many cities in Europe, America and
the East which the authors have visited
in the course of journalism and novel-
writing—New York, Barcelona, Monte
Carlo, Batavia, London. It has rather
the effect of a James Fitzpatrick
travelogue, bright as far as it goes but
too brief and generalised. Sometimes,
though, there is a vivid bit of detail, as
when Mr. Barber in Harbin saw naked
Russians dipping themselves in a hole in
a frozen river after worshipping at a
gigantic cross of ice.
* * * ♦
The Scandinavian Book : P. F. D.
Tennant (Hodge). A “travel-companion,”
geographical and historical, for the in-
tending tourist Curiosities of nature and
folklore, quoted from many authors
mostly of the 18th and 19th centuries,
give it some mild interest as general
reading.
* * * *
Is God in History ?: Gerald Heard
(Faber). The title, insofar as it seems
to suggest that Mr, Heard’s chief concern
will be with the historical facts of
Christianity, is misleading; his purpose is
to demonstrate that the Christian doctrines
of Creation, Fall and Redemption are the
fundamental pattern of all life on this
planet, . whether it is the unicellular
organism “refusing its opportunity” - in
evolution to become something more in-
teresting or humanity constantly getting
itself into a mess and constantly having
the opportunity to get out of it again-
Biology, history. Eastern and Western
religions and philosophy (with attacks on
Frazer, Marx and Freud s “influential
extravaganza”) all come into the scheme
of the book, which is an interesting as
Mr. Heard’s previous theorisings but
turgid in style.
* * * *
Musical Gomes for Infants: M. A.
Jarvis (Faber). For teachers —where the
children should stand and what they
should do if, for instance, they suddenly
feel impelled to announce in dance and
song, to the tune of “Sing a Song of
Sixpence,” “I am a little teapot small
and stout” ; or —a rather more interest-
ing diversion —to play at Georgie Porgie
kissing the girls and making them cry.
No music is supplied; the teacher is in
most cases referred to the News -
Chronicle Nursery Rhyme Book and
News Chronicle Song Book.
* * * *
The Art of Interior Design and
Decoration: John M. Holmes (Long-
mans). A compact and clear survey of
architecture, sculpture, mural-painting,
furnishing, etc., from the Greeks to our
own times; for the student, the specialist
and the layman alike.
* # * *
Undiscovered Ends: Canon W. H.
Elliott (Peter Davies, Ltd.). Auto-
biography ; Canon Elliott’s father was a
hawker, then a butcher; the boy won a
scholarship to Oxford and eventually be-
came chaplain to the King. He writes in
a personal, chatty style about Royalty
and notabilities of the church, stage and
politics, ending with a chapter on
“Adventures in the Unseen,” in the course
of which he very surprisingly cures “by
spiritual healing” the wounds of a dog
which had been caught in a rabbit-trap.
* * * ♦
A new uniform edition of Constance
Garnett’s translations of Turgenev’s
novels is being published by ‘Heinemann.
The series will begin with Fathers and
Children, Smoke, Virgin Soil, A House
of Gentlefolk and On the Eve. A speci-
men of Virgin Soil (in two volumes)
shows type of readable size, tolerable
paper for these parlous times, compact
format and binding in excellent taste —
a gold-brown cloth embellished with gold
lettering, with a plate of red for the title
on the spine. Virgin Soil, on the stock
Russian theme of the futility of their
intellectual revolutionaries, will always
be overshadowed by Dostoevsky’s
The Possessed; but merely to hear
Smoke mentioned again is a delightful
experience, and a reminder that for his
balance of mind, the delicacy of his
portraits of women, his slightly malicious
wit and his formal discipline, Turgenev
was the finest artist amongst all the
Russian novelists.
3ft * * *
The Case of Comrade Tulayev:
Victor Serge (Hamish Hamilton). This
powerful long novel by an informed
critic of tlie Communist party who died
in Mexico soon after writing it demon-
strates the working of a Soviet confes-
sional purge after a high official has been
shot by a young workman whom no one
suspects. The facts of the crime do not
matter: it constitutes criticism of Stalin's
administration, and at least three pro-
minent men, one an ex-Trotskyite dragged
back from banishment in Siberia;'have to
be made to “confess deviation.” The
feeling of doom over Soviet officials
abroad is no less heavy than the squalor
of trains in the long return from Siberia ;
and the long tradition of Russian hornble-
ness is not in any way weakened in the
scene where the apparently gentle and
suburban old inquisitor, Popov, pleacrs
with one of the doomed notables to con-
fess to . crimes of which he is innocent
for the sake of the Revolution. Perhaps
it is the doom of Russia that she must'
contrive political hells to 'feed her literary
tradition.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 148
Across.
I—Bloke rents garlands for the head.
(8)
s—Cleans badly where Harold was
cleaned up. (6)
10— Angry mayor says this in regard
to local taxes. (5)
11— Cheese branch tout. (9)
12— Creasing east separates Robin
Goodfellow and a Victorian
bowler. (9)
14— T. W, Robertson’s most famous
play is not without rank in India,
es>
15— Court number for complaints by
some telephone subscribers. (3)
17— Why layed isn’t unallayed with
regard to a substantive. (6)
18— Employ. (3)
20— Don’s contradicted by some of
the cricket field between pence
and shillings. (5)
21— What happens when my turn
comes to bat for Priestley’s Jolli-
fant. (5)
23 Panama finds Jolson’s capacity in
question. (5)
24 Fruit isn’t heavy, but is appre-
ciated by show-offs. (9)
26—Spoon dupe (anagram). (9)
28—There are 40 of them in a Clare
Boothe work that has won
around me. (5)
30— Star act in a variety show goes
to the State. (6)
31— Ask _ Barnaby not to think
generously of another’s good
fortune. (8)
Down.
1— Twit a seat in church with a Red
Indian. (8)
2 Turkish commander has the heart
of Hagar. (3)
3 Ale filtered in secret for the
• singing-club. (11)
4 Tails confused a town in Latvia.
(5)
6 Plains .between Penrith and the
Blue Mountains. (3)
7 Bill’s becoming act as a result of
this support with one trenchant
criticism. (11)
8— Blackout heel accompanied by
some, but not many. (6)
9 Fancies the last and perfect state
of insect life (plural). (8)
13— Growing cuckoo is doing this to
its foster-brother bird-noise and
foot-trouble. (8, 3)
14- covering is farther down
than hearty nourishment. (11)
16—Steal some cattle steamer show-
ing no sign of oxidation. (8)
19—Steed swallowed half a score for
a girl. (8)
22—American State expels these
reconnaissance men. (6)
25 —Cuckoo earth for a girl. (5)
27 —Strike up the standard score of
course. (3)
29—Batty. (3)
Solution to Crossword No, 147.


AS
7*
♦A .A* ■-
S
,T.V>
5S
Vi*tt
>«•
■~A
♦SMut
?fc
r£-
.- ; .J 7,
A
Tf^
v*
*v>. .V
3V. (
w?
i V% ■
i
*►l
<•>
f $ -v‘• v*- ;• »-•«£••. .
g*
a 'v^«'vv»3;v*> .r* •-.<-•
% " ■••^.;«- -«£;;. 5 4 *• ■ •■ ■■ '■'•• '••■ ■
“MARS”
3 H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
A quality diesel with outstanding features. Slow
running Bosch injection Water cooled Replace-
able Liners Detachable Cylinders Variable speed
Forced feed lubrication Dynamically balanced
Easy Starting Economical fuel consumption
simple to operate Almost Vibration free.
3 H P., 8 H.P. and 10 H.P. DIESELS AVAILABLE
FOR EARLY DELIVERY
* * ;*> c *■
-'i .. *■ s-Vf. *
.tf-s
y*.
mm
M
tk
'ey
‘a* i
mi
9*
v"v
yw. «
*
a*
31
Us;’
»-rf_ p* 1
at' •
.
&3
3H
‘ A
&
WM
m
'M
m
M
u
«« t*
mWmm
HR#
H
IKS
v ■*
.*•
!* ••*' *
•. «^TKSJ!
;•>/
• •.. /■ Va>. ’
“MARS”
No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
A fine and modern Milling Machine with
guaranteed Accuracy and outstanding Quality.
Rapid Power traverse, all movements. Wide
range of speeds and feeds. Built in electrics.
Schlesinger standards of accuracy. Complete
with all accessories.
OTHER PRODUCTION
MADE
a*
“MARS” RADIAL DRILL
Designed to suit Engineering Work-
shop conditions requiring capacity and
accuracy. All gear drive. Power and
Hand Feed. Quick change and ease
of operation. Portable work table.
11l
"MARS” TRIPLE-DRUM SANDER
High-speed production machine. Dial load
indicators fitted to each drum to ensure maximum
efficiency. No. 1 drum provided with selective
oscillation. Continuous feed belt ideally suited
for sanding small parts.
“MARS” PLANER
Suitable for use in any workshop.
Accurately built and sturdily designed.
Simple to operate. Maximum pro-
duction with minimum outlay.
"MARS” 165-in. SHAPER
Ideal all purpose machine. Wide
operational range. Designed to cut
key ways in long shafts. Guaranteed
accuracy.
m
m
3V
i
m
a
S.
©
ft
0
Cl
f/Sffi
M rruANTT7 CA STINGS. All castings are produced in the Mars Foundry under supervision of highly
trained metallurgical and laboratory staffs. WE MANUFACTURE 21 GRADES OF MEEHANITE IRONS.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS; W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co.. 184 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide. VIC.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567/569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mtg Go.Pt3r. ua.
TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., Hobart Head Office: Box 2156 T, Elizabeth Street Post Office, Melbourne INDIA (Bombay Province).
R. S. Mehta & Co., Ah Chambers, Fort, Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works. Manila.
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
M AN FG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY. BRISBANE
