

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72-No. 3704
Wednesday, February 7, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper*
Jeppelts
SCARS OF BATTLE PROCLAIM THE STORY OF INVERNESS.
THE ancient and picturesque town of Inverness, known as the capital of
the Highlands, breathes the spirit of past centuries. It was the capital
of the Pictish King Brude when St. Columba brought him the Gospel in
the sixth century, and since those far-off days it has played a leading role
in almost every important event which took place in the Highlands. The
town remained the seat of a succession of Pictish kings, and after them,
in the eleventh century, it continued to rule the north as the chief town
of the Mormacrs, of Moray, who claimed to be independent of Scottish
kings.
In the twelfth century King David I of Scotland finally defeated the
Moray men and attached the province to the Scottish Crown. Inverness
became a Royal burgh, and during the reign of William the Lion (1165-1214)
it received four charters. The town continued to grow in wealth and
importance, and by 1273 it had a flourishing trade in herring, hides furs
wool, timber and other commodities with Leith, London and Continental’
ports. Owmg to its ideal situation beside the River Ness near its confluence
with the Moray Firth it was also an important shipbuilding centre
The history of the town is interwoven with that of its castles, of which
there were two. One, commonly known as Macbeth's Castle, was situated on
the “Crown,” and is reputed by some to have been the scene of the murder of
Duncan. The other castle was built by Duncan’s avenger, Malcolm Canmore,
on the present Castle Hill, and throughout the centuries it was the scene of
much fighting. During the Scottish War of Independence Inverness was, on
three occasions, occupied by the English, and when Bruce recaptured it in
1307 he destroyed the Castle. It was rebuilt, and in 1562 during the visit of
Mary Queen of Scots she found the gates of the castle closed against her —a
gesture of defiance which cost the Governor his life the following day, when
the castle surrendered.
In 1715 Inverness Castle was occupied by the Jacobites, and again in 1745
by Prince Charles, who left it in ruins. The site was finally cleared in 1834
to make way for the building of the existing castle, which serves as a
Court House and administrative offices for the county of Inverness-shire. Near
the castle stands a memorial to Flora Macdonald, the heroine of the Jacobite
Rebellion, to whose courage and resource Prince Charles owed his escape to
France from the Hebrides.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPEIT
B. SEPP E L T & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
f
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(3.8.151) .Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 9 65, _ W ell in ’
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. a - n
tralian books, also in bookish items of gen j — nl
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements go'*- gr j
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual s • an( j
Book lists on Mansfieldiana, Caxton P re ®?>,, T ' wson
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, W
and others). Specialised fields for book hu w S
The Red Page
THE ART OF INDIA.
The Art of India and Pakistan (Faber),
a huge and beautifully proportioned book
bound in red buckram, with eight color-
plates and 276 illustrations in mono-
chrome, is so much like what is called a
“gift book” that one cannot help regard-
ing it as some kind of farewell gesture by
the British to their former Dominion.
Perhaps it is a final salute to Indian
culture as a body of art and thought
which now must stand alone and which,
standing alone, will in future be more in-
tensively studied, both for its own sake
and for what it can contribute to the
West. Or perhaps, since India and
Pakistan co-operated in the exhibition
which the volume commemorates, it is
also a farewell gesture from those
countries. At any rate, though K. de B.
Codrington in his scholarly introduction
to the sculpture section points out that
international exchanges of art have hardly,
as Laurence Binyon and others hoped,
abolished war, from the cultural point of
view the nations could hardly have parted
company on more handsome terms.
The book is a commemorative cata-
logue of the exhibition of Indian art held
at the Royal Academy in 1947-48. Be-
cause of the co-operation of India and
Pakistan, particularly in the transport of
sculpture, that exhibition was the most
comprehensive of its kind ever held in
England. Sir Leigh Ashton, who Las
edited the volume, writes with mingled
delight and regret of “masterpieces of
sculpture” which in all probability the
English public “will never see again.”
But the most.important of the sculptures
are, at least, reproduced in this book ;
apd it, in its turn, becomes automatically
the most far-reaching and the most im-
portant survey of Indian art ever printed.
To an Australian reader a great many
of the plates, except for one or two re-
produced in Rajput Painting and Mughai
Painting in the Faber Gallery series, must
represent practically unknown artistic
territory ; and if the exquisitely light and
graceful animal drawings of Mansur, the
Mughal court-painter of about 1600 A.D ,
are reasonably familiar, the sculptures, : n
particular, are new and, though they date
back to the third millennium B.C., delight-
ful in their grace and strength.
Mr. Codrington speaks of the surprise
with which London critics found them-
selves using such words as “voluptuous”
and “sensuous” of Indian art; but the
absence of grossness in the sensual art
and the absence of mere grotesquerie in
the bronzes of gods with the heads of
elephants and goddesses with two or three
extra arms or hands growing out of their
elbows are really the most pleasant dis-
coveries to be made. The sculptures of
women, often in dancing postures, are
astonishingly lovely and alive, and the
extra limbs in the bronzes of the gods
are employed to make fascinating designs,
not so much bizarre as dramatic and
harmonious.
For the ordinary buyer of art-books the
elaborate and lengthy catalogue of the ex-
hibition is unnecessary ; but the copious
illustrations, the essays on sculpture,
bronze and textiles (John Irwin) and
painting (Basil Grey), together with the
beauty of the book in itself, still make it
an exceptionally attractive proposition.
Kangaroo Island,
Australia is a large place, and most of
our nature-writers are tempted to write
largely about it: all its parrots in a
parrot-book, all its rivers in a trout-
book, all its wildflowers in a wildflower-
book. That is all very well if the book
is meant to be an encyclopaedia and if it
is truly encyclopaediac in scope ; but too
often such books are dull because they
do not describe nature at first-hand, or
they are superficial or incomplete and
therefore, however attractive in patches,
maddening as a whole.
The essence of nature-writing is to
write small: to stay in one place, love
one place and observe it so minutely that
not a bird, not a beetle, not a single fallen
leaf escapes the eye: so that if all the
rest of Australia must be left to someone
elsfe to describe, here at least is one small
patch of ground rescued from time and
space for the reader’s mind to absorb.
Books of this second kind are too
rare in Australian writing; but Mervinia
Masterman has given us an admirable
one in Flinders Chase (Georgian House).
Her patch of ground is Kangaroo Island,
off the South Australian coast, and Mrs.
Masterman sets out to tell us, in an
orderly arrangement of chapters and in
a pleasant unpretentious style, exactly
what Kangaroo Island is made of: its
pure Ligurian bees, cherished in the Gov-
ernment Apiary for export all over the
Commonwealth ; its koalas, its kangaroos
and wallabies, its spiny ant-eaters, its
goannas, its birds, its wild pigs which are
accused of robbing the mounds of the
brush - turkeys, its wildflowers and
orchids, its eagles and its bullfrogs and
its remarkable Remarkable Rocks.
And as a result of thus indomitably
staying in one place—or at least camping
in one place at holiday times —Mrs.
Masterman has written a book which is
of much more general interest than the
usual far-ranging encyclopaedia ; for here
everything is compact, everything is to
the point, everything is observed at first-
hand, everything is rich with life ; and
nature observed in this way is always of
interest anywhere in the world . . , the
antics, for instance, of an amorous koala
—a surprisingly active old gentleman—
and the tame wallabies around Mrs.
Masterman’s caravan, and the goannas
which, though they would swallow whole
the shank of a leg of mutton, affec-
tionately licked the children’s bare feet;
and the little wild orchids which, Mrs.
Masterman being an artist as well as a
nature-writer, are nicely illustrated in
color as well as described in the text:
A little later we find the dark crimson
spider, Caladenia filamentosa, its exquisite
and delicate long tentacles of transparent
wine-red fringed with hairs of the same
color, more spider-like than any other
except Patersonii. This red orchid is found
only at Kangaroo Island and Monarto
South.
One cannot quite agree with the pub-
lishers that Flinders Chase “may easily
become an Australian natural-history
classic.” It takes a great deal to make a
Selborne or a Walden —a passion for the
earth, a fanatical devotion to one
place or one subject that expresses
itself naturally in impassioned prose.
How profoundly Fabre loved his
spiders, for example, and how
beautifully he wrote about them!
Flinders Chase is very light stuff by com-
parison ; but it is a delightful little book
and, with its pencil-drawings and colored-
plates, charmingly produced.
Essays in Criticism .
Mr. Arthur Murphy, who has written
some articles for “Southerly” and a slight,
pleasant little book of lyrics. Face to the
Sun, has published Contemporary Aus-
tralian Poets (Marunyah Press; distri-
buted by Lothian, Melbourne) too early
in his career as a critic.
In the first place, his book is very
small: a collection of six short essays.
His selection of Australian poets—Judith
Wright, William Hart-Smith, R. G.
Howarth, Douglas Stewart, Rex Ingamells
and Robert D. FitzGerald —is curiously
haphazard, and results in a confusion of
values.
His own prose style needs purifying
from cliches and mixed metaphors before
he sets up as a critic of others —if it is
permissible t® speak of Australia’s “sun-
burnt heart” “vibrating” one doubts if a
“furrow of pain” can be “embossed with
mankind’s primal curse” ; and trying to
describe a poem about trains, Mr.
Murphy could surely have found a
happier phrase than “stabbing their noses
defiantly into the darkness” ...
Finally, it cannot be said that Mr.
Murphy finds anything very new to say
about his writers. Nothing is added, for
instance, to T, Inglis Moore’s essay on
FitzGerald —in fact, Mr. Murphy says
much less —nor is there any fresh
approach ; though, indeed, one likes the
sound of:
we have the subterranean soundings
of a restless mind, a continued battering
against the walls of mystical thought, and a
passing from one genuine mental experience
to another.
Mr. Murphy appears, in short, chiefly
as an enthusiastic admirer of Australian
poetry. And precisely for that reason one
is glad to see him attempting criticism.
Australian writing is usually ignored in
the daily newspapers; in the little
magazines it is often expertly taken to
pieces but seldom put together again:
appreciation, the highest form of criticism,
that lights a path for the reader, is rare.
And, though his extravagances are dis-
concerting and his style difficult, Mr.
Murphy does not lack perception.
The best piece of appreciation in the
book is the study of Judith Wright:
partly because it is up to date, whereas
the Hart-Smith essay does not take in
the complete Christopher Columbus
sequence; partly because Mr. Murphy
deals both minutely and comprehensively,
in a way that has hardly been done
before, with The Moving Image and
Woman to Man, going through the two
volumes almost poem by poem; partly
because he is happier with this lyrical
writer than with FitzGerald ; and partly
because he has so unassailable a case
for enthusiasm.
Geelong Story .
Tale of a City ; Geelong — 1850-1950
by David Wild (Cheshire), celebrating
the centenary of Geelong, is the usual
history of its kind; mostly of local
interest but with points for a wider
audience. It is considerably animated by
stories of Geelong’s attempts to establish
itself as a port, against the opposition
of “Melbourne interests”; —
An interesting survival of the keen com-
mercial rivalry between Geelong and Mel-
bourne is a copy of the famous “false
map” of Victoria. It is a map—produced
by Melbourne commercial interests —so
distorted in shape as to give the impression
that Melbourne was closer than Geelong
to the thriving, gold-producing centre of
Ballarat.
In 1854, says Mr. Wild, Governor
Hotham told a Geelong deputation ask-
ing for a Harbor Trust to deal with the
bar outside the port, and for docks,
wharfage and warehouses, that he was
“personally sympathetic,” but unable to
do anything “owing to the strong influ-
ence exerted by certain officials to draw
commerce to Melbourne.”
The Geelong authorities dredged a
10ft. 6in. channel by 1860; but by then
commerce was established in the
Yarra. By 1893, when the Hopetoun
Channel was dredged 23ft. deep and
132ft. wide, Australia had fallen into the
land-boom slump, and the firm which
supplied the champagne for the colossal
celebration-party on the old Edina was
left with the bill, which crippled it for
some years. In 1905, Geelong got its
Harbor Trust; but 13 years later Mel-
bourne proposed to amalgamate Geelong
and Melbourne Trusts, and the struggle
continued until 1933 and the constitution
of the present Geelong trust. The channel
is now 29ft. deep, and being deepened,
and the trust controls an inner harbor of
17 square miles and an outer harbor of 73
square miles. The Ford Motor Works
were established at Geelong in 1925,
and: —
Under Harbor Trust control.. . .the port
of Geelong has expanded rapidly. Fertiliser
works, a distillery, wheat silos, steel works,
glass works, and large meat works, as well
as Australia’s most important agricultural
machinery plants, are included among exist-
ing major industries on land formerly under
control of the Trust. Among major
developments already in hand is a projected
oil refinery, the first portion of which is
expected to cost £650,000. Ultimately it is
expected that the Refinery Works will
require an expenditure in excess of
£4,000,000.
Moreover, Geelong still has up its
sleeve a proposal to use the high cliff at
North Shore for the Californian method
of gravity-loading ...
All of which is a long way from the
first Geelong Council which Mr. Wild is
celebrating, and its remarkable first
Mayor, Dr. Alexander Thomson, who
arrived in Australia with a small fortune,
and after trying Tasmania settled on the
present site of Geelong in 1836.
He built himself a house in three
weeks, and while it was building held
church services in a tent. He was an
Aberdonian Presbyterian, but as these
were the first services in a new colony,
he read the Church of England service—
everything done right and proper. He
ran sheep on the Barwon, securing
highest price for lambs’ wool in 1849 —
29jd. a pound—he was a director of the
Melbourne-Geelong Railway Line, cost-
ing £600,000 when it opened in 1857, a
member of the Legislative Assembly ; he
guaranteed Geelong Council’s first loan ;
but died poor, as superintendent of a
boys’ home at £200 a year.
Thomson Ward, named after him,
became Geelong West City; a proposal
to erect him a monument was not gone
on with ; but last year the council had
East Geelong Housing Estate named
Thomson. The most remarkable of the
book’s illustrations is a portrait of Aider-
man Thomson, presumably a retouched
photograph—if it is a painting, then
there has been a Dobell before our time.
“Melbourne influence” crops up again,
presumably, in the story of Geelong
Grammar School, which was to have
been opened by the Governor, Sir Henry
Barkly, in 1858 ; he was prevented, the
Geelong “Advertiser” reported, from
carrying out his intention “by a somewhat
sudden indisposition, so it was said.”
However, it would be misleading io
convey the impression that the entire
history consists of dark allegations
against Melbourne. We learn that Bell
Post Hill was named from a ship’s bell
hung there by David Stead to warn
Cowie and Stead’s station-hands to come
in because hostile blacks were about;
the bell was sent to Hobart to be
repaired, then presented to Melbourne
Public Library, then exhibited at Geelong,
and now is back on its old stand, now
the Presbyterian Girls’ School . .
“Chinese” Morrison, the famous “Times”
correspondent who became a political
power in China, was the son of Dr.
George Morrison, first principal of
Geelong College . . . When the clipper
Lightning caught fire in 1869, almost
full of wool, they towed her out into
the bay, where the wool prevented
attempts to scuttle her. Army officers
refused to fire on her without authority
from their major, who was on a cruise ;
the captain of a tug tried ramming her
and had to give up; volunteers brought
two 32-pounder cannon to bear, and
riddled the hull with little effect; but
after being aflame for 15 hours she sank,
seemingly of her own volition, in 27ft. of
water . . .
One has left to the last Geelong’s
Gordon Institute of Technology, opened
in 1887, and the forceful little secretary,
George King, “the last of the
Bohemians,” who raised it from the dead
in the ’nineties ; and its Textile College,
opened in 1946, “now the centre of wool
research for the Commonwealth and a
mecca for students from every quarter
of the globe’ 1 ’ —the study of wool, and
the resounding thump of the Geelong
chest over present-day wool prices, are
not, alas, matters upon which a thread-
bare reviewer can enthuse. .
Reviewed Briefly.
Lady Beware : Peter Cheyney (Collins).
Johnny Vallon takes on a case for a rival
detective who has been endeavoring to
produce a rival heiress. There is a vicious
actor; but the big thrill is when Vallon
kisses a widow in order to get a sample
of her lipstick. But Cheyney’s heroes
used to have better reasons for kissing
beautiful widows—tfc.e old man’s break-
ing up.
* * * *
Beyond the Forest: Stuart Engstrand
(Cape). An American backwoods doctor’s
wife has an affair with a millionaire
timberman when he comes to hunt in
the forest; he proposes divorcing his wife
to marry her, but the doctor thinks other-
wise. When, after much coming and go-
ing, it seems that the millionaire might
settle for the daughter of the doctor's
surly friend, the wife tries to shoot her
and shoots the friend instead —a hunting
accident. After that, things start to get
really sordid.
* * * *
The Edge of Doom: Leo Brady (In-
vincible Press). A study of Martin who
struck down a priest in an argument over
how his mother was to be buried; the
usual gloomy picture of a murderers
mind, and a tiny literary joke when
Martin is suspected of the box-office
robbery of the same night and the box-
office robber is charged with the priests
murder; has been filmed, starring Dana
Andrews and Farley Granger.
* * * *
The Life of Dr. John Radcliffe : Camp-
bell R. Hone (Faber). The principal
audience for Bishop Hone’s scholar!)
biography will probably be at Oxford,
where Dr. Radcliffe’s benefactions are
responsible for the Radcliffe "Camera, the
Observatory and the Radcliffe Infirman
But there are also patches of interest for
the general reader. Born in 1652 or 1633,
Radcliffe became the most eminent
physician of his day ; James II appointee
him physician to Queen Anne (Princess
Anne as she was then), but Radcliffe feu
out of favor when the Princess once sen
for him while he was drinking with friend*
and he said “with an oath” that he.
Highness’s distemper was nothing but the
vapors, and she was in as good estate
of health as any woman breathing, coin
she but give in to the belief of it.” When
Anne came to the throne Godolphin tneu
to persuade her to reinstate Radcliffe, nu
she refused on the grounds that u so
sent for him “he would only tell her tha
she had the vapors.”


H'RUTHMIN advertising*
nthony Horderns
■
mm
i
9
■
Hi
m
■ ;
m
■
■
■ -
tfi- •
■
m
mm
P 3&S
111
■
{Si 1
I M'll I
SIJW
i
>Ma
m
I
J : :
- *m
■ n
H
B
>
■1
iM
■
mm
: s 5;
m '
ifiii-:
Distinction with a dividend of comfort
Above Left: Hutton’s English “Playboy” casuals, heavy repairable crepe rubber soles
and heels. In brown suede or rich London tan calf 124/- ea. In smart chukka
boots with suede uppers 13 1 /- pair. Above Right: Packard Brogue,, stout soles, wide
welts, sewn heel seats, Tan calf, Black Box, Brown Suede 71/-. Scotch Zebu 93/b pair.
mm
,TnV\
m
IU- l-JI
mm
i -v H,
■
H
l-M
SB
m
m
m
.
i "%C
. ■ v
• ft
>v<‘ ~ .;
■svv
v-
- : V.
mm
■ ' N(.> v.-v :- ? r ; -. ■■ :
"JuiSys Marlow" Moccasins
Left: “Julius Marlow” moccasin derby with wall toes. In tan or
brown calf with either leather or non-slip rubber soles
and heels. Available in sizes 5 to 13. Priced at 54/6 pair.
Comfortable irogues by
"Julius Marlow"
Right: “Julius Marlow” brogue
with stout soles and heels and wide
welts. In rich tan calf or black
box calf. Sizes 5 to 13. Price 54/6.
Call at our fractional fitting shoe
section and have your correct size
and fitting listed in our records for
your future reference.
(h-ij/'r
; =
i 1 'c/^
L
6fx
J 7 ‘ " S>
Above: “Packard” moccasin derby with smart wall toes in tan calf
with either leather soles or non-slip rubber soles and heels, or black
box calf with leather soles at 66/6 pair. Also in brown elk witf
screw-in replaceable spikes for golf 93 f° P a * r '
MEN’S SHOES DEPARTMENT —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET —TELEPHONE M 2401 MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYD


ƒ
sssywjul
Sawing
Winching
Lighting
♦
Crushing
~fl
WMltUfr
Thats what you want in an engine—and thats
what you’ll get when you install INTERNATIONAL—
THE POWER THAT PAYS.
Each unit is designed to supply a reliable, money
making source of dependable power readily adaptable to
your particular application.
Whether your business embraces pumping, sawing,
winching, crushing or whether you need power for
lighting or power for emergency you will find an
INTERNATIONAL to satisfy your requirements.
9
&
/-
/
7
7
'Sr*
&
z
A 069
r.
m
r»e»>ewx^
\SJ SKSHSI
I':;
Hi
t
i M
M
kss®!
H
MM
SBBB
■
sill
l
m
■
* '
■
T
f
111 iihut nmit-Ti
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HOBART ADELAIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3704
Wednesday, February 7, 1951
MONKEY-ON-A-STICK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
UNEMPLOYMENT AGAIN.
As a foretaste of the continuous weekly
coal strikes which the miners’ leaders by
a 9-6 majority announced, the McGirr
Government’s order closing down all
industry in Sydney for two days last week
may have served a grim warning pur-
pose. Over 150,000 work people were
on that order thrown into unemployment.
Other losses included some £2-million-
worth of output.
The community now knows that the
strike action and the McGirr Govern-
ment’s impotence mean large-scale un-
employment. That at least some unionists
quickly read the lesson (and, with the
plotted weekly stoppages duly started on
Monday, other unionists must very soon
have it forced home to them) has been
indicated by the Victorian A.L.P. central
executive’s urgent call on its Federal
counterpart to “lay down a policy on
threatened Communist strike action,” and
directing attention to the “developing
pattern of Communist disruption in Aus-
tralian key industries, designed to carry
out the published orders of the
Cominform.”
The leaders of a strong section of the
miners fought the Communist majority on
their Central Council for two days in
resistance to the initial defiant, lawless
moves to lay industry idle. But the re-
sponsible leaders put themselves in
exactly the light by which the Common-
wealth Government desires the whole
working public shall judge them.
The so-called authorisation by “the
rank-and-file” of the weekly strikes
amounted to nothing more than a
show-of-hands vote at meetings which
together represented not a quarter of the
number of working miners. In any case
the whole thing was framed-up by the
Communists from the outset; they take
orders not from any rank-and-file but
from Moscow,
The other useful lesson was the revela-
tion of utter subservience of the Mc-
Girr Cabinet to the Communist bosses’
decision. A fine shindy broke out in the
McGirr Cabinet when it was discovered
on the evening of the firsi day of un-
employment that Pyrmont power-
station had stopped making power be-
cause power was going to waste. To en-
raged householders —those at least who
had respected the ban —Mr. Cahill
offered no comment. Mr. McGirr broke
a sphinx-like silence first by telling the
miners that his Government stood for
conciliation and arbitration, and then by
announcing that the dispute was no con-
cern of the State Government.
But like the soldier on Pinchgut
who, being alarmed when a star-shell in-
advertently exploded near him during the
harbor fireworks, told the reporters “it
will take me three months to stop
trembling,” Mr. McGirr has hardly yet
stopped trembling after his conflict last
year with A.L.P. executive-boss Ferguson
—Ferguson “the Thoughtful” of “S. M.
Herald’s” description. As soon as Mr.
McGirr showed signs of becoming vocal,
Mr. Ferguson, rising from the seat
where he combines a dozen political
offices and must wear at least two faces,
declared “where the Labor party stands”
on the coal crisis. He began by pro-
nouncing suspended sentence of death on
the Joint Coal Board by saying that “the
one thing certain” was that “the Labor
party will not line up with the Menzies
Government against the miners”:
It may appear pretty stupid for the
miners to decline £l-a-vveek increase for
working the prescribed hours of work
[that should get him a please-explain
from the coalfields Communists], but
this is a veiled restriction of the miners’
right to strike. My own opinion is that
it is an inverted incentive. In any case,
whether right or wrong, incentive pay-
ments are opposed not only by the Miners’
Federation and the Communists, hut also
hy the A.C.T.U. The issue should be re-
ferred to the A.C.T.U. as a means of avoid-
ing further unnecessary stoppages.
And he concluded by adopting from the
miners’ Communist bosses the sententious
remark: “Only the miners can get coal.”
“Only the miners can get coal! ” That
is not true, and Mr. Ferguson knows it
is not true. Its falsity was proved in the
winter coal strike of 1949 when the
Army’s engineers not only got coal but
their man-hour production rate was such
that strikers from the opencuts were in
a hurry to get the soldiers out and them-
selves back on the job before their own
record was shown up too horribly. Mr.
Ferguson had a different tune then. He
was so uplifted by the “Labor” party’s
anti-Communist crusade against “a man-
made depression” and at the sight of
soldiers digging coal like beavers that he
nearly burst into song:
Now that we have started on the job of
cleaning out the Communists [he said] we
intend to tight on to a successful finish.
Our efforts will not be confined to bringing
the coal strike to a successful settlement.
We intend to expose the Communists over
the next few months by every known
means of propaganda.
Mr. Cahill went further than that. He
started confessing his sins to the coal-
starved public in such a strain that many
people thought he was about to join the
Liberals. No “only the miners” stuff
about him then. “Labor must get coal
or get out,” he said.
To govern, Labor must get coal. It will
get coal. It is the miners’ responsibility
to produce that coal. But if the miners
allow Communist councils to superimpose
themselves over the miners, the Govern-
ment must think in a different direction.
The Communists were allowed to get
control of the coalfields because members
of the Labor party were willing to sit
down and do nothing about it.
Now, two years later, that is as true
of the McGirr-Cahill party as it was
then. But no doubt Mr. Thoughtful
Ferguson will set them trembling again
with his ex cathedra approval of the
miners’ “right to strike” at the order of
the Communists, who, so far from being
cleaned up by Mr. Ferguson’s propa-
ganda, have been positively consolidated
in their tyranny over industry and em-
ployment through his party’s policy of
“refusing to line-up with the Menzies
Government” to root them out.
The trembling McGirr, who has either
to take his orders from this quarter or
get purged without trial, has now
reached the pass when he has only to
touch anything in the State’s administra-
tion to set it going wrong. It was he
who, as the miners began their three
weeks’ Christmas holidays, hailed “the
dawn of a new era in New South Wales”;
Look where you will, there is prosperity
and happiness. This is not just a passing
phase. It is real and solid. I am sure it
will continue. We still ride on the sheep’s
back, but we ride t 00.... on the machines
which are building this State into one of
the most important manufacturing centres
of the British Commonwealth. The Gov-
ernment claims its share of the credit.
Such is the reflection seen in his mirror
by the leader of a Government in whose
fifth year of office the transport services
are bankrupt, who doesn’t know how
he’s going to pay the public service with
the basic wage now rising automatically
about 10s. a quarter, and whose officers
justified the two-days closure of all
industry by declaring that the gas-
works, the power-stations and the rail-
ways would otherwise not have had
enough coal to carry on. Yet what did
this applicant for a medal for his share
in installing “solid” industrial prosperity
do when the miners came back from
their holidays to resume striking? Re-
acting in the only way he knew how, he
promptly ordered a blackout of Sydney’s
power-supply throughout industry for two
days, and the only prospect he held out
to those wonderful machines in which
he sees us riding to prosperity was an
indefinite continuance of this sentence
of unemployment on machines and
workers alike.
In condemnation of the authors of this
power shortage Mr. McGirr has nothing
to say, perhaps for the very good reason
that he would have to condemn himself
among them. Bunnerong could keep
going on Burragorang coal if it were
permitted; but Mr. McGirr’s Director
of State Mines, promoted from poli-
tics when past the retiring age to
one of the cushiest sinecures yet
invented even in this paradise of
political job-wanglers, not only does not
know how to get coal from Burragorang
to Bunnerong, but he won’t let private
enterprise do it for him. If this crowd
in Macquarie-street has any defence
against the charge that it has handed
over the Government of New South
Wales to the miners’ bosses, it had better
produce it without delay, for a long-
suffering community is beginning to get
hurt and angry.
Meanwhile, on the word of the late
Mr. Jack, the coal-expert member of the
original Joint Coal Board, there are 240
million tons of coal in pillars available in
the Cessnock mines, 158,400,000 tons of it
standing up to 32ft. high. Every techni-
cal adviser from overseas —and there has
been a succession of them —has urged
that it be extracted with machines as
quickly as possible. The miners’ bosses
won’t allow that, and the “Labor”
Minister for Mines got a line put into
an Act to prevent its being done without
his personal approval.
And now widespread unemployment is
again threatening Australia. It is the
work not of the boss but of Communist-
run unions, and every worker who sees
his job waning had better get wise to
that fact.
Reminder From 1901.
Australians who love their country and
are proud of its contribution to history
cannot fail to revere the memory of the
patriots who united the six colonies.
There could be no better way of
honoring them in this Jubilee year of
the national Parliament, the original
members of which served for a salary
which many a little typist would now
reject, than by outlawing the foreign con-
spiracy which, employing the methods
of toughs and traitors, is undermining
the authority of that Parliament and aims
at destroying it altogether. That and
more.
There was, of course, no Communist
organisation in Australia 50 years ago.
If there had been one, and if it had tried
to behave, as it does now, as a privileged
internal enemy, openly championing
armed foes who were killing Australian
soldiers, defying industrial law and
directing masses of serfs in measures
wickedly harmful to them as well as to
the people at large. Barton, Deakin and
Kingston would have scotched it once and
for all. Nor in performing this duty to
the young Commonwealth would they
have met any opposition from the Labor
leaders, who, like themselves, were true
Australians: Watson, Fisher and Hughes.
Barton, Deakin and Kingston would
assuredly have begun by denying trade-
union office to creatures of Moscow.
This weapon, which the founding Fathers
had no occasion to use, is at the service
of their successors, not only in the Com-
monwealth but also in each of the States,
along with other unwielded powers.
Among these are prohibition, under heavy
penalties, of so-called stopwork meet-
ings ; requirement of strike ballots, with-
out exemption from liability to stiff
punishment if lawless strikes follow;
terms of imprisonment for proved
coercion or maltreatment of unionists
willing to work under their award;
refusal of passports to Moscow agents go-
ing abroad to get secret orders; and
disfranchisement.
It is easy to object that resolute en-
forcement of these powers would be
resisted; and so it might be. But the
mere application of them would improve
the unutterably bad situation and pros-
pects by placing the Red workstoppers
and lawbreakers on the defensive, if not
immediately on the run. Hitherto they
have been allowed to do all the attack-
ing, and the people they injure—millions
at the point of their livelihoods and the
sick poor on their very beds of suffering
—have been left without protection.
Our nominal rulers owe it to these
honest folk to deliver them from the
deprivations with which they are scourged
by stony-hearted scoundrels. They owe
it to the nation to restore its freedom
and self-respect and regain the credit
which, by craven surrender to concerted
wickedness, it has lost overseas. For
beyond doubt it is detrimental to Aus-
tralia’s reputation to have it said (as it is
said) that Australia is the part of the
English-speaking world in which Com-
munists have done the greatest amount
of harm, achieved the most dangerous
measure of success, as the conspirators
understand it; and all with complete
impunity.
On one score the local Communist —
any local Communist —is vulnerable. It
was the men of 1901 who enacted the
White Australia policy, and their year of
Jubilee is a very good time for challeng-
ing Communists—union bosses, editors
and all —to declare themselves in that
great legislation achievement. They can’t
say they support it without embroiling
themselves with their Moscow bosses and
the Asiatic killers they glorify. They
can’t say they oppose it without alienating
Australians, especially unionists, who are
not half-wits. Yet they can’t avoid the
question without condemning themselves
as dodgers and the unionists to whom they
dictate, those inheritors of the benefits
gained for the people by statesmen who
sought to make Australia great, as ingrates
and cowards.
Floods and Stock Losses.
The widespread 1950 floods in N.S.W.
and Queensland resulted in extensive
damage to fencing and drowning of
thousands of sheep, cattle and horses.
Homes were inundated and valuable
machinery bogged down. These direct
losses, though severe, are small compared
with the secondary damage, which has
been further added to since the turn of
the year.
On the central and north-western
N.S.W. plains the water spread out to
form huge lakes, and some of them have
been there for the past six months.
Pastures on the flooded areas can be
written off as ruined ; the areas will grow
nothing hut weeds for years to come.
Thousands of square miles of saturated
country from which the water receded is
covered with tall rank grass that looks
wonderful, but as pasture is useless.
Conditions have been ideal for all sorts
of insect parasites. Clouds of mosquitoes
and sandflies are harrying stock and kill-
ing lambs. The long wet grass has kept
fleeces damp, and with the hot, steamy
conditions all the bacterial enemies of
wool got to work, with resultant fleece-
rot and mycotic dermatitis, which in turn
attracted blowflies in millions. Sheep
losses from body-strike will run into
seven figures.
Use of the new D.D.T. and gammexane
insecticides saved millions of sheep, but
many graziers were unable to reach their
sheep for water and mud.
Body-lice have never been more wide-
spread or as hard to control. In many
cases dipping with either the new insecti-
cides or the old reliable arsenicals has
been unsuccessful, and lice-infestations
have occurred in isolated flocks under the
most baffling circumstances. Fogging has
also been unable to cope with this.
Internal parasites have spread to areas
where sheep had never before been
drenched. The wet ground and green grass
helped to propagate millions of worm
larvae, and these plains sheep, lacking
the slight immunity of the tableland
flocks, went down in thousands. Sheep
are now being drenched as far out as
the Darling.
Grass-seed has riddled the skins of
sheep, and lambs and weaners are dying,
while others are covered with grass-seed
abscesses —an added attraction to the
blowfly.
The combined result has been
disastrous. A new danger is now threat-
ening, and unless a remedy is discovered
shortly losses will be stupendous. All
over the country stock are losing condi-
tion. On the flooded plains country,
young sheep are wasting away and dying
like flies They have survived fly-strike
and worm-infestation, but seem to have
lost all interest in life. The rank grass
may possibly have lost its nutritive value,
or there may be some other cause. Some
breeders have lost 80 per cent, of their
young sheep, and losses of 50 per cent,
are common.
It has been stated that the big chemical
combines are spending £2 - million
annually in research into synthetic fibres.
This year the value of the world’s wool-
clip will reach astronomical figures, yet
the expenditure on research and even in
the protection of the wool industiy is
infinitesimal. The handful of animal-
industry research specialists who remain
in the C.5.1.R.0. and Agricultural De-
partments can barely keep present
projects going, and have no chance of
investigating the new problems which
threaten the industry. Bigger salaries
have attracted many @f the best scientists
to commercial undertakings and private
practice.
Many small graziers have already been
hit so hard that half their individual
losses would represent a sum that would
attract the best veterinary scientist in the
country for a year’s research on the spot.
If Australian sheepowners had contri-
buted the equivalent of a sum equal to
10 per cent, of the value of sheep lost
in N.S.W. and Queensland through fly-
strike and disease in the past 12 months,
they could have set up the finest research
team in the world to concentrate on
current animal-health problems, and
would not only have saved the lives of
thousands of sheep and cattle now, but
would have ensured the safety of millions
in the future.
We have taken a belting from nature in
the past 12 months, and the final round
is far ahead. We could not possibly
have saved all the stock lost in that
time, but more than half could have
been saved, and we would have science
battling to save many that must other-
wise die within the next few months.
In spite of these losses, the grazing
industry was never in a better financial
position than today. The scienti c
personnel and the organisation are aval -
able. Only the money contributions are
lacking, plus the leadership and drive to
guide it into the right channels. Any -n-
-dustry that can afford to lose what tn
grazing industry has lost in the past -
months without making some et *° n
prevent such a recurrence lays itself op
to charges of negligence and dovvnng
bad management.
J.R.D.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cold-war Coal War.
This week opened with the darkest
possible prospects of nationally-crippling
industrial chaos, failing immediate and
adequate counteraction in the general
national interest, including that of the
hundreds of thousands marked down for
certain unemployment.
On Monday the Communist leadership
towards chaos struck in two of the
quarters named in, their arrogant threats.
The stop-work plotted for one day of each
week on the coalfields is calculated to
cripple industry in general and the defence
effort in particular. The overtime ban on
the waterfront —also put into operation
on Monday—is calculated to further
those same ends, again with special em-
phasis on crippling industrial production
and with it defence. The ironworkers
are due to start their bit next week.
Government countermoves announced
included legal action in the Arbitration
Court tomorrow (Thursday), ordered by
Acting Prime Minister Fadden, and based
on the defiance by the miners’ officials of
the Gallagher award prohibiting the pro-
posed one-day stoppages; also on the
undertakings given to the court by
miners’ officials when they were re-
leased after serving six weeks of
the 12-months imprisonment they had
been sentenced to by the court in con-
tempt proceedings when they defied the
Chifley Government’s National Emerg-
ency (Coal Strike) Act,
That Act was a temporary measure
subsequently abolished. An important
point regarding it is that it was introduced
and implemented with the support of the
then Opposition, which is now the Gov-
ernment. There is evident awareness that
special powers may be needed to combat
the current cunningly-plotted piecemeal
sabotaging moves. If so, the outlook be-
comes doubly dark because of the
“Labor” policy of preventing the Gov-
ernment from governing.
That Communist-supporting “Labor”
policy has made the current sabotage
attack possible, and there is no sign from
the Chifley side that it would be
abandoned or even suspended to permit
adequate counteraction now in the
national interest. On the contrary, co-
operation has been refused by the only
“Labor” quarter approached—the N.S.W.
McGirr Government, whose only con-
tribution is a reported new scheme for
using its special secret-weapon the black-
out, the workableness of which scheme is
sufficiently indicated by the fact that it
contemplates Saturday work !
In the long run there can, of course, be
only one end to the fight—the national
interest triumphing over the plotted
sabotage. The dark prospect is in the
crippling damage that will be done in tne
meantime unless counteraction is firm,
prompt and adequate.
The Overtime Ban.
In the now three-years-old rebellion by
executives of key unions against over-
time —the A.E.U., the metal trades, the
wharflaborers and the Victorian A.R.U.
have all been “banning” overtime —it is
remarkable that employers have not long
ago moved the Arbitration Court to
cancel the 40-hour award in face of such
action.
Making its award on the 40-hour week
in September, 1947, the court expressly
made the working of “reasonable over-
time” mandatory, and ordered that it be
so interpreted in adjustment of all awards
by the court or by Conciliation Com-
missioners appointed to regulate classi-
fied industries. These were the operative
words:
In each award there shaU be Inserted
provisions
(1) empowering any employer to require
any employee to work reasonable over-
time at overtime rates, and providing that
the employee shall work overtime in
accordance with such requirements;
(2) providing that no organised party
to the award shall in any way, whether
directly or Indirectly, be a party to or con-
cerned in any ban, limitation or restriction
upon the working of overtime in accord-
ance with the requirements of such pro-
vision. ...
But nothing In this paragraph is to affect
the operation of any existing clause of an
award providing for compulsory overtime.
That is plain enough. The spirit and
letter of the 40-hour-week judgment re-
quires reasonable overtime as a necessity.
Even a sympathetic Bench expressed
twinges of doubt about the expediency
of what it was doing in reducing normal
hours of work, but it left no manner of
doubt about its view that the country
could not run on a total ban upon hours
in excess of 40. Yet employers—com-
mercial industrialists and Governments —
have tolerated strikes aimed at banning
overtime.
The truth is that the judgment is a
yardstick for wages, not a procrustean
bed to which the working day must be
fitted in all circumstances. A visiting
Socialist Minister from Britain last year,
comparing the attitude towards the 40-
hour week here and in his own country,
remarked in some amazement at the mis-
use of it by unions in Australia.
However, somebody with a sense of
responsibility is seeing the light at last.
When Communist Brown’s A.R.U. in
Victoria renewed the ban on overtime in
the State railways the Railways Commis-
sioners at once instructed their legal
officers to prepare a case for submission
to the Arbitration Court against this
breach by the union of the 40-hour
award. Thereon the union promptly
cancelled the ban.
“White Australia" Banned.
Announced by Minister for Immigration
Holt that the term “White Australia” has
been “banned officially by the Common-
wealth Government.” Reasons ascribed
to Mr. Holt:
The term has been replaced by a term
less offensive to Asian neighbors —“immi-
gration restrictive policy.” Asian countries
do not question the right of Australia to
maintain a restrictive policy.
This, surely, is nowhere near enough.
The white stars on the Australian flag
must be just as offensive; Mr. Holt
should be able to get rid of them, too,
by decree. The game of snooker, par-
ticularly, calls for reform. Why risk any
longer its offensive potentialities: one
miserable little white against a whole
massed bloc of reds, flanked by black,
pink, blue, brown, green and yellow?
“White Australia” being “officially
banned,” wouldn’t it be better to replace
it with something at once suitably de-
scriptive and less of a mouthful than
“immigration restrictive policy”? Why
not “Red Australia”? This might so
appease Moscow and Peking that world
peace would be attained overnight. If it
is felt that “Red Australia” smacks some-
what of possible exaggeration, why not
“Pink Australia”? Or would this be
construed as too offensive to the ex-
Minister it might remind of icing?
Perhaps “Black Australia,” while pro-
claiming fraternity and affinity with
Darkest Africa, Paul Robeson and
Freddie Dawson, would be accurately de-
scriptive of what can be looked forward
to in the months ahead; and “Brown
Australia” would make some amends for
the crass overlooking of Binghi in the
Jubilee celebrations.
As one more choice, “Yellow Aus-
tralia,” apart from any other effects it
might have, should have the merit of re-
assuring the special objects of Mr. Holt’s
tender solicitude, especially if pinned to
a copy of the Labor “defence policy.”
Of course the slogan which The
Bulletin keeps—and ‘intends keeping—
nailed to the mast at the top of the page
opposite this one would hardly appeal to
the “White Australia” banning com-
mittee. Still, even they should be able
to think up something better than
“Immigration Restrictive Policy.” Even
“Restrictive Immigration Policy” would
be more accurate —shortened to R.I.P.
A Union Leader Sees Red.
At least one Australian union, and it
happens to be the biggest —the A.W.U. —
can still drape most of its platform in the
Australian flag without hypocrisy. It
has no use at all for the foreign con-
spiracy, on which its 65th annual con-
vention in Sydney has heard, through
general-secretary T. Dougherty’s report,
these pointed comments:
During the five years since the last war
practically every leading Communist in this
country has been overseas. They have been
to Europe, Asia and Indonesia, and wher-
ever they have gone they have deliberately
misinformed those with whom they came
in contact on Australia’s internal policy.
These stooges of the Cominform have also
deliberately and maliciously attempted to
stir up hatreds in the minds of the peoples
of Asia and Indonesia against Australia
and its people by misinterpreting the White
Australia policy Mr. Ernest Thornton
... .today is stationed at Peiping as the
south-east Asian official of the Comin-
form’s international industrial sabotaging
organisation known as the World Federa-
tion of Trade Unions.
We would be living in a fool’s paradise,
indeed, if we did not realise that Com-
munism is a real threat to world peace.
I believe if the free nations are compelled
to fight for the preservation of democracy
that war will be forced upon us only when
the Kremlin is satisfied that the poisonous
propaganda of Communist agents among
those millions of already unhappy and dis-
contented people living in Asia and the
Pacific has reached the stage where they
can be used as tools of the Kremlin.
So far, good. But mention compulsory
national service to ensure Australia’s be-
ing ready if “compelled to fight for the
preservation of democracy” in the
Kremlin-enforced war, and down goes the
brave A.W.U, head deep in the sand.
An odd ornithological specimen—a bird
endowed with eyes and no guts.
A Self-branded Aggressor.
In one sense the 44-to-7 vote of the
U.N.O. General Assembly branding
Communist China an aggressor in Korea
was redundant. The self-applied brand
was patent to everyone from the moment
Peking ordered in its million troops.
Communists at large are, of course, just
as aware of this. For all their double-
talk they know a blood-drunk Dragon
when they see one. Their difference is
only that they applaud what the peace-
seeking world condemns.
The U.N.O. vote at least has the value
of showing to what extent that condem-
nation is supported.. It has also a greater
value. As far as it can be regarded as a
test, it proclaims the essential unity under-
lying the lately only too evident differ-
ences on the Western side.
Those differences —over which, un-
fortunately, this vote is merely a paper
bridge—are still there, and they are
doubly dangerous; they could in time
erode the foundation of actual unity, or
they could mislead Russia into open
aggression based on a conviction of
Western disunity.
The vote, anyway,, is merely a prelude.
The postponed American aim is to pro-
ceed next to “collective measures” de-
signed to impress on Communist China
that aggression returns only Pyrrhic
dividends. The nature of those measures
has not been officially stated, but pre-
sumably they would be on both
diplomatic and economic lines; and
hence, naturally, they will prove much
harder going than the mere exercise of
throwing a brand about.
Britain, in particular, shies away from
suggested economic sanctions. Considera-
tion of Hong Kong largely enters into
this, but as well there is the practical
certainty that, even if rigidly enforced,
economic sanctions would neither stop
the Dragon in its tracks nor cause it even
a mild pain. Mere ineffectual sanctions
would —especially for U.N.O.’s standing
—be far worse than none at all.
Certainly ineffectual sanctions —which
is probably what they would prove—
would not be worth the risk of seriously
dividing the Western side. Britain’s
U.N.O. representative, Sir Gladwyn Jebb,
has set a course which will need to be
followed in the ensuing steps as it was in
the branding operations: “ ‘Look well
before you leap,’ is a good maxim for
international affairs,” he said. “I think,
if we are going to leap, we should leap
together.”
Support for New England.
Newcastle Chamber of Commerce,
coming out in full support of the New
England New-State Movement, wants the
coal city included in the New-State area.
It believes Newcastle would become the
chief port and commercial capital; where
the political capital is situated doesn’t
worry it.
The political capital would need to be
at Armidale, Lismore, Tamworth, Grafton
or some other established centre. To set
up an entirely new community, as was
done with Canberra, would be a blunder.
Like Canberra, the political capital would
quickly become isolated and insulated
from the general public ; a hive of public
servants obsessed with their own import-
ance and power.
The Chamber, with memories of the
tremendous opposition by Sydney against
establishing wool sales and wheat eleva- ■
tors in Newcastle, noted that its city’s 1
population is not even as great as the 1
increase in the Sydney population between :
1937 and 1947, and said the cost of i
government to citizens of a New-State l
would be no greater than what they
already pay—about 2s. a head. ,
- Pretty well everybody who has thought
about Sydney’s retarding influence on 1
the growth and development of N. S. '
Wales, and who has realised that N.S.W. ;
Governments are in reality Sydney Gov- '
ernments, would consider the New Eng- .
land experiment cheap at twice the price. .
There’s to be a New-State conference
in Newcastle on February 16 and 17, to
which the New England delegates will
come with more enthusiasm now, for sup-
port from Newcastle is no small thing. It
ought to impress the Federal Govern-
ment ; it might impress N.S.W. Liberal
leader Treatt. Impressing the McGirr
Government can be done with nothing
! lighter than a ballot-box.
Westralian Success Story.
E. F. Smart was 23 when he left his
father’s farm at Jamestown (S.A.) and
went to Perth in 1935. He had £2OO
when he got there —a fair sum for a
young man to have in those days—and
he sought scope for his ideas, capital and
capacity for work.
He found it. First with 500 acres of
wheat on the shares at Watheroo ; after
that, contract bush-work like dam-sink-
ing, scrub-rolling and harvesting. Then
a big pastoral company called for share-
farming on big acreages and Smart got
2500 acres, plus another 1000 acres
nearby.
You need much plant and much
finance (for seed and super, and
machinery) for a job like that. Smart
went around Perth selling himself and
his ideas and got the backing. In 1937
he took 66,000 bushels off, worth 4s. 3d.
a bushel. From that start he spent the
next 12 years on big-scale wheatgrowing
in various parts of the Westralian wheat-
belt, brought thousands of acres under
cultivation and built up a big farming
outfit of men and machines.
He harvested 87,000 bags in 1947,
85.000 in 1948, 80,000 in 1949. He had
got on to Erregulla Springs, out from
Mingenew, about 230 miles north of
Perth towards Geraldton. There last
year he put up an Australian, and prob-
ably a world, record for one man —
102.000 bags of grain from 15,050 acres,
an average of 20 bushels an acre, the
grain being mostly wheat, with some
oats, barley and lupins. In four years
his total production was more than
1,000,000 bushels.
There are plenty of Australians like
Smart. They prove that a man with
ideas and the energy and courage to put
them into practice is worth a ton of
Government planners. Smart’s success
can be measured against the British
Socialists’ £36-million peanut fiasco in
East Africa and the same crowd’s sorg-
hum stunt in Queensland —against any
of these Government schemes for pro-
duction. He has shown that private enter-
prise and the lawful profit motive, which
Socialists condemn and would outlaw if
they could, are what make a people
progress.
Goolwa's Crowded Hour.
“N.C.” awaits the Sturters:
Residents of the ghost town of Goolwa (S.A.),
once the leading port on the Murray River,
were indignant when it was announced that the
re-enactment of Sturt’s expedition would end at
Murray Bridge. “Representations” were made,
and the sleepy little town, with its imposing
courthouse and deserted warehouses of yellowed
stone, was allowed to look forward to being
filmed, broadcast and generally put on the map
again.
From articles in Sydney papers about the
route of the expedition and a phrase (in an
Australian book) about “the mouth of the river
at Murray Bridge,” it is evident that many
Australians who haven’t the inestimable privilege
of living in South Australia have a very vague
idea of the geography of the “bottom end.”
This is understandable, as in most small-scale
maps Lake Alexandria looks as much like a
bay as does Port Phillip, and the river appears
to end, if not at Murray Bridge (which is
actually 200 miles from the mouth), then at
Wellington, the last town before the river
spreads out into the lake.
This lake, which was partially salt before the
great barrage was built across the mouth at
Goolwa, closes again into a defined channel
that flows each side of Hindmarsh Island, bends
around and cuts a way through the low sand-
hills that line the coast here for 90 miles. The
main channel is on the north-west side of the
island, and of the two openings shown on the
map the more easterly is not properly a mouth
at all, but is either dry or a shallow ford.
However, a small barrage has been built across
it also.
In the main channel, after being allowed to
pass ignominiously through the barrage, the
river flows strongly, if not very swiftly, through
comparatively narrow banks of clean white sand,
out into the shallow foam, the unending surf
of Goolwa Beach. Before the locks and barrage
were built the river sometimes almost ceased to
flow, and the sea instead flowed inland —hence
the salinity of the lake and the river up to a
hundred miles inland in the old days.
Sturt records that, after crossing the lake
with a fair wind behind them, if they had found
the river flowing strongly (as he learned after-
wards that it sometimes did) they would have
been tempted to row out to sea “and almost
certain destruction.” As it was, they camped
on the bend, where the town of Goolwa now
stands (“Goolwa” is an aboriginal word for
“elbow”), and walked across the sandhills.
There followed a seven-mile walk along the
beach before they came to the mouth, under
the high sandhill now known as Barker’s Knoll.
Sturt’s party was very fortunate in having a
fair wind, which allowed them to sail across
the 70 miles of Lake Alexandria. When they
were ready to return, the wind blew from the
opposite direction, and they were able to sail
back. The leader regarded this as a direct
intervention of Providence. If Providence
should not look with such a favorable eye on
(Continued on next page.)


rr
6434 E-R
CARRERAS LIMITED
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
.
the present voyagers it may be because there
is a convoy of motor-boats and paddle-steamers
not far off —for the gods are supposed to help
those who help themselves.
Some escort may be necessary, as the lake
can be dangerous in certain winds. It is
seldom more than about Bft. deep, with a
bottom of thick mud. Big waves can mount
up on its wide expanse, and even shallow-
draught paddle-steamers have been known to
bump their bottoms on the mud in the trough
of every wave.
Presumably the expedition will end at Goolwa
wharf, where the only steamers seen nowadays
are the dismantled Captain Sturt, devoid of her
engines and used as a houseboat, and the side-
wheeler Renmark that runs weekend trips across
the lake. The old days of prosperity are gone,
when steamers and barges, loaded with wool
from away up the Darling, unloaded at the busy
wharf; Echuca and the Morgan railway took
all the trade long ago.
If Sturt had found another sort of end to
his long journey, such as a deep and safe
estuary, the history of the Murray develbpment
and of South Australia would have been
different. Instead, he saw what his emulators
will now see —the dangerous breakers of Goolwa
Beach, the “short and bubbling sea” through
which the paddle-steamers used to dodge when
wind and tide were right, or in which, if they
failed, they broke their backs upon the sand.
POLITICAL POINTS
Speaking with all the righteousness of
one whose strength is as the strength of
10 because his heart is pure, McGirr last
week announced that “the dispute with
the coalminers is purely Federal” and
entirely a matter for the Commonwealth
Government. Then he bleated that there
were five other State Governments and
yet “certain people” were continually
attacking him and his Government “for
purely political reasons.” Certainly it is
the Commonwealth Arbitration system
that the Miners’ Federation is defying,
but the Coal Board and the Coal Tri-
bunal were set up by joint action of the
Federal and N. S. Wales Governments.
In flouting those authorities the mal-
contents are showing their contempt for
State as well as Federal Government.
Eighteen months ago, in very similar
circumstances, McGirr considered a coal
strike to be so much the concern of his
Government that he splashed huge adver-
tisements in the Press over his signature
as “Labor Premier of New South Wales.”
Among other things he said:
This is not a strike against the coalowners.
It is a strike engineered by the Communists
to wreck the Labor Governments —by caus-
ing widespread unemployment and misery
in the community... .The people this strike
is hurting are the great mass of the workers
throughout Australia.
A “Labor” Government was then in
power in Canberra. That is the explana-
tion of McGirr’s changed attitude.
Despite attempts to camouflage the
coalfields stoppages as protests prompted
by an industrial grievance they fit into
the world pattern of Communism too
well to deceive any but those who want
to be deceived—and that goes for the
wharfies’ overtime ban, too. Months
before the Gallagher award and Judge
Kirby’s basic-wage ruling it was common
talk that there would be trouble in the
mines and on the wharves “early in the
New Year.” The trouble has come, and
it would have come just the same no
matter what Mr. Gallagher and Judge
Kirby decided. The present “grievances”
serve the Communist purpose, but if they
did not exist others would have been
found.
The current preliminaries to a general
Red assault on industry were timed as a
prologue to the judgment of the High
Court (whichever way it goes) in the anti-
Communist Act case.
McGirr having treated with stony
silence Opposition-leader Treatt’s sugges-
tion that he should summon Parliament to
discuss the power crisis, Treatt asked
Speaker Lamb to call the Assembly
together. There was no harm in asking,
but Lamb made it clear months ago that
in any crisis his first consideration was
going to be for his party.
Demands for the summoning of Par-
liament are not confined to New South
Wales; nor are reluctant Premiers, In
Victoria, McDonald and the Twelve
Spring-street Farmers are not in the least
eager to face the House in which they
are the smallest party, while up in Bris-
bane Hanlon shows no inclination what-
ever to bring forward the date of the
next sitting. Unlike McGirr and Mc-
Donald, Hanlon doesn’t have to worry
about his majority—yet. His embarrass-
ment is that when Parliament does meet
he will no longer be able to ignore Justice
Mansfield’s decision nullifying the
Bulimba election. On present indications
it looks as if Canberra will beat the lot
of ’em.
The Hanlons are sitting tight on the
Bulimba business. Gardner, whom they
regard as the member but whom a
judge declared non-elected because of
voting frauds in which Gardner was not
involved personally, still draws his Par-
liamentary pay and will presumably take
his seat when the House meets in March
to declare the seat vacant. The question
is, under whose authority is Gardner con-
tinuing to occupy a position and salary
to which he is not entitled?
Politicians of all shades probably
shuddered a little last week on reading
the report that Aneurin Bevan had been
kicked in the pants. In the figurative
sense political pants are kicked every day
of the week, but there was nothing
figurative about the Bevan strides —and
their owner was in ’em at the time, too.
Calwell is prophesying again; he sees
the Senate forcing an election on a finan-
cial issue either in March or September.
It’s a pity Arthur can’t get his crystal ball
to work backwards as well as forwards.
A few glances at the Senate Chamber
during 1950 would give him an excellent
panorama of his Upper House colleagues
refusing to do any forcing.
Similar election talk has been coming
from A.W.U. president Davis, who also
hopes “Labor” will “force an election”
when Parliament meets again. Mr. Davis
is badly afflicted with confusion.
He believes that a “Labor” Government
would “bring an end to Communist influ-
ence in Australia,” and that industrial
unions. Trades and Labor Councils and
the A.C.T.U. “should follow the A.W.U.
by banning Communists from holding
official positions.” This, he says, would
be the end of Communism. Yet with all
his evident knowledge of the Moscow
menace he holds the Menzies Govern-
ment responsible for “excessive industrial
troubles” of the past year and he de-
scribes the anti-Red Act as “humbugging
about.”
In effect, Davis is saying to the indus-
trial unions, “If you follow the example
of the A.W.U. and ban the Commos
everything in the garden will be lovely.”
The anti-Red Act aims at making ’em
follow the example. Where does the
humbug come in?
The Attlee Government survived an-
other censure motion, on its handling of
the coal crisis, last week. Voting was
300 to 289, but after several narrower
squeaks last year the Socialists probably
regard that as a comfortable win. They’d
have felt slightly less comfortable if the
Liberals had voted; all nine Libs
abstained from voting. This Lake Success
habit seems to be spreading.
Block Leonard Lucy. Not a tactical
instruction for the Battle of the Sexes.
Merely the names, in alphabetical order,
of the L.C.P., Independent and “Labor”
candidates for the Ivanhoe (Vic.) by-
election to be held on February 24.
Not so long ago a section of the N. S.
Wales Teachers’ Federation tried to get
the method of electing the executive by
vote of the Federation Council scrapped
in favor of a postal ballot of all members.
The move was sponsored by teachers who
resented having the Red label attached
to the Federation through its having a
Communist president. It failed, and the
latest election has just been concluded on
the old basis. Samuel Phineas Lewis
was re-elected by 100 votes to 23.
Idris Williams, Communist president of
the Miners’ Federation: “W e have about
five aces up our sleeve.” Plus, presum-
ably, marked cards, loaded dice and a
couple of double-headed pennies.
In contrast with the attitude last week
of N.S.W. “Labor” in face of renewed
coal stoppages, the Melbourne Trades
Hall issued a statement demanding that
the Victorian McDonald-“Labor” Gov-
ernment should regulate working hours
of industry, and declared that the trade-
unions would co-operate with employers
and work within whatever hours power-
supply was available.
Parents scared about the possibility of
an influenza epidemic of the type raging
in England and Europe can take some
comfort from the assurance of Mac-
farlane Burnet of the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute, Melbourne. Burnet is an
authority on ’flu, apd he says there is
little prospect of an epidemic because the
disease is very largely determined by
climate, and it is winter in Europe and
summer in Australia. Proper Customs
supervision should be able to keep the
germ out.
Premier McDonald, who governs Vic-
toria by the grace of Cain, was warned
by said Cain to provide “progressive legis-
lation” or else. McDonald promptly
told the Press that he would continue his
programme of “progressive legislation,
sound administration and proper develop-
ment.” Then, it may be assumed, he
asked Cain if that was all right.
Under Socialism in Britain tooth-
tugging has become a most lucrative pro-
fession. The two dentists who topped the
pay-list of the National Health Scheme
each received over £lB,OOO in 1949
according to the annual report just pub-
lished. Sixty-eight dentists received over
£12,000 each, and 1400 over £6OOO. The
other 4000-odd struggled along on vary-
ing sums ranging up to £6OOO. Total
cost of the dental service for the year was
£46 million. There’s a rumor that when
the Attlees finally get John Bull’s teeth
in first-class order they’re going to give
him some steak to try them out on. Quite
a lot of Britons think it would have been
a better idea to spend that £46 million
on steak arid let the teeth take a chance
on it.
News of the big money received by
Britain’s Government dentists must have
travelled fast and far. Recently the South
Australian Government planned to
expand its school dental-service, so appli-
cations were invited for jobs as school
dental inspectors. The vacancies were
advertised in every State and the salary
range was £1047 to £1137 p.a. There
were no takers.
Newcastle provides a prize specimen of
unionism run mad. Hunter District
Water Board was in the habit of sending
cut an inspector to call a maintenance
man when there was a breakdown. Find-
ing that this was costing it heavily in
overtime for the inspector, it decided to
put a telephone in the maintenance man’s
house. He refused to answer it unless
paid extra. The board transferred him
to other work without loss of status or
pay. The 450 board employees promptly
struck and the thing had to go to a Con-
ciliation Commissioner in Sydney.
A bill before U.S. Congress makes
provision for a gift of two million tons
of grain to India as an anti-famine
measure. That’s a mighty lot of bread
to cast on the waters, but when the Yanks
give they don’t fumble around after small
change.
N.S.W. Executive of the F.E.D.F.A.
horned into the coal row last week with a
decision that if any union official is jailed
for “performing his normal duties,” all
F.E.D.F.A, members on the coalfields
will be ordered to stop work. Members
of this union should now demand of
their executive a precise definition of
“normal duties.” Do they include incit-
ing members to defy the law?
“X.S.”; Melbourne tommies got a
bonus for,< their exhausting efforts during
the train strike. Presumably railwaymen
will get a bonus for their unremitting
efforts when the tommies are on strike,
then truck drivers, for bumping over bad
roads and paddocks during the tram strike
and the rail strike. The public gets no
bonus, but pays the bill in increased fares
and rising prices.
Wonthaggi miners accepted the Gal-
lagher “incentive” award and success-
fully negotiated a higher rate of pay for
contract miners without the aid of the
Miners’ Federation, which called strikes
against that same award. A Mel-
bourne paper had it that the Wonthaggi
men would probably be expelled from the
Federation. If they are, it would be the
best thing that ever happened to them.
This is what happens to the local lads
when the Reds really get control of a
country. Late last year a decree published
in Sofia proclaimed that in future
Russians would enjoy equal rights in
Bulgaria with Bulgarian citizens; also
that Russians could, without prior per-
mission, take up posts with Bulgarian
State authorities, State co-operatives, and
private undertakings.
A Sydney morning paper announces
that “A gunman threw four £1 notes to
a taxi-driver he had forced to drive him
from the city.” Well, that’s one way of
getting a taxi home if you five in an outer
suburb,
U. L. Daly, president of the 14th
Region Rural Fire Brigades Association
of Victoria, says that railway-engine
sparks are the most persistent and major
cause of bushfires. If this doesn’t appear
in the statistics it is because when a
goods-train puffs up a hill on a hot day
it is followed by a brigade fire-fighting
truck to put out incipient fires. Until the
department instals efficient spark
arrestors Daly wants goods-trains in-
cluded among the menaces that should
be stopped on proclaimed days.
It has never been quite certain whether
the Crimes Act is applicable to strikes in
essential public industries or services other
than transport services. Hence mooted
summoning of the Federal Parliament to
pass an amendment to cover irritation
stoppages for a short period designed to
avoid the description of them as strikes
and the loss df wages to strikers resulting
from protracted closing of industry.


\N
LIS MATCH
REMINDS ME OF THE TIME
AT LORPS
Australia pefeatep Englanp
OR WAS IT THE CK/AU ?
o
IN 1927 OR, 1929 „
O
PONT YOU THINK SO, V(C C - //t
* [ quite Arthur.
THE OLD FIRM.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
THE UNWANTED FATHER.
“Father is losing importance in the family,
Dr. Irene Sebire told the summer school of political
science in Canberra, because his working wife and
State-subsidised social services encroach upon his
authority as chief provider.”
Who’s that glowering glob of gloom
Crouching in the corner in the old armchair,
Dying-off slowly in the living-room.
Always getting in somebody’s hair?
He’s Pop-op-oppa,
Going off pop-a—
Nobody knows what Poppa is for;
He may
In his day
Have had a big say,
But Poppa, he don’t amount no more.
The kids go paper-selling down the street,
Momma goes working for the new award,
Poppa comes home from his work dead-beat,
With just enough money for the bed and the
board.
Poor old Poppa,
Pop-pop-shoppa—
His money is keeping Mom’s wolves from the
door,
While she
Has a spree
On her own salaree.
And Poppa, he don’t amount no more.
Going to a hospital or going to school
Used to be a matter for Poppa or Fate,
But now if a boy is a bedridden fool
You can put all the blame on the Socialist
State,
Not Poppitty-oppitty-oppa,
That old clodhoppa,
Kids don’t respect him as kids did of yore:
Well or ill,
Bright or dill,
His credit is nil,
For Poppa, he don’t amount no more.
Momma once liked Poppa better than now,
We often caught her giving him breakfast in
bed,
But lately she’s treating him stricter, somehow,
And only last Saturday evening she said:
“Pop off, Poppa;
Don’t be impropa!
Be your age, Poppa, and don’t be a boor;
The hey
Nonny non
Of your heyday
Is gone,
Aiid Poppa, you don’t amount no more!”
The kids talk impatiently of kicking him out,
Or asking him politely if he’ll go away,
But Momma’s got used to him being about:
“He’s your Poppa, boys; we ought to let
him stay,
And drop, drop, drop a
Tear for Poppa—
You wouldn’t be here, but for Poppa, I’m
sure”
Maybe so,
But we know
That was long, long ago—
And Poppa, he don’t amount no more.
N.S.W. SWILLIAM.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When a depart-
ment store in the centre of Perth went up
in flames recently the entire middle-aged
population looked back and said
“Remember the Economic fire?” The
Economic Storfes were burnt down in
1921 in a blaze that caught Perth’s imagi-
nation. Events for 10 years either side
of that fire are pinpointed by their
proximity to it. It was also the target
for a witty remark by Dryblower Murphy.
The stores were owned by Sir William
Latham, who had received his knight-
hood just prior to the fire. Murphy
reckoned he was knighted one day and
ignited the next.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: It is a wonder Italian-grand-
opera librettists, who have thought up
some extraordinary effects for stage repre-
sentation, have never used the case of
Captain Gualtiera Guaitierotti, whose
name alone should be enough to make an
Italian tenor’s reputation. The captain
was an officer in a crack Italian cavalry
regiment, and one day in 1937, when he
clicked his heels smartly to salute his new
c.o., he blew up with a terrific explosion
and hit the ceiling of the barracks. Ex-
amination of what remained of his boots
revealed a charge of dynamite and a
detonator in the heels. Only the other
day Captain Gualtierotti’s cousin was
arrested and charged with murder on his
own confession that he had doctored the
boots to avenge a girl who had been re-
jected by the captain. There is every
necessary ingredient of grand opera in the
story; love, hate, jealousy, revenge,
expiation—and spectacular effect.
* * ♦ *
“Easter”: Coming round the “Burma
Road”—that winding descent from
Darlinghurst to Woolloomooloo — in
Sydney the other morning we were con-
fronted by a notice on a gateway to what
looked like a car-cleaning station: “Old-
fashioned WORK on here today.” The
emphasis on the vital word gave it a
singular pungency, since it overlooks the
wharves.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: As with Rome, some
doubt exists as to who founded Mel-
bourne, John Pascoe Fawkner and John
Batman having arrived at the mouth of
the Yana from Tasmania at the head of
different expeditions within a few weeks
of each other. Fawkner opened
the first pub and Batman made the only
quotable observation of the pair when he
said “This will be the place for a village.”
If they had had a fight for possession like
Romulus and Remus and one had sloshed
the other, possibly the winner would have
been deified and Melbourne wpuld have
had a bit of picturesque history. In its
absence the million inhabitants of the
city don’t show much interest in either
of the worthies, and the commemora-
tion services at both graves on Jubilee
Sunday were as poorly attended as the
bar in a Melbourne pub when the beer
has run out. Twenty-five people assembled
at the General Cemetery to pay tribute to
the memory of Fawkner ; a mere dozen
rolled up at the grave of Batman, which
by an irony of fate is in the cemetery
named after his rival.
* * * *
“Tooth-carpenter”: Twenty minutes
before the balloon was due to go up for
the vice-regal banquet in Mulgaville I
received an anguished phone-call from
Bill Adams, the chairman. My first im-
pression that the normally abstemious
Bill was blind drunk dissolved after my
diagnosis that his gibberish was due to
an attempt to speak without his dental
plate, which had
broken just as he
was about to
leave home. In
my sympathy for
Bill, who had
been rehearsing
his speech for
weeks, I toiled
feverishly in my
dinner clothes in
an abortive
attempt to wire
the severed pieces.
Then came in-
spiration in the
form of sticking-
plaster, and Bill appeared at the banquet
wearing the makeshift repair job. He
launched into his speech, which, at my
warning, he had considerably shortened.
Unfortunately he warmed up and swept
foolhardily on to the originally rehearsed
and much longer chinwag, and by that
time the saliva was having its insidious
effect on the sticking-plaster. At the apex
of a flight of rhetoric Bill came to a
horrified stop, scooped the broken pieces
from his mouth and sat down to the
plaudits led by the gubernatorial bloke.
* * * *
“Dolmetcher”: Two Maori ex-p.-0.-w.
in process of repatriation found a well-
nigh perfect means of correlating their
capacity for English ale with the sadly-
depleted balance in their pay-books.
They’d march into the pub, line up be-
“I want it stained and Varnished .”
fore the bar, display two perfect sets of
teeth and point down their dry throats.
It seldom failed. Even if Bung was a bit
hardhearted there was usually someone
in the bar willing to supply—and pay
for —the nectar for “the poor chaps so far
from home and can’t even speak Eng-
lish.” The flaw in the scheme usually
cropped up round about the fifth pint;
for the two Maoris were inveterate
enemies on one point. You’d be sur-
prised how annoyed some of their bene-
factors became when they started their
favorite argument, the merits and de-
merits of the verse of T. S. Eliot—which,
even for a couple of University graduates,
is rather a difficult theme to cover
adequately in Maori.
“But it Won't come off — it's tattooed on ."
“Craiser”: Not all New Australians
are dodging acquiring a knowledge of
the English language. Said a Norwegian
woman in a Melbourne tram to her next-
door neighbor: “When I first came here
I used to say ‘yug.’ Now I can say
‘yug’ yust as well as you can.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Oddest cause of a strike,
and oddest strike, I know of happened at
a little bush school on the South Coast of
N.S.W. during World War I, when the
teacher asked the children to draw a
map of Germany. The teacher was of
German descent and bore a German-
sounding name. After a deal of whisper-
ing, it was decided to refuse to draw a
map of Germany. The kids reckoned
that amounted to an act of disloyalty.
Teacher insisted, so the children downed
pens and walked out of school in a body
—the whole 15 of them. On learning the
facts most of the parents packed the
strikers back to school, with instructions
to apologise to the teacher, a good loyal
Australian despite his German name.
* * * *
“Melb’n”: If any New Australians
from Scandinavian countries had been
present they would have been a trifle
mystified at all the fuss made recently
about the Scottish seaman who swam
around St. Kilda pier in the nude. The
policemen who lassoed him would have
had plenty of occupation for their lariat
if they had gone to Marstrand, one of
Sweden’s most elegant watering-places.
There bathers of both sexes swim with-
out costumes. Although there is one
compartment for men and one for women,
a gap in each enclosure enables swimmers
to sally forth and join their friends in
the open sea. In the fiords family parties
may be seed having lunch or sporting in
the water—all in the altogether. A
spectacle of this sort was presented when
a ferry on which I was travelling passed
a delightful little island. A few passengers
waved, the party waved back, but most
of the passengers didn’t bother to look
up. If the incident had happened on
Hobson’s Bay the rush to look would
have capsized the ferry.
* * * *
“Bethune”: Three Sydney dailies
accepted without question a cabled state-
ment that the Fitzwilliam earldom, now
the subject of litigation before the High
Court of Justice, “dates back to William
the Conqueror.” No English earldom
goes back so far, though the Earls of
Mar, in the Scottish peerage, claim their
title dates from 1065. The oldest English
earldom is Arundel, but as that title is
merged in the Norfolk dukedom, Shrews-
bury (1442) ranks as Premier Earl on the
Rolls. The Fitzwilliams may have come
over with the Conqueror, but their title is
of much later vintage. William Fitz-
william received an Irish barony in 1620
and the third baron became an earl in
1716; the British title was conferred in
1746. Cable-subs, cannot be expected to
have the peerage at their fingertips, but
as the message mentioned the present
holder of the title as the ninth earl it’s
a wonder no one doubted the implication
that all his predecessors had been cen-
tenarians.
# * * *
“Uco”: Photographs and reports of the
eruption of Mt. Lamington illustrate once
again that, despite atom-bombs, man isn’t
in it with Nature when it comes to
destruction on a grand scale. When
Krakatoa blew up in 1883 it caused a
tidal wave which drowned 36,000 people ;
the sound of the explosion was heard
3000 miles away on Rodriguez Island and
volcanic dust was carried round the world.
The Messina earthquake of 1908 killed
100,000 people; nearly 150,000 perished
in the Japanese earthquake of 1-923.
That’s what happens as a result of the
earth’s abdominal rumblings, but well-
directed missiles from outside space could
be just as destructive. Last year a pros-
pector discovered in Northern Quebec a
meteoric crater bigger than any previ-
ously known. It is 24- miles in diameter
and its walls rise 550 ft. above the sur-
rounding country. Dr. Meen. of the
Ontario Museum, estimates that the
weight of the meteorite which caused it
must have run into millions of tons and
that the force of the impact would have
been sufficient to destroy London or New
York. Those cities can consider them-
selves fortunate that it missed them by
several thousand miles —and five thousand
years.
* He * *
“Fairf”: Some discerning fellow once
said: “It takes a war to teach the public
geography.” He was right; but, ot
course, he meant overseas geography.
To teach the populace the proximity ot
things nearer home it takes an electricity
failure. Over the years I have become
accustomed to hearing people say when-
ever I mentioned my N.S.W. place ot
residence: “Oh, that’s somewhere up the
country, isn’t it?” But last week I struck
a fellow who knew better. “Fairfield, he
ruminated. “Fairfield . . . Oh, yes, that s
right! That’s not far out —you headed
the blackout list on the radio three times
last week.”


A SURE THING.
“There is probably less known of the private life
of .TCsop, the spinner of fables, than of any writer
of the pre-Christian era.’’ —Melbourne “Age.”
You may take your pick of all the theories that
The pundits in their wisdom love to spout.
Now, was Aisop full of fun and very fat?
Was he long and gloomy, with a Grecian
snout?
Did he, like Gilbert’s burglar, take his case
And "love to lie a-basking in the sun”
While he was thinking up his latest wheeze
As lesser writers often claim they’ve done?
Now, Herodotus would never take us in;
At his extensive knowledge none could scoff.
He claims the Delpbians recompensed his kin
After, enraged, they’d bumped poor ASsop off.
He bad a rather waspish tongue, it seemed,
A bent for vitriolic verbal thrust,
And so they cooked a fable he’d blasphemed
As an excuse to crack him on the crust.
Upon the vulpine and balrachian kind
He drew to illustrate the whims of man.
With stem didacticism they were lined.
Those tales spun by the old Corinthian.
He knew his world, none better. And he sought,
By novel means that Time can never dim,
To be the teacher, with the mob the taught.
The world, however, didn’t well know him.
The proud ladmon’s lowly slave was he.
Whence, then, that inexhaustible and strong
Invention, that originality
Which never failed? Those fables that belong
To man and child alike would seem to throw
Some light not seen by cold historian.
It points to this: old AEsop had, I trow,
Got lots of practice as a married man.
n.s.w. S. W. K.
• * * *
“Spokeshave”: I see that Mr. E. A.
Lewis, organiser of the Master Plumbers’
exhibition at Ballarat, is offering 20
guineas for the best slogan or joke con-
cerning plumbers. I can’t think of any
better than the one about the man who
joined the gaspipes to the pipes from the
local brewery—except a personal one.
Six months ago I got a firm of plumbers
to give their attention to a pipe-laying
job urgently needed to save hundreds of
pounds’-worth of plants from dying.
They did an excellent day’s work, and
departed with the job almost completed ;
and a hopeful sign, as it appeared to me,
was that they left their tools behind them.
They turned up next day when I was
absent and collected their paraphernalia.
They haven’t been seen since,
• * * •
“K”: Wentworth was wrath when 50
of its manpower, believing they would
get filmed with the imitation Sturt ex-
pedition when it arrived, made up as
abos and got themselves transported to
the peninsula at the Darling junction
with the Murray, below and opposite the
town. The “abos” waited there four
hours on a very hot day, and then, when
nothing happened, those who could
swam across the Darling and went home.
The rest walked the long way round and
over the bridge. That was not how
Sturt was received by the abos Of 1829
"If you're still too hot you may take your veil off."
at that strategic spot where the Darling
silt has for long narrowed the Murray.
« * * *
“A.C.”: Here’s a simple test for “Blue
P.” (B. 17/1/’5l). Does he find it hard
to say “brewery”? Does it cause him any
tribulation, or make him feel like an
embarrassed pedant? Why, then, all this
fuss about the first “r” in February?
Most bad spelling comes from sheer lack
of observation. All the same, those who
trade in words, such as radio-announcers,
should have a good look once in a while;
then we might have less of such atrocities
as the “Antartic” Ocean, the “Reverent”
Mr. So-and-so (an A.B.C. special),
“adaption” and, of course, “Febuary.”
* * * *
“Billy S.”: Old Bert and I hopped on
to the bus the other night and off we
went. Just comfortably full —the bus 1
mean. As we approached the local
flicks, an old lady seated at the front of
the bus got up and gave the bell-cord a
prolonged and hefty tug. She had no
sooner resumed her seat than a pert
young thing seated behind her did the
same thing, followed by another and yet
another, Bert turned to me. “These
women beat me, all getting off at the
next stop, and they must all have a go at
the bell-cord ; even if they hadn’t heard
the buzzer when the old lad> pulled the
cord, they must have seen her.” With
that he got up to get out, and as he
struggled past me, he unconsciously
reached up and gave the cord a good tug.
As he left the bus he did have the grace
to turn and give me a very sheepish grin.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Ceg”: A practice which used to be
followed in some of the banks was to
record on the inside of the strong-room
door the height and signature of all
embryo general-managers with the date
of their joining the service. One very
old-established branch on the goldfields
of Victoria had a great collection of
such names, which was the pride of the
manager, who had been at that one
branch for 27 years. He regarded them
all as “his boys,” and it was his pleasure
to dilate on them and their subsequent
careers. However, when the office was
undergoing a periodical repainting an
enthusiastic young painter, with a few
strokes of his brush, obliterated the lot.
It nearly broke the old boy’s heart. A
somewhat similar record, of famous
flying-men, used to adorn a wall of the
Brickmakers’ Arms on the road out to
the Essendon aerodrome. It included
such names as Kingsford-Smith, Ulm,
Matthews, Amy Johnson and others,
Bert Hinkler was about the shortest and
Eric Chaseling the tallest. Qualification
imposed in the case of women pilots (it
was not necessary with the men) was
that, before appending their names, they
had to quaff a pot of beer. History does
not relate that any of them failed in this
respect. Structural alterations to the
hotel necessitated demolition of the wall,
and a most interesting souvenir of the
pioneers of Australian aviation was lost.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Doric”: Apropos “Phil Anthus” (B.
24/1/’5l) doubting the authenticity of
an old yarn. When I was a kid —quite
50 years ago —we lived near Centennial
Park, and a dear old gentleman, long
deceased and whose integrity was beyond
question, used to tell us how it was once
proposed to import a quantity of gondolas
from Venice for use on the lakes in that
area. There was some public protest,
and he was actually present at a meeting
when an eminent but uneducated states-
man, whose name I’ve forgotten,
denounced the scheme as extravagant. As
an alternative suggestion, the speaker
advocated importing two and breeding
from them. Since then, I have heard the
in connection with nearly every
aquatic resort in Australia. Recently I
went for a tour abroad and the same story
cropped up in the English Lakes District,
and it was also told me, in broken
English, by a Cooks’ courier, who showed
us around the sights of Brussels. I
wonder where it really happened—if it
did!
* * * *
“Melb’n”: According to a Melbourne
flapper magazine, “Every girl looking for
her first job worries about how she will
come through her fateful interview with
her prospective employer.” The journal
"The long extension , Spike—there's some beauts right in the corner."
seems to me to be strangely out of
fashion. I asked a girl who had just
got her first job in a hat shop how much
she was getting. “Aw, not much, but not
bad for a start,” she said complacently.
“What’s not much?” I asked. “Aw, a
tenner a week,” she said.
* * * *
“Erjos”: About my tenth day in Ger-
many, and knowing about as many
words of the language, I was sent by the
old widow to whom I had been assigned,
with her five-year-old grandson, to fetch
something. Assuming Franzler knew
what and whither, I set off. Straight
through the long village, hands in
pockets and whistling confidently, he led
me. A mile and a half more and we
entered another long, strung-out village,
but held straight on through it and out
into the fields again. Snow was 6in. deep,
and bareheaded Franzler’s ear-tips were
blue. By now I was dubious as to
whether Franzler did know our errand.
Another mile on I noted, a long way to
our left, roofs of a hamlet, and by signs
asked the lad was that our destination.
Cheerfully he nodded. The road ended
in the yard of a farmhouse-brewery-inn.
A fraulein put her head out the door and
asked was there something we wanted.
I sought to get Franzler to explain, but
he became dumb with shyness. More
women appeared, but none of their coax-
ing drew a word from him. We were
taken into the parlor and plied with hot
cakes and coffee and—for me —several
glasses of beer. From time to time
further women and girls appeared, but
all their guile and wheedling failed to
draw Franzler out of his shyness. I felt
embarrassed, but enjoyed the refresh-
ments immensely. After an hour I took
the boy’s hand, and, with apologetic
shrugs and smiles, made our withdrawal.
Often since have I wondered what the
women made of it; and wondered, too,
what would have happened had a Ger-
man p.-0.-w. in Australia turned up at a
country pub leading a five-year-old
Aussie by the hand. Back in our own
village I found we had been instructed
to go a dozen doors up the street to
borrow a wheelbarrow.
♦ * * ♦
“Sackfair”; My mate is a horticul-
tural specialist, therefore 1 was amazed
when he asked in a puzzled tone “What
are those flowers in that vase?” I
wouldn’t have known if they’d been
orchids or daisies, but my spouse hap-
pened to be there. She smiled. “They’re
frangipanis.” “Frangipani—with long
stalks?” The expert was obviously too
polite to call her a liar; he moved in for
a closer examination. “Well, I’ll be
blowed! What have you done to ’em?”
The wifely smirk extended to both ears.
“Stuck ’em on paspalum stalks,” she said
proudly. “They keep for days and days
that way, too.” And the things she’s said
about paspalum! ,
* * % mT * *
“W.P.T.”: Taronga Park compares
favorably with any zoo in the world; it’s
a big advance from Sydney’s first zoo,
established at Botany Bay over 100 years
ago. At that time the Sir Joseph Banks
hotel was advertised as the leading play-
ground for the people of Sydney.
Attached to the hotel were extensive
gardens in which owner William Beau-
mont kept a collection of wild animals,
There were an elephant, a Bengal tiger,
a black Himalayan bear, some red deer,
an Indian lop-eared goat, some black
Bengal sheep, a grizzly bear from Cali-
fornia, wild cats and many Australian
animals. On special occasions the Sir
John Harvey, one of the colony’s most
modern steamers, took patrons from
Sydney round to Botany Bay, 10-bob
return. By 1863 there was also a cricket-
pitch, bowling-green and an archery-
ground attached to the hotel. In the late
’sixties the Sir Joseph Banks became the
Mecca of footrunners from all over the
world. Beaumont sold his interest in th«,
zoo to a man named Billings, who
removed the animals to a hotel at
Watson’s Bay. When Billings died his
widow offered the animals to the N.S.W.
Government, but the offer was refused,
so the whole of the animals were poisoned,
and thus ended Sydney’s first zoo.
* * * *
“Sailor George”: Biggest splash I ever
saw happened when X was on convoy
work in the Mediterranean. One of the
ships we were convoying had a loco-
motive parked on deck and a torpedo
hit her right underneath it. Up went the
loco, about 50ft. in the air, where it
seemed to hang for a moment, then down
it came with a splash that seemed to
throw half the Med. aloft.
* * * *
“R.W.”: The sudden dash of the
Ninth Divvy in June, 1942, from Syria
to Alamein was allegedly made with
secrecy regarding the destination and the
identification of the troops taking part.
Slouch hats, color-patches and all other
identifying marks were removed. Yet
every Wog we passed greeted us with
“Aussie, you fight Rommel?” What gave
us away? Just a trifling detail that those
in charge of security had overlooked. We
were the only troops in the M.E. wearing
tan boots.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: Old Bob, a laborer in
our power-station, was detailed to look
after the store while the storeman was
on leave. It was an easy lurk and a clean
job, but old Bob didn’t like it. He asked
the chief to give it to someone else, but
the chief re-
fused ; he’d
known old Bob
for a long time
and knew he was
dependable. One
day there was a
bit of panic in
the station
about spare
coils for a regu-
lator, and the
chief asked Bob
for the coil-
b o o k, and
turned over to
the appropriate page. He peered
at the figures, adjusted his glasses,
and peered again. Then he asked “What's
that number, Bob?” Old Bob took a
screw at the page. “Who wrote it?” he
asked. “You did,” said the chief. “Then
it’s no good askin’ me,” said Bob. “I
can’t read me writing five minutes after
I’ve writ it.” There’s a new deputy-
storeman now, and old Bob is happily
blowing out machines, papering brushes
and sweeping floors.
« He * #
“Becks”: No wonder the sheep-
kings don’t worry when they hear of the
discovery of new substitutes for wool.
Lately a British carpet-maker arrived
in Australia and told reporters his firm
had found a substitute for wool which
enabled them to sell their carpets at a
price much lower than that of the all-
wool article. The substitute was made
from peanut-shells. There’s nothing new
about that. Picture-theatres out my way
have been using peanut-shells as floor-
coverings for as long as I can remem-
ber—yet look at the price of yvooll


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bob”: Probably the world’s strangest
jail is situated in the Kimberleys of
north-western Australia. It is a huge
centuries-old bottle-tree, known as the
“Prisoners’ Tree” or the “Hillgrove
Lock-up.” Inside a hollow space in the
trunk, into which has been cut a small
doorway, as many as 25 natives were
once held overnight on the last stage of a
trek under guard to Wyndham from the
wilds. In the days of the Kimberley
rush prospectors and diggers used the tree
as a safe-deposit for provisions, against
the night-prowlings of native stealers.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Solitude”: The mong was lying in the
creek hole nearest our noonday camp, so
Seventyfiver moved a yard or two up-
stream, filled the billy, chucked out a
couple of tadpoles and returned to the
fire. With the tea in his fist he stood
waiting for the water to boil, stooping
several times to scoop out the grass-
hoppers that landed in the drink.
“Righto, Sol.” He grabbed a stick and
carried the billy across to the tucker-
bags, arriving simultaneously with a
willy-willy which peppered everything with
dust and sticks. “Aw, blast it.” Seventy-
fiver skimmed off the top of the billy
with a dead leaf. “Chuck over the pan-
nikins, Sol,” He filled them, took a bite
from a slab of bread and meat, then
paused again to retrieve two small moths
from his pannikin. “This the new tea?”
he asked presently, “Yair.” He took
another mouthful, and spat out a gum-
leaf. “Sure y’ got the same brand we
always get?” “Yair. Why?” “Only
that ...” Another grasshopper scalded
himself, and Seventyfiver savagely shoved
him under before fishing out the carcass.
“Only that I heard some o’ the tea y’ buy
nowadays ’s got somethin’ else mixed
in it, an’ . . .” (he whistled another
enjoyable sip) “. . . an’ a bloke likes t’
know what he’s drinkin’, that’s all.”
• » ♦ *
“W.P.T.”: Modern methods have
rendered obsolete many of the contests
that were once a feature of country
carnivals. Only a small percentage of
modern farmers could use a single-furrow
plough with sufficient skill to plough a
dead straight furrow, and with the intro-
duction of the modern milking machine
the ability of a farmhand is no longer
judged by the number of cows per hour
that he can milk. Potato-digging, corn-
husking and -shelling and bark-stripping
are practically obselete; and how many
country women would know how to
make a good batch of bread?
“Aw, let ’em get out of OUR Way!”
“Wippegong”: Among the larks I’d
always handed the belt for highest altitude
gained to the little bushlark, but must
now qualify that award. In a single
flight, yes ; but in another way the humble
groundlark has the rest of the family
licked—he is the only member living on
Kosciusko. Except for the rufous song-
lark, which climbs to over 3000 ft., you
lose the others when you leave the last
farms, but the groundlark stays with you
all the way; in any break of the timber
he occupies the clearing, he flits among
the snow-gums, and when these, growing
lower, flatter and more gnarled, finally
give up the climb the little brown fellow
keeps on. Crows and kestrels drift over,
for grasshoppers are abundant; but they
come up from the tree level and return
there to roost —the lark is a resident; he
was nesting among the snow-daises near
the icy runlet formed from the last snow-
drift, dripping stubbornly away where
the midsummer sun reached it in the lee
of the summit. Descending, you catch
the first birdsong as soon as the gums are
regained, for this is the summer domain
of the flame robin. His soft lay is likely
to be lost among the stronger songs at
lower levels, but here, enjoying the stage
to himself, you never miss a note of the
sweet, rambling refrain. Then as you
drop to sheltered valleys maggies, honey-
eaters, parrots, fantails, whistlers and so
on occur as the region suits them, until
you are practically back in avian suburbia.
* * ♦ *
“Bo”: The big new sedan slid to a
halt opposite the cove using the strainer
on the roadside fence. The driver tooted
the horn to draw attention. As the fence-
mender looked up flie motorist said:
“We Were going through on the highway
but made a detour so that we could see
something of interest —the countryside is
so dreadfully monotonous. Which is the
way to Grogan’s Gorge?” The man
addressed straightened up and pointed
down the road. “Y’re right here,” he
said. The motorist looked at the flat,
dusty road, with the shanty pub and the
store-cwm-post-office fronting it a few
.hundred yards down. All around the
landscape was flat as a crumpet. “But
where is the gorge?” he asked. “I’m
tellin’ y’, that’s it,” returned the other.
The motorist seemed rather annoyed.
“Of all the idiots,” he rasped, “To name
a place like that when there isn’t even a
dent in the ground for miles.” “Nothin’
idiotic about it,” said the agriculturist
calmly. “Matter o’ fact it was named
after me grandfather, Josh Grogan, An’
why shouldn’t it ha’ bin? He made
hist’ry in these parts be eatin’ two cart-
wheel dampers an’ four tins o’ cocky’s
joy at one siltin’!”
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Te Ngakara”: Hongi called at the
police-station and laid the document on
the table. “What’s this?” asked the
sergeant. “T’at for me, Sarge. It say
I must pay t’at sixteen quids, I
won’t pay it. Wot I do? Wot
te law say?” “Law says you must
pay,” said the sergeant. “I won’t
pay—wot t’en?” “You’ll see, Hongi.”
A month later he called again,
this time with a lawyer’s letter threaten-
ing civil action. “Wot I do, Sarge?” he
asked. “See another lawyer,” was the
reply. “Wot for-—I won’t pay, so why
another lawyer to say t’at? Why not you
say it?” “Not my job, Hongi.” Some
weeks later the Maori again called, this
time with a court order, and wanted to
know what it meant. “It says if you
don’t pay up you go to jail,” the sergeant
told him. “Well, I won’t pay—wot
t’en?” “If you don’t pay, then I’ll get
an order to take you to jail in the city.”
“For how long, Sarge?” “One month.”
“Py korry, I won’t pay—l go to jail!”
Shortly afterwards Hongi came again to
the station with an amended account, it
having gone up to £2O, and again voiced
his determination not to pay it. “Ah,”
exclaimed the sergeant. “You’re the man
I wanted to see, Hongi. I’ve got an order
here to take you by train to the city
prison next Saturday. That gives you
three days to make your home arrange-
ments.” “A’ri, Sarge. I go, I won’t
pay,” The intervening days were very
wet and cold. On Saturday morning
Hongi called at the police-station and
said to the sergeant: “Look, Sarge, tiss
"We can fix you up in a cabin de luxe on A deck."
awful wetter. Don’t you tink we petter
put off te rail trip till Monday?” “Not
a hope, Hongi!” “T’at a fao’? You te
hard man. Aw’ri! It’s too wet to go
travel to prison—here’s te twenty quids! ”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Arthur R.”: “Yairs,” said Wattle.
“Old Gyp was a good dorg. Work sheep
well, friendly enough, but he had one
failin’ though; he
was very fond o’
straw berries.
Useter search the
plants ev’ry morn-
ing and nip off
the ripe fruit. It
wasn’t that I
cared much about
the strawberries,
but he surprised
me by bitin’ one
o’ the new hands
who was wearin’
shorts one day.
Couldn’t under-
stand it at all, till I was bindin’ up the
bloke’s ankle. Then I took a tumble —
old Oyp’d been taken in by a strawberry
birthmark on his left leg.”
* * * *
“Simmo”: The Count and I, having
carried a pick and shovel half-way around
Australia, decided that we’d carried them
far enough. We dug a deep hole and
laid the tools on the bottom. Then the
light dawned upon us—we had nothing
to fill the hole in withl Chuckling sheep-
ishly, the Count remarked, “Two intelli-
gent gentlemen such as we should have
thought of that beforehand.” We re-
packed the tools in our swags and resumed
opr perambulations,
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Shadow Chaser”: The black duck
was feeding with her small ducklings some
yards out from the water’s edge when
the fox landed from a leaning gum and
took up a strategic position completely
barring access to the water. The duck
immediately attacked, or pretended to,
regardles§. When the fox retaliated she
pulled the age-old trick of pretended dis-
ability, flopping helplessly about almost
in the marauder’s mouth. Tantalised to
action, against his better judgment, the
fox dashed at her and, of course, just
missed. Then he looked around wildly
for the clutch, but they were gone; and
before he could bring his thoughts back
again to Ma she had slipped into the
water and was joining the others in a
happy family reunion. Reynard was
last seen disgustedly biting his toenails
to the quick for falling to so ancient a
stratagem.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve never heard a
snake hiss (B. 17/1/’5l), and of all the
old-timers I’ve questioned only two can
recall having heard One. Ted is firm in his
statement that they do hiss while they
are swaying, head flattened and tongue
darting. The other old bloke reckons
if s not so much a hiss as a spit. What
I do recall hearing is a low drumming
call—“woooo” is the nearest I can get
to it —that has caused more arguments
in the Westralian wheatbelt than the
origin of joeys. It occurs during the
wheat-ripening season, when snakes are
mating and plentiful. There are also
plenty of quail around at that time, and
opinion is pretty equally divided on
whether the sound is the snake’s or the
quail’s mating call. I’m impartial, but
I’ll admit the force of the evidence.
There are snakes, and they are mating.
Also, the quail by then are well into their
breeding season. The snake being
reputedly deaf it’s hard to associate it
with a call, unless a breeding season or
transformation brings temporary hearing.
The call is a seasonal one, and if it isn’t
that of snakes or quail, what is it?
* ♦ ♦ •
“Golden Mile”: When the dumping of
slime residues on the small 12- and 24-
acre leases of the Golden Mile was be-
coming a problem one manager con-
ceived the idea of repulping the treated
and re-treated slimes to a liquid, which
was then piped miles away to a low-lying
flat. Here the residues gradually formed
a dam with an overflow. One day a worn-
out miner of good repute approached the
Grand Mogul with the request to be
allowed to instal a zinc-shavings box in
this overflow channel, just on the off-
chance of making an odd shilling to
augment the pension. As assayers and
analysts had long before decided that this
overflow contained only the barest trace
of gold, about as much as sea-water, the
Mogul said to go ahead. For months
the w.-o.m. let the overflow pour through
the 20ft. launder that he installed.
Then one day the manager received a
visit from the head of the Goldfields
police, who disclosed that the worn-out
one’s gold-sales to the banks during the
past few months had been worth hundreds
of pounds. Billions of gallons of much
the same overflow water has been poured
over the Boulder landscape during the
past 50 years ; with the action of rain and
salt the faint gold trace will gradually be
picked up, carried to points of precipi-
tation, where specks and slugs will slowly
be formed, providing perhaps aeons hence
a modest gold-rush.
* * * *
“Betcha”; That to take your eyes off
a snake is to lose it was proved once
more when I met a 4ft. brown on the
river-bank. After a trout for tea, I d
slipped down to the river, and, intent on
the deep hole above, I cast carefully.
Then something drew my eyes down-
ward, to find myself straddling a Joe
Blake, who obviously considered the
near presence of my boots an imper-
tinence. I shifted ’em. For some minutes
I considered him, watched his wrigghngs
subside, and inspected his coloring ; then
catching sight of a stick a few yards to
one side, I moved slowly towards it, still
watching the snake. To snatch up toe
stick, my eyes left the brown for about
three seconds, but it was long enough.
He had completely disappeared. , a
jumped forward, searched water and sur-
rounding grassland, but even tbe
Phantom couldn’t have accomplished a
neater exit. How does Joe know the
second your eyes are off him? Ana
don’t tell me it is the sudden movement
does it, for when I first spotted this
long’un under my feet I moved plenty
and sudden. —■ ; : .r...


“Old-timer”: Ran into Bill the other
day. Both of us were far from our usual
haunts and to me Bill was obviously as
adrift in the city as would be an A.W.U.
organiser at a meeting of the Graziers’
Association. You might find him any-
where inside a line from Yass to Con-
dobolin, down to Wentworth and back
along the Murray to Jingellic and up to
Yass again, but never in a city. “Aw,”
he said disgustedly. “The blokes y’ find
trampin’ an’ campin’ these days is a lot
o’ sissies. I got used t’ these here sleepin’-
bags an’ portable radios an’ primus-stoves
an’ all that sort o’ gear, but then I run
into Calico Ted down near Boree Crick
an’, strike me roan, if he ain’t carryin’
two tins o’ condensed-milk in his knot.
I can understand a man humpin’ a bottle
o’ beer or tomater sauce—but condensed-
milk! Yair, the place is goin’ soft, all
right.” Morosely he contemplated a
lonely future, then buried his whiskers
in his beer and refused to say more.
* * * *
“Ah Me”: Bill Harney’s verses about
the road-grader (B. 3/l/’5l) brought back
vividly the country about Erldunda,
Kulgera and Umbeara Well, not far over
the northern border of South Australia,
where a couple of years ago we had cause
to curse the lighthearted Sam, who drove
the thing. Not knowing the track to
Alice Springs, and finding it very often
obscured by the tramplings of cattle
around the bores, we were delighted to
come upon the good graded road over
the border in the N.T. After shaking our
bones out over the gibber plains at three
to five miles an hour, the jeep npw bowled
merrily along at 35. Our joy came to an
abfupt end and so did the road, in a
trackless patch of mulga scrub. Instead
of the main track to the Alice it was a
private track to a bore. We came to
the conclusion, after following several of
these blind alleys and having to retrace
our wheel-tracks, that the irresponsible
Sam made these tracks for the sheer love
of it when steering for his nightly
camping-place.
* * * ♦
“Nika”: I knew the mud-dauber,
paper-nest and sand-burro wing wasps, but
the other day saw something of which
I’d often heard but never seen: a parasitic
wasp depositing eggs in the body of the
host. Working through the apiary and
finding a red-back spider’s nest under a
landing-board, I went off for a stick to
clean out the eggs, dead bees, etc. Com-
ing back I found one of these small,
yellowish, parasitic wasps had beaten me
to it. Running over the eggs, she seemed
to be sounding them with her antennae
as though looking for something. It
must have been a weak spot she wanted,
because, suddenly stopping, she appeared
to raise and arch up her body, and, bend-
ing her egg-placer (needle-like spine pro-
jecting from rear of abdomen) under her,
slowly sank it into the depths of the egg-
sac. For a few seconds she was motion-
less, placing her eggs in among those of
the spider in the sac; then, drawing out
her egg-placing instrument, she carefully
wiped it several times on her back feet;
appeared to wipe her face with her antennae
and was gone in a flash, probably to
seek more food-laden sites for her young.
The baby wasp-grub hatching out in one
of these sacs is surrounded with an ample
food-supply and feeds on the unborn
spiders till it pupates and finally cuts its
way out through the tough, silken cover-
ing, a fully-formed wasp.
*** * *
“S.H.H.”: We were camped with old
Joe in his hut on the edge of the big
plain. Outside the wind and sleet yowled
and spat in freezing bitter blasts, and we
crouched over the dying fire. “Nothin’
else for it,” said
the old bloke,
donning his oil-
skins. “Have to
put Poll in the
old jinker and
sneak over to
that belt of snow-
gums and pick up
somethin’. Take
a picket off the fence and have the billy
boilin’ when I git back.” An hour later,
wrestling with another picket, we spotted
what looked like someone with a horse
and slide coming over the woolshed hill.
It was Joe. “Flamin’ wheel collapsed
when I hit a stump,” he explained. “So
I knocked the other one to bits and
drove ’er home on the hubs ” “Gripes,”
said Mick, “pity you hadn’t thought to
throw on a couple of sticks.” “What’s
wrong with them?” snorted the old cove,
pointing to a neat heap of spokes stacked
against the dash. “Keep us goin’ for a
coupler days.”
* ♦ ♦ •
“Gravelsnatcher”: The clouds appeared
towards evening, and half a dozen times
during tea Dad hopped up and went
outside for another look. “Think
it’ll put anything in the dam?”
Bill asked with hjs mouthful. “Eh?
Dam? Aw, I duhno,” the old bloke
answered, but his doubt didn’t decrease
his cheerfulness. He wasn’t worried about
the dam, although we’d been carting
water for the stock for months. His
main concern was the house-tank, long
since bone-dry. Clean water for the
washhouse had been Mum’s chief worry.
Before turning in Dad tapped the tank
and found it three corrugations full.
“She loves me not. .."
Next morning it was half-full, and the
steady drizzle was adding to it as Bill
harnessed the team to the wagon and set
off on his daily trip to the town dam.
On each trip he’d bring back just enough
water for the stock for one day. He was
back again inside an hour, with empty
tanks and a gloomy outlook. “The
road’s too slippery,” he explained. “The
nags couldn’t pull up that hill at Dolan’s.”
We should have known —you never could
take a team up that hill just after the
first rain. We stood at the back
of the house and thought of the only
solution. The horses had to have a drink,
but nobody was game to put our thoughts
into words until Mum came out. “Oh,
well,” she said. “That’ll save me washing
today.” The rain had passed, and we
mightn’t get another shower for a month.
“Salmon Gums”: It’s a common
fallacy that anything metallic or bright
attracts lightning, and women of an
earlier generation turned the mirrors to
the wall during a thunderstorm. Lightning
is the flash caused by an electric discharge
which occurs when two electric charges
of opposite signsr—positive and negative
—approach sufficiently close to each other
or become sufficiently powerful to break
down, or bridge, the insulating medium
separating them. When those two bodies
are clouds, the lightning-flash occurs in
the sky; when they are a cloud and the
earth, some portion of the earth’s surface
is “struck.” Since the discharge follows
the line of least resistance, the path taken
is through some object which is either
nearer to the cloud or possesses some
attribute which diminishes the resistance.
An ironstone outcrop is one example of
the latter. Another is a man, standing
on or near a prominence, and pressing
his iron-studded boots into the earth.
Lightning-conductors are examples of
high objects of low resistance designed
to attract the discharge and, usually, dis-
sipate it before it builds up to dangerous
proportions. An interesting case occurred
in a Perth suburb, when a tall
pine-tree was struck and shattered half-
way up the trunk. Why didn’t the dis-
charge occur through the top of the
tree, which would be the point nearest
to the other charge? My guess is that
the top, being thin, was comparatively
dry—the storm occurred after the first
rain for months —whereas lower down
the tree had absorbed more moisture, had
more sap, and provided a path with less
resistance,
* * » ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Along a stretch of road
I use frequently three orchardists have
roadside stands. There is no apparent
difference in the fruit, or price, yet one
fellow sells twice as much as the neighbor
on each side of him. I verbally wondered
why—and was told with no reservations
at all: “Just a matter of knowing your
customers. When you’re after city
motorists you’ve got to attract their atten-
tion. The sign doesn’t help much —they
see hundreds of them along the road. So
I line up my car, the son’s little bus, and
the daughter’s bloke’s bitza, one behind
the other near the stand. That slows up
the bloke in a car straight away—he
thinks there’s been an accident. He’s
quite disappointed, and he’s just going to
step on it when his missus or girl-friend
says: ‘What are those cars queued-up
for?’ That stops him in his tracks. If
people are queued-up, he reckons, they
must be getting something, and it must
be something cheap, or good, or hard
to get. And once a city bloke gets it into
his nut that he’s hoppin’ in for his cut,
you couldn’t bash him away with a
mattock-handle.”
UP-COUNTRY
DRIVING HOME FROM TOWN.
Driving along the roadway.
End of a summer’s day.
Flicking the whip for pastime.
Brushing the flies away.
Wheels on the metal crunching.
Flap of an easy rein,
Hooves of the horse in rhythm
Beating the old refrain.
Driving along the roadway.
Returning in the calm.
Past long grey lines of fences.
Paddock and hill and farm,
On through the creeping purple.
Dark gum-tops ’gainst the sky.
Rabbit across the side-track.
Smell of the gums close by.
Driving along the roadway.
Breeze in the horse's mane,
A coolness on the forehead.
Shaking the reins again.
Watching the sky grow softer.
Peace over all the land,
The wagtail on a fence-post.
Wave of a friendly hand.
Driving along the roadway,
Singing a random air.
Whistling an ancient ditty.
Never a thought or care.
Light in a farmhouse blinking.
Grey roofs now settling down.
Wisp of the blue smoke curling
Back home again from town.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
ATLAS.
The aimless stockman swings his whip
And circles a spinning world—
A sweep of sky and spread of earth.
Tight in his whip-thong curled.
With a young equator centred
Just where his chestnut mare
Is pricking her sharp ears, rock-like,
Through seas of rolling air;
And latitudes and parallels—
Not his to understand:
The stockman owns his world alone,
Held in his hard, rough hand.
The stockman smiles and lets whirling
Boundaries slowly slack.
And trail in dust, or swiftly sweep
Down in his whip-lash crack:
Returns the axis-handle
To rest there, on his hip,
And through his conquering fingers
Pliant boundaries slip.
Then moving in his leather throne
To tighten up his rein
He lifts his brown and careless hand
And spins a world again.
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.
HILLS OF HOME.
(To the Late W. J. Turner)
Ere his shade bestrode Hrimfaxi
Did an Austral poet say:
“Chimborazo, Cotopaxi,
You have stolen my heart away I”
Though beyond Ovidius Naso
Turner trod the realms of gold,
I’m uncharmed by Chimborazo;
Cotopaxi leaves me cold—
All the marvels incidental
To the spread of Kai Lung’s mat
Touch a spring less sentimental
Than the hills of Ballarat.
Of a landscape unexotic
Milder memories I keep:
Still exert a spell hypnotic
Buninyong and Warrenheip——
Lure for 'Frisco’s Fortyniners,
Black Hill blanched and cleft in twain,
Tunneled by the toiling miners,
Gutted for a gambler’s gain.
On a bygone summer’s morning
This was where a sentry’s gun
Gave Eureka sudden warning
When the Fortieth came on.
No Cordilleras dominating.
No tall Alps, look down in scorn
Where the Fortieth lay in waiting—
Soldier’s Hill, where I was born;
And when boyhood’s recollections
Are unwinding their cocoon
It precedes in my affections
Sindbad’s Mountains of the Moonl
Yes; though I have been a rover,
I remember every hill;
When I con the old names over
I can call tho roll at will—-
Blowhard, Saddleback, and Bolton,
Buninyong and Warrenheip
(Once a lava stream ran molten
Ere a mountain fell asleep) ;
Blanched Black Hill; Brown Hill, its
neighbor:
Ravaged rampart, grass-clad dome;
Monuments to Rest and Labor;
Seven Hills—a childhood’s Rome!
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.
THE CYPRESS HILL.
I own the .hill, have climbed it, made it
mine,
have breathed with the anguish of the
windful cypress.
“You will be prosecuted,” says the plain-
spoken sign;
but I walk the hill daily, knowing that I
own it.
I feel with the wattle, green buds bursting
to yellow,
and the black saplings that wait without
memory or bitterness
for quiet spring. Surely the hill is mine.
Yet even I who own the hill with a longing
tap-rooted deeper than possession or
payment have not dared
to break the all-night moan of cypress and
whisper
of gum—have not and do not dare.
I would like to climb the dark hill, holler
a command
to the stars, scribble my name on the
shine of the moon,
show the dark trees that I was there.
All through the calling night the hill is
waiting
for him who will push through the trees
and, parting
the stars with a movement of his hand*,
shout and whisper, “It is mine!”
Others than I must dare create the hill,
shape it
for themselves from the formless night—
but he will be prosecuted, says the stiff-
necked sign,
and he will be haunted in the memory of
the unforgetful pine.
N.s.w,
RAY MATHEW.


• • • Proudly made in Australia to exacting
standards. Army Club bring you the world’s best leaf,
ipened by sun, mellowed by time. Mild yet
satisfying, they arc rolled in filigrained paper
scientifically pure and free from printer’s ink.
ƒ
Jinny Club
CO!
m
rr;
M>>
■
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.*
f Divs. —
Net Pref. Ee-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
1945..200,454 14,400 10 p.c. = 121,508 366,690
Net reserves new subsids., £17,469.. 874,159
Added intangibles, £32,432 .. .. 341,727
Debenture-issue expenses, £17,864 .. 323,863
1946. .236,866 14,400 10 p.c. = 125,031 421,298
Share-premiums, £312,578 .. .. 733,876
Deficit of new subsidiary, £2954 .. 730,922
Added intangibles, £972 .. .. 729,950
1947. .326,573 14,400 12J p.c. = 172,485 869,638
Profit sale shares, etc., £157,885 1
From tax provision, £30,000 [
Expenses, third-pref. issue, £51,252 J
1,006,271
1948. .374,340 14,400 12J p.c. = 224,848 1,141,863
Added capital reserves, £398,326 .. 1,540,189
Less sundry adjustments, £27,091 ~1,513,098
Added intangibles, £10,177 .. .. 1,502,921
C & 4 p.c.
1949. .564,783 80,956 124 p.c. = 237,472 1,749,276
Added capital reserves, £1,061,032.. 2,810,308
Added sundry reserves, net, £20,634 2,830.942
Reduction intangibles, £6526 . . 2,837,468
6 & 4 p.c.
1950. .597,080 64,800 12Ji p.c.= 356,210 3,013,538
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
f After deducting goodwill, etc., now £163,017.
Consolidation and expansion of existing
activities are the features of the latest
accounts of this big and closely-integrated
group of wool- and textile-manufacturing
units, which have grown apace, by
absorptions and otherwise, since the public
became interested in 1936. Profits come
mainly from the varied activities of some
32 Australian subsidiaries, which turn
out- felt piece-goods, footwear, carpets,
knitted goods, men’s suits, wool-tops and
-yarns and trimmings for the motor-body
building trade, etc. There is also a large
subsidiary in New Zealand, and a million-
pound associated co. in S. Africa, in
which a 43 p.c. interest is held. Each
of these cos. paid 8 p.c. again last term,
when the N.Z. offshoot earned 12.8 p.c.
on its ord. capital.
Demand is running ahead of output in
all important sections of the undertaking,
and turnover is about six times paid
capital, the chairman says. Last term
aggregate net earnings increased by
£32,297, reaching £597,080. That was
after earmarking £578,448 (up £139,944)
for depreciation and £569,433 (up
£89,127) for the tax-collector. The
£597,080 covered the pref. divs. (together
£64,800) and 18.6 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 26.3, 20, 22.6, 17.8 and 14.8 p.c.
back to 1945. The drop in the rate of
earning was due to introduction of fresh
capital (949,891 new £1 ords. were issued
at a premium of 10s. each shortly before
the close of accounts in 1949), which
takes time to develop full earning-power,
and to spiralling costs. The div., steady
at 10 p.c. for a decade after the public
became interested in 1936, has been main-
tained at 12i p.c. for the four years to
June 30 last.
During the year £20,634 net was
dropped from somewhere other than the
profit-and-loss account into reserves and
intangibles were reduced by £6526. Also,
following an independent valuation of
properties, freeholds were written up by
£1,018,798—£922,961 in Australia and
£95,837 (parent’s proportion) in New
Zealand. This is a book adjustment that
does not affect earning-power one way
or the other. A further capital profit of
£42,234 resulting from adjustments con-
nected with ownership of subsidiaries was
also tossed into capital reserve, lifting it
to £2,113,942.
Arrangements were then made to con-
vert “a substantial portion” of current
liabilities into 4i p.c. mortgage debt with
currencies of 20-25 years. This is the
middle course which seeks to steer clear
of the danger of being caught, during a
possible economic recession, with either a
top-heavy share-capital structure or top-
heavy floating debt repayable at call.
Meanwhile 4} p.c. money should be very
helpful to the ords.
The net addition to mortgages was
£2,158,969 £1,813,553 conversion of
floating debt and £345,416 new money on
account of New Zealand activities —and
there was a further £196,447 of mort-
gage money to come when the books
dosed. The amount slashed off the
overdraft was £970,471, while £276,359
was added to the amount coming to trade
creditors, etc.:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £3,294,783 £4,349,674 £4,349,674
Outside interests.. 865,984 1,164,247 1,262,758
Debentures .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages .. 362,491 399,055 2,558.024
Overdraft . . 2,968,360 2,821,386 1,850,915
Sundry creditors, etc. 939,688 1,310,255 1,586,614
Tax provision . . 537,747 578,458 642,270
Inter-co. balance. . 176,195 86,417
Final div 118,174 149,936 209,305
Freeholds.. .. 1,520,340 2,204,058 8,635,168
Plant .. .. 1,834,466 2,648.902 2,905,870
Shares other cos... 472,297 467,957 458,287
Stock . . . . 5,184,144 5,894,271 6,592,068
Debtors .. 2,108,850 2,419,875 2,864,722
Cash, etc 29,485 3,418 13,400
Mortgage sinking fund 51,711 73,540 96,072
Inter-co. balance.. 19,508
Goodwill, etc. .. 159,366 169,548 163,017
Chief additions to assets were freeholds,
£1,431,110 (mostly on account of the
writing-up already referred to), plant
£256,968, stocks £697,797 (largely because
of higher wool prices) and book debts
£444,847. Adequate provision has been
made for a possible fall in stock-values,
the board says.
Since the close of accounts the co. sold
its controlling interest (bought in 1946) in
Korma Textiles (N.Z.), Ltd., on “satis-
factory” terms to S. and H. Korraan, the
managing directors and next largest share-
holders. This Auckland knitwear and
stocking manufacturer has a paid capital
of £1,000,000 in 250,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 750,000 ords. Its profits crumpled
from £37,305 for the 12 months to
March 31, 1948, to £49 for the following
year and to £23 last term. No ord. div,
has been paid for the last four years.
Appreciation of the N.Z, pound in
August, 1948, hit the co. hard. •
F. and T.’s pound ords., which fluctu-
ated between 465. and 575. during 1950,
stood at 58s. 6d. last week, giving a
return of 4.2 p.c, on a 121 P-°. div. basis.
The 6 p.c. second and 4 p.c. third prefs.
at 295. and 18s. yield 4.1 p.c. and 4.4 p.c.
respectively. The well-protected 6 p.c.
firsts seldom appear on ’Change. Net
tangible cover is £36 12s. 4d. seconds,
£5 13s. thirds and 41s. 2d. ords,
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940. . 97,359 121 p.c. = 95,054 2,305 814,467
1941.. 96,076 12| „ „ 95,054 1,022 315,489
1942.. 95,431 llj „ „ 85,549 9,882 325,371
1943.. 66,378 8 „ „ 60,835 5,543 330,914
1944.. 65,988 8 „ „ 60,835 5,153 336,067
1945.. 65,513 8 „ ~60,835 4,678 340,745
1946.. 65,818 8 „ „ 60,835 4,983 345,728
1947.. 65,168 8 „ „ 60,835 4,333 350,061
1948.. 66,343 8 „ „ 60,835 6,508 356,560
1949.. 66,470 8 „ ~60,835 5,635 861,204
1950.. 69,366 8 „ „ 60,835 8,531 369,735
To tax reserve, £SioO .. .. .. 366,635
Australian Cement (paid capital
£760,433) and Kandos Cement (paid
capital £673,862) are two holding con-
cerns, which are equal partners in Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty., Ltd. The
last-mentioned, which is the biggest pro-
ducer of cement in the Commonwealth,
has an issued capital of £2,200,000 paid
to £2,150,000. Each holding co. is also
distributing agent for the operating co.
in its own State,
At end Nov. last Australian Cement’s
assets consisted of shares in the operating
co. £1,075,000 (there was another £25,000
at call), shares in Bates (A’sia) Pty., which
makes the paper bags the cement is packed
in, £3750, and Government securities,
cash, etc., £82,426. There was only £271
coming to outsiders. During the year
£62,563 was received in divs. and £10,285
in commissions, etc. Of the lot £69,366
(up £2896), or 9.1 p.c. on capital, was
profit, which has been on a more or less
even keel for the last eight years. For
this period the div. has been steady at
8 p.c. as against 12} p.c. for the four
years to 1941.
The operating co., over whose figures
the curtain is kept drawn, has sent along
a steady 6 p.c. on its capital since 1943
as against 9 p.c. for the five years before
that. Since there is believed to be a
comfortable margin between its earnings
and distributions, the 8 p.C, may be a
much easier matter than this holding co.’s
own figures suggest. Production of
cement, held back by adverse post-war
factors, is steadily increasing, and the
outlook for the industry is a buoyant one
on the demand side. Superimposed upon
the back-log of home-building and other
construction is a very large programme
of public works, which will take years
to complete. So the operating co. is
lifting output capacity of its Fyansford
(Vic.) plant from 275,000 tons to 335,000
tons p.a., and the new equipment is ex-
pected to be in operation at an early
date. At the other plant at Kandos
(N.S.W.), capacity 200,000-odd tons p.a.,
production has been cheapened and
quickened by replacement and modernisa-
tion of equipment.
Since more funds will be required by
the operating co. during 1951, those on
Australian Cement’s register at Jan. 19
were offered 76,043 new £1 shares, one
for 10, at 30s. each, payable 15s. (includ-
ing ss. premium) on application and the
balance as required. At the same time
they received three bonus shares for
each 20 shares then held, thus taking the
sting out of the premium. When all the
money on the cash issue is in, paid
capital will be £874,498, on which 8 p.c.
will call for £69,960, or only £594 more
profit than was claimed last term.
In the market the co.’s old shares
dropped from 60s. to 575. following an-
nouncement of the twin issue. After exer-
cising the rights to both lots of scrip, and
allowing for brokerage, the net cost at
575. would be 48s. 4d., giving a return of
3.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
rights, which thus had a theoretical value
at 18s. 4d., have sold at 155., making fully-
paid cost (including brokerage) 455. 4d.,
and giving a return of 3.5 p.c. on the
same div. basis. So the investor who looks
for a shade over 4 p.c. on his money
counts on a 10 p.c. distribution.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit.* Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 161,927 8i p.c. = 135,626 62,672 1,774,870
1945.. 39,095 5 „ „ 77,500 34,902 1,701,563
Removal overburden, £7113 .. .. 1,694,450
1946.. 87,222 Nil 32,987 1,748,685
Removal overburden, £9068 .. .. 1,739,617
1947.. 156,791 5 p.e. = 77,500 88,972 1,779,986
Removal overburden, £83,846 .. 1,746,090
1948.. 140,155 5 p.c. = 77,600 84,820 1,774,425
Removal overburden, £28,931 .. 1,745,494
1949.. 127,989 5 p.c. - 77,500 27,570 1,768,413
Share issue exes., £19,375 .. 1,749,038
1950.. 186,964 5 p.c. = 83,958 41,456 1,760,688
* Includes allowances for depreciation, etc., then
shown as written off.
Since 1944 divs. have come mainly or
wholly out of returns from invest-
ments, chiefly in fertiliser and metal
fabricating cos. The poor showing from
the mine has been due to the fall in grade
of ore, steep rise in costs, inadequate and
irregular supplies of coke, and delays in
delivery of equipment for mechanisation
of the open-cut and expansion of the
fine-grinding section of the mill. Annual
tank-house refining capacity is about
13,000 tons of electrolytic copper, but the
mill and smelter have been unable to
supply more than about 63 p.c. of total
requirements.
However, prospects of a bigger output
of copper and improvement in gross earn-
ings are growing progressively brighter.
To quicken ore production, increase plant
capacity, hasten deliveries of pyrites,
and expand the shareholding in Metal
Manufacturers, Ltd., the co. raised
£1,505,000 last term—£7so,ooo on a five-
year loan at 4i p.c. from National
Mutual Life and £755,000 (underwritten)
by a par issue of £1 ords. to shareholders.
The loan was raised in April and the
shares were issued a couple of months
before the close of accounts.
The overdraft (now £828,599) was
reduced by £535,934 and £328,028 was
added to shareholdings and £447,345 to
stocks of metals and stores:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Metals .. .. £395,152 £771,776 £1,1X0,904
Book debts ~ 39,084 67,949 89,708
Stores, etc. .. 885,993 459,961 568,178
Shares other cos. 1,965,559 2,212,807 2,540,835
Total ~ £2,785,788 £3,512,493 £4,809,625
Liabilities . . 711,941 1,473,469 1,695,286*
Liquid surplus .. £2,073,847 £2,089,024 £2,614,389
* Includes a five-year loan of £750,000.
The year’s net addition to plant
(£608,808) was £178,434 and to freeholds
(£33,094) £19,834. Other fixed assets re-
mained unchanged - mine £520,551,
hydroelectric plant £lBO,BBB and railways
£211,776,
During the year the co. handled
2,242,651 tons (up 228,166 tons) material,
of which 725,418 tons (32.3 p.c.) was
barren. The mill treated 1,516,832 tons
(up 90,718 tons) ore, averaging 0.63 p.c.
copper, and 34,054 tons concentrates
were smelted for the following results: —
1948. 1949. 1950.
Blister (tons) .. 6,555 3,871 8.072
Contents—
Copper (tons) .. 6,515 3,840 8.009
Silver (oz.) .. 24,001 14,089 27,851
Gold (oz.) . . 4,275 2,394 5,326
Although the smelter worked 256 days
as against 120 days in the previous year,
16,027 tons concentrates, containing
3805 tons recoverable copper, awaited
treatment when the books were ruled off,
Co. also produced 56,800 tons pyritic
concentrates assaying 49.45 p.c. sulphur.
The locally-controlled price of copper
to producers was lifted from £l6O to
£lBO a ton in March, 1949, and to £195
in August, 1950, and has remained steady
since. But exes, gobbled the gains, and
more besides:
Income — 1948. 1949. 1950.
Copper, etc. .. £1,096,753 £757,591 £1,595,162
Dividends .. 86,901 106,536 110.015
Total .. .. £1,183,654 £864,127 £1,705,177
Exes.—
Mining .. .. 557,512 373,547 807,634
Refining, smelting 421,755 300,119 661,456
Development, de-
preciation ~ 34,320 27,570 41,456
Admin., etc. .. 64,333 62,568 99,184
Total .. .. £1,077,920 £763,804 £1,609,730
Net profit ~ 105,734 100,323 95,447
The profit (down £4876) was 5.7 p.c. on
average capital as against 6.4, 6.8 and 6.8
p.c. for the three preceding years. Leav-
ing the allowance for taxation (£2000)
out of the reckoning, the loss on mining
was £12,568 as against a loss of £3413
in 1949. On capital as it now stands
(£2,325,000) 5 p.c. will call for £116,250.
Although mill-feed and copper output
for the current term should further
increase, two stiff rises (totalling 275. a
week) in the basic wage will send pay-
roll and all other costs rocketing. In
fairness to producers the controlled price
of copper should be lifted without delay.
Australia is a net importer of the metal,
supplies of which are getting tighter in
both Britain and America. Present local
figure of £195 a ton is £57 below the
London average of £S2O2 a ton for Dec.,
1950.
At 255, Bd. (235, 6d. a year ago) the
pound shares return 3.9 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible backing is
355. Id., of which 21s. 9d. was represented
by surplus liquids. So for fixed assets
with a book-value equal to 13s. 4d. per
pound of capital the market pays 3s, 1 Id.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. servos, senes.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 33,872 7 p.c. = 34,386 62,678
1941.. 33,261 7 „ „ 34,386 51,0a3
1942.. 35,033 7 „ „ 34,386 647 62,200
1943.. 34,821 7 „ „ 34,386 435 62,635
1944.. 86,215 7 „ „ 34,386 829 63,464
To inner reserves, £3OOO .. .. 60,464
1945.. 23,471 5 p.c. = 24,562
1946.. 10,788 2 „ „ 9,824 964 60,337
1947.. 30,815 6 „ „ 29,474 1,341 61,678
1948.. 39,118 7 „ „ 34,386 4,732 66,410
1949.. 39,822 7 „ „ 34,386 5,436 61,845
1960. . 36,806 7 „ „ 34,386 2,420 64,266
•After deducting intangibles, £lOOO.
This co. is in the international meat trade.
The bulk of last term’s profit came from
investments (which turned in £20,617, up


Public Notice.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS
LIGHT COMPANY
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
OF PROPRIETORS
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of the Proprietors of the
Company will be held at the Conference
Koom, 7th Floor, Grand United Order of
Oddfellows' Buiiding, 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, on Thursday, March 8,
1951, at 12 noon.
BUSINESS.
1. To receive the Report of the Directors
for the past year and, if thought fit, to
authorise the payment of a Dividend
for the half-year ended December 31,
1950.
2. To elect two Directors in the place of
Mr. Clifford Gordon Crane and Mr.
Paul Alfred Cullen, who retire and
who have given the requisite notice
that they are candidates for re-election,
for which they are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place
of Messrs. R. W. Nelson, Wheeler and
Barton, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and Messrs. Priestley and Morris, Char-
tered Accountants (Aust.), who retire
and who have given the requisite notice
that they are candidates for re-
appointment, for which they are eli-
gible.
4. To transact such other business as may
be properly brought forward.
SPECIAL BUSINESS.
5. To consider and, if thought fit, pass
the following resolutions recommended
by the Directors:—
1. That each of the existing shares of
Six Pounds (£6) in the capital of
the Company (including 40,000 ad-
ditional “A” shares, the issue of
which was authorised by resolution
passed the 22nd day of February,
1940, and confirmed the 14th day of
March, 1940) be subdivided into six
shares of one pound each.
2. That Resolution No. 56 of 1919 as
amended by Resolution No. 12 of
1935 be and it is hereby further
amended by substituting 60,000
shares in lieu of 10,000 shares.
3. That Resolution No. 3 of 1935 be
and it is hereby amended by substi-
tuting in sub-paragraph (b)
60,000 shares in lieu of 10,000 shares.
4. That Resolution No. 62 of 1932 be
and it is hereby amended by sub-
stituting 1000 shares in lieu of 150
shares.
5. That Resolution No. 53 of 1918 be
and it is hereby amended by substi-
tuting in sub-paragraph (j) (1)
1000 shares in lieu of 150 shares.
6. That the Directors be and they
are hereby empowered from time
to time, subject to the provisions of
The Australian Gas Light Company
Acts 1837-1985 to issue on such
terms and conditions as they think
fit up to one million “A” shares
of one pound each in addition to
the “A” shares at present unissued
and that the authorised capital of
the (Company be increased by one
million pounds.
f. That notwithstanding anything con-
tained in the Company’s Acts of
1837-1883 the register required to
be kept by section 17 of the Act
of 1837 may be kept according to
any loose-leaf or other system in
the manner and subject to the con-
ditions authorised by the Companies
Acts and Regulations for the time
being in force in New South Wales
for Companies registered under such
Acts and it shall not be necessary for
the Chairman of Directors or the
Clerk of the Company to sign any
registry or entry therein.
8. That the Directors shall have power
to determine from time to time who
shall be entitled to sign on the Com-
pany’s behalf bills, notes, accept-
ances, endorsements, cheques and
receipts.
Should the abevementioned resolutions
be passed Resolutions Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 7
and 8 will be submitted for confirmation
to a further Special General Meeting of
Proprietors to be held at the same time
and place on Thursday, March 29, 1951.
Candidates lor the Directorship are re-
quired to give notice of their candidature,
in writing, to the undersigned, not later
than Wednesday, February 21, 1951.
The Transfer Book of the Company will
be closed from February 23 to March 8,
1951, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
H. F. BENNING, Secretary,
Head Office, 477 Pitt Street, Sydney,
January 18, 1951.
M-
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O'Connell Street
(Box 7, 0.P.0.), Sydney,
p. ,T. P. Pollen, Public Trustee.
BRANDAUER’-S
f
ƒ
■p
f
PENS
Every penal
guaranteed—
do wn experiment math imitation
C BKANDAUCX tk CO. LTfIC tmuMOUM. H*»
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Adtt.
♦ * * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEOKGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. K. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
O. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS. J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
The “ Curvilinear ”
Concentrating
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ƒ
f
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
fillers, Rcndrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Earn £40.10.0 interest
on every £lOO
of your savings!
For every £lOO you invest in this gilt-edged
Loan you secure a Government-guaranteed
contract to pay you interest
every year for 12 years
Compare this guaranteed interest
return with what your
savings are earning now
Your savings will grow faster if
deposited in this Government-
guaranteed investment that is as
safe as a bank and returns you
much better interest. Thous-
ands of prudent people will
seize this gilt-edged oppor-
tunity to make their savings
work harder for their benefit.
You, too, can obtain this assured
income that will be paid regu-
larly every six months. Interest
will be automatically credited
to your bank account if you so
desire. The opportunity will
be open to you for only a
limited period*
You get all these advantages .
I YOU obtain a
guaranteed gilt-
-1 edged investment
The Loan is guaranteed by
the Government of Victoria.
2 YOU will receive
much higher than
bank interest.
Interest rate is 3J per cent, for
12 years, payable half-yearly.
can invest
jJ any amount from
** £5O upwards.
Large or small amounts
invested in multiples
I YOU can pay
L your subscription
r by instalments.
You may pay one-tenth deposit
and balance in three months.
f YOU can realise
| on your securities
for cash.
Your securities ate always
saleable on the Stock Exchanges
6 YOU help create
more power for
Australia.
The Loan is needed to buAi
great electricity Sc fuel assets.
LOAN NOW OPEN
It’a quite easy to invest. You simply go to any National Bank branch, any
Commonwealth Bank branch, or to any Stockbroker’s office. You fill in your
application, pay your deposit (or the full amount if you wish) and your securities
are forwarded to you, or to your bank if you so arrange.
Hake your savings grow faster in this
£6,000,000 POWER LOAN
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION OF VICTORIA
Head Office ; 22 William Street, Melbourne. 4681
£6577), mainly holdings in the
Singapore Cold Storage Co. —
there is also a subsidiary.
Northern Manufacturers Pty.,
which took over the canmaking
section of the business in 1941.
The net return from the meat-
works, etc., was a disappointing
£16,189, down £9593. The new
freezing block at the Ross River
plant (Townsville) was com-
pleted early in 1950. Seasonal
conditions were excellent, and
the weight and grade of animals
improved, but killings, especially
in the north, were lighter, owing
to the effects of earlier drought
years. The co.’s operations in
southern Queensland continued
to expand with “satisfactory re-
sults.” There was a good de-
mand for canned meats, and
export prices were firm, thanks
to the contract with the U.K.
Spiralling wage and other costs
were the trouble, and look like
remaining so for the current
term.
After allowing £10,905 (up
£2558) for depreciation and
something for taxation and other
contingencies, the net return
from all sources (£36,806, down
£3016) was a moderate 7.5 p.c.
on capital as against 8.1, 7.9,
6.2, 2.1 and 4.7 p.c. back to
1945. A 2 p.c. bonus was again
added to the 5 p.c. div,, making
7 p.c. for the year, the average
distribution over the last 11
years being 6.3 p.c., and for the
eight years before that 8.3 p.c.
Completion of the freezing
block at Ross River is reflected
in a net addition of £44,821 to
fixed assets, which include un-
specified shareholdings in other
cos.;
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £491,232 £491,232 £491.232
Creditors*.. 303,817 343,775 654.262
Final div... 34,386 34,386 34,386
Fixed assets,
etc. ~ 577,215 651,591 696,412
Stock . .. 98,998 100,880 333,749
Stores .. 86,028 77,883 99.693
Debtors .. 63,604 50,885 64,292
.Cash, etc. . . 10,000
Shares subsid. 50,000 50,000 50,000
* Includes provision for contingencies, etc.
The movements in stock (up
£232,869), book debts (up
£13,407) and sundry creditors,
etc. (up £310,487) are interrelated
and due largely to shipping diffi-
culties. The true financial posi-
tion is obscured by an unspeci-
fied provision for contingencies
being lumped with sundry credi-
tors, etc., in the published ac-
counts. This item, together with
the final div., exceeded more-or-
less liquids by £190,914 (up
£32,401) at end Nov., 1950.
As for the current term,
another good season is on the
way, but no marked improve-
ment in killing is expected until
1953. Financial results will de-
pend largely upon what adjust-
ments, if any, are made in the
British contract prices and upon
how high costs rise.
At 19s. 3d. the f.-p. 15s. shares
return 5.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. Cover is I6s. lid. in net
tangibles,
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.,,
Norseman (W.A.), ceased gold
production in February, 1947,
and has since concentrated on
turning out pyritic concentrates,
for which there is a hungry
market, and likely [to be for
some time to come. For the
year to October 31, 1950, co,
netted £20,775 (up £12,208), or
16.6 p.c. on the £125,000 of capi-
tal and paid a 3d. (5 p.c.) div.
(£6250). Of the 61,214 tons ore
handled 12,464 tons, averaging
35.5 p.c. sulphur, were railed to
manufacturers without concen-
tration, and the balance was
treated by flotation for 24,435
tons concentrates, averaging 46.2
p.c. sulphur. Total sulphur con-
tent of deliveries was 15,568 tons
(up 2701 tons), and the price at
manufacturer’s works was
£l3 2s. per ton sulphur. Costs,
including transport, were 6s.
heavier at 665. per ton ore.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop., whose
leases lie between Boulder Per-
severance and Lake View and
Star on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.), recently met with
some encouraging develop-
ments. On the 400 ft. level
(Doolette shaft) 18.6dwt values
showed up over a width of 64in,
In the main shaft on the 600 ft.
level 18.3dwt, stuff was en-
countered over a width of 60in.,
and at 1300 ft. No. 10 lode was
intersected, and 50ft. of driving
disclosed 20dwt. ore with a
width of 72in., while 39ft. of
winzing on the 2500 ft. level ex-
posed ore averaging 12.6dwt.
For the 12 months of 1949, co.
milled 365,968 tons of 4.54dwt.
ore for a profit of £128,466, and
lifted the div. from 15.6 p.c. to
50 p.c. An interim 10 p.c,
(stg.) was paid in Sept. last. On
the Australian market the 4s.
shares recently fetched 6s. as
against 7s. 2d. a year ago.


IBSi
- ip *
mm > \
'
mmr.<
mm.
Australia's vital
need is MEN !
Only full preparedness can make Australia
safe from the threat of communist
aggression.
That’s why every fit man of military age
is needed now for training or service in
the Fighting Forces.
Interesting opportunities are open
to men of military age in the
Navy, Army or Air Force.
You may not even need to change
your present occupation. There
arc many occupations which you
can continue to pursue if you
enlist in the Navy, Army or Air
Force.
Whether you serve as a sailor,
soldier or airman, no other life
can offer you a wider choice of
congenial jobs, a truer spirit of
comradeship.
For all details about enlistment in
the Navy, the Army or the Air
Force, enquire without obligation
at any of the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or
Information Bureaux
at the following addresses
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney: Cnr. Martin Place
and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide.
Richards Building, 99 Currie Street; In Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart. Franklin
Square; In Launceston: Town Hall, St. John Street.
- IF UNABLE TO CALL SEND THIS COUPON
□ NAVY
O ARMY
□ AIR FORCE
□ ALL 3 SERVICES
Q Full time
O Part time
| The Deputy Director of Recruiting,
I G.P.O. Box XYZ in any of the
J following cities —Sydney, Melbourne,
I Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
I Launceston.
! Please send me, without obligation,
I full details of enlistment and service
J with (indicate which desired)
'fssutid'by the Government of THe Commonwealth of Australia,
NAME
ADDRESS..
Tscrarix
LET
TLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
%
'M
Established ISOB in Reign •/
George 111.
STABILITY
The ‘•Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, STDNBT.
F V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
lor Australia and New Zealand.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
in its. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus « n
application to the
G. A. FISHES, BSc-
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The Ravages of Inflation
Australia has at last reached
that position where its whole
system is shot-through with in-
flation. Inflation is the chief
topic of conversation when pre-
sented in its most obvious form
—the increased cost of living.
At no time has Australia known
a period in which higher food
and clothing costs so closely and
rapidly followed increased wage-
rates and soaring prices for wool
and other primary products.
Only the magnitude of the in-
flation should come as any sur-
prise to Bulletin readers.
Early during World War II
there were published on this
page several articles dealing
with the prospect of inflation,
including one entitled “Time to
Buy a Home?” and another
headed “Money in the Bank.”
The former advised the pur-
chase of carefully chosen
cottages even though the war
then made many things un-
certain, and the latter warned
of the loss of value in bank de-
posits that seemed inevitable as
prices and costs continued to
rise. And, the war over. The
Bulletin was consistent in its
opinion that prices would rise a
great deal more, and for a con-
siderable period—an opinion,
especially as regards the costs
factor in prices, it as yet sees no
reason to change.
The effects of inflation in
Australia, so far as they are
obvious, have been many and
varied. Soon after the end of
the war those people who bought
homes, even where they paid
full blackmarket prices, did, as
it turns out, make a good
bargain in nearly every case. A
£l2OO house (1939 value) might
have fetched £lBOO in 1946. In
Sydney and Melbourne it would
be worth nearer £3OOO today.
A family man who paid £3500
for a house at the same time
and borrowed £l5OO to helpihim
do it could probably sell for
£6500 today, thus showing a
“profit” of £3OOO on his deal,
which means that, on paper, he
has more than doubled his
equity. Few actual investors on
the Stock Exchange (“traders”
excluded) could show a better
result from the holding of first-
class stocks over a , similar
period.
But the house-owner, if he
must have a house for his family
to live in, cannot utilise his
apparent profit in his house-deal.
If he sells and buys another
house he will find that his
“profit” is all required to offset
the increased price of the other
dwelling. He may, of course,
have been doubly fortunate if he
bought the home on a small de-
posit. He would almost inevit-
ably be on a higher salary today,
and would be paying off a debt
incurred in 1946 pounds with
lower-value 1951 pounds, which
are legal tender just the same.
Persons who bought furni-
ture, etc., on time-payment or
through bank loans a few years
ago, should not now be finding
their periodical payments so
onerous as they were at the be-
ginning. Inflating incomes have
made old debts easier to pay off,
at the same time reducing the
value of money savings.
Inflation has thus paid a
premium to the spendthrift and
placed a burden on the thrifty.
It has many of the strange re-
actions of a high fever in the
human body.
It so happens that in Aus-
tralia the investor in property
has not done so well as the
home-purchaser. Rents have
not been allowed to rise as fast
as other costs and prices.
Though people who sub-let
rooms and flats often charge
outrageous rents. Fair Rents
Courts see to it that only very
moderate increases are allowed
to landlords letting suburban
cottages, especially where the
tenant has been in for some
years.
In fact, the owner of house-
property today, in the main, is
receiving a grossly unfair deal,
'domestic tmwfmtr
BVKirAU
"How's this —Monday, Wednesday and Friday off, no
Weekends, breakfast in bed ...”
though what he has to rent to
tenants represents one of the
scarcest commodities in the
country. The unfair treatment
of landlords is obvious from the
different prices paid for cottages
with and without vacant
possession.
So much for housing. The lot
of the holder of life-assurance
policies under inflation has been
more uniformly unhappy. As a
form of compulsory saving life
assurance in stable times is a
splendid form of investment.
Up to 1939 Australian life-
assurance offices couldl show some
almost dazzling results from life
assurance as an investment.
Though cover against death,
the essential feature of most life-
assurance policies, retains many
of its virtues under inflation
(one exception being that de-
pendants do not, after a period
of years, obtain the same amount
of security, in terms of buying-
power, as the assured intended),
the investment aspect of life
assurance has been altered very
considerably.
It has suffered the same dis-
abilities as money in the bank.
Pounds paid in in premiums in
1921 were much more valuable
than pounds paid out on
maturity of a policy in 1951.
Further, life offices since 1939
have not been able to earn the
same rates of interest in the
investment of their funds. Thus
bonus rates have fallen very
considerably.
These misfortunes have been
no fault of the life offices them-
selves. They have been the vic-
tims, in/common with so many
other forms of enterprise, of
severe inflation. Some of them
are making a bid to beat part
of the inflationary and low-
interest onslaught by investing
portion of their funds in in-
dustrial equity shares and real
estate. One office has financially
sponsored a major new rural de-
velopment in South Australia. But
all this has meant a radical change
in investment policy, and it will
take some time to bear fruit.
Apart from the ever-present
rising cost of living, one of the
most spectacular results of in-
flation has been the rise in price
of industrial ordinary shares.
The heavy trading in shares on
the Stock Exchanges over the
past three years has been the
result of buying for the protec-
tion of savings (by acquiring an
equity in tangible assets) rather
than for any reason of higher
dividend incomes.
Only a minority of listed in-
dustrial companies have in-
creased their distributions to
shareholders since war began.
Higher prices for shares on
’Change have meant lower and
lower dividend yields in most
cases. There have, of course,
been exceptions; but dividend-
increases have not been the
general rule, and incomes from
industrial investments have not
kept pace with the rise in wage-
rates or living costs.
Industry is unable to increase
its income at the same rate as
costs have inflated. Price-control
restricts upward movements in
prices, and there are frequent and
costly interruptions to production
through power and fuel failures.
The position is being reached,
in many cases, where factories
are being worked for a wholly
inadequate return. Some indus-
tries have not yet realised how
far short of requirements their
depreciation reserves will be
when, later on, it becomes
necessary to replace worn-out or
obsolete plant. Many concerns
today are paying dividends out
of capital because they are not
I—i '*
properly providing for deprecia-
tion of working assets—inflation
being the factor which makes
these provisions inadequate.
Unless the depreciation factor
is watched closely by manage-
ments and treated sympatheti-
cally by price-control and taxa-
tion authorities the day will not
be far distant when some enter-
prises will be good only as
liquidation propositions.
As costs and prices jump,
New Zealanders are staking
hopes on tax relief and subsidies.
It’s time the remaining 15 p.c.
of the war-time income-tax
special loading of 33| p.c. went
overboard, and the sales tax of
up to 20 p.c. is overdue for a
first-class operation, too. The
one costs £7£ million yearly and
the other more than £l5 million.
To show how crippling the sales
levy is, 20 p.c. on the price of
all tyres means 30s. to £2 extra
for car-sizes and up to £5 for
large trucks. On M.L.’s yearly
turnover of 400,000 tyres the
sales tax takes from £l| million
to £l| million, and the sum
grows with the rise in produc-
tion costs. Then there’s a 4d.-a-
-gallon special war tax on petrol
that is condemned by all
motorists and ought to go. Most
of the abuse levelled at M.L.’s
three tyre-manufacturing cos.
hits the wrong mark; it should
be aimed at the Government.
Without sales tax M.L. motorists
wouldn’t have much to complain
about. Since the Holland Gov-
ernment slashed £l2 million off
subsidies last May, reducing the
total to £6 million, it has re-
treated a good deal from the
position it took up then. Sub-
sidy payments are now run-
ning at an average of £lO
million, and might climb quickly
if the Government plump for
this method of sheltering wage-
earners against the rising flood
of prices. Clothes and other
products of the woollen mills,
bread, tea, eggs, milk and butter
would all be claimants.


SECRETARY
A large Western Australian Industrial Organisation requires
a Secretary to take full charge of its office, Accountancy, and
Share Registry Administration.
SALARY RANGE WILL BE
BETWEEN £2.000 AND £2.500
PER ANNUM
ACCORDING TO QUALIFICATIONS
Applicants must be fully qualified and have had experience
in all branches of Company Secretarial work.
Age should not exceed 45 years.
Initial application without commitment should be in writing
stating age, qualifications and experience and must reach the
undermentioned pot later than 26th February, 1951.
Selected applicants will be interviewed personally at an
appointment to be arranged.
Initial applications should be forwarded to:
“Scrutator,”
C/o MESSRS. COOPER BROTHERS, GOYDER & CO.,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
156 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
NOW OPEN
and dosing on or before 24th February, 1951
THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
£1200,000
LOAN No. 73
£3-7-6
per cent per annum
Issued at par. Currency; 12 years.
• The New South Wales Government guarantees both
principal and interest.
• An Authorised Trustee Investment.
• Subscriptions are free of exchange and payable by
instalments if desired. Minimum subscription is £5O.
• Interest payable half-yearly, and may be credited to
your current or savings bank account.
• Interest is paid free of exchange in terms of the
prospectus, and begins immediately your subscription
is lodged.
uur mismim advisabu
APPLY AT
any office of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the
Sydney Water Board, or through members of recognised
Australian Stock Exchanges.
Prospectus and Application Forms available on
application.
Loan underwritten by Mainguard (Australia) Limited,
126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
" 11 ' WB4-51
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dues bury. Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
GALA OPENING—FRIDAY, 16th MARCH
with Special Ring Events, DAY and NIGHT,
including Trotting
Come to the Royal Easter
Show! Enjoy 10 event-
packed days and 8 brilliant
nights. See the cattle-judg-
ing, wood - chopping,
primary and secondary in-
dustry exhibits and the
wealth of other events
which combine to make the
Royal Easter Show the
greatest single attraction in
the Southern Hemisphere.
Don’t miss this, the 1951
“Jubilee Year” Show, at
the Showground, SYDNEY,
Friday, 16th March, to
27th March, 1951.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
(G. C. Somerville, Secretary )
/
ONLY THE
ELDEST SON
COULD MARRY
The Nambutiri Brahmins of Malabar
practised the strange custom of “Henogamy”
All mankind, from highly civilised westerner down to the
most primitive savage, has rules governing who may marry
whom. While our rules are very flexible, being governed solely
by eugenics spiced to a greater or lesser degree by racial
prejudice, the more primitive the race, the more complicated
the rules of marriage often become.
, The strangest, and, at first sight, the most unfair system
is henogamy, which has nothing to do with fowls. This custom
permits one, and only one, member of a family to marry, or
alternatively one member may be forced to marry under certain
rules which do not apply to the others.
For instance, the Nambutiri Brahmins of Malabar insist
that only the eldest son may marry, for once a man is father
to a son he is free of his debt to his ancestors. Because of
this the eldest son alone is worthy to receive his father’s estate,
and therefore he alone should be entitled to marry. For the
first-born son is regarded as the fulfilment of divine law . . .
all succeeding sons are merely the offspring of desire.
The son, on reaching manhood, is naturally anxious to
have a male heir so that he, in turn, can cast his “debts” (or
sins) on to his son. For this reason, plus the understandable
surplus of women, the marriageable sons often have several
wives. Incidentally, should an eldest son die without begetting
a male offspring, the “debts” reverted to the father, who then
conveniently transferred them on to the shoulders of the second
eldest . . . and so on!
What about the younger sons? They, poor things, can take
their pick of “inferior” Nayar women, but are excluded from
their father’s inheritance!
Behind this rigid, religious aspect of henogamy lies its
down-to-earth and practical side. By recognising only the
offspring of the eldest son of each generation the family
property is kept intact down through the years and not dissi-
pated among countless descendants, as would be the case if
the system were not enforced.
Modem civilisation requires no such cast-iron doctrine.
Thanks to Life Assurance every wise father can provide for
the financial security of all his children until they are able to
provide for themselves, should he die at an early age, while at
the same time providing security for his own retirement. Life
Assurance is a unique form of saving plus security, and thanks
to the healthy competition between our free and independent
Life Offices, there are policies to suit every need and every
purse,
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
With one strong-minded dis-
senfient, the 10 members of the
Beveridge committee on the
working of the 8.8. C. pro-
nounced in favor of carrying on
substantially as before. That is
to say, they decided that a
monopoly, with all its short-
comings, is slightly less of a
horror than commercial broad-
casting.
The envoys who were sent to
America to study broadcasting
there appear to have gone pre-
pared to censure, and have re-
turned, if not unreservedly
laudatory, at least with the con-
viction that the results are not
as bad as they were led to be-
lieve. Which means that, for the
first time in its history, serious
consideration has been given to
the introduction of advertising
into British radio programmes.
Apart from the dissentient (who
submitted a minority report ad-
vocating alternative commercial
programmes), Lord Beveridge
and two of his colleagues ex-
pressed themselves in favor of
giving carefully-selected adver-
tising a cautious trial.
They were outvoted, and pub-
lie opinion in Great Britain will
undoubtedly endorse the verdict.
Yet it is plain that the 8.8. C.,
as at present constituted, falls
far short of perfection. The
faults that provoke criticism are
indeed those of any State
monopoly—top-heaviness, self-
righteousness, pomposity and
what is here called “Londonisa-
tion.” What the committee pro-
poses as a solution is, broadly,
to acknowledge that a monopoly
exists and then to dress it up
with so many disguises that it
seems what it isn’t.
There is general agreement
that television is now big enough
and old enough to leave the pro-
tective wing of its parent, whose
maternal oversolicitude is held
to have hampered its develop-
ment.
Commonwealth Consciousness
It is gratifying to notice one
marked feature of this year’s
8.8. C. programmes, and-that is
the keen interest now taken in
setting the affairs of the Com-
monwealth before the eyes and
ears of the British people. Tele-
vision-cameras were at Down-
ing-street for the reception of
the visiting Prime Ministers,
four of whom later spoke to the
nation. Recorded excerpts from
speeches at the Australia Club
dinner might have been more
widely heard had they not been
broadcast so late in the even-
ing, but the continued shyness
of our own politicians in the
making of public speeches un-
doubtedly caused many people
to stay up and hear what Mr.
Menzies had to say. For schools
a series of nine programmes for
sixth forms on Commonwealth
affairs has just begun, and deals
especially with political, eco-
nomic problems.
Where national days are con-
cerned Englishmen are notori-
ously unresponsive to their own,
but, thanks to the 8.8. C., they
can hardly have failed to note
Australia Day. A very good
splash of publicity for it in-
cluded a symphony and choral
concert, recorded in Australia.
“Cultural Unity”
Here, perhaps, is a part-
answer to the comment (B.
15/11 /’5O) that “the real prob-
lem, if a cultural unity is to be
achieved, is not to make Aus-
tralia aware of English culture
but to make England aware of
Australia.” In this opinion,
which has of late been consider-
ably stimulated by exchanges of
views with spokesmen of the
8.8. C., the British Council and
random Australians prominent
in the arts, the latter of those
requirements is felt to be the
greater need. The Australians
certainly think so, and the
British Council, eager to col-
laborate but restricted by the
nature of its work to one-way
traffic, admits that the same
sentiments are being expressed
in Canada, but holds that the
initiative can hardly be ex-
pected to come from this end.
It is reasonable to assume
that the 8.8.C.’s improvement
upon last year’s perfunctory
effort is largely due to exchanges
of staff with the A.8.C., and the
problem might be half-solved if
these exchanges could be ex-
tended into other fields. Or
would it? To take the example
quoted in The Bulletin, in less
than two years in England Peter
Finch has appeared in one film
and two important plays, has
refused a Broadway offer and is
in demand on the radio as actor
and narrator. His reputation is
so firm that Sir Laurence Olivier
has agreed to lend him to the
mighty Tennent organisation if
he can’t offer him a good-
enough part. What incentive is
there for him to return home?
Popular entertainment on the
8.8. C. would be very thin with-
out its Australians. “Take It
From Here,” starring Dick Bent-
ley and Joy Nichols, has a
listening audience of 4,500,000.
“Ray’s a Laugh,” with Kitty
Bluett as partner to Ted Ray, is
nearly as popular. It is alto-'
gether too easy to expand into
opera and ballet. May not
another aspect of the problem
be Australia’s seeming inability
to keep all her talented sons and
daughters at home?


f
Fly to
HONG KONG
in less than thirty hours
Get to Hong Kong faster, stay there longer, for
business or pleasure fly by regular modern Q.E.A.
Skymaster services, in less than 30 hours via Darwin
and Labuan (North Borneo). First-class steward ser-
vice caters for your personal comfort, and appetising
hot meals are served in flight. Enquire about special
air sea interchange tours. Consult your local travel
agent.
a £ a
a
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
OCIO
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA—No. 270 of 1950.
BETWEEN SANDERSON ESTATE Plain-
tiff and DAVID CHARLES KENDALL and
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED Defendants TO DAVID
CHARLES KENDALL late of Gawler in
the State of South Australia Manager.—
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of South Australia by SANDERSON
ESTATE of 20 Grenfell Street Adelaide
in the said State in which the Plaintiff
claims ... .
1. An order that an account be taken oi
all sales and money received by you on
behalf of the plaintiff. ..
2. A declaration that the plaintiff is the
owner of and entitled to the possession of
the sum of £344/15/1 standing to your
credit in the name of “David Charles
Kendall (Trust Account)” at the Union
Bank oi Australia Limited (Gawler
Branch) and
2a. An order that such Bank pay the
said sum to the plaintiff.
3. An order for payment of the moneys
received by you on behalf of the plaintiff.
4. An injunction to restrain you from
operating upon the said bank account and
the said Bank from paying out any of the
said moneys other than to the plaintiff-
AND it has been ordered that service of
the Writ in the said action on you be
effected by this advertisement. If you
desire to defend the said action you must
within 80 days of the publication of this
advertisement enter an appearance at the
Master’s Office Supreme Court House
Victoria Square Adelaide. In default of
such appearance judgment may be entered
and orders made against you in your
absence. Dated the 10th day of January,
1951.—1. B. DOW, 20 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
THE BAGS
ABE BACKED
A
m
B efore you travel on business or pleasure you should
obtain a supply of Commonwealth Bank Travellers
Cheques. Issued in £5 denomination, these cheques
Erovide complete protection for your funds. They may
e cashed free of inland exchange at any branch of any
bank in Australia, and are readily accepted by principal
tourist bureaux, transport offices, hotels, etc.
As your signature and counter-signature are necessary
on all cheques before they may be cashed, they are safer
than money. For carefree travel use Commonwealth
Bank Travellers' Cheques, obtainable at any branch.
OTHER HELPFUL COMMONWEALTH BANK
SERVICES INCLUDE CHEQUE ACCOUNTS.
LETTERS OF CREDIT, OVERDRAFTS.
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS. HOUSING
LOANS, FINANCE FOR INDUSTRY OR
PRIMARY PRODUCTION. EXPORT AND
IMPORT CREDITS. SAFE CUSTODY.
CoßfiionwcallhSaiita
ofilastralia.
Friendly and practical advice on banking and
financial matters is available to you at every Branch.
C.G.8.1742
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Andrew Jackson, President of the
United States, 1829-1937, used to
write ‘O.R.’ on documents which he
had passed—meaning ‘order recorded.’
Some people misread this as ‘O.K.’ ”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Perhaps he did this in his
108th year as President to con-
vince himself he was O.K.
4* 4* 4*
“Women’s hats have never been
more original than they are this
summer.” — Fashion note.
Their prices have no relation
to the past, either.
4* 4* 4*
“It’s easy to be beautiful if you
have nothing to do all day.”
— Women’s paper.
And no plain facts to face.
“Test cricket is an art, a cultural
segment of modern life.”
—Sydney ‘‘Daily Telegraph . v
All who move in the best
ovals will agree.
4* 4* *J* ~ ~
“A girl can’t get the bird s-eye
view of herself that the man in her
life can.” — Women’s magazine.
Especially if he’s only having
a lark with her.
4* •£•
“A letter came from Charente,
France, addressed to William Shak-
speare, Esquire, Stratford-upon-
Avon, Warwick, England.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun”
Their postal department must
be nearly as slow as ours. ,
4* 4* 4*
“He has been waging a vendetta
against a telephone-box ever since
1948.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Just another phony war.
4* 4* 4*
“In its first three weeks of life the
sole survivor of a Utter Of 10 piglets
drank three bottles of brandy.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Result, pickled pork.
4* 4* 4*
“I think that men should regain
their freedom automatically after 10
years of marriage.”
—Letter to Sydney “D.T.”
It seems a long time.
4* 4* 4*
“Male boy required. Good posi-
tion and excellent prospects.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser."
He, he!
Star Pupil.
“New Australians should lose no
time in adopting our way of life.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
The young foreign migrant
departed from home
With a treasure of learning from
many a tome,
A love of the arts, and a musical
ear —
And the folly of thinking such
matters count here.
He arrived, got a job, and there-
after at work
Met fellows who taught him to
dawdle and shirk.
They speeded him, though, at
the drinking of pots,
And took him to two-up, the
dogs and the trots.
Well tutored in all of these
things, and the like,
He rewarded his mentors by
starting a strike.
So, after six months, this
adaptable alien
Has become, as you see, a fair-
dinkum Australian.
BRIAN BUREAU.
A Matter of Relativity.
The thought of going to a
strange city without having some
sort of plan mapped out fills me
with dread. I like to get the low-
down on it from people who
should know. Not so much
about the places of interest,
which are right enough in their
way, as places to eat. I find the
selection of the right eating-
place in a strange city as
aggravating as trying to decide
which end of a lottery queue to
join—one might easily be pass-
ing over a winner for a dud. So
1 went to the tourist people.
The fellow behind the counter
nodded affably and asked what
he could do.
Not wishing to antagonise
him at such an early stage of
the proceedings, I politely re-
frained from telling him, con-
tenting myself merely with say-
ing that I contemplated a three-
weeks inter-State holiday, and
that I was seeking information
how best to enjoy oneself in
Melbourne.
“Mind,” I said, “I dare say
fwL
L^g(
“ Couldn't we get married the next day ,
pal? Ernie's taking me to the zoo
tomorrow .”
I’ll never be able to see all I
want to see in the time at my
disposal.”
The man positively beamed,
and I gathered that he came
from the Queen City of the
South. , „
“Well, probably you wont,
he smilingly agreed, “As a
matter of fact,” he went on con-
fidentially, “I have a cousin over
here who put in a fortnight in
Melbourne, and he told me he
didn’t see half the places he
wanted to.” .
“That’s nothing,” I rejoined
spiritedly. “My Uncle Plan-
tagenet once spent a month
there, and he didn’t see a thing
the whole time, except the sani-
tarium where they took him to
recover,”
The tourist chappie looked at
me, I thought, a trifle coldly, ‘‘l
was wondering what the accom-
modation position is there these
days,” I went on.
At that he seemed to recover
his spirits a little.
“Grim,” he said grimly.
“Three to six months’ bookings.
But you can get into some, of
course, some of the very expen-
sive hotels.”
I laughed. “Actually the
weight of the tariff is of little
moment to me,” I said lightly.
He brightened slightly more.
“I think we’d have no trouble,
then, in booking you a de luxe
suite at Benzies’ with private
bathroom, gymnasium and
Turkish-bath,” he said smoothly.
“Perfect service there, would you
prefer full board or bed-and-
breakfast?”
“I don’t think so,” I replied,
“Could I have breakfast without
the bed?”
His eyebrows shot up into his
hair, and when they came down
again they bent into a frown.
“My dear sir!” he said in a
pained voice. “If that is meant
to be a joke”
“It is no joke at all,” I replied
firmly. “I would really have
no use for a bed at the hotel, so
it would obvi-
ously be futile as
well as uneco-
nomic to pay for
a bed one
wouldn’t use.”
“W hy, don’t
you ever go to
sleep?” he pur-
sued, a touch of
asperity in his
tone.
“Most certainly
I do,” I said,
“though not, I
confess, always
soundly.”
“What do you
do then curl
up on one of the
rugs like one of
those Orientals
and snooze?” he
demanded,
breathing heavily.
“N o t neces-
sarily,” I replied,
and my air
of mysteriousness
obviously had the
fellow nettled.
“But you must have a bed!”
he kept on doggedly. “You
couldn’t walk about all night.”
“1 wouldn’t need to do that,”
I retaliated calmly, “for I
wouldn’t be there.”
He began chewing his nails
savagely at that, and a wild look
came into his eye,
“Now look,” he rasped
bitterly, “do you want accom-
modation at Benzies’ or don’t
you?”
“Partially, yes,” I replied.
“But as I pointed out to you
before, with, I think, commend-
able clarity, that I select, as you
gave me the alternative, bed-
and-breakfast, merely making
the trivial proviso that I should
have it without the bed. That is
not only not without the bounds
of reason, but it will put the
hotel to less inconvenience in
the matter of providing bed-
linen, etc. —no inconsiderable
detail these days of staff short-
age and what-not. Also, it will
suit me admirably, and surely I
am the one most to be con-
sidered.”
He grabbed a fistful of hair
and raised his eyes heavenward
in mute appeal.
“How long do you want this
damned stupid idea of accom-
modation for?” he shouted in a
voice that had in it a deplorable
suspicion of hysteria.
“For one day,” I replied
phlegmatically. “Actually, one
breakfast.”
His face seemed suddenly to
take on the hue of a lasiandra,
and he clawed for support at
the edge of the counter for a
moment before he shrieked in a
pure soprano: “But you said
you were going on three-weeks’
holiday.”
I nodded calmly. “That
affords proof of a praiseworthy
memory,” I said. “I did. But
I’m going to spend it in Tas-
mania. My plane gets into Mel-
bourne in the morning, and a
few hours later I catch the one
to Tasmania. Now, perhaps,
you will realise that the stulti-
fication of your ratiocinatory
powers precluded your grasping
the reason why the bed at
Benzies’ —I would like a meal
there just to be able to say I’d
had one, and breakfast, you will
agree, would be the only one
possible, late though it may be—
would be entirely redundant.”
His sudden disappearance
from my sight was followed by
a dull thud.
Bo.


f
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
KUV mom SAFE)
r/V/A
SANDERS
dg^FiiEs;
Correspondence. Invoice*,
statements, etc., tiled In the
“Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month - or
any other period.
ƒ
(her information
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
D ttrihutmg Age/its—
RIfDNET
MELBOURNE •
AL'FLAIDfi *
f£HJU m
W
C. Peofol a St Cm. Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros Pty. Ltd.
Vardun Si Sons Ltd.
Docket Book Co (AualJ
SCOTCH COLLEGE
MITCHAM
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Applications are invited up to and
including Monday, 16th April, 1951,
for the position of Headmaster, Scotch
College, Mitcham, South Australia.
Applicants should be communicants of
a Frotestant Church and be prepared
to assume duty at the beginning of
the First Term, 1952.
Full particulars are contained in the
Brochure which may be obtained from
the Secretary, Mr. Murray Hogben,
Savings Bank Building, King William
Street, Adelaide, South Australia, to
whom applications, together with
testimonials and all particulars, should
be addressed.
Missing Friend.
ANDREWS, Mr. and Mrs. f 7, married
1874 at Birmingham, England. Came to
Australia same year. Believed conducted
Customs House Hotel, Melbourne suburbs.
Anyone knowing their whereabouts please
communicate O. PYATT, C/o DAVIES &
HAYES, Solicitors, Swan Hill, Victoria.
Divorce Notices.
!H THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA — In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO LIONEL ROCHE JARVIS formerly of
Upper Burnie in the State of Tasmania
but whose address is now unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice
to you to appear and answer charges in
the Petition of OLIVE JANET LILLIAN
JARVIS of No. 244 George Town Road in
the State of Tasmania praying for a dis-
solution of her marriage on the ground
of desertion In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereof AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after
the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart, in Tas-
mania, or at the Launceston District
Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston. —
D. W. SHIELDS, District Registrar.
N. 8.; Friends of the abovenamed LIONEL
ROCHE JARVIS who may see this adver-
tisement are requested to bring it under
his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHRISTINA JEAN HAYDON late of
Ryde.—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM
THOMAS HAYDON has filed a Petition
for Divorce N" 4521 of 1950 on the
ground of desei i ion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 16th April
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of St. James Build-
ings, 107-9 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
WHERE
iJcafatwJ
MOVE — MERCHANDISE MOVES
■
■-
-•-Vv
m
:
m?
m
"u,.
■ i
'
ONE
O T I
NT
, Dtsi':"
of Tvelte
, I T... BNE
VE»
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDES
BRISBANE!
MELBOURNE;
SYDNEY!
PERTHi
Myer Emporium
(S.AJ Ltd
McWhirters Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. ...
Manton & Sons Ltd
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd
David Jones Ltd. .......
Mark Foy’s Ltd
Boons Ltd
otis C^calatcM
PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area , . . make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
SS§
I
m
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE
BRISBANE . PERTH • HOBART . NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
SUNDRY SHOWS
Barbirolli.
The inital concert of Sir John
Barbirolli’s Melbourne season
was an admirable example of
programme-building. It led off
with an Elizabethan suite
arranged by the conductor from
five simple keyboard pieces of
the period when English music
was pre-eminent in Europe and
almost everybody seemed to sing
or play some instrument and
even compose. The Halle con-
ductor made the sweetest imagin-
able combination out of the
stately Earl of Salisbury’s
Pavan by Byrd, an exquisite
lament which seems to have
come from Ireland, a jovial little
dance by Giles Fornaby, fol-
lowed by a darkly-colored dream
on the strings and a scampering
of hooves and huntsmen’s calls
in “The King’s Hunt” of Bull,
The whole thing was so simple
and tender and economically
rendered that the orchestra
hardly seemed to be playing at
all.
Barbirolli can control tre-
mendous forces, as he did in the
tempestuous scherzo of Vaughan
Williams’s sixth symphony and
the finale of the Sibelius Sym-
phony No. 2, but if he is a
master of anything it is the
pianissimo and sot to voce. The
epilogue to the Vaughan Wil-
liams scarcely lifted sound above
zero, yet not one note of the
dreamy murmurings was missed.
It was the same with the
mysterious andante of the
Sibelius symphony which con-
cluded the evening.
Barbirolli’s tremendous con-
centration communicates itself
to his players and affects his
listeners in the same way—if any
member of the audience at his
second concert at Melbourne
Town Hall had coughed it would
have sounded like a whale ex-
ploding. It was a dreadful night,
climatically speaking, but Sir
John’s concentration never
slackened, even though the pro-
gramme was not so musically
distinguished as his initial con-
cert. The Johann Strauss was
a trifle which was endowed by
the conductor far beyond its
merits, and the Mastersingers’
prelude was given singularly
light treatment. Tschaikowsky’s
Fourth Symphony was almost
jolly, and Rimsky-Korsakov’s
“Capriccio Espagnol” was ele-
vated into a class it hadn’t previ-
ously belonged to.
Supported by acrobats,
singers, dancers, “accordionists,”
a ventriloquist and an excellent
puppet show, Lesley and Sydney
Piddington are currently demon-
strating their mental-telepathy
act to audiences at Sydney Em-
pire. A member of the audience
indicates the titles of various
songs to Mr. Piddington, which
he apparently relays by thought-
transference to his blindfolded
wife. Next Mrs. Piddington
leaves the theatre, escorted by a
witness, while another member
of the audience selects a card
marked with a triangle within a
triangle from a sheaf of differ-
ently marked cards ; Mrs. Pid-
dington returns and draws, with
a reasonable percentage of
accuracy, a copy of the card.
Finally, while Mrs. Piddington
is blindfolded, a line is selected
by members of the audience
from one of three books and
copied on to a board; Mr. Pid-
dington then goes semi-rigid
with concentration while he
stares at the words, and slowly
and haltingly his wife repeats
the line. Altogether an impres-
sive demonstration, leaving the
impression that if Mr. Pidding-
ton sat on a tack in Perth Mrs.
Piddington would say “ouch” in
Brisbane.
* * * *
Although being shut within
four walls seems to rob the
massed brasses of a military
band of some of the mellowness
associated with open-air per-
formance, there was nothing
to complain about in the Jubilee
Concert at Sydney Town Hall,
with Lt.-Col. Adkins conduct-
ing the A.B.C. Military Band.
The playing of the Master-
singers’ Overture and Liszt’s
Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 was
redolent of sound musicianship,
and that of the “1812 Overture”
a vivid and sonorous account of
the Battle of Borodino. Lt.-Col.
Adkins’s Entrance Fanfare,
played by a battery of Bach
trumpets, and the Jubilant and
Acclamation Fanfares were
stirring pieces.
Costly Culture.
From London: Anyone who
has tried to reach the Covent
Garden box-office at the begin-
ning of the season without a
half-day to spare for queueing
might fairly be excused for
imagining that both opera and
ballet are flourishing as they
never did before.
, s n Bht, but
there s all the difference between
flourishing artistically and pros-
permg financially. TTiat full
houses don’t necessarily mean
handsome profits is shown by
the staggering figures in the fifth
“CORROBOREE."
Prior’s impression of John Antill’s ballet “Corroboree,” Which
opened at Melbourne Princess as the first of sundry theatrical
contributions to the Commonwealth Jubilee and Victorian
Centenary celebrations.
annual report (for the year
ended March 31, 1950) of the
Arts Council of Great Britain.
Grants and guarantees to
opera and ballet amounted to
£234,000 (of this, as much as
£170,000 went to Co vent
Garden). Subsidies to music
cost another £115,000, drama
accounted for £119,000 and art
for £36,000, Add another
£42,000 grant for Scotland,
£63,000 for administration and
£35,000 for sundries, and expen-
diture is seen to total £644,000.
On the other side, receipts
from concerts brought in £6OOO
and those from art exhibitions
and sales, £4OOO. (The respec-
tive grants-in-aid amounted to
£lB,OOO and £17,000.) A useful
£5OO came from sundry receipts,
leaving an excess of expenditure
over income of £33,500.
If those figures don’t balance
it’s because one item of income
has been overlooked —a mere
£600,000 grant from his
Majesty’s Tieasury!
Determine 1 efforts of the
Arts Council to take quality
drama to the people have proved
disappointing. The Salisbury
Arts Theatre cost £13,000 and
the Swansea Theatre £lO,OOO.
Pioneer tours with fit-up stages
ran away with £ll,OOO and audi-
ences were poor, with “no strik-
ing evidence of new interest or
even of sustained interest.”


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
achieved a boyhood ambition when,
blowing a piercing blast on a whistle and
vigorously waving a staff, he sent away
on its country tour the Jubilee train.
Garnet Carroll was a delighted onlooker,
for the whole thing was his idea. Also
grouped on Spencer-street station were
Federal and State Parliamentarians with
their wives. Representatives of the
Services included Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins and Lieut.-
General A. J. Boase and Mrs. Boase.
During the five months of Us
tour country people will have a chance
to examine the interesting exhibits with
which the train is equipped, and enjoy a
variety show headed by Jenny Howard.
The Public Library’s display has given
prominence to a large volume of records
of the pioneer women of Victoria from
1835 to 1860, which was compiled by the
historical committee of the Women’s
Centenary Council. In the two compart-
ments occupied by the National Art
Gallery hang pictures by such represen-
tative women artists as Amalie
Colquhoun, Dora Searle, Lina Bryans
and Ellen.Rubbo. Mrs. C. O. Dorward,
of the Country Women’s Association,
the general secretary, Marjorie H. Strong,
and Mrs. J. G. Norris, of the National
Council of Women, were on the train.
Women showed no signs of wilting in
the excessive heat when they arrived at
the Princess Theatre for the gala opening
of the National Theatre’s Arts Festival.
The dressing was really superb. A guard-
of-honor formed of young ballerinas
in classical costumes greeted the vice-regal
party. Jeanette Brooks covered the top
of her white Swiss organza with a tiny
shoulder-cape of matching material.
Col. Spraggett was in the vice-regal party
with his wife, who wore pale-pink and
white chiffon. Their daughter Anne was
in pale-maize taffeta. Lady Knox, with
her husband, Sir Robert Knox, president
of the National Theatre Movement, re-
ceived the vice-regal party and later
entertained them and other guests at a
supper-party in the foyer.
It was a gay and exciting night, with
the Victorian Symphony Orchestra and
the National Theatre Ballet presenting
“Corroboree,” with the composer con-
ducting. Lady Snow wore a ballerina
frock of navy chiffon. Among those in
white were Mesdames lan Potter, Harold
Holt, Rupert Downes and Marshall
Gibson. Jennie Brennan’s satins were
dove-grey. Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s faille
gown was lavender-blue. Mrs. Tom
Hollway wore soft pink laces. White
satin, boldly striped in lime-green, was the
choice of Mrs. Athol Shmith. Sheila
Helpmann topped her white satin sheath
dress with a Chinese-red grosgrain box-
jacket.
The party given by Lady Brookes in
the board-room of the Queen Victoria
Hospital—she is the president —was
to farewell vice-president Mrs. H. R.
Hamer and Mrs. Albion Walkley, a
member of the hospital committee, prior
to their departure for England and the
Continent. A cake iced in green was
decorated with white seagulls, white-
capped waves and maps of Australia and
England. Pastel-toned hydrangeas,
brought by Mrs. Arthur Wenzel from her
garden, made attractive decoration.
Among the guests were the president of
the medical staff, Dr. Ella McKnight,
Dr. Florence Cooper, Dr. Anne MacLeod,
Dr. Alison Wright and Matron Schafer,
Mrs. Matthew Patrick, Mrs. F. H. Wright,
Mrs. Louis Nelken, Mrs. Robertson Smith
and Marea Lucas.
When Margot, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Stan Garnsworthy, of Williamstown,
was married at Holy Trinity Church
there to John, elder son of Mr. and
Mrs. J. J. Savage, also of Williamstown,
she wore a bouffant white marquisette
ballerina frock and a wide-brimmed white
tulle hat, and carried a bouquet of white
flowers. She tvas unattended ; the ’groom
had the bride’s brother Jim as best man.
The reception was at the home of the
bride’s parents. Mrs. Garnsworthy re-
ceived the guests in a grey georgette frock
and grey tulle picture-hat. Mrs. Clarrie
Garnsworthy’s ankle-length frock was of
green shot-taffeta, with a side drape
featured on the skirt. A black taffeta
ballerina was worn by Mrs. Ross Garns-
worthy. Mrs. Colin Stuckey’s tie silk
was white-flower-patterned steel-grey.
Pastel-pink crepe was worn by Kathy
Robinson ; her sister Joan was in black-
and-red shot-taffeta. Ruth McKenzie’s
cream crepe frock patterned in Ghar-
treuse was strapless and worn with a tiny
matching jacket. Margot left for her
honeymoon in a gunmetal-grey tie-silk
frock patterned in white, and an Ameri-
can Beauty grosgrain picture-hat.
South Australian poetess, Nancy Cato,
who is Mrs. Eldred Norman in private
life, had her first Bulletin poem printed
10 years ago and a collection of verse,
The Darkened Window, published last
year. She comes from Scottish pioneer
stock on her mother’s side and from
Tasmanian on her father’s side, and
studied English at Adelaide University.
For some years Nancy Cato worked as
a journalist in Adelaide, covering every-
thing from art-shows to police-courts,
social gatherings to bushfires, until she
married in 1941. She acquired a taste
for the inland when she made a trip into
the interior with a party headed by C. P.
Mountford, tjie anthropologist, which
brought back remarkable aboriginal rock
carvings for the Adelaide Museum. Her
main interests are reading and writing,
book-collecting, bird-watching, water-
color-sketching and driving anything
from a jeep to a blitz-buggy. On her
jaunts over a large part of Australia she
has been snowbound near Kosciusko, and
bogged-down in sand in the Centre and
in mud in Darwin. For a time she was
associate-editor of Flexmore Hudson’s
“Poetry” and edited the 1950 Jindy-
worobak Anthology. Photo by Rains-
ford, Adelaide.
Miss A. M. Sage, matron-in-chief of
the Royal Australian Army Nursing
Service, and Miss Jean Wheatley, matron-
in-chief of the R.A.A.F. Nursing Service,
are to be guests-of-honor at a party given
on February 16 by the Returned Nurses
Club to celebrate the recent decorations
bestowed on the two distinguished
matrons. Venue is the Nurses’ Memorial
Centre, St. Kilda-road. Party will be
from 6.30 p.m. to 8 pan., and club mem-
bers and all nurses who served in any
of the three services are invited to attend.
Those wishing to do so are asked to
ring Miss Lindsay (Central 2280), or Miss
Cuthbert (W 4446) before February 13.
An invitation is also extended to any
nurses from other States.
Women in country centres who are
fully qualified mothercraft nurses and
who wish to take the short pre-school
course which begins on June 6 at the
Kindergarten Training College, Mel-
bourne, may be interested in the six
bursaries which are being offered by the
State Government. The course is of
three-months’ duration, and includes
practical work in approved pre-school
centres and lectures relating to the care
of the young child. It is planned to
qualify the mothercraft nurse to care for
pre-scnool children in the home or
institution. Successful candidates will be
awarded a certificate as a pre-school
mothercraft nurse issued by the Depart-
ment of Health. Full information may
be obtained by writing to the Depart-
ment of Health, 538 Swanston-street,
Carlton. Applications close on
March 31.
For the revival at His Majesty’s of
“Oklahoma! ” with a most excellent Aus-
tralian cast, the dressing was a mixed
grill, the formal jostling with the
informal. Mrs. Frank Tail’s black velvet
gown had the bodice cut low and heart-
shaped and encrusted with diamente, Cecil
Tait wore an ankle-length dinner-frock
of black and gold lame, Lady Hinton
combined a scarlet velvet gold-sequinned
jacket with a royal-blue skirt. Valerie
Biggs, of Brisbane, wore a white crepe
slim-fitting gown.
From Sydney
It used to be a great joke on London
that the newspapers reported the fact
that “the sun shone for two hours today.”
Now, much chastened, we have to admit
that the biggest news of the week in
Sydney was that Saturday and Sunday
were cloudless and bright.
For the Jubilee civic reception the stage
at the Town Hall was beautifully
decorated with flowers and a map of
Australia all sparkling white, but this
meant that the orchestra had to be
situated in the gallery, where they played
away tirelessly, but without much effect.
The dressing of the 2000 guests was at
best individualistic, ranging from the
little floral dress with last year’s cloche
to decollete satin with diamonds. It was
just another example of the truism that
no function can really hold together as
a party where dress is optional.
The Lady Mayoress, whose friendly
smile lasted through to the last hand-
shake, wore ice-blue satin. Elizabeth
Northcott’s dress was white satin
embossed with little pink roses, Sheila
Collett’s was white georgette printed with
pink roses. Both girls looked charming.
Mrs. Denzil Macarthur-Onslow wore a
glamorous gown of sunset satin, swathed
with a black lace stole. Everyone
seemed to be either present or repre-
sented. Lady Sheldon was in fuchsia
chiffon, Mrs. J. M. Gordon in black,
Mrs. Swinson in cream brocade. In the
assemblage one noticed Lady Morshead,
Lady Butters, Mrs. Hope Gibson, the
Eric Langkers, the H. D. Wyndhams,
Mrs. Persia Porter and the R. V.
Bryants.
The lady in the picture is Mrs. H.
Stern, 0.8. E., national president of the
C.W.A., who has been visiting Sydney
on her way to the Canberra Citizenship
Convention. Mrs. Stern (her hometown
is Warwick, Q.) travelled a long way
during her trip, and as a member of the
women’s committee of the Jubilee Cele-
brations formulated some great things.
One of her pleasantest experiences was to
have afternoon-tea at the Prime Minister’s
Lodge, when the tea had to be boiled in
a billy in the garden because of a Can-
berra blackout. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
On Australia Day the Jubilee celebra-
tions took on a really jubilant
atmosphere. The day was sunny, the
night clear and dark and still. Even the
moon obliged by rising late to let the
rockets have a fair go. The fireworks
scattered the sky with showers of light
which one fashion-conscious onlooker
‘said were like lame and sequins. She
also thought the wondrous fire-floats were
like tulle, and the tracery left in the sky
by the rockets like lace. This vapor from
the rockets gathered around the Bridge,
which seemed to float blue-lit from a
mist. One had to admire the timing of
the Navy, which illuminated its ships
and waved round red and green flares
with its customary precision. The pro-
fession of decorated boats was quite
nice, some of them economically using
floats that had been seen in the morning
procession. Altogether it was a lovely
night, which could have gone on later
than 10,30. Carnivals in Venice, we’re
told, last till five o’clock in the morning.
Most votes for the Jubilee procession
on Australia Day seem to go to the
Kuringai float, made all of flowers and
Australian foliage. Everyone was happy
to see the New Australians march, glad
that they were asked and that they wanted
to be in it. Impression was that
Transport’s old-fashioned trolley-car was
a very good piece of theatre, and that the
decorated bus was not nearly crowded
enough for reality. Many thought that
the long procession of modern motor-
cars was tiresome and just plain
advertising.
Four women Senators and Dame Enid
Lyons are members of the Women’s
ommittee for the Jubilee Celebrations,
whose president is Mrs. Guy Bakewell, of
the Victoria League. Other members are
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs. H. Stern and
Mrs. I. A. Green (who is the Prime
Ministei s sister and has the same witty
tongue). This week they announced that
two distinguished women had accepted
the Prime Minister’s invitation to come
to Australia this year for the celebra-
tions. They are Lady Reading, who
founded the women’s voluntary services
m England, and Dr. Jeanne Eder, from
Switzerland, who is world president of
the Council of Women.
Another announcement of importance
by this committee is that a convention
of all women’s associations with national
affiliations will be held in Canberra from
April 20 to 24. Every association is being
invited to send two delegates, and the
committee is asking for topics on the
general theme “What have women to
contribute to the future of the Common-
wealth?” The Canberra committee, of
which Mrs. Menzies is president, is
arranging hospitality and transport, but
the individual associations will pay their
delegates’ expenses. This convention,
after 50 years of Federation, celebrates
the work that women have done during
that time, and looks forward to the still
greater part they can play in national
affairs,
Margaret Stead, 17, bright-eyed, deter-
mined and intelligent, who has just left
school, is finding out for herself how hard
it is for women to break into any new
employment. Margaret, who gained
honors in geology in the L.C., had made
up her mind to become a geologist—until
she was told at the Mines Department
that according to the Minors Act “no
woman can be employed in or about the
mines,” that women are never sent out
into the field on geological excursions,
and that the only opening for women
geologists was teaching! Margaret, who
is the niece of novelist Christina Stead, is
now contenting herself with a job in the
scientific library of a large industrial
firm, which she hopes will help her to
fulfil her ambition in some way, but it
does look at present as though geology
will have to remain a hobby with her.
A delightful musical evening was given
on Saturday by Gladys Hart in honor of
Miss Nance Goodwin, who leaves
shortly to become matron of the Queen
Victoria Hospital for Women in Laun-
ceston. Among the guests were Dr. and
Mrs. F. G. Stephens, Matron Shaw, Dr.
Chris Laidlaw and Mr. and Mrs. Russell
Davis. The music was provided by
singers Jacqueline Talbot and Denise
Thompson, and violinist Cathleen
O’Carroll.
An engagement of both country and
city interest is that of Barbara Ley, of
Killara (daughter of the A. A. Leys), to
Tony Walcott, of Aston, Bombala.
Abbotsleigh Old Girls and their
friends should mark down April 23 as
booked for the reunion ball at the
Trocadero. The president of the com-
mittee is Margaret Salenger, secretary
Judy Millard and treasurer Barbara
Campbell. Committee-members include
Elizabeth Manning, Jennifer Berne,
Valerie Ilett, Helen Baldwin, Robin Mac-
Phillamy and Jocelyn Kimber (last
year’s senior prefect). Plans are afoot
for a barbecue and theatre-night as pre-
liminary functions to aid the success of
the ball.
The Girl Guides’ guest of the moment
is Lady Cooper, who is tiny and English
and has a rose-petal complexion. At an
afternoon-tea given in her honor at Mark
Foy’s last week she conveyed a message
of goodwill from the Chief Guide, Lady
Baden-Poweil, who, she said, was look-
ing well and fit. During her talk, Lady
Cooper, who was Overseas Commis-
sioner, took us round the world on Guide
activities, telling of work in the West
Indies, in Nigeria, on Pitcairn and
Tristan da Cunha, where the girls weave
baskets or spin and knit garments to pa\
for their badges. It was interesting to
hear that in India before the separation
all classes had worked together in
harmony as Girl Guides, and that it had
never been found necessary to have two
associations, although there were in India
at the time 43,000 Guides,
Tire Royal Empire Society’s inf ° r ™ al
evenings are to begin again this week tne
first speaker being Charles Chauvel, W
producer, who will give a talk on
Ambitions and Our Films, at
society’s rooms tomorrow night at 6 p.n •
The C.W.A. has announced the date o
its Jubilee Conference as May L
there is plenty of time to get ready
it. Mrs. Raymond Sayre, world Pf
of the association, will be gue st '° f ' T . ’
The conference will be held in the 1
Hall.


m
GPS.26
SHU KBPS ..
when the rest have steppe
In every field one performer out-
stays all others in stamina and relia-
bility. In batteries it has been Exide
—since 1888.
f
BATTERIES
& .<
~P
EXIDE
batteries
OF
AUSTRALIA
pty. ltd.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Back in 1939 The Bulletin recorded
that the mileage flown by A.N.A.’s
Captain Keith Virtue was a record for
the Commonwealth. Last week the
veteran scored another —his 20,000 th air-
borne hour, the most any pilot in Aus-
tralia has flown. One of the very best
heavy-machine handlers in the land,
Virtue, now 41, has been flying for 22
years, and has logged over 3,000,000
miles. A genial chap, with a grin as wide
as a main-plane, when aground he’s
usually to be found anchored to a
fishing-line.
Even for an anthropologist, William
Stanner, Prior’s victim, has been around
somewhat. From the Territory to East
Africa, from Uganda to New Guinea,
ROUND AND ABOUT.
Fiji, Samoa and parts near-to, from
Charlottesville (U.S.) to Borneo, with a
non-anthropological jaunt to London and
Geneva thrown in, Stanner has sought
and talked and probed. Till recently
lecturing in his subject at Sydney Uni-
versity, he is now a reader in it at
Canberra’s National University. In
London he was S. M. Bruce’s selection
for private secretary to R. G. Casey at the
1937 Imperial Conference, came back
home to offer his very good-speaking
voice to the A.B.C. on affairs interna-
tional, and in 1942 enlisted in the Army.
Here he was General Rowell’s selection
to lead the North Australia Observer
Unit (later euphoniously nicknamed the
“Nackeroos”), whose role was scouting
and reconnaissance from the Kimberleys
in the west to Carpentaria in the east.
Composed of old Lighthorsemen, stock-
men, bushmen and Middle East veterans,
its horses broken and trained by its
members, the unit threw' a flexible screen
over the whole of the vast north;
organised a radio signal network, manned
a fleet of luggers and ketches for coastal
recce, established hundreds of inde-
pendent dumps of ammo, food and
medical stores, and became so thoroughly
proficient in bushcraft that patrols of
three months and 500' miles were routine.
But the Japs did not materialise, and in
1944 Stanner was sent by General Blarney
to England, from where he crossed to
Europe to make a special report on the
military government of occupied
countries. He ended the war Senior
Military Government Officer in British
North Borneo. Short, alert, definite, he’s
now off again to the Territory, leaving a
book, South Seas in Transition, about to
hit the bookstalls.
Taking off for London, Air-Officer
Commanding R.A.A.F. headquarters
there, Air-Commodore Allan Walters,
C.8.E., A.F.C. A youngish 45, Duntroon
graduate, he became airborne in 1930, in
the late scrap directed our air operations
in the s.-w. Pacific and later led No, 1
Fighter Wing. In London he will relieve
Air-Commodore Ernest Knox-Knight,
who knows the Island well —he led No.
10 Squadron (the famed Australian-
manned Sunderlands of Coastal Com-
mand) in the savage years of 1940-41.
Making an outstandingly rapid rise in
the R.C. hierarchy. Catholic historian Dr.
Eris O’Brien was last week elevated to
Archbishop, He had been Bishop only
two years, going to that from lecturing
in Australian history at Sydney Univer-
sity. Australia now has eight R.C, Arch-
bishops, one for each capital and one for
Canberra and thereabouts, with Cardinal
Gilroy as also Archbishop of Sydney.
Dr. O’Brien is one of the many authorities
co-opted by Alec Chisholm for the much-
enlarged Australian Encyclopcedia he is
editing for Angus and Robertson.
“Macnell”; One day in June, 1935, off
Orfordness on the east coast of England,
a twin-engined flying-boat was flying un-
concernedly and at peace on routine exer-
cises. Below it three scientists labored
over a futuristic-looking machine on
which they’d sweated for months. Span-
ning the face of a green tube, a giant
radio-valve with a strangely-glowing dial
into which thousands of servicemen were
to peer within the next few violent years,
a dot of light sped so fast it merged into
a continuous white line. The plane swept
overhead, and the line stretched unbroken.
Again and again it made its run —then the
white streak shivered, fell back, then leapt
into an oscillating steeple of light. The
range dial beneath its left edge showed
17 miles. Tense with excitement, the
chief scientist grabbed a phone and rang
the plane’s base, asking for the aircraft
to be ordered to continue its runs. “Who
the blazes are you?” an irate voice asked
him. “Watson-Watt.” “Never heard of
you. Go to blazes!” So the plane
touched-down, but history had been made.
Shortly the claim of Sir Robert Watson-
Watt, inventor of radar, comes before
the British Royal Commission on Awards
to Inventors. Whittle of the jets got
£lOO,OOO,
Norman Lindsay tells a story of how
he and J. F. Archibald were walking
down George-street once and saw Hugh
McCrae, handsome, robust, 6ft. tall, head
held high like a war-horse’s, striding
along the opposite side of the street;
Archibald said in his quick, nervous
McCRAE BY VEAL.
speech, “There now! Doesn’t he look
like a poet! Isn’t that just how a poet
should look!” and the artist and the
editor crossed to meet the poet and found
him with enough new lyrics in his pocket
to make a new book— Satyrs and Sun-
light, if memory serves correctly. Hay-
ward Veal got somethin? of this interne
vitality of McCrae’s into the portrait he
entered for the Archibald Prize, and
that’s wtfy it’s reproduced here. The
painting has caught perfectly, too, that
air of uproarious astonishment with which
McCrae always confronts the earth, as if
everything he sees were some wild joke
he had invented for his own delight . . .
a mood which has given him both his
poetry and the fantastic short-stories and
vivid pen-portraits collected in Story-
Book Only.
“M.” on a medico:
Dr. A. E. Coates, 0.8. E., who returned to
Melbourne from the U.S. with the news that
American research-workers hope to produce an
artificial heart-lung apparatus which will take
the place of a patient’s heart during an opera-
tion, is no stranger to operations performed
without the aid of even the most primitive
scientific apparatus. The laconic statement in
Who’s Who that he was chief M.O. in a
p.-0.-w. hospital in Siam from 1944 to 1945
conceals a story of heroism and endurance
probably as great as any in medical annals.
It was during the building of the Moulmein-
Bangkok railway, when Australian p.-0.-w.
were dying like flies, and many of them had
as many as five tropical diseases at once.
Coates worked day and night operating with a
butcher’s knife or a sharpened teaspoon, with-
out anaesthetic, and at the same time organised
the scanty camp food so, that his patients got a
balanced diet which kept them thin but saved
them from a lot of diseases of malnutrition.
Born in Ballarat, Coates got his medical training
at the University of Melbourne. He paid for
it by doing nightwork as a letter-sorter.
Having, in the 15 months he’s been
director of the Queensland Art Gallery,
rejuvenated his antiquated charge to
what is now generally accepted as one
of the most modern in Australia, Robert
Campbell moves on to South Australia’s
gallery, one of the country’s richest.
Starting as a commercial artist in Bris-
bane, the new man was earlier director
of Westralia’s gallery; in Adelaide he
takes over from Louis McCubbin.
Named as the new Governor of Tas-
mania, Ronald Cross, baronet and Privy
Councillor, who succeeded Sir Geoffrey
Whiskard as British High Commissioner
in Australia in 1941. A merchant banker
with wide Ministerial experience. Sir
Ronald left Eton at 18 to join the 1914
8.E.F., shifted to the R.F.C., and, in
1931, entered the Commons as a Lan-
cashire representative. Milestones of his
Parliamentary career from then on were
Government Whip,
a Lord of the
Treasury, and, in
1938, Parlia-
mentary Secretary
of the Board of
Trade. And in the
first year of the
Nazi onslaught he
became Minister
for Economic War-
fare, then took on
the vital Ministry
of Shipping.
Visiting Aus-
tralia as plain
Mister, Harold
Fenton has other
titles —R.A.F. air-
commodore,
C. D. 5.0.,
D. and three
“mentions.” Bom
in Argentina 42
years ago, son of
an Irish medico,
he joined the
R.A.F. in 1928, had
three-years’ flying
in India and was
back in Britain for
the Battle. In it he
started flying a
Hurricane, was
shot down twice,
did a spot of shoot-
ing himself (as
witness the gongs),
rose to command
a Hurricane
squadron in England, then a wing,
and in the Western Desert and Libya
finished as leader of a Rommel-haras-
sing group. War’s end found him group-
commanding in. Germany; he later went
back to India, boss of Deccan Airways in
Hyderabad. Here now to look over
B.OA.C.’s ramifications, back home he
is operations-manager of the company’s
eastern division, headquartered in Brent-
ford,
Though the accompanying face may
not be so well known today, in its time
it was known to, and rightly worshipped
by, just about every kid and grown-up
kid who ever saw a Wild West show.
Lance Skuthorpe is the sole proprietor,
an 81-year-old horseman recognised as
the greatest buckjump rider Australia ever
had. Learning to ride on a little white
UP AND DOWN.
pony when he was four, Lance soon
shifted to poddy-calves, took his place
in the drafting-yards of the family cattle-
stations at an age when present-day
nippers ride scooters, and before he was
20 was travelling round Australia offer-
ing £5O to any man who could yard an
unbroken colt whose back Lance couldn’t
get on in 10 seconds. He never had to
pay out. At 25 he repeated A. L.
Gordon’s leap for a £lOO bet, and, at 40,
rode the famed buckjumper Bobs to a
standstill, thereby winning a £lOOO wager.
He staged probably the first Wild West
show in Australia. Fleet of foot, too, he
oncfe finished third in the Stawell Gift,
and, as another proof of all-round versa-
tility, he wrote many short stories. One
of his stories, “The Champion Bullock
Driver,” which first appeared in The
Bulletin, has been reprinted in several
anthologies, the latest being A. A.
Phillips’s An Australian Muster, which
has been used as a text-book in Victorian
schools. Son Lance in 1938 took his
team of Australian roughriders, including
sister Violet, to tour the U.S.; for the past
three years he has been touring New
Zealand with his riders. The original
Lance Skuthorpe’s likeness by Orme.
Into the Silence:
At 70, in Melbourne, Frank Tarrant, former
class cricketer, who first played for Victoria in
1898, then changed over to professional cricket
in England, where he scored thousands of runs
and took more than 1000 wickets for Middlesex.
He took a team of Australian players to
India in 1935.
In London, at 90, Lord Nelson, great-great-
nephew of Admiral Nelson, A soldier who
enlisted in 1879, he served in the Nile expedi-
tion of 1884. The £5OOO annuity paid to
descendants of Nelson after Trafalgar died with
him.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 62, noted surgeon
Dr. David Whyte. A foundation member of the
Wellington cancer consultation committee, he
was chairman in 1926. From 1939 to 1945 he
was secretary of the N.Z. committee of the
Royal Australasian College of Surgeons.
In Toowoomba, at 72, Brigadier-General
James Campbell Robertson, C. 8., C.M.0.,
D. 5.0., who commanded the great 9th Battalion
at the Landing, and, after the evacuation, had
the 12th Brigade, which distinguished itself at
Mont St. Quentin. After controlling demobilisa-
tion of the whole Australian Forces, on return
to civil fife he set-up business in Toowoomba as
a stock- and sharebroker, and until the end
continued to be elosely associated with the
Royal National Agricultural Society and the
Darling Downs Building Society.
In Melbourne, at 74, Marcus WettenhaU,
one-time chairman of the Victorian Council of
Agricultural Education, a subject in which he
was a specialist. Entering the State Assembly
in 1920, member for Lowan, he stayed there
15 years. In the late ’nineties he held three
middle-distance State running championships.


f
How in ii<*Ei time will your
Executor have for yaur affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A, E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0J8.E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.Rdi.CJS.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL. STREET, SYDNEY
NORMAN LINDSAY HUMORIST
by R.G. HOWARTH
IF one were asked who was
the leading humorist in
Australian fiction, one would
reply unhesitatingly
“Norman Lindsay.” From A
Curate in Bohemia, 1913, to
Dust or Polish ?, 1950 (not ex-
cluding his priceless tale for
children. The Magic Pudding),
he has occupied himself in de-
picting Australian life and
character in both a true and
highly amusing way.
Most, or all, of Lindsay’s
novels have been written as re-
laxation from the arduous labor
of painting. They spring from a
growing desire to recapture and
interpret the environment of his
boyhood and adolescence —the
town of Creswick, near Ballarat,
From “Saturdee.”
where the Lindsay family grew
up, which he has named for
fictional purposes “Redheap.”
It is “Redheap” because of the
piles of mullock left by long-
vanished miners; landmarks
which with their accompanying
holes and shafts provided scenes
for the adventurous games and
larks and amorous adventures of
boys.
Though not planned as a
series the “Redheap” novels now
fall into sequence. Redheap
came first, in 1930, its boy-focus,
Robert Piper, being aged 19. In
1933 followed Saturdee, which
exhibits younger fry Bill
Gimble and Waldo Peddlar, aged
14, and Peter Gimble with his
gang, aged 10 to 11. “Bags”
Peddlar, 16 years old, enters in-
cidentally. Bill and Waldo, now
15-}, reappear in Halfway 10
Anywhere, 1947.
Miracles by Arrangement
(otherwise known as Mr. Gres-
ham and Olympus), 1932, is full
of wry retrospective laughter at
the troubles of adolescent youth.
Here Lindsay moves down a
generation, to the ’twenties of
this century. The strands in the
book to which the names Wally
and Jerry, with Peter, are
attached can be extracted and
placed alongside the stories of the
Redheap boys. Indeed Jerry and
Robert Piper are of an age,
though Jerry is the less
developed.
The earliest novel, A Curate
in Bohemia, is based on
Norman’s art-student days in
Melbourne.
The Cousin from Fiji, 1945,
represents an attempt to portray
the post-adolescent girl in the
same way as the post-adolescent
boy. * Ella Belairs therefore cor-
responds to Robert Piper.
Earlier suggestions of her are
perhaps to be found in Ethel
Piper, Nina Gresham and others.
At any rate, The Cousin from
Fiji has almost the same setting,
and it belongs to the same
period, as Redheap, Saturdee
and Halfway to Anywhere.
The country town is, openly,
Ballarat, the time 1892—near
enough to the 1896 of Redheap.
The social milieu is about equal.
Equivalent humorous types, male
and female, reappear. The
cousin from Fiji has the extrinsic
merit, however,
of being an exact
period - piece.
Lindsay has re-
called in detail
not only the
habits of dress
and life, but also
the manner of
speech, of the
’nineties. This
may be seen,
among the more
or less serious
characters, at the
one extreme in
George Domkin
and Annette Bun-
thorpe ; at the
other in Ella and
her bicycling-champion lover
Darky. As a period-piece,
based on Lindsay’s own
memories, aided by his accurately
observing painter’s eye. The
Cousin from Fiji is a decided
contribution to the historical
novel in Australia.
Lindsay’s fictional humor has
two main branches —that of
childhood and adolescence, and
that of adulthood. There is little
apparent connection between the
two, little interaction among
their respective members. The
adults in Saturdee, Halfway to
Anywhere and Redheap exist as
thwarters of juvenile impulses
From “Halfway to Anywhere.”
and compellers to conformity;
some of them also as oddities or
grotesques in the manner of
Dickens. Contact is possible
only between the older members
of the youthful group and the
younger members of the grown-
up group. Peter, Robert feel the
repressive, coercive maternal
influence; Robert resents also
interference by outlandish Uncle
Jobson. Only Robert’s elder
sister Hetty fits in with the
adults, and she, though not past
24, affects to have left immaturity
behind and looks down patron-
isingly on her brothers.
So, too, in The Cousin from
Fiji, Ella objects to Aunt Sarah’s
spying on her movements, and
Cecelia her mother, who has re-
mained girlish, alone forms a
bridge between the older and the
younger people in the story.
Boys occasionally associate with
aged “characters,” such as
Woster the fowlkeeper in Pan
in the Parlor, Old Bill the
bibulous bowling-green care-
taker in Redheap and Peter
Drumble in Halfway to Any-
where, or play tricks on ratty old
men or ancient Chinese ; but in
general the worlds of youth and
age remain apart.
Where Lindsay is portraying
adults, as in Age of Consent, The
Cousin from Fiji and Dust or
Polish ?, children do not enter.
In the one class of books the
humor arises from the retrospec-
tion of boyhood ; in the other
from the attempts of emotionally
and physically inexperienced
grown people to adjust them-
selves to amorous situations, or
from —and connected round this
—the odd characters mentioned.
One might go so far as to say
that, except only for the oddities,
all the humor in Lindsay’s novels
comes from the process of grow-
ing-up—a process somewhat
painful to the subjects, but
amusing to look back on or to
view from the outside. Maturity
is on the way or arrives when
one has successfully adjusted
matters with the other sex —set
up a harmonious relationship.
To illustrate this from the
novels of boyhood; Robert,
Jerry, even Bill, find resolution
of their troubles when each
acquires a girl; in the novels of
adulthood, Hilary Shadlet {The
Cousin from Fiji), Floyd {Mr.
Gresham), Mudgett {Age of
Consent), Carrol {Cautious
Amorist), Ted Tarran {Pan in
the Parlour), Dr. Grimsby {Dust
or Polish ?), all (in keeping with
Lindsay’s philosophy) achieve
balance and self-realisation when
they successfully bring a court-
ship to a natural climax. Before
that their efforts are comical,
they themselves a spectacle for
laughter. But there is much
more in the child novels than
this —especially in Saturdee,
where, on account of the age of
the parties, the deeper questions
associated with girls do not arise.
There are the humor of boyish
antics, pranks and practices, and
From “A Curate in Bohemia.”
that of conflict between boys and
their elders.
A partial exception to the
general run of Lindsay’s novels
is provided by Dust or Polish ?,
which, though it has a chorus-
girl, Rita, as its central character,
is not concerned primarily with
sex but with the intricacies of
the antique-shop trade. At 28
Rita has gained enough experi-
ence and achieved maturity. She
and Dr. Grimsby find equi-
librium in the relationship they
undertake at the close.
In the adult novels, sometimes,
as suggested, the odd characters
are involved. Among them must
be placed first and foremost
Lindsay’s curates and parsons,
for whom he goes back to
his missionary descent and en-
forced church and Sunday-school
attendances in his home-town ;
and he delights to portray them
satirically, leading them into
equivocal—especially sexual —
situations where they betray
themselves. Earlier examples
are the Rev. Gibble of The
Cautious Amorist and, of course,
the Curate who unexpectedly
found himself in Bohemia.
There is no clergyman in Mr.
Gresham, Age of
Consent, Halfway
and Dust or Polish ?.
The Cousin from
Fiji offers three
specimens: the
minister, Bunthorpe,
the curate, Feedle,
and the Sunday-
school superinten-
dent, Slithersole (one
notices the Dicken-
sian cognomens). Of
these, Bunthorpe and
Feedle get off fairly
lightly, Feedle being
made to look a fool,
only. Slithersole, however, is
exposed as a secret seducer,
using his office as a cloak for his
purposes. Nevertheless he
adroitly slides out of his diffi-
culties. He remains a convinc-
ing exaggeration of a type. With
the clerics are to be grouped
Puritans such as Captain
Gruntle, of Mr. Gresham.
The rest of the oddities fall
into well-defined groups, old
men and old women, subdivided
respectively into bush or town
“identities” and more or less
“respectable” people. Miss
Biddlecombe, the octogenarian
amorist, and Captain Mc-
Dungle, the objective of her
affections, in The Cousin from
Fiji, Mr. Bandparts, Grandpa
Piper and Mr. Piper, in
Redheap, exemplify the latter.
The former find representation
in Woster, Grandma Spadgett,
Uncle Jobson, Old Bill, Mrs.
Menders, Old Poulter, Old Jack
Foggett, Peter Bodfish and Mrs.
Dibble. Add to these a group
of “natural” girls—children of
nature or the scullery—Cora,
Minnie Triggs, Mazie Potts,
Monica, Ruby Casady and un-
conventional youngsters like
Podson and Laurence.
Perhaps another world may
be joined to the worlds of men
and women, boys and girls: that
is the world of dogs. Close
observer as he is, Lindsay seems
to understand the dog’s view of
life, and he brings out the
humor of its incongruity with
the adult and even the child
view. The canines in Age of
From “Saturdee."
Consent, for example, are, in
their own opinion, the owners
of the town of Wantabadgeree:
it is “Our Town”! Each dog,
where not masterless, also owns
his master or mistress; he “takes
charge” of that incompetent
o Continued on page 27.)


w
'
BIF
BIGGER AND BETTER
A hundred years have passed since London’s first great
exhibition. For some time we have been planning to cele-
brate this anniversary by a Festival displaying every aspect of
British life. In particular, we are making the 1951 British
Industries Fair an occasion for the world to see the full extent
of our recovery and resources. We can promise that the
8.1. F. like British Industry itself, will be bigger and better than
ever. Three thousand exhibitors from a hundred trade
groups will show their latest and finest products.
Few enterprising buyers will miss this unparalleled oppor-
tunity of seeing what Britain has now to offer. Thousands
have made early arrangements for their visit, so please make
your reservations without delay.
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
LONDON APRIL 30 MAY 11 BIRMINGHAM
INFORMATION about exhibitors, advance catalogues, special displays
and facilities at the Fair can be obtained from the United Kingdom Trade
Commissioner at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane; or the
Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide or Perth
IS
the
G
the uihiskij is:
*»MOAS 4 (XOBI
8 »
3
CT
9
IIiniIIIIJIMHINII
H
7T
’The pursuit
of perfection
is the
pursuit of
sweetness and
light
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KOREA: DIVIDED OUTLOOK.
In a particularly able article
in London “Twentieth Century,”
G. F. Hudson looks into the
fantastic war situation in Korea,
a situation which Americans
are finding it harder and harder
to put up with:
“There seems to be no pre-
cedent in history for a nation
waging war beyond its own
frontiers against a coalition of
States including three Great
Powers and yet retaining com-
plete immunity for its own
territory as if it were at peace.
The situation which has existed
since the commencement of the
Chinese military intervention in
Korea is indeed as unpre-
cedented as it is absurd. If a
few months ago anyone had pre-
dicted that an army of the
United Nations, consisting
mainly of American troops with
contingents from a number of
other countries, would be
attacked and routed by a
Chinese Communist force with-
out any unpleasant con-
sequences for China, his sug-
gestion would have been dis-
missed as fantastic. Yet, in
Britain at any rate, this has
been accepted as quite a natural
and normal state of affairs, and
it has been considered axiomatic
in comment from almost all
political quarters that the
Chinese should be allowed to
wage war against America and
Britain without America and
Britain waging war against
them.”
Describing what has lately
been happening as not only or
even most importantly a military
defeat, but a serious political
defeat, the writer caustically
comments that, while the British
may deceive themselves with
talk about “calm,” “statesman-
ship” and preference for a
“political solution,” all Asia can
see that America, Britain and
the majority of the United
Nations, after carrying on war-
fare for months against North
Korea, had flinched from a
challenge to war when it was
issued by China:
“The warrior who, after over-
coming a weak adversary seeks
to evade battle against a
stronger antagonist cannot con-
vincingly claim that love of
peace or moral scruples against
the use of force inspire his
action, nor is it any use for him
to boast of the mighty weapons
which he might have employed
to gain victory, but did not. In
the eyes of everyone who has
not an interest in covering his
disgrace, he has run away from
the challenge, and his reputation
suffers accordingly. In a world
of power politics a yielding to
aggressive force, or to the
threat of it, has inevitable
political consequences, and the
political consequences of the
Korean fiasco will not be long
in showing themselves every-
where. Even if policies should
change in the near future, the
setback to the cause of the free
world has already gone so far
that a most spectacular success
would be required to offset the
damage which has been done.”
Attacking other humbug, the
single purpose of which would
seem to be to camouflage the
very real and very dangerous
division of outlook, especially
between Britain and America,
the writer makes a striking
analysis of these two countries’
differences:
“The profound difference
between British and American
international attitudes, which is
now becoming more and more
apparent, arises from the facts
of geography and from the
shrinking of British territorial
sovereignty and power.
“The Soviet Union straddles
Europe and Asia from the
Baltic to the Pacific; the
United States, with coasts on
both the Atlantic and Pacific
oceans, confronts both Western
Europe and Eastern Asia across
the intervening sea spaces ; both
Russia and America, therefore,
think globally and their strategic
conceptions correspond to the
breadth of their territories.
“But Britain, after centuries
of overseas expansion in which
British interests in other
continents often outweighed
concern with the affairs of
Europe, has once more become
an island off the European
mainland, no longer inaccessible
to military power beyond the
Channel, and so deeply alarmed
by the situation prevailing in
Europe that the condition of the
rest of the world, however dis-
astrous, seems by comparison a
matter of indifference.”
That is, without question, a
dreadful finding—on Britain.
However, to some extent the
writer finds it at least under-
standable that in their position
the British should be suspicious
of warlike moods formed in the
relative security of North America
and should be anxious to re-
strain American policy from
acts which might bring about a
third world war on any issue
except a direct Russian ag-
gression in Europe.
New York "Herald Tribune.”
NUMBER-ONE BOY.
“Yet, however natural is this
British attitude in the circum-
stances in which Britain is now
placed, it must be realised that
Americans cannot share it. The
idea that Asian affairs are
secondary to those of Europe,
that any Far Eastern conflict is
a ‘strategic diversion,’ and that
Far Eastern interests may be in-
definitely sacrificed in order to
concentrate maximum strength
in Europe, is not one to which
America in the long run can be
converted.
“The Americans think the
Far East is very important, and,
on a comprehensive view of
world affairs, they are right.
“The British outlook on the
world has already become
parochial, however well-
grounded are the fears which
determine it.
“The Russians agree with the
Americans in their estimate of
Asia ; they know that half the
population of the world lives
there, and that its destinies can
no longer be decided in Europe.
“The strategy of world
revolution reinforces the geo-
political interests of a State ex-
tending over all northern Asia ;
it was Lenin who said that the
shortest way from Moscow to
London and Paris was through
Peking and Calcutta. Today
Communism reigns in Peking,
and, unless the march of the
new Power bloc is stemmed by
something stronger than ap-
peasement and wishful hopes
for a future Tito, it will soon
reign in Calcutta as well.
“The answer to the argument
that Asia is well lost if Europe
is held is that, if Asia is lost,
Europe cannot be held.”
The Handout King.
In 10 years Uncle Sam has
distributed to the rest of the
world, through Government and
semi-official channels alone (lend-
lease, U.N.R.R.A., loans, Mar-
shall aid and so on), no less
than $70,000 million!
Going into details of this
almost incredible handout, a
London “Financial Times”
writer shows that Britain, allow-
ing for reverse lend-lease, re-
ceived nearly half —$32,600 mil-
lion.
The writer allows that there
may be room for argument about
some things included in reaching
his figures—e.g., the World
Bank, though predominantly
backed by U.S. dollars, is not
an exclusively American organi-
sation :
“But the broad picture is clear
enough—in a decade, the citizens
of the United States have given
or lent abroad a sum which
happens to be, at $2.80 to the
£l, just about equivalent to our
[U.K.] total national debt.”
For the benefit of those who
speak of the American “money-
,
lenders,” the writer adds that “It
may also be recorded that over
80 per cent, of the total is repre-
sented by grants and less than
20 per cent, by loans or credits,
And those loans and credits are
purely monetary transactions.
conveying no permanent rights
to ‘the equity’ in any shape or
form.”
On the same theme, London
“Economist” assesses Marshall
aid as “the most straight-
forwardly generous thing that
any country has ever done for
others.”
“A Is for Atom.”
Regretfully it has to be re-
corded that the “A is for
Apple” alphabet is suffering a
change of the times in the U.S.
According to a “Manchester
Guardian” report, the new
alphabet is a masterstroke of
the Washington Board of
Education, the idea being to
train children in elementary
civil defence. “It explains in
simple terms the nature of
atomic energy and how to be-
have in an attack.” Thus:
“A is for Atom —that indi-
visible which has been split.
“B is for Bomb —an explosive
package, of which atom is the
new brand.
“G is for Civil Defence —our
protection against attack.”
The children are told: “Be
calm. Try to reach shelter.
Drop flat on your face. Cover
all exposed parts of the body.”
Muchee Face. —A London “Spec-
tator” writer reporting from Hong
Kong on a social party held there,
at which a group of well-known
Chinese residents were discussing the
Far East situation: “All were men of
wealth and position—none, one would
think, likely to be attracted by the
Communist ideal. Yet one said, with
the warm approval of the rest,
‘Today, for the first time in my life,
I feel proud to be Chinese.’ Proud,
because for the first time in history a
Chinese army had met and defeated
the forces of a first-class Western
Power.”
* * * *
China Choice. —An American view
of the Far East realities (from New
York “Herald Tribune”): “As mat-
ters stand now, China is to be opposed
by armed men fighting in the theatre
of its choice, but not by economic
sanctions, nor by bombardment of
its territory, nor by psychological
warfare, with all its capacities for
fomenting rebellion and dissent. In
the plainest terms, the United Nations
are fighting China, or they are not
fighting China; and very soon they
will have to decide which.”
* * * *
Unique Privy Council. —A London
“Times” letter writer has described
as “a historic step forward in inter-
imperial relationship” the remarkable
meeting of the Privy Council held in
London last month “by his Majesty
the King, at which only the Prime
Ministers of the Commonwealth
nations and the King’s Private Sec-
retary were present.” Mentioning
having himself urged earlier that an
Imperial Privy Council composed of
the Prime Ministers of the Common-
wealth nations should be constituted
to advise the Sovereign on Common-
wealth affairs, the writer added : “The
meeting which took place on January
4 is a de facto Imperial Privy Council,
and is, therefore, unique in the history
of the United Kingdom Privy Coun-
cil: let us hope that nothing will
now retard the evolutionary movement
towards the constitution of a de jure
Imperial Privy Council.”


MODERN
SANITATION
6
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE HYGEIA UISSOLYENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary system)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER SUPPLY
NECESSARY
f
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away into the soil.
HYGEiA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD
26-30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 22 years
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
DISTRIBUTORS;
A.S.IV.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Ooulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
EYE LOTION
For ihflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Pty. Ltd. King St. Sydney
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grisider for shearing-shed work.
ƒ
■ i
mm
; -v;
. ■
mEsmm
40z., Boz., 16dz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
mz
~ - & J
Esdaile's 2'x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
© Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
® Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
® Very long eye relief.
® Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2£x —Eye relief
to s|in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:,
“Esdailson, ’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
f
A.iU SOHS
P.TY. L >■
n HmNTEk sth'fet. s*dnev-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The New Genetics.
“Oxo”: The new Russian
genetical theories have caused
keen controversy among topline
scientists, according to the rural
Press of Great Britain, and
they are said to have some en-
thusiastic supporters in British
scientific circles. The new theory
propounded by Professor
Lysenko is now paramount in
the Soviet Union, and is being
urged in its entirety on gene-
ticists in Bulgaria, Czechoslo-
vakia, Poland and Russian-occu-
pied Germany. With individuals
dissenting, British scientists are
claiming that Mendel is infal-
“Cripes, just in time—Strawh can't be holdin' much more!"
lible and that Lysenko’s theory
aims primarily to bolster Com-
munist philosophy.
Lysenko’s theory seems to
hinge mainly on his claim that
the hereditary nature of any
characteristic can be changed in
a controlled direction corres-
ponding to the action of the ex-
ternal conditions applied. He
claims to have changed a well-
known Russian winter wheat
into a spring wheat by three
consecutive high - temperature
sowings; to have produced a
wheat with high drought-resist-
ance from standard wheat grown
in arid conditions ; and a hardy
winter wheat by growing
standard varieties under very
cold conditions. He also claims
that when he split plants in two
and grew the halves under dif-
ferent conditions, each lot pol-
linated by plants from similar
halves, he got plants with two
different dominant character-
istics.
On these and similar observa-
tions he has based his “theory
of nutrients,” by which he does
not mean merely inorganic sub-
stances, though these are in-
eluded, but also such environ-
mental factors as light, tempera-
ture and humidity. The ortho-
dox genetical theory is that the
properties of an organism are
determined principally by the
nucleus of the cell. Lysenko
says the whole organism 'is a
unity, every part of which has
properties, and none of them is
ever static.
When British scientists asked
why offspring were similar to
each other and their parents
Lysenko said the practice of
cattle - breeders in British
Dominions of frequently import-
ing infusions of parent stock to
preserve some continuity of
similarity in the offspring reared
in another environment was an
effective answer to that query.
Living substances, he claims,
have power to select only cer-
tain appropriate nutrients for
assimilation, and this “natural
selection” would normally fol-
low the pattern of its forebears
unless environment differed
markedly from that to which the
living substance had been accus-
tomed.
Lysenko also claims that his
theory is the only one which
offers any plausible explanation
for hybrid vigor. He says the
characteristic achieving greatest
expression is that which most
benefits the organism, and those
characteristics are dominant
which are best adapted to the
local environment in which the
hybrid is reared.
Noxious Weeds.
“Bill C.”: The indifference of
some people running a few head
of cattle on the C.Q. coast is
leading to the spread of
noxious weeds. During the
past few years star-burr, in par-
ticular, has spread to an extent
that defies description.
Where previously only a few
plants were seen acres of land
are now covered. Like the other
burrs, it’s a summer grower, and
leaves the ground covered with
millions of three-spiked burrs
which are deadly on the bare
feet of dogs and humans and on
cycle-tubes.
Most serious, however, is the
damage being done to pastures.
The burrs cover the land so
densely that not a blade of grass
can grow. Yet, being annuals,
they are vulnerable to brushing,
and/or spraying with poison,
before seeding.
Star-burrs are at their awful
worst on the outskirts of the
country townships where resi-
dents run cows in twos or threes
on the grass in limited allot-
ments. These people may need
cow’s milk for their children, but
they might realise that they can-
not have weeds and grass
together. If they don’t stamp
out the weeds, there’ll be no
grass for their cows.
Big Wheat Paddocks.
“Bass”: When the late F.
W. G. Liebe produced 100,000
bags of wheat from 21,000 acres
in 1929 in West Australia his
claim to an Australian record
acreage was unchallenged. It’s
been beaten now by W.A.’s
biggest farmer, E. F. Smart, who
has just harvested 102,000 bags
of wheat, oats, barley and
lupins from 15,050 acres; his
average yield is well ahead of
Liebe’s.
Smart’s success—apart from
a sound knowledge of the game
-—is due to plenty of power and
good organisation. He once
seeded 2000 acres in four days,
and he has as many as 12 har-
vesters operating together.
Linseed Under Irrigation.
“7346”: Several new disease-
resistant linseed varieties were
introduced by N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and two
seasons of trial crops indicate
that returns will be profitable
when they are grown on a com-
mercial scale.
Preparation for the crop is
much the same as for wheat, and
mid-April to end of May is the
best sowing period ; under irri-
gation about 401b. of seed is
sown, using all tynes of the drill.
Experiments at Leeton have indi-
cated that no benefit is obtained
from fertilisers ; the land should
be graded and check-banked as
for lucerne and old pasture pad-
docks may thus be readily
utilised, provided the land has
been properly prepared.
Linseed requires rapid light
waterings; like lucerne, it is
susceptible to scalding if left to
stand in water. Usually two or
three irrigations are all that are
required, and no waterings
should be given after flowering
has finished ; the crop should be
ready for harvest in December.
Best yield in Departmental ex-
periments has been 21 bushels
per acre, and best commercial
yield 18 bushels. The wheat- or
rice-header can be readily
adapted to harvest the crop, and
as the market price depends on
cleanness as well as quality
attention to cleaning will be
profitable.
The price of linseed has more
than doubled in the past decade
and is today about £80 per ton
of 40 bushels. No other grain
crop can at present compare
with linseed as a profit-maker,
but there is one headache and
that is caterpillar infestation; no
area seems to be immune.
During the war years the crop
was tried near Tallimba in the
south-west wheatlands of the
Riverina, where there had never
previously been a linseed crop,
but the caterpillar appeared by
magic and bowled the crop over.
However, 5 per cent. D.D.T.
dust applied with power-blowers
appears to give a satisfactory
control.
Egg Size and Quality.
“A-Jay”: The weight of a
standard-grade egg is 2oz., and
it should be an economical gain
to the poultry-farmer and a
physiological benefit to the fowl
if egg size could be fixed at 2oz.
to 2}oz. It is an unfortunate
fact that large eggs have tended
to become an obsession with
some poultry-farmers.
There is no special grade for
eggs weighing 2jOZ. to 3oz., and
such eggs are of no more value
than the standard 2oz, egg.
Food consumption per egg in-
creases with size, and birds do
not lay as many large eggs as
they would normal-sized ones.
Large eggs are frequently
crushed when packed, and some
are too large to be packed. The
presence of very large eggs in
a standard pack spoils the
appearance.
It has been shown that, as egg
size increases above normal
standards, hatchability decreases,
a factor to consider when select-
ing eggs for breeding.
Egg size is hard to fix, and
poultry-farmers appear to have
no alternative but to select large
eggs for incubation when insuffi-
cient supplies of 2oz. to 2|oz.
eggs are unavailable. It might
be a very sound step to select
eggs a fraction below 2oz. rather
than increase them above 2}oz.
By this means production could
be increased, quality improved
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The January rains occurred practically at the same time
and over the same areas as in the main cycle. There should
now be further heavy rains over the tropics and showery
conditions on the eastern areas, mainly on the coast, followed
about the middle of February by a heatwave, and in the
latter part general rain is likely, heavy in west Queensland
and down the Darling and along the eastern coast down to
Gabo, with flood falls in south-east Queensland and north-
east N. S. Wales.


X
§
m
With the chiming oj
the wedding hells your
family responsibili-
ties commence. As-
sure her security by arranging a
suitable life assurance policy
with “ The Equitable." Contact
the company to-day and discuss
this important matter ... you will
be placed under no obligation.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
ƒ
WIA
f
faajoff/ce3?/’373Queenft, Srisfiane
W«NCf LLO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Weapons
Needed for
Freedom
What have the United
Nations’ forces lacked in
Korea? How far have we
progressed in offensive and
defensive techniques, espec-
ially in that of strategic
bombing?
In February Reader's Digest
Dr. Yannevar Bush, foremost
scientific military authority,
tells how the free world
stands in the life-and-death
race for new weapons ... how
if we are ready there prob-
ably will be no all-out war.
Get your Reader’s Digest
today. 29 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence.
\ll newsagents and bookstalls.
mmm
SWEET OR DRY
ƒ
0i
“ Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
time «
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
/<//
''///A
/. K'/
/.
M'O.
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
f
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHp.?.X-RlQ^
r w ■** *.
' /
• -
* #•
.
la
liiiii- '? i;
iL w 1 *
*V ■r" -
* • .IT
m -
K>';' . . - <-v
S 7-.
m 4 #'
" ;. ir
» > n" <MS
«f .ml -*
%»*
■**l
J
ww
p*
¥%
'i*
OU
p
k-; ; : ., *■ "s.: ■■££/■'. Z'J
■
t ■ - . - ; > r ~
******
A\
rttt
\w\
ft ft
c . « • “*
• OjLIVER ‘FDE’ and ‘DDK’ cutting main
channel of Central Gippsland Irrigation
Project (Vic.).
Inset; OEIVER ‘FDE’ with Britstand Trail-
builder.
INK TANKS, CLEAR LAND QUICKLY, AT LOWER COST
O Farmers, graziers and contractors are
finding that the fastest, most profitable
way to conserve water and soil is to
use Oliver tractors with Britstand
earthmoving - equipment; Scoops,
Scrapers, Rippers, Trailbuilders. Ask
your distributor how this can be done
—and how soon —on your property.
OEIVEB-BBITSTAND
DISTRIBUTORS.
Q.: U.K. and Dominion Motors, 865-379
Wickham St., Brisbane. N.S.W. : Brit-
srtand Distributors Ltd., 56-64 Gardeners
Rd., Mascot, Sydney. VIC. & TAS.:
Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Co.
Pty. Ltd., 31-43 Queen’s Bridge St., Mel-
bourne, 5.C.4. S.A.: Waymouth Motor
Co. Ltd., 42 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
W.A. s Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.,
900 Hay St., Perth. N.Z. : Frederic W.
Smith Ltd., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey St.,
Wellington, C.l.
SEND THIS COUPON
FOR FREE BOOKLET!
(
BRITSTAND
OLIVER
AUTHORIZED
ƒ
OLIVER-BRITSTAND DISTRIBUTORS,
Box 4726, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me free literature on the Oliver-Britstand combination.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
BU 151
LYS
moor
*OO% Australian-made
rom Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
knawn throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
- •'
W- :
m-
rf
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. &Co. Pty.,Ltd
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"IYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
and mortality and vice percent-
age lowered.
Scientific Hive-robbing.
“Soc”: Carbolic acid at ex-
tracting time is a great time-
saver and sting-stopper and is
easy on the bees. Baby bees
aren’t flung from the frame to
the ground and into the jaws of
the ever-present black-ant, nor
is there a possibility that the
queen has been served likewise.
Carbolic is easy and safe to
handle, provided the operator
has the sense to splash it on the
screens and not on his hide.
Yet not one apiarist in a hun-
dred knows about it.
This is the way a successful
man from South Australia uses
it —and he swears he’d just as
■ soon leave the extracting-van
behind as carbolic acid. He
makes a frame l|in. deep, cut
to fit neatly over the super. On
■ this frame several thicknesses of
• cloth are tacked, and on the top
i a square of black canvas—mal-
, thoid or some such —to attract
heat. The number of screens
: you need depends on the size of
the plant—if on your own one
i or two is ample.
Get some pure carbolic-acid
crystals from the chemist and
add water to dissolve them. This
is the stuff you’ve to watch, for
it will burn a hole or two in
you without trouble. Obtain
another bottle fitted with a
sprinkler nozzle such as is used
by the housewife for “damping-
down” the ironing, fill with three
-j parts water to one part carbolic,
shake well and sprinkle on the
screens.
Don’t make them soggy with
the solution, but dampen them
well. Remove the lid from the
colony and place frame on
top of the super. You’ll hear
the bees change note immedi-
ately in their workaday hum,
and down they’ll go into the
brood-nest and in five minutes
or so you can whip the supers
off, one after the other, accord-
ing to the number of screens
used. If you get too greedy and
use too many they stay on the
colonies too long and the bees
are driven out completely from
the hive, and that is not good
at all.
For Borers.
“Big Billy”: Pentachlorphenol
is largely replacing creosote in
the treatment of borers in
timbers because of the latter’s
undesirable features of poor
penetration and staining. An
effective mixture is: loz. of
pentachlorphenol, \ fl. oz, of
eucalyptus-oil or dehydrated
castor-oil, one pint of kerosene
or turps.
Apply by flood-spraying, or
liberally with a brush, but not
to polished surfaces, as the in-
secticide will not penetrate paint
or varnish. When treating
furniture inject directly into
the holes with a syringe.
Three or four applications may
be necessary.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”; January to March
is a good time to plant out
celery in the south. Place in
level or slightly raised beds 12in.
apart with Sin. between rows. A
few days before planting apply
fertiliser of equal parts of blood-
and-bone and super., plus 5 p.c.
of sulphate of potash, by broad-
casting at lib. per square yard,
and working into the top 3in. of
soil. Celery must be grown
quickly and every check avoided.
Water copiously and keep the
soil well cultivated between
plants.
“Sundowner”; Rhubarb likes
frequent applications of liquid
manure. Don’t spare the water
for this plant. Don’t pull heart
leaves ; stripping all the leaves
exhausts the plant. Don’t pull
newly-established plants during
the first season, and only
sparingly the second season.
“Rooster”: Warts on cows’
teats can be got rid of by apply-
ing a little castor-oil after each
milking. It may take a fortnight
or more. Lemon juice is effective
but it will take much longer.
Obstinate warts on other parts
of the body can be reduced by
painting daily with a small quan-
tity of 1 per cent, silver nitrate
solution. Never pare or cut a
wart.
“Billjim”: While time is saved
by having farm buildings close
together, danger of fire must be
considered. It has been reckoned
that a timber building would
ignite from a burning haystack
at 50ft. Inflammable matter in
the air would menace a building
100 ft. away.
“A-Jay”: Carrots never do
well in other than friable soils
of a fair depth, nor in soils
which tend to cake on the sur-
face. In preparation for early
spring sowing, carrot-beds should
be dug in June. A liberal
dressing of some organic manure
should be dug in. In all soils
carrots will benefit by a dressing
of super, at the rate of loz. per
yard of row, for a width of 12in.
along the row.
“C.A.A.”: Cattle sometimes
die from lead poisoning, due to
their having access to old paint.
Be sure all old paint-tins are
buried or burnt.


f
W
A
i
That indefinable gift ,
which guides people of taste
and leads one instinctively to
select perfection 9 will ensure the
choice of Benson & Hedges as
the cigarettes for all occasions
when only the best will do.
BT APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MS MAJESTY THB UNO
In
tins of 20
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson Zj Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
Divorce Notice.
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MINNIE MAUD GORANSSON (also
known as JOHNSON and DYBALL) late
of Katoomba—TAKE NOTICE that
CHARLES FRANCIS FREDERICK
GORANSSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3655 of 1948 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 16th day of April
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from VINCENT J-
BRADY, DONALD & CO., Solicitors, 60
Hunter Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
fkt*w
* m LAUNCHES
PERFORM BETTER
ON ~
fl
« •
mmmn
Mr
SPARKPLUGS
woms
mmm
JFA
\'
\L
m
W\K
Cl(
ƒ
TRADE
MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, EHG. J
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
New Transformation
For Dry Skin!!
NEW CONTINENTAL
FORMULAE
RENEE BEAUTY
CREAM
Acclaimed as the Perrect
Nourishing Cream and Powder
Base for Dry Skin —DIRECT
from Laboratory to you.
4oz. JAR 10/6, POST FREE
2oz. JAR 5/6, POST FREE
Raymona Laboratories,
1435 Botany Rd., Botany,
N.S.W.
Please forward 40z./2oz. Jar.
State
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
••CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz Tacks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
82/- per lb.
••PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready R nbbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, n ■
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
■•WINSTON.” That Fine Old Wen
Matured Pipe Mixture that is no
even better than ever. Priced
per lb. Loose.
Kemember WINSTONS. It’s
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
Rupture
Sufferers-try the wUh
Enables yeu to do hard w Definitely
comfort and security. ecesea ry
holds, a condition absolutely necess
for improvement. , thoa .
Recommended by doctors {aotion
sands of satisfied users.
guaranteed, no matter mhe V , l)r
FREE FREE°details, self-measure-
ment form and lh d^V 8 ’ f ree
offer . No obligation.
The Roussel AppHance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydne._
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At Randwick on Australia Day
{nee Anniversary Day) the MacArthur
mare Persist made a convincing job
of winning the 12-furlongs Anniver-
sary Handicap, which rang down _the
curtain on the major summer racing.
With A. W'ard in the saddle Persist
started favorite at threes, and from
the moment she commenced her run
in the straight it was obvious that
it simply wouldn’t be a race. Persist
won by two lengths from Great
World, who just shaded Dinanda, and
the remainder were not in the picture.
Sydney racing now marks time for
a few weeks until the big guns begin
to line up for the autumn meeting
at the end of next month. On Satur-
day the scene of action was Rosehill —
a Sydney Turf Club card of eight
races, the merest glance at which
should have sufficed to send any sane
punter scuttling into his shell. As it
transpired, one favorite was successful.
Other events on the programme may
have represented better class and been
of greater significance with an eye
to the future, but for sheer 100 per
cent, entertainment value the Three-
year-old Novice Handicap (7-jf.) was
on its oWn. Popular choice for the
event was Bahram’s Double, and,
while his exhibition scarcely came
under the heading of racing, he cer-
tainly gave punters a splendid show
for their money, which latter, inci-
dentally and happily, was eventually
returned to them.
Bahram’s Double opened his act by
rearing in the starting stall and pitch-
ing off his apprentice rider E. Krem-
mer. Eager to be on his way, the
horse then crawled (that’s the only
fitting description) under the front
gate of the stall and cantered a
leisurely 10 furlongs. By the time
Bahram’s Double had been caught
and returned to the saddling enclo-
sure young Kremmer had decided
that an injured leg was all he was
prepared to sustain for the nonce, and
he surrendered the mount.
Back in the saddling enclosure the
sturdy veteran Munro took on the
job of taming the outlaw, and so,
once again, to the starting-point.
This time Bahram’s Double made a
really thorough job of it, winding-up
sans Munro and with himself cast
full length under the mobile barrier;
acting quickly to avert a nasty situa-
tion the starter sped the others on
their way, what time Bahrain’s Double
couchant, Munro rampant and the
crowd in stitches. As to the race,
it was won easily by Manstride, a
likely-looking son of Manitoba.
Until quite recently backers of
Bahram’s Double in such circum-
stances as prevailed on Saturday
would have done their cash cold.
However, acting under the new rule
which empowers them to exercise a
spot of intelligent discretion, stewards
declared the favorite a non-starter, all
bets on him refunded and bets on the
winner paid at tote odds.
Aside from the circus, about the
most notable feature of the Rosehill
meeting was the consistency with
which jockey G. Moore was in, or
near, the money; his tally was three
wins and three thirds from seven
mounts. Moore rode Manstride in
the Three-year-old. As well he took
the Twor year-old Maiden for colts
and geldings on the Double Remove
colt Mercury and the Welter on Sir
Raven. Sir Raven’s win, incidentally,
was an overdue reward for remarkable
persistence. The Agincourt six-year-
old had scored his last, and only,
previous win in December, 1947; in
the fruitless interim of three years
he had been backed time without
number.
* * * *
Not altogether as consistent as his
heavy-betting owner would doubtless
like, but nevertheless an “iron horse,”
surely, if ever there was one, old
Chatspa registered his 28th win and
raised his earnings to a matter of
£21,000 when he bagged the 13-
furlongs Brookside Handicap at
Flemington on Saturday.
It was a poorish bunch Chatspa beat,
but the handicapper had done his
best to equalise matters by setting the
Chatham gelding, with 9.2, to con-
cede the others 201 b. and upward. It
was a nice assessment; desperately
ridden, Chatspa scored by a half-
length from Heather Rose, who was
second in the weights with 7.10.
Having missed out on the several
recent occasions he has been ridden
by W. Williamson, Chatspa was
steered on Saturday by J. Purtell, and
that rider just doesn’t seem able to
do a thing wrong of late. With 44
winners up his sleeve already, Purtell
looks a certain winner of the premier-
ship, and he should go close to
toppling the record of 58 winners he
set last season. In seven successive
meetings he has landed five doubles
and (on the past two Saturdays) two
trebles.
There were only nine starters in
Chatspa’s Brookside Handicap, but
in other events fields ranged from
medium to huge. To win the Paddock
Handicap on the Double Remove six-
year-old Armentier, Purtell had to
contend with 26 other runners in a
scramble down the Newmarket six.
Starting at the surprising odds of
10 to 1, Armentier scored by a head
from Ralton. Purtell’s other winner
was the good Dhoti colt Bahadur,
who lumped a plaster of 9.9 to beat
Demos and odds-on favorite. Black
Jet in the Stanhope Handicap for
two-year-old colts and geldings.
Beaten a length. Demos started at
200 to 1; he’ll be a lot shorter next
time out.
The winning trot being enjoyed by
the crack Adelaide filly Peak of Arran
was brought to a halt when Carbon
Copy’s half-sister Lady Havers (R.
Irons) just got up to beat her in the
Criterion Handicap for two-year-old
fillies. It was, nevertheless, a splendid
run on the part of Peak of Arran,
who carried a stopper of 9.6. Lady
Havers was second in the weights
with 7.13, and won by only a half-
head.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Collingwood Nursery: Cymbidium,
1; Noble Love, 2; Blue’s Sister, 3.
Three-year-old: Japoaki, 1; Canning
Downs, 2; Heritage, 3. Ingleburn
Juvenile: Pondicherry, 1; Hindostan,
2; Channel Patrol, 3. Berala Novice:
Manifold, 1; Monarchy, 2; Billhen-
pete, 3. Glenfield Handicap: Denali,
1; San Domenico, 2; Homeleigh
Dick, 3. Warwick February Handi-
cap: Great World, 1; Yamboon, 2;
Lordly, 3. Sunny brook Handicap:
Tesmic, 1; Valiant Lee, 2; Dama-
scene, 3.
* * * *
The suggestion here that Australian
hopes of retaining the Davis Cup were
not quite so rosy as might be thought
was unhappily further supported by
the results of concluding matches in
the Australian championships in
Sydney last week. Winner of the
singles final was the American Dick
Savitt, who, although this win should
advance his status, previously had
just scraped into the first half-dozen
in American ratings. Nor was it any
fluke win. In his half of the draw
Savitt met and beat all three members
of our successful Davis Cup team;
he took Bromwich in a quarter-final,
Sedgman in the semi-final and
McGregor in the final.
Play in the championships pro-
ceeded as anticipated up to the semi-
finals, at which stage it looked a fore-
gone conclusion that the final would
be another Sedgman-Larsen affair. At
this point the crystal ball became
murky. Savitt turned in the first upset
by downing the Australian champion
Sedgman. The prognosticators were
then talking in terms of an all-
American final, but Ken McGregor,
surprise packet of the last Cup team,
evened the score by fairly blasting the
American champion Larsen off the
court.
The Larsen-McGregor match was
marked by some unpleasant incidents,
and gave rise to considerable subse-
quent controversy. Admittedly a
decidedly partisan crowd gave Larsen
a pretty torrid time. His game went
to the pack, and he appeared even-
tually to toss in the towel completely.
Mr. Larsen’s choice of phrase to
describe the crowd was “1 think your
crowd stinks. Print that!” a request
addressed to the Press gallery, and
hereby complied with. Present ob-
server’s opinion is tliat Mr. Larsen
brought his troubles on himself by
his absurdly temperamental behavior
earlier in the tour. In his defeat by
McGregor in such circumstances there
was actually a faint element of poetic
justice, for some of Larsen’s worst
displays of “temperament” earlier in
the tour had been turned on in
matches with McGregor, who had
been plainly upset by them and had
been beaten by Larsen in every pre-
vious meeting. Certainly Savitt
would not share his compatriot’-s
opinion. When it came to the final,
the crowd at White City leaned over
backwards to show Savitt that its
hostility was not directed at visitors
in general, and he received a won-
derful hand when he eventually
downed McGregor, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 6-1.
At the beginning of the season
Sedgman and McGregor were officially
asked to pair for doubles events, in
the hope of establishing a Davis Cup
combination. As far as concerns
results, the experiment appears to
have been successful. The young pair
completed a grand slam of major
tournaments when, with the Q’land,
Victorian and South Australian titles
already in hand, they added the Aus-
tralian and the postponed N.S.W.
titles to the bag last week. In both
instances they beat the wily veterans
Bromwich and Quist, who provide a
solid testing medium; the Old Firm
had previously won the Australian
title eight times in succession and
the N.S.W. six times, and as well they
hold the Wimbledon title.
* * * *
It requires little thought to nominate
the outstanding feature of the first
two days’ play in the fourth Test at
Adelaide last week; Arthur Morris’s
overcoming of the Bedser hoodoo to
register a grand double century was
the only feature of the match to that
stage.
Hassett won the toss, which, as
far as concerns being a news item, is
beginning to enter the dog-bites-man
class. Morris, who had, during the
present series, lost his wicket to
Bedser four times from five innings,
without once raising a decent score,
soon made it evident that the worm
was facing in the opposite direction.
Bedser had to be content with the
early dismissal of Archer for a duck.
Throughout Friday and until the
innings finished on Saturday others
came and went as one expects good,
bad and indifferent batsmen to do,
but Morris just batted on, with no
intention in the world of ever getting
out. The end came when Morris was
joined by that paragon of tail-end
batting virtuosity Jack Iverson.
Morris could have taken the distinc-
tion of carrying his bat right through,
but instead lashed out to try to add
whatever was possible to the score
before some mischance saw Iverson
facing a bowler. Going for a big
hit, Morris was clean-bowled by
Tattersall for 206. The Australian
total was 371, and the second-highest
score Miller’s 44.
England’s opening partnership was
broken almost as quickly as Aus-
tralia’s had been, with Washbrook
caught Iverson, bowled Lindwall, for
two. Simpson went for 29, and at
stumps on Saturday it was Hutton
56 n. 0., Compton 5 n.o. and the tally
two for 96.
♦ * * *
With a style reminiscent of a wind-
mill in a cyclone, Swiss lightweight
Sigi Tennenbaum (9.5£) outfought Joe
Grant (9.9£) when they met at Leich-
hardt last week, but Grant’s copy-
book boxing impressed referee
Art Mawson, who declared a draw.
Grant scored well for a few rounds
with snappy straight lefts to the face.
Tennenbaum’s constant attack told
from round five onwards, however,
and he held a slight points lead at
the end of round 12. In this last
round Tennenbaum missed with a
wild swing and fell on all fours.
Mawson may have credited Grant with
a clean knockdown for this actually
self-inflicted injury, in which case the
score would have been very close
indeed.


person when out, guards him
and his property when in.
The relations of the dogs with
each other are those of a home-
community and strangers, and
they establish contact, of course,
largely by the sense of smell.
One could quote amusing
incidents from Age of Consent,
and add to them the excellent
drawings of dogs with people
that Lindsay has provided to
illuminate the text. The clash
of human personalities is
paralleled on the lower plane by
the mutual defiance of the dogs:
see Mudgett’s Edmund’s en-
counter with Miss Marley’s
Jasper. There are dogs in
Saturdee, too.
To concentrate now on the
Redheap books, especially
Saturdee, which remains the
best. Apparently a string of
episodes, Saturdee is really a
significant section of the life-
story of Peter Gimble, who at
the beginning “dawdled between
the years of ten and eleven: an
indeterminate slab of time in
which you sometimes stay for
years and years, never getting
out of knickerbockers into
trousers and damned to turned-
up collars for ever.”
At the end, however, Peter is
the masterful accepted fiance of
Dolly Trimmer. In between he
has gone through the processes
of awakening to the attraction of
girls, “doing a bear-up,” as he
phrases it, with Dolly, losing
public esteem and her regard,
regaining his self-respect by a
fight with his rival and ousting
him from Dolly’s affections.
The story thus forms a tragi-
comedy of boyhood. Peter also
engages in a number of scrapes
—rocking Chinamen and roofs,
clearing out from home, stealing
fruit. His brother Bill, accom-
panied by friend Waldo,
occasionally usurps the fore-
ground, but retires before his
more forward junior. It is not
till later, in Halfway to Any-
where, that Bill reaches the
same stage of proficiency in
amorous conquest. Peter thus
gets through the “indeterminate
interlude” and is well on the
way, at the close, to adolescence.
He reappears so in Halfway to
Anywhere.
In narration, with its inci-
dental description, Lindsay has
a light touch, and he is at his
lightest here. He also repro-
duces the special lingo of the
boys, as he remembers it him-
self and as he has observed it.
One of the most distinctive
features of Lindsay’s novels is
the individuality of speech that
all his people show. We have
only to recall The Age of
Consent, where Mudgett the
artist, absorbed in images, pays
no attention to diction, in either
sense, and growls, mutters and
mumbles his clipped words and
sentences. Mrs. Menders, who
emits a continuous high-pitched
monologue ; the trooper ; Young
Podson ; Cora.
Peter, of Saturdee, talks like
most of the other boys. In
Halfway to Anywhere Lindsay
remarks how education drops
off when a boy gets loose among
his bucolic fellows and he
unconsciously speaks their
language. It is too early for
Peter to develop any individu-
ality ; but in Saturdee some of
the others perhaps show the
beginnings of differentiation.
The girls, of course, are dis-
criminated from the boys by
superior refinement and fastidi-
ousness of speech, as witness
From “Halfway to Anywhere.”
the amorous encounter of Peter
and Dolly (“Peter Casanova”).
Besides this, the best parts of
Saturdee are the Natural History
Museum incident; the flight
from home; the school-scene,
where Peter is exposed as a
love-poet; and the fight between
Peter and Snowey.
In Halfway to Anywhere the
pattern of experience is re-
peated, with a deepening and a
completeness befitting Bill
Gimble’s superior age. It is
significant that the story opens
with a school incident, in which
Bill is disgraced in the eyes of
all, but especially the girl-
membters of the class. This
incident, corresponding to
Peter’s exposure in Saturdee, is
the point from which Bill’s
history as it were takes off: he
goes on to recover lost ground,
explore “the mystery of girls,
from which all other mysteries
have being,” undergo various
phases of adolescent education
such as getting drunk, and finally
he wins Polly Tanner, the
hitherto disdainful victim of his
unlucky needle-trick, which had
been the opening gambit. From
then on anything may happen
to Bill —he may arrive any-
where. The important thing is
that he is now started.
The next phase may be seen
in Robert Piper, of Redheap,
who is quite a philanderer, but
also has acquired some educa-
tion, has developed some of his
own aesthetic resources, and is
about to quit the small town for
the world. Lindsay may be
tacitly recommending freedom
of self-expansion, but in the first
place he is representing. What
happened to Peter, to Bill and to
Robert is the typical and normal
experience of the country-town
boy, and he is then ready for
life. Everyone who has lived in
a country-town can surely bear
Lindsay out in the details of
types of people, young and old,
and types of experience avail-
able to members of the
community.
Recently I passed through the
Lindsay country—Creswick and
Ballarat. “Redheap” is in
process of becoming Greenhill,
for most of the pits and pimples
are now obscured by a luxuriant
growth of pines set there as
afforestation. But the Lindsay
house, the bowling-green, the
creek, the “flat” and other
features of the township were
easily identifiable, and in the
little pub across to which the
groom of Saturdee used to dart
for a sip I found old Bill and
cronies, obviously bursting with
personal and public reminis-
cence. Distances, however,
seemed to have shrunk —every-
thing is, of course, larger than
reality to the child and even
to the man remembering his
boyhood’s vision.
I almost expected something
to happen, as in the books, but
the town drowsed at noon, con-
tinuing its silent maturation of
talent for export. From
Creswick have come —maybe
because, as Dr. Johnson said of
Scottish migrants to London,
they couldn’t help it —many of
those who have made present-
day Australia: besides the
Lindsays, John Curtin, Dr. A. T.
Nisbet, Sir John Northcott, and
a number of balladists, the best-
known of these Jim Grahame.
Bou and Eagle
By
Roderick M. Daw
*TT HE boy kicked his horse
/ viciously in the ribs.
I j “Walk, damn you, you
mule.”
The old man was a mule, too,
came to that, a pig-headed slave-
drivin’ old mule. It
wouldn’t have hurt if he’d gone
out to camp tomorrow morning,
then he could have gone to the
party at Cynthia’s and the dance
afterwards.
But the old man wouldn’t hear
of it. Hard old Pity he
couldn’t remember back when he
was young. And just to find a
few lousy stragglers they’d
missed in the muster. Twenty-
five sheep in twenty-five
thousand acres of scrub.
“It’ll all be yours later on,”
the old man would say ; and
add, “if you can prove to me
you’re capable of working.”
Work, hell! The youth swiped
with his stick; that 5 s all he’d
known since he left high school
two years before. He wondered
who would take Cynthia home
afterwards.
A big Too hopped out of a
clump of dwarf tea-tree and
stopped thirty yards away.
The boy said, “Wee! ” and the
chestnut horse stopped in its
tracks.
The rifle made a dry rasping
sound as it was jerked'.from the
scabbard under the boy’s leg. In
a clean, almost graceful move-
ment he brought the rifle to his
shoulder and fired.
The kangaroo dropped from
sight.
The boy kicked his horse
forward until they came to the
Too. He moved the dead animal
with his foot and noted, with
satisfaction, that the bullet had
entered the neck above the
shoulderline. The skin would
be undamaged. An extra quid
pocket-money anyway.
He touched up the knife on the
hard callus on the Too’s back
leg, held the leg between his
knees and started to skin. After-
wards he cut the hams away
from the body in such a way
that the skin over the bacn
joined them together. This way
they hung nicely over the horse’s
withers, equally balanced.
Then he wiped his hands on
his pants and rolled a cigarette.
It took some time; he wasn’t
very expert yet.
The killing and skinning of the
kangaroo had made him forget
his anger for the moment. Later
on he remembered and was
angry again. Bloody old slave-
driver.
THE eagle came in low and
quickly, and disappeared
half-way up the range.
The boy’s interest quickened.
Maybe she had a nest up there;
he turned his horse up the slope.
The nest wasn’t hard to find, a
huge untidy tangle of sticks, high
in the branches of a big hill-gum.
The boy drew his rifle from
the dry greenhide scabbard and
fired upward through the bottom
of the nest. There was no re-
action. He fired again, the .22
making a loud sound in the still
afternoon. Too many sticks in
the way probably.
He manoeuvred his horse
around the big stones at the base
of the tree, and fired again.
The bird made no movement.
Damn’ lamb-stealing ol’ .
He’d make her fly yet. He felt
for another bullet and, looking
down, saw the drops of blood on
the stones.
Suddenly he was sorry he had
shot her. He turned his horse up
the slope.
Probably never swiped a lamb
in her life. Just sitting on her
eggs, not hurting anybody, and a
man has to go and shoot her.
Maybe there was young’uns she
was sitting on. Just protecting
them.
He rode up the range for a
little way until he could see more
of the nest. The hen was watch-
ing him,, her black eyes glinting
in the sun. She moved her head
as he turned his horse to look at
the nest.
So he hadn’t killed her, poor
old devil, only wounded her. A
man was a lousy cow to shoot
an old hen-eagle, that never hurt
anyone. Blast it, he’d have to
finish her off now. Put her out
of her misery, only thing left to
do.
The boy felt in his pocket for
the bullets. He had three left.
Damn, he mightn’t finish her in
three shots. He looked at the
tree. Might be able to get near
the nest if that other branch
held ; it was a bit thin though.
HE rode around the other side
of the tree and could see no
easier way up. He got off and
dropped the reins to the ground.
The horse was well-trained ;
it wouldn’t move with the reins
dragging.
The boy slung the rifle across
his shoulders and started to
climb. After a time he looked
down. Damn long way down to
those rocks, it was higher than
you’d think.
Not very far to go now.
He moved up the smaller limb
which passed a few feet from,
and slightly below, the heavy
limb which held the nest.
After a few seconds he
stopped and looked back at the
trunk.
Not a flamin’ hope of getting
on to the thick one. Still, this
one was all right, no chance of it
breaking. Hei went on.
Opposite the ties* he stopped
and sat straddling the limb.
He took the rifle off his
shoulders.
Looking across, he had a
sudden shock to sec the eagle so
close. The black unblinking eyes
never wavered, never left his
face. Be nice if the old bitch
made a rush.
Quickly, lest the thought
make a coward of him, the boy
brought the rifle to his shoulder
and fired.
The big bird stood up in the
nest, its huge wings outspread.
Involuntarily the boy ducked,
overbalanced and fell.
The eagle settled slowly back
into the nest and died.
Seventy feet below the horse
swung round, snorted, and
craned its long neck to sniff
nervously at the thing that had
frightened it.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 107
Across.
I—There’s1 —There’s some risk in the wager
chest of an animal. (7)
4—lt is valiant to vex a six-footer.
(7)
7 —Low way to catch a mermaid? (6)
9_Do i stand about in a slouching
manner, father, my sweet? (8)
11 —Magic invocation of a “heel”
who stands between one founda-
tion garment and its duplicate. (11)
13— Resort in Belgium. (3)
14— Piffle. (3) . ■ . .
15 — Eggs of a duck going to Virginia.
(3)
16 — Writing material to require some
misshapenness of the legs. (7)
20—Rodents go to piano with hers. (7)
24—Not much dough in this manner
by the yew. (3)
26 Sheep backing spoil. (3)
27 — A woman’s secret epoch. (3)
28 — A superficial measure on a
muscular twitch in the manner
of a gracefully amatory Greek
poet. (11)
29 Snubs a description of the
doctor who conducts an autopsy.
(4, 4) . ,
30— vamoose, if you can’t pay for a
meal you might do this. (6)
31 - A “ id „„Sf, *S" ad!liCted “
32 What Tblessing I stand betwixt
mountain and heir. ( )
Down.
1— Cork a base habitation. (8)
2 Knot to bury the French brick-
laying material. (13)
3 Jenkins’s loss of it caused a
war. (3) , , .
A— Unimpeachable wicket keep mg
lapse is so long. (7)
5 A follower of Wycliffe hides his
dollar after 50 and behold fatty
fat. (7) .
6 It is game to leave a gratuity
for the manilicious gossip. (6)
B— Turkish ambassador found in the
middle of belching! (5)
10 —Words placed after other words
decided by a barrier draw, and
jobs with the P.M.G. (4, 9)
12—Mail in India is taken from the
heads of Dravidians and Kurds. (3)
17— One changes a prefix signifying
newness. (3)
18— It’s human. (3)
19— Just the tool to biff an era. (8)
20— EE, not ee? (7)
21— This rustic begins with food for
a vegetarian, and finishes with
food for an aardvark. (7)
23-m printed music is to register
25—Prankish fellow with cuckoo top-
Se ar - (6)
30-Six-footer in a burst of collective
.
Do.uuon to Crossword No. 106.


This entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
M. V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
February
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1951
Minister Warns
on Careless Use of
New Weedicides
The N.S.W. Minister for Agri-
culture, Hon. H. E. Graham,
M.L.A., said, in a recent article in
the Agricultural Gazette, that people
engaged in the manufacture or use
of certain non-hormone weedicides
should be most careful to observe
the precautionary measures laid
down by his Department.
“No ill-effects,” he pointed out,
“have been caused by the hormone
weedicides 2,4 D and 2,4,5-T, but
non-hormone type weedkillers, such
as dinoc and other dinitro prepara-
tions, have been found to be
poisonous in England, where several
operators exposed to heavy doses
are said to have been affected.”
The Minister also mentioned the
organic phosphate insecticides, E 605
and Parathion. He said that there
had been reports of sickness and
death in the U.S.A. following their
use. Precautionary measures taken
in the U.S.A., where Parathion is
widely used, include:
• Labels on all packages or con-
tainers must include a list of
precautions to be taken when
using the product.
® Avoid breathing the wettable
powder form, or inhaling the
spray mist during work.
• Avoid contact with the skin,
but if this happens wash off the
material immediately.
® Don’t eat or smoke while using
the material and wash before
doing either.
• When exposed to drifting sprays
or dust wear protective clothing
or a respirator.
® Don’t handle the materials
—without wearing natural rubber
gloves.
• Don’t spray or dust crops
within three or four weeks of
harvesting.
• Avoid excessive or noticeable
residue on the containers of
the products being marketed.
The Minister warned that ill-
effects from these products came
very suddenly. He suggested that
anyone using weedicides of this
nature should contact a doctor, and
have him make up an antidote
before operations are commenced.
Stopping
Windfalls
With Hormones
This year the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture will resume its experiments
with hormone sprays to prevent pre-
harvest drop in certain varieties of
canning peaches. ■ ~~
Tests carried out from 1945 to 1947
gave some indication that this might be
successful; one hormone reducing wind-
falls from 6.03 p.c, of the total crop to
3.85 p.c.
Newer substances to be used in this
year’s experiments may provide more out-
standing results.
Spectacular Successes
With New Weedicides
A new weedicide, being developed in the U.S.A. and Germany, may be the answer to the problem
of effectively controlling perennial grasses. It is reported to be 50% to 100% more toxic than sodium
chlorate, results in a much shorter period of soil sterilization, and greatly reduces fire hazard.
Known commonly as T.C.A. this
weedicide is a derivative of Trichloracetic
Acid. Two types are used at present ;
Sodium T.C.A. and Ammonium T.C.A.
They are white crystalline compounds,
readily soluble in water. At present they
are not known to be poisonous, but slight
skin irritation has been noticed by some
investigators.
Uses of T.C.A.
Mr. K. R. Green, B.Sc.Agr., Weeds
Officer of the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, says that T.C.A. appears to
have two main uses:
“First, it is effective as a localised
treatment to kill grass on valuable crop
land, or alongside roads and fences.
Although a complete kill is not always
obtained, as much as 95 p.c. control,
including underground parts, has been
observed. Applications of from 601 b. to
1201 b, of T.C.A. per acre are required
for most perennial grasses, but Johnson
Grass appears to need more.
“When healthy growth begins from
crowns or rhizomes that have not been
killed a second application is advisable
while the plant is weakened. Grass
seedlings in the two or three leaf stage
have been controlled by 301 b. to 401 b.
per acre.”
Mr. Green says that even lower rates of
application are possible if the plant is
caught before the leaves reappear. Large
quantities are needed, however, to control
onion grass, which does not appear to
be strongly affected by T.C.A.
The second major use for T.C.A. will
be as a grass growth control. If applied
at a rate of from 101 b. to 201 b. per acre
when the seed stalks are beginning to
appear, T.C.A. may retard the growth
of the grass for a long period. This
should be particularly valuable when
used to selectively control grass in some
crops.
T.C.A. has also shown promise as a
killer of prickly pear and cumbungi.
Applications at a concentration of jrlb.
of T.C.A. to 1 gallon have given excellent
results.
The chief disadvantage of T.C.A. is its
price. It is about twice as costly as
sodium chlorate.
More will be learnt about T.C.A.'s
weedicidal properties this year, when
extensive field trials will be carried out
by the Department.
SPRAYING
20 ACRES
IN 15 MINUTES
It takes exactly 15 minutes to spray 20
acres the way some Victorian farmers
are going about it.
To beat the potato-grub in a fast, effi-
cient manner some farrners in the
Crossley, Moyne and Killarney districts
are spraying their potato crops from the
air.
The pilot comes in at low level and is
guided across the target by “flag-men”
on the ground. They signal to him in
the same way as control-officers on
aircraft-carriers used to do during the war.
He runs back and forth across the crop,
releasing the spray when he sees the
signal from the ground.
Although results of this aerial spraying
have not yet been ascertained farmers be-
lieve that it will be successful. The cost
is about £1 Bs. per acre, and at that price
they think it will pay handsomely.
m*
: mz
m
M.V. Roller Spray Plant, mounted on a steel
clamps. It can also be mounted to a wood
drum, and held in position with security
vat or cask in a similar manner.
ROLLER SPRAY
Designed for Hormone Spraying
For spraying weedicides a spray plant which combines low volume with
high pressure is needed. This means that a maximum penetration of the
growth is obtained, without waste of expensive spray§.
The Moffat-Virtue Roller Spray Plant
has been designed to do this. It will give
a maximum pressure of 2501 b. per square
inch, with an output of about 1| gallons
per minute from each hose.
The Plant is made to be carried about.
Without hoses it weighs only 1401 b.
Handles are fitted to each end of the
sturdy steel base.
It is powered by a reliable Villiers
1.3 h.p. four-cycle engine. Drive to the
pump is by “non-slip” vee belt. The
unique “needle-roller” eccentric drive on
the pump gives it a smooth, trouble-free
action.
Equipment
Special, high-pressure, 1-in. internal
diameter hoses are used They are very
light, and can be easily handled in lengths
of several hundred feet.
Because users’ requirements vary all
accessories are made as extras to the
Plant. They include two lengths of hose,
about 100 feet each ; two light spray rods
and extensions ; two nozzles, which are
supplied according to requirements; and
two Moffat-Virtue, all-purpose, self-
packing spray-guns.
At present Roller Sprays are used by
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
the Sydney Botanical Gardens, the
N.S.W. Pest Control Service and other
major primary undertakings.
SKELETON WEED
CAN’T BE KILLED
WITH HORMONE 2,4-D
As a killer of Skeleton Weed tbe
Hormone 2,4-D has not been effective.
This is according to officers of the
N.S.W. Division of the C.5.1.R.0., who
have conducted extensive field trials, an d
found it very disappointing.
However, the Hormone, if applied at
the rate of about 31b. per acre, will
prevent seeding. This means that for
complete control treatment would have to
be carried out every year.
In their report the Officers said that
no satisfactory method of controlling the
weed had yet been found. Sodium
Chlorate gave long periods of control,
but the subsequent soil sterilization offset
the advantages of this product.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
Engineers, Manufacturers, Machinery Merchants.
Epsom Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
Queensland:
Moffat-Vlrtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Longreach,
Toowoomba, and Llsmore, N.S.W.
Victoria:
Grazcos Co-Operative Ltd., Melbourne.
Sonth Australia:
Elder, Smith and Co. Pty. Ltd., Adelaide.
.Stockowners’ Shearing Co. Pty. Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Elder, Smith & Co., Pty. Ltd., Perth.
WBUam “crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
